=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dolly (sheep) - Wikipedia]
The cloning process that produced Dolly Dolly lived her entire life at the Roslin Institute in Midlothian. [16] There she was bred with a Welsh Mountain ram and produced six lambs in total. Her first lamb, named Bonnie, was born in April 1998. [6] The following year, Dolly produced twin lambs, Sally and Rosie; further, she gave birth to triplets Lucy, Darcy, and Cotton in 2000. [17] In late ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dolly_(sheep)

[Dolly (sheep) Facts for Kids]
Dolly (sheep) facts for kids Dolly lived her entire life at the Roslin Institute. She was bred with a Welsh Mountain ram. She gave birth to six lambs in total. Her first lamb was named Bonnie. Bonnie was born in April 1998. The next year, Dolly had twins, Sally and Rosie. In 2000, she gave birth to triplets: Lucy, Darcy, and Cotton. In late 2001, Dolly was four years old. She started to ...
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Dolly_(sheep)

[Dolly's Bonnie lamb is no clone – The Irish Times]
Apr 24, 1998 · Dolly, the world's first cloned sheep, has successfully given birth, it was announced yesterday. The female lamb, which has been named Bonnie, was born at 4 a.m. on April 13th and staff at...
URL: https://www.irishtimes.com/news/dolly-s-bonnie-lamb-is-no-clone-1.145548

[The cloning of Dolly - coldmeadow.com]
Dolly, the Finn Dorset lamb in 1996 and her surrogate Scottish Blackface mother Dr. Ian Wilmut and Dolly [Cover of Time Magazine: DECEMBER 29, 1997/JANUARY 5, 1998. VOL.150 NO.28] Dolly and her first lamb, Bonnie, born April 13th, 1998, and fathered naturally by David, a Welsh Mountain ram.
URL: http://coldmeadow.com/dolly/ddstory/story.html

[Bonnie's Birth Proves Dolly Can Reproduce; Scientists Delighted]
Apr 23, 1998 · The cloned sheep gave birth to a healthy female named Bonnie on April 13 in a normal delivery, the Roslin Institute, where Dolly was cloned, announced today. It said both she and the little lamb...
URL: https://archive.seattletimes.com/archive/19980423/2746886/cloned-sheep-bears-a-healthy-daughter----bonnies-birth-proves-dolly-can-reproduce-scientists-delighted


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dolly (sheep) - Wikipedia] ---
Dolly (5 July 1996 – 14 February 2003) was a female Finn-Dorset sheep and the first mammal that was cloned from an adult somatic cell. She was cloned by associates of the Roslin Institute in Scotland, using the process of nuclear transfer from a cell taken from a mammary gland (somatic cell nuclear transfer). Her cloning  proved that a cloned organism could be produced from a mature cell from a specific body part. Contrary to popular belief, she was not the first animal to be cloned.
The employment of adult somatic cells instead of embryonic stem cells for cloning emerged from the foundational work of John Gurdon, who cloned African clawed frogs in 1958 with this approach. The successful cloning of Dolly led to widespread advancements within stem cell research, including the discovery of induced pluripotent stem cells.
Dolly lived at the Roslin Institute throughout her life and produced several lambs. She was euthanized at the age of six years due to a progressive lung disease. No cause that linked the disease to her cloning was found.
Dolly's body was preserved and donated by the Roslin Institute in Scotland to the National Museum of Scotland, where it has been regularly exhibited since 2003.


--- [Dolly (sheep) Facts for Kids] ---
Dolly (sheep) facts for kids | Dolly (taxidermy) | | | Other name(s) | 6LLS (code name) | |---|---| | Species | Domestic sheep (Finn-Dorset) | | Sex | Female | | Born | Roslin Institute, Midlothian, Scotland | 5 July 1996 | Died | 14 February 2003 Roslin Institute, Midlothian, Scotland | (aged 6) | Resting place | National Museum of Scotland (remains on display) | | Nation from | United Kingdom (Scotland) | | Known for | First mammal cloned from an adult somatic cell | | Offspring | 6 lambs (Bonnie; twins Sally and Rosie; triplets Lucy, Darcy and Cotton) | | Named after | Dolly Parton | Dolly (born July 5, 1996 – died February 14, 2003) was a female sheep. She was the first mammal ever cloned from an adult body cell. This was a big step in science! Scientists at the Roslin Institute in Scotland created Dolly. They used a special method called nuclear transfer. This method took a cell from a sheep's udder. Dolly's birth showed that a full animal could be made from a mature cell. This cell came from a specific part of the body. Many people think Dolly was the first animal cloned. But she was actually the first cloned from an adult cell. Other animals had been cloned before her. Dolly lived her whole life at the Roslin Institute. She even had several lambs of her own. She was put to sleep when she was six years old. This was because she had a serious lung disease. Scientists said this disease was not linked to her being a clone. After she died, Dolly's body was preserved. You can see her on display at the National Museum of Scotland. Contents How Dolly Was Made Dolly was cloned by a team of scientists. These included Keith Campbell and Ian Wilmut. They worked at the Roslin Institute in Scotland. This institute is part of the University of Edinburgh. A company called PPL Therapeutics also helped. Dolly was born on July 5, 1996. She passed away on February 14, 2003. She had a lung disease. This disease was common in sheep. Scientists did not believe it was linked to her being a clone. Dolly has been called "the world's most famous sheep." The cell used to create Dolly came from a sheep's udder. An udder is a mammary gland. Making a healthy clone from this cell was amazing. It proved that a cell from one body part could create a whole new animal. Ian Wilmut explained Dolly's name. He said, "Dolly is from a mammary gland cell. We couldn't think of a more impressive pair of glands than Dolly Parton's." Dolly's Birth Story Dolly was born on July 5, 1996. She had three "mothers" in a way. One sheep gave the egg. Another sheep provided the DNA. A third sheep carried the cloned embryo. This third sheep was like a surrogate mother. Dolly was made using a method called somatic cell nuclear transfer. Here's how it works: - Scientists took the center part (the cell nucleus) from an adult cell. This cell came from the udder. - They put this nucleus into an egg cell. This egg cell had its own nucleus removed. - The new cell was then given an electric shock. This made it start dividing. - When it grew into a tiny ball of cells, it was put into a surrogate mother. Dolly was the first clone from an adult mammal cell. Her birth showed that adult cells can be "reset." They can go back to an early state. This means they can then grow into any part of an animal. Dolly's existence was announced on February 22, 1997. It caused a huge stir in the news. There were TV commercials and special reports. Science magazine even called Dolly the "breakthrough of the year." She got so much attention because she was cloned from an adult cell. Dolly's Life Dolly lived her entire life at the Roslin Institute. She was bred with a Welsh Mountain ram. She gave birth to six lambs in total. Her first lamb was named Bonnie. Bonnie was born in April 1998. The next year, Dolly had twins, Sally and Rosie. In 2000, she gave birth to triplets: Lucy, Darcy, and Cotton. In late 2001, Dolly was four years old. She started to develop arthritis. This made her walk stiffly. She was given medicine to help with the pain. Dolly's Passing Dolly died on February 14, 2003. She had a serious lung disease. She also had severe arthritis. A sheep like Dolly usually lives for about 11 to 12 years. Dolly lived for 6.5 years. After she died, doctors examined her body. They found she had a type of lung cancer. It is common in sheep. Scientists at Roslin said they did not think her being a clone caused this. Other sheep in the same group had also died from the same disease. Lung diseases are a risk for sheep kept indoors. Dolly had to sleep inside for safety reasons. Some news reports wondered if Dolly died early because she was a clone. They thought she might have been "born" with the genetic age of the adult sheep she was cloned from. This idea came from finding that Dolly's telomeres were short. Telomeres are parts of DNA that get shorter as cells age. However, the Roslin Institute said that health checks showed no signs of early aging in Dolly. In 2016, scientists studied 13 cloned sheep. Four of these were from the same cell line as Dolly. They found no major health problems in these older cloned sheep. They concluded that cloning did not cause long-term health issues. After her death, Dolly's body was preserved. You can see her on display at the National Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh. Dolly's Legacy Dolly's success showed that cloning was possible. After her, many other large mammals were cloned. These included pigs, deer, horses, and bulls. Cloning can be difficult. In 1996, Dolly was the only lamb to survive out of 277 attempts. By 2014, Chinese scientists were much better at it. They had 70-80% success rates cloning pigs. Cloning might help save animals that are in danger. It could even bring back extinct species. In 2009, scientists cloned a Pyrenean ibex. This wild mountain goat was declared extinct in 2000. The cloned ibex died soon after birth. But it was the first time an extinct animal had been cloned. This opens doors for saving endangered animals. In July 2016, four sheep were alive and healthy. They were exact clones of Dolly. Their names were Daisy, Debbie, Dianna, and Denise. They were nine years old. Scientific American said in 2016 that Dolly's biggest impact wasn't just cloning animals. It was on stem cell research. After Dolly, scientists learned that regular cells could be "reprogrammed." These reprogrammed cells are called induced pluripotent stem cells. They can be grown into almost any body tissue. In 2018, the first primate (like monkeys and humans) was cloned. This used the same method as Dolly. Two identical macaque monkeys, Zhong Zhong and Hua Hua, were born in China. In 2019, scientists in China cloned five more monkeys. These monkeys were also gene-edited. This was done to study different medical diseases. See also In Spanish: Oveja Dolly para niños - In re Roslin Institute (Edinburgh) – A US court decision about whether Dolly could be patented.


--- [Dolly's Bonnie lamb is no clone – The Irish Times] ---
Dolly, the world's first cloned sheep, has successfully given birth, it was announced yesterday. The female lamb, which has been named Bonnie, was born at 4 a.m. on April 13th and staff at Edinburgh's Roslin Institute say both Dolly and lamb are "in good health after a normal delivery". Mr Graham Bulfield, director of the institute where Dolly was cloned, said yesterday, "We are delighted. Despite Dolly's unusual origins, the birth of her lamb confirms that she is able to breed normally and produce healthy offspring." Dolly - a Finn Dorset - was born at the Roslin Institute on July 5th, 1996. News of the birth and the scientific breakthrough was announced seven months later. But her offspring is not likely to grow up to be an identical copy - the father was a different breed. The institute said yesterday that Dolly was mated naturally at the end of last year with a Welsh mountain ram. News last year of Dolly's arrival sent shock waves through the scientific community and prompted much debate on the ethics of cloning. Dolly's cloning, according to the Roslin Institute, boosts the battle to understand diseases such as cystic fibrosis and emphysema. The ability of clones to produce healthy offspring is important to the commercialisation of the nuclear transfer technique that produced Dolly, the institute said.


--- [The cloning of Dolly - coldmeadow.com] ---
JUST THE FACTS (as they have been made public through the media) - Dolly, a Finn Dorset sheep, was born on July 5, 1996 at Roslin Institute, a research center located near Edinburgh, Scotland - Dolly was the first mammal known to be cloned from an adult of the species. In this case, a cell taken from the mammary gland of a 6 year old Finn Dorset ewe was cloned through a technique known as nuclear transfer. - The cloning process began with the extraction of 277 separate mammary cells from a Finn Dorset ewe. These cells were "starved" for five days in the lab so that they would go into a suspended or quiescent state. This was necessary so that their "identity" as mammary cells would be turned off and the DNA susceptible to reprogramming once they were fused with egg cells. - Simultaneously, oocytes or reproductive egg cells were removed from another female sheep, (in this case, a ewe of a different and easily distinguishable breed, a Scottish Blackface). - The nucleus from each of those oocytes was extracted in the lab. It is the nucleus that contains the genetic material that would normally determine the characteristics of the offspring. These unfertilized and genetically empty Scottish Blackface egg cells were then ready to be "fertilized" with the genetic material from the Finn Dorset mammary cells. - Next, the 277 enucleated egg cells were fused with genetic material from the mammary cells. - Electric current was applied to the eggs to simulate the burst of energy that occurs during normal fertilization and to begin embryonic develpment. - Of the 277 fused egg cells only 29 embryos survived. Of these 29, only 13 were successfully implanted in the wombs of Blackface ewes. - 148 days after fusion, i.e., laboratory fertilization, on July 5, 1996, Dolly was born from one of the surrogate Blackface ewes--the single successful outcome of 277 attempts to clone. - The story of Dolly's birth as the first clone of an adult mammal was released to the public the following February when Dolly was a little more than 6 months old. | Dolly, the Finn Dorset lamb in 1996 and her surrogate Scottish Blackface mother Dr. Ian Wilmut and Dolly [Cover of Time Magazine: DECEMBER 29, 1997/JANUARY 5, 1998. VOL.150 NO.28] Dolly and her first lamb, Bonnie, born April 13th, 1998, and fathered naturally by David, a Welsh Mountain ram. Dolly and her three lambs--two males and one female--born March 24th, 1999. David, the father of Bonnie, also sired these triplets. [Images used here available to the public through the Roslin Institute website unless labeled otherwise] | SOURCE MATERIAL http://www.time.com/time/cloning/dolly.html Dolly an Unsettling Breakthrough http://www.time.com/time/moy/runnerwilmut.html" Dr. Ian Wilmut, Time's Man of the Year http://www.newscientist.com/hottopics/cloning/ cloning.jsp?id=20710200 One small step for a sheep...From NewScientist.com http://www.accessexcellence.org/WN/SUA09/ clone297.html Send in the Clones: Science Update from Access Excellence at the National Health Museum http://www.newscientist.com/hottopics/cloning/ cloning.jsp?id=22020300 Dolly's Mixture http://www.roslin.ac.uk/ Roslin Institute, Midlothian Scotland The Road to Dolly and the Path Ahead: Clone by Gina Kolata New York: William Morrow and Company, 1998) Cloning: The Laboratory Process Diversity: How Cloning and Genetic Engineering Affect the Diversity of Breeds and Species Sheep Symbolism, Shepherds, and Sacrificial Lambs |


--- [Bonnie's Birth Proves Dolly Can Reproduce; Scientists Delighted] ---
Cloned Sheep Bears A Healthy Daughter -- Bonnie's Birth Proves Dolly Can Reproduce; Scientists Delighted EDINBURGH, Scotland - Dolly had a little lamb - the old fashioned way. The cloned sheep gave birth to a healthy female named Bonnie on April 13 in a normal delivery, the Roslin Institute, where Dolly was cloned, announced today. It said both she and the little lamb were in good health. "We are delighted," said Graham Bulfield, the institute's director. "Despite Dolly's unusual origins, the birth of her lamb confirms that she is able to breed normally and produce healthy offspring." In a history-making announcement in February last year, the institute said it had cloned Dolly from the cell of another sheep's udder. Dolly, a Finn Dorset sheep, was born at the institute on July 5, 1996, but it was seven months before the institute announced the news. Dolly was mated naturally with a Welsh mountain ram and was kept in partial quarantine since becoming pregnant for fear of a miscarriage, the institute said. The institute was keen for Dolly to give birth to prove she is a fully healthy, fertile sheep. A healthy lamb would also help counter fears that Dolly may be prone to premature aging and other age-related disorders as a result of being cloned from the udder cell of a 6-year-old adult. She was named after Dolly Parton, the curvaceous country-and-Western singer. The institute already has proved that cloned animals can reproduce: Megan and Morag, sheep conceived through a different cloning process, have lambs of their own. A U.S. company, Advanced Cell Technology of Massachusetts, announced in January that it had cloned three calves using the Dolly technique. Also, ABS Global of Wisconsin announced in August that it cloned a calf using a significantly different method. The institute said Dolly is the first mammal to have been cloned from a cell taken from an adult, and her creation ignited calls from around the world for more regulation of scientists using cloning techniques. The Roslin Institute and PPL Therapeutics, the Scottish biotechnology company formed to market the center's work, have vowed never to try cloning a human.
