=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Argentina: Overview and U.S. Relations - Congress.gov]
Dec 11, 2024 — After struggling to advance the administration's legislative agenda during President Milei's first six months in office, Milei's LLA and its ...
URL: https://www.congress.gov/crs-product/R48303

[List of attorneys general of Argentina]
Constitution of Argentina. Inaugural holder, Francisco Pico. Formation, 15 January 1863; 163 years ago (1863-01-15)15 de enero de 1863. Website, www.mpf.gob.ar ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_attorneys_general_of_Argentina

[List of heads of state of Argentina - Wikipedia]
In 1854, Urquiza became the first President of modern Argentina, acting both as head of government and head of state.Missing: Attorney | Show results with:Attorney
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_heads_of_state_of_Argentina

[Event | Partnerships for Anticorruption Global Forum 2025 - World Bank]
Diana Salazar Mendez. Attorney General, State Attorney General Office, Ecuador. Diana Salazar Mendez, is the current Attorney General of Ecuador. She holds a ...
URL: https://www.worldbank.org/en/events/2024/06/11/partnerships-for-anticorruption-global-forum-2025

[[1707] By the President of the United States of America.]
The President of the Argentine Republic: His Excellency A. Blancas, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the Argentine Republic near the King of ...
URL: https://history.state.gov/historicaldocuments/frus1913/d1707


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Argentina: Overview and U.S. Relations - Congress.gov] ---
Argentina: Overview and U.S. Relations CRS PRODUCT (LIBRARY OF CONGRESS) Hide Overview| CRS Product Type: | Reports | |---|---| | CRS Product Number: | R48303 | | Referenced Legislation: | H. Rept. 118-554; S. Rept. 118-200; H.R. 8771; H.Res. 1266; S. 4797; S.Res. 758 | | Topics: | Foreign Affairs | | Publication Date: | 12/11/2024 | | Author: | Klein, Joshua | Jump to Main Text of Report Contents - Introduction - Political and Economic Environment - Political Background - 2023 Presidential and Legislative Elections - The Milei Administration (December 2023-Present) - Economic Policy and Related Reforms - Security and Defense Policy - Economic Background - Current Economic Trends - Credit Defaults and International Monetary Fund Programs - Argentina's Foreign Policy: Selected Issues - Argentina-China Relations - Common Market of the South - U.S.-Argentina Relations - U.S.-Argentina Defense and Security Cooperation - Terrorism Concerns - Transnational Crime Concerns and Law Enforcement Cooperation - U.S. Security Assistance - Trade and Investment Ties - Lithium Supply Chains Cooperation - Outlook Summary Located on the Atlantic coast of South America, Argentina is the third-largest economy (after Brazil and Mexico) and has the fourth-largest population (after Brazil, Mexico, and Colombia) in Latin America. The country has maintained a robust democratic tradition since its return to democracy in 1983, after seven years of governance under a repressive military dictatorship. Argentina possesses abundant natural resources and a high level of socioeconomic development compared with its regional peers. However, recurring economic crises and sovereign debt defaults have hindered Argentina's economy and, at times, its role on the international stage. Key developments in Argentina and U.S.-Argentina relations include the following: - Economic Crisis and New Leadership. An economic crisis under the administration of President Alberto Fernández (2019-2023) contributed to the election of economist and political outsider Javier Milei, of the socially conservative and economically libertarian La Libertad Avanza political coalition. Since taking office in December 2023, the Milei administration has initiated an economic adjustment plan to drastically reduce public sector spending and ease the country's regulatory environment, despite limited representation in the Argentine congress. Other aspects of President Milei's policy agenda include improving public security and modernizing Argentina's armed forces. - Foreign Affairs Under the Milei Administration. Since its return to democracy in the 1980s, Argentina's international relations generally have been characterized by active participation in international and regional multilateral fora. The Milei administration has stated its desire to prioritize its relationship with the West, based on perceived shared cultural and economic values, while de-emphasizing relations with regional partners and the People's Republic of China. Argentina remains a key member of the Mercado Común del Sur (Common Market of the South; Mercosur), a common market trade arrangement and regional integration bloc, which is seeking to finalize a free-trade agreement signed with the European Union in December 2024. - Relations with the United States. Milei has made several changes that have increased Argentina's foreign policy alignment with that of the United States. For example, Milei requested that NATO recognize Argentina as a NATO Global Partner in April 2024; declared Hamas an international terrorist organization in July 2024, after its October 2023 terrorist attack on Israel; and made several acquisitions of U.S.-made defense materiel. The Biden Administration has engaged the Milei administration through various bilateral mechanisms that seek to strengthen U.S.-Argentine security cooperation and deepen commercial and investment ties, especially related to the development of critical mineral supply chains. Congress may decide whether to shape U.S.-Argentina relations through various legislative and oversight efforts, including through foreign assistance appropriations, legislation to facilitate increased trade and investment ties, and oversight of the executive branch's implementation of U.S. policy. In terms of foreign assistance appropriations, the report (H.Rept. 118-554) accompanying the FY2025 State, Foreign Operations, and Related Appropriations (SFOPS) bill (H.R. 8771) passed in the House of Representatives calls for $8.05 million in budget authority for International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement (INCLE) security assistance in the Southern Cone, which includes Argentina. The report (S.Rept. 118-200) accompanying the Senate version of the FY2025 SFOPS bill (S. 4797) recommends not less than $5 million in INCLE funding for Southern Cone Cooperation programming. To strengthen commercial ties, some Members of Congress have advocated for Argentina's inclusion in the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity, a U.S.-led regional investment initiative; other Members have promoted the reauthorization of the Generalized System of Preferences, which provides nonreciprocal, duty-free treatment for certain U.S. imports from Argentina and other developing countries. Some Members of Congress have introduced resolutions in the 118th Congress to support ongoing efforts to bring to justice those suspected of perpetrating two terrorist bombings in Buenos Aires in the 1990s on the Israeli Embassy and a Jewish community center (e.g., S.Res. 758, H.Res. 1266.) Introduction Located on the Atlantic coast of South America (see Figure 1), Argentina is the third-largest economy (after Brazil and Mexico) and has the fourth-largest population (after Brazil, Mexico, and Colombia) in Latin America. Argentina has a robust democracy and performs well on human development indicators such as per capita gross national income, educational attainment, and life expectancy compared with its regional peers. At the same time, Argentina has experienced recurring economic crises and political instability. Argentina has not achieved sustained economic growth since the late 2000s, despite different policy approaches by successive governments. Political control of Argentina's government over the last two decades has alternated between left-of-center governments that have favored stronger state intervention in the economy and right-of-center governments that have opted for pro-market reforms. An economic crisis characterized by rising poverty and inflation exceeding 200% contributed to the election as president of libertarian economist Javier Milei, of the right-leaning La Libertad Avanza (LLA; "Freedom Advances") political coalition, in an October 2023 runoff election. Since taking office in December 2023, President Milei has pursued economic and foreign policy changes. He has implemented a program of economic austerity and market-oriented reforms in an effort to lower inflation and improve Argentina's economic situation. Milei also has sought to increase Argentina's foreign policy alignment with the United States, especially in relation to defense and security ties. In 2024, for example, the Argentine government joined the U.S.-led Combined Maritime Forces initiative and requested to be recognized as a NATO global partner. The Biden Administration has moved to strengthen the U.S.-Argentina ties since Milei's inauguration, including through several high-level bilateral meetings and the reestablishment of a high-level dialogue between the two countries. The U.S. and Argentine governments also have sought to deepen trade and investment ties in key areas, such as critical mineral development. Some Members of Congress have expressed interest in increasing cooperation with Argentina on international issues of mutual interest and facilitating bilateral trade and investment, in part to develop critical mineral supply chains and counter the influence of the People's Republic of China (PRC, or China).1 Some Members also remain concerned with ongoing efforts to bring to justice those responsible for two terrorist bombings against Israeli and Jewish targets in Buenos Aires in the 1990s. Congress could shape U.S. relations with the Milei administration through various legislative and oversight efforts, including through foreign assistance appropriations, legislation to facilitate increased trade and investment ties, and oversight of the executive branch's implementation of U.S. policy. | Figure 1. Map of Argentina with Provinces and Selected Cities | | Source: Created by CRS using data from the U.S. Department of State, Global Administrative Areas, and ESRI. | Political and Economic Environment Argentina is a federal republic consisting of 23 provinces and an autonomous federal district, the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires. At the national level, the country has a presidential system that divides powers between a president, a bicameral congress, and a federal judiciary. A president is directly elected to serve as head of state and government and commander in chief of the armed forces for a four-year term and can be reelected for one consecutive term.2 The Argentine congress—consisting of the 257-member Chamber of Deputies and the 72-member Senate—exercises legislative powers. Deputies serve four-year terms, and half of the Chamber stands for reelection every two years. Senators serve six-year terms, and one-third of the Senate stands for reelection every two years. Argentine presidents' broad powers, including the ability to issue emergency decrees that carry the force of law without legislative approval, have led some academics to characterize Argentina's political system as a "hyper-presidentialism" in practice.3 Argentina has had a strong democratic tradition since returning to democracy after more than seven years of rule under a military dictatorship from 1976 to 1983. The dictatorship employed state terrorism tactics to repress popular dissent, leading to the forced disappearance of thousands of people (up to 30,000, according to some Argentine human rights groups).4 Successive Argentine governments have made efforts to bring those responsible to justice; some judicial investigations into the military dictatorship's alleged human rights abuses are ongoing.5 An economic crisis and defeat in the Falklands War (Guerra de las Malvinas, by its Spanish name) against the United Kingdom in 1982 increased internal divisions within the armed forces and contributed to rising social discontent, ultimately prompting the military to initiate a transition to democratic civilian rule.6 Argentina has held democratic elections since the election of Raúl Alfonsín (1983-1989) of the centrist Unión Cívica Radical (UCR; "Radical Civic Union"), who assumed control of the government after the end of military rule. The Partido Justicialista (PJ; "Justicialist Party"), also known as the Peronist Party, has played a prominent role in Argentine politics. The modern Peronist Party is split among several factions with varying political ideologies.7 PJ candidates have won 6 of the 10 presidential elections held since the country's return to democracy in 1983. During this time, Argentina's civilian governments' policy agendas have varied widely. Most Peronist administrations—including those of presidents Néstor Kirchner (2003-2007), Cristina Fernández de Kirchner (2007-2015), and Alberto Fernández (2019-2023)—generally have aimed to increase the government's role in the economy and expand social programs and labor protections. In contrast, PJ President Carlos Menem (1989-1999), Mauricio Macri (2015-2019) of the center-right Propuesta Republicana (PRO; "Republican Proposal"), and Milei have pursued market-oriented reforms. Successive presidential administrations in Argentina have struggled to address deep-seated economic challenges while grappling with recurring economic crises (see below, "Economic Background"). The most serious such crisis occurred at the beginning of the 21st century, crippling Argentina's financial system, prompting violent unrest, and leading to the eventual resignation of then-President Fernando de la Rúa.8 A subsequent interim government defaulted on nearly $100 billion of debt, the largest sovereign debt default in history at the time.9 Gross domestic product (GDP) averaged nearly 9% growth under the government of Néstor Kirchner, aided by rising global commodities prices in the years after the 2001 crisis.10 Argentina's economic performance under subsequent governments has been more volatile, recording economic contractions in 8 of the 16 years since 2008.11 President Milei's immediate predecessor, President Fernández, faced a series of external and internal challenges during his administration. The country's economy, already in recession since 2018, contracted by nearly 10% in 2020 due to economic disruptions from the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic.12 Growing internal divisions between the more moderate faction of Peronism, represented by President Fernández, and supporters of his more populist vice president—former President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner—also complicated governance. Plagued with an annual inflation rate of over 200%, a poverty rate of 40%, and approval ratings below 20%, President Fernández chose not to run for reelection, instead supporting the candidacy of his economy minister, Sergio Massa.13 2023 Presidential and Legislative Elections14 On October 22, 2023, Argentina held general elections to select the president, vice president, half of the lower 257-member Chamber of Deputies, and one-third of the 72-member Senate.15 In the presidential race, Sergio Massa, representing the Peronist-led, left-of-center Unión por la Patria (UP; "Union for the Homeland") coalition, obtained nearly 36.7% of the vote to win the first-round presidential contest. He was followed by Javier Milei (29.9%) of the far-right La Libertad Avanza (LLA; "Freedom Advances") coalition and Patricia Bullrich (23.8%) of the center-right Juntos por el Cambio (JxC; "Together for Change") coalition, who received the support of former President Mauricio Macri. Massa's support in the first-round presidential contest was below the threshold required to secure the presidency, requiring him to face Milei in a runoff election held on November 19, 2023. Bullrich and former President Macri opted to support Milei ahead of the second round. Milei ultimately defeated Massa by 11 percentage points, 55.7% to 44.3%. President Milei was inaugurated to a four-year term on December 10, 2023. An economist and former one-term federal deputy, Milei leads the socially conservative and economically libertarian LLA coalition, which formed in 2021. On the campaign trail, Milei combined a strong grassroots social media presence with combative rhetoric. He advocated for a significant reduction in government spending and the implementation of libertarian free-market policies while criticizing career politicians that he disparagingly termed the "political caste."16 Milei's anti-establishment discourse and pledges to improve economic conditions resonated with voters experiencing an economy marked by high inflation and increasing poverty under the Peronist administration of President Fernández. In 2023 legislative elections, no political coalition secured a majority in either chamber of Argentina's congress. After the elections, Milei's LLA controlled 38 out of 257 total seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 7 out of 72 seats in the Senate, representing approximately 15% of seats in the lower chamber and 10% of seats in the upper chamber.17 The center-right political parties that have supported aspects of LLA's policy agenda, including PRO, secured 42 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 6 seats in the Senate. The Peronist-led UP coalition, largely in opposition to Milei's administration, obtained 99 seats in the lower chamber and 33 seats in the upper chamber. Other opposition parties, including the UCR and a collection of smaller provincial parties, which called for dialogue with the government to address Argentina's economic crisis, obtained 73 seats in the lower chamber and 26 seats in the upper chamber. The Milei Administration (December 2023-Present) Since taking office, the Milei administration has centered its policymaking on improving economic conditions, with a particular focus on reducing inflation, which local polls showed to be a top concern for Argentines in the runup to, and immediately after, the 2023 elections.18Key aspects of President Milei's economic recovery plan include maintaining a government fiscal surplus through reduced public sector spending and encouraging increased private sector activity by easing the regulatory environment and providing economic incentives for investments in certain industries. The Milei administration also has focused on implementing policies to improve public security, especially in areas with high crime rates. Economic Policy and Related Reforms Upon inauguration, the Milei administration began implementing policy changes they said were intended to overhaul Argentina's economy to make it more competitive and improve long-term economic prospects. On December 20, 2023, Milei issued a presidential emergency Decree of Necessity and Urgency (DNU by its Spanish acronym), implementing more than 300 economic measures that modify and repeal hundreds of laws. The Milei administration also devalued the Argentine peso by more than 50% in an effort to decrease the country's fiscal deficit and reduce macroeconomic and trade imbalances.19 Citing a goal of cutting government spending, the Milei administration began to reduce the number of federal government ministries from 18 to 8, initiated a plan to cut tens of thousands of public sector jobs, and suspended over 2,700 public works projects.20 The administration also began to roll back energy, water, and transportation subsidies. The DNU focuses on deregulating Argentina's economy, including eliminating price controls and scaling back rental housing regulations. The Argentine congress could invalidate the DNU in its entirety through majority votes in both chambers. In March 2024, the Argentine senate voted to reject the DNU, with some senators claiming the decree was infringing on legislative branch powers; the lower chamber has yet to hold a vote on the presidential decree.21 After struggling to advance the administration's legislative agenda during President Milei's first six months in office, Milei's LLA and its allies began to secure some legislative victories. In June 2024, the Milei administration negotiated with opposition parties to gain passage of a 238-article omnibus economic reform law known as the Ley de Bases.22 The law gives Milei the power to legislate by decree on administrative, economic, financial, and energy issues for one year; establishes an incentive regime for investments of at least $200 million in specific sectors (see "Trade and Investment Ties," below); eases labor regulations; and authorizes the privatization of several state-owned firms, among other measures. The Argentine congress also passed an accompanying fiscal reform package, reinstating some taxes on income and personal assets, among other measures. Several sectors of society, including historically powerful labor unions, have organized national protests and strikes in response to the Milei administration's economic adjustment and austerity policies. The Argentine senate's passage of the Ley de Bases reform law in mid-June 2024 triggered violent protests.23 In September 2024, wage-related worker strikes at the country's largest airline, state-owned Aerolíneas Argentinas, impeded some commercial air travel.24 To reduce government spending, President Milei vetoed two bills that sought to increase spending on pension benefits and higher education in September 2024. These vetoes prompted several protests, including some that involved clashes between police and protesters.25 The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights and its Office the Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Expression released statements expressing concern about civil society reports of protester repression, including the use of excessive force against protesters by security forces during the protests in opposition to the vetoes.26 In an effort to regulate social protests, the Security Ministry implemented a protocol in December 2023 enabling federal security forces to disperse protests that block roadways. The protocol also specified that protest organizers would be held liable for operational costs incurred by security forces while addressing the protests. In January 2024, three UN Special Rapporteurs sent a public letter asking the Milei administration to revise the protocol and other proposed security measures to better align with international human rights standards.27 Security Minister Patricia Bullrich has stated that the protocol has returned order to Argentina's streets and has been upheld by the judiciary in the face of legal challenges.28 The Milei administration has sought to address insecurity related to organized crime and drug trafficking, which it has referred to as "narcoterrorism" in some cases.29 Although Argentina's national homicide rate (4.4 homicides per 100,000 persons in 2023) remains low compared with homicide rates in other Western Hemisphere countries, some areas of Argentina have experienced heightened levels of violence; the department of Rosario, for example, recorded a homicide rate more than four times higher than the national level (19.8 homicides per 100,000) in 2023.30 Some analysts attribute the violence in Rosario to its role as a hub for transiting Andean-produced cocaine to markets outside South America, although others point to increased competition between local gangs for drug dealing territory in the area. Officials linked about 64% of homicides in Rosario to organized crime and/or illicit economies in 2023.31 In January 2024, the Argentine Ministry of Security launched the Plan Bandera security initiative to combat drug trafficking and organized crime in Rosario. The plan includes increasing prison controls for incarcerated leaders of criminal groups and deploying federal security forces—with logistical support from the armed forces—to bolster local efforts to combat crime.32 Eight months after the security plan's launch, government officials reported that homicides in Rosario had decreased by 60% and cocaine seizures had increased by 500% compared with the same period in 2023.33 Some of these security measures have been controversial; the international human rights organization Human Rights Watch, for example, argued that a March 2024 resolution broadening the guidelines governing how federal security forces may use their firearms "opens the door to abuse."34 Argentina's Defense and Security ministries have sent a package of legislative proposals to congress that officials argue would enhance the government's tools to combat criminal and terrorist organizations and improve internal security nationwide. A proposed "anti-mafia" bill would increase criminal penalties for some crimes associated with organized crime and would allow prosecutors to apply the most severe sentence received by one member of a criminal organization to all other members, among other measures. In September 2024, the Argentine congress approved a measure to expand the country's national genetic registry to assist in all types of criminal investigations, enabling the justice ministry to collect DNA samples from any adult charged with a crime. The security minister has stated that the government plans to maintain the database with the help of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI's) Combined DNA Index System—a generic term the FBI uses to describe the its support program for criminal justice DNA databases.35 Another proposed legislative measure would allow the government to deploy the country's armed forces domestically to combat acts of terrorism, rolling back restrictions implemented after Argentina's last military dictatorship. According to President Milei, the proposal would enable Argentina to adapt to new threats posed by drug-trafficking and terrorist organizations by allowing the armed forces to participate in internal security matters in "exceptional situations" without having to call a state of emergency, as is required under current law.36 Some members of the armed forces reportedly have expressed reservations about carrying out police functions, highlighting a lack of specific training for such activities, among other concerns.37 The potential use of the armed forces is a divisive issue for many in Argentina, given the country's history of state terrorism during its last military dictatorship. The Milei administration has sought to modernize Argentina's armed forces. Despite the government's commitment to fiscal austerity measures in other areas of public spending, President Milei reportedly has proposed to increase Argentina's defense spending from 0.5% to 1.5% of GDP over the next eight years.38 As part of its modernization effort, the Milei administration has signed agreements on several military equipment acquisitions, showing a preference for buying U.S. materiel (see "U.S.-Argentine Security Cooperation," below). President Milei also has aimed to improve the military's controversial public image stemming from the military dictatorship. Milei has called on political leaders and society at large to begin "a new era of reconciliation" with the armed forces.39 According to some analysts, as part of this effort, the government has minimized the human rights abuses committed during the country's last period of military rule (1976-1983), instead portraying the dictatorship's actions as part of an internal war with leftist guerrillas in which abuses were committed on both sides.40 In July 2024, six LLA lawmakers visited incarcerated military officials sentenced for human rights abuses, reportedly prompting another LLA lawmaker to defect from the coalition to protest the visit.41 Several human rights groups have expressed concern that the government's decision to disband two investigative teams—one charged with assisting in legal cases of dictatorship-era human rights violations and the other tasked with identifying the missing children of detained individuals during the dictatorship—will undermine efforts to bring those responsible to justice. The government has argued that both units violated the country's separation of powers by assuming responsibilities reserved for the public prosecutor's office.42 Argentina has a history of economic turbulence. According to a 2024 World Bank Group analysis, there have been 15 economic recessions in Argentina since 1950, the most in any country during that time.43 Observers have attributed the root causes of Argentina's recurring economic instability to interrelated macroeconomic challenges and economic policy decisions. Macroeconomic challenges include a weak currency and an overdependence on commodity exports (particularly from the agricultural sector) as a source of foreign reserves.44 Successive governments' economic policies, including unsustainable government spending and restrictive trade policies, also are contributing factors, according to some analysts.45 Despite chronic economic instability, Argentina enjoys several advantages that highlight its economic potential. The country has an abundance of natural resources, including nearly 100 million acres of agricultural land that contribute to a strong agricultural sector, especially for beef and soy production; the second-largest shale gas and fourth-largest shale oil resources globally, primarily located in the Vaca Muerta shale geologic formation; and diverse mineral wealth, including the third-largest estimated lithium reserves in the world.46 Argentina also has a comparatively high level of human capital, ranking second among South American countries in the UN Development Programme's 2024 Human Development Index.47 After contracting by 9.9% in 2020 due to the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, Argentina's economy recovered in 2021 with 10.7% GDP growth, but this rate was not sustained. In 2022, the growth rate dropped to 4.9%.48 Argentina's economy then contracted by 1.6% in 2023, as a severe drought limited agricultural exports, rapid inflation weakened private consumption, and political uncertainty hampered investment. By the end of 2023, Argentina's annual inflation rate reached 211.4%, its highest since the 1990s.49 President Milei's policy of economic adjustment appears to have slowed inflation and improved government finances while deepening an economic recession that the government maintains is necessary to stabilize the economy. In 2024, monthly inflation in Argentina generally has trended lower (averaging 3.9% from May to October 2024); however, accumulated annual inflation in 2024 was 107% in October 2024, according to government statistics.50 In part due to reduced government spending, the Milei administration achieved the government's first fiscal surplus in 16 years in the first quarter of 2024 and maintained the surplus in subsequent quarters, buoying investor confidence. The national statistics agency, however, recorded a year-over-year GDP contraction of 1.7% (the fifth consecutive quarterly GDP contraction) and an unemployment rate of 7.6% in the 2nd quarter of 2024.51 These rates could spur continuing public discontent over economic conditions. The Milei administration's policy of economic adjustment has negatively impacted social conditions in the country, which had been deteriorating under the previous government. Government statistics recorded 52.9% of the urban population living in poverty during the first half of 2024, increasing from 41.7% during the second half of 2023.52 Some Argentine human rights organizations contend Milei's policies and budget cuts have weakened social protections, disproportionately impacting vulnerable social groups already experiencing increased hardship due to the economic crisis.53 In March 2024, a UN Children's Fund report found that child poverty had risen in Argentina since 2017, signaling "persistent" disparities between social groups.54 During the first quarter of 2024, the national statistics agency recorded the highest reading of social inequality since at least 2020.55 Credit Defaults and International Monetary Fund Programs Argentina has defaulted on its sovereign debt nine times since its independence in 1816. After a default on nearly $100 billion of sovereign debt in December 2001—the largest sovereign default in history at the time—Argentina was unable to borrow from international credit markets until then-President Macri resolved a long-standing dispute with private creditors in 2016. Four years later, under renewed economic pressures, Argentina again defaulted on its debt in May 2020, and the government restructured approximately $64.8 billion in sovereign bonds with private bondholders. According to credit ratings agencies S&P Global and Fitch Ratings, Argentina has had poor access to international capital markets since its 2020 default.56 Despite Argentina's improvement on some macroeconomic indicators during the Milei administration, some ratings agencies have continued to identify challenges the government must address to put the economy on more solid footing. In July 2024, Fitch Ratings reaffirmed its June assessment that "a bond restructuring or default event of some sort appears probable in the coming years," ahead of bond payments due in the next three years.57 President Milei has stated his government will focus on maintaining a fiscal surplus, in part to pay interest on Argentina's debt.58 Moody's Ratings, another credit rating agency, has indicated that uncertainty about Argentina's capacity to make payments related to several pending legal judgements—including a 2023 ruling that found the Argentine government liable for $16 billion in damages stemming from the country's 2012 expropriation of its state-owned oil company—is a reason the agency has not upgraded the country's credit rating.59 The Milei administration has appealed the ruling in U.S. court. Argentina also has had a complicated relationship with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The IMF has provided credit and technical assistance to Argentina for decades. Since joining the organization in 1958, Argentina has participated in 22 IMF arrangements (or lending agreements) including, most recently, an ongoing 30-month, $44 billion arrangement announced in March 2022.60 Some observers have questioned the impact of the IMF's lending and policy advice in Argentina—especially in the aftermath of the country's 2001 sovereign debt default—and public polling indicates that more Argentines view the IMFA unfavorably than favorably.61 Argentina is the IMF's largest debtor country, with estimated outstanding credit of $41.9 billion.62 After a successful review in June 2024, the IMF executive board approved a disbursement of $800 million to the Milei administration, assessing the program to be "firmly on track."63 According to the IMF, the arrangement sets pragmatic objectives along with policies to improve public finances and reduce inflation.64 After meetings between Argentine and IMF officials in October 2024, an IMF official stated that authorities are "exploring the options whether to move to a new program."65 Days earlier, Argentine officials secured $8.8 billion in financing agreements with the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank.66 The U.S. Congress would have several options for influencing the IMF's engagement with Argentina, stemming from the United States' status as the multilateral organization's largest financial contributor. Congress could engage in oversight of the IMF's engagement with Argentina, and other countries, by conducting hearings or other fact-finding activities to gather additional information. Congress could also consider whether to direct U.S. representatives at the IMF to take a particular position, should the Milei administration seek to renegotiate Argentina's current IMF assistance package or seek a new IMF arrangement. In October 2024, 10 Members of Congress sent a public letter to the IMF's managing director in support of President Milei's reforms and advocated for additional IMF support to Argentina.67 | Debt Owed to the United States and Other Governments Argentina continues to make payments to the United States and other governments (collectively known as the Paris Club) on debt restructured after Argentina's 2001 sovereign debt default. After failed negotiations in 2008 and 2010, the Argentine government reached an agreement in May 2014 to restructure defaulted debt owed to Paris Club creditor governments. Among other stipulations, the agreement enabled the Argentine government to pay off its defaulted debt (which had grown to $9.7 billion) over a five-year period. Argentina was scheduled to make its last payment of about $2.4 billion to the Paris Club countries in May 2021, but the Argentine government sought to postpone the payment, citing Argentina's delicate financial situation exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. In October 2022, the Paris Club and Argentina amended the 2014 agreement, rescheduling Argentina's debt payments to continue until 2028 and reducing some interest payments. As of December 2023 (latest data available), Argentina owed the Paris Club governments about $1.8 billion. A year after the 2014 Paris Club agreement, the United States and Argentina signed a bilateral agreement to establish a repayment plan for approximately $608 million in arrears that Argentina owed the United States. The establishment of this agreement lifted restrictions on assistance to Argentina that were in place pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. Ch. 32 §2370(q)), which prohibits aid to countries in default to the U.S. government. In accordance with the 2022 Paris Club amendment, the United States and Argentina signed an updated agreement in March 2023 to address Argentina's payment of its remaining debt to the United States. Sources: Paris Club, "The Paris Club and the Argentine Republic Agree to a Resumption of Payments and to Clearance of All Arrears," press release, May 29, 2014; Ministry of Economy, "Martín Guzmán Announced a 'Time Bridge' Until March 2022 with the Paris Club, Which Grants an Economic Relief of USD 2 Billion," press release, June 22, 2021; Paris Club, "The Paris Club and Argentina Conclude a Debt Rescheduling," press release, October 28, 2022; Paris Club, "Paris Club's Claims as of 31 of December 2023, Excluding Late Interest," July 1, 2024; U.S. Department of State (DOS), Annex B, "Summary of Arrears as of April 30, 2024," in Agreement Between the United States of America and Argentina, signed February 26, 2015; and DOS, Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Argentine Republic Regarding the Clearance of Arrears Owed to, Guaranteed by, or Insured by the United States Government and Its Agencies, March 30, 2023, as reported in the U.S. House Committee on Administration, "U.S. Committee on Foreign Affairs Survey of Activities, April 3- April 7, 2023," May 18, 2024 p. 9. Notes: The Paris Club is an informal group of 22 creditor countries (including the United States) that negotiate and/or reduce the debt owed to them to provide debt relief to developing countries. For more information, see CRS Report RS21482, The Paris Club and International Debt Relief, by Martin A. Weiss. | Argentina's Foreign Policy: Selected Issues Since its return to democracy in 1983, Argentina's international relations generally have been characterized by active participation in international and regional multilateral fora, support for human rights, and a policy of nonintervention in other countries' internal affairs. Specific foreign policy priorities have shifted under successive administrations. As the second-largest economy in South America, Argentina has played an important role in regional integration efforts through participation in regional organizations, including the Southern Common Market (Mercosur by its Spanish acronym) and the Organization of American States (OAS). Argentine administrations have taken somewhat different approaches to diplomatic and commercial ties with global powers, with some centering foreign policy on alignment with the United States and others opting for closer relations with China. President Milei has stated his desire to prioritize Argentina's relationship with the West, based on perceived shared cultural and economic values, while de-emphasizing relations with regional partners and the PRC. A long-standing pillar of Argentina's foreign policy is its sovereignty claim over the Falkland/Malvinas Islands, which is claimed and administered by the United Kingdom as a British Overseas Territory. Over the past two decades, Argentina and the PRC have forged closer economic and political ties. In 2014, then-President Fernández de Kirchner and China's leader Xi Jinping upgraded the bilateral relationship from a strategic partnership to a comprehensive strategic partnership. In 2022, Argentina joined China's Belt and Road Initiative—a multifaceted foreign economic policy initiative that aims to expand China's global economic reach and influence by developing China-centered and -controlled global infrastructure, transportation, trade, and production networks. China also operates a deep space radar facility in southwestern Argentina; U.S. Southern Command has expressed concern that the facility could track and target U.S. satellites.68 Argentina and China share strong economic ties. In 2023, China was Argentina's second-largest partner (after Brazil) for imported goods, accounting for 20% of merchandise imports, and the third-largest destination for Argentine exports (after Brazil and the United States), accounting for 8% of Argentina's total merchandise exports.69 According to Argentina's Central Bank, China was the seventh-largest source country for foreign direct investment flows into Argentina in 2023, valued at $1.05 billion.70 China also has pursued infrastructure projects in Argentina. Although sources vary, data compiled by the Latin American and Caribbean Academic Network on China indicate that China has pursued 15 infrastructure projects valued at nearly $17 billion in Argentina from 2020 to 2023, accounting for nearly 37% of all Chinese infrastructure projects in Latin America and the Caribbean during that time.71 However, some analysts note that most of these projects were paralyzed due to financing questions and other issues as economic conditions have worsened in Argentina under the Fernández administration.72 Argentina's relations with China have showed signs of cooling under the Milei administration, though China remains an important economic partner as Argentina seeks to recover from its economic crisis. In 2023, the BRICS group—composed of Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa—invited Argentina and five other countries to become new members of the bloc of emerging economies. Then-President Fernández welcomed the invitation. President Milei reversed course, however, announcing it was not "opportune" to join the group.73 Although President Milei harshly criticized the PRC during his election campaign, he has adopted a pragmatic approach toward China since his inauguration, in part reflecting the two countries' extensive trade and investment ties.74 In June 2024, the two countries' central banks renewed an estimated $5 billion currency swap agreement originally negotiated under the Fernández administration; the PRC government, reportedly in response to Milei's rhetoric, had suspended the agreement in December 2023 shortly after he assumed office.75 Argentina is party to Mercosur, a common market trade arrangement and regional integration bloc created in 1991, that also includes Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, and—since December 2023—Bolivia.76The bloc's founding document states the objective of Mercosur is the economic integration of its members' economies.77 Mercosur is currently a customs union, meaning that the bloc facilitates free trade amongst its members and leviess a common external tariff to imports from outside the bloc.78 Still, Mercosur is the largest trade bloc in South America; the bloc's nominal gross domestic product of an estimated $5.7 trillion made it the 5th largest economy in the world in 2023.79 Mercosur has signed free-trade agreements (FTAs) with several countries throughout its history but has yet to implement an FTA with the globe's largest economies. Mercosur signed a draft trade agreement with the European Union in December 2024, but the accord has not been formally concluded, in part due to concerns from some EU member states about environmental protection provisions.80 Internal divisions among Mercosur's members have slowed further integration. Such divisions include disagreement over trade policies and the bloc's future, such as whether to amend Mercosur's rules to allow member states to independently pursue bilateral trade agreements with other countries.81 As a presidential candidate, Milei reportedly criticized Mercosur as "defective" and asserted that his government might seek to leave the bloc.82After opting not to attend the bloc's July 2024 summit, President Milei assumed Mercosur's six-month rotating presidency at its December 2024 summit.83 During his acceptance speech, President Milei advocated for reforms to Mercosur, including to allow member states to independently pursue bilateral trade agreements with other countries.84 Diplomatic relations between the United States and Argentina have been marked by ebbs and flows since Argentina's return to democracy in the 1980s. Successive U.S. administrations have generally sought to collaborate with Argentina, particularly on regional security issues; Argentine administrations have responded differently. U.S.-Argentine relations arguably reached their modern high point under the presidency of Carlos Menem in the 1990s, highlighted by the two countries' close collaboration on security and defense issues. Relations generally became more tense in the 2000s and 2010s during the administrations of Néstor Kirchner and Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, as both leaders sought to limit U.S. influence in the region in favor of strengthening regional partnerships and deepen relations with China, Venezuela, and other countries. Cooperation and foreign policy alignment again increased during the Macri presidency. Alberto Fernández sought to maintain cordial relations with the United States, while deepening economic cooperation with China. According to the U.S. Department of State, relations between the United States and Argentina are characterized by robust commercial linkages and collaboration on issues such as democracy and human rights, counterterrorism, science and technology, and education.85 U.S.-Argentine relations arguably have been reinvigorated since President Milei assumed office in December 2023. As a presidential candidate and as president, Milei has emphasized his desire to strengthen Argentina's alliance with the United States.86 In May 2024, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken met with then-Argentine Foreign Minister Mondino in Washington, DC, where the two "reaffirmed the strength of the bilateral relationship." They also signed a framework of understanding reestablishing a bilateral high-level dialogue to facilitate increased cooperation on key issues, including "trade, economic growth, and environmental sustainability."87 Since Milei's inauguration, some Members of Congress have advocated for increasing commercial and investment ties with Argentina (see "Trade and Investment Ties").88 Several Members of Congress also have voiced support for President Milei's economic reforms more generally.89 U.S.-Argentina Defense and Security Cooperation U.S.-Argentina defense and security cooperation has fluctuated since the 1990s. During the presidency of Carlos Menem (1989-1999), the United States and Argentina deepened defense ties. Argentina participated in the multinational alliance against Iraq during the first Gulf War in 1991, and the United States designated Argentina as a major non-NATO ally in 1998.90 Defense cooperation cooled after 2001, especially under the Kirchner and Fernández de Kirchner administrations, but successive Argentine administrations continued to cooperate with the United States on counternarcotics and counterterrorism issues.91 The Milei administration has acted to deepen defense cooperation with the United States. In April 2024, the Argentine government signed an agreement to purchase 24 U.S.-made F-16 fighter jets from Denmark, a $300 million deal reportedly authorized by the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) and supported with $40 million in U.S. Foreign Military Financing—the first such funding to Argentina since 2003.92 The agreement is one of several acquisitions of U.S.-made aircraft that Argentine government has pursued in the last two years, including an agreement with Norway to purchase four Lockheed P-3 Orion planes to increase maritime patrol capability and a proposed agreement with the United States to purchase a Basler BT-67 Aircraft to increase airlift capacity to service Antarctica.93 Also in April 2024, U.S. Southern Command General Laura Richardson met with President Milei and Argentine defense leaders in Ushuaia to discuss strengthening bilateral military ties. That same month, the Argentine government formally requested to be recognized as a NATO global partner. Such recognition if successful, would make Argentina the second country in Latin America with global partner status.94 The U.S. Navy announced in September 2024 that Argentina had joined the Combined Maritime Forces, a U.S.-led multinational naval partnership of 46 countries that targets threats to maritime security in waters near the Arabian Peninsula.95 Shortly after General Richardson's April 2024 visit, a team of Argentine government officials and scientists conducted an inspection of the PRC's deep space radar facility in Neuquén, a city in southwestern Argentina, for the first time since 2022.96 U.S. officials, who reportedly urged the Milei administration to conduct the inspection, have asserted that the facility is used in PRC military satellite command-and-control operations.97 The Argentine foreign minister reportedly stated that the inspection did not find anything unusual.98 Congress has maintained interest in Argentina's efforts to investigate and bring to justice those responsible for two terrorist bombings in the 1990s against Israeli and Jewish targets in Buenos Aires. On March 17, 1992, the Israeli Embassy was bombed, resulting in 22 deaths. Two years later, on July 18, 1994, the bombing of the Argentine-Israelite Mutual Association (AMIA) Jewish community center killed 85 people. Investigators later alleged that Hezbollah (an Iran-backed Lebanese Shia militia and U.S.-designated Foreign Terrorist Organization) and Iran were involved in the attacks, which the government of Iran denies.99 Efforts to investigate the bombings and bring those responsible to justice have continued for 30 years. Although the case technically remains open, the Argentine supreme court issued a resolution in 1999 claiming sufficient evidence that the 1992 embassy bombing was carried out by a terrorist group connected to Hezbollah.100 In 2004, a three-judge panel acquitted all 22 Argentine defendants in the AMIA attack, citing flaws with the investigation.101 In 2006, on the basis of a new investigation, an Argentine judge issued arrest warrants for several individuals thought to be connected with the AMIA bombing, including eight Iranian government officials. The International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL) subsequently published Red Notices (international wanted person notices) for several of the accused, including five of the accused Iranian officials.102 The Iranian government continues to deny any connection to the attacks and has refused to turn over the Iranian officials to Argentina.103 Under then-President Fernández de Kirchner, Argentina sought to engage Iran over the AMIA investigation, including by signing a 2013 agreement with Iran to jointly investigate the attack; an Argentine court later struck down the agreement before it was implemented. In 2015, Alberto Nisman, the special prosecutor charged with investigating the AMIA bombing, was found dead from a gunshot wound days after filing a criminal complaint alleging President Fernández de Kirchner and other officials attempted to whitewash Iran's involvement in the bombing and ensure the implicated Iranian officials' impunity via the 2013 agreement in order to deepen trade relations with Iran.104 The investigation into Nisman's death remains ongoing. In 2021, an Argentine court acquitted Fernández de Kirchner and other officials named in Nisman's criminal complaint, but a higher court reopened the case in 2023; the defendants have appealed the case to Argentina's supreme court.105 In late 2015, then-President Macri established a special unit within the Justice Ministry to take up the AMIA bombing investigation. On the 30th anniversary of the AMIA bombing in July 2024, President Milei asserted he had instructed his justice secretary to "strengthen" this unit.106 In 2015, the attorney general began court proceedings in a separate case against several former Argentine judiciary members and government officials alleged to have been involved in efforts to cover up the initial investigation into the bombing.107 In 2019, the case resulted in the conviction and sentencing of several officials associated with the investigation, including the judge who heard the initial AMIA case; other government officials were acquitted. In April 2024, a three-judge appeals panel confirmed some of the 2019 convictions and reduced some prison sentences, while acquitting other officials.108 Although the case considered officials' alleged cover-up attempts and not the bombing itself, one judge held that the AMIA bombing and the 1992 embassy bombing had been planned and financed by Iran and carried out by Hezbollah. Argentina designated Hezbollah a terrorist group in 2019, on the 25th anniversary of the AMIA bombing. In response to the April 2024 appeals panel ruling, the chairs of the U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee released a statement praising the "enormous courage" of those working to hold Iran responsible and deliver transparency to the victims.109 Argentina's Foreign Ministry released a statement demanding the arrest of the suspected Iranian nationals, including Ahmad Vahidi, who was then serving as Iran's interior minister.110 The office of President Milei released a statement commending the ruling.111 The director of an umbrella group representing Argentina's Jewish community also reportedly praised the ruling, stating that the case enables victims of the bombing to pursue justice in the International Criminal Court.112 Several resolutions related to the 1990s bombings have been introduced in the 118th Congress. S.Res. 758 would commemorate anniversaries of the two attacks and call for justice for the victims, including by urging the U.S. President to offer technical assistance to the Argentine government to support the ongoing investigations. H.Res. 1266 would condemn the AMIA attack, express sympathy for the victims, and demand that INTERPOL member countries comply with arrest orders for suspected perpetrators. Transnational Crime Concerns and Law Enforcement Cooperation U.S. and Argentine officials have continued to express concerns about security threats from transnational criminal groups and terrorist organizations in Argentina and in the broader region, including from Hezbollah. U.S. and Argentine officials have asserted that Hezbollah has suspected links to money-laundering organizations in the Tri-Border Area (TBA)—a remote area where Argentina's northern border meets the borders of Brazil and Paraguay—to support its operations.113 According to the Department of State, the TBA "continues to be one of the principal routes into Argentina for multi-billion-dollar-trade-based money laundering, counterfeiting, drug trafficking, and other smuggling operations."114 A 2022 Argentine government analysis estimated that criminal money laundering in the country exceeds $1 billion annually.115 In September 2023, Argentina and the United States signed a memorandum of understanding to provide a framework for, and strengthen, joint efforts to combat drug trafficking, money laundering, and human trafficking.116 A mutual legal assistance treaty and customs mutual assistance agreement facilitate information sharing to combat trade-based money laundering between the two countries.117 U.S. foreign assistance to Argentina primarily takes the form of security assistance, including security assistance managed by the State Department. The Biden Administration allocated $632,000 in bilateral assistance in FY2022 and an estimated $650,000 in FY2023 for International Military Education and Training (IMET) activities in Argentina. The Administration requested $800,000 in IMET funding for Argentina in each of FY2024 and FY2025. Argentina also receives some regional International Narcotics and Law Enforcement (INCLE) assistance through Southern Cone Cooperation programming, which aims to provide technical assistance on shared security concerns, including organized crime and drug trafficking, to Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay.118 DOD-administered assistance for Argentina is larger than other types of U.S. assistance. A Southern Command press statement from April 2024 asserted that U.S. defense funding for security cooperation with Argentina "exceeds $625 million" in FY2024, focused on such ends as "professional and capacity development, cyber defense, and disaster preparedness."119 Argentina has held major non-NATO ally status with the United States since 1998, making it eligible for preferential treatment for U.S. transfers of excess defense articles and other defense cooperation. Between FY2019 and FY2023, the United States provided Argentina with approximately $2.2 million of equipment via the Excess Defense Articles program through its grant authority.120 Congress may assess ongoing U.S.-Argentine security cooperation as it considers bilateral and regional foreign assistance appropriations. Congress may probe the efficacy of U.S.-Argentina cooperation programs, especially those funded through bilateral and regional security assistance accounts. From FY2018 to FY2020, Congress designated $2.5 million in annual bilateral INCLE assistance to Argentina to support mutual goals in the "areas of counterterrorism, counternarcotics, and law enforcement, and help increase Argentina's technological capabilities in such areas."121 Congress may assess whether to increase INCLE assistance to Argentina through regional Southern Cone Cooperation programming or bilateral INCLE assistance, given rising concerns about transnational criminal organization activity in Argentina and the wider region. For FY2025 appropriations, the report (H.Rept. 118-554) accompanying the House-passed FY2025 State, Foreign Operations, and Related Appropriations (SFOPS) bill (H.R. 8771) calls for $8.05 million in budget authority for INCLE security assistance in the Southern Cone. In the Senate, the report (S.Rept. 118-200) accompanying the Senate version of the FY2025 SFOPS bill (S. 4797) recommends not less than $5 million in INCLE funding for Southern Cone Cooperation. In 2016, the United States and Argentina signed a Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) that has been the two countries' primary mechanism for discussing bilateral trade and investment issues. In June 2024, the U.S. and Argentine governments held their fourth meeting under the TIFA, during which they discussed "the important role of bilateral engagement in diversifying regional supply chains for long-term, sustainable growth, including in key sectors such as critical minerals," among other issues.122 The United States and Argentina have strong trade ties.123 After a pandemic-driven contraction of 22% in 2020, the total value of U.S.-Argentine goods trade grew by an average of 40% over the subsequent two-year period, reaching a 10-year high of $19.7 billion dollars in 2022. In 2023, Argentina was the 31st-largest export market for the United States and the 4th-largest U.S. trading partner in South America in terms of total trade, despite total bilateral trade shrinking by almost 10% from its 2022 high, in part due to a reduction in mineral fuel trade flows. The United States was one of Argentina's top trading partners in 2023, representing Argentina's second-largest export market (after Brazil) and its third-largest source of imports (after Brazil and China). In 2023, the United States ran a $5.0 billion goods trade surplus with Argentina, exporting $11.4 billion in goods to the country (led by mineral fuels, machinery, and electrical equipment) and importing $6.4 billion (led by crude oil, precious metals, organic chemicals, and aluminum). According to the Department of State, Argentina presents investment and trade opportunities in several sectors, including agricultural, mining, and energy.124 Various factors may dampen Argentina's investment climate, however, such as economic instability, including high inflation; some interventionist policies, including foreign currency controls, export taxes, and limits on imports; and a high tax burden, combined with restrictive labor regulations.125 According to the Department of State, over 260 U.S. companies operate in Argentina, and the United States continues to be the top investor in the country. The stock of U.S. foreign direct investment (FDI) in Argentina was $14.5 billion in 2023, led by investment in the industries of finance and insurance, manufacturing, and nonbank holding companies.126 Part of President Milei's economic policy centers on fostering increased private sector investment, including FDI, by implementing market-oriented reforms and increasing incentives for investments in certain sectors of the economy. President Milei has said he intends to eliminate interventionist polices enacted by previous administrations, including foreign currency controls, after reducing inflation and stabilizing the economy.127 A key aspect of the Milei administration's strategy to attract investment is the Incentives Regime for Large Investments (Régimen de Incentivos para Grandes Inversiones, or RIGI), an investment promotion regime launched in August 2024. RIGI aims to increase investment in eight of Argentina's main export-oriented sectors by creating a more stable investment environment through foreign exchange, tax, and customs benefits for 30 years for projects worth more than $200 million.128 Some analysts have projected that RIGI could increase large-scale investments in provinces that ratify the investment promotion regime, while noting that its overall effectiveness may be limited if capital and foreign currency controls remain in place.129 Argentina has been on the U.S. Trade Representative's (USTR's) Special 301 Priority Watch List since 1996 due to U.S. concerns over "long-standing and well-known challenges to intellectual property-intensive industries."130 USTR's 2024 Special 301 Report identifies the sale of counterfeit and pirated goods and services and the unfair commercial use of undisclosed data used to obtain marketing approval for products in the agrochemical and pharmaceutical sectors as key challenges. USTR asserted that Argentina had made limited progress in intellectual property enforcement and protection in 2023, citing ongoing technological improvements to Argentina's administration of patents and limited raids targeting the sale of counterfeit goods. The two countries address intellectual property issues under the TIFA's United States-Argentina Innovation and Creativity Forum for Economic Development, which held its eighth meeting in June 2024.131 Congress may decide whether to enact legislation that aims to facilitate increased trade and investment ties between the United States and Argentina. Some Members of Congress have advocated for Argentina's inclusion in the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity, a U.S.-led regional investment initiative.132 Other Members of Congress have stated that reauthorizing the Generalized System of Preferences program—which provides nonreciprocal, duty-free treatment for certain U.S. imports from Argentina and other developing countries—is "crucial to the relationship between the two nations."133 Two companion bills referred to as the Americas Act (H.R. 7571 and S. 3878) would provide a pathway for countries in the hemisphere to join the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement, among other incentives intended to encourage U.S. companies to relocate supply chains to the region. Lithium Supply Chains Cooperation Argentina, along with neighboring Chile and Bolivia, has one of the world's largest reserves of lithium, a critical mineral used to produce batteries for electric vehicles (EVs) and various other products. As of 2023, the U.S. Geological Survey estimated that Argentina had the third-largest reserves and was the fourth-largest producer of lithium in the world; Argentina was the top source of lithium imported into the United States between 2019 and 2022.134 Some analysts assess that Argentina is on track to become a top-three lithium producer by 2027, as several lithium projects are expected to start operations in the next three years.135 Argentina's lithium reserves are concentrated in the country's northwest, where some local communities have voiced concerns about lithium mining's environmental impact. According to government data, all but two of the country's 50 active lithium projects are located in the northwest provinces of Catamarca, Jujuy, and Salta (see Figure 1).136 Some residents of communities in close proximity to lithium mining sites have reportedly voiced concerns about the industry's potential to pollute and deplete groundwater sources, whereas others have welcomed the increased economic opportunities associated with the mining industry.137 According to a 2020 academic study, the potential environmental impacts of lithium exploitation are "related to air, water and soil pollution, as well as the depletion of water sources upon which many local communities in these mining regions are dependent."138 The government of Argentina is a member of the Minerals Security Partnership (MSP) Forum, a plurilateral forum for mineral-rich countries led by the United States and the European Union associated with the MSP. Through the Forum, the 15 members of the MSP seek to "discuss and advance both projects and policies that provide a more secure and sustainable supply of critical minerals."139 Although U.S. officials generally promote the MSP's goals on their own merit, analysts have assessed that the initiative is also an effort to create mineral supply chains not substantially controlled by the PRC; the PRC reportedly has sought to use such control to disadvantage mineral supply companies based in countries the PRC considers geostrategic competitors.140 The United States and Argentina have sought to increase their collaboration on critical minerals supply chains in 2024. In August, U.S. State Department Under Secretary for Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment Jose Fernandez and then-Argentine Foreign Minister Diana Mondino signed a memorandum of understanding to strengthen cooperation on developing critical mineral supply chains. A day later, the two countries held the inaugural U.S.-Argentina Energy Security Dialogue in Buenos Aires to "serve as a forum to advance cooperative solutions to strengthen energy security, accelerate the clean energy transition, and expand critical mineral and clean energy supply chains."141 Argentine-sourced lithium does not currently count toward certain requirements related to consumer EV tax credits enacted as part of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (P.L. 117-169). The law (26 U.S.C. §30D) provides consumers a tax credit of up to $3,750 for the purchase of an EV if the critical minerals in the EV's battery are sourced from the United States or a U.S. FTA partner. The United States and Argentina do not currently have an FTA. Argentina has expressed its desire to qualify as a free trade agreement partner for the purposes of the EV tax credit. The Argentine government has argued that the U.S.-Argentina Trade and Investment Framework Agreement should be considered as an FTA.142 Argentina has also called for establishing a critical minerals agreement with the United States that would make its lithium eligible for the tax credit. In March 2023, the Biden Administration signed a critical minerals agreement with Japan that made Japanese critical minerals eligible for the tax credit.143 Some Members of Congress have criticized the U.S.-Japan agreement, however, asserting that it usurps congressional trade authorities.144 Congress could decide whether to support the executive branch in pursuing a similar agreement with Argentina. Congress could consider whether to pursue legislation to foster enhanced cooperation between the United States and Argentina on critical minerals. For example, Congress could decide whether to pass legislation to provide the President with trade promotion authority, empowering the President to negotiate a free trade agreement with Argentina.145 Congress could also decide whether to enact legislation that would modify the requirements of the IRA to make Argentina eligible for IRA tax credits. Several public opinion polls conducted in November 2024 indicate that President Milei's approval ratings stood above 50% after nearly a year in office, rebounding from earlier in the year when some polls showed his popular support may be eroding (for example, a poll from the Universidad de San Andrés conducted in September 2024 indicated support at 46%).146 President Milei's resilient popular support appears to be underpinned in part by improvement in some of Argentina's economic indicators, especially the inflation rate.147 However, the Milei administration's legislative agenda could face increased resistance if his support base erodes, given his LLA coalition's minority position in the Argentine congress. Center-right parties, including former President Macri's PRO, have selectively supported some of the Milei government's legislative initiatives, but the informal alliance with PRO may be fragile.148 Milei's ability to improve the economy, in addition to affecting short-term governability, could play a decisive role in the midterm congressional elections scheduled for October 2025, which will determine representation of Milei's coalition in congress during the second half of his administration. U.S.-Argentina relations have strengthened under the Milei administration. Although bilateral relations generally were positive during the previous Argentine administration, the current government has signaled a strong desire to increase alignment with U.S. foreign policy priorities and deepen U.S.-Argentina collaboration on several key issues, including defense relations, regional security efforts, and critical mineral supply chains. The Biden Administration has sought to engage the Milei administration, highlighted by several high-level bilateral meetings and the resumption of a high-level dialogue between the two countries. President Milei likely will continue to seek to strengthen U.S.-Argentina relations through the remainder of his first term. Argentina's ability to robustly engage with the United States on key international issues, however, may be predicated on improving the country's domestic economic situation, as Milei's political strength appears to be tied to the country's economic performance. To support Argentina's economic recovery, the Milei administration also may seek U.S. support to obtain a new IMF lending arrangement. Prior to the 2024 U.S. presidential election, a spokesperson for the Milei administration stated that relations with the United States are independent of who wins the election.149 Footnotes | 1. | See, for example, U.S. Congress, House Committee on Ways and Means, "Chairman Smith Leads House Delegation to Argentina, Paraguay, and Chile," press release, September 9, 2024; U.S. Congress, House Foreign Affairs Committee, Hearing on Western Hemisphere Competition, CQ, hearings, 118th Cong., 2nd sess., June 12, 2024; Office of U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, "ICYMI: Rubio: U.S. Should Stand by Argentina's Milei," press release, December 11, 2023. | | 2. | Constitución de la Nación Argentina, Art. 45-53, 54-62, 87-98; International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES), "Argentine Republic." | | 3. | See, for example, Dan Berbecel, Presidential Power in Latin America: Examining the Cases of Argentina and Chile, (New York: Routledge, 2021), pp. 38-60; Susan Rose-Ackerman, Diane Desierto, and Natalia Volosin, "Hyper-Presidentialism: Separation of Powers Without Checks and Balances in Argentina and the Philippines," Berekely Journal of International Law, 2011, pp. 246-333. | | 4. | Rita Arditti, "The Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo and the Struggle Against Impunity in Argentina," Meridians, vol. 3, no. 1, 2002, p. 20. | | 5. | Ministerio de Justicia, Secretaría de Derechos Humanos de la Nación, "Juicios de Lesa Humanidad en Tiempo Real," accessed August 28, 2024, http://www.juiciosdelesahumanidad.ar/#!/. | | 6. | The Falklands War was a 74-day conflict between Argentina and the United Kingdom in which the two countries fought for control of the Falkland/Malvinas, South Georgia, and South Sandwich Islands from April to June, 1982. Argentina still claims the islands as part of its sovereign territory. Imperial War Museums, "A Short History of the Falklands Conflict," accessed October 28, 2024. | | 7. | Peronism, as a populist political movement, dates to the 1940s when Juan Domingo Peron—a colonel serving as Secretary of Labor in a military government that assumed power undemocratically in 1943—built a political base through the growing union movement. He went on to serve as president from 1946 until he was ousted by a military coup in 1955, and again from 1973 until his death in 1974. | | 8. | For background on Argentina's 2001 economic crisis, see International Monetary Fund (IMF), Independent Evaluation Office, The IMF and Argentina 1991-2001, 2004; Kathryn M. E. Dominguez and Linda L. Tesar, "International Borrowing and Macroeconomic Performance in Argentina," Capital Controls and Capital Flows in Emerging Economies: Policies, Practices and Consequences, National Bureau of Economic Research, May 2007; Paul Blustein, And the Money Kept Rolling In (and Out): Wall Street, the IMF, and the Bankrupting of Argentina (New York City: Public Affairs), 2005. | | 9. | CRS Report R41029, Argentina's Defaulted Sovereign Debt: Dealing with the "Holdouts", by J.F. Hornbeck, available to congressional clients upon request. | | 10. | IMF, World Economic Outlook Database, April 2024, accessed September 9, 2024. Average of IMF recorded gross domestic product growth rates from 2004 to 2007. | | 11. | Ibid. | | 12. | Ibid. | | 13. | Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censos (INDEC), Incidencia de la Pobreza y la Indigencia en 31 Aglomerados Urbanos, informe ténico, vol. 8, no. 73, March 2023, p. 3; Universidad de San Andrés (UdeSA), Encuesta de Satisfacción Política y Opinión Pública, September 2023, p. 11. | | 14. | Unless otherwise noted, this section draws from Ministerio del Interior, Dirección Nacional Electoral and Observatorio Político Electoral, "Resultados Electorales," Sistema de Publicación de Resultados Electorales; IFES, "Argentine Republic"; "Argentina's Milei at the 100-Day Mark," LatinNews, March 2024. | | 15. | Congressional elections in Argentina renew one-half of the Chamber of Deputies and one-third of the Senate every two years. Voters directly elect deputies and senators through a closed list proportional representation system. | | 16. | Michael Stott, "Argentina's Milei Faces Enormous Hurdles to Govern," Financial Times, November 20, 2023. | | 17. | In August 2024, two La Libertad Avanza (LLA; "Freedom Advances") lawmakers (one senator and one deputy) left the coalition. In September 2024, two deputies joined the LLA coalition, bringing LLA's representation in congress to 39 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 7 six seats in the Senate. | | 18. | See, for example, Universidad de San Andrés, Encuesta de Satisfacción Política y Opinión Pública, September 2023. | | 19. | Débora Rey, "Argentina Sharply Devalues Its Currency and Cuts Subsidies as Part of Shock Economic Measures," Associated Press, December 12, 2023. | | 20. | The Milei Administration eliminated 11 cabinet-level ministries and created the Ministry of Deregulation and Transformation of the State (Ministerio de Desregulación y Transformación del Estado). Boletín Oficial, Decreto 585/2024, Modifiación Ley de Ministerios, July, 4, 2024. The national statistics agency estimated that Argentina's national government employed about 21,700 fewer public sector employees (not including state-owned firms) in August 2024 compared with December 2023, a 9.3% decrease. INDEC, Dotación de Personal de la Administración Pública Nacional, Empresas y Sociedades," August 2024, accompanying dataset Dotación Total Estimada por Estructura Organizativa, Julio de 2022 a Agosto de 2024; Martina Juareguy, "Milei's Government Reduces Ministries and Secretariats by 50%," Buenos Aires Herald, December 12, 2023; LatinNews, "Government Defends Public Works Freeze," June 26, 2024. | | 21. | Maximiliano Pérez Gallardo, "El Senado Argentino Rechaza Megadecreto de Milei para Desregular la Economía, pero Seguirá Vigente," France24, March 15, 2024. | | 22. | The Milei administration originally had introduced a more expansive 664-article version of the bill but withdrew it in February 2024 due to opposition in congress. The administration changed several aspects of the bill, including reducing the number of state-owned firms authorized to be privatized, restricting the president's proposed emergency legislative powers, and removing a proposed pension reform. LatinNews, "Argentina: Milei's Key Bills Clear Final Hurdle," June 28, 2024. | | 23. | The Guardian, "Argentina: Violent Protests as Senators Back Austerity Measures of President Milei," June 13, 2024. | | 24. | Aerolíneas Argentinas, "Paro de Pilotos y Tripulantes: 37 Mil Pasajeros Afectados y 319 Vuelos Cancelados," September 12, 2024. | | 25. | Reuters, "Clashes Outside Argentina Congress After Pension Hike Blocked," September 12, 2024; and Isabel Debire, "Public university protests escalate in challenge to Argentina's President Milei," Associated Press, October 21, 2024. | | 26. | The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) is an autonomous body of the Organization of American States (OAS), whose mandate is based on the OAS Charter and the American Convention on Human Rights. IAHCR, "IACHR and SRFOE Urge Argentina to Uphold the Right to Social Protest," September 23, 2024; IAHCR, "Argentina: CIDH y su RELE Expresan Preocupación Ante Reportes sobre Alegadas Afectaciones a la Protesta Social," November 8, 2024. | | 27. | United Nations, "Mandatos del Relator Especial Sobre los Derechos a la Libertad de Reunión Pacífica y de Asociación, de la Relatora Especial Sobre la Promoción y Protección del Derecho a la Libertad de Opinión y de Expresión y de la Relatora Especial Sobre la Situación de los Defensores de Derechos Humanos," OL ARG 3/2024, January 23, 2024. | | 28. | Americas Society/Council of the Americas, "Buenos Aires 2024: Patricia Bullrich, Ministra de Seguridad," August 14, 2024; José Giménez y Manuel Tarricone, "Qué Establece el Protocolo 'Antipiquetes' del Gobierno de Javier Milei," Chequeado, January 24, 2024. | | 29. | Gobierno de Argentina, "El Gobierno Anunció las Nuevas Medidas para Liberar a Rosario del Narcoterrorismo," March 11, 2024. | | 30. | Departments (departamentos) are second-level administrative subdivisions of Argentina's territory, after provinces. Observatorio de Seguridad Pública, Reporte Anual de Homicidios: Provincia de Santa Fe Año 2023, January 2023, pp. 38 and 46. | | 31. | Ibid; Evan Ellis, "Argentina: Security Challenges and the Government Response," Centro de Estudios Estratégicos del Ejército del Perú, Revista Seguridad y Poder Terrestre, vol. 3, no. 2, June 6, 2024; Alicia Florez and Christopher Newton, "How Rosario Became Argentina's Violence Capital," InSight Crime, January 30, 2024. | | 32. | Ministerio de Defensa, "'Hay un Compromiso Inclaudicable de Luchar Contra el Narcotráfico', Aseveró Petri al Poner en Marcha el Operativo en el que Fueron Desplegados Efectivos y Medios de las Fuerzas Armadas en Rosario," Mach 19, 2024; LatinNews, "Government Cracks Down on Prisoners," March 7, 2024. | | 33. | Ministerio de Seguridad, "La Ministra Bullrich Desembarcó en Rosario Donde Mostró los Resultados del Plan Bandera," August 26, 2024. | | 34. | Human Rights Watch, "Argentina: Firearms Resolution Opens Door to Abuse," March 25, 2024. | | 35. | Senado de Argentina, "Es Ley la Ampliación del Registro Nacional de Datos Genéticos para Investigar Delitos," September 26, 2024; Ministerio de Seguridad, "Bullrich y Petri Presentaron los Principales Proyectos de Seguridad en la Casa Rosada: 'No Podemos Convertir a los Victimarios en Víctimas,'" March 21, 2024; U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation, "Frequently Asked Questions on CODIS and NDIS," accessed October 1, 2024. | | 36. | Casa Rosada, "Palabras del Presidente Javier Milei en la Cena de Camaradería," August 16, 2024. | | 37. | Federico Galligani, "Las Fuerzas Armadas Cuestionan el Proyecto de Seguridad Interior del Gobierno y Advierten sobre la Falta de Presupuesto," Infobae, August 23, 2024. | | 38. | The Economist, "Javier Milei Is Splurging on the Army," August 22, 2024. | | 39. | Casa Rosada, "Palabras del Presidente Javier Milei en el Acto en Conmemoración del 42° Aniversario del Día de Veterano y de los Caídos en la Guerra de Malvinas," April 2, 2024; CNN Español, "Milei y Victoria Villarruel se Subieron a un Tanque en el Medio del Desfile por el 9 de Julio en Argentina," July 9, 2024. | | 40. | Richard M. Sanders, "Argentina's Milei Wants 'Reconciliation' with the Military," U.S. Institute of Peace, June 5, 2024. | | 41. | Buenos Aires Herald, "Arrieta Leaves LLA Amid Scandal over Prison Visit to Torturers," August 28, 2024. | | 42. | "NGOs Accuse Milei Government 'Dismantling' Team Investigating Military Records," Buenos Aires Times, April 12, 2024; "Martin Jaureguy, "Milei Dissolves Investigation Unit that Helped Find Dictatorship-Era Appropriated Children," Buenos Aires Herald, August 14, 2024; Abuelas de Plaza de Mayo, "La Búsqueda de los Nietos y Nietas no Se Puede Frenar por Decreto," June 27, 2024. | | 43. | World Bank Group, A New Growth Horizon: Improve Fiscal Policy, Open Markets, and Invest in Human Capital, 2024, p. 3. | | 44. | See, for example, Ibid. p. 2; Eduardo Levy Yeyati, "It's Groundhog Day in Argentina," Americas Quarterly, April 22, 2019; Hector Torres, "How to Fix Argentina's Recurrent Debt Crises," Foreign Policy, October 31, 2020. | | 45. | Ibid. | | 46. | International Trade Administration (ITA), "Argentina: Agricultural Industry," October 26, 2022; U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), World Shale Resource Assessments, May 17, 2013; U.S. Geological Survey, Mineral Commodity Summaries, January 2024, p. 111. | | 47. | United Nations Development Program (UNDP), Human Development Report 2023/2024, 2024. The Human Development Index is a summary measure of a country's average achievement in key dimensions of human development, including health, education, and standard of living. | | 48. | IMF, "World Economic Outlook Database, April 2024," April 16, 2024. | | 49. | INDEC, Índice de Precios al Consumidor, informes ténicos, vol. 8, no. 1 (December 2023), p. 3. | | 50. | Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), Country Report: Argentina, June 1, 2024; INDEC, Índice de Precios al Consumidor, informes técnicos, vol. 8, no. 35, November 12, 2024, pp. 3-4. | | 51. | INDEC, Informe de Avance del Nivel de Actividad, informes técnicos, vol. 8, no. 210, September 18, 2024, p. 9; INDEC, Mercado de Trabajo. Tasas e Indicadores Socioeconómicos (EPH), informes técnicos, vol. 8 no. 211, p. 5. | | 52. | INDEC determines poverty by assessing whether a given household's income can satisfy a set of essential food and nonfood needs through the purchase of goods and services. INDEC, Incidencia de la Pobreza y la Indigencia en 31 aglomerados urbanos, informes técnicos, vol. 8, no. 220, September 26, 2024. | | 53. | Centro de Estudios Legales y Sociales, "Six Months of Javier Milei's Government in Argentina: Shock Doctrine and Libertarian Authoritarianism," June 22, 2024. | | 54. | UN Children's Fund, Pobreza Monetaria y Privaciones Vinculadas a Derechos en Niñas y Niños 2016-2023, March 12, 2024, p. 6. | | 55. | INDEC assesses social inequality by measuring the Gini Index, a summary measure of income dispersion that describes the relationship between the cumulative distribution of income and the cumulative distribution of the population. For more information on the Gini Index, see CRS Report R43897, A Guide to Describing the Income Distribution, by Sarah A. Donovan. INDEC, Trabajo e ingresos: Evolución de la Distribución del Ingreso (EPH)," informe ténico, vol. 8, no. 6, June 2024, p. 7. | | 56. | See, for example, S&P Global "Argentina 'CCC/C' Global Scale And 'raB+' National Scale Ratings Affirmed; Outlook Remains Stable," August 8, 2024. | | 57. | Fitch Ratings, "Fitch Affirms Argentina at 'CC,'" rating action commentary, June 11, 2024; Fitch Ratings, "Argentina's Debt Service Prospects Remains Unclear After Latest Policy Moves," Fitch Wire, July 23, 2024. | | 58. | Casa Rosada, "Cadena Nacional del Presidente de la Nación, Javier Milei, Presentando el Presupuesto 2025 en el Congreso de la Nación," September 15, 2024. | | 59. | Ciara Nugent, "Litigation 'Tsunami' Breaks Over Argentina's President Javier Milei," Financial Times, November 5, 2024. | | 60. | IMF, "Argentina and the IMF"; IMF, "IMF Executive Board Approves 30-Month U.S.$44 Billion Extended Arrangement for Argentina and Concludes 2022 Article IV Consultation," press statement, March 25, 2022. | | 61. | See, for example, UdeSA, "Encuesta: Qué Imagen Tienen los Argentinos del Campo, los Movimientos Sociales, los Sindicatos y la Justicia," May 3, 2022; Poliarquía and Wilson Center, "Argentina Pulse #6: La Percepción de los Argentinos en Relación al Orden Mundial, la Política Exterior y los Problemas Grandes," April 2020, p. 4. | | 62. | IMF, "Total IMF Credit Outstanding: Movement from September 1, 2024, to September, 19, 2024." Figure converted from Special Drawing Rights to U.S. dollars using Google Finance Currency Converter, accessed September 20, 2024. | | 63. | IMF, "IMF Executive Board Completes the Eighth Review of the Extended Arrangement Under the Extended Fund Facility for Argentina," press release no. 24/217, June 13, 2024. | | 64. | IMF, "IMF and Argentine Authorities Reach Staff-Level Agreement on an Extended Fund Facility," press release, March 3, 2022. | | 65. | IMF, "Transcript of Western Hemisphere Economic Outlook October 2024 Press Briefing," October 25, 2024. | | 66. | According to a press release, approximately $4.4 billion in financing ($2 billion from the World Bank and $2.4 billion from the Inter-American Development Bank [IDB]) will support public sector initiatives, including strengthening social protections; the remaining $4.4 billion ($3 billion from the World Bank and $1.4 billion from IDB) will support private sector initiatives in strategic sectors. Ministerio de Economía, "Grupo Banco Mundial y el Grupo BID Otorgan Financiamiento por USD 8.800 Millones para Impulsar el Desarrollo Económico Argentino," press release, October 23, 2024. | | 67. | Letter from 10 Members of Congress to Kristalina Georgieva, Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, October 4, 2024. | | 68. | U.S. Southern Command (SOUTHCOM), "Statement of General Laura Richardson, Commander, United States Southern Command, Before the 118th Congress," House Armed Services Committee, March 12, 2024. | | 69. | INDEC, Argentine Foreign Trade Statistics: Preliminary Data for 2023, Informes ténicos, vol. 8, no. 23, February 5, 2024, p. 5. | | 70. | Banco Central de la República Argentina, Informe Sobre Inversión Extranjera Directa, Fourth Quarter 2023, p. 14 | | 71. | Enrique Dussel Peters, Monitor of Chinese Infrastructure in Latin America and the Caribbean 2024, Latin American and Caribbean Academic Network on China (Red ALC-China), July 2024. | | 72. | R. Evan Ellis, The Evolution of Chinese Engagement in Argentina Under Javier Milei, Center for Strategic and International Studies, June 2024. | | 73. | Voice of America, "Argentina Won't Join BRICS Alliance in Milei's Latest Policy Shift," December 29, 2024. | | 74. | Reuters, "Argentina's Milei Thanks Chinese President, in Softening of Tone," November 22, 2023. | | 75. | Reuters, "Argentina Extends Currency Swap with China, Defusing Repayment Fears," June 12, 2024. | | 76. | Six other South American countries are associate members of the Common Market of the South (Mercosur by its Spanish acronym). Venezuela joined the bloc as a full member in 2012; however, Mercosur's founding members suspended Venezuela's participation indefinitely in 2016 due to concerns over trade, human rights, and democracy issues. Mercosur, Decisión Sobre la Suspensión de Venezuela en el MERCOSUR, August 5, 2017. | | 77. | Mercosur, Tratado para la Constitución de un Mercado Común Entre la República de Argentina, la República Federativa de Brasil, la República del Paraguay y la República Oriental del Uruguay, March 26, 1991. | | 78. | A key characteristic of Mercosur's customs union is the common external tariff (CET) that member countries levy on imports from outside the bloc. Each member country is entitled to maintain a national list of exceptions to the CET. The CET ranges from 0% to 35% ad valorem, depending on the imported good, and averages 11.7%. U.S. Trade Representative (USTR), 2024 National Trade Estimate Report on Foreign Trade Barriers, March 2024. | | 79. | Brazil and Argentina comprise the majority of Mercosur, accounting for 92% of the bloc's population and 94% of its gross domestic product. Stratfor, "Mercosur's Latest Meeting Highlights Its Growing Stagnation," July 11, 2024; Mercosur, "MERCOSUR in Figures," https://www.mercosur.int/en/. | | 80. | Mercosur and the European Union signed a preliminary trade agreement in 2019. Federico Steinberg, "What are the Implications of the EU-Mercosur Free Trade Agreement?" Center for Strategic and International Studies, March 26, 2024; and European Commission, "EU and Mercosur Reach Political Agreement on Groundbreaking Partnership," press release, December 5, 2024. | | 81. | Council on Foreign Relations, "Mercosur: South America's Fractious Trade Bloc," December 18, 2023. | | 82. | Max Klaver, "What Milei Means for Mercosur," Foreign Policy, December 18, 2023. | | 83. | MercoPress, "Milei Takes over Mercosur's Rotating Presidency," December 6, 2024; and Latin News, "Brazil/Region: Mercosur Divisions on Display at Summit," July 9, 2024. | | 84. | Casa Rosada, "Discurso del Presidente Javier Milei al Asumir la Presidencia Pro-Tempore del Mercosur," December 6, 2024. | | 85. | DOS, "U.S. Relations with Argentina," fact sheet, February 22, 2024. | | 86. | See, for example, "Milei: 'We Must Strengthen Strategic Alliance with United States," Buenos Aires Times, April 5, 2024. | | 87. | DOS, "Secretary Blinken's Meeting with Argentine Foreign Minister Mondino," readout, May 18, 2024. | | 88. | See, for example, Office of U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, "ICYMI: Rubio: U.S. Should Stand by Argentina's Milei," press release, December 11, 2023; Office of Rep. María Elvira Salazar, "Salazar Urges President Biden to Include Argentina in APEP Initiative," press release, May 21, 2024. | | 89. | Letter from 10 Members of Congress to Kristalina Georgieva, Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, October 4, 2024. | | 90. | Roberto Russell and Juan Gabriel Tokatlian, "Argentina's Foreign Policy," in Routledge Handbook of Latin America in the World (Oxfordshire: Routledge, 2014), p. 132. | | 91. | Roberto Russell, "Argentina and the United States: A Distant Relationship," in Contemporary U.S.-Latin American Relations (Oxfordshire: Routledge, 2010), p. 101. | | 92. | Tim Martin, "Argentina Signs $300M Contract for 24 Danish F-16 Fighter Jets," Breaking Defense, April 17, 2024; U.S. Embassy in Argentina, "United States Announces $40 Million in Foreign Military Financing for Argentina," April 18, 2024. | | 93. | Santiago Rivas, "Argentina Buys Four P-3 Orions from Norway," Janes, October 19, 2023; and U.S. Defense Security Cooperation Agency, "Argentina-Basler BT-67 Aircraft," press release, April 18, 2024. | | 94. | NATO global partners are not formal members of the alliance but work with NATO on common security challenges. Colombia is currently the only Latin American country with NATO global partner status. NATO, "Argentina Takes First Step Toward NATO Partnership," April 18, 2024. | | 95. | U.S. Navy, "Combined Maritime Forces Welcomes Argentina as Its 46th Member," September 9, 2024. | | 96. | Buenos Aires Times, "Argentine Delegation Inspects Chinese Space Station in Neuquén," April 18, 2024. | | 97. | U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency, Challenges to Security in Space, April 2024, p. 15. | | 98. | Ryan Dubé, "Argentina's Milei Finds It Hard to Decouple from China," Wall Street Journal, August 18, 2024. | | 99. | For more information on Hezbollah, see CRS In Focus IF10703, Lebanese Hezbollah, by Clayton Thomas and Jim Zanotti. | | 100. | Paulo Botta, "Argentina e Irán Entre 1989 y 1999: Entre las Sombras de los Atentados Terroristas y el Cambio de Política Exterior Argentina," Revista Iberoamericana de Filosofía, Política y Humanidades, vol. 14, no. 28 (2012), pp. 155-178. | | 101. | Unidad Fiscal para la Investigación de la Causa AMIA (UFI-AMIA), Informe de la UFI-AMIA Sobre el Estado de la Investigación por el Atentado a la Asociación Mutual Israelí Argentina," July 2022, p. 8. | | 102. | International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL), "INTERPOL Executive Committee Takes Decision on AMIA Red Notice Dispute, press release, March 15, 2007. | | 103. | "Iran Rejects Argentina's Request to Arrest Interior Minister over 1994 Bombing at Jewish Center," Associated Press, April 24, 2024. | | 104. | CRS Report R43816, Argentina: Background and U.S. Relations, by Mark P. Sullivan and Rebecca M. Nelson. | | 105. | Infobae, "Atentado a la AMIA: la Causa por el Memorándum con Irán Espera Definiciones de la Corte Suprema," July 18, 2024. | | 106. | Presidencia de la Nación, República de Argentina, "Milei: "El Terrorismo Iraní es un Asunto de Interés Nacional que Afecta de Forma Directa a la Vida de los Argentinos," July 17, 2024. | | 107. | The case investigated allegations of a government cover-up that led to irregularities in the original Argentine-Israelite Mutual Association (AMIA) investigation. The case looked into allegations that the judge overseeing the original AMIA bombing investigation, Juan José Galeano, had used public funds from Argentina's intelligence agency to pay the man accused of providing the vehicle used in the bombing some $400,000 to accuse a group of Buenos Aires police officers of involvement in the crime, thereby diverting the investigation into the bombing's true perpetrators. The case also investigated allegations that judicial officials, police officers, and senior officials of former President Carlos Menem had hindered investigators from pursuing other lines of investigation. Corte Interamericana de Derechos Humanos, "Corte IDH. Caso Asociación Civil Memoria Activa Vs. Argentina. Fondo, Reparaciones y Costes," January 26, 2024; Unidad Fiscal para la Investigación de la Causa AMIA (UFI-AMIA), Informe de la UFI-AMIA Sobre el Estado de la Investigación por el Atentado a la Asociación Mutual Israelí Argentina," July 2022; and Manuel Tarricone, "AMIA: 5 Claves para Entender el Fallo de la Casación en la Causa por el Encubrimiento del Atentado," Chequeado, May 5, 2024. | | 108. | Manuel Tarricone, "AMIA: 5 Claves para Entender el Fallo de la Casación en la Causa por el Encubrimiento del Atentado," Chequeado, May 5, 2024; Juan Décima, "Argentina High Court Confirms Convictions in AMIA Bombing Cover-Up Trial," Buenos Aires Herald, April 12, 2024. | | 109. | U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee, "McCaul, Cardin Praise Argentina's Court Ruling Finding Iran Responsible for Deadly Terrorist Attacks on Jewish Community," April 16, 2024. | | 110. | Ministry of Foreign Affairs, International Trade and Worship, "Argentina Demands the Arrest of Iranian Minister Ahmad Vahidi, Responsible for the Terrorist Attack on AMIA," April 23, 2024. | | 111. | Oficina del Presidente (@OPRArgentina), "Comunicado Oficial," X Post, April 11, 2024, https://x.com/OPRArgentina/status/1778598866834563427; and Isabel Debre and Almudena Calatrava, "President Milei's Surprising Devotion to Judaism and Israel Provokes Tension in Argentina and Beyond," Associated Press, June 3, 2024. | | 112. | France24, "Argentina Court Blames Iran for Deadly 1994 Bombing of Jewish Center," April 12, 2024. | | 113. | DOS, Country Reports on Terrorism 2022: Argentina, December 2023; U.S. State Department, International Narcotics Control Strategy Report, vol. II, February 2024, p. 45. | | 114. | DOS, Country Reports on Terrorism 2022: Argentina, December 2023. | | 115. | DOS, International Narcotics Control Strategy Report, vol. II, February 2024, p. 45. | | 116. | DOS, Country Reports on Terrorism 2022: Argentina, December 2023. | | 117. | DOS, International Narcotics Control Strategy Report, vol. II, February 2024, p. 46. | | 118. | DOS, Congressional Budget Justification, Foreign Operations, Fiscal Year 2025, Appendix 2, April 2024, pp. 356, 509. | | 119. | SOUTHCOM, "Gen. Richardson Meets with President Milei, Defense Leaders in Argentina," April 6, 2024. | | 120. | Defense Security Cooperation Agency, "Excess Defense Articles (EDA)," accessed October 7, 2024. | | 121. | "Explanation of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018," remarks in the House, Congressional Record, vol. 164 (March 22, 2018), p. H2852. | | 122. | USTR, "Joint Statement on the Fourth Meeting of the United States-Argentina Council on Trade and Investment," press release, June 7, 2024. | | 123. | This paragraph cites U.S. Census Bureau data, as reported by Trade Data Monitor, accessed October 7, 2024. | | 124. | DOS, 2024 Investment Climate Statements: Argentina, July 2024. | | 125. | Ibid. | | 126. | Bureau of Economic Analysis, "Direct Investment by Country and Industry, 2023," July 23, 2024. | | 127. | DOS, 2024 Investment Climate Statements: Argentina, July 2024; José Giménez, "Qué Significa que la Inflación del Programa Macroeconómico Sea 0, la Condición que Señaló Javier Milei Para Salir del Cepo," Chequeado, September 25, 2024. | | 128. | The Incentives Regime for Large Investments provides incentives for investments in eight sectors: forestry, tourism, infrastructure, mining, technology, steel, energy, and oil and gas. Boletín Oficial, Decreto 749/202 Apruébase Reglamentación del Título VII - Régimen de Incentivo para Grandes Inversiones (RIGI) - Ley N" 27.742, August 23, 2024. | | 129. | EIU, "Argentina's New Investment Promotion Regime: Key Points," July 25, 2024. | | 130. | USTR, 2024 Special 301 Report, April 2024, pp. 40-41. | | 131. | Ibid.; DOS, 2024 Investment Climate Statements: Argentina, July 2024. | | 132. | Office of Rep. María Elvira Salazar, "Salazar Urges President Biden to Include Argentina in APEP Initiative," press release, May 21, 2024. | | 133. | U.S. House Committee on Ways and Means, "Chairman Smith Leads House Delegation to Argentina, Paraguay, and Chile," press release, September 9, 2024. For more information about the Generalized System of Preferences trade program, see CRS In Focus IF11232, Generalized System of Preferences (GSP): FAQ, by Liana Wong. | | 134. | U.S. Geological Survey, Mineral Commodity Summaries 2024, January 2024, p. 111. | | 135. | Cecilia Jamasmie, "Argentina to Reach Top Three Lithium Producer Spot by 2027," Mining.com, September 8, 2023. | | 136. | A constitutional amendment in 1994 granted Argentina's provincial governments control of the natural resources within their borders. Ministerio de Economía, Sistema de Información Abierta a la Comunidad sobre Actividad Minera en Argentina (SIACAM), "Proyectos Mineros," updated July 12, 2024. | | 137. | Buenos Aires Times, "Lithium Fever Overshadows Environmental Concerns in Argentina," August 13, 2024. | | 138. | Rennie B. Kaunda, "Potential Environmental Impact of Lithium Mining," Journal of Energy & Natural Resources Law, vol. 38, no. 3 (2020), pp. 237-244. | | 139. | The Mineral Security Partnership aims to catalyze public and private investment in responsible critical minerals supply chains globally. DOS, "Minerals Security Partnership," https://www.state.gov/minerals-security-partnership/; and "Statement on the First High-Level Minerals Security Partnership (MSP) Forum Event," media note, July 18, 2024. | | 140. | Alberto Nardelli and Iain Marlow, "EU, U.S. to Align Global Minerals Push Against China's Supply Grip," Bloomberg, February 9, 2024. | | 141. | DOS, "Inaugural U.S.-Argentina Energy Security Dialogue," media note, August 26, 2024. | | 142. | "Comment from the Government of Argentina (GOA)/Embassy of Argentina in the U.S.," written comment, June 20, 2023, published by the Internal Revenue Service, IRS-2023-0019-0001, https://www.regulations.gov/comment/IRS-2023-0019-0067. | | 143. | For more information on the electric vehicle tax credit, see CRS In Focus IF12600, Clean Vehicle Tax Credits, by Donald J. Marples and Nicholas E. Buffie. For more information on the U.S.-Japan Critical Minerals Agreement, see CRS In Focus IF12517, U.S.-Japan Critical Minerals Agreement, by Kyla H. Kitamura. | | 144. | Office of Rep. Dan Kildee, "Statement by Congressman Kildee on U.S.-Japan Critical Minerals Agreement," press release, March 28, 2023. For more information on congressional trade authorities, see CRS Report R47679, Congressional and Executive Authority Over Foreign Trade Agreements, by Christopher T. Zirpoli. | | 145. | For more information on Trade Promotion Authority, see CRS In Focus IF10038, Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), by Christopher A. Casey and Cathleen D. Cimino-Isaacs. | | 146. | UdeSA, Encuesta de Satisfacción Política y Opinión Pública, November 2024; "Encuesta Exclusiva: a un Año de Asumir, Milei Conserva un Nivel Alto de Aprobación, Pero su Estilo Agresivo Genera un Fuerte Rechazo," La Nación, December 9, 2024; and UdeSA, Encuesta de Satisfacción Política y Opinión Pública, September 2024. | | 147. | "Encuesta Exclusiva: a un Año de Asumir, Milei Conserva un Nivel Alto de Aprobación, Pero su Estilo Agresivo Genera un Fuerte Rechazo," La Nación, December 9, 2024. | | 148. | LatinNews, "Milei Faces Headwinds in Congress," September 19, 2024. | | 149. | See, for example, "Adorni: Relations with U.S. Do Not Depend on Who Wins Election," Buenos Aires Times, September 19, 2024. | These documents were prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress. Information in a CRS Report should not be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the United States Government, are not subject to copyright protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permission of the copyright holder if you wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.


--- [List of attorneys general of Argentina] ---
The attorney general of Argentina (Spanish: Procurador General de la Nación Argentina) is the chief of all the prosecutors who act before national courts, as well as the designated prosecutor in the Supreme Court. The attorney general leads the Ministry of Public Prosecutions (Ministerio Público Fiscal; MPF). The Ministry of Public Prosecutions and the Ombudsperson's Office (Defensoría General) make up Argentina's Public Ministry, in accordance to Article 120 of the Argentine constitution.
Since 2017, the attorney general of Argentina has been Eduardo Casal, who serves in interim fashion following the resignation of Alejandra Gils Carbó.


--- [List of heads of state of Argentina - Wikipedia] ---
Argentina has had many different types of heads of state, as well as many different types of government. During pre-Columbian times, most of the territories that today form Argentina were inhabited by Amerindian peoples without any centralized government, with the exception of the Inca subjects of the Northwest and Cuyo regions. During the Spanish colonization of the Americas, the King of Spain retained the ultimate authority over the territories conquered in the New World, appointing viceroys for local government. The territories that would later become Argentina were first part of the Viceroyalty of Peru and then the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata. The May Revolution started the Argentine War of Independence by replacing the viceroy Baltasar Hidalgo de Cisneros with the first national government. It was the Primera Junta, a junta of several members, which would grow into the Junta Grande with the incorporation of provincial deputies. The size of the juntas gave room to internal political disputes among their members, so they were replaced by the First and Second Triumvirate, of three members. The Assembly of the Year XIII created a new executive authority, with attributions similar to that of a head of state, called the Supreme Director of the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata. A second Assembly, the Congress of Tucumán, declared independence in 1816 and promulgated the Argentine Constitution of 1819. However, this constitution was repealed during armed conflicts between the central government and the Federal League Provinces. This started a period known as the Anarchy of the Year XX, when Argentina lacked any type of head of state.
There was a new attempt to organize a central government in 1826. A new congress wrote a new constitution and elected Bernardino Rivadavia as President in the process. Rivadavia was the first President of Argentina. However, he resigned shortly after and the 1826 Constitution was repealed. The Argentine provinces then organized themselves as a confederation without a central head of state. In this organization, the governors of Buenos Aires province took some duties such as the payment of external debt or the administration of the foreign relations in the name of all provinces. Those governors were appointed by the Buenos Aires legislature, with the only exception of Juan Lavalle. Juan Manuel de Rosas kept the governor office for seventeen consecutive years until Justo José de Urquiza defeated him at the 1852 Battle of Caseros. Urquiza then called for a new Constitutional Assembly and promulgated the Argentine Constitution of 1853, which is the current Constitution of Argentina through amendments. In 1854, Urquiza became the first President of modern Argentina, acting both as head of government and head of state. However, the Buenos Aires Province had rejected the Constitution and became an independent state until the aftermath of the 1859 Battle of Cepeda, although the internecine conflict continued. Only after the subsequent Battle of Pavón in 1861, the former bonaerense leader Bartolomé Mitre became the first president of a unified Argentine Republic.
The succession line of constitutional presidents run uninterrupted until 1930, when José Félix Uriburu took government through a civic-military coup d'état. For many decades, there was an alternance between legitimate presidents and others that took government through illegitimate means. Those means included military coups, but also proscriptions of major political parties and electoral fraud. The last coup d'état occurred in 1976 and resulted in the National Reorganization Process, which ended in 1983. The retrospective recognition as presidents or heads of state of any de facto ruler that exercised its authority outside the Constitutional mandate is a controversial and relevant issue in Argentine politics. However, their government actions were recognized as valid following the de facto government doctrine that used to legitimize them. This doctrine was rejected by the 1994 amendment and would not be applicable for potential future coups. The current head of state is President Javier Milei, who took office on 10 December 2023.


--- [Event | Partnerships for Anticorruption Global Forum 2025 - World Bank] ---
The Partnerships for Anticorruption Global Forum, was held on April 8-9, 2025, in Washington, D.C. The World Bank Group's Anticorruption for Development Global Program (AC4D) and the International Corruption Hunters Alliance (ICHA) hosted the Forum. - OVERVIEW - DAY 1 - DAY 2 - WORLD CAFÉS - SPEAKERS - RELATED Corruption is a major impediment to development as it diverts resources from more productive uses and negatively affects shared prosperity on a livable planet by disproportionally benefiting those in power. Aware of corruption's high societal and environmental costs, the World Bank Group has evolved to take on corruption’s transnational dimensions, better tailor approaches to different contexts, and adopt a more integrative approach to strengthen focus on results and outcomes, by mobilizing new knowledge, data, tools, and partnerships. Achieving long-term economic growth and shared prosperity requires us to work together with partners in government, international organizations, private sector, academia, and civil society to address corruption and its corrosive impacts. The Forum featured a keynote address by Daron Acemoglu, Professor of Economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and 2024 Nobel Laureate. Professor Acemoglu’s session on Harnessing Technology for Transparency, Stronger Institutions, and Prosperity was livestreamed. You can watch the recording here. ICHA and AC4D brought together over 400 partners, leaders, and practitioners from government, academia, civil society, the private sector, and other international development organizations working on anticorruption and integrity. The 2025 Global Forum focused on the importance of partnerships in collectively advancing the fight against corruption. Sessions were streamed online and included panel discussions on critical topics such as Accountability, Institutions and the Rule of Law, Beneficial Ownership Transparency and Fighting Illicit Financial Flows, Procurement Systems and Private Partnerships, and Data, Technology, and Climate Change. The Forum was hosted by the World Bank Group and co-hosted by Transparency International, the Foreign, Commonwealth, and Development Office from the UK (FCDO), the Government of Sweden, the Government of Norway, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the Chandler Foundation, and the Open Government Partnership. Replays and report of the Forum Watch the replays of Day 1 and Day 2 of the Forum. Read the Forum report DATE: April 8 & 9, 2025 WHERE: World Bank Group Headquarters, Washington, DC Day 1 Agenda: Tuesday, April 8, 2025 | TIME & LOCATION | SESSION DETAILS | | 7.30 AM - 9.00 AM MC Front lobby | Registration and Breakfast Note: Registration ends at 8:45 am | | 9.00 AM - 9.15 AM Preston Auditorium | Getting Started - Overview of Agenda; Expected Outcomes | | 9.15 AM - 10.00 AM Preston Auditorium | Welcome & Introduction: The Role of Partnerships in Curbing Corruption | Watch the Replay Speakers: | | 10.00 AM - 10.15 AM Preston Auditorium | | 10.15 AM - 11.15 AM | Plenary 1: The Role of Elected/Public Officials in the Fight Against Corruption | Watch the Replay This panel discussion aims to provide a comprehensive understanding of the pivotal role that elected/public officials play in combating corruption and to foster a dialogue on effective approaches to strengthening partnerships in integrity and accountability in governance. This session will explore the critical role that elected/public officials play in combating corruption within their jurisdictions and to identify effective strategies, challenges, and best practices in this ongoing struggle. Speakers: | | 11.15 AM - 11.45 AM MC Front Lobby | Coffee Break | 11.45 AM - 12.45 PM | Plenary 2: Beneficial Ownership Transparency and Fighting Illicit Financial Flows |Watch the Replay The abuse of shell companies has been a central obstacle to anticorruption efforts for decades. Anonymous corporate vehicles are a preferred instrument of those seeking to launder illicit gains, evade taxes on lawful earnings or avoid sanctions. This plenary will examine country efforts and international initiatives to curb illicit financial flows through increased transparency of beneficial ownership information. The discussion will focus on country execution of international standards and what this means in practice, challenges and obstacles to effective implementation, and the impact on domestic resource mobilization and development. Speakers: | | 12:45 PM - 1:45 PM Preston Auditorium | Plenary 3 – State Capture and Corruption |Watch the Replay | View Presentation Speakers: | 1.45 PM - 2.50 PM | Lunch with World Bank Executive Directors | 3.00 PM - 4.00 PM | Parallel Sessions | MC-C1-100 | 1. Fighting Corruption in a Conflict Zone Treating corruption as a second order problem that takes a backseat to peace and stability can have far-reaching repercussions once peace is achieved. An institution that becomes fundamentally corrupt during a period of conflict will likely be resistant to change once peace is established. Capacity building and strengthening governance in state institutions must continue during times of conflict. In terms of actively investigating corruption, there are several adaptive techniques that can be employed to navigate conflict zones, including remote surveillance technology (including satellite imagery), the use of local third-party monitoring agents, promoting citizen engagement and local civil societies and, to the greatest extent possible, supporting local investigative journalism. Routine methods of fighting fraud and corruption, such as conducting audits or field visits, can be difficult or even impossible to pursue in conflict zones. This session will seek to address the following questions: Do anticorruption efforts have to be suspended during civil or military conflicts? Does corruption become an ancillary or second order problem that takes a backseat to peace and stability? Or are there viable alternatives to continue to scrutinize corruption? Panelists: | | MC 4-800 | 2. International Cooperation, and the Use of Innovative Legal Instruments to Recover the Proceeds of Mozambique’s Tuna Fleet Corruption Scandal This session will follow the sequence of the story of the tune boats scandal, how the Republic of Mozambique became the victim to "Tuna Bonds Scandal", and how it decided to use civil litigation powers to win a $3.1 billion lawsuit in London's High Court against UAE shipbuilder Privinvest for allegedly paying over $200 million in bribes to, inter alia, Mozambican officials and key Credit Suisse bankers from 2013 to 2016. Two London lawyers will examine how they came to be instructed in this landmark case and how they created an intentional strategy that allowed them to refuted efforts to assert jurisdiction in other countries and to argue their case in the UK. They will provide oversight on how they prepared the case and its progress through the English High Court. This example will serve as an important reminder to many countries, also the victims of large scale and complex corruption, that there are numerous legal remedies available to allow the countries to seek redress and remedies. The panel addresses an important overarching theme of the conference in relation to international cooperation, the use of creative legal remedies and asset recovery. Speakers: | | Preston Auditorium | 3. Institutional Checks to Combat Corruption: The Role of Supreme Audit Institutions The session aims to discuss the importance of building the capacity of Supreme Audit Institutions (SAIs) to effectively detect, prevent, and reduce corruption. This will give an opportunity to highlight the role of SAIs in providing fiscal oversight through credible and timely audit results, which contribute to transparency and accountability in government operations. The session will also emphasize the importance of SAIs establishing formal collaboration agreements with law enforcement agencies, anti-corruption bodies, and other stakeholders. This will take the discussion to address the need for SAIs to have adequate institutional and legal resources to perform their functions effectively, and highlight the challenges faced by SAIs in environments where corruption is widespread. Special attention will be given to experiences where other stakeholders in the accountability ecosystem complement, support, and accompany SAIs in their anticorruption work, highlighting the importance of partnerships in this task. Speakers: | | MC C2-350 | 4. Implementation of Beneficial Ownership Transparency Reforms: Country Experience Beneficial ownership transparency (BOT) is well recognized as a critical measure for combating anti-corruption. The role for beneficial ownership transparency is increasingly being understood in the context of many other development objectives, for example for enhancing domestic revenue mobilization through tax collection, increasing competition in public procurement, to name a few. With over 90-live beneficial ownership registries and the increasing international momentum in beneficial ownership reforms, many countries that don’t have existing beneficial ownership information systems are looking to introduce them, while others are aiming to upgrade systems. In this session, panelists will bring perspectives from their countries and share their experience and successes in implementing such reforms, including through financial and technical assistance from development partners and donor agencies. These include examples from countries that introduced these measures in key economic sectors such as in the extractives industry and in public procurement. Speakers: | | MC C2-370 | 5. Supporting Country Commitments in Financing for Development According to the UN: “The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are off track. Decades of progress on poverty and hunger have stalled, and in some cases, been thrown into reverse. Many developing economies are mired in debt, with financing challenges preventing the urgently needed investment push in the SDGs. But amid these challenges there lies opportunity. The Fourth International Conference on Financing for Development (FFD4) provides a unique opportunity to reform financing at all levels, including to support reform of the international financial architecture. The International Conferences on Financing for Development are the only space where leaders from all governments, along with international and regional organizations, financial and trade institutions, businesses, civil society and the UN System unite at the highest levels, fostering stronger international cooperation.” An analysis of the anticorruption related elements of the Financing for Development draft outcome document show that further inputs will be helpful to refine and strengthen the anti-corruption commitments for UN Member States, as well as international organizations and civil society. Building on previous processes, including the UN General Assembly Special Session against Corruption held in 2021 and the work done to implement the UN Convention against Corruption, speakers in this session will provide insight into their activities in support of anticorruption efforts and offer ideas on pilots or new initiatives in the Financing for Development process. Speakers: | 4.00 PM - 4.30 PM | Coffee Break | | 4:30 PM - 5.30 PM Preston Auditorium and Overflow | World Cafés | 5.30 PM - 6.30 PM | Plenary 4 - Regulatory Approaches to Integrity Compliance |Watch the Replay This session will convene regulators, prosecutors, the private sector, and other stakeholders to discuss how national and multilateral regulators implement integrity compliance matters in practice. The discussions will cover best practices, challenges, and innovative approaches to integrity compliance, as well as lessons learned across different jurisdictions. Panelists will share insights into how regulators and prosecutors are tackling complex challenges in enforcing integrity compliance standards within the private sector and in multi-jurisdictional cases. The session will also present perspectives and experiences from private sector engagement with integrity compliance regulators, along with forward-looking discussions on enhancing collaboration between regulators and the private sector in promoting integrity compliance. Speakers: | | 6.30 PM - 8.00 PM Atrium | Networking Reception | Day 2 Agenda: Wednesday, April 9, 2025 | TIME & LOCATION | SESSION DETAILS | 7.30 AM - 8.15 AM | Breakfast/Coffee | 8.15 AM - 8.45 AM | Day 1 Recap and Day 2 Overview | 8.45 AM - 9.45 AM | Plenary 5: Role of Partnerships for Building Accountability and Integrity Ecosystems | Watch the Replay The session aims to explore the impacts of partnerships and coalitions with governments and civil society in curbing corruption. Corruption typically involves multiple actors or networks of actors who collaborate to execute their illicit activities. Therefore, the fight against corruption necessitates a coordinated effort involving multiple authorities, as well as various private and social actors, and namely, investigative journalism. This is the only session of the forum dedicated to highlighting the importance of partnerships between governments and civil society in tackling corruption. The panelists, who have extensive experience in the field, will identify the advantages of these partnerships as well as the main challenges they face in terms of both effectiveness and durability. Speakers: | | 9.45 AM - 11.00 AM | Parallel Sessions | | MC C1-100 | 6. Multilateral Development Bank Harmonization in the Global Sanctions System–Working Together to Ensure Integrity and Accountability There is no debate that corruption is a development problem. The diversion of funds from development projects through fraud and corruption impairs the ability of public institutions to achieve their goals and undermines the rule of law. It erodes public trust, leads to acceptance of substandard services and infrastructure, and hurts our beneficiaries. Over the course of the last few years, we have seen accountability mechanisms like the World Bank Sanctions System take center stage in ensuring public funds are used for their intended purposes. As organizations increase their lending volumes and respond to many crises in an urgent and streamlined manner, accountability must underpin everything we do. This panel session will showcase the effective partnerships multiple MDBs have formed to harmonize and improve their internal sanctions systems to ensure they are fit for purpose. It will focus on the importance of global partnerships in designing and implementing effective adjudicatory mechanisms to review allegations of sanctionable misconduct. The panelists will address challenges, lessons learned, and how they carry out their work adhering to the pillars of independence, fairness, and transparency. Speakers: | | Preston Auditorium | 7. Corruption Risks in Procurement Systems, a Comparative Approach The session aims to compare tools and innovative solutions to identify corruption risks inherent in procurement systems across different countries. It will share best practices, discuss challenges, and identify strategies to mitigate these risks. The discussion will cover issues related to the regulatory and institutional capacity of procurement systems, and the risks associated, such as political interference and lack of accountability in procurement decisions. It will also address the challenges in strengthening regulatory frameworks to ensure compliance and integrity. Another focus will be on the complexity of procurement processes. The session will explore the challenges posed by these complexities and the capacity of public authorities to manage procurement processes effectively. On the topics of transparency and accountability, the session will emphasize the need for improved transparency in procurement processes and the availability of public information, particularly in open data formats. It will also highlight the role of e-Government Procurement systems in enhancing transparency and accountability. Special attention will be given to experiences where other stakeholders in the accountability ecosystem complement, support, and accompany procurement authorities in their anti-corruption work, highlighting the importance of partnerships in this task. Finally, the session will discuss the challenges in measuring and comparing procurement systems from an international perspective. It will address the difficulties in benchmarking procurement systems without a harmonized system for comparison. Speakers: | | MC 4-800 | 8. Accelerating International Cooperation and Asset Recovery: Country Experiences and Lessons Learned This session will highlight ways to improve and accelerate international cooperation and asset recovery. Engaging in informal international cooperation prior to submitting mutual legal assistance requests and using innovative tools can overcome challenges and delays. In turn, effective asset recovery can significantly contribute to the financial resources available for development projects, particularly in countries that have been adversely affected by corruption and illicit financial flows and can create a more equitable and prosperous global economy. The session will also focus on country experiences in tracing, confiscating, and negotiating the return of proceeds of corruption. It will highlight lessons learned over the past two years from the Global Forum on Asset Recovery (GFAR) Action Series, a practitioner-focused process aimed at facilitating cooperation between requested and requesting countries, supported by the StAR Initiative, IACCC, and ICAR. Speakers: | | MC C2-370 | 9. Gender and Inclusive Approaches to Anticorruption Speakers: | | MC C2-350 | 10. Civil Society: Partnering with Civil Society Organizations to Enhance Governance and Combat Corruption Speakers: | | 11.00 AM - 11.15 AM | Coffee Break | | 11.15 AM - 12.30 PM Preston Auditorium | Plenary 6: Helping Countries Fight Corruption: A Dialogue with World Bank Regional VPs | Watch the Replay Speakers: | | 12:30 PM - 1 PM | Insights and Strategies: A dialogue with Slagjana Taseva, Dean of the International Anticorruption Academy, and Alan Bacarese, Director of Investigations, Strategy, and Operations, Integrity Vice Presidency, The World Bank Group. | | 1:00 PM - 2.00 PM Front Lobby | Networking Lunch | 2.00 PM - 3.30 PM | Keynote Speaker: Harnessing Technology for Transparency, Stronger Institutions, and Prosperity | Watch the replay | | 3.30 PM - 4.00 PM Front Lobby | Coffee Break | 4.00 PM - 5.00 PM | Parallel Sessions | | MC C1-100 | 11. Investigative Journalism: Identifying Clean Promises And Dirty Links In Big Investments This interactive, hands-on workshop will provide participants with practical insights from investigative journalists on how to uncover the links between investments and corrupt practices. Attendees will engage in a role-playing exercise, simulating real-world investigative techniques used to track illicit financial flows, identify greenwashing in climate finance or expose conflicts of interest. Beyond equipping participants with investigative tools, the workshop will also serve as an opportunity for cross-sector collaboration, fostering dialogue between journalists and stakeholders in governance, finance, and anticorruption efforts. Speakers: | | MC C1-200 | 12. Corruption in Fragility, Conflict, and Violence-affected contexts This session will discuss corruption as a key factor in shaping international security, feeding conflicts, and exacerbating fragility. It will discuss the conditions under which corruption can produce fragile state structures incapable of absorbing and responding to shocks. The session will also explore how long-lasting conflict, and insecurity can turn corruption into an accepted social practice, perpetuating its existence even after the conflict subsides, and feeding grievances and conflict recurrence. The panelists will provide insights into what may work and what may not work when addressing corruption in fragile conflict and violence affected states based on their diverse experiences and with the understanding that reform options should be highly context dependent. Speakers: | | MC 4-800 | 13. Partnering to Address Demand-Side Bribery, a Multilateral Development Bank Perspective This session will describe what the investigative offices of Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs) can do and are doing to address demand-side bribery. The discussion will be structured around three questions. This might include an anonymized example or specific experience that has shaped their institution’s approach. Speakers: | | MC C2-350 | 14. Private Sector Initiatives for Clean Business Environment (ICO) This session will explore various initiatives aimed at promoting transparency, ethical conduct, and business integrity within the private sector. It will highlight key frameworks, tools, and programs developed by national and international institutions to support business integrity. The discussion will also focus on how companies can leverage these resources to design and implement robust compliance programs tailored to their organizational needs. Panelists will address: (i) the common challenges businesses face in adopting clean and ethical practices, along with practical solutions to overcome these hurdles; (ii) emerging trends and issues that organizations should consider staying ahead in promoting business integrity; and (iii) the role of collective action in advancing business integrity principles. Speakers: | | MC C2-370 | 15. Selling Secrecy: Tackling the Infrastructure that Enables Corruption This session will focus on the role of professional service providers in money laundering, corruption, and other financial crimes – corporate service providers, lawyers, accountants, wealth advisors, and others. They set up and manage shell companies, advise on tax and investment strategies, appoint nominee corporate officers, and manage funds on behalf of clients. These professionals can facilitate, unwittingly or wittingly, high-level corruption, or they can act as gatekeepers to the financial system by enforcing integrity standards. Speakers will discuss regulation of professional service providers, including the FATF Recommendations and a recent analysis of compliance conducted by global anti-money laundering standard-setter; tensions between commercial incentives and transparency rules; and explore different approaches to addressing financial crime risks among professional service providers. Speakers: | | 5.00 PM - 5.15 PM Preston Auditorium | Special remarks by Wencai Zhang, Managing Director, The World Bank | Watch the Replay | 5.15 PM - 6.15 PM | Plenary 7: Wrap-up - Collective Action for Anticorruption | Watch the Replay | | 6.15 PM - 6.30 PM Preston Auditorium | Closing: Simon Fowler, Master of Ceremonies | | DIRECTORY OF WORLD CAFÉS | || 1A. Managing Seized and Confiscated Assets Speakers: Since 2010, close to US$10 billion in corruption proceeds have been frozen, restrained, or confiscated in a destination country, or returned to a country that was harmed by corruption. However, without effective management of the seized and confiscated assets, there may be little to show for these efforts. Although corrupt officials may have been deprived of the benefit of the stolen assets, diminished or negligible value from the disposal of confiscated stolen assets deprives society once again of the assets’ productive use. This Guide aims to provide guidance to practitioners on asset management, from pre-seizure planning to preserving value during custody to maximizing value at disposal. It is intended to provide practitioners with the foundations to build an effective asset management function and to grow the asset portfolio to manage complex assets. Accordingly, the Guide includes recommendations and good practices derived from international studies, experience from interviews with asset management experts, and case examples. 1B. Taxing Crime: A Whole-of-Government Approach to Fighting Corruption, Money Laundering, and Tax Crimes Speakers: This publication focuses on the benefits of interagency cooperation between tax authorities and law enforcement agencies working on preventing, detecting, and recovering the IFFs derived from tax evasion, corruption, and money laundering. Although the magnitude of IFFs is a matter of debate, their implications for economies are widely recognized. Tax evasion and corruption drain limited public resources and often hurt the most vulnerable populations by depleting the funds for much-needed services. Beyond the budget, tax evasion and corruption harm the social fabric by fueling inequality and eroding trust in public institutions and the rule of law. IFFs are then a major obstacle to resilient and inclusive development. The similarities and interconnectedness of these crimes suggest that huge benefits would accrue from enhancing interagency cooperation and exploring synergies. A “whole-of-government” approach enables agencies to successfully detect, prosecute, and recover the proceeds of interconnected financial crimes. 1C. Unexplained Wealth Orders: Toward a New Frontier in Asset Recovery Speakers: This study offers policymakers an overview of unexplained wealth order (UWO) systems as adopted by different jurisdictions attempting to recover the proceeds of corruption or organized crime. UWOs compel individuals, typically public officials, to provide information on the source of their wealth when it is inconsistent with known legitimate sources of income. The study places UWOs within the broader context of other asset recovery tools and draws lessons for countries considering the introduction of UWO-type legislation, explaining under which conditions UWO may fill a gap in national asset recovery systems. The study encourages the integration of UWO systems as part of a comprehensive whole of policies tailored to specific legal contexts. 2. Non-Conviction Based Confiscation in the Context of Asset Recovery Speakers: The International Center for Asset Recovery (ICAR) is a specialized center of the Basel Institute on Governance that collaborates with partner countries to strengthen their capacities in the recovery of illicit assets, practical mentoring on investigation methods, confiscation strategies, and international cooperation. This World Café will focus on disseminating the work of ICAR, in particular, the prosecution of international corruption through the suppression of its profits: asset recovery. More specifically, the session will focus on non-conviction-based confiscation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, how these tools have allowed to win some prominent cases, challenges and opportunities along the way. 3. Introduction and Demonstration of Integrity Compliance Knowledge Sharing Platform The publicly available Integrity Compliance Knowledge Sharing Platform was developed by the World Bank Group (WBG) Integrity Vice Presidency under a Korea-World Bank Partnership Facility grant. Target beneficiary groups include private-sector entities, with a focus on small- and medium-size enterprises, as well as project implementation units, contracted support (e.g., procurement agents), and WBG member country agencies. Through its tailored eLearning courses, guidance tools, networking hub, and resource library, the Platform aims to enhance integrity compliance among beneficiaries, with the developmental goal of reducing fraud and corruption risks in WBG-financed projects. The Platform seeks to facilitate the assessment of fraud and corruption risks and support efforts to enhance integrity compliance among entities seeking to participate in WBG-financed projects, as well as others. The Platform is further intended to support risk mitigation efforts related to WBG investment lending operations through its awareness-raising efforts. Speakers: Jihoon Cho, Integrity Compliance Analyst, Integrity Vice Presidency, The World Bank Group Joseph Mauro, Integrity Compliance Analyst, Integrity Vice Presidency, The World Bank Group New Doe Kaledzi, Consultant, Integrity Vice Presidency, The World Bank Group 4. Emerging Technologies Combatting Corruption Speakers: Accountability Lab will showcase emerging anti-corruption technologies developed by global HackCorruption participants. This session will demonstrate how innovative problem-solving and technological ingenuity can transform anti-corruption efforts, engaging communities to foster greater accountability and institutional trust. Participants will explore four civic tech solutions that enhance transparency, employ novel approaches, or strengthen participation across Latin America, South Asia, and South East Asia. The discussion will offer practical insights for implementing similar technologies in various contexts, highlighting replicable features that can be adapted to different environments. Beyond knowledge sharing, this will create valuable opportunities for collaboration between featured innovators and participants working on transparency initiatives, fostering a global community dedicated to fighting corruption through technological innovation. 5. Haystack: Responsible AI Leadership Consortium Speakers: Governments worldwide face persistent challenges in combating corruption, financial fraud, and illicit financial flows. Ministries and agencies struggle to process and analyze vast amounts of data efficiently, leading to inefficiencies in procurement, enforcement, and financial oversight. Financial Intelligence Units (FIUs), anti-corruption agencies, and central banks receive millions of Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) yearly, yet many go unexamined due to resource constraints. Institutions such as the World Bank, UN, WTO, and FATF collect extensive data on illicit financial flows, but governments lack the AI-driven tools to analyze and leverage this information effectively. Haystack will develop a framework for small efficient, low latency LLMs and AI models for government ministries and law enforcement in countries with historic governance and corruption challenges. This will allow officials to analyze vast datasets and detect corruption patterns. These fine-tuned and pre-trained LLMs can integrate institutional knowledge with global data sources to provide real-time insights. By partnering with international organizations, these models can be trained on critical topics such as financial fraud, procurement risks, and enforcement strategies. Deploying AI-driven models within government cloud infrastructures allows officials across key agencies—procurement offices, inspector generals, prosecutors, investigators, FIUs, and central banks—to access intelligence on-demand, strengthening governance and compliance efforts. 6. Concept for Integrity Vice Presidency’s AI Agent and Agentic Framework Speakers: INT’s Data Lab has developed an AI Agent tailored for investigative and analytical work. The agent leverages advanced AI models to streamline document review processes and generate document drafts using INT-specific content and guidelines, ensuring outputs align with organizational standards while maintaining quality and consistency. INT’s AI framework incorporates document analysis capabilities, enabling efficient processing of large document volumes while extracting key information and identifying relevant patterns. The system also features multilingual translation to facilitate communication with stakeholders. Throughout development and implementation, emphasis has been placed on responsible AI practices based on INT’s emerging governance frameworks designed to ensure trustworthy AI practices that include human-in-the-loop validation by end users. This initiative is a milestone in INT's digital transformation journey and demonstrates its commitment to leveraging technology for greater efficiency and impact. 7. BridgeGap: Bridging the Gaps in Evidence, Regulation and Impact of Anticorruption Policies Speakers: BridgeGap treats corruption as a policy problem and focuses on understanding both the domestic vulnerabilities and the cross-border factors that undermine the control of corruption. This Horizon Europe funded interdisciplinary research project provides access to objective data, analytical tools, online training and policy recommendations. BridgeGap aims to fill knowledge gaps in corruption's impact on open societies, address digital transparency gaps in public accountability and integrity, find solutions to regulatory and enforcement gaps in the EU and neighbouring countries, and bridge the gap between academia and policy. BridgeGap provides access to a wealth of data repositories and analytical tools, such as the Follow-the-Money search engine tracing financial flows, unmasking hidden networks, and analysing webs of influence. Powered by the BridgeGap Ukrainian partner YouControl, it uses 336 global data sources, covering 92 million companies and 86 million individuals. Follow us: www.corruptiondata.eu and access the DataHub www.datahub.corruptiondata.eu/ 8. Governance & Integrity Anti-Corruption Evidence (GI ACE) Research Programme Speakers: Governance & Integrity Anti-Corruption Evidence (GI ACE) is a global research program generating actionable, context-sensitive evidence to tackle corruption and support more effective policy and institutional reform. Funded by the UK Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) and based at the Centre for the Study of Corruption at the University of Sussex, GI ACE brings together researchers, practitioners, and policymakers to examine how corruption operates across systems, sectors, and governance levels. The program has supported 34 projects across a range of themes, including illicit financial flows, state capture, procurement risks, integrity systems, and cross-border trade. GI ACE prioritises engagement and collaboration to ensure that research informs real-world anti-corruption strategies. By addressing the political, social, and economic drivers of corruption, the program contributes to a more evidence-based, targeted approach to reform that is both locally grounded and globally relevant. 9. U4 Anti-Corruption Resource Centre Speakers: For the past twenty years, the U4 Anti-corruption Resource Centre (U4) has studied how corruption threatens development. Together with global research networks and practitioners, we pursue emerging topics and advance the anti-corruption field. In this World Café session, we will present a small selection of our work, focusing on the financing for development agenda, anti-corruption efforts for reconstruction in Ukraine, countering illicit financial flows, and the intersections of gender and corruption. 10. Industry Alliances to Tackle Corruption Speakers: Industry alliances have become vital in the fight against corruption, leveraging collective action to promote transparency and accountability. Initiatives like integrity compacts and industry alliances have set benchmarks for ethical behavior. This World Café session will discuss the work of two industry alliances against corruption –Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative and the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network – in promoting integrity and ethical conduct in their respective industries. The session will enrich the conference by illustrating how industry alliances foster transparency and help to combat corruption. 11. International Organizations: Partners in Fighting Corruption Speakers: In addition to national authorities, the international anti-corruption ecosystem is home to a wide array of international actors and networks. As a result, national authorities may be unaware of some of the international organizations with whom they could work on specific cases. In this session, attendees will be introduced to the investigative functions of a selection of Multilateral Development Banks and UN Agencies, as well as some of the anti-corruption law enforcement networks hosted by international organizations. As part of the World Café, this session will emphasize interaction and informal connection, as a foundation for future cooperation. 12. Building Bridges: The Role of Civil Society in Supporting Law Enforcement Through Strategic Legal Casework Speakers: Cross-border cases of grand corruption cause very serious harm to entire countries, communities and individuals. Perpetrators are too often not pursued by relevant authorities and victims are left with no remedy for the harm they suffer. Authorities may lack the resources to tackle such complex cross-border cases and national criminal policy is focused elsewhere. Some authorities may also be unwilling to investigate and prosecute influential decision-makers in their countries or abroad despite the existence of laws that give them the power to do so. It is therefore important to explore the variety of legal and regulatory mechanisms available in different countries on cross-border corruption cases. Transparency International works with various journalist and civil society partners who investigate such cases in order to take their findings and highlight them to law enforcement around the world to ensure that more perpetrators face consequences and corruption victims are remedied. 13. Youth Innovations for Anticorruption Pitch Workshop Speakers: Partnering with the World Bank and Open Government Partnership (OGP), Accountability Lab will bring five students or young professionals to pitch their anti-corruption ideas and solution sin either of the two categories: I. Youth and Creative Solutions to Anticorruption: Proposing innovative ideas or youth-led approaches to combat corruption. These may be local, regional, or global in scope and can originate from another country. II. Skills and Knowledge for Youth Leadership in Anticorruption: Identifying the tools, skills, and knowledge young people need to lead the next generation of anti-corruption efforts. We will encourage participants to pitch creative ideas, innovative approaches, and the skills and knowledge young people need to lead the next generation of anticorruption work. Each participant will have 5 minutes to pitch. Time will be allocated for questions/feedback from the audience. The results of the session will also inform how Accountability Lab and OGP can better support youth participation/leadership in anticorruption reforms going forward. 14. Proactive Investigations Speakers: As part of its strategy, INT is supplementing current "reactive" approaches that are mainly driven by complaints with additional proactive risk analysis and intelligence-driven approaches. This session will cover the concept of proactive investigations, the rationale for undertaking proactive investigations, and various proactive case development methodologies. 15. U.S. Government Accountability Office – Resources for Managing Corruption and Fraud Risks Speakers: U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) is the supreme audit institution for the United States. Often called the "congressional watchdog,” GAO is an independent agency that provides Congress, the heads of executive agencies, and the public with timely, fact-based, non-partisan information that can be used to improve government and save taxpayer funds. GAO also sets auditing standards for federal and state auditors as well as develops best practices for federal managers. In 2015, GAO issued A Framework for Managing Fraud Risks in Federal Programs, to help federal managers strategically manage fraud and corruption risks in federal programs. Adhering to the Framework is required by law and executive guidance. To support federal managers’ efforts, GAO also developed online Antifraud Resource, which explains how fraud works and provides fraud case information and other free resources. 16. OECD Anti-Corruption Task Team (ACTT): Corruption Risk Management in Practice, Learning from Development Experience Speakers: This exchange aims to explore what it means to take an informed risk-based approach to corruption risk management in development cooperation including, for example, by identifying pragmatic approaches towards ‘zero-tolerance for corruption’, catalyzing corruption risk management throughout the project or program cycle, sharing risk with partners and better understanding the environment of operation. The purpose of this work is to provide practical guidance to development cooperation actors on effective strategies for managing corruption risks while maximizing development impacts. The ACTT’s work aims to equip development providers with useful tools to balance accountability with impact to shape development cooperation policies and practices to more agile, responsible and effective development cooperation; and to address corruption as a fundamental development obstacle, affecting entire sectors and countries’ capacity to mobilise resources. 17. Establishing the International Anti-Corruption Court (IACC) Speakers: Grand corruption undermines democracy, human rights, and sustainable development. When national authorities are unwilling or unable to prosecute corrupt public officials, stolen assets remain hidden, and impunity prevails. Integrity Initiatives International is working to establish the International Anti-Corruption Court (IACC)—a global institution designed to prosecute high-level corruption cases, dismantle illicit financial networks, and recover stolen assets. The IACC would complement national anti-corruption efforts by stepping in when justice systems are unwilling or unable to act. Through coalition-building, treaty development, diplomatic engagement, and advocacy, Integrity Initiatives International and its European partner are leading the movement to create a fair and effective legal mechanism to hold corrupt leaders accountable. Join us to discuss how this initiative can reshape the fight against grand corruption worldwide. 18. Red Flags in Public Procurement: Use Cases for Open Contracting Data in Government and Civil Society Speakers: Public procurement is where the money, power and the discretion in government are concentrated. Making up 1 in every 3 dollars spent by governments worldwide for a total value of over US $13 trillion, the sums spent on procurement are enormous and make it government’s number one corruption risk. Public contracts touch every part of our lives – from roadworks to school meals to critical medicines. It is where citizens see governments deliver on promises of sustainable development or fall short of their expectations, damaging trust in the fairness and effectiveness of government. Corruption risk indicators can help governments prevent corruption in public spending before it occurs. In this session, Open Contracting Partnership will introduce how to use public procurement data to calculate corruption risk indicators, explore what data is most useful to calculate red flags and provide a step-by-step guide on implementing them in practice. We will share best practice examples from the open contracting community, including from Indonesia and the Dominican Republic. 19. Promoting transparency in sustainable infrastructure procurement Speakers: Sustainable infrastructure is critical to delivering economic development and public services whilst facilitating the transition to a low carbon future. However, the IMF estimates that 10 to 30 per cent of infrastructure investment is lost through corruption, mismanagement and inefficiency. With support from the World Bank Global Procurement Partnership Multi-Donor Trust Fund, CoST the Infrastructure Transparency Initiative has carried out a study that identified the data that stakeholders from government, the private sector and civil society require to assess the procurement and integrity of sustainable infrastructure. CoST co-developed the OC4IDS with the Open Contracting Partnership to provide a framework for publishing open and accessible data at each stage of an infrastructure investment. The findings from the study were used to develop new OC4IDS data points structured into four modules (economic and financial, environmental and climate, institutional and social) providing publishers and data users a flexible tool to assess sustainable infrastructure. 20. Connecting Public Procurement and Beneficial Ownership Data for Anticorruption and Beyond Speakers: Since its founding in September 2011, Open Government Partnership members have made over 800 individual commitments to pursue various areas of anticorruption reforms - almost half of which are centered around public procurement and beneficial ownership transparency. OGP members have worked closely with both Open Contracting Partnership and Open Ownership in implementing these commitments. Together OO, OCP, and OGP have consistently urged reformers to connect the dots between procurement and beneficial ownership data, to achieve anticorruption objectives such as identifying conflicts of interest, risk management, enabling CSO/public participation in monitoring, as well as to help deliver on other objectives such as AML/CFT or economic inclusion. This World Cafe session will therefore spotlight examples from the OGP community and highlight the key factors of success including building a multistakeholder team, a focus on goals & digital solutions driven by standardized open data (such as the Beneficial Ownership Data Standard and the Open Contracting Data Standard). This will encourage participants to be strategic and have data interoperability and interconnectedness in mind as they pursue reform in these two key anticorruption reform areas. 21. Climate Working Group of the Integrity Vice Presidency of the World Bank Group Speakers: The INT Working Group on Climate Finance is dedicated to upholding integrity within the World Bank Group’s climate-related funding. Throughout the year, we have focused on several key workstreams, including (i) identifying climate-centric actions and establishing an ongoing tracker using a keyword system based on the World Bank Group’s Scorecard, (ii) exploring typologies of corruption and related misconduct in climate projects, (iii) revisiting restitution as a sanction within several other cross-cutting themes, (iv) analyzing integrity risks in World Bank Group’s carbon finance initiatives, and (v) examining new financing mechanisms for climate related initiatives in the World Bank Group. Your engagement and expertise are essential in furthering the efforts of the INT Working Group on Climate Finance. 22. Integrity in Climate Finance & Action: Knowledge Report of the 2nd Symposium on Responses to Corruption Speakers: Building on the outcomes of the 1st Symposium on Supranational Responses to Corruption, the 2nd Symposium: Integrity in Climate Finance & Action explored the potential of supranational integrity mechanisms to become an important tool for swiftly and efficiently managing integrity risks associated with climate finance. It emphasized the need for collaboration between integrity and climate experts to address these risks. The resulting Knowledge Report highlights the importance of intergovernmental organizations/MDBs, international aid agencies, private donors, and corporations in ensuring accountability in climate finance. It communicates why it is relevant to study and address integrity in the specific context of climate finance, and why partnerships are needed for a creative, efficient, and coordinated evolution of integrity and anti-corruption policies in the climate domain. The report offers a roadmap for a high-integrity climate financing system that meets the urgent climate crisis while upholding accountability. The symposia series will continue in 2026 with the 3rd symposium, inviting institutions to partner. 23. Government Budget Execution Controls and Corruption Perception: A PEFA Cross-Country Analysis Speakers: The Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) program, housed in the World Bank, is a collaboration among eight international development partners (European Commission, IMF, World Bank, France, Norway, Switzerland, Slovak Republic, and Luxembourg). The PEFA framework, used in over 156 countries, is the gold standard for assessing public financial management (PFM). PEFA has become a global PFM knowledge hub, with many assessments available on www.pefa.org. In collaboration with the University of Nevada, PEFA Secretariat conducted quantitative research into the link between government budget execution and corruption perception. The study found a strong correlation between effective budget execution and lower perceived corruption levels, highlighting the importance of robust budget mechanisms in reducing corruption risks. The World Café session explores the relationship between government budgets and corruption perception, offering insights from both research and practitioners' experiences. 24. Who Controls the Judiciary? The Role of the Justice System in Combatting Corruption Speakers: The Judiciary plays a central role in maintaining rule-based governance and combating corruption, ensuring that no one is above the law. But who controls the Judiciary? This session will discuss innovative research on judicial selection methods for the highest courts in 205 countries and territories, exploring who decides who sits on the bench and how this impacts judicial independence and the rule of law. While most countries vest the authority to appoint the judges of the highest court in a single branch of government, a smaller number involve two or three branches in the process. Initial analysis suggests that engaging at least two branches of government in judicial selection tends to yield more favorable outcomes for judicial independence and the rule of law. This research is conducted within the World Bank’s Global Program on Justice and the Rule of Law, which harnesses data, global knowledge, and innovation to drive effective and evidence-based justice reform. | | World Bank Live: Watch the recording of the Keynote Session of Wednesday, April 9 Governance & Institutions Umbrella Program Website: Global Program on Anticorruption for Development Brief: International Corruption Hunters Alliance 2024 Anticorruption for Development (AC4D) Global Forum: Restoring Trust Date: April 08 - 09, 2025 ET Location: Washington, DC


--- [[1707] By the President of the United States of America.] ---
By the President of the United States of America. A PROCLAMATION. Whereas a Convention between the United States of America and Germany, the Argentine Republic, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, the United States of Brazil, Chile, Cuba, Denmark, Spain, France, Great Britain, Greece, Italy, Japan, the United Mexican States, Nicaragua, Norway, the Netherlands, Portugal, Roumania, Russia, Sweden and Uruguay, providing for the unification of certain rules of law with respect to assistance and salvage at sea, was concluded and signed by their respective plenipotentiaries at Brussels on the twenty-third day of September, one thousand nine hundred and ten, the original of which Convention, being in the French language is word for word as follows: [In the publication “Treaty Series, No. 576,” from which this is printed, the French text here follows, with a translation in English at page 14, as follows:] [Translation.] Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules with Respect to Assistance and Salvage at Sea. His Majesty the German Emperor, King of Prussia, in the name of the German Empire; the President of the Argentine Republic; [Page 1356] His Majesty the Emperor of Austria, King of Bohemia, etc., and Apostolic King of Hungary; His Majesty the King of the Belgians; the President of the United States of Brazil; the President of the Republic of Chile; the President of the Republic of Cuba; His Majesty the King of Denmark; his Majesty the King of Spain; the President of the United States of America; the President of the French Republic; His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India; His Majesty the King of the Hellenes; His Majesty the King of Italy; His Majesty the Emperor of Japan; the President of the United Mexican States; the President of the Republic of Nicaragua; His Majesty the King of Norway; Her Majesty the Queen of the Netherlands; His Majesty the King of Portugal and of the Algarves; His Majesty the King of Roumania; His Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias; His Majesty the King of Sweden; the President of the Republic of Uruguay, Having recognized the utility of establishing in common accord certain uniform rules with respect to Assistance and Salvage at Sea, have decided to conclude a Convention to that effect and appointed as their Plenipotentiaries, to wit: His Majesty the German Emperor, King of Prussia, in the name of the German Empire: Mr. Kracker von Schwartzenfeldt, Chargé d’Affaires of Germany at Brussels; Dr. Struckmann, Regency High Privy Councillor, reporting Counsellor at the Department of Justice. The President of the Argentine Republic: His Excellency A. Blancas, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the Argentine Republic near the King of the Belgians. His Majesty the Emperor of Austria, King of Bohemia, &c, and Apostolic King of Hungary: For Austria and Hungary: His Excellency Count von Clary and Aldringen; His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near the King of the Belgians. For Austria: Dr. Stephen Worms, Section Counsellor at the Imperial and Royal Austrian Ministry of Commerce. For Hungary: Dr. Francois de Nagy, Secretary of State on the retired list, Ordinary Professor at the Royal University of Budapest, Member of the Hungarian Chamber of Deputies. His Majesty the King of the Belgians: Mr. Beernaert, Minister of State, President of the International Maritime Committee; Mr. Capelle, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary, Director General of Trade Relations and the Consular Service at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Mr. Ch. Le Jeune, Vice President of the International Maritime Committee; Mr. Louis Franck, Member of the House of Representatives, Secretary General of the International Maritime Committee; Mr. P. Segers, Member of the House of Representatives. The President of the United States of Brazil: Dr. Roderigo Octavio de Langgaard Menezes, Professor of the Free Faculty of juridicial and social sciences of Rio de Janeiro, Member of the Brazilian Academy. The President of the Republic of Chile: His Excellency F. Puga-Borne, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Chile near His Majesty the King of the Belgians. The President of the Republic of Cuba: Mr. Francisco Zayas y Alfonso, Minister Resident of the Republic of Cuba at Brussels. [Page 1357]His Majesty the King of Denmark: Mr. W. de Grevenkop Castenskiold, Minister Resident of Denmark at Brussels; Mr. Herman Barclay Halkier, member of the bar of the Supreme Court of Denmark. His Majesty the King of Spain: His Excellency de Baguer y Corsi, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near His Majesty the King of the Belgians; Don Juan Spottorno, Auditor General of the Royal Navy; Don Ramon Sanchez Ocana, Chief of Division of the Ministry of Justice, former Magistrate of the territorial audiencia court; Don Faustino Alvarez del Manzano, Professor of the Central University of Madrid. The President of the United States of America: Mr. Walter C. Noyes, Judge of the Circuit Court of the United States at New York; Mr. Charles C. Burlingham, attorney at law, of New York. Mr. A. J. Montague, former Governor of the State of Virginia; Mr. Edwin W. Smith, attorney at law of Pittsburg. The President of the French Republic: His Excellency Beau, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the French Republic near His Majesty the King of the Belgians; Mr. Lyon-Caen, member of the Institute, Professor of the Faculty of Law of Paris and of the School of Political Science, President of the French Association of Maritime Law. His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India: His Excellency Sir Arthur Hardinge, K. C. B., K. C. M. G., His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near His Majesty the King of the Belgians; The Honorable Sir William Pickford, Justice of the High Court of London; Mr. Leslie Scott, King’s counsel, of London; The Honorable Hugh Godley, barrister, of London. His Majesty the King of the Hellenes: Mr. George Diobouniotis, Professor of the University of Athens. His Majesty the King of Italy: Prince de Castagneto Caracciolo, Chargé d’Affaires of Italy at Brussels; Mr. François Berlingieri, attorney at law, Professor of the University of Genoa; Mr. François Mirelli, Councillor of the Court of Appeals of Naples; Mr. Cesar Vivante, Professor of the University of Rome. His Majesty the Emporer of Japan: His Excellency K. Nakeshima, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near His Majesty the King of the Belgians; Mr. Yoshiyuki Irie, Attorney and Counsellor of the Ministry of Justice of Japan; Mr. Takeyuki Ishi-kawa, Chief of the Division of Maritime Affairs at the Office of Communications of Japan; Mr. M. Matsuda, Second Secretary of the Legation of Japan at Brussels. The President of the United Mexican States: His Excellency Olarte, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United Mexican States near His Majesty the King of the Belgians; Mr. Victor Manuel Castillo, lawyer, Member of the Senate. The President of the Republic of Nicaragua: Mr. L. Vallez, Consul General of the Republic of Nicaragua at Brussels. His Majesty the King of Norway: His Excellency Dr. G. F. Hagerup, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near His Majesty the King of the Belgians; Mr. Christian Theodor Boe ship owner. [Page 1358]Her Majesty the Queen of the Netherlands: Jonkheer P. R. A. Melvill van Carnbee, Chargé d’Affaires of the Netherlands at Brussels; Mr. W. L. P. A. Molengraaf, L. L. D., Professor of the University of Utrecht; Mr. B. C. J. Loder, L. L. D., Councillor of the Court of Cassation of The Hague; Mr. C. D. Asser, Jr., L. L. D., attorney at law of Amsterdam. His Majesty the King of Portugal and of the Algarves: Mr. Antonio Duarte de Oliveria Soares, Chargé d’Affaires of Portugal at Brussels. His Majesty the King of Roumania: His Excellency Djuvara, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near His Majesty the King of the Belgians. His Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias: Mr. C. Nabokoff, First Secretary of the Embassy of Russia at Washington. His Majesty the King of Sweden; His Excellency Count J. J. A. Ehrensvard, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary near His Majesty the King of the Belgians; Mr. Einar Lange, Manager of the Steamship Insurance Society of Sweden. The President of the Republic of Uruguay: His Excellency Luis Garabelli, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Uruguay near His Majesty the King of the Belgians. Who, duly authorized thereto, have agreed upon the following:1 Article 1. Assistance and salvage of seagoing vessels in danger of any things on board, of freight and passage money, and also services of the same nature rendered to each other by seagoing vessels and vessels of inland navigation are subject to the following provisions, without any distinction being drawn between the two kinds of service and in whatever waters the services have been rendered. Article 2. Every act of assistance or salvage which has had a useful result gives a right to equitable remuneration. No remuneration is due if the services rendered have no beneficial result. In no case shall the sum to be paid exceed the value of the property salved. Article 3. Persons who have taken part in salvage operations, notwithstanding the express and reasonable prohibition on the part of the vessel to which services were rendered, have no right to any remuneration. Article 4. A tug has no right to remuneration for assistance to or salvage of the vessel she is towing or of the vessel’s cargo except where she has [Page 1359] rendered exceptional services which can not be considered as rendered in fulfilment of the contract of towage. Article 5. Remuneration is due notwithstanding that the salvage services have been rendered by or to vessels belonging to the same owner. Article 6. The amount of remuneration is fixed by agreement between the parties, and, failing agreement, by the court. The proportion in which the remuneration is to be distributed among the salvors is fixed in the same manner. The apportionment of the remuneration among the owner, master, and other persons in the service of each salving vessel is determined by the law of the vessel’s flag. Article 7. Every agreement as to assistance or salvage entered into at the moment and under the influence of danger can, at the request of either party, be annulled or modified by the court if it considers that the conditions agreed upon are not equitable. In all cases, when it is proved that the consent of one of the parties is vitiated by fraud or concealment, or when the remuneration is, in proportion to the services rendered, in an excessive degree too large or too small, the agreement may be annulled or modified by the court at the request of the party affected. Article 8. The remuneration is fixed by the court, according to the circumstances of each case, on the basis of the following considerations: (a) First, the measure of success obtained, the efforts and the deserts of the salvors, the danger run by the salved vessel, by her passengers, crew and cargo, by the salvors and by the salving vessel, the time expended, the expenses incurred and losses suffered, and the risks of liability and other risks run by the salvors, and also the value of the property exposed to such risks, clue regard being had, the case arising, to the special adaptation of the salvor’s vessel; (b) second, the value of the property salved. The same provisions apply to the apportionment provided for by the second paragraph of article 6. The court may reduce or deny remuneration if it appears that the salvors have by their fault rendered the salvage or assistance necessary, or have been guilty of theft, receiving stolen goods, or other acts of fraud. Article 9. No remuneration is due from the person whose lives are saved, but nothing in this article shall affect the provisions of the national laws on this subject. [Page 1360]Salvors of human life who have taken part in the services rendered on the occasion of the accident, giving rise to salvage or assistance, are entitled to a fair share of the remuneration awarded to the salvors of the vessel, her cargo, and accessories. Article 10. A salvage action is barred after an interval of two years from the day on which the operations of assistance or salvage are terminated. The grounds upon which the said period of limitation may be suspended or interrupted are determined by the law of the court where the case is tried. The High Contracting Parties reserve to themselves the right to provide by legislation in their respective countries that the said periods shall be extended in cases where it has not been possible to arrest the vessel assisted or salved in the territorial waters of the State in which the plaintiff has his domicile or principal place of business. Article 11. Every master is bound, so far as he can do so without serious danger to his vessel, her crew and passengers, to render assistance to everybody, even though an enemy, found at sea in danger of being lost. The owner of the vessel incurs no liability by reason of contravention of the foregoing provision. Article 12. The High Contracting Parties whose legislation does not forbid infringements of the preceding article bind themselves to take or to propose to their respective legislatures the measures necessary for the prevention of such infringements. The High Contracting Parties will communicate to one another, as soon as possible, the laws or regulations which have already been or may be hereafter promulgated in their States for the purpose of giving effect to the above undertakings. Article 13. The convention does not affect the provisions of national laws or international treaties as regards the organization of services of assistance and salvage by or under the control of public authorities, nor, in particular, does it affect such laws or treaties on the subject of the salvage of fishing gear. Article 14. This convention does not apply to ships of war or to Government ships appropriated exclusively to a public service. Article 15. The provisions of this convention shall be applied as regards all persons interested when either the assisting or salving vessel or the [Page 1361] vessel assisted or salved belongs to one of the contracting States, and in any other cases for which the national laws provide. Provided always, that: - 1. - As regards persons interested who belong to a noncontracting State the application of said provisions may be made subject by each of the contracting States to the condition of reciprocity. - 2. - Where all the persons interested belong to the same State as the court trying the case, the provisions of the national law and not of the convention are applicable. - 3. - Without prejudice to any wider provisions of any national laws, article 11 only applies as between vessels belonging to the States of the High Contracting Parties. Article 16. Any one of the High Contracting Parties shall have the right three years after this convention comes into force to call for a fresh conference with a view to seeking such ameliorations as may be brought therein, and particularly with a view to extending, if possible, the sphere of its application. Any power exercising this right must notify its intention to the other powers, through the Belgian Government, which will see to the convening of the conference within six months. Article 17. States which have not signed the convention are allowed to adhere to it on request. Such adhesion shall be notified through the diplomatic channel to the Belgian Government and by the latter to each of the other Governments. It shall become effective one month after the sending of the notification by the Belgian Government. Article 18. The convention shall be ratified. After an interval of at most one year from the day on which the convention is signed, the Belgian Government shall place itself in communication with the Governments of the High Contracting Parties which have declared themselves prepared to ratify the convention with a view to deciding whether it is expedient to put into force. The ratification shall, if so decided, be deposited forthwith at Brussels, and the convention shall come into force a month afterwards. The protocol shall remain open another year in favor of the States represented at the Brussels Conference. After this interval they can only adhere to it on conforming to the provisions of Article 17. Article 19. In the case of one or other of the High Contracting Parties denouncing this convention, such denunciation should not take effect [Page 1362] until a year after the day on which it has been notified to the Belgian Government, and the convention would remain in force as between the other Contracting Parties. In witness whereof the plenipotentiaries of the respective High Contracting Parties have signed this convention and have affixed their seals thereto. Done at Brussels, in a single copy, the 23rd September, 1910. [Here follow signatures.] Pour copie conforme: Le President de la Conférence Internationale de Droit Maritime, A. Beernaert. Certifié par le Secrétaire Général du Ministére des Affaires Étrangéres de Belgique. Bruxelles, le 1 er décembre 1910. Bon van der Elst [seal] And whereas the said Convention has been duly ratified by the Government of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by the Governments of Germany, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, France, Great Britain, Mexico, Netherlands, Roumania, and Russia, and the ratifications of the said Governments were, by the provisions of Article 18 of the said Convention, deposited by their respective plenipotentiaries with the Government of Belgium; Now therefore be it known that I, William Howard Taft, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Convention to be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof. In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. By the President: P. C. Knox, Secretary of State. - This translation of the 19 articles is identical with that transmitted to the Department by the American delegates to the Third International Conference on Maritime Law, and printed in For. Rel. 1911, pp. 14–17.↩
