=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Frank Porter Graham - Wikipedia]
North Carolina's state agriculture commissioner W. Kerr Scott was elected Governor in November 1948. Like Graham, Scott was a pro-Truman Democrat who had supported the New Deal. Two months after Scott's inauguration in January 1949, incumbent U.S. Senator J. Melville Broughton died in office. Broughton's death left Scott with the responsibility of choosing a replacement. After three weeks of ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frank_Porter_Graham

[J. Melville Broughton - Wikipedia]
Appearing healthy, Broughton suddenly collapsed from a heart attack and died in Washington, D.C., on March 6, 1949. Governor W. Kerr Scott appointed Frank Porter Graham to fill his vacant office until the next election. Joseph Melville Broughton, Jr. was the son of Joseph Melville Broughton ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J._Melville_Broughton

[Frank Porter Graham | Encyclopedia of UNCG History]
On March 6, 1949, North Carolina U.S. Senator J. Melville Broughton died from a massive heart attack. In filling the vacant seat created by his death, North Carolina Governor W. Kerr Scott appointed Graham to the position. His tenure would be short, serving from March 29, 1949 and until November 26, 1950.
URL: https://encyclopedia.uncg.edu/frank-porter-graham/

[Frank P. Graham 1886-1972 (I-60) - dncr.nc.gov]
In 1949 Frank Graham resigned from the UNC system to accept an appointment by Governor Kerr Scott to fill the vacant United States Senate seat caused by J. Melville Broughton's death. Graham's 1950 Democratic primary race against Willis Smith for the senate seat has become legendary for the mudslinging and posturing.
URL: https://www.dncr.nc.gov/blog/2024/01/02/frank-p-graham-1886-1972-i-60

[The 1950 Smith-Graham Senate Race - North Carolina History]
In 1950, the primary Senate election between Willis Smith and Frank Porter Graham marked an important moment in North Carolina political history. After the death of Senator J. Melville Broughton on March 6, 1949, one of North Carolina's Senate seats was left vacant. A political scrap ensued between Smith and Graham, as the state's Democrat party split over conservative and liberal ideas ...
URL: https://northcarolinahistory.org/encyclopedia/the-1950-smith-graham-senate-race/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Frank Porter Graham - Wikipedia] ---
Frank Porter Graham (October 14, 1886 – February 16, 1972) was an American educator and political activist. A professor of history, he was elected President of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1930, and he later became the first President of the consolidated University of North Carolina system.
Graham was an active champion of many liberal causes including academic freedom, economic justice, civil rights, disarmament and world peace. He served on numerous advisory boards for Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman, and in 1949 he was appointed by the North Carolina governor to fill a vacant seat in the United States Senate. His effort to win election in the following year turned into a bitter and ultimately unsuccessful struggle with conservative Democrat Willis Smith.
In 1951 he was appointed as a United Nations mediator for the Kashmir dispute between India and Pakistan. He pursued that elusive goal for 16 years, and he continued his advocacy work on many other issues, until failing health forced him to retire from public life in 1967.


--- [J. Melville Broughton - Wikipedia] ---
Joseph Melville Broughton Jr. (November 17, 1888 – March 6, 1949) was an American politician who served as the 60th governor of North Carolina from 1941 to 1945.  He later briefly served as a United States senator from January 3, 1949, until his death in office approximately two months later.


--- [Frank Porter Graham | Encyclopedia of UNCG History] ---
Frank Porter Graham was born on October 14, 1886 in Fayetteville, North Carolina. In 1909, he graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC) with a degree in law and went on to earn his graduate degree in history from Columbia University in 1916. Graham’s teaching career began as a high school English instructor from 1911-1913 at a school in Raleigh, N.C.. After two years of teaching, Graham returned to Chapel Hill to become the secretary of the local YMCA. He was given a position at UNC as an instructor in history in 1914 and later volunteered for the Marine Corps in 1916, going on to serve in World War I. After returning home from the war in 1919, Graham continued his career at UNC-Chapel Hill as an assistant professor of history, earning the rank of associate professor in 1925, and full professor in 1927. While at UNC, Graham was a member of the President’s Committee on Education and served as the president of the North Carolina Conference of Social Service. He also founded the Citizen’s Library Movement of North Carolina. In 1930, Graham was named President of the University of North Carolina. Two year later, the University of North Carolina (Chapel Hill), North Carolina State College, and the Woman’s College (now UNCG) merged to create the University of North Carolina System. Graham was appointed president of this new organization and served in the role from 1932 until 1949. During his tenure, Graham was known for his intensive lobbying for the continued financial support from the government for universities in North Carolina. However, his term was not without some controversy. A year after his appointment, Graham traveled to Greensboro, N.C. for the first time to meet with the president of the Woman’s College, Dr. Julius Foust. It was documented that the two men did not agree on the future path of the college. Eventually, Graham called for Foust’s retirement due to his own feelings and recommendations from trustees and faculty members. During World War II, Graham devoted a lot of his time to public service. He was a member of the National Defense Mediation Board (1941-1942), National War Labor Board, and Maritime War Emergency Board (1942-1946). Following the war, he was appointed to the President’s Committee on Civil Rights in 1946 and in 1947, President Truman asked Graham to serve as the U.S. Representative on the United Nations Committee of Good Offices on the Dutch-Indonesian dispute. On March 6, 1949, North Carolina U.S. Senator J. Melville Broughton died from a massive heart attack. In filling the vacant seat created by his death, North Carolina Governor W. Kerr Scott appointed Graham to the position. His tenure would be short, serving from March 29, 1949 and until November 26, 1950. Graham ran for the senate seat the follow election, but was unsuccessful in his bid. In 1951, while serving as defense manpower administrator for the U.S. Department of Labor, Graham was appointed as a United Nations mediator for the dispute between India and Pakistan over the Kashmir boundary. He would devote the remainder of his active political life to the Kashmir dispute before returning to Chapel Hill and retiring in 1967. Frank Porter Graham died February 16, 1972 in Chapel Hill. The Graham Building on the UNCG campus was named in his memory.


--- [Frank P. Graham 1886-1972 (I-60) - dncr.nc.gov] ---
Location: US 401 Business (Ramsey Street) at Quincey Street in Fayetteville County: Cumberland Original Date Cast: 1973 Frank Porter Graham, University of North Carolina president and U.S. Senator, was born on October 14, 1886, to Alexander and Katherine Bryan Loan Graham of Fayetteville. The family moved to Charlotte where the elder Graham served as superintendent of the Charlotte school system for twenty-five years. Graham graduated from Charlotte High School and the University of North Carolina. Although he studied law at Chapel Hill and received his license, he never practiced. Graham pursued graduate work in history at Columbia, the University of Chicago, the Brookings Institute, and the London School of Economics. Frank Graham was selected to be a history instructor at UNC in 1914, but soon left to serve in the United States Marines during World War I. As a Marine, Graham was elevated to the rank of first lieutenant before returning to Chapel Hill as an assistant professor in the history department. Despite his lack of a doctorate degree, Graham’s exceptional teaching ability secured him a full professorship in 1927. Only three years later, he became president of the university. When the University of North Carolina, North Carolina State College, and the North Carolina College for Women merged in 1932, Graham became the first president of the Consolidated University of North Carolina. In 1949 Frank Graham resigned from the UNC system to accept an appointment by Governor Kerr Scott to fill the vacant United States Senate seat caused by J. Melville Broughton’s death. Graham’s 1950 Democratic primary race against Willis Smith for the senate seat has become legendary for the mudslinging and posturing. Graham lost the primary but maintained a commitment to public service. Having previously served on a United Nations committee, he was appointed in 1951 as United Nations mediator and representative to India and Pakistan in the Kashmir dispute. Graham was an assistant secretary general of the United Nations before retiring in 1967 for health reasons. He returned to Chapel Hill where he died in 1972. He is buried in the Old Chapel Hill Cemetery. The 1968 student union building at Chapel Hill bears Graham’s name. References: John Ehle, Dr. Frank: Life With Frank Porter Graham (1993) James Clotfelter, ed., Frank Porter Graham: Service to North Carolina and the Nation (1993) Julian M. Pleasants and Augustus M. Burns III, Frank Porter Graham and the 1950 Senate Race in North Carolina (1990) William S. Powell, ed., Dictionary of North Carolina Biography, II, 332-333—sketch by J. Carlyle Sitterson Howard E. Covington Jr. and Marion A. Ellis, eds., The North Carolina Century: Tar Heels Who Made a Difference, 1900-2000 (2002) Biographical Guide to the United States Congress Online: http://bioguide.congress.gov/scripts/biodisplay.pl?index=g000353


--- [The 1950 Smith-Graham Senate Race - North Carolina History] ---
In 1950, the primary Senate election between Willis Smith and Frank Porter Graham marked an important moment in North Carolina political history. After the death of Senator J. Melville Broughton on March 6, 1949, one of North Carolina’s Senate seats was left vacant. A political scrap ensued between Smith and Graham, as the state’s Democrat party split over conservative and liberal ideas. Franklin P. Graham was born in Fayetteville in 1886 and he served as president of the University of North Carolina before his senate nomination. Governor W. Kerr Scott selected Graham as his choice candidate because Graham was an educator and he was a liberal progressive on race and social programs. Graham, in direct contrast to his opponent Smith, was believed by many in North Carolina to be “the most renowned southern liberal of his time” (Powell, p. 1050). Willis Smith, born in Virginia in 1887, and according to historian William Powell he was a member of “the conservative ‘plutocracy’ that had governed North Carolina since the 1930s” (p. 1050). Before his Senate run, Smith served as Speaker of the North Carolina House of Representatives and president of the American Bar Association. Smith was a conservative Democrat who was a Raleigh attorney at the time he decided to enter the 1950 political contest. As a progressive North Carolina governor, Scott visualized an opportunity in the vacate Senate seat, and he decided to nominate Frank Graham for the position in early 1950. Soon after Graham announced he was running for the Senate, North Carolina media outlets started berating the candidate. However, Graham drew support through Governor Scott, President Truman, and Jonathan Daniels, editor of the Raleigh News and Observer, all of whom benefited his campaign. Several candidates emerged to challenge Graham in the 1950 Democrat primary election. Candidates Olla Boyd, a Pinetown farmer, and Robert R. Reynolds, a former U.S. Senator, sought election in the primary. However, these two candidates did not prove as threatening as Willis Smith, who entered the race in February 1950. When Smith entered the election race, he started with his political attacks. Smith’s campaign labeled Graham as a socialist and a supporter of federally enforced integration. Although Graham refrained from attacking Smith personally, his campaign argued that the rich lawyer was disconnected from North Carolina’s working class. In May 1950, Graham won the Democratic primary, but he was unsuccessful in securing the majority vote. Graham had received 48.9% of primary votes, Smith secured 40.5% of the votes, while Reynolds and Boyd had taken 10.6% of the votes. At the time, North Carolina election law allowed the second-place candidate a runoff, but Smith was hesitant about continuing his campaign. For several weeks, Smith considered if he should try another primary election against Graham. During his deliberation, the Supreme Court’s landmark Sweatt v. Painter decision stirred racial concern among North Carolina citizens. The Painter decision was one of the first cases that led to the end of racial segregation in the United States education system. After the decision, many North Carolinians grew concerned about the integration of African-Americans in the state’s public schools. Jesse Helms, future U.S. senator, realized the potential for segregationist voters to support Smith. As the news manager for WRAL radio in Raleigh, Helms led an effective advertising campaign that called for supporters to gather at Willis Smith’s house to urge him to call for a runoff. After the rally, Smith, with increased enthusiasm, secured additional campaign funds, eventually leading to his call for a second primary election. The second course of the Smith-Graham race proved as intense as the first primary. Smith painted Graham as a communist supporter, and his campaign used bloc voting (when a group comes together and votes together on an important issue or candidate) to describe why Graham obtained strong voting returns in Durham and other black communities in the earlier election. In addition, Smith’s campaign issued a “White People Wake Up” flyer that accused Graham of favoring “race-mingling,” furthering the damage to the candidate’s campaign. Graham never fully recovered from Smith’s mudslinging. Graham’s supporters, such as future governor Terry Sanford, sought to proclaim Graham’s image as an educator concerned with North Carolina’s social and economic future. However, Smith’s racial and communist attacks caused irreparable damage. William Powell writes that the election grew worse for Graham as “opponents verbally attacked Graham on the stump, and his backers received threatening telephone calls” (p. 1051). Smith won the second primary, obtaining 281,114 votes to Graham’s 261,789. Many white voters put their support behind Smith; his campaign had succeeded in emphasizing Graham’s support of socialistic and integration policies. William Powell writes that “the campaign was a triumph of tradition over liberalism and undermined North Carolina’s image as progress on race issues” (p. 1051). In November 1950, Smith went on the beat out Republican E. R. Gavin to win his seat as a U.S. Senator.
