=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Vicki Draves - Wikipedia]
In 2005, Draves was selected for the year's Most Outstanding Alumnus of City College of San Francisco. On May 27, 2005, she received her award and spoke at the commencement ceremonies of City College at the SF Masonic Auditorium.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vicki_Draves

[Full History Of Vicki Draves In Timeline From 1924 - Popular ...]
Aug 3, 2020 · May 27, 2005: Vicki Draves Honored by City College of San Francisco Vicki Draves receives the Most Outstanding Alumnus award from City College of San Francisco and delivers a speech at their commencement ceremony on May 27, 2005.
URL: https://populartimelines.com/timeline/Vicki-Draves/full

[Vicki Draves - Wikiwand]
In 2005, Draves was selected for the year's Most Outstanding Alumnus of City College of San Francisco. On May 27, 2005, she received her award and spoke at the commencement ceremonies of City College at the SF Masonic Auditorium.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Vicki_Draves

[Vicki Draves Explained]
In 2005, Draves was selected for the year's Most Outstanding Alumnus of City College of San Francisco. On May 27, 2005, she received her award and spoke at the commencement ceremonies of City College at the SF Masonic Auditorium.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Victoria_Manalo_Draves/

[Vicki Draves: First Woman Olympics Gold Medalist in Diving]
In 2005, Draves was selected for the year's Most Outstanding Alumnus of City College of San Francisco. On May 27, 2005, she received her award and spoke at the commencement ceremonies of City College at the SF Masonic Auditorium.
URL: https://kahimyang.com/kauswagan/articles/2765/today-in-philippine-history-december-31-1924-filipino-american-vicki-draves-first-woman-to-be-awarded-olympics-gold-medals-in-platform-and-springboard-diving-was-born-in-san-francisco-california


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Vicki Draves - Wikipedia] ---
Victoria Manalo Draves (née Manalo; December 31, 1924 – April 11, 2010) was a Filipino American competitive diver who won gold medals in both platform and springboard diving at the 1948 Summer Olympics in London. Draves became the first woman to be awarded gold medals for both the ten-meter platform and the three-meter springboard. In a pioneering achievement, she was the first American woman to win two gold medals in diving, and the first Asian American to win Olympic gold medals. She was born in San Francisco.


--- [Full History Of Vicki Draves In Timeline From 1924 - Popular ...] ---
Victoria Manalo Draves was a Filipino American diver who made history at the 1948 London Olympics. She became the first woman to win gold medals in both platform and springboard diving, the first American woman to achieve two diving gold medals, and the first Asian American Olympic gold medalist. Born in San Francisco, Draves' accomplishment marked a significant milestone in sports history. Victoria Manalo Draves was born in San Francisco on December 31, 1924. Sammy Lee wins the men's platform diving championship in 1942. Vicki Draves graduated from Commerce High School in San Francisco in 1942. At 19 years old, Vicki Draves competed in her first national AAU diving competition in Indiana, securing a third-place finish in 1943. Vicki Manalo meets Sammy Lee and Lyle Draves in 1944. She then begins training with Lyle Draves, expanding her skills to include platform diving. Following the death of her father, Vicki Manalo moves back to San Francisco and resumes her secretarial job at the Army Port Surgeon's office in 1945. Vicki Manalo and Lyle Draves wed on July 12, 1946. Vicki Draves wins the National Tower Diving Championship for the second consecutive year in 1947. Vicki Draves wins her first Olympic gold medal in springboard diving at the London Summer Olympics on August 3, 1948. Following her Olympic victory, Vicki Draves visits the Philippines for the first time, making appearances and giving diving exhibitions. In 1948, Vicki Draves became the first woman to win gold medals in both platform and springboard diving at the Summer Olympics in London. Vicki Draves achieves her third consecutive National Tower Diving Championship title in 1948. Vicki Draves begins her professional diving career, joining Larry Crosby's "Rhapsody in Swimtime" aquatic show in Chicago in 1948. Vicki Draves is recognized as one of the top two U.S. athletes at the 1948 Olympics in a 1949 issue of Life magazine. Vicki Draves tours the U.S., Canada, and Europe with Buster Crabbe's "Aqua Parade" in 1949. Vicki Draves concludes her tour with Buster Crabbe's "Aqua Parade" in 1950. Vicki Draves is inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame in 1969. Vicki and Lyle Draves relocate to Palm Springs, California in 1995. Vicki Draves receives a standing ovation from 2000 graduating students at the City College of San Francisco commencement ceremony in 2005. Vicki Draves receives the Most Outstanding Alumnus award from City College of San Francisco and delivers a speech at their commencement ceremony on May 27, 2005. A two-acre park in San Francisco is named Victoria Manalo Draves Park in her honor in October 2006. Vicki Draves passed away from pancreatic cancer and pneumonia on April 11, 2010, at the age of 85. Vicki Draves is honored with a Google Doodle on August 3, 2020, commemorating her achievements. Google LLC is a multinational technology corporation specializing in a... California is a U S state on the Pacific Coast... San Francisco is a major commercial financial and cultural hub... Las Vegas Nevada's most populous city and the seat of... Chicago is the most populous city in Illinois and the... Canada is a North American country the second largest in... 44 minutes ago Kristi Noem Testifies at Senate Hearing on DHS Shutdown and Immigration 2 hours ago Rachel Weisz Explores Steamy Fantasies in Netflix's 'Vladimir' Series Featuring Leo Woodall. 2 hours ago Zack Snyder reveals why Christian Bale's Batman didn't appear in BvS and DCEU. 2 hours ago Kevin Warsh's potential impact on Federal Reserve policies and rate cut outlook. 2 hours ago Yavapai College Board to meet in person; Midland College approves drilling agreement. 2 hours ago Vodafone and Amazon Leo Partner to Expand Mobile Coverage in Europe and Africa Jesse Jackson is an American civil rights activist politician and... Hillary Diane Rodham Clinton is a prominent American politician lawyer... Jim Carrey is a Canadian-American actor and comedian celebrated for... XXXTentacion born Jahseh Dwayne Ricardo Onfroy was a controversial yet... Michael Joseph Jackson the King of Pop was a highly... Bill Clinton served as the nd U S President from...


--- [Vicki Draves - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Vicki Draves Explained] ---
No content


--- [Vicki Draves: First Woman Olympics Gold Medalist in Diving] ---
Today in Filipino History, December 31, 1924, Filipino-American Vicki Draves, first woman to be awarded Olympics gold medals in platform and springboard diving was born in San Francisco, California On December 31, 1924, Vicki Draves, a Filipino-American competitive diver who won gold medals in both platform and springboard diving at the 1948 Summer Olympics in London and the first woman to be awarded gold medals for both the ten-meter platform and the three-meter springboard, was born Victoria Taylor Manalo in the South-of-Market district of San Francisco, California.
