=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hanns Lilje - Wikipedia]
In 1964, Lilje consecrated Stefano Moshi, first presiding bishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania. ... Succeeded by. Eduard Lohse · Stub icon.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hanns_Lilje

[Malasusa reelected as head of ELCT - The Citizen]
Aug 26, 2023 · Bishop Alex Malasusa has been re-elected the presiding bishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT), succeeding Bishop Fredrick Shoo, who has completed his leadership tenure.
URL: https://thecitizen.co.tz/tanzania/news/national/malasusa-reelected-as-head-of-elct-4348476

[Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania - Wikipedia]
In 1964, Johannes Lilje, then presiding bishop of the United Evangelical Lutheran Church of Germany, consecrated Stefano Moshi, who had been elected as the first president of the newly formed church body and who had been an advocate for the establishment of episcopacy, as the first presiding bishop of the ELCT.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evangelical_Lutheran_Church_in_Tanzania

[Tanzania: Growing Concern As Lutheran Church At Daggers Drawn]
Feb 9, 2024 · By Adonis Byemelwa By Adonis Byemelwa The Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania had re-elected (Bishop) Dr. Alex Malasusa as the presiding bishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT), succeeding Bishop (Dr.) Fredrick Shoo, who has completed his leadership tenure, with critics questioning the legality of a bishop who had held a similar position to re-emerge among nominees ...
URL: https://panafricanvisions.com/2023/09/tanzania-growing-concern-as-lutheran-church-at-daggers-drawn/

[PM attends Lutheran Bishop installation - legacy.ippmedia.com]
Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa and government dignitaries are today expected to attend the installation of Bishop Dr Fredrick Onael Shoo as the 5th Presiding Bishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tanzania (ELCT) at the Cathedral in Moshi.
URL: https://legacy.ippmedia.com/en/news/pm-attends-lutheran-bishop-installation


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hanns Lilje - Wikipedia] ---
Johannes (Hanns) Ernst Richard Lilje (20 August 1899, in Hannover – 6 January 1977, in Hannover) was a German Lutheran bishop and one of the pioneers of the ecumenical movement.
Lilje was general secretary of the German Student Christian Movement 1924–34. He was involved in Confessing Church struggle in Nazi Germany from 1933 onwards. After World War II he became the bishop of the Evangelical Lutheran State Church of Hanover in 1947 until his retirement. He was also the presiding bishop of the United Evangelical Lutheran Church of Germany 1955–69, president of the Lutheran World Federation and World Council of Churches. He was also abbot of Loccum under title Johannes XI.
Following WWII Lilje authored "The Valley of the Shadow" about his experiences during his imprisonment by the Nazis.  He was at Dachau concentration camp before being transferred to Buchenwald where he was held in solitary confinement.  He was tortured to extract a confession as well as reveal names of other clergy who were working to rid Germany of Hitler.  Even his Bible was taken from him but he knew the scriptures well enough to find strength in various verses.  His favorite was Romans 14:8 "For whether we live unto the Lord or die unto the Lord; whether we live therefore or die, we are the Lord's!"
In 1964, Lilje consecrated Stefano Moshi, first presiding bishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania.


--- [Malasusa reelected as head of ELCT - The Citizen] ---
Arusha. Bishop Alex Malasusa has been re-elected the presiding bishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT), succeeding Bishop Fredrick Shoo, who has completed his leadership tenure. Bishop Malasusa, who leads the Eastern and Coastal Diocese of ELCT, once held the position from 2007 to 2015 and then passed on the responsibilities to Bishop Shoo. His re-election has sparked discussions on social media platforms. However, during the election, two bishops, Dr Benson Bagonza of the Karagwe Diocese and Bishop Ambele Mwaipopo of the Lake Tanganyika Diocese, were not allowed to attend the ELCT general assembly meeting that elected Malasusa. Bishops Bagonza and Mwaipopo were suspended from attending four regular sessions of the executive committee in May of last year due to disagreements with Bishop Shoo over how to address the conflict within the Konde Diocese. Nevertheless, during the executive committee meeting held prior to the election, bishops Bagonza and Mwaipopo were granted forgiveness on the condition of writing an apology letter, a requirement they fulfilled within a short period of time. Reports indicated that Bishop Shoo, who presided over the election, stood his ground and maintained that the bishops were suspended from attending four regular sessions. In the election, a reliable source told The Citizen that Bishop Abednego Keshomshahara led with 32 votes, followed by Bishop George Fihavango with 20 votes, Malasusa with 16 votes, and Bishop Andrew Gulle with 15 votes. With those results, the names of Bishop Malasusa, Bishop Keshomshahara, and Bishop Fihavango had to be voted for by the members of the ELCT executive committee, and ultimately, Bishop Malasusa emerged as the winner. The election had to be repeated three times as the required votes were not met. In the first round of voting, out of 253 votes cast, Dr Malasusa bagged 90 votes, Dr Kesho Mshahara won 83 votes, and Fihavango garnered 69 votes, while 11 votes were spoiled. According to the ELCT constitution, a two-thirds majority was not achieved to determine a winner, prompting a second round of voting between the top two candidates, Bishop Malasusa and Bishop Keshomshahara. However, in the second round, the two-thirds majority was still not achieved, as Dr Malasusa won 142 votes and Keshomshahara garnered 96 out of the 239 votes cast. Consequently, a third round of voting was announced. In the third round of voting, Bishop Malasusa got 167 votes, equivalent to 69.3 percent of the 241 votes cast, while Keshomshahara collected 73 votes, equivalent to 30.3 percent. Thus, Bishop Malasusa was declared the newly elected head of the church. Speaking after the election, Bishop Shoo congratulated Bishop Malasusa on his election and acknowledged the passing of the leadership baton just as it had been done to him in 2015. of the Church. Speaking after the results, Bishop Shoo, who is also the head of the Northern Diocese, congratulated Bishop Malasusa on his re-election and acknowledged the passing of the leadership baton just as it had been done to him in 2015. "Father Bishop, know that just as you handed it over to me in 2015, I will do the same, and through prayers and advice, I will be close to you as you have been to me. May God lead you and enable you," said Bishop Shoo. For his part, Bishop Malasusa said, "I am greatly overwhelmed because I marvel at God. His ways are unfathomable. I would like to thank God for His grace in calling me again to serve with you." "I am absolutely certain that the same God, who enabled Bishop Shoo to do great work and accomplish significant things, especially through this assembly, will empower us as well. I thank you, Father Bishop," said Bishop Malasusa. The former General Secretary of ELCT (1988-2005), Amani Mwenigoha, stated that the ELCT constitution has no limit of any kind for the position of the Church head, saying that even Bishop Shoo could have been reelected. “The head of the Church can be reelected unless he is unable to fulfill his duties due to health reasons or death," said Mwenigoha. Reported by Daniel Mjema, Janeth Mushi and Florah Temba


--- [Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania - Wikipedia] ---
The Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT; Swahili: Kanisa la Kiinjili la Kilutheri Tanzania) is the federation of Lutheran churches in Tanzania and one of the largest Lutheran denominations in the world, with more than 6 million members, or 13% of the Tanzanian population. It is the second largest Lutheran church in the world and the largest Lutheran church in East Africa.
The church is led by a presiding bishop and twenty-eight diocesan bishops, representing 28 dioceses. The head office of the church is in Mbeya, since 1967. The church is affiliated with the All Africa Conference of Churches (AACC), the Christian Council of Tanzania, the Global Confessional and Missional Lutheran Forum, and the Lutheran World Federation.
The ELCT is an organization which reaches out to the people of Tanzania offering worship opportunities, Christian education, and numerous social services, including disaster response, healthcare, and AIDS education and relief.


--- [Tanzania: Growing Concern As Lutheran Church At Daggers Drawn] ---
No content


--- [PM attends Lutheran Bishop installation - legacy.ippmedia.com] ---
No content
