=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Pandora Papers: Why are donations to political parties often so ...]
Oct 4, 2021 · A businessman who was later convicted for perjury became the Liberal Democrats' largest donor in 2005, giving £2.4m to the party.
URL: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-politics-58783961

[Top donors of Lib Dems United Kingdom | DonationWatch]
The Liberal Democrats, colloquially known as the Lib Dems, is a political party in the United Kingdom. Ideologically adhering to liberalism, it was founded in 1988. The party is based at Liberal Democrat Headquarters, which since September 2025 has been based at Buckingham Gate, in the Westminster area of Central London. The party's leader is Ed Davey. It is the third-largest party in the ...
URL: https://donation.watch/en/unitedkingdom/party/LIBDEMS/donors

[Lib Dems under pressure to return £2.4m donation from fraudster]
Jul 17, 2014 · Brown gave the LibDems the £2.4million in four tranches between February and May 2005 through his company 5th Avenue Partners. The total sum is one of the biggest ever single donation to a...
URL: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/politics/10973469/LibDems-under-pressure-to-return-2.4million-donation-from-fraudster.html

[Michael Campbell-Brown]
Between 10 February and 30 March 2005 he donated £2.4 million to the Liberal Democrats. He was the largest donor the party had ever had, giving ten times more ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Campbell-Brown

[Liberal Democrats (UK) - Wikipedia]
The Liberal Democrats, colloquially known as the Lib Dems, is a political party in the United Kingdom. Ideologically adhering to liberalism, it was founded in 1988. The party is based at Liberal Democrat Headquarters, which since September 2025 has been based at Buckingham Gate, [1] in the Westminster area of Central London. The party's leader is Ed Davey. It is the third-largest party in the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liberal_Democrats_(UK)


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Pandora Papers: Why are donations to political parties often so ...] ---
Pandora Papers: Why are donations to political parties often so controversial? - Published The Pandora Papers leak has once again cast a spotlight on the funding of UK political parties by wealthy donors. The Conservative Party are under scrutiny after files included in the Pandora Papers leak revealed how a prominent donor was involved in a corruption scandal. In the past, Labour and the Lib Dems have also been exposed for accepting money in questionable circumstances. Parties need to be able to raise money in order to run. But there are concerns when it looks like those giving cash expect something in return How are parties funded? Running a political party costs money, particularly in the build-up to elections. Some £50m was spent by parties during the 2019 general election. Most income comes in the form of donations including those from individuals and companies. To give money as an individual you have to appear on a UK electoral register. Companies must be registered in the UK and carry out business in the country. Other sources of income for parties include membership fees, loans and a limited amount of public money. A vast majority of the Conservative Party's donations come from individuals: 68% during the 2019 election campaign. The Labour Party's income looks different. During the 2019 general election campaign, 93% of donations came from trade unions. National parties only have to record donations above £7,500, so the totals do not pick up the large base of Labour supporters who give small amounts. The largest union backer of Labour is Unite the Union. Last year it gave the party £1.6m in donations. This is on top of the fees that union members pay to "affiliate" with the Labour Party. What have been the scandals? At the start of his premiership, Tony Blair faced criticism over his interactions with Formula One tycoon Bernie Eccleston. New Labour had received £1m from Mr Eccleston months before coming to power in 1997, with another possible chunk on the way. It was later revealed that he had met Mr Blair to lobby him to exempt F1 from a tobacco advertising ban. A "cash for honours" scandal hit Tony Blair's government in 2006, when it emerged that a number of large secret loans had been made to the Labour Party before the 2005 general election. Some of the lenders had subsequently been nominated for the House of Lords. Tony Blair became the first prime minister to be questioned by the police during an investigation. However, the long and expensive probe led to no charges from the CPS. Offering seats in the House of Lords is still a controversial issue. In 2020 Prime Minister Boris Johnson nominated Peter Cruddas - who had given £50,000 to Mr Johnson's campaign to be party leader - for a seat in the House of Lords, going against official advice. A businessman who was later convicted for perjury became the Liberal Democrats' largest donor in 2005, giving £2.4m to the party. The party faced criticism for not returning the donation, despite Michael Brown not being a registered UK voter and donating through a newly-created company. It's not always wealthy individuals. This summer the police launched an investigation into the SNP's finances after the party had raised money in a crowdfunding drive. Donors had complained about how the money went on to be used. What about donations to MPs? MPs can accept their own donations and gifts, as long as they declare them. The register of MPs' interests - which includes outside employment and free tickets to horse races - is updated every two weeks. Politicians are frequently found to have failed to declare interests in the correct way - usually resulting in an apology in Parliament. In 2018 DUP MP Ian Paisley admitted "deep personal embarrassment" after failing to declare two luxury holidays paid for by the Sri Lankan government. What checks do parties have to carry out? Parties themselves must report donations and loans of more than £7,500 to the Electoral Commission - the organisation which regulates political donations in the UK. This register is updated every three months. Each party has a treasurer, who is legally responsible for checking whether a donor is legitimate. Guidance from the Electoral Commission says: "As soon as you receive a donation, you must make sure you know who the donor is, and start checking their permissibility. You have 30 days to decide whether to accept or refuse the donation." If a party breaks the rules about making declarations to the Electoral Commission a range of sanctions are available - including fines of up to £20,000. Very serious offensives can also be referred to the police. Should the system be changed? A parliamentary report published this year, external recommended steps to address the "risk that the current rules on donations from companies provide a route for foreign money to influence UK elections". The committee argued that donations should only be made "from profits generated in the UK," and that new checks should be put in place "for identifying the true source of a donation". The report was welcomed by pressure groups including the Electoral Reform Society and Transparency International. In its 2019 election manifesto, the Conservative Party said it would "protect the integrity of our democracy". It has introduced new legislation, currently going through parliament, that includes measures to tighten the rules that prevent foreign money being used in campaigning. The Pandora Papers is a leak of almost 12 million documents and files exposing the secret wealth and dealings of world leaders, politicians and billionaires. The data was obtained by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists in Washington DC and has led to one of the biggest ever global investigations. More than 600 journalists from 117 countries have looked at the hidden fortunes of some of the most powerful people on the planet. BBC Panorama and the Guardian have led the investigation in the UK. Pandora Papers coverage: follow reaction on Twitter using #PandoraPapers, in the BBC News app, or watch Panorama on the BBC iPlayer (UK viewers only). Related topics - Published5 October 2021 - Published3 October 2021


--- [Top donors of Lib Dems United Kingdom | DonationWatch] ---
No content


--- [Lib Dems under pressure to return £2.4m donation from fraudster] ---
[{"message":"You are not authorized to access this content without a valid TollBit Token. Please follow this URL to find out more.","url":"https://tollbit.dev","metadata":{"ak_ref_id":"0.52c1102.1772552741.159c0e1f"}}]


--- [Michael Campbell-Brown] ---
Michael Campbell-Brown (born Michael Robert Alexander Brown; 19 April 1966) is a Scottish businessman and fugitive convicted in absentia of theft, perjury and perverting the course of justice. Between 10 February and 30 March 2005 he donated £2.4 million to the Liberal Democrats. He was the largest donor the party had ever had, giving ten times more than anything it had received before.
Campbell-Brown has worked for Serco since 2019.


--- [Liberal Democrats (UK) - Wikipedia] ---
The Liberal Democrats, colloquially known as the Lib Dems, is a political party in the United Kingdom. Ideologically adhering to liberalism, it was founded in 1988. The party is based at Liberal Democrat Headquarters, which since September 2025 has been based at Buckingham Gate, in the Westminster area of Central London. The party's leader is Ed Davey. It is the third-largest party in the United Kingdom, with 72 members of Parliament (MPs) in the House of Commons. It has 76 members of the House of Lords, 5 in the Scottish Parliament, 1 in the Welsh Senedd, and around 3,200 local council seats. The party holds a twice yearly Liberal Democrat Conference, at which policy is formulated. In contrast to its main opponents, the Lib Dems grant all members attending Conference the right to vote on policy, under a one member, one vote system. As well as voting in the Conference Hall, the party allows its members to vote online for its policies and leadership elections. Members are also free to join organisations representing strands of party thinking, such as Liberal Reform and Social Liberal Forum, and for those under 30 years, Young Liberals.
In 1981, an electoral alliance was established between the Liberal Party, a group which descended from the 18th-century Whigs, and the Social Democratic Party (SDP), a splinter group from the Labour Party. In 1988, the parties merged as the Social and Liberal Democrats, adopting their present name a year later. Under the leaderships of Paddy Ashdown and Charles Kennedy, the party grew in the 1990s and 2000s, focusing its campaigns on specific seats and retained the third-largest party status in the House of Commons, although with significantly more seats than the predecessor Liberal Party. In the 1997 election, the Liberal Democrats doubled their seat count to 46. In 2010, under Nick Clegg's leadership, the Lib Dems were junior partners in the Conservative-led coalition government, in which Clegg served as deputy prime minister. Though it allowed the party to implement some of its policies, the coalition damaged its electoral standing; it lost 48 of its 56 MPs at the 2015 general election, which relegated it to fourth-largest party in the House of Commons. Under the leaderships of Tim Farron, Vince Cable and Jo Swinson, the party refocused as a pro-Europeanist party opposing Brexit. In the 2019 general election, the party garnered 11.5% of the vote on an anti-Brexit platform, but this did not translate into seat gains. However, the party's success was renewed under the leadership of Ed Davey, winning hundreds of councillors and 72 MPs in the 2024 general election, its highest result since 1923, and resuming its status as the third largest party in the House of Commons.
A centrist to centre-left party, the Lib Dems ideologically draw upon liberalism and social democracy. Different factions have dominated the party at different times, each with its own ideological bent. Some factions leaned towards the centre-left, while others were in the centre. The party is a member of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party (ALDE), and Liberal International. It calls for constitutional reform, including a change from first-past-the-post voting to proportional representation. Emphasising stronger protections for civil liberties, the party promotes social-liberal approaches to issues like LGBT rights, drug liberalisation, education and criminal justice. It favours a market-based economy supplemented with social welfare spending. The party has been described as progressive, and is internationalist and pro-European, and supported the People's Vote for UK membership of the European Union and greater European integration, having previously called for adoption of the euro. The Lib Dems have promoted further environmental protections and opposed British military ventures such as the Iraq War.
The Lib Dems have historically been strongest in northern Scotland, south-west London, South West England, and mid Wales. Membership is primarily made up of middle-class professionals and has a higher proportion of university-educated members than other UK parties. The party is a federation of the English, Scottish, and Welsh Liberal Democrats, and is in a partnership with the Alliance Party of Northern Ireland, while still organising there.


