=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Our History | Michigan Legislative Black Caucus]
Historic House Leadership Matthew McNeely became the first African American elected by the House of Representatives as Associate Speaker Pro Tempore. In 1973, he was elected Speaker Pro Tempore. Coleman Young of the Senate was appointed Minority Floor Leader of the Senate in the same year.
URL: https://michiganlbc.org/history/

[Joe Tate (politician) - Wikipedia]
He was elected to a second term in 2020. After the Democratic Party gained control of the Michigan House of Representatives in the 2022 Michigan House of Representatives elections, [7] Tate became the first African American to be elected Speaker of the Michigan House of Representatives. [8][9]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joe_Tate_(politician)

[Historical moment as Michigan's first Black Speaker of the House is ...]
Jan 11, 2023 · Wednesday marked a historic moment in Michigan’s history as Michigan’s first Black Speaker of the House, Joe Tate, gaveled in the state’s newly minted state legislature.
URL: https://www.clickondetroit.com/news/local/2023/01/11/historical-moment-as-michigans-first-black-speaker-of-the-house-is-sworn-in-laid-out-first-bills/

[State Rep Joe Tate becomes 1st ever Black Speaker of the House]
Nov 14, 2022 · Democratic State Rep. Joe Tate makes history as 1st Black Speaker of the House History is made in Lansing after Democratic State Rep. Joe Tate is selected as the first Black speaker of the house.
URL: https://www.fox2detroit.com/news/state-rep-joe-tate-becomes-1st-ever-black-speaker-of-the-house

[Democrats elect Michigan Legislature's first Black, female leaders]
Nov 10, 2022 · Lansing — Fresh off their historic takeover of Michigan's legislative branch, newly empowered Democrats on Thursday elected the Legislature's first Black and female leaders to guide lawmaking ...
URL: https://www.detroitnews.com/story/news/politics/michigan/2022/11/10/michigan-senate-will-have-1st-female-majority-leader-winnie-brinks/69637049007/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Our History | Michigan Legislative Black Caucus] ---
History of MLBC The Michigan Legislative Black Caucus had humble beginnings. From there, the caucus has contributed to many milestones in our state history, including the establishment of the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday in 1985 and the election of the first African American as leader of the House Democratic Caucus in 2000. 1892 Breaking Barriers William W. Ferguson became the first African American to win election to the Michigan Legislature. He served two terms in the House of Representatives (1893 to 1896). 1941 Paving the Way During Wartime The year of the United States’ entry into World War II was also the first year in which two African Americans served simultaneously in the Michigan Legislature. Charles C. Diggs of the Senate was joined by Horace A. White, who won a seat in the House of Representatives. 1950 Trailblazing Women and Second-Generation Leaders Charline White became the first female African American to win election to the Michigan Legislature. She served in the House of Representatives until 1959. This year also saw the election of the first second-generation African American legislator. Charles C. Diggs, Jr. won a seat in the Senate just as his father had done thirteen years before. 1969 Historic House Leadership Matthew McNeely became the first African American elected by the House of Representatives as Associate Speaker Pro Tempore. In 1973, he was elected Speaker Pro Tempore. Coleman Young of the Senate was appointed Minority Floor Leader of the Senate in the same year. 1975 Senate Leadership Milestone Both Jackie Vaughn III and David S. Holmes were elected to leadership positions in the Michigan Senate. Vaughn became the President Pro Tempore of the Senate and Holmes, the Majority Caucus Chairman. Neither position had before been held by an African American. 1976 Birth of the Legislative Black Caucus The Legislative Black Caucus was formed this year after a meeting at the Detroit home of Rep. Morris Hood, Jr., where he was elected as the first Caucus Chairman. 1983 Father-Son Duo Returns After a hiatus of four years, Joe Young, Sr. returned to the Michigan Legislature, joining his son, Joe Young, Jr. and making them the first African American father and son to serve in the Legislature simultaneously. 1985 Advocacy for Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday The lobbying efforts and leadership of African American legislators led to the passage of a statute to establish the Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday. 1997 Morris W. Hood, Jr. Makes History Morris W. Hood, Jr. becomes the first African American lawmaker in Michigan to chair the House Appropriations Committee. 1999 Record-Breaking Representation African American membership in the Michigan Legislature reaches 20 (5 in the Senate, 15 in the House), the most in history. Virgil Smith in the Senate and Kwame Kilpatrick in the House each serve as Democratic floor leaders. 2000 Kwame Kilpatrick’s Leadership Kwame Kilpatrick became the first African American to be elected as leader of the House Democratic Caucus. He left office in January 2002 to take office as mayor of Detroit. 2002 Senator Bill Hardiman’s Historic Role Senator Bill Hardiman is the first Republican African American in the Michigan Legislature since Senator Charles Roxborough, who served in 1932. 2019 64th Lieutenant Governor Garlin Gilchrist Lieutenant Governor Garlin Gilchrist has dedicated his career to solving problems. An engineer by training, he uses thoughtful and fact-based practices to solve real problems and make government work better for Michigan families. 2020 First Black Speaker of The House Joe Tate was elected to a second term in 2020. After the Democratic Party gained control of the Michigan House of Representatives in the 2022 Michigan House of Representatives elections, Tate became the first African American to be elected Speaker of the Michigan House of Representatives. 2023 First Black Woman to Serve as Justice Justice Kyra Harris Bolden joined the Michigan Supreme Court on January 1, 2023, when she was appointed by Governor Whitmer, making her the first Black woman to serve as a Justice. 2023 First Black Woman to Chair The Senate Appropriations Committee Senator Sarah Anthony has always fought for equity and opportunity for all Michiganders, including the most vulnerable among us. Throughout her 20 year career in public service, Sarah has made history multiple times, serving as mid-Michigan’s first African American woman to be elected to the Michigan House of Representatives and the Michigan Senate. In 2023, she became the first Black woman to chair the powerful Senate Appropriations Committee. Learn More About Us We focus on a variety of topics to help and provide support to the community. Visit our About Us page to learn more.


--- [Joe Tate (politician) - Wikipedia] ---
Joseph Allen Tate (born December 13, 1980) is an American former professional football player and politician serving as a member of the Michigan House of Representatives since 2019, currently representing the 9th district. A member of the Democratic Party, Tate served as the 78th speaker of the Michigan House of Representatives from 2023 to 2025. He was briefly a candidate in the 2026 United States Senate election in Michigan, but suspended his campaign and will instead seek re-election to the state House.


--- [Historical moment as Michigan's first Black Speaker of the House is ...] ---
Wednesday marked a historic moment in Michigan’s history as Michigan’s first Black Speaker of the House, Joe Tate, gaveled in the state’s newly minted state legislature. His first order of business was a bipartisan call to action. “We have a choice,” said Tate. “We can be agents for change, or we can be obstacles to progress. I, for one, am committed for change, and I am looking for any and all willing partners to join me in moving Michigan forward.” The Detroit Democrat will lead the house alongside Democratic leadership in the Senate and governor’s mansion. The first time since 1984. However, their majority is slim in both chambers, just two seats apiece, meaning if any Democrat defected, it would deadlock any legislation. It’s something Republican leaders touched on while still backing Tate as speaker. “The people of Michigan sent every one of us, Republican and Democrat, here for a reason,” said House Minority Leader Matt Hall. “In a closely divided legislature, the people of Michigan want us to closely work together on their behalf to govern in the middle.” But in a break in long-standing bipartisan tradition of supporting the incoming speaker, a group of eight far-right Republicans who have created their own so-called freedom caucus voted against Tate. According to a release, their opposition stems from the chamber’s new rules. The break is a potential sign of fights to come. But outside of that, the day was a celebration of diversity beyond the Speaker’s election. Fifty-five percent of the legislature is now 50 years old or younger. Forty percent are now women, including the state’s first female majority leader, Winnie Brinks. There are seven open members of the LGBTQ community. While the passing of the speaker’s gavel ushered in a new era in Michigan, it also marked the end of the career for a lauded civil servant, House Clerk Gary Randall. Randall served in the Michigan legislature for nearly 40 decades, first as a member for 18 years and then as a clerk or assistant clerk for 26 years. It’s the clerk’s job to help shepherd pieces of legislation through the chamber smoothly, often thanklessly. Randall also became a constant source of advice and a friendly ear to many members and staff during his tenure. In his last official act as clerk, he passed the gavel to the state’s first Black Speaker of the House. “I can’t think of a greater honor for my last act than to place in your hands the gavel,” said Randall in his last words on the House floor. Congratulations.” While much of the first day of the 102nd Legislature was pomp and circumstance, both parties also announced their first bills. Democrats plan to tackle their wish list beginning with repealing the right to work, expanding civil rights for LGBTQ Michiganders, tax reform for seniors and low-income families, and repealing the state’s abortion ban that’s still on the books. In their first bills, Republicans also want tax reform, though not necessarily the way Democrats want it, likely setting the stage for the first political fight of 2023.


--- [State Rep Joe Tate becomes 1st ever Black Speaker of the House] ---
State Rep Joe Tate becomes 1st ever Black Speaker of the House FOX 2 (WJBK) - History will be made in Lansing after Democratic State Rep. Joe Tate was selected as the first Black speaker of the house. FOX 2's Brandon Hudson spoke with the speaker-elect from Detroit 1-on-1, who says he's ready to get to work. FOX 2: "The first thing I want to ask you is take me back to the moment when you found out you would be named House Speaker?" Joe Tate: "It was last week. After Tuesday’s general election, I came in two days later — Thursday afternoon — to have leadership elections. After the deliberations with everyone I’ll be serving within the Democratic Caucus, we went through, I made my case and was excited to get the nod from the caucus to lead." FOX 2:"What kind of emotions were you going through?" Tate: "Excitement, also responsibility. I think that’s the second largest one - just understanding that to do good things and affect change positively." FOX 2: "I was just going to ask you, when you hear: Joe Tate - first Black Speaker of the Michigan House. What kind of title does that mean to you?" Tate: Standing on the shoulders of others. For me, having the opportunity, again being historic. But understanding it’s a responsibility not only to the residents of Michigan but also the men and women who have come before me, and those that look like me. Knowing that this is something that a lot of people have worked for as a team effort. No, I am not an island in getting this done." FOX 2: "So, take me back to those moments from playing with Michigan State, playing in the NFL. Then, pivoting, going to the Marines and military service. What went into the thought process of pivoting at those points in your life?" State Rep. Joe Tate was a three-year starter for Michigan State's football team. Tate: "Absolutely, it began with my parents. My father was a firefighter for the city of Detroit. My mom was a public school teacher. So giving back. Serving others was something I grew up with. "The House is a consensus-building organization, and that is something I will continue working toward — is trying to get people from different backgrounds that are independently elected to come together to improve the quality of life for Michigan residents." FOX 2: "Redistricting was a big discussion late last year. It pulled seats away from Detroit. We didn’t have enough representation for the Black communities in Detroit. How do you hope your role plays a part in speaking up for the people in Detroit; especially the ones you represent?" Tate: "It makes a huge difference. I think for us having diversity and having that reflected in our elected officials is paramount." FOX 2: "What do you hope to accomplish by having Gretchen Whitmer and Democratic control of the House and Senate of the State House?" Tate: "I think there’s a real opportunity to put our values into practice. Everything that we’ve been talking about to get up to this point — whether it’s pocketbook issues, making sure families can put food on their table, investing in education, and child care. "We’ve made historic investments this legislative session. It points us on the right direction, but we need to do more." FOX 2: "I feel like you’re ready to get to work right now?" Tate: "Absolutely." FOX 2: "Representative Tate I appreciate your time. Thank you so much." Tate: "Absolutely! Thanks so much, Brandon." Detroit Democrat State Rep. Joe Tate will be the first-ever Black speaker of the House.


--- [Democrats elect Michigan Legislature's first Black, female leaders] ---
Democrats elect Michigan Legislature's first Black, female leaders Lansing — Fresh off their historic takeover of Michigan's legislative branch, newly empowered Democrats on Thursday elected the Legislature's first Black and female leaders to guide lawmaking for at least the next two years. House Democrats elected state Rep. Joe Tate of Detroit as their new leader, making the former National Football League player and Michigan State University offensive lineman the first African American to be elected Michigan's speaker of the House. The former Marine also will be the first Detroiter in a majority party leadership post in decades as Tate leads the 56-member Democratic caucus alongside a Democratic majority in the Senate. "It's historic and it's a great opportunity, but also a great responsibility," Tate said. "Being from Detroit, that carries its own experience, but also understanding that this House is for the entire state of Michigan." Tate's election came a few hours after Michigan Senate Democrats chose Grand Rapids state Sen. Winnie Brinks as the chamber's first-ever female majority leader as she pledged to work to safeguard the state's economy and equality. Democrats selected Brinks during a closed-door meeting inside the Capitol two days after they won the Senate's majority for the first time in 40 years. For the four-year term that begins in 2023, Democrats will hold 20 of the Senate's 38 seats. “You’ll see a continued focus on making sure that our economy is strong, making sure that our education systems are strong, making sure that high school students, when they graduate, have opportunities to continue in the credentials that will lead to good jobs that will allow them to build a life here," Brinks told reporters Thursday morning. “You’re going to see us echo the issues that the voters resoundingly approved on the ballot, so affirming reproductive rights, affirming people’s abilities to live their authentic selves," Brinks added. "We will be a state where equality is valued.” More:How Democrats' historic wins will bring 'monumental' shift to Michigan Brinks is the daughter of dairy farmers and Dutch immigrants, according to her Michigan Senate biography. She was first elected to the state House in 2012 and won her seat in the Senate in 2018. Before serving in the Legislature, she worked for a Grand Rapids nonprofit as a caseworker aimed at improving workplaces. She's from Kent County, a former Republican stronghold that has been trending heavily in Democrats' favor in recent years. Brinks initially ran as a write-in candidate in 2012 after the incumbent in her district, Rep. Roy Schmidt, switched parties to join the Republicans and recruited an ally to run for the Democratic nomination. The 2012 race was her first campaign for public office, but she scored enough write-in votes to be the Democratic candidate in the general election. She defeated Schmidt in November 2012 to take his seat. Brinks described her decade in office as "quite a journey." “I’ve been through some really tough election cycles and election races personally," she said. "It gives me a very good taste of what our members have gone through.” State Sen. Jeremy Moss, D-Southfield, said the future majority leader's story was "emblematic of the Democratic journey to majority." "If you look at where the shift toward Democrats is ... it's come out of Grand Rapids," Moss said. "I just think she's really in tune with carrying our base areas but also making sure that those people that don't feel like they have a home in the Republican Party are included and feel seen by Democratic priorities." Current Senate Minority Leader Jim Ananich, D-Flint, said Brinks won "unanimous" support in a vote held Thursday morning by the new 20-member Democratic caucus. Ananich, who is term-limited and leaving office at year's end, said Brinks is decisive but makes sure everyone's voices are heard. "She knows that she has a diverse caucus," Ananich said. Tate has been a key figure over the last few years in Democrats’ calls for Republican accountability and an important player in historic budget approvals in recent years. He’s become a voice in the state Democratic party and chaired the party’s nominating convention as recently as August. While Tate has long been considered the favorite for leading the Democratic caucus, Rep. Felicia Brabec, D-Pittsfield Township, sent out a statement prior to the leadership vote that she was looking to lead the caucus as the first Black female speaker. The closed-door meeting where members decided on Tate lasted more than two hours. The new majority led by Tate is likely to focus on education, infrastructure, health care affordability, workers' rights, policy and ethics reform. "There won't be any surprises," said Tate, noting they were issues Democrats have been trying to advance for years in Lansing. When asked whether the controversial 2012 right-to-work law would be repealed, House Majority Leader-elect Rep. Abraham Aiyash, D-Hamtramck, said "absolutely." Tate said the chamber would "take a look at it." "We know what right to work did to this state, and obviously that has been something we've been talking about for the last decade," Tate said.Tate’s father, Coleman Tate Sr., was a Detroit firefighter who died in the line of duty in 1981 and his mother a Detroit public school teacher, according to his biography. Tate was a three-year starting offensive lineman at Michigan State and a co-captain in 2003. Upon graduation from MSU, Tate played in the NFL for two years for the Jacksonville Jaguars, Atlanta Falcons and St. Louis Rams, his campaign site said. He joined the U.S. Marine Corps and deployed to Afghanistan twice before gaining a master of science in environmental policy and planning and master of business administration from the University of Michigan. He worked as a program manager for the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation before his election in 2018. "Joe's cool, calm, collected and collaborative," Aiyash said. "We're excited to actually move an agenda for working people across the state and we know the responsibility that comes with that." Senate Republicans chose Sen. Aric Nesbitt, R-Lawton, to be their leader on Thursday. Nesbitt said his caucus will serve as the "loyal opposition." In the House, Republicans chose third-term state Rep. Matt Hall to lead the 54-member minority in the next session. The Comstock Township Republican said he would focus on lowering inflation and increasing jobs, and would "hold the line" against policies inconsistent with the caucus' "most important principles and beliefs." cmauger@detroitnews.com
