=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[M. S. Ramaiah Medical College - Wikipedia]
M S Ramaiah. [1] It is an autonomous institute and affiliated with the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Bengaluru. The MS Ramaiah Medical College was founded by the Late Sri Mathikere Sampangi Ramaiah in 1979 and as a requisite for medical education, the M. S. Ramaiah Teaching Hospital was founded.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M._S._Ramaiah_Medical_College

[Karmayogi Dr. M. S. Ramaiah - Birth Centenary Celebration]
In 1979, Dr. M S Ramaiah started M.S. Ramaiah Medical College. As a part of the medical education, in 1985, he started 1,000 bed M.S. Ramaiah Medical Teaching Hospital. Today, this hospital is one of the best equipped hospitals in the city of Bangalore which is becoming a hi-tech city in medical facilities.
URL: https://msramaiah.org/

[History | M.S. Ramaiah University of Applied Sciences]
M S Ramaiah University of Applied Sciences (RUAS) was created under the University Act of 2013 with approval from the Government of Karnataka. It brought together the M S Ramaiah Medical College, M S Ramaiah College of Physiotherapy, M S Ramaiah Institute of Nursing Education & Research, M S Ramaiah College of Hotel Management (1993), M S Ramaiah College of Pharmacy (1992), M S Ramaiah Dental ...
URL: https://www.msruas.ac.in/about-us/history

[RAMAIAH INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL SCHOOL]
A pioneer and thinker ahead of his times, he established one of the premier private engineering colleges in India as early as 1962. On the demise of Sri. M S Ramaiah in 1997, his son, Dr. M R Jayaram took on the responsibility of carrying forward his work. Innovation, Quality and Research became his mantra to making a good institution a great one.
URL: https://www.ramaiahims.com/about_ramaiah.html

[Grokipedia: M. S. Ramaiah Medical College]
Learn more about M. S. Ramaiah Medical College on Grokipedia.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/M._S._Ramaiah_Medical_College


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [M. S. Ramaiah Medical College - Wikipedia] ---
Ramaiah Medical College (RMC), previously known as M. S. Ramaiah Medical College (MSRMC), is a tertiary health care center and a medical college situated in Bangalore, Karnataka. The Ramaiah Medical College (RMC) was established in 1979  by the Gokula Education Foundation and was founded by the Late Sri. M S Ramaiah. It is an autonomous institute and affiliated with the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Bengaluru.

The MS Ramaiah Medical College was founded by the Late Sri Mathikere Sampangi Ramaiah in 1979 and as a requisite for medical education, the M. S. Ramaiah Teaching Hospital was founded. With a vision of a multi-speciality centre, the M. S. Ramaiah Institute of Nephro–Urology, M. S. Ramaiah Institute of Oncology and M. S. Ramaiah Institute of Cardiology was set up; the founding of M. S. Ramaiah Medical Teaching Hospital was done in the year 1985. Ramaiah Medical College Hospital is the associated teaching health facility, and is known for its free health camps and awareness programmes.
The MS Ramaiah Medical College is now a part of the MSR Group of Institutions, and since 2022, has been affiliated to the new Ramaiah University of Applied Sciences.


--- [Karmayogi Dr. M. S. Ramaiah - Birth Centenary Celebration] ---
Dr. M.S. Ramaiah comes from a working class family. His grandfather G.R. Ramaiah was an ordinary mason while Indian Institute of Science was under construction. His father Sampangappa was a brick contractor. Dr. M.S. Ramaiah is the only son of Sampangappa and Narasamma. He was born in April 1922. He did his primary and middle school education in Mathikere which was then on the outskirts of Bangalore City. Due to the problems in the family, he could not pursue his education and he took to agriculture. Since the land holding of the family was very meagre, he took an appointment in Industrial Testing Laboratory, which was a Government of Mysore concern. Later, he joined Mysore Railways and put in a service for two years. At the age of 18, he followed his father and took up contract jobs. During the second world war, he supplied bricks to the construction of military camps in Bangalore. After the World War, he shifted his camp to Kolhapur, where the State Government had undertaken a dam work. During 1945-51, he did well in supplying bricks to the construction works and became a successful contractor. This made him to take up bigger projects and he ventured to take up the canal works of Ghattaprabha project. Later, he successfully completed the Talakalale dam of Sharavathi Hydro Electric Project and Dharma project, which is the longest earthen dam in the State. He also successfully completed the works of Gandak Project in Bihar. By 1960, he was a top most engineering contractor of the State. Due to poverty, Dr. M.S. Ramaiah could not have higher education for himself. He realised the value of education for the nation's progress, especially the need of technical personnel as he was an engineering contractor. He was dreaming of providing better training facilities for technical personnel. An opportunity came his way in 1962. He established Gokula Education Foundation, through which he started the M.S. Ramaiah College of Engineering. Later, this was renamed as M.S. Ramaiah Institute of Technology (MSRIT) and now it is also known as Ramaiah Institute of Technology (RIT) RIT’s journey started with Bangalore University and was continued. RIT started with two undergraduate programmes in 1962 and by the end of 1997, 12 UG and 03 PG programmes were offered to students, which were affiliated with Bangalore University. Since its inception, Institute is continuously growing. The following are the major achievements of RIT till 1997: Dr. M.S. Ramaiah became the President of Yogi Nareyana Yateendrara Trust of Kaiwara in the year 1979. Today, Kaiwara Kshetra, situated near Chintamani in Kolar District has developed into one of the premier religious centres in Karnataka. Every year, more than 5 lakh pilgrims visit the Amara Nareyana Temple and seek the blessings of the great saint of Kaiwara, Yogi Nareyana Yateendra. Various religious and social developments have taken place in Kaiwara. The improvements made to the Bheemalingeshwara Temple is note worthy. Development of Kaiwara Yogi Nareyana Yateendra Thapovana which is totally a new concept is unique in the whole country. Apart from these activities, the Trust has been rendering significant social service by implementing various schemes. It is arranging free marriages every year for about 500 couples and more than 2000 marriages are held every year for a small sum of money to the poorer section of the society. The Trust also respects Sadhus and Saints who come in thousands on the Yogi Yateendra's birthday where saffron robes are distributed and dakshinas are given. The Trust also provides financial assistance and scholarship to the needy students of Kolar district for their studies. Dr. M.S. Ramaiah was very passionate about the local language, Kannada, and participated in varlous cultural events with great enthusiasm, He organised the Kannada Sahithya Sarmelana in Kalwara in 1990 where he was the Chairman of the Reception Committee. Karnataka's leading literary turinaries gathered for the first time in a serene, rural ambience and this was acknowledged as one of the best organised cultural events in the recent past. Dr. M.S. Ramaiah Charities Trust was setup to help the poor and meritorious students to come up in life. The trust has been spending every year Rs.20 to 25 lakh by way of scholarship to backward class students who are pursuing higher studies. The trust also provides financial assistance to the candidates who appear for IAS and IPS examination. The Trust has adopted Kolar and Bangalore Rural districts in these philanthropic activities. All the needy students who have passed their PUC examination in first class and who are studying in degree class are provided scholarships irrespective of caste and community. The students of backward communities studying in technical and professional colleges and Post Graduate studies are provided with financial assistance. Housing is a problem in any developing society, more so in a city like Bangalore which is the fastest growing city in the whole of South East Asia. Dr. M.S. Ramaiah realised the problem of housing. Hence he built an extension of his own where the poor and middle class families can live at reasonable rents. He also organised Kannada Sahithya Sammelana in Kaiwara in the year 1990 and he was the Chairman of the Reception Committee where all the literary people of Karnataka assembled for the first time in a rural, serene atmosphere and it was appreciated as one of the best organised Kannada Sahithya Sammelanas in the recent past. Dr. M S Ramaiah - Centenary Birth Anniversary


--- [History | M.S. Ramaiah University of Applied Sciences] ---
- Overview - History - Leadership - Leaders Talk - Governance - Committees - SC ST Committee - Student Grievances and Redressal Committee - Counselling and Wellbeing Cell - Anti Ragging Committee - Anti Ragging Squad - Internal Complaints Committee - Grievances and Redressal Committee – Non – Teaching Staff - Environmental Committee - Minority Cell - Grievances and Redressal Committee – Teaching Faculty - OBC Cell - Women Cell - Student Council - Alumni Council - Sustainable Development Goals Committee - Equal Opportunity Cell - NEP Core Committee - NEP Executive Committee - SEDG Cell - Arohana Newsletter Committee - Mandatory Disclosures M S Ramaiah University of Applied Sciences (RUAS) was created under the University Act of 2013 with approval from the Government of Karnataka. It brought together the M S Ramaiah Medical College, M S Ramaiah College of Physiotherapy, M S Ramaiah Institute of Nursing Education & Research, M S Ramaiah College of Hotel Management (1993), M S Ramaiah College of Pharmacy (1992), M S Ramaiah Dental College (1991), the M S School of Advanced Studies (1999), and the M S Ramaiah Advanced Learning Centre (2012). In keeping with the education needs of the day, it also introduced new disciplines and programs. Since its inception, RUAS has served as a platform that bridges the existing gaps between academia, industry and society. With every program it offers, the University charts its own unique path, creating students who comfortably adopt multidisciplinary thinking and are driven by a strong desire to build to a better tomorrow. RUAS is one of the many education initiatives of the Ramaiah Group of Institutions. About The RAMAIAH Group Founded by the late Dr. M S Ramaiah, a pioneer who was far ahead of his times, the Ramaiah Group began with the establishment of the M S Ramaiah College of Engineering in 1962. Initiatives in the areas of Healthcare and Education. Today, the group is led by his son, Dr. M.R. Jayaram, who carries forward the vision of the Founder Chairman, with a strong focus on innovation, quality and research. The Group caters to all sections of so https://www.ramaiah-india.org with 21 initiatives in the areas of healthcare and education. With a strong emphasis on service, the Group seeks to move our society towards harmony and inclusiveness, one initiative at a time.


--- [RAMAIAH INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL SCHOOL] ---
The founding values continue to unite and drive the Group forward. The Ramaiah Group’s focus on Healthcare and Education is not limited to classroom learning and patient care alone; the mission of the Group is also actualized through community initiatives. The Group places a strong emphasis on service to society through support to local communities. This includes conducting healthcare camps as well as offering dental, medical and surgical subsidies. In an effort to solve the problems faced by society today, the Ramaiah Group is constantly working towards breaking new ground in research and innovation. The goal is to contribute to the economic and social development of our society. The Group strives toward fostering world-class research in medicine and engineering through collaborations with reputed national and international institutions. Today, over 20 institutions operate out of the Group's two campuses. IMS is located on the Gnanagangothri Campus (the Wellspring of Knowledge). There are four hospitals on campus including a Dental Hospital, an Ayurveda Hospital, a Teaching Hospital and a private hospital. Located in the heart of Bengaluru, the sprawling Ramaiah campus is home to over 10,000 students from across India and abroad. The bustling campus provides a unique experience through multidisciplinary interaction between students and faculty. All disciplines share facilities like the food street, the sports facilities and accommodation, encouraging a multicultural environment.


--- [Grokipedia: M. S. Ramaiah Medical College] ---
No content
