=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sara Duterte resigns from Lakas-CMD amid House drama between ...]
May 19, 2023 · MANILA, Philippines – Vice President Sara Duterte resigned from her political party Lakas-CMD, after a tumultuous day at the House of Representatives involving its top party leaders,...
URL: https://www.rappler.com/philippines/sara-duterte-resigns-lakas-cmd-may-19-2023/

[Sara Duterte resigns from Lakas-CMD - ABS-CBN News]
May 19, 2023 · MANILA (3rd UPDATE) — Vice President Sara Duterte has resigned from the Lakas-Christian Muslim Democrats (Lakas-CMD) Party, she said on Friday, days after her ally, former President and Pampanga 2nd District Rep. Gloria Macapagal Arroyo's demotion in the House of Representatives.
URL: https://www.abs-cbn.com/news/05/19/23/sara-duterte-resigns-from-lakas-cmd

[Sara Duterte]
Sara Zimmerman Duterte-Carpio commonly known as Inday Sara, is a Filipino lawyer and politician who is the 15th and current vice president of the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sara_Duterte

[VP Sara resigns as Lakas-CMD member - Philippine News Agency]
May 19, 2023 · MANILA – Vice President Sara Duterte on Friday resigned as a member of the Lakas-Christian Muslim Democrats (Lakas-CMD) party. "This is to announce my irrevocable resignation as a Lakas-CMD member effective today.
URL: https://www.pna.gov.ph/articles/1201803

[VP Sara Duterte quits Cabinet in break with Marcos]
Jun 20, 2024 — VP Sara Duterte ended months of speculation about her place in the administration and quit as education secretary and NTF-Elcac vice chair.
URL: https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1953089/sara-quits-cabinet-in-break-with-marcos


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sara Duterte resigns from Lakas-CMD amid House drama between ...] ---
SUMMARY This is AI generated summarization, which may have errors. For context, always refer to the full article. MANILA, Philippines – Vice President Sara Duterte resigned from her political party Lakas-CMD, after a tumultuous day at the House of Representatives involving its top party leaders, Speaker Martin Romualdez and former president Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo. In a statement on Friday, May 19, Duterte thanked the party that was largely credited by analysts as the political machinery that catapulted her to the vice presidency, but she did not provide a categorical reason for leaving it. “This is to announce my irrevocable resignation as a Lakas-CMD member effective today,” she said. “I am grateful to all the party members for the support that also once demonstrated that unity is possible to advance our shared dreams for our fellow Filipinos and our beloved country.” Duterte was the chairperson of Lakas-CMD. “Nothing is more important to me than being able to meaningfully serve our fellow Filipinos and the Philippines – with President Ferdinand Marcos Jr. leading the way. Trust that my word, my commitment will be immutable,” she added. In her statement, Duterte indicated her aversion to the developments in the House of Representatives, using words similar to those used by Arroyo in her statement on Thursday, May 18, about the developments in the lower chamber. “I am here today because of the trust of the Filipino people in me to lead and serve them and the country, and this cannot be poisoned by political toxicity or undermined by execrable political power play,” Duterte said in an apparent expression of support for Arroyo. Lakas-CMD was Duterte’s top 2022 campaign donor, releasing P139 million in in-kind contributions to the political scion, mostly for ad spending. In a statement, Lakas-CMD accepted Duterte’s resignation. “As we respect her decision, we understand her reason for leaving the political party,” said Lakas-CMD secretary general and Agusan del Norte 1st District Representative Joboy Aquino. “We also support her call for all political leaders to unite in support of President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr., and for all of us to work for the success of this administration for the benefit of our people.” Asked in a media interview about Duterte’s exit from Lakas-CMD on Friday, Marcos said he understood the Vice President’s sentiments. “Very simple – exactly as she says, she has too much work to do, she cannot allow herself to be distracted…to be involved in whatever is it that’s going on,” Marcos said. The President also said that Duterte is busy with her job as education secretary and now, as co-chair of the National Task Force to End Local Communist Armed Conflict. “I can understand why sasabihin niya, ‘Ayusin ‘nyo muna ‘yan (she would say, ‘Fix that first).'” House conflict On Thursday at 11 pm, Deputy Speaker Arroyo – who is chairperson emeritus of Lakas-CMD – issued a lengthy statement dispelling rumors that she was trying to steal the speakership from its party president, Representative Martin Romualdez. Both are longtime allies with a mentor-mentee relationship. “It should be noted that being speaker once more is no longer part of my political objectives. This has been my position ever since Speaker Romualdez was elected in the 19th Congress, and I continue to urge my Lakas-CMD party mates to support our party president in that role,” Arroyo said. She also called the developments as “early politicking,” which she said might affect President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.’s mandate. “Still, I do not want to precipitate or intensify any tendencies towards early politicking. We are just barely a year into the administration of President Marcos Jr., and it would be unfortunate if early politicking resulted in any dilution of the tremendous mandate that the UniTeam, led by our President, earned in the 2022 elections. After all, the President ran on the platform of unity,” Arroyo said. Her statement came after the House leadership demoted her from senior to a regular deputy speaker in the final minutes of the plenary session on Wednesday, May 17. House Majority Leader Mannix Dalipe claimed the move was meant to relieve her of a “heavy load” that comes with the title, but a quick look at the House rules indicates that the position is an honorary title. There are nine House deputy speakers – the chamber’s second highest post – so a “senior” title distinguishes one from the rest. The new senior deputy speaker is Arroyo’s ally from Pampanga province, Representative Dong Gonzales, a member of PDP-Laban. From Thursday to Friday, numerous power blocs in the House issued a press release reiterating their support for Romualdez, after rumors of a supposed ouster plot swirled in the chamber. These include the PDP-Laban, the Nacionalista Party, the National Unity Party, Nationalist People’s Coalition, party-list coalition, and the House minority. Marcos briefly mentioned the speakership issue when he addressed the League of Provinces of the Philippines on Friday, May 19. “I won’t make any comments about the speakership as of yet,” he said, after his cousin, Romualdez, introduced him as the keynote speaker at the event. – With reports from Bea Cupin/Rappler.com How does this make you feel?


--- [Sara Duterte resigns from Lakas-CMD - ABS-CBN News] ---
Sara Duterte resigns from Lakas-CMD Sara Duterte resigns from Lakas-CMD ABS-CBN News Published May 19, 2023 08:25 AM PHT | Updated May 19, 2023 03:15 PM PHT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT


--- [Sara Duterte] ---
Sara Zimmerman Duterte-Carpio (English: , Tagalog: [dʊˈtɛɾtɛ]; born May 31, 1978), commonly known as Inday Sara, is a Filipino lawyer and politician who is the 15th and current vice president of the Philippines. She is the third female vice president (after Gloria Macapagal Arroyo and Leni Robredo), the third vice president to come from Mindanao, and the youngest ever Philippine vice president. A daughter of the 16th president Rodrigo Duterte, she previously served as the mayor of Davao City from 2010 to 2013, and from 2016 to 2022. She was also Davao City's vice mayor from 2007 to 2010.
Duterte graduated from San Pedro College, initially aiming to pursue a medical career. She attended classes in the College of Law of San Beda College and eventually graduated in San Sebastian College – Recoletos. She was elected as Davao City's vice mayor in 2007, before eventually being elected as the city's mayor from 2010 until 2013, succeeding her father and becoming the youngest and the first female mayor of the city. After her first term ended, she took a brief hiatus, returning to politics in 2016 after being elected again as Davao City mayor and was reelected in 2019. During her second stint as mayor, she initiated the Byaheng DO30 and Peace 911 programs in the city, as well as overseeing the city government's COVID-19 pandemic response. Duterte was also an influential figure in national politics during her father's presidency, forming alliances with several political parties and playing a key role in the ouster of Pantaleon Alvarez as the Speaker of the House of Representatives in 2018.
Duterte ran for the vice presidency in 2022 under Lakas–CMD, becoming the running mate of Bongbong Marcos from the Partido Federal ng Pilipinas under the UniTeam alliance. Their ticket won in a landslide victory, becoming the first running mate pair to win together since 2004, and the first to be elected by a majority since the establishment of the Fifth Republic in 1986. Duterte became the vice president on June 30, 2022, and was inaugurated 11 days earlier in Davao City.
As vice president, Duterte concurrently served as the secretary of education and as vice chairperson of an anti-insurgency task force (NTF-ELCAC) but resigned from both positions on June 19, 2024. Despite her initial electoral alliance with Marcos, political observers have noted her increasing absence from public appearances with the president correlating with a growing rift in the Marcos and Duterte political families. By late August 2024, she has openly admitted her regret to supporting Marcos in the presidential election, while Marcos himself later acknowledged that they have not spoken to each other since she handed in her resignation. After her father was arrested and brought to The Hague in March 2025, her tenure has been characterized by multiple trips abroad that aim to consolidate her family's overseas supporters.
On February 5, 2025, Duterte was impeached by the House of Representatives after concerns were raised regarding her use of confidential funds and her assassination threat against President Marcos, his wife Liza, and House Speaker Martin Romualdez. She became the first sitting vice president, as well as the fifth official in Philippine history, to be impeached. On February 18, 2026, she announced her candidacy in the 2028 election to become president of the Philippines.


--- [VP Sara resigns as Lakas-CMD member - Philippine News Agency] ---
MANILA – Vice President Sara Duterte on Friday resigned as a member of the Lakas-Christian Muslim Democrats (Lakas-CMD) party. "This is to announce my irrevocable resignation as a Lakas-CMD member effective today. I am grateful to all the party members for the support that also once demonstrated that unity is possible to advance our shared dreams for our fellow Filipinos and our beloved country," she said in a Facebook post. Duterte served as the chairperson of the party, alongside House Speaker Martin Romualdez as the Lakas-CMD president. Although she did not give a specific reason for her resignation, the country's second-highest official said she does not want her service to be affected by political power play. "I am here today because of the trust of the Filipino people in me to lead and serve them and the country, and this cannot be poisoned by political toxicity or undermined by execrable political power play," Duterte said. Despite the move, she said, she remains committed to serving the Filipino people. "Nothing is more important to me than being able to meaningfully serve our fellow Filipinos and the Philippines, with President Ferdinand Marcos Jr. leading the way. Trust that my word, my commitment will be immutable," she said. The Vice President concurrently serves as the chief of the Department of Education and co-vice chairperson of the National Task Force to End Local Communist Armed Conflict. (PNA)


--- [VP Sara Duterte quits Cabinet in break with Marcos] ---
VP Sara Duterte quits Cabinet in break with Marcos MANILA, Philippines—Vice President Sara Duterte on Wednesday ended months of speculation about her place in the Marcos administration by quitting as education secretary and vice chair of the National Task Force to End Local Communist Armed Conflict (NTF-Elcac). Duterte’s move to vacate her Cabinet post was the latest development in the breakdown of her alliance with Marcos. It came a week after she said that UniTeam, which propelled her and Marcos to victory in the 2022 elections, no longer existed as they were no longer candidates running for public office. The Presidential Communications Office (PCO) disclosed her decision to reporters and on its Facebook page at around 2:40 p.m., barely 20 minutes after she submitted her “irrevocable resignation” letter to Marcos. READ: First lady bares beef with Sara for laughing at ‘addict’ claim “At 2:21 pm of 19 June 2024, Vice President Sara Duterte went to Malacañang and tendered her resignation as member of the Cabinet, secretary of the Department of Education and vice-chairperson of the NTF-Elcac, effective 19 July 2024,” PCO Secretary Cheloy Garafil said. Article continues after this advertisementGarafil said Duterte “declined to give a reason” for her decision to step down from the Department of Education (DepEd) and the NTF-Elcac. Article continues after this advertisementREAD: Bongbong: Liza’s beef with Sara ‘won’t affect our working relationship’ “She will continue to serve as Vice President. We thank her for her service,” the PCO chief said in her brief statement. 30-day transition plan In her letter, Duterte said she prepared a 30-day “transition plan” for DepEd’s academic strands and the different boards and councils chaired by DepEd and the Southeast Asian Ministers of Education Organization (SEAMEO) “for a proper and orderly turn-over” to her successor. As education secretary, Duterte served as president of the SEAMEO Council. “I shall remain of service to the country through the various programs, activities and projects of the Office of the Vice President (OVP). I thank you for the opportunity to have served as a member of your Cabinet,” she told the President. In her resignation letter, Duterte said she would continue her “services” and “projects” as Vice President. Since her election in 2022, Duterte created over 10 satellite offices around the country as part of the OVP’s efforts to “extend” their “services” to Filipinos, such as the provision of burial and medical assistance. Flagged by COA But this was flagged by the Commission on Audit (COA), saying it bypassed the country’s procurement laws. According to the OVP, the satellite offices were also part of another project to distribute school supplies packed in backpacks to students in several rural areas, called “PagbaBAGo.” The OVP also has tree-planting projects and gift-giving to the LGBTQ community. The PCO and DepEd did not reply to queries from reporters on whether Duterte met the President and personally handed him her resignation letter, what his reaction was, and whether he would appoint an officer in charge of DepEd. Prior to her resignation, Duterte’s last known interaction with the President was at a May 21 meeting in Malacañang, where she presented options for changing the school calendar. Before this, the two former allies were last seen together in public at the May 18 graduation rites of the Philippine Military Academy in Baguio City. What went before Duterte’s relationship with Marcos became the subject of speculation since she quit the Lakas-Christian Muslim Democrats as its member and chairperson last year. This was after the House demoted Duterte’s ally, former President and Pampanga Rep. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, to just one of the lower chamber’s deputy speakers. Arroyo previously held the post of House senior deputy speaker. The Lakas-CMD is led by Speaker Martin Romualdez, Marcos’ cousin and Duterte’s campaign manager in the 2022 elections. In mid-April this year, first lady Liza Araneta-Marcos admitted in an interview that she was hurt when the Vice President merely laughed at allegations that Mr. Marcos was stoned or under the influence of illegal drugs. In an anti-Charter change rally in Davao City earlier this year, Duterte’s father, former President Rodrigo Duterte, accused Marcos of being “bangag” (stoned). On another occasion, he also called the President a “crybaby” for flying to the United States amid the Philippines’ escalating dispute with China over the West Philippine Sea. She ‘crossed the line’ Araneta-Marcos said the Vice President “crossed the line” by just laughing at her father’s claims, especially that the younger Duterte was an alter-ego and ally of Mr. Marcos as the education secretary. The Vice President remarked that responding to the first lady’s personal feelings was not part of her mandate as a government official. In comments to the media, the Chief Executive said his working relationship with Duterte remained the same, although he described his ties with the Duterte family as “complicated.” Mr. Marcos also repeatedly stressed that he would keep Duterte as education secretary, as she was neither incompetent nor corrupt. The President also took to social media to greet Duterte on her 46th birthday, May 31. He thanked her for her hard work and love of the country as education secretary. First crack The first crack in Marcos’s ties with Duterte may be traced to the early days of the administration, when he appointed Gilberto Teodoro Jr. as his defense secretary. Months before the May 2022 elections, Marcos said that Duterte, a lawyer, wanted the post in case they won. He even said it was a “good idea.” But for undisclosed reasons, he chose Teodoro. Reacting to the President’s decision, Duterte said, “seeing the way things are at the moment, I expect that people who want to see the new administration [fail] will fabricate intrigues about my loyalty and the DND position to break the UniTeam.” “The UniTeam wants a stable Philippines and the most harmonious administration possible,” she said. About a week before the two highest officials of the country took their oaths of office following the elections, the military formed a new unit called the Vice Presidential Security and Protection Group. Traditionally, the Presidential Security Group provides security for the two highest officials and visiting dignitaries. Duterte acknowledged that a “request” was made to form such a unit in anticipation of “future elections” and the possibility of “strained relations” between the President and Vice President. P650-M ‘secret funds’ Another major disappointment on Duterte’s part may have also been the lack of support from Malacañang as she battled criticisms from the public and Congress of her requests for confidential funds for DepEd and the OVP. As a result, Congress eventually scrapped P650 million in “secret funds” for her two offices. Malacañang was mum during the deliberations for the 2024 budget, despite its quick approval of Duterte’s request for P125 million in confidential funds for the first six months they were in office in 2022. Duterte came under fire for using all the funds in just under two weeks. In a speech on Oct. 4, 2023, she called critics of the proposed funding “enemies of peace” who had “insidious motivations.” Resignation statement In a statement she read at the DepEd central office in Pasig City, Duterte said she resigned not “out of weakness” but of “concern” for teachers and students and highlighted the changes and progress made in the agency under her two-year leadership. She said that teachers were the “cornerstone” of any education system, and the projects done in schools for additional classrooms and the launch of a new curriculum for kindergarten to Grade 10 students were among the other changes implemented during her time as DepEd secretary. “I did not do this alone, nor do I claim to have done so,” she said. “To our teachers, words can never capture how grateful the nation is for your sacrifices, for your passion, and for your unrelenting commitment to rearing the youth.” She then disclosed that she had sought an audience with the President earlier in the day but did not say that they spoke with each other. “My fellow Filipinos, my resignation was not out of weakness, but brought by my concern to teachers and to the Filipino youth,” Duterte said in Filipino. “I may not be your education secretary anymore, but I will continue to be a mother—a mother that will continue to look after the welfare of every teacher and student in the country,” she said. Not taking questions She did not ask reporters any questions and left after reading her statement. In a message to reporters later in the day, DepEd spokesperson Michael Poa said that they would not be taking questions about Duterte’s resignation “during the transition period” with the new upcoming DepEd secretary. In recent months, Duterte has made public statements contradicting the administration’s policies. Last December, Duterte openly opposed holding “exploratory talks” between the Philippine government and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines (NDFP) on a possible peace deal. The government and the NDFP signed the Oslo Agreement and both parties agreed to develop a framework that could eventually lead them back to the negotiating table. Reds, Cha-cha, China The Vice President, known for making Red-tagging remarks, urged the President to reconsider the exploratory talks and reject an “agreement with the devil.” She questioned granting amnesty to rebels, saying it was “not the path to peace.” Duterte opposed the campaign for a Charter change through people’s initiative led by Romualdez and called on Filipinos to “safeguard” the 1987 Constitution, which her father once wanted to revise during his administration. As for the criminal charges against televangelist Apollo Quiboloy, a staunch supporter of the Dutertes, the Vice President condemned the hearings in the Senate on his cases, as well as the recent attempt by the police to serve an arrest warrant on the fugitive in Davao City. While she wailed against Quiboloy’s plight, her critics say she has not spoken against China’s incursions into the West Philippine Sea and attacks against Filipino fishermen and resupply missions for troops at Ayungin (Second Thomas) Shoal. —with a report from Inquirer Research
