=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Steve Waugh - Wikipedia]
Stephen Rodger Waugh AO (born 2 June 1965) is an Australian former international cricketer and twin brother of cricketer Mark Waugh.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steve_Waugh

[Steve Waugh - IMDb]
Height. 5′ 8″ (1.73 m) · Born. June 2, 1965 · Canterbury, New South Wales, Australia · Spouse. Lynette? - present (3 children) · Relatives. Mark Waugh(Sibling) ...Missing: Rodger | Show results with:Rodger
URL: https://m.imdb.com/name/nm1143638/

[Steve Waugh Profile - Age, Career Info, News, Stats, Records & Videos]
Steve Waugh, the former Australian cricketer and captain was born on 2nd July 1965 in Canterbury, Sydney. He was a middle order batsman, batting right-handed and used to bowl right-arm...
URL: https://www.sportskeeda.com/player/steve-waugh

[Stephen Waugh | cricket.com.au]
Failure was not a word in his vocabulary, and Waugh took the team to even greater heights. Waugh’s patented mental disintegration broke down even the strongest minded opponents, while his own mental strength made him one of the most feared batsmen in world cricket.
URL: https://www.cricket.com.au/players/CA:1613/stephen-waugh

[Steve Waugh Profile - Cricket Player Australia | Stats, Records, Video]
Full Name. Stephen Rodger Waugh ; Born. June 02, 1965, Canterbury, Sydney, New South Wales ; Age. 60y 272d ; Batting Style. Right hand Bat ; Bowling Style. Right ...Missing: height feet
URL: https://www.espncricinfo.com/cricketers/steve-waugh-8192


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Steve Waugh - Wikipedia] ---
Stephen Rodger Waugh  (born 2 June 1965) is an Australian former international cricketer and twin brother of cricketer Mark Waugh. A right-handed batsman and a medium-pace bowler, Waugh is considered one of the greatest cricketers of all time. Waugh was a part of the Australian team that won their first world title during the 1987 Cricket World Cup. As Australian captain from 1997 to 2004, he led Australia to fifteen of their record sixteen consecutive Test wins, and to victory in the 1999 Cricket World Cup. Waugh is considered the most successful Test captain in history with 41 victories and a winning ratio of 72%.
Born in New South Wales, where he began his first-class cricket career in 1984, he captained the Australian Test cricket team from 1999 to 2004, and was the most capped Test cricket player in history, with 168 appearances, until Sachin Tendulkar of India broke this record in 2010. Waugh was the world number 1 all-rounder in both Test and One Day International (ODI) cricket until back issues forced him to give up bowling. He concentrated only on batting and went on to become one of the leading batsmen of his time. He is one of only fourteen players to have scored more than 10,000 Test runs.
He was named Australian of the Year in 2004 for his philanthropic work, and inducted into the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame in front of his home fans at the Sydney Cricket Ground in January 2010.
Waugh has been included in a list of one hundred Australian Living Treasures by the National Trust of Australia, awarded the Order of Australia and the Australian Sports Medal. Known as an attacking and sometimes ruthlessly efficient captain, Described in 2003 as a "cold-blooded, scientific" leader, cricket columnist of The Times Simon Barnes noted that "Waugh wants to defeat you personally." At the end of his final Test match, Waugh was carried by his teammates in a lap of honour around the Sydney Cricket Ground. In a fan poll conducted by the CA in 2017, he was named in the country's best Ashes XI in the last 40 years.




--- [Steve Waugh - IMDb] ---
Steve Waugh(I) - Executive Member of the Australian cricket team since 1985 & one of the great players of his generation. At the time of writing (2003) he is poised to break his former captain Allan Border's world record of most runs scored in a test career. Hold world record for most test matches played. Captain of Australia's victorious 1999 one day cricket World cup side. Test captain since 1999. Has won more tests & has the highest winning ratio of any captain in test cricket history.


--- [Steve Waugh Profile - Age, Career Info, News, Stats, Records & Videos] ---
Personal Information | Full Name | Stephen Rodger Waugh | | Date of Birth | June 2, 1965 | | Age | 59 Years | | Nationality | Australian | | Height | 5 ft 10 in (1.79 m) | | Role | All rounder / Right hand Batsman & Right arm medium | | Family | Lynette Waugh (Spouse), Mark Waugh (Brother), Dean Waugh (Brother) | Popular Players Steve Waugh Videos Steve Waugh: A Brief Biography Steve Waugh Biography Steve Waugh, the former Australian cricketer and captain was born on 2nd July 1965 in Canterbury, Sydney. He was a middle order batsman, batting right-handed and used to bowl right-arm medium pace regularly until a series of back problems forced him to give it up. Waugh is one of the hundred Australian Living Treasures, a list compiled by the National Trust of Australia. He was awarded the Order of Australia in 2003 and was inducted into the ICC Hall of Fame in 2010. Background Steve Waugh was included in the New South Wales state squad for the 1984-85 season on the backdrop of the 187 he scored in the U19 test series for Australia at Melbourne, a season before. Waugh made his first-class debut batting at number nine and bowling medium pace. He made an important 71 in the Sheffield Shield final of the season while batting with the tail to help New South Wales win the tournament. Debut Steve Waugh made his foray in the international arena in a Boxing Day Test match against India at Melbourne in 1985. He made only 13 and 5 and had bowling figures of 2/36 in the first innings. During the 1985-86 season, Waugh had more success in ODI’s. He made his debut against New Zealand at Melbourne and had figures of 1/13. He could not bat in the game as it was washed off. He played in all 12 games of the triangular tournament involving India as well, and made 266 runs at an average of 38.00 and took seven wickets. Rise to Glory The turning point of Steve Waugh’s career was the 1987 ICC Cricket World Cup held in the Indian subcontinent. His tight bowling during the death overs resulted in victories against India, Zimbabwe and New Zealand. His quickfire knocks at the dying embers of the Australian innings proved handy as well. In the semi-final, Waugh hit 16 from the final over of the Australian innings. In the end, Australia won by 18 runs. In the final, he took the wickets of Allan Lamb and Phillip deFreitas in the last three overs as Australia won the tournament for the first time. He made 167 runs at 55.66 and took 11 wickets in the tournament. In the 1989 Ashes series, Waugh made his first Test century at Leeds, with a knock of 177* and followed it up with 152* at Lord’s. He finished the series with 506 runs. In the final test of the Frank Worrall series against West Indies at Jamaica in 1995, Steve forged a partnership of 231 with twin brother Mark Waugh. He went onto score his maiden double hundred and helped Australia end West Indies’ unbeaten series run for 15 years. Low points A string of bad performances against West Indies and England in 1989-90 saw Steve Waugh being omitted in favour of brother Mark in the Test format. The omission would define him for the second half of his career as he cut down on the number of risky shots and played a patience game. He started waiting for the loose ball and dispatched it to the fence. Captaincy Following the retirement of Mark Taylor, Steve Waugh was appointed captain of Australia in the 1999-00 season. It would be the start of an era as under him Australia conquered all nations, barring India. They won 16 consecutive test matches including a whitewash of West Indies, which is a record even now. Steve Waugh oversaw the 1999 ICC Cricket World Cup win for Australia. He played a defining knock of 120* against South Africa in a super-six game, which is considered as the turning point of the tournament. He arrived at the crease when Australia were 48/3, chasing 272 to ensure Australia reach the semi-finals. He was dropped by Herschelle Gibbs on 56 and is rumoured to have told him, “Mate, you just dropped the World Cup”. Under his captaincy, Australia won 41 out of 57 test matches and 67 out of 106 ODI matches. Records Steve Waugh holds the record of being the only person to have scored above 150 against every Test playing nation to have existed during his time. Retirement Steve Waugh played his last Test match against India at Sydney in 2004. He scored 80 in his final innings and foiled India’s attempts of winning a test series Down Under. After retirement, Steve Waugh has been an avid traveller. He has also helped in charity work by setting up one for the daughters of lepers in Kolkata.


--- [Stephen Waugh | cricket.com.au] ---
Personal Details - Full Name Stephen Rodger Waugh - Age 60 - Date of Birth 02 June 1965 - Birthplace Canterbury - Height 185cmcm - Batting Style Right Handed Bat - Bowling Style Right-Arm Medium Batter Ashes Tests: 46 Captain: 9 Record: 8 wins, 1 loss Off the Mark Steve Waugh inherited an already dominant side, and it turned it into a champion team. Building on the work done by Allan Border and Mark Taylor, Waugh added his own personality to make Australia the unquestionable force in world cricket. 16 Test wins in a row, coupled with a World Cup triumph in 1999, were the highlights in a glittering stint as Australian captain. Waugh enjoyed a remarkable Ashes career, and would finish with one of the finest records by an Australian in England. His 3,200 runs included ten centuries, and incredibly, he averaged 74 when the series was played overseas. Like Border, he thrived in unfamiliar conditions. His Stint Returning from a calf injury sustained in the fourth Test, Waugh saved one of his best Ashes knocks for his final innings on English soil. Australia won the toss and batted first on a friendly looking Oval wicket. It says a lot about the ground when the second lowest score of the innings was 62. Matthew Hayden, Ricky Ponting and Damien Martyn would have been kicking themselves for only scoring half-centuries, as Justin Langer (102), Mark Waugh (120) and Steven (157*) all destroyed the English attack. Australia’s 4/641 was always going to be tough to chase. Shane Warne toiled hard for 44 overs, finishing with seven wickets, as England made 432. Incredibly, it wasn’t enough to avoid the follow-on, which Waugh mercilessly enforced. The old head of Glenn McGrath and Warne then combined for nine second innings wickets as England crumbled to lose by an innings and 25 runs. Steve Waugh’s final Ashes encounter is arguably the most memorable moment in the England-Australia rivalry. Mark Butcher helped guide the tourists to 362 on the back of his 124. Waugh even chipped in with a rare wicket by trapping Robert Key LBW. Australia’s top four all failed, before Waugh came in. In front of his home crowd at the SCG, Waugh did something that few had done before him; he forced the delay of the 6 PM news. As the evening progressed, you got the feeling something special was on the cards. The final over played out as if it was scripted, with a single to Adam Gilchrist giving his captain the chance to do something legendary. England’s much maligned spinner, Richard Dawson, looked torn between playing the role of hero or villain. Deciding to dart one in, he speared a quicker off-break full outside off-stump, before Waugh cracked one of his famous drives to the fence. Everyone at the ground, watching at home and people all over the world rose as one to give the Australian skipper a standing ovation. Even the English clapped him off the ground. The knock also equalled Bradman’s record tally of 29 Test centuries. That Steve Waugh failed to add to his overnight total and Australia went on to lose the match is inconsequential. Waugh had given Australians an ever-lasting Ashes moment. His Legacy It can’t have been easy for Waugh when he replaced Mark Taylor. He had had limited captaincy experience, and was walking into a position where everyone expected him to succeed. Failure was not a word in his vocabulary, and Waugh took the team to even greater heights. Waugh’s patented mental disintegration broke down even the strongest minded opponents, while his own mental strength made him one of the most feared batsmen in world cricket. Australia’s 16 Test wins in a row broke all kinds of records, largely thanks to Waugh’s attacking mindset. As a player, Waugh lifted when his side needed him most. In the deciding Test in 1995, he struck 200 as Australia finally beat the West Indies. In Manchester in 1997, Waugh played one of the greatest matches of all time, as he made twin centuries on a green deck that saw all other batsmen fail. He was a terrific all-round cricketer, both on and off the field, whose impact on the game is hard to rival. Played and Missed Steve Waugh is the only player to have scored 150 against every other Test playing nation. Waugh was awarded Australian of the Year honours in 2004 for his charity work in India. Waugh took 22 wickets against England, which would have been more had a chronic back injury not intervened. His 168 Test matches was a record when he retired. He was the first Australian captain to acknowledge cricket as a true profession. Unlike his predecessors, he did not go to university or apply for a trade. Cricket was his life, and that was it. But stay tuned! We'll bring you content for this player as soon as possible. But stay tuned! We'll bring you content for this player as soon as possible. Your No.1 destination for live cricket scores, match coverage, breaking news, video highlights and in‑depth feature stories.


--- [Steve Waugh Profile - Cricket Player Australia | Stats, Records, Video] ---
No content
