=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Cannon-Bard Theory of Emotion: Definition and Examples]
Nov 9, 2023 · The Cannon-Bard theory of emotion differentiates between feelings associated with the sympathetic nervous system (fight or flight responses) and the parasympathetic nervous system (calm responses), and Cannon believed that sympathetic and parasympathetic responses could not happen simultaneously.
URL: https://www.simplypsychology.org/what-is-the-cannon-bard-theory.html

[Cannon Bard Theory and How Does It Work? - WebMD]
Jun 18, 2025 · The Cannon-Bard theory of emotion proposed the idea of the fight or flight response. It’s leading question: When faced with a potentially dangerous scenario, what do your instincts tell you to do?
URL: https://www.webmd.com/mental-health/what-is-cannon-bard-theory

[How the Cannon-Bard Theory Explains Emotion - Verywell Mind]
Dec 9, 2025 · According to the Cannon-Bard theory of emotion, we react to a stimulus and experience the associated emotion at the same time. The physical reactions are not dependent upon the emotional reactions, or vice versa.
URL: https://www.verywellmind.com/what-is-the-cannon-bard-theory-2794965

[Theory Official Site | Contemporary Clothing for Women and Men]
Step into our signature silhouettes. 1 capsule. 6 styles. Endless ways to wear.
URL: https://www.theory.com/

[Fight-or-flight response - Wikipedia]
In the context of the fight or flight response, emotional regulation is used proactively to avoid threats of stress or to control the level of emotional arousal.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fight-or-flight_response


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Cannon-Bard Theory of Emotion: Definition and Examples] ---
Key Takeaways - The primary argument of the Cannon-Bard theory of emotion is that emotions trigger affective “feelings” and physiological responses to stimuli simultaneously in different regions of the brain. This stands in contrast to the James-Lange theory of emotion, which posits that people and animals feel emotions because they consciously process their physiological responses to stimuli. - The Cannon-Bard theory of emotion differentiates between feelings associated with the sympathetic nervous system (fight or flight responses) and the parasympathetic nervous system (calm responses), and Cannon believed that sympathetic and parasympathetic responses could not happen simultaneously. - The Cannon-Bard and James Lange theories of emotion have greatly influenced modern research into emotional processing and the brain; however, both theories have garnered great criticism for their overgeneralization of emotion and contradictions between theory and evidence dating as far back as Cannon’s own research. According to Cannon-Bard theory of emotion, physiological arousal and emotional experience occur simultaneously, yet independently. This theory was proposed in the 1920s and early 1930s by Walter B. Cannon and Philip Bard. In short, the Cannon-Bard theory of emotion, also known as the Thalamic theory of emotion, states that the lower part of the brain, what neurologists call the thalamus, controls emotional experience. Meanwhile, the higher part of the brain, the cortex, controls emotional expression. These feelings (through the thalamus) and physical reactions (through the cortex) occur at the same time. For example, seeing a spider may trigger both a physical response (such as jerking back one’s hand) and an affective, emotional one (such as a feeling of fear). The Cannon-Bard Theory of Emotion represented a shift from the James-Lange Theory of emotion to one which studied central brain mechanisms as the cause of emotions; however, work as far back as the 1860s posited physiological causes for emotion (Dror, 2014). How Does the Cannon-Bard Theory Work? The main idea of Cannon’s approach to emotions is that people react to emotional stimuli but that two separate parts of the brain control the conscious feeling of emotion and the body’s physiological response. Cannon reviewed research on emotions in both animals and people with brain damage, as well as conducted his own experiments. He concluded that the thalamus was the brain region most involved in physiological emotion, while the cortex is responsible for controlling and inhibiting it. This is supported by modern neuroscience, which believes that the thalamus is responsible for relaying sensory and motor signals to the cerebral cortex, which handles processes related to thought, consciousness, reasoning, and memory. Examples Stressful Exam Say that a student is about to take a high-stakes midterm exam that he has not studied for. This stressful stimulus (an upcoming exam) triggers two brain regions separately: the cortex and the thalamus. The cortex triggers a physiological response to the emotion. For example, the student may be sweating, his heart may race, and his fingers may tremble as he picks up his pencil. According to the Cannon-Bard theory of emotion, these are physiological responses to stress triggered by the sympathetic nervous system, and the triggering of the sympathetic nervous system means that the parasympathetic nervous system cannot be triggered. Meanwhile, the stimulus triggers the student’s thalamus separately, leading to the conscious, affective feeling of stress. The student is not stressed because he is trembling, according to Cannon-Bard, but because his thalamus has been activated by an impending exam. This emotional reaction would be separate and independent of the physiological arousal, even though they co-occur. Purring Cat Taking an example from Bard’s 1936 letter to Cannon, consider a resting cat who is being petted by its owner. As the owner pets the cat, the cat may purr and relax its muscles or slowly fall asleep. This purring is a physiological response of the parasympathetic nervous system to the stimulus of being a pet, and, according to the Cannon-Bard theory of emotion, exists entirely separately from the cat perceiving a conscious emotion (such as calmness or comfort). According to the Cannon-Bard theory of emotion, the cat is not calm because it is purring and has relaxed muscles; rather, it is calm because the stimulus of petting has activated its thalamus, allowing the cat to have the conscious, affective emotion of calm. Comparison to Other Theories James-Lange theory of emotion came to influence a century of empirical emotional research and rebuttals of the James-Lange theory of emotion, notably Cannon-Bard’s 1927 critique, have spurned long-standing debates in neuroscience and psychology (Lang, 1994). James-Lange Theory of Emotion Both the James-Lange and Cannon-Bard Theories of emotion investigated whether emotions originated from a source central or peripheral to the nervous system (Meiselman, 2016). The James-Lange theory of emotion is ultimately a peripheral approach to understanding emotion. This means that rather than first perceiving some stimulus that could elicit an emotion, experiencing an emotion, and then experiencing some bodily reaction in response, James-Lange assumes that the bodily reactions themselves elicit conscious emotions. Cannon offers five objections to the James-Lange theory of emotion: 1.) The latency of physiological responses to emotion is too long to account for the immediacy of emotional behavior; 2.) Artificially inducing bodily reactions to emotion does not in itself produce emotions; 3.) The viscera are so-called “insensitive structures;” 4.) Visceral changes are the same between emotions and 5.) Interrupting the feedback that occurs because of visceral bodily emotions does not influence emotional behavior (Fehr and Stern, 1970). To illustrate the contrast from which these five objections arise, consider somebody who is afraid of dogs. The dog barks within range of the person, and the person is aroused, according to the James-Lange theory of emotion, autonomically. This person could have a physical response such as trembling. Because of that autonomic arousal (the trembling), the person has a conscious feeling of fear. The person feels afraid because they tremble. Meanwhile, according to the Cannon-Bard theory of emotion, the dog’s bark triggers two separate regions of the brain: the thalamus and the cortex. Because the dog triggers the cortex, which controls physical reactions, the person trembles. However, the person feels fear because the bark triggers the thalamus, which controls the conscious feelings of emotion. In theory, if that person’s thalamus or cortex were dysfunctional, the person may be able to feel fear without trembling or tremble without feeling fear. The dog makes the person tremble and feel afraid, but these are reactions stemming from two entirely different parts of the brain. Considering his objections, Canon introduced a specificity model of emotions (Dror, 2014). He distinguished different classes of emotions by whether they affected the sympathetic or parasympathetic nervous system. Emotions that affect the sympathetic nervous system are associated with fight or flight responses, and those that activate the parasympathetic nervous system restore the body to a state of calm (Waxenbaum, 2021). The anatomical, physiological, and metabolic differences between the emotions expressed by the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems create a difference in how people consciously label these emotions (Cannon, 1914). In contrast to the Cannon-Bard and James-Lange theories of emotion, the so-called “common sense” theory of emotion posits that someone has an emotional response, and this response triggers a physiological reaction. For example, someone can see a barking dog and consciously feel fear. As a result, they tremble (Meiselman, 2016). Singer’s Two-Factor Theory of Emotion In the Schachter-Singer Two Factor Theory of Emotion, one does a conscious cognitive appraisal of their physiological response, labels that response, and feels the emotion that results. Neither physiological nor cognitive arousal in itself is enough to elicit an emotion, according to Schacter-Singer. The Cannon-Bard theory maintains that emotional experience occurs simultaneous to and independent of physiological arousal. The Schachter-Singer two-factor theory suggests that physiological arousal receives cognitive labels as a function of the relevant context and that these two factors together result in an emotional experience. To repeat the example of a barking dog, a person may tremble or feel an increased heart rate. After detecting that they are trembling, the person can then label the physiological response (“I must be scared!”) and only then consciously feel the emotion. A person, according to the Two Factor Theory of Emotion, must appraise their physiological responses in order to experience emotion (Meiselman, 2016). Zajonc-LeDoux Theory of Emotion The Zajonc-LeDoux theory of emotion says that emotional reactions exist separately from cognitive labels on emotional situations. According to this theory, some emotions that have evolutionarily been necessary (e.g., anger or fear) are activated through quicker pathways than others. Certain emotions can happen instantly without an active cognitive appraisal. For example, someone can be startled by the bark of a dog before labeling it as a threat (Meiselman, 2016). Key Research In 1925, Cannon and Britton introduced a way of studying emotions through a cat whose cortex had been removed from his brain (Cannon and Britton, 1925). From this cat, Cannon and Britain described a new type of emotion — “sham rage.” At the time, Cannon noticed that laboratory animals did not consistently develop the desired emotional reactions to stimuli consistently and dependently, so Cannon removed the region of the brain — the cortex — thought to inhibit emotions, allowing Cannon to study a stream of emotions over longer periods of time. This decorticated cat came to underpin Cannon’s physiological model of emotional experience. In the mid-1920s, Philip Bard was a doctoral student studying under Walter Bradford, a physiologist at Harvard University, and two years after introducing this method for studying the physiology of emotions, Cannon suggested that Philip Bard section the cat’s brain in order to discover which parts of the brain were responsible for emotional expression (Bard, 1973). From this, Cannon-Bard discovered that the thalamus generated affective emotions. Many neurologists have initiated empirical research in order to determine how and in which order emotion affects various regions of the body. The first of these researchers was Allport, who devised the facial feedback hypothesis (Laird, 1984). In short, the facial feedback hypothesis postulated that one’s facial expressions directly affect one’s emotional experience. For example, someone who tries to smile will feel happier because they have a smiling expression. To Tomkins (1962-1963), emotions are “sets of muscles and glandular responses located in the face.” Later, researchers suggested embodied theories of emotion. According to embodied theories of emotion, simply contracting the facial muscles associated with a particular emotion can intensify or elicit the emotion associated with those contractions, even when participants are not contracting those muscles consciously (Niedenthal, 2007; Soussignan, 2002). Criticisms Cannon (1927) conducted several animal tests to disprove James-Lange’s peripheralist approach to emotion (Meiselman, 2016). For example, Cannon conducted tests where he artificially induced certain bodily reactions and observed that these in themselves did not elicit emotions (Meiselman, 2016). Researchers such as Fehr and Stern (1970), among many others, have criticized these tests. One of the predominant criticisms of the Cannon-Bard Theory of Emotion is that the theory assumes that physical reactions do not influence emotions. For example, Cannon-Bard would assume that someone would not necessarily feel happy if the facial muscles creating a smile were triggered. However, a large body of research on facial expressions and emotions suggests that this assumption is not true. Some scholars, such as Dror (2014), have argued that Cannon’s own studies have contradicted his theory of emotion. For example, one large component of Cannon’s physiological theory of emotion was the belief that either the sympathetic or parasympathetic nervous system could be activated by emotion, but the activation of these systems was mutually exclusive. Relatively common phenomena — such as the contraction of the bladder and rectum during intense emotional stress — would confuse Cannon and his followers because these represented the simultaneous activation of the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems (Cannon, 1914). Scholars, and indeed Cannon himself, were aware of contradictions and flaws in his studies of the decorated cat as a model for physiological and emotional experience (Dror, 2014). For example, as Dror (2014) emphasizes, Cannon and Britton included clear evidence of parasympathetic activation, such as contraction of the rectum and occasionally defecation, in their descriptions of the cat experiencing “sham rage” – a supposedly sympathetic, fight or flight emotion (Cannon and Britton, 1925). Many other physiologists in the 1930s would confirm this evidence that “shame rage” activated both the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems (Beattie, 1932; Beebe-Center and Stevens, 1938). The second major flaw of Cannon’s theory, according to Dror’s 2014 review, was that there was a lack of anatomical proof for two major aspects of the Cannon-Bard theory of emotion. The stipulation of the Cannon-Bard model that the optic thalamus was the region that organized emotional expressions, as well as the belief that the thalamus itself was the source of the affective experience of emotion, lacked anatomical proof (Cannon, 1927). Thirdly and lastly, scholars have criticized Cannon’s theory for its overextension beyond the evidence provided by the Cannon-Bard experiments. Although Cannon-Bard studied the decoriated cat’s “sham rage” exclusively, Cannon would go on to extend his model of emotions to joy, grief, and disgust long before Philip Baard himself would send a letter to Cannon observing pleasure in decorticated cats (such as pleasure when being petted) (Dror, 2014). References Bard, P. (1973). The ontogenesis of one physiologist. Annual Review of Physiology, 35 (1), 1-16. Beattie, J. (1932). Hypothalamic mechanisms. Canadian Medical Association Journal, 26(4), 400. Beebe-Center, J., & Stevens, S. (1938). The emotional responses: changes of heart-rate in a gun-shy dog. Journal of Experimental Psychology, 23 (3), 239. Bernard, C. (1866). Leçons sur les propriétés des tissus vivants: Germer Baillière. Cannon, W. B. (1914). The interrelations of emotions as suggested by recent physiological researches. The American Journal of Psychology, 25 (2), 256-282. Cannon, W. B. (1927). The James-Lange theory of emotions: A critical examination and an alternative theory. The American Journal of Psychology, 39 (1/4), 106-124. Cannon, W. B., & Britton, S. W. (1925). Studies on the conditions of activity in endocrine glands: XV. Pseudaffective medulliadrenal secretion. American Journal of Physiology-Legacy Content, 72 (2), 283-294. Coppin, G., & Sander, D. (2021). Chapter 1 – Theoretical approaches to emotion and its measurement. In H. L. Meiselman (Ed.), Emotion Measurement (Second Edition) (pp. 3-37): Woodhead Publishing. Dalgleish, T., Dunn, B. D., & Mobbs, D. (2009). Affective neuroscience: Past, present, and future. Emotion Review, 1 (4), 355-368. Darwin, C. (1872). The expression of the emotions in man and animals by Charles Darwin: John Murray. de Cyon, E. (1873). Principes d”électrothérapie: Baillière. Dror, O. E. (2013). The Cannon–Bard Thalamic Theory of Emotions: A Brief Genealogy and Reappraisal. Emotion Review, 6 (1), 13-20. doi:10.1177/1754073913494898 Durant, J. R. (1981). The beast in man: An historical perspective on the biology of human aggression. The biology of aggression, 17-46. Ellsworth, P. C. (1994). William James and emotion: is a century of fame worth a century of misunderstanding? Psychological Review, 101 (2), 222. Fehr, F. S., & Stern, J. A. (1970). Peripheral physiological variables and emotion: the James-Lange theory revisited. Psychological Bulletin, 74 (6), 411. Friedman, B. H. (2010). Feelings and the body: The Jamesian perspective on autonomic specificity of emotion. Biological Psychology, 84 (3), 383-393. Laird, J. D. (1984). The real role of facial response in the experience of emotion: a reply to Tourangeau and Ellsworth, and others. Lanska, D. J. (2014). Cannon, Walter Bradford. In M. J. Aminoff & R. B. Daroff (Eds.), Encyclopedia of the Neurological Sciences (Second Edition) (pp. 580-583). Oxford: Academic Press. Meiselman, H. L. (2016). Emotion measurement: Woodhead publishing. Niedenthal, P. M. (2007). Embodying emotion. Science, 316 (5827), 1002-1005. Sherrington, C. S. (1900). Experiments on the value of vascular and visceral factors for the genesis of emotion. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, 66 (424-433), 390-403. Soussignan, R. (2002). Duchenne smile, emotional experience, and autonomic reactivity: a test of the facial feedback hypothesis. Emotion, 2 (1), 52. Tomkins, S. (1963). Affect imagery consciousness: Volume II: The negative affects: Springer publishing company. Waxenbaum, J. A., Reddy, V., & Varacallo, M. (2019). Anatomy, autonomic nervous system. Further Information - Cannon, W. B. (1927). The James-Lange theory of emotions: A critical examination and an alternative theory. The American journal of psychology, 39(1/4), 106-124. - Cannon, W. B. (1914). The interrelations of emotions as suggested by recent physiological researches. The American Journal of Psychology, 25(2), 256-282. - Barrett, L. F. (2012). Emotions are real. Emotion, 12(3), 413. - Ellsworth, P. C. (1994). William James and emotion: is a century of fame worth a century of misunderstanding?. Psychological review, 101(2), 222.


--- [Cannon Bard Theory and How Does It Work? - WebMD] ---
The Cannon-Bard theory of emotion proposed the idea of the fight or flight response. It’s leading question: When faced with a potentially dangerous scenario, what do your instincts tell you to do? The Cannon-Bard theory states that the lower part of the brain, also called the thalamus, controls your experience of emotion. At the same time, the higher part of the brain, also called the cortex, controls the expression of emotion. It is believed that these two parts of the brain react simultaneously. This theory was proposed in the 1920s and early 1930s by Walter B. Cannon and Philip Bard. It’s also referred to as the “fight or flight” response. Impact of Fight or Flight on Your Health Stress begins in your brain and your senses communicate potential dangers to it. For example, you may see a car coming toward you or hear a sudden loud sound. The Cannon-Bard theory proposes that your amygdala processes what you see and hear, translating possible danger to the hypothalamus. Your amygdala processes emotions. When it communicates potential danger, your brain has a stress response to stay and fight the danger or run away. Once your amygdala initiates a distress signal, your hypothalamus alerts your sympathetic nervous system by sending signals to your adrenal glands. Adrenaline begins pumping through your veins, quickly resulting in: - Faster heartbeat - Higher pulse rate - Increased blood pressure - Faster breathing - Heightened senses - Alertness Each of these physiological responses happens so quickly that you aren’t aware at first. Instead, you’re acting instinctively. Hundreds of years ago, our instincts kept us safe. Today, we face fewer real dangers, yet our fight or flight response may still be triggered by something. Examples of the Cannon-Bard Theory Fight or flight response adapts as your environment does. Hundreds of years ago, you may have been scared of wild animals that threatened to attack you. Instead of spending time making a logical choice based on your scenario, your brain decided for you — run, or stay and fight. In today’s world, the fight or flight response may come in less dangerous situations. For example, your boss at work asks you to come into their office. You immediately think something is wrong, and it triggers your glands to release adrenaline. You become defensive and may feel the need to walk into the office with your guard up, ready to fight. Alternately, past trauma or PTSD can elicit a fight or flight response. Your memories are often grounded in your senses. You remember what you saw, felt, and heard at a particular time. If you see or hear something that reminds you of a traumatic experience, your brain may trigger the fight or flight response. This happens in an effort of self-preservation to protect you from the same trauma again. Fortunately, repeated trauma will likely not occur. Therefore, you have to focus on calming yourself down so that the stress doesn’t continue to affect your day. Tips to Manage a “Fight or Flight” Situation Relaxation techniques. In establishing the theory of fight or flight, concerns were raised about the amount of time your body spends under stress. The Cannon-Bard theory states that if you find yourself experiencing the symptoms of fight or flight, take a minute to calm down. Training your mind. Over time, you can train your brain to react with less eagerness if there isn’t any danger around. When “Fight or Flight” Becomes a Problem Mental stress. Fight or flight is great because it’s an innate survival mechanism. However, if you are constantly facing “threats” that cause you stress, it can lead to poor health outcomes. Stress can become chronic if not properly managed. Nervous system issues. When your body focuses its energy on responding to threats, your nervous system takes a hit. This may leave you feeling unstable and lead to chronic health problems. If you pay attention to your subconscious response to threatening situations, you can learn a lot. If your stress levels remain too high, it’s a sign that your sympathetic and parasympathetic systems aren’t working together. You can seek help from a professional mental health provider to learn how to better manage stress.


--- [How the Cannon-Bard Theory Explains Emotion - Verywell Mind] ---
Understanding the Cannon-Bard Theory of Emotion By Kendra Cherry, MSEd Kendra Cherry, MSEd Kendra Cherry, MS, is a psychosocial rehabilitation specialist, psychology educator, and author of the "Everything Psychology Book." Learn about our editorial process Updated on December 09, 2025 Reviewed Verywell Mind articles are reviewed by mental health professionals. Reviewers confirm the content is thorough and accurate, reflecting the latest evidence-based research. Content is reviewed before publication and upon substantial updates. Learn more. by Amy Morin, LCSW Reviewed by Amy Morin, LCSW Amy Morin, LCSW, is a psychotherapist and international bestselling author. Her books, including "13 Things Mentally Strong People Don't Do," have been translated into more than 40 languages. Her TEDx talk, "The Secret of Becoming Mentally Strong," is one of the most viewed talks of all time. Learn about our Review Board PeopleImages.com / DigitalVision / Getty Images Table of Contents View All Table of Contents How the Cannon-Bard Theory Works Examples Comparison to Other Theories Criticisms Close Key Takeaways The Cannon-Bard theory says emotions and physical reactions happen at the same time.According to this theory, emotions are felt when the thalamus sends signals to the brain.Cannon-Bard disagrees with the idea that physical reactions cause emotions. The Cannon-Bard (or Thalamic) theory of emotion is a physiological explanation of emotion developed by Walter Cannon and Philip Bard. Cannon-Bard theory states that we experience emotions and physiological reactions such as sweating, trembling, and muscle tension simultaneously. More specifically, it suggests that emotions result when the thalamus sends a message to the brain in response to a stimulus, resulting in a physiological reaction. For example: I see a snake --> I am afraid, and I begin to tremble. How the Cannon-Bard Theory Works According to the Cannon-Bard theory of emotion, we react to a stimulus and experience the associated emotion at the same time. The physical reactions are not dependent upon the emotional reactions, or vice versa. When an event occurs, the thalamus transmits a signal to the amygdala. The amygdala is a small, oval-shaped structure in the brain that plays an important role in emotional processing, including emotions such as fear and anger. The thalamus also sends signals to the autonomic nervous system, resulting in physical reactions such as muscle tension, shaking, and sweating. Examples You can see how the Cannon-Bard theory might be applied by looking at any experience where you have an emotional reaction. While you might immediately think of negative emotional responses, it also applies to positive emotions. A Frightening Experience For example, imagine that you are walking to your car through a darkened parking garage. You hear the sounds of footsteps trailing behind you, and spot a shadowy figure slowly following you as you make your way to your car. According to the Cannon-Bard theory of emotion, you will experience feelings of fear and physical reaction at the same time. You will begin to feel fearful, and your heart will begin to race. You rush to your car, lock the doors behind you, and rush out of the parking garage to head home. The Fight-or-Flight Response A New Job Imagine that you are starting a new job. Your first day can be stressful. You'll be meeting new co-workers, making first impressions, learning more about your role, and participating in training or meetings. Cannon-Bard theory suggests that you would experience both physical and emotional signs of stress simultaneously. You might feel nervous and experience an upset stomach. A Date Imagine that you are going on a date with someone you recently met. You really like this person and are excited to spend time with them. You experience both physical and emotional responses, including feelings of happiness and excitement as well as sweaty palms and a rapid heartbeat. 18 Effective Stress Relief Strategies Comparison to Other Theories The Cannon-Bard theory differs from other theories of emotion such as the James-Lange theory of emotion, which argues that physiological responses occur first and are the cause of emotions. The James-Lange theory was the dominant theory of emotion at the time, but Harvard physiologist Walter Cannon and his doctoral student Philip Bard felt that the theory did not accurately reflect how emotional experiences take place. The 6 Major Theories of Emotion James-Lange Theory Cannon-Bard theory was formulated as a reaction to the James-Lange theory of emotion. Where James-Lange theory represented a physiological explanation for emotions, the Cannon-Bard theory represents and neurobiological approach. William James’s theory suggested that people first experience a physiological reaction in response to a stimulus in the environment. People then experience some sort of physiological reaction to this stimulus which is then labeled as an emotion. For example, if you encounter a growling dog, you might begin to breathe rapidly and tremble. James-Lange theory would then suggest that you would label those feelings as fear. Cannon's work instead suggested that emotions could be experienced even when the body does not reveal a physiological reaction. In other cases, he noted, physiological reactions to different emotions can be extremely similar. People experience sweating, a racing heartbeat, and increased respiration in response to fear, excitement, and anger. These emotions are very different, but the physiological responses are the same. Cannon and Bard instead suggested that the experience of emotion was not dependent upon interpreting the body's physiological reactions. Instead, they believed that the emotion and the physical response occur simultaneously and that one was not dependent upon the other. Schacter-Singer Theory Another more recent theory is the Schacter-Singer theory of emotion (also known as two-factor) theory, which takes a cognitive approach. The Schacter-Singer theory draws on elements of both James-Lange theory and Cannon-Bard theory, proposing that physiological arousal occurs first but that such reactions are often similar for different emotions. The theory suggests that the physiological reactions must be cognitively labeled and interpreted as a particular emotion. The theory emphasizes the role that cognition and elements of the situation play in the experience of emotion. Criticisms Criticisms suggest that Cannon-Bard theory places too much emphasis on the role that the thalamus plays in emotions while largely ignoring other parts of the brain. The thalamus is part of the limbic system and does play an important part in the experience of emotions, but more recent research suggests that the process is more complex than the Cannon-Bard theory suggests. The basic assumption of Cannon-Bard theory, that physical reactions do not lead to emotions, has been refuted by a number of studies. Research has shown that when people are asked to make a particular facial expression, such as frowning or smiling, they are more likely to also experience an emotion connected to that expression. Basic Emotions and Their Effect on Human Behavior Read more: Living Well Emotions 3 Sources Verywell Mind uses only high-quality sources, including peer-reviewed studies, to support the facts within our articles. Read our editorial process to learn more about how we fact-check and keep our content accurate, reliable, and trustworthy. Fama R, Sullivan EV. Thalamic structures and associated cognitive functions: Relations with age and aging. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2015;54:29-37. doi:10.1016/j.neubiorev.2015.03.008 Roxo MR, Franceschini PR, Zubaran C, Kleber FD, Sander JW. The limbic system conception and its historical evolution. ScientificWorldJournal. 2011;11:2428–2441. doi:10.1100/2011/157150 Laird JD, Lacasse K. Bodily influences on emotional feelings: Accumulating evidence and extensions of William James’s theory of emotion. Emotion Review. 2014;6(1):27–34. doi:10.1177/1754073913494899 Additional Reading Cannon, W. B. (1927) The James-Lange Theory of Emotion: A Critical Examination and an Alternative Theory. American Journal of Psychology, 39, 10-124. By Kendra Cherry, MSEd Kendra Cherry, MS, is a psychosocial rehabilitation specialist, psychology educator, and author of the "Everything Psychology Book." See Our Editorial Process Meet Our Review Board Share Feedback Was this page helpful? Thanks for your feedback! What is your feedback? Helpful Report an Error Other Submit


--- [Theory Official Site | Contemporary Clothing for Women and Men] ---
FRÜHJAHRSKOLLEKTION 2026 Eine Stadt im Einklang Modernes Tailoring in Harmonie – fließende Formen, raffinierte Linien, müheloses Design. Entdecken Sie die Kollektion. Perfektionierte Hosen Holen Sie sich unsere charakteristischen Silhouetten. Theory Wardrobe Kapselkollektion. 6 Looks mit endlosen Tragemöglichkeiten. Kostenlose Umtausch Kostenlose Standard-Lieferung Kaufen & später mit Klarna bezahlen Boutiquen-Finder


--- [Fight-or-flight response - Wikipedia] ---
The fight-or-flight or the fight-flight-or-freeze response, also known as hyperarousal or acute stress response, is a physiological reaction that occurs in response to a perceived harmful event, attack, or threat to survival. It was first described by Walter Bradford Cannon in 1914 which he referred to as "the necessities of fighting or flight" in 1915. His theory states that animals react to threats with a general discharge of the sympathetic nervous system, preparing the animal for fighting or fleeing. More specifically, the adrenal medulla produces a hormonal cascade that results in the secretion of catecholamines, especially norepinephrine and epinephrine. The hormones estrogen, testosterone, and cortisol, as well as the neurotransmitters dopamine and serotonin, also affect how organisms react to stress. The hormone osteocalcin might also play a part.
This response is recognised as the first stage of the general adaptation syndrome that regulates stress responses among vertebrates and other organisms.
