=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Seiko HARUMI | Senior Lecturer | Doctor of Philosophy, Applied ...]
This study explores the facilitative use of learner-initiated translanguaging and teacher responsiveness to its use in 68 dyads of conversational interaction between a teacher and...
URL: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Seiko-Harumi

[Dr Seiko Harumi | SOAS]
Prior to joining to SOAS, Dr Harumi taught at a number of Japanese universities and was a lecturer at Cardiff University.
URL: https://www.soas.ac.uk/about/seiko-harumi

[Official Courses offered at Pwani University (PU) 2024/2025]
Sep 28, 2024 · Pwani University is located on a pretty sweet piece of land, spanning around 239 hectares. That means it has plenty of room to expand, which is great news for the university’s future and the students who enrol there. Read: KMTC courses, Fees, and Qualifications | 2024 How many schools are in Pwani University?
URL: https://worldscholarshipforum.com/pwani-university-courses/

[‪Seiko Harumi‬ - ‪Google Scholar‬]
Learner-initiated translanguaging: How do Japanese EFL learners initiate interaction? IATEFL 2014: Harrogate Conference selections: 48th International Conference …
URL: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=aCl_PUQAAAAJ&hl=en

[The Facilitative Use of Learner-initiated Translanguaging in ...]
by S Harumi · Cited by 10 — Seiko Harumi. Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures,. School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), University of London. Thornhaugh Street, Russell ...
URL: https://soas-repository.worktribe.com/OutputFile/332599


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Seiko HARUMI | Senior Lecturer | Doctor of Philosophy, Applied ...] ---
About 23 Publications 4,386 Reads How we measure 'reads' A 'read' is counted each time someone views a publication summary (such as the title, abstract, and list of authors), clicks on a figure, or views or downloads the full-text. Learn more 300 Citations Introduction Current institution Publications Publications (23) This longitudinal case study explores the use of silence as a form of reflective agency by a multilingual learner of Japanese as a foreign language (JFL) during a year-long study abroad in Japan. Drawing on ethnographic phenomenology, the study examines the trajectory of a multilingual user, Emma, and her use of reflective silence, which illustrate... This book presents a four-step framework to help English as a world language (EWL) learners successfully develop global competence, which is defined as the skills, values, and behaviors that prepare young people to thrive in diverse environments. The book showcases practical methods and strategies supported by autoethnography and empirical studies... In Chapter 2, we emphasize the importance of cultivating cross-cultural understanding through real-world intercultural encounters, which is a key component of developing global competence—an increasingly recognized goal in educational reforms across the Asia-Pacific region. Curiosity is identified as a key driver of cross-cultural knowledge and com... Chapter 4 introduces four steps for adopting values beyond our horizon: Navigate Cross-Cultural Conflict, Recognize New Values, Acknowledge Differences Through Reflection, and Add New Values to Your Intercultural Repertoire—outlining an inclusive and dynamic approach to incorporating new values into existing cultural frameworks. The chapter also di... In Chapter 5, we explore pedagogical strategies and tasks designed to help identify valuable global intercultural perspectives, using case studies of Japanese learners of English. Drawing on seminal texts about the use of silence in English classrooms in Japan and multilingual contexts in England during study abroad, this chapter highlights the imp... While linguistic proficiency and cross-cultural awareness are essential to global competence, our experiences in and outside the classroom have shown that the ability to navigate communication nuances—such as non-verbal cues and cultural expectations—is just as important. In Chapter 3, we explore effective cross-cultural communication in today’s in... This concluding chapter explores practical applications of the Four-Step Framework in the classroom and offers pedagogical suggestions for language teachers and second language (L2) learners from the perspective of global competence. To recap, the Four-Step Framework comprises linguistic proficiency, cross-cultural knowledge, adaptability in commun... This study investigates the long-term emotional impact of student silence on non-Japanese EFL teachers, focusing on one expatriate teacher in Japan (Elliott). Utilizing a model that incorporates appraisal confusion and recursive feedback loops, the research examines how teachers emotionally process silence in ambiguous relational contexts: event-ba... This narrative case study explores ways a Japanese learner of English utilised multiple silences as an interactional resource, enhancing collaborative second language (L2) interaction beyond the classroom while studying abroad in the United Kingdom. The concept of ‘multi-contextual silences’ in this study involves the idea that multi-faceted silenc... This study aims to illustrate portrayals of silence and solitude in the film Tokyo Story (1953) and to depict the ways human relationships and bonds evolve through characters' silent dialogues. It also explores ways a study of silence such as this can help second language (L2) learners to raise their awareness of the facilitative use of silence in... This study explores ways in which learner-initiated questions in the second language (L2) Japanese classroom can function as a pedagogical resource for co-learning involving learners and teachers, one which also forges teacher identity within a leaderful classroom. Adopting a critical autoethnographic narrative, this study analyses the pedagogical... This conceptual article explores the role of pedagogical mediation in raising Japanese English as a foreign language (EFL) learners’ awareness of cross-culturally diverse roles of silence and conversational repair strategies during turn-taking in second language (L2) interaction as seen from an interactional perspective. This study delves into the... This article explores the use of conversation analysis (CA)–informed speaking task design to develop second language (L2) learners' interactional repertoires in L2 classrooms. The study draws on the voices of teachers and Japanese learners of English as a foreign language (EFL) who encountered difficulties or dilemmas in L2 interaction due to cross... This study explores the facilitative use of learner-initiated translanguaging and teacher responsiveness to its use in 68 dyads of conversational interaction between a teacher and individual students in tertiary Japanese EFL contexts. Adopting conversation analysis as an analytical framework, it aims to extend our understanding of the use of learne... Silence is a key pedagogical issue in language education. Seen by some as a space for thinking and reflection during the learning process, for others silence represents a threat, inhibiting target language interaction which is so vital during second language acquisition. This book eschews stereotypes and generalisations about why so many learners f... This article explores Japanese EFL learners' classroom silence in a Japanese EFL context. The existence of silence in second language learning contexts can be a source of conflict between students and teachers and even among students themselves. It can also be an obstacle to acquiring the target language. In order to tackle this problem and to illu... This thesis examinest he use of silence by Japanese learners of English in cross-cultural communication. It also considers how cross-cultural misunderstandings can be avoided in a pedagogic context. To this end, an analysis is made of a contrastive study of the use of silence by Japanese students learning English, and by Western students learning J...


--- [Dr Seiko Harumi | SOAS] ---
Dr Seiko Harumi Key information - Roles - School of Languages, Cultures and Linguistics Senior Lecturer in Japanese and Applied Linguistics (Education) Academic Staff, Japan Research Centre - Subject - Japan and Korea - Building - Russell Square, College Buildings - Office - 367 - Email address - sh96@soas.ac.uk - Telephone number - +44 (0)207 898 4274 Biography Dr Seiko Harumi is a second/foreign language teacher (Japanese and English) and an applied linguist who specializes in pragmatic aspects of second/foreign language learning. She has been currently involved with teaching Japanese language modules. She has been also conducting research on second language learning and teaching. Her academic interests lie in classroom silence, classroom discourse, pragmatics, translanguaging, conversation analysis, learner-centred reflective approaches in second language learning and language pedagogy. Her current research projects use conversation analysis to explore silence as an interactional strategy adopted by learners studying second languages. Prior to joining to SOAS, Dr Harumi taught at a number of Japanese universities and was a lecturer at Cardiff University. Her most recent co-edited book, East Asian Perspectives on Silence in English Language Education (Multilingual Matters, 2020), is an edited volume that explores the role of classroom silence in second language learning from an interdisciplinary perspective. Dr Harumi is an editorial board member of the Journal of Silence Studies in Education which addresses the theme of silence in teaching and learning. Research interests - Classroom discourse - Classroom silence - Pragmatics - Translanguaging - Conversation analysis - Learner-centred reflective approaches in second language learning and language pedagogy Publications Contact Seiko - Telephone


--- [Official Courses offered at Pwani University (PU) 2024/2025] ---
If you’re thinking of applying to PU, you’re probably wondering about the Pwani University courses and requirements, fee structure, and overall reputation. And that’s normal! You want to know as much as possible before making an important decision. That’s why we’re here to help. This article discusses Pwani University courses and qualifications, fees and everything else. Table of contents - Pwani University - How many schools are in Pwani University? - Pwani University courses - Does Pwani University offer nursing? - Does Pwani University offer medicine and surgery in Kenya? - Does Pwani University offer teaching courses? - Does Pwani University offer accounting courses? - How can I join Pwani University? - What is the entry grade for Pwani University? - What are the entry requirements for Pwani University? - Pwani University fees - How do I email Pwani University admissions? - FAQs - Conclusion - References - Recommendations Pwani University Pwani University is a public university in Kilifi County, about 60 kilometres from Mombasa. Before it became its university, it was a constituent college of Kenyatta University. This university has quite a bit of history. It all started in 2007 when President Mwai Kibaki signed an order to establish the university, which was previously known as Kilifi Institute of Agriculture. So, it has a solid foundation with lots of room to grow. And guess what? The very first students to enrol at Pwani University were around 200. They were registered in Education (Science) and Education (Arts). 💡 Pwani University is located on a pretty sweet piece of land, spanning around 239 hectares. That means it has plenty of room to expand, which is great news for the university’s future and the students who enrol there. Read: KMTC courses, Fees, and Qualifications | 2024 How many schools are in Pwani University? Pwani University is divided into 8 schools, each focused on a different study area. - The School of Education - The School of Humanities and Social Sciences - The School of Business and Economics - The School of Pure and Applied Sciences (SPAS) - The School of Agricultural Sciences and Agribusiness Studies - The School of Environmental and Earth Sciences - The School of Graduate Studies (SGS) - School of Health and Human Sciences Pwani University courses Here are the Pwani University courses offered in 2024: Bachelors Programmes - Bachelor of Science (Food, Nutrition & Dietetics) - Bachelor of Science (Environmental Health) - Bachelor of Science Nursing (Upgrading) - Bachelor of Science in Tourism Management - Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management - Bachelor of Commerce (Options: Finance, Accounting, Business Mgt Information Science) - Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood Education) - Bachelor of Education (Special Needs Education) - Bachelor of Environmental Studies (Community Development) - Bachelor of Environmental Planning and Management - Bachelor of Environmental Science - Bachelor of Science in Agriculture & Extension - Bachelor of Science in Animal Science - Bachelor of Science in Horticulture & Marketing - Bachelor of Science in Agriculture - Bachelor of Science in Agribusiness Management - Bachelor of Science in Marine Biology and Fisheries - Bachelor of science in Microbiology - Bachelor of Science in Energy & Environmental Technology - Bachelor of science in Biology - Bachelor of Science in Industrial Chemistry - Bachelor of Science in Chemistry - Bachelor of Science in Biotechnology - Bachelor of Science in Biochemistry - Bachelor of Science in Telecommunication and Information Technology - Bachelor of Science in Computer Science - Bachelor of Science in Physics - Bachelor of Science in Mathematics - Bachelor of Science in Hospitality & Tourism Management - Bachelor of Commerce - Bachelor of Arts in Economics - Bachelor of Arts in Child Care & Protection - Bachelor of Arts (Anthropology) - Bachelor of Arts (Political Science) - Bachelor of Arts (History & Archaeology) - Bachelor of Arts (History) - Bachelor of Arts (German) - Bachelor of Arts (French) - Bachelor of Arts (Kiswahili) - Bachelor of Arts (Literature) - Bachelor of Arts (English & Linguistics) - Bachelor of Arts (Psychology) - Bachelor of (Sociology) - Bachelor of Arts (Philosophy) - Bachelor of Arts in Leadership Studies and Philosophy - Bachelor of Arts (Theology) - Bachelor of Arts (Islamic Religious Studies) - Bachelor of Arts (Christian Religious Studies) - Bachelor of Science in Nursing & Public Health (Direct Entry) - Bachelor of Education (Early Childhood Education) - Bachelor of Education( Special Needs Education) - Bachelor of Education (Science) - Bachelor of Education (Arts) - Bachelor of Arts in English and Linguistics - Bachelor of Arts in Economics - Bachelor of Arts in Child Care and Protection - Bachelor of Arts in Child Care and Protection - Bachelor of Science in Nursing and Public Health - Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology Also, see: Mount Kenya University Courses and Qualifications | UPDATED Masters Programmes - Master of Business Administration (MBA) - Master of Arts in Economics - M.Sc. Hospitality and Tourism Management - Master of Science in Bioinformatics - Master of Science in (Microbiology, Fisheries, Medical Entomology, Physics, Statistics, Biochemistry, Biotechnology, Chemistry, Botany, Immunology) - Master of Science in Livestock Sciences - Master of Science in Agribusiness - Master of Science in Agronomy - Master of Science in Geography - Master of Environmental Studies (Community Development) - Master of Environmental Sciences - Masters of Arts in (Kiswahili, Literature, French, English, Sociology, Religious Studies, Philosophy - Master of Science in Public Health - Masters of Education in History of Education - Masters of Education in Comparative Education - Masters of Education in Sociology of Education - Masters of Education in Philosophy of Education - Masters of Education in Economics of Education - Masters of Education in Educational Planning - Masters of Education in Educational Administration - Masters of Education: (Educational Psychology) - Masters of Education (Agricultural Education) - Masters of Education (Mathematics and Science Education) - Master of Education (Economics) - Master of Education (Curriculum Development) - Master of Education (Comparative and International Education) - Master of Education (Administration) - Master of Arts in Religious Studies - Master of Arts in English and Linguistics PhD Programmes - Doctor of Philosophy in Environmental Studies (Community Development) - Doctor of Philosophy in Environmental Sciences - Doctor of Philosophy in Agribusiness - Doctor of Philosophy in Animal Science - Doctor of Philosophy in Crop Science - Doctor of Philosophy in Chemistry - Doctor of Philosophy in Biotechnology - Doctor of Philosophy in Biochemistry - Doctor of Philosophy in Mathematics - Doctor of Philosophy in Physics - Doctor of Philosophy in Statistics - Doctor of Philosophy in Parasitology - Doctor of Philosophy in Immunology - Doctor of Philosophy in Botany - Doctor of Philosophy in Entomology - Doctor of Philosophy in Business Management - Doctor of Philosophy in Tourism Management - Doctor of Philosophy in Hospitality Management - Doctor of Philosophy in Human Nutrition - Doctor of Philosophy (Tourism) - Doctor of Philosophy in Fisheries - Doctor of Philosophy in Microbiology Diploma courses offered at Pwani University - Diploma in Hospitality Operations Management - Diploma in Business Management (Options: Marketing Mgt, Purchasing Mgt, Credit Mgt, Accounting, Money and Banking, Human Resource Mgt.) - Diploma in Primary Education - Diploma in Guidance and Counseling - Diploma in Information Technology - Diploma in Computer Science - Diploma in Applied Biology - Diploma in Travel and Tour Operations - Diploma in Food, Nutrition and Dietetics - Diploma in Early Childhood Education - Diploma in Agricultural Education & Extension - Diploma in Horticulture and Marketing - Diploma in Agriculture and Marketing - Diploma in Animal Health and Management - Diploma in Travel and Tourism Operations - Diploma in Community Development - Diploma in Animal Health and Production - Diploma in Agricultural Education & Extension Certificate courses offered at Pwani University - Certificate in Early Childhood Education - Certificate in General Agriculture - Certificate in Community Development You can also get the list of Pwani University courses pdf below: Does Pwani University offer nursing? Yes, Pwani University offers nursing! The university’s School of Health and Human Sciences offers a BSc in Nursing, which means that if you’re interested in pursuing a career in healthcare and have a passion for caring for others, this is a course to consider. Also, read: 15 Best Nursing Courses in Kenya and Qualifications PDF Does Pwani University offer medicine and surgery in Kenya? Yes, Pwani University offers medicine and surgery in Kenya! The Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (MBCHB) course at Pwani University is an excellent choice for students passionate about pursuing a career in healthcare and wanting to study medicine in Kenya. This program is designed to give students a comprehensive understanding of the human body, how to diagnose and treat various ailments, and the skills to provide quality care to patients. Does Pwani University offer teaching courses? Yes, Pwani University does offer teaching courses! The School of Education at Pwani University provides a range of teaching courses, from early childhood education to secondary school teaching. So if you have a passion for education and want to make a difference in the lives of young people, this university is worth considering. Does Pwani University offer accounting courses? Yes, Pwani University does indeed offer accounting courses! The university offers a Diploma in Business Management with an Accounting option, which is a great way to get a solid foundation in accounting. This course covers financial management, financial reporting, and other key aspects of accounting, giving you the skills and knowledge you need to succeed in the business world. How can I join Pwani University? First, you’ll need to fill out the application form and send it to the Admissions Office at Pwani University. Include your certificates, transcripts, and four recent passport-sized photos. For undergraduate programs, you’ll need a minimum mean grade of C+ (plus) in your Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) or an equivalent qualification. And if you’re looking to pursue postgraduate studies at Pwani University, you’ll need to meet different requirements depending on the level you’re interested in: Master’s Degree: You’ll need a Bachelor’s degree with a minimum of Second Class Honours Upper Division or equivalent in a related discipline. Doctoral Degree: You’ll need a Master’s degree in a relevant field from a recognized institution. So, basically, make sure you have your academic records and transcripts ready, and you’ll be good to go! What is the entry grade for Pwani University? The entry grade for Pwani University is a KCSE mean C+ (plus) for direct entry. So if you’re applying straight out of high school, you’ll need to have scored at least a C+ in your KCSE exams. But don’t worry—if you get a C (plain) in the subjects related to your intended course, you could still be eligible for admission. What are the entry requirements for Pwani University? So, the entry requirements for Pwani University are straightforward. If you’re coming straight from high school, you’ll need a KCSE Mean Grade of C (plain) or Division III with at least 33 points at KCE or equivalent. But that’s not the only way to get into Pwani University. If you’ve got a diploma in Special Education with a minimum of a credit from a recognized institution, you could also be eligible for admission. Read Also: TVET Courses in Kenya | Requirements and Fees Pwani University fees First, the fees vary depending on your course and level. For example, if you’re a first-year student studying Bachelor’s of Environmental Studies (Community Development), you’ll pay Ksh.24,700 for the first semester and Ksh.19,200 for the second semester. Self-sponsored students studying for a Diploma in Applied Biology will pay Ksh.57,200 for the first semester and Ksh.43,200 for the second. The university accepts payments via bank deposits or MPESA, so you’ve got options. You can pay by depositing cash into one of the university’s accounts at Barclays Bank, Equity Bank, Kenya Commercial Bank, or Cooperative Bank. Or, if you prefer, you can use MPESA and pay through the university’s Pay Bill number 986450. Just remember to use your Admission Number as your account number! And let’s not forget the miscellaneous expenses, such as book allowance, food and upkeep, on-campus accommodation, and off-campus accommodation. What is the application fee for Pwani University? The application processing fee for Pwani University varies depending on whether you’re an East African or a non-East African applicant. For East Africans, the fee is Ksh. 2000 for Degree Programmes, Ksh. 1000 for Diploma Programmes, and Ksh. 500 for Certificate Programmes. Non-East Africans, on the other hand, will have to fork out Ksh—3,500 for all programmes. How much are hostel fees at Pwani University? Hostel fees at Pwani University cost between Ksh. 4,500 and Ksh. 6,000 per semester in fees. Of course, you’ll have to bring your linen and other essentials, but you’ll be living right on campus! Also, read: Plumbing Courses in Kenya Requirements and Fees How do I email Pwani University admissions? Here is how you can contact Pwani University: - Address: P.O Box 195-80108, Mombasa -Malindi Highway, Kilifi County , Kenya - Location: Kilifi, Kenya - Telephone Number: +254 725 91 61 45 - Telephone Number 2: +254 786 727 899 - Email Address: info@pu.ac.ke - Website: https://www.pu.ac.ke/ FAQs Pwani University is located in Kilifi County, Kenya. Yes, you can join Pwani University with a C grade. Check the university’s website for details. The admission office for Pwani University is at P.O. Box 195 – 80108, Kilifi – Kenya. Conclusion And that wraps up our guide to the Pawni University courses. With many excellent options, you’ll have plenty of opportunities to find a degree that’ll get your career on track. It doesn’t matter if you’re into Business, Agriculture, or something else; Pwani University could be where you find your calling. Take a closer look at their course offerings and see what strikes your fancy; you might find your dream degree at this gem of a university. References - pu.ac.ke – Bachelors Programmes - pu.ac.ke – Masters Programmes - pu.ac.ke – PhD Programmes - studyinkenya.co.ke – Diploma Courses at Pwani University


--- [‪Seiko Harumi‬ - ‪Google Scholar‬] ---
| Classroom silence: Voices from Japanese EFL learners S Harumi ELT journal 65 (3), 260-269, 2011 | 367 | 2011 | | East Asian Perspectives on Silence in English Language Education J King, S Harumi Multilingual Matters, 2020 | 42 | 2020 | | The use of silence by Japanese learners of English in cross-cultural communication and its pedagogical implications S Harumi Institute of Education, University of London, 1999 | 39 | 1999 | | The use of silence by Japanese EFL learners S Harumi JALT International Conference, Kitakyushu, Japan, 2001 | 38 | 2001 | | Approaches to interacting with classroom silence: The role of teacher talk S Harumi | 29 | 2021 | | Classroom silence and learner‐initiated repair: Using conversation analysis–informed material design to develop interactional repertoires S Harumi TESOL Journal 14 (1), e704, 2023 | 15 | 2023 | | East Asian perspectives on silence in English language education: An introduction S Harumi, J King | 15 | 2020 | | The implicit role of classroom silence in Japanese EFL contexts S Harumi Breaking Theory: New Directions in Applied Linguistics, 121-130, 2015 | 15 | 2015 | | The mediative role of learning materials: Raising L2 learners’ awareness of silence and conversational repair during L2 interaction S Harumi Journal of Silence Studies in Education 2 (2), 145-162, 2023 | 11 | 2023 | | The facilitative use of learner-initiated translanguaging in Japanese EFL contexts S Harumi Applied Pragmatics 5 (1), 86-119, 2023 | 10 | 2023 | | Japanese learners of English and their use of silence S Harumi The Japanese Learner: Context, Culture and Classroom Practice, 2001 | 6 | 2001 | | The Role of Learner-Initiated Questions as a Pedagogical Resource for Co-Learning: Development of Teacher Identity for Leaderful Classrooms S Harumi Leaderful classroom pedagogy through an interdisciplinary lens: Merging …, 2023 | 5 | 2023 | | Pedagogical Insights for Enhancing Global Competence in the Classroom and Beyond S Harumi, S Egitim Developing Global Competence in World Language Education: A Four-Step …, 2025 | 1 | 2025 | | Developing global competence in world language education: A four-step framework for success S Egitim, S Harumi Taylor & Francis, 2025 | 1 | 2025 | | Multi-contextual perspectives on silence: a narrative case study S Harumi Neofilolog, 265–292-265–292, 2024 | 1 | 2024 | | Silent dialogues: The shifting flow of silence and solitude in Tokyo Story and implications for L2 pedagogy S Harumi Journal of Silence Studies in Education ISSN 2808, 1005, 2024 | 1 | 2024 | | Learner-initiated translanguaging: How do Japanese EFL learners initiate interaction? S Harumi | 1 | 2023 | | East Asian Perspectives on Silence in English Language Education S Harumi, J King Multilingual Matters, 2020 | 1 | 2020 | | Raising cultural awareness of classroom talk and silence S Harumi IATEFL 2014: Harrogate Conference selections: 48th International Conference …, 2015 | 1 | 2015 | | From Conflict to Mutuality: Adopting Values Beyond Our Horizon S Egitim, S Harumi Routledge, 2025 | | 2025 |


--- [The Facilitative Use of Learner-initiated Translanguaging in ...] ---
1 capture 07 Aug 2025 Jul AUG Sep 07 2024 2025 2026 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Common Crawl Web crawl data from Common Crawl. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20250807102603/https://soas-repository.worktribe.com/OutputFile/332599
