=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Patricia Bullrich: the security and order hawk with a Peronist past]
Aug 13, 2023 — Patricia Bullrich, leader of the right-wing party PRO (Propuesta ... Her first husband, Marcelo “Pancho” Langieri, was a militant with ...
URL: https://buenosairesherald.com/politics/patricia-bullrich-the-security-and-order-hawk-with-a-peronist-past

[Guillermo Yanco, el gran amor de Patricia Bullrich | Caras]
Aug 13, 2023 · La precandidata a presidenta está en pareja desde hace 25 años. Patricia Bullrich está enamoradísima de Guillermo Yanco desde hace 25 años. Anteriormente, tuvo dos relaciones conocidas. En los 80's, con Néstor Ortíz y luego, con quien fue su primer esposo, Marcelo Langieri.
URL: https://caras.perfil.com/noticias/actualidad/elecciones-2023-paso2023-amores-patricia-bullrich.phtml

[Cryptocurrency Exchange]
No snippet
URL: https://exchange.mypatricia.co/exchange-documentation

[Esteban Bullrich]
Esteban José Bullrich (born 26 May 1969, Buenos Aires) is an Argentine politician. A member of Republican Proposal (PRO), he served as a National Senator
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Esteban_Bullrich

[Patricia Bullrich - Wikipedia]
She married Marcelo Langieri, secretary of Rodolfo Galimberti; Galimberti was a leader of the Montoneros guerrilla and her brother-in-law. They went into exile in 1977, during the Dirty War, and she returned in 1982, after the Falklands War. She was elected deputy for the Justicialist Party in 1993.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patricia_Bullrich


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Patricia Bullrich: the security and order hawk with a Peronist past] ---
No content


--- [Guillermo Yanco, el gran amor de Patricia Bullrich | Caras] ---
Patricia Bullrich está enamoradísima de Guillermo Yanco desde hace 25 años. Anteriormente, tuvo dos relaciones conocidas. En los 80's, con Néstor Ortíz y luego, con quien fue su primer esposo, Marcelo Langieri. Con él tuvo a su único hijo, Francisco Langieri Bullrich, que nació en 1979. Quién es Guillermo Yanco Tal como cuentan desde Perfil.com, el esposo de la ex presidenta del PRO y precandidata a presidenta, Patricia Bullrich, es un abogado mediador de muy bajo perfil Y, si bien ya llevan 25 años juntos, nunca pasaron por el Registro Civil. Desde el medio de comunicación, detallan que la pareja se conoció en 1997 en un acto político. Aunque no fue fácil para el letrado, ya que fueron varias las invitaciones que su actual mujer le rechazó hasta aceptar una salida con él. En Perfil.com también señalan que Guillermo Yanco dirige, junto a Claudio Avruj, el portal de noticias Vis a Vis y tiene un programa de radio en FM Cultura llamado "Propuesta abierta". El abogado, también es vocal titular en el Instituto de Estudios Estratégicos de la Seguridad que preside Patricia Bullrich y Vicepresidente del Museo del Holocausto. Patricia Bullrich y Guillermo Yanco continúan tan enamorados como hace 25 años y, tienen una relación en la que se apoyan mutuamente.


--- [Cryptocurrency Exchange] ---
No content


--- [Esteban Bullrich] ---
Esteban José Bullrich (born 26 May 1969, Buenos Aires) is an Argentine politician. A member of Republican Proposal (PRO), he served as a National Senator for Buenos Aires Province from 2017 to 2021, and as Minister of Education from 2015 to 2017, during the presidency of Mauricio Macri. Prior to that, he served as education minister of the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires, also under Macri, and as a National Deputy from 2005 to 2010.
He resigned from his seat in the Senate in 2021 due to the worsening of his amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. His vacancy was filled by José Torello. He is a now an advocate for ALS-related causes, including setting up a foundation to advance the cause of education and research in the area.




--- [Patricia Bullrich - Wikipedia] ---
Patricia Bullrich (Latin American Spanish: [paˈtɾisja ˈβulritʃ] ; born 11 June 1956) is an Argentine politician. She currently serves as a National Senator for the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires since December 2025, representing La Libertad Avanza. She previously served as the Minister of National Security from 2023 to 2025 under president Javier Milei and from 2015 to 2019 under president Mauricio Macri. She was the chairwoman of the Republican Proposal until 2025.
She was born in Buenos Aires, part of the Pueyrredón family. Bullrich graduated from the University of Palermo, and as a young woman she was involved with the Peronist Youth. She married Marcelo Langieri, secretary of Rodolfo Galimberti; Galimberti was a leader of the Montoneros guerrilla and her brother-in-law. They went into exile in 1977, during the Dirty War, and she returned in 1982, after the Falklands War. She was elected deputy for the Justicialist Party in 1993. She left the party and started her own, but could not secure a re-election. She joined the cabinet of president Fernando De la Rúa in 2001. 
Following the election of Mauricio Macri to the presidency in the 2015 Argentine general election, she became the Minister of Security. She placed regulations against roadblocks from piqueteros, and opposed the secessionist organization Resistencia Ancestral Mapuche. Leading the "hawk" sector of the Juntos por el Cambio coalition, she was appointed its president in 2020. She ran for the 2023 Argentine primary and general elections. She won the primaries against Horacio Rodríguez Larreta, but ended third in the general elections behind Sergio Massa and Javier Milei. She supported Milei on the ballotage with Massa. After Milei was elected President, he chose Bullrich to serve again as Minister of Security.
On November 30, 2025, Bullrich resigned from her post as Minister of National Security after she was sworn in as a Senator in the Argentine Senate.


