=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Michael Creutz - Wikipedia]
Creutz was born in 1944 in Los Alamos, New Mexico. [1] His father, Edward Creutz, was also a physicist and was working on the Manhattan Project to help build the atomic bomb at the time of Michael's birth. [2][3] Creutz graduated with honor with a bachelor's degree in physics from Caltech in 1966. He did his graduate work at Stanford University under a NSF Graduate Fellowship, graduating in ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Creutz

[Brookhaven Lab Physicist Michael Creutz Honored with the Gian Carlo ...]
Aug 12, 2008 · Michael Creutz earned a B.S. in physics from the California Institute of Technology in 1966, and a Ph.D. in physics from Stanford University in 1970. He was a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Theoretical Physics at the University of Maryland before he joined Brookhaven Lab in 1972 as an assistant physicist.
URL: https://www.bnl.gov/newsroom/news.php?a=110816

[Michael John Creutz, Ph.D., Presented with the Albert Nelson Marquis ...]
Mar 26, 2019 · In 1966, Dr. Creutz earned a Bachelor of Science from the California Institute of Technology, following this accomplishment with a Doctor of Philosophy in theoretical particle physics from Stanford University in 1970.
URL: https://www.24-7pressrelease.com/press-release/461459/michael-john-creutz-phd-presented-with-the-albert-nelson-marquis-lifetime-achievement-award-by-marquis-whos-who

[Brookhaven Lab physicist Michael Creutz honored with award]
Mar 3, 2009 · Michael Creutz earned a B.S. in physics from the California Institute of Technology in 1966, and a Ph.D. in physics from Stanford University in 1970. He was a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Theoretical Physics at the University of Maryland before he joined Brookhaven Lab in 1972 as an assistant physicist.
URL: https://www.supercomputingonline.com/latest/applications/7751-brookhaven-lab-physicist-michael-creutz-honored-with-award

[Michael Creutz - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
His father, Edward Creutz, was also a physicist and was working on the Manhattan Project to help build the atomic bomb at the time of Michael ' s birth. [2][3] Creutz graduated with honor with a bachelor ' s degree in physics from Caltech in 1966. He did his graduate work at Stanford University under a NSF Graduate Fellowship, graduating in 1970.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/11732901


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Michael Creutz - Wikipedia] ---
Michael John Creutz (born November 24, 1944) is an American theoretical physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory specializing in lattice gauge theory and computational physics.


--- [Brookhaven Lab Physicist Michael Creutz Honored with the Gian Carlo ...] ---
Brookhaven Lab Physicist Michael Creutz Honored with the Gian Carlo Wick Gold Medal Award August 12, 2008 UPTON, NY — Michael Creutz, a physicist at the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Brookhaven National Laboratory, has been chosen by the World Federation of Scientists (WFS) as the recipient of the 2008 Gian Carlo Wick Gold Medal Award, which is given annually to a theoretical physicist for outstanding contributions to particle physics. Creutz will receive the award at a WFS meeting held in Erice, Italy, August 19 - 24. Founded in 1973, the WFS is an association of more than 10,000 scientists from 110 countries whose aim is to share knowledge among all nations so that everyone can experience the benefits of scientific progress. Gian Carlo Wick (1909-1992), a native of Italy, was an eminent theoretical physicist who led the theory group at Brookhaven Lab from 1958 to 1970. “I am honored to have been chosen to receive this award and to be in the company of the esteemed scientists that received it previously,” Creutz said. “Also, I am proud to be the recipient of an award named after Gian Carlo Wick. I was not yet at the Laboratory when he worked here, but I met him when I was a child because my father, Ed Creutz, then head of the physics department at Carnegie Tech – now Carnegie Mellon University – hired him as a faculty member.” Michael Creutz was cited for his work on lattice quantum chromodynamics (QCD), a theory that describes the interactions of subnuclear particles. Specifically, Creutz first demonstrated that properties of QCD could be computed numerically on a four-dimensional lattice through computer-based calculations known as Monte Carlo techniques. In 1974, Nobel laureate Kenneth Wilson of Cornell University first proposed using a lattice in a regular geometric arrangement of discrete points of space and time to simplify making the advanced calculations required for QCD. Coined in the 1940s by physicists working at DOE’s Los Alamos National Laboratory, the Monte Carlo method derives its name from the random numbers used in this computational technique to explore the vast space of possible values for the fields that bind quarks. Such calculations are now routinely made by theoretical physicists around the world and require the most powerful computers available. Using Monte Carlo techniques on the lattice, Creutz provided strong numerical evidence that quarks cannot be isolated, thus confirming this conjectured property of QCD. He found that the force between widely separated quarks, which is equal to 14 tons, did not decrease as the quarks moved farther apart. Creutz published his findings in the journal Physical Review in 1980. His paper became among the most cited from that year. These computational methods have since been applied to numerous theoretical problems in physics, including the physics of Brookhaven’s world-class accelerator, the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider, and may be relevant for interpreting new physics findings at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN, the European Organization for Nuclear Research, near Geneva, Switzerland. Currently, Creutz is investigating including neutrinos on the lattice, which is difficult because, unlike other subatomic particles, they only spin in one direction. Over the last several years, physicists have been able to improve the control of both the size and accuracy of the lattice with the aid of powerful new supercomputers at Brookhaven. Michael Creutz earned a B.S. in physics from the California Institute of Technology in 1966, and a Ph.D. in physics from Stanford University in 1970. He was a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Theoretical Physics at the University of Maryland before he joined Brookhaven Lab in 1972 as an assistant physicist. He became an associate physicist in 1974, a physicist in 1976, and a senior physicist in 1980. A Fellow of the American Physical Society (APS), Creutz received the APS’s Aneesur Rahman Prize for Computational Physics in 2000. He also received the Brookhaven Research & Development Award in 1991 and the Andrew Sobczk Memorial Lectureship from Clemson University in 1997. 2008-10816 | INT/EXT | Newsroom


--- [Michael John Creutz, Ph.D., Presented with the Albert Nelson Marquis ...] ---
EAST MORICHES, NY, March 26, 2019 /24-7PressRelease/ -- Marquis Who's Who, the world's premier publisher of biographical profiles, is proud to present Michael John Creutz, Ph.D., with the Albert Nelson Marquis Lifetime Achievement Award. An accomplished listee, Dr. Creutz celebrates many years' experience in his professional network, and has been noted for achievements, leadership qualities, and the credentials and successes he has accrued in his field. As in all Marquis Who's Who biographical volumes, individuals profiled are selected on the basis of current reference value. Factors such as position, noteworthy accomplishments, visibility, and prominence in a field are all taken into account during the selection process. In 1966, Dr. Creutz earned a Bachelor of Science from the California Institute of Technology, following this accomplishment with a Doctor of Philosophy in theoretical particle physics from Stanford University in 1970. After starting out as a fellow at the University of Maryland's Center for Theoretical Physics in 1970, he went on to work as an assistant physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory from 1972 to 1974. Demonstrating impressive focus on his field, he progressed to associate physicist in 1974, physicist in 1976 and senior physicist in 1984. Dr. Creutz retired in 2014, having earned the title of senior physicist emeritus. In addition to his work with Brookhaven National Laboratory, Dr. Creutz served on the High Energy Physics advisory panel for the Department of Energy in Washington, DC, from 1984 to 1988. He also worked on the program advisory panel for the Division of Advanced Science Computing for the National Science Foundation from 1987 to 1989. A published writer in the field of physics, Dr. Creutz wrote "Quarks, Gluons, and Lattices" in 1983 and "From Quarks to Pions: Chiral Symmetry and Confinement" in 2018. He has also contributed to numerous journals in his field, and is notable for his paper "Monte Carlo Study of Quantized SU(2) Gauge Theory," which revolutionized perspectives on quantized physics. Influenced by his father, who was also a physicist, Dr. Creutz decided to pursue a career in physics at a young age. Now a celebrated professional in his industry, he has been the recipient of numerous awards, including the Humboldt Research Award in 2009, the Gian Carlo Wick Gold Medal in 2008 and the Aneesur Rahman Prize in 2000. Dr. Creutz is currently a fellow of the American Physical Society, for which he has served as chairman of the division of computational physics and member of the executive committee division on particles and fields. He has been honored in several editions of Who's Who in America, as well as the first edition of Who's Who in Science and Engineering and the 24th edition of Who's Who in the East. In recognition of outstanding contributions to his profession and the Marquis Who's Who community, Dr. Creutz has been featured on the Albert Nelson Marquis Lifetime Achievement website. Please visit www.ltachievers.com for more information about this honor. About Marquis Who's Who® Since 1899, when A. N. Marquis printed the First Edition of Who's Who in America®, Marquis Who's Who® has chronicled the lives of the most accomplished individuals and innovators from every significant field of endeavor, including politics, business, medicine, law, education, art, religion and entertainment. Today, Who's Who in America® remains an essential biographical source for thousands of researchers, journalists, librarians and executive search firms around the world. Marquis® now publishes many Who's Who titles, including Who's Who in America®, Who's Who in the World®, Who's Who in American Law®, Who's Who in Medicine and Healthcare®, Who's Who in Science and Engineering®, and Who's Who in Asia®. Marquis® publications may be visited at the official Marquis Who's Who® website at www.marquiswhoswho.com. # # # Contact Information Fred Marks Marquis Who's Who Ventures LLC Berkeley Heights, NJ USA Telephone: 844-394-6946 Email: Email Us Here Website: Visit Our Website


--- [Brookhaven Lab physicist Michael Creutz honored with award] ---
Michael Creutz, a physicist at the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Brookhaven National Laboratory, has been chosen by the World Federation of Scientists (WFS) as the recipient of the 2008 Gian Carlo Wick Gold Medal Award, which is given annually to a theoretical physicist for outstanding contributions to particle physics. Creutz will receive the award at a WFS meeting held in Erice, Italy, August 19 - 24. Michael Creutz Founded in 1973, the WFS is an association of more than 10,000 scientists from 110 countries whose aim is to share knowledge among all nations so that everyone can experience the benefits of scientific progress. Gian Carlo Wick (1909-1992), a native of Italy, was an eminent theoretical physicist who led the theory group at Brookhaven Lab from 1958 to 1970. “I am honored to have been chosen to receive this award and to be in the company of the esteemed scientists that received it previously,” Creutz said. “Also, I am proud to be the recipient of an award named after Gian Carlo Wick. I was not yet at the Laboratory when he worked here, but I met him when I was a child because my father, Ed Creutz, then head of the physics department at Carnegie Tech – now Carnegie Mellon University – hired him as a faculty member.” Michael Creutz was cited for his work on lattice quantum chromodynamics (QCD), a theory that describes the interactions of subnuclear particles. Specifically, Creutz first demonstrated that properties of QCD could be computed numerically on a four-dimensional lattice through computer-based calculations known as Monte Carlo techniques. In 1974, Nobel laureate Kenneth Wilson of Cornell University first proposed using a lattice in a regular geometric arrangement of discrete points of space and time to simplify making the advanced calculations required for QCD. Coined in the 1940s by physicists working at DOE’s Los Alamos National Laboratory, the Monte Carlo method derives its name from the random numbers used in this computational technique to explore the vast space of possible values for the fields that bind quarks. Such calculations are now routinely made by theoretical physicists around the world and require the most powerful computers available. Using Monte Carlo techniques on the lattice, Creutz provided strong numerical evidence that quarks cannot be isolated, thus confirming this conjectured property of QCD. He found that the force between widely separated quarks, which is equal to 14 tons, did not decrease as the quarks moved farther apart. Creutz published his findings in the journal Physical Review in 1980. His paper became among the most cited from that year. These computational methods have since been applied to numerous theoretical problems in physics, including the physics of Brookhaven’s world-class accelerator, the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider, and may be relevant for interpreting new physics findings at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN, the European Organization for Nuclear Research, near Geneva, Switzerland. Currently, Creutz is investigating including neutrinos on the lattice, which is difficult because, unlike other subatomic particles, they only spin in one direction. Over the last several years, physicists have been able to improve the control of both the size and accuracy of the lattice with the aid of powerful new supercomputers at Brookhaven. Michael Creutz earned a B.S. in physics from the California Institute of Technology in 1966, and a Ph.D. in physics from Stanford University in 1970. He was a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Theoretical Physics at the University of Maryland before he joined Brookhaven Lab in 1972 as an assistant physicist. He became an associate physicist in 1974, a physicist in 1976, and a senior physicist in 1980. A Fellow of the American Physical Society (APS), Creutz received the APS’s Aneesur Rahman Prize for Computational Physics in 2000. He also received the Brookhaven Research & Development Award in 1991 and the Andrew Sobczk Memorial Lectureship from Clemson University in 1997.


--- [Michael Creutz - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Michael Creutz - Michael John Creutz (born November 24, 1944) is an American theoretical physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory specializing in lattice gauge theory and computational physics. Contents Background Creutz was born in 1944 in Los Alamos, New Mexico.[1] His father, Edward Creutz, was also a physicist and was working on the Manhattan Project to help build the atomic bomb at the time of Michael's birth.[2][3] Creutz graduated with honor with a bachelor's degree in physics from Caltech in 1966. He did his graduate work at Stanford University under a NSF Graduate Fellowship, graduating in 1970. His thesis was done at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center and his adviser was the noted physicist Sidney Drell. After his graduation he served shortly as a research associate at SLAC before moving to the Center for Theoretical Physics at the University of Maryland, College Park, where he was a fellow from 1970-1972. In 1972 he joined the High Energy Theory Group at Brookhaven National Laboratory, becoming a Senior Physicist in 1985 and serving as Group leader from 1984 to 1987. In 2003 he became an associate professor at the C. N. Yang Institute for Theoretical Physics at nearby Stony Brook University.[1] Research Creutz's research spans a wide variety of topics in particle physics and mathematical physics, but he is best known for his work on lattice QCD.[4] His 1983 textbook Quarks, Gluons, and Lattices was the first full-length textbook on lattice QCD and is considered a classic in the field. Creutz is a fellow of the American Physical Society and was the 2000 recipient of the Aneesur Rahman Prize for Computational Physics "for first demonstrating that properties of QCD could be computed numerically on the lattice through Monte Carlo methods, and for numerous contributions to the field thereafter."[5] In 2009 he received a Humboldt Research Award. Books - Quarks, Gluons, and Lattices, M. Creutz (Cambridge Univ. Press, 1983). - Lattice Higgs Workshop, B. Berg, G. Bhanot, M. Burbank, M. Creutz, J. Owens, Eds. (World Scientific, 1988). - Quantum Fields on the Computer, M. Creutz, ed., (World Scientific, 1992). References - ^ a b "Michael Creutz: Resume". http://latticeguy.net/resume.html. Retrieved 5 September 2010. - ^ Gonzalez, Blanca (July 13, 2009). "Obituary: Edward Creutz; worked on Manhattan Project". Sign On San Diego. http://www.signonsandiego.com/news/2009/jul/13/1m13creutz231926-edward-creutz-worked-manhattan-pr/?uniontrib. - ^ "Ed Creutz: 1/23/1913 -- 6/27/2009". http://www.latticeguy.net/Ed_Creutz/. Retrieved 5 September 2010. - ^ "Michael Creutz : Publications". http://www.latticeguy.net/mypubs/pubs.html. Retrieved 5 September 2010. - ^ "2000 Aneesur Rahman Prize for Computational Physics Recipient". APS. http://www.aps.org/programs/honors/prizes/prizerecipient.cfm?name=Michael%20John%20Creutz&year=2000. Retrieved 5 September 2010. External links - latticeguy.net - personal website - Creutz's BNL website - Papers on SPIRES - arXiv.org preprints Categories:- Living people - 1944 births - American theoretical physicists - Particle physicists - California Institute of Technology alumni - Stanford University alumni - State University of New York at Stony Brook faculty - Brookhaven National Laboratory staff Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.
