=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[BJP MLA, husband get ten-year RI for abetting maid's suicide]
BJP MLA Asharani and her husband and former MLA Ashok Veer Vikram Singh, alias Bhaiya Raja, along with four others were today sentenced to ten years rigorous imprisonment by a local court for abetting their domestic help's suicide. The maid Tijjibai committed suicide by setting herself afire on May 21, 2007, at Bhaiya Raja's Kolar Road residence here, prosecution sources said. The former MLA ...
URL: https://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/bjp-mla-husband-get-ten-year-ri-for-abetting-maid-s-suicide-113103100838_1.html

[BJP MLA, husband get ten-year rigorous imprisonment for abetting maid's ...]
BHOPAL: BJP MLA Asharani and her husband and former MLA Ashok Veer Vikram Singh, alias Bhaiya Raja, along with four others were sentenced to ten years rigorous imprisonment by a local court for abetting their domestic help 's suicide. The maid Tijjibai committed suicide by setting herself afire on May 21, 2007, at Bhaiya Raja's Kolar Road residence here, prosecution sources said.
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/bjp-mla-husband-get-ten-year-rigorous-imprisonment-for-abetting-maids-suicide/articleshow/25006723.cms

[BJP MLA, husband get ten-year RI for abetting maid`s suicide ...]
BJP MLA Asharani and her husband and former MLA Ashok Veer Vikram Singh, alias Bhaiya Raja, along with four others were Thursday sentenced to ten years rigorous imprisonment by a local court for abetting their domestic help`s suicide.
URL: https://zeenews.india.com/news/madhya-pradesh/bjp-mla-husband-get-ten-year-ri-for-abetting-maids-suicide_887314.html

[2013 - Wikipedia]
2013 (MMXIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian calendar, the 2013th year of the Common Era (CE) and Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 13th year of the 3rd millennium and the 21st century, and the 4th year of the 2010s decade.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2013

[BJP MLA, husband get ten-year RI for abetting maid's suicide]
BJP MLA Asharani and her husband and former MLA Ashok Veer Vikram Singh, alias Bhaiya Raja, along with four others were today sentenced to ten years rigorous imprisonment by a local court for ...
URL: https://www.deccanherald.com/india/bjp-mla-husband-get-ten-2292080


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [BJP MLA, husband get ten-year RI for abetting maid's suicide] ---
BJP MLA, husband get ten-year RI for abetting maid's suicide BJP MLA Asharani and her husband and former MLA Ashok Veer Vikram Singh, alias Bhaiya Raja, along with four others were today sentenced to ten years rigorous imprisonment by a local court for abetting their domestic help's suicide. The maid Tijjibai committed suicide by setting herself afire on May 21, 2007, at Bhaiya Raja's Kolar Road residence here, prosecution sources said. The former MLA exploited her physically while his wife and sitting MLA from Bijawar used to beat her and kept her without salary, the prosecution said. They also did not allow her to meet anyone. Also Read Additional Sessions Judge Sayeeda Bano Rahman also imposed a fine of Rs 51,000 each on the couple. The sentence was awarded under relevant sections of the IPC. Besides, the court also awarded ten-year sentence to Kanhaiyalal 75, Narmada Pathak 35, Nijaji Dhimar 50 and Gopal Thakur 63 and also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 each on them for helping the duo in committing the crime. More From This Section Don't miss the most important news and views of the day. Get them on our Telegram channel First Published: Oct 31 2013 | 5:54 PM IST


--- [BJP MLA, husband get ten-year rigorous imprisonment for abetting maid's ...] ---
BHOPAL: BJP MLA Asharani and her husband and former MLA Ashok Veer Vikram Singh, alias Bhaiya Raja, along with four others were sentenced to ten years rigorous imprisonment by a local court for abetting their domestic help's suicide. The maid Tijjibai committed suicide by setting herself afire on May 21, 2007, at Bhaiya Raja's Kolar Road residence here, prosecution sources said. The former MLA exploited her physically while his wife and sitting MLA from Bijawar used to beat her and kept her without salary, the prosecution said. They also did not allow her to meet anyone. Additional Sessions Judge Sayeeda Bano Rahman also imposed a fine of Rs 51,000 each on the couple. The sentence was awarded under relevant sections of the IPC. Besides, the court also awarded ten-year sentence to Kanhaiyalal 75, Narmada Pathak 35, Nijaji Dhimar 50 and Gopal Thakur 63 and also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 each on them for helping the duo in committing the crime. The maid Tijjibai committed suicide by setting herself afire on May 21, 2007, at Bhaiya Raja's Kolar Road residence here, prosecution sources said. The former MLA exploited her physically while his wife and sitting MLA from Bijawar used to beat her and kept her without salary, the prosecution said. They also did not allow her to meet anyone. Additional Sessions Judge Sayeeda Bano Rahman also imposed a fine of Rs 51,000 each on the couple. The sentence was awarded under relevant sections of the IPC. Besides, the court also awarded ten-year sentence to Kanhaiyalal 75, Narmada Pathak 35, Nijaji Dhimar 50 and Gopal Thakur 63 and also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 each on them for helping the duo in committing the crime.


--- [BJP MLA, husband get ten-year RI for abetting maid`s suicide ...] ---
BJP MLA, husband get ten-year RI for abetting maid`s suicide BJP MLA Asharani and her husband and former MLA Ashok Veer Vikram Singh, alias Bhaiya Raja, along with four others were Thursday sentenced to ten years rigorous imprisonment by a local court for abetting their domestic help`s suicide. Trending Photos Bhopal: BJP MLA Asharani and her husband and former MLA Ashok Veer Vikram Singh, alias Bhaiya Raja, along with four others were Thursday sentenced to ten years rigorous imprisonment by a local court for abetting their domestic help`s suicide. The maid Tijjibai committed suicide by setting herself afire on May 21, 2007, at Bhaiya Raja`s Kolar Road residence here, prosecution sources said. The former MLA exploited her physically while his wife and sitting MLA from Bijawar used to beat her and kept her without salary, the prosecution said. They also did not allow her to meet anyone. Additional Sessions Judge Sayeeda Bano Rahman also imposed a fine of Rs 51,000 each on the couple. The sentence was awarded under relevant sections of the IPC. Besides, the court also awarded ten-year sentence to Kanhaiyalal 75, Narmada Pathak 35, Nijaji Dhimar 50 and Gopal Thakur 63 and also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 each on them for helping the duo in committing the crime. PTI Stay informed on all the latest news, real-time breaking news updates, and follow all the important headlines in india news andworld News on Zee News. Advertisement Live Tv Advertisement


--- [2013 - Wikipedia] ---
2013 (MMXIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian calendar, the 2013th year of the Common Era (CE) and Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 13th  year of the 3rd millennium and the 21st century, and the  4th   year of the 2010s decade.  
2013 was the first year since 1987 (after 26 years) to contain four unique digits, or no repeating numbers.
2013 was designated as:

International Year of Water Cooperation
International Year of Quinoa




--- [BJP MLA, husband get ten-year RI for abetting maid's suicide] ---
No content
