=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The History of Porter Yoshida & Company - Heddels]
The story of Yoshida & Co., Ltd. began in 1918 when Kichizo Yoshida left his hometown of Samukawa-cho at the tender age of 12 to train as a bag craftsman in Tokyo. Yoshida survived the great Kanto earthquake that devastated Tokyo in 1923, and managed to salvage some of his household goods by tying both ends of a cord to the items and holding the cord on his shoulders. This experience prompted ...
URL: https://www.heddels.com/2018/10/yoshida-co-brand-profile/

[Porter & Yoshida & Co.: A Brief History of the Brand - Highsnobiety]
Nov 6, 2023 · Kichizo Yoshida, founder of Yoshida & Co., began his training in the craft of fine bags at the wildly young age of just 12 years old.
URL: https://www.highsnobiety.com/p/porter-yoshida-history/

[Iconic Japanese Bag Maker Yoshida Marks 90 Years of Durable, Innovative ...]
<p>Tokyo-based bag maker Yoshida & Co., known as "Yoshida Kaban," celebrated its 90th anniversary last year. In November, the company held an exhibition in Tokyo showcasing bags that represent the brand's origins. With its strengths in durable construction for long-term use and designs adapted to the times, it has garnered support both in Japan and abroad.Founder Kichizo Yoshida (1906 ...
URL: https://japannews.yomiuri.co.jp/culture/fashion/20260123-305932/

[Porter Yoshida & Co. - Japanese Crafted Bags - Stuarts London]
Porter Yoshida & Co. - A Brief History The story of Yoshida & Co. began in 1918 when founder Kichizo Yoshida left his Japanese hometown of Samukawa-cho at just 12 years old and headed for Tokyo, in the pursuit of becoming a bag craftsman. Kichizo found himself in the mix of the historic Kanto earthquake that struck Tokyo in 1923, stripping him down to the bare essentials. He managed to ...
URL: https://www.stuartslondon.com/blog/2022/09/14/porter-yoshida-co-japanese-crafted-bags/

[Age Calculator]
This free age calculator computes age in terms of years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, and seconds, given a date of birth.
URL: https://www.calculator.net/age-calculator.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The History of Porter Yoshida & Company - Heddels] ---
20 captures 13 Apr 2019 - 12 Oct 2025 Sep OCT Nov 12 2024 2025 2026 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Common Crawl Web crawl data from Common Crawl. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20251012211449/https://www.heddels.com/2018/10/yoshida-co-brand-profile/ Loader Please wait while your request is being verified...


--- [Porter & Yoshida & Co.: A Brief History of the Brand - Highsnobiety] ---
Earthquakes, War & an Empress: How Porter Became Japan’s Cult Bag Brand “Mochi wa mochiya” is an old Japanese proverb. Literally, it translates to “for rice cakes, go to a rice cake maker.” Basically, it means that if you want the very best product, you should go to a specialist. It’s a foundational mantra that Yoshida & Co., and its subsidiary brands including Porter, have built cult business upon. Kichizo Yoshida, founder of Yoshida & Co., began his training in the craft of fine bags at the wildly young age of just 12 years old. Seventeen years later, then 29, Yoshida started a label that has collaborated with everyone from COMME des GARÇONS and Takashi Murakami to Pokémon and Marni. Though it’s now a beloved bag purveyor the world over, Yoshida & Co. didn’t come easy. Spurred onto creating bags for carrying essential and even life-saving items by the Great Kantō earthquake, the initial years of Kichizo Yoshida’s label, which was set up by Kichizo in 1935, were severely tested by disaster and the Second World War. Yoshida was himself called up for military service. The Yoshida factory was peppered by US air raids. Saving the lifeblood of the business, Yoshida’s wife Chika hid tools and sewing machines from the harm of falling bombs under a bridge in Kandasuda-Cho, Tokyo. The Empress’ Choice It was the 1950s. Yoshida & Co. had survived the unthinkable destruction and loss of World War II and, now, it was not only surviving but thriving. Yoshida & Co.'s Elegant Bag, a compact, featuring a zipper that could alter the width of the bag, was hugely popular in Japan and was picking up international attention, too. A people's favorite, it was perfect for navigating a busy city like Tokyo. But it wasn't just everyday Tokyoites that were fans of Yoshida. In what was a huge boost for the brand’s domestic fortune, Japan’s Empress Emiki Michiko appeared on national television in the early ‘50s carrying a white Porter bag on her arm. After that, it was unstoppable. MA-1 Flight Jackets Though war almost killed Yoshida & Co. and sub-label Porter before it had a chance to reach new shores across the world, the military, and military wear, is something intrinsically linked to the brand today. Kichizo Yoshida turned this dark part of his history into something that would transform his future. “Back in the ‘80s, the leather bag was the mainstream choice.” a Tokyo representive of Porter tells me. “But we realized that the three-layer fabric used for the MA-1 flight jacket was both durable and lightweight. Perfect for our Tanker bags.” Usually arriving in military green or black colorways, the MA-1-inspired Tanker remains one of Porter’s most iconic products, a perfect blend of functionality and style that has kept it at the center of the brand’s bag output for decades. Yoshida & Co. & Its (Many) Sub-Labels Looking at the family tree of Yoshida & Co. and its subsidiary lines, you’d be forgiven for feeling a little confused. Porter was set up in 1962, and it was followed by Porter Girl, Luggage Label, and Porter Heat, among others. Not to mention countless series of its bags, briefcases, and wallets. Though Yoshida & Co. has produced a lot of bags over the decades, it has, rather unusually for pretty much any label in fashion, stuck to bags and bags alone. Returning to the old Japanese proverb, “Mochi wa mochiya”, Porter continues in its search for the perfect accessory, researching expansive new materials, designs, and features, but never straying from the product it knows best. Kichizo Yoshida said that “heart and soul go into every stitch” of his product. Looking at these bags close up, you have no choice but to believe the master craftsman. Scroll to shop this season's Porter bags and accessories. Want to keep browsing? Head to the Highsnobiety Shop for more products that we love.


--- [Iconic Japanese Bag Maker Yoshida Marks 90 Years of Durable, Innovative ...] ---
11:00 JST, January 23, 2026 Tokyo-based bag maker Yoshida & Co., known as “Yoshida Kaban,” celebrated its 90th anniversary last year. In November, the company held an exhibition in Tokyo showcasing bags that represent the brand’s origins. With its strengths in durable construction for long-term use and designs adapted to the times, it has garnered support both in Japan and abroad. Founder Kichizo Yoshida (1906–1994) began working at a bag workshop at age 12. When he experienced the Great Kanto Earthquake at 17, he tied his belongings up with a rope, slung it over his shoulder and carried them with him. This experience led him to believe that “a bag is first and foremost a tool for carrying things.” In 1935, he established Yoshida Kaban Seisakujo (Yoshida bag factory) and produced numerous hand-sewn pieces. The Red Roof Bag, displayed at the exhibition, was inspired by a souvenir from Hawaii. The Elegant Bag, released in 1953, featured a side zipper allowing expansion of the bag’s gusset width. In the postwar years, as apartment complexes and other collective housing increased, its compact design and efficient storage became highly valued. Yoshida established his own brand, Porter. Under this brand name, the company released the Tanker series, which used fabric developed based on the U.S. Air Force MA-1 flight jacket, in 1983. The nylon fabric with interlocking padding is lightweight and durable, but difficult to sew by machine, requiring advanced craftsmanship. It has become a popular series that is Porter’s signature, with 40 standard styles alone, including backpacks and briefcases. The founder’s motto was “Isshin Nyukon” (Putting soul into every stitch). This means never cutting corners in any process, from material selection to design and sewing. This spirit continues today, harmonizing tradition and innovation while always taking on new challenges in manufacturing. The Tanker series underwent a material overhaul in 2024, switching to 100% plant-based nylon with a lower environmental impact. Collaborating with Toray Industries, Inc., they also achieved the world’s first mass production of this material. The brand actively pursues collaborations with diverse global and domestic brands. Products often see fierce demand upon release. Last year, for its 90th anniversary, it collaborated with partners such as Danish fashion brand Cecilie Bahnsen and British electronics giant Dyson. The company is committed to “Made in Japan,” so sewing and other processes are handled by artisans in workshops in Japan. Their designs pursuing functional beauty attract many people. “We want to continue providing good bags that can be used for a long time, together with our artisans,” said President Yukihiro Yoshida. Top Articles in Culture - BTS to Hold Comeback Concert in Seoul on March 21; Popular Boy Band Releases New Album to Signal Return - Lifestyle at Kyoto Traditional Machiya Townhouse to Be Showcased in Documentary - ‘Jujutsu Kaisen’ Voice Actor Junya Enoki Discusses Rapid Action Scenes in Season 3, Airing Now - Tokyo Exhibition Offers Inside Look at Impressionism; 70 of 100 Works on ‘Interiors’ by Monet, Others on Loan from Paris - Japanese Film ‘Kokuho’ Receives Oscar Nod in Makeup, Hairstyling Category; Makeup Artist Kazu Hiro Also Nominated JN ACCESS RANKING - Japan Institute to Use Domestic Commercial Optical Lattice Clock to Set Japan Standard Time - Israeli Ambassador to Japan Speaks about Japan’s Role in the Reconstruction of Gaza - Man Infected with Measles May Have Come in Contact with Many People in Tokyo, Went to Store, Restaurant Around When Symptoms Emerged - Prudential Life Insurance Plans to Fully Compensate for Damages Caused by Fraudulent Actions Without Waiting for Third-Party Committee Review - Woman with Measles Visited Hospital in Tokyo Multiple Times Before Being Diagnosed with Disease


--- [Porter Yoshida & Co. - Japanese Crafted Bags - Stuarts London] ---
No content


--- [Age Calculator] ---
Age Calculator The Age Calculator can determine the age or interval between two dates. The calculated age will be displayed in years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, and seconds. The age of a person can be counted differently in different cultures. This calculator is based on the most common age system. In this system, age increases on a person's birthday. For example, the age of a person who has lived for 3 years and 11 months is 3, and their age will increase to 4 on their next birthday one month later. Most western countries use this age system. In some cultures, age is expressed by counting years with or without including the current year. For example, a person who is twenty years old is the same age as another person who is in their twenty-first year of life. In one of the traditional Chinese age systems, people are born at age 1 and their age increases up at the Traditional Chinese New Year rather than their birthday. For example, if one baby is born just one day before the Traditional Chinese New Year, 2 days later, the baby will be 2 even though he/she is only 2 days old. In some situations, the months and day result of this age calculator may be confusing, especially when the starting date is the end of a month. For example, we count Feb. 20 to Mar. 20 to be one month. However, there are two ways to calculate the age from Feb. 28, 2022 to Mar. 31, 2022. If we consider Feb. 28 to Mar. 28 to be one month, then the result is one month and 3 days. If we consider both Feb. 28 and Mar. 31 as the end of the month, then the result is one month. Both calculation results are reasonable. Similar situations exist for dates like Apr. 30 to May 31, May 30 to June 30, etc. The confusion comes from the uneven number of days in different months. In our calculations, we use the former method.
