=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[En Marche! | French political movement | Britannica]
En Marche! was a centrist political movement founded in 2016 by Emmanuel Macron, who was then serving in the French government. Macron characterized En Marche! as a "democratic revolution" against a rigid political system, proposing a blend of populism and neoliberalism. The movement aimed to transcend traditional left-right divides, attracting support from a broad cross-section of the French ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/topic/En-Marche

[Renaissance (French political party) - Wikipedia]
RE is the leading force of the centrist Ensemble coalition, coalesced around Emmanuel Macron 's original presidential majority. The party was established on 6 April 2016 by Macron, a former Minister of the Economy, Industry and Digital Affairs, who was later elected president in the 2017 presidential election with 66.1% of the second-round vote.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Renaissance_(French_political_party)

[Emmanuel Macron - Wikipedia]
Amid tensions and deterioration of relations with the current government, Macron founded an independent political party, En Marche, in Amiens on 6 April 2016. [85]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emmanuel_Macron

[Renaissance (French political party) - Wikiwand]
En Marche! was established on 6 April 2016 in Amiens by Emmanuel Macron, then aged 38, 42 with the help of political advisor Ismaël Emelien. 53 The initials of the name of the party are the same as the initials of Macron's name. 5444
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/La_R%C3%A9publique_En_Marche

[Renaissance (French political party) explained]
RE is the leading force of the centrist Ensemble coalition, coalesced around Emmanuel Macron 's original presidential majority. The party was established on 6 April 2016 by Macron, a former Minister of the Economy, Industry and Digital Affairs, who was later elected president in the 2017 presidential election with 66.1% of the second-round vote.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/La_Republique_En_Marche!/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [En Marche! | French political movement | Britannica] ---
En Marche! French political movement Learn about this topic in these articles: founding by Macron - In Emmanuel Macron: Rise to the presidency …Macron announced the creation of En Marche! (“Forward!”), a popular movement that he characterized as a “democratic revolution” against a sclerotic political system. Echoing the third-way paradigm that had been promoted by Pres. Bill Clinton in the United States and Prime Minister Tony Blair in Britain, Macron proposed a center-left… Read More


--- [Renaissance (French political party) - Wikipedia] ---
Renaissance (RE) is a political party in France that is typically described as liberal and centrist or centre-right. The party was originally known as En Marche ! (EM)  and later La République En Marche ! (transl. The Republic on the Move), LREM, LaREM or REM), before adopting its current name in September 2022. RE is the leading force of the centrist Ensemble coalition, coalesced around Emmanuel Macron's original presidential majority.
The party was established on 6 April 2016 by Macron, a former Minister of the Economy, Industry and Digital Affairs, who was later elected president in the 2017 presidential election with 66.1% of the second-round vote. Subsequently, the party ran candidates in the 2017 legislative election, including dissidents from the Socialist Party (PS) and the Republicans (LR), as well as minor parties, winning an absolute majority in the National Assembly. Macron was re-elected in the 2022 presidential election, but the party lost its absolute majority in the 2022 legislative election.
Macron conceived RE as a progressive movement, uniting both left and right. RE supports pro-Europeanism and globalization and wants to "modernise and moralise" French politics. The party has accepted members from other political parties at a higher rate than other parties in France, and does not impose any fees on members who want to join. The party has been a founding member of Renew Europe, the political group of the European Parliament representing liberals and centrists, since June 2019.


--- [Emmanuel Macron - Wikipedia] ---
Emmanuel Jean-Michel Frédéric Macron (born 21 December 1977) is a French politician who has served as President of France and Co-Prince of Andorra since 2017. He served as Minister of Economics and Finance under President François Hollande from 2014 to 2016. He has been a member of Renaissance since founding the party in 2016.
Born in Amiens, Macron studied philosophy at Paris Nanterre University. He completed a master's degree in public affairs at Sciences Po and graduated from the École nationale d'administration in 2004. He worked as a senior civil servant at the General Inspectorate of Finance and as an investment banker at Rothschild & Co. Macron was a senior adviser to President Hollande, being appointed as Élysée deputy secretary-general by Hollande after the 2012 presidential election. He was later appointed as Economics Minister in 2014 in the second Valls government, and led several business-friendly reforms. He resigned in 2016 to launch his 2017 presidential campaign. A member of the Socialist Party between 2006 and 2009, he ran in the election under the banner of En Marche !, a centrist and pro-European political movement which he founded in 2016.
Partly due to the Fillon affair, Macron was elected President in May 2017 with 66% of the vote in the second round, defeating Marine Le Pen of the National Front. Aged 39, he became the youngest president in French history. In the 2017 legislative election, his party, renamed La République En Marche! (LREM), secured a majority in the National Assembly. During his presidency, Macron has overseen reforms to labour laws, taxation, and pensions; and pursued a renewable energy transition. Dubbed "president of the rich" by opponents, increasing protests against his reforms culminated in 2018–2020 with the yellow vests protests and the pension reform strike. From 2020, he led France's response to the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent recession, including by overseeing the country's vaccination rollout. In foreign policy, Macron called for reforms to the European Union (EU) and signed treaties with Germany and Italy. He conducted €40 billion in trade and business agreements with China during the China–United States trade war and oversaw a dispute with Australia and the U.S. over the AUKUS security pact. Macron has also continued Opération Chammal in the war against the Islamic State and joined in the international condemnation of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Macron was elected to a second term in the 2022 presidential election, again defeating Le Pen and becoming the first French presidential candidate to win reelection since Jacques Chirac in 2002. In the 2022 legislative election, Macron's centrist coalition lost its majority, resulting in a hung parliament and formation of France's first minority government since 1993. In 2023, the government of his prime minister, Élisabeth Borne, passed legislation raising the retirement age from 62 to 64; this led to public sector strikes and violent protests. In 2024, Macron appointed Gabriel Attal as Prime Minister after a government crisis. He then dissolved the National Assembly and called a snap legislative election following overwhelming defeat at the 2024 European Parliament elections, which resulted in another hung parliament and an electoral defeat for his coalition. Afterwards, Macron appointed Michel Barnier, a conservative and former chief Brexit negotiator, as Prime Minister. Three months in, Barnier was toppled by a historic vote of no confidence, prompting Macron to replace him with centrist veteran François Bayrou. After Bayrou was himself brought down by a confidence vote in September 2025, Macron appointed Sébastien Lecornu, Minister of the Armed Forces, as Prime Minister. Lecornu resigned less than a month later following political backlash over the composition of his government, but was reappointed by Macron shortly afterwards. The formations of these short-lived governments have marked a political crisis.




--- [Renaissance (French political party) - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [Renaissance (French political party) explained] ---
No content
