=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Outlaw Run - Wikipedia]
Rocky Mountain Construction was selected as the manufacturer after their proposal met Silver Dollar City's concerns over available space and budget restraints. Outlaw Run opened to a positive reception on March 15, 2013.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Outlaw_Run

[Lightning Rod - Coasterpedia - The Amusement Ride Wiki]
When the ride opened on June 13, 2016, is was marketed as the world's first launched wooden roller coaster and the world's fastest wooden coaster. The track was originally wooden Topper Track, but the majority of it has since been replaced with steel I-Box Track.
URL: https://coasterpedia.net/wiki/Lightning_Rod

[Rocky Mountain Construction]
Founded by Fred Grubb and Suanne Dedmon in 2001, it has built over 20 roller coasters. In 2023, it merged with amusement ride manufacturer Larson International.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rocky_Mountain_Construction

[Outlaw Run - Wikiwand]
Outlaw Run was Rocky Mountain Construction's first wooden roller coaster. [2] It is the sixth fastest wooden roller coaster in the world, reaching speeds of up to 68 miles per hour (109 km/h).
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Outlaw_Run

[rocky mountain construction | Great American Thrills®]
Mean Streak was part of a trio of massive wooden roller coasters built in the late 1980's to early 1990's. They were designed and built by Charles Dinn of Ohio ...
URL: https://greatamericanthrills.net/tag/rocky-mountain-construction/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Outlaw Run - Wikipedia] ---
Outlaw Run is a wooden roller coaster located at Silver Dollar City in Branson, Missouri. Designed by Alan Schilke, Outlaw Run is the first wooden roller coaster manufactured by Rocky Mountain Construction (RMC) and became the first wooden coaster with multiple inversions. It features a 162-foot (49 m) drop, three inversions, and a maximum speed of 68 mph (109 km/h), making Outlaw Run the sixth-fastest wooden coaster in the world. Its 81-degree first drop is also both the fourth steepest and fourth tallest in the world among wooden roller coasters. It is tied with Wildfire at Kolmården Wildlife Park, also manufactured by RMC, for the most inversions on a wooden coaster.
Development of an early concept began in 2009, and Outlaw Run was officially announced in August 2012. Rocky Mountain Construction was selected as the manufacturer after their proposal met Silver Dollar City's concerns over available space and budget restraints. Outlaw Run opened to a positive reception on March 15, 2013.




--- [Lightning Rod - Coasterpedia - The Amusement Ride Wiki] ---
Lightning Rod More actions Videos Lightning Rod is a hybrid roller coaster manufactured by American firm Rocky Mountain Construction and designed by Alan Schilke currently located at Dollywood in Pigeon Forge, Tennessee, USA.[1] When the ride opened on June 13, 2016, is was marketed as the world's first launched wooden roller coaster and the world's fastest wooden coaster. The track was originally wooden Topper Track, but the majority of it has since been replaced with steel I-Box Track. The prototype launch has also since been replaced with a traditional chain lift. History Lightning Rod was revealed at an event featuring Dolly Parton on August 7, 2015.[2] Shortly before the attraction's scheduled March 19, 2016 opening, it was announced to be delayed due to launch system problems.[3] It started technical rehearsals with guests on May 23, 2016 before officially opening on June 13.[4] In July 2018, Lightning Rod was temporarily closed. It reopened on October 10 after changes were made to the lead car.[5] In September 2020, Lightning Rod was closed for the remainder of the year. The following month, during a question-and-answer session at an enthusiasts' event, a park representative revealed that some of Lightning Rod's wooden Topper Track would be replaced with steel I-Box Track in an attempt to improve its reliability. The layout was not changed.[6][7] In total, 2,160 feet of the ride's 3,800 feet of track, approximately 57%, was replaced with I-Box Track during the refurbishment. The ride reopened for the first time with the new I-Box Track on March 12, 2021. In September 2023, the park announced the removal of the ride's LSM launch due to consistent reliability issues and downtime. It reopened in 2024 with a standard chain lift hill.[8] Design | Elements | |---| Trains 6 cars per train. In each car, riders are arranged 2 across in 2 rows, for a total of 24 riders per train. The trains are based on hot rods. Images - A hot rod model - The welding shop area in the queue line - The highest point of the ride - The over-banked curve - The final turnaround - The LSM lift hill - The station - The original train - The train without the lead car References - ↑ MacDonald, Brady (2015-11-04). "Dollywood's new Lightning Rod coaster will burn rubber from start to finish". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved 2025-06-22. - ↑ "Dollywood To Add World's Fastest Wooden Roller Coaster for 2016 — $22 Million 'Lightning Rod'". - ↑ "Dollywood's Lightning Rod Opening Delayed". Coaster101. March 16, 2016. Retrieved February 8, 2022. - ↑ Niles, Robert (June 13, 2016). "Lightning Rod opens officially at Dollywood". Theme Park Insider. Retrieved November 23, 2020. - ↑ "Lightning Rod Reopens at Dollywood After Months of Downtime". Coaster101. October 11, 2018. Retrieved May 25, 2021. - ↑ "Lightning Rod at Dollywood Receiving New Track in 2021". Coaster101. November 16, 2020. Retrieved November 23, 2020. - ↑ Ozana, Rus (November 14, 2020). "Lightning Rod Update". American Coaster Enthusiasts. Retrieved November 23, 2020. - ↑ "Dollywood's Lightning Rod Launch to Become Traditional Chain Lift in 2024". Coaster101. 2023-09-12. Retrieved 2023-09-12. External links - Lightning Rod on the Roller Coaster DataBase | Fastest wooden roller coaster June 13, 2016 - present | || | Preceded by Goliath | Fastest wooden roller coaster June 13, 2016 - present | Succeeded by None |


--- [Rocky Mountain Construction] ---
Rocky Mountain Construction (RMC) is an American roller coaster manufacturing and construction company based in Hayden, Idaho, United States. It is best known for its I-Box track and Topper Track for wooden roller coasters. Founded by Fred Grubb and Suanne Dedmon in 2001, it has built over 20 roller coasters. In 2023, it merged with amusement ride manufacturer Larson International.


--- [Outlaw Run - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [rocky mountain construction | Great American Thrills®] ---
On Saturday, Kings Dominion finally revealed their 2017 attraction that it had been building up on social media for several weeks – an expanded Planet Snoopy, along with a season-long photo service and in-park wi-fi. And the reaction online was both swift and ugly: About 98% of the posts responding to the park’s announcements were negative. Park “fans” are incensed because they felt Kings Dominion staff purposely lied, teasing them into thinking something larger (and in their opinion, better) was coming (specifically, a Rocky Mountain conversion of their Hurler wooden coaster). Here’s their reasoning – exhibit A is a tweet similar to this (which has been subsequently deleted). It features Snoopy looking at the Hurler roller coaster: Exhibit B (they say) is this video, in which their PR Manager read fan mail: The first question asks if green colored roller coaster track in an Ohio foundry is destined for Kings Dominion. He responds, “Green? No. It’s red.” Apparently his sarcasm didn’t translate to everyone – as “fans” immediately assumed he was hinting at the familiar red track from Rocky Mountain Construction. Some fans got the joke: But apparently, many did not – and therein lies the problem. Exhibit C (they say) is the fact that the park announced the expansion as part of a big event, inviting pass holders and bloggers to come and hear the news first – two days after the rest of the chain announced their attractions. This led park “fans” to THINK the timing indicated it would be a major announcement. The simple fact is this: coaster “fans” created their own narrative and reality, due in part to the echo chamber of social media and the constant searching for the latest rumors on ride additions. They had convinced themselves not only was a roller coaster coming to Kings Dominion – but that they the fans DESERVED one. How can I say this with confidence? Because others did some research – yet were drowned out by all the fervor: Now – should the park have used photos of Snoopy looking at a closed Hurler? In hindsight, probably not. Is it worth getting so worked up about, that you threaten the park, sharpen your pitchforks and hope the PR guy is fired? Hell no! (I’m looking at you, Instagrammers) I want “ansers” too…like how you think your eight followers on Instagram constitutes a personal phone call from the park, apologizing for not putting in a ride that you wanted. “Hype” that was driven more by coaster “fans” online who wanted a narrative, and didn’t get it. In the end, this tease campaign made perfect sense – Snoopy is looking around the park, “snoopin’ around” as they say for his Planet Snoopy expansion. But the scale of the announcement vs. the attraction, coupled with the “echo chamber” and “need to know” community that is the online coaster “fan” made this the perfect storm for full-blown virality – in the worst way possible. Welcome to the tightrope that is social media. Hope you’ve got a net set up below. And as for the coaster “fans” posting all the hate and vitriol against the park to social media or demanding the park add a coaster to satisfy you – good luck ever being invited to a media day or special event… Never has a wooden roller coaster closure announcement been more gleefully celebrated by the ride enthusiast community… On Monday, Cedar Point announced that they would be “giving the axe” to their once record-breaking wooden roller coaster, Mean Streak. There was no blowback; no online petitions; no hashtag activists. Quite simply, people were ready to let Mean Streak go. But why? Aren’t we supposed to celebrate and try to preserve the wooden coaster in America? After all, we invented them back in 1884 at Coney Island. Photo credit: Cedar Point Mean Streak was part of a trio of massive wooden roller coasters built in the late 1980’s to early 1990’s. They were designed and built by Charles Dinn of Ohio and each (Hercules at Dorney Park, The Texas Giant at Six Flags Over Texas and Mean Streak at Cedar Point) were record breakers. Photo credit: Wikipedia They were also neck breakers. While the rides were massively popular their first year, the parks they sat in simply could not allocate enough man-hours or maintenance time to keep them running as smooth as when they opened. They quickly fell out of favor with not only ride enthusiasts, but also the general public due to their rough rides. Of the 11 wooden coasters that Dinn designed and built – four have been demolished, one has been renovated into a steel coaster and now we await the eventual fate of Mean Streak. The other massive woodies of the era (not built by Dinn) did not fare well, either. The Rattler at Fiesta Texas was renovated into a steel coaster in 2013 while Son of Beast at Kings Island was eventually torn down. The Texas Giant (one of Dinn’s designs) was converted into a steel coaster by Rocky Mountain Construction in 2011. The closure of Mean Streak is a bookend to a unique era in the amusement industry, where we discovered there is an upper limit to what wooden coasters can do, bigger was not always better and sacrificing ride quality for records does not make for a good, long-term investment. Let us hope that we never see an era like it again. Shockwaves are being felt throughout the coaster and park enthusiast community today as several Rocky Mountain Construction coasters around the world have been closed “until further notice” due to an apparently defective train cylinder. Kolmården Park issued a very detailed statement late Saturday, saying a cylinder on the rides’ train is to blame for the delayed opening. On a banner on their homepage, Dollywood posted: “Lightning Rod is closed today. The ride manufacturer ordered all of its roller coasters closed until further notice as a recalled mechanical part is replaced.” However, several RMC coasters are still operating as of this evening. The Joker at Six Flags Discovery Kingdom has been experiencing quite a bit of downtime since officially opening late last month, although an exact cause for it has not been announced. It, along with Twisted Colossus are currently open as of Saturday afternoon. Storm Chaser at Kentucky Kingdom was operating as of noon Saturday afternoon. Its current status is unknown. Wicked Cyclone has been closed at Six Flags New England as of Saturday afternoon. Hayden, ID-based Rocky Mountain Construction has yet to issue any statement on the recall or what was the impetus for removing their rides from service so suddenly and abruptly. Sadly, this has led to rampant speculation and rumors online. Stay tuned to Great American Thrills for the latest on this developing story… Rocky Mountain Construction co-owner Fred Grubb responded to speculation online from enthusiasts as to the reason behind the delayed opening of Lightning Rod at Dollywood. Here is his full statement: “We take the highest level of pride in every attraction we create. RMC is equally disappointed that Lightning Rod will not be opening as originally planned. We have been working with the launch system subcontractor on-site to bring it up to speed and working as intended. As is often the case with prototype attractions and especially with launched coasters, delays are an ever-present possibility. During the course of testing, we determined that the third-party launch system would not be able to perform at the level required for proper operation. While we strive to meet all of our deadlines, we cannot and will not sacrifice safety or ride quality in the name of saving time. RMC never has nor ever will open any new attraction until it has passed our rigorous standards. At this time, we cannot speculate as to when the attraction will open to the general public. That date is ultimately decided upon by the customer, therefore all questions regarding an opening should be directed to Dollywood. On behalf of all the employees at Rocky Mountain Construction, I want to personally thank the management team at Dollywood, the fans of the park as well as our fans for their patience and understanding as we work to bring you Lightning Rod.” You can read the full release on Rocky Mountain Construction’s website, here. There’s a great dichotomy in the coaster enthusiast world… We love rides, that much is certain. But sometimes, that love can go a little too far. We say that we respect the companies that create these incredible attractions, yet we can’t wait to spill the beans on new attractions. In years past, this has meant going as far as perusing company servers to find out the latest rumor or detail. The latest case to develop on this comes from the Great Smokey Mountains, and Dollywood. Certainly one of the most anticipated new coasters to open this year is Lightning Rod – the world’s first launched wooden coaster. But when I see posts like this – from Instagram – it makes me wonder if these people truly LOVE this industry – or are so obsessed with it, they can no longer think straight: Now, I’ve blurred the image out of respect for Rocky Mountain Construction. But it’s the principal that matters, here. Just because an image is online, does NOT mean it’s okay to re-share it. Would you share leaked photos of a naked selfie of a person you knew? Of course not – because you’re not a douchebag. So how can you say you love this industry, when you do everything against what the industry JUST asked you do to? In this case, it was an easy task – JUST WAIT. The fact of the matter is, if you’re reminded that the park or company EXPRESSLY ASKED that nothing be shared – and then you share it anyway – you’re not a true enthusiast – you’re a selfish jerk. You’d rather share a photo than simply listen to the request of a park and / or manufacturing company you supposedly love and respect. Doing things like this is counter-intuitive to the enthusiast mentality. Why are you hurting the very thing you purport to love? When cool perks like backstage tours or construction walk-backs start to dry up…it will be you who will ultimately be blamed. On Thursday, July 16th, Six Flags Discovery Kingdom posted across their social media outlets – as well as via a press release – that their GCl wooden coaster, Roar will be shutting down forever on August 16th. The timing is fortuitous – the last day of operation will be National Roller Coaster Day in the United States. “We are a dynamic and evolving entertainment venue,” said Don McCoy, park president. “Although Roar continues to be a guest favorite, sometimes hard choices must be made to allow for future expansion.” Roar opened in 1999 as the park was officially re-branded as the “New Marine World Theme Park” – which brought several new shows and attractions, restaurants and shops to the park. An estimated 11 million guests have experienced the 10-story coaster which features the first use of GCI’s throwback “Millennium Flyer” single bench, articulated trains. According to the park, a special fond farewell to Roar will include a series of events for guests and Season Pass holders, the highlight of which will be a special last rider event. How much will this skyline change after Roar is shut down forever this year? Only time will tell… (Photo credit: Kris Rowberry, http://www.GreatAmericanThrills.net) The shutdown fuels rumors that the ride may be next in the Six Flags chain to receive some sort of renovation from roller coaster manufacturer, Rocky Mountain Construction. While none of this has been confirmed by the park or RMC, a job posting several weeks ago that advertised several temporary positions available in California has had some in the industry speculate that the Roar project was what they were advertising for. The ride had become particularly rough over the past few years, culminating with a major track replacement which involved removal and replacement of approximately 1/4 of the total length of the ride last year. With Colossus’ days numbered at Six Flags Magic Mountain, I thought it be appropriate on this Throwback Thursday to share a bit of my childhood relating to the “King of Wooden Coasters” before it’s too late. Like many other early Millennials, I grew up with Nickelodeon. And not the crap Nickelodeon they’re passing off today. I’m talking Salute Your Shorts, Rocko’s Modern Life and Double Dare holy crap this is amazing Nickelodeon. One of the mainstays of the channel was a show called “Wild and Crazy Kids.” It featured groups of kids competing in wacky, sometimes messy games with the goal to just have fun (Imagine that!) Colossus, gleaming under the spotlight of basic cable television! I, like many other wide-eyed kids watching, were introduced to Colossus by this show – with their “Wacky Roller Coaster Spill.” That and the hope that someday, God willing – I’d get on the show and get to score one of those shirts… Now, the editing isn’t very good in terms of continuity (I think they show the first drop three times and the double up twice). But it still shows a beautiful and thrilling Colossus – and an interesting game to boot. Enjoy this bit of 80’s / 90’s kid nostalgia – and #FarewellColossus! If you’re looking for the latest on what comes after Colossus, be sure to check out our friends in Southern California, The Coaster Guy and Park Journey. If the video isn’t loading properly, just skip to 9:16 for the good stuff… Video is used only for educational or informational purposes. No claim of copyright intended. It’s only natural to want to try and speculate on what exactly happened last Friday night at Six Flags Over Texas. I’ve even caught myself doing it on occasion to friends or co-workers, who have asked me about the unfolding situation. But that doesn’t mean it’s right. With inaccurate eyewitness reports, the urge to find out as much information as possible before anyone else has it – we as humans tend to want to fill in the facts when there’s an unknown. The speculation had already begun today, as well as recommendations for change, despite not even knowing what exactly occurred. People were already getting in front of the media, illustrating, “…where she fell out,” and were even calling for “Over the Shoulder Restraints” or OTSR on more rides, as if they would have clearly prevented this accident from occurring. All of this was being done without any formal information on what exactly happened. Speculation can only lead us as a society to a skewed, unwarranted perception of the event. Currently, that misconception is: “…because someone died on a roller coaster – ALL OF THEM must be dangerous!” Nothing could be further from the truth. The truth is this, folks: You’re more likely to be hurt riding an ESCALATOR at the mall than you are on a looping roller coaster. Parks don’t want accidents – they want you to feel safe. It’s very much a “self-policing” industry. Gone are the days of the Roaring 20’s, where rides that killed became MORE popular. While we live in an age of instant communication, instant answers – this is one event that we must wait for. Only time will tell what happens next in this investigation – but can’t we all just give this investigation just that, a little TIME? An unprecedented two major news-making events took place at two separate amusement parks in the U.S. within minutes of each other on Friday, bringing up the inevitable media hype over ride safety. At Six Flags Over Texas and Cedar Point, two major incidents occurred that have splashed across the media. In the wake of yesterday’s tragic event and subsequent investigation at Six Flags Over Texas, Iron Rattler at Six Flags Fiesta Texas has been closed as a precautionary measure, according to a park representative. The ride features the same style of “Iron Horse” track as the Texas Giant and same train manufacturer, Gerstlauer of Germany. Our thoughts and prayers go out to everyone involved in today’s tragic events. When reporting news, there’s always the possibility of reporting inaccurate information. When the story is breaking, that risk is even bigger. These stories are no different. One of the more glaring items that stands out to me is from the The Dallas Morning News. They reported that eyewitness, Carmen Brown, who was in the loading station of the Texas Giant, “…said the woman had expressed concern to a park employee that she was not secured correctly in her seat.” “He (the ride attendant) was basically nonchalant,” Brown said. “He was, like, ‘As long as you heard it click, you’re fine.’ Hers was the only one that went down once, and she didn’t feel safe. But they let her still get on the ride.” Here’s the problem – the Texas Giant doesn’t use “clicking” restraints. In fact, according to Gerstlauer, the manufacturer of the trains for the Texas Giant, “The cars feature four self-restraining seats with T-shaped lapbars.” It continues, “The use of redundant hydraulic cylinders ensures that each lap bar can be infinitely adjusted and offers maximum security.” in other words, these restraints come down in silence. As I was just out at Six Flags Over Texas about five weeks ago, I can attest to this fact. The Texas Giant also features an electronic indicator light on each train, (one for each restraint) which alerts operators if a restraint is too high for safety. The light turns from red to green. It should not be lost on anyone, but you should know – your odds are far greater of being injured DRIVING to your local amusement park then they are INSIDE your local amusement park. In addition, if you do not feel confident in a ride – you always, ALWAYS have the choice of simply asking to be let out. There are roller coasters – and then they’re EPIC roller coasters. Iron Rattler at Six Flags Fiesta Texas is one of those attractions that takes your breath away. Once the tallest wooden coaster on Earth, the Rattler was transformed this past off season to include Rocky Mountain Construction’s Iron Horse Track (similar to the track on Texas Giant just a few hours north). The ride is now smooth, powerful and FORCEFUL – definitely a steel coaster that should rank in your top three in the world after you ride it. Did we mention there’s a clever inversion on it, too? A HUGE thanks goes out to my friends at BorrowLenses for allowing me to capture such beautiful photos with their gear. While working on editing photos from my recent marathon trip across the country these past two weeks, I couldn’t help but laugh at what Facebook thought was a face…it’s actually a wheel bogey from the “epic” Iron Rattler at Six Flags Fiesta Texas.
