=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[2015 IEEE Honors: IEEE-RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal - Lynn Conway]
Jul 2, 2015 — IEEE Forward! The 2015 IEEE Honors Ceremony presents the IEEE-RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal This year's recipient: Lynn Conway.
URL: https://ieeetv.ieee.org/history/2015-ieee-honors-ieee-rse-james-clerk-maxwell-medal-lynn-conway

[Who won the first nobel prize for environmental action was...]
Mar 21, 2024 · The first Nobel Prize was awarded in 1901. Wangari Maathai was the first African womand and the first Kenyan to win a Nobel prize. She won the Peace prize in 2004, for her environmental work.
URL: https://www.answers.com/literary-awards/Who_won_the_first_nobel_prize_for_environmental_action_was_awarded_to

[Lynn Conway Receives 2015 IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell ...]
Dec 5, 2014 — Lynn Conway, Professor Emerita of EECS, received the 2015 IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal, “for contributions to and leadership in design ...
URL: https://eecs.engin.umich.edu/stories/lynn-conway-receives-2015-ieee-rse-james-clerk-maxwell-medal

[IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal - Engineering and ...]
Feb 27, 2025 · The IEEE/Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) Wolfson James Clerk Maxwell Award, established in 2006, is named in honor of the 19th century Scottish mathematician and physicist James Clerk Maxwell.
URL: https://ethw.org/IEEE/RSE_James_Clerk_Maxwell_Medal

[IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal - Wikipedia]
The IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal[1] is an award given by the IEEE and Royal Society of Edinburgh, UK. It is named after James Clerk Maxwell (1831–1879), who made fundamental contributions to the classical theory of electromagnetic radiation.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE/RSE_James_Clerk_Maxwell_Medal


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [2015 IEEE Honors: IEEE-RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal - Lynn Conway] ---
2015 IEEE Honors: IEEE-RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal - Lynn Conway Create Account or Sign In to post comments IEEE Forward! The 2015 IEEE Honors Ceremony presents the IEEE-RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal This year's recipient: Lynn Conway The groundbreaking contributions of Lynn Conway created a revolution in very large scale integration (VLSI) technology that has profoundly impacted computer chip design as one of the most widely used techniques for building microprocessors and other computer components. IEEE Forward! The 2015 IEEE Honors Ceremony presents the IEEE-RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal This year's recipient: Lynn Conway


--- [Who won the first nobel prize for environmental action was...] ---
Create 0 Log in Subjects > Books and Literature > Literary Awards Who won the first nobel prize for environmental action was awarded to? Anonymous ∙ 15y ago Updated: 3/21/2024 Wangari Maathai in 2004. Wiki User ∙ 15y ago Copy Show More Answers (1) Add Your Answer What else can I help you with? Search Related Questions Trending Questions How many times was Eugene O'Neill awarded the Pulitzer Price? How many awards did William Golding win? In the sentence the top award was given to neither steve or jim Are the conjuctions used correctly? Did Levi Strauss receive any awards? What awards have dolce and gabbana won? What does the jacket symbolize in the story A Scholarship Jacket? Which photo won the Pulitzer Prize in 2003? How much is the monetary award associated with the Nobel prize? Who is the nobel prize winner in urdu language? What awards has Michael foreman won? What prevented the Color Purple from winning any of its 11 1985 Oscar nominations? When was Dolman Best Travel Book Award created? Congratulations at the outset what does it mean? What Emmys is True Detective nominated for? What major accomplishments did Mario j molina have? Why was Alfred nobel a man of contrast? Where can one purchase Award Plaques? What are 5 phases of approval and acceptance of an applicant's petition for certification? How can you get a badge to post on your profile for being a copy editor? What awards did Jim Lovell receive?


--- [Lynn Conway Receives 2015 IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell ...] ---
Lynn Conway Receives 2015 IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal Lynn Conway, Professor Emerita of EECS, received the 2015 IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal, “for contributions to and leadership in design methodology and pedagogy enabling rapid advances and dissemination of VLSI design tools and systems.” The James Clerk Maxwell Medal is one of the highest awards presented by IEEE. Prof. Conway, sometimes called the “hidden hand” in the microchip design revolution, was a major source of innovation in a field that eventually made personal computers and smartphones possible. Watch Prof. Conway’s acceptance speech and IEEE’s video bio here. Introduction to VLSI Systems, a textbook Prof. Conway co-authored and published with Prof. Carver Mead of Caltech in 1979, was a benchmark publication that helped standardize chip design instruction. This text developed guidelines to make chip design both scalable and accessible to a broad audience of engineers for the first time. Opening up chip design to the general engineering community, including engineering students, helped the industry explode and ultimately led to today’s Silicon Valley. An earlier innovation of Prof. Conway’s wasn’t even recognized as her work until decades later. As a researcher at IBM in 1965, she developed a new paradigm in computer architecture called dynamic instruction scheduling (DIS). DIS issues multiple out-of-order computer instructions per machine cycle. At the time she was a member of the Advanced Computing Systems project, attempting to solve a sticky problem – not realizing how many others had already tried and failed at the same task. Her invention allowed for the first superscalar computer, and eventually became standard in almost all PC chips. It was the lack of recognition of her role in DIS that later motivated Lynn to acknowledge her own personal struggles and choices. Prof. Conway began work at IBM as a male, eventually transitioning in the late 1960s. Her transition cost her the job at IBM, and forced her to embark on a new life with a new identity. Her talent, optimism, and vision helped her rise again. After a brief stint at Memorex, she joined the famed Xerox Palo Alto Research Center (PARC) in 1973. Problems with some of her early projects would be excellent preparation for her innovations in chip design that occurred after joining a PARC/Caltech collaboration three years later. She began writing the first chapters of Introduction to VLSI Systems in 1977, and in ’78 used a prototype of the book to teach a course on the new methods at MIT. Her pioneering course quickly spread to other major universities, and VLSI design “for the masses” caught on like wildfire. After serving as Assistant Director for Strategic Computing at DARPA from 1983-85, Prof. Conway joined the University of Michigan as professor of EECS and associate dean for instruction and instructional technology. Her own research focused on visual communications and control, for which she received five U.S. patents. Prof. Conway is a Member of the National Academy of Engineering and an IEEE Fellow. She received the 2006 Computer Pioneer Award from the IEEE Computer Society and the Electronics Magazine Achievement Award in 1981 for her textbook. She was elected to the Electronic Design Hall of Fame, and inducted as a fellow of the Computer History Museum earlier this year. Prof. Conway is recognized as one of the most prominent women engineers in the tech industry. Her technical accomplishments have impacted an entire industry, and her personal story now inspires a new generation. About the Award The IEEE/Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) James Clerk Maxwell Medal was established in 2006 in honor of the 19th century Scottish mathematician and physicist James Clerk Maxwell. Maxwell’s equations laid the foundations of electromagnetic wave theory, radio propagation, microwave techniques, and radio communications. [Read The Long Road to Maxwell’s Equations, IEEE Spectrum, December 1, 2014] This Medal is presented to an individual or team for groundbreaking contributions that have had an exceptional impact on the development of electronics and electrical engineering or related fields. Prof. Conway received the medal at the IEEE Honors Ceremony on Saturday, June 20, 2015 in New York, NY.


--- [IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal - Engineering and ...] ---
IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal From ETHW About Medal The IEEE/Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) Wolfson James Clerk Maxwell Award, established in 2006, is named in honor of the 19th century Scottish mathematician and physicist James Clerk Maxwell. Maxwell laid the foundations of electromagnetic wave theory, radio propagation, microwave techniques, and radio communications. The award was renamed the IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal in 2015. Award Recipients - Irwin M. Jacobs, 2007 - Andrew J. Viterbi, 2007 - Sir Timothy Berners-Lee, 2008 - A. Sangiovanni- Vinentelli, 2009 - Amar G. Bose, 2010 - Marcian E. Hoff, 2011 - Gerhard M. Sessler, 2012 - Richard Stephen Muller, Richard M. White, 2013 - David N. Payne, 2014 - Lynn Conway, 2015 - Geoffrey E. Hinton, 2016 - no award, 2017 - Thomas Bryn Haug, Philippe Raymond Dupuis, 2018 - David Flynn, David Jagger, 2019 - no award, 2020 - Evelyn L. Hu, 2021 - Ingo Wolff, 2022 - Mau-Chung Frank Chang, 2023 - Kam Lau, 2024


--- [IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal - Wikipedia] ---
The IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal is an award given by the IEEE and Royal Society of Edinburgh, UK. It is named after James Clerk Maxwell (1831–1879), who made fundamental contributions to the classical theory of electromagnetic radiation. The award is presented annually, and was established in 2006.
The award is given annually to outstanding individuals in recognition of: "groundbreaking contributions that have had an exceptional impact on the development of electronics and electrical engineering, or related fields".
