=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Naproxen Sodium | C14H13NaO3 | CID 23681059 - PubChem]
Naproxen Sodium | C14H13NaO3 | CID 23681059 - structure, chemical names, physical and chemical properties, classification, patents, literature, biological activities ...
URL: https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/Naproxen-sodium

[Naproxen | C14H14O3 | CID 156391 - PubChem]
Naproxen | C14H14O3 | CID 156391 - structure, chemical names, physical and chemical properties, classification, patents, literature, biological activities, safety/hazards/toxicity information, supplier lists, and more.
URL: https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/Naproxen

[Naproxen - Wikipedia]
Naproxen, sold under the brand name Aleve among others, is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to treat pain, menstrual cramps, and inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, gout and fever. [7] It is taken orally. [7] It is available in immediate and delayed release formulations. [7] Onset of effects is within an hour and lasts for up to twelve hours. [7] Naproxen is ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naproxen

[Sodium naproxen | C14H14NaO3 | CID 9837916 - PubChem]
Sodium naproxen | C14H14NaO3 | CID 9837916 - structure, chemical names, physical and chemical properties, classification, patents, literature, biological activities, safety/hazards/toxicity information, supplier lists, and more.
URL: https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/Sodium-naproxen

[Naproxen | 22204-53-1 - ChemicalBook]
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs Naproxen is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug ,it is a PG synthase inhibitor, which can inhibit prostaglandin synthetase, it has significant analgesic and antipyretic effects, oral absorption is rapid and complete, 2 to 4 hours after a dose ,plasma concentration reaches the peak, in the blood , more than 99% is bound to plasma proteins, t1/2 is 13 to ...
URL: https://www.chemicalbook.com/ChemicalProductProperty_EN_CB8274937.htm


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Naproxen Sodium | C14H13NaO3 | CID 23681059 - PubChem] ---
History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [Naproxen | C14H14O3 | CID 156391 - PubChem] ---
No content


--- [Naproxen - Wikipedia] ---
Naproxen, sold under the brand name Aleve among others, is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to treat pain, menstrual cramps, and inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, gout and fever. It is taken orally. It is available in immediate and delayed release formulations. Onset of effects is within an hour and lasts for up to twelve hours. Naproxen is also available in salt form, naproxen sodium, which has better solubility when taken orally.
Common side effects include dizziness, headache, bruising, allergic reactions, heartburn, and stomach pain. Severe side effects include an increased risk of heart disease, stroke, gastrointestinal bleeding, and stomach ulcers. The heart disease risk may be lower than with other NSAIDs. It is not recommended in people with kidney problems. Use is not recommended in the third trimester of pregnancy.
Naproxen is a nonselective COX inhibitor. As an NSAID, naproxen appears to exert its anti-inflammatory action by reducing the production of inflammatory mediators called prostaglandins. It is metabolized by the liver to inactive metabolites.
Naproxen was patented in 1967 and approved for medical use in the United States in 1976. In the United States it is available over-the-counter and as a generic medication. In 2023, it was the 103rd most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than 6 million prescriptions. Naproxen is a therapeutic alternative on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines.


--- [Sodium naproxen | C14H14NaO3 | CID 9837916 - PubChem] ---
No content


--- [Naproxen | 22204-53-1 - ChemicalBook] ---
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs Naproxen is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug ,it is a PG synthase inhibitor, which can inhibit prostaglandin synthetase, it has significant analgesic and antipyretic effects, oral absorption is rapid and complete, 2 to 4 hours after a dose ,plasma concentration reaches the peak, in the blood , more than 99% is bound to plasma proteins, t1/2 is 13 to 14 hours, about 95% is discharged from the urine with the prototype and metabolites.it is clinically used For the treatment of rheumatic and rheumatoid arthritis , osteoarthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, gout, arthritis, tenosynovitis.it can also be used to alleviate pain caused by musculoskeletal sprains, contusions,damages and dysmenorrhea . But it should be noted that like other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, the same serious gastrointestinal adverse reactions could occur at any time while taking naproxen during treatment, so the active gastroduodenal ulcer patients are hanged, other gastrointestinal tract disease patients should take this drug under close medical supervision. The above information is edited by the Chemicalbook of Tian Ye. Chemical Properties White crystal or crystalline powder. Melting point 155.3 ℃. Soluble in acetone, soluble in methanol, ethanol, acetic acid, insoluble in benzene, practically insoluble in water. In case of light,it is color-graded, odorless, tasteless. Uses It is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for the relief of fever and inflammation and pain associated with arthritis or other symptoms , it has anti-inflammatory, antipyretic and analgesic effects. Naproxen plays a role by inhibiting the cyclooxygenase, which generates prostaglandin and is one kind of enzymes related to inflammatory mediators . It is recommended to take the drug during meals to reduce stomach irritation. Used in Particular Diseases Acute Gouty Arthritis: Dosage and Frequency: 500 mg twice daily for 3 days, then 250–500 mg daily for 4–7 days production method by methylation, acetylation With 2-naphthol , 6-methoxy-2-acetonaphthone is produced, then it is condensed with acid ester, then generate the product through isomerization, hydrolysis, oxidation, and split and other reactions. Category Toxic substances Toxicity grading Highly toxic Acute toxicity Oral-rat LD50 248 mg/kg; Oral-Mouse LD50: 360 mg/kg Flammability and hazard characteristics Combustible; combustion produces toxic and acrid smoke. Storage Characteristics Ventilated, low-temperature ,dry storeroom, it should be stored and transported from food raw materials separately. Extinguishing agent Water, dry powder, foam,sand Description Naproxen is synthesized from 2-methoxynaphthalene and the (+)-isomer obtained by resolution with cinchonidine (61). It was introduced in the United States in 1976 and, as a generic drug, has consistently been among the more popular NSAIDs. It is marketed as the S-(+)-enantiomer, but interestingly, the sodium salt of the (–)-isomer also is on the market as Anaprox. As an inhibitor of prostaglandin biosynthesis, it is 12 times more potent than aspirin, 10 times more potent than phenylbutazone, three to four times more potent than ibuprofen, and four times times more potent than fenoprofen, but it is approximately 300 times less potent than indomethacin. Chemical Properties white to light yellow crystal powde Originator Naprosyn,Syntex,UK,1973 Uses (S)-(+)-2-(6-Methoxy-2-naphthyl)propionic acid is a non-selective cyclooxygenase (COX-1 and COX-2) inhibitor. Uses Being analogous to other drugs of this series, naproxene exhibits analgesic, fever-reducing, and long-lasting anti-inflammatory action. It causes reduction and removal of painful symptoms including joint pain, stiffness, and swelling in the joints. It is used in the same indications as ibuprofen. Uses An anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antipyretic. A non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Definition ChEBI: A methoxynaphthalene that is 2-methoxynaphthalene substituted by a carboxy ethyl group at position 6. Naproxen is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug commonly used for the reduction of pain, fever, inflammation and stiffness caused by conditions such a osteoarthritis, kidney stones, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, gout, ankylosing spondylitis, menstrual cramps, tendinitis, bursitis, and for the treatment of primary dysmenorrhea. It works by inhibiting both the COX-1 and COX-2 enzymes. Indications Naproxen (Naprosyn) also has pharmacological properties and clinical uses similar to those of ibuprofen. It exhibits approximately equal selectivity for COX-1 and COX-2 and is better tolerated than certain NSAIDs, such as indomethacin. Adverse reactions related to the GI tract occur in about 14% of all patients, and severe GI bleeding has been reported. CNS complaints (headache, dizziness, drowsiness), dermatological effects (pruritus, skin eruptions, echinoses), tinnitus, edema, and dyspnea also occur. Manufacturing Process According to US Patent 3,658,858, a solution of 24 grams of 2-bromo-6- methoxynaphthalene in 300 ml of tetrahydrofuran is slowly added to 2.5 grams of magnesium turnings and 100 ml of tetrahydrofuran at reflux temperature. After the addition is complete, 20 grams of cadium chloride is added, and the resultant mixture is refluxed for 10 minutes to yield a solution of di-(6-methoxy-2-naphthyl)cadmium (which can be separated by conventional chromatography, although separation is unnecessary).A solution of 18 grams of ethyl 2-bromopropionate in 20 ml of tetrahydrofuran is then added to the cooled reaction mixture. After 24 hours at 20°C, the product is hydrolyzed by adding 200 ml of 5 weight percent methanolic sodium hydroxide followed by heating to reflux for 1 hour. The reaction mixture is then diluted with excess 1 N sulfuric acid and extracted with ether. The ether phase is separated, evaporated to dryness and the residue is recrystallized from acetone-hexane to yield 2-(6-methoxy-2- naphthyl)propionic acid. brand name Naprosyn (Roche), Anaprox (Syntex, Canada, USA), Apranax (Roche, France), Bonyl (Ercopharm, Denmark), Miranax (Syntex, Finland), Novo-Naprox (Novorpharm, Canada), Proxen (Hoffmann La Roche, Germany). Therapeutic Function Antiinflammatory General Description Naproxen (Naprosyn, Anaprox), marketed as the (S)-enantiomer,is well absorbed after oral administration, givingpeak plasma levels in 2 to 4 hours and a half-life of 13 hours.Naproxen is highly protein bound and displaces most protein-bound drugs. It is recommended for use in RA, OA, acute gouty inflammation, and in primary dysmenorrhea. Itshows good analgesic activity (i.e., 400 mg is comparable to75–150 mg of oral meperidine and superior to 65 mg ofpropoxyphene and 325 mg of aspirin plus 30 mg of codeine).It is also available OTC as 200-mg tablets (Aleve). Pharmacokinetics Naproxen is almost completely absorbed following oral administration. Peak plasma levels are achieved within 2 to 4 hours following administration. Like most of the acidic NSAIDs (pKa = 4.2), it is highly bound (99.6%) to plasma proteins. Approximately 70% of an administered dose is eliminated as either unchanged drug (60%) or as conjugates of unchanged drug (10%). The remainder is converted to the 6-O-desmethyl metabolite by both CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 and, further, to the glucuronide conjugate of the demethylated metabolite. The 6-O-desmethyl metabolite lacks anti-inflammatory activity. Like most of the arylalkanoic acids, the most common side effect associated with the use of naproxen is irritation to the GI tract. The most common other adverse reactions are associated with CNS disturbances (e.g., nausea and dizziness). Clinical Use Naproxen is indicated for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, juvenile arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, tendinitis, bursitis, acute gout, and primary dysmenorrhea and for the relief of mild to moderate pain. Side effects Common side effects of Naproxen may include indigestion, heartburn, stomach pain, nausea, headache, dizziness, drowsiness, bruising, itching, rash, swelling, or ringing in the ears. Seek immediate medical attention if you have any of the following serious drug reactions. For example: shortness of breath, swelling or rapid weight gain, rash, signs of stomach bleeding (bloody or tarry stools, coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds), liver problems (nausea, upper stomach pain, itching, feeling tired, flu-like symptoms, loss of appetite, dark urine, clay-coloured stools, jaundice), kidney problems (little or no urination, pain or difficulty in urinating, swelling of the feet or ankles, feeling tired or shortness of breath), low red blood cells (anaemia), etc. In addition, in rare cases, a severe allergic reaction to naproxen may occur. You may also suffer from stomach ulcers and other adverse reactions when taking it for a long time. Synthesis Synthesis of Naproxene: Friedel - Crafts acylation (aluminum chloride - nitrobenzene) of β-naphthol methyl ether affords 2-acetyl-6- methoxynaphthalene, which, when treated with either dimethylsulfonium or dimethylsulfoxonium methylide, gives 2-(6-methoxynaphthalen-2-yl)propylene oxide. Treatment of the latter with boron trifluoride etherate in tetrahydrofuran gives 2-(6-methoxynaphthalen- 2-yl)propionaldehyde, which is oxidized using Jones reagent (4 M chromic acid) to yield the racemic 2-(6-methoxynaphthalen-2- yl)propionic acid. Resolution and isolation of the dextrorotatory enantiomer is accomplished via its cinchonidine salt.2-(6-methoxy-2-naphthyl)-propionic acid (3.2.15) can be synthesized by the methods of synthesis described for ibuprofen as well as by the methods of fenoprofen (3.2.21) and ketoprofen (3.2.27) synthesis that will be described below from 2-acetyl or 2-chloromethyl-6-methoxynaphthaline [99–101]. Veterinary Drugs and Treatments The manufacturer lists the following indications: “…for the relief of inflammation and associated pain and lameness exhibited with myositis and other soft tissue diseases of the musculoskeletal system of the horse.” (Package Insert; Equiproxen—Syntex). It has also been used as an antiinflammatory/analgesic in dogs for the treatment of osteoarthritis and other musculoskeletal inflammatory diseases (see adverse reactions below). Drug interactions Potentially hazardous interactions with other drugs ACE inhibitors and angiotensin-II antagonists: antagonism of hypotensive effect; increased risk of nephrotoxicity and hyperkalaemia. Analgesics: avoid concomitant use of 2 or more NSAIDs, including aspirin (increased side effects); avoid with ketorolac (increased risk of side effects and haemorrhage). Antibacterials: possibly increased risk of convulsions with quinolones. Anticoagulants: effects of coumarins and phenindione enhanced; possibly increased risk of bleeding with heparins, dabigatran and edoxaban - avoid long term use with edoxaban. Antidepressants: increased risk of bleeding with SSRIs and venlaflaxine. Antidiabetic agents: effects of sulphonylureas enhanced. Antiepileptics: possibly increased phenytoin concentration. Antivirals: increased risk of haematological toxicity with zidovudine; concentration possibly increased by ritonavir. Ciclosporin: may potentiate nephrotoxicity Cytotoxics: reduced excretion of methotrexate; increased risk of bleeding with erlotinib. Diuretics: increased risk of nephrotoxicity; antagonism of diuretic effect; hyperkalaemia with potassium-sparing diuretics. Lithium: excretion decreased. Pentoxifylline: increased risk of bleeding. Probenecid: excretion reduced by probenecid. Tacrolimus: increased risk of nephrotoxicity. Metabolism Naproxen is extensively metabolised in the liver to 6-0-desmethyl naproxen. Both naproxen and 6-0-desmethyl naproxen are further metabolised to their respective acylglucuronide conjugated metabolites. About 95% of a dose is excreted in urine as naproxen and 6-O-desmethylnaproxen and their conjugates. Less than 5% of a dose appears in the faeces. References [1] barnett j, chow j, ives d, et al. purification, characterization and selective inhibition of human prostaglandin g/h synthase 1 and 2 expressed in the baculovirus system[j]. biochimica et biophysica acta (bba)-protein structure and molecular enzymology, 1994, 1209(1): 130-139.[2] laneuville o, breuer d k, dewitt d l, et al. differential inhibition of human prostaglandin endoperoxide h synthases-1 and-2 by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs[j]. journal of pharmacology and experimental therapeutics, 1994, 271(2): 927-934.[3] dubois r n, abramson s b, crofford l, et al. cyclooxygenase in biology and disease[j]. the faseb journal, 1998, 12(12): 1063-1073.[4] agdeppa e d, kepe v, petri a, et al. in vitro detection of (s)-naproxen and ibuprofen binding to plaques in the alzheimer’s brain using the positron emission tomography molecular imaging probe 2-(1-{6-[(2-[18 f] fluoroethyl)(methyl) amino]-2-naphthyl} ethylidene) malononitrile[j]. neuroscience, 2003, 117(3): 723-730.
