=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Eni announces Akoma discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana]
May 9, 2019 · The well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 3790 meters. Akoma - 1X proved a single gas and condensate column in a 20 m thick sandstone reservoir interval of cenomanian age with good petrophysical properties and with hydrocarbon down to.
URL: https://www.eni.com/en-IT/media/press-release/2019/05/eni-announces-akoma-discovery-in-ctp-block-4-offshore-ghana.html

[Eni hits gas in Akoma prospect offshore Ghana]
The well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 3790 meters. Eni said that the Akoma - 1X proved a single gas and condensate column in a 20 m thick sandstone reservoir interval of cenomanian age with good petrophysical properties and with hydrocarbon down to.
URL: https://www.offshore-energy.biz/eni-hits-gas-in-akoma-prospect-offshore-ghana/

[Eni finds gas offshore Ghana | Offshore Magazine]
Eni estimated volume between 550 and 650 bcf of gas and 18-20 MMbbl of condensate. The well proved a single gas and condensate column in a 20 m (66 ft) thick sandstone reservoir interval of cenomanian age with good petrophysical properties and with hydrocarbon down to.
URL: https://www.offshore-mag.com/drilling-completion/article/16790979/eni-finds-gas-offshore-ghana

[Ghana’s Akoma-1X is a Hit - Petroleum AfricaPetroleum Africa]
May 13, 2019 · The Akoma – 1X exploration well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 3790 meters. It is located northwest of the Sankofa hub where the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO sits.
URL: https://www.petroleumafrica.com/ghanas-akoma-1x-is-a-hit/

[ENI discovers new oil field - Graphic Online]
May 10, 2019 · The Akoma-1X well also proved a single gas and condensate column in a 20m thick sandstone reservoir interval, which contains the oil in the earth’s bowel with good petro-physical properties or porosity of the reservoir and with hydrocarbon.
URL: https://www.graphic.com.gh/news/general-news/ghana-news-eni-discovers-new-oil-field.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Eni announces Akoma discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana] ---
Media Relations - +39 02 52031875 - +39 06 59822030 Or , our new artificial intelligence tool. San Donato Milanese (Milan), 9 May 2019 – Eni announces a gas and condensate discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana. The well, drilled on the Akoma exploration prospect, proved an estimated volume between 550 and 650 bcf of gas and 18-20 mmbbl of condensate. The discovery has further additional upside for gas and oil that will require further drilling to be confirmed. The exploration well Akoma - 1X is located approximately 50 kilometers off the coast and about 12 km north-west from Sankofa hub, where the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO is located. The well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 3790 meters. Akoma - 1X proved a single gas and condensate column in a 20 m thick sandstone reservoir interval of cenomanian age with good petrophysical properties and with hydrocarbon down to. Akoma - 1X is the first well drilled in CTP-Block 4 and represents a discovery of a potentially commercial nature, due to its close distance to the existing infrastructures. The discovery can be put in production with a subsea tie to the FPSO with the aim to extend its production plateau. The Joint Venture of CTP-Block 4 is formed by Eni Ghana (operator, 42.469%), Vitol Upstream Tano (33.975%), GNPC (10%), Woodfields Upstream (9,556%), Explorco (4,00%). Ghana is among the key Countries for Eni’s organic growth. The company has been present in the Country since 2009 and accounts currently a gross production of about 60,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. +39 02 52031875 - +39 06 59822030 Freephone for shareholders (from Italy): 800940924 Freephone for shareholders (from abroad): + 80011223456 +39 0252051651 If you want to change topic, clear the chat and make a new query to receive more relevant results. This will delete the question history. If you want to change topic, clear the chat and make a new query to receive more relevant results. This will delete the question history. Here you can find the full list of your queries. The answers are generated by artificial intelligence, therefore they may contain inaccuracies. Please read the terms and conditions of use. EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions. EnergIA can also perform a search on a specific topic, providing the most up-to-date data available, or it can invite you to delve deeper into a topic of your interest by suggesting links and specific readings. Start now! EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions. Start now! EnergIA (ener'dʒia) is a system based on Generative Artificial Intelligence. Thanks to this technology, we can respond to your requests by querying the most relevant content and documents available on eni.com. (Note: financial documents from the last 12 months and press releases from the last 2 years are considered.) Through EnergIA, you can delve into topics of interest and have a real-time window into the world of Eni. If you wish to search for a specific document, press release or news, use the traditional search engine via the magnifying glass icon. Like all systems that leverage Generative Artificial Intelligence, EnergIA may generate inaccurate or outdated responses. Always consult the sources that EnergIA proposes as the origin of the generated information. If the system fails to find an exact match for the requested content, it still tends to provide a response. If you find any inaccuracies in the provided response, please send us your feedback at the bottom of the page: it will be very helpful for us to improve. Remember that the content generated by the system does not represent Eni’s official position. We therefore invite stakeholders to refer to their designated contacts for official statements: Press Office for journalists, Investor Relations for analysts and investors, Company Secretariat for shareholders etc.. EnergIA can understand questions posed in almost all languages, but we prefer to provide you with a response in English or Italian, the two languages available on eni.com. If you ask a question in Italian, the content on the site in Italian will be consulted. If you ask it in English or any other language, the content in English will be consulted. (Note: the language Eni uses for financial documents/content is predominantly English.) If questions are formulated that violate the set security criteria, the system will not proceed with processing the response. Please remember not to send personal data. By using this service, the users acknowledge that they have read and accepted the terms and conditions of use. Search EnergIA (ener'dʒia) is a system based on Generative Artificial Intelligence. Thanks to this technology, we can respond to your requests by querying the most relevant content and documents available on eni.com. (Note: financial documents from the last 12 months and press releases from the last 2 years are considered.) Through EnergIA, you can delve into topics of interest and have a real-time window into the world of Eni. If you wish to search for a specific document, press release or news, use the traditional search engine via the magnifying glass icon. Like all systems that leverage Generative Artificial Intelligence, EnergIA may generate inaccurate or outdated responses. Always consult the sources that EnergIA proposes as the origin of the generated information. If the system fails to find an exact match for the requested content, it still tends to provide a response. If you find any inaccuracies in the provided response, please send us your feedback at the bottom of the page: it will be very helpful for us to improve. Remember that the content generated by the system does not represent Eni’s official position. We therefore invite stakeholders to refer to their designated contacts for official statements: Press Office for journalists, Investor Relations for analysts and investors, Company Secretariat for shareholders etc.. EnergIA can understand questions posed in almost all languages, but we prefer to provide you with a response in English or Italian, the two languages available on eni.com. If you ask a question in Italian, the content on the site in Italian will be consulted. If you ask it in English or any other language, the content in English will be consulted. (Note: the language Eni uses for financial documents/content is predominantly English.) If questions are formulated that violate the set security criteria, the system will not proceed with processing the response. Please remember not to send personal data. By using this service, the users acknowledge that they have read and accepted the terms and conditions of use. A new window into Eni’s world, at your disposal. EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions.


--- [Eni hits gas in Akoma prospect offshore Ghana] ---
Eni hits gas in Akoma prospect offshore Ghana Italian oil and gas company Eni has made a gas and condensate discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana. The well, drilled on the Akoma exploration prospect, proved an estimated volume between 550 and 650 bcf of gas and 18-20 mmbbl of condensate, Eni informed on Thursday. The discovery has further additional upside for gas and oil that will require further drilling to be confirmed, the Italian company further explained. The exploration well Akoma – 1X is located approximately 50 kilometers off the coast and about 12 km north-west from Sankofa hub, where the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO is located. The well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 3790 meters. Eni said that the Akoma – 1X proved a single gas and condensate column in a 20 m thick sandstone reservoir interval of cenomanian age with good petrophysical properties and with hydrocarbon down to. Akoma – 1X is the first well drilled in CTP-Block 4 and represents a discovery of a potentially commercial nature, due to its close distance to the existing infrastructures. The discovery can be put in production with a subsea tie to the FPSO with the aim to extend its production plateau. The Joint Venture of CTP-Block 4 is formed by Eni Ghana (operator, 42.469%), Vitol Upstream Tano (33.975%), GNPC (10%), Woodfields Upstream (9,556%), and Explorco (4,00%). Eni has been present in Ghana since 2009 and accounts currently a gross production of about 60,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.


--- [Eni finds gas offshore Ghana | Offshore Magazine] ---
Eni finds gas offshore Ghana Offshore staff SAN DONATO MILANESE, Italy – Eni has discovered gas and condensate on the Akoma prospect in CTP-Block 4 offshore Ghana. The drillship Maersk Voyager drilled the Akoma -1X exploration well in a water depth of 350 m (1,148 ft), about 50 km (31 mi) offshore, and about 12 km (7.5 mi) northwest of the FPSO John Agyekum Kufuor serving the Sankofa hub. Eni estimated volume between 550 and 650 bcf of gas and 18-20 MMbbl of condensate. The well proved a single gas and condensate column in a 20 m (66 ft) thick sandstone reservoir interval of cenomanian age with good petrophysical properties and with hydrocarbon down to. Akoma - 1X is the first well drilled in CTP-Block 4 and, the company said, represents a discovery of a potentially commercial nature, due to its close distance to the existing infrastructures. The discovery can be put in production with a subsea tie to the FPSO with the aim to extend its production plateau. The joint venture of CTP-Block 4 is formed by Eni Ghana (operator, 42.469%), Vitol Upstream Tano (33.975%), GNPC (10%), Woodfields Upstream (9.556%), and Explorco (4.00%). 05/09/2019


--- [Ghana’s Akoma-1X is a Hit - Petroleum AfricaPetroleum Africa] ---
Monday, May 13, 2019 ENI’s drilling offshore Ghana on CTP-Block 4 resulted in a gas and condensate discovery. The well, drilled on the Akoma exploration prospect, revealed an estimated volume between 550 and 650 Bcf of gas and 18-20 million barrels of condensate. The discovery has further additional upside for gas and oil that will require further drilling to be confirmed. The Akoma – 1X exploration well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 3790 meters. It is located northwest of the Sankofa hub where the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO sits. Akoma – 1X proved a single gas and condensate column in a 20 m thick sandstone reservoir interval of Cenomanian age with good petrophysical properties and with hydrocarbon down to. Akoma – 1X is the first well drilled in CTP-Block 4 and represents a discovery of a potentially commercial nature, due to its close distance to the existing infrastructures. The discovery can be put in production with a subsea tie to the FPSO with the aim to extend its production plateau. ENI’s partners on the CTP-Block 4 are Vitol Upstream, GNPC, Woodfields Upstream, and Explorco.


--- [ENI discovers new oil field - Graphic Online] ---
The Italian oil giant, Eni, has made a significant gas and condensate discovery in the Cape Three Points Block Four (CTP-Block 4) offshore Ghana in the Western Region. The well, drilled on the Akoma exploration prospect, proved an estimated volume of between 550 and 650 billion cubic feet (bcf) of gas and 18 to 20 million barrels (mmbbl) of condensate. The discovery has further additional upside for gas and oil that require further drilling to be confirmed. Eni said the Akoma-1X was the first well drilled in CTP-Block 4 and represented a discovery of potentially commercial nature due to its proximity to the existing infrastructure. The discovery could be put in production with a subsea tie to the Floating Production Storage and Offloading (FPSO) vessel with the aim to extend its production plateau. Ghana News Headlines For latest news in Ghana, visit Graphic Online news headlines page Ghana news page In a statement, Eni said the exploration well Akoma-1X was located approximately 50 kilometres off the coast and about 12 kilometres north-west of the Sankofa hub, where current production on the FPSO John Agyekum Kufuor is currently ongoing. Benefits With the discovery, the country stands the chance of realising its dream of hitting half a million barrels of oil within the shortest possible time and also becoming a nation that can produce enough gas for sustainable power generation in the country for development and industrialisation. The discovery was a historic moment for some Ghanaian crew on board, who worked hand in hand with the team, leading to the discovery for the country. It is expected that by 2023, Ghana’s daily oil production should go beyond 500,000 barrels of oil, which is good news for the country and its claim to remain dominant within the West African sub-region. The drill ship The well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 metres and reached a total depth of 3,790 metres. The Akoma-1X well also proved a single gas and condensate column in a 20m thick sandstone reservoir interval, which contains the oil in the earth’s bowel with good petro-physical properties or porosity of the reservoir and with hydrocarbon. The campaign was carried out by the joint venture of CTP-Block 4, formed by Eni Ghana with 42.469 per cent as the lead operator. Vitol Upstream Tano holds 33.975 per cent, while the national oil company, the Ghana National Petroleum Corporation (GNPC) has 10 per cent interest for the country. Other members of the partnership are Woodfields Upstream, with 9.556 per cent, and GNPC’s subsidiary, Explorco, four per cent. Background ENI indicated that Ghana remained the key country for its organic growth since its presence in the country in 2009 and currently accounted for a gross production of about 60,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day, which is above 200,000 barrels per day. Eni is currently present in the country’s upstream sector with an integrated oil and gas development project in the OCTP block, with a 44.44 per cent share. The OCTP project start-up was achieved in two and a half years, three months earlier than scheduled and with a record time-to-market. Production was carried out via an FPSO. The development activities progressed and in 2017 production wells planned were drilled and linked to the production facility, achieving the planned peak production a year earlier than scheduled. Non-associated The project includes the transportation of non-associated gas to the onshore facilities to be processed and linked to the country’s national grid, supplying approximately 180mmcf/d in 2018. The OCTP project is the only non-associated gas development project in deep water entirely dedicated to the domestic market in sub-Saharan Africa. This project will ensure at least 15 years of reliable gas supply at an affordable price, significantly supporting access to energy and economic development of the country. The current discovery adds up to the company’s quest to ensure its long stay in the country, build reserves and ensure sustainable operations.
