=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Chadwell O'Connor - Wikipedia]
Chadwell O'Connor (October 9, 1914 – September 5, 2007) was an American inventor and steam engine enthusiast. He is most remembered as the inventor of an improved fluid-damped tripod head, for which he won Academy Awards in 1975 and 1992.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chadwell_O%27Connor

[Chadwell O'Connor - General Discussion - JWSOUNDGROUP]
Nov 16, 2020 · In his lifetime, O’Connor received 29 US patents. Chadwell O’Connor died on September 5, 2007. sources: http://www.ocon.com/inside-oconnor/the-oconnor-story/chad-oconnor/
URL: https://jwsoundgroup.net/index.php?/topic/36604-chadwell-oconnor/

[About Chad O'Connor, Founder Of OConnor | OConnor]
In his lifetime, O’Connor received 29 US patents. Chad O’Connor died on September 5, 2007. , founder of OConnor Engineering.
URL: https://www.ocon.com/inside-oconnor/the-oconnor-story/chad-oconnor/

[Chadwell O'Connor Inventions, Patents and Patent Applications ...]
Nov 10, 1994 · This listing includes patent applications that are pending as well as patents that have already been granted by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).
URL: https://patents.justia.com/inventor/chadwell-o-connor

[Google Patents]
Search and read the full text of patents from around the world. These totals include all patents and published applications in our index, but we cannot guarantee complete coverage. If we're...
URL: https://patents.google.com/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Chadwell O'Connor - Wikipedia] ---
Chadwell O'Connor (October 9, 1914 – September 5, 2007) was an American inventor and steam engine enthusiast. He is most remembered as the inventor of an improved fluid-damped tripod head, for which he won Academy Awards in 1975 and 1992.


--- [Chadwell O'Connor - General Discussion - JWSOUNDGROUP] ---
No content


--- [About Chad O'Connor, Founder Of OConnor | OConnor] ---
Chadwell (Chad) O’Connor, founder of OConnor Engineering, was an inventor, steam engine enthusiast, and is most remembered as the inventor of the fluid-damped camera head, an achievement for which he won an Academy Award in 1992. OConnor Engineering continues to produce camera support equipment to this day. O’Connor’s Early Life O’Connor’s early home environment in his native Boston likely contributed to his active mind. Johnson O’Connor, his father, was a well-known psychometrician and pioneer in the study of aptitude testing. His mother died while he was young, and his father remarried MIT-trained architect and educator Eleanor Manning. The young O’Connor acquired his interest in engineering during frequent trips to the Lynn, Massachusetts factory of his father’s employer, General Electric. O’Connor attended the Stevens Institute of Technology and California Institute of Technology where he earned a degree in mechanical engineering. World War II broke out shortly after his college graduation, and O’Connor joined Douglas Aircraft where he was put in charge of expediting aircraft production and repair. Chief Engineer O’Connor joined Pasadena Power and Light in California after the war as chief engineer. He had been interested in steam engines since he was a boy, and he applied this knowledge at the power company to improve power production and incineration. In 1974, he used this experience to develop the O’Connor Rotary Combustor that burned municipal garbage to create steam for power generation. The first pilot plant was built in Japan. In 1980 a production facility was built in Gallatin, Tennessee that burned 200 tons of municipal waste a day. This technology was spun out of O’Connor’s company, O’Connor Engineering to a separate company that was later purchased by Westinghouse. O’Connor’s life-long fascination with steam locomotives, which he realized were a dying breed, continued as a hobby. He became involved in the refurbishment and reproduction of classic steam locomotives, recreating the drawings and producing copies of the 119 and Jupiter locomotives that met for the driving of the first transcontinental railroad’s Golden spike at Promontory Summit, Utah. He also tried his hand at photographing steam engines in motion, which led to his best known invention. Meeting Walt Disney As he tried photographing moving trains, he became annoyed by the jerkiness of the pictures. To solve this problem he developed a silicon-filled platform that interfaced between the tripod and the camera to allow smooth panning and tilting of the camera. He had invented the fluid-damped camera head, a technology still utilized by top-of-the-line camera support makers worldwide. At the time, he still viewed the head and his photography as a hobby, and she shot more than 100,000 feet of film of steam engines in action during their final days. But one day in 1949, while filming near Glendale California, another steam enthusiast tapped him on the shoulder and asked to look through the view finder. The stranger seemed to know his way around cameras, so O’Connor gave him a chance to try the head out. The man was so impressed that he asked if O’Connor could make more for him. O’Connor agreed but said it would take time as he built them in his garage. The man said, “But I need it right away. Oh, by the way, my name is Walt Disney.” Disney was then shooting one of his first nature studies, The Living Desert, and needed a way to shoot moving animals smoothly. The O’Connor head was so successful that Disney immediately ordered 10 more. This film won the first Academy Award for Documentary Feature in 1953. The Birth Of O’Connor Engineering O’Connor founded a part-time business in 1952 to make the heads, first building them in his garage and then from a small factory on Green Street in Pasadena, which his wife Regina ran during the day. By 1969 the business was so successful that he left the power company to work full time on camera heads and steam engines at O’Connor Engineering. He enjoyed working with cameramen, by inventing solutions for their needs. He produced thousands of OConnor fluid heads and legs, from the ever-popular O’Connor 100, so renowned for its ruggedness that it is still a staple of camerawork worldwide, to the new OConnor 120EX, which was made to complement today’s high-end film and television production. O’Connor and Disney maintained a life-long friendship and business relationship. O’Connor designed the power systems for the steam launches and paddle wheelers at Disney World in Florida. In 1975 the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences presented O’Connor with a Class II Scientific and Engineering Award and in 1992, they awarded him the Academy Award of Merit, the Oscar, for his work on the fluid head. In his lifetime, O’Connor received 29 US patents. Chad O’Connor died on September 5, 2007.


--- [Chadwell O'Connor Inventions, Patents and Patent Applications ...] ---
Patents by Inventor Chadwell O'Connor Chadwell O'Connor has filed for patents to protect the following inventions. This listing includes patent applications that are pending as well as patents that have already been granted by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). - Patent number: 5503357Abstract: A tripod is provided having three pairs of adjacent telescoping legs and a lock mechanism for locking the adjacent legs in a desired position. The lock mechanism comprises a lever connecting a pair of lock assemblies associated with each adjacent leg for movement between an unlocked position wherein the legs may be telescopingly adjusted and a locked position wherein the lock assembly exerts a clamping force on its respective leg for locking the leg in a desired position. Each lock assembly comprises a clamp member for receiving a telescoping leg and a threaded hole adapted to receive a threaded end of a lock screw. A lock screw clamp attached to the head end of the lock screw controls the rotation of the lock screw into and out of the hole.Type: GrantFiled: November 10, 1994Date of Patent: April 2, 1996Assignee: Q-Co Industries, Inc.Inventors: Joel W. Johnson, Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4976208Abstract: An incinerator having a horizontal burn disk which is rotatably supported within the lower portion of a firebox with a portion of the firebox containing water tubes connected to a water circulation system including a header and a steam drum. Compacted material for burning is gravity fed to the burn disk througha vertical feeding chute of sufficient height to effect the compaction. Combustion air is forced into the burning material through stationary nozzles disposed about the periphery of the disk, and a nozzle stationary nozzle extending up through the center of the disk.Type: GrantFiled: December 1, 1989Date of Patent: December 11, 1990Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4955568Abstract: A camera panhead, for panning the camera about a vertical axis and tilting the camera about a horizontal axis, including fluid drag systems and a counterbalance system. The fluid drag systems each include a drag disk assembly secured to the rotating shaft and drag sector assemblies pivotally mounted to the housing and disposed about the circumference of the disk assembly to define a space containing viscous fluid. The level of drag exerted may be adjusted by pivoting the sector assemblies toward or away from the disk assembly to vary the space containing viscous fluid. The counterbalance system includes two spring sets mounted in planes perpendicular to the tilt axis. As the camera tilts, one end of each of the springs remains relatively stationary as the opposite ends rotate about the tilt axis to exert a restoring torque to counterbalance the camera. The system may be adjusted to vary the level of restoring torque exerted.Type: GrantFiled: October 20, 1989Date of Patent: September 11, 1990Assignee: Q-CO Industries, Inc.Inventors: Chadwell O'Connor, Joel W. Johnson - Patent number: 4876971Abstract: An incinerator having a funnel shaped burning chamber within a firebox with the chamber being formed of water pipes connected to a water circulation system including a steam chest. The chamber is rotated about its axis which is inclined so that the lower conical portion of the chamber is horizontal. Material for burning is driven up the cylindrical portion of the chamber, and combustion air is forced through a nozzle into the open conical portion of the chamber.Type: GrantFiled: August 29, 1988Date of Patent: October 31, 1989Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4872627Abstract: A tripod leg has upper and lower portions with the upper portion being secured at its upper end to the tripod head and having a housing guide at its lower end. The lower leg portion slides in the housing guide to adjust the total length of the leg. The lower leg portion is firmly clamped to minimize bending deflection. A strip of teeth on the lower leg portion are selectively engaged by elements on a locking block in the housing guide to fix the leg length, and the locking block is controlled from the top of the upper leg portion. Each leg of the tripod can be adjusted separately, or all three legs can be simultaneously adjusted. A biased toggle linkage in the housing guide moves the locking block so that the clamping engagement is positive.Type: GrantFiled: August 5, 1988Date of Patent: October 10, 1989Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4872628Abstract: An instrument support platform system with a base, an elongated platform having front and rear portions, and a linkage coupling the base and platform. The linkage causes the rear of the platform to be raised, and the front held without lowering, when the platform is tilted down, and the reverse when the platform is raised and the rear is held without lowering. The center of gravity of an instrument on the platform is therefore held at an absolute level and slightly raised when tilting the platform, making the assembly counterbalanced and gravity biased to a level platform position.Type: GrantFiled: December 7, 1987Date of Patent: October 10, 1989Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4872524Abstract: A platform movable in a horizontal plane by a plurality of underlying, initially vertical finger assemblies which reciprocate, half of which are driven down while the other half are retracted, and which then are cycled in the reverse fashion. The fingers are coupled to spherical surfaces reacting against reaction plates that can be controllably angled, with the result that the reciprocating fingers not only support the platform, but also move it horizontally by developing horizontal forces as a result of tilting the reaction plates.Type: GrantFiled: April 13, 1988Date of Patent: October 10, 1989Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4840338Abstract: A tripod leg has upper and lower portions with the upper portion being secured at its upper end to the tripod head and having a housing guide at its lower end. The lower leg portion slides in the housing guide to adjust the total length of the leg. The lower leg portion is firmly clamped to minimize bending deflection. A strip of teeth on the lower leg portion are selectively engaged by elements on a locking block in the housing guide to fix the leg length, and the locking block is controlled from the top of the upper leg portion. Each leg of the tripod can be adjusted separately, or all three legs can be simultaneously adjusted. An over-centering, biased toggle linkage in the housing guide moves the locking block so that the clamping engagement is positive.Type: GrantFiled: September 28, 1987Date of Patent: June 20, 1989Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4796843Abstract: The legs of a tripod are held in support position against further spreading by a flexible cable that is unspooled from a spring biased drum. The spring bias will respool the cable when the tripod legs are collapsed. The drum is in a housing fixed on one of the tripod legs, and the housing includes a locking device for locking rotation of the drum so as to fix the effective length of the cable and thus hold the legs to the position set by the cable length.Type: GrantFiled: November 5, 1987Date of Patent: January 10, 1989Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4784604Abstract: A combustor for burning MSW (municipal solid waste) having a porous wall drum in which burning takes place with combustion air supplied from outside of the drum, in which air driven through the drum into the material being burned is supplied in pulses.Type: GrantFiled: September 17, 1987Date of Patent: November 15, 1988Assignee: Westinghouse Electric Corp.Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4726765Abstract: A combustor formed of a plurality of water cooled pipes secured as a drum by members defining a plurality of holes between the pipes, the drum being mounted for rotation at an angle, with there being low U-shaped walls surrounding the sides and high ends of the holes so that aluminum melted by burning material in the drum is guided around the holes while that material flows to the lower end of the drum.Type: GrantFiled: July 27, 1987Date of Patent: February 23, 1988Assignee: Westinghouse Electric Corp.Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4699070Abstract: In a combustor assembly having a main water cooled rotary combustor in which material is burned and which discharges into a furnace, a generally cylindruical secondary grate formed of water cooled pipes positioned in the furnace for receiving and holding material discharged from the main combustor so as to complete the burning while the secondary grate is slowly rotated to eventually discharge ashes and unburnable material from the furnace.Type: GrantFiled: December 15, 1986Date of Patent: October 13, 1987Assignee: Westinghouse Electric Corp.Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4635566Abstract: A fuel mixer and burner in which a disk with an open face is rapidly rotated within a loosely confining chamber rectangular in cross section and having aligned inlet and outlet openings. A blower delivers air at high volumes and velocities to the inlet opening of the chamber so that air flows parallel to the disk face, and fuel is directed perpendicularly against the disk face. For liquid fuels including heavy oils, the fuel is directed through a nozzle against a smooth disk face. For solid fuels, pieces of fuel are fed by an auger conveyor against a rough grinding surface on the disk. The fuel is particlized, thrown peripherally in all directions from the disk, intermixed thoroughly with air, and blown toward and through the chamber outlet opening. When ignited, the fuel-air mixture creates a flame formed about the disk that is directed out the outlet opening.Type: GrantFiled: April 9, 1982Date of Patent: January 13, 1987Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4466595Abstract: A camera lock-plate assembly having an elongated base plate to be secured to a camera and a support body with an upper surface slidably receiving the plate with a tongue-in-groove connection between tapered ways on the plate and lugs on the body. The lug on one side of the body is movable both down against spring bias, so that the plate can be simply lowered into position with the movable lug snap locking into position, and then moved toward the fixed lugs, so that the plate can be manually clamped in place. The plate can be adjustably slid to position the weight of the camera by unclamping, but not unlocking, the movable lug.Type: GrantFiled: June 22, 1981Date of Patent: August 21, 1984Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4083524Abstract: A panhead for mounting, panning and tilting instruments such as cameras, the panhead having an adjustable drag system accomplished by providing a pressurized compartment for each of the shafts for panning and tilting, each of the shafts being provided with a flange having pre-loaded roller bearings operating against both surfaces of the flange. The compartment is filled with extremely viscous fluid under pressure, operating against the force of a spring loaded piston within the tilting shaft, the pressure, and consequently the drag, being reducible from the pre-set pressure by an adjustment screw urging the piston against the force of its spring. The tilting shaft assembly is provided at the opposite end thereof with a crank coacting with a spring assembly to provide a counter-balancing moment to offset the moment due to the shift in the center of gravity of the instrument during tilting thereof, the spring force being adjustable to compensate for varying weights of different instruments.Type: GrantFiled: September 10, 1976Date of Patent: April 11, 1978Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4066024Abstract: A heated fluidized bed is formed by rotating a body of sand in a horizontal cylindrical drum, lifting and dropping sand from the bed through the open portion of the drum, and heating the region through which the sand drops. The drum is formed by a cylindrical water wall of pipes connected to a water source and a steam outlet, and annular end plates hold the sand bed and define inlet and outlet openings in the drum. Waste material is simply dumped through the inlet opening and ash is automatically discharged through the outlet opening. The sand is preferably lifted by small cross section, scoop-like baffles so that the coolest sand from the bottom of the bed is heated, and waste particles are not removed from the bed. If desired, auxiliary air can be introduced into the sand bed through a manifold-pipe arrangement.Type: GrantFiled: December 24, 1975Date of Patent: January 3, 1978Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4037811Abstract: An instrument support structure having a post vertically telescoped in a column and an interfitted cylinder and rod within the post defining a hydraulic piston connecting the post and the column. A hydraulic reservoir is mounted on the column, is in fluid communication with the piston, and is pressurized so as to exert a force balancing the weight on the post. Pressurization is by air through a common tire valve so that various weights can be selectively balanced. An adjustable fluid valve controls the rate of fluid movement to and from the piston so as to hydraulically lock the post or adjustably control the rate at which a force can reposition the post. A spring biased shoe holds the post against walls in the column, and a threaded lock element enables the shoe pressure to be increased to mechanically lock the parts.Type: GrantFiled: December 24, 1975Date of Patent: July 26, 1977Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor - Patent number: 4019710Abstract: An instrument support leveling socket having relatively adjustable parts with interfitting spherical sectioned surfaces in which one of the surfaces is defined by a plurality of spaced feet so that the surface is sectioned and separated by substantial clearance spaces. A locking knob threaded into one of the parts and sandwiching the other selectively clamps the surfaces together against relative movement.Type: GrantFiled: February 11, 1976Date of Patent: April 26, 1977Assignee: Chadwell O'ConnorInventors: Chadwell O'Connor, Richard A. Charlson - Patent number: 4006876Abstract: An improved instrument support structure including a post telescoped in a column, with means for adjusting their combined length, and three legs pivoted at the bottom of a column for swinging movement from adjacent the column to extended, base defining positions. The legs are locked by extendible struts including fluid actuators with one strut interconnecting each leg with the column. Fluid from a reservoir on the column is directed to all actuators when the legs are extended, and then valving is closed to shut off fluid intercommunication and lock the legs. The valving further includes provision for permitting one of the leg actuators to be manually pumped for drawing fluid from the reservoir and forcing fluid into the other leg actuators for easy setup of the structure.Type: GrantFiled: October 15, 1974Date of Patent: February 8, 1977Inventor: Chadwell O'Connor


--- [Google Patents] ---
No content
