=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[David Crombie - Wikipedia]
Crombie was re-elected in 1974 and 1976 with large majorities. Because of his great public appeal and his height of only 5 feet 5 inches (1.65 m), [6] he was repeatedly described in the media as the city's "tiny, perfect mayor".
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Crombie

[David Crombie, Toronto's 'tiny, perfect mayor,' still making a mark on civic life]
There was then no irony in dubbing Crombie “the tiny perfect mayor,” back when Toronto was “the city that works,” its transit system the envy of North America.
URL: https://www.thestar.com/news/insight/david-crombie-toronto-s-tiny-perfect-mayor-still-making-a-mark-on-civic-life/article_f085a09e-481e-552e-ac6e-e37a1e3c617a.html

[Former Toronto mayor David Crombie endorses Smitherman - The Globe and Mail]
David Crombie, dubbed Toronto's "tiny, perfect mayor," is backing candidate George Smitherman's mayoral bid. If elected mayor, Mr. Smitherman would appoint the former mayor as special advisor on community hubs - an area he hopes to focus on ...
URL: https://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/toronto/former-toronto-mayor-david-crombie-endorses-smitherman/article1215374/

[Learn David Crombie facts for kids]
Crombie was very popular and was re-elected as mayor in 1974 and 1976. Because of his popularity and his height, people often called him the city's "tiny, perfect mayor."
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/David_Crombie

[Mayoral promise, meet reality - The Globe and Mail]
Try rallying the troops · Ask most people to name a landmark Toronto mayor and they will mention David Crombie, who held office almost 40 years ago and was known as the "tiny, perfect mayor."
URL: https://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/toronto/mayoral-promise-meet-reality/article1380829/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [David Crombie - Wikipedia] ---
David Edward Crombie  (born April 24, 1936) is a former Canadian academic and politician who served as the 56th mayor of Toronto from 1972 to 1978. Crombie was elected to Parliament following his tenure as mayor. A member of the Progressive Conservative (PC) Party, he served as minister of national health and welfare from 1979 to 1980, minister of Indian affairs and northern development from 1984 to 1986, and secretary of state for Canada from 1986 to 1988.


--- [David Crombie, Toronto's 'tiny, perfect mayor,' still making a mark on civic life] ---
No content


--- [Former Toronto mayor David Crombie endorses Smitherman - The Globe and Mail] ---
David Crombie, dubbed Toronto's "tiny, perfect mayor," is backing candidate George Smitherman's mayoral bid. If elected mayor, Mr. Smitherman would appoint the former mayor as special advisor on community hubs - an area he hopes to focus on in stimulating development in the city's increasingly stratified poorer neighbourhoods. Mr. Crombie, who served as mayor from 1972 to 1978, has been a staunch advocate previously in favour of turning schools in the city into centres of family and community resources. The former mayor said he's making an exception to his practice of not making endorsements since leaving politics more than two decades ago. "The next four years is not just an average time for us. ... We need to make sure we've got economic growth, because that has been slipping. We need to make sure this city is a place people want to come to raise your families," he said, adding that he doesn't want to comment on Rob Ford's campaign. "People should not vote out of fear -- they should vote for positive reasons. I think the stakes are high."


--- [Learn David Crombie facts for kids] ---
David Crombie facts for kids Quick facts for kids David Crombie | | |---|---| | David Crombie, 2016 | | | 56th Mayor of Toronto | | | In office December 1, 1972 – August 31, 1978 | | | Preceded by | William Dennison | | Succeeded by | Fred Beavis (Interim) | | Member of Parliament for Rosedale | | | In office August 31, 1978 – October 1, 1988 | | | Preceded by | Donald Stovel Macdonald | | Succeeded by | David MacDonald | | Minister of National Health and Welfare | | | In office June 4, 1979 – March 2, 1980 | | | Prime Minister | Joe Clark | | Preceded by | Monique Bégin | | Succeeded by | Monique Bégin | | Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development | | | In office September 17, 1984 – June 29, 1986 | | | Prime Minister | Brian Mulroney | | Preceded by | Doug Frith | | Succeeded by | Bill McKnight | | Secretary of State for Canada and Minister responsible for Multiculturalism | | | In office June 30, 1986 – March 30, 1988 | | | Prime Minister | Brian Mulroney | | Preceded by | Benoît Bouchard | | Succeeded by | Lucien Bouchard | | Other offices | | | 1969–1972 | Toronto Alderman | | Personal details | | | Born | David Edward Crombie April 24, 1936 Swansea, Ontario, Canada | | Political party | Progressive Conservative | | Spouse | Shirley Ann (Bowden) Crombie | | Children | Jonathan, Robin, Carrie | | Occupation | | David Edward Crombie (born April 24, 1936) is a Canadian professor and politician. He was the 56th Mayor of Toronto from 1972 to 1978. After being mayor, Crombie was elected to the Canadian Parliament. He was a member of the Progressive Conservative (PC) Party. He also served as a minister in the Canadian government, holding important roles like Minister of Health and Welfare. Contents Early Life and Community Work David Crombie was born in Swansea, a village that is now part of Toronto, Ontario. In the 1960s, he taught politics and city planning at Ryerson. During this time, he became involved in a movement to improve Toronto's urban areas. At that time, Toronto's city council often approved plans to tear down old buildings and homes. They wanted to build new apartment buildings, offices, and highways. Crombie and other reformers, like John Sewell, led a group of people who wanted to protect older buildings. They also wanted to improve community services and focus on what local residents needed. Becoming Mayor of Toronto Crombie was elected to Toronto's city council in 1970. In 1972, he became the Mayor of Toronto. He brought a new way of thinking about city development, inspired by ideas from urban planners like Jane Jacobs. Crombie was the first mayor from this "reform movement" in Toronto politics. His ideas were very different from the mayors who came before him. Protecting Toronto's Waterfront As mayor, David Crombie worked hard to control new building projects. He first tried to limit new buildings to 45 feet (about 13.7 meters) tall. However, this rule was changed by the Ontario Municipal Board. Crombie then created a new city plan that set different height limits for different areas of the city. This plan was approved. Crombie also helped stop the construction of the Scarborough Expressway. All work on this highway stopped during his time as mayor, and it was eventually cancelled. He also opposed tearing down older, poorer neighborhoods to build large housing projects. Plans to rebuild areas like Trefann Court, Kensington Market, and Cabbagetown ended under Crombie's leadership. Instead, he helped create the St. Lawrence neighborhood. This area has mid-rise buildings with different types of homes and businesses. It was designed to follow Jane Jacobs's ideas for diverse and lively city spaces. Crombie was very popular and was re-elected as mayor in 1974 and 1976. Because of his popularity and his height, people often called him the city's "tiny, perfect mayor." National Politics In 1978, David Crombie left his role as mayor to enter national politics. He won a special election and became a member of the House of Commons of Canada. He was part of the Progressive Conservative Party. Crombie served as the Minister of Health and Welfare from 1979 to 1980. This was during the short time that Joe Clark was Prime Minister. Later, when Brian Mulroney became Prime Minister in 1984, Crombie served as Minister of Indian and Northern Affairs. He also became the Secretary of State and Minister of Multiculturalism. Royal Commission on the Future of the Toronto Waterfront David Crombie decided not to run for re-election in 1988. He returned to working on city issues. He became the head of a special group called the Royal Commission on the Future of Toronto's Waterfront (1988–1992). He wrote important reports like Watershed and Regeneration. These reports suggested new ways to plan cities that are good for the environment and communities. The government then asked Crombie to lead an agency called the Waterfront Regeneration Trust Agency (1992-1999). This agency worked to put his ideas into action. One of the big ideas was to create a waterfront trail. Today, the Great Lakes Waterfront Trail stretches from Quebec to Sault Ste Marie, along Canada's Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River. In 1999, Crombie started the Waterfront Regeneration Trust, which is a charity. This charity continues to work on the trail and helps protect and restore the Rouge Valley, which is now part of the Rouge National Urban Park. Improving Health Services for Indigenous Peoples In 1979, when David Crombie was Minister of Health and Welfare, he made an important statement. He said that the Canadian government wanted to work with Indigenous leaders to review health services for Indigenous communities. This was a big step towards giving Indigenous groups more control over their own health care. Before this, Indigenous groups had been asking for more control over health services in their communities. They also wanted help with environmental health problems. Crombie appointed Gary Goldthorpe to investigate concerns about health care delivery in British Columbia. Later, Justice Thomas Berger recommended that the government talk more with Indigenous and Inuit peoples about health programs. He also suggested providing money to help Indigenous communities develop their own health consultation groups. Crombie's successor, Monique Begin, followed these recommendations. This marked the beginning of a change in how health services were provided to Indigenous peoples. Later Career and Recognition In 1994, David Crombie became the first chancellor of Ryerson University (now Toronto Metropolitan University). He held this role until 1999. Throughout the 1990s, he advised city and provincial governments on urban issues in the Toronto area. He retired as CEO of the Canadian Urban Institute in 2007. In 2014, he spoke out against plans to make the runways longer at Billy Bishop Toronto City Airport on the Toronto Islands. On May 13, 2004, Crombie was given the Order of Canada, which is one of Canada's highest honors. In 2012, he became a member of the Order of Ontario. In 2013, he was recognized in the Canadian Disability Hall of Fame. A park in Toronto is named after him. It is located in an area that used to be industrial but was changed into housing. Personal Life David Crombie has two daughters, Robin and Carrie. His son, Jonathan Crombie, was an actor who starred in the Anne of Green Gables TV series. Jonathan passed away in 2015 at the age of 48.


--- [Mayoral promise, meet reality - The Globe and Mail] ---
For months, Toronto's mayoral candidates have been filling the city's ears with promises: the repeal of the land-transfer tax, a city council slashed by half, a ban on bike lanes, the sale of Toronto Hydro. But decade after decade, as mayors of various stock and stripes have occupied the office, the job's reality is clear: Getting things done will be harder than any of the candidates think. Unlike other cities - think of mayors like Bloomberg, Daley, Giuliani, Drapeau, Campbell and McCallion - Toronto's city hall comes with built-in obstacles that make it difficult for leaders to leave their mark. From the lack of an overt party structure and the challenge of wringing money from the province and feds, to the sheer size of the city's bureaucracy, the odds are stacked against any dramatic change. "It's got to be one of the toughest jobs in the country, without a doubt," said Patrice Dutil, of Ryerson University's department of politics and public administration. "David Miller thought you [could]still be a hero here. And he discovered that no matter how well intentioned you are, you're never going to come out of this smelling like a rose." There's no party in our politics For the last eight years, Mayor Miller has been receiving advice and support from his friend Larry Campbell, the Liberal senator and former mayor of Vancouver. Both men were elected to office on an unexpected wave of voter optimism. Mr. Campbell promised drug-policy reform, while Mr. Miller vowed to prevent a fixed link to the island airport. But Mr. Campbell had something his friend did not: the overt allegiances of a political party. In Vancouver, Montreal and other urban centres, a municipal candidate's political party appears on the ballot beside their name. In 2002, Mr. Campbell took office with his party, the Coalition of Progressive Electors, holding eight of the city's ten council seats, and his team was quickly able to push policy direction. "It's much harder to get through your important items when you have to go out and really hunt the votes," he said this week. In Toronto, city council is elected by ward, rather than party system, and candidates are prevented from raising or sharing money jointly. Most voters and city politicians support the lack of party influence on the municipal level, without such overt allegiances, councillors have little motivation to stand behind the mayor on contentious issues, such as a garbage strike. "Prime Minister Harper, even with a minority situation, can count on a certain number of MPs who will vote with him to the death," said Mr. Dutil. "The mayor here will be hung out to dry, simple as that." Want to get 'er done? Good luck This summer, former provincial Conservative leader John Tory decided, once again, that he was not running for Toronto mayor, saying he planned to make "significant and hopefully lasting contributions" to the city outside of public life, and praising the "pleasant and productive" nature of private-sector work. As noble a pursuit as politics may be, many of the city's best and brightest clearly believe it's easier to get things done outside of city hall. Contrast that to the United States, where Rahm Emanuel recently announced he was leaving his job as White House chief of staff to run for mayor of Chicago, a city with a $654.7-million deficit. "He's going to Chicago because he knows he can get things done," said Mr. Dutil. "In Toronto, you just don't have that guarantee." The American "strong mayor system" gives office holders executive power, while in Canada, city council holds the reins, with the mayor getting one vote, just like everyone else. "In the U.S., there's a culture of the city being run by the mayor: The mayor is the boss," said Mr. Campbell. "Here, he's the figurehead." Over the past eight years, Mayor Miller has endeavoured to strengthen his office's hand. The City of Toronto Act empowered the mayor to hire and fire the city manager, hold in camera meetings with his executive committee and control elements of the city's taxation and budget structure. But polls have revealed that most citizens believe the new powers have had little impact, other than saddling them with new taxes. And even with the additional clout, it is still impossible to imagine initiatives being introduced as quickly in Toronto as they are in New York City, where billionaire mayor Michael Bloomberg has organized his staff like a well-oiled Wall Street trading pit. Within six months of taking office, Mr. Bloomberg had delivered on his promise to create a 311 system, a city information line that has its own website and blog. In Toronto, a similar program has been in the works for more than six years. So you have a great idea. Try rallying the troops Ask most people to name a landmark Toronto mayor and they will mention David Crombie, who held office almost 40 years ago and was known as the "tiny, perfect mayor." Mr. Crombie recalls getting a slightly different reception when his reform movement began slowing city development, developing green space, protecting neighbourhoods and reorganizing the downtown. "The good old Globe and Mail said I was stealing food from the mouths of widows and orphans," in its editorials at the time, he says. But he believes mayors should bring big ideas and fierce conviction to office. "Policies are not the same as issues and issues are not the same as ideas," he said. "The world still moves on ideas." Mr. Dutil says big-picture thinking is rarely raised in Toronto politics, and that the city rarely throws its weight behind major development projects the way Montreal mayor Jean Drapeau built his city's Place des Arts and Metro system. Toronto's landmark buildings, such as the additions to the ROM and AGO, tend to be largely the product of private sector initiatives. "We don't have builders here. No one's said, 'Let's have splendid architecture, splendid public works,'" said Mr. Dutil. "It's a very Protestant, Upper Canadian inclination toward ordinariness." Influence trumps power, every time Before Mr. Campbell was elected to office in Vancouver, he worked as a steelworker, a Mountie, the city's chief coroner and a writer on Da Vinci's Inquest, a television show inspired by his life. "You come from a world where you say 'I'd like this to happen' and it happens," he said. "As mayor, you say 'I'd like this to happen' and people say 'Well, maybe.'" Learning how to work with council, bureaucracy and city residents is the hardest part of being mayor, agrees Mr. Crombie, but also the most important. When he took office, he knew the platforms of each member of council, enabling him to seek out common ground. "You have to create constituencies in order to give you the legitimate power to move forward," he said. To create widespread support for his initiatives, he also cultivated relationships with provincial and federal politicians, met with business groups and neighbourhood coalitions. It's the mayor's job to get the city on board, he said, to use their influence to involve voters in the process of change. Today's voters feel disconnected from City Hall, he believes - a relationship that desperately needs to be repaired. "There's a confusion today with some candidates who think power is the important thing, when in fact it's influence," he said "You have to get people to say 'I like that, I'll work for it, I'll support it.'"
