=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jean Claude Saint-Venant (1797 - 1886) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics]
Saint-Venant worked mainly on mechanics, elasticity, hydrostatics and hydrodynamics. Perhaps his most remarkable work was that which he published in 1843 in which he gave the correct derivation of the Navier-Stokes equations.
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Saint-Venant/

[Adhémar Barré de Saint-Venant - Wikipedia]
Adhémar Jean Claude Barré de Saint-Venant (French pronunciation: [ademaʁ ʒɑ̃ klod baʁe də sɛ̃ vənɑ̃]; 23 August 1797 - 6 January 1886) [1] was a mechanician and mathematician who contributed to early stress analysis and also developed the unsteady open channel flow shallow water equations, also known as the Saint-Venant equations ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adh%C3%A9mar_Barr%C3%A9_de_Saint-Venant

[Jean Claude Saint-Venant (1797 - 1886) - Biography - MacTutor ...]
He taught mathematics at the École des Ponts et Chaussées where he succeeded Coriolis. Saint-Venant worked mainly on mechanics, elasticity, hydrostatics and hydrodynamics. Perhaps his most remarkable work was that which he published in 1843 in which he gave the correct derivation of the Navier - Stokes equations. Anderson writes in [2]:-
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies//Saint-Venant/

[Adhémar Jean Claude Barré de Saint-Venant - Wikipedia]
In 1843 he published the correct derivation of the Navier–Stokes equations for a viscous flow [2] and was the first to "properly identify the coefficient of viscosity and its role as a multiplying factor for the velocity gradients in the flow".
URL: https://static.hlt.bme.hu/semantics/external/pages/Wantzel/en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adh%C3%A9mar_Jean_Claude_Barr%C3%A9_de_Saint-Venant.html

[Saint-Venant, Barré de - History of Hydrology Wiki]
Adhémar Jean Claude Barré de Saint-Venant developed the unsteady open channel flow shallow water equations, also known as the Saint-Venant equations that are a fundamental set of equations used in modern hydraulic engineering. The one-dimensional Saint-Venant equation is a commonly used simplification of the shallow water equations.
URL: https://www.history-of-hydrology.net/mediawiki/index.php/Saint-Venant,_Barr%C3%A9_de


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jean Claude Saint-Venant (1797 - 1886) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics] ---
Adhémar Jean Claude Barré de Saint-Venant Quick Info Villiers-en-Bière, Seine-et-Marne, France St Ouen, Loir-et-Cher, France Biography Jean Claude Saint-Venant was a student at the École Polytechnique, entering the school in 1813 when he was sixteen years old. He graduated in 1816 and spent the next 27 years as a civil engineer. For the first seven of these 27 years Saint-Venant worked for the Service des Poudres et Salpêtres, then he spent the next twenty years working for the Service des Ponts et Chaussées.Saint-Venant attended lectures at the Collège de France and the lecture notes he took in Liouville's 1839-40 class still survive. He taught mathematics at the École des Ponts et Chaussées where he succeeded Coriolis. Saint-Venant worked mainly on mechanics, elasticity, hydrostatics and hydrodynamics. Perhaps his most remarkable work was that which he published in 1843 in which he gave the correct derivation of the Navier-Stokes equations. Anderson writes in [2]:- Seven years after Navier's death, Saint-Venant re-derived Navier's equations for a viscous flow, considering the internal viscous stresses, and eschewing completely Navier's molecular approach. That 1843 paper was the first to properly identify the coefficient of viscosity and its role as a multiplying factor for the velocity gradients in the flow. He further identified those products as viscous stresses acting within the fluid because of friction. Saint-Venant got it right and recorded it. Why his name never became associated with those equations is a mystery. certainly it is a miscarriage of technical attribution.We should remark that Stokes, like Saint-Venant, correctly derived the Navier-Stokes equations but he published the results two years after Saint-Venant. Saint-Venant developed a vector calculus similar to that of Grassmann which he published in 1845. He then entered into a dispute with Grassmann about which of the two had thought of the ideas first. Grassmann had published his results in 1844, but Saint-Venant claimed (and there is little reason to doubt him) that he had first developed these ideas in 1832. Again it would appear that Saint-Venant was unlucky. Itard writes in [1]:- Saint-Venant used this vector calculus in his lectures at the Institut Agronomique, which were published in 1851 as "Principes de mécanique fondés sur la cinématique" Ⓣ. In this book Saint-Venant, a convinced atomist, presented forces as divorced from the metaphysical concept of cause and from the physiological concept of muscular effort, both of which, in his opinion, obscured force as a kinematic concept accessible to the calculus. Although his atomistic conceptions did not prevail, his use of the vector calculus was adopted in the French school system.In the 1850s Saint-Venant derived solutions for the torsion of non-circular cylinders. He extended Navier's work on the bending of beams, publishing a full account in 1864. In 1871 he derived the equations for non-steady flow in open channels. In 1868 Saint-Venant was elected to succeed Poncelet in the mechanics section of the Académie des Sciences. By this time he was 71 years old, but he continued his research and lived for a further 18 years after this time. At age 86 he translated (with A Flamant) Clebsch's work on elasticity into French and published it as Théorie de l'élasticité des corps solides Ⓣ and Saint-Venant added notes to the text which he wrote himself. Note that Saint-Venant's co-translator A Flamant was a co-author of the obituary notice [3] for Saint-Venant. References (show) - J Itard, Biography in Dictionary of Scientific Biography (New York 1970-1990). See THIS LINK. - J D Anderson, A History of Aerodynamics (Cambridge, 1997). - J Boussinesq and A Flamant, Notice sur la vie et les travaux de M de Saint-Venant, Annales des ponts et chaussées 12 (1886), 557-595. - F D Kramar, The geometrical algebra of Saint-Venant, Grassmann, Hamilton (Russian), in 1968 Proc. Second Kazakhstan Interuniv. Sci. Conf. Math. Mech. (1965), 236-237. Additional Resources (show) Other websites about Jean Claude Saint-Venant: Cross-references (show) Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update May 2000 Last Update May 2000


--- [Adhémar Barré de Saint-Venant - Wikipedia] ---
Adhémar Jean Claude Barré de Saint-Venant (French pronunciation: [ademaʁ ʒɑ̃ klod baʁe də sɛ̃ vənɑ̃]; 23 August 1797 – 6 January 1886) was a mechanician and mathematician who contributed to early stress analysis and also developed the unsteady open channel flow shallow water equations, also known as the Saint-Venant equations that are a fundamental set of equations used in modern hydraulic engineering. The one-dimensional Saint-Venant equation is a commonly used simplification of the shallow water equations. Although his full surname was Barré de Saint-Venant, in mathematical literature other than French he is known as Saint-Venant. His name is also associated with Saint-Venant's principle of statically equivalent systems of load, Saint-Venant's theorem and for Saint-Venant's compatibility condition, the integrability conditions for a symmetric tensor field to be a strain.
In 1843 he published the correct derivation of the Navier–Stokes equations for a viscous flow and was the first to "properly identify the coefficient of viscosity and its role as a multiplying factor for the velocity gradients in the flow". Even though he published before Stokes, the equations do not bear his name.
Barré de Saint-Venant developed a version of vector calculus similar to that of Grassmann (now understood as exterior differential forms) which he published in 1845. A dispute arose between Saint-Venant and Grassmann over priority for this invention. Grassmann had published his results in 1844, but Barré de Saint-Venant claimed he had developed the method in 1832.
Barré de Saint-Venant was born at the château de Fortoiseau, Villiers-en-Bière, Seine-et-Marne, France.
His mother was Marie-Thérèse Josèphe Laborie (born Saint-Domingue, 1769). His father was Jean Barré de Saint-Venant, (1737–1810), a colonial officer of the Isle of Saint-Domingue (later Haiti). Barré de Saint-Venant would follow in his father's footsteps in science, entering the École Polytechnique, in 1813 at sixteen years old, and studying under Gay-Lussac. Graduating in 1816 he worked for the next 27 years as an engineer, initially his passion for chemistry led him a post as a élève-commissaire (student commissioner) for the Service des Poudres et Salpêtres (Powders and Saltpeter Service) and then as a civil engineer at the Corps des Ponts et Chaussées. He married in 1837, Rohaut Fleury from Paris. Following a disagreement on an issue of road with the Municipal Administration of Paris, he was suddenly retired as "Chief Engineer, second class", on 1 April 1848. In 1850 Saint-Venant won a contest to be appointed the chair of Agricultural Engineering at the Agronomic Institute of Versailles, a post he occupied two years.
He went on to teach mathematics at the École des Ponts et Chaussées (National school of Civil Engineering) where he succeeded Coriolis.
In 1868, at 71 years old, he was elected to succeed Poncelet in the mechanics section of the Académie des Sciences, and continued research work for a further 18 years. He died in January 1886 at Saint-Ouen, Loir-et-Cher. Sources differ on his date of death: gives 6 January whereas 22 January. In 1869 he was given the title 'Count' (comte) by Pope Pius IX.


--- [Jean Claude Saint-Venant (1797 - 1886) - Biography - MacTutor ...] ---
Adhémar Jean Claude Barré de Saint-Venant Quick Info Villiers-en-Bière, Seine-et-Marne, France St Ouen, Loir-et-Cher, France Biography Jean Claude Saint-Venant was a student at the École Polytechnique, entering the school in 1813 when he was sixteen years old. He graduated in 1816 and spent the next 27 years as a civil engineer. For the first seven of these 27 years Saint-Venant worked for the Service des Poudres et Salpêtres, then he spent the next twenty years working for the Service des Ponts et Chaussées.Saint-Venant attended lectures at the Collège de France and the lecture notes he took in Liouville's 1839-40 class still survive. He taught mathematics at the École des Ponts et Chaussées where he succeeded Coriolis. Saint-Venant worked mainly on mechanics, elasticity, hydrostatics and hydrodynamics. Perhaps his most remarkable work was that which he published in 1843 in which he gave the correct derivation of the Navier-Stokes equations. Anderson writes in [2]:- Seven years after Navier's death, Saint-Venant re-derived Navier's equations for a viscous flow, considering the internal viscous stresses, and eschewing completely Navier's molecular approach. That 1843 paper was the first to properly identify the coefficient of viscosity and its role as a multiplying factor for the velocity gradients in the flow. He further identified those products as viscous stresses acting within the fluid because of friction. Saint-Venant got it right and recorded it. Why his name never became associated with those equations is a mystery. certainly it is a miscarriage of technical attribution.We should remark that Stokes, like Saint-Venant, correctly derived the Navier-Stokes equations but he published the results two years after Saint-Venant. Saint-Venant developed a vector calculus similar to that of Grassmann which he published in 1845. He then entered into a dispute with Grassmann about which of the two had thought of the ideas first. Grassmann had published his results in 1844, but Saint-Venant claimed (and there is little reason to doubt him) that he had first developed these ideas in 1832. Again it would appear that Saint-Venant was unlucky. Itard writes in [1]:- Saint-Venant used this vector calculus in his lectures at the Institut Agronomique, which were published in 1851 as "Principes de mécanique fondés sur la cinématique" Ⓣ. In this book Saint-Venant, a convinced atomist, presented forces as divorced from the metaphysical concept of cause and from the physiological concept of muscular effort, both of which, in his opinion, obscured force as a kinematic concept accessible to the calculus. Although his atomistic conceptions did not prevail, his use of the vector calculus was adopted in the French school system.In the 1850s Saint-Venant derived solutions for the torsion of non-circular cylinders. He extended Navier's work on the bending of beams, publishing a full account in 1864. In 1871 he derived the equations for non-steady flow in open channels. In 1868 Saint-Venant was elected to succeed Poncelet in the mechanics section of the Académie des Sciences. By this time he was 71 years old, but he continued his research and lived for a further 18 years after this time. At age 86 he translated (with A Flamant) Clebsch's work on elasticity into French and published it as Théorie de l'élasticité des corps solides Ⓣ and Saint-Venant added notes to the text which he wrote himself. Note that Saint-Venant's co-translator A Flamant was a co-author of the obituary notice [3] for Saint-Venant. References (show) - J Itard, Biography in Dictionary of Scientific Biography (New York 1970-1990). See THIS LINK. - J D Anderson, A History of Aerodynamics (Cambridge, 1997). - J Boussinesq and A Flamant, Notice sur la vie et les travaux de M de Saint-Venant, Annales des ponts et chaussées 12 (1886), 557-595. - F D Kramar, The geometrical algebra of Saint-Venant, Grassmann, Hamilton (Russian), in 1968 Proc. Second Kazakhstan Interuniv. Sci. Conf. Math. Mech. (1965), 236-237. Additional Resources (show) Other websites about Jean Claude Saint-Venant: Cross-references (show) Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update May 2000 Last Update May 2000


--- [Adhémar Jean Claude Barré de Saint-Venant - Wikipedia] ---
Adhémar Jean Claude Barré de Saint-Venant Adhémar Jean Claude Barré de Saint-Venant | | |---|---| | Born | Villiers-en-Bière, France | 23 August 1797 | Died | 6 January 1886 Saint-Ouen, France | (aged 88) | Residence | France | | Scientific career | | | Fields | Mathematics | Adhémar Jean Claude Barré de Saint-Venant (23 August 1797, Villiers-en-Bière, Seine-et-Marne – 6 January 1886, Saint-Ouen, Loir-et-Cher)[1] was a mechanician and mathematician who contributed to early stress analysis and also developed the unsteady open channel flow shallow water equations, also known as the Saint-Venant equations that are a fundamental set of equations used in modern hydraulic engineering. The one-dimensional Saint-Venant equation is a commonly used simplification of the shallow water equations. Although his full surname was Barré de Saint-Venant in mathematical literature other than French he is known as Saint-Venant. His name is also associated with Saint-Venant's principle of statically equivalent systems of load, Saint-Venant's theorem and for Saint-Venant's compatibility condition, the integrability conditions for a symmetric tensor field to be a strain. In 1843 he published the correct derivation of the Navier–Stokes equations for a viscous flow[2] and was the first to "properly identify the coefficient of viscosity and its role as a multiplying factor for the velocity gradients in the flow". Even though he published before Stokes, the equations do not bear his name. Barré de Saint-Venant developed a version of vector calculus similar to that of Grassmann (now understood as exterior differential forms) which he published in 1845.[3] A dispute arose between Saint-Venant and Grassmann over priority for this invention. Grassmann had published his results in 1844, but Barré de Saint-Venant claimed he had developed the method in 1832. Barré de Saint-Venant was born at the château de Fortoiseau, Villiers-en-Bière, Seine-et-Marne, France. His father was Jean Barré de Saint-Venant, (1737–1810), a colonial officer of the Isle of Saint-Domingue (later Haiti). His mother was Marie-Thérèse Josèphe Laborie (born Saint-Domingue, 1769). He entered the École Polytechnique, in 1813 at sixteen years old.[4] where he studied under Gay-Lussac. Graduating in 1816 he worked for the next 27 years as an engineer, initially his passion for chemistry led him a post as a élève-commissaire (student commissioner) for the Service des Poudres et Salpêtres (Powders and Saltpeter Service) and then as a civil engineer at the Corps des Ponts et Chaussées. He married in 1837, Rohaut Fleury from Paris. Following a disagreement on an issue of road with the Municipal Administration of Paris, he was suddenly retired as "Chief Engineer, second class", on 1 April 1848. In 1850 Saint-Venant won a contest to be appointed the chair of Agricultural Engineering at the Agronomic Institute of Versailles, a post he occupied two years.[5] He went on to teach mathematics at the École des Ponts et Chaussées (National school of Bridges and Roads) where he succeeded Coriolis. In 1868, at 71 years old, he was elected to succeed Poncelet in the mechanics section of the Académie des Sciences, and continued research work for a further 18 years. He died in January 1886 at Saint-Ouen, Loir-et-Cher. Sources differ on his date of death:[4] gives 6 January whereas[5] 22 January. In 1869 he was given the title 'Count' (comte) by Pope Pius IX. References[edit] - ^ J Boussinesq and A Flamant, Notice sur la vie et les travaux de M de Saint-Venant, Annales des ponts et chaussées 12 (1886), 557-595. - ^ J D Anderson, A History of Aerodynamics (Cambridge, 1997) - ^ J Itard, Biography in Dictionary of Scientific Biography (New York 1970-1990) - ^ a b O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Adhémar Jean Claude Barré de Saint-Venant", MacTutor History of Mathematics archive, University of St Andrews. - ^ a b E. Sarrau, Adhémar-Jean-Claude BARRÉ de SAINT-VENANT (1797-1886), le Livre du Centenaire de l'Ecole polytechnique, 1897. [1]


--- [Saint-Venant, Barré de - History of Hydrology Wiki] ---
Saint-Venant, Barré de Contents Photograph[edit] Dates[edit] Adhémar Jean Claude, Barré de Saint-Venant 23 August 1797 (Villiers-en-Bière, Seine-et-Marne, France) – 6 January 1886 (Saint-Ouen, Loir-et-Cher, France) Biography[edit] Barré de Saint-Venant was born at the château de Fortoiseau, Villiers-en-Bière, Seine-et-Marne, France. His father was Jean Barré de Saint-Venant, (1737–1810), a colonial officer of the Isle of Saint-Domingue (later Haiti). His mother was Marie-Thérèse Josèphe Laborie (born Saint-Domingue, 1769). He entered the École Polytechnique, in 1813 at sixteen years old.[4] where he studied under Gay-Lussac. Graduating in 1816 he worked for the next 27 years as an engineer, initially his passion for chemistry led him a post as a élève-commissaire (student commissioner) for the Service des Poudres et Salpêtres (Powders and Saltpeter Service) and then as a civil engineer at the Corps des Ponts et Chaussées. He married in 1837, Rohaut Fleury from Paris. Barré de Saint-Venant developed a version of vector calculus similar to that of Grassmann (now understood as exterior differential forms) which he published in 1845. A dispute arose between Saint-Venant and Grassmann over priority for this invention. Grassmann had published his results in 1844, but Barré de Saint-Venant claimed he had developed the method in 1832. Following a disagreement on an issue of road with the Municipal Administration of Paris, he was suddenly retired as "Chief Engineer, second class", on 1 April 1848. In 1850 Saint-Venant won a contest to be appointed the chair of Agricultural Engineering at the Agronomic Institute of Versailles, a post he occupied two years. He went on to teach mathematics at the École des Ponts et Chaussées (National school of Bridges and Roads) where he succeeded Coriolis. In 1868, at 71 years old, he was elected to succeed Poncelet in the mechanics section of the Académie des Sciences, and continued research work for a further 18 years. He died in January in 1886 at Saint-Ouen, Loir-et-Cher. Sources differ on his date of death:[4] gives 6 January whereas[5] 22 January. In 1869 he was given the title 'Count' (comte) by Pope Pius IX. Hydrological Achievements[edit] Adhémar Jean Claude Barré de Saint-Venant developed the unsteady open channel flow shallow water equations, also known as the Saint-Venant equations that are a fundamental set of equations used in modern hydraulic engineering. The one-dimensional Saint-Venant equation is a commonly used simplification of the shallow water equations. Although his full surname was Barré de Saint-Venant in mathematical literature other than French he is known as Saint-Venant. His name is also associated with Saint-Venant's principle of statically equivalent systems of load, Saint-Venant's theorem and for Saint-Venant's compatibility condition, the integrability conditions for a symmetric tensor field to be a strain. In 1843 he published the correct derivation of the Navier–Stokes equations for a viscous flow[2] and was the first to "properly identify the coefficient of viscosity and its role as a multiplying factor for the velocity gradients in the flow". Even though he published before Stokes, the equations do not bear his name. Reference Material[edit] Source: Wikipedia entry for Adhémar Jean Claude Barré de Saint-Venant
