=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[International Fencing Federation]
The FIE held its first congress on 23 June 1914, and accepted the adhesion of seven new countries: Austria, Denmark, Monaco, Romania, Russia, Switzerland, and ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Fencing_Federation

[International Fencing Federation Facts for Kids]
The FIE held its first big meeting on June 23, 1914. Seven more countries joined then: Austria, Denmark, Monaco, Romania, Russia, Switzerland, and the United ...
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/International_Fencing_Federation

[The Fédération Internationale d'Escrime governs what sport?]
The FIE held its first congress on June 23, 1914 and accepted the adhesion of seven new countries: Austria, Denmark, Monaco, Romania, Russia, Switzerland, and ...
URL: https://quizzclub.com/trivia/the-federation-internationale-d-escrime-governs-what-sport/answer/219844/

[Full article: The Double Creation of the International Fencing Federation in ...]
by A Gallois · 2024 — ... June 1914 with seven new members joining the IFF.Footnote The 'one nation, one vote' system, which was not adopted by the IFF until the ...
URL: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/09523367.2024.2406497

[International Fencing Federation]
The FIE held its first congress on 23 June 1914, and accepted the adhesion of seven new countries: Austria, Denmark, Monaco, Romania, Russia, Switzerland, and ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/International_Fencing_Federation


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [International Fencing Federation] ---
The   International Fencing Federation  (Fédération Internationale d'Escrime) commonly known by the acronym FIE, is the international governing body of Olympic fencing. Today, its head office is at the Maison du Sport International in Lausanne, Switzerland. The FIE is composed of 155 national federations, each of which is recognized by its country's Olympic Committee as the sole representative of Olympic-style fencing in that country.


--- [International Fencing Federation Facts for Kids] ---
International Fencing Federation facts for kids | Sport | Fencing | |---|---| | Founded | 29 November 1913Paris, France | in | President | Alisher Usmanov | | Countries | 155 | | Headquarters | Lausanne, Switzerland | The International Fencing Federation, also known as Fédération Internationale d'Escrime or FIE, is the main organization that controls Olympic fencing around the world. Its main office is in Lausanne, Switzerland. The FIE includes 155 national fencing groups. Each of these groups is the official representative for Olympic-style fencing in its country. Contents History of the FIE The International Fencing Federation (FIE) was inspired by a French group called the Société d'encouragement de l'escrime, which started in 1882. This group helped to organize sports globally. The first international meeting for fencing was held in Brussels, Belgium, in 1897. Another meeting happened in Paris in 1900. At this Paris event, one of the first international fencing competitions took place. Fencers from France, Italy, Spain, and Belgium joined in. Soon, there were disagreements between fencers who used the épée and those who used the foil. A third meeting in Brussels in 1905 decided to create an international fencing committee. This committee's job was to help fencers become friends, set up national rules, and support fencing competitions. They also decided to use French rules for future international events. More disagreements came up, this time between France and Italy, about how to hold the fencing weapons. This led to France not participating in the fencing events at the 1912 Olympic Games. A new international meeting was held in Ghent, Belgium, in July 1913. The main goal was to agree on international rules for each of the three fencing weapons. The French rules were chosen for épée and foil, while Hungarian rules were picked for sabre. During this meeting, a Frenchman named René Lacroix also pushed for the creation of an international fencing federation. The International Fencing Federation (FIE) was officially started on November 29, 1913, in Paris, France. Nine countries helped create it: Belgium, Bohemia (now the Czech Republic), France, Great Britain, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, and Norway. Albert Feyerick, who was the president of the Belgian fencing clubs, became the first FIE president. The FIE held its first big meeting on June 23, 1914. Seven more countries joined then: Austria, Denmark, Monaco, Romania, Russia, Switzerland, and the United States. Leaders of the FIE A wealthy businessman from Russia, Alisher Usmanov, was chosen as the president of the FIE in 2008. He won with 66 votes against the previous president, René Roch, who had 61 votes. Usmanov was re-elected in 2012 and 2016. In 2021, he was re-elected for a fourth time without anyone else running against him. On February 28, 2022, because of the conflict in Ukraine, the European Union placed restrictions on Usmanov. This meant he could not travel in the EU, and his money there was frozen. The EU said he was a close supporter of Vladimir Putin. After these restrictions, Usmanov announced on March 1, 2022, that he was stepping down as FIE President. He was re-elected to the position on November 30, 2024. Effects of the conflict in Ukraine After the conflict in Ukraine began in February 2022, the FIE and the European Fencing Confederation (EFC) decided to ban fencers from Russia and Belarus. They also moved competitions that were planned for Russia and Belarus to other locations. However, on March 10, 2023, the FIE became the first Olympic sports organization to allow Russian and Belarusian athletes and officials to return. This decision was made in time for them to try and qualify for the 2024 Summer Olympics. In protest, Denmark, France, Germany, and Poland canceled their upcoming World Cup fencing events. This was to prevent Russian and Belarusian fencers from taking part. In April 2023, the European Fencing Confederation (EFC) sent a letter to the FIE. They disagreed with the FIE's plan to punish countries that would not give visas to Russian and Belarusian fencers. The EFC also decided in June 2023 that no Russian or Belarusian coach or athlete could compete in EFC events. Russia and Belarus were also suspended as members of the EFC. More than 200 fencers also signed a letter. They disagreed with the FIE's decision to let Russian and Belarusian fencers compete as neutral athletes. In May 2023, the FIE decided to remove the Olympic qualifier status from individual events at the 2023 European Games in Kraków-Małopolska. This was because Polish organizers did not allow Russians to participate. Instead, the FIE organized a separate European Championships in Plovdiv just for individual events, where Russians were allowed to compete. The Nordic Fencing Union strongly criticized these decisions by the FIE. Ukrainian champion's disqualification and reversal In July 2023, Olga Kharlan, a Ukrainian fencer and four-time world sabre champion, was disqualified by the FIE. This happened at the 2023 World Fencing Championships. Kharlan had won her match against Russian fencer Anna Smirnova. Since July 1, 2020, the FIE had changed its rule about shaking hands after a match. Instead of a handshake, fencers were supposed to give a "salute" by tapping blades. Handshakes were "suspended until further notice." After Kharlan won, Smirnova offered her hand. Kharlan instead offered her saber for a blade tap. Kharlan said her salute was a sign of respect, but also showed awareness of the ongoing conflict between Ukraine and Russia. Smirnova protested and sat on the fencing strip for 45 minutes. Because of this, Kharlan was given a black card, which meant she was disqualified from the championship. The Russian fencer had been allowed to compete as a neutral athlete. The Ukrainian team appealed the decision. The German Fencing Federation also criticized the FIE's choice. They felt that strictly following the rules in this situation sent a bad message. Many people criticized the FIE for its decision. Ukrainian tennis player Elina Svitolina said the disqualification was "disrespectful" to Ukrainians. Mykhailo Podolyak, an advisor to Ukraine's president, called the FIE's decision "absolutely shameful." He shared a photo that seemed to show the Russian fencer smiling with a Russian soldier. He wrote that the FIE disqualified the Ukrainian fencer for not shaking hands with someone who openly admired the Russian army. Kharlan herself said, "This federation will never change." The head coach for Team USA, Yury Gelman, called the FIE the most corrupt federation in the world. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) strongly disagreed with the FIE's actions. On July 28, at the request of the IOC, the FIE changed its mind and canceled Kharlan's disqualification. This allowed her to compete in the team women's sabre event on July 29. However, the FIE still said that the original penalty was correct according to its rules. The IOC also sent a supportive letter to Kharlan. They told her that because of the situation, she would automatically qualify for the 2024 Paris Olympics. The IOC promised to continue supporting Ukrainian athletes. After this, Bruno Gares, an FIE official, said that handshakes would become optional after a match, and a distant greeting would be allowed instead. FIE Competitions The FIE organizes many fencing competitions. These include: - The senior World Championships and World Cup. - The Junior World Championships and Junior World Cup for younger fencers. - The Cadets World Championships for even younger fencers. - The Veterans World Championships for older fencers. The FIE also helps the International Olympic Committee organize fencing events at the Summer Olympics. There has been some debate between the FIE and the IOC about the number of fencing events at the Olympics. Since women's sabre was added at the 1999 World Fencing Championships, the World Championships have twelve events: individual and team events for each of the three weapons (foil, épée, sabre) for both men and women. However, the IOC does not want to give more Olympic medals to fencing. So, the FIE decided to have all six individual events at the Olympics. But for team events, only four are chosen, and they rotate which ones are included. The two team events that are not at the Olympics are instead part of the World Championships. FIE Presidents Here is a list of the presidents of the FIE since it started in 1913: - 1913–21: Albert Feyerick - 1921–24: André Maginot - 1925–28: George van Rossem - 1929–32: Eugène Empeyta - 1933–48: Paul Anspach - 1949–52: Jacques Coutrot - 1953–56: Giuseppe Mazzini - 1957–60: Pierre Ferri - 1961–64: Miguel de Capriles - 1965–80: Pierre Ferri - 1981–84: Giancarlo Brusati - 1984–92: Rolland Boitelle - 1993–2008: René Roch - 2008–22: Alisher Usmanov - 2022–date: Emmanuel Katsiadakis (interim president) FIE Member Countries As of 2023, the FIE recognizes 155 national fencing groups from different countries. These groups are organized into five main areas: Africa, America, Asia, Europe, and Oceania. | Africa (CAE) | America (CPE) | Asia (FCA) | Europe (CEE) | Oceania (OFC) | |---|---|---|---|---| | Algeria | Antigua and Barbuda | Afghanistan | Albania | American Samoa | See also In Spanish: Federación Internacional de Esgrima para niños


--- [The Fédération Internationale d'Escrime governs what sport?] ---
The Fédération Internationale d'Escrime governs what sport? The Fédération Internationale d'Escrime (English: International Fencing Federation), commonly known by the acronym FIE, is the international governing body of Olympic fencing. Today, its head office is at the Maison du Sport International in Lausanne, Switzerland. The FIE is composed of 145 national federations, each of which is recognized by its country's Olympic Committee as the sole representative of Olympic-style fencing in that country. The Fédération Internationale d'Escrime was founded on November 29, 1913, in the conference rooms of the Automobile Club de France in Paris. The nine founding nations were Belgium, Bohemia (now the Czech Republic), France, Great Britain, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, and Norway. Albert Feyerick, president of the Federation of fencing clubs of Belgium, was elected as the first president. The FIE held its first congress on June 23, 1914 and accepted the adhesion of seven new countries: Austria, Denmark, Monaco, Romania, Russia, Switzerland, and the United States. Competitions organized by the FIE include the senior World Championships and World Cup, the Junior World Championships and Junior World Cup, the Cadets World Championships and the Veterans World Championships. The FIE delegates to regional confederations the organization of the zone championships. More Info: en.wikipedia.org


--- [Full article: The Double Creation of the International Fencing Federation in ...] ---
No content


--- [International Fencing Federation] ---
Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective International Fencing Federation International fencing governing body From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Remove ads The International Fencing Federation (Fédération Internationale d'Escrime) commonly known by the acronym FIE, is the international governing body of Olympic fencing. Today, its head office is at the Maison du Sport International in Lausanne, Switzerland. The FIE is composed of 155 national federations, each of which is recognized by its country's Olympic Committee as the sole representative of Olympic-style fencing in that country.[3] This article appears to be slanted towards recent events. (October 2023) | Remove ads History Summarize Perspective The International Fencing Federation (Fédération Internationale d'Escrime) is the heir of the Société d'encouragement de l'escrime founded in France in 1882, which took part in the global movement of structuring sport.[4] The first international fencing congress was held in Brussels, Belgium in 1897 at the instigation of the Fédération belge des cercles d'escrime, followed by another one in Paris in 1900.[5] On this occasion the Société organised one of the first international fencing events; French, Italian, Spanish, and Belgian fencers attended the competition.[6] Dissensions rapidly arose between épéeists and foilists, which held the majority at the Société. The third congress held in Brussels in 1905 voted the creation of an international fencing committee whose mission would be of fostering friendship amongst all fencers, establishing national rules, and supporting the organization of fencing competitions.[7] The third congress also adopted the French rules as the basis for upcoming international competitions. New tensions appeared, this time between France and Italy, about the regulatory weapon grip. They led to the boycott by France of the fencing events of the 1912 Olympic Games.[8] A new international congress was called together in Ghent, Belgium, in July 1913. The main matter was the adoption of international regulations for each of the three weapons. The French rules were adopted in épée and foil; the Hungarian rules were chosen for sabre.[9] Frenchman René Lacroix also campaigned for the creation of an international fencing federation.[citation needed] The International Fencing Federation (Fédération Internationale d'Escrime) was founded on 29 November 1913, in the conference rooms of the Automobile Club de France in Paris.[10] The nine founding nations were Belgium, Bohemia (now the Czech Republic), France, Great Britain, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, and Norway. Albert Feyerick, president of the Federation of fencing clubs of Belgium, was elected as the first president. The FIE held its first congress on 23 June 1914, and accepted the adhesion of seven new countries: Austria, Denmark, Monaco, Romania, Russia, Switzerland, and the United States.[11] Presidency of Alisher Usmanov Russian oligarch Alisher Usmanov was elected president of the FIE in 2008 with 66 votes to 61 for incumbent president René Roch.[12] He was re-elected in 2012 and 2016.[13][14] In 2021, Usmanov was re-elected by acclamation to a fourth term, for which he was congratulated by Vladimir Putin.[15][16] On 28 February 2022, in reaction to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the European Union blacklisted Usmanov, imposing an EU-wide travel ban on him and freezing all of his assets. The EU stated: "He has been referred to as one of Vladimir Putin's favourite oligarchs."[17] Following the imposition of the sanctions on him, Usmanov announced on 1 March 2022, in an accusatory letter, that he was stepping down as FIE President.[18][19] On 30 November 2024, he was re-elected to the office for another term.[20] Impact of the Russian invasion of Ukraine In response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine in late February 2022, the FIE agreed with the European Fencing Confederation (EFC) to ban Russian and Belarusian fencers, and reallocated competitions that were due to be held in Russia and Belarus.[21] On 10 March 2023, the FIE became the first Olympic governing body to officially reinstate Russian and Belarusian athletes and officials, in time for the start of the qualification for the 2024 Summer Olympics.[22] Protesting this decision, Denmark,[23] France,[24] Germany,[25] and Poland[26] cancelled upcoming World Cup fencing events to prevent Russians and Belarusians from participating. In April 2023, it was revealed that the European Fencing Confederation had sent a critical letter to the FIE, outlining their opposition to the FIE's plans to strip the countries that had indicated they would not grant visas to Russians and Belarusians from hosting rights, and impose sanctions on them.[27] In addition, the EFC approved in congress in June 2023 that no Russian or Belarusian coach or athlete may compete in an EFC competition, and that Russia and Belarus are suspended as members.[28] Over 200 fencers also signed an open letter in which they objected to the FIE's decision to allow the return of Russian and Belarusian fencers as neutrals.[29] In May 2023, the FIE decided to strip individual events at the 2023 European Games in Kraków-Małopolska of their Olympic qualifier status because the Polish organizers banned Russians from participating at the Games, and therefore they organized instead a separate European Championships in Plovdiv for individual events only where Russians were allowed to compete.[30] The Nordic Fencing Union heavily criticized these decisions by the FIE.[31] Disqualification of Ukrainian world champion, and subsequent reversal In July 2023, Ukrainian four-time individual world sabre champion Olga Kharlan was disqualified by the FIE at the World Fencing Championships.[32] Kharlan defeated Russian Anna Smirnova 15-7. At the time, and since 1 July 2020 (and reconfirmed by FIE public notice in September 2020 and in January 2021), by public written notice the FIE had replaced its previous handshake requirement with a "salute" by the opposing fencers, and written in its public notice that handshakes were "suspended until further notice."[33][34][35][36][37] Smirnova extended her hand to Kharlan, who in turn extended her saber in an offer to the Russian to tap blades.[38][39] Kharlan said her choice of salute was meant as a sign of respect for her opponent, while still acknowledging the ongoing conflict between Ukraine and Russia.[40] After a long delay during which Smirnova protested and sat on the strip for 45 minutes, Kharlan was ultimately black-carded and eliminated from the championship by FIE officials.[41][42] The Russian had been allowed to compete as a neutral athlete.[43] The Ukrainian delegation filed an appeal.[44] The German Fencing Federation criticized the decision by the FIE and maintained that the very strict interpretation of the rules sent a fatal signal far beyond the world of fencing.[45] The FIE came under fire for its decision. Ukrainian tennis player Elina Svitolina called the FIE’s disqualification “disrespectful” towards Ukrainians.[46] Mykhailo Podolyak, adviser to Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelensky, called the FIE decision "absolutely shameful," and posted a photo on his Twitter feed which appeared to show the Russian fencer smiling and flashing the victory sign with a Russian soldier, writing: "The photo features ... the Russian fencer.... As you can see, she openly admires the Russian army.... The [FIE] disqualified the Ukrainian representative for not shaking hands with the Russian."[47][48] Kharlan said "This federation will never change."[48] Team USA head coach Yury Gelman said that the FIE was the most corrupt federation in the world.[49] The IOC strongly disagreed with the FIE's actions.[50] On 28 July at the behest of the Comité international olympique, the FIE reversed itself and cancelled its disqualification of Kharlan, making it possible for her to enter the team women's sabre event on 29 July, while at the same time arguing that "The FIE stands fully behind the penalty, which, after a thorough review, is in complete accordance and compliance with its official rules and associated penalties."[51] Kharlan was also told by the IOC in an empathic letter on which the FIE president was copied that due to the circumstances she was being granted automatic qualification into the 2024 Paris Olympics, and that she should "[r]est assured that the IOC will continue to stand in full solidarity with the Ukrainian athletes and the Olympic community of Ukraine during these extremely difficult times."[52][53] Subsequently, though the FIE had defended its position in its interim president's letter to Kharlan, Bruno Gares, the FIE's representative of the Executive Committee in the Rules Commission said that -- after the required salutes at the end of a bout -- handshakes would become optional, with a distance greeting permitted instead.[54][55] Remove ads Events Competitions organized by the FIE include the senior World Championships and World Cup, the Junior World Championships and Junior World Cup, the Cadets World Championships, and the Veterans World Championships. The Zonal Championships recognised by the FIE are the Senior Zonal Championships and the Junior Zonal Championships, but other competitions may be organized by the Zonal Confederations.[56] The FIE assists the International Olympic Committee in the organization of fencing events at the Summer Olympics. The number of events has been a matter of contention between the FIE and the CIO since the introduction of the women's sabre at the 1999 World Championships: since then, the World Championships feature twelve events: an individual and a team weapon for each of the three weapons, for men and for women. However, the CIO refuses to increase the number of Olympic medals allocated to fencing. After much dithering, the FIE decided to organize all six individual events, but only four team events, decided on a rotational basis. The two team events excluded from the Olympic programme, one for men and one for women, are included instead in the World Championships.[57] Remove ads People Presidents of the FIE A list of FIE presidents from 1913 to the present:[58][59] - 1913–21: Albert Feyerick - 1921–24: André Maginot - 1925–28: George van Rossem - 1929–32: Eugène Empeyta - 1933–48: Paul Anspach - 1949–52: Jacques Coutrot - 1953–56: Giuseppe Mazzini - 1957–60: Pierre Ferri - 1961–64: Miguel de Capriles - 1965–80: Pierre Ferri - 1981–84: Giancarlo Brusati - 1984–92: Rolland Boitelle - 1993–2008: René Roch - 2008–22: Alisher Usmanov - 2022–date: Emmanuel Katsiadakis (interim president) Athletes Continental federations Summarize Perspective As of 2023, the FIE recognized 155 affiliated national federations.[60] Note: As of 7 July 2012[update], the Netherlands Antilles was still listed as an FIE Member nation, and 146 member nations were listed on the FIE's membership page. However, after the country was dissolved, it lost its National Olympic Committee status in 2011. At the 2012 Olympics, athletes from the former Netherlands Antilles were eligible to participate as independent athletes under the Olympic flag (no fencers competed). Remove ads References External links Wikiwand - on Seamless Wikipedia browsing. On steroids. Remove ads
