=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Iacopo Barsotti (1921 - 1987) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics]
Following his death in 1987, a Symposium in Algebraic Geometry was held in his honour from 24 to 27 June 1991 in Abano Terme. The proceedings of the conference was published by Academic Press in 1994, see [1]. Other Mathematicians born in Italy ...
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Barsotti/

[Barsotti Symposium in Algebraic Geometry, Volume 15 - 1st Edition | Elsevier Shop]
Barsotti Symposium in Algebraic Geometry contains papers corresponding to the lectures given at the 1991 memorial meeting held in Abano Terme in honor of Iacopo Barsotti. This text reflects Barsotti’s significant contributions in the field.
URL: https://shop.elsevier.com/books/barsotti-symposium-in-algebraic-geometry/cristante/978-0-12-197270-7

[William MESSING | University of Minnesota, Duluth, Duluth | UMD | Department of Mathematics & Statistics | Research profile]
Barsotti symposium in algebraic geometry. Memorial meeting in honor of Iacopo Barsotti, in Abano Terme, Italy, June 24-27, 1991
URL: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/William-Messing

[1991 Symposium on Algebraic Geometry | PDF | Mathematics | Algebraic Geometry]
Oscar_Zariski - Free download as PDF File (.pdf), Text File (.txt) or read online for free.
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/810086272/Oscar-Zariski

[Barsotti Symposium in Algebraic Geometry - Google Books]
Barsotti Symposium in Algebraic Geometry contains papers corresponding to the lectures given at the 1991 memorial meeting held in Abano Terme in honor of Iacopo Barsotti. This text reflects Barsotti's significant contributions in the field.
URL: https://books.google.com/books?id=kpfiBQAAQBAJ&cad=4


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Iacopo Barsotti (1921 - 1987) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics] ---
Iacopo Barsotti Quick Info Turin, Italy Padua, Italy Biography Iacopo Barsotti studied at the Scuola Normale Superiore of Pisa, which was originally founded in 1810 by a decree of Napoleon Bonaparte and intended to be a sister institute of the École Normale Supérieure in Paris. It had become an institute of higher education linked to the University of Pisa in 1932 but when Barsotti was studying there World War II broke out. Italy kept out of the war for the first few months of the fighting but joined the hostilities of World War II, declaring war on Britain and France on 10 June 1940, only days before France surrendered to the Germans. The Scuola Normale continued to operate despite the war, but there were some limitations and practical difficulties. Barsotti was able to continue studying there and was awarded his laurea in 1942. At this stage he was called up to undertake military service and remained in the army until the war ended in 1945 when he was able to return to Pisa. Barsotti was not, therefore, in a position to publish material from his thesis until after the war ended. In fact he published a summary of his thesis results in Studi sopra le algebra senza base finita Ⓣ (1946) and then the full details in Algebre senza base finita Ⓣ (first part in 1947, second part in 1948). The papers state that they were extracted from his 1942 thesis. Irving Kaplansky writes:-[Part I] The author lays the foundation of a theory of linear spaces and algebras of infinite order. Particular attention is paid to what can be proved without the axiom of choice. [Part II] Continuing his discussion of algebras of infinite order, the author takes up ideals, subalgebras, idempotents and Kronecker products; the latter are constructed without using a basis.The Scuola Normale Superiore of Pisa had suffered severely during the war. Pisa had been bombed by the Americans on 31 August 1943 and the director of the Scuola Normale, being threatened with arrest, had fled. Leonida Tonelli had become the new director and he had done much to preserve the buildings of the Scuola Normale which were being used as a German barracks. Pisa was liberated by the Allies on 2 September 1944 and on 25 September 1945 restoration of the Scuola Normale began while a number of war veterans signed up as students. After Barsotti returned to Pisa, he helped with the restoration of teaching at the university. However, in 1946 he moved to Rome when he was appointed as Francesco Severi's assistant. Francesco Gherardelli writes [4]:- I first met Barsotti in Rome, when he was an assistant in geometry. He had just graduated from the Scuola Normale of Pisa but was already working independently, with originality of interests, making use of unusual cultural support. In those years the methods of modern algebra in algebraic geometry were almost unknown in Italy: in Rome it was only Barsotti who had already securely mastered them.This was a difficult period with considerable tensions. Following the war, Severi had been investigated by the High Commission for Sanctions against Fascism, suspended from his post for several months but reinstated in May 1945. However, he was investigated again in the following year and, although cleared of any wrongdoing, he was thrown out of the Accademia dei Lincei. Continued accusations against Severi made Barsotti's years as his assistant from 1946 to 1948 difficult ones. Severi's difficulties continued throughout this period but he was reelected to the Accademia dei Lincei in 1948. Notice that although Barsotti was Severi's assistant in Rome during 1946-48, he still gave his address as Pisa on the paper A proof of two fundamental theorems on linear transformations in Hilbert space, without use of the axiom of choice which he submitted to the Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society in March 1947. Barsotti's experience in Rome, with the continuing after-effects of the war, convinced him that he needed to leave Italy if he wanted to work in the most advanced schools of mathematics. He applied for, and was awarded, an Italo-American fellowship to allow him to study at Princeton University in the United States. He spent 1948-49 at Princeton and while there wrote the paper Algebraic Correspondences Between Algebraic Varieties. He writes in the introduction to the paper:- The present paper was originally intended to give a satisfactory algebraic definition of 'algebraic equivalence' between curves of an algebraic surface, and to prove the usual equivalence criteria. However in the course of development of these ideas it became apparent that the methods used could be applied to varieties of any dimension, at least as long as the concept of algebraic correspondence was involved. In the present paper it is only with these methods that we are concerned. it is intended that the original plan, and some other topic on the theory of intersections, will appear in a future paper as an application of the general theory. The present treatment differs from the previous ones given [by Bartel van der Waerden and André Weil] It differs also from Zariski's approach to the subject [which will be] contained in a book to be published in the American Mathematical Society Colloquium Publications. The Author had access to a part of the manuscript by courtesy of Professor Zariski.The future papers that Barsotti referred to in this introduction appeared over the next years. He had been appointed at the University of Pittsburgh after his year at Princeton and it was from Pittsburgh that he wrote the papers Local properties of algebraic correspondences (1951) and Intersection theory for cycles of an algebraic variety (1952). Both acknowledge that the research was carried out with support from a U.S. Navy contract. Barsotti puts the whole area into context in his introduction to this 1952 paper:- For a number of years intersection theory represented one of the most debated subjects in the field of algebraic geometry; also one of the main reasons for seeing in the whole structure of algebraic geometry an inherent flimsiness which even discouraged the study of this branch of mathematics. This situation came to an end when the methods of algebra began to be successfully applied to geometry, mainly by van der Waerden and Zariski; in the specific case of intersection theory, a completely general and rigorous treatment of the subject was given by Chevalley in 1945. This rebuilding of algebraic geometry on firm foundations has often taken a form quite different from what the classical works would have led one to expect. Thus it is not surprising that Chevalley's solution of the problem has no evident link with the methods that, according to the suggestions of the classical geometers, should have been used in order to define the intersection multiplicity; rather, it is linked to the analytical approach, and it is therefore a strictly "local" theory, thus having the advantage of providing an intersection multiplicity also for algebroid varieties. The method by André Weil [in 'Foundations of algebraic geometry' (1946)] is another example of local theory. The classical approach to the problem is illustrated in the introduction to [I Barsotti, 'Local properties of algebraic correspondences' (1951)], and carried out in the present paper.In 1960 Barsotti moved to Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island but, while there, entered the competition for the chair of geometry and algebra at the University of Pisa. He was ranked in first place by the panel and, in 1961, returned to Italy to take up the appointment. This was a golden time for the mathematics department at Pisa due to the appointment of Alessandro Faedo in 1946. Faedo, who was rector of the university from 1958 to 1972, brought an amazing collection of outstanding mathematicians to Pisa. In addition to Barsotti, he appointed Aldo Andreotti and Edoardo Vesentini. While at Pisa, Barsotti published a series of seven papers entitled Metodi analitici per varietà abeliane in caratteristica positiva. These seven papers, published between 1964 and 1966, are parts of a single work which studies inseparability phenomena for abelian varieties over an algebraically closed field of characteristic greater than zero. His work in this area is remembered since his name has been attached to the Barsotti-Tate groups. Barsotti introduced these groups in his 1962 paper Analytical methods for abelian varieties in positive characteristic and named them equidimensional hyperdomain. John Tate worked on them five years later, calling them -divisible groups, but the name Barsotti-Tate group is due to Alexander Grothendieck in 1971 who observed that these groups are naturally associated with the crystalline cohomology of a smooth scheme defined over a field of positive characteristic. Barsotti was not, however, to spend the rest of his career at Pisa for, in 1968, he moved to Padua to take up the chair of geometry at the university there. He published a number of articles on the theta function after moving to Padua, for example Considerazioni sulle funzioni theta (1970) which aims to bring the classical theory of theta functions of several variables within the scope of abstract algebraic geometry. The intention is to be able to extend the theory to cover the case of non-zero characteristic. He moved to this in Theta functions in positive characteristic (1979) and, staying with the theme of theta functions, published Differential equations of theta functions (1983) and Theta functions and differential equations (1985). While working on the theta function, he returned to Princeton to spend time as a visiting scholar at the Institute for Advanced Study in 1982. Following his death in 1987, a Symposium in Algebraic Geometry was held in his honour from 24 to 27 June 1991 in Abano Terme. The proceedings of the conference was published by Academic Press in 1994, see [1]. References (show) - V Cristante and W Messing (eds.), Barsotti Symposium in Algebraic Geometry, Abano Terme, 1991, Perspect. Math. 15 (Academic Press, San Diego, CA, 1994). - V Cristante, Obituary: Iacopo Barsotti (Italian), Rend. Sem. Mat. Univ. Padova 78 (1987), 285. - V Cristante and W Messing, Introduction [in memoriam: Iacopo Barsotti (1921-1987)], in Valentino Cristante and William Messing (eds.), Barsotti Symposium in Algebraic Geometry, Abano Terme, 1991, Perspect. Math. 15 (Academic Press, San Diego, CA, 1994), ix-xvi. - F Gherardelli, Jacopo Barsotti (Italian), Ann. Mat. Pura Appl. (4) 153 (1) (1988), iii-iv. - G Scorza Dragoni, Iacopo Barsotti in memoriam (Italian), Rend. Accad. Naz. Sci. XL Mem. Mat. (5) 12 (1) (1988), 1-2. Additional Resources (show) Other websites about Iacopo Barsotti: Cross-references (show) Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update May 2013 Last Update May 2013


--- [Barsotti Symposium in Algebraic Geometry, Volume 15 - 1st Edition | Elsevier Shop] ---
Barsotti Symposium in Algebraic Geometry - 1st Edition, Volume 15 - July 21, 2014 - Latest edition - Editors: Valentino Cristante, William Messing - Language: English Barsotti Symposium in Algebraic Geometry contains papers corresponding to the lectures given at the 1991 memorial meeting held in Abano Terme in honor of Iacopo Barsotti. This text… Read more Barsotti Symposium in Algebraic Geometry contains papers corresponding to the lectures given at the 1991 memorial meeting held in Abano Terme in honor of Iacopo Barsotti. This text reflects Barsotti’s significant contributions in the field. This book is composed of 10 chapters and begins with a review of the centers of three-dimensional skylanin algebras. The succeeding chapters deal with the theoretical aspects of the Abelian varieties, Witt realization of p-Adic Barsotti-Tate Groups, and hypergeometric series and functions. These topics are followed by discussions of logarithmic spaces and the estimates for and inequalities among A-numbers. The closing chapter describes the moduli of Abelian varieties in positive characteristic. This book will be of value to mathematicians. Contributors Introduction The Centers of 3-Dimensional Sklyanin Algebras Algebraic Versus Rigid Cohomology with Logarithmic Coefficients Abelian Varieties from the Rigid Analytic Viewpoint Witt Realization of p-Adic Barsotti-Tate Groups Ap-Adic Inner Product on Elliptic Modular Forms Hypergeometric Series and Functions as Periods of Exponential Modules The General Case of S. Lang's Conjecture Logarithmic Spaces (According to K. Kato) Perversity and Exponential Sums II: Estimates for and Inequalities among A-Numbers Moduli of Abelian Varieties in Positive Characteristic Index - Edition: 1 - Latest edition - Volume: 15 - Published: July 21, 2014 - Language: English Read Barsotti Symposium in Algebraic Geometry on ScienceDirect


--- [William MESSING | University of Minnesota, Duluth, Duluth | UMD | Department of Mathematics & Statistics | Research profile] ---
William Messing- University of Minnesota, Duluth William Messing - University of Minnesota, Duluth About 41 Publications 4,946 Reads How we measure 'reads' A 'read' is counted each time someone views a publication summary (such as the title, abstract, and list of authors), clicks on a figure, or views or downloads the full-text. Learn more 2,048 Citations Introduction Skills and Expertise Current institution Additional affiliations September 1981 - present University of Minnesota Position - Professor (Full) September 1975 - June 1981 September 1972 - June 1975 Publications Publications (41) We prove a version of Gauss's Lemma. It recursively constructs polynomials {c_k} for k=0,1,...,m+n, in Z[a_i,A_i,b_j,B_j] for i=0,...,m, and j=0,1,...,n, having degree at most (m+n choose m) in each of the four variable sets, such that whenever {A_i},{B_j},{C_k} are the coefficients of polynomials A(X),B(X),C(X) with C(X)=A(X)B(X) and 1 = a_0 A_0 +... The diverse Dieudonné theories have as their common goal the classification of formal groups and p-divisible groups. The most recent theory is Zink’s theory of displays. A display over a ring R is a finitely generated projective module over the ring of Witt vectors, W(R), equipped with additional structures. Zink has shown that using this notion, m... We define in a global manner the notion of a connective structure for a gerbe on a space X. When the gerbe is endowed with trivializing data with respect to an open cover of X, we describe this connective structure in two separate ways, which extend from abelian to general gerbes the corresponding descriptions due to J.-L. Brylinski and N. Hitchin.... "This cohomology should also, most importantly, explain torsion phenomena, and in particular p-torsion" A. Grothendieck, Crystals and the de Rham cohomology of schemes. Abstract. — Following our two courses at the Centre Emile Borel of the I.H.P. during the Semestre p-adique of 1997, we present a survey of the Fontaine-Laaille and Fontaine-Messing... We extend to a scheme-theoretic context the notion of a combinatorial differential form, due to A.Kock in the framework of synthetic differential geometry. We show that group-valued combinatorial forms on a scheme may be identified, under very general hypotheses, with traditional Lie algebra-valued differential forms, and that their Lie algebra str... We extend to a scheme-theoretic context the notion of a combinatorial differential form, due to A.Kock in the framework of synthetic differential geometry. We show that group-valued combinatorial forms on a scheme may be identified, under very general hypotheses, with traditional Lie algebra-valued differential forms, and that their Lie algebra str... We write D for the crystalline Dieudonne module functor on p-divisible groups over a base S of characteristic p. The main results are: the full faithfulness of D over excellent local complete intersection schemes, and the full faithfulness of D up to isogeny when S is local excellent. We make use of the desingularization of D. Pospescu and the exte... Ce travail est le troisième d’une série consacrée à la théorie de Dieudonné cristalline. Le premier article [6] présentait les principaux résultats, sans en donner de démonstration. Dans le volume [7], écrit en collaboration avec Breen, les fondements de la théorie ont été exposés de manière systématique. Nous donnons ici la démonstration des résul... We deduce from Deligne's form of the Riemann hypothesis and the hard Lefschetz theoremin l-adic cohomology the corresponding facts for any reasonable cohomology theory, in particular for crystalline cohomology, and give some applications to algebraic cycles. Contents Contents § Definitions and examples § The Relation between Barsotti and Formal Lie Groups § Divided Powers, Exponentials and Crystals § The Crystals Associated to Barsotti- Tate Groups § The Deformation Theory and Applications


--- [1991 Symposium on Algebraic Geometry | PDF | Mathematics | Algebraic Geometry] ---
Skip to main content Open navigation menu Close suggestions Search Search en Change Language Upload Sign in Sign in 0 ratings 0% found this document useful (0 votes) 541 views 5 pages 1991 Symposium on Algebraic Geometry Document Information Uploaded by mary.alex.harrier AI-enhanced title Download Save Save Oscar_Zariski For Later Share 0% 0% found this document useful, undefined 0% , undefined Print Embed Ask AI Report 0 ratings 0% found this document useful (0 votes) 541 views 5 pages 1991 Symposium on Algebraic Geometry Read more Download 0 ratings 0% found this document useful (0 votes) 541 views 5 pages 1991 Symposium on Algebraic Geometry Document Information Uploaded by mary.alex.harrier AI-enhanced title Go to previous items Go to next items Download Save Save Oscar_Zariski For Later Share 0% 0% found this document useful, undefined 0% , undefined Print Embed Ask AI Report Download Save Oscar_Zariski For Later Search Fullscreen You are on page 1 5 Share this document Share on Facebook, opens a new window Share on LinkedIn, opens a new window Share with Email, opens mail client Copy link Millions of documents at your fingertips, ad-free Subscribe with a free trial 576648e32a3d8b82ca71961b7a986505


--- [Barsotti Symposium in Algebraic Geometry - Google Books] ---
Barsotti Symposium in Algebraic GeometryValentino Cristante, William Messing Academic Press, 21.07.2014 - 304 Seiten Barsotti Symposium in Algebraic Geometry contains papers corresponding to the lectures given at the 1991 memorial meeting held in Abano Terme in honor of Iacopo Barsotti. This text reflects Barsotti's significant contributions in the field. This book is composed of 10 chapters and begins with a review of the centers of three-dimensional skylanin algebras. The succeeding chapters deal with the theoretical aspects of the Abelian varieties, Witt realization of p-Adic Barsotti-Tate Groups, and hypergeometric series and functions. These topics are followed by discussions of logarithmic spaces and the estimates for and inequalities among A-numbers. The closing chapter describes the moduli of Abelian varieties in positive characteristic. This book will be of value to mathematicians. | Inhalt | 1 | | | 11 | | Chapter 3 Abelian Varieties from the Rigid Analytic Viewpoint | 51 | Chapter 4 Witt Realization of pAdic BarsottiTate Groups | 65 | Chapter 5 A pAdic Inner Product on Elliptic Modular Forms | 125 | Chapter 6 Hypergeometric Series and Functions as Periods of Exponential Modules | 153 | Chapter 7 The General Case of S Langs Conjecture | 175 | Chapter 8 Logarithmic Spaces According to K Kato | 183 | Estimates for and Inequalities among ANumbers | 205 | Chapter 10 Moduli of Abelian Varieties in Positive Characteristic | 253 | | 277 | | Perspectives in Mathematics | 289 | Andere Ausgaben - Alle anzeigen Häufige Begriffe und Wortgruppen A-module A-number(F abelian varieties affine algebra Algebraic Geometry algebraically closed Barsotti Barsotti-Tate group bialgebra biv(R biv(S bivector canonical characteristic closed subscheme coefficients cohomology commutative complete components computes the A-number Corollary corresponding crystalline cohomology defined denote dense open set Dieudonné Dieudonné module dimension dual elements elliptic curve embedded lifting étale exact sequence exists extension finite field finite type formal Frobenius functor group schemes homomorphism hypersurface inclusion integer irreducible isomorphism k-rational Lemma line bundle linear form lisse log schemes log structure logarithmic Math mixed of weight module moduli space morphism multiplicative Newton polygon notation open set p-adic polynomial Proof Proposition prove pure of weight Raynaud resp rigid analytic space ring semi-stable reduction sheaf sheaves smooth subsets subvariety supersingular Suppose Theorem theory topology trivial vectors Witt vectors Xproj zero
