=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Van Vechten Collection - Carl Van Vechten Biography and Chronology - Prints & Photographs Online Catalog (Library of Congress)]
In addition to covering a broad ... with his copy. In 1906, when Van Vechten moved to New York City, he was hired as the assistant music critic at the New York Times. His interest in opera prompted him to take a leave of absence from the Times in 1907, to examine this art ...
URL: https://www.loc.gov/pictures/collection/van/biography.html

[Carl Van Vechten - Wikipedia]
He was hired as the assistant music critic at The New York Times. His interest in opera had him take a leave of absence from the paper in 1907 to travel to Europe and explore opera. While in England, he married Anna Snyder, his longtime friend from Cedar Rapids.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_Van_Vechten

[Carl Van Vechten, Photographer, and Writer born - African ...]
In 1906, he was hired as the assistant music critic at the New York Times. His interest in opera prompted him to take a leave of absence from the Times in 1907 to examine this art form in Europe.
URL: https://aaregistry.org/story/photographer-and-writer-carl-van-vechten-born/

[Papers of Carl van Vechten - Special Collections - The University of Iowa Libraries]
In addition to covering a broad ... with his copy. In 1906, when Van Vechten moved to New York City, he was hired as the assistant music critic at the New York Times. His interest in opera prompted him to take a leave of absence from the Times in 1907, to examine this art ...
URL: https://www.lib.uiowa.edu/scua/msc/tomsc750/msc715/msc715_van%20vechten.html

[Carl Van Vechten - Biography - askART]
He was hired as the assistant music critic at The New York Times. His interest in opera had him take a leave of absence from the paper in 1907, to travel to Europe to explore opera.
URL: https://www.askart.com/artist/artist/11245317/artist.aspx


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Van Vechten Collection - Carl Van Vechten Biography and Chronology - Prints & Photographs Online Catalog (Library of Congress)] ---
This Collection: - View All - About this Collection - Background and Scope - Selected Bibliography - Carl Van Vechten Biography and Chronology - Cataloging the Collection - Additional Collections of Van Vechten Photographs - Occupational Index - Rights And Restrictions Browse By: - Creator/Related Names (6) - Subjects (1363) - Formats (19) More Resources Most images are digitized | All jpegs/tiffs display outside Library of Congress | View All Carl Van Vechten: Biography and Chronology Biography Carl Van Vechten was born on June 17, 1880 in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. At an early age, he developed an interest in music and theater, which he found hard to satisfy in his hometown. He left Iowa in 1899 to attend the University of Chicago. In Chicago he was able to explore art, music, and opera. He became interested in writing and contributed to the University of Chicago Weekly. After college, Van Vechten's first job was with the Chicago American. In addition to covering a broad range of topics, he was occasionally asked to provide photographs to go along with his copy. In 1906, when Van Vechten moved to New York City, he was hired as the assistant music critic at the New York Times. His interest in opera prompted him to take a leave of absence from the Times in 1907, to examine this art form in Europe. While in England he married his long time friend from Cedar Rapids, Anna Snyder. The marriage would end in divorce in 1912. Van Vechten returned to his job at the New York Times in 1909 and soon became the first American critic of modern dance. At that time, Isadora Duncan, Anna Pavlova, and Loie Fuller were performing in New York. In 1914, Van Vechten married actress Fania Marinoff. He left his full time newspaper job in the spring, but he continued to write, and published several collections of his essays relating to music, ballet, and cats. Peter Whiffle: His Life and Works, Van Vechten's first novel, was published in 1922. Van Vechten became very interested in promoting black artists and writers. He was an avid collector of ephemera and books pertaining to black arts and letters and a frequent visitor to Harlem. These experiences provided the inspiration for his controversial novel, Nigger Heaven, which was published in 1926. In the future, he would photograph many of the creative people he met in Harlem. In the early 1930s, Miguel Covarrubias introduced Van Vechten to the 35mm Leica camera. He began photographing his large circle of friends and acquaintances. His earlier career as a writer and his wife's experience as an actress provided him with access to both fledgling artists and the established cultural figures of the time. Some of his subjects from this period include F. Scott Fitzgerald, Langston Hughes, Alfred A. Knopf, Bessie Smith, and Gertrude Stein. Van Vechten's portraits are frequently busts or half-length poses, in front of bold backdrops. Dancers were usually photographed on stage. Van Vechten did his own darkroom work, but frequently used an assistant to help set up lights for the portrait sittings. During World War II, Van Vechten volunteered at the Stage Door Canteen. Top-notch entertainers frequently performed there for servicemen. Saul Mauriber, one of the busboys under Van Vechten's supervision, began working as his photographic assistant and remained in this capacity for twenty years. Mauriber was also responsible for organizing Van Vechten's photographs and eventually became the photographic executor for Van Vechten's estate. Van Vechten's photographs have been widely exhibited and frequently used as illustrations in books and magazines. He felt very strongly that his collection of manuscripts, letters, clippings, programs, and photographs, many pertaining to creative blacks, should be available for scholarly research. With this in mind, during his lifetime, he presented various parts of his collection to several university libraries. The Library of Congress acquired its collection of approximately 1,400 photographs in 1966 from Saul Mauriber. Van Vechten remained active, writing and photographing, up until his death in 1964. Chronology 1880 Born June 17 in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to Charles Duane Van Vechten and Ada Amanda Fitch. 1903 Graduates from the University of Chicago. 1906 Moves to New York City, where he is hired by the New York Times as assistant to the music critic. 1907 Travels to Europe to study opera. Marries Anna Snyder. 1908 Becomes Paris correspondent for the New York Times. 1909 Returns to New York City. Becomes the first American critic of modern dance, while working at the New York Times. 1912 Divorces Anna Snyder. 1913-14 Works as drama critic for the New York Press. 1914 Marries actress Fania Marinoff. 1915-32 Publishes several collections of essays relating to music, dance, and cats. Writes seven novels, including Peter Whiffle: His Life and Works, published in 1922, and Nigger Heaven, published in 1926. 1932 Buys a Leica and begins photographing both fledgling and established artists and performers. 1933 Van Vechten's photographs are displayed at Bergdorf Goodman, along with the work of Cecil Beaton, Edward Steichen, Man Ray, and George Platt Lynes. 1934-36 Exhibits photographs in the annual Leica Exhibition. 1942 Exhibits over 100 theater photographs at the Museum of the City of New York. Works as a volunteer at the Stage Door Canteen. 194- Saul Mauriber begins work as Van Vechten's assistant and organizes his photographs, an association that lasts for 20 years. 1951 Exhibits photographs at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. 1955 Receives honorary degree, Doctor of Literature, from Fisk University. 1964 Dies at the age of 84 in New York City.


--- [Carl Van Vechten - Wikipedia] ---
408 captures 10 Sep 2004 - 15 Feb 2026 Jan FEB Mar 15 2025 2026 2027 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now Outlinks TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20260215021829/https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_van_Vechten


--- [Carl Van Vechten, Photographer, and Writer born - African ...] ---
Carl Van Vechten *Carl Van Vechten was born on this date in 1880. He was a white-American photographer and writer whose photographs provided legitimate exposure to the Black experience in America. From Cedar Rapids, Iowa. At an early age, he developed an interest in music and theater, which he found hard to satisfy in his hometown. He left Iowa in 1899 to attend the University of Chicago. In Chicago, he explored art, music, and opera. He became interested in writing and contributed to the University of Chicago Weekly. After college, Van Vechten's first job was with the Chicago American. In addition to covering a broad range of topics, he was occasionally asked to provide photographs to accompany his copy. In 1906, he was hired as the assistant music critic at the New York Times. His interest in opera prompted him to take a leave of absence from the Times in 1907 to examine this art form in Europe. While in England, he married his long-time friend from Cedar Rapids, Anna Snyder. The marriage would end in divorce in 1912. Van Vechten returned to his job at the New York Times in 1909 and soon became the first American critic of modern dance when Isadora Duncan, Anna Pavlova, and Loie Fuller performed in New York. In 1914, Van Vechten married actress Fania Marinoff. He left his full-time newspaper job in the spring, but he continued to write and published several collections of his essays relating to music, ballet, and cats. Peter Whiffle: His Life and Works, Van Vechten's first novel, was published in 1922. Van Vechten became very interested in promoting Black artists and writers. He was an avid collector of ephemera and books about Black arts and letters and a frequent visitor to Harlem. These experiences inspired his controversial novel, "Nigger Heaven," published in 1926. In the early 1930s, Miguel Covarrubias introduced Van Vechten to the 35mm Leica camera. In 1928, the death of Van Vechten’s brother left the writer with a fortune of around six million dollars. It was in 1932 that the former newspaperman and novelist pursued his third career as a photographer. He began photographing his large circle of friends and acquaintances, many of whom were the creative people he had met in Harlem. His earlier career as a writer and his wife's experience as an actress provided him with access to both fledgling artists and established cultural figures of the time. Some of his subjects from this period include F. Scott Fitzgerald, Langston Hughes, Alfred A. Knopf, Bessie Smith, and Gertrude Stein. Van Vechten's portraits are often busts or half-length poses set against bold backdrops. Dancers were usually photographed on stage. Van Vechten did his darkroom work but frequently used an assistant to help set up lights for the portrait sittings. During World War II, Van Vechten volunteered at the Stage Door Canteen. Top-notch entertainers frequently performed there for servicemen. Saul Mauriber, one of the busboys under Van Vechten's supervision, began working as his photographic assistant and remained in this capacity for twenty years. Mauriber was also responsible for organizing Van Vechten's photographs and eventually became the photographic executor for his estate. Van Vechten's photographs have been widely exhibited and frequently used as illustrations in books and magazines. He felt very strongly that his collection of manuscripts, letters, clippings, programs, and photographs about creative Blacks should be available for scholarly research. With this in mind, he presented various parts of his collection to several university libraries during his lifetime. Carl Van Vechten died in 1964, and the Library of Congress acquired its collection of approximately 1,400 photographs in 1966 from Mauriber.


--- [Papers of Carl van Vechten - Special Collections - The University of Iowa Libraries] ---
MsC 715 Manuscript Register PAPERS OF CARL VAN VECHTEN Collection Dates: [1939 -- 1960] 1 linear ft. This document describes a collection of materials held by theSpecial Collections DepartmentUniversity of Iowa Libraries Iowa City, Iowa 52242-1420Phone: 319-335-5921 Fax: 319-335-5900 e-mail: lib-spec@uiowa.edu Posted to Internet: May 2003Addenda: May 2003, August, 2003, December, 2003 Carl van Vechten holding a lion cub. Berlin, 1930. From a postcard in the collection. Access and Restrictions: This collection is open for research.Bruce Kellner administers copyright to the photographs. Photographs: Box 1, Box 2 Digital Surrogates: Except where indicated, this document describes but does not reproduce the actual text, images and objects which make up this collection. Materials are available only in the Special Collections Department. Copyright: Please read The University of Iowa Libraries' statement on "Property Rights, Copyright Law, and Permissions to Use Unpublished Materials" Use of Collections: The University of Iowa Libraries supports access to the materials, published and unpublished, in its collections. Nonetheless, access to some items may be restricted by their fragile condition or by contractual agreement with donors, and it may not be possible at all times to provide appropriate machinery for reading, viewing or accessing non-paper-based materials. Please read our Use of Manuscripts Statement. Biographical Note Carl Van Vechten was born on June 17, 1880, in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. At an early age, he developed an interest in music and theatre that he found hard to satisfy in his hometown. He left Iowa in 1899 to attend the University of Chicago. In Chicago he was able to explore art, music, and opera. He became interested in writing and contributed to the University of Chicago Weekly. After college, Van Vechten's first job was with the Chicago American. In addition to covering a broad range of topics, he was occasionally asked to provide photographs to go along with his copy. In 1906, when Van Vechten moved to New York City, he was hired as the assistant music critic at the New York Times. His interest in opera prompted him to take a leave of absence from the Times in 1907, to examine this art form in Europe. While in England he married his long-time friend from Cedar Rapids, Ann Snyder. The marriage would end in divorce in 1912. Van Vechten returned to his job at the New York Times in 1909 and soon became the first American critic of modern dance. At that time, Isadora Duncan, Anna Pavlova, and Loie Fuller were performing in New York. In 1914, Van Vechten married actress Fania Marinoff. He left his full time newspaper job in the spring, but he continued to write, and published several collections of his essays relating to music, ballet, and cats. Peter Whiffle: His Life and Works, Van Vechten's first novel, was published in 1922. Van Vechten became very interested in promoting black artists and writers. He was an avid collector of ephemera and books pertaining to black arts and letters, and was a frequent visitor to Harlem. These experiences provided the inspiration for his controversial novel, Nigger Heaven, which was published in 1926. In the future, he would photograph many of the creative people he met in Harlem. In the early 1930s Miguel Covarrubias introduced Van Vechten to the 35 mm Leica camera. He began photographing his large circle of friends and acquaintances. His earlier career as a writer and his wife's experience as an actress provided him with access to both fledgling artists and established cultural figures of the time. Some of his subjects from this period include F. Scott Fitzgerald, Langston Hughes, Alfred A. Knopf, Bessie Smith, and Gertrude Stein. Van Vechten's portraits are frequently busts or half-length poses in front of bold backdrops. Dancers were usually photographed on stage. Van Vechten did his own darkroom work, but frequently used an assistant to help set up lights for portrait sittings. During World War II Van Vechten volunteered at the Stage Door Canteen. Top-notch entertainers frequently performed there for servicemen. Van Vechten's photographs have been widely exhibited and frequently used as illustrations in books and magazines. He felt very strongly that his collections of manuscripts, letters, clippings, programs, and photographs, many pertaining to creative blacks, should be available for scholarly research. With this in mind, he presented various parts of his collections to several university libraries during his lifetime. Van Vechten remained active, writing and photographing up until his death in 1961. (This biography was copied from the Library of Congress web site on Van Vechten. For the URL, see below.) Scope and Contents This collection is comprised mainly of 8 x 10 photographs. There are drafts for one essay on Gertrude Stein. some photocopied correspondence, pamphlet material about Van Vechten and the typescript of a stage adaptation of "The Tattooed Countess." Related materials Andrews, Clarence. "Iowa Literary History 1971 -- 1991." Books at Iowa, April 1992. Carney, Thomas L. and Joyce Crawford. "The Torch Press: A Preliminary History." Books at Iowa, November, 1974. Kellner, Bruce. "Baby Woojums in Iowa." Books at Iowa, April, 1977. Kuhl, Nancy. Extravagant Crowd : Carl Van Vechten's Portraits of Women. New Haven, Conn. : Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, Yale University, 2003. Online exhibit available at http://beinecke.library.yale.edu/cvvpw/ Library of Congress, American Memory Project. Creative Americans: Portraits by Carl Van Vechten. Sigmund, Jay. Manuscript Collection, The University of Iowa Libraries. Papers of Jay Sigmund: MsC697 Box List Box 1 Biographical and bibliographic information Clippings "An Evening with George Gershwin." With the Cedar Rapids Symphony conducted by Richard Williams. "An event of Carl Van Vechten -- Cultural Contributions on a Century 1880 --1980." Concert Program "Gertrude Stein: An Epilogue" Correspondence, 1939 -- 1960 Typescript, with revisions. Autographed. 1946 First draft Second draft Third draft "Memorial to Miss Gertrude Stein." New York Post, December 9, 1946 Miscellaneous. Contains notes, bookplates, book jackets, programs, postcards and other miscellaneous materials Index to the photographs Photographs Albee, Edward d'Alvarez, Marguerite Anderson, Judith Barchardy, Dan Bankhead, Tallulah Belafonte, Harry Blixen, Karen (Isak Dinesen) Boatright, McHenry Brando, Marlon Bruskin, Mark Calder, Alexander Calder, Alexander (1 smaller photograph) Carroll, Diahann Cather, Willa Channing, Carol Cooper, Gladys David, Christopher Dobbs, Mattiwilda Dowell, Coleman Dullea, Keir Fini, Leonor Fontanne, Lynn Ford, Ruth Garden, Mary Domingue-Gassieau, Pierre Gish, Lillian Graham, Martha and Bertram Ross Gross, Chiam Himes, Chester Holiday, Billie Jackson, Mahalia [Jacob, Max?] Johnson, Philip Jones, James Earl Jones, LeRoi Julian, Doris (5 folders) Julian, Doris and her son Stephen Van Ophuigsen (6 folders) Kaye, Nora Kellner, Bruce King, Alexander and Margie Lenya, Lotte Madden, Donald Markova, Alicia Martin, Nan Mencken, H.L. Mercer, Mabel Mancion, Francesco Moore, Grace Morgan, Helen Morse, Robert Mostel, Zero Olaf, Pierre O'Neill, Carlotta O'Neill, Eugene Ortega, Domingo Plummer, Christopher Price, Leontyne Quintero, Jose (2 folders) Rawlings, Marjorie Kinnan Sands, Diana 17 Belley Grande Rue (Post card) Shankari Musicians Shirley, George Short, Bobby Stage Door Canteen Stanley, Kim Stein, Gertrude Stein, Gertrude (five smaller photographs) Studio at 27 Rue de Fleurus Svendson, Clara Szell, George Taylor, Paul Tchelichew, Pavel Toklas, Alice B. Toklas, Alice B. (3 smaller photographs) Turnbull, Andrew Unidentified man Unidentified man Unidentified man Van Dyke, Henry Van Ophuigsen, Stephen (6 folders) Van Vechten, Carl (3 folders) Van Vechten, Carl (photograph of bust) Van Vechten and Coleman Dowell Van Vechten, Carl and Ethel Waters Verdy, Violette Verret, Shirley Waters, Ethel Waugh, Evelyn Williams, John Wolfe, Thomas Box 2 May, 2003 Addendum. Gift of Kirkwood Community College Photographs Ailey, Alvin Albee, Edward (2 folders) Allen, Betty Bailey, Pearl Baldwin, James Cather, Willa DuBois, W.E.B. Field, Betty Gish, Lillian Graham, Martha and Bertram Himes, Chester Kellner, Bruce Kellner, Bruce and Carl Van Vechten Lenya, Lottee Madden, Donald Markova, Alicia Martin, Mary Moncion, Francisco Mostel, Zero Motley, Willard O'Neill, Eugene Petry, Ann L. Price, Leontyne Sands, Diana Schuyler, Phillippa Duke Stanley, Kim Still, William Grant Szell, George Thomson, Virgil Warfield, William Waugh, Evelyn Williams, John A. Wolfe, Thomas Box 3 August, 2003 Addendum. Gift of Kirkwood Community College Articles


--- [Carl Van Vechten - Biography - askART] ---
No content
