=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mary Munson Runge, Pharmacist born - African American Registry]
Runge was inducted into the California Pharmacists Association Hall of Fame in 1997. In 1996, she received the Hugo H. Schaefer Award from APhA. Runge, the first female, black, and employee community pharmacist elected president of the American Pharmacists Association (APhA), died on January 8, 2014.
URL: https://aaregistry.org/story/mary-munson/

[Hugo H. Schaefer Award - American Pharmacists Association]
About The Hugo H. Schaefer Award was established by the American Pharmacists Association in 1964 to honor the long-time APhA Treasurer, Hugo H. Schaefer, for a lifetime of contributions to the profession of pharmacy and in particular for his service to APhA. The purpose of the award is to recognize an individual who has made outstanding voluntary contributions to society as well as to the ...
URL: https://www.pharmacist.com/Membership/Awards/Professionwide-Awards/Hugo-H-Schaefer-Award

[Mary Munson Runge - Wikipedia]
Mary Munson Runge (1928 - January 8, 2014) was the first female, the first African American, and the first employee community pharmacist to be elected president of the American Pharmacists Association (APhA).
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mary_Munson_Runge

[Women In The Pharmacy, Celebrating The Rich History of Excellence]
Mary Munson Runge was the first woman and first African American to become president of APhA in 1979, and received the APhA Hugo H. Schaefer Award in 1996. These women have made significant contributions to the field of pharmacy and have paved the way for the next generation of women in the profession.
URL: https://www.freece.com/blog/historically-impactful-women-pharmacy/

[Baby Names and Meanings - BabyNames.com]
Whether you're searching for the perfect baby boy name, baby girl name, or a stylish gender-neutral name, we've got you covered with thousands of options and expert advice.
URL: https://babynames.com/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mary Munson Runge, Pharmacist born - African American Registry] ---
Mary Munson *Mary Munson Runge was born on this date in 1928. She was a Black Pharmacist and medical rights advocate. She was born Mary Lowery in Donaldsonville, Louisiana. Runge's father, John Harvey Lowery, was a pharmacist and physician notable for establishing the first pharmacy in Donaldsonville. Runge graduated from the College of Pharmacy at Xavier University of Louisiana in 1948. At the time, she was among the few females in the pharmacy profession. Runge moved to California and practiced hospital pharmacy for 21 years. In 1971, she became a community pharmacist at Sylvester Flower's Apothecary. The practice was located in Oakland, California, serving needy patient areas. Runge is quoted as saying, "The greatest experience was helping poor African American people who couldn’t even pay for their medicine. The pharmacy gave me an opportunity to help people who needed help." Runge served in leadership positions within numerous professional organizations. She was president of the Northern California Society of Hospital Pharmacists in 1963 and the California Society of Hospital Pharmacists in 1967. She served on the California State Board of Pharmacy and was the president of the California Pharmacists Association in 1974. Runge was the first female APhA representative to the American College of Pharmaceutical Education (ACPE) from 1972 to 1982. In 1979, Runge was sworn in as president of the American Pharmacists Association (APhA). As a Black female, her appointment marked the end of a 126-year history of white males serving as APhA's president. Notably, she was also the first employee community pharmacist to have served as president of APhA, rather than being an owner of a community pharmacy. During her tenure as APhA president, Runge formally created the APhA Task Force on Women in Pharmacy and APhA's Office of Women's Affairs. Her two terms ended in 1981. She served on federal committees, including the Institute of Medicine Pharmacy Advisory Panel for the study of the costs of educating healthcare professionals, the National Academy of Sciences in 1974, the Reagan-Bush Health Policy Advisory Committee in 1980, the U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare (what would later become the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services) and the Prescription Drug Payment Review Commission. Runge received honorary doctorates from the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy (Doctor of Science) and Ohio Northern University (Doctor of Pharmacy) in recognition of her work for the profession. She was named Pharmacist of the Year in 1978 by the California Pharmacists Association. Runge was inducted into the California Pharmacists Association Hall of Fame in 1997. In 1996, she received the Hugo H. Schaefer Award from APhA. Runge, the first female, black, and employee community pharmacist elected president of the American Pharmacists Association (APhA), died on January 8, 2014. Her memorial service was held at the First United Methodist Church in Modesto, California. APhA created a posthumous scholarship in her name.


--- [Hugo H. Schaefer Award - American Pharmacists Association] ---
Hugo H. Schaefer Award 2026 Hugo H. Schaefer Award Recipient Hae Mi Choe,PharmD Hae Mi Choe, PharmD was chief population health officer for Michigan Medicine, associate dean for pharmacy innovations and partnerships at the University of Michigan College of Pharmacy, and executive director of the Michigan Institute for Care Management & Transformation. A national leader in transforming team-based care, she established a scalable clinical pharmacist practice across 14 health centers and pioneered reimbursement pathways now used across Michigan. She also led a pharmacist-embedded hypertension care model, so successful the CDC named it a best practice and began scaling it nationally. An award-winning mentor and innovator, Dr. Choe trained at UC San Diego, UCSF, and Kaiser Permanente. About The Hugo H. Schaefer Award was established by the American Pharmacists Association in 1964 to honor the long-time APhA Treasurer, Hugo H. Schaefer, for a lifetime of contributions to the profession of pharmacy and in particular for his service to APhA. The purpose of the award is to recognize an individual who has made outstanding voluntary contributions to society as well as to the profession of pharmacy and APhA. Nomination criteria The nominee must be an APhA Member who has made outstanding voluntary contributions to society, the profession of pharmacy, and APhA. Remington Honor Medalists are not eligible. Nomination process The nominator is responsible for submitting a complete award nomination. The nomination is to include the following items: A letter from the nominator describing the most important achievements of the nominee and explaining why the nominee meets the criteria for the award Letters of recommendation are optional; two letters are preferred with a maximum of six letters accepted A current curriculum vitae or detailed résumé Selection process The selection is made by the APhA Board of Trustees based upon careful review of complete nominations. Nature of award The award, presented at the APhA Annual Meeting & Exposition, consists of a medal bearing the likeness of Hugo H. Schaefer mounted on a wooden base, which is inscribed with the recipient’s name and date of presentation. The recipient also receives a complimentary APhA Annual Meeting & Exposition registration and reimbursement for meeting-related travel expenses, according to current travel policies and up to the maximum amount budgeted by APhA. Past Recipients 2025 Dr. Rosalyn C. King, PharmD 2023 Ruth A. Smarinsky, PharmD 1984 George B. Griffenhagen 1971 Harry C. Shirkey, MD Return to Main Awards Page


--- [Mary Munson Runge - Wikipedia] ---
Mary Munson Runge (1928 – January 8, 2014) was the first female, the first African American, and the first employee community pharmacist to be elected president of the American Pharmacists Association (APhA).


--- [Women In The Pharmacy, Celebrating The Rich History of Excellence] ---
Throughout history, women have faced numerous barriers advancing their careers. Yet today, women make up about 60% of the pharmacist and 79% of the pharmacy technician population in the United States. The field of pharmacy has provided a platform for women to make significant contributions and leave a lasting impact on both the pharmacy profession and healthcare at large. Table of Contents Women have always played an essential role in healthcare—particularly as midwives, healers, and nurses. However, their contributions were often overlooked or undervalued. It wasn’t until the 19th century that women began to enter the field of pharmacy in significant numbers. At the time, the pharmacy profession was viewed as a natural extension of the household duties that women were expected to perform. However, as more women entered the profession, they began to challenge gender norms and expectations. Despite the growing numbers of women in the pharmacy profession, they still faced significant barriers. Women were often denied opportunities for education and training, and their career advancement was limited. It wasn’t until the 1960s and 1970s that women began to break down these barriers, with the passage of the Civil Rights Act and the Women’s Liberation movement. Today, women are leaders in the pharmacy profession, holding positions at every level of the healthcare system. They have made significant contributions to the development of new drugs and treatments, the management of chronic diseases, and the improvement of patient care. One of the most significant contributions made by women in the pharmacy profession is their advocacy for patient-centered care. Women have been instrumental in shifting the focus of healthcare from disease-centered to patient-centered care. This approach recognizes that every patient is unique and requires personalized care that takes into account their physical, emotional, and social needs. In addition to their contributions to patient care, women have also played a crucial role in the advancement of pharmacy education and research. They have helped to develop new training programs and curricula that prepare future pharmacists to meet the evolving needs of patients and the healthcare system. Women have also been pioneers in the field of pharmacy leadership. They have broken down barriers and shattered glass ceilings, holding positions at the highest levels of the profession. From CEOs of major pharmaceutical companies to deans of pharmacy schools, women have shown that they have the skills, knowledge, and vision to lead and shape the future of pharmacy. Celebrating the Rich History of Excellence: Historically Significant Women in Pharmacy Pharmacy is a field where women have made significant contributions since the early days. Here are women who have left an indelible mark on the profession: - Elizabeth Gooking Greenleaf was one of the first female pharmacists in the United States, having opened her own apothecary shop in Boston in 1727. She also published a book on herbal remedies that was widely used at the time. - Susan Hayhurst (1820-1909) was the first woman to earn a degree in pharmacy from a college or university. She received her degree from Philadelphia’s College of Pharmacy. - Elizabeth Marshall (1768-1826) was the United States’ second woman to become a pharmacist. - Mary Corinna Putnam Jacobi (1842–1906) was the first woman to earn a degree from a school of pharmacy, having graduated from the New York College of Pharmacy in 1863. - Mary Olds Miner was the first woman to be an APhA officer, having been elected as the third vice president in 1895. - Zada Mary Cooper (1875–1961) was the founder of the Rho Chi Society of Kappa Epsilon Fraternity, and was one of the founders of the Women’s Section of APhA. - Anna Gertrude Bagley was the first female pharmacist on staff assisting the editor of JAPhA in the 1920s, and was one of the founders of the Women’s Section of APhA. - Margaret Cornelius “Cora” Dow (1868–1915) was the architect for a successful chain of pharmacies, eventually owning 11 stores, a warehouse, and an ice cream factory. - Nellie Wakeman (1883–1952) was the first woman to receive a Ph.D. in a pharmacy discipline, and was a faculty member at the University of Wisconsin from 1913 until her retirement in 1946. - B. Olive Cole (1883–1971) was a mentor and role model for women in pharmacy, and was a faculty member at the University of Maryland from 1920 to 1953. - Edna E. Capurra Gleason (1886–1963) was the first female pharmacist elected president of the California Pharmaceutical Association, and became a leader in the fight for fair trade pricing. - Sister Mary John Geiermann (1889–1975) was a prominent hospital pharmacist at Mercy Hospital in Toledo, Ohio, and was a prolific writer and lecturer. - Sister Mary Gonzales Duffy (1909–1985) was the first woman and first religious sister to serve as president of the American Society of Hospital Pharmacists in 1978. - Gloria Niemeyer Francke (1922–2008) was the first woman to earn the Remington Honor Medal in 1987, and in 1995, APhA established the Gloria Niemeyer Francke Mentor Leadership Award in her honor. - Katherine “Kay” Keating (1922–2009) was the first female pharmacist to attain the rank of Captain in the Navy Medical Corps, and was well-known for mentoring other pharmacists. - Mary Louise Tigue Andersen was the APhA Honorary President in 1997, and was the recipient of the Remington Honor Medal in 2003. - Joy Holloman Donelson was named the APhA Honorary President in 2005, and was responsible for establishing a series of “The Good Ole Girls” dinners at APhA Annual Meetings. - Mary Munson Runge was the first woman and first African American to become president of APhA in 1979, and received the APhA Hugo H. Schaefer Award in 1996. These women have made significant contributions to the field of pharmacy and have paved the way for the next generation of women in the profession. Their stories are a testament to the resilience and perseverance of women in the face of adversity and inequality. Their legacies will continue to inspire and empower women in pharmacy for years to come. Women will continue to shape the future of pharmacy The pharmacy profession owes much of its success and impact to the contributions of women. Despite the barriers they have faced throughout history, women have found success and influence in the pharmacy profession, making a difference in the lives of countless patients. As we celebrate the rich history of excellence that women have brought to the pharmacy profession, we must also recognize that there is still work to be done to ensure that women continue to have opportunities to excel and make a difference in healthcare. Women have already played a significant role in shaping the future of pharmacy, and they will continue to do so in the coming years. As more women enter the field of pharmacy and take on leadership roles, they will bring diverse perspectives and innovative ideas that will drive progress, advance patient care, and shape a more equitable future for all.


--- [Baby Names and Meanings - BabyNames.com] ---
Expecting a spring baby, or just really love this time of year? If you want a name that’s springy and nature-inspired, but more unusual than… Welcome to BabyNames.com, your trusted source for baby name meanings, unique baby names, and the latest in baby naming trends for 2025! Whether you're searching for the perfect baby boy name, baby girl name, or a stylish gender-neutral name, we've got you covered with thousands of options and expert advice. Online for over 25 years, BabyNames.com has helped millions of parents, authors, and name enthusiasts explore names by origin, meaning, popularity, and style to choose the perfect name! Check out the Most Popular Names of 2025 according to the millions of visitors to BabyNames.com! Expecting a spring baby, or just really love this time of year? If you want a name that’s springy and nature-inspired, but more unusual than… If you’re looking for a gender-neutral name, the letter J can be joyful, jovial, or jaunty. Whether you want something to jam to – like… If you’re keen on a gender-neutral K name, this list will be a knockout! While many common names begin with K, the letter also lends… Avid readers know that classic literature is a goldmine of names – some of which are still popular today! If you’re looking for something literary,… The letter J brings names a sense of joy and jauntiness. Or, if you want something more just and judicious, or even jocular, this list…
