=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Govind Ballabh Pant - Wikipedia]
Govind Ballabh Pant (10 September 1887 - 7 March 1961) was an Indian independence activist and politician who was the first Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh. Alongside Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Vallabhbhai Patel, Pant was a key figure in the Indian independence movement and later a pivotal figure in the Indian government.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Govind_Ballabh_Pant

[Govind Ballabh Pant | Bharat Mata Mandir | Museum Of Freedom Fighters]
The Congress won a majority in the 1946 elections in the United Provinces and Pant was again made the Chief Minister, continuing even after India's independence in 1947. Among his achievements in that position was the abolition of the zamindari system.
URL: https://bharatmatamandir.in/govind-ballabh-pant/

[Govind Ballabh Pant, an Indian freedom fighter - Observer Voice]
Govind Ballabh Pant (10 September 1887 - 7 March 1961) was an Indian freedom fighter. Who served as the first chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. Early Life Govind Ballabh Pant was born on 10 September 1887, in Uttarakhand, India. He was raised by his maternal grandfather, Badri Dutt Joshi, who had a big impact on his personality and political ...
URL: https://observervoice.com/govind-ballabh-pant-an-indian-freedom-fighter-6140/

[A Short Visit to the Museum Of Almora; An Introduction to the Life and ...]
Govind Ballabh Pant was born on 10 September 1887 in Khoont village on the slopes of Shyahi Devi hill near Almora. He was brought up by his maternal grandfather, Badri Dutt Joshi, an important government official locally, who played a significant part in moulding his personality and political views. Nehru with the tall GB Pant
URL: https://road-to-nara.com/2022/07/07/a-short-visit-to-the-museum-of-almora-an-introduction-to-the-life-and-struggle-of-govind-ballabh-pant-the-first-cm-of-uttarakhand/

[Govind Ballabh Pant Facts for Kids]
His mother's name was Govindi Bai. Govind was mostly raised by his maternal grandfather, Badri Dutt Joshi. His grandfather was an important local government official and helped shape Pant's ideas and personality.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Govind_Ballabh_Pant


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Govind Ballabh Pant - Wikipedia] ---
Govind Ballabh Pant (10 September 1887 – 7 March 1961) was an Indian independence activist and politician who was the first Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh. Alongside Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Vallabhbhai Patel, Pant was a key figure in the Indian independence movement and later a pivotal figure in the Indian government. He was one of the foremost political leaders of Uttar Pradesh (then known as United Provinces) and a key player in the successful movement to establish Hindi as the official language of Indian Union..
Today, several Indian hospitals, educational institutions and foundations bear his name. Pant received India's highest civilian honour, the Bharat Ratna, in 1957.


--- [Govind Ballabh Pant | Bharat Mata Mandir | Museum Of Freedom Fighters] ---
Bharat Ratna Pandit Govind Ballabh Pant (August 30, 1887 – March 7, 1961) was a statesman of India, an Indian independence activist, and one of the foremost political leaders from Uttarakhand (then in United Provinces) and of the movement to establish Hindi as the national language of India. Early life Govind Ballabh Pant was born on September 10, 1887 in Khut village of Shyahi Devi hills in District Almora. His mother’s name was Govindi. His father, Manorath Pant, was constantly on the road. Govind was brought up by his grandfather, Bandri Dutt Joshi, who played a significant part in molding his political views.[1] As a lawyer in Kashipur, Pant began his active work against the British Raj in 1914, when he helped a local parishad, or village council, in their successful challenge of a law requiring locals to provide free transportation of the luggage of travelling British officials. In 1921, he entered politics and was elected to the Legislative Assembly of the United Provinces of Agra and Oudh. In the freedom struggle In 1930, he was arrested and imprisoned for several weeks for organizing a Salt March inspired by Gandhi‘s earlier actions. In 1933, he was arrested and imprisoned for seven months for attending a session of the then-banned provincial Congress. In 1935, the ban was rescinded, and Pant joined the new Legislative Council. During the Second World War, Pant acted as the tiebreaker between Gandhi’s faction, which advocated supporting the British Crown in their war effort, and Subash Chandra Bose‘s faction, which advocated taking advantage of the situation to expel the British Raj by any means necessary. In 1934, the Congress ended its boycott of the legislatures and put up candidates, and Pant was elected to the Central Legislative Assembly. His political skills won the admiration of the leaders of the Congress, and he became deputy leader of the Congress party in the Assembly.[2] In 1940, Pant was arrested and imprisoned for helping organize the Satyagraha movement. In 1942 he was arrested again, this time for signing the Quit India resolution, and spent three years in Ahmednagar Fort along with other members of the Congress working committee until March 1945, at which point Jawaharlal Nehru pleaded successfully for Pant’s release, on grounds of failing health.[2] Chief Minister In 1937, provincial elections were held as a result of the Government of India Act 1935.[2] The Indian National Congress secured a majority in the United Provinces, but did not immediately take office because of a dispute over the use of the Governor’s special powers.[3] Therefore, on April 1, 1937, the Nawab of Chhatari, the leader of NAPs (National Agriculturist Parties), was invited to form a minority government. Within a few months, the Congress accepted to form the government under Pant who was made the Chief Minister on July 17, 1937 and was in power till 1939 when all Congress ministries in India resigned. As Chief Minister, Pant won the confidence of the Indian Civil Service, and Sir Harry Haig, the governor of the United Provinces, wrote to the Viceroy that Pant was “an interesting and rather attractive personality… essentially a conciliator and not a dictator”[4] However, in 1939 the Viceroy’s declaration of war, without consultation, led to a clash with the Indian National Congress, and its Provincial ministers resigned.[2] In 1945, the new British Labour government ordered new elections to the Provincial legislatures.[2] The Congress won a majority in the 1946 elections in the United Provinces and Pant was again made the Chief Minister, continuing even after India’s independence in 1947. Among his achievements in that position was the abolition of the zamindari system.


--- [Govind Ballabh Pant, an Indian freedom fighter - Observer Voice] ---
Govind Ballabh Pant, an Indian freedom fighter Govind Ballabh Pant (10 September 1887 – 7 March 1961) was an Indian freedom fighter. Who served as the first chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. Early Life Govind Ballabh Pant was born on 10 September 1887, in Uttarakhand, India. He was raised by his maternal grandfather, Badri Dutt Joshi, who had a big impact on his personality and political views. When he was 18, he got involved with the Indian National Congress as a volunteer, looking up to Gopalkrishna Gokhale and Madan Mohan Malaviya as his idols. He studied law in 1907, and after getting his degree, he started practicing law in Almora. Then he moved to Kashipur. During his time in Kashipur, he started an organization called Prem Sabha. National Movement In December 1921, he joined the Congress and soon joined the non-cooperation movement. In 1930, he was imprisoned for several weeks for organizing a Salt March that was based on Mahatma Gandhi’s earlier campaign. After attending a session of the then-banned provincial Congress in 1933, he was again arrested and jailed for seven months. Pant joined the newly formed Legislative Council after the ban was lifted in 1935. Pant was elected to the Central Legislative Assembly after the Congress ended its boycott of the legislature. The leaders of the Congress party admired him, so he became deputy leader of the Congress party in the Assembly. In 1940, he was jailed for helping organize the Satyagraha movement. When he got arrested again in 1942, this time for signing the Quit India resolution, he spent three years at Ahmednagar Fort with other members of the Congress working committee until March 1945, when Jawaharlal Nehru successfully pleaded for Pant’s release, citing his failing health. After Independence Pant became Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister after independence. In his work, he tried to uplift the farmers and get rid of untouchability. After the death of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Pant became the home minister in the Union Government. He pushed to make Hindi the national language while he was Home Minister. He abolished the zamindari system when he was in Government. In addition, he also pleaded with the government to lower agricultural taxes. His contribution to the country included promoting cottage industries and fighting the coolie-beggar law, which forced porters to carry heavy luggage for British officials without money. Pant was always against separating minority voters, saying that would further divide communities. Award In 1961, he received the Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award. Death He died on 7 March 1961, in New Delhi, India. Observer Voice is the one stop site for National, International news, Editor’s Choice, Art/culture contents, Quotes and much more. We also cover historical contents. Historical contents includes World History, Indian History, and what happened today. The website also covers Entertainment across the India and World. Follow Us on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, & LinkedIn


--- [A Short Visit to the Museum Of Almora; An Introduction to the Life and ...] ---
Everything got decided last evening with the head priest of the Kasar Devi temple . I had to go to Almora City market to buy fruits, sweets, honey, Rudra beads and other things the next day for the Maha Shiva Ratri- The grand Night of Shiva. Even though I wanted to make this city trip very short, an intention kept growing in me to visit something old. I started asking whomsoever I could If there is any museum in Almora? Or at least a gallery, any old building dedicated to the region, on rich history and crafts that this blessed state carried. But strangely I met no one who seemed to have any idea about it. The Taxi guy wanted to extort 3x money from me for the tariff when I took a stern stance like I was one of the locals. He dropped me three Kilometres outside the city. I decided to walk. And while walking kept asking for a lift. One white scooty stopped. The rider introduced himself as a Lawyer. He had come back home after covid made living hard in the mainland cities. He had studied in Delhi University, and went nostalgic about those days within ten minutes of our ride. He was excited to learn when I asked him about the Museum and dropped me right in front of this old building on which Govind Ballabh Pant Public Museum was written. The Museum of Almora is located on Mall road in Almora City. It was built in 1980 to honour the noteworthy efforts of the great freedom fighter Pandit Govind Ballabh Pant in developing this special, almost unreachable Himalayan region then, Uttarakhand. The Museum was empty. If I ignore one woman sitting, scrolling through her facebook on phone. There was no one and nothing but the fragrance of hanging dank wood welcomed me. A feeling which comes just before entering a wormhole. Or the back side of a cinema, closed long ago. As I put first few steps walking parallel to the blue wall looking at the old, outdated, never cared for large sized prints of venerable Temples and this city; nostalgia started to evoke silent, irrelevant screams out of those bare prints. Of course, no one cares to see what this crumbling, outmoded looking museum has to say about the same streets outside which once were. The museum had six rooms. Small rooms. Three on either side. And each room had a way to another room. As I asked the lady where can I start from, she put her phone down and lead me to the first room. She said, you can photograph this room : The first room was dedicated to the Goddess, and her various avatars. And other rooms had age old sculptures of Brahma and few of Shiva. But it it was Vishnu which people were praying to, crafting with so much adoration in this region that I was stunned looking at some of them which grabbed me by my eyes, for most were as old as 1st century A.D. As rooms opened me to the world I had barely ever confronted, a unique collection of antiques belonging to the rulers of Katyuri and Chand dynasty emerged. The museum exhibited an impressive collection of Kumaoni style paintings called Aipan. One could immerse in the splended and immersive art forms, textiles, crafts, miniature painting, woodworks, terracotta sculptures, coins, bronze items, musical instruments, ivory copper plates, manuscripts and things that i might be forgetting. I wasn’t allowed to photograph any as the lady kept counting my steps. But the last room opened me to something more. Something which i myself had never cared to learn. G.B Pant is a busy government hospital in the heart of Delhi. And I had never cared for where this name might have come from. Who was GB Pant? I never asked myself. But right there as I entered that room. He became my centre or I became his, it could be a matter for later contemplation. Govind Ballabh Pant was born on 10 September 1887 in Khoont village on the slopes of Shyahi Devi hill near Almora. He was brought up by his maternal grandfather, Badri Dutt Joshi, an important government official locally, who played a significant part in moulding his personality and political views. Known as an extremely capable lawyer, Pant was appointed by the Congress party to initially represent Ramprasad Bismill, Ashfaqulla Khan and other revolutionaries involved in the Kakori case in the mid 1920s. He participated in the protests against Simon Commission in 1928. Jawaharlal Nehru, in his autobiography, mentions how Pant stood by him during the protests and his large figure made him an easy target for the police. In those protests he sustained severe injuries which prevented him from straightening his back for the rest of his life. In 1930, he was arrested and imprisoned for several weeks for organising a Salt March inspired by Gandhi’s earlier actions. During the Second World War, Pant acted as the tiebreaker between Gandhi’s faction, which advocated supporting the British Crown in their war effort, and Subhas Chandra Bose’s faction, which advocated taking advantage of the situation to expel the British Raj by all means necessary. Also read: Knowing Gandhi and Learning from Mahatma and Knowing Gandhi In 1940, Pant was arrested and imprisoned for helping organise the Satyagraha movement. In 1942 he was arrested again, this time for signing the Quit India resolution, and spent three years in Ahmednagar Fort along with other members of the Congress working committee until March 1945. Pant took over as the Chief Minister of the United Provinces from 1937 to 1939. In 1945, the British Labour government ordered new elections to the Provincial legislatures.[4] The Congress won a majority in the 1946 elections in the United Provinces and Pant was again the Premier, continuing even after India’s independence in 1947 till 1954. His judicious reforms and stable governance in the Uttar Pradesh stabilised the economic condition of the most populous State of India. Pant served as Union Home Minister from 1955 to 1961. Pant was appointed Minister of Home Affairs in the Union Cabinet on 10 January 1955 in New Delhi by Jawaharlal Nehru. As Home Minister, his chief achievement was the re-organisation of States along linguistic lines. He was also responsible for the establishment of Hindi as an official language of the central government and a few states. During his tenure as the Home Minister, Pant was awarded the Bharat Ratna on 26 January 1957. He suffered a severe Heart Attack in 1960 but somehow survived. Yet he could never fully recovered from the shock and died a year later at the age of 1973. There were hundreds of his hand written letters to his friends and colleagues that kept my eyes intact as I found them curiously witty. Also Read: Past and the Present Of the Tribal Cultures In Central India He was kind and very affectionate as I could make out from how he was received. As rush had arrived back in my nerves to go back to Papersilly, I walked out. Saw the review register. And wrote under a small remark the most wonderful dedication I could come out with to any museum for making me quite rich that day. The day looked bright and inspiring once again. Big clouds hovered above. I remembered the name of the Sweet Shop which was the oldest sweet shop in Almora. And people almost get in a queue is there is one to carry Himalayan favourite ‘Bal Mithai’ from it. There were some. I hurriedly pressed myself to the shop. Bought it for myself. For the family I was staying with. And for my lord, Mahadev. On my way back sitting by the taxi’s window looking at the sky, at the Oak trees passing like moments do, I sought back recalling so much has to be sacrificed to attain what it is today. To have these mountains with us. They have all had their times and tales filled with sacrifices of men and women. Even numerous trees. I realised the sun had already started to turn old for today as the fourteenth night was waiting to arrive. : ँ : Thank you. If today is the first time you have arrived on The Road to Nara, you are heartily welcome ~ Namaste : ँ : I will take this opportunity to introduce you to About me and importantly; As a co-traveller, will take you through the Ten Lessons I learnt from several years on the road, before you coarse on your own Road to Nara. : ँ : You might also like to know about My Little School. If you wish to come over for a visit someday, to share your stories or your magic tricks with children, you will be heartily welcome here If you appreciate what you read on the blog, you can support it by contributing towards my travels. it will let me keep bringing you the Yogic secrets, stories and landscapes of nature and inner life to you. If you are living in India You can do it here. And If you are living outside India, You must drop me a mail at nara@road-to-nara.com . : ँ : If you have anything to share, or feel like saying a hello, please feel free to write to me at nara@road-to-nara.com To visit other long-term photographic works, please visit here. To follow my walks through the rural Indian Subcontinent, find me at Instagram | Facebook | Twitter : ँ : Image Courtesy : Various Sources on Internet. Write for Credit


--- [Govind Ballabh Pant Facts for Kids] ---
Govind Ballabh Pant facts for kids Quick facts for kids Govind Ballabh Pant | | |---|---| | Postage stamp, 1965 | | | 5th Minister of Home Affairs | | | In office 10 January 1955 – 7 March 1961 | | | Prime Minister | Jawaharlal Nehru | | Preceded by | Kailash Nath Katju | | Succeeded by | Lal Bahadur Shastri | | 1st Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh | | | In office 26 January 1950 – 27 December 1954 | | | Preceded by | Office Established | | Succeeded by | Sampurnanand | | 2nd Chief Minister of United Provinces | | | In office 1 April 1946 – 25 January 1950 | | | Preceded by | Vacant | | Succeeded by | Office Abolished | | In office 17 July 1937 – 2 November 1939 | | | Preceded by | Muhammad Ahmad Said Khan Chhatari | | Succeeded by | Vacant | | Personal details | | | Born | Khoont, North-Western Provinces, British India (Present-day Uttarakhand, India) | 10 September 1887 | Died | 7 March 1961 New Delhi, India | (aged 73) | Political party | Indian National Congress | | Children | 3, including Krishna Chandra Pant | | Relatives | Ila Pant (daughter-in-law) | | Residences | No. 6, Maulana Azad Road, New Delhi | | Alma mater | Allahabad University | | Profession | Lawyer Independence Activist | | Awards | Bharat Ratna (1957) | Govind Ballabh Pant (born September 10, 1887 – died March 7, 1961) was an important leader in India's fight for freedom. He later became the first Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, a large state in India. Pant worked closely with famous leaders like Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru. He played a big part in helping India gain its independence from British rule. After independence, he continued to be a key figure in the Indian Government. He was also very important in making Hindi the official language of India. Many hospitals, schools, and foundations in India are named after him today. In 1957, Pant received the Bharat Ratna, which is India's highest award for civilians. Contents Early Life and Education Govind Ballabh Pant was born on September 10, 1887, in a village called Khoont, near Almora. His family was from the Marathi community. His mother's name was Govindi Bai. Govind was mostly raised by his maternal grandfather, Badri Dutt Joshi. His grandfather was an important local government official and helped shape Pant's ideas and personality. Pant's father, Manorath Pant, was also a government official who traveled a lot for work. Pant studied at Allahabad University. After finishing his studies, he became a lawyer in Kashipur. Fighting for Freedom Pant started working against the British Raj in 1914. He helped a local village council successfully challenge a law called coolie begar. This law forced local people to carry the luggage of British officials for free. In 1921, he officially entered politics. He was elected to the Legislative Assembly of the United Provinces of Agra and Oudh. Pant was known as a very skilled lawyer. The Congress party chose him to represent revolutionaries in the Kakori case in the mid-1920s. He also joined protests against the Simon Commission in 1928. Jawaharlal Nehru wrote in his autobiography that Pant stood by him during these protests. Pant was a tall man, which made him an easy target for the police. He was badly injured during these protests and could not straighten his back for the rest of his life. In 1930, Pant was arrested and put in jail for several weeks. He had organized a Salt March inspired by Gandhi's famous protest. In 1933, he was arrested again for attending a meeting of the Congress party, which was banned at the time. He spent seven months in prison. The ban on the Congress party was lifted in 1935. Pant then joined the new Legislative Council. In 1934, the Congress party decided to participate in elections again. Pant was elected to the Central Legislative Assembly and became a deputy leader of the Congress party there. During the Second World War, Pant played a role in deciding the Congress party's stance. Some leaders, like Gandhi, wanted to support the British in the war. Others, like Subhas Chandra Bose, wanted to use the war as a chance to remove the British from India. Pant helped bridge the gap between these two groups. In 1940, Pant was arrested and imprisoned for helping to organize the Satyagraha movement. He was arrested again in 1942 for supporting the Quit India resolution. He spent three years in Ahmednagar Fort with other Congress leaders. He was released in March 1945 after Jawaharlal Nehru asked for his release due to his poor health. Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Pant became the Chief Minister of the United Provinces from 1937 to 1939. In 1945, the British government called for new elections. The Congress party won most of the seats in the United Provinces in the 1946 elections. Pant became the Premier (Chief Minister) again. He continued in this role even after India gained independence in 1947, serving until 1954. His wise decisions and stable leadership helped improve the economy of Uttar Pradesh, which is India's most populated state. He also played a big role in setting up the panchayat system (local self-governance) in the state. He encouraged farmers to be self-reliant, educate their children, and work together to improve their lives and farming methods. Union Home Minister of India Pant became the Union Home Minister for India on January 10, 1955. He served in this important position until 1961. As Home Minister, one of his biggest achievements was the re-organization of states. This law redrew the borders of Indian states based on the languages spoken by the people. He also worked to establish Hindi as an official language for the central government and some states. While he was the Home Minister, Pant received the Bharat Ratna award on January 26, 1957. Death In 1960, Govind Ballabh Pant suffered a heart attack. He was treated by top doctors, including his friend Dr. Bidhan Chandra Roy. His health got worse, and he passed away on March 7, 1961, at the age of 73, due to a cerebral stroke. He was still serving as the Home Minister of India at the time of his death. The then President of India, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, expressed his sadness. He said that he had known Pant since 1922 and had always felt affection for him. He added that it was not the time to list Pant's achievements, as the grief was too strong for words. Institutions and Monuments - Govind Ballabh Pant Social Science Institute, Allahabad - Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar - Govind Ballabh Pant Engineering College, Pauri Garhwal, Uttarakhand - Govind Ballabh Pant Engineering College, Delhi - Govind Ballabh Pant Sagar is an Artificial lake at Sonebhadra, Uttar Pradesh Images for kids - Statue of Pant at Mall Road, Nainital Family Govind Ballabh Pant's son, Krishna Chandra Pant, also became a politician. See also - K. C. Pant - Ila Pant
