=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Virtual Museum of Modern Nigerian Art - Wikipedia]
The initiative was by Jess Castellote, a Spanish architect, and the Virtual museum is managed by Akinyemi Adetunji. It has four virtual floors and over a dozen gallery rooms, each of which is dedicated to a specific period or to a given school. The virtual museum complements the Nigerian National ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_Museum_of_Modern_Nigerian_Art

[Nigeria: Virtual World of Visual Arts - allAfrica.com]
Mar 11, 2012 · Jess Castellote, making use of well conceived diagrams, guided his journalist visitor on an imaginary tour of his proposed virtual museum. There was no doubt about it; the Spanish-born...
URL: https://allafrica.com/stories/201203110309.html

[Baby Names and Meanings - BabyNames.com]
Whether you're searching for the perfect baby boy name, baby girl name, or a stylish gender-neutral name, we've got you covered with thousands of options and expert advice.
URL: https://babynames.com/

[Pan Atlantic University - Alchetron, the free social encyclopedia]
Oct 13, 2024 · In September 2011 the university launched the Virtual Museum of Modern Nigerian Art, a website created by Jess Castellote, a Spanish architect that includes over 400 works from 81 artists, including pioneering Nigerian artists such as Aina Onabolu and Bruce Onobrakpeya and emerging artists such as Richardson Ovbiebo and Babalola Lawson.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Pan-Atlantic-University

[The Meaning and History of First Names - Behind the Name]
Find the meaning, history and popularity of given names from around the world. Get ideas for baby names or discover your own name's history.
URL: https://www.behindthename.com/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Virtual Museum of Modern Nigerian Art - Wikipedia] ---
The online Virtual Museum of Modern Nigerian Art is a non-commercial initiative whose primary aim is to provide an easily accessible educational resource that can serve as a first point of reference for students, teachers and art enthusiasts interested in learning about modern and contemporary art in Nigeria. It is operated by the Pan-Atlantic University in Lagos, Nigeria, the parent body of the Lagos Business School.


--- [Nigeria: Virtual World of Visual Arts - allAfrica.com] ---
A virtual museum, run by a Lagos-based academic institution and an art brokerage outfit, attempts to fill a gap left behind by the infrastructure-challenged National Museum. Okechukwu Uwaezuoke reports With mouse clicks, a visitor traipses through ten gallery rooms. They are spread across three virtual floors. Each of these gallery rooms is allotted to either a specific period in the over-a-century-old contemporary Nigerian art history or simply to an art school and a trend. ... AllAfrica Subscription Content You must be an allAfrica.com subscriber for full access to certain content. You have selected an article from the AllAfrica archive, which requires a subscription. You can subscribe by visiting our subscription page. Or for more information about becoming a subscriber, you can read our subscription and contribution overview. For information about our premium subscription services: You can also freely access - without a subscription - hundreds of today's top Africa stories and thousands of recent news articles from our home page » Already a subscriber? Sign in for full access to article


--- [Baby Names and Meanings - BabyNames.com] ---
Expecting a spring baby, or just really love this time of year? If you want a name that’s springy and nature-inspired, but more unusual than… Welcome to BabyNames.com, your trusted source for baby name meanings, unique baby names, and the latest in baby naming trends for 2025! Whether you're searching for the perfect baby boy name, baby girl name, or a stylish gender-neutral name, we've got you covered with thousands of options and expert advice. Online for over 25 years, BabyNames.com has helped millions of parents, authors, and name enthusiasts explore names by origin, meaning, popularity, and style to choose the perfect name! Check out the Most Popular Names of 2025 according to the millions of visitors to BabyNames.com! Expecting a spring baby, or just really love this time of year? If you want a name that’s springy and nature-inspired, but more unusual than… If you’re looking for a gender-neutral name, the letter J can be joyful, jovial, or jaunty. Whether you want something to jam to – like… If you’re keen on a gender-neutral K name, this list will be a knockout! While many common names begin with K, the letter also lends… Avid readers know that classic literature is a goldmine of names – some of which are still popular today! If you’re looking for something literary,… The letter J brings names a sense of joy and jauntiness. Or, if you want something more just and judicious, or even jocular, this list…


--- [Pan Atlantic University - Alchetron, the free social encyclopedia] ---
Former names Pan-African University Chairman Pascal G. Dozie Location Lekki, Lagos, Nigeria Type of business Private university | Established 2002 Vice-Chancellor Juan M. Elegido Founded 2002 | | Campus Metropolitan Ibeju-Lekki Campus (100 hectares (250 acres) Ajah Campus (10 hectares (25 acres) Address KM 52 Lekki-epe expressway Lagos, Nigeria | The pan atlantic university 1st matriculation ceremony Pan-Atlantic University is a private, non-profit educational institution in Lagos, Nigeria. The university had its origin as the Lagos Business School (LBS), established in 1991. The federal government approved the university as Pan-African University in 2002, and the LBS became its first school. In May 2013 its name was changed to Pan-Atlantic University, in order to avoid confusion with the Pan-African University of the African Union. The Ajah Campus was completed in 2003 and in 2010 work began on the Ibeju-Lekki campus. Contents In September 2011 the university launched the Virtual Museum of Modern Nigerian Art, a website created by Jess Castellote, a Spanish architect that includes over 400 works from 81 artists, including pioneering Nigerian artists such as Aina Onabolu and Bruce Onobrakpeya and emerging artists such as Richardson Ovbiebo and Babalola Lawson. The University's Enterprise Development Centre (EDC) works with the Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Department of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) to provide the SME Toolkit Nigeria. This gives small businesses free business management information and training. In November and December 2011 the EDC, for the first time, marked the Global Entrepreneurship Week (GEW), with a series of events in Lagos. Many Nigerians have ambitions to start a business, and the conference was extremely well-attended. EDC has been the GEW host for Nigeria since then. In July 2011 British Prime Minister David Cameron spoke at the Pan-Atlantic University in Lagos, discussing aid, trade and democracy. He spoke in favor of an African free trade area, and of increased trade with Britain. On 17 November 2014 the University launched its first ever undergraduate programmes in its new campus at Ibeju-Lekki.


--- [The Meaning and History of First Names - Behind the Name] ---
Suhail Masculine Derived from Arabic سهل (sahl) meaning "level, even, smooth". This is the Arabic name of the second brightest star in the sky, known in the western world as Canopus. It is also the official (IAU) name of the third brightest star in the constellation Vela.
