=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Applied Catalysis Award - Wikipedia]
The Applied Catalysis Award is awarded by the Royal Society of Chemistry to individuals for "creativity and excellence in novel approaches or use of catalysis in industry." The award was established in 2008. The winner of the award is chosen by the Industry & Technology Division Awards Committee, and receives £2000, a medal and a certificate. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Applied_Catalysis_Award

[Dr Thomas Colacot - 2012 Applied Catalysis Award winner]
Royal Society of Chemistry - Applied Catalysis Award Winner (2012)
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TMB0w5WHN7U

[Applied Catalysis Award - The Royal Society of Chemistry]
Nov 24, 2025 · The Applied Catalysis Award is held every two years, for individuals who have contributed significantly in the field of applied catalysis, and is not limited to one field in catalysis. Applications are welcomed from all fields including but not limited to homogeneous, heterogeneous, bio, pharma, photo and process catalysis in an applied context.
URL: https://www.rsc.org/standards-and-recognition/prizes/interest-group-prizes/applied-catalysis-award

[Clariant press releases]
Clariant announced the laureate of the National Catalysis Achievement Award at the 22nd National Congress on Catalysis of China. The prestigious award recognizes Prof Dr Zhang Tao from Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics for exceptional contributions to catalys...
URL: https://www.pressreleasefinder.com/Clariant/

[India-born scientist wins prestigious US award - India Today]
Sep 3, 2014 · The 2015 national awards recipients will be honoured at the awards ceremony in conjunction with the 249th ACS national meeting in Denver, Colorado in March next year. Colacot had received Royal Society of Chemistry's RSC Applied Catalysis Award in 2012 for his contributions to the area of catalysis. His work on 'cross-coupling' is particularly acclaimed.
URL: https://www.indiatoday.in/world/story/indian-born-scientist-wins-prestigious-us-award-chemistry-206915-2014-09-03


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Applied Catalysis Award - Wikipedia] ---
The Applied Catalysis Award is awarded by the Royal Society of Chemistry to individuals for "creativity and excellence in novel approaches or use of catalysis in industry." The award was established in 2008. The winner of the award is chosen by the Industry & Technology Division Awards Committee, and receives £2000, a medal and a certificate.


--- [Dr Thomas Colacot - 2012 Applied Catalysis Award winner] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Impressum Cancel Memberships Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Applied Catalysis Award - The Royal Society of Chemistry] ---
Applied Catalysis Award Recognising significant contributions to applied catalysis, typically where there is potential or actual commercial application. Details | Status | Closed | |---|---| | Nominations opening date | 24 November 2025 12:00am | | Nominations closing date | 23 January 2026 12:00am | | Reference deadline | 31 January 2026 12:00am | | Career stage | All career stages | Winners For his innovation and creativity in Earth Abundant Metal Catalysis and their application in organometallic chemistry for pharmaceuticals For his contributions in gold catalysis chemistry, including the replacement of mercury catalysts in the commercial production of vinyl chloride from acetylene hydrochlorination and the vinyl acetate monomer process. For diligent and passionate work to develop and commercialize precious metal complexes to promote homogeneous catalysis for real world industrial applications 2018 Prof. Ying Zheng, University of Edinburgh For the development and application of recyclable, heterogeneous nanocatalyst 2016 Dr David Johnson, Lucite International For the development of the Lucite Alpha process 2014 Prof. Douglas Stephan, University of Toronto For the development of new commercially viable, transition-metal based and metal-free catalyst technologies for polymerization, hydrogenation and metathesis 2012 Dr Thomas Colacot, Johnson Matthey For exceptional contributions to the development and availability of ligands and catalysts crucial for the advancement of metal-catalysed synthetic organic chemistry 2010 Dr Martyn Twigg, Johnson Matthey For his pivotal and innovative role in creating new catalysts and catalytic processes for use in the automotive industry About this prize The Applied Catalysis Award is held every two years, for individuals who have contributed significantly in the field of applied catalysis, and is not limited to one field in catalysis. Applications are welcomed from all fields including but not limited to homogeneous, heterogeneous, bio, pharma, photo and process catalysis in an applied context. The award aims to recognise the impact of significant contributions to the field of applied catalysis typically where research and development has potential or actual commercial application. The award is not limited to senior researchers on the basis of their whole distinguished career, and the committee welcome nominations from mid/early career researchers where the criteria are met. Significance of the work in applied catalysis. A brief summary of the work and how it furthers the knowledge and scientific understanding in the application of catalysis. Originality of the work. How does this work fundamentally change the current state of the technology or deliver transformative aspects to a process. The ‘applied’ nature of work. A summary of how this work is ‘applied’ and examples of its potential or existing application. The applied nature of this award is a key aspect, and nominees should ensure they provide clear evidence for the application of the work. Publications including patents, articles, and press releases, where the research has been applied. The judges do not require a full list of all publications, nominations should focus on the key publications that support the nomination. This includes patents where a catalysis development has been protected and/or used in an applied process. Sustainable or Green credentials. Any examples where this supports sustainable or improved environmental impacts as a result of the work. For clarity, this should focus on the nominee’s contribution rather than the technology/process. Overall contribution to Catalysis. For this award, individuals & nominators are asked to submit a short section describing how their nominee has contributed more broadly to the scientific and/or applied catalysis community. Nominations are welcomed for the award by email to the ACG secretary. We welcome nominations of colleagues as well as self-nominations for the award. In either case the process is the same: - One brief one page CV - A supporting/nomination statement of up to 1,000 words providing the details and context of why they are deserving of the award and how the nominee meets the criteria. It should also state any other recent RSC awards received as a result of the same/overlapping research - Details of two referees - the referees will be contacted by the secretary for a short citation (up to 500 words) to support the nomination Any documentation submitted beyond the criteria set out above will not be considered by the judging panel. We welcome nominations from all fields of applied catalysis, and career stages who meet the criteria. A nominator may support multiple nominations. Nominations may be rolled over from the previous award process for a maximum of two awards – and will be arranged by the secretary with the nominee, inviting them to update any information Awarded by the Applied Catalysis Group The group promotes and shares best practice in heterogeneous, homogeneous and enzymatic catalysis in a wide range of applications that benefit society including energy, petrochemicals, industrial intermediates, pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals, consumer products and environmental protection.


--- [Clariant press releases] ---
Clariant Clariant is a focused specialty chemical company led by the overarching purpose of “Greater chemistry – between people and planet.” By connecting customer focus, innovation, and people, the company creates solutions to foster sustainability in different industries. On 31 December 2025, Clariant totaled a staff number of 10 281 and recorded sales of CHF 3.915 billion in the fiscal year. Since January 2023, the Group conducts its business through the three Business Units Care Chemicals, Catalysts, and Adsorbents & Additives. Clariant is based in Switzerland. Clariant International LtdRothausstrasse 61 4132 Muttenz 1 Switzerland 3 Mar 2026 Clariant Zeolites partners with Vertimass to scale-up innovative CADO biofuels technology Clariant, a sustainability-focused specialty chemical company, today announced a strategic collaboration with Vertimass LLC aiming to accelerate the development and commercialization of advanced zeolite catalysts for the catalytic conversion of biobased alcohols via Vertimass Consolidated Alcohols Deoxygenation and Oligomerization (CADO) process. The envisaged project combines Vertimass' novel technology with Clariant's six decades of expertise in zeolite catalyst development to advance sustainable processing. 25 Feb 2026 Clariant achieves EU Commission approval for renewable rice bran wax additives in food-contact plastics Clariant has achieved a regulatory milestone with the EU Commission approval based on the EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) positive safety assessment for its renewable rice bran wax additives in food-contact plastics. This authorization, published in the (EU) 2026/245 amending Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 10/2011 on February 2, 2026 positions Clariant's Licocare RBW product line as a sustainable and compliant solution for applications intended to come into contact with food across the European plastics industry. 5 Feb 2026 Unlocking ultra-high-pressure reserves: why Shenandoah is a milestone for deepwater engineering and advanced chemistry When Beacon Offshore Energy's Shenandoah field achieved 100,000 barrels of oil per day (bopd) after 75 days, it didn't just exceed all regional ramp-up benchmarks and set a new performance standard for deepwater operations, it validated decades of innovation in extreme offshore environments and collaborative engineering. For Clariant Oil Services, Shenandoah represents a proving ground where meticulous testing meets reality under some of the most severe production conditions on Earth: pressures exceeding 20,000 psi (1,400 bar) and water depths approaching 6,000 feet (1,800 metres). 27 Jan 2026 Why antimony no longer works for modern adhesives The changing landscape of flame retardant technology Fire safety remains a critical concern across industries, with adhesives playing an essential but often overlooked role in preventing ignition, limiting flame spread, and reducing heat release during fire events. For decades, antimony trioxide (ATO) in combination with halogenated flame retardants has been an industry standard additive in adhesive formulations. However, significant market shifts and regulatory pressures are driving manufacturers to seek more sustainable alternatives. 17 Dec 2025 Clariant Catalysts drives innovation in China through continued sponsorship of National Catalysis Achievement Award Clariant, a sustainability focused specialty chemical company, today announced the laureate of the National Catalysis Achievement Award at the 22nd National Congress on Catalysis of China (NCC 2025). Presented by the Catalysis Society of China, and sponsored by Clariant, the prestigious award recognizes Prof. Dr. Zhang Tao from Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics for his exceptional contributions to catalysis research. The ceremony took place during the congress opening at Xiamen International Conference Center, marking Clariant's fourth consecutive collaboration with the Catalysis Society of Chinese Chemical Society to honor breakthrough innovations in the field. 16 Dec 2025 Partnering for success: Inside Clariant's Industrial Applications Innovation Center in North America In today's rapidly evolving coatings, inks, and adhesives industries, formulators face increasingly complex challenges. From meeting stringent regulatory requirements to enhancing product performance while reducing environmental impact, the pressure to innovate has never been greater. At Clariant's Industrial Applications Innovation Center, located in Mount Holly, North Carolina, we've created a collaborative ecosystem where expertise, cutting-edge technology, and customer-focused solutions converge to address these challenges head-on. 10 Dec 2025 Clariant’s CATOFIN™ Catalyst Innovation Boosts Performance in Ningxia Runfeng’s PDH Operations Clariant, a sustainability-focused specialty chemical company, today announced the continued excellent performance of its high-efficiency CATOFIN catalyst and heat-generating material (HGM) at Ningxia Runfeng New Material Technology Co., Ltd.’s propane dehydrogenation (PDH) unit. 8 Dec 2025 How recyclable carpets could transform the flooring industry Most carpets still end up in landfill or incineration, locked out of the circular economy. In Europe, an estimated 1.6 million tonnes of carpet waste reach the end of their lives every year. According to data from Deutsche Umwelthilfe from 2017, the vast majority of it, nearly 98%, is either incinerated or sent to landfill. While the use of polyester has improved recycling rates, this improvement remains in the low single-digit percentage range. Germany alone contributes around 400,000 tonnes to this waste stream annually. 3 Dec 2025 Clariant's sustainability-driven innovations earn global recognition at Gulf Energy Information Excellence Awards 2025 In an era where chemical producers face mounting pressure to reduce environmental impact without sacrificing operational efficiency, two groundbreaking technologies from Clariant Catalysts are proving that sustainability and performance can go hand-in-hand. The Chromium-Free HySat™ catalyst platform and EDHOX™ technology (jointly developed with Linde) recently won in two major categories at the Gulf Energy Information Excellence Awards 2025, demonstrating how innovative catalyst technology can revolutionize established chemical processes. 2 Dec 2025 Clariant awarded 2025 Schneider Electric Outstanding Supplier Award Clariant’s Additives business has been honored with a 2025 Schneider Electric Outstanding Supplier Award at Schneider Electric’s Global Supplier Day in Copenhagen. Notably, Clariant received this recognition despite not being a direct supplier, highlighting the strategic importance of Clariant’s innovative flame retardant technologies in Schneider’s upstream value chain. 20 Nov 2025 Clariant Catalysts wins twice at Prestigious Gulf Energy Information Excellence Awards 2025 Clariant, a sustainability-focused specialty chemical company, today announced that it received two awards at the 2025 Gulf Energy Information Excellence Awards. The company won “Best Catalyst Technology” for its chromium-free HySat catalyst platform for hydrogenation processes and shared the “Best Petrochemical Technology” prize with its partner Linde for their jointly developed EDHOX Technology. Moreover, Clariant was selected as a finalist for its StyroMax UL-100 catalysts and VIVAZ services in the categories “Best Catalyst Technology” and “Best Health, Safety or Environmental Contribution (Upstream),” respectively. The award ceremony was held at a gala event on October 16, 2025, in Houston, Texas. 12 Nov 2025 Clariant Catalysts expands CLARITY™ Prime digital services in China with new customer SECCO Clariant, a sustainability-focused specialty chemical company, today announced that it has signed a 10-year agreement with SECCO Petrochemicals to provide CLARITY Prime digital services. The new customer will use the AI-powered catalyst performance monitoring platform to enhance production efficiency at its 900-KTA ethylene plant in Shanghai, Jinshan District. CLARITY Prime was previously only available to customers of Clariant’s ammonia, methanol, and hydrogen catalysts. The service was recently extended to also include ethylene producers. CLARITY and CLARITY Prime services are developed with Navigance, a Clariant digital solutions company.


--- [India-born scientist wins prestigious US award - India Today] ---
India-born scientist wins prestigious US award in chemistry Colacot, who studied at St Berchman's College, Changanacherry, Kerala, and IIT Madras, is the first Indian to get the award, which is one of the top honours in industrial chemistry. An India-born scientist, Dr Thomas John Colacot, has won the American Chemical Society's ACS Award in Industrial Chemistry. Colacot, who studied at St Berchman's College, Changanacherry, Kerala and IIT Madras, is the first Indian to get the award, which is one of the top honours in industrial chemistry. He also holds an MBA degree and was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry The award is sponsored by the ACS Division of Business Development and Management and the ACS Division of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry. Currently Global R&D manager in the homogenous catalysis area at Johnson Matthey, a specialty chemicals company, Colacot directs research in US, UK and in Indian labs. "The ACS is proud to recognize your outstanding contributions to the development and commercialization of ligands and precatalysts for metal-catalyzed organic synthesis, particularly cross-couplings, for industrial and academic use and applications," a letter from Tom Barton, president of ACS noted. The 2015 national awards recipients will be honoured at the awards ceremony in conjunction with the 249th ACS national meeting in Denver, Colorado in March next year. Colacot had received Royal Society of Chemistry's RSC Applied Catalysis Award in 2012 for his contributions to the area of catalysis. His work on 'cross-coupling' is particularly acclaimed. Colacot joined Johnson Matthey, USA in 1995 and started working in the area of palladium catalyzed cross-coupling. The catalysts developed in his labs are currently used to make new drugs for Hepatitis C, a deadly disease with no cure, one pill per week for type II diabetics, and many hypertension drugs. Colacot's work involves developing and commercializing ligands and catalysts for applications in metal-catalyzed synthetic organic chemistry. His book on 'New Trends in Cross-Coupling: Theory and Applications' is scheduled to be published in October, 2014 by the Royal Society of Chemistry. He is also PhD thesis examiner to many IITs and visiting faculty at Rutgers University.
