=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[DOUG AITKEN - ADA | Archive of Digital Art]
2012 Was awarded the Nam June Paik Art Center Prize 2007 Won first prize at the "KunstFilmBiennale" in Cologne 2000 Received the Larry Aldrich Foundation Award 1999 Received the Golden Lion at the 48th Venice Biennale for "Electric Earth" 1991 BFA in Fine Arts from the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena 1987 - 1991 Student at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena (firstly ...
URL: https://www.archive-digitalart.eu/database/artists/general/artist/aitken.html

[Doug Aitken - - GALLERY EXHIBITIONS - 303 Gallery]
Oct 26, 2002 · In 2000, Aitken received the Aldrich Award from the Aldrich Museum of Contemporary Art in Ridgefield, CT. His installation "electric earth" was one of the highlights of the Whitney Museum of American Art Biennial, 2000 and was awarded the International Prize at the Venice Biennale, 1999.
URL: https://www.303gallery.com/gallery-exhibitions/doug-aitken6/press-release

[Doug Aitken - Wikipedia]
Doug Aitken (born 1968) is an American multidisciplinary artist. Aitken's body of work ranges from photography, print media, sculpture, and architectural interventions, to narrative films, sound, single and multi-channel video works, installations, and live performance. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doug_Aitken

[Doug Aitken - The Fabric Workshop and Museum]
Sep 22, 2012 · Aitken was awarded the International Prize at the Venice Biennale in 1999, the Larry Aldrich Foundation Award in 2000, the Nam Jun Paik Art Center Prize in 2012, and the Americans for the Arts National Arts Award: Outstanding Contributions to the Arts in 2016.
URL: https://fabricworkshopandmuseum.org/artist/doug-aitken/

[Doug Aitken: Alpha|Paperback - Barnes & Noble®]
Mar 1, 2006 · In 1999 he was awarded the International Prize at the Venice Biennale, and in 2000 he won the Aldrich Award. From the B&N Reads Blog Page of
URL: https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/doug-aitken-doug-aitken/1007607657


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [DOUG AITKEN - ADA | Archive of Digital Art] ---
* 1968 www.dougaitkenworkshop.com Born 1968 in Redondo Beach, California (USA); 1986-1987 studied at Marymount College, Palos Verdes, CA; 1987-1991 studied at the Art Center College of Design, Pasadena, CA. Aitken lives and works in Los Angeles (USA). Aitken belongs to a generation of artist that enriched the presentation of the medium of video. Operating in a realm between popular culture and media art, his works reveal a wealth of audiovisual intensities and suggestive powers, and with complex imagery and associations consistently approach philosophical questions addressing nature and civilization as well as people and their relationship to time and space. Obsessed with the idea of present time, Aitken refers to his films and installations as being pure communication. In the process, he utilizes the vocabulary of Hollywood and advertising films. Alongside his freelance activities as artist and photographer, Doug Aitken is also known for his video clips, completed for artists such as Iggy Pop and Fatboy Slim. (Source: http://www.medienkunstnetz.de/artist/aitken/biography/) 2012 Was awarded the Nam June Paik Art Center Prize 2007 Won first prize at the “KunstFilmBiennale” in Cologne 2000 Received the Larry Aldrich Foundation Award 1999 Received the Golden Lion at the 48th Venice Biennale for “Electric Earth” 1991 BFA in Fine Arts from the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena 1987 - 1991 Student at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena (firstly of Magazine Illustration) 1986 - 1987 Student at Marymount College in Palos Verdes / Education 1968 Born in Redondo Beach in California / Education Works - »the moment« 2005 - »glass era« 2005 - »lighttrain« 2005 - »new skin« 2002 - »new ocean« 2001 - »electric earth« 1999 - »new element« 1945


--- [Doug Aitken - - GALLERY EXHIBITIONS - 303 Gallery] ---
303 Gallery presents "new skin" and "on", two new installations by Doug Aitken. "new skin", a four channel projection on oval screens, follows a young woman who is losing her sight. As she waits alone in her Tokyo apartment, she consumes images for an internal archive. Moving around the intersecting screens of "new skin", the viewer engages this inner struggle from various viewpoints while the protagonist’s own perspective of the world is challenged. Both of the works in this exhibition are perceptual investigations, each very different in content and approach. While "new skin" expands time, the second installation, "on", condenses time. In "on" we are in constant motion, unfolding the landscape through interminable repetition and abstraction. "on" develops the idea of collapsing time and place into a singular, minimal tempo of the constant state of transport. These images are projected onto four circular screens that appear to be punctured by a growing void of light. Mirrored walls reflect these topographical images, as well as the viewer, who becomes immersed in the terrain. “new skin” was commissioned by the Centre Pompidou, Musée national d'art moderne et l'lrcam, Paris 2001 and will open there October 15th in “Sonic Process” curated by Christine van Assche. Doug Aitken’s commissioned work, "interiors", will open September 20th at The Fabric Workshop and Museum. Aitken has a one-person exhibition at the Louisiana Museum, Denmark up through late September. The installation "new ocean", produced by the Fondazione Sandretto Re Rebaudengo per l'Arte in conjunction with The Serpentine Gallery, London opened at the Serpentine this past fall. "new ocean" is now on view at the Tokyo Opera City Art Gallery, Japan and will travel to the Kunsthaus Bregenz, Austria in December. In 2000, Aitken received the Aldrich Award from the Aldrich Museum of Contemporary Art in Ridgefield, CT. His installation "electric earth" was one of the highlights of the Whitney Museum of American Art Biennial, 2000 and was awarded the International Prize at the Venice Biennale, 1999.


--- [Doug Aitken - Wikipedia] ---
Doug Aitken (born 1968) is an American multidisciplinary artist. Aitken's body of work ranges from photography, print media, sculpture, and architectural interventions, to narrative films, sound, single and multi-channel video works, installations, and live performance. He currently lives in Venice, California, and New York City.


--- [Doug Aitken - The Fabric Workshop and Museum] ---
Doug Aitken’s collaborative project with The Fabric Workshop and Museum (FWM), Interiors, comprises a series of filmic narratives projected onto an architectural fabric structure. Shot in locations around the world, the constituent narratives initially appear to be unrelated. One sequence depicts a businessman in a Tokyo penthouse at sunset talking to himself, another portrays an African American man wandering around a bombed-out neighborhood in Los Angeles. As the viewer moves through the installation, the rhythms in the sound element of each narrative grow increasingly synchronized. Eventually, the sound components of each join into one rhythm, growing faster and faster into a moment of complete visual and audible transformation. The moment passes, and the sound for each segment falls back into its own disparate, random rhythm, but the individual stories are each affected and changed by the temporary alignment. Interiors offers flashing moments of order in an ever-changing world. Each of these narratives is fictional, and carefully scripted and arranged by Aitken. For example, the man in the Tokyo penthouse is actually an auctioneer from the Tokyo fish market; the African American man is, in reality, a member of the hip-hop duo, Outkast; another segment takes place in a vast, symmetrical helicopter factory and shows a performance choreographed by a professional dancer. These rich, saturated environments are vividly portrayed in the striking imagery for which the artist is known. While at FWM, Aitken experimented with a wide array of reflective, transparent, and opaque materials, which were stretched onto a variety of architectural forms. These fabric-covered shapes were used in the filming of the piece to achieve special visual and lighting effects; they are also a part of the final installation, serving as the scrims onto which the videos are projected. These sculptural experiments allowed the artist to continue his ongoing conceptual explorations while breaking out of the conventional narrative structure and the bounded two-dimensional frame. Moving through the physical installation, visitors actively participate in the poetic construction of various themes that run through this work, including ideas about mapping, navigation, and placing oneself in new realities.


--- [Doug Aitken: Alpha|Paperback - Barnes & Noble®] ---
No content
