=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[M. S. Subbulakshmi - Wikipedia]
M. S. Subbulakshmi M.S. Subbulakshmi began her Carnatic classical music training under her mother Shanmukhavadivu; and later in Hindustani classical training under Pandit Narayan Rao Vyas. Subbulakshmi first recording was released when she was 10 years old. Subbalakshmi gave her first performance at the prestigious Madras Music Academy in 1929, when she was 13 years old. The performance ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M._S._Subbulakshmi

[Age Calculator]
This free age calculator computes age in terms of years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, and seconds, given a date of birth.
URL: https://www.calculator.net/age-calculator.html

[M. S. Subbulakshmi Biography - M. S. Subbulakshmi Profile, Childhood ...]
Career M. S. Subbulakshmi received her training in Carnatic classical music from 'Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer' and Hindustani classical music from 'Pandit Narayanrao Vyas'. Her first recording was released when she was ten years old. Six years later, at the age of sixteen, she gave her first public performance at Kumbakonam during the Mahamaham festival. Next year, she gave the performance at ...
URL: https://music.indobase.com/classical-singers/m-s-subbalakshmi.html

[Subbulakshmi Madurai Shanmukhavadivu (1916 - 2004) - Genealogy - Geni.com]
Subbulakshmi first recording was released when she was 10 years old. She gave her first public performance, at the age of eleven, in the 100 pillar hall inside the Rockfort Temple, Tiruchirappalli; with Mysore Chowdiah on the violin and Dakshinamurthy Pillai on the mriganga. [10]
URL: https://www.geni.com/people/M-S-Subbulakshmi/6000000006256652476

[Latest & Breaking News Melbourne, Victoria | The Age]
The Age has the latest local news on Melbourne, Victoria. Read National News from Australia, World News, Business News and Breaking News stories.
URL: https://www.theage.com.au/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [M. S. Subbulakshmi - Wikipedia] ---
Madurai Shanmukhavadivu Subbulakshmi (16 September 1916 – 11 December 2004) was an Indian Carnatic singer. She was the first musician ever to be awarded the Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian honour and also the first Indian musician to receive the Ramon Magsaysay award in 1974. She was the first Indian to perform at the United Nations General Assembly in 1966.


--- [Age Calculator] ---
Age Calculator The Age Calculator can determine the age or interval between two dates. The calculated age will be displayed in years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, and seconds. The age of a person can be counted differently in different cultures. This calculator is based on the most common age system. In this system, age increases on a person's birthday. For example, the age of a person who has lived for 3 years and 11 months is 3, and their age will increase to 4 on their next birthday one month later. Most western countries use this age system. In some cultures, age is expressed by counting years with or without including the current year. For example, a person who is twenty years old is the same age as another person who is in their twenty-first year of life. In one of the traditional Chinese age systems, people are born at age 1 and their age increases up at the Traditional Chinese New Year rather than their birthday. For example, if one baby is born just one day before the Traditional Chinese New Year, 2 days later, the baby will be 2 even though he/she is only 2 days old. In some situations, the months and day result of this age calculator may be confusing, especially when the starting date is the end of a month. For example, we count Feb. 20 to Mar. 20 to be one month. However, there are two ways to calculate the age from Feb. 28, 2022 to Mar. 31, 2022. If we consider Feb. 28 to Mar. 28 to be one month, then the result is one month and 3 days. If we consider both Feb. 28 and Mar. 31 as the end of the month, then the result is one month. Both calculation results are reasonable. Similar situations exist for dates like Apr. 30 to May 31, May 30 to June 30, etc. The confusion comes from the uneven number of days in different months. In our calculations, we use the former method.


--- [M. S. Subbulakshmi Biography - M. S. Subbulakshmi Profile, Childhood ...] ---
Born On: September 16, 1916 Born In: Kunjamma, the temple city ofMadurai, Tamil Nadu Died On: December 11, 2004 Career: Classical Singer Nationality: Indian M. S. Subbulakshmi, Madurai Shanmukhavadivu Subbulakshmi, was one of the most famous and admired vocalists in the field of Carnatic music. She was the first Indian musician to receive the 'Bharat Ratna' and also the first woman recipient of the title 'Sangeetha Kalanidhi'. She was popularly known as 'Nightingale of India'. Also, she is the first Indian musician to receive the Ramon Magsaysay award, Asia's highest civilian award, in 1974. Her interpretation of devotional songs was marvelous and used to mesmerize listeners and send them into a world of trance. M. S. Subbulakshmi was synonymous to Carnatic music. Early Life M. S. Subbulakshmi was born on 16th September, 1916 in Kunjamma, the temple city of Madurai, Tamil Nadu. She belonged to a musician family. Her grandmother played the violin and her mother was a veena artist. Subbulakhsmi's interest in music developed from her childhood. Her first recording was released when she was only ten years old. In 1940, she was married to T. Sadasivam, who was freedom fighter and a follower of Rajaji. He played a very crucial role in enhancing her career. Career M. S. Subbulakshmi received her training in Carnatic classical music from 'Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer' and Hindustani classical music from 'Pandit Narayanrao Vyas'. Her first recording was released when she was ten years old. Six years later, at the age of sixteen, she gave her first public performance at Kumbakonam during the Mahamaham festival. Next year, she gave the performance at Madras Major Academy, the renowned center for the study and promotion of Carnatic music. Apart from singing in Kannada which was her mother tongue, Subbulakshmi also sung in different languages such as Hindi, Bengali, Gujarati, Marathi, Telugu, Malayalam and Sanskrit. M. S. Subbulakshmi also entered the field of acting and performed in various tamil movies. Her first movie was 'Sevasadanam' which was released in 1938. People still remember her for the role in 'Bhakta Meera' (1945). Even today devotional songs of Meera in her pleasant voice are enjoyed by people. Other films in which she acted are 'Savitri' (1941) in which she played the male role of 'Narada' and 'Meera' (1945). The movie, 'Meera' was again made in Hindi in 1947. The music director of this movie was Dilip Kumar Roy and the devotional songs of Meera were sung by M. S. Subbulakshmi. After some time Subbulakshmi left movies, and completely devoted herself to give performances and to do music concerts. As the Cultural Ambassador of India, she went to foreign countries like London, New York, Canada, the Far East. Her musical concerts at Carnegie Hall, New York (1977); the UN General Assembly on UN day (1966), the Royal Albert Hall, London (1982) and the Festival of India, Moscow (1987) were important milestones of her career. In the year 1969, Subbulakshmi sang in front of every idol in Rameshwaram temple and was given company by Indian Railways Advisor, S. N. Venkata Rao. Contribution to Music Few of her most popular works are 'Suprabhatam' (Early Morning Hymns), 'Bhajagovindam' (admiring Lord Krishna) composed by Adi Shankaracharya; 'Kurai OnrumIllai', composition of Rajagopalachari; 'Vishnu Sahasranamam' (1000 names of Lord Vishnu) and 'Hanuman Chalisa' (prayer of Lord Hanuman). The song 'Vaishnava Janato', is said to hold such depth and profundity that it brings tears in the eyes of every listener who listens to it. The way of her singing was very magnificent and hypnotic. She stopped performing in musical concerts after the death of her husband T.Sadasivamon 21st November, 1997. Death After suffering from complications related to Pneumonia and Cardiac Abnormalities, she died at the age of 88, on 11th December, 2004 in Chennai. Legacy Rishi MS Institute of Engineering and Technology for women is named after the great classical singer MS Subbulakshmi. Awards & Honors 1954: Padma Bhushan 1967: Ravindra Bharathi Cultural Academy Award 1968: Sangeetha Kalanidhi Award 1974: Ramon Magsaysay Award 1975: Padma Vibhushan Award and was honored as the court-singer of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams 1988: Kalidasa Samman Award 1990: Indira Gandhi Award for National Integration 1997: Swaralaya Puraskar 1998: M. S. Subbulakshmi receives the Bharat Ratna; India's highest civilian honor. She was the first musician to receive this award. 2004: Lifetime Achievement Award Timeline 1916: Born at Kunjamma, the temple city of Madurai, Tamil Nadu 1926: Debuted at Madurai Sethupati High School and first recorded her song 1941: Acted in film 'Savithri' and founded the magazine named 'Kalki' 1945: Tamil movie 'Meera' was released 1947: Hindi movie 'Meera' was released 1954: Awarded with Padma Bushan 1955: Gave concert to raise funds for Kamala Nehru Memorial Hospital 1956: Received Sangeet Natak Academy Award 1967: Bestowed upon with Ravindra Bharathi Cultural Academy Award 1968: First woman to get the title of 'Sangeetha Kalanidhi' from Chennai Music Academy 1970: Vishnu Sahasranamam & Bhaja Govindam Album was released 1974: Got selected to receive the Ramon Magsaysay Award for public service 1975: Received Padma Vibushan 1975: Tirumala Tirupathi Devasathanam's Aasthana Vidwan 1977: Music Concert at Carnegie Hall 1979: Received Honorary Doctorate from Indira KalaSangeetVishwavidyalaya in Khairagarh Madhya Pradesh 1981: Asthana Vidushi by Andhra Pradesh Govt 1982: Festivals of India in London - Concert at Royal Albert Hall 1988: Received Kalidas Samman awarded by the Government of Madhya Pradesh 1990: The Indira Gandhi Award for National Integration 1997: Swaralaya Puraskar; Husband T.Sadasivam passed away 1998: Received the Bharat Ratna 2004: Lifetime Achievement Award on June 21, and died on December 11.


--- [Subbulakshmi Madurai Shanmukhavadivu (1916 - 2004) - Genealogy - Geni.com] ---
Subbulakshmi Madurai Shanmukhavadivu | | | Birthdate: | | | Birthplace: | Madurai, Tamil Nadu, India | | Death: | Died in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India | | Immediate Family: | Daughter of Subramania Iyer and Madurai Shanmukhavadivu | |---|---| | Managed by: | Shrinivasan V | | Last Updated: | Immediate Family - husband - mother - father - brother - sister - <private>stepchild - <private> Viswanathanstepchild - stepdaughter - <private> Ramachandranstepchild About M S Subbulakshmi Madurai Shanmukhavadivu Subbulakshmi (Tamil: மதுரை சண்முகவடிவு சுப்புலட்சுமி, Madhurai Shanmukhavadivu Subbulakshmi ? 16 September 1916 – 11 December 2004), also known as M.S., was a renowned Carnatic vocalist. She was the first musician ever to be awarded the Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian honor.[1] She is the first Indian musician to receive the Ramon Magsaysay award, often considered Asia's Nobel Prize,[2] in 1974 with the citation reading "Exacting purists acknowledge Srimati M. S. Subbulakshmi as the leading exponent of classical and semi-classical songs in the Karnataka tradition of South India. Subbulakshmi (Kunjamma to her family) was born in Madurai, Madras Presidency, India to veena player Shanmukavadiver Ammal and Subramania Iyer. Her grandmother Akkammal was a violinist. She started learning Carnatic music at an early age and trained in Carnatic music under the tutelage of Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer and subsequently in Hindustani music under Pandit Narayanrao Vyas. She also learned Sanskrit and Telugu under Dr. Nedunuri Krishnamurthy. Her mother, from the devadasi community, was a music exponent and a regular stage performer, and Subbulakshmi grew up in an environment very conducive to musical learning. Her musical interests were also shaped by regular interactions with Karaikudi Sambasiva Iyer, Mazhavarayanendal Subbarama Bhavathar and Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar.[5] Subbulakshmi gave her first public performance in 1929 when she was 13 years old at the prestigious Madras Music Academy. The performance consisted of singing bhajans (Hindu hymns).[6] The academy was known for its discriminating selection process, and they broke tradition by inviting a young girl as a key performer. Her performance was described as spellbinding and earned her many admirers and the moniker of musical genius from critics. Soon after her debut performance Subbulakshmi became one the leading Carnatic vocalists. In 1936 Subbulakshmi moved to Madras (now Chennai).[8] She also made her film debut in Sevasadan in 1938,.[9] M.S. Subbulakshmi began her Carnatic classical music training under her mother Shanmugavadivu; and later in Hindustani classical training under Pandit Narayan Rao Vyas. Subbulakshmi first recording was released when she was 10 years old. She gave her first public performance, at the age of eleven, in the 100 pillar hall inside the Rockfort Temple, Tiruchirappalli; with Mysore Chowdiah on the violin and Dakshinamurthy Pillai on the mriganga.[10] By the age of 17, Subbulakshmi was giving concerts on her own, including major performances at the Madras Music Academy, a prestigious centre for the study and promotion of Carnatic music. Performance in Carnatic music concerts, was until then, a domain, traditionally reserved for men. She performed a vast variety of devotional musical forms in different languages including Tamil, Kannada, Sanskrit, Panjabi, Hindi, Malayalam, Telugu, Bengali, Gujarati and Marathi. When the governor of Madras wanted the famous spiritual leader, Mata Sri Anandamayi Ma, to reside in his residence, Anandamayi Ma replied, "I will stay in the house of Subbulakshmi. She is Meera to me." Within two days, Sadasivam had special quarters built in their garden for Mata to give darshan and arranged for a new well to be dug nearby for fresh drinking water. Every evening thousands of people gathered there. She traveled to London, New York, Canada, the Far East, and other places as India's cultural ambassador. Her concerts at Edinburgh International Festival of Music and Drama in 1963 Carnegie Hall, New York; the UN General Assembly on UN day in 1966 Royal Albert Hall, London in 1982 Festival of India in Moscow in 1987 were significant landmarks in her career.[11] In 1969 she was accompanied by Indian Railways Advisor SN Venkata Rao to Rameshwaram, where she famously sang several songs in front of each idol in the Rameshwaram temple. After the death of her husband Kalki Sadasivam in 1997, she stopped all her public performances. Films M.S. also acted in a few Tamil films in her youth. Her first movie Sevasadanam was released in 1938. MS Subbulakshmi also played the male role of Narada in "Savitri" (1941) to raise money for launching Kalki, her husband's nationalist Tamil weekly. Her title role of the Rajasthani saint-poetess Meera in the eponymous 1945 film gave her national prominence. This movie was re-made in Hindi in 1947. The movie had M.S Subbulakshmi. sing the famous Meera bhajans, with Dilipkumar Roy as the music director. Later, she quit films and turned wholly to concert music. Awards and honours Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru had this to say about M.S. Subbulakshmi- "Who am I, a mere Prime Minister before a Queen, a Queen of Music". While Lata Mangeshkar called her Tapaswini (the Renunciate), Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan termed her Suswaralakshmi (the goddess of the perfect note), and Kishori Amonkar labeled her the ultimate eighth note or Aathuvaan Sur, which is above the seven notes basic to all music. The great national leader and poet Sarojini Naidu called her "Nightingale of India". Her many famous renditions of bhajans include the chanting of Bhaja Govindam, Vishnu sahasranama (1000 names of Vishnu), Hari Tuma Haro and the Venkateswara Suprabhatam (musical hymns to awaken Lord Balaji early in the morning). She was widely honored, praised and awarded. Some of the more popular ones include[12] Padma Bhushan in 1954 Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in 1956 Sangeetha Kalanidhi in 1968 (literally, Treasure Chest of Music. She was the first woman recipient of the title) Ramon Magsaysay award (often considered Asia's Nobel Prize) in 1974 Padma Vibhushan in 1975 Kalidas Samman in 1988 Indira Gandhi Award for National Integration in 1990 Bharat Ratna in 1998. She was honored as the court-singer[Asthana Vidhwan] of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams.[13] Tirupati Urban Development Authority (TUDA) has installed a bronze statue of M.S. Subbulakshmi at the Poornakumbham circle in the temple town. It was unveiled by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy on 28 May 2006.[14] The famous Kancheepuram Saree shade known as MS Blue was named after her[15] by the well known Congress party member and philanthropist, Sri Muthu Chettiyar when they met at the residence of Sri R. Aiyadurai and Smt. Thangam Aiyadurai at Lady Desikachari Road, Madras, who were close friends of MS and Sadasivam. She was bestowed with enormous prize moneys with these awards, she donated most of them to charity. She has given more than 200 charity concerts and raised well over Rs. 10,000,000. She was awarded honorary degree degrees from several Universities. She was an ardent devotee of Kanchi Mahaswamigal and she rendered his composition Maithreem Bhajatha (O World! Cultivate peace) in her concert at the UN in 1966. Venkatesa Suprabhatam in Gramaphone record of HMV, the royalty from which goes to the Veda Patasala run by the Tirupati Tirumala Devasthanam.[16] She donated many of the royalties on several best sold records to many charity organizations. M S Subbulakshmi's Timeline | 1916 | September 16, 1916 | Madurai, Tamil Nadu, India | | | 2004 | December 11, 2004 Age 88 | Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India |


--- [Latest & Breaking News Melbourne, Victoria | The Age] ---
Screening Room newsletter Must-see movies, interviews and all the latest from the world of film. The Morning Edition podcast Start your day with expert insight into the stories that drive the nation. Mini Crossword How quickly can you solve our new pocket-sized puzzle? Iranians told US they were close to making 11 nuclear bombs; ‘Too late’ for talks, says Trump Hundreds of people have been killed across the Middle East as strikes on Iran continue, Israel launches an offensive in Lebanon, and Iran returns fire across the region. Follow our rolling coverage. Latest live posts LoadingOpinion Opinion Iran’s regime is vile, but what Trump and Netanyahu have done is a war crime The US and Israel have used the same perverse justification for the attack on Iran that Putin used to invade Ukraine. Geoffrey Robertson Human rights barrister and author Stranded Australians face travel ‘mayhem’ as Albanese stages crisis talks with UAE It comes as the Australian Defence Force convened a taskforce to investigate options for a potential evacuation of the 115,000 Australians trapped in the Middle East. Analysis Radio Kyle and Jackie O’s disintegration may be the biggest bust-up in Australian media – ever The show had succeeded for years, but its entry into Melbourne on a $200 million deal proved the beginning of the end for the duo’s distasteful radio show. Exclusive AFL 2026 AFL to review grand final time slot under new commission chairman The call will be made under a new chairman, ex-Geelong president Craig Drummond, whose appointment as Richard Goyder’s replacement will be ratified by the clubs and commission on Wednesday. Jackie ‘O’ leaves show, Sandilands suspended for ‘serious misconduct’ Kyle Sandilands had claimed on Tuesday morning that Jackie ‘O’ Henderson was planning to return but she pulled the pin later in the day, walking away from a $100 million contract. Eight-year-old girl killed at Japanese ski resort Chloe Jeffries became the fourth Australian to die at a Japanese ski resort this year after the snowmobile she and her mother were riding overturned. The billionaire, the French president and the satellite that crashed to Earth NewSat investor Ching Chiat Kwong has returned to Australia to mete out retribution over the company’s 2015 failure via a case brought by liquidators that could drag in Emmanuel Macron. Opinion Political leadership Liberal Party’s attempt to cover up their election mistakes has only made supporters angrier Niki Savva Award-winning political commentator and author Oscar Piastri was just mobbed in the CBD. On the weekend, here’s where he wound down The 24-year-old was surrounded by screaming fans on Little Collins Street in Melbourne’s CBD on Tuesday night for a sponsor’s event, but barely looked fazed. AFL Briefing AFL 2026 Hawks skipper Newcombe cleared to play in opening round The Hawks are breathing a massive sigh of relief after co-captain Jai Newcombe escaped suspension at the AFL tribunal after his careless tackle on Bulldog Ed Richards was downgraded. ‘Really brave of them’: Matildas’ hearts go out to Iran team Australia are sharing a Gold Coast hotel with Iran in the lead-up to their second Asian Cup group game against a team whose country is engulfed in political upheaval. With 40% of Middle East flights cancelled, here’s how travellers are making it work Tens of thousands of Australians stuck in the Middle East must decide whether to wait it out or find other ways to get home. ‘It’s wrong’: Former judge says mental health suppression orders threaten court system Victoria’s Attorney-General says the state is working to balance transparency and fairness in the courts, while a former judge says mental health suppression orders are the system’s biggest worry. US warns ‘the big one is coming’ amid conflicting signals over war’s duration US President Donald Trump declared the war might go “far longer” than his previous estimate of “four to five weeks” and did not rule out sending ground forces into Iran. Xi’s China will be world-shaping in the coming months and years. Our return to Beijing could not be more timely North Asia correspondent Lisa Visentin has landed in Beijing to cover China, resuming our 50-year history of reporting from inside the country. Opinion Money psychology Why chasing a dollar figure won’t fix your money worries Many people think there’s a dollar figure that will fix their financial anxiety. And while there is some truth to that, there’s a lot more that goes into the equation. Paridhi Jain Money contributor The $120 million hotel changing the face of this regional city This Victorian industrial hub has been undergoing a gradual but deliberate metamorphosis. But until now, it has lacked top-tier stays. ‘Boys are inherently good’: What experts want parents to know about raising sons Parenting boys in 2026 can feel like a minefield. Here’s how to manage it without losing touch with your son. After my parents died, people could not bear to be in the presence of an orphan When Erin Vincent was 14, both of her parents were killed in a road accident in Western Sydney. Almost 40 years later, the number 14 began haunting her, appearing everywhere. Potato chips in a tortilla? Trust us on this one Ready for picnics, parties, anything, this variation on the Spanish classic swaps potatoes for chips and finishes with zesty chermoula. Editor's Picks Opinion Trump diplomacy Trump’s attacks are not about Iran. He’s after a much bigger fish Clinton Fernandes Academic and former intelligence officer Just in From our partners shorts IRAN UNDER ATTACK Analysis How the Iran war will impact inflation, your overseas holiday – even your morning toast Just like his tariffs, Donald Trump’s mixed messages on the conflict with Iran will mean upheaval for Australia’s economy. Opinion Trump’s opening military strike against Iran was ‘exquisite’. Now comes the tricky bit “I don’t think he has a plan and that’s the problem,” security expert John Bolton says. Peter Hartcher Political and international editor Victoria Exclusive Property development Developer quietly guts ‘affordable’ housing promise in northern suburbs An “ethical” property developer favoured by the state government is seeking to slash affordable housing quotas after winning controversial height concessions. Allan to target ‘time-pressed’ voters with blanket work-from-home rules The state government is expected to make further announcements on its working from home plans as it spoils for an election-year fight with business groups. Updated Crime Couple found dead in regional Victoria after neighbour ‘heard gunshots’ Police are investigating after the bodies were discovered in a home in the Latrobe Valley. Video of train hitting car at Brunswick shows boom gate lift as fail-safe Dashcam footage appears to show the car jolt forward and touch the boom gate, which swings upward before the train sends the car spinning into a fence. Updated Weather Flood warnings downgraded in state’s north after drenching Mildura in Victoria’s north recorded almost half its usual annual rainfall total since Saturday. Politics Exclusive Political leadership Senior Liberals blame each other for election disaster as PM tables review The review also asserts that the “party’s capacity to thoughtlessly offend” migrant voters was potentially a bigger problem than the desertion of Liberals by women. Business Meta ‘destroyed’ key evidence in Twiggy Forrest’s scam ad fight Mining billionaire Andrew “Twiggy” Forrest argues the tech giant’s advertising systems helped criminals loot Australians’ savings at industrial scale. World Bill Clinton distances himself from Epstein in videos released from his testimony last week The former Democratic president said he first remembered meeting Epstein when he flew aboard the financier’s private jet in 2002. Opinion Why Iranians are celebrating being bombed Kylie Moore-Gilbert Political scientist and writer O Canada, O Albanese: This middle power roars as Australia’s exemplar George Brandis Former high commissioner to the UK and federal attorney-general What if Emily Brontë were on TikTok? Why Wuthering Heights is the movie for the moment Jacqueline Maley Columnist and senior journalist Explore Got a news tip? Share information with our journalists securely and confidentially. Learn more Property Ricky and Sherry achieved the Great Australian Dream. This is how As house prices rise, young people are rethinking home ownership, and some are finding creative new ways to live. Neil bought a two-bedroom Fitzroy terrace in 1972. It cost $7500 Work hard, buy a home, maybe an investment property down the track: the rational decisions of the past have given way to a different future. Good Food Lifestyle Do you know how often to replace your sponge? How about your mattress? These are the household items you should replace, even if they’re not showing signs of wear and tear. Culture The $140,000 Lego model, and other confessions of a blockhead He’s the former IT guy who traded the corporate life for full-time play. But Ryan “Brickman” McNaught’s unlikely career change was kick-started by a “cease and desist” letter from Lego’s legal team. Traveller Drivedrive From Our Partners Sport Exclusive AFL 2026 AFL to review grand final time slot under new commission chairman The call will be made under a new chairman, ex-Geelong president Craig Drummond, whose appointment as Richard Goyder’s replacement will be ratified by the clubs and commission on Wednesday. AFL Briefing AFL 2026 Hawks skipper Newcombe cleared to play in opening round; Scott backs Bruhn’s return after ‘injustice’ Hawthorn’s midfield has been given a much-needed boost for their weekend blockbuster. Meanwhile, Chris Scott has backed returning utility Tanner Bruhn, whom he said faced an “egregious injustice” last year. Oscar Piastri was just mobbed in the CBD. On the weekend, here’s where he wound down The 24-year-old was surrounded by screaming fans on Little Collins Street in Melbourne’s CBD on Tuesday night for a sponsor’s event, but barely looked fazed. ‘Really brave of them’: Matildas’ hearts go out to Iran team and families Australia are sharing a Gold Coast hotel with Iran in the lead-up to their second Asian Cup group game against a team whose country is engulfed in political upheaval. Analysis AFL 2026 Ruck changes, 6-6-6 adjustments and ducking in tackles: The AFL’s seven new rules explained There are seven rule changes brought in by the AFL in 2026. We go through each one, with video, so you’ll be up to speed for the first … ball-up. It’s 46 years since an Aussie was the king of F1. That man says Oscar is ready to break the drought Alan Jones says compatriot Oscar Piastri is the type of driver who will use last year’s disappointment as motivation to drive faster in 2026, starting at the Melbourne GP. Five things Max Verstappen hates about the new Formula 1 cars Is this new era of F1 really about what Max Verstappen describes as “anti-racing”? Have Your Say Two coaches to walk away, and two to be removed: Our experts predict the AFL season A three-peat dynasty for the Brisbane Lions? Nick Daicos to finally get the Brownlow he deserves? What will be the story of the season? Our experts put their reputations on the line to answer these questions and more.
