=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[October 27, 2007: Boston's bats push Rockies to the brink in Game 3]
Oct 27, 2007 · 2 Matsuzaka had been 0-for-4 during the regular season. It was his first hit in the major leagues. He had, however, played outfield, as well as pitched, in high school and had homered in his final season playing for the Seibu Lions before signing a massive contract with the Red Sox.
URL: https://sabr.org/gamesproj/game/october-27-2007-bostons-bats-push-rockies-to-the-brink-in-game-3/

[2007 World Series - Wikipedia]
After Julio Lugo walked to load the bases, Matsuzaka hit a two-run single for his first base hit and RBI in the Major Leagues. Ellsbury capped the scoring with his second double of the inning to knock Colorado starter Josh Fogg out of the game.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2007_World_Series

[Daisuke Matsuzaka]
He drove in two runs with a single in Game 3 of the 2007 World Series, during a six-run third inning, powering the Red Sox to a victory.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daisuke_Matsuzaka

[Grokipedia: 2007 World Series]
Learn more about 2007 World Series on Grokipedia.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/2007_World_Series

[Matsuzaka's first start a real spectacle]
Apr 5, 2007 — Matsuzaka seemed to get stronger as the game went on, and was clocked at 93 mph in the seventh inning. He struck out Ryan Shealy and Ross Gload, ...
URL: https://www.espn.com/mlb/news/story?id=2827638


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [October 27, 2007: Boston's bats push Rockies to the brink in Game 3] ---
October 27, 2007: Boston’s bats push Rockies to the brink in Game 3 Naturally, the Rockies were glad to return home to Denver, even though the Red Sox led the 2007 World Series two games to none. They’d won five games in a row at Coors Field, including two postseason games, and 10 of their last 11. They had a home record of 51-31 during the regular season. Their phenomenal stretch drive gave them every reason to believe they would fare better in their home park, and the move to a National League field deprived the Red Sox of the designated hitter. Only six of the Red Sox had ever played at Coors, where many visitors struggle with the altitude adjustment. The situation presented, said Fox broadcaster Joe Buck, “a distinct home advantage for the Rockies.”1 That said, of the 50 teams that had taken the first two games of a World Series, 19 just kept going — and swept the Series. Of the 31 others, 20 eventually won it. As of 2007, 11 of the last 12 teams that took the first two games had won it all. Red Sox skipper Terry Francona wanted David Ortiz in the game, so he asked the DH to play first base (as he had done during the two World Series games in St. Louis in 2004). Kevin Youkilis sat on the bench, despite hitting .396 (.483 on-base percentage) to this point during the 2007 postseason. To pitch, Francona selected 15-game winner Daisuke Matsuzaka, Boston’s third-winningest pitcher after Josh Beckett (20 wins) and Tim Wakefield (17 wins prior to being sidelined with a back injury). It was “Dice-K’s” rookie season in the American major leagues. Clint Hurdle started Josh Fogg to try to hold Boston at bay. Fogg, a right-hander as well, was a native of Greater Boston. His record was 10-9 (4.94), but only Jeff Francis had won more games for the Rockies (17). Neither team scored in the first two innings, as both starters pitched through mild trouble. Boston’s first two batters of the game hit infield singles, but Fogg struck out Ortiz and induced two fly-ball outs. In the second, Julio Lugo doubled after two outs, but Matsuzaka’s strikeout ended the inning. Colorado’s first two innings were also fruitless. Second baseman Kaz Matsui singled in the bottom of the first and took second on an error by right fielder J.D. Drew. After Troy Tulowitzki struck out, Matsui tried to advance on Matt Holliday’s comebacker, but Dice-K fielded the ball and threw him out at third. Todd Helton grounded out to end the inning. Matsuzaka hit leadoff batter Garrett Atkins in the second but had no real difficulty after that. The Red Sox broke the game open in the third. Speedy center fielder Jacoby Ellsbury shot a ball over third base and into left field for a double. Dustin Pedroia laid down a perfect bunt and beat the throw to first as Ellsbury advanced to third. Ortiz swung at the first pitch and doubled to right field, to the left of the right fielder. Ellsbury scored with ease. With runners on second and third, Fogg walked Manny Ramirez intentionally to pitch to third baseman Mike Lowell. Lowell grounded the ball right up the middle, and two more runs scored. After J.D. Drew hit a high pop fly to shortstop for the first out, Catcher Jason Varitek singled to left. Ramirez tried to score from second, but umpire Ted Barrett called him out on Holliday’s throw home. Fogg walked Julio Lugo on four pitches; Dice-K came to bat with the bases loaded and two outs. But Matsuzaka, swinging at the first pitch, singled between third base and shortstop, driving in two more runs to make the score 5-0.2 Ellbsury, up for the second time in the inning, hit another double, this time blooping one into center. It was 6-0, Red Sox. Hurdle summoned Franklin Morales to put out the fire. The Rockies reliever got Pedroia to ground out.3 Neither team scored in the fourth or fifth, nor did the Red Sox score in the top of the sixth. The Rockies got on the board in the bottom of the inning. Matsuzaka had allowed only three hits and one walk in the first five innings, but after retiring Holliday on a groundout to lead off the sixth, he walked the next two batters. Francona decided to make a move (he’d just replaced Ortiz on first base with Youkilis, the better defender) and brought in a reliever, left-hander Javier Lopez. Rockies right fielder Brad Hawpe dropped a single into center, driving in one run, and then catcher Yorvit Torrealba grounded a single through the left side of the infield, driving in another. Francona replaced Lopez with Mike Timlin, who got the final two outs. The score stood 6-2. Matt Herges pitched the top of the seventh for Colorado. He faced three batters — Ramirez, Lowell, and Drew — and struck out all three, each them swinging for strike three. Matsui led off the Rockies’ seventh by dropping down a bunt for a base hit and stealing second. Tulowitzki followed with a single to put runners on first and third with nobody out. Francona called on Hideki Okajima to put down the rally. He’d been lights-out in the postseason to this point, appearing in six games and throwing 9⅔ scoreless innings. But this time Holliday launched his first pitch deep to center field for a three-run homer. It was Holliday’s fifth home run of the postseason; his .340 batting average had led the National League and his 137 RBIs had as well; his 386 total bases led the majors. More importantly in the moment, the Rockies had closed to within a run, 6-5. Todd Helton followed with a single, but Okajima bore down and got Atkins and Hawpe to strike out and Torrealba to ground back to the mound, for a 1-3 play. “For a second, the swagger of 21-1 was back. Just as quickly, it vanished. … the Rockies have averaged 10 strikeouts per game in the Series, buzzkill for any loud rally.”4 Hoping to keep the game close, Hurdle sent in Brian Fuentes to pitch the eighth. Varitek grounded to short, but Lugo walked and then Coco Crisp (who’d come in to play center, with Ellsbury moving to right field) singled under a diving Tulowitzki at short. Ellsbury doubled for his fourth hit of the game (and third double), the ball landing practically on the right-field foul line.5 Pedroia doubled to right field, too, for his third hit of the game. Ellsbury drove in Lugo; Pedroia drove in both Crisp and Ellsbury. It was 9-5, Red Sox. Fuentes retired Youkilis and Ramirez, but Boston again had some breathing room. Manny Delcarmen got the first two outs in the bottom of the eighth but then allowed a single and a walk. Francona called on Jonathan Papelbon. He threw one pitch and got the third out, a fly ball by Holliday. The Red Sox scored one more run in the top of the ninth against LaTroy Hawkins. Lowell singled. Alex Cora, who had come into the game at second base, sacrificed him to second. An unlikely running threat with only three steals all season, Lowell nonetheless stole third. He tagged up and scored when Varitek hit a fly ball to center field. The Red Sox had doubled the score of the Rockies, taking a 10-5 lead. In the bottom of the ninth, Papelbon induced Helton to fly out and Atkins to ground out. Hawpe’s triple to right field gave the Coors Field crowd one more moment to cheer, but two pitches later it was all over when Torrealba grounded out, short to first. Just think, wrote Bob Ryan in the Boston Globe, as the Red Sox were on the brink of a possible sweep, “Eleven days ago, the Red Sox were in neck-deep doo-doo, down 3-1 [games] to the Indians.”6 The Red Sox’ 15-hit attack included hits from every member of their starting lineup but Ramirez. “When everybody in the order gets a hit,” wrote John Powers about the lack of a DH, “nobody needs to be designated.”7 The Denver Post’s Woody Paige suggested, “The Rockies brought out their bats Saturday night, but the Red Sox haven’t put away theirs.” He was ready to write an early obituary: “Those of us who look at life through Cracklin’ Rose-colored glasses have to realize that the Rockies are not as good as the Red Sox; the National League is not as good as the American League; the singing at Coors Field of ‘Hey Baby’ is not as good as the singing at Fenway Park of ‘Sweet Caroline,’ and Colorado’s mountain spring water is not as good as Boston’s dirty water. … The Rockies may crumble; Gibraltar may tumble … but our love is here to stay. And the real good news: We still live in Colorado.”8 Sources In addition to the sources cited in the Notes, the author consulted Baseball-Reference.com, Retrosheet.org, and a YouTube video of the game. Thanks to Carmen Reale for supplying articles from the Denver Post. baseball-reference.com/boxes/COL/COL200710270.shtml retrosheet.org/boxesetc/2007/B10270COL2007.htm youtube.com/watch?v=nzzPOF05UTg Notes 1 Joe Buck, Fox Sports broadcast of October 28, 2007, available at https://youtube.com/watch?v=nzzPOF05UTg. 2 Matsuzaka had been 0-for-4 during the regular season. It was his first hit in the major leagues. He had, however, played outfield, as well as pitched, in high school and had homered in his final season playing for the Seibu Lions before signing a massive contract with the Red Sox. “He was also a perennial winner of the Gold Glove,” added the Boston Globe’s Nick Cafardo, “known for his cat-like quickness and athleticism.” Nick Cafardo, “A Solid Performance All Around,” Boston Globe, October 28, 2007: 32. Cafardo cited a play in this game as significant: “In the first inning, Dice-K made a nice diving stab on a ball hit to his right by Matt Holliday. Matsuzaka saw his old Seibu teammate, the speedy Kaz Matsui, was caught between second and third. Matsuzaka started a run-down than ended with Matsui being tagged by Mike Lowell. It was a big out and changed the momentum.” 3 At this point in the 2007 World Series, the Red Sox had outscored the Rockies 21-2, and had 33 base hits to Colorado’s 12. 4 So wrote Troy E. Renck, “Colorado Rallies to Within a Run, but the Boston Red Sox Answer with Eighth-Inning Insurance,” Denver Post, October 28, 2007: 1W. 5 It landed just out of the grasp of a sliding Brad Hawpe or, as Jackie MacMullan of the Boston Globe put it with an apology to readers, “it took a bad Hawpe for the Rockies.” See Jackie MacMullan, “Ellsbury a Hit from the Get-Go,” Boston Globe, October 28, 2007: 30. 6 Bob Ryan, “After Climbing Back, They’re at the Peak,” Boston Globe, October 28, 2007: 29. 7 John Powers, “No DH, but No Problem,” Boston Globe, October 28, 2007: 34. 8 Woody Paige, “Barely There,” Denver Post, October 28, 2007: 1W. He added, “All the Red Sox players should be forced to spend Sunday morning in the humidor.” This was a reference to a humidor the team had installed in the ballpark to store baseballs before the game so they would not be as hard as they would otherwise be in the mile-high atmosphere. Additional Stats Boston Red Sox 10 Colorado Rockies 5 Game 3, WS Coors Field Denver, CO Box Score + PBP: Corrections? Additions? If you can help us improve this game story, contact us.


--- [2007 World Series - Wikipedia] ---
The 2007 World Series was the championship series of Major League Baseball's (MLB) 2007 season. The 103rd edition of the World Series, it was a best-of-seven playoff between the National League (NL) champion Colorado Rockies and the American League (AL) champion Boston Red Sox; the Red Sox swept the Rockies in four games. 
It is the Rockies' first and only appearance in a World Series as of 2025. Boston’s victory was their second World Series championship in four seasons, their second consecutive World Series sweep and their seventh World Series victory overall; it also marked the third sweep in four years by the AL champions. The series began on Wednesday, October 24 and ended on Sunday, October 28.
Terry Francona became the second Red Sox manager to win two World Series titles, following Bill Carrigan, who won the 1915 and 1916 World Series. Including the last three games of the AL Championship Series, the Red Sox outscored their opposition 59–15 over their final seven games. Francona also became the first manager to win his first 8 World Series games. The Rockies, meanwhile, became the first NL team to get swept in a World Series after sweeping the League Championship Series, and just the second team ever to suffer such a fate, following the Oakland Athletics in 1990. This fate would again be suffered by the 2012 Detroit Tigers, being swept by the San Francisco Giants in the World Series after sweeping the New York Yankees in the ALCS. As of the conclusion of the 2024 season, 2007 remains the most recent season an American League team has swept a National League team in the World Series.


--- [Daisuke Matsuzaka] ---
Daisuke Matsuzaka  (松坂 大輔, Matsuzaka Daisuke; [matsɯꜜzaka daꜜisɯ̥ke]; born September 13, 1980) is a Japanese former professional baseball pitcher, who pitched professionally for 23 seasons, 16 of them in NPB, 7 in MLB. He is currently a baseball color commentator, critic, reporter,  and YouTuber. Daisuke is nicknamed "the Monster of the Heisei Era" (平成の怪物, heisei no kaibutsu) in Japan and "Dice-K" in the United States by The Boston Globe and USA Today. He played for the Boston Red Sox and New York Mets of Major League Baseball (MLB) and the Saitama Seibu Lions, Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks and Chunichi Dragons of Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB).
Internationally, Matsuzaka represented Japan. Matsuzaka was selected the All-World Baseball Classic Team and World Baseball Classic MVP of the inaugural and the second World Baseball Classic, and is an Olympic bronze medalist.
He is the first player to have won both a World Series and a World Baseball Classic, winning the 2006 World Baseball Classic with Team Japan and the 2007 World Series with the Red Sox.


--- [Grokipedia: 2007 World Series] ---
The 2007 World Series was the 103rd edition of Major League Baseball's championship series, contested as a best-of-seven playoff between the American League champion Boston Red Sox and the National League champion Colorado Rockies.[1] The Red Sox swept the series 4–0, securing their second World Series title in four seasons and their seventh championship overall.[2]The series began on October 24, 2007, at Fenway Park in Boston, with Games 1 and 2 hosted there before shifting to Coors Field in Denver for Games 3 and 4.[3] In Game 1, the Red Sox dominated with a 13–1 victory, highlighted by Dustin Pedroia's leadoff home run in his first World Series at-bat[4], starter Josh Beckett's seven-inning performance in which he allowed one run, and one home run from the offense.[1] Game 2 was a pitchers' duel, ending 2–1 in Boston's favor, with Curt Schilling earning the win and Jonathan Papelbon securing the save.[2] The Red Sox continued their momentum in Game 3, winning 10–5 behind strong hitting from Dustin Pedroia and Mike Lowell, before closing out the sweep in Game 4 with a 4–3 thriller, where Jon Lester pitched 5 1/3 scoreless innings in his first start since cancer treatment.[3] Overall, Boston outscored Colorado 29–10 across the four games.[2]The Red Sox entered the series after defeating the Cleveland Indians 4–3 in the American League Championship Series (ALCS), building on their 2004 World Series win that had ended an 86-year drought.[5] Meanwhile, the Rockies earned their first-ever World Series appearance by winning 14 of their final 15 regular-season games to force a one-game wild card tiebreaker, which they won, to secure a wild card berth, followed by sweeps of the Philadelphia Phillies in the Division Series and Arizona Diamondbacks in the National League Championship Series (NLCS).[6] Third baseman Mike Lowell was named the World Series Most Valuable Player (MVP) for his .400 batting average, one home run, and four RBIs, while Beckett's win and 1.29 ERA anchored Boston's pitching staff.[3] The sweep marked only the second time in Red Sox history they had won a World Series without a loss, underscoring their dominance against a Rockies team that had surged late but faltered under the postseason spotlight.[7] Background Teams' Regular Seasons The Boston Red Sox entered the 2007 season with high expectations following their 2004 World Series victory, which had broken an 86-year championship drought, and they delivered a dominant performance en route to their second title in four years.[8] The team compiled a 96-66 record, securing first place in the American League East division.[9] They clinched the division on September 28, 2007, with a 5-2 victory over the Minnesota Twins at Fenway Park, ending the New York Yankees' streak of nine consecutive AL East titles.[10] Offensively, the Red Sox ranked among the league's best, led by designated hitterDavid Ortiz, who posted a career-high .332 batting average with 35 home runs and 117 RBIs in 149 games.[9] On the mound, the pitching staff was anchored by Josh Beckett, who went 20-7 with a 3.27 ERA over 30 starts, providing stability and earning All-Star honors.[11]In contrast, the Colorado Rockies endured a challenging first half but mounted an extraordinary late-season surge to reach the playoffs for the first time since 1995.[12] Finishing with a 90-73 record, they captured the National League Wild Card spot after tying the San Diego Padres at season's end, forcing a one-game playoff on October 1, 2007, which Colorado won 9-8 in 13 innings.[13] The Padres' collapse—marked by a 7-10 finish in September—opened the door for the Rockies, who had trailed by 7 games in the Wild Card race on September 13.[14] Colorado's turnaround was highlighted by winning 21 of their final 22 games, a streak that included an 11-game winning run late in the regular season.[15] Playing home games at Coors Field, the high-altitude venue in Denver (5,280 feet above sea level), amplified offensive output due to thinner air allowing balls to travel farther and reducing the movement on breaking pitches, which inflated team stats but also challenged pitchers throughout the season.[16]This matchup in the World Series pitted a consistently strong Red Sox squad against a Cinderella-story Rockies team achieving their first National League pennant since joining MLB as an expansion franchise in 1993. Boston's regular-season success built on their recent championship pedigree, while Colorado's improbable run captured national attention, setting the stage for a clash between established power and newfound momentum.[2] Postseason Paths The Boston Red Sox began their postseason journey by sweeping the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim in the American League Division Series (ALDS) from October 3 to 7, 2007, winning all three games to advance efficiently. In Game 1 at Fenway Park, Josh Beckett delivered a strong start with a complete-game shutout, allowing no runs on five hits while striking out eight in a 4–0 victory.[1] Game 2 featured a dramatic walk-off home run by Manny Ramirez in the ninth inning off Francisco Rodríguez, securing a 6–3 win after Daisuke Matsuzaka's solid outing. Curt Schilling anchored Game 3 in Anaheim with seven innings of one-run ball, striking out six as the Red Sox routed the Angels 9–1 to clinch the series.[17] This sweep showcased Boston's pitching depth and offensive firepower early in the playoffs.Facing the Cleveland Indians in the American League Championship Series (ALCS) from October 12 to 21, 2007, the Red Sox won Game 1 10-3 before trailing 1–3 after losses in Game 2 (6–13), Game 3 (2–4), and Game 4 (3–7), putting their season on the brink. However, Boston mounted a remarkable comeback, mirroring the dramatic 1986 ALCS collapse against the Angels but succeeding this time by winning Games 5, 6, and 7. Jon Lester pitched six scoreless innings in a 7–1 Game 5 victory at Fenway, followed by Curt Schilling's eight innings of two-run ball in a 12–2 Game 6 rout in Cleveland. The series concluded in Game 7 with Dustin Pedroia going 3-for-5 with 5 RBIs[18], alongside Daisuke Matsuzaka's start, pitching 5 innings and allowing 2 runs on six hits (with Josh Beckett having pitched in Games 1 and 5 of the ALCS), in an 11–2 triumph that propelled the Red Sox to the World Series.[19] Overall, Boston outscored Cleveland 51–32 in the series, highlighting their resilience.[20]In the National League, the Colorado Rockies, fresh off a late-season surge that included winning 14 of their final 15 regular-season games to secure a wild card spot, swept the Philadelphia Phillies in the NLDS from October 3 to 6, 2007. Jeff Francis started strong in Game 1, tossing 6⅔ innings of two-run baseball in a 4–2 win at Citizens Bank Park. Aaron Cook limited the Phillies to five runs over six innings in Game 2, but the Rockies' offense exploded for 10 runs, including a grand slam by Kazuo Matsui, en route to a 10–5 victory. Ubaldo Jiménez closed out the sweep in Game 3 at Coors Field with six innings of one-run pitching, securing a 2–1 decision through dominant mound work by the young arms.[21] This series marked Colorado's first playoff series win in franchise history.The Rockies continued their momentum by sweeping the Arizona Diamondbacks in the National League Championship Series (NLCS) from October 11 to 15, 2007, outscoring them 18–8 across four games and entering the World Series on a seven-game postseason winning streak. Game 1 saw Josh Fogg pitch 5⅓ innings of one-run ball in a 5–1 win, followed by a tense 3–2 extra-inning victory in Game 2, where Manny Corpas earned the save in the 11th. The series shifted to Coors Field for Game 3, a 4–1 decision backed by Matt Holliday's three hits, and Game 4 ended 6–4 with Holliday's three-run homer sealing the pennant and earning him NLCS MVP honors.[22] This flawless run underscored the Rockies' pitching staff's control and timely hitting.[23] Pre-Series Preparations and Controversy The Boston Red Sox prepared for the series with a roster strengthened by significant offseason acquisitions, including outfielderJ.D. Drew on a five-year, $60 million contract and pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka, whose signing involved a $51.1 million posting fee to his Japanese club plus a six-year, $52 million deal. Manager Terry Francona highlighted the bullpen's depth as a key strength, centering it around closer Jonathan Papelbon, who posted a 1.85 ERA during the regular season, and rookie setup reliever Hideki Okajima, whose emergence provided reliable late-inning options alongside veterans like Mike Timlin.The Colorado Rockies, meanwhile, built their lineup around established stars such as first baseman Todd Helton and outfielder Matt Holliday, who combined for substantial power production over their careers to that point. Under manager Clint Hurdle, the team leaned on a youthful pitching staff, with right-hander Aaron Cook serving as a cornerstone starter after returning from a midseason finger injury that had sidelined him for months.A major off-field controversy arose over ticket pricing for the Fenway Park games, where MLB set face values ranging from $50 for standing room to $225 for premium box seats—the highest average for a World Series at the time—drawing criticism from fans and media for exploiting demand through what was perceived as aggressive dynamic pricing on the secondary market, where averages soared to $1,465 per ticket. In contrast, tickets for the Rockies' home games at Coors Field were more accessible, priced from $65 to $250, with secondary market options starting around $100, alleviating some pressure for out-of-town supporters.On October 23, the teams held workouts at Fenway Park, where media coverage intensified the narrative of the Red Sox as a budding dynasty following their 2004 championship against the Rockies as improbable underdogs who had won 21 of 22 games to reach the Fall Classic. Injury reports indicated no significant concerns for either side entering the series, with both rosters largely healthy after their respective postseason runs. Series Overview Schedule and Venues The 2007 World Series was contested in a best-of-seven format under the 2-3-2 home-field advantage structure, with the American League champion Boston Red Sox hosting Games 1 and 2 at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts, and the National League champion Colorado Rockies hosting Games 3, 4, 6, and 7 (if necessary) at Coors Field in Denver, Colorado.[3] The series ran from October 24 to October 28, 2007, concluding in a four-game sweep after Game 4.[1] All games were scheduled for evening start times, with Games 1 and 2 at approximately 8:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) and Games 3 and 4 at 8:30 p.m. EDT (6:30 p.m. Mountain Daylight Time, MDT, for the Denver games).[24]The following table outlines the schedule, venues, and attendance for each game: Game Date Start Time (Local) Venue Attendance 1 October 24, 2007 8:37 p.m. EDT Fenway Park, Boston 36,733 2 October 25, 2007 8:30 p.m. EDT Fenway Park, Boston 36,730 3 October 27, 2007 6:36 p.m. MDT Coors Field, Denver 49,983 4 October 28, 2007 6:30 p.m. MDT Coors Field, Denver 50,041 Fenway Park, with a capacity of approximately 38,808, hosted its first World Series since 1986.[25]Coors Field, capacity 50,449, marked the first World Series appearance for the Rockies franchise since the ballpark's opening in 1995.[26] The cross-country travel from Boston to Denver, spanning about 1,750 miles, occurred after Game 2, with teams adjusting to the one-hour time difference and Coors Field's high altitude of 5,280 feet,[27] which is often noted for potentially enhancing offensive output due to thinner air but had limited effect on the Rockies' performance in this series. Weather conditions were mild throughout, with no significant delays from rain or other elements.[28] Ticket pricing for the series drew some pre-series attention due to dynamic adjustments by the Rockies, but overall attendance reflected strong fan interest. Pregame Matchups and Predictions The Boston Red Sox and Colorado Rockies announced their starting pitching rotations for the 2007 World Series, highlighting the Red Sox's depth against the Rockies' momentum-driven staff. Game 1 featured Josh Beckett of the Red Sox against Jeff Francis of the Rockies, with Beckett entering as the American League Championship Series MVP after a dominant postseason. Game 2 pitted Daisuke Matsuzaka against Ubaldo Jiménez, showcasing Matsuzaka's rookie intrigue from Japan versus Jiménez's form. For Game 3 at Coors Field, Curt Schilling faced Josh Fogg, a matchup of veteran experience against Fogg's experience. Game 4 was set for Jon Lester versus Aaron Cook, pitting Lester's comeback story against the right-hander Cook.[3]Lineup previews emphasized the Red Sox's balanced offense, led by second baseman Dustin Pedroia, right fielder Manny Ramirez, and third baseman Mike Lowell, who combined power, consistency, and clutch hitting from their strong regular season. The Rockies countered with shortstop Kazuo Matsui providing speed at the top, first baseman Todd Helton anchoring the middle with on-base skills, and left fielder Matt Holliday delivering MVP-caliber production as their offensive centerpiece. Analysts noted the Red Sox lineup's lack of weaknesses, while the Rockies relied on Holliday, Helton, and shortstop Troy Tulowitzki for lineup stability amid their late-season surge.[29][2]Betting odds heavily favored the Red Sox at -240, implying roughly a 70% chance of victory and positioning them as approximately 2.4-to-1 favorites over the underdog Rockies. Expert analyses amplified this sentiment, with ESPN's Peter Gammons and others predicting a Red Sox sweep, attributing it to the Rockies' fatigue following their 21-wins-in-22-games streak and an eight-day layoff before Game 1. Despite the Rockies' inspirational momentum as National League champions, the narrative framed them as resilient underdogs against Boston's superior pitching and rested roster.[30][2] Game Accounts Game 1 Game 1 of the 2007 World Series was played on October 24 at Fenway Park in Boston, with the Red Sox hosting the Rockies in the opener.[28] The pregame pitching matchup pitted Boston's Josh Beckett against Colorado's Jeff Francis.[2] The Red Sox dominated from the outset, defeating the Rockies 13-1 behind a potent offense and strong starting pitching.[31]The Red Sox jumped ahead in the bottom of the first inning, scoring three runs: Dustin Pedroia led off with a home run to left, giving Boston a 1-0 lead; Kevin Youkilis doubled, David Ortiz grounded out, Manny Ramirez singled to score Youkilis for a 2-0 lead, Mike Lowell flied out, Jason Varitek singled, and J.D. Drew doubled to score Ramirez and advance Varitek to third.[28][32] Beckett, meanwhile, set the tone for the Rockies' offensive struggles by striking out the side in the top of the first on just 15 pitches, fanning Willy Taveras, Kazuo Matsui, and Matt Holliday.[33]The game continued with Boston adding one run in the second on an RBI single by Varitek scoring Drew, and two more in the fourth highlighted by Lowell's two-run double. The eruption came in the bottom of the fifth with a 7-run rally that chased Francis after 4 innings, during which he allowed 6 runs on 10 hits and 3 walks while striking out 3.[34] Reliever Franklin Morales faced 5 batters in 2/3 inning, allowing 7 runs (1 inherited). Boston sent 11 batters to the plate in the frame, collecting multiple hits, including a three-run home run by Manny Ramirez, along with walks and an error to build a commanding 12-0 advantage.[33][32] The Red Sox added one more run in the sixth on a sacrifice fly by Pedroia.[28]The Rockies scored their lone run in the second on a Troy Tulowitzki RBI double, scoring Yorvit Torrealba who had doubled.[28] Beckett earned the win after pitching 7 innings, surrendering 1 run on 6 hits with 1 walk and 9 strikeouts, throwing 93 pitches in rainy conditions. Jonathan Papelbon relieved him and worked the final 2 scoreless innings, allowing 1 hit while striking out 2 to preserve the victory.[34] The Red Sox offense amassed 14 hits, including 8 doubles and two home runs by Pedroia and Ramirez, while the Rockies managed only 7 hits total.[28] A crowd of 36,733 attended the contest, which lasted 3 hours and 30 minutes.[28] The lopsided result provided Boston with early momentum in the best-of-seven series.[33] Game 2 Game 2 of the 2007 World Series took place on October 25, 2007, at Fenway Park in Boston, with the Red Sox hosting the Rockies under the lights in a night game.[35] Expectations were high for Red Sox starter Curt Schilling against the Rockies' Ubaldo Jiménez.[36] The contest developed into a tense pitching duel, contrasting the blowout of Game 1, as both teams struggled to generate offense early, with the Red Sox stranding multiple baserunners in the first few innings.The Rockies drew first blood in the fourth inning, scoring their only run of the game when Todd Helton grounded into a double play, allowing Kazuo Matsui to score from third after a walk and wild pitch.[36] Schilling settled in after that, limiting Colorado to four hits over 5 1/3 innings while allowing just the one run.[35] Jiménez matched him for five innings, surrendering no runs on three hits and three walks before exiting, but the Red Sox capitalized in the fifth when third basemanMike Lowell led off with a double and scored on catcher Jason Varitek's single, followed by J.D. Drew's RBI single to provide the go-ahead 2-1 margin that proved decisive.[36] Boston left 8 runners on base throughout the game, underscoring the low-scoring nature of the affair despite opportunities against the Rockies' staff.[35]Manager Terry Francona turned to his bullpen to preserve the slim lead, deploying left-hander Hideki Okajima for 1 2/3 innings of scoreless relief, retiring all six batters faced after entering with two outs in the sixth and striking out two.[37] Closer Jonathan Papelbon then entered for the final two innings, navigating a tense eighth highlighted by a pickoff of Matt Holliday at first base to thwart a potential tying rally, before striking out the final batter in the ninth to secure the victory.[38] With the 2-1 win before a crowd of 36,730, the Red Sox extended their series lead to 2-0, putting additional pressure on the visiting Rockies heading to Coors Field.[35] Game 3 Game 3 of the 2007 World Series shifted to Coors Field in Denver on October 27, 2007, marking the first World Series contest ever played in the city and introducing the Red Sox to the challenges of high-altitude baseball for their initial road game of the series. A sellout crowd of 49,983 filled the stadium despite chilly temperatures in the low 40s, creating an electric atmosphere as the Rockies sought to capitalize on home-field advantage and reverse Boston's 2-0 series deficit. The altitude, known for promoting ball flight and higher scoring, was anticipated to benefit the home team, but the Red Sox offense quickly adjusted, amassing 13 hits en route to a 10-5 victory that positioned them one win from a sweep.[39][2]Daisuke Matsuzaka made his World Series debut for Boston, delivering five scoreless innings with five hits allowed, two strikeouts, and no walks before exiting in the sixth with the bases loaded. In contrast, Colorado starter Josh Fogg endured a brief and turbulent outing, lasting just 2⅔ innings while surrendering six runs on seven hits and two walks, including a pivotal unraveling in the third. The Red Sox erupted for six runs in that frame, sending 10 batters to the plate; Jacoby Ellsbury opened with a double, Dustin Pedroia followed with a single, and Manny Ramírez added a two-run double, with Ellsbury later contributing another double to cap the inning and chase Fogg. Ellsbury finished 4-for-5 with three doubles and two RBI, showcasing his speed and contact skills at [Coors Field](/page/Coors Field).[40][41]The Rockies rallied in the seventh, plating five runs to close the gap to 6-5, powered by a three-run home run from Matt Holliday off reliever Hideki Okajima that ended Matsuzaka's scoreless outing (the bases were loaded when Okajima relieved). Boston's bullpen steadied thereafter, with Manny Delcarmen, Mike Timlin, and Jonathan Papelbon combining for 3⅓ innings of one-run ball to preserve the lead. The Red Sox tacked on four insurance runs in the eighth, highlighted by a two-run double from Mike Lowell, capitalizing on further altitude-aided hitting against Colorado's relievers. The contest lasted 4 hours and 19 minutes, the longest nine-inning World Series game in history at the time, underscoring the offensive fireworks at Coors Field.[39][2][40] Game 4 Game 4 of the 2007 World Series was the clincher, played on October 28, 2007, at Coors Field in Denver, Colorado, before a sellout crowd of 50,041. The Boston Red Sox, leading the series 3-0, sent rookie Jon Lester to the mound against Colorado Rockies starter Aaron Cook, as anticipated in pre-series rotations. Lester, making his second start of the postseason, delivered a strong outing with 5 2/3 scoreless innings, allowing four hits and striking out four while walking one. The Red Sox jumped ahead early, taking a 1-0 lead in the top of the first when leadoff hitterJacoby Ellsbury doubled and scored on a single by Dustin Pedroia. Boston added another run in the fifth on Kevin Youkilis's triple and Pedroia's RBI single, extending the lead to 2-0, and a run in the seventh on Mike Lowell's sacrifice fly to make it 3-0.[42][43][44]The Rockies showed resilience with an early push but couldn't overcome the deficit until late. In the bottom of the seventh, Brad Hawpe hit a solo home run off Red Sox reliever Mike Timlin, trimming the lead to 3-1. Boston responded in the top of the eighth with an insurance run, as J.D. Drew's RBI single scored Manny Ramirez, making it 4-1. However, the bottom of the eighth brought drama when Garrett Atkins launched a two-run home run off Hideki Okajima, cutting the margin to 4-3 and energizing the home crowd. The Rockies' bullpen, including closer Brian Fuentes who had been key in their postseason run, faltered in holding the line, as the late rally fell short. Jonathan Papelbon entered in the eighth and closed the ninth, retiring the side in order with a strikeout of Seth Smith for the final out.[45][46][47]Key contributions came from Lowell, who drove in runs throughout the series, including the sac fly in the seventh. The Red Sox's offense, paced by Lowell's steady bat, proved too much for the Rockies in the sweep. Following the 4-3 victory, Mike Lowell was named the World Series MVP for his outstanding performance across the four games, batting .400 (6-for-15) with three doubles, one home run, and four RBI.[2][43][44][48] The Red Sox erupted in on-field celebrations, securing their second championship in four years and seventh in franchise history, exorcising the ghosts of their 1986 World Series loss.[49][2][43][44] Series Statistics Composite Line Score The 2007 World Series featured a sweep by the Boston Red Sox over the Colorado Rockies, with the Red Sox scoring 29 runs to the Rockies' 10 across the four games.[3] This dominance was evident in the inning-by-inning breakdown, highlighting the Red Sox's offensive surges and the Rockies' limited responses.The following table summarizes the runs scored by each team in each inning for every game: Game Inn. 1 (BOS/Col) Inn. 2 (BOS/Col) Inn. 3 (BOS/Col) Inn. 4 (BOS/Col) Inn. 5 (BOS/Col) Inn. 6 (BOS/Col) Inn. 7 (BOS/Col) Inn. 8 (BOS/Col) Inn. 9 (BOS/Col) Total (BOS/Col) 1 (Oct 24, Fenway) 3/0 1/1 0/0 2/0 7/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 —/0 13/1 2 (Oct 25, Fenway) 0/1 0/0 0/0 1/0 1/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 —/0 2/1 3 (Oct 27, Coors) 0/0 0/0 6/0 0/0 0/0 0/2 0/3 3/0 1/0 10/5 4 (Oct 28, Coors) 1/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 1/0 0/0 1/1 1/2 0/0 4/3 Totals 4/1 1/1 6/0 3/0 9/0 0/2 1/4 4/2 1/0 29/10 In Games 1 and 2 at Fenway Park, the Red Sox outscored the Rockies 15-2, establishing early control of the series.[3] On the road in Games 3 and 4 at Coors Field, Boston maintained superiority with a 14-8 edge, including close margins of one run in Game 2 (2-1) and Game 4 (4-3).[3] The Red Sox demonstrated particular strength in the middle innings (3rd through 6th), outscoring the Rockies 18-2 overall in those frames, which underscored their ability to build and protect leads.[3] Batting Performances The Boston Red Sox demonstrated superior offensive production throughout the 2007 World Series, posting a team batting average of .333 with 47 hits, 3 home runs, and 29 runs scored across the four-game sweep.[50] In contrast, the Colorado Rockies struggled at the plate, managing a .218 batting average, 29 hits, 3 home runs, and just 10 runs scored, highlighting the Red Sox's dominance in generating timely offense.[50]Key contributors for the Red Sox included third baseman Mike Lowell, who batted .400 with 6 hits, 1 home run, and 4 RBI, earning him the World Series Most Valuable Player award for his consistent production.[3] Rookie outfielder Jacoby Ellsbury also shone, hitting .438 with 7 hits, providing speed and extra-base power from the leadoff spot.[3] For the Rockies, outfielder Matt Holliday led the team with a .294 batting average, 1 home run, and contributions in early games, though he went 1-for-12 over the final three contests, underscoring the team's late-series offensive fade.[50]Offensive trends further illustrated the disparity, as Red Sox players recorded 13 multi-hit games, reflecting their ability to sustain rallies and pressure the Rockies' pitching staff. The Rockies, meanwhile, stranded 20 runners on base, often failing to capitalize on scoring opportunities despite their regular-season reputation for high-output hitting. Notably, at Coors Field for Games 3 and 4, the series saw only 3 extra-base hits combined, muting the venue's typical hitter-friendly effects and contributing to the low-scoring affairs in Denver.[3] Pitching Performances The Boston Red Sox pitching staff dominated the 2007 World Series against the Colorado Rockies, posting a series ERA of 2.50 over 36 innings pitched while allowing just 10 runs (all earned).[50] In contrast, the Rockies' pitchers struggled with a 7.68 ERA across 36 innings, surrendering 29 runs (all earned), which underscored the Red Sox's superior mound presence in their 4-0 sweep.[50]Josh Beckett anchored the Red Sox rotation, earning a 1-0 record with a 1.29 ERA, highlighted by his 7-inning performance in Game 1 where he allowed 1 run on 6 hits and struck out 9.[51] Other starters like Curt Schilling (Game 2, 5 1/3 IP, 1 ER) and Daisuke Matsuzaka (Game 3, 5 1/3 IP, 2 ER) provided solid support, though no complete games were thrown.[3] For the Rockies, Jeff Francis faltered in Game 1 with a 0-1 record and 12.00 ERA, yielding 4 earned runs in 3 innings, while subsequent starters like Aaron Cook (Game 4, 3 1/3 IP, 3 ER) offered brief resistance but could not stem the tide.[51][42]The Red Sox bullpen was equally effective, utilizing 8 relievers who combined for a low ERA over 14 innings, with closer Jonathan Papelbon securing 2 saves and a 0.00 ERA in 3 appearances.[3] Relievers such as Hideki Okajima (2.1 IP, 0 ER) and Manny Delcarmen contributed to the low-run output, limiting the Rockies to just 13 hits against the pen.[3] Conversely, the Rockies' relief corps issued 19 walks across the series—compared to the Red Sox's 10—exacerbating their control issues and contributing to unearned runs allowed overall.[50] Team ERA IP R (ER) Starters' Decisions Saves Boston Red Sox 2.50 36.0 10 (10) 3-0 2 Colorado Rockies 7.68 36.0 29 (29) 0-4 0 Media and Broadcasting United States Coverage The 2007 World Series between the Boston Red Sox and Colorado Rockies was broadcast nationally in the United States by Fox Sports, marking the network's 8th consecutive year holding the rights to the Fall Classic.[52] Play-by-play announcer Joe Buck handled the booth commentary alongside analyst Tim McCarver, who provided color analysis throughout the four-game sweep.[53] The series averaged a 10.6 household rating and drew approximately 17.2 million viewers per game, reflecting solid but not record-breaking interest in a matchup featuring the dominant Red Sox against the upstart Rockies.[52] Game 2, played at Fenway Park, peaked with 17.0 million viewers and an 11.1 rating, bolstered by Boston's local market strength.[53]Radio coverage extended the series' reach across the country, with ESPN Radio providing the national broadcast featuring play-by-play announcer Jon Miller and analyst Joe Morgan, who called all four games from the booth.[54] For local audiences, the Red Sox games aired on WRKO-AM in Boston, where longtime voice Joe Castiglione delivered the play-by-play alongside color commentator Jerry Trupiano, capturing the excitement of the home team's repeat championship.[55] The Rockies' broadcasts originated from KOA-AM in Denver, with Jack Corrigan on play-by-play and Jeff Kingery providing analysis, offering regional perspectives on Colorado's improbable postseason run.[56]Print media in the United States provided extensive analysis and front-page treatment of the series, particularly in Boston where the Red Sox's dominance fueled national interest. The Boston Globe devoted significant coverage, including front-page stories on the sweep's completion in Game 4, highlighting the team's comprehensive outscoring of the Rockies 29-10 across the series.[57]Sports Illustrated featured a commemorative issue post-series, with a cover story by Tom Verducci emphasizing the Red Sox's celebratory parade and the potential for prolonged fan enthusiasm following the four-game rout.[58] Archival highlights and recaps later appeared on MLB Network after its 2009 launch, including segments revisiting key moments like Mike Lowell's MVP performance, though contemporary highlights were primarily disseminated through Fox Sports and MLB.com platforms during the event.[2] International and Other Media The 2007 World Series was distributed internationally by MLB International, reaching over 31 million homes across 146 countries.[54] In Japan, NHK broadcast the games, drawing significant attention due to Boston Red Sox pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka's historic participation as the first Japanese starter to win a World Series game. Coverage in Latin America was handled by ESPN International, including Spanish-language broadcasts on ESPN Deportes, with veteran announcer Alvaro Martin calling the action for his second World Series.[59]In Canada, Rogers Sportsnet aired the series using the MLB International feed, providing English-language commentary to domestic audiences. The emerging digital landscape marked an early milestone for online engagement, with MLB.com offering live game recaps, box scores, and highlight clips shortly after each contest.[2] YouTube, launched just two years prior, saw initial user-generated post-game highlights and fan reactions, though official MLB uploads were limited compared to later years.[60] Social media buzz remained minimal, as platforms like Twitter—launched in 2006—and Facebook were still in nascent stages with limited real-time sports interaction.The series also inspired retrospective media, including the official MLB documentary Champions Again: The Story of the 2007 Boston Red Sox, which featured snippets tying the victory to the ongoing narrative of the franchise's post-2004 success following the end of the "Curse of the Bambino."[61] This built on earlier explorations of Red Sox lore, emphasizing the sweep over the Colorado Rockies as a confirmation of the team's resurgence.[62] Aftermath and Legacy Celebrations Following the Boston Red Sox's 4-3 victory in Game 4 on October 28, 2007, at Coors Field, which clinched a four-game sweep of the Colorado Rockies, the team immediately erupted in celebration inside the visitors' locker room. Players donned protective goggles and sprayed each other with champagne, creating a festive atmosphere amid cheers and embraces as they marked their second World Series title in four years.[63][64]Amid the revelry, third baseman Mike Lowell was announced as the World SeriesMost Valuable Player for his .400 batting average, one home run, and four RBIs across the series. Lowell, drenched in champagne, was presented with the Commissioner's Trophy during post-game interviews on the field, where he hoisted it triumphantly while expressing gratitude to his teammates and organization.[65]The festivities continued in Boston with a pre-parade rally at Fenway Park on October 30, where hundreds of fans gathered along Yawkey Way to welcome the team home from Denver, cheering as players arrived and shared brief remarks before boarding duck boats for the main event.[66] The subsequent rolling rally traversed three miles from Fenway Park to City Hall Plaza, drawing an estimated 3.2 million attendees who lined the streets in red, waving flags and chanting team slogans. Manager Terry Francona and closer Jonathan Papelbon delivered speeches highlighting the team's unity and perseverance, with Papelbon energizing the crowd by donning a kilt and performing his signature Irish jig atop a duck boat. Players tossed confetti, championship hats, and other memorabilia into the throng, amplifying the joyous mood without any reported major incidents despite the massive turnout.[67][68][69] Impacts on Boston Red Sox The 2007 World Series victory marked the second championship for the Boston Red Sox in four years, solidifying the organization's emergence as a modern dynasty that would claim additional titles in 2013 and 2018.[70] This success highlighted the front office's strategic acumen, particularly in key acquisitions such as the November 2005 trade for pitcher Josh Beckett from the Florida Marlins, which brought immediate postseason impact and contributed to the team's depth in subsequent seasons.[71] Beckett's performance, including a 4-0 record in the 2007 playoffs, underscored the trade's value in bolstering the rotation.[72]For individual players, the triumph prompted several contract decisions and career milestones. Third baseman Mike Lowell, named World Series MVP after batting .400 with four RBI, signed a three-year, $37.5 million extension with the Red Sox in November 2007, securing his role through the 2010 season.[73] Pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka, in his MLB rookie year, delivered a solid performance with a 15-12 record, 4.40 ERA, and 201 strikeouts over 186.2 innings.[74] Designated hitter David Ortiz's contributions, such as a .333 average in the Series, further propelled his Hall of Fame trajectory; he was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2022 as the fourth player with at least 500 home runs and two World Series titles.[75] Later, veterans like Curt Schilling retired in March 2009 after missing the 2008 season due to injury, and Jason Varitek, the team's captain, announced his retirement in March 2012 following 15 seasons with Boston.[76][77]The victory reinforced the Red Sox's dominance over lingering doubts from the "Curse of the Bambino," fully affirming the 2004 breakthrough and energizing the fanbase known as Red Sox Nation.[57] It provided an economic boost to Boston, with estimates indicating around $100 million in additional tourism and related spending from playoff and Series activities, benefiting hotels, restaurants, and local businesses.[78] By 2025, the franchise's value had reached $4.8 billion, reflecting sustained growth amid the legacy of these championships, though key 2007 contributors like Dustin Pedroia (retired 2021) and Jacoby Ellsbury (retired after 2017) had long since stepped away.[79][80][81]Although the Red Sox mounted a strong 2008 campaign with 95 wins and an ALCS appearance, they fell short in a seven-game loss to the Tampa Bay Rays, but the 2007 title remained pivotal in establishing the foundation for the team's successes throughout the 2010s.[82] Impacts on Colorado Rockies The Colorado Rockies' sweep in the 2007 World Series ended their seven-game postseason winning streak, which had carried them through sweeps of the Philadelphia Phillies in the NLDS and Arizona Diamondbacks in the NLCS. This abrupt conclusion marked the end of an improbable late-season surge that had propelled the franchise to its only pennant to date, but it also foreshadowed a return to inconsistency. In the immediate aftermath, key members of the young core, including shortstop Troy Tulowitzki and outfielder Matt Holliday, remained with the team into 2008, yet the squad underperformed amid injuries and roster adjustments, finishing with a 74-88 record that placed third in the NL West. Manager Clint Hurdle, who had guided the 2007 run, was fired on May 29, 2009, after a 18-28 start to that season, amid broader organizational struggles including the loss of Holliday via trade to the Oakland Athletics on November 12, 2008.[83][84][85]Over the longer term, the Rockies reverted to near-.500 mediocrity, qualifying for the playoffs again in 2009 as Wild Card winners before a sweep loss to the Phillies in the NLDS, but not returning until 2017. Holliday's departure initiated a pattern of trading established talent, while first baseman Todd Helton, a franchise cornerstone, retired after the 2013 season following 17 years with Colorado; he was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2024 with 79.7% of the vote. The 2008 season's collapse to 74-88 underscored the 2007 streak as an anomaly rather than a sustainable foundation, with the team posting a winning record in just one season from 2008 to 2016. Despite these challenges, the pennant run highlighted emerging pitching talent, such as Ubaldo Jiménez, who broke out with a 19-8 record in 2010 and earned his first All-Star selection that year.[86][87][88][89]On a positive note, the 2007 World Series appearance boosted the Rockies' fanbase, drawing sustained attendance even through lean years; for instance, average home crowds in recent poor seasons have exceeded those from 2007, with over 2.6 million fans in 2008 alone. As of 2025, the franchise has yet to return to the World Series, maintaining a 0-4 record in appearances, but ongoing renovations at Coors Field—including a $200 million capital improvement plan through the 2020s and a full field replacement ahead of 2026—signal continued investment in the venue's viability.[90][91][92][93]


--- [Matsuzaka's first start a real spectacle] ---
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- "You're going to have to move," a suit told the horde in front of the Red Sox dugout early Thursday afternoon. They didn't move. They didn't speak English. It was just over an hour before Daisuke Matsuzaka's major-league debut, fans were screaming and holding signs in Japanese, and a crush of media was camped on the dirt waiting for a shot. "Good Morning Japan" was in Kansas City following Dice-K and waiting for history. Matsuzaka tossed a ball in the outfield, and roughly 75 cameras clicked. He wiped his brow. More clicks. It was a circus fit for a $103 million man, and for one afternoon, at least, the Japanese pitcher with a rock-star following lived up to it. He struck out 10 batters in seven innings in Boston's 4-1 win on a day at Kauffman Stadium that was a rare spectacle. The temperature hovered in the mid-30s when Matsuzaka stepped on the mound, leaned back and took a deep breath before unloading a 93-mph fastball on David DeJesus. Most days in Kansas City, when it's 36 degrees, a pitcher can gaze at a sea of empty blue seats. On Thursday, more than 23,000 showed up, many of them in Red Sox gear. DeJesus fouled off Matsuzaka's first pitch, and eventually lined a single to left-center. But after that, Matsuzaka was dominating. He struck out the side in the fourth inning and retired 10 straight batters at one point. He scattered six hits and gave up his only walk in the first. His steely demeanor never changed throughout the three-hour game. Asked if this was what fans could expect from Matsuzaka, manager Terry Francona bristled. "I honestly don't give a [darn] what people can expect," Francona said. "I just wanted him to go out and try to be the best pitcher he can be. The expectations, from what I've heard so far, are unreachable. "He's got this thing figured out better than anybody else. He loves to pitch, he enjoys the heck out of the game, and he's pretty damn good." When it was over, Matsuzaka grabbed a souvenir ball from catcher Jason Varitek, then bowed to the field before heading into the clubhouse. He spoke later, through an interpreter, in front of a packed room. He said the day felt normal to him, so he wasn't nervous. "It's a day I've been waiting for for a very long time," Matsuzaka said. "Even given that fact, it felt strangely normal." He threw 108 pitches, 74 of them strikes. Varitek said Matsuzaka used all of the pitches in his arsenal, which is believed to be seven. Matsuzaka seemed to get stronger as the game went on, and was clocked at 93 mph in the seventh inning. He struck out Ryan Shealy and Ross Gload, then got John Buck to fly out to center. He was halfway to the dugout as Coco Crisp squeezed the final out in the seventh inning. "He reminds me of Pedro [Martinez]," designated hitter David Ortiz said. "Doesn't matter what situation, with men on base or nobody on base, he has control of the situation." Even when the situation seems out of control off the field. Everywhere Matsuzaka has gone this spring, a gaggle of cameras has followed. About 135 credentials were issued to the Japanese media for Thursday's game. One longtime Royals writer said it was the biggest media showing in Kansas City since the 1985 World Series. The game aired live on TV in Japan at 3 a.m. "It's a day I've been waiting for for a very long time. Even given that fact, it felt strangely normal." -- Daisuke Matsuzaka Matsuzaka seems almost embarrassed by the scene, and the fact that he's reached Michael Jordan status in his homeland. "He handles it very well," Red Sox spokesperson John Blake said. "It's amazing to me in a lot of ways how unflappable he is with all this. But he's had to deal with it since high school." The legend grew in 1998 when Matsuzaka threw 250 pitches in a 17-inning win in high school. Boston won a $51.1 million bidding war for Dice-K in the offseason, and his days in a Red Sox uniform have been one prolonged spectacle. "It's very important for Japanese people that he succeeds," Scott Filipski said as he filmed Matsuzaka for Fuji TV on Thursday. "It was like that with [Hideo] Nomo too. There was all this tension. I remember when Nomo came over, I was in Japan watching the All-Star Game broadcast. The first pitch he throws is a strike and there's like a sigh of relief. Because there are tremendous expectations." Matsuzaka wasn't thinking about the expectations late Thursday, or the scene that will surround him in Boston on Wednesday. That's when he's scheduled to make his home debut and will face Ichiro Suzuki. That's when the circus will really start. "He's so even keeled in his demeanor that you can't really sense [nervousness]," Varitek said. "He was very good in his bullpen today; his balance and his release were very good. And you could tell that was going to translate. It doesn't always, but in his case it did." Elizabeth Merrill is a writer for ESPN.com. She can be reached at merrill2323@hotmail.com.
