=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Albuquerque Indoor Karting | Breaking Bad Wiki - Fandom]
Albuquerque Indoor Karting is an indoor kart circuit in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Overcome with loneliness, Jesse Pinkman asks Walter White to hang out with him after work, but he declines. Jesse, plagued with grief and misery, goes go-karting by himself, tearing up as he races around the track...
URL: https://breakingbad.fandom.com/wiki/Albuquerque_Indoor_Karting

[Open House (Breaking Bad) - Wikipedia]
" Open House " is the third episode of the fourth season of the American television drama series Breaking Bad, and the 36th overall episode of the series. It originally aired on AMC in the United States on July 31, 2011.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_House_(Breaking_Bad)

[One of the worst times I felt for Jesse in S4E3 [spoilers] : r/breakingbad]
May 18, 2013 · The scene in S4 E3, with Jesse driving around the go-kart track alone, all despondent… r/breakingbad icon. r ...The scene in S4 E3, with Jesse driving around the go-kart track alone, all ...Season 4 Episode 3 foreshadowing the final episode? : r/breakingbadMore results from www.reddit.com
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/breakingbad/comments/1ell6h/one_of_the_worst_times_i_felt_for_jesse_in_s4e3/

[Jesse’s lost innocence (scene ... - Studying Breaking Bad]
Oct 28, 2015 · Breaking Bad is full of scenes that initially seem small and insignificant, but which end up being full of meaning. One is the scene in episode 403 (“Open House”) where Jesse goes to the go-kart track by himself.
URL: https://studyingbreakingbadcourse.wordpress.com/2015/10/28/jesses-lost-innocence-scene-analysis-from-ep-403/

["Breaking Bad" Open House (TV Episode 2011) - User reviews - IMDb]
This is the third episode of the fourth season of Breaking Bad. Like the previous episode, this episode is a slow-burner and takes it time telling the story. It's more or less the same plot, but there are more interesting moments here. Aaron Paul as Jesse shows some surprising depth as he has these bleak parties and shows a passion for go-karts in one memorable scene. It's nice to see Anna ...
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1683090/reviews/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Albuquerque Indoor Karting | Breaking Bad Wiki - Fandom] ---
Albuquerque Indoor Karting is an indoor kart circuit in Albuquerque, New Mexico. History[] Breaking Bad[] Season 4[] Overcome with loneliness, Jesse Pinkman asks Walter White to hang out with him after work, but he declines. Jesse, plagued with grief and misery, goes go-karting by himself, tearing up as he races around the track. ("Open House") Appearances[] Breaking Bad[] | Episodes | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | Season 1 | ||||||||||||| | Season 2 | ||||||||||||| | Season 3 | ||||||||||||| | Season 4 | ✔ | |||||||||||| | Season 5A | ||||||||||||| | Season 5B | External links[] - Karting Track at Breaking Bad Locations


--- [Open House (Breaking Bad) - Wikipedia] ---
"Open House" is the third episode of the fourth season of the American television drama series Breaking Bad, and the 36th overall episode of the series. It originally aired on AMC in the United States on July 31, 2011. In the episode, Walter and Skyler advance their plans to buy a car wash as a front organization, while Jesse holds increasingly darker parties to distract from his guilt for having killed Gale. Meanwhile, Marie starts stealing to cope with the difficult recovery of her husband Hank, who is asked to offer his advice regarding Gale's murder investigation.
The episode was written by Sam Catlin and directed by filmmaker David Slade, marking his first time directing for television. It featured guest appearances by Nigel Gibbs and stand-up comedian Bill Burr, the latter of whom specifically sought to appear on the show.  Marie's return to the kleptomania she demonstrated in the first season was conceived early during brainstorming sessions for the third season.
Breaking Bad music supervisor Thomas Golubić sought to select music for Jesse's party sequences appropriate for the dark tone of the scenes, including the song "If I Had a Heart" by Swedish musician Fever Ray. "Open House" was viewed by an estimated 1.714 million viewers and received a 0.7 Nielsen rating among adults between the ages of 18 and 49.


--- [One of the worst times I felt for Jesse in S4E3 [spoilers] : r/breakingbad] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [Jesse’s lost innocence (scene ... - Studying Breaking Bad] ---
Breaking Bad is full of scenes that initially seem small and insignificant, but which end up being full of meaning. One is the scene in episode 403 (“Open House”) where Jesse goes to the go-kart track by himself. Jesse’s monotonous laps round and round the track backed by dark, ominous music and viewed through a jerky camera style push the viewer deep into the hidden recesses of Jesse’s troubled mind. The choice of Fever Ray’s “If I Had a Heart” is the perfect aural backdrop to envelop this scene. Enveloped is the perfect verb because the music really does engulf the action of the scene. It bears down like a dark, oppressive weight. It hangs in the air of the go-kart track as an ominous, cyclical presence, repeating the deep and dark chords and undertones. The unchanging chords bring on a constant sense that something bad is about to happen. While nothing terrible happens in this scene, it certainly reflects the recent tragedies Jesse has been a part of, and surely foreshadows future troubles. This dash around the go-kart track occurs just a few short days or weeks after Jesse killed Gale. Already burdened with the deaths of Jane and Tomás and trying to resist going back to using drugs, Jesse is suffering deeply. Throughout the series, Jesse has struggled to maintain his innocence. Though a habitual drug user and a dealer, he never truly fits the criminal persona. He constantly encounters small children, almost always trying to help and protect them. He condemns those who harm the innocent. Until Gale, he’s refrained from killing anybody, no matter how close they came to killing him. Pushed into the corner that resulted in him killing Gale, Jesse has his innocence ripped away the moment he pulls the trigger. He was faced with killing one of the most innocent characters in the series yet, and it’s a burden he’s struggling to bear. Like the music in this scene, Jesse’s act of murder hounds him. It surrounds him like a dark cloud and brings down its oppressive weight on his everyday life. The music in this scene reveals the dark and lingering pain and struggle Jesse is facing internally. As the music and squealing tires dominate the scene, the climax of Jesse’s feelings arrives in the one moment he makes a sound. While racing around the track, he suddenly lets out a scream at the top of his lungs. In this moment he dramatically attempts to release his pain and frustrations, further emphasizing his internal struggle with maintaining innocence. Further accentuating the frailty of Jesse is the unique camerawork performed for this episode. The camera remains zoomed in on Jesse’s face from a low angle. His face fills the frame, emphasizing the emptiness in his eyes and the blank look on his face. The camera constantly shakes with the intensity of the go-kart, and it shifts and cuts from shot to shot in a jerking fashion. With each cut, Jesse is turning the go-kart the opposite direction as the shot before, and therefore also facing the opposite way across the lens. The creative camera work along with the dark music makes real Jesse’s deep internal struggle. The camera consistently shakes in a very violent manner. This parallels the instability inside Jesse’s mind and soul. Each shot cuts back and forth, showing Jesse constantly turning and facing new directions. This highlights the internal battle that Jesse wages. He constantly struggles to stay on the path of innocence and goodness and to avoid the path of corruption. Every time he makes a turn in a positive direction–such as getting clean or establishing a joy-giving relationship with Jane or Andrea–he’s soon drawn back to the path of corruption. The shots in this scene of him cutting back and forth show this flipping of the mind, desires, and actions. It shows how Jesse is trapped beneath this eternal pressure and struggle. Jesse tries to race from these issues–from the murder of innocent Gale, from the deaths of Jane and Tomás, from the suspicion that his boss wants him eliminated. But just like the go-kart track and the musical soundtrack here, Jesse is caught in an endless circular cycle that causes his innocence to further slip away and that prevents him from escaping his torment. — Brett W.


--- ["Breaking Bad" Open House (TV Episode 2011) - User reviews - IMDb] ---
53 reviews I think how much you take from this one depends how much you either care about or are interested in the portrayed suffering of certain characters. Personally I find the "open house" related scenes involving Marie and Jesse to be pretty powerful and quite harrowing. Marie's behaviour is depicted as deteriorating, but I think you lack a certain degree of compassion not to sympathise with the character's situation. When you compare what she does wrong to other characters in Breaking Bad it is negligible and an understandable escape from Hank's abuse. The writers and filmmakers do a great job of conveying her suffering through behaviour and not obvious explanation. Betsy Brandt is outstanding. Jesse's scenes are a spiral from the previous episode and include some very dark moments. However, the most effective for me was the scene of dialogue with Walt at the lab. The acting is so convincing, I was willing Walt to answer his plea regarding the go-karting or at least do something with him. The writers lay the foundations well for what is to come in certain moments involving Skyler, Hank, and Saul. Bob Odenkirk is in top humorous form as always, and his presence helps to relieve the general bleakness. For me, it's an 8.5/10, but I round upwards. Personally I find the "open house" related scenes involving Marie and Jesse to be pretty powerful and quite harrowing. Marie's behaviour is depicted as deteriorating, but I think you lack a certain degree of compassion not to sympathise with the character's situation. When you compare what she does wrong to other characters in Breaking Bad it is negligible and an understandable escape from Hank's abuse. The writers and filmmakers do a great job of conveying her suffering through behaviour and not obvious explanation. Betsy Brandt is outstanding. Jesse's scenes are a spiral from the previous episode and include some very dark moments. However, the most effective for me was the scene of dialogue with Walt at the lab. The acting is so convincing, I was willing Walt to answer his plea regarding the go-karting or at least do something with him. The writers lay the foundations well for what is to come in certain moments involving Skyler, Hank, and Saul. Bob Odenkirk is in top humorous form as always, and his presence helps to relieve the general bleakness. For me, it's an 8.5/10, but I round upwards. Pros: Cons: It is a slow episode, one of the slowest of the series, but it's easy to overlook the extremely important piece that is moved into place: Hank is moved much closer to Heisenberg - First appearance of Bill Burr as Kuby - Hank is brought back into the Heisenberg investigation - Huell's awkward introduction to Walt and Skyler Cons: - This is Marie at her most obnoxious - Jesse's increasingly sketchier parties get a little repetitive It is a slow episode, one of the slowest of the series, but it's easy to overlook the extremely important piece that is moved into place: Hank is moved much closer to Heisenberg This is the third episode of the fourth season of Breaking Bad. Like the previous episode, this episode is a slow-burner and takes it time telling the story. It's more or less the same plot, but there are more interesting moments here. Aaron Paul as Jesse shows some surprising depth as he has these bleak parties and shows a passion for go-karts in one memorable scene. It's nice to see Anna Gunn becoming more open in Walter's criminal life. Finally, Bob Odenkirk as Saul is able to inject some lighter moments in the episode. In this episode, "Open House," Skylar is becoming more passively active in Walt's life as she still attempts to buy the car wash for money laundering duties and this time may have some luck with the help of Saul. Walter is angry that a camera was installed in the meth lab. Meanwhile, Jesse continues throwing parties to make his mind dwell elsewhere and Marie begins her kleptomaniac activities at open houses to help her ease the problems she has been having with Hank. Overall, I thought this was a solid episode. It's not the greatest episode in the Breaking Bad's repertoire, but it is more interesting than the previous episode and it is nice to see a big problem of Marie during Season One make a return in this episode. I rate this episode 9/10. In this episode, "Open House," Skylar is becoming more passively active in Walt's life as she still attempts to buy the car wash for money laundering duties and this time may have some luck with the help of Saul. Walter is angry that a camera was installed in the meth lab. Meanwhile, Jesse continues throwing parties to make his mind dwell elsewhere and Marie begins her kleptomaniac activities at open houses to help her ease the problems she has been having with Hank. Overall, I thought this was a solid episode. It's not the greatest episode in the Breaking Bad's repertoire, but it is more interesting than the previous episode and it is nice to see a big problem of Marie during Season One make a return in this episode. I rate this episode 9/10. Two characters fans hate have a chance to shine here while the male leads ride shotgun: As pathetically guilty Jesse begins squandering his money, Hank begins a case that will grow and Walt is Mr Mom, Skylar has her best episode conning the eyebrows guy from the car wash business, and her scenes with Saul right from when they first met, are wonderful... I think she compliments his sleazy nature better than anyone (mind you, in Better Call Saul he becomes a leading man, so perfect girl Kim doesn't count because he's NOT the same character on that series)... And best yet Marie and her stealing has always been fun; especially when she calls the realtor lady "Fatty" that was hilarious... Kudos to the lady's of Breaking Bad despite the fact they get no respect otherwise. And best yet Marie and her stealing has always been fun; especially when she calls the realtor lady "Fatty" that was hilarious... Kudos to the lady's of Breaking Bad despite the fact they get no respect otherwise. This is for sure the worst breaking bad episode. It is full of character development in it, but there is nothing really remarkable about it. And what makes this worse than Fly is that Open House follows kind of the same format as every other BB episode. Even though it is the worst, doesn't mean it is bad, for sure. Significant events. Marie is picked up for stealing from real estate open houses. This takes her back to her shoplifting days. Only Hank's connections keep her out of jail. Meanwhile, Skyler uses shady means to get the carwash guy to sell to them. She goes practical on Walter. They now are richer than rich but have to watch themselves constantly. At the end, one of Hank's former colleagues brings him something that is certainly going to bring about trouble. Season 4 is amazing one of the best seasons of tv of all time, but this episode is a little weak for breaking bad standards. Honestly this might be the most forgettable episode of the show. Really I can't think of much that I like of this episode, besides when Saul is on. He's one of my favorite characters and Bob is an astounding actor like rest of the cast, just not anywhere near top tier braking bad episode. 'Breaking Bad' is one of the most popular rated shows on IMDb, is one of those rarities where every season has either been very positively received or near-universally acclaimed critically and where all of my friends have said nothing but great things about. Very few shows in recent memory had me so hooked from the very start that before the week was over the whole show had been watched, especially when for a lot of shows now airing watching one episode all the way through can be an endeavour. 'Breaking Bad' had that effect on me, and its reputation as one of the best, consistently brilliant and most addictive shows in many years (maybe even ever) is more than deserved in my eyes. Its weakest season is perhaps the first season, understandable as any show's first season is the one where things are still settling. Actually everything is established remarkably from the very start, but once the writing and characterisation becomes even meatier the show reaches even higher levels. "Open House" is not one of the best 'Breaking Bad' episodes and there is better in Season 4. Still consider it great with a good deal of what makes the show so good present. It is a slow-burner and could have been tighter at times, but there is less of a filler episode feel than the previous episode and there are touches of light levity that balanced well with the episode's overall tone. Visually, "Open House" is both stylish and beautiful, with photography and editing that are cinematic quality and put a lot of films today to shame, where there are a lot of visually beautiful ones but also some painfully amateurish looking ones. The music always has the appropriate mood, never too intrusive, never too muted. The writing in "Open House" is a fine example of how to have a lot of style but also to have a lot of substance. The dialogue throughout is thought-provoking and entertaining. The story is generally interesting and absorbing, with the pace of it consistently deliberate but not dull. Can't say anything bad about the acting. Bryan Cranston is phenomenal as one of the most fascinating anti-heroes, or even of any kind of character, in either film or television. Aaron Paul has never been better and his and Cranston's chemistry is a delight. Anna Gunn is affecting and Bob Odenkirk provides some welcome levity. The characters are compelling in their realism and the episode is strongly directed. In summary, great. 9/10 Bethany Cox Very few shows in recent memory had me so hooked from the very start that before the week was over the whole show had been watched, especially when for a lot of shows now airing watching one episode all the way through can be an endeavour. 'Breaking Bad' had that effect on me, and its reputation as one of the best, consistently brilliant and most addictive shows in many years (maybe even ever) is more than deserved in my eyes. Its weakest season is perhaps the first season, understandable as any show's first season is the one where things are still settling. Actually everything is established remarkably from the very start, but once the writing and characterisation becomes even meatier the show reaches even higher levels. "Open House" is not one of the best 'Breaking Bad' episodes and there is better in Season 4. Still consider it great with a good deal of what makes the show so good present. It is a slow-burner and could have been tighter at times, but there is less of a filler episode feel than the previous episode and there are touches of light levity that balanced well with the episode's overall tone. Visually, "Open House" is both stylish and beautiful, with photography and editing that are cinematic quality and put a lot of films today to shame, where there are a lot of visually beautiful ones but also some painfully amateurish looking ones. The music always has the appropriate mood, never too intrusive, never too muted. The writing in "Open House" is a fine example of how to have a lot of style but also to have a lot of substance. The dialogue throughout is thought-provoking and entertaining. The story is generally interesting and absorbing, with the pace of it consistently deliberate but not dull. Can't say anything bad about the acting. Bryan Cranston is phenomenal as one of the most fascinating anti-heroes, or even of any kind of character, in either film or television. Aaron Paul has never been better and his and Cranston's chemistry is a delight. Anna Gunn is affecting and Bob Odenkirk provides some welcome levity. The characters are compelling in their realism and the episode is strongly directed. In summary, great. 9/10 Bethany Cox It's only the third episode in this season of Breaking Bad, but it already feels as if we've been served the same plot for ages. Besides more and more character development in Skyler and Jesse, "Open House" is sparse on new ideas and difficult to enjoy. As Jesse's parties grow bleaker and bleaker, Aaron Paul impresses me even more through his almost wordless, yet still so deep acting – especially the go-kart scene near the end of the episode was a small, but mentionable gem. The bigger part of this episode was definitely focused on either the Schraders or the Whites though, and while these also had some nice parts here and there, the average was rather low. Especially Marie bringing out the kleptomaniac side of hers was overly long and resulted in a ridiculous and redundant crying scene of Betsy Brandt. Skyler got a tad more interesting in "Open House" as she is willing to passively participate in Walt's crime by becoming a (different sort of) criminal herself, yet that doesn't say a lot for a character that bored and annoyed me for pretty much all three seasons up to that point. This story part had some blatant stupidities in it, such as the "It's been six hours, he won't call – he calls" and the "Giving a random guy instructions over headphones so he can manipulate someone else in your favor" clichés. At least Bob Odenkirk was able to uplift both the humor aspect and the quality of it with some trademark stupid jokes. As you see, there really were only few things for me to appreciate in "Open House", an episode that proves yet another time that Breaking Bad is weak when the story is evolving slowly. As Jesse's parties grow bleaker and bleaker, Aaron Paul impresses me even more through his almost wordless, yet still so deep acting – especially the go-kart scene near the end of the episode was a small, but mentionable gem. The bigger part of this episode was definitely focused on either the Schraders or the Whites though, and while these also had some nice parts here and there, the average was rather low. Especially Marie bringing out the kleptomaniac side of hers was overly long and resulted in a ridiculous and redundant crying scene of Betsy Brandt. Skyler got a tad more interesting in "Open House" as she is willing to passively participate in Walt's crime by becoming a (different sort of) criminal herself, yet that doesn't say a lot for a character that bored and annoyed me for pretty much all three seasons up to that point. This story part had some blatant stupidities in it, such as the "It's been six hours, he won't call – he calls" and the "Giving a random guy instructions over headphones so he can manipulate someone else in your favor" clichés. At least Bob Odenkirk was able to uplift both the humor aspect and the quality of it with some trademark stupid jokes. As you see, there really were only few things for me to appreciate in "Open House", an episode that proves yet another time that Breaking Bad is weak when the story is evolving slowly. Main question of the episode : how do we buy the car wash station ? Wow that's really a thrilling question, don't you think ? No ? No. Not really. Too long scenes with too few arguments, only one conflict outside of the family (Mary strikes again too) This episode relies a lot on our memories, much more than the previous one. I think we miss events and action. The characterization is really brilliant, the actors still great, and many interesting plots are put on... but it is still a promising beginning. I hope next episode will be more consistent. Too long scenes with too few arguments, only one conflict outside of the family (Mary strikes again too) This episode relies a lot on our memories, much more than the previous one. I think we miss events and action. The characterization is really brilliant, the actors still great, and many interesting plots are put on... but it is still a promising beginning. I hope next episode will be more consistent. My overall rating of "Breaking Bad"'s Season 4: 5/10 An episode where absolutely nothing of any importance happens and every character other than Saul is dumb, illogical and unpleasant. An easily skippable episode full of absolutely pointless and joyless scenes. An episode where absolutely nothing of any importance happens and every character other than Saul is dumb, illogical and unpleasant. An easily skippable episode full of absolutely pointless and joyless scenes. Stupid GOT fans are review bombing bb and we also need to stop review bombing other shows.please just delete all the review bombing from other shows so they can stop review bombing this masterpiece. Ozymandis is th best Tv episode ever and has be downed to a 9.9 stop review bombing so it can be back to a 10.
