=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Why Zee Media won't let Palki Sharma Upadhyay join Network18]
The Delhi High Court on Tuesday refused to restrain former WION editor Palki Sharma Upadhyay from joining Network18. The anchor was taken to court by her previous employer, Zee Media Corporation Limited. Zee Media went to court against the anchor in October, nearly a month after she left the network for greener pastures as a managing editor at Network18. According to Bar and Bench, the court ...
URL: https://www.newslaundry.com/2022/11/22/why-zee-media-wont-let-palki-sharma-upadhyay-join-network18

[Delhi High Court refuses to interfere with anchor Palki Sharma's move from Zee/ Wion News to Network 18]
The Court, however, recorded an undertaking by Upadhyay’s counsel that she will not divulge any sensitive or confidential information that she may have been privy to during her engagement with Zee. ... The Delhi High Court on Tuesday refused to restrain journalist and former managing editor of Wion News (owned by Zee), Palki Sharma Upadhyay from joining or working with Network 18 [Zee Media Corporation Limited v Palki Sharma Upadhyay].
URL: https://www.barandbench.com/news/litigation/delhi-high-court-refuses-restrain-palki-sharma-joining-network-18-suit-zee-wion-news

[The Law Advice - News - Delhi High Court declined to interfere with anchor Palki Sharma's switching from Zee/ Wion News to Network 18]
Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani of the Delhi High Court today refused to restrain journalist and former managing editor of Wion News, Palki Sharma Upadhyay from joining Network 18. However, the Court recorded an undertaking by Upadhyay's counsel that she will not divulge any sensitive or confidential information that she may have been privy to during her engagement with the Zee to any third party.
URL: https://www.thelawadvice.com/news/delhi-high-court-declined-to-interfere-with-anchor-palki-sharma-s-switching-from-zee-wion-news-to-network-18

[ACCORDING | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary]
Phrasal verb accord with something (Definition of according from the Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press)
URL: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/according

[Delhi High Court Restrains Palki Sharma From Divulging Zee Media's Confidential Information To Third Party]
The High Court of Delhi in a suit filed by Zee Media Corporation Limited against Palki Sharma Upadhyay, the Journalist, Anchor and former Managing Editor of WION, has restrained Palki Sharma...
URL: https://www.livelaw.in/law-firms/deals/zee-media-delhi-high-court-palki-sharma-214740


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Why Zee Media won't let Palki Sharma Upadhyay join Network18] ---
The backstory of how the TV network and one of its star anchors ended up in the Delhi High Court. The Delhi High Court on Tuesday refused to restrain former WION editor Palki Sharma Upadhyay from joining Network18. The anchor was taken to court by her previous employer, Zee Media Corporation Limited. Zee Media went to court against the anchor in October, nearly a month after she left the network for greener pastures as a managing editor at Network18. According to Bar and Bench, the court also recorded an undertaking by Upadhyay’s counsel that “she will not divulge any sensitive or confidential information that she may have been privy to during her engagement with the Zee to any third party”. Zee had given the court a long list of its grouses against Upadhyay. Its suit sought two permanent injunctions against her. First, to prevent her moving on to the rival network owned by billionaire industrialist Mukesh Ambani until June 2023. Second, to restrain her from divulging any confidential and proprietary Zee information to her new employers. The network also wanted damages worth Rs 2 crore as well as a declaration from Upadhyay that she had breached the terms of her Zee contract and notice period policy. Moreover, it asked the court to direct the journalist to work for Zee until December this year. The rumblings in September Upadhyay joined WION, Zee network’s English news channel, in 2017 as associate editor and became its managing editor in April 2022. A Zee internal performance review accessed by Newslaundry rated her as a “top talent”. Five months later, she was gone. Upadhyay had previously worked for ITV and Network18. Independent journalism is not possible until you pitch in. We have seen what happens in ad-funded models: Journalism takes a backseat and gets sacrificed at the altar of clicks and TRPs. Stories like these cost perseverance, time, and resources. Subscribe now to power our journalism. ₹ 500 Monthly₹ 4999 AnnualAlready a subscriber? Login


--- [Delhi High Court refuses to interfere with anchor Palki Sharma's move from Zee/ Wion News to Network 18] ---
No content


--- [The Law Advice - News - Delhi High Court declined to interfere with anchor Palki Sharma's switching from Zee/ Wion News to Network 18] ---
Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani of the Delhi High Court today refused to restrain journalist and former managing editor of Wion News, Palki Sharma Upadhyay from joining Network 18. However, the Court recorded an undertaking by Upadhyay’s counsel that she will not divulge any sensitive or confidential information that she may have been privy to during her engagement with the Zee to any third party. The single bench passed the order while hearing a suit filed by Zee alleging that Upadhyay is in breach of the non-competence and confidentiality clause contained in her employment contract. Palki Sharma was working with Wion News for years but she left the channel in September and is now working with Network 18 which owns news channels like CNN News 18 and News 18 India. In its suit, Zee stated that Palki Sharma did not serve her mandatory notice period of 90 days and is in possession of sensitive and confidential information including the strategy, hiring, fundraising, and future plan of Wion. The defendant is seeking to illegally exploit this information without any authority by seeking employment with another competing news channel like Network 18, the suit said. Zee prayed a permanent injunction order to be passed by the High Court against Palki Sharma restraining her from divulging any confidential and proprietary information to any organization as well as an injunction restraining her from working with any competing business till June 2023. Case Details:- Zee Media Corporation Limited Vs. Palki Sharma Upadhyay Website designed, developed and maintained by webexy


--- [ACCORDING | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary] ---
according In English, many past and present participles of verbs can be used as adjectives. Some of these examples may show the adjective use. For orders not pre-paid, postage and packing will be charged according to the weight of the book. Cost utility analysis permits the cost of treatment to be considered according to the amount of benefit afforded to the patients. The phonetic analysis further bolstered the hypothesis that he added -ed endings according to a pseudo-suffixation strategy. According to this definition - ideology-as-shorthand - it should have been no more difficult to assess a party's positions than to formulate one's own ideology. The probabilistic model ranks documents according to their probability of being relevant to a query - the ordering principle. According to this hypothesis, neither random errors nor morphologically and syntactically more complex structures would be expected. The hunter selects a velocity uniformly at random between 0 and 1 and proceeds in a clockwise direction according to this velocity. According to this report, although most married couples sired approximately six to seven children, only one or two survived. We can chop timber according to our needs. In a second step, codification tables were created and material was organized according to these themes. While the volume is not organized according to themes, a number of themes emerge. Data were categorized according to the themes included in the questionnaire and the interviews. The response variability of the simulated spike trains generated according to this model was then calculated in the same way as for the real data. Figure 2 shows the excitation trajectories optimized under constraints according to the criterion based on the determinant of the covariance matrix. The number of visits is given according to the abundance of trees, infested trees and mistletoes. These examples are from corpora and from sources on the web. Any opinions in the examples do not represent the opinion of the Cambridge Dictionary editors or of Cambridge University Press or its licensors.


--- [Delhi High Court Restrains Palki Sharma From Divulging Zee Media's Confidential Information To Third Party] ---
Delhi High Court Restrains Palki Sharma From Divulging Zee Media's Confidential Information To Third Party LIVELAW NEWS NETWORK 22 Nov 2022 3:00 PM IST The High Court of Delhi in a suit filed by Zee Media Corporation Limited against Palki Sharma Upadhyay, the Journalist, Anchor and former Managing Editor of WION, has restrained Palki Sharma Upadhyay from divulging any confidential and proprietary information belonging to Zee Media Corporation Limited to any third party or to the benefit of any third party. Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani however refused to restrain the journalist from joining or continuing employment with Network 18 news channel. The development came in a suit filed by Zee News alleging violation of its mandatory policy of notice period by the journalist and also claiming that she was in possession of confidential information which could be used in managing Network 18 channel. Zee Media was represented by Trust Legal through Partner, Ms. Ritwika Nanda and Associate Partner, Ms. Akshita Salampuria and led by Mr. Joy Basu, Senior Advocate in a suit seeking declaration, permanent injunction and damages for breach of the terms of the contract of employment including but not limited to restraining the Defendant from divulging any confidential and proprietary information of Zee Media to any organisation/ third party and adherence of the mandatory notice period. In addition to the interim direction passed by the High Court of Delhi, the Defendant appearing on advance notice has given an undertaking that the Defendant would not divulge in any confidential or proprietary information belonging to Zee Media to any other third party.
