=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[David Richardson (figure skater) - Wikipedia]
David Richardson (born 18 August 1987) is a British former competitive figure skater. He is the 2011 British national champion and 2013 Golden Bear of Zagreb champion.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Richardson_(figure_skater)

[What (and When) Is V-J Day? - The National WWII Museum]
They have signed terms of unconditional surrender.” The president went on to proclaim the following day, Sunday, September 2, “to be V-J Day—the day of formal surrender by Japan.” The United States still marks each September 2 as V-J Day with ceremonies honoring the sacrifices of the men and women who served in the Pacific war.
URL: https://www.nationalww2museum.org/war/articles/what-and-when-v-j-day

[David Richardson (figure skater) - Academic Dictionaries and ...]
David Richardson (born 18 August 1987 in Newcastle) is a British figure skater. He currently trains at the NIC Nottingham.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/6955303

[V-E Day: Victory in Europe - The National WWII Museum]
The flags of freedom fly over all Europe," Truman said. Truman designated May 8 as V-E Day and most of the Western Allies followed suit. The Soviets, however, designated May 9 as V-E Day or Soviet Victory Day, based on the document signed in Berlin. News of Germany's surrender ignited joyous celebrations in cities across the world.
URL: https://www.nationalww2museum.org/war/topics/v-e-day-victory-europe

[David Richardson (figure skater) explained]
David Richardson (born 18 August 1987) is a British former competitive figure skater. He is the 2011 British national champion and 2013 Golden Bear of Zagreb champion.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/David_Richardson_(figure_skater)/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [David Richardson (figure skater) - Wikipedia] ---
David Richardson (born 18 August 1987) is a British former competitive figure skater. He is the 2011 British national champion and 2013 Golden Bear of Zagreb champion. He qualified for the free skate at the 2012 World Junior Championships in Ljubljana, Slovenia, where he finished 23rd overall.
Richardson trained at the NIC Nottingham. He last competed in the 2013–14 season.


--- [What (and When) Is V-J Day? - The National WWII Museum] ---
On September 1, 1945, President Harry S. Truman addressed the nation by radio. “The thoughts and hopes of all America—indeed of all the civilized world—are centered tonight on the battleship Missouri,” Truman said. “There on that small piece of American soil anchored in Tokyo Harbor, the Japanese have just officially laid down their arms. They have signed terms of unconditional surrender.” The president went on to proclaim the following day, Sunday, September 2, “to be V-J Day—the day of formal surrender by Japan.” The United States still marks each September 2 as V-J Day with ceremonies honoring the sacrifices of the men and women who served in the Pacific war. Yet by September 2, 1945, celebrations of Japan’s surrender had already been taking place around the United States for weeks. Some of the most iconic photographs of V-J Day celebrations, if not the war itself, were actually taken on August 14, 1945, not September 2. Why can the date of V-J Day vary so widely? The answer lies in the complicated events of August to September 1945 in the Pacific theater. From Hiroshima to Tokyo In July 1945, Allied leaders met in the German city of Potsdam to discuss the strategy for ending the war against Imperial Japan. Germany had already been defeated and had accepted the Allied terms of “unconditional surrender.” Among other critical decisions, the Allied leaders—Soviet leader Joseph Stalin, US President Harry S. Truman, and British Prime Minister Clement Attlee, who replaced Winston Churchill during the conference—agreed that the Soviet Union would join the war against Japan by invading the occupied region of Manchuria. The day before the conference began, however, the United States successfully detonated the world’s first atomic bomb in the Trinity test. While the results of the test were not made public, Truman knew of its success. With both the Soviet commitment to join the war and the existence of the atomic bomb, the Allies issued the Potsdam Declaration on July 26 calling on Japan to accept terms of unconditional surrender, or face “prompt and utter destruction.” Two days later, Japanese Prime Minister Kantarō Suzuki appeared to reject the terms of the Potsdam agreement during a press conference. On July 31, Truman authorized preparations for the use of atomic weapons against Imperial Japan.1 On August 6, 1945, three American B-29 bombers, including the Enola Gay, appeared over the skies of Hiroshima, Japan. At 8:15 a.m., the Enola Gay dropped a single atomic bomb over the city. Less than a minute later, it detonated, killing at least 80,000 people instantly. Despite the destruction, the Japanese government made no official response, and a militant faction in Emperor Hirohito’s cabinet argued that the war should continue. Three days later, on August 9, another B-29 named Bockscar dropped a second atomic bomb, this time on the southern Japanese city of Nagasaki. That same day, the Soviet Union invaded Manchuria. Hirohito now stepped into the decision-making process personally. In the early hours of August 10, Tokyo time, the emperor announced to his war cabinet that he supported accepting the terms of the Potsdam Agreement. The cabinet then assembled a statement in accordance with the emperor’s decision. The agreement was transmitted to the Allies by letter through Switzerland.2 In it, the Japanese government conveyed that it was prepared to accept the terms of the Potsdam proclamation, but with Hirohito retaining his prerogatives as a sovereign ruler. News of the decision reached Washington, D.C., on the morning of August 10 local time; discussions began within Truman’s cabinet and with Allied leaders later that day. The following day, a tentative statement of agreement with these terms was sent by Washington to Tokyo with the stipulation that the authority of the emperor and the Japanese government would be subject to the Supreme Commander of the Allied powers. However, no official response was immediately received and, in the meantime, B-29 raids using conventional bombs continued against Japanese cities.3 On the night of August 13–14, American B-29s dropped leaflets on Japanese cities announcing that the emperor had transmitted possible terms of surrender to the Allies. This shocking public revelation precipitated a new crisis in the Japanese war cabinet. Hirohito reiterated his intention to end the war and recorded a message announcing his decision to the Japanese people later that night. Hours later, a rejectionist faction within the government launched an attempted military coup to destroy the emperor’s recording and prevent surrender. By the morning of August 15, however, the plot had been defeated and the conspirators committed suicide. 4 At noon Tokyo time on August 15, the emperor’s recording was broadcast over Japanese national radio. Never using the term “surrender” itself, Hirohito stated that his government would accept the terms of the Potsdam Declaration. This was the first time the emperor had ever spoken directly to the Japanese people. 5 Celebrations at Different Times News of Japan’s intention to surrender reached Washington, D.C., on the evening of August 14 due to the time zone difference with Tokyo. At 7 p.m., Truman addressed the press in the Oval Office and announced the news from Tokyo. Celebrations erupted across the country, most iconically in Times Square, New York. As a result, many of the images Americans associate with the end of the war were taken on August 14. In the United Kingdom, the following day—August 15—was formally declared as V-J Day and remains so to the present day. Japan commemorates August 15 as the end of the war as well. In his press conference, however, Truman stated explicitly that “proclamation of V-J Day must wait upon the formal signing of the surrender terms by Japan.” The formal surrender of Imperial Japan was scheduled for two weeks later, on August 31, but because of severe weather, it was delayed until September 2, 1945. The surrender took place on the deck of the USS Missouri as a Japanese delegation signed formal surrender documents with General Douglas MacArthur, the Supreme Commander of Allied forces for the occupation of Japan. Due to the time difference with Washington, Truman announced the signing of the formal surrender documents on the evening of September 1, 1945. He then proclaimed the following day as the United States’ official V-J Day. Crowds again gathered around the country to celebrate Japan’s formal surrender. Commemoration Dates Vary Due to the complexities of the events surrounding the end of the Pacific war, V-J Day has been, and is, commemorated on a variety of dates: August 15, the anniversary of Hirohito’s announcement in local time; August 14, the date of Hirohito’s announcement in the United States; and September 2, the anniversary of Japan’s formal surrender The United Kingdom, for instance, officially commemorates V-J Day on August 15 of each year. Australia recognizes August 15 as Victory in the Pacific Day (V-P Day). V-J Day is typically seen as the final end of World War II. Adding complexity, however, is another date that receives little recognition today: December 31, 1946, more than a year after Japan’s surrender. This was the date of Truman’s announcement of “a proclamation terminating the period of hostilities of World War II.” By doing so, Truman formally ended 53 “war and emergency statutes” that had been enacted to assist the war effort and, later, facilitate demobilization. With Truman’s announcement, the United States formally ended its involvement in the largest conflict in human history. Bradley W. Hart, PhD Bradley W. Hart is a World War II Military Historian at the Jenny Craig Institute for the Study of War and Democracy. Cite this article: MLA Citation: APA Citation: Chicago Style Citation:


--- [David Richardson (figure skater) - Academic Dictionaries and ...] ---
David Richardson (figure skater) - David Richardson (figure skater) - David Richardson (born 18 August 1987 in Newcastle) is a British figure skater. He currently trains at the NIC Nottingham. He is the 2006 British junior national champion, 2007 senior national bronze medalist, 2008 he was fourth place in senior nationals, 2009 senior national silver medalist, 2010 senior national bronze medalist and 2011 senior national gold medalist. External links | Persondata | |---| | Name | Richardson, David | | Alternative names | | | Short description | | | Date of birth | 18 August 1987 | | Place of birth | | | Date of death | | | Place of death | | Categories: - British male single skaters - Figure skaters at the 2007 Winter Universiade - 1987 births - Living people - People from Newcastle upon Tyne - British figure skating biography stubs Wikimedia Foundation. 2010. Look at other dictionaries: David Richardson — may refer to: David Richardson (audio engineer), English audio engineer and music producer David H. S. Richardson, Canadian professor and lichenologist David I. Richardson, Canadian accountant and the Chairman of Air Canada David John Leyburn… … Wikipedia Michael Kirby (figure skater) — Michael Kirby Personal information Country represented Canada Born February 20, 1925(1925 02 20) Died … Wikipedia David Pelletier — For the American pair skater, see David Pelletier (American figure skater). David Pelletier Salé and Pelletier compete at the 2002 Grand Prix Final Personal information Country represented … Wikipedia David Dore — is a Canadian figure skating official. Personal life Dore was born in Toronto in 1940. After he was stricken with polio at the age of 12, he took up skating to strengthen his legs.[1] He competed at the national level within Canada. He has two… … Wikipedia List of World War II topics (D) — # D 10 tank gun # D 8 Armored Car # D Day 1 # D Day (game) # D Day Dodgers # D Day Museum # D Day the Sixth of June # # D Day # D. C. Stephenson # D. C. Wimberly # D. Robinson # D. V. Peyton Ward # Döme Sztójay # Džafer beg Kulenović # Dachau… … Wikipedia Dancing on Ice — For the most recently concluded series see Dancing on Ice (series 6) Dancing on Ice New 2011 logo Format Talent show Created by … Wikipedia Calendar of 1998 — ▪ 1999 January January 1 At the stroke of the new year, the Russian ruble is worth a thousand times less than before as three zeros are removed from its value; about six new rubles equal one U.S. dollar. Foreign Minister David Levy… … Universalium Melville Rogers — Personal information Full name Melville F. Rogers Born January 5, 1899(1899 01 05) Ottawa, Ontario Died September 26, 1973(1973 09 26) (aged 74) Ottawa, Ontario … Wikipedia 1983 — This article is about the year 1983. For other uses, see 1983 (disambiguation). Millennium: 2nd millennium Centuries: 19th century – 20th century – 21st century Decades: 1950s 1960s 1970s – 1980s – … Wikipedia List of English people — This is a partial list of English people of note and of some notable individuals born in England, alphabetically within categories.Actors and actresses*Dame Julie Andrews (born 1935) *Naveen Andrews (born 1969) *Gabrielle Anwar (born 1970) *Rowan … Wikipedia


--- [V-E Day: Victory in Europe - The National WWII Museum] ---
In the Spring of 1945, Allied forces were converging on Germany from East and West. As they crossed into Germany, advancing soldiers encountered fierce resistance, cities devastated by bombing, and horrific evidence of Nazi crimes. Seeing the looming collapse of his regime, Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler took his own life on April 30, 1945. Within days, his successors surrendered unconditionally to Allied forces. On May 7, 1945, the Chief of Staff of the German Armed Forces High Command, Alfred Jodl, surrendered at General Dwight D. Eisenhower’s Allied headquarters in Reims. At the ceremony in which Jodl signed the Act of Military Surrender were representatives of the major Allied powers who also signed: France, the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union, and the United States. At Soviet request, another surrender document with few significant changes was signed in Berlin on May 8, 1945, by German Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel, bringing a formal end to nearly six years of bloody fighting in Europe. Victory in Europe American President Harry Truman, who had only assumed the presidency weeks prior following the death of Franklin D. Roosevelt, addressed the nation by radio to announce Germany's surrender. "General Eisenhower informs me that the forces of Germany have surrendered to the United Nations. The flags of freedom fly over all Europe," Truman said. Truman designated May 8 as V-E Day and most of the Western Allies followed suit. The Soviets, however, designated May 9 as V-E Day or Soviet Victory Day, based on the document signed in Berlin. News of Germany's surrender ignited joyous celebrations in cities across the world. In New York City, church bells tolled and car horns sounded as 250,000 soldiers, sailors, and civilians gathered in Times Square to sing and celebrate. Across the nation, expressions of joy were accompanied by moments of Thanksgiving and somber reflection. People flocked to houses of worship to give thanks for the victory and pray for a swift end to the war in the Pacific. "This is Your Victory" In the United Kingdom, May 8, 1945, was declared a national holiday. But the people did not wait to celebrate. Instead, they packed pubs and lit bonfires the night before. Restaurants created special victory menus, and the Ministry of Food made sure there were sufficient beer supplies in London. Winston Churchill addressed the cheering crowds on V-E Day saying, "This is your victory." But the crowds shouted back at him, "No, it's yours." V-E Day, however, did not mark the final Allied victory. On the island of Okinawa, American forces marked V-E Day by firing a barrage of artillery rounds at Japanese positions at midnight. It was a grim reminder that while fighting had ceased in one theater, World War II still raged in the Pacific. Episode 4: Victory in Europe May to July 1945: Germany surrenders. The war in Europe is over, but the fighting in the Pacific rages on. America prepares to test the most fearsome weapon ever created.


--- [David Richardson (figure skater) explained] ---
No content
