=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Black Condor - Wikipedia]
Black Condor is the superhero name used by three different fictional characters in the DC Comics universe. All three incarnations of Black Condor have been members of the Freedom Fighters [1] and each has been featured in Freedom Fighters comic books published by DC Comics.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Condor

[Black Condor | Heroes and Villains Wiki | Fandom]
Black Condor is the superhero name used by three different fictional characters in the DC Comics universe. All three incarnations of Black Condor have been members of the Freedom Fighters and each has been featured in Freedom Fighters comic books published by DC Comics. The first Black Condor...
URL: https://heroes-and-villain.fandom.com/wiki/Black_Condor

[FIRST TWENTY BLACK CONDOR STORIES | Balladeer's Blog]
Here's a look at the first twenty stories of the number one entry on that list - the Black Condor. BLACK CONDOR Secret Identity: Senator Thomas Wright First Appearance: Crack Comics #1 (May 1940) ...
URL: https://glitternight.com/2021/05/29/first-twenty-black-condor-stories/

[Secret Society of Super Villains | Villains Wiki | Fandom]
A brutal conflict followed which saw the death of Secret six member Parademon, and had Deathstroke and Deadshot seriously wound each other in a gun battle. Knockout revealed herself to be a double agent working for her lover Scandal. The battle was called off when Vandal Savage threatened the false Luthor. Despite this setback, the Society continued their plans. Next came an ambush on the Freedom Fighters. The battle became a bloodbath with Freedom Fighters members Black Condor (Ryan Kendall), Phantom Lady (Dee Tyler), and Human Bomb (Roy Lincoln) all killed, while Damage was severly injured, Ray (Ray Terrill) was captured, and Uncle Sam disappeared after being gang beaten.
URL: https://villains.fandom.com/wiki/Secret_Society_of_Super_Villains

[Secret Society of Super-Villains (Villains United) | DC Database | Fandom]
The battle became a bloodbath, with the Freedom Fighters' members the Black Condor (Ryan Kendall), the Phantom Lady (Dee Tyler), and the Human Bomb (Roy Lincoln) all killed, while Damage was severely injured, the Ray (Ray Terrill) was captured, ...
URL: https://dc.fandom.com/wiki/Secret_Society_of_Super-Villains_(Villains_United)


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Black Condor - Wikipedia] ---
Black Condor is the superhero name used by three different fictional characters in the DC Comics universe. All three incarnations of Black Condor have been members of the Freedom Fighters and each has been featured in Freedom Fighters comic books published by DC Comics.
The first Black Condor, Richard Grey Jr., was created by Quality Comics writer  Will Eisner and artist Lou Fine. He first appeared in Crack Comics #1 (May 1940), and continued through issue #31 (Oct 1943). He also appeared in Uncle Sam Quarterly #2 (Dec 1941). He moved to the DC universe when DC Comics bought the rights to Quality Comics characters. The first Black Condor was a World War II era super hero along with the rest of the Freedom Fighters.
The second Black Condor, Ryan Kendall, gained the power of flight due to genetic manipulation and initially did not believe he was a superhero. He would later join the Freedom Fighters, but was killed at the beginning of the Infinite Crisis storyline.
The third Black Condor, John Trujillo, is of Mayan descent and was given his powers by the Mayan Spider Goddess Tocotl. Seeing himself as a protector of the universe, he joins forces with the Freedom Fighters.




--- [Black Condor | Heroes and Villains Wiki | Fandom] ---
Amazo, Darkseid, Dark Knights, Steppenwolf, Lex Luthor, Queen Bee, Dominators, Secret Society of Super-Villains, Abra Kadabra, Brainiac, Solomon Gundy, Mr. Freeze, Killer Frost, Legion of Doom, League of Assassins, Hector Hammond, Dominators, Hellgramite, Injustice League, Joker, Johnny Sorrow, General Eiling, Poison Ivy, Ra's al Ghul, Starro, Ultra-Humanite, Black Mask, Black Manta, Captain Cold, Doctor Sivana, Doomsday, Electrocutioner, Eclipso, Enchantress, Floronic Man, Doctor Polaris, Scarecrow, Simon Stagg, Sinestro, Gorilla Grodd, Iciicle, Ocean Master, Professor Zoom, Parademons, Parasite, Psycho Pirate Animated Films Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths: Ultraman (evil counterpart), Owlman, Superwoman, J'edd J'arkus, Power Ring, Johnny Quick (formerly), the Crime Syndicate of America |


--- [FIRST TWENTY BLACK CONDOR STORIES | Balladeer's Blog] ---
Awhile back, Balladeer’s Blog examined a few dozen Golden Age superheroes from Quality Comics. Here’s a look at the first twenty stories of the number one entry on that list – the Black Condor. BLACK CONDOR Secret Identity: Senator Thomas Wright First Appearance: Crack Comics #1 (May 1940) Origin: Click HERE. Powers: The Black Condor could fly at extraordinary speeds and was in peak physical condition. He was more agile than an acrobat and excelled at unarmed combat. In addition, he was a marksman with his handgun which fired powerful Black Energy rays. CRACK COMICS #1 (May 1940) Title: The Man Who Can Fly Like A Bird Villains: Gali Kan and his Mongolian bandits. Synopsis: Using his power of flight to battle evildoers all over Asia, the Black Condor becomes world-famous, though some people doubt the veracity of the “sightings” of this flying man. At last, our hero gets the opportunity to avenge the death of his parents on Gali Kan and his men while simultaneously saving a city in India from their depradations. CRACK COMICS #2 (June 1940) Title: The Man Who Can Fly Villain: Rajah Ali Khan Synopsis: The Black Condor saves Andrea Kent and her brother Denny from the evil plans of the Rajah Ali Khan, who seeks to seize their inheritance through a forced marriage to Andrea. Our hero overcomes the Rajah and all his troops. NOTE: In this story, which introduced the Black Energy ray-gun, the pistol’s rays simply paralyze large groups of the Rajah’s men and don’t destroy them. CRACK COMICS #3 (July 1940) Title: The Priceless Ruby Villains: The Ras Gyn Gang Synopsis: The Rajah of Singat has his friend the Black Condor accompany his daughter to New York City on an ocean liner to safeguard her and the priceless ruby that she has with her. International criminal Ras Gyn and his gang attack our hero and the unnamed daughter on the ship at sea and again in New York. The Black Condor defeats Ras and all his gang members. NOTE: The Black Energy gun is used to knock out the engine of a biplane that Ras Gyn uses in a dogfight with our hero. CRACK COMICS #4 (August 1940) Title: The Menace of Sihn Fang Villains: Sihn Fang, De Graf and Sihn Fang’s daughter Synopsis: In the Valley of Doom, a town unclaimed by the nations around it has come under attack by Sihn Fang, an evil Fu Manchu type. Sihn Fang lives in a futuristic castle atop Mount Doom (really). The castle and Fang’s armies use high-tech weaponry created by De Graf, Fang’s aide. The Black Condor launches a war to free the town and to bring down Sihn Fang, De Graf and Sihn’s unnamed daughter. Our hero wins and all the villains blow up when the castle explodes. The Black Energy gun was used to blast through walls and destroy weaponry this time around. NOTE: Very odd town in the story. Most of its inhabitants seem European and so does Sihn Fang’s daughter as well as De Graf, but Sihn Fang himself is sheer Yellow Peril material. The story reads like Sihn Fang and De Graf are meant to parallel Imperial Japan and Nazi Germany’s alliance but is too timid to go all the way. CRACK COMICS #5 (September 1940) Title: The Danger Islands Villain: The Sapphire King Synopsis: When ships going in and out of Ceylon start having their crews and cargoes vanish, the Black Condor investigates. It turns out the Danger Islands, just off the coast, serve as a hideout for a villain called the Sapphire King, his armed men AND their flock of gigantic, airplane-sized eagles. The Sapphire King has the eagles and his men steal cargoes and abduct crews, then work them to death diving for more sapphires from a body of water in a hidden cave. The Black Condor shuts down the operation and even uses his Black Energy gun to blast the gigantic birds out of the sky during aerial battles with them. CRACK COMICS #6 (October 1940) Title: The Kite-Men Villains: The Master, Karlo Klug and the Kite-Men. Synopsis: From a hideout inside a volcanic crater a midget called the Master runs his right-hand man Karlo Krug and their flying army of Kite-Men. Those Kite-Men are each armed with lightning blasts which they shoot from their wrist bands and, on behalf of a foreign power, have laid waste to New York City and plan to do the same to Washington D.C. The Black Condor engages in amazing dogfights with the Kite-Men and kills or captures them all, in addition to Klug and the Master. CRACK COMICS #7 (November 1940) Title: The Waquo Amulet Villain: Yaho Synopsis: An amulet of the supposedly extinct Waquo Indian Tribe is taken from the archaeologist who has it by the last two surviving members of the tribe. Placing the amulet in the chest of their people’s 10 foot tall idol Yaho brings that idol to life. They send the super-strong and utterly invulnerable Yaho to kill all white people in America. The being succeeds in wiping out an entire town in a western state before the Black Condor is able to defeat it. His gun’s Black Ray was unable to harm Yaho until he removed the amulet from the idol’s chest, and then the Black Energy rays destroyed the amulet while Yaho crumbled to dust. CRACK COMICS #8 (December 1940) Title: The Death Machines Villains: The Spinning Death machines Synopsis: Two Caucasian spies from an unnamed country pay a Chinese inventor named Lung Wo for his latest invention: an artificially intelligent tank-sized vessel which can fly as well as travel on tank treads. This “Spinning Death” machine” has a spinning drill mounted on the front and also sports metal arms and hands. The Spinning Death rampages through New York City, with the Black Condor unable to stop it. The war machine begins thinking for itself and turns on its creator plus the spies, then designs and manufactures an entire fleet of similar Spinning Death machines and leads them in further destroying New York City. Before dying, Lung Wo tells our hero the only vulnerable spot on the first Spinning Death Machine and he manages to blast that spot with his Black Ray. That first Spinning Death Machine is destroyed, rendering the rest of the fleet inert. Comment: Thousands of civilians and several military pilots were killed before the machines’ rampage was over. CRACK COMICS #9 (January 1941) Title: The Papers Racket Villains: The Monks Gallagher Gang Synopsis: The Black Condor saves a man from a late night stabbing and winds up clashing with Monks Gallagher, a racketeer who strings along illegal aliens regarding phony citizenship papers and turns them into slave labor and blackmail victims. Our hero shuts down the racket and makes Monks pay the stabbing victim’s wife enough money to get proper medical care for their child. NOTE: At one point in this story the Black Condor flies from New York City to Chicago and back in less than an hour. CRACK COMICS #10 (February 1941) Title: Sophisticated Lady Villainess: The Sophisticated Lady (Marta Cowen) Synopsis: The Black Condor infiltrates the ring of jewel thieves run by beautiful Marta Cowen, known in underworld circles as the Sophisticated Lady. Our hero corrals every member of the ring, from Marta to her muscle and her fences. NOTE: This was the last story to not show the Black Condor having a traditional secret identity or life outside of his crimefighting efforts. CRACK COMICS #11 (March 1941) Title: Villainy in the Senate Villain: Senator Jaspar Crow Synopsis: Idealistic freshman Senator Thomas Wright from New York decides to stop cooperating with corrupt Senator Jaspar Crow, the shadiest politician in Washington DC. Crow doesn’t take that lightly and has his thugs shoot Wright to death so he can have another Senator cast a proxy vote on Crow’s dam bill which is really a graft racket. The Black Condor finds the dying Wright, who tells him about Senator Crow’s corruption. Hilariously, our hero looks exactly like the late Senator Wright and assumes his identity to vote against Crow AND maintains that ruse for the rest of the Black Condor series. The hero defeats Crow’s thugs when Jaspar sends them to burn down the home of Senator Gibbs, who joins “Senator Wright’s” rebellion against Crow. Exposed, Crow is forced to leave the Senate. NOTE: Jaspar Crow will be the Black Condor’s archenemy from now on. And yes, it’s cool having a superhero’s secret identity be a U.S. Senator, but this was an absurd way to do it. I would have had the Black Condor’s real identity of Richard Grey, Jr be a District Attorney at first, then get appointed Senator by the Governor to finish the term of the slain Thomas Wright. The “amazing resemblance” nonsense is hilarious, as is the way Wright’s physician Doctor Foster plays along with the ruse. It sounds like a sitcom premise. And not a good one. CRACK COMICS #12 (April 1941) Title: Call Him The Black Crow Villain: The Black Crow (Jaspar Crow) Synopsis: Though disgraced in Washington, Jaspar Crow has covertly returned to his home state of Pennsylvania, where he continues to run political graft and organized crime behind the scenes as a shadowy figure called “the Black Crow.” He wears no costume, he just has a kind of imposing sinister air like Daredevil’s foe the Owl. Senator Thomas Wright has introduced the Wright Bill for Better Working and Living Conditions for Miners. Crow and his lackeys benefit from paying the miners a pittance and making them work under dangerous conditions so he bribes enough Senators to defeat Wright’s bill the first time. When miners in Pennsylvania strike, Crow has his men frame them for murdering a foreman and has the National Guard called in. The Black Condor must battle Jaspar Crow’s hooded thugs who get violent against the miners AND save several miners from a cave-in caused by Crow’s tactics. Our hero defeats all the thugs but Jaspar Crow slips away. NOTE: Doctor Foster’s daughter Wendy is our hero’s love interest. CRACK COMICS #13 (June 1941) Title: Silent Bombs Villains: Defense Industry Saboteurs Synopsis: When Senator Thomas Wright and General Korn find an inventor named Carl Stark murdered before he can demonstrate his new silent and remote-controlled bombs, the Black Condor investigates. The villains stole Stark’s plans AND working bombs and use those silent explosives to blow up ten Washington DC residences and businesses before planning to blow up the Senate while it is in session. The Black Condor saves the Senate, smashes the sabotage ring and exposes its masked leader as General Korn himself. Comment: Our hero’s love interest Wendy Foster starts to find the mysterious Black Condor to be a real turn-on. CRACK COMICS #14 (July 1941) Title: The False Black Condor Villains: Jaspar Crow and a Black Condor impersonator. Synopsis: “The Black Crow” himself has been making a fortune with his industries and steel mills while making his workers live on slave wages and paying them only in scrip good nowhere else but at the Company Store. When the workers try to organize, Jaspar hires a thug to dress up like the Black Condor and prey upon the workers to try to intimidate the men plus ruin our hero’s reputation. He also has the phony paint the Black Condor as a bully and a coward. The real Black Condor gets involved, defeats and exposes the imposter and foils Crow’s plot to prevent his workers from unionizing. He also flies Jaspar up in the air and empties his pockets so that the workers can all grab some of their exploiter’s cash. That night, Senator Wright tells Wendy Foster that he’s been too busy to read the news accounts of the Black Condor’s latest adventure. CRACK COMICS #15 (August 1941) Title: The Miami Connection Villains: Jaspar “Black” Crow and corrupt Cuban General Miranda. Synopsis: In Miami, the Black Condor catches on to Jaspar Crow’s latest plot. He owns the Twin Seas shipping line and is having his goons sabotage rival shipping lines and frame them for running guns to rebels in Cuba, which is what HE is doing. Our hero exposes the scheme, defeats the goons and General Miranda’s rebels and takes down Crow’s ship when it opens fire on the Coast Guard. Jaspar Crow and Miranda are taken into custody. CRACK COMICS #16 (September 1941) Title: The Great Northern Copper Mine Affair Villains: Jaspar Crow and the Ghost Gun Killer Synopsis: Jaspar Crow, somehow back at large, is trying to force the owners of the Great Northern Copper Mine to sell out to him. His goons are sabotaging the place and he’s using a hit man called the Ghost Gun Killer to use his rifle with a silencer to pick off a few workers here and there, too. The Black Condor corrals all of Crow’s thugs, including the Ghost Gun Killer and prevents Jaspar from carrying out his sinister plan to kill 2,500 Great Northern Mine workers in one blow. CRACK COMICS #17 (October 1941) Title: Uprising Villains: Jaspar Crow and Foreign Spies Synopsis: While Senator Tom Wright works to try to defeat a horrific tax bill targeted at Native Americans, Jaspar Crow is pulling strings with his corrupt cronies in the Department of the Interior to shake down every reservation in the country. In unison with spies from an unnamed foreign government, the constant shakedowns get so bad that an actual armed uprising is launched by Native Americans in New Mexico and elsewhere. The Black Condor wades into the middle of it all, fighting the spies, stopping Native Americans from blowing up dams and power stations, and shutting down Crow’s shakedown of the reservations. Ultimately all of the bloodshed stops and the spies are rounded up, plus the tax bill targeting Native Americans is defeated in the Senate. Wendy Foster tells Senator Wright that the Black Condor deserves more credit than he does. CRACK COMICS #18 (November 1941) Title: Brain Drain Villains: The Leader and the Hypnotist Synopsis: Defense industry scientists keep disappearing and all of Washington is abuzz about it and wondering what to do. Senator Wright becomes the Black Condor and investigates the disappearances. He traces all of the missing scientists to one of Jaspar Crow’s plants and finds a secret factory underground. All of the scientists get enthralled by a villain called the Hypnotist, who answers to a masked Leader. The enthralled scientists have been making super-submarines with futuristic weapons to use against the American armed forces. The Black Condor gets the scientists freed from the mind control and defeats the submarines which are attacking the U.S. Navy on the high seas. Jaspar Crow turns out to be the masked Leader, surprising NOBODY, but he escapes, leaving behind a fall guy. CRACK COMICS #19 (December 1941) Title: The Presidential Imposter Villains: Nazi Agents Synopsis: When President Franklin Roosevelt reverses policies toward Great Britain and works to eliminate all military aid to the country, Hitler lauds the changes but Senator Thomas Wright launches a committee to investigate. When Wright’s investigation hits a dead end, he becomes the Black Condor and learns that FDR has been replaced by a Nazi Agent and is surrounded by other Nazi operatives at the White House. Our hero defeats the spy ring, frees the real FDR before the Nazis kill him and Senator Wright gets in good with the White House by agreeing to quietly shut down his committee’s investigation so that the American public doesn’t learn an imposter was in the oval office for weeks. The president returns to his supportive policies toward Great Britain. UNCLE SAM QUARTERLY Vol 1 #2 (December 1941) Title: The Revolt of the Villains Villain: The Villain Synopsis: The Black Condor, Uncle Sam, the Ray, Quicksilver, Neon the Unknown and Hercules all appear in a crossover story about a supervillain known only as the Villain. That figure organizes all of America’s criminals into one big syndicate. Comment: It’s a shame that Quality Comics didn’t decide to imitate DC’s Justice Society by keeping these heroes in a team after this adventure. If you want a superheroine to tie to the crossover event, Margo the Magician appears in this issue but in her own separate story. Personally, I would have changed up some of the superheroes brought together in this tale. Uncle Sam, Black Condor, the Ray and Quicksilver are fine, but I’d have replaced Neon the Unknown with the superheroine Wildfire and replaced Hercules with Doll Man or Phantom Lady to secure that quintessential Freedom Fighters feel. The Human Bomb never did anything for me, so I’d be fine leaving him out of this first gathering of Quality Comics heroes. NOTE: This story is the only time the Black Condor appeared wearing a mask and pants. It’s a good look for him. FOR 1940s MARVEL SUPERHEROES CLICK HERE. FOR FAWCETT SUPERHEROES CLICK HERE. FOR THE QUALITY COMICS SUPERHERO PANTHEON CLICK HERE. FOR THE HILLMAN SUPERHERO PANTHEON CLICK HERE FOR THE HARVEY COMICS SUPERHERO PANTHEON CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX FEATURES SUPERHERO PANTHEON CLICK HERE FOR THE PRIZE COMICS SUPERHERO PANTHEON CLICK HERE FOR THE SPARK COMICS SUPERHERO PANTHEON CLICK HERE FOR THE HARRY CHESLER PUBLISHING SUPERHERO PANTHEON CLICK HERE FOR THE DELL SUPERHERO PANTHEON CLICK HERE FOR THE AUSTRALIAN SUPERHERO PANTHEON CLICK HERE FOR MORE SUPERHEROES CLICK HERE: Superheroes © Edward Wozniak and Balladeer’s Blog, 2021. Unauthorized use and/or duplication of this material without express and written permission from this blog’s author and/or owner is strictly prohibited. Excerpts and links may be used, provided that full and clear credit is given to Edward Wozniak and Balladeer’s Blog with appropriate and specific direction to the original content.


--- [Secret Society of Super Villains | Villains Wiki | Fandom] ---
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20260216123059/https://villains.fandom.com/wiki/Secret_Society_of_Super_Villains Villains Wiki Hi. This is Thesecret1070. I am an admin of this site. Edit as much as you wish, but one little thing... If you are going to edit a lot, then make yourself a user and login. Other than that, enjoy Villains Wiki!!! The Secret Society of Super-Villains (SSoSV), also known simply as "The Society" and "Secret Society", is a group of supervillains in the DC Comics universe and the enemies of the Justice League. The current Society was created by Alexander Luthor of Earth-Three posing as Lex Luthor. The false Luthor gathered the massive army promising to make the world's heroes pay for the mindwipes done by the JLA. He assembled an inner circle comprised of himself, Talia al Ghul, Deathstroke, Dr. Psycho, Black Adam, and Calculator. The six then went around to various villains "asking" them to join. Most said yes, however, Bug and Byte got on Deathstroke's bad side and Catman refused to join after being visited by Psycho and Talia. The Society then put their plans into motion. They kidnapped Firestorm (Jason Rusch) and Breach, placing Firestorm in a large machine located in a lab in South America. The Society also captured Pariah and Lady Quark, two heroes who were intergral players in the "Crisis on Infinite Earths" affair. At the same time this was going on, the real Luthor adopted the codename Mockingbird and gathered together six villains into a group called the Secret Six. The Six went to work disrupting the Society's schemes. However, the group was captured and tortured by Crime Doctor. One of the Six, Catman, broke free and in the battle that followed, Crime Doctor was rendered comatose, Captain Nazi was blinded, Weather Wizard had his arm broken, and Hyena was shot dead. In another encounter with the Society, the Six freed Firestorm from his imprisonment. The atomic hero destroyed the lab in which he was trapped, but not before Six operative Scandal found out about the scheme to mindwipe all the heroes of the world. The Society then organized an all-out assault on the headquarters of the Six. Cheshire revealed to her teammates on the Six that she was a double agent. She then walked out to join the other villains but was apparently shot dead by Deathstroke. A brutal conflict followed which saw the death of Secret six member Parademon, and had Deathstroke and Deadshot seriously wound each other in a gun battle. Knockout revealed herself to be a double agent working for her lover Scandal. The battle was called off when Vandal Savage threatened the false Luthor. Despite this setback, the Society continued their plans. Next came an ambush on the Freedom Fighters. The battle became a bloodbath with Freedom Fighters members Black Condor (Ryan Kendall), Phantom Lady (Dee Tyler), and Human Bomb (Roy Lincoln) all killed, while Damage was severly injured, Ray (Ray Terrill) was captured, and Uncle Sam disappeared after being gang beaten. The Society lost Dr. Polaris who was blown apart thanks to an attack by Human Bomb. As a message, the Society wrapped the bodies of the slain Freedom Fighters around the Washington Monument. Psycho Pirate launched a plan to capture Power Girl. He teased her with the news that she was actually a native of a destroyed alternate Earth. Power Girl resisted Psycho Pirate who had a group of villains attack her. She was saved by the appearance of her cousin, the Superman of Earth-Two. The Society had several water-based villains attack San Diego. Also, to add more power to a new machine, "Luthor" betrayed Black Adam. Recently, Deathstroke wanted to get revenge on Nightwing for infiltrating his operations. With "Luthor's" approval, he ordered the Brotherhood of Evil to drop Chemo on Bludhaven. The walking bioweapon exploded over Bludhaven, turning Nightwing's homebase into a radioactive wasteland. The Society launched its most ambitious plan yet when it staged a worldwide prison break from every prison/facility that held supervillains. Oracle and Martian Manhunter coordinated the Earth's megaheroes as they tried to contain as many escapees as possible. In the meanwhile, Dr Psycho and Warp freed Doomsday from his prison at the center of the Earth. The Six reappeared and managed to question Scarecrow as to what the Society planned to do next. Scarecrow told them the Society was going to use the escaped villains to launch a massive assault on Metropolis as the first step towards world domination. The Six told Green Arrow who then told Oracle who then had the heroes of Earth gather in Metropolis to stop the Society's army. The battle that followed was brutal with both sides suffering massive casulties; the hero Judomaster had his back broken by Bane, the Trigger Twins and the Madmen were shot by Wild Dog, Crimson Avenger, and Vigilante, Amazo was beheaded by Black Adam, Solomon Grundy and the Bloodpack were killed by Superboy-Prime. The fight turned in the heroes favor when several heroes that had been missing, including Superman, Wonder Woman, Batman, Green Lantern (Hal Jordan), Batman, Wonder Girl (Cassie Sandmark), and Nightwing, arrived on the scene. Superman and the Superman of Earth-2 took down Doomsday. Alex Luthor attacked the heroes but his powers began to fade. Batman tried to kill him but was talked out of it by Wonder Woman. Just then a collapse of some debris separated Alex Luthor from the heroes. The battle then came to a close with the heroes triumphing and the Society facing heavy losses. A short time later, Alex Luthor was killed by Joker for not letting him join the Society. Despite the defeat in Metropolis and the loss of Alex Luthor's leadership, the Society is apparently still active. A year after the battle of Metropolis, the Society sent a group of operatives known as the Nuclear Legion into the radioactive remains of Bludhaven. One Year Later[] The Society had been largely scattered to the winds after the Infinite Crisis, especially with most of its leaders gone. Although Doctor Psycho and the Calculator still operated using it, eventually the two of them dropped it as well, and the Society was considered finished. Later, during the events of "Salvation Run," the villain community as a whole would be devastated by deportations set into motion by Rick Flag and Amanda Waller. The villains of the world were rounded up by the Suicide Squad and transported by Boom Tube to an obscure planet billions of miles away from Earth, where it was thought they could never escape. Libra and Final Crisis[] After Salvation Run, the villains, back on planet Earth, were furious over their exile. The mysterious villain known only as "Libra" reappeared, and set up a meeting with the leading villains of the world. Although the villain community was skeptical at first, Libra promised them each their "heart's desire," and an "end to the age of heroes." He has since formed his own new Secret Society of Super-Villains, from the ashes of the previous Society and the Injustice League. They are currently operating out of Central City, and have not only been organizing protests for "mega-Villain Rights," but have kidnapped, drugged, and murdered the Martian Manhunter. In a plot to create an anti-Justice League weapon, Cheetah, controlling her own branch of the organization, had scientist of the Society collect soil samples at various locations on Earth where acts of genocide occurred for 100 years. They combined those samples with Wonder Woman's own body pulled from the far future and use magic and scientific means to create a supervillain called Genocide. With most of the Society, including Vandal Savage, behind him, Libra reveals his true self to Lex Luthor as the villain turns on the Human Flame by forcing a mind control helmet onto the villain's face, exposing him to the Anti-Life Equation and turning him into a mindless slave warrior known as a Justifier. Faced with the threat of being forced to become a Justifier himself, Luthor agrees to become Libra and Darkseid's servent, though with help from Doctor Sivana and Calculator, ultimately turns against Libra and forcing him to retreat. With Sivana's help, Luthor and the mind controlled legions of the Secret Society helped Superman in battle against the last remaining forces of Darkseid, the Fury Riders. Luthor and Sivana then proceed to help Superman build the Miracle Machine to save the Earth, though the two are only allowed to work on sections of the machine due to the risk of them stealing the designs for future villainous schemes. New 52[] While there are rumors of several different Secret Society of Super-Villains forming in the past, the most infamous incarnation of this criminal-led organization was assembled by Professor Ivo and the mysterious Outsider; revealed to be none other than Earth 3's Alfred Pennyworth. This Secret Society was to be the Outsider's army on Earth 0, ready and waiting for the arrival of the Crime Syndicate following the opening of Pandora's Box. Hunting the box, the Outsider took steps to isolate Pandora from those who would protect her, manipulating the Justice League, Justice League of America, and Justice League Dark into a three-way battle. In addition to these preparations, the Outsider placed a mole inside the Justice League, with Earth-3's Atomica masquerading as the Atom until the Crime Syndicate could finally make their appearance. The Justice League understood that the Secret Society was forming and initiated a series of covert actions to discover the true nature of the threat. Catwoman was sent to infiltrate the Society, but was captured, interrogated, and shot, whereupon it was revealed that she was actually the Martian Manhunter in disguise. The Manhunter briefly touched minds with the Outsider, but was unable to discern his identity. The Outsider then destroyed the Justice League's Watchtower, using the ruins as his new base and holding Nightwing in a machine with a bomb wired to the beating of his heart. He also held another prisoner, who turned out to be Alexander Luthor, the Shazam of Earth 3. The Justice League freed him and he went on a rampage, attacking hero and villain alike, but directing most of his rage at the members of the Crime Syndicate who had removed him from Earth 3. Power Ring, Johnny Quick, Copperhead, and the Outsider all died in the climactic battle with the combined Justice League and Justice league of America. The heroes were helped by defecting members of the Society, notably Deathstroke and Black Manta, who killed the Outsider. The Secret Society was disbanded again and its membership scattered or imprisoned. However, the Secret Society of still remains active, albeit a closely guarded secret. With an inner high council that meets to decide policy and settle disputes between super-villains, it seeks to unite the underworld from the shadows. While the Society has been keeping a low profile as the Legion of Doom rose to power, they are still functioning behind the scenes. When Deathstroke formed a team of young heroes, Reverse-Flash kidnapped him and brought him before a council led by Vandal Savage. He was given the Riddler as his defense "attorney" and stood trial to see if he was still evil enough to be permitted to stay in the SSSV. When they used Hector Hammond's abilities to peer into Deathstroke's mind and see that he would murder everyone in the room if freed, the Society opted to keep him on as a member In Justice League, Gorilla Grodd and Giganta (who was fiercely loyal to Grodd) formed the Secret Society with Killer Frost (who just likes to kill people), Sinestro (who has sworn blood oath against all Green Lanterns), Parasite (who simply hated Superman) and Shade (who was offered the chance by Grodd to be a master criminal). In its formation, Grodd took pains to encourage a more cohesive organization in order to avoid the infighting of Lex Luthor's Injustice Gang. His first plan was to rescue Clayface from Morgan Edge's mansion where Killer Frost froze Morgan. Grodd tells Clayface that he'll help him find a way to return Clayface to his true identity of Matt Hagen after they defeat the Justice League. The Secret Society defeated the Justice League the first time, but The Secret Society was defeated by the Justice League in the second battle while Clayface was killed in the mutiny. In Justice League Unlimited, Grodd renewed his attempts to create a new Secret Society (which is also a base-off for the Legion of Doom) to take on the expanded Justice League by recruiting Lex Luthor and any villain he can obtain. Grodd succeeded with the creation of a massive co-operative operation. Any member who tried to reveal any details about the Secret Society after being captured had their brain shorted out. After the revelation that Grodd's ultimate plan in the creation of the team was the ludicrous transformation of humanity into apes, Lex Luthor ousted him and assumed the position as leader with no objections from the membership. During the two-part series finale, Lex Luthor tried to resurrect Brainiac by ordering the crew to transform the base into a spaceship, so that they could travel to the site of Brainiac's ruined asteroid base. With Tala's help, Grodd attempted a coup to retake control of the Legion, leading to a battle between members loyal to either Grodd or Luthor. As the battle ends, Gorilla Grodd was killed by Lex Luthor and the members who were loyal to him were frozen by Killer Frost. When the Secret Society reaches the site of Brainiac's defeat, Luthor used Tala's magic to restore Brainiac, despite a sudden warning from the New God, Metron. Luthor accidentally resurrected Darkseid instead, who rewards Luthor for his help by destroying the Secret Society's base in a fiery explosion. However, force fields produced by Star Sapphire and Sinestro saved Luthor's crew. Lightray, another of the Gods of New Genesis, spotted the explosion, and was subsequently robbed of his mother box, which allowed the remnants of the Secret Society to make it back to Earth to warn the Justice League of Darkseid's return. In Justice League Unlimited episode "Epilogue", a futuristic version of the Secret Society was featured, known as the Iniquity Collective. Its members include future Bat-villains Inque, Shriek, Stalker, and a monstrous future version of Parasite. Batman: The Brave and The Bold[] In the Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode "Deep Cover for Batman", a version of the alternate Secret Society group Justice Underground appears. This group is led by Red Hood (this reality's Joker) and had alternate versions of Black Manta, Clock King, Doctor Polaris, Gentleman Ghost, Gorilla Grodd, and Sinestro (the alternate versions of Brain and Kite Man appear in a flashback). After a battle with the Injustice Syndicate, only Red Hood was free and attempted to contact Batman's world to look for new allies. Batman soon arrived (when he was disguised as Owlman) and was able to help free the heroes and help capture the Injustice Syndicate. In Young Justice, a group of villains called The Light have motives like the Secret Society of Super Villains as they implement plans to make the people of Earth "see the light." The group was founded to counteract the Justice League's role in preserving society's "calcified status quo". In his view, the League inhibited mankind by protecting it from disaster, crime, and tragedy—factors needed for humanity to evolve. To counteract this, the Light created or co-opted networks of operatives, placed key individuals in key positions, and explored the boundaries of all new technology. Genetic engineering, biochemical engineering, robotics, nano-robotics, techno-sorcery, and all conceivable methods of mind control were all explored by the Light in its quest to accelerate human evolution. A resurgent Earth "taking its rightful place at the center of the cosmos" appears to be the Light's ultimate goal. Responsible for almost every threat "the Team" faced in the season, they acted as the Board of Directors for Project Cadmus, developed the Kobra-made BlockbusterVenom chemical, brought New Genesis technology to Earth with the help of their as-yet-unrevealed Partner, brokered peace in Rhelasia, placed Hugo Strange in power at Belle Reve prison, established the Injustice League as their proxies to fool the hero community into believing the group was defeated, cloned Roy Harper and used him to infiltrate the Justice League, and enslaved the Justice League to initiate an attack on the planet Rimbor to provoke an alien attack on Earth. In "Revelation," Batman claims that the villains responsible for the villain activities are a "Secret Society of Super Villains." A version of the alternate Secret Society group Justice Underground appears in Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths. The group's lineup includes a heroic Lex Luthor and the Jester (this reality's Joker) along with his monkey sidekick Harley. Most of the group is decimated (including Jester) causing their Lex Luthor to flee to the Justice League's Earth and seek their help.


--- [Secret Society of Super-Villains (Villains United) | DC Database | Fandom] ---
The Society was created by Alexander Luthor, Jr. of Earth-Three posing as Lex Luthor. The false Luthor gathered the world's villains into a massive army, promising to make the world's heroes pay for the mindwipes that had been done to some of the villains by the Justice League of America. History Recruitment Luthor then assembled an inner circle comprised of himself, Talia al Ghul, Deathstroke the Terminator, Doctor Psycho, Black Adam, and the Calculator. The six then went around to various villains, "asking" them to join. Deathstroke went to Gotham to recruit the newest crime lord, Black Mask, who accepted the offer and joined the team.[1] In return, Captain Nazi, the Hyena, and Count Vertigo were sent to aid Black Mask in his war against the Red Hood, only to be defeated by the combined forces of the Red Hood and Batman.[2] Continuing the recruiting process, almost all of the other villains said "Yes"; however, Bug and Byte got on Deathstroke's bad side and the Catman refused to join after being visited by Doctor Psycho and Talia al Ghul. The Society then put their plans into motion. They kidnapped Firestorm the Nuclear Man and Breach, placing Firestorm in a large machine located in a laboratory in South America. The Society also captured Pariah and Lady Quark, two heroes who were intergral players in the "Crisis on Infinite Earths" incident. At the same time that this was going on, the real Lex Luthor adopted the codename of the Mockingbird and gathered together six villains into a group called the Secret Six. The Six went to work disrupting the Society's schemes. However, the group was captured and tortured by the Crime Doctor. One of the Six, the Catman, broke free and in the battle that followed, the Crime Doctor was rendered comatose, Captain Nazi was blinded, the Weather Wizard had his arm broken, and the Hyena was shot dead. In another encounter with the Society, the Six freed Firestorm from his imprisonment. The atomic-powered hero destroyed the lab in which he was trapped, but not before Six operative Scandal Savage found out about the scheme to mindwipe all of the heroes of the world. The Society then organized an all-out assault on the headquarters of the Six. Cheshire revealed to her teammates on the Six that she was a double agent. She then walked out to join the other villains, but was apparently shot dead by Deathstroke. A brutal conflict followed, which saw the death of Secret six member Parademon and had Deathstroke and Deadshot seriously wound each other in a gun battle. Knockout revealed herself to be a double agent working for her lover, Scandal. The battle was called off when Vandal Savage threatened the false Luthor. Despite this setback, the Society continued their plans. Next came an ambush on the Freedom Fighters. The battle became a bloodbath, with the Freedom Fighters' members the Black Condor (Ryan Kendall), the Phantom Lady (Dee Tyler), and the Human Bomb (Roy Lincoln) all killed, while Damage was severely injured, the Ray (Ray Terrill) was captured, and Uncle Sam disappeared after being beaten up by a gang. The Society lost Doctor Polaris, who was blown apart thanks to an attack by the Human Bomb. As a message, the Society wrapped the bodies of the slain Freedom Fighters around the Washington Monument. The Psycho-Pirate launched a plan to capture Power Girl. He teased her with the news that she was actually a native of a destroyed alternate Earth. Power Girl resisted the Psycho-Pirate, who had a group of villains attack her. She was saved by the appearance of her cousin, the Superman of Earth-Two. The Society had several water-based villains attack San Diego. Also, to add more power to a new machine, "Luthor" betrayed Black Adam. Recently, Deathstroke wanted to get revenge on Nightwing for infiltrating his operations. With "Luthor's" approval, so he ordered the Brotherhood of Evil to drop Chemo on Blüdhaven. The walking bio-weapon exploded over Blüdhaven, turning Nightwing's home city into a radioactive wasteland. The Joker attacked the Royal Flush Gang, angry that he had not been asked to join the Society. The Society launched its most ambitious plan yet when it staged a worldwide prison break from every prison/facility that held super-villains. The Oracle and the Martian Manhunter coordinated Earth's super-heroes as they tried to contain as many escapees as possible. Meanwhile, Doctor Psycho and Warp freed Doomsday from his prison at the center of the Earth. The Six reappeared and managed to question the Scarecrow as to what the Society planned to do next. The Scarecrow told them that the Society was going to use the escaped villains to launch a massive assault on Metropolis as the first step towards world domination. The Six told the Green Arrow, who then told the Oracle, who then had the heroes of Earth gather in Metropolis to stop the Society's army. The battle that followed was brutal, with both sides suffering massive casualties: for example, Judomaster had his back broken by Bane, the Trigger Twins and the Madmen were shot by Wild Dog, the Crimson Avenger and the Vigilante, Amazo was beheaded by Black Adam, and Solomon Grundy and the Bloodpack were killed by Superboy-Prime. The fight turned in the heroes' favor when several heroes that had been missing, including Superman, Batman, Nightwing, Wonder Woman, Green Lantern (Hal Jordan) and Wonder Girl (Cassie Sandmark), arrived on the scene. Superman and the Superman of Earth-Two took down Doomsday. Alexander Luthor attacked the heroes, but his powers began to fade. Batman tried to kill him, but was talked out of it by Wonder Woman. Just then, a collapse of some debris separated Alexander Luthor from the heroes. The battle then came to a close with the heroes triumphing and the Society facing heavy losses. A short time later, Alexander Luthor was killed by the Joker for not letting him join the Society while the real Lex Luthor watched. Despite the defeat in Metropolis and the loss of Alexander Luthor's leadership, the Society was apparently still active. One year after the Battle of Metropolis, the Society sent a group of operatives known as the Nuclear Legion into the radioactive remains of Blüdhaven. One Year Later The Society had been largely scattered to the winds after the Infinite Crisis, especially with most of its leaders gone. Although Dr. Psycho and the Calculator still operated using it, eventually the two of them dropped it as well, and the Society was considered finished. Later, during the events of "Salvation Run", the villain community as a whole would be devastated by deportations set into motion by Rick Flag and Amanda Waller. The villains of the world were rounded up by the Suicide Squad and transported by Boom Tubes to an obscure planet billions of miles away from Earth, where it was thought they could never escape. Libra and Final Crisis After "Salvation Run", the villains, now back on Earth, were furious over their exile. The mysterious villain known only as "Libra" reappeared, and set up a meeting with the leading villains of the world. Although the villain community was skeptical at first, Libra promised them each their "heart's desire," and an "end to the age of heroes." He has since formed his own new Secret Society of Super-Villains from the ashes of the previous Society and the Injustice League Unlimited. They began operating out of Central City, and were not only organizing protests for "super-villain rights," but had kidnapped, drugged, and murdered the Martian Manhunter. Libra's inner cabinet seemed to be composed of Lex Luthor, Vandal Savage, Talia al Ghul, Gorilla Grodd, Doctor Sivana, and the Ocean Master. In a plot to create an anti-Justice League weapon, the Cheetah, controlling her own branch of the organization, had scientists of the Society collect soil samples at various locations on Earth where acts of genocide had occurred for 100 years. They combined those samples with Wonder Woman's own body pulled from the far future and used a combination of magical and scientific means to create a super-villain named Genocide. With most of the Society, including Vandal Savage, behind him, Libra revealed his true self to Lex Luthor as the villain turned on the Human Flame by forcing a mind control helmet onto the villain's face, exposing him to the Anti-Life Equation and turning him into a mindless slave warrior known as a Justifier. Faced with the threat of being forced to become a Justifier himself, Luthor agreed to become Libra and Darkseid's servant, though with help from Doctor Sivana and the Calculator, ultimately turned against Libra and forced him to retreat. With Sivana's help, Luthor and the mind-controlled legions of the Society helped Superman in battle against the last remaining forces of Darkseid, the Fury Riders. Luthor and Sivana then proceed to help Superman build the Miracle Machine to save Earth, though the two were only allowed to work on individual sections of the machine due to the risk of them stealing the designs for future villainous schemes. Membership Alexander Luthor, Jr.'s Society The Inner Circle - Alexander Luthor, Jr. - (posing as Lex Luthor) - Black Adam - Calculator - Deathstroke the Terminator - Doctor Psycho - Talia al Ghul Known Membership - Abra Kadabra - Amazo - Amos Fortune - Amygdala - Atomic Skull - Bane - Baron Blitzkrieg - Bizarro - Black Manta - Black Mask - Black Spider (Eric Needham) - Black Spider (Derrick Coe) - Body Doubles - Bolt - Brain (the Brotherhood of Evil) - Brutale - Bug - Byte - Captain Boomerang (Owen Mercer) - Captain Cold - Captain Nazi - Chain Lightning - Cheetah (Barbara Ann Minerva) - Chemo - Cheshire - Cicada - Clayface (Basil Karlo) - Clayface (Cassius Payne) - Colonel Computron - Count Vertigo - Crazy Quilt (female version) - Crime Doctor (Bradford Thorne) - Deep Six - Doctor Light (Arthur Light) - Doctor Polaris (Neal Emerson) - Doctor Sivana - Double Dare - Double Down - Eel - Fadeaway Man - Fatality - Felix Faust - Firefly - Gamesman - Gemini - General (Wade Eiling) - Gentleman Ghost - Giganta - Girder - Gorilla Grodd - Goth - Hagen - Hector Hammond - Hellhound - H.I.V.E. - Houngan - Humpty Dumpty - Hyena (Summer Day) - Hyena (Jivan Shi) - Ibac - Jinx - Killer Croc - Killer Frost (Louise Lincoln) - King Shark - Knockout - Lady Vic - Lock-Up - Mad Hatter - Madmen - Merlyn the Dark Archer - Mammoth - Mirror Master (Evan McCulloch) - Mister 104 - Mister Atom - Mister Freeze - Mister Poseidon - Mister Terrible - Mister Zsasz - Monsieur Mallah (the Brotherhood of Evil) - Multiplex - Murmur - New Wave - Nuclear Family - Nuclear Legion - Nurse Rench - Ocean Master - Parasite (Alexandra Allston) - Penguin - Phobia - Piscator - Pistolera - Plasmus - Poison Ivy - Prometheus (Chad Graham) - Psimon - Psycho-Pirate (Roger Hayden) - Quakemaster - Queen Bee (Zazzala) - Rag Doll (Peter Merkel) - Red Panzer IV - Riddler - Royal Flush Gang - Sabbac (Ishmael Gregor) - Scarecrow - Sea Wolf II - Shadow Thief - Shark - Shellshock - Shimmer - Shrapnel - Silver Banshee - Sinestro - Siren - Skorpio - Sledge - Solomon Grundy - Sting - Superior Five - Syonide II - Tattooed Man - Torpedoman - Toyman (Winslow Schott) - Tweedledum and Tweedledee - Typhoon - Ubermensch II - Ultivac - Vault - Ventriloquist and Scarface - Vicious - Virtuoso - Warp - Weather Wizard - Wizard - Zebra-Man II - Zookeeper - Zoom Libra's Society The Inner Circle Known Membership - Cadre - Calculator - Captain Cold - Cheetah (Barbara Ann Minerva) - Clayface (Basil Karlo) - Count Vertigo - Cyborgirl - Deathstroke the Terminator - Doctor Light (Arthur Light) - Doctor Polaris (John Nichol) - Effigy - Giganta - Girder - Hangmen - Human Flame - Icicle (Cameron Mahkent) - Key - Killer Croc - Killer Frost (Louise Lincoln) - Metallo - Mirror Master (Evan McCulloch) - New Rogues - Parasite (Rudy Jones) - Penguin - Plunder - Poison Ivy - Royal Flush Gang - Shadow Thief - Signalman - Weather Wizard - Zoom The Cheetah's Society - Cheetah (Barbara Ann Minerva) (leader) - Crime Doctor (Anica Balcescu) - Doctor Psycho - Doctor Sivana - Felix Faust - Genocide - Mammoth - Phobia - Professor Ivo - Shrapnel - T.O. Morrow See Also - 75 Appearances of Secret Society of Super-Villains (Villains United) - 24 Images that include Secret Society of Super-Villains (Villains United) - Team Gallery: Secret Society of Super-Villains (Villains United) Links and References Footnotes This article needs maintenance and organization, as it may have become cluttered or confusing. Its heart is in a good place, it's just a little special. Won't you please help out an article in need? This template will categorize articles that include it into the Clean Up task category. | Justice League Villain This character has been primarily an enemy of the Justice League, in any of its various incarnations. This template will categorize articles that include it into the category "Justice League Villains." |
