=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Susie Hutchinson and Samsung Woodstock foiled by jump crew - EQUINE Ink]
Sometimes those big jumper courses can get confusing . . . at least that was probably the excuse of the jump crew when they ended up standing IN FRONT of a jump that Susie Hutchinson and Samsung Woodstock were trying to jump in the 1993 Volvo FEI World Cup Final. I'm not sure what's more impressive — that she didn't run them over, that her horse came back and jumped it a second time ...
URL: https://equineink.com/2015/08/27/susie-hutchinson-and-samsung-woodstock-foiled-by-jump-crew/

[Throwback Thursday: Watch Susie Hutchison Survive The Ultimate ...]
In the discussion, it came up that 22 years ago U.S. show jumper Susie Hutchison faced a dramatic encounter with jump crew on course—coincidentally also at the 11th fence on course. In the early 1990s, Susie Hutchison and Samsung Woodstock were a force to be reckoned with.
URL: https://www.chronofhorse.com/article/tbt-watch-susie-hutchison-survive-ultimate-interference-course/

[Susie Hutchison on Letting the Horse Guide You | ProEquest]
Susie Hutchison & Samsung Woodstock - Pennington Galleries The Horses Susie grew up riding Thoroughbreds - they were the easiest to start because they had already learned to go forward and straight. She always trained them for the hunter ring first because in those days we didn't have the lower jumping divisions.
URL: https://www.proequest.com/blog/susie-hutchison-letting-horse-guide-you

[Throwback Thursday: Watch Susie Hutchison Survive The Ultimate ...]
Aug 26, 2015 — Hutchison and Woodstock went on to represent the United States at the 1994 World Championships the following year in The Hague, the Netherlands.
URL: https://chronofhorse.com/article/tbt-watch-susie-hutchison-survive-ultimate-interference-course/

[Woodstock & Susie Hutchison 1990 Flintridge Grand Prix]
1993 Woodstock Susie Hutchison World Cup Finals Ringcrew with Sound BREAKING: Trump WARNS Iran not to retaliate as law enforcement goes on high alert
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8XP5uxPINhE


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Susie Hutchinson and Samsung Woodstock foiled by jump crew - EQUINE Ink] ---
Sometimes those big jumper courses can get confusing . . . at least that was probably the excuse of the jump crew when they ended up standing IN FRONT of a jump that Susie Hutchinson and Samsung Woodstock were trying to jump in the 1993 Volvo FEI World Cup Final. I’m not sure what’s more impressive — that she didn’t run them over, that her horse came back and jumped it a second time with no fuss, or that she is riding the horse in just a bit and reins! Note: there is a chin strap underneath the bit which helps hold it all in place. Susie was not penalized for the stop and ended up fourth in the competition.


--- [Throwback Thursday: Watch Susie Hutchison Survive The Ultimate ...] ---
This week show jumping fans have been discussing whether the member of jump crew standing in the track of the Nations Cup course interfered with Cian O’Connor’s round during the FEI European Championships (Germany). In the discussion, it came up that 22 years ago U.S. show jumper Susie Hutchison faced a dramatic encounter with jump crew on course—coincidentally also at the 11th fence on course. In the early 1990s, Susie Hutchison and Samsung Woodstock were a force to be reckoned with. Their many grand prix wins helped earn Hutchison 1992 Chronicle of the Horse Show Jumping Horseman of the Year honors, and there’s one round in particular she’ll never forget. Hutchison’s trip to the 1993 Volvo FEI World Cup Final in Gothenburg, Sweden, started out well. But in the third round she ran into some unexpected trouble, as reported in the April 30, 1993 issue of the Chronicle: The 17 fences for the final day’s first round course created a labyrinth of jumps and plants. The difficulty of navigating through the maze might be a legitimate excuse for the jump crew members who botched Hutchison and Samsung Woodstock’s round. Sitting in fourth place, the 14-year-old Westphalian made a serpentine down the centerline through the jungle to fences 9, 10 and 11. As the pair swung right to fence 11, they were greeted by two warm bodies standing directly in front of the fence. “The line came up so fast, by the time I turned and realized there was a tall person on one side and a shorter guy on the other, I didn’t really have time to think. They were directly in front of the gate," said Hutchison, 1992 champion of the American Grandprix Association. "I didn’t know what to do—I have a tendency to just go no matter what. They didn’t move and luckily [Woodstock] was smart enough to stop. I just turned around and just jumped it. I was really proud of him for coming back and doing it.” The two finished clear and Hutchison, in her fourth World Cup performance in Gothenbug, left the ring with a smile of bewilderment and good sportsmanship. A fidgety Chapot and booing crowd were ready to take vocal action, but the jury’s decision not to penalize her was met with great approval. The predominantly Swedish crowd, that affectionately refer to Hutchison as the Swedish Indian because of her bridle without a headstall, gave a welcoming chant as she entered the ring for the last round. Check out the video of that round here: “In my heart I knew he’d jumped a fabulous round,” recalled Hutchison. “Robert Ridland was there, and he and Frank Chapot were already running toward the jury when I was leaving the ring—plus I had the audience on my side. I think there would have been a riot if they’d made a different decision.” Woodstock pulled a single rail in the final round, finishing overall fourth in that year's World Cup Final. Two other U.S. riders finished in the top five that year: Michael Matz and Rhum IV claimed third, and Beezie Patton (now Madden) finished fifth with French Rapture. Woodstock was a crowd favorite because of his unconventional tack: he competed in just a bit with reins attached to it, thanks to trainer Jimmy Williams who helped Hutchison turn the tough horse into a winning ride. “Jimmy Williams was noted for having odd bridles,” said Hutchison. “Any bridle probably would have worked. This one drew attention to him and to Jimmy, and he went well in it.” Hutchison and Woodstock went on to represent the United States at the 1994 World Championships the following year in The Hague, the Netherlands. They were on track for a clear round in the Nations Cup when Woodstock bowed a tendon during the last line on course. Hutchison rehabbed him and he returned to competition, winning the grand prix at the Los Angeles National in 1997. Hutchison referred to “Woody” as her horse of a lifetime, and after he retired he lived in her backyard in Temecula, Calif., until his death in 2006. He’s buried on her farm.


--- [Susie Hutchison on Letting the Horse Guide You | ProEquest] ---
Susie Hutchison on Letting the Horse Guide You Blog Susie Hutchison on Letting the Horse Guide You The name Susie Hutchison is well-known in the equestrian world and synonymous with success. Susie has won over 80 Grand Prix events to date in her career. She has competed in the FEI World Equestrian Games and represented the U.S. in six FEI World Cup Finals. Over the years Susie has won a Mercedes, two Volvos, and a Cadillac, among her many awards and honors. Susie Hutchison & America 1 - Pennington Galleries Susie’s reputation and resume are legendary – and one of her strategies for success is letting the horse – and it’s potential and talent – guide decisions. She listens to the horse and guides it to reach its full potential. She grew up riding with Jimmy A. Williams at Flintridge Riding Club in Los Angeles county, and quickly rose through the ranks. She jumped a 7-foot puissance on Red Baron at the Indio National Horse Show when she was 18, and then became a professional, joining Jimmy Williams in his business and overseeing the training of 200 horses. One of her most memorable rides came on Samsung Woodstock – also her favorite horse – at the 1993 World Cup Finals in Sweden. Susie and Samsung Woodstock were having a fantastic round and came around to a vertical and the ring crew was standing in front of it. She slid to a stop and they threw their rakes up. Then, she circled Woodstock around and jumped it. She was one of two clear rounds that day and the video continues to gain viewers on YouTube. Susie enjoyed professional success throughout her career, winning on the east and west coasts as well as internationally on numerous horses. She was inducted into the National Show Hunter Hall of Fame in 2010 and National Show Jumping Hall of Fame in 2016. Her hunter Best Bet was inducted into the National Show Hunter Hall of Fame in 2008 and was the first west coast hunter to be inducted. Susie continues to guide horses and clients to the highest levels of the sport. Susan Hutchison Stables, Inc. moved south to Temecula about twenty years ago. There are about 15 horses in training with her at the California Ranch Company, a 65-acre facility offering incredible amenities and an oasis for Susie, her horses, and clients. She prefers to keep her barn small and hands-on now. Susie Hutchison & Samsung Woodstock - Pennington Galleries The Horses Susie grew up riding Thoroughbreds – they were the easiest to start because they had already learned to go forward and straight. She always trained them for the hunter ring first because in those days we didn’t have the lower jumping divisions. The hunter ring provided a strong foundation for them, and then she would see where the horse wanted to go. Over the past 10 years, her business has become more specific – partly because there are so many rings and it’s impossible to be in two places at one time. So, she started to specialize to be there for her clients while they’re in the show ring – and now only has jumpers. “I love the young horses and love to start them,” Susie says. “I let them tell me what they want to do. I listen to the horse. If it seems brave it may become a jumper. The division can depend on their style and confirmation. Downhill with a good jump and good movement may be a hunter.” Susie emphasizes that we learn a lot as equestrians – and need to keep learning. Our horses are also always learning, and the more exposure you can give a horse the more successful they will be. “It’s less expensive to take a young horse out and put in some .80s or .90s and then see where they are headed after that,” she mentions. “We go to shows to get some miles on them; they see the ring, the flowers, and get experience.” All horses are on their own timetable as well. For example, Warmbloods need more time to develop; and she mentions a mare in training that should be in the 7-year-old class but isn’t ready. “I am giving her time – there is no substitute for time.” “Horses tell you what they want to do – you just have to listen,” Susie continues. “If they do not have a lot of motivation, you might try equitation with them. If the neck is up and the haunches are tucked under and they jump everything like it’s three feet you may point them to the jumper ring. Give it time and let them develop; they will tell you where they want to go. Then, you know a horse is in the right division if they’re winning.” There are certain qualities that she looks for when evaluating horses. Susie emphasizes that good character is important in all horses; if it does not end up competing at Grand Prix it will probably become a junior or amateur horse as that is where the majority of exhibitors are in the sport. The mentality of the horse is important to their success at the junior and amateur levels. She is also careful to never over-face her riders and would rather have an overqualified horse that can compensate for their mistakes. It keeps the experience positive for both the horse and rider. Horses also need good conformation and good feet so that they will remain sound over the span of their careers – especially those that are competing with junior and amateurs and may enter several classes a day. “Scope and stride determine if a horse will make it in a jumper ring,” Susie adds. “Adjustability is important, and it takes time to develop. You want a horse that can go from long to short and short to long and be brave enough to jump the water. I also want my horses to turn fast like a polo horse.” Susie is a fast rider and develops that characteristic in her horses. Helping them gain speed is a continuation of their flatwork – she emphasizes that you cannot do enough flatwork. They have a huge arena at the California Ranch Company that’s used for reining and she allows the horses to learn to gallop and collect in there. Susie teaches them on ground poles and with angles. “I’m a huge advocate for galloping and collecting around the jumps,” she says. “We’ll practice circling around objects. Horses are creatures of habit. They learn through repetition; they learn to go around circles and objects. If they do the same thing too much they start to anticipate. Once they have learned something, we move on to something else.” The strategies that Susie uses and her ability to listen to a horse and guide it into the right division continue to augment the success she and her clients enjoy in the show ring. Horses she has trained and sold have gone on to enjoy wins and long careers with their new owners – thanks to the foundation she develops. Susie Hutchison & Notable “It's one sport where the older you get, sometimes the better you get. People love the sport right now because it gives them something to do and somewhere to go,” Susie says. “You can spend an hour riding and see some friends – it offers a reprieve from the pandemic. Horse sales are up and Thermal is booked with events.” If history is any indication, we can be sure that Susie Hutchison will be winning at those events.


--- [Throwback Thursday: Watch Susie Hutchison Survive The Ultimate ...] ---
This week show jumping fans have been discussing whether the member of jump crew standing in the track of the Nations Cup course interfered with Cian O’Connor’s round during the FEI European Championships (Germany). In the discussion, it came up that 22 years ago U.S. show jumper Susie Hutchison faced a dramatic encounter with jump crew on course—coincidentally also at the 11th fence on course. In the early 1990s, Susie Hutchison and Samsung Woodstock were a force to be reckoned with. Their many grand prix wins helped earn Hutchison 1992 Chronicle of the Horse Show Jumping Horseman of the Year honors, and there’s one round in particular she’ll never forget. Hutchison’s trip to the 1993 Volvo FEI World Cup Final in Gothenburg, Sweden, started out well. But in the third round she ran into some unexpected trouble, as reported in the April 30, 1993 issue of the Chronicle: The 17 fences for the final day’s first round course created a labyrinth of jumps and plants. The difficulty of navigating through the maze might be a legitimate excuse for the jump crew members who botched Hutchison and Samsung Woodstock’s round. Sitting in fourth place, the 14-year-old Westphalian made a serpentine down the centerline through the jungle to fences 9, 10 and 11. As the pair swung right to fence 11, they were greeted by two warm bodies standing directly in front of the fence. “The line came up so fast, by the time I turned and realized there was a tall person on one side and a shorter guy on the other, I didn’t really have time to think. They were directly in front of the gate," said Hutchison, 1992 champion of the American Grandprix Association. "I didn’t know what to do—I have a tendency to just go no matter what. They didn’t move and luckily [Woodstock] was smart enough to stop. I just turned around and just jumped it. I was really proud of him for coming back and doing it.” The two finished clear and Hutchison, in her fourth World Cup performance in Gothenbug, left the ring with a smile of bewilderment and good sportsmanship. A fidgety Chapot and booing crowd were ready to take vocal action, but the jury’s decision not to penalize her was met with great approval. The predominantly Swedish crowd, that affectionately refer to Hutchison as the Swedish Indian because of her bridle without a headstall, gave a welcoming chant as she entered the ring for the last round. Check out the video of that round here: “In my heart I knew he’d jumped a fabulous round,” recalled Hutchison. “Robert Ridland was there, and he and Frank Chapot were already running toward the jury when I was leaving the ring—plus I had the audience on my side. I think there would have been a riot if they’d made a different decision.” Woodstock pulled a single rail in the final round, finishing overall fourth in that year's World Cup Final. Two other U.S. riders finished in the top five that year: Michael Matz and Rhum IV claimed third, and Beezie Patton (now Madden) finished fifth with French Rapture. Woodstock was a crowd favorite because of his unconventional tack: he competed in just a bit with reins attached to it, thanks to trainer Jimmy Williams who helped Hutchison turn the tough horse into a winning ride. “Jimmy Williams was noted for having odd bridles,” said Hutchison. “Any bridle probably would have worked. This one drew attention to him and to Jimmy, and he went well in it.” Hutchison and Woodstock went on to represent the United States at the 1994 World Championships the following year in The Hague, the Netherlands. They were on track for a clear round in the Nations Cup when Woodstock bowed a tendon during the last line on course. Hutchison rehabbed him and he returned to competition, winning the grand prix at the Los Angeles National in 1997. Hutchison referred to “Woody” as her horse of a lifetime, and after he retired he lived in her backyard in Temecula, Calif., until his death in 2006. He’s buried on her farm.


--- [Woodstock & Susie Hutchison 1990 Flintridge Grand Prix] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Impressum Cancel Memberships Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC
