=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kashmiri wins 2016 Wisden-MCC Cricket 'Photograph of the Year ...]
Srinagar: A Srinagar based freelance photographer has done Kashmir proud, pocketing the prestigious 2016 Wisden-MCC (Melbourne Cricket Council) Cricket Photograph of the Year for a stunning image ...
URL: https://www.deccanchronicle.com/lifestyle/books-and-art/060517/kashmiri-wins-2016-wisden-mcc-cricket-photograph-of-the-year-award.html

[WISDEN–MCC CRICKET PHOTOGRAPH OF THE YEAR 2016]
Apr 5, 2017 · Indian freelance photographer, Saqib Majeed has won the 2016 Wisden–MCC Cricket Photograph of the Year competition. His stunning image of a boys’ cricket game in the Mughal gardens of Srinagar securing first prize. Saqib Majeed, a photojournalist of eight years, came across the scene on a visit ...
URL: https://www.thecricketer.com/topics/globalgame/wisden-mcc-cricket-photograph-2016.html

[Photographer Saqib Majeed wins prestigious Wisden – MCC Award]
Apr 5, 2017 · A Kashmiri freelance photographer Saqib Majeed has won the 2016 Wisden–MCC Cricket Photograph of the Year competition. Saqib’s clicked the award-winning picture at Nishat garden in Srinagar, in October last year. Saqib is an engineer by profession and a freelance photographer for the last eight years.
URL: https://kashmirlife.net/photographer-saqib-majeed-wins-prestigious-wisden-mcc-award-136816/

[Kashmir based Saqib Majeed has bagged 2016 Wisden-MCC Cricket ' ...]
May 6, 2017 · Kashmir based freelance photographer has bagged prestigious 2016 Wisden-MCC (Melbourne Cricket Council) Cricket ‘Photograph of the Year’ for capturing a stunning image of boys playing cricket at the Nishat garden in the outskirts of Srinagar. With this Saqib Majeed has become the first Kashmiri and second Asian after Atul Kamble to receive the prestigious award. Saqib Majeed is an engineer ...
URL: https://www.gktoday.in/kashmir-based-saqib-majeed-bagged-2016-wisden-mcc-cricket-photograph-year-award/

[Kashmiri boy bags 2016 Wisden-MCC Cricket 'Photograph of the ...]
May 6, 2017 · A Srinagar based freelance photographer has done Kashmir proud, pocketing the prestigious 2016 Wisden-MCC (Melbourne Cricket Council) Cricket Photograph of the Year for a stunning image, which captured boys playing cricket in the outskirts of the city, clicked by him.Saqib Majeed, an engineer by profession clicked the award-winning picture at the Nishat garden in Srinagar.Majeed is the first ...
URL: https://www.business-standard.com/article/news-ani/kashmiri-boy-bags-2016-wisden-mcc-cricket-photograph-of-the-year-award-117050600135_1.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kashmiri wins 2016 Wisden-MCC Cricket 'Photograph of the Year ...] ---
Kashmiri wins 2016 Wisden-MCC Cricket 'Photograph of the Year' award He photographed boys playing cricket in the outskirts of the city at Nishat garden Srinagar: A Srinagar based freelance photographer has done Kashmir proud, pocketing the prestigious 2016 Wisden-MCC (Melbourne Cricket Council) Cricket Photograph of the Year for a stunning image, which captured boys playing cricket in the outskirts of the city, clicked by him. Saqib Majeed, an engineer by profession clicked the award-winning picture at the Nishat garden in Srinagar.Majeed is the first Kashmiri and second Asian after Atul Kamble to receive the prestigious award. Every year MCC publishes a book titled Wisden Cricketer Almanack, which includes best sports pictures from across the globe. This year's edition includes Majeed's picture. Majeed's picture in Kashmir's autumn setting certainly had all the ingredients to make the cut. It had nature's own beauty coupled with cricketers playing the game in their own way that typify the sport with the man behind the camera having a feel of the occasion to capture the decisive moment."The historic Lords Cricket Ground will display my image for a year," said a visibly happy Majeed, who was chosen among 450 participants. "It was an autumn day when I visited the Nishat Garden with a friend to click some pictures. When I reached the garden, some guys were playing cricket under the shade of Chinar trees. I started to click the pictures for next half-an-hour," he said. Majeed recalls trying different angles to get a perfect shot, but ended up clicking only a few."I am very thankful to my family, friends and The Counselor Magazine, who always encouraged me," he added.


--- [WISDEN–MCC CRICKET PHOTOGRAPH OF THE YEAR 2016] ---
Saqib Majeed's Kashmiri cricket scene wins first prize Indian freelance photographer, Saqib Majeed has won the 2016 Wisden–MCC Cricket Photograph of the Year competition. His stunning image of a boys’ cricket game in the Mughal gardens of Srinagar securing first prize. Saqib Majeed, a photojournalist of eight years, came across the scene on a visit to Nishat Bagh – one of the most famous Mughal gardens. Shooting from a vantage point of 35 feet up, Majeed was able to capture the entire game amongst the autumnal colours of the surrounding chinar trees. Philip Brown’s image of Bangladesh’s Shakib Al Hasan - the world's leading allrounder - batting against England during the First Test in Chittagong was one of two equal runners-up. Asanka Brendon Ratnayake was the other runner-up for his photograph of India captain Virat Kohli warming his hands near the flames as he took the field for a T20 International against Australia at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Winner Saqeeb Majeed (Freelance): Kashmiri Muslim boys play cricket under autumn shades in the Nishat Bagh gardens on the outskirts of Srinagar Indian-administered Kashmir, November 10, 2016. Runner-up Philip Brown (Freelance): Shakib Al Hasan bats on the second day of the First Test between Bangladesh and England, Zohur Ahmed Chowdhury Stadium, Chittagong, Bangladesh, October 21, 2016. Runner up Asanka Brendon Ratnayake (Freelance): Virat Kohli warms his hands as he walks past the flames during the second Australia v India T20 International, Melbourne Cricket Ground, Australia, January 29, 2016. Shortlisted Matthew Lewis (Getty Images): West Indies captain Darren Sammy celebrates his team’s victory over England in the final of the ICC World Twenty20, Eden Gardens, Kolkata, India, April 3, 2016 Shortlisted Paul Miller (Australia Associated Press): Pat Cummins of Sydney Thunder fails to hold a catch offered by Moises Henriques of Sydney Sixers during a BBL Twenty20 match Spotless Stadium, Sydney, Australia, December 20, 2016. Shortlisted Ash Allen (Ash Allen Photography): Lendl Simmons of St Kitts and Nevis Patriots loses his bat during a game against Trinbago Knight Riders in the Caribbean Premier League. Central Broward Regional Park, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, USA, July 31, 2016. Shortlisted A. M. Ahad (Freelance): Children play cricket on a road in Sirajganj, Bangladesh, February 4, 2016. Shortlisted Hemant Padalkar (DNA India): Boys playing cricket on the terrace of a building as traffic passes below. Lalbaug, Mumbai, India, May 17, 2016. Shortlisted Matthew Childs (Action Images): Jos Buttler and Joe Root dive for a catch in the Fifth England v Sri Lanka One-Day International. SSE SWALEC, Cardiff, Wales, July 2, 2016. Shortlisted Md Rafayat Haque Khan (Amateur): On a winter morning in the Brahmanbaria District of central Bangladesh, children play cricket among drying rice. Chittagong, Bangladesh, November 3, 2016. Shortlisted Kuntal Roy (Amateur): A young girl in a remote village is challenged by her friends to keep the ball bouncing on her bat. Sundarban, West Bengal, India, December 30, 2016.


--- [Photographer Saqib Majeed wins prestigious Wisden – MCC Award] ---
No content


--- [Kashmir based Saqib Majeed has bagged 2016 Wisden-MCC Cricket ' ...] ---
Kashmir based Saqib Majeed has bagged 2016 Wisden-MCC Cricket 'Photograph of the Year' Award Kashmir based freelance photographer has bagged prestigious 2016 Wisden-MCC (Melbourne Cricket Council) Cricket ‘Photograph of the Year’ for capturing a stunning image of boys playing cricket at the Nishat garden in the outskirts of Srinagar. With this Saqib Majeed has become the first Kashmiri and second Asian after Atul Kamble to receive the prestigious award. Saqib Majeed is an engineer by profession. Every year MCC publishes a book with a title ‘Wisden Cricketer Almanack’ that includes best sports pictures that were taken across the globe. This year’s edition of the book will also feature Majeed’s picture. Tags: Cricket, Jammu and KashmirWisden Cricketer Almanack is a cricket reference book published annually by the MCC in the United Kingdom. The book is hailed as the world’s most famous sports reference book.


--- [Kashmiri boy bags 2016 Wisden-MCC Cricket 'Photograph of the ...] ---
Kashmiri boy bags 2016 Wisden-MCC Cricket 'Photograph of the Year' award A Srinagar based freelance photographer has done Kashmir proud, pocketing the prestigious 2016 Wisden-MCC (Melbourne Cricket Council) Cricket Photograph of the Year for a stunning image, which captured boys playing cricket in the outskirts of the city, clicked by him. Saqib Majeed, an engineer by profession clicked the award-winning picture at the Nishat garden in Srinagar. Majeed is the first Kashmiri and second Asian after Atul Kamble to receive the prestigious award. Every year MCC publishes a book titled Wisden Cricketer Almanack, which includes best sports pictures from across the globe. This year's edition includes Majeed's picture. Majeed's picture in Kashmir's autumn setting certainly had all the ingredients to make the cut. It had nature's own beauty coupled with cricketers playing the game in their own way that typify the sport with the man behind the camera having a feel of the occasion to capture the decisive moment. "The historic Lords Cricket Ground will display my image for a year," said a visibly happy Majeed, who was chosen among 450 participants. Also Read "It was an autumn day when I visited the Nishat Garden with a friend to click some pictures. When I reached the garden, some guys were playing cricket under the shade of Chinar trees. I started to click the pictures for next half-an-hour," he said. Majeed recalls trying different angles to get a perfect shot, but ended up clicking only a few. "I am very thankful to my family, friends and The Counselor Magazine, who always encouraged me," he added. Disclaimer: No Business Standard Journalist was involved in creation of this content More From This Section Don't miss the most important news and views of the day. Get them on our Telegram channel First Published: May 06 2017 | 9:48 AM IST
