=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[LaserDisc player - Wikipedia]
In March 1984, Pioneer introduced the first consumer player with a solid-state laser, the LD-700. It was also the first LD player to load from the front and not the top. One year earlier Hitachi introduced an expensive industrial player with a laser diode, but the player, which had poor picture quality due to an inadequate drop-out compensator, was made only in limited quantities. After ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laserdisc_player

[Grokipedia: Laserdisc player]
Learn more about Laserdisc player on Grokipedia.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Laserdisc_player

[The Pioneer LaserActive and the RetroTINK-5X: A Match Made in Heaven?]
The Pioneer LaserActive is one of the toughest nuts for upscalers to crack. It combines a game library consisting of fastpaced FMV crosshair shooters and quicktime event games like Triad Stone all in 240p with a need for highquality 480i deinterlacing for its us...
URL: https://nicole.express/2021/active-tink-retro-laser.html

[Preservation Self-Assessment Program (PSAP) | Optical Media]
LaserDisc was a trademarked name given to a version of this optical storage format developed by the Philips Corporation but has since become the common name for this format. LaserDiscs released before the mid1980s are also known by other trademarked names such a...
URL: https://psap.library.illinois.edu/collection-id-guide/opticalmedia

[Caledonian Photonics]
Caledonian Photonics is a consultancy in the field of robust miniaturised solidstate lasers and associated optical systems. We offer expertise in design for manufacture reliability and environmental insensitivity with experience of the academic scientific and de...
URL: https://caledonianphotonics.com/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [LaserDisc player - Wikipedia] ---
No content


--- [Grokipedia: Laserdisc player] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [The Pioneer LaserActive and the RetroTINK-5X: A Match Made in Heaven?] ---
The Pioneer LaserActive and the RetroTINK-5X: A Match Made in Heaven? In the past, I’ve noted that the Pioneer LaserActive is one of the toughest nuts for upscalers to crack. It combines a game library consisting of fast-paced FMV crosshair shooters and quick-time event games like Triad Stone all in 240p, with a need for high-quality 480i deinterlacing for its use as a LaserDisc video player. All of this must be done over composite video, the “native language” of the LaserDisc video format, which can make matters particularly complex when using it to play Sega Genesis games, since that system’s timing causes issues with composite video. Since Mike Chi’s past RetroTINK devices have had good handling of composite video, I was pretty excited to try his newest device. This post was originally written for RetroRGB, I’m cross-posting here for like, brand consistency or something. 240p video I don’t think you need this post to tell you that the RetroTINK-5X handles 240p brilliantly, and this is true over composite video too. It gets a gold star as the first composite scaler designed for retro gaming I’ve seen to successfully decode colors in all of the Genesis’ video modes; my usual challenge here is the title screen of EA’s Blades of Vengeance, which both the FrameMeister and the RetroTINK-2X get wrong. Compared side-by-side, the difference is stark. Yes, that title screen is supposed to be red and purple. Note that I’m using “Generic 4:3” sampling here; I find I prefer that for composite video with the RetroTINK-5X, since the original signal is not going to be able to reconstruct a pixel-perfect image, but this is just a matter of preference. One thing I did notice on the Sega Genesis (PAC S-1) signals in particular was that the comb filter made the chroma dots visible. (Look in the “L” of “blades” in particular) This didn’t seem to be an issue when playing LaserDisc video or when using the PC Engine (PAC N-1), and the comb filter looks pretty good here, but it feels worth noting, especially since the notch filter was often the better option when using the RetroTINK-2X Mini with the LaserActive. FMV Games FMV games for both PACs looked pretty great; again I primarily used the “Generic 4:3” upscaler. The video portions of the LaserActive are analog video, so pixel perfection isn’t a thing. You might notice the above screenshot looks pretty blocky in the vertical axis; this is especially evident on the word “OPTIONS”. LaserActive games like Rocket Coaster are actually 240p analog video, so this isn’t a deinterlacing issue. It is, however, a good opportunity to try out some of the other interpolation options. It looks pretty good! That being said, the smoothing really isn’t necessary in gameplay itself; it’s just particularly noticeable on these menus, which are actually single frames of 240p video. Within the game, there is some rainbow banding, but overall it looks quite good. I think the fact that the “Future World” text is difficult to read is more the fault of Taito than it is of RetroTINK. LaserDisc Video This was something I was excited to try out, even if it’s a little outside of the common usage of the RetroTINK devices. The Pioneer CLD-A100 is not the highest-quality LaserDisc player in the world, lacking features like automatic disc side changing, but I don’t watch enough movies to have it worth having two LaserDisc players underneath my television. So let me stress it: I am no cinemaphile. So this isn’t really a good description of using the RetroTINK-5X as a high quality video upscaler; it’s more just taking a look at it from the perspective of someone who cares a lot about video game graphic reproduction, but doesn’t know much about movies. Since home video is usually designed to have overscan, using the RetroTINK-5X in its 1080p(OVER) mode is definitely warranted. Overall I found the RetroTINK’s motion adaptive deinterlacing to work pretty well for video content; for example, the scene above from Star Trek V, Spock’s rocket boots are in motion and moving on the camera, but no obvious deinterlacing artifacts are visible. In this shot from Star Trek: The Motion Picture; the tradeoffs of deinterlacing are a bit clearer. Spock’s head is in motion, so his eyebrows in particular show lower resolution compared to Scotty in front, who is more stationary. The biggest downside for this movie, though, is that the RetroTINK-5X has no mode to get rid of the 16:9 letterbars and fill the screen. (Some televisions can do this even on their digital input, especially if the RetroTINK is placed in 480p mode, so there are options) One thing I found surprisingly fun to mess with is using the RetroTINK’s scanline options on video content. Home video of this era always looks best on a CRT, so bringing a bit of the CRT look can work well. However, I only recommend doing this in high resolutions like 1200p or 1440p; even in my 1080p capture, this looks a little chintzy. (And of course, image compression ruins it) Looking good! I didn’t mean for this to sound like an advertisement; I’m just really impressed with the RetroTINK-5X Pro’s performance on the Pioneer LaserActive. It’s a challenging system to handle, and the upscaler handles it with ease and finesse. Composite video upscaling doesn’t always get the respect it deserves, but Mike Chi has really nailed it here. As the RetroTINK-5X is constantly getting firmware updates, I’m curious to see what can be improved, especially in the realm of scanline options.


--- [Preservation Self-Assessment Program (PSAP) | Optical Media] ---
This moving image and/or audio format type consists of a plastic disc encasing a dye or metal layer containing the encoded information. This format type is read by a laser. LaserDiscs are subject to mechanical and surface contaminants. Scratches and dirt can drastically affect laser performance, as playback equipment can become misaligned and mistracked. Additionally, LaserDiscs do not have some of the error correction technology that later optical media have, and they are much more sensitive to damage. Inherent vice also affects LaserDisc. Some manufacturing defects adversely affect the lifespan and playback quality of the discs. Discs may succumb to surface crazing, where the surface of the discs exhibits a milky white, lattice, or spider web-like pattern. Crazing can indicate that the seal that protects the inner aluminum signal carrier has broken, making the inner core vulnerable to oxidation. Oxidation is also known as laser rot, a process through which the aluminum loses its reflectivity and the quality of the playback signal degrades. Oxidation of the delicate aluminum can render the signal irretrievable. The earliest forms of LaserDisc (e.g. DiscoVision) may require proprietary playback equipment. Since LaserDisc players are long obsolete and most used players are over twenty years old, playback may be hindered by mechanical failure and/or track or laser misalignment. Track misalignment can degrade the quality of the playback signal and can introduce crosstalk; laser misalignment can cause signals from contiguous tracks to bleed into the track being played. LaserDiscs only hold a maximum of 55 minutes of data (depending on the type of disc). As such, discs may be double sided. Data-rich content for feature-length films may be recorded on several discs. During playback, users must manually change discs or flip the disc over in order to continue accessing the material. | Ideal | Acceptable | | |---|---|---| | Temp. | 45–54°F (7–12°C) | 55–68°F (13–20°C) | | RH | 30–50% RH | Most CD damage is incurred through poor storage and handling. Surface scratches, gouges, and smudges can inhibit playback of the disc. There may be some inherent vice within the materials used to create CDs, but signal loss due to inherent vice is not as frequent in newer CDs. If the seal encasing the aluminum recording surface is somehow compromised, the aluminum layer can oxidize, resulting in data loss. This deterioration is colloquially referred to as "disc rot" or "laser rot." Indications of disc rot include: pin-sized holes in the reflective layer, a bronze coloring on the non-labeled side of the disc, and crazing. Crazing can be seen in snowflake-like or fractal-like milky-white patterns on the disc. Crazing typically only affects early CDs because as manufacturing processes improved, the issue became less of a problem. Scratches on the label side of CDs can also affect playback, since CDs are relatively thin and composed of a single layer of reflective aluminum encased in polycarbonate. Any discs that exhibit these signs of deterioration should be error checked and/or replaced. Data on CDs, especially non-replicated, recordable/rewritable CDs, is subject to loss over time. All optical media carriers should be regularly error checked for data degradation. Recordable and rewritable CDs contain a dye layer that can cause numerous problems like signal loss and failure due to several factors. The quality of the recorded signal relies on the interaction of the individual burner, the medium, and the individual player. Discs recorded at higher speeds tend to use less dye when encoding the signal, which can result in its long term failure. In order to slow data loss, all optical media should be stored in cool, dry, and dark conditions. Playback equipment and media are still readily available for this format. Recordable discs, especially those recorded at high speeds, may have significantly shorter life spans than commercially replicated discs. Optical media should not be considered an archival format due to the high cost of maintenance and error-checking. Recordable discs may be appropriate as a temporary solution for smaller institutions that have a collection of compact cassettes in need of immediate reformatting and that are under funding restraints. However, transfer to optical media should not be considered the final stage for this type of archival preservation. Although all CDs look the same, there are several different formats: CD+G (Compact Disc plus Graphics), CD-I (Compact Disc-Interactive), CD-R (Compact Disc-Recordable), and CD-RW (Compact Disc-Rewritable). These formats may require specific playback equipment (e.g. CD+G), playback equipment that supports delivery of both audio and video content (e.g. CD-I), and/or equipment that can read discs written at lower/higher spin speeds. Depending upon when they were created and the capabilities of the disc writer, CD-R and CD-RW may not be playable in all CD players or CD-Rom drives. Differing CD formats and technical considerations are detailed in various "color book" standards (see Color Standards below). Compact Disc Digital Audio (CDDA) conforms to the Red Book Standard, which specifies a number of technical aspects, including maximum playing time (74 minutes). | Ideal | Acceptable | | |---|---|---| | Temp. | 45–54°F (7–12°C) | 55–68°F (13–20°C) | | RH | 30–50% RH | "Rainbow Books" (or, "Color Books") are a collection of compact disc format specifications, which are licensed by Philips. They are technical standards for CD and CD-ROM formats that are outlined in a set of color-bound books. Basic specifications include: | Color Standard | CD Format | |---|---| | Red Book (1982) | CDDA (Compact Disc-Digital Audio) | | Green Book (1986) | Standard for CD-I discs. This standard not only specifies data and disc elements, but also defines hardware and operating platform. This format is designed to operate with televisions and stereo systems. | | Yellow Book: Mode 1 (1988) | CD-ROM data with Logical Error Correction Code (LECC); will allow virtually all PCs to access its data | | Orange Book (1990) | Standard for CD-R discs. Allows discs recorded on CD-Rs to be read by standard CD-ROM and audio drives. | | Yellow Book: Mode 2 (1991) | CD-ROM data (without LECC); allows for more content to be written to the disc. CD-ROM/XA, Bridge discs (including Photo CD, Karaoke CD, and Video CD), and Green Book, or CD-I, fall under the Mode 2 standard of Yellow Book. These discs generally require specialized playback equipment. | | White Book (1993) | Video CD standard. Due to storage space limitations and other issues, this format has largely been replaced by the DVD. | | Blue Book (1995) | A subset of the Orange Book standard. Designed to support multi-session disc playback in standard CD-Rom and audio drives. | | Ideal | Acceptable | | |---|---|---| | Temp. | 45–54°F (7–12°C) | 55–68°F (13–20°C) | | RH | 30–50% RH | Most DVD damage is incurred through poor storage and handling. Surface scratches, gouges, and smudges can inhibit playback of the disc. There may be some inherent vice within the materials used to create DVDs, but signal loss due to inherent vice is not as frequent in newer DVDs. Scratches on the label side of commercially produced DVDs are less damaging than they are to CDs, as DVDs have an extra layer of polycarbonate that protects the metallic recording layer within the disc. All optical media should be stored in cool, dry, and dark conditions. Data on DVDs, especially non-replicated, recordable/rewritable DVDs, is subject to loss over time. All optical media should be regularly checked for data degradation. A DVD relies on the interaction of the individual burner, the medium, and the individual player. Discs recorded at higher speeds tend to use less dye when encoding the signal, which can result in its long term failure. Playback equipment and media are still readily available for this format. Recordable discs, especially those recorded at high speeds, may have significantly shorter life spans than other discs. Optical media should not be considered an archival format due to the high cost of maintenance and error-checking. Recordable discs may be appropriate as a temporary solution for smaller institutions that have a collection of compact cassettes in need of immediate reformatting and that are under funding restraints. However, transfer to optical media should not be considered the final stage for this type of archival preservation. | Ideal | Acceptable | | |---|---|---| | Temp. | 45–54°F (7–12°C) | 55–68°F (13–20°C) | | RH | 30–50% RH |


--- [Caledonian Photonics] ---
An Innovative Agency For Forward-Thinking Brands About Us Caledonian Photonics Limited is a consultancy in the field of robust, miniaturised solid-state lasers and associated optical systems. We have expertise in design for manufacture, reliability and environmental insensitivity, with experience of the academic, scientific and defence markets. Based in central Scotland, Caledonian Photonics was founded in May 2018. Since that time Caledonian Photonics has been engaged in consultancy to the Photonics industry and in technology development for exploitation in future laser products. Caledonian Photonics is a member of Technology Scotland and Photonics Scotland. Founder & CEO Dr Stephen T Lee Stephen Lee, Caledonian Photonics’ founder and CEO, has 23 years of experience in the design and manufacture of solid-state lasers and their integration into optical systems. Stephen’s PhD from the University of Strathclyde in experimental laser physics concentrated on increasing the stability and practicality of ultrashort-pulsed diode-pumped solid-state laser systems. He further developed this area of expertise during his 6 years at Coherent as a senior laser design engineer engaged in new product design and introduction of Ti:Sapphire lasers for bioscience applications. Stephen then spent 10 years at Thales UK developing robust lasers for harsh environments where he held the positions of Thales UK Laser Expert, Engineering Manager and Design Authority for the Defence Lasers product line. Stephen is a Chartered Physicist, a Fellow of the Institute of Physics, and is an inventor of 5 granted patents in the field of environmentally-robust lasers. Consultancy Capabilities Caledonian Photonics is active in consultancy to the Photonics industry, where we offer: - Domain knowledge of defence, scientific and commercial photonics applications, including within Quantum Technologies - Photonics system architecting - Laser resonator and optical system design using Zemax and SOLIDWORKS - Feasibility studies and prototyping in Caledonian Photonics’ lab - Design for manufacture, reliability and environmental insensitivity - Grant proposal writing with recent successful experience of Innovate UK and the UK Defence and Security Accelerator Clients Testimonials Development Projects QT-Assemble QT Assemble brings together a consortium of UK companies to develop highly-innovative assembly and integration processes for new markets in quantum technologies. Waveguide writing, nanoscale alignment and monolithic integration will be used to deliver new levels of performance in robust and reliable platforms. High-performance components and systems will be demonstrated including highly-integrated lases, photon sources, photon detectors and ultra-cold matter systems. New commercial opportunities have been identified that require reliable and robust operation in quantum sensing and quantum information processing markets. QT-Assemble is a 36-month, Innovate UK-Funded Quantum Technologies project that started on September 1st 2020. The project brings together a consortium of 14 companies and universities, led by Fraunhofer UK Research. High-BIAS2 Navigation using space-based satellite signals underlies many critical technologies across the UK. Most advanced navigation technologies rely on the signals from networks known as the Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) to remain accurate over long distances. Loss of these signals result in an unstable navigation systems and increasingly less accurate location and direction estimation during operation. GNSS signals may be lost accidentally from criminal activity or due to military action. For example, in 2018 several passenger flights off the Norwegian coast lost GNSS signals due to signal ‘jamming’ from military exercises. In addition, ‘Spoofing’ or deliberately transmitting false guidance signals has been demonstrated as an insidious cyberweapon that can deliberately mislead and fool cargo or passenger vessels. As systems are increasingly automated, the consequences of the loss of GNSS signals dramatically increase and may include loss of property, or in the extreme case, loss of life. Local on-board instruments can provide measurements to stabilise current navigation system technology without GNSS signals. Quantum technology-based sensors have the potential to provide stability to navigation systems over long periods of time due to the unique combination of high sensitivity to motion with superb isolation from changes in the surrounding environment. High-BIAS2 will demonstrate the ability of a quantum rotation sensor’s ability to stabilise the orientation of aircraft guidance system in the absence of GNSS signals. Local stabilisation using quantum technology will decrease the reliance of navigation systems on GNSS and provides a measure of protection against signal loss, jamming, and spoofing to increase safety and security. High-BIAS2 is a 36-month, Innovate UK-Funded Quantum Technologies project that started on August 1st 2020. The project brings together a consortium of 7 companies, led by Cold Quanta UK. SAFIRE Progress in commercializing cold-atom-based quantum instruments is limited by the availability of reliable size, weight, power and cost-reduced narrow linewidth lasers. Great progress has been made in the development of semiconductor laser platforms to allow for many of the laser-cooling functions to be achieved, but some of the more-challenging functional requirements are unlikely to be met by this approach. The Safire project will accelerate the commercialisation of cold-atom Quantum technologies including optical clocks, gravimeters, inertial-navigation units and ion-trap quantum computers. In optical clocks, the magic wavelengths for the creation of an optical lattice at 813 nm (Sr) and 759 nm (Yb) require high power and narrow linewidth. This function is generally achieved with a tunable Ti:Sapphire laser. These laser systems generally cost ~£100k and are large and fragile devices, making them one of the primary impediments to system miniaturisation and cost-reduction. Many quantum instruments based upon cold-atom interferometry, such as gravimeters and inertial navigation units for GNSS-free navigation, require a narrow-linewidth Raman-beam to operate. In Rubidium interferometers the relatively high-power (multiple Watts in some systems) and narrow linewidths (~10s of kHz) required are often provided by a frequency-doubled telecoms-fibre laser. These lasers are expensive (\>£50k) and their complexity often leads to unreliable operation. This represents a significant risk to the potential commercialisation of interferometer-based instruments that must be fielded in non-laboratory environments. The Safire project will develop a new capability in ultra-compact diode-pumped-solid-state lasers that addresses the requirements of the optical lattice function in clocks, the Raman-beam function in atom interferometers, and also for ion-trap quantum computers, in a form-factor appropriate for integration into robust Quantum instruments usable outside of the laboratory environment. This development builds upon NPL’s long history in optical clock development, Optocap and RAL-Space’s experience in micro-ECDLs for cold-Rubidium instruments from the Innovate REMOTE project, and on Caledonian Photonics’ capability in miniaturised, robust monolithic DPSS lasers. Safire is an 18-month, Innovate UK-Funded Quantum Technologies project that started on April 1st2020. The project brings together a consortium of 4 companies, led by Caledonian Photonics.
