=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hawaii becomes 49th state to recognize Juneteenth | AP News]
Jun 17, 2021 · HONOLULU (AP) — Hawaii on Wednesday became the 49th state to officially recognize Juneteenth when the governor signed legislation designating June 19 as a day commemorating the end of slavery in the United States. Gov. David Ige signed the bill just hours before the U.S. House passed its own legislation designating the day a federal holiday.
URL: https://apnews.com/article/joe-biden-hi-state-wire-hawaii-lifestyle-juneteenth-a88f7420dc6f96205a56595056ace811

[Hawaii Becomes 49th State to Recognize Juneteenth, Biden Signs Federal ...]
Jun 17, 2021 · Hawai‘i is the 49th state to officially recognize Juneteenth now that the governor has signed legislation designating June 19 as a day commemorating the end of slavery in the United States. Gov. David Ige signed the bill just hours before the U.S. House passed its own legislation designating the day a federal holiday.
URL: https://www.hawaiipublicradio.org/local-news/2021-06-17/hawaii-becomes-49th-state-to-recognize-juneteenth-biden-signs-federal-holiday-bill

[Hawaii Becomes 49th State To Recognize Juneteenth]
Jun 16, 2021 — Hawaii is the second-to-last state to officially recognize Juneteenth. The bill signed by Ige stopped short of making Juneteenth a state holiday.
URL: https://www.civilbeat.org/2021/06/hawaii-becomes-49th-state-to-recognize-juneteenth/

[Which state doesn't recognize Juneteenth? | cbs8.com]
Jun 17, 2021 · HONOLULU — Hawaii on Wednesday became the 49th state to officially recognize Juneteenth when the governor signed legislation designating June 19 as a day commemorating the end of slavery in the ...
URL: https://www.cbs8.com/article/news/nation-world/hawaii-now-49th-state-to-recognize-juneteenth-june-19/507-56ffb2c5-762a-40c6-ad23-5429b7019733

[Amid national pressure, Hawaii becomes 49th state to officially ...]
Jun 17, 2021 · HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - Gov. David Ige signed a bill Wednesday morning, making Hawaii the second to the last state to recognize Juneteenth as an official day of remembrance. This comes one day ...
URL: https://www.hawaiinewsnow.com/2021/06/17/hawaii-officially-recognizes-juneteenth-amid-national-pressure/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hawaii becomes 49th state to recognize Juneteenth | AP News] ---
Hawaii becomes 49th state to recognize Juneteenth HONOLULU (AP) — Hawaii on Wednesday became the 49th state to officially recognize Juneteenth when the governor signed legislation designating June 19 as a day commemorating the end of slavery in the United States. Gov. David Ige signed the bill just hours before the U.S. House passed its own legislation designating the day a federal holiday. The U.S. Senate already passed the bill, which President Joe Biden is expected to sign. Hawaii’s law recognizes Juneteenth but doesn’t make it a state holiday. The law takes effect immediately, just in time for the date to be officially observed on Saturday. Juneteenth commemorates when the last enslaved African Americans learned they were free. The Emancipation Proclamation freed slaves in the South in 1863. But it wasn’t enforced in many places until after the end of the Civil War two years later. Word of the Confederacy’s surrender didn’t reach the last enslaved Black people until June 19, when Union soldiers brought news of freedom to Galveston, Texas. After the killing of George Floyd, a Black man, by Minneapolis police last year fueled calls to address systemic racism in the United States, Ige said it was more important and timely than ever that Hawaii acknowledge the African-American experience and the accomplishments of African Americans. “With the signing of this bill, I hope that June 19 will serve as a moment of reflection for everyone here in the islands and across the country to remember where we’ve come from, but most importantly, to be inspired to move our country and our community forward in search of that more perfect union where we treat everyone equally each and every day,” Ige said. The law came into being after Samantha Neyland, the-then reigning Miss Hawaii USA, launched a campaign to recognize the day. She recalls preparing to speak live on social media about Juneteenth during the coronavirus pandemic and learning that Hawaii was one of few states that didn’t observe the day. “And I kind of got embarrassed for my state. I just thought, OK, this is not who we are. We can’t be known for this. We’re so much better than that,” said Neyland, who is first African American to serve as Miss Hawaii USA. The killings of Floyd, Breonna Taylor and other Black people at the hands of law enforcement gave her additional motivation, remembering how their deaths left her hurt, confused and angry and needing to channel these emotions into something. “It kind of came to me and of me, and I decided, yeah, this is going to be my project,” Neyland said. Neyland hopes official recognition will spur Hawaii schools to teach students about Juneteenth history and about how the Hawaiian Kingdom outlawed slavery in 1852. Neyland said she didn’t learn about either in school. “You can’t change something that you don’t understand. So for me, this past year especially was about helping people understand,” she said. South Dakota is the only remaining state to not observe Juneteenth.


--- [Hawaii Becomes 49th State to Recognize Juneteenth, Biden Signs Federal ...] ---
HONOLULU — Hawaii on Wednesday became the 49th state to officially recognize Juneteenth when the governor signed legislation designating June 19 as a day commemorating the end of slavery in the United States. Gov. David Ige signed the bill just hours before the U.S. House passed its own legislation designating the day a federal holiday. The U.S. Senate already passed the bill unanimously. President Joe Biden then signed the legislation Thursday, saying he believes it will go down as one of the greatest honors he has as president. Juneteenth is the 12th federal holiday. “This is a day of profound weight and profound power, a day in which we remember the moral stain, the terrible toll that slavery took on the country and continues to take,” Biden said. Hawaii's law recognizes Juneteenth but doesn’t make it a state holiday. The state law takes effect immediately, just in time for the date to be officially observed on Saturday. Juneteenth commemorates June 19, 1865, when Union soldiers brought the news of freedom to enslaved Black people in Galveston, Texas — two months after the Confederacy had surrendered. That was also about two and half years after the Emancipation Proclamation freed slaves in the Southern states. It’s the first new federal holiday since Martin Luther King Jr. Day was created in 1983. One of the federal holidays, Inauguration Day, happens every four years. The U.S. Office of Personnel Management, which is the human resources office for the federal government, tweeted Thursday that most federal employees will observe the new holiday — Juneteenth National Independence Day — on Friday since June 19 falls on a Saturday this year. After the killing of George Floyd, a Black man, by Minneapolis police last year fueled calls to address systemic racism in the United States, Hawaii Gov. David Ige said it was more important and timely than ever that Hawaii acknowledge the African-American experience and the accomplishments of African Americans. “With the signing of this bill, I hope that June 19 will serve as a moment of reflection for everyone here in the islands and across the country to remember where we’ve come from, but most importantly, to be inspired to move our country and our community forward in search of that more perfect union where we treat everyone equally each and every day,” Ige said. The law came into being after Samantha Neyland, the-then reigning Miss Hawaii USA, launched a campaign to recognize the day. She recalls preparing to speak live on social media about Juneteenth during the coronavirus pandemic and learning that Hawaii was one of few states that didn’t observe the day. “And I kind of got embarrassed for my state. I just thought, OK, this is not who we are. We can’t be known for this. We’re so much better than that,” said Neyland, who is the first African American to serve as Miss Hawaii USA. The killings of Floyd, Breonna Taylor and other Black people at the hands of law enforcement gave her additional motivation, remembering how their deaths left her hurt, confused and angry and needing to channel these emotions into something. “It kind of came to me and of me, and I decided, yeah, this is going to be my project,” Neyland said. Neyland hopes official recognition will spur Hawaii schools to teach students about Juneteenth history and about how the Hawaiian Kingdom outlawed slavery in 1852. Neyland said she didn’t learn about either in school. “You can’t change something that you don’t understand. So for me, this past year especially was about helping people understand,” she said. South Dakota is the only remaining state to not observe Juneteenth. The vast majority of states recognize Juneteenth as a holiday or have an official observance of the day, and most states hold celebrations. Juneteenth is a paid holiday for state employees in Texas, New York, Virginia and Washington.


--- [Hawaii Becomes 49th State To Recognize Juneteenth] ---
Gov. David Ige signed into law a slew of progressive legislation on Wednesday that caps interest rates for short-term loans, mandates reporting of financial abuse against older adults and gets rid of a state law that allowed disabled people to be paid less than minimum wage. The Democratic governor also designated January as a month to honor survivors of the Kalaupapa leprosy colony on Molokai, in addition to signing a bill to recognize June 19 as Juneteenth. “It is now more important and timely than ever that Hawaii stand in the acknowledgment of the African American experience here in this country,” he said, as well as “the significant roles and accomplishments of African Americans here in Hawaii and across the country.” Hawaii is the second-to-last state to officially recognize Juneteenth. The bill signed by Ige stopped short of making Juneteenth a state holiday. But within hours of the signing ceremony, Congress approved Juneteenth as a federal holiday. President Joe Biden is expected to sign that bill into law. Ige addressed the presence of racism in Hawaii when asked about recent Honolulu police shootings that killed 16-year-old Iremamber Sykap and 29-year-old Lindani Myeni. Sykap was a Hawaii resident who was Pacific Islander, and Myeni was Black and had recently moved from South Africa. “I do think that, growing up in Hawaii, racism isn’t as prevalent as it is in other states. But we still see certain populations in our community are overrepresented in our jail population as well as our prison population,” Ige said. “And we need to continue our commitment to appropriately prosecuting actions that cross the boundary.” Racial and ethnic disparities are found not only in the state’s criminal justice system but across income levels, homeownership rates, education levels and more. Disparities have been most recently glaring in the state’s pandemic. The governor added that the state should guard against institutionalized racism. “Most importantly, we need to remain vigilant to protect against racism getting incorporated into our processes and procedures,” he said, adding that he looks forward to the investigation and trial of the three Honolulu police officers who shot at Sykap. One officer has been charged with murder and two others with attempted murder. “I do know that law enforcement in our community has worked hard to reform their processes so that we can eliminate the past practices that may have been prejudicial and not been the fairest to all of those in our community,” he said. Justin Levinson, a law professor at the University of Hawaii, said measuring racism across society is difficult and complex but his research suggests negative implicit bias against Black people in Hawaii is comparable to other states, while implicit bias against other groups varies. “What we know is nuanced,” he said. Hawaii residents have positive associations with Japanese Americans, while Levinson noted anti-Asian implicit bias is well-documented on the mainland. Meanwhile, anti-Micronesian and anti-Black sentiment persist in Hawaii, Levinson said. “People here have much stronger negative implicit bias against Micronesians (compared with the mainland),” he said. “I’ve done several studies myself on anti-Blackness here and on the mainland and no significant differences have yet to emerge.” Bills Signed Into Law Three other bills that Ige signed into law Wednesday were aimed at improving disparities affecting older adults, people with disabilities and low-income Hawaii residents who rely on payday lenders. The state is phasing out payday loans and requiring lenders to switch to a new kind of short-term installment loan next year that will charge consumers less. Currently, Hawaii payday lenders can charge interest that, once annualized, may be as high as 459%. The new law will cap the annual interest rate at 36% plus certain limited fees based on the loan amount. The state also eliminated a law that allowed companies to pay people with disabilities less than the state minimum wage. Sen. Joy San Buenaventura said at the Wednesday press conference that in researching the bill, she couldn’t find any companies who were taking advantage of that exemption. Still, she and other lawmakers praised the change. Rep. Richard Onishi called the previous law outdated and discriminatory. The governor said the bill “would restore equity, dignity and respect into our state’s wage laws.” Ige also signed a bill aimed at protecting older adults from financial abuse. The law requires investment advisers and others to report suspected financial exploitation of kupuna and gives qualified immunity for good faith reporting. Hawaii joins 28 other jurisdictions who have adopted that policy, Ige said. Sign up for our FREE morning newsletter and face each day more informed. Help us hold the powerful to account As a Civil Beat reader, you know how important it is for journalists to have the freedom, resources and ability to pursue stories that shine a light on corruption, institutional failures and other wrongdoing. Your support today will help keep our reporters on the beat and our stories always free to read. Give now and help power the strongest team of investigative journalists in the state. About the Author - Anita Hofschneider is a reporter for Civil Beat. You can reach her by email at anita@civilbeat.org or follow her on Twitter at @ahofschneider.


--- [Which state doesn't recognize Juneteenth? | cbs8.com] ---
- EnglishUnited States - Deutsch - English - Español - Français - Italiano - All languages - Afrikaans - azərbaycan - bosanski - català - Čeština - Cymraeg - Dansk - Deutsch - eesti - EnglishUnited Kingdom - EspañolEspaña - EspañolLatinoamérica - euskara - Filipino - FrançaisCanada - FrançaisFrance - Gaeilge - galego - Hrvatski - Indonesia - isiZulu - íslenska - Italiano - Kiswahili - latviešu - lietuvių - magyar - Melayu - Nederlands - norsk - o‘zbek - polski - PortuguêsBrasil - PortuguêsPortugal - română - shqip - Slovenčina - slovenščina - srpski (latinica) - Suomi - Svenska - Tiếng Việt - Türkçe - Ελληνικά - беларуская - български - кыргызча - қазақ тілі - македонски - монгол - Русский - српски - Українська - ქართული - հայերեն - עברית - اردو - العربية - فارسی - አማርኛ - नेपाली - मराठी - हिन्दी - অসমীয়া - বাংলা - ਪੰਜਾਬੀ - ગુજરાતી - ଓଡ଼ିଆ - தமிழ் - తెలుగు - ಕನ್ನಡ - മലയാളം - සිංහල - ไทย - ລາວ - မြန်မာ - ខ្មែរ - 한국어 - 日本語 - 简体中文 - 繁體中文 - 繁體中文香港 - EnglishUnited States - Deutsch - English - Español - Français - Italiano - All languages - Afrikaans - azərbaycan - bosanski - català - Čeština - Cymraeg - Dansk - Deutsch - eesti - EnglishUnited Kingdom - EspañolEspaña - EspañolLatinoamérica - euskara - Filipino - FrançaisCanada - FrançaisFrance - Gaeilge - galego - Hrvatski - Indonesia - isiZulu - íslenska - Italiano - Kiswahili - latviešu - lietuvių - magyar - Melayu - Nederlands - norsk - o‘zbek - polski - PortuguêsBrasil - PortuguêsPortugal - română - shqip - Slovenčina - slovenščina - srpski (latinica) - Suomi - Svenska - Tiếng Việt - Türkçe - Ελληνικά - беларуская - български - кыргызча - қазақ тілі - македонски - монгол - Русский - српски - Українська - ქართული - հայերեն - עברית - اردو - العربية - فارسی - አማርኛ - नेपाली - मराठी - हिन्दी - অসমীয়া - বাংলা - ਪੰਜਾਬੀ - ગુજરાતી - ଓଡ଼ିଆ - தமிழ் - తెలుగు - ಕನ್ನಡ - മലയാളം - සිංහල - ไทย - ລາວ - မြန်မာ - ខ្មែរ - 한국어 - 日本語 - 简体中文 - 繁體中文 - 繁體中文香港 Before you continue to YouTube We use cookies and data to - Deliver and maintain Google services - Track outages and protect against spam, fraud, and abuse - Measure audience engagement and site statistics to understand how our services are used and enhance the quality of those services If you choose to “Accept all,” we will also use cookies and data to - Develop and improve new services - Deliver and measure the effectiveness of ads - Show personalized content, depending on your settings - Show personalized ads, depending on your settings If you choose to “Reject all,” we will not use cookies for these additional purposes. Non-personalized content and ads are influenced by things like the content you’re currently viewing and your location (ad serving is based on general location). Personalized content and ads can also include things like video recommendations, a customized YouTube homepage, and tailored ads based on past activity, like the videos you watch and the things you search for on YouTube. We also use cookies and data to tailor the experience to be age-appropriate, if relevant. Select “More options” to see additional information, including details about managing your privacy settings. You can also visit g.co/privacytools at any time.


--- [Amid national pressure, Hawaii becomes 49th state to officially ...] ---
Amid national pressure, Hawaii becomes 49th state to officially recognize Juneteenth HONOLULU (HawaiiNewsNow) - Gov. David Ige signed a bill Wednesday morning, making Hawaii the second to the last state to recognize Juneteenth as an official day of remembrance. This comes one day after the US Senate’s decision to unanimously pass a bill to make June 19 a federal holiday. “With the signing of this bill, I hope that June 19 will serve as a moment of reflection for everyone here in the islands and across the country,” Ige said. Although it’s not an official federal holiday yet, the House is expected to vote and pass the bill Wednesday and become law with President Joe Biden’s signature just days before Juneteenth. According to Samantha Neyland, founder of Hawaii for Juneteenth, the most opposition she received from community members were opinions that racism doesn’t exist in Hawaii. But as part of less than 4% of the local Black community, she said there’s a lot of misconception. In 2013, Neyland won the title of Miss Hawaii Teen USA. She said she remembers a woman congratulating her for becoming the first Black Miss Hawaii Teen USA but advised her to revel in her time with the crown because “Hawaii would never crown a Black Miss Hawaii USA.” Neyland became the first Black woman to wear the Miss Hawaii USA crown last year. And while she said racism isn’t as prevalent as other states on the mainland, she believes it’s embarrassing to not officially commemorate June 19. “By recognizing Juneteenth, I think we’re taking a small step toward ending racial disparity here in Hawaii,” Neyland said. Juneteenth traces its historical significance back to 1865 ― two years after President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, when a Union Army major general rode into Galveston, Texas, and announced that all slaves were free. While many associate independence with July 4, Neyland said that June 19, 1865, was the first day that all Americans were truly free. “If we give [our younger generation] information on our past, it can help them understand our present and change our future,” Neyland said. “We can’t expect people to battle and break down systemic racism if we don’t allow them to understand where it comes from or why it exists.” To celebrate the state’s first official Juneteenth, there is a community ceremony on Saturday morning at Kapiolani Park and Saturday afternoon at Manoa Valley Theatre. For more events, click here. Copyright 2021 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.
