=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Henry Perigal (1801 - 1898) - Biography]
In 1843 Augustus De Morgan published the article Trochoidal curve in the Penny Cyclopaedia. ... Most of those given in this article were executed in his ...
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Perigal/

[Searchresults for: de morgan 1806 - MacTutor History of ...]
22 Apr 2025: In 1843 Augustus De Morgan published the article Trochoidal curve in the Penny Cyclopaedia. ... Augustus De Morgan reviewed one of Perigal's 'moon theory' papers in [3] and writes:-.
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Search/?btnG=Search&collection=uosa-web-maths-history&form=resultsonly&num_ranks=10&profile=_default&query=de+morgan+1806++&start_rank=21

[Reasoning Helps Surface Self-Confidence Signals in LLMs]
May 28, 2025 — In what year did Augustus De Morgan publish the article ”Trochoidal Curve” in the Penny Cyclopaedia? SimpleQA, Fact Retrieval, History and ...
URL: https://arxiv.org/html/2505.23845v1

[Bibliography - plus.maths.org]
Trochoidal curves by Augustus De Morgan in volume XXV of the Penny Cyclopaedia, Charles Knight & Co, London, 1836. This is just one, although by no means one of the most interesting, of the huge number of articles contributed to Charles Knight's encyclopaedia by De Morgan.
URL: https://plus.maths.org/bibliography

[Reasoning Helps Surface Self-Confidence Signals in LLMs]
Nov 5, 2025 — In what year did Augustus De Morgan publish the article "Trochoidal Curve" in the Penny Cyclopaedia? SimpleQA, Fact Retrieval, History and ...
URL: https://arxiv.org/html/2505.23845v2


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Henry Perigal (1801 - 1898) - Biography] ---
Henry Perigal Jr Quick Info Newington, Southwark, London, England St Giles, London, England Biography Henry Perigal Jr was the son of Henry Perigal Sr (1768-1867) and Louisa Brady (1770-1827). Henry Perigal Sr, born at Norton Folgate, Spitalfields, London on 19 July 1768, married Louisa Brady, born 17 November 1770 at Alverstroke, Southampton County, at Arundel Church, Sussex, England on 2 November 1799. Henry Perigal Jr, the subject of this biography, was the first of his parents' six children having the siblings Louisa Perigal (1802-1805), Caroline Perigal (1804-1888), George Perigal (1806-1855), who became a well-known chess player and Honorary Secretary to the London Chess Club, Louisa Ann Perigal (1808-1876), and Frederick Perigal (1812-1905), who spent forty years in the Admiralty. Henry Perigal Sn became Assistant Secretary to the Victualling Board working in the Admiralty Office. He lived to the age of 99, being one of thirteen children, nine of whom [2]:-... attained respectively their 64th , 67th , 77th , 80th , 88th , 90th , 94th , 97th , and 100th year - the last five averaging 93 years 100 days.We have to remember that, although this does not seem remarkable by today's average life span, in 1800 the average life span in the UK was only 40 years. Louisa Brady was the daughter of Lieutenant James Brady, R.N., and Ann Farrington. The family's ancestry went back to [4]:- ... Sigurd the Dane, who in 908 made a successful raid on Normandy, assumed the name of Perigal, and settled in France. The English branch of the family sprang from Gideon Perigal and his wife, Madeline Duval of Dieppe, Huguenots who escaped to London. Henry Perigal belongs to the tenth generation of their descendants.The family background is described in detail in the work [10] by Frederick Perigal, the youngest of the siblings. Henry Perigal was 67 years old when his father, also named Henry Perigal, died so for most of his adult life he was known as 'Henry Perigal Junior', while his father was 'Henry Perigal Senior'. Henry Perigal Sr was friendly with John Holt Ibbetson, who was an inventor who published works such as Specimens of Eccentric Circular Turning, with Practical Illustrations for producing Corresponding Pieces in that Art (1817) and A Brief Account of Ibbetson's Geometric Chuck, manufactured by Holtzapffel & Co., with a selection of 32 Specimens, illustrative of some of its powers (1833). This was friendship which became important for Perigal, the subject of this biography, as we shall see below. Perigal, who was known by the nickname "Cyclops" (in fact Cyclops, in brackets, is carved on his tomb), seems to have had a variety of jobs over the first forty years of his life but the main one was as a clerk in the Privy Council Office. From the 1840s he worked as a bookkeeper for his friend Henry Tudor who was a stockbroker operating from an office at 29 Threadneedle Street, London. Perigal continued working for Henry Tudor & Son, Stockbrokers, and only retired from the firm when he was 87 years old. He never married and we see from the UK census the different families that he lived with as a visitor or lodger. In both the 1841 and 1851 census he was living as a visitor with the Green family, a widow Sarah Green living with a daughter, two sons and a servant, at 5 Smith Street, Chelsea, London. He is living that this address in 1843 and writes a paper from it in August 1849. In February 1853 he gives his address on a paper as Cheyne Walk, Chelsea. An article written in 1856 gives his address as 26 Brompton Square, London, but at the time of the 1861 UK Census he is described as a visitor living with the large Fulkan family, the head of the family being Hamilton Fulkan, a civil engineer. The family had a nurse, a cook, two housemaids and a groom. On a paper Perigal wrote in 1869 he gives the address 57 Warren Street, Fitzroy Square. At the time of the 1871 UK Census, he was living as a lodger with artists and painters, Paul Ganci, his wife and two nieces, at 9 North Crescent, Bedford Square. He continued living there, this being his address up to the time of his death in 1898. From the time he was young, Perigal was interested in curve tracing using Ibbetson's geometric chuck, a tool used in ornamental wood turning. The obituary in Leonard J Rogers' article [12] states:- To this subject he brought to bear great patience, perseverance, and delicacy of manipulation. Many of the curves so drawn by him between 1830 and 1840 are exquisite examples of fine geometrical tracings performed by means of the bow pen.For the whole of the obituary of Perigal in Leonard Rogers' article, see THIS LINK. In 1843 Augustus De Morgan published the article Trochoidal curve in the Penny Cyclopaedia. He ends this article as follows:- ... we wish to call attention to the fact that the specimens of curves in this article are all the product of machinery. We are indebted for them to the kindness of Mr Henry Perigal, of Smith Street, Chelsea, a gentleman whose pursuits are scientific, and who practices the higher branches of turning as an amateur, and has devoted much time and money to the investigation of the effects of combined motions, as shown in the curves, resulting from them. Most of those given in this article were executed in his lathe by means of Ibbetson's geometric chuck, a contrivance the results of which are well known to turners, but which have never been exhibited, as far as we know, in any article professing to give a mathematical classification of them.Perigal's geometric chuck can be seen at THIS LINK. Before looking in more detail at Perigal's ideas and inventions, we should make it clear that although he did some nice geometric work, most of his ideas relating to astronomy were incorrect. The reader might well ask: "Why is he being included in this archive if many of his ideas were incorrect?" Perigal was an eccentric man but also clever. Although many of his ideas were incorrect, they were well thought out and made those with the correct ideas justify what they believed in. Many leading mathematicians and astronomers were his friends, made use of his skills, and were happy to see him raise issues which led to vigorous discussions, many in print. His friends included George Biddell Airy, William Henry Mahoney Christie (1845-1922) (an Astronomer Royal), Lord Kelvin, Lord Rayleigh, George Gabriel Stokes, Silvanus Phillips Thompson (1851-1916), James Whitbread Lee Glaisher and James Joseph Sylvester. He did some nice work on proving classical geometry theorems which only reached a wider audience after James Glaisher suggested he contribute some short papers to the Messenger of Mathematics in 1872. In the first of these papers Perigal writes [9]:- The present series of papers consist chiefly of notes and diagrams extracted from my note-books and sketches made during the last forty years. I have devoted much time and thought to the solution of geometric theorems and problems by dissections and transpositions, viz. in proving the equality of areas in equivalent rectangles, &c., and investigating how the figures could be best dissected, so that their component parts might be fitted together in either form, and I have often contemplated proving all the suitable Theorems and Problems in Euclid by such dissections and transpositions, so as to render them self-evident by ocular demonstration.The article [8] contains Perigal's symmetrical dissection approach to Pythagoras' Theorem for which he is best known today. He was so proud of it that the diagram was engraved on his tombstone. You can read a version of the article at THIS LINK. Spencer Compton, the 2nd Marquess of Northampton (1790-1851), was a well-known patron of the arts and sciences. He served as president of the Geological Society of London in the 1920s and as president of the Archaeological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland (1845-46 and 1850-51). In 1838 he became president of the Royal Society of London, continuing to serve in this role for ten years. Perigal was a regular at Saturday evening soirées of the Marquess of Northampton, and he exhibited various instruments at these events. Several were reported in the Literary Gazette where quite full descriptions of Perigold's ideas are given; we learn that his exhibits attracted the most attention. On the soirée of 21 March 1846, Perigal exhibited an instrument:- ... generating retrogressive or recurrent curves, by which the moving body, when it has reached the extreme points of the curve, retrogrades or returns back in exactly the same line along which it advanced; constantly moving forward and backward from one extremity to the other; and always tracing and retracing the same line as it alternately advances and recedes.He showed parabola-like curves which formed figure-of-eight figures and suggested that comets, following orbits computed to be parabolas, may follow such closed orbits. In the next soiree on 7 April 1846 he exhibited another instrument which produced parabola-like curves but, unlike the one from the pervious session, they did not cross over their paths but had a single closed loop. Again he suggested a possible comet connection. On the Marquess of Northampton's soirée of 13 February 1847 he presented his theory that the Moon did not rotate and illustrated his theory with instruments. This soirée was described in the Illustrated London News of 20 February 1847 where it states:- The evening event was held at the Marquis of Northampton's London home on The Terrace, Piccadilly. The location of the conversazione is described in contemporary accounts: 'The suite of saloons is four in number: the first, facing Piccadilly, being the reception-room. The several apartments are decorated in that quiet, elegant style by which the older London mansions of our nobility are so happily distinguished ... It is customary, at réunions like the present, to assemble models of new inventions, rare works of art, and other productions of genius, for the gratification of the company'.You can read reports of Perigal's contributions to these soirées at THIS LINK. Perigal's incorrect views on astronomy did not prevent him being elected a fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society (he was elected on 8 February 1850). Pparticularly given his friendship with several fellows of the Royal Society of London, including the president, the Marquess of Northampton, he hoped also for election to the Royal Society of London. Frederick Perigal writes in [10]:- Mr Perigal was desirous of being elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, believing that his investigations in curvilinear motion; his mechanical contrivances; and his services in various branches of science, entitled him to that distinction; but he was aware that his known opinions, respecting certain dogmas relating to Astronomy - not being orthodox - would be likely to militate against his admission; and so it proved when his name was put to the vote (when it is probable that many of his personal friends voted adversely); he was naturally disappointed with the result, but observed that his possessing an open mind in all questions, and not adopting doctrines without his judgment assented thereto, should be a reason in his favour, instead of against him.Perigal's completely false idea that the Moon did not rotate seems to have become one of the main obsessions in his life. There must have been a debate about it at the Astronomical Club in January 1865 when John Couch Adams argued the case for the moon to rotate and Perigal the case for non-rotation. His diary entry for 13 January 1865 reads [10]:- Dined with the Astronomical Club; after dinner, the question as to the moon's rotation was put to the vote, when the numbers were: 10 for Adams and rotation, 11 for Perigal and non-rotation.This shows that, even among astronomers, he was not alone in his false beliefs. Augustus De Morgan reviewed one of Perigal's 'moon theory' papers in [3] and writes:- Mr Henry Perigal helped me twenty years ago with the diagrams, direct from the lathe to the wood, for the article 'Trochoidal Curves,' in the 'Penny Cyclopaedia'; these cuts add very greatly to the value of the article, which, indeed, could not have been made intelligible without them. He has had many years' experience, as an amateur turner, in combination of double and triple circular motions, and has published valuable diagrams in profusion. A person to whom the double circular motion is familiar in the lathe naturally looks upon one circle moving upon another as in simple motion, if the second circle be fixed to the revolving radius, so that one and the same point of the moving circle travels upon the fixed circle.Perigal never gave up trying to convince others that the moon did not rotate [4]:- Mr Perigal commenced his attack upon the moon for moving about her axis, in the first of the tracts above [On the phenomena arising from the diurnal rotation of the Earth on its own axis, and its annual revolution round the Sun], ten years before Mr Jellinger Symons, but he did not think it necessary to make it a subject for the 'Times' newspaper; His familiarity with combined motions enabled him to handle his arguments much better than Mr J Symons could do: in fact, he is the clearest assailant of the lot that turned out with Mr J Symons. But he is as wrong as the rest. The assault is now I suppose, abandoned, until it becomes epidemic again. This it will do: it is one of those fallacies which are very tempting. There was a dispute on the subject in 1748, between James Ferguson and an anonymous opponent; and I think there have been others. ... there is no masking the fact that he was a paradoxer pure and simple, his main conviction being that the Moon did not rotate, and his main astronomical aim in life being to convince others, and especially young men not hardened in the opposite belief, of their grave error. To this end he made diagrams, constructed models, and wrote poems; bearing with heroic cheerfulness the continued disappointment of finding none of them of any avail.Others were motivated by Perigal's curves. For example, in 1865 Edward Sang published the paper On the Contact of the Loops of Epicycloidal Curves in volume 24 the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Sang begins the paper as follows:- During the summer vacation, Mr Henry Perigal of London proposed to me the following problem: "To determine the proportions of an epicycloid of which the loops touch each other."Another example is Perigal's offer, in 1868, of a prize of £10 if somebody could identify a curve he had discovered with his 'two circles machine'. [Note. £10 in 1868 is the equivalent of over £1000 today.] Who found Perigal's curve and won the generous prize? None other than James Clerk Maxwell. The solution of this problem contains some points of interest to the general analyst, and exhibits relations between certain trigonometric formulae and algebraic equations. I, therefore, offer an outline of it to the attention of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Mr Perigal had obtained the solution, in a considerable variety of cases by the method of trial, aided by mechanical appliances, and has exhibited them in his beautiful series of machine-engraved epicycloids. Many of Perigal's inventions are now held by the South Kensington Museum. In their 1876 Catalogue of the Special Loan Collection of Scientific Apparatus [14] the following seven items devised by Perigal are listed: - Compound Geometric Chuck, producing the kinematic retrogressive parabola, by continuous motion; either on a moving plane by a fixed point, or on a fixed plane by a moving point. - "Soldier Experiment." Model designed to demonstrate the relative effects of revolution and of rotation, separate or combined, by the movements of soldiers. - Compass Experiment, demonstrating that a magnetised needle does, but an unmagnetised needle does not, maintain its parallelism while revolving in a circle. - Gyroscope, demonstrating the effects of revolution and of rotation, the two ways of turning round. - Gyroscope, demonstrating that revolution alone will account for our always seeing the same face of the moon. - Selenoscope, to demonstrate the kinematic effects of the three hypotheses of the moon's motion, as a satellite of the earth. - Kinescopes, illustrating the laws of compound circular motion, by ocular demonstrations of their representative curves, shown by bright beads revolving with great rapidity. When our Society was formed [1865] he would have liked to join it at once, but feared that his paradoxical views on the subject of astronomical motions would disqualify him; he was much pleased therefore when, some years later, De Morgan offered to propose him as a member and signed his nomination form.He served on the Council of the Royal Microscopical Society and attended meetings of the Royal Institution for many years, becoming a member in 1895 at the age of 94 [13]:- ... supported by various dignified figures: chemist William Crookes, electricians William Preece and David Hughes, physicists C V Boys and Silvanus Thompson, and Augustus Stroh, the inventor of the horn violin.He was elected to the Association for the Improvement of Geometrical Teaching in 1874. He was enthusiastic about all these societies [12]:- He was a member of the Astronomical, Microscopical, Meteorological, Photographic, and several other scientific Societies, and a very regular attendant at the meetings of all, usually staying to the end, and often being the last to leave; and it may be said that for thirty or forty years, during eight months of the year, he divided his time between daily office work at 29 Threadneedle Street and evening attendance at the meetings of scientific societies, the lectures at the Royal Institution, &c.As to Perigal's character, the following description is given in [12]:- He was a warm friend, and a pleasant companion, gentle in manner, amiable, kind-hearted, and generous, interested in the topics of the day, and shrewd without being cynical. He rarely left London, and probably never went abroad in the last half of his life. At some time he had made a voyage to Madeira. Twenty years or more ago he let his beard grow, and since then his refined face, slight and fragile form, and long white beard and hair, made him a striking and picturesque figure. He ceased to attend scientific meetings two or three years ago, and for the last year or more had ceased to leave his lodgings; but there was no failure of mind or eye-sight.We can see something of his character from his calling cards which depict what he considered to be his "best" results. Here are three of the cards, his "parabola", "figure-of-eight curves", and his "Pythagoras dissection": Perigal remained remarkably fit and healthy until well into his 90s [4]:- He was remarkably vigorous until the last few years, and it may be recorded that on the occasion of the 90th birthday of Sir G B Airy [27 July 1891] - which was celebrated on Saturday 25 July by a reception at the White House, Greenwich Park - Mr Perigal walked up the steep Croom's Hill to the reception without apparently the least distress, being himself a year older that the distinguished nonagenarian. During the last year or two, however, his strength had failed, and he died peacefully on 6 June 1898.After he died his wishes were carried out that he be cremated at Woking in Surrey, and his ashes were buried in the churchyard of the Church of St Mary and St Peter in Wennington, Essex. His tomb carries several inscriptions and diagrams of his Pythagoras dissection theorem and his parabola construction. See THIS LINK. References (show) - B Casselman, On the dissecting table. Henry Perigal 1801-1898. +Plus Magazine (1 December 2000). https://plus.maths.org/content/dissecting-table - Complimentary Dinner to Mr H Perigal, Quarterly Journal of the Meteorological Society 19 (86) (1893), 154. - A De Morgan, A Budget of Paradoxes; On the phenomena arising from the diurnal rotation of the Earth on its own axis, and its annual revolution round the Sun, Astronomical Register 3 (1865), A2:4-A2:6. - Henry Perigal, Journal Royal Astronomical Society 59 (5) (1899), 226-228. - H Perigal, Appendix to No. 29. A Budget of Paradoxes; On the phenomena arising from the diurnal rotation of the Earth on its own axis, and its annual revolution round the Sun, Astronomical Register 3 (1865), A2:4-A2:6. - H Perigal, Perigal's Contributions to Kinematics (1859). - H Perigal, A Collection of Pamphlets, Reprints and Ephemera (1840). - H Perigal, Miscellaneous physical and mathematical papers. https://www.google.co.uk/books/edition/Miscellaneous_physical_and_mathematical/DCVbAAAAcAAJ?hl=en&gbpv=1&dq=Henry+Perigal&printsec=frontcover - H Perigal, On Geometric Dissections and Transformations, Messenger of Mathematics (2) 1 (1872), 103-106. - F Perigal, Henry Perigal, a short record of his life and works Extracts from His Diaries, and Reprints of Occasional Notices and Obituaries from Scientific and Other Publications, Accompanied with Illustrations of Specimens of a Few of His Designs, Both by the Bow-pen and Lathe (Bowles & Sons, 1901). - F Perigal, Some Account of the Perigal Family (Harrison and Sons, London, 1887). - L J Rogers, On certain Regular Polygons in Modular Network, Proc. London Math. Soc. 29 (1) (1897), 706-735. - L Scales, Henry Perigal, the Respected Crank, The Royal Institution (2014). https://www.rigb.org/blog/2014/december/henry-perigal - South Kensington Museum, Catalogue of the Special Loan Collection of Scientific Apparatus at the South Kensington Museum (George E Eyre and William Spottiswood, London, 1876). Additional Resources (show) Other pages about Henry Perigal: Other websites about Henry Perigal: Cross-references (show) Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update March 2021 Last Update March 2021


--- [Searchresults for: de morgan 1806 - MacTutor History of ...] ---
Search Filter Results - Christian Kramp (1760 - 1826) - Biography - MacTutor History of… https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Kramp/13 Oct 2025: géométrie. (Cologne, 1806), where now the author is C Kramp and there is no dating by year of the Republic. ... It is a notation that has become standard in use today, but Augustus De Morgan was highly critical of it in the Penny Cyclopaedia (1842). - William Rowan Hamilton (1805 - 1865) - Biography - MacTutor History… https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Hamilton/19 Dec 2025: Hist. Philos. Sci. 26 (4) (1995), 593-616. N G Krotkova, The generalized complex numbers of W R Hamilton and De Morgan (Russian), in History and methodology of the natural sciences ... L M Laita, Influences on Boole's logic : the controversy between - Adrien Quentin Buée (1745 - 1825) - Biography - MacTutor History of… https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Buee/7 Mar 2023: was read in 1805 at the Royal Society and was published in 1806. ... In the 1850s, Hamilton and De Morgan discussed Buée's 1806 paper in their correspondence; see THIS LINK. - Henry Perigal (1801 - 1898) - Biography - MacTutor History of… https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Perigal/2 Jan 2026: In 1843 Augustus De Morgan published the article Trochoidal curve in the Penny Cyclopaedia. ... Augustus De Morgan reviewed one of Perigal's 'moon theory' papers in [3] and writes:-. - William Hamilton (1788 - 1856) - Biography - MacTutor History of… https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Hamilton_William/7 Oct 2025: He continued to study logic and moral philosophy at Glasgow before entering the University of Edinburgh in 1806 to study medicine. ... Sadly, however, Hamilton claimed that De Morgan was guilty of plagiarism which was a ridiculous suggestion. - Augustus de Morgan PDF (2796k) https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/LMS/de_morgan_lms_obit.pdf28 Oct 2025: All hislife Augustus De Morgan read voraciously and wrote copiously—more of thislater. ... Solitude for a while is thegreatest of relaxations. A friend of mine [possibly John Thomas Graves,FRS (1806-1870), who was a colleague of Augustus De Morgan's - Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (C) -… https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Miller/mathword/c/16 Apr 2024: In 1806 The Monthly Review, Or, Literary Journal by Ralph Griffiths, G. - Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (P) -… https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Miller/mathword/p/7 Mar 2023: Charles Hutton's Dictionary (1795) shows parallelopiped and parallelopipedon. In Noah Webster's A compendious dictionary of the English language (1806) the word is spelled parallelopiped. ... Information from this web page.]. PLUQUATERNION was coined by - Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (A) -… https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Miller/mathword/a/30 Dec 2023: An early expression of this point of view is found in Augustus de Morgan's Trigonometry and Double Algebra (1849, p. - Olinthus Gregory (1774 - 1841) - Biography - MacTutor History of… https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Gregory_Olinthus/7 Oct 2025: In 1806 he published the 2-volume work A Treatise of Mechanics, theoretical, practical and descriptive. ... He was awarded an honorary M.A. by the University of Aberdeen in 1806 and an honorary LL.D.


--- [Reasoning Helps Surface Self-Confidence Signals in LLMs] ---
Read Your Own Mind: Reasoning Helps Surface Self-Confidence Signals in LLMs Abstract We study the source of uncertainty in DeepSeek R1-32B by analyzing its self-reported verbal confidence on question answering (QA) tasks. In the default answer-then-confidence setting, the model is regularly over-confident, whereas semantic entropy—obtained by sampling many responses—remains reliable. We hypothesize that this is because of semantic entropy’s larger test-time compute, which lets us explore the model’s predictive distribution. We show that granting DeepSeek the budget to explore its distribution by forcing a long chain-of-thought before the final answer greatly improves its verbal score effectiveness, even on simple fact-retrieval questions that normally require no reasoning. Furthermore, a separate reader model that sees only the chain can reconstruct very similar confidences, indicating the verbal score might be merely a statistic of the alternatives surfaced during reasoning. Our analysis concludes that reliable uncertainty estimation requires explicit exploration of the generative space, and self-reported confidence is trustworthy only after such exploration. 1 Introduction Generative language models (GLMs) like GPT, LLaMA, or Deepseek families have achieved great performance on diverse tasks (Dubey et al., 2024; DeepSeek-AI et al., 2025), yet they are prone to failure modes such as ”hallucinations” (Huang et al., 2023). These inaccuracies can undermine trust and lead to poor decisions in LLM-assisted systems (Huang et al., 2024). To mitigate this issue, quantification and the communication of model’s uncertainty in its outputs is seen as a potential to entrust these models with reliability. Numerous uncertainty-quantification (UQ) approaches have been proposed in this direction. The most natural one of such methods is Semantic Entropy (SE), which essentially constructs a sample access approximation of the model’s predictive distribution by Monte-Carlo sampling many answers, and using the entropy of the distribution as a measure of uncertainty (Farquhar et al., 2024). Yet, there is also a popular trend of prompting the model directly to elicit its confidence as a measure of generation correctness, for example, ”I’m 85% confident,” — an approach referred to as Verbalized Confidence estimation (VC) (Xiong et al., 2024). While Verbalized Confidence estimation is easy to use, there is no scientific consensus on what it represents or what its source is, potentially making it unreliable to use in critical scenarios. Furthermore, prior work has shown that Verbalized Confidence is often pathological - for the same question a model might first return “Answer A (100 % confidence)” and, in a second sample, “Answer B (95 % confidence),” even though these probabilities cannot coexist (Xiong et al., 2024). On a more practical side, verbalized scores are also reported to often be over-confident (Yang et al., 2024; Pawitan & Holmes, 2024), whereas Semantic Entropy remains comparatively well calibrated (Farquhar et al., 2024). Semantic Entropy’s effectiveness can be attributed to its test-time compute—allocating extra tokens at inference (Snell et al., 2024) to explore the predictive distribution. Test-time compute can also come in the form of an extended reasoning chain that precedes the final answer (Wei et al., 2023; DeepSeek-AI et al., 2025), and most recent works show that such reasoning can improve verbalized or token-level calibration as well (Zeng et al., 2025; Jurayj et al., 2025). These findings prompted us to pose a hypothesis: Is the model able to directly quantify and express verbally its uncertainty, or is the test-time token exploration necessary for the model to reliably summarize its confidence? In this paper, we try to answer this question and better understand the source of Verbalized Confidence by performing a set of experiments with DeepSeek R1-32B (distilled Qwen-32B) (DeepSeek-AI et al., 2025) as a representative model. We use 270 QA items drawn from five popular datasets, covering both reasoning-heavy problems and straightforward fact retrieval. Our results show that without any chain-of-thought, DeepSeek’s verbalized scores carry little information about correctness. As we grant the model progressively larger reasoning budgets, its calibration improves and approaches the reliability of Semantic Entropy, even on simple fact-retrieval items. This trend suggests that meaningful uncertainty estimates emerge only after the model’s predictive space has been explored, and that the final confidence percentage largely summarizes the diversity exposed in this process. We further enforce this hypothesis by using a separate reader model that, by just analyzing DeepSeek’s reasoning trace, matches the reliability of DeepSeek’s own Verbalized Confidence. We hope that our work will help researchers and practitioners better understand the limitations of Verbalized Confidence, and encourage them to use more UQ techniques that utilize additional test-time compute. 2 Background and Related Work Generative language models frequently generate fluent but incorrect answers that can cause downstream harm (Band et al., 2024; Huang et al., 2024). These errors arise from objectives that reward fluency over factuality (McCoy et al., 2023; McKenna et al., 2023; Wan et al., 2023), gaps or biases in pre-training data (Baan et al., 2023; Ji et al., 2024), or decoding that relies more on marginal probability than crucial context (Sadat et al., 2023; van der Poel et al., 2022). When no external verifier is available, a model’s self-reported confidence is the only proxy for correctness, making reliable uncertainty estimates essential. Calibration of LLM Confidence Scores. A confidence score is calibrated if, for example, predictions tagged “80 % confident” are correct roughly 80 % of the time. Because confidence in LLMs can be extracted at several levels, there is no single way of measuring the calibration. Common approaches to obtain the scores include token-level probabilities treated as a classification score (Dhuliawala et al., 2022), semantic-level measures that evaluate agreement across multiple sampled completions (Farquhar et al., 2024), and explicitly verbalized percentages in a model’s output (Xiong et al., 2024; Tian et al., 2023). Semantic Entropy as a way of getting Calibrated Confidence Scores. A generative model, given a question , defines a distribution over semantically distinct answers . The uncertainty of this distribution is naturally quantified by its Shannon entropy, and while computing it exactly is infeasible, we can approximate it by Monte-Carlo sampling and clustering semantically equivalent answers. This is exactly how the Semantic Entropy (SE) method (Farquhar et al., 2024) works, leading to better calibrated scores than e.g., asking the model itself if the generated answer was correct. The big downside of this method is that it requires sampling data on test-time (larger test-time-compute budget). Verbalized vs. Intrinsic Model Confidence. Another way to obtain a confidence score is simply to ask the model for one, for instance, “I am 85 % sure.” This Verbalized Confidence (VC) is easy to collect and works with any black-box API (Xiong et al., 2024; Yang et al., 2024; Ni et al., 2024). Yet, opposed to SE, it is unclear what the number represents: is the model sampling its own distribution, recalling similar training examples, or just guessing? To our best knowledge, no study has answered these questions, leaving the method too uncertain for safety-critical use. Existing studies provide some characteristics of Verbalized Confidence: It is observed that it’s often over-confident, especially after RLHF fine-tuning (Yang et al., 2024; Wei et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2024; Ouyang et al., 2022; Tian et al., 2023), It usually lags behind semantic entropy in calibration and changes with the exact wording of the prompt (Ni et al., 2024; Pawitan & Holmes, 2024). The most recent works, however, find that reasoning-tuned models that generate more tokens at the test time give better calibrated verbalized score (Hammoud et al., 2025; Wei et al., 2024; Xiong et al., 2024; Zhao et al., 2024), This hints that exploring test-time compute budgets’ impact on Verbalized Confidence calibration might be crucial to understand its source, yet we are not familiar with any research work that tries to answer our questions specifically. In this work, we systematically compare Verbalized Confidence and semantic entropy under matched test-time compute budgets, examine several task domains, and analyze the reasoning trace to see where the verbalized score comes from and why it lags behind Semantic Entropy. 3 Experimental Setup Our objective is to uncover where a model’s Verbalized Confidence comes from. We identify two competing views: Intrinsic latent variable: the model can read out a hidden latent belief state and use it to express its uncertainty, and Self-sampling: model does not have access to any reliable latent source of confidence, and reliable confidence emerges only after the model explicitly explores its own predictive space, as Semantic Entropy does by sampling many answers. We test these views through a set of rigorous experiments that measure the behavior of Verbalized Confidence when the model is forced to reason before answering, compare the effectiveness and accuracy to the Semantic Entropy, and analyze the uncertainty exposed in the reasoning traces. We describe our experimental setup below: Data Sources. Because long-trace experiments are computationally expensive, we built a small (270 samples) but diverse benchmark instead of using full datasets. We sampled questions from five popular, open-source sources: TriviaQA, MMLU, and SimpleQA for fact retrieval (Joshi et al., 2017; Hendrycks et al., 2021; Wei et al., 2024), plus GSM8K and AIME-2024 for mathematical reasoning (Cobbe et al., 2021; AIME, 2024). Our goal is open-ended QA in natural language, so we stripped away multiple-choice options in MMLU and any figure references in AIME-2024, manually discarding questions that could not stand alone after this edit, such as “Which of the following is true?”. Every surviving example was then hand-labeled with its knowledge domain and the skills needed to answer it, such as “Fact Retrieval” or “Mathematical Reasoning”. Full sampling details and the final label distribution appear in Appendix A. Model and Prompts. We chose Deepseek‑R1‑32B111deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B (DeepSeek-AI et al., 2025) following Jurayj et al. (2025) for its strong reasoning capabilities at a manageable model size. Furthermore, it is one of the most popular open-sourced reasoning-tuned models. All experiments were run on two NVIDIA A100 GPUs. We provide an elaborate discussion on prompting and inference we adopted in Figure 2. Across all setups, we used a single system prompt that directs the model to (1) think step by step, and then (2) provide a final answer along with a Verbalized Confidence score. The full prompt text, as well as an interaction example, is available in Appendix B. To regulate the length of the reasoning chain, we applied the budget‐based truncation method of Muennighoff et al. (2025): when the reasoning budget is exhausted (or set to zero), the chain terminates immediately. If the budget remains, the system appends “Wait, ” tokens, and asks to generate more tokens. For experiments with Verbalized Confidence, we lowered the decoding temperature to 0.1 to prevent the model from going off-topic in long reasoning. For parallel sampling in Semantic Entropy experiments, we set it to 1.0 to obtain more diverse responses and approximate the predictive distribution more efficiently. UQ Methods. Next, we describe how we obtain the estimates of verbalized score and semantic entropy: For Verbalized Confidence, we ask the model to provide the final answer and its confidence between 0% and 100% after (optional) forced reasoning (refer to Figure 2 for visualization). For Semantic Entropy, we follow Farquhar et al. (2024), and generate answers for each question with no reasoning chain. Afterwards, we use OpenAI’s gpt-4o-mini (OpenAI, 2024) to cluster semantically equivalent generations. We select the majority cluster – the cluster with the most members (i.e., the answer that appears most frequently once semantically equivalent responses are grouped) – as the predicted answer and compute the Shannon entropy of the cluster-size distribution as the uncertainty score. Evaluation and Metrics. We report two main metrics: the accuracy of the final answer and the effectiveness of the UQ method measured as the area under ROC (ROC AUC) in the task of classifying the model’s final answer correctness (hallucination classification). To calculate if the model’s final answer is correct, we query OpenAI’s GPT-4o-mini (OpenAI, 2024) model with the question if this proposed answer is equivalent to the ground truth answer in the dataset given a question. We repeat experiments with verbalized score confidence across varying reasoning budgets 3 times and show mean and 95% confidence intervals. For the rest of the experiments, we repeat them once unless stated otherwise. 4 Results Our goal is to study the source of the Verbalized Confidence in LLMs through experiments with test-time reasoning. Without any reasoning tokens, the score is barely better than random (subsection 4.1). When the exploration budgets are matched, it approaches Semantic Entropy’s effectiveness (subsection 4.2), and an external reader can recover essentially the same uncertainty signal by inspecting the chain of thought alone (subsection 4.3). 4.1 Extended Reasoning is Necessary for VC to Reach SE-Level Effectiveness Figure 3 shows final-answer accuracy, UQ effectiveness, and average stated confidence for correct and incorrect answers as a function of the reasoning budget, with Semantic Entropy shown for comparison. We make the following observations: O1: Granting just 100–500 reasoning tokens raises accuracy 41% 63% and boosts verbalized-confidence ROC-AUC 0.56 0.80. The mean confidence for correct answers remains high (), whereas confidence for errors falls down to . O2: For fact-retrieval questions (Fig. 3b), accuracy does not improve with longer reasoning budgets, yet calibration continues to improve with additional tokens. We can reach very long reasoning traces for fact-retrieval questions thanks to the employed forced reasoning technique (Muennighoff et al., 2025) presented in Figure 2. O3: Verbalized Confidence is initially weaker than superior Semantic Entropy but reaches near parity at 200 tokens for fact retrieval and 3,500 tokens for mathematical items, while maintaining higher answer accuracy due to the reasoning process. These trends confirm that allocating test-time compute to reasoning is essential for reliable uncertainty estimates, and extended CoT effectively mitigates DeepSeek’s over-confidence without sacrificing performance. The sheer scale of the improvement in effectiveness: from near-random ROCAUC to suggests that there is no latent uncertainty information available for the model, and self-sampling is necessary to obtain a good uncertainty estimate. 4.2 Budget-Matched: VC Nearly Rivals SE Effectiveness, and Scores Higher on Accuracy | Avg. Tok | Acc. | ROC-AUC | | | All 270 Samples | ||| | No reasoning VC | 15.40.1 | 0.390.01 | 0.560.01 | | 200-tokens VC | 222.70.6 | 0.550.01 | 0.720.01 | | SE | 218.20.4 | 0.370.04 | 0.880.04 | | Fact Retrieval | ||| | No reasoning VC | 15.80.2 | 0.510.00 | 0.660.02 | | 200-tokens VC | 222.70.1 | 0.530.01 | 0.840.04 | | SE | 177.219.4 | 0.470.00 | 0.890.03 | | Math Reasoning | ||| | No reasoning VC | 14.80.1 | 0.270.00 | 0.590.05 | | 200-tokens VC | 221.51.5 | 0.560.01 | 0.730.00 | | SE | 241.415.3 | 0.250.07 | 0.860.03 | In the previous section, we showed that there is no latent confidence accessible to the model, and the quality of the confidence estimate can be attributed to the number of samples drawn from the predictive distribution. If that is true, we expect to see a similar performance of Semantic Entropy and Verbalized Confidence when the two methods have the same budget for sampling from the model. We compute the average number of tokens per sample used by semantic entropy and compared it with the closest Verbalized Confidence with reasoning. We added VC with no reasoning for comparison—all results can be found in Table 1 We see that Semantic Entropy outperforms zero-shot Verbalized Confidence, but it spends roughly fourteen times more test-time compute tokens. With a comparable 200-token budget, Verbalized Confidence almost matches SE’s calibration on fact-retrieval tasks (ROC-AUC 0.84 0.04 vs. 0.89 0.03 ), and (ii) delivers substantially higher answer accuracy on both fact-retrieval (+0.06) and mathematical reasoning (+0.31). On mathematics, SE remains better calibrated, yet the accuracy gain coming from longer reasoning trace may be preferable in many applications. We provide additional results across 5 source datasets in Appendix C. Overall, with test-time compute matched, Semantic Entropy still leads in calibration, suggesting it squeezes a bit more signal from each token. Yet the margin is now far smaller than in the zero-reasoning baseline. This confirms that, while UQ heuristics differ in efficiency, the act of sampling itself is the critical ingredient for reliable uncertainty. 4.3 External Reader Model Recovers VC Calibration from Reasoning Trace Alone If there is no hidden latent variable from which Verbalized Confidence is drawn, then the reasoning trace has to contain all the uncertainty information needed to explain Deepseek’s final score. We can verify it using an external reader model that, given only DeepSeek’s chain of thought, tries to predict its final answer and confidence. Figure 4 illustrates our experimental setup and results. As a reader model, we used OpenAI’s GPT-4o-mini (OpenAI, 2024), we provide more information about the prompt and method used to obtain the probabilities in Appendix B. We display (i) the absolute Spearman correlation between DeepSeek’s self-reported confidence and the reader entropy , and (ii) the ROC-AUC of each score in detecting incorrect answers. With no reasoning tokens exposed, the correlation between Reader’s and Deepseek’s scores is low, however, with more reasoning tokens, the effectiveness of the reader goes up in tandem with Deepseek’s effectiveness, and the correlation between the two goes up. At 3.4 k tokens, DeepSeek reaches ROC-AUC = 0.851 and the reader 0.841 with , indicating that almost the entire confidence signal is now accessible in the trace. These results support our claim that there is no directly accessible notion of uncertainty, and uncertainty information must be surfaced through test-time token sampling. 5 Discussion and Conclusions Our aim was to determine whether large language models can directly verbalize well-calibrated uncertainty or whether reliable confidence estimates only emerge after explicit exploration of their predictive space, via additional test-time compute such as parallel sampling (Semantic Entropy) or extended reasoning. As an answer to this question, our experiments conclude that test-time compute, not the particular uncertainty heuristic, is the decisive factor for obtaining reliable confidence estimates in DeepSeek-R1-32B. Left to produce only a short answer, the model remains over-confident because its belief state cannot be accessed directly. Granting the model additional tokens, either by sampling independent continuations (Semantic Entropy) or by forcing a longer chain of thought, allows it to externalize alternative hypotheses. Once those alternatives are written into text, the effectiveness of the UQ method goes up, and an external reader can reconstruct almost the same uncertainty from the reasoning trace alone. This perspective also explains why Semantic Entropy has appeared so effective: its apparent superiority stems from a larger compute budget rather than from clustering or entropy per se. When budgets are equalized (about two hundred tokens in our study), Verbalized Confidence obtained from a single extended reasoning pass shows similar effectiveness to Semantic Entropy’s on fact-retrieval tasks and surpasses it in answer accuracy across both fact-retrieval and math questions. Our results expose a paradox for Verbalized Confidence. Its appeal is convenience and low cost - just ask the model for a number - but in the low-compute scenarios where that convenience matters, the score is barely informative. Only after we spend extra test-time budget to force a model to reason for longer, the scores become reliable, which greatly undermines the benefits of Verbalized Confidence. 6 Limitations and Future Work This study centers on DeepSeek R1-32B and a compact QA dataset – future work should verify the generalizability of our claims on different models and benchmarks. At the same time, we hypothesize that any autoregressive language model that faces the same bottleneck: until it is allowed to generate enough tokens to explore its predictive space, it cannot surface a trustworthy self-assessment. Future work should therefore focus less on inventing new black-box scores and more on determining how much, and what kind of, test-time scaling is sufficient to expose the uncertainty already latent in these models. Another line of research should uncover semantic entropy’s persistent lead over Verbalized Confidence on most of the reasoning-heavy items, even under a matched token budget. Our results hint that while exploring the predictive distribution of the model is key, some techniques for doing that may be more efficient than others. Future work could focus on making models reason more efficiently or explore their uncertainty in a more structured way. That could help Verbalized Confidence inherit the semantic-entropy-level of calibration without the extra computation. Impact Statement Our results urge practitioners to allocate sufficient test-time compute before trusting an LLM’s self-reported confidence, mitigating downstream risks. This comes at the cost of extra energy, latency, and CO2 emissions, so deployments must balance reliability against resource use. We foresee no additional societal harms beyond those. References - AIME (2024) AIME. Aime 2024 dataset. https://huggingface.co/datasets/Maxwell-Jia/AIME_2024, 2024. Accessed: 2025-05-07. - Baan et al. (2023) Baan, J., Daheim, N., Ilia, E., Ulmer, D., Li, H.-S., Fernández, R., Plank, B., Sennrich, R., Zerva, C., and Aziz, W. Uncertainty in natural language generation: From theory to applications, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.15703. - Band et al. (2024) Band, N., Li, X., Ma, T., and Hashimoto, T. Linguistic calibration of long-form generations, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00474. - Cobbe et al. (2021) Cobbe, K., Kosaraju, V., Bavarian, M., Chen, M., Jun, H., Kaiser, L., Plappert, M., Tworek, J., Hilton, J., Nakano, R., Hesse, C., and Schulman, J. Training verifiers to solve math word problems, 2021. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.14168. - DeepSeek-AI et al. (2025) DeepSeek-AI, Guo, D., Yang, D., Zhang, H., Song, J., Zhang, R., Xu, R., Zhu, Q., Ma, S., Wang, P., Bi, X., Zhang, X., Yu, X., Wu, Y., Wu, Z. F., Gou, Z., Shao, Z., Li, Z., Gao, Z., Liu, A., Xue, B., Wang, B., Wu, B., Feng, B., Lu, C., Zhao, C., Deng, C., Zhang, C., Ruan, C., Dai, D., Chen, D., Ji, D., Li, E., Lin, F., Dai, F., Luo, F., Hao, G., Chen, G., Li, G., Zhang, H., Bao, H., Xu, H., Wang, H., Ding, H., Xin, H., Gao, H., Qu, H., Li, H., Guo, J., Li, J., Wang, J., Chen, J., Yuan, J., Qiu, J., Li, J., Cai, J. L., Ni, J., Liang, J., Chen, J., Dong, K., Hu, K., Gao, K., Guan, K., Huang, K., Yu, K., Wang, L., Zhang, L., Zhao, L., Wang, L., Zhang, L., Xu, L., Xia, L., Zhang, M., Zhang, M., Tang, M., Li, M., Wang, M., Li, M., Tian, N., Huang, P., Zhang, P., Wang, Q., Chen, Q., Du, Q., Ge, R., Zhang, R., Pan, R., Wang, R., Chen, R. J., Jin, R. L., Chen, R., Lu, S., Zhou, S., Chen, S., Ye, S., Wang, S., Yu, S., Zhou, S., Pan, S., Li, S. S., Zhou, S., Wu, S., Ye, S., Yun, T., Pei, T., Sun, T., Wang, T., Zeng, W., Zhao, W., Liu, W., Liang, W., Gao, W., Yu, W., Zhang, W., Xiao, W. L., An, W., Liu, X., Wang, X., Chen, X., Nie, X., Cheng, X., Liu, X., Xie, X., Liu, X., Yang, X., Li, X., Su, X., Lin, X., Li, X. Q., Jin, X., Shen, X., Chen, X., Sun, X., Wang, X., Song, X., Zhou, X., Wang, X., Shan, X., Li, Y. K., Wang, Y. Q., Wei, Y. X., Zhang, Y., Xu, Y., Li, Y., Zhao, Y., Sun, Y., Wang, Y., Yu, Y., Zhang, Y., Shi, Y., Xiong, Y., He, Y., Piao, Y., Wang, Y., Tan, Y., Ma, Y., Liu, Y., Guo, Y., Ou, Y., Wang, Y., Gong, Y., Zou, Y., He, Y., Xiong, Y., Luo, Y., You, Y., Liu, Y., Zhou, Y., Zhu, Y. X., Xu, Y., Huang, Y., Li, Y., Zheng, Y., Zhu, Y., Ma, Y., Tang, Y., Zha, Y., Yan, Y., Ren, Z. Z., Ren, Z., Sha, Z., Fu, Z., Xu, Z., Xie, Z., Zhang, Z., Hao, Z., Ma, Z., Yan, Z., Wu, Z., Gu, Z., Zhu, Z., Liu, Z., Li, Z., Xie, Z., Song, Z., Pan, Z., Huang, Z., Xu, Z., Zhang, Z., and Zhang, Z. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement learning, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12948. - Dhuliawala et al. (2022) Dhuliawala, S., Adolphs, L., Das, R., and Sachan, M. Calibration of machine reading systems at scale. In Muresan, S., Nakov, P., and Villavicencio, A. (eds.), Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2022, pp. 1682–1693, Dublin, Ireland, May 2022. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2022.findings-acl.133. URL https://aclanthology.org/2022.findings-acl.133/. - Dubey et al. (2024) Dubey, A., Jauhri, A., Pandey, A., Kadian, A., et al. The llama 3 herd of models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.21783. - Farquhar et al. (2024) Farquhar, S., Kossen, J., Kuhn, L., and Gal, Y. Detecting hallucinations in large language models using semantic entropy. Nature, 630(8017):625–630, 2024. - Hammoud et al. (2025) Hammoud, H. A. A. K., Itani, H., and Ghanem, B. Beyond the last answer: Your reasoning trace uncovers more than you think, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20708. - Hendrycks et al. (2021) Hendrycks, D., Burns, C., Basart, S., Zou, A., Mazeika, M., Song, D., and Steinhardt, J. Measuring massive multitask language understanding, 2021. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.03300. - Huang et al. (2023) Huang, L., Yu, W., Ma, W., Zhong, W., Feng, Z., Wang, H., Chen, Q., Peng, W., Feng, X., Qin, B., and Liu, T. A survey on hallucination in large language models: Principles, taxonomy, challenges, and open questions, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.05232. - Huang et al. (2024) Huang, L., Yu, W., Ma, W., Zhong, W., Feng, Z., Wang, H., Chen, Q., Peng, W., Feng, X., Qin, B., and Liu, T. A survey on hallucination in large language models: Principles, taxonomy, challenges, and open questions. ACM Transactions on Information Systems, November 2024. ISSN 1558-2868. doi: 10.1145/3703155. URL http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3703155. - Ji et al. (2024) Ji, Z., Gu, Y., Zhang, W., Lyu, C., Lin, D., and Chen, K. Anah: Analytical annotation of hallucinations in large language models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.20315. - Joshi et al. (2017) Joshi, M., Choi, E., Weld, D., and Zettlemoyer, L. triviaqa: A Large Scale Distantly Supervised Challenge Dataset for Reading Comprehension. arXiv e-prints, art. arXiv:1705.03551, 2017. - Jurayj et al. (2025) Jurayj, W., Cheng, J., and Durme, B. V. Is that your final answer? test-time scaling improves selective question answering, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13962. - McCoy et al. (2023) McCoy, R. T., Yao, S., Friedman, D., Hardy, M., and Griffiths, T. L. Embers of autoregression: Understanding large language models through the problem they are trained to solve, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.13638. - McKenna et al. (2023) McKenna, N., Li, T., Cheng, L., Hosseini, M. J., Johnson, M., and Steedman, M. Sources of hallucination by large language models on inference tasks, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14552. - Muennighoff et al. (2025) Muennighoff, N., Yang, Z., Shi, W., Li, X. L., Fei-Fei, L., Hajishirzi, H., Zettlemoyer, L., Liang, P., Candès, E., and Hashimoto, T. s1: Simple test-time scaling, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.19393. - Ni et al. (2024) Ni, S., Bi, K., Yu, L., and Guo, J. Are large language models more honest in their probabilistic or verbalized confidence?, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.09773. - OpenAI (2024) OpenAI. Hello, gpt-4o, 2024. URL https://openai.com/index/hello-gpt-4o/. Accessed: 2025-01-05. - Ouyang et al. (2022) Ouyang, L., Wu, J., Jiang, X., Almeida, D., Wainwright, C. L., Mishkin, P., Zhang, C., Agarwal, S., Slama, K., Ray, A., Schulman, J., Hilton, J., Kelton, F., Miller, L., Simens, M., Askell, A., Welinder, P., Christiano, P., Leike, J., and Lowe, R. Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback, 2022. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.02155. - Pawitan & Holmes (2024) Pawitan, Y. and Holmes, C. Confidence in the reasoning of large language models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15296. - Sadat et al. (2023) Sadat, M., Zhou, Z., Lange, L., Araki, J., Gundroo, A., Wang, B., Menon, R. R., Parvez, M. R., and Feng, Z. Delucionqa: Detecting hallucinations in domain-specific question answering, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.05200. - Snell et al. (2024) Snell, C., Lee, J., Xu, K., and Kumar, A. Scaling llm test-time compute optimally can be more effective than scaling model parameters, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03314. - Tian et al. (2023) Tian, K., Mitchell, E., Zhou, A., Sharma, A., Rafailov, R., Yao, H., Finn, C., and Manning, C. D. Just ask for calibration: Strategies for eliciting calibrated confidence scores from language models fine-tuned with human feedback, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14975. - van der Poel et al. (2022) van der Poel, L., Cotterell, R., and Meister, C. Mutual information alleviates hallucinations in abstractive summarization, 2022. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.13210. - Wan et al. (2023) Wan, D., Liu, M., McKeown, K., Dreyer, M., and Bansal, M. Faithfulness-aware decoding strategies for abstractive summarization, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.03278. - Wei et al. (2023) Wei, J., Wang, X., Schuurmans, D., Bosma, M., Ichter, B., Xia, F., Chi, E., Le, Q., and Zhou, D. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.11903. - Wei et al. (2024) Wei, J., Karina, N., Chung, H. W., Jiao, Y. J., Papay, S., Glaese, A., Schulman, J., and Fedus, W. Measuring short-form factuality in large language models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04368. - Xiong et al. (2024) Xiong, M., Hu, Z., Lu, X., Li, Y., Fu, J., He, J., and Hooi, B. Can llms express their uncertainty? an empirical evaluation of confidence elicitation in llms, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.13063. - Yang et al. (2024) Yang, D., Tsai, Y.-H. H., and Yamada, M. On verbalized confidence scores for llms, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14737. - Zeng et al. (2025) Zeng, Q., Xuan, W., Cui, L., and Voigt, R. Do reasoning models show better verbalized calibration?, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.06564. - Zhang et al. (2024) Zhang, M., Huang, M., Shi, R., Guo, L., Peng, C., Yan, P., Zhou, Y., and Qiu, X. Calibrating the confidence of large language models by eliciting fidelity, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.02655. - Zhao et al. (2024) Zhao, X., Zhang, H., Pan, X., Yao, W., Yu, D., Wu, T., and Chen, J. Fact-and-reflection (FaR) improves confidence calibration of large language models. In Ku, L.-W., Martins, A., and Srikumar, V. (eds.), Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024, pp. 8702–8718, Bangkok, Thailand, August 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.findings-acl.515. URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.findings-acl.515/. Appendix A Data Creation and Composition Because our longest‐trace runs are expensive, we limited the benchmark to 270 open-ended questions drawn from five well-known, permissively licensed QA datasets. We first sampled 310 items uniformly at random (seed 42) to balance fact-retrieval and mathematical-reasoning content while keeping the total below the 300-sample budget we could process. Items whose solutions required figures (AIME-2024), multiple-choice candidates (MMLU), or extra context passages (TriviaQA) were discarded after manual inspection, leaving the 270 used in all experiments (Table 3). By doing so, we ensured that all the incorrect answers were caused by the model’s mistakes, instead of missing context in the data. Each example received two human labels - Knowledge Domain, and Skill Required. A large language model (OpenAI o3) proposed initial tags for 100 random questions. The first author then reviewed every instance, correcting tags where needed, and used these tags to manually label all 270 samples. You can find the specific tags and number of datapoints in Figure 5. In the main paper, we break out results for the full dataset and for the two most common Skill Required tags only; Knowledge Domain splits are omitted because several categories are too small. Per-dataset results can be found in Appendix C. Five representative questions and their tags are shown in Table 2. | Example Question (truncated) | Dataset | Skill | Domain | |---|---|---|---| | In what year did Augustus De Morgan publish the article ”Trochoidal Curve” in the Penny Cyclopaedia? | SimpleQA | Fact Retrieval | History and Past Events | | There exist real numbers and , both greater than 1, such that . Find . | AIME2024 | Mathematical Reasoning | Mathematics | | James runs 12 miles a day for 5 days a week. If he runs 10 miles an hour how many hours does he run a week? | GSM8K | Mathematical Reasoning | Mathematics | | In Python 3, which of the following function removes all leading and trailing whitespace in string? | MMLU | Fact Retrieval | IT and Engineering | | Anaphylaxis is what sort of life-threatening illness? | TriviaQA | Fact Retrieval | Science, Nature and Medicine | | Dataset | Sampled | After Filtering | Removed | |---|---|---|---| | GSM8K | 100 | 99 | 1 | | TriviaQA | 70 | 66 | 4 | | SimpleQA | 40 | 40 | 0 | | MMLU | 70 | 39 | 31 | | AIME2024 | 30 | 26 | 4 | | Total | 310 | 270 | 40 | Appendix B Prompts and Inference Main VC vs SE runs. You can find the full system prompt used in the main VC vs SE experiments, as well as a real interaction example with Verbalized Confidence and budget forcing in Figure 6. Reader–model experiments. Our goal is to let an external model read DeepSeek’s reasoning trace and predict a probability distribution over possible DeepSeek’s answers. After obtaining the distribution, we calculate Shannon entropy, which is used as a notion of uncertainty. The procedure of obtaining a distribution over possible DeepSeek’s answers has four steps: - 1. Candidate extraction. For each question, we feed the entire -token reasoning chain to gpt-4o-mini, prompting it to list all candidate answers mentioned in the trace. - 2. Multiple-choice reformulation. We label the distinct candidates with letters A, B, C…, we also add an option ”None Unknown”. - 3. One-token completion. We prompt gpt-4o-mini again, asking which of the candidates is most likely to be returned by DeepSeek as a final answer. We ask the API for exactly one letter A, B, C…as a response. We keep the logits of this single-token prediction, apply softmax, and obtain a categorical distribution . - 4. Reader entropy. The Shannon entropy of that distribution, , is the reader’s uncertainty score used in our analyses. You can find prompts that we used to extract the list of all candidates, as well as the final prediction, in figure Figure 7. Appendix C Results Across Datasets We provide additional comparison of VC and SE with varying reasoning budgets across different sources of data in Figure 8. While the trends are much noisier because of fewer samples, we see that for all the sources the difference in confidence between correct and incorrect answers increases with more reasoning tokens.


--- [Bibliography - plus.maths.org] ---
Bibliography Perigal bibliography - On geometric dissections and transformations in volume 1 of The Messenger of Mathematics and On geometric dissections and transformations II. in volume 2 of The Messenger of Mathematics (1874-5), both by Henry Perigal. These two articles were as close as Henry Perigal came to orthodox scientific publication. He was the author of many other items, but nearly all probably at his own expense. These two were solicited by his friend and colleague James Glaisher, an orthodox professional mathematician (author of several articles on mathematics in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, for example), whose comments are included at the end of the first. The first one contains the famous dissection proof of Pythagoras' Theorem, while the second shows how to dissect a square and rearrange the pieces so to make up a rectangle of given length. (This is the converse of Euclid's II.14.) Link to copies of the two articles - Geometric dissections and transpositions, by Henry Perigal, published under the auspices of the Association for the Improvement of Geometrical Teaching. This very brief pamphlet contains an extract from the Messenger of Mathematics articles, and a sequence of dissection diagrams, probably engraved on wood by Henry himself, without comment. Link to one of the dissections from this pamphlet - Trochoidal curves by Augustus De Morgan in volume XXV of the Penny Cyclopaedia, Charles Knight & Co, London, 1836. This is just one, although by no means one of the most interesting, of the huge number of articles contributed to Charles Knight's encyclopaedia by De Morgan. Most of them, especially those on the history of mathematics, are very readable even though somewhat out of date. - A Budget of Paradoxes by Augustus De Morgan, Dover reprint, 1954. This is a collection of De Morgan's articles on cranks (or paradoxers, as he called them) from the Athenaeum, made by his wife after his death. - Henry Perigal, a short record of his life and works by Frederick Perigal, Bowles & Sons, London, 1901. - Otto Negebauer, Mathematische Keilschrifte-Texte, Springer-Verlag, 1935. Table 3 of Part II is a photograph of the Babylonian tablet BM (British Museum) 15285. The middle two images have a striking affinity with Perigal's dissection for the isosceles right triangle. The Babylonians certainly knew that in some sense the ratio of the diagonal of a square to a side was a square root of 2. - Aydin Sayili, Thabit ibn Qurra's generalization of the Pythagorean Theorem, ISIS 47 (1956), pages 35-37. - Paul Mahlo, Topologische Untersuchungen uber Zerlegung in ebene und spharische Polygone, Dissertation, Halle, 1908. - Major P. MacMahon, Pythagoras's Theorem as a repeating pattern, Nature 109 (1922), page 479. - Felix Bernstein, Der Pythagoraische Lehrsatz, Zeitschriften fur Mathematischen und Naturwissenschaftlichen Unterricht 55 (1924), pages 204 - 207. It was apparently Paul Mahlo who first pointed out that one could obtain a continuous family of dissection proofs of Pythagoras' Theorem by overlaying two tilings of the plane. This was discovered independently by at least a few others, notably Major MacMahon and Felix Bernstein. - V. G. Boltyanskii, Equivalent and indecomposable figures, translated from the Russian, 1956. This very pleasant book deals with the theory of dissections in two and three dimensions. In two dimensions, the principal result, formulated explicitly and proven early in the nineteenth century, is that two polygonal regions of equal area can always be dissected into matching congruent pieces. It can be argued that Euclid's treatment of area depends implicitly on this observation. - Johan L. Dupont and Chih-Han Sah, Homology of Euclidean groups of motions made discrete and Euclidean scissors congruences, Acta Mathematica 164 (1990), pages 1 - 27. This is just one of a series of papers written by Dupont and Sah integrating the theory of dissections into modern mathematics. - Dissections: Plane & Fancy by Greg Frederickson, Cambridge University Press, 1997. My debt to Greg is enormous. It was he who started me on my quest to discover what I could about Henry Perigal, and in particular it was he who told me about the grave. It was also he who told me about Pythagoras tilings. And it was Greg who noticed that among `respectable' institutions, it is Cambridge University that has contributed most to the topic of dissections. Link to Greg's web page about dissections


--- [Reasoning Helps Surface Self-Confidence Signals in LLMs] ---
Read Your Own Mind: Reasoning Helps Surface Self-Confidence Signals in LLMs Abstract We study the source of uncertainty in DeepSeek R1-32B by analyzing its self-reported verbal confidence on question answering (QA) tasks. In the default answer-then-confidence setting, the model is regularly over-confident, whereas semantic entropy—obtained by sampling many responses—remains reliable. We hypothesize that this is because of semantic entropy’s larger test-time compute, which lets us explore the model’s predictive distribution. We show that granting DeepSeek the budget to explore its distribution by forcing a long chain-of-thought before the final answer greatly improves its verbal score effectiveness, even on simple fact-retrieval questions that normally require no reasoning. Our analysis concludes that reliable uncertainty estimation requires explicit exploration of the generative space, and self-reported confidence is trustworthy only after such exploration. Read Your Own Mind: Reasoning Helps Surface Self-Confidence Signals in LLMs Jakub Podolak University of Amsterdam jakub.podolak.241 [at] gmail.com Rajeev Verma University of Amsterdam 1 Introduction Generative language models (GLMs) like GPT, LLaMA, or Deepseek families have achieved great performance on diverse tasks Dubey et al. (2024); DeepSeek-AI et al. (2025), yet they are prone to failure modes such as “hallucinations” Huang et al. (2023). These inaccuracies can undermine trust and lead to poor decisions in LLM-assisted systems Huang et al. (2024). To mitigate this issue, quantification and the communication of model’s uncertainty in its outputs is seen as a potential to entrust these models with reliability. Numerous uncertainty-quantification (UQ) approaches have been proposed in this direction: from Monte-Carlo sampling based, such as Semantic Entropy (SE) Farquhar et al. (2024) to simpler Verbalized Confidence estimation (VC), which just asks the model directly to state its confidence Xiong et al. (2024). While Verbalized Confidence estimation is easy to use, there is no scientific consensus on what it represents or what its source is, potentially making it unreliable to use in critical scenarios. Furthermore, prior work has shown that Verbalized Confidence is often pathological - for the same question a model might first return “Answer A (100 % confidence)” and, in a second sample, “Answer B (95 % confidence),” even though these probabilities cannot coexist Xiong et al. (2024). On a more practical side, verbalized scores may be over-confident Yang et al. (2024); Pawitan and Holmes (2024), whereas Semantic Entropy remains comparatively well calibrated Farquhar et al. (2024). Semantic Entropy’s effectiveness can be attributed to its test-time compute—allocating extra tokens at inference Snell et al. (2024) to explore the predictive distribution. Test-time compute can also come in the form of an extended reasoning chain that precedes the final answer Wei et al. (2023); DeepSeek-AI et al. (2025), and most recent works show that such reasoning can improve verbalized or token-level calibration as well Zeng et al. (2025); Jurayj et al. (2025). These findings prompted us to pose a hypothesis: Is the model able to directly quantify and express verbally its uncertainty, or is the test-time token exploration necessary for the model to reliably summarize its confidence? In this paper, we try to answer this question and better understand the source of VC by performing a set of experiments with DeepSeek R1-32B DeepSeek-AI et al. (2025) as a representative model. Our results show that without any chain-of-thought, DeepSeek’s verbalized scores carry little information about correctness. As we grant the model progressively larger reasoning budgets, its calibration improves and approaches the reliability of Semantic Entropy, even on simple fact-retrieval items. This trend suggests that meaningful uncertainty estimates emerge only after the model’s predictive space has been explored, and that the final confidence percentage largely summarizes the diversity exposed in this process. We further enforce this hypothesis by using a separate reader model that, by just analyzing DeepSeek’s reasoning trace, matches the reliability of DeepSeek’s own Verbalized Confidence. 2 Background and Related Work Generative language models frequently generate fluent but incorrect answers that can cause downstream harm Band et al. (2024); Huang et al. (2024). When no external verifier is available, a model’s self-reported confidence is the only proxy for correctness, making reliable uncertainty estimates essential. Calibration of LLM Confidence Scores. A confidence score is calibrated if, for example, predictions tagged “80 % confident” are correct roughly 80 % of the time. Common approaches to obtain the confidence scores include token-level probabilities treated as a classification score Dhuliawala et al. (2022), semantic-level measures that evaluate agreement across multiple sampled completions Farquhar et al. (2024), and explicitly verbalized percentages in a model’s output Xiong et al. (2024); Tian et al. (2023). Semantic Entropy vs. Verbalized Confidence A generative model, given a question , defines a distribution over semantically distinct answers . The uncertainty of this distribution is naturally quantified by its Shannon entropy, and while computing it exactly is infeasible, we can approximate it by Monte-Carlo sampling and clustering semantically equivalent answers. This is exactly how the Semantic Entropy (SE) method Farquhar et al. (2024) works, leading to well-calibrated scores. The big downside of this method is that it requires sampling data on test-time (larger test-time-compute budget). Another way to obtain a confidence score is simply to ask the model for one, for instance, “I am 85 % sure.” This Verbalized Confidence (VC) is easy to collect and works with any black-box API Xiong et al. (2024); Yang et al. (2024); Ni et al. (2024). Yet, opposed to SE, it is unclear what the number represents: is the model sampling its own distribution, recalling similar training examples, or just guessing? To our best knowledge, no study has answered these questions, leaving the method too uncertain for safety-critical use. The most recent works find that reasoning-tuned models that generate more tokens at the test time give better calibrated verbalized score Hammoud et al. (2025); Wei et al. (2024); Xiong et al. (2024); Zhao et al. (2024), This hints that exploring test-time compute budgets’ impact on Verbalized Confidence calibration might be crucial to understand its source, yet we are not familiar with any research work that tries to answer our questions specifically. In this work, we systematically compare Verbalized Confidence and Semantic Entropy under matched test-time compute budgets, examine several task domains, and analyze the reasoning trace to see where the verbalized score comes from and why it lags behind Semantic Entropy. 3 Methodology Our objective is to uncover where a model’s Verbalized Confidence comes from. We identify two competing views: Intrinsic latent variable: the model can read out a hidden latent belief state and use it to express its uncertainty, and Self-sampling: model does not have access to any reliable latent source of confidence, and reliable confidence emerges only after the model explicitly explores its own predictive space, as Semantic Entropy does by sampling many answers. We test these views through a set of experiments that measure the behavior of VC when the model is forced to reason before answering, compare the effectiveness and accuracy to the SE, and analyze the uncertainty exposed in the reasoning traces. We describe our experimental setup in Appendix A. 4 Results Without any reasoning tokens, the score is barely better than random, and with enough exploration budget, VC can approach SE’s effectiveness (subsection 4.1). Furthermore, an external reader can recover essentially the same uncertainty signal by inspecting the chain of thought alone (subsection 4.2), suggesting that the Self-sampling hypothesis might be true. 4.1 Extended Reasoning is Necessary for VC to Reach SE-Level Effectiveness Figure 3 shows final-answer accuracy, UQ effectiveness, and average stated confidence for correct and incorrect answers as a function of the reasoning budget, with Semantic Entropy shown for comparison. We see that granting just 100–500 reasoning tokens raises accuracy 41% 63% and boosts verbalized-confidence ROC-AUC 0.56 0.80. For fact-retrieval questions (Fig. 3b), answer accuracy does not improve with longer reasoning budgets, yet UQ effectiveness continues to improve with additional tokens. We can reach very long reasoning traces for fact-retrieval questions thanks to the employed forced reasoning technique Muennighoff et al. (2025) presented in Figure 4. Verbalized Confidence is initially weaker than superior Semantic Entropy but reaches near parity at 200 tokens for fact retrieval and 3,500 tokens for mathematical items, while maintaining higher answer accuracy due to the reasoning process. For comparison, in our experiments, SE used 218 tokens per sample on average, meaning the two methods are very similar both in computational efficiency and UQ effectiveness for fact retrieval questions. These results confirm that allocating test-time compute to reasoning is essential for reliable uncertainty estimates, and extended CoT effectively mitigates DeepSeek’s over-confidence without sacrificing performance. The sheer scale of the improvement in effectiveness: from near-random ROCAUC to suggests that there is no latent uncertainty information available for the model, and self-sampling is necessary to obtain a good uncertainty estimate. 4.2 External Reader Model Recovers VC Calibration from Reasoning Trace Alone If there is no hidden latent variable from which Verbalized Confidence is drawn, then the reasoning trace has to contain all the uncertainty information needed to explain Deepseek’s final score. We can verify it using an external reader model that, given only DeepSeek’s chain of thought, tries to predict its final answer and confidence. Figure 2 illustrates our experimental setup and results. As a reader model, we used OpenAI’s GPT-4o-mini OpenAI (2024), we provide more information about the setup in Appendix C. We display (i) the absolute Spearman correlation between DeepSeek’s self-reported confidence and the reader entropy , and (ii) the ROC-AUC of each score in detecting incorrect answers. With no reasoning tokens exposed, the correlation between Reader’s and Deepseek’s scores is low, however, with more reasoning tokens, the effectiveness of the reader goes up in tandem with Deepseek’s effectiveness, and the correlation between the two goes up. At 3.4 k tokens, DeepSeek reaches ROC-AUC = 0.851 and the reader 0.841 with , indicating that almost the entire confidence signal is now accessible in the trace. These results support our claim that there is no directly accessible notion of uncertainty, and uncertainty information must be surfaced through test-time token sampling. When the model provides a Verbalized Score after the reasoning process, it most likely just reads its reasoning trace and summarizes the alternatives and uncertainty exposed in it. 5 Discussion and Future Work We aimed to determine whether large language models can directly verbalize well-calibrated uncertainty or whether reliable confidence estimates only emerge after explicit exploration of their predictive space, via additional test-time compute such as parallel sampling (Semantic Entropy) or extended reasoning. Our experiments suggest that test-time compute, not the particular uncertainty heuristic, is the decisive factor for obtaining reliable confidence estimates in DeepSeek-R1-32B. Left to produce only a short answer, the model remains over-confident because its belief state cannot be accessed directly. Granting the model additional tokens, either by sampling independent continuations (Semantic Entropy) or by forcing a longer chain of thought, allows it to externalize alternative hypotheses. This exposes a big issue with Verbalized Confidence - its appeal lies in the simplicity and how fast it is, yet it works well only after a significant reasoning computation is done. While these results are encouraging, they may not be generalizable since we’ve tested only one model and used a very compact QA dataset. Furthermore, assuming it is true that test-time compute is the decisive factor for reliable UQ, it still might be the case that some methods of test-time compute may be more efficient in eliciting uncertainty than others. Future work could focus on making models reason more efficiently or explore their uncertainty in a more structured way. That could help Verbalized Confidence inherit the Semantic-Entropy-level of calibration with less computation needed. References - AIME (2024) AIME. 2024. Aime 2024 dataset. https://huggingface.co/datasets/Maxwell-Jia/AIME_2024. Accessed: 2025-05-07. - Band et al. (2024) Neil Band, Xuechen Li, Tengyu Ma, and Tatsunori Hashimoto. 2024. Linguistic calibration of long-form generations. Preprint, arXiv:2404.00474. - Cobbe et al. (2021) Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mohammad Bavarian, Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz Kaiser, Matthias Plappert, Jerry Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro Nakano, Christopher Hesse, and John Schulman. 2021. Training verifiers to solve math word problems. Preprint, arXiv:2110.14168. - DeepSeek-AI et al. (2025) DeepSeek-AI, Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song, Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu, Shirong Ma, Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, Xiaokang Zhang, Xingkai Yu, Yu Wu, Z. F. Wu, Zhibin Gou, Zhihong Shao, Zhuoshu Li, Ziyi Gao, and 181 others. 2025. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement learning. Preprint, arXiv:2501.12948. - Dhuliawala et al. (2022) Shehzaad Dhuliawala, Leonard Adolphs, Rajarshi Das, and Mrinmaya Sachan. 2022. Calibration of machine reading systems at scale. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2022, pages 1682–1693, Dublin, Ireland. Association for Computational Linguistics. - Dubey et al. (2024) Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, and 1 others. 2024. The llama 3 herd of models. Preprint, arXiv:2407.21783. - Farquhar et al. (2024) S. Farquhar, J. Kossen, L. Kuhn, and Y. Gal. 2024. Detecting hallucinations in large language models using semantic entropy. Nature, 630(8017):625–630. - Hammoud et al. (2025) Hasan Abed Al Kader Hammoud, Hani Itani, and Bernard Ghanem. 2025. Beyond the last answer: Your reasoning trace uncovers more than you think. Preprint, arXiv:2504.20708. - Hendrycks et al. (2021) Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Steven Basart, Andy Zou, Mantas Mazeika, Dawn Song, and Jacob Steinhardt. 2021. Measuring massive multitask language understanding. Preprint, arXiv:2009.03300. - Huang et al. (2023) Lei Huang, Weijiang Yu, Weitao Ma, Weihong Zhong, Zhangyin Feng, Haotian Wang, Qianglong Chen, Weihua Peng, Xiaocheng Feng, Bing Qin, and Ting Liu. 2023. A survey on hallucination in large language models: Principles, taxonomy, challenges, and open questions. Preprint, arXiv:2311.05232. - Huang et al. (2024) Lei Huang, Weijiang Yu, Weitao Ma, Weihong Zhong, Zhangyin Feng, Haotian Wang, Qianglong Chen, Weihua Peng, Xiaocheng Feng, Bing Qin, and Ting Liu. 2024. A survey on hallucination in large language models: Principles, taxonomy, challenges, and open questions. ACM Transactions on Information Systems. - Joshi et al. (2017) Mandar Joshi, Eunsol Choi, Daniel Weld, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2017. triviaqa: A Large Scale Distantly Supervised Challenge Dataset for Reading Comprehension. arXiv e-prints, arXiv:1705.03551. - Jurayj et al. (2025) William Jurayj, Jeffrey Cheng, and Benjamin Van Durme. 2025. Is that your final answer? test-time scaling improves selective question answering. Preprint, arXiv:2502.13962. - Muennighoff et al. (2025) Niklas Muennighoff, Zitong Yang, Weijia Shi, Xiang Lisa Li, Li Fei-Fei, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Luke Zettlemoyer, Percy Liang, Emmanuel Candès, and Tatsunori Hashimoto. 2025. s1: Simple test-time scaling. Preprint, arXiv:2501.19393. - Ni et al. (2024) Shiyu Ni, Keping Bi, Lulu Yu, and Jiafeng Guo. 2024. Are large language models more honest in their probabilistic or verbalized confidence? Preprint, arXiv:2408.09773. - OpenAI (2024) OpenAI. 2024. Hello, gpt-4o. Accessed: 2025-01-05. - Pawitan and Holmes (2024) Yudi Pawitan and Chris Holmes. 2024. Confidence in the reasoning of large language models. Preprint, arXiv:2412.15296. - Snell et al. (2024) Charlie Snell, Jaehoon Lee, Kelvin Xu, and Aviral Kumar. 2024. Scaling llm test-time compute optimally can be more effective than scaling model parameters. Preprint, arXiv:2408.03314. - Tian et al. (2023) Katherine Tian, Eric Mitchell, Allan Zhou, Archit Sharma, Rafael Rafailov, Huaxiu Yao, Chelsea Finn, and Christopher D. Manning. 2023. Just ask for calibration: Strategies for eliciting calibrated confidence scores from language models fine-tuned with human feedback. Preprint, arXiv:2305.14975. - Wei et al. (2024) Jason Wei, Nguyen Karina, Hyung Won Chung, Yunxin Joy Jiao, Spencer Papay, Amelia Glaese, John Schulman, and William Fedus. 2024. Measuring short-form factuality in large language models. Preprint, arXiv:2411.04368. - Wei et al. (2023) Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Brian Ichter, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc Le, and Denny Zhou. 2023. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. Preprint, arXiv:2201.11903. - Xiong et al. (2024) Miao Xiong, Zhiyuan Hu, Xinyang Lu, Yifei Li, Jie Fu, Junxian He, and Bryan Hooi. 2024. Can llms express their uncertainty? an empirical evaluation of confidence elicitation in llms. Preprint, arXiv:2306.13063. - Yang et al. (2024) Daniel Yang, Yao-Hung Hubert Tsai, and Makoto Yamada. 2024. On verbalized confidence scores for llms. Preprint, arXiv:2412.14737. - Zeng et al. (2025) Qingcheng Zeng, Weihao Xuan, Leyang Cui, and Rob Voigt. 2025. Do reasoning models show better verbalized calibration? Preprint, arXiv:2504.06564. - Zhao et al. (2024) Xinran Zhao, Hongming Zhang, Xiaoman Pan, Wenlin Yao, Dong Yu, Tongshuang Wu, and Jianshu Chen. 2024. Fact-and-reflection (FaR) improves confidence calibration of large language models. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024, pages 8702–8718, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics. Appendix A Experimental Setup Data Sources. Because long-trace experiments are computationally expensive, we built a small (270 samples) but diverse benchmark instead of using full datasets. We sampled questions from five popular, open-source sources: TriviaQA, MMLU, and SimpleQA for fact retrieval Joshi et al. (2017); Hendrycks et al. (2021); Wei et al. (2024), plus GSM8K and AIME-2024 for mathematical reasoning Cobbe et al. (2021); AIME (2024). Our goal is open-ended QA in natural language, so we stripped away multiple-choice options in MMLU and any figure references in AIME-2024, manually discarding questions that could not stand alone after this edit, such as “Which of the following is true?”. Every surviving example was then hand-labeled with its knowledge domain and the skills needed to answer it, such as “Fact Retrieval” or “Mathematical Reasoning”. Full sampling details and the final label distribution appear in Appendix B. Model and Prompts. We chose Deepseek‑R1‑32B111deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-32B DeepSeek-AI et al. (2025) following Jurayj et al. (2025) for its strong reasoning capabilities at a manageable model size. Furthermore, it is one of the most popular open-sourced reasoning-tuned models. All experiments were run on two NVIDIA A100 GPUs. We provide an elaborate discussion on prompting and inference we adopted in Figure 4. Across all setups, we used a single system prompt that directs the model to (1) think step by step, and then (2) provide a final answer along with a Verbalized Confidence score. The full prompt text, as well as an interaction example, is available in Appendix C. To regulate the length of the reasoning chain, we applied the budget‐based truncation method of Muennighoff et al. (2025): when the reasoning budget is exhausted (or set to zero), the chain terminates immediately. If the budget remains, the system appends “Wait, ” tokens, and asks to generate more tokens. For experiments with Verbalized Confidence, we lowered the decoding temperature to 0.1 to prevent the model from going off-topic in long reasoning. For parallel sampling in Semantic Entropy experiments, we set it to 1.0 to obtain more diverse responses and approximate the predictive distribution more efficiently. UQ Methods. Next, we describe how we obtain the estimates of verbalized score and semantic entropy: For Verbalized Confidence, we ask the model to provide the final answer and its confidence between 0% and 100% after (optional) forced reasoning (refer to Figure 4 for visualization). For Semantic Entropy, we follow Farquhar et al. (2024), and generate answers for each question with no reasoning chain. Afterwards, we use OpenAI’s gpt-4o-mini OpenAI (2024) to cluster semantically equivalent generations. We select the majority cluster – the cluster with the most members (i.e., the answer that appears most frequently once semantically equivalent responses are grouped) – as the predicted answer and compute the Shannon entropy of the cluster-size distribution as the uncertainty score. Evaluation and Metrics. We report two main metrics: the accuracy of the final answer and the effectiveness of the UQ method measured as the area under ROC (ROC AUC) in the task of classifying the model’s final answer correctness (hallucination classification). To calculate if the model’s final answer is correct, we query OpenAI’s GPT-4o-mini OpenAI (2024) model with the question if this proposed answer is equivalent to the ground truth answer in the dataset given a question. We repeat experiments with verbalized score confidence across varying reasoning budgets 3 times and show mean and 95% confidence intervals. For the rest of the experiments, we repeat them once unless stated otherwise. Appendix B Data Creation and Composition Because our longest‐trace runs are expensive, we limited the benchmark to 270 open-ended questions drawn from five well-known, permissively licensed QA datasets. We first sampled 310 items uniformly at random (seed 42) to balance fact-retrieval and mathematical-reasoning content while keeping the total below the 300-sample budget we could process. Items whose solutions required figures (AIME-2024), multiple-choice candidates (MMLU), or extra context passages (TriviaQA) were discarded after manual inspection, leaving the 270 used in all experiments (Table 2). By doing so, we ensured that all the incorrect answers were caused by the model’s mistakes, instead of missing context in the data. Each example received two human labels - Knowledge Domain, and Skill Required. A large language model (OpenAI o3) proposed initial tags for 100 random questions. The first author then reviewed every instance, correcting tags where needed, and used these tags to manually label all 270 samples. You can find the specific tags and number of datapoints in Figure 5. In the main paper, we break out results for the full dataset and for the two most common Skill Required tags only; Knowledge Domain splits are omitted because several categories are too small. Per-dataset results can be found in Appendix D. Five representative questions and their tags are shown in Table 1. | Example Question (truncated) | Dataset | Skill | Domain | |---|---|---|---| | In what year did Augustus De Morgan publish the article "Trochoidal Curve" in the Penny Cyclopaedia? | SimpleQA | Fact Retrieval | History and Past Events | | There exist real numbers and , both greater than 1, such that . Find . | AIME2024 | Mathematical Reasoning | Mathematics | | James runs 12 miles a day for 5 days a week. If he runs 10 miles an hour how many hours does he run a week? | GSM8K | Mathematical Reasoning | Mathematics | | In Python 3, which of the following function removes all leading and trailing whitespace in string? | MMLU | Fact Retrieval | IT and Engineering | | Anaphylaxis is what sort of life-threatening illness? | TriviaQA | Fact Retrieval | Science, Nature and Medicine | | Dataset | Sampled | After Filtering | Removed | |---|---|---|---| | GSM8K | 100 | 99 | 1 | | TriviaQA | 70 | 66 | 4 | | SimpleQA | 40 | 40 | 0 | | MMLU | 70 | 39 | 31 | | AIME2024 | 30 | 26 | 4 | | Total | 310 | 270 | 40 | Appendix C Prompts and Inference Main VC vs SE runs. You can find the full system prompt used in the main VC vs SE experiments, as well as a real interaction example with Verbalized Confidence and budget forcing in Figure 6. Reader–model experiments. Our goal is to let an external model read DeepSeek’s reasoning trace and predict a probability distribution over possible DeepSeek’s answers. After obtaining the distribution, we calculate Shannon entropy, which is used as a notion of uncertainty. The procedure of obtaining a distribution over possible DeepSeek’s answers has four steps: - 1. Candidate extraction. For each question, we feed the entire -token reasoning chain to gpt-4o-mini, prompting it to list all candidate answers mentioned in the trace. - 2. Multiple-choice reformulation. We label the distinct candidates with letters A, B, C…, we also add an option "None Unknown". - 3. One-token completion. We prompt gpt-4o-mini again, asking which of the candidates is most likely to be returned by DeepSeek as a final answer. We ask the API for exactly one letter A, B, C…as a response. We keep the logits of this single-token prediction, apply softmax, and obtain a categorical distribution . - 4. Reader entropy. The Shannon entropy of that distribution, , is the reader’s uncertainty score used in our analyses. You can find prompts that we used to extract the list of all candidates, as well as the final prediction, in figure Figure 7. Appendix D Results Across Datasets We provide additional comparison of VC and SE with varying reasoning budgets across different sources of data in Figure 8. While the trends are much noisier because of fewer samples, we see that for all the sources the difference in confidence between correct and incorrect answers increases with more reasoning tokens.
