=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Park Geun-hye — Google Arts & Culture]
Park was the first woman to be elected president, and also the first female president popularly elected as head of state in East Asia. She was also the first South Korean president to be born after the founding of the First Republic of Korea.
URL: https://artsandculture.google.com/entity/%EB%B0%95%EA%B7%BC%ED%98%9C/m0760zn

[History Atlas]
She is also the first South Korean president to be born after the founding of South Korea. Her father, Park Chung Hee, was president from 1963 to 1979, serving five consecutive terms after he seized power in 1961 and whom she served as first lady under from 1974 until his assassination in 1979.
URL: https://www.historyatlas.com/people/park-geun-hye/

[Syngman Rhee - Wikipedia]
Syngman Rhee (Korean: 이승만; Hanja: 李承晚; pronounced [iː.sɯŋ.man] [b]; 26 March 1875 - 19 July 1965), also known by his art name Unam (우남; 雩南), [1] was a South Korean politician who served as the first president of South Korea from 1948 until his resignation in 1960. His administration was characterised by authoritarianism, limited economic development, and in the late ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syngman_Rhee

[A Complete List of South Korean Presidents and Their Accomplishments]
The First Republic of Korea (1948-1960) After the Joseon Dynasty ended and liberation from Japanese occupation, the President became the head of state and government for the first time in Korean history. In 1952, presidential elections changed from indirect to direct elections. The presidency was limited to two four-year terms.
URL: https://linguasia.com/south-korean-presidents

[List of presidents of South Korea - Wikipedia]
The president of the Republic of Korea serves as the chief executive of the government of the Republic of Korea and the commander-in-chief of the Republic of Korea Armed Forces. The South Korean government constitutionally considers the Korean Provisional Government (KPG) to be its predecessor. [1] The KPG was established in 1919 as a government in exile in Shanghai during the Japanese ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_presidents_of_South_Korea


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Park Geun-hye — Google Arts & Culture] ---
Park Geun-hye is a former South Korean politician who served as President of South Korea from 2013 until 2017, when she was impeached and later convicted and removed on related corruption charges. Park was the first woman to be elected president, and also the first female president popularly elected as head of state in East Asia. She was also the first South Korean president to be born after the founding of the First Republic of Korea. Her father, Park Chung-hee, was president from 1963 to 1979, serving five consecutive terms after he seized power in 1961. Before her presidency, Park was leader of the conservative Grand National Party from 2004 to 2006 and leader of the Liberty Korea Party from 2011 to 2012. She was also a member of the National Assembly, serving four consecutive parliamentary terms between 1998 and 2012. Park started her fifth term as a representative elected via national list in June 2012. In 2013 and 2014, Park ranked 11th on the Forbes list of the world's 100 most powerful women and the most powerful woman in East Asia.


--- [History Atlas] ---
Maritime East Asia (2008–2019 CE): Shifting Power Dynamics, Economic Realignments, and Diplomatic Strains Between 2008 and 2019 CE, Maritime East Asia—including lower Primorsky Krai, the Korean Peninsula, the Japanese Archipelago south of northern Hokkaido, Taiwan, and southern, central, and northeastern China—enters an era defined by shifting geopolitical landscapes, evolving economic models, deepening integration, and intensifying regional security challenges. This period highlights China's accelerated rise, Japan’s cautious resurgence, Korea’s complex political transitions, Taiwan’s democratic vibrancy, and regional geopolitical tensions involving major global actors. China: Ascending Global Influence and Domestic Realignments Under the leadership of Hu Jintao (until 2013) and subsequently Xi Jinping (2013–present), China continues its impressive economic growth trajectory, though at a moderated pace compared to previous decades. Xi Jinping consolidates political authority, launching ambitious initiatives like the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI, 2013), aimed at extending China’s economic and strategic reach globally. Domestically, Xi emphasizes party discipline, anti-corruption campaigns, and a more assertive foreign policy posture. Internally, social surveillance technologies expand significantly, notably in regions like Xinjiang. Economic reforms move toward high-tech and innovation-driven sectors, as exemplified by strategies like “Made in China 2025.” Nevertheless, China faces growing international scrutiny due to human rights issues, environmental degradation, trade disputes, and territorial tensions, particularly in the South China Sea and over Taiwan. Japan: Economic Resilience and Strategic Reorientation After decades of stagnation, Japan under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe (2012–2020) initiates aggressive economic reforms known as “Abenomics,” incorporating monetary easing, fiscal stimulus, and structural reform to rejuvenate growth. Although achieving mixed results economically, Japan demonstrates resilience, with moderate recovery, improved employment rates, and sustained global competitiveness in technology, manufacturing, and innovation sectors. Politically, Abe pursues a more assertive defense and foreign policy, revising the nation’s pacifist constitution interpretation (2015) to allow collective self-defense, strengthening alliances, notably with the United States, Australia, and India. Japan faces significant demographic challenges, with declining birthrates, population aging, and workforce shortages, prompting cautious consideration of immigration reforms. Korean Peninsula: Divergent Trajectories and Historic Diplomatic Moves South Korea: Democratic Stability and Diplomatic Activism South Korea, under conservative presidents Lee Myung-bak (2008–2013) and Park Geun-hye (2013–2017), emphasizes economic growth, U.S.-South Korea alliance strengthening, and firm North Korea policies. Yet, Park's impeachment in 2017 due to corruption scandals marks a political turning point, ushering in progressive President Moon Jae-in (2017–2022), who emphasizes engagement with North Korea and domestic socioeconomic reforms. Moon pursues the revitalization of inter-Korean dialogue, leading to historic summits with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un in 2018. Despite warming relations, nuclear diplomacy stalls amid complicated U.S.-North Korean negotiations. South Korea also faces internal debates on social justice, inequality, gender rights, and democratic transparency, reflecting robust civic engagement. North Korea: Nuclear Ambitions and International Diplomacy Under Kim Jong-il until his death in 2011 and succeeded by Kim Jong-un, North Korea sharply accelerates its nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs. Between 2013 and 2017, Pyongyang conducts multiple nuclear tests and missile launches, prompting stringent international sanctions and escalating tensions. In 2018, Kim Jong-un shifts course, engaging in unprecedented diplomacy: multiple summits with Moon Jae-in, and historic encounters with U.S. President Donald Trump (Singapore Summit, 2018, and Hanoi Summit, 2019). Despite initial optimism, these engagements yield limited results, as fundamental disagreements persist over denuclearization, sanctions relief, and verification mechanisms. Taiwan: Democratic Consolidation and Cross-Strait Tensions Taiwan continues strengthening its vibrant democracy. The Kuomintang (KMT) briefly regains power under Ma Ying-jeou (2008–2016), who pursues cross-strait economic rapprochement, notably through the Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement (ECFA, 2010). However, growing skepticism of economic integration fuels backlash, leading to the election of the pro-independence Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) candidate Tsai Ing-wen in 2016. Tsai advocates a cautious stance on China, promoting Taiwanese identity and democratic resilience, resulting in heightened cross-strait tensions. Under her administration, Taiwan's international profile rises through initiatives such as the New Southbound Policy, strengthening relations with Southeast Asia, India, and Australia amid increased diplomatic pressures from Beijing, which further isolates Taiwan diplomatically. Primorsky Krai: Economic Revival and Regional Ambitions Primorsky Krai experiences moderate economic revitalization through increased trade, investment, and regional integration, notably hosting the 2012 Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit in Vladivostok. Russia invests substantially in infrastructure upgrades, hoping to transform Vladivostok into a Pacific commercial hub. However, structural issues remain, including population decline, underdeveloped industries, bureaucratic inefficiencies, and challenges balancing regional development with geopolitical considerations in the Pacific region. Regional and Global Geopolitical Shifts East Asia's geopolitics increasingly reflect strategic competition, primarily between China and the United States, influencing the regional security landscape significantly. China’s expanding military presence in the South China Sea, tensions over Taiwan, and North Korea’s nuclear provocations drive intense security dynamics. The United States bolsters alliances and regional presence through strategies such as the Pivot to Asia (under President Barack Obama), aimed at counterbalancing China's rising influence. Simultaneously, economic integration deepens, evidenced by multilateral trade agreements like the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), initiated after the U.S. withdrawal from the TPP in 2017, and the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) negotiations. Despite geopolitical friction, economic interdependence remains a crucial stabilizing factor. Cultural and Technological Innovation The region emerges as a global leader in technology and innovation. China becomes central in global technology infrastructure, 5G telecommunications, artificial intelligence, and e-commerce platforms like Alibaba and Tencent. South Korea’s entertainment industry, particularly K-pop and Korean dramas, achieves global popularity, significantly influencing popular culture worldwide. Japan maintains its position as a global innovation powerhouse in robotics, automation, and gaming industries, despite demographic pressures. Legacy of the Era: Geopolitical Realignment and Economic Interdependence The period 2008 to 2019 CE profoundly reshapes Maritime East Asia's strategic, economic, and political landscapes. China’s assertive rise redefines global geopolitics, challenging traditional alliances and prompting regional strategic recalibrations. Japan cautiously renews its global economic and diplomatic roles despite domestic challenges. South Korea continues democratic maturity amid complicated diplomacy with the North, which itself navigates precarious paths of nuclear brinksmanship and diplomacy. Taiwan asserts democratic strength amid mounting pressures from China, and Primorsky Krai seeks greater regional integration, confronting persistent structural difficulties. Overall, this transformative era underscores the interplay between intensified geopolitical rivalry and unprecedented economic interdependence, establishing enduring patterns that shape Lower East Asia's trajectory well into the twenty-first century


--- [Syngman Rhee - Wikipedia] ---
Syngman Rhee (Korean: 이승만; Hanja: 李承晚; pronounced [iː.sɯŋ.man]; 26 March 1875 – 19 July 1965), also known by his art name Unam (우남; 雩南), was a South Korean politician who served as the first president of South Korea from 1948 until his resignation in 1960. His administration was characterised by authoritarianism, limited economic development, and in the late 1950s growing political instability and public opposition to his rule. Rhee previously was the first president of the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea from 1919 until his impeachment in 1925 and again as the last president from 1947 to 1948.
Born in Hwanghae Province during the Joseon period, Rhee attended an American Methodist school, where he converted to Christianity. He became a Korean independence activist and was imprisoned for his activities in 1899. After his release in 1904, he moved to the United States, where he received degrees from American universities and met Presidents Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson. After a brief 1910–12 return to Korea, he moved to Hawaii in 1913. In 1919, following the Japanese suppression of the March First Movement, Rhee joined the right-leaning Korean Provisional Government in exile in Shanghai. From 1918 to 1924, he served as the first President of the Korean Provisional Government until 1925. He then returned to the United States, where he advocated and fundraised for Korean independence. In 1939, he moved to Washington, DC. In 1945, he was returned to US-controlled Korea by the US military. On 20 July 1948, he was elected the first president of the Republic of Korea by the National Assembly, ushering in the First Republic of Korea.
As president, Rhee continued his hardline anti-communist and pro-American views that characterized much of his earlier political career. Rhee was president during the outbreak of the Korean War (1950–1953), in which North Korea invaded South Korea. He refused to sign the armistice agreement that ended the war, wishing to have the peninsula reunited by force.
After the fighting ended, South Korea's economy lagged behind North Korea's and was heavily reliant on US aid, despite successful efforts to battle illiteracy. After being re-elected in 1956, he pushed to modify the constitution to remove the two-term limit, despite opposition protests. He was reelected uncontested in March 1960, after his opponent Chough Pyung-ok died from cancer before the election took place. After Rhee's ally Lee Ki-poong won the corresponding vice-presidential election by a wide margin, the opposition rejected the result as rigged, which triggered protests. These escalated into the student-led April Revolution, in which police shot demonstrators in Masan. The resulting scandal caused Rhee to resign on 26 April, ushering in the Second Republic of Korea. Following his resignation, he spent a month at the residence Ihwajang and departed for exile in Hawaii by plane on 29 May. However, according to Rhee, he went to Hawaii for medical treatment. Rhee claimed that he was never in exile – he simply was not able to return to his homeland. He spent the rest of his life in exile in Honolulu, Hawaii, and died of a stroke in 1965.




--- [A Complete List of South Korean Presidents and Their Accomplishments] ---
As a fledgling democracy, South Korea has undergone some turbulent presidencies. Here are all the Korean presidents in chronological order including their accomplishments and controversies. Biographical information for each president from Presidential Archives and Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism and Korean Culture and Information Service. Koreans count the ordinal number of presidents according to number of terms served. When one is re-elected, their next term is considered the following presidency. The Korean method is used for the headings, and international method in the text. The First Republic of Korea (1948-1960) After the Joseon Dynasty ended and liberation from Japanese occupation, the President became the head of state and government for the first time in Korean history. In 1952, presidential elections changed from indirect to direct elections. The presidency was limited to two four-year terms. 1st-3rd President: Rhee Syng-man (이승만) - Born: March 26, 1875, Pyongsan, North Korea - Died: July 19, 1965, Honolulu, Hawaii, United States (aged 90) - Presidential Term: July 1948 – April 1960 (for almost 12 years) - The First Lady: Franziska Donner (Austrian) Rhee Syng-man was elected the first President of the Republic of Korea, after leading independence movements against Japanese colonialism. He was also president during the Korean War. Rhee Syng-man was from an elite family, obtaining a Bachelor of Arts from George Washington University in 1907, Master of Arts from Harvard University in 1908, and Ph.D. from Princeton University in 1910. This was practically unheard of at the time given that most Koreans were subsistence farmers. While running for his second term, Rhee declared martial law, imprisoned opposition members, and amended the constitution for direct elections. Under these circumstances, he won his second term. Being president for two terms was not enough for him. Rhee Syng-man made an exception for the first President (himself) to hold office for an indefinite time by abolishing term limits. On top of that, Rhee rigged the election (March 15, 1960), causing the April Revolution (April 19, 1960). After the revolution, Rhee Syng-man resigned, fled to the United States and died in Hawaii five years later. Accomplishments: - Established the Government of the Republic of Korea - Granted equal voting rights in all elections to men and women over the age of 20 - Introduced market economy/capitalism (at the time of liberation, more than 70% of influential figures and the public were favorable to communism) - Halted communism in South Korea - Introduced liberal democracy (despite his dictatorship) Controversies: - Abandoned his principles of democracy and became a dictator - Used political gangsters to oppress citizens and politicians who opposed his regime - Massacred civilians from hundreds of thousands up to 1.13 million (including the Jeju Uprising) - Rigged elections The Second Republic of Korea (1960–1961) Learning from Rhee Syng-man’s abuse of power, the Second Republic was established to be under a parliamentary system (cabinet and bicameral system). The Prime Minister was the head of the government with actual political power and the President was the head of state as more of a figurehead. The presidency was limited to two five-year terms. 4th President: Yun Po-sun (윤보선) - Born: August 26, 1897, Asan-si, Chungcheongnam-do, South Korea - Died: July 18, 1990, Seoul, South Korea (aged 93) - Presidential Term: August 1960 – March 1962 (for 1 year and 7 months) - The First Lady: Gong Deok-gwi Yun Po-sun was technically the second President of the Republic of Korea. He had the second shortest tenure as president, and yet lived the longest. He was an avid gardener. Yun Po-sun was the youngest member of the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea after the March 1st Movement, then studied in the United Kingdom, graduating with a Master of Arts from the University of Edinburgh in 1930. He fought for democracy, but Yun was ousted by Park Chung-hee in 1961. Accomplishments: - Praised for his morality and democracy, actively engaging in democracy movements against the Park Chung-hee regime - Never compromised with communism - Was the first president from the Democratic Party Controversies: - Favored the Chun Doo-hwan regime in his later years The Third Republic of Korea (1963–1972) The President became the head of state and government, once again. The presidency was limited to two four-year terms by secret ballot. In 1969, three terms became possible. The Fourth Republic of Korea (1972–1981) The term of office was extended to 6 years, with no limits on re-election. The Fourth Republic was governed under the Yushin Constitution. 5th-9th President: Park Chung-hee (박정희) - Born: November 14, 1917, Gumi-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do, South Korea - Assassinated: October 26, 1979, Seoul, South Korea (aged 62) - Presidential Term: December 1963 – October 1979 (for 15 years 10 months) - The First Lady: Yuk Young-soo Park Chung-hee was elected the third President of Korea in 1963 after carrying out the May 16 military coup d’état in 1961. He ruled the longest as president. Park is the most beloved/respected or hated Korean president of all time. His merits and shortcomings are clear. Park Chung-hee was a military dictator who is credited with achieving economic growth and building modern infrastructure. He was assassinated by gunshot in 1979 by Kim Jae-gyu, the director of the Korean Central Intelligence Agency (KCIA). Kim Jae-gyu was arrested, tortured and later executed (hanged). Accomplishments: - Rebuilt Korea, which was seriously impoverished after the Japanese occupation and the Korean War - Established administrative and social infrastructure, including foundation of the National Tax Service, introduction of VAT, enactment of welfare laws and social medical insurance among others - Started reforestation project in South Korea, which was left barren after the war - Built the Gyeongbu Expressway as part of the Five-Year Economic Development Plans - Created the Saemaul Undong - Developed the heavy chemical, automobile, shipbuilding and electronics industries, increasing Korea’s GDP 18 fold - Reduced the absolute poverty rate to 1/6 and achieved food self-sufficiency - Credited for the Miracle on the Han River Controversies: - Abduction and attempted murder of Kim Dae-jung (who later became President), who was against the Yushin Constitution, through the Korean CIA - Restored dictatorship by establishing a de facto one-man ruling system with the Yushin - Repressed democracy, freedom of speech, and the press - Censored culture, by banning K-pop songs - Violated human rights and fundamental rights - Caused economic polarization and labor exploitation 10th President: Choi Kyu-hah (최규하) - Born: July 16, 1919, Wonju-si, Gangwon-do, South Korea - Died: October 22, 2006, Seoul, South Korea (aged 87) - Presidential Term: December 1979 – August 1980 (for 8 months) - The First Lady: Hong Gi Choi Kyu-hah was the fourth President of Korea. He was the Prime Minister of the Park Chung-hee government, then served as the acting president after Park’s assassination, and was inaugurated as President. Choi had the shortest term as president in Korean history, with only 8 months, due to the Coup d’état of December Twelfth led by Chun Doo-hwan. He quietly spent the rest of his life and died of old age at Seoul National University Hospital on October 22, 2006. Accomplishments: - Had no political ambitions (he just enjoyed reading books) Controversies: - Showed no opposition to Chun Doo-hwan, despite having strong authority to take emergency measures under to the Yushin Constitution as acting president The Fifth Republic of Korea (1981–1988) The President was the head of state and government. The presidency was intended to be one seven-year term. 11th-12th President: Chun Doo-hwan (전두환) - Born: January 18, 1931, Hapcheon-gun, Gyeongsangnam-do, South Korea - Died: November 23, 2021, Seoul, South Korea (aged 90) - Presidential Term: August 1980 – February 1988 (for 7 years and 5 months) - The First Lady: Lee Soon-ja Chun Doo-hwan was the fifth President of Korea, and presided over what is known as the “lost 7 years”. Chun seized power by military coup, and never won a fair presidential election (winning 90.11% of the vote in a rigged election). He was responsible for numerous massacres, including the Gwangju Uprising, which resulted in 165 immediate deaths, 113 deaths from injuries, 2,500 injuries, and 78 missing according to official statistics. Chun Doo-hwan was forced to resign as a result of the June Democratic Struggle. After leaving office, Chun Doo-hwan was arrested and indicted together with Roh Tae-woo in 1995. He was sentenced to death for crimes of insurrection, murder, and bribery; but later was granted life imprisonment after an appeal. Chun was pardoned in 1997 after being imprisoned for 2 years and 19 days. He was diagnosed with multiple myeloma in 2021, and died at his home in Yeonhui-dong, Seoul at the age of 90. Accomplishments: - Abolished night-time curfew, which had been in effect for 37 years since Rhee Syng-man’s administration - Liberalized middle/high school uniforms and hair lengths in 1982, and stopped cracking down on miniskirts for women and long hair for men - Developed sports, including professional soccer, baseball and ssireum (Korean wrestling) as part of his 3S (Screen, Sports, Sex) policy - First introduced the concept of the right to pursue happiness Controversies: - Brutally suppressed opposing parties during a coup - Mobilized the army and ordered them to open fire on civilians, including children, during the Gwangju Uprising (May 18, 1980) - Created Samchung Reeducation Camp (the South Korean version of political prison camp) to suppress the human rights of innocent people - Wrongfully imprisoned and killed civilians by falsely accusing them of espionage (numerous suspicious deaths during his term) - Embezzled national treasury and forced companies to contribute funds, creating a slush fund worth hundreds of billions of dollars The Sixth Republic of Korea (1988–Present) The President is the head of state and government, elected by the anonymous vote of the people. The presidency is five years with NO possibility of re-election. 13th President: Roh Tae-woo (노태우) - Born: December 4, 1932, Daegu, South Korea - Died: October 26, 2021, Seoul, South Korea (aged 89) - Presidential Term: February 1988 – February 1993 (for 5 years) - The First Lady: Kim Ok-suk Roh Tae-woo was the sixth President of Korea, and the first democratically elected president under the slogan “a great era of ordinary people”. Roh was an army general, who led a coup with Chun Doo-hwan. Then, he became a politician once Chun took power. After retirement, he was arrested and indicted with Chun Doo-hwan in 1995. He was sentenced to 17 years in prison on April 17, 1997 for accepting bribes. His jail time was rather short (2 years and 1 month) as he was pardoned by then President Kim Young-sam on December 22, 1997. His benefits as a former President were revoked. Love-Hate Relationship with Chun Doo-hwan Roh Tae-woo was inseparable from Chun Doo-hwan for most of their lives. He had been his partner ever since their military days. However, they had a falling out when Roh became president. From Chun Doo-hwan’s point of view, he thought he made Roh Tae-woo president, but was very upset that Roh didn’t listen to him once he took power. On the other hand, Roh Tae-woo believed that he became president fair and square through the direct election system and was quite displeased at being associated with Chun Doo-hwan, who never won a fair election. Roh Tae-woo sent Chun Doo-hwan to Baekdamsa Temple as political exile after taking office. Roh distanced himself from Chun and never met him during his term. They met again later in matching prison uniforms while standing trial together! Accomplishments: - Issued the June 29 Declaration - Dismissed former military personnel, and reinstated opposition figures banned from political activities - Guaranteed freedom of speech, including satire of politicians - Signed the Inter-Korean Basic Agreement, and declared the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula in line with the global détente - Successfully hosted the 1988 Seoul Olympics - Built infrastructure, including construction of Incheon Airport and KTX starting in 1992 - Decreased the number of drug offenders and gangsters Controversies: - Embezzled money, with the official estimate being 262.8 billion won (198,077,274 dollars) - Tried to cover up large-scale environmental pollution problems, including the tap water heavy metal contamination scandal in 1989 - Oppressed the people to the extent that some argue it was another dictatorship 14th President: Kim Young-sam (김영삼) - Born: December 20, 1927, Geojedo, Geoje-si, Gyeongsangnam-do, South Korea - Died: November 22, 2015, Seoul, South Korea (aged 87) - Presidential Term: February 1993 – February 1998 (for 5 years) - The First Lady: Son Myung-soon Kim Young-sam was the seventh President of South Korea. He launched the Civilian Government, meaning one comprised of ordinary citizens, not military personnel. Before he became president, Kim served a record 9 terms as a member of the National Assembly from 1954. Kim Young-sam was president during the IMF Financial Crisis in 1997. Accomplishments: - Eradicated political soldiers of Hanahoe (secret society of military officers headed by Chun Doo-hwan and Roh Tae-woo supported by Park Chung-hee) to prevent a future military coup - Started financial transaction system that required real names to open bank accounts, making a lot of black money disappear - Demolished the Japanese General Government Building, which received the most favorable response from every Korean, regardless of political affiliation Controversies: - Pardoned Chun Doo-hwan and Roh Tae-woo in 1997 - Was unable to avoid the corruption of his close associates and relatives, including his second son, who had no official title, who intervened in state affairs (although Kim Young-sam himself is considered clean) - Blamed for the IMF Financial Crisis, only three months before his retirement, which is why Kim is evaluated poorly despite his many achievements 15th President: Kim Dae-jung (김대중) - Born: January 6, 1924, Sinan-gun, Jeollanam-do, South Korea - Died: August 18, 2009, Seoul, South Korea (aged 85) - Presidential Term: February 1998 – February 2003 (for 5 years) - The First Lady: Lee Hee-ho Kim Dae-jung was the eighth President of South Korea. He was the first president from Jeolla Province, which was historically underrepresented in the government. Kim protested against Park Chung-hee’s military regime abroad, then he was abducted back to Korea and suffered house arrest and imprisonment. After taking office as president, he launched the Government of the People, and tried to overcome the IMF financial crisis. Accomplishments: - Overcame the worst financial crisis rapidly through drastic measures - Supplied high-speed internet (broadband), advanced IT, and supported software companies - Developed Korean pop culture - Strengthened the ROK-US alliance and normalized Korea-Japan relations Controversies: - Granted the most pardons in the history of South Korea - Created the “Republic of -Gate”, with all kinds of corruption and gates (political scandals) 16th President: Roh Moo-hyun (노무현) - Born: September 1, 1946, Gimhae-si, Gyeongsangnam-do, South Korea - Died: May 23, 2009, Pusan National University Yangsan Hospital (aged 63) - Presidential Term: February 2003 – February 2008 (for 5 years) - The First Lady: Kwon Yang-sook Roh Moo-hyun was a former human rights lawyer and the ninth President of South Korea, running what he called the “Participatory Government”. He was the first Korean president to be impeached while in office with his presidential authority suspended. The Constitutional Court overruled the case, and he returned to his duties as president two months later, serving until February 24, 2008. Roh Moo-hyun was also the first president in history to leave Seoul and return to his hometown, Bongha Village, after leaving office. Sadly, Roh was also the first president to commit suicide (from Owl Rock on Bonghwasan Mountain in Gimhae on May 23, 2009), while being investigated due to the corruption of his relatives. Accomplishments: - Took a post-authoritarian approach - Emphasized communication with the public - Implemented decentralization policy, including the Sejong City Relocation Project - Tried to reform conglomerates through a securities-related class action system - Uncovered the truth about the Jeju Uprising and officially apologized as a nation for the first time Controversies: - Failed with real estate and welfare policies, collapsing the economy and widening the income gap - Affected by numerous corruption cases involving relatives and close associates, despite morality being his main slogan - Worsened Korea-US relations - Continued the ineffective Sunshine Policy - Abolished the open bar exam and introduced the American law school system, preventing the disadvantaged from pursuing legal careers If you are having thoughts of suicide, call or text 988 to reach the 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline or go to SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for a list of additional resources. Go here for resources outside the United States. 17th President: Lee Myung-bak (이명박) - Born: December 19, 1941, Osaka, Japan (age 81 years) - Presidential Term: February, 2008 – February, 2013 (for 5 years) - The First Lady: Kim Yoon-ok Lee Myung-bak was the tenth President of South Korea. Born in Osaka City before the establishment of the Republic of Korea, he grew up in Pohang City, Gyeongsangbuk-do after liberation. Lee Myung-bak graduated from the Department of Business Administration at Korea University in 1965 and began his career at Hyundai Engineering & Construction as an employee. He continued to rise through the ranks at light speed, and became CEO in 12 years, becoming the legend of salarymen. Lee entered politics in 1992 and was elected mayor of Seoul in 2002. During his tenure as Seoul Mayor, he implemented policies such as Hi Seoul branding, Cheonggyecheon restoration project, and reorganization of Seoul’s public transportation system. Lee Myung-bak was the fourth former president to be arrested in March 2018, being sentenced to 17 years in prison on charges of embezzlement and bribery. After being imprisoned for 3 years and 9 months, he was released on bail in March 2019 under the condition of being prohibited from going out or contacting outsiders. Accomplishments: - Became the first president in history to visit Dokdo - Strengthened national defense by extending missile range to 800km - Helped achieve 1 trillion dollars in trade (export and import), becoming the 9th country in the world to do so - Expanded free trade economic territory to the third largest in the world through the Korea-EU FTA and the Korea-US FTA - Strengthened global position as a nuclear power exporter - Made Korea’s unemployment rate the lowest among OECD countries - Successfully conducted Operation Dawn of Gulf of Aden - Implemented a transfer system for public transportation Controversies: - Granted special pardons for corrupt politicians and close associates - Presided over the worst corruption in the defense industry by far - Wasted foreign exchange reserves and instituted a failed exchange rate policy in 2008 - Caused insolvency of public enterprises - Initiated labor oppression and pro-jaebeol policies - Reduced universal welfare 18th President: Park Geun-hye (박근혜) - Born: February 2, 1952, Daegu, South Korea (age 71 years) - Presidential Term: February 2013 – March 2017 (for 4 years) Park Geun-hye was elected the eleventh President of South Korea. She was the first female head of state in South Korea. The first on the Peninsula in 1,116 years since Queen Jinseong. Park Geun-hye lives an interesting, yet tragic life. As the daughter of former President Park Chung-hee and First Lady Yuk Young-soo, she started living at the Blue House at the age of 12 when her father became president. She graduated from the Department of Electronic Engineering at Sogang University in 1974 and went to study in France to become an educator. When her mother, First Lady Yuk Young-soo was assassinated by Moon Se-gwang, a Korean-Japanese spy under orders from North Korea, she gave up her dream of becoming an educator and took on the role of first lady in place of her mother. When her father, former President Park Chung-hee was also assassinated in 1979, she moved out of the Blue House and disappeared from the public eye. 18 years later in 1997, following the IMF crisis, she joined the Grand National Party in support of Lee Hoi-chang. She was elected to serve as a member of the 15th-19th National Assembly in Daegu. Park eventually became president, but was impeached due to the Park Geun-hye–Choi Soon-sil Scandal in 2016, with her duties as president suspended. On March 10, 2017, she resigned without completing her term of office following the Constitutional Court’s decision to remove her. Park Geun-hye has been imprisoned for the longest period (4 years and 9 months) among former South Korean presidents. She received a special pardon and was released in December 2021. Accomplishments: - Conducted the largest Dokdo defense exercise in history - Signed Korea-Japan GSOMIA - Withdrew from the Kaesong Industrial Complex - Normalized driver’s license tests - Covered teeth cleaning (scaling) under National Health Insurance - Began survey of children with long-term absences - Created Culture Day, the last Wednesday of every month when discounts for movies, performances, and cultural properties are given Controversies: - Had the biggest political scandal of being impeached and dismissed - Caused a retreat from democracy - Presided over a clumsy handover to the next government - Associated with corruption of relatives, sister and close associates 19th President: Moon Jae-in (문재인) - Born: January 24, 1953, Geoje-si, Gyeongsangnam-do, South Korea (age 70 years) - Presidential Term: May 2017 – May 2022 (for 5 years) - The First Lady: Kim Jung-sook Moon Jae-in was the twelfth President of South Korea. He was defeated by Park Geun-hye in the 18th presidential election in 2012, but ran again in the early presidential election held after the impeachment of Park Geun-hye in 2017. He was elected president by the largest margin of votes in history. Moon is so far the only president who had no criminal charges filed against himself, his immediate family, or any of his relatives. After leaving office, Moon Jae-in retired in Yangsan and opened a bookstore. Accomplishments: - Signed currency swap agreements with major countries, including Switzerland, to amass a large amount of foreign exchange reserves - Began aircraft carrier development - Improved military welfare - Reconstructed the shipping industry - Rapidly grew Korea’s export scale from 17th (2006) to 6th in the world (2020) in the international defense market - Improved transparency of the assets of high-ranking public officials Controversies: - Instituted a failed real estate policy, doubling the average apartment price in Seoul to over 1.2 billion won (900,000 dollars) - Intensified gender conflict - Enabled the Cho Kuk scandal - Repeatedly blamed and shifted responsibility to the previous administration - Increased tax burden on citizens through frequent tax law revisions - Worsened drug crimes by reducing the prosecutor’s office drug crime department - Presided over the worst rich-poor gap in 10 years - Created a third of the government debt of the last 70 years in just 5 years during his term - Caused a Korea-Japan trade dispute - Signed a currency swap agreement worth approximately $2 billion with Turkey for Lira in 2021 - Abandoned his 3 Pungsan dogs (he received 2 from Kim Jong Un), because the government refused to pay $1,888/month for his pets on top of his $10,573 pension/month (they were sent to Uchi Park Zoo, Gwangju) 20th President: Yoon Suk-yeol (윤석열) - Born: December 18, 1960, Seoul, South Korea (age 62 years) - Presidential Term: May 10, 2022 – - The First Lady: Kim Keon-hee Yoon Suk-yeol was inaugurated as the thirteenth President of the Republic of Korea on May 10, 2022, and is scheduled to serve until May 9, 2027, or as we say in Korea, 5 years or less. He obtained a BA and MA in Law at Seoul National University, passed the bar exam in 1991, and was appointed as a prosecutor in 1994, then Prosecutor General in 2019. After resigning from the Prosecutor General’s Office in March 2021, he entered politics in June 2021. Yoon won the presidential election his first time running for elected office. Yoon Suk-yeol is the first president from Seoul, the first president with a prosecutor background, and the first president to use an iPhone. ※ His accomplishments and controversies will be updated at the conclusion of his term.


--- [List of presidents of South Korea - Wikipedia] ---
The president of the Republic of Korea serves as the chief executive of the government of the Republic of Korea and the commander-in-chief of the Republic of Korea Armed Forces.
The South Korean government constitutionally considers the Korean Provisional Government (KPG) to be its predecessor. The KPG was established in 1919 as a government in exile in Shanghai during the Japanese occupation of Korea. It had nine different heads of state between September 1919 and August 1948.
Under the 1988 Constitution of the Sixth Republic of Korea, the presidential term is set at five years with no re-election. The president must be a South Korean citizen, at least 40 years old, who has lived in South Korea for 5 years. The term was previously set at four years during the First Republic from 1948 to 1960, including a two-term limit that was repealed in 1954. The presidency was changed into a ceremonial role elected by legislators to five-year terms during the Second Republic from 1960 to 1963. The Third Republic returned the presidency to a directly-elected position with a four-year term in 1963 and repealed the two-term limit in 1969. Under the Yushin Constitution of the Fourth Republic adopted in 1972, the presidency became an indirectly elected position with six-year terms and no limits to re-election. It was replaced with a seven-year term under the Fifth Republic in 1981, which retained the indirect elections but prohibited a second term.
As of 2025, fourteen people have served in full capacity as president of South Korea since the office was formally established on 24 July 1948, when Rhee Syng-man took office after being elected by the Constituent National Assembly. The longest-serving president is Park Chung Hee, who held the office for nearly 16 years from 1963 until his assassination in 1979 following a period of authoritarian rule. The first and only woman to hold the presidency was his daughter Park Geun-hye, who was elected in 2012 and removed from office in 2017 after her impeachment was upheld by the Constitutional Court of Korea.
Lee Jae Myung assumed office on 4 June 2025 following the impeachment of his elected predecessor, Yoon Suk Yeol, by the National Assembly on 14 December 2024 after his martial law declaration. His powers were suspended until his impeachment was upheld by the Constitutional Court on 4 April 2025, which formally ended Yoon's presidency. Lee was elected in the 2025 presidential election.
