=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Legislator Spotlight: Maryland Speaker Adrienne A. Jones ...]
Dec 16, 2021 · Adrienne Jones is the first woman and first African-American Speaker of the Maryland House of Delegates. In 2021, she introduced and passed an ambitious set of bills to address health and financial disparities in Black communities.
URL: https://stateinnovation.org/legislator-spotlight-maryland-speaker-adrienne-a-jones

[SPEAKER JONES ANNOUNCES RACIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTICE AGENDA]
Jan 19, 2021 · Annapolis, MD – Today, House Speaker Adrienne A. Jones announced the nation’s first-ever comprehensive legislative package dedicated to closing race-based economic and health gaps for minority communities.
URL: https://www.mdspeakerjones.com/post/speaker-jones-announces-racial-and-economic-justice-agenda

[January Debt Collector? : r/Scams - Reddit]
Aug 26, 2023 · January Debt Collector? Anyone else ever get texts like these? From what I can tell January is a legitimate company, but I do not have a Fortiva credit card.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scams/comments/1620epe/january_debt_collector/

[House Speaker Adrienne Jones' legacy of policy and leadership]
Dec 7, 2025 — Adrienne Jones, House Speaker listens as delegates speak on the house floor at the Maryland ... And in 2021 Jones had a “ ...
URL: https://www.thebanner.com/politics-power/state-government/adrienne-jones-career-legacy-R3MBDVG4ZVGC5PQ6IOAN3BZQMA/

[Wes Moore - Wikipedia]
In January 2021, Speaker of the Maryland House of Delegates Adrienne A. Jones consulted with Moore to craft her "black agenda" to tackle racial inequalities in housing, health, banking, government, and private corporations. [106]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wes_Moore


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Legislator Spotlight: Maryland Speaker Adrienne A. Jones ...] ---
Adrienne Jones is the first woman and first African-American Speaker of the Maryland House of Delegates. In 2021, she introduced and passed an ambitious set of bills to address health and financial disparities in Black communities. This interview is part of a series for No Democracy Without Black Women, a report about the underrepresentation of Black women in state legislatures. You have successfully reached the heights of leadership in the Maryland legislature. What propelled your trajectory to becoming Maryland Speaker of the House? Throughout my career, I worked hard to take advantage of the opportunities that have been presented to me – from my transition from the central committee to delegate and Speaker Pro-Tempore to Speaker of the House. After graduating from UMBC, I was unsure about my career goals but knew I wanted to make a difference. I applied and was accepted into a federal government program that helped recent college graduates find their first job. Just six months after I graduated from college, I began working for Baltimore County government. My first position was a Clerk III serving as an Assistant to the Assistant Director of Central Service. A few years later, I joined the Baltimore County Executive’s Office as an aide where I discovered my love for public service. While I continued to work for Baltimore County, I volunteered on several political campaigns, served on numerous community service boards and commissions, and was appointed as a Member Baltimore County Democratic Central Committee. In 1997, following the death of one of the Delegates in the 10th district, I was encouraged by my Senator Delores Kelley and then County Executive Dutch Ruppersberger to apply for her vacant Delegate seat. But finally agreed to compete for the seat in a crowded field of 16 other candidates and I was appointed in October of 1997 by Speaker Casper Taylor. I subsequently ran for re-election in 1998, won and have won every reelection since then. On November 20, 2002 at 8:30pm, I received a call from then Chairman Michael Busch that changed everything. He told me that he was going to run for the Speaker position and asked if I would run with him as his Speaker Pro Tem. I told him yes right away, and he and I were Speaker and Speaker Pro Tem for 16 years until his death in April of 2019. Following Speaker Busch’s death, I was unanimously elected by the full House of Delegates to become Speaker of the House. My story serves as a lesson that you never know who is watching, and you never know when opportunities will become available to you. What challenges did you face in your rise to leadership? Initially, I was reluctant to compete for the delegate seat because I was caring for my sick mother, but finally agreed. After being a Delegate for a few years, I would ask myself, “Did I make a mistake?” There weren’t enough women or people of color serving with me. In this country there have been only two other Black women as Speakers in their states—current Congresswoman Karen Bass and New Jersey Lieutenant Governor Sheila Oliver. I spent late nights in my office reading bills only to get on the House floor and hear some men talk loudly and say nothing in their floor remarks. It’s important that women – particularly women of color – have a voice in government. I’m reminded of the old expression “If not you, who? If not now, when?” You introduced the Black Agenda this legislative session. Can you elaborate on the impact the policies will have on Black communities post COVID-19, especially how they will address the wealth gap? Absolutely. The Black Agenda is a comprehensive approach to providing more economic opportunity and upward mobility for more Black Marylanders. It targets five key areas including health, housing, corporate management, business, and government. It will have a lasting impact, not just as we recover from COVID. The most common large investment of any American family is a home, but redlining mortgage rates and banking investments since the New Deal have left Black families in Maryland without this valuable wealth creation tool. As a result, we passed a bill that creates tax-free savings accounts for all first-time homebuyers. We passed a bill preventing housing loan and credit applicants from being denied if they can provide alternate forms of creditworthiness, like a history of rent payments or utility payments. We also passed a bill requiring Maryland companies to report on the racial diversity of their boards to demonstrate diversity in their membership, leadership, or mission in order to qualify for state capital funding tax credit contracts over $1 million. Another part of the agenda is declaring racism a public health crisis and requiring health workers to undergo healthy equity and bias training. I'm seeing a difference after this legislation was passed. I'm looking forward to doing more to ensure that no communities will be left out. Everyone should have the opportunity to build wealth in Maryland and across the country.


--- [SPEAKER JONES ANNOUNCES RACIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTICE AGENDA] ---
SPEAKER JONES ANNOUNCES RACIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTICE AGENDA - Speaker Adrienne Jones - Jan 19, 2021 - 3 min read Annapolis, MD – Today, House Speaker Adrienne A. Jones announced the nation’s first-ever comprehensive legislative package dedicated to closing race-based economic and health gaps for minority communities. “Our country had a moment of reckoning this summer when thousands of protesters, in every state, demanded that we address the racial inequality that continues to exist. As the first Black speaker in Maryland history, I cannot waste this moment,” said Speaker Jones. “Justice and equity reaches further than police reform. We have to create better access and more pathways to economic opportunities. We must get it right.” The 2021 Racial and Economic Justice Agenda package was developed this fall with over three dozen local, state and national leaders on ideas to address systemic racism across sectors. The agenda makes 30 policy recommendations, including nine pieces of legislation, in five key areas: housing, corporate management, banking, health, business and government. “It is exciting to see such a comprehensive legislative agenda addressing the need for policies to ensure economic empowerment and environmental justice for Black and Brown communities in Maryland” said Dr. Sherita Hill Golden, Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer at Johns Hopkins Medicine. “In order to achieve health equity, it is crucial for all of our citizens to have access to healthy and affordable food and housing, parks and green spaces for exercise, and economic opportunities that enhance access to healthcare.” Speaker Jones will be introducing legislation to expand economic opportunities for more wealth inclusion. The bill will require any company receiving State capital funding over $1 million to demonstrate racial diversity on its board and in its mission; mandate any company doing business with the State to demonstrate racial diversity on their board beginning in FY23; and create a State equity scorecard that shows a corporation’s diversity and spending that go to minority businesses. Despite gains, minority women represent less than five percent of board members in the United States. "Police reform is needed; however, we will never be able to truly see the changes until we eradicate systemic poverty. Systemic poverty, which is rooted in racism, continues to be the biggest enemy to Black people. We want to work, we do not want handouts, we do not want to commit crimes...we want to work" said D. Watkins, author and professor. The Agenda will also include bills to: • Prevent loan and credit applicants from being denied if they can provide alternate forms of credit worthiness (Queen); • Create tax-free savings accounts to help first-time homebuyers afford the high cost of a down payment, closing costs etc. (Brooks); • Adding a Certified Business Enterprise component to help Maryland minority companies compete for State bids (Washington); • Improve the State’s procurement process and provide more technical resources to minority businesses (Wilson); • Redirects $10 million to TEDCO’s Builder’s Fund so minority business have access to more meaningful venture opportunities (D. Barnes); • Establish Health Equity Resource Communities dedicated to closing gaps in our healthcare system (Barron/J. Lewis); • Declare racism a public health crisis and require all healthcare providers to complete bias training as part of their licensing process (Pena-Melnyk). "With Speaker Jones' extraordinary leadership, I am proud to support the nation’s first truly comprehensive statewide policy agenda for racial justice and economic progress in Maryland", said John B. King Jr., former U.S. Secretary of Education under President Obama. "As the country continues to reckon with over 400 years of anti-Blackness, it is incredibly clear that our work is far from done in addressing systemic inequity. It is urgent that we do more than just take steps, but rather make leaps for Black justice in our state. We simply cannot afford for Black equity and excellence to be a side conversation." The legislative package will be introduced in the House of Delegates in the coming days. # # # # # Click below to download full Press Release


--- [January Debt Collector? : r/Scams - Reddit] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [House Speaker Adrienne Jones' legacy of policy and leadership] ---
In six years as speaker of the House of Delegates, and decades before that as a delegate, Adrienne A. Jones built a résumé of progressive policy wins: increasing funding for historically Black colleges, enshrining abortion rights in the Maryland Constitution, improving public education, creating a cabinet-level office of social equity. As she steps down from leadership, those who have worked closely with Jones say she’s also left her mark as someone who has quietly built coalitions, nurtured talent and set a high bar for integrity. “I’ve never known her to make a decision for the wrong reasons,” said Eric Luedtke, who served under Jones as House majority leader and works in Gov. Wes Moore’s administration. “There is an ironclad integrity that served the House really well.” Rising through the ranks Before politics, Jones earned a degree in psychology — “It comes in handy,” she once said — built a career in human relations and fair practices for Baltimore County’s government and founded the Baltimore County African American Cultural Festival. After volunteering on campaigns and serving on the county’s Democratic Central Committee, Jones got into office herself, applying for a House of Delegates vacancy in 1997 when a delegate died. Jones’ political career launched forward in 2003, when the new speaker of the House, Michael E. Busch, tapped her to be the speaker pro tempore. The speaker pro tempore presides over full House sessions when the speaker is absent and is a key part of the leadership team. One of Jones’ behind-the-scenes jobs for Busch was to quash personal issues with delegates before they became problems. Whether it was complaints, disputes between lawmakers or bad behavior, Jones put a stop to it. Jeremy Baker, who was a top aide to Busch and Jones, described the job as “Mike’s problem solver.” “She was his ultimate moral badass,” said Baker, who is now the governor’s top lobbyist. Jones always took her work seriously, making sure she was prepared for meetings and debates, Baker said. Jones also became chair of the capital budget subcommittee, a wonky-sounding title that meant she led oversight of the state’s budget for construction projects. In that role, she got to know delegates from across the state and the projects they wanted built in their districts. Even as she rose in leadership, Jones remained more of a behind-the-scenes worker. She never sought the spotlight and was judicious about when she spoke up publicly. When Busch died the day before the end of the legislative session in 2019, Jones shouldered the somber task of leading lawmakers through the necessary work of passing bills amid their grief. Jones drew praise for her leadership, but in the ensuing days, as the race to be the next speaker got underway, she did not rise to the top of the list. She pulled out of the running when she thought she didn’t have the votes, saying she prioritized unity over self-interest. But, when the time came for Democrats to choose, the two remaining candidates — Del. Maggie McIntosh, now a consultant, and Del. Dereck Davis, now the state treasurer — effectively deadlocked. After hours of intense, closed-door deliberations, McIntosh and Davis agreed to withdraw and put Jones forward as a compromise consensus candidate. Jones was so surprised at the turn of events that she joked to reporters she’d have picked a different outfit had she known she’d end up becoming the speaker. More seriously, she quickly pledged to prioritize listening to members as she formulated her plans as speaker — something she learned from Busch. “He taught me to be a good listener … because sometimes you find out the strength an individual might have that they may not have shown themselves,” Jones said in a 2019 interview. Changing of the guard Alex Hughes, who was Busch’s chief of staff and stayed on in the role for Jones, said the 2019 speaker vote marked a changing of the guard in Maryland politics. Until then, all the House of Delegates speakers, all of the Senate presidents and all of the governors had been white men. Jones was the first woman and first person of color to become a presiding officer in the Maryland General Assembly. “This was before Wes Moore. This was before Brooke Lierman. Before Anthony Brown. She really was the spark that stirred a lot of this generational change we’re seeing in the state,” said Hughes, who now owns a public affairs consulting firm. Hughes said too often people have underestimated Jones. Even Busch, during his final hospital stay before he died, thought Jones would be a long-shot in the race to succeed him, Hughes said. “People, probably her whole life, have underestimated her,” Hughes said. “And she just continues to sort of shock them.” “You don’t think this about a 70-something, 5-foot church lady in heels, but she is tough,” Hughes said. “She’s really tough.” Del. Kim Ross, a Baltimore County Democrat, joined the House of Delegates this year and said Jones paved the way for Black women like her to succeed in politics. Ross said she’ll continue to seek Jones’ counsel as she builds her political career. “I am deeply grateful to her for shattering stereotypes and proceeding an image of Black women in leadership that’s powerful and positive,” Ross said. Jones was generous with her mentorship, her colleagues said. Del. Dana Stein, a Baltimore County Democrat, didn’t hesitate when Jones asked him to become speaker pro tempore in 2024. They represent neighboring districts and have known each other for years outside politics. Stein came into politics after Jones and considers her a mentor and guide. “One thing she always said to me was: ‘Dana, just be you. Don’t ever change,’” Stein said. “That was very reaffirming and supportive. I appreciate her friendship in addition to her leadership.” Judicious use of power The House speaker holds immense authority, with the ability to name committee chairs and determine the chamber’s priorities. Jones picked her moments to flex her power, occasionally offering a withering takedown of a delegate unprepared for a floor debate or a snappy retort that sent a ripple of laughter through the chamber. Rarely did Jones let her guard down or allow cracks in her calm facade. A test came in 2023, in the final minutes of the final day of the General Assembly session. Republican delegates were protesting a procedural decision, complaining that Jones was stifling debate on a bill they opposed. An incensed Del. Nic Kipke, an Anne Arundel County Republican, hollered into his microphone and pointed at Jones from across the chamber as he sputtered that she should “sit down.” “I am not sitting down!” Jones shot back from the dais. Jones became animated but held firm as a back-and-forth ensued over whether Jones was within her authority to limit debate. As dramatic as the episode was in terms of decorum, Jones quickly moved forward after Kipke apologized the next day. “There is always tension between the majority and minority parties, but the institution is bigger than any one of us ... I’ll continue to protect both the institution and the rights of every member,” Jones said in a statement at the time. A focus on equity Jones’ policy positions have often been rooted in equity and fairness. In the most recent legislative session, she sponsored a bill creating the state Department of Social and Economic Mobility, bringing multiple state programs focused on equity into one office under the guidance of a cabinet secretary. “When we say ‘social and economic mobility,’ let’s be very clear what we are talking about,” Jones said when the bill was signed into law. “We’re talking about the strength of our diversity. We’re talking about promoting equity, and we are talking about creating inclusion in all spaces.” In 2024, Jones promoted a “decency agenda,” which grouped antidiscrimination bills and the Freedom to Read Act, which counters efforts to ban books in libraries. And in 2021 Jones had a “Black agenda,” with bills addressing inequities in homeownership, health care and the economy. But her first legislative priority after becoming speaker was sponsoring a bill that ultimately forced the state to commit an extra $580 million worth of funding for the state’s four historically Black universities to settle a long-running lawsuit. The governor at the time, Republican Larry Hogan, had suggested a $200 million settlement. David Wilson, president of Morgan State University, said Jones’ advocacy — she used her position to give the measure the priority designation of House Bill 1 — was crucial. Jones understood the importance of the state’s HBCUs to Maryland’s economy and culture, and agreed they’d been woefully underfunded. Wilson said he knew Jones’ word was good; she’d previously secured money for a new building at Morgan. “I have never processed her as a truly ambitious person who is really about just power grabbing,” Wilson said. “She truly wanted to pass laws that were about impacting people and communities and institutions — in order for the state of Maryland to continue to lead the nation in so many areas and to rid itself of some past things that were not as glorious.” Freeman Hrabowski, the retired longtime president of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, said Jones was one of the state’s best House speakers because of what she accomplished and how she led, “beyond race and gender.” Hrabowski said he appreciated that Jones was never about “glitz and glitter” and always has done more listening than talking. “She looks at you with such seriousness,” Hrabowski said. “Whatever she tells you, you can take it to the bank.” Banner reporters Lee O. Sanderlin and Rona Kobell contributed to this article.


--- [Wes Moore - Wikipedia] ---
Westley Watende Omari Moore (born October 15, 1978) is an American politician, businessman, author, and former U.S. Army officer, serving as the 63rd governor of Maryland since 2023.
Moore was born in Maryland and raised primarily in New York. He graduated from Johns Hopkins University and received a master's degree from Wolfson College, Oxford, as a Rhodes Scholar. After several years in the U.S. Army and Army Reserve, he became an investment banker in New York. Between 2010 and 2015, Moore published five books, including a young-adult novel. He served as CEO of the Robin Hood Foundation from 2017 to 2021. Moore authored The Other Wes Moore and The Work. He also hosted Beyond Belief on the Oprah Winfrey Network (OWN), and was executive producer and a writer for Coming Back with Wes Moore on PBS.
Moore is a member of the Democratic Party. He won the 2022 Maryland gubernatorial election, becoming Maryland's first black governor and the third black person elected governor of any U.S. state.


