=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dolores Fonzi - Wikipedia]
During 2006, Fonzi starred and produced the miniseries Soy tu fan which in 2010 was adapted by Canana Films in Mexico. She also starred in the series El tiempo no para by Canal 9.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dolores_Fonzi

[Soy tu fan (TV Mini Series 2006) - IMDb]
Soy tu fan: With Dolores Fonzi, Tomás Fonzi, Julieta Cardinali, Leonora Balcarce.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0451582/

[Dolores Fonzi - actress, writer, director, producer, designer]
During 2006, Fonzi starred and produced the miniseries Soy tu fan which in 2010 was adapted by Canana Films in Mexico. She also starred in the series El tiempo no para by Canal 9.
URL: https://en.kinorium.com/name/216130/

[Soy tu fan (TV Mini Series 2010–2012)]
Details · Release date · April 28, 2010 (Mexico) · Country of origin. Mexico · Official site. Once TV (Mexico) · Language. Spanish · Also known as. Soy Tu Fan.
URL: https://m.imdb.com/title/tt1649632/

[Dolores Fonzi - Latina Powerhouse 2024 - HOLA.com]
Sep 29, 2024 · In 2011, she won the Cóndor de Plata Award for Best Actress for her role in El Campo. Her production, "Soy Tu Fan," which premiered in 2006, had a significant impact.
URL: https://www.hola.com/us/latinapowerhouse/20240929711778/dolores-fonzi/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dolores Fonzi - Wikipedia] ---
Dolores María Fonzi (born 19 July 1978) is an Argentine television, theatre and film actress. Several of her films have received critical acclaim such as Burnt Money (2000), Waiting for the Messiah (2000), Bottom of the Sea (2003), The Aura (2005), and Paulina (2015). 
In 2023, she marked her directorial debut with the comedy-drama Blondi. Her second film, the legal drama Belén, is competing for the Golden Shell at the 73rd San Sebastian International Film Festival.


--- [Soy tu fan (TV Mini Series 2006) - IMDb] ---
- Awards - 1 nomination total Photos Storyline Did you know - ConnectionsFeatured in Antes que sea tarde: Dolores Fonzi (2012) User reviews Details Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [Dolores Fonzi - actress, writer, director, producer, designer] ---
In 1996, when she was seventeen years old, Dolores Fonzi made her first television appearance in the series La nena. In 1998, Cris Morena chose her to play Clara Vázquez in Verano del '98 with her brother, who played Benjamín Vázquez. Thanks to this successful series and her character as a villain, she gained great popularity and success. At the end of 1999 she left Verano del '98 to be part of the cast of Marcelo Piñeyro's film Burnt Money, thereby landing her film debut with a role as a sex worker. She also appeared in Waiting for the Messiah. In 2001, she had great recognition by integrating the cast of El sodero de mi vida in Canal 13, where she played a girl with a mild intellectual disability. Experimenting with Luis Ortega the tape Caja negra is born, where she acted and participated in the integral creation. She later acted in movies like Private Lives, Bottom of the Sea, The Aura, La mujer rota, Salamandra, El club de la muerte and El campo, for the latter she was nominated for the Silver Condor Awards for Best Actress. In 2003 she starred in the unitary series Disputas and in the adaptation of the play of John Ford, Lástima que sea una puta. The following year she starred with Mariano Martínez the terror unit, Sangre fría by Telefe. During 2006, Fonzi starred and produced the miniseries Soy tu fan which in 2010 was adapted by Canana Films in Mexico. She also starred in the series El tiempo no para by Canal 9. From 2005 to 2008 she participated in three chapters of Mujeres asesinas. Her return to television was in 2012 with her participation in Graduados the new Underground production for Telefe. In addition, she was part of the unit of TV Pública En terapia with the actors Norma Aleandro, Diego Peretti, Leonardo Sbaraglia, Ailín Salas, Julieta Cardinali and Germán Palacios. She also resumed the theater as the protagonist of the play Isósceles. That year, she also made the filming of El Crítico by Hernán Guerschuny, a co-production between HC Films and Lagarto Cine where Dolores Fonzi had the lead alongside Rafael Spregelburd. On television she participated as a guest actress in two episodes of the series Aliados. In 2015 Fonzi starred in the film Paulina, remake of the film starring Mirtha Legrand, in 1960. The film had a strong box office collection and favorable reviews, being praised at the Cannes Festival. For her work in the film, Fonzi was awarded the Havana Star Prize for Best Actress at the 17th Havana Film Festival New York. She also acted in Truman film starring Ricardo Darín. In 2016 she was part of the cast of the series of La Leona, she played Eugenia Leone.


--- [Soy tu fan (TV Mini Series 2010–2012)] ---
TV Series | 60 min | Comedy, Drama, Romance Be the first to add the plot. For an enhanced browsing experience, get the IMDb app on your smartphone or tablet. Get the IMDb app Spanish 12 April 2018 | Variety Canneseries: 8 Things It Said About International Drama Look back at some of the most powerful moments from the 72nd Primetime Emmy Awards, including memorable speeches and a resonant musical tribute. Watch the video


--- [Dolores Fonzi - Latina Powerhouse 2024 - HOLA.com] ---
Dolores Fonzi's acting performances have made her a favorite among the public for many of her characters. The Argentine-born actress has portrayed a villain in "Summer of 98" and a young woman with mental problems in "El Sordeo de Mi Vida." Her family has an artistic streak, with her brother Tomás also being an actor. Dolores Fonzi's career includes appearances in series and films such as Vidas Privadas, El Fondo del Mar, and El Aura. In 2011, she won the Cóndor de Plata Award for Best Actress for her role in El Campo. Her production, "Soy Tu Fan," which premiered in 2006, had a significant impact. It told the story of a young woman trying to get over a love while dealing with complicated situations involving her close social circle and family members. The production was adapted in Mexico in 2010, with Fonzi making a cameo. A sequel ten years later would unite both stories. Dolores Fonzi's career has seen success on the big screen and television. In 2023, she wrote, starred in, and directed her first film, "Blondi," which was nominated at the Buenos Aires International Independent Film Festival. Aside from her work in the entertainment industry, Dolores Fonzi also focuses on motherhood. In 2009, she had her first child, Lázaro, with Mexican actor Gael García, her partner in "Vidas Privadas." In 2011, the couple welcomed their second child, a girl named Libertad. "As a mother, I'm cool, I try to be as Blondi as possible, but I'm more controlling than her (laughs) and I also take care of my personal development more, it's what I'm most curious about," she said. In 2019, she revealed that she had been diagnosed with breast cancer, but after a mastectomy, she was cancer-free. "I'm telling this because I know I can help, but I also understand more than ever that one speaks when one can, not when one is expected to speak," she expressed in a post on her social media. "The word cancer is so stigmatized that you get lost in a nebula of poorly told experiences. Surround yourself with people who love you. Support people who suffer from it." With her work, Fonzi seeks to create social awareness from a critical point of view with comedy, as in her recent film, Blondi, in which she also gives voice to women, especially single mothers. Her talent is recognized by critics, making her worthy of awards such as Best Actress at the Malaga Film Festival, the Cóndor de Plata Awards, the Sur Awards, the Konex Awards, the Biarritz Amérique Latine Cinémas & Cultures Festival, SANFIC, the Santiago Film Festival, and the Platino Awards for Ibero-American Cinema.
