=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Acclaimed artist Martha Rosler to lead Fowler Lecture]
Jan 14, 2016 — Rosler received the Spectrum International Prize in Photography in 2005 and the Oskar Kokoschka Prize in 2006. She was awarded an Anonymous Was ...
URL: https://artdesign.uoregon.edu/acclaimed-artist-martha-rosler-lead-fowler-lecture

[Martha Rosler]
In 2006 she received the Oskar Kokoschka Prize, the highest award for fine artists in Austria. In 2017, she was awarded the Hamburg Lichtwark Prize.
URL: https://foundation.generali.at/en/collection/martha-rosler/

[Martha Rosler | The Guggenheim Museums and ...]
Martha Rosler was born in 1943 in Brooklyn, New York. She received a ... Prize in Photography (2005), and Oskar Kokoschka Prize (2006). Rosler lives ...
URL: https://www.guggenheim.org/artwork/artist/martha-rosler

[Martha Rosler : Biography]
Rosler was awarded the Spectrum International Prize in Photography for 2005 and the Oskar Kokoschka Prize in 2006. She received an Anonymous Was A Woman Award ...
URL: https://www.eai.org/artists/martha-rosler/biography

[Martha Rosler: Semiotics of the Kitchen, 1975]
Rosler was awarded the Spectrum International Prize in Photography for 2005 and the Oskar Kokoschka Prize in 2006. She received an Anonymous Was A Woman Award ...
URL: https://zkm.de/en/martha-rosler-semiotics-of-the-kitchen-1975


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Acclaimed artist Martha Rosler to lead Fowler Lecture] ---
An artist whose work has ranged from provocative, avant-garde statements of the feminist struggle and public forums on homelessness to photomontages that juxtapose the carnage of war with the luxury of American homes will visit the University of Oregon for a talk this month. Internationally acclaimed artist, photographer, and educator Martha Rosler will deliver this year’s George and Matilda Fowler Lecture. Her presentation, titled “In the Place of the Public: Where Art Resides in Contemporary Society” will take place at 6 p.m. on Thursday, January 21, in Lawrence Hall Room 177 (1190 Franklin Boulevard). Rosler’s work has spanned photomontage, photography, video, and art installation. She has published more than fifteen books of art and photography. Her various works, which embrace social activism and often border on the subversive and unorthodox, are exhibited internationally. Rosler was named the first recipient of the 100K Prize from arts organization The New Foundation Seattle in November 2015. Rosler received $100,000 in cash with this award, which is presented to an influential, US-based woman artist in recognition of her extensive catalogue of work and commitment to social justice through her practice. Her art is included in permanent collections of several museums, including the Museum of Modern Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, The Whitney Museum of American Art, the Guggenheim Museum in New York, the Art Institute of Chicago, and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. One of her first breakthrough works was a 1967-72 series of photomontages in which she spliced together images from the Vietnam War into advertising images of American homes in a collection titled House Beautiful: Bringing the War Home. This included using images of maimed Vietnamese citizens and amputees, published in Life magazine, placed into affluent American living rooms selected from photos within House Beautiful. Rosler later revisited this theme in a 2004 follow-up series about the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, in which she splices together images of hooded prisoners-of-war with a high-fashion supermodel in a living room. These two series will be exhibited this year at the Seattle Art Museum in association with the 100K Prize. In 2010, Rosler received a Guggenheim Museum Lifetime Achievement Award. She presented her first solo exhibition Meta-Monumental Garage Sale at the Museum of Modern Art in New York in 2012. Her book of essays, Culture Class, on the role of artists in gentrified cities, was published by e-flux and Sternberg Press in 2013. She recently produced the exhibition Guide for the Perplexed: How to Succeed in the New Poland, in Warsaw, Poland. Above: Cleaning the Drapes, from the series “House Beautiful: Bringing the War Home" (1967–72). Photo via MoMA, courtesy Martha Rosler. In 1975, Rosler released the feminist art performance video “Semiotics of the Kitchen,” a parody of cooking shows, in which she aggressively uses different cooking tools to allude to the feminist struggle and renounce traditional, middle-class housewife duties. Rosler also focuses on places of passage, with her various photography series on roads, shop windows, and airports. In 1989, she presented If You Lived Here…, a series of three exhibitions, four public forums, and other events about housing accessibility, homelessness, and the built environment within New York City. It was a collaborative effort, including work by artists, filmmakers, homeless people, poets, writers, schoolchildren, and others. A corresponding book, If You Lived Here: The City in Art, Theory, and Social Activism, was published the following year. This series was revisited and expanded upon in 2006 with If You Lived Here Still… and will become a centerpiece at the New Foundation Seattle in January 2016 through January 2017. A career retrospective of Rosler’s work toured five European cities and two New York museums, the New Museum of Contemporary Art, and the International Center of Photography from 1998 to 2000. Rosler received the Spectrum International Prize in Photography in 2005 and the Oskar Kokoschka Prize in 2006. She was awarded an Anonymous Was a Woman Award in 2007; in 2008, she was the United States Artists Nimoy Fellow. She lives and works in Brooklyn. This lecture, part of the Department of Art Lecture Series, is made possible by the George and Matilda Fowler Endowment Fund.


--- [Martha Rosler] ---
Martha Rosler Martha Rosler was born in New York, USA, in 1943. She studied at Brooklyn College of the City University in New York until 1965, where she received her Bachelor's degree (B.A.), and earned a Master of Fine Arts (M.F.A.) at the University of California in San Diego in 1974. Beginning in 1975, she worked as an art critic for art magazines, including artforum. In 1985 she completed an artist residency at the Art Institute of Chicago. From 1980 she taught at Rutgers University, New Brunswick, New Jersey, and subsequently at the Städelschule, Frankfurt a.M., Columbia University and the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York. She has participated internationally in numerous major and group exhibitions, including Documenta 7 and 12 in Kassel (1982 and 2007), the Whitney Biennials in New York (1987 and 1989), the London Institute of Contemporary Art, and the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York. In 1999-2000, the Generali Foundation Vienna (together with Ikon Gallery Birmingham, England) organized the first comprehensive retrospective of the artist's work, which made stops in Birmingham, Vienna, Lyon/Villeurbanne, Barcelona, and Rotterdam, as well as New York, USA. Further solo exhibitions followed in 2002 at the Moderna Museet Stockholm, Sweden, in 2005 at the Sprengel Museum, Hannover, Germany, in 2012 at the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA), New York, USA, and in 2018 (with Hito Steyerl) at the Kunstmuseum Basel, Switzerland. Martha Rosler was awarded the SPECTRUM, the international prize for photography of the Foundation of Lower Saxony, Hanover, in 2005. In 2006 she received the Oskar Kokoschka Prize, the highest award for fine artists in Austria. In 2017, she was awarded the Hamburg Lichtwark Prize. The artist is a member of the Association of Independent Film and Video and the Society for Photography. Martha Rosler lives and works in Brooklyn, New York. In her performances, videos, textual works, photographs, and installations, Rosler confronts her audiences with political subjects and the role of the media, analyzing quotidian, domestic, and urban life from a feminist viewpoint not altogether devoid of humor. In her series, "Beauty Knows No Pain," or "Body Beautiful" (1965-74), she used techniques of collage to create a sense of unease with the ways in which women are portrayed. She has used this technique continuously, as in her well-known series of photomontages, "Bringing the War Home: House Beautiful," and "Bringing the War Home: In Vietnam" (1967-72). Here, as in her installation "B-52 in Baby's Tears" (1974), Rosler scrutinizes the role of the mass media in wartime. By the mid-1970s she had begun to employ so-called "Wordworks" (textual works) to focus on food as a central factor in social and politico-economic terms. Food and its part in the construction of the female role was also the theme of Rosler's performance video, "Semiotics of the Kitchen" (1975). A further essential aspect of Martha Rosler's work is to be seen in her critical approach to the social implications of urban structures. Her photo/text installation entitled "The Bowery in two inadequate descriptive systems" (1974-75), is considered one of the most important reflections on the role and the representative character of documentary photography. (Monika Vykoukal) read more read less


--- [Martha Rosler | The Guggenheim Museums and ...] ---
No content


--- [Martha Rosler : Biography] ---
In her work in video, photo-text, performance, critical writing and installation, Martha Rosler constructs incisive social and political analyses of the myths and realities of contemporary culture. Articulated with deadpan wit, Rosler's video works investigate how socioeconomic realities and political ideologies dominate ordinary life. Presenting astute critical analyses in accessible forms, Rosler's inquiries range from questions of public space to issues of war, women's experiences, and media information. Questioning the relation of the corporation, the state and the family, media information and the individual, and public and private, she exposes the internalized oppression that underlies such cultural phenomena as the objectification of women (Vital Statistics of a Citizen, Simply Obtained, 1977); anorexia and starvation (Losing: A Conversation With The Parents, 1977); and surrogate motherhood (Born to be Sold, 1988). Densely layered, her tapes merge performance-based narrative dramatizations, documentary elements, mass-media images and factual texts, and often employ litanies of statistics, systems of classification, and enumeration to disrupt the signs of the everyday. For example, of the classic Semiotics of the Kitchen (1975), Rosler writes that an "anti-Julia Child replaces the domesticated 'meaning' of kitchen tools with a lexicon of rage and frustration." Writing about her work, Rosler has stated: "I want to make art about the commonplace, art that illumines social life. I want to enlist video to question the mythical explanations of everyday life that take shape as an optimistic rationalism and to explore the relationships between individual consciousness, family life, and the culture of monopoly capitalism. Video itself isn't 'innocent': it is a cultural commodity often celebrating the self and its inventiveness. Yet video lets me construct, using a variety of fictional narrative forms, 'decoys' engaged in a dialectic with commercial TV." Martha Rosler was born in Brooklyn, New York, where she lives and works. She received a B.A. from Brooklyn College and an M.F.A. from the University of California, San Diego. She has taught at the Städelschule in Frankfurt and at Rutgers University in New Jersey. Her works in several media are in the permanent collections of numerous museums, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Whitney Museum of American Art, and Guggenheim Museum in New York; Art Institute of Chicago; San Francisco Museum of Modern Art and Long Beach Museum of Art in California; Contemporary Arts Museum, Houston; Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam; Moderna Museet, Stockholm; Tate and V&A in London; Museu d'Art Contemporani de Barcelona, Barcelona; Museo Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, Madrid; and Australian National Gallery, Canberra; and hundreds of colleges, universities, and independent centers around the world. Her work has been exhibited at the 50th Venice Biennale; 2004 Taipei Biennial; documentas 7 and 12, Kassel; several Whitney Biennials, New York; SkulpturProjekte Münster 07; and many other group exhibitions. The Martha Rosler Library toured from 2005 to 2009. A career retrospective, Positions in the Life World, was exhibited at 5 European cities and at the New Museum of Contemporary Art, New York, and Institute of Contemporary Photography, New York, from 1998 to 2000. Rosler was awarded the Spectrum International Prize in Photography for 2005 and the Oskar Kokoschka Prize in 2006. She received an Anonymous Was A Woman Award in 2007 and in 2008 was the United States Artists Nimoy Fellow. In 2009 she held a residency at Civitella Ranieri in Umbertide, Italy. She received a Guggenheim Museum Lifetime Achievement Award in 2010. In 2011 she was a DAAD Artist in Residence in Berlin. In 2012, Rosler presented Meta-Monumental Garage Sale, her first solo exhibition at The Museum of Modern Art, New York.


--- [Martha Rosler: Semiotics of the Kitchen, 1975] ---
Martha Rosler: Semiotics of the Kitchen, 1975 Women Video Work(s) Date: 1975 Material/Technique: Video, B/w, stereo, 4:3 ZKM | Collection Copyright: © Martha Rosler From A to Z, Rosler "shows and tells" the ingredients of the housewife's day, giving us a tour that names and mimics the ordinary with movements more samurai-like than suburban. Rosler's slashing gesture as she forms the letters of the alphabet with a fork and knife in the air, is a rebel gesture, punching through the, "system of harnessed subjectivity," from the inside out. Matha Rosler Martha Rosler was born in Brooklyn, New York, where she lives and works. She received a B.A. from Brooklyn College and an M.F.A. from the University of California, San Diego. She has taught at the Städelschule in Frankfurt and at Rutgers University in New Jersey. Her works in several media are in the permanent collections of numerous museums. The Martha Rosler Library toured from 2005 to 2009. A career retrospective, Positions in the Life World, was exhibited at 5 European cities and at the New Museum of Contemporary Art, New York, and Institute of Contemporary Photography, New York, from 1998 to 2000. Rosler was awarded the Spectrum International Prize in Photography for 2005 and the Oskar Kokoschka Prize in 2006. She received an Anonymous Was A Woman Award in 2007. In 2012 Meta-Monumental Garage Sale, her first solo exhibition at The Museum of Modern Art, New York. www.martharosler.net www.eai.org Text and Biography: the artist Material/Technique: Video, B/w, stereo, 4:3 ZKM | Collection Copyright: © Martha Rosler From A to Z, Rosler "shows and tells" the ingredients of the housewife's day, giving us a tour that names and mimics the ordinary with movements more samurai-like than suburban. Rosler's slashing gesture as she forms the letters of the alphabet with a fork and knife in the air, is a rebel gesture, punching through the, "system of harnessed subjectivity," from the inside out. Matha Rosler Martha Rosler was born in Brooklyn, New York, where she lives and works. She received a B.A. from Brooklyn College and an M.F.A. from the University of California, San Diego. She has taught at the Städelschule in Frankfurt and at Rutgers University in New Jersey. Her works in several media are in the permanent collections of numerous museums. The Martha Rosler Library toured from 2005 to 2009. A career retrospective, Positions in the Life World, was exhibited at 5 European cities and at the New Museum of Contemporary Art, New York, and Institute of Contemporary Photography, New York, from 1998 to 2000. Rosler was awarded the Spectrum International Prize in Photography for 2005 and the Oskar Kokoschka Prize in 2006. She received an Anonymous Was A Woman Award in 2007. In 2012 Meta-Monumental Garage Sale, her first solo exhibition at The Museum of Modern Art, New York. www.martharosler.net www.eai.org Text and Biography: the artist
