=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Punjab: A look into history of Sapta Sindhu - Organiser]
In the annals of India's rich history, the region known as Sapta Sindhu stands as a testament to the spiritual, worldly, and religious activities dating back to the Vedic period. Sapta Sindhu, translated as the 'Land of Seven Rivers,' refers to a significant part of the Indian subcontinent that witnessed the flourishing of Vedic culture India has been the center of the highest culture ...
URL: https://organiser.org/2024/02/14/221786/bharat/punjab-a-look-into-history-of-sapta-sindhu/

[In which period Punjab was called Sapta Sindhu class 10 ...]
The dispute between invaders and conquered citizens was not yet over. So, looking at the references to the name "Sapta Sindhu" in similar religious texts, we know that in the Vedic era, Punjab was known by this name. Hence, it can be said that Punjab was called Sapta Sindhu around the Rigvedic period which was 1200-1800 CE.
URL: https://www.vedantu.com/question-answer/in-which-period-punjab-was-called-sapta-sindhu-class-10-social-science-cbse-5fd994d59f633c04d6adcf6c

[Punjab - Wikipedia]
References to a land of five rivers may be found in the Mahabharata, in which one of the regions is named as Panchanada (Sanskrit: पञ्चनद, romanized: pañca-nada, lit. 'five rivers'). [15][16] Earlier, the Punjab was known as Sapta Sindhu in the Rigveda or Hapta Hendu in Avesta, translating into "The Land of Seven Rivers", with the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Punjab

[Sapta Sindhu - Wiktionary, the free dictionary]
Proper noun Sapta Sindhu (Hinduism, India) The seven sacred rivers in Indian mythology, often referred to in Rigveda and in Zend Avesta. They are often located in the Punjab region in northwestern India / northern Pakistan.
URL: https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Sapta_Sindhu

[In ______ Punjab was mentioned as sapta sindhu or land of seven rivers]
There are four Vedas, that are Rigveda, Samveda, Yajurveda and Atharvaveda. Among these Rigveda was the oldest Vedic text in ancient India. From Rigveda we came to know that Punjab is called the sapta Sindhu or land of seven rivers. These seven rivers are Indus, Jhelum, Chenab, Sutlej, Beas, Ravi and Saraswati.
URL: https://infinitylearn.com/question-answer/question-social-science-in---punjab-was-mentioned-as-sapta-sindhu-320967


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Punjab: A look into history of Sapta Sindhu - Organiser] ---
In the annals of India’s rich history, the region known as Sapta Sindhu stands as a testament to the spiritual, worldly, and religious activities dating back to the Vedic period. Sapta Sindhu, translated as the ‘Land of Seven Rivers,’ refers to a significant part of the Indian subcontinent that witnessed the flourishing of Vedic culture India has been the center of the highest culture prevalent since time immemorial, Sanatan Dharma. From here the path of spirituality was paved to the whole world with the lamp of knowledge. Chinese philosophers Fa Heen and Huen Tusang, who came to India from Afghanistan for the knowledge of Buddhism, again seeing the glory of India, addressed the Nation of India as the Divine land. The nation of India is the only nation whose mention is also contained in the religious and spiritual texts of that place, Sri Vishnu Purana, one of the 18 Puranas of Sanatan Dharma, has the account of Bharat (India) in the following verse: ‘Uttaram Yatsamudrasaya Himadreshchaiva Dakshinam. Varsham Tad Bharatam Naam, Bharati Yatra Santati.’ That is, the country which is situated to the north of the ocean, to the south of the Himalayas is called Bharat, the children of this Bharat are called Bharati. There is such a part of this great nation of India, which has been the center of spiritual, worldly and religious activities since the Vedic period, which was known as Saptasindhu. The Vedic land is described as the land of seven rivers (Sapta Sindhav) flowing into the sea, which are as follows: Indus, Sutlej, Ravi, Chenav, Jehlum, Beas, Saraswati. It includes the northwestern Indian subcontinent from Gandhara to Kurukshetra, which includes Punjab (India and Pakistan), Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, etc. in the current map view. In the Vedic period, Saptasindhu was dominated by different kingdoms on different parts of the country, the main kingdoms were Bahalika, Kaikeya, Madra, Trigrata and Sivi, who ruled for religious work by following the Vedas through democratic means according to Janapada-Ganasangha. . In this same Saptasindhu region, Rigveda, the world’s first written book, was included in the form of Vedanta by Maharishi Ved Vyas, on the banks of river was called Vyas river. In ‘Vyas Cave’, a historical place in the Saptasindhu region, Maharishi Vyas, through his meditation, gave the beginning and end of all the events of Mahabharata orally in the form of a poetic composition, which was given in written form by Shri Ganesha, which took him a total of 3 years. Mahabharata, the ‘fifth Veda’ of Sanatana Dharma, is the longest literary, philosophical and religious text in the world with 1,10,000 verses. The Takshashila University, the world’s first university in the Middle Vedic period, was located near the city of Takshashila on the banks of the Indus River, which is a testimony to the spiritual and Vedic center of the Saptasindhu region. Along with cultural background, Sapt Sindhu Punjab also had a brave history. Sikandar, who dreams of conquering the world, fights with the king of Sindh, Porus, and due to the bravery of Porus, Sikandar could never establish his supremacy over this Indus region. Punjab is an integral part of India and Sword Arm which always protected India from toxic elements and from time to time inspired India to walk on the spiritual path. Since ages, the true meaning of religion was explained to the society by the origin of spiritual texts and spiritual great men on the land of Punjab. In ancient times this work was done by sages who followed the Vedas. About 553 years ago, the light of cosmic energy powered by God incarnated in the form of Guru Nanak, freed the society from various kinds of evils and gave supernatural knowledge of Brahma. The pearls in the form of a society divided into different religious sects were threaded into a garland by making the thread of Brahma knowledge, which emphasized Indianness through social coordination and harmony. The society at the time of Guru Nanak’s birth was described by a poet as follows: ‘Satguru Nanak Pragatiya, Miti Dhund Jag chanan hora, jiyo Kar Suraj niklea, tare chupe haner paloa.’ Just as the darkness and stars in the sky are hidden by the light of the sun in the morning, in the same way, the darkness of ignorance of social evils ended with the birth of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, the incarnated form of Akal Purukh. Guru Nanak Dev chose the spiritual path to counter the harmful forces of the cruel and negative social outlook of the time. The meaning of spirituality by Vedas is such a path, which establishes a union with the divine power by channeling the inner positive energy of man in the right direction. Guru Nanak Dev ji also resolved social disorders through his speech and also opposed the poisonous seed of Mughal Empire flourishing on the soil of India. Gurmukhi script, which is basically a part of Sanskrit language, was used by the second Guru, Sri Guru Angad Dev Ji to save and collect Brahmagyan and Nanak Vani from the Mughals. The Gurmukhi script is of great importance in the Punjabi language. Paved on the spiritual path, Sikhism continued to work for public welfare by following the path shown by the Gurus with full devotion, but the evidence of spiritual strength was found at the time of the martyrdom of the fifth Guru, Shri Guru Arjun Dev Ji. Tolerated the atrocities committed by the Mughal rulers but did not accept the religious conversion. Shri Guru Arjun Dev Ji became the first Guru of Punjab to give martyrdom for the protection of religion of the land. After the martyrdom of Guru Arjun Dev Ji, the spirit of the Guru tradition shifted towards spirituality as well as Shaktya (power) practice. In Shaktya practice, the Sikh Gurus made Khadga, a symbol of power, a part of the lifestyle. Sixth Guru, Guru Hargobind ji adopted two weapons called Miri Piri, one for social and the other for religious protection, through which he emphasized on the use of power for the protection of society and religion. This Shaktaya practice was preserved by his son, the ninth Guru, Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji, and also by his grandson, the tenth Guru, Shri Guru Gobind Singh Ji. It was the effect of Nanak Swarupi Jyot of Akal Prabhu, due to which Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur ji and Gobind Singh ji came forward as national heroes for the duty of protection of India’s nation during the highest period of Mughal ruler. The energy and cosmic knowledge of all the Gurus was given in the form of a book, which becoming famous by the name of Sri Guru Granth Sahib, is spreading light by becoming a lamp of knowledge on subjects like social welfare and unity. Saptasindhu Punjab, used to be the centre of spiritual and religious knowledge by obeying the teachings of Vedas and The sacred text Shri Guru Granth Sahib Ji. Some poisonous ideologies tried to harm the unity and brotherhood of Punjab, that kept burning the land of Punjab in the fore of hatred for almost three decades. When the social conditions of Punjab became normal, then some political parties for the allurement of power, have made Punjab, apuppet of foreign countries which turned the land of Punjab, a anti-national issue. In order to crush their harmful imagination related to Punjab, the society of Punjab needs to regroup and establish the feeling of brotherhood, harmony and coordination among all, irrespective of their caste,creed and religion. We can turn Punjab again into golden bird by doing such friendly practices. ‘Nanak Naam chardi kalan, tere bhane sarbat da Bhala’


--- [In which period Punjab was called Sapta Sindhu class 10 ...] ---
In which period Punjab was called ‘Sapta Sindhu’? Answer Verified 571.8k+ views Hint:This is the time when the Vedas were written in the northern Indian subcontinent in the late Bronze Age and early Iron Age of the history of India. Sapta means seven in Vedic Sanskrit/Sanskrit from which we derived the Punjabi word Satt (seven). In Sanskrit, Sindhu means sea. Complete answer: Rig-Veda, the oldest religious scripture in the world, which calls this land Sapta Sindhu, the land of seven rivers, was written some time after the arrival of the Aryans in Punjab by the Rishis (saints/seers) of the invading tribes. The mighty Indus River was so vast that it seemed like a sea to the Aryans. So the oldest name we come across in Punjab is Sapta Sindhu, which may have encompassed a greater land mass than Punjab today, and was recognized in the Vedic period as such. Indus, Vitasta (Vehit/Jhelum), Asikni (Chenab), Prusni/Eravati (Ravi), Vipasha (Beas), Sutudri (Sutlej) and Saraswati (Sutlej) are the seven rivers mentioned in the Rig-Veda (which dried up). At many locations in the Rig-Veda, the name of Sapta Sindhu comes up. It is written in Chapter (Mandal) 8, "Who shall save us from our mortal enemies in the Sapta Sindhu?" The dispute between invaders and conquered citizens was not yet over. So, looking at the references to the name "Sapta Sindhu" in similar religious texts, we know that in the Vedic era, Punjab was known by this name. Hence, it can be said that Punjab was called Sapta Sindhu around the Rigvedic period which was 1200-1800 CE. Note:In the great epic Mahabharata (1500 B.C to 1700 B.C) we find at several places the description of Punjab in terms of its geographical position and socio-religious structures. Punjab was called Aratta and its people Balhika. The holy book, The Zoroastrians' Zend Avesta, also gives us a geographical overview of this land. It says, 'I, Ahur Mazda, have founded the fifteenth country. It is Hafta Hindva, distributed through seven rivers. Sapta means seven in Vedic Sanskrit/Sanskrit from which we derived the Punjabi word Satt (seven). In Sanskrit, Sindhu means sea. Complete answer: Rig-Veda, the oldest religious scripture in the world, which calls this land Sapta Sindhu, the land of seven rivers, was written some time after the arrival of the Aryans in Punjab by the Rishis (saints/seers) of the invading tribes. The mighty Indus River was so vast that it seemed like a sea to the Aryans. So the oldest name we come across in Punjab is Sapta Sindhu, which may have encompassed a greater land mass than Punjab today, and was recognized in the Vedic period as such. Indus, Vitasta (Vehit/Jhelum), Asikni (Chenab), Prusni/Eravati (Ravi), Vipasha (Beas), Sutudri (Sutlej) and Saraswati (Sutlej) are the seven rivers mentioned in the Rig-Veda (which dried up). At many locations in the Rig-Veda, the name of Sapta Sindhu comes up. It is written in Chapter (Mandal) 8, "Who shall save us from our mortal enemies in the Sapta Sindhu?" The dispute between invaders and conquered citizens was not yet over. So, looking at the references to the name "Sapta Sindhu" in similar religious texts, we know that in the Vedic era, Punjab was known by this name. Hence, it can be said that Punjab was called Sapta Sindhu around the Rigvedic period which was 1200-1800 CE. Note:In the great epic Mahabharata (1500 B.C to 1700 B.C) we find at several places the description of Punjab in terms of its geographical position and socio-religious structures. Punjab was called Aratta and its people Balhika. The holy book, The Zoroastrians' Zend Avesta, also gives us a geographical overview of this land. It says, 'I, Ahur Mazda, have founded the fifteenth country. It is Hafta Hindva, distributed through seven rivers. Recently Updated Pages Master Class 10 English: Engaging Questions & Answers for Success Master Class 10 Social Science: Engaging Questions & Answers for Success Master Class 10 Computer Science: Engaging Questions & Answers for Success Class 10 Question and Answer - Your Ultimate Solutions Guide Master Class 10 General Knowledge: Engaging Questions & Answers for Success Master Class 10 Maths: Engaging Questions & Answers for Success Trending doubts A boat goes 24 km upstream and 28 km downstream in class 10 maths CBSE State and explain Ohms law class 10 physics CBSE Distinguish between soap and detergent class 10 chemistry CBSE a Why did Mendel choose pea plants for his experiments class 10 biology CBSE What is a "free hit" awarded for in limited-overs cricket? Draw the diagram of the sectional view of the human class 10 biology CBSE


--- [Punjab - Wikipedia] ---
Punjab ( pun-JAHB; Punjabi: Panjāb, pronounced [pəɲˈd͡ʒaːb] ) is a geographical, ethnolinguistic, and historical region in South Asia, located in its northwestern part, comprising areas of modern-day Pakistan and northwestern India. It is primarily inhabited by the Punjabi people. Lahore is its largest city and historic capital, with other major cities including Faisalabad, Rawalpindi, Gujranwala, Multan, Sialkot, Sargodha, and Bahawalpur in Pakistan; alongside Ludhiana, Amritsar, Chandigarh, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali, Bathinda, Firozpur, and Fazilka in India.
Punjab grew out of the settlements along the five rivers, which served as an important route to the Near East as early as the ancient Indus Valley civilization, dating back to 3000 BCE, followed by migrations of the Indo-Aryan peoples. Agriculture has been the chief economic feature of the Punjab and formed the foundation of Punjabi culture. The Punjab emerged as an important agricultural region, especially following the Green Revolution during the mid-1960s to the mid-1970s, and has been described as the "breadbasket of both India and Pakistan."
Following Alexander the Great's invasion in the 4th century BCE, Chandragupta Maurya allied with Punjabi republics to establish the Maurya Empire. Successive reigns of the Indo-Greek Kingdom, Kushan Empire, and Indo-Scythians followed, but were ultimately defeated by Eastern Punjab Janapadas such as the Yaudheya, Trigarta Kingdom, Audumbaras, Arjunayanas, and Kuninda Kingdom. In the 5th and 6th centuries CE, Punjab faced devastating Hunnic invasions, yet the Vardhana dynasty emerged triumphant, ruling over Northern India. The 8th century CE witnessed the Hindu Shahis rise, known for defeating the Persianate Saffarid dynasty and the Samanid Empire. Concurrently, the Tomara dynasty and Katoch Dynasty controlled eastern Punjab, resisting Ghaznavid invasions. Islam took hold in Western Punjab under Ghaznavid rule. The Delhi Sultanate then succeeded the Ghaznavids in which the Tughlaq dynasty and Sayyid dynasty Sultans are described as Punjabi origin. The 15th century saw the emergence of the Langah Sultanate in south Punjab, acclaimed for its victory over the Lodi dynasty. After the Mughal Empire's decline in the 18th century, Punjab experienced a period of anarchy. 12 Sikh Misls along with Muslim Chattha, Sial, Tarar, Chisti and Gakhar States fought for political ascendancy. In 1799 CE, the Sikh Empire established its rule, undertaking conquests into the Kashmir- and Durrani Empire-held territories.
The boundaries of the region are ill-defined and focus on historical accounts and thus the geographical definition of the term "Punjab" has changed over time. In the 16th century Mughal Empire the Punjab region was divided into three, with the Lahore Subah in the west, the Delhi Subah in the east and the Multan Subah in the south. Under the British Raj until the Partition of India in 1947, the Punjab Province encompassed the present Indian states and union territories of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, and Delhi, and the Pakistani regions of Punjab, and Islamabad Capital Territory.
The predominant ethnolinguistic group of the Punjab region are the Punjabi people, who speak the Indo-Aryan Punjabi language. Punjabi Muslims are the majority in West Punjab (Pakistan), while Punjabi Sikhs are the majority in East Punjab (India). Other religious groups include Hinduism, Christianity, Jainism, Zoroastrianism, Buddhism, and Ravidassia.


--- [Sapta Sindhu - Wiktionary, the free dictionary] ---
Sapta Sindhu Appearance English [edit]Etymology [edit]From सप्त (sapta, “seven”) + सिन्धु (síndhu, “river, stream”). This expression in English incorporates a grammatical error: Sindhu is the nominative singular; used with "seven", the noun should, of course, be in the plural: Sindhava:/Sindhavas, सप्तसिंधव: (saptasiṃdhava:, “seven rivers”), which is the term used in Sanskrit. Proper noun [edit]Sapta Sindhu - (Hinduism, India) The seven sacred rivers in Indian mythology, often referred to in Rigveda and in Zend Avesta. They are often located in the Punjab region in northwestern India / northern Pakistan. - 2006, Marshall Cavendish Corporation, World and Its Peoples, page 316: - The settlers in Sapta Sindhu composed the Rig Veda, the first of the Vedas, the ancient sacred writings of the Hindu religion. Translations [edit]the river |


--- [In ______ Punjab was mentioned as sapta sindhu or land of seven rivers] ---
AI Mentor Check Your IQ Free Expert Demo Try Test Courses Dropper NEET CourseDropper JEE CourseClass - 12 NEET CourseClass - 12 JEE CourseClass - 11 NEET CourseClass - 11 JEE CourseClass - 10 Foundation NEET CourseClass - 10 Foundation JEE CourseClass - 10 CBSE CourseClass - 9 Foundation NEET CourseClass - 9 Foundation JEE CourseClass -9 CBSE CourseClass - 8 CBSE CourseClass - 7 CBSE CourseClass - 6 CBSE Course Offline Centres
