=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[I See You (Breaking Bad) - Wikipedia]
As Jesse Pinkman is leaving the hospital after Hank Schrader 's attack on him, he sees Hank being admitted in critical condition with four gunshot wounds. Jesse smiles to himself as Skinny Pete picks him up, satisfied at the karmic justice.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I_See_You_(Breaking_Bad)

[I See You - Breaking Bad Wiki]
"I See You" is the eighth episode of the third season of Breaking Bad and the twenty-eighth episode altogether. A heavily-bruised Jesse is wheeled out of the hospital by an orderly. As he waits outside for his ride with a cigarette, an ambulance arrives.
URL: https://breakingbad.fandom.com/wiki/I_See_You

[One Minute | Breaking Bad Wiki - Fandom]
tricked into believing that his wife was in hospital, Hank violently attacks Jesse ... Season 3 Episodes (Breaking Bad). More Fandoms. Horror · Breaking Bad.
URL: https://breakingbad.fandom.com/wiki/One_Minute

[Breaking Bad S3 E8 "I See You" Recap - TV Tropes]
May 9, 2010 · Contrived Coincidence: After the cousins' attack on Hank, he's brought to the same hospital in which Jesse was recovering from the beating Hank gave him. And Hank's ambulance just happens to arrive while Jesse, just discharged, is waiting outside in a wheelchair to be picked up by Skinny Pete.
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Recap/BreakingBadS3E8ISeeYou

[I See You (Breaking Bad)]
As Jesse is leaving the hospital after Hank's attack on him, he sees Hank being admitted in critical condition with four gunshot wounds. Jesse smiles to ...
URL: https://a.osmarks.net/content/wikipedia_en_all_maxi_2020-08/A/I_See_You_(Breaking_Bad)


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [I See You (Breaking Bad) - Wikipedia] ---
"I See You" is the eighth episode of the third season of the American television drama series Breaking Bad, and the 28th overall episode of the series. Written by Gennifer Hutchison and directed by Colin Bucksey, it aired on AMC in the United States and Canada on May 9, 2010.  The episode's title is a play on "ICU", the intensive care unit of a hospital.




--- [I See You - Breaking Bad Wiki] ---
"I See You" is the eighth episode of the third season of Breaking Bad and the twenty-eighth episode altogether. Summary[] [] A heavily-bruised Jesse is wheeled out of the hospital by an orderly. As he waits outside for his ride with a cigarette, an ambulance arrives. Jesse stands up from his wheelchair to get a better view as the patient is unloaded from the ambulance, and is stunned by seeing a critically wounded Hank. Jesse drops his cigarette and follows the emergency room doctors and paramedics into the hospital as they wheel Hank into the operating room for immediate surgery. He then returns outside, where he is eventually picked up by Skinny Pete in his Thunderbird. When Skinny Pete sees Jesse's injuries and asks if he's okay, Jesse, feeling vindicated, smirks and replies, "Actually, I'm great". Act I[] In the superlab, Walt tries to fire Gale without hurting his feelings. When Gale pushes for an explanation, Walt tried to use a musical analogy, saying that he is "classical" while Gale is "more jazz." At that moment, Jesse arrives and loudly marvels at the setup in the lab, leaving Gale more confused as to why Walt would replace him with someone like Jesse. When Walt wants to get right to work, Jesse realizes that Walt is unaware that Hank has been shot, as there is no cellular signal in the lab, and conveys the news to Walt. Walt rushes into a hospital waiting room where Skyler, Marie, Gomez and ASAC Merkert are assembled. Merkert explains that all the DEA knows is that Hank was attacked by two cartel hitmen, and that he killed one of the assassins and critically wounded the other despite sustaining four gunshots. Gomez compliments Walt's brother-in-law for defeating the hitmen without a gun, to Marie's shock. Marie denounces Gomez and Merkert for making Hank surrender his gun before the shooting. Unraveling, she throws them out of the waiting room and further blames Walt, saying the entire situation wouldn't have started if he hadn't supposedly bought marijuana from Jesse. To Walt's surprise, Skyler steps in to defent Walt, insisting that it wasn't his fault. Crying, Marie apologizes. Act II[] At the hospital, a crowd of DEA agents and police officers donate blood for Hank. An impatient Jesse uses the landline to call Walt, who tells him to sit tight and not cook until he can return to the lab. When Skyler nears, Walt pretends that he's talking to a well-wisher, to Skyler's annoyance. After Walt hangs up, Skyler suggests they all get breakfast. Walt asks if she knows who was on the phone; Skyler just walks away. In the cafeteria, Marie complains about the dirty silverware and declares the hospital a deathtrap. Sensing she is about to spiral out of control, Walt intervenes. After relating his own anxieties before his surgery in the same hospital, Walt tells Marie, "I survived this place, and I'm not half the man your husband is." At Los Pollos Hermanos, Gus receives a frantic phone call from a panicked Juan Bolsa and contends that the Cousins would never have attacked Hank without approval from either him or Gus, and that he never gave them the go-ahead. Bolsa concedes the next drug shipment will be delayed for weeks as security around the border has increased following a cartel shooting of a DEA agent, and vows that he'll learn the truth about who gave the order from Leonel, the surviving Cousin. Gus, learning that Leonel has survived, plots a way to tie the loose end. A doctor announces that Hank is out of surgery. On the way out to run errand for the family, Walt walks into the lobby to find Gomez and other DEA agents holding vigil. Gomez invites Walt to join them in visiting Leonel's ICU room. There, Walt sees that the injuries Leonel sustained during the shooting have caused both of his legs to be amputated. Sensing the group's presence, Leonel turns to look at them, and recognizes Walt. He sits up, tears at the tubes attached to his body, and pushes himself to the floor, his glaring gaze never wavering from Walt. Leonel drags himself toward him, trailing blood from his stumps, before doctors subdue and drag him back onto the bed. Act III[] Stuck in the superlab, Jesse becomes bored and amuses himself by playing with the equipment, such as inflating a hazmat suit with an air hose. However, his fun is cut short when Victor catches him and asks why there isn't any cooking. When Jesse contacts Walt about Victor's visit, a distracted Walt asks if he remembers Tuco mentioning his cousins coming up from Mexico during their captivity in the desert, with Walt realizing that the cartel man who recognized him must be one of the Cousins. Walt delivers toiletries to his family in a waiting room, as well as a book that Hank gave to Walt Jr. about the agents who pursued Pablo Escobar. Walt receives a phone call from Gus and lies to him, claiming that he is not in the lab as he is running an errand to rectify Gale's mistakes, which he cites is the reason they cannot meet their 200 pound quota. However, he promises to deliver 400 pounds by next week to make it up. Later, Walt asks Gomez if the DEA knows who was behind the shooting, and whether other assassins could be on their way. Gomez assures Walt that the attack on Hank was their one attempt and they failed. Gomez's cell rings, and he spreads the word that food is on its way: Gus is personally donating and delivering fried chicken for every cop in the building. Act IV[] In the waiting room, Walt watches Gus console Marie, knowing that Gus is now aware that he lied about his whereabouts. Walt's family and ASAC Merkert thank Gus for offering a $10,000 reward for information about the shooting, while Gus mentions that he previously met Hank during a visit to the DEA field office and that he saw Walt's photo on the donation jar, upon which Hank informed him of Walt's cancer. Walt approaches Gus as he walks out, realizing that he knew all along about his health issues and his brother-in-law being a DEA agent. Gus replies that he investigates everyone with whom he does business. When Walt asks if Gus's presence at the hospital is a message to him, Gus responds with "I hide in plain sight, same as you." Walt expresses fear for his family's safety, but Gus assures him that the remaining gunman is unlikely to survive, finishing with "Now thank me and shake my hand." However, Gus's fried chicken delivery is just a distraction. While the cops are preoccupied with lunch, Mike sneaks into Leonel's room and administers a lethal injection. Leonel flat-lines, and despite the efforts of doctors and nurses to revive him, he dies just as Walt, Gomez and others show up at his room. Amid the commotion, Mike slips away unnoticed, discarding the syringe he just used to kill Leonel in a nearby sharps collection box. Upon returning to Los Pollos Hermanos, Gus receives another call from Bolsa, who complains that pressure from the U.S. government in the wake of Hank's shooting has brought the Mexican Federales to his residence. Bolsa accuses Gus of betraying him, threatening to inform the other cartel leaders of his actions and with whom he'll pay Gus a visit when things calm down. While still on the phone, there is a commotion, during which Bolsa tries to flee but is gunned down when he opens a door. Gus listens impassively to Bolsa's demise, smiles, then destroys and disposes of the cell phone. Walt sits with his sleeping family in the waiting room, with Skyler's head on his shoulder. The doctor enters to inform Marie that she is finally permitted to see Hank. Marie insists that Walt, Skyler, and Junior accompany her. The family solemnly enters Hank's room. As the Whites look on, Marie kisses Hank's forehead and takes his hand. Official Photos[] Trivia[] - This episode title is a play on words, as both Hank and the surviving Cousin are both rushed to the "I.C.U." (Intensive Care Unit). - The title also alludes to the scene in which the surviving Cousin stares down, i.e. 'sees', Heisenberg as he drags himself towards him, when Walt accompanies Gomez to his room. - The "thin blue line" that Gus mentions is a common nickname for law enforcement since the 19th century and is meant to evoke the image that police are on the front lines of a war between civilization and criminals. It's analogous to the "thin red line" originally describing red-coated British soldiers. - During the musical cue ("Shimmy Shimmy Ya" by Prince Fatty feat. Horseman) Jesse, while bored, mindlessly zips the zipper of his protective suit up and down and sings: "Fallacies, fallacies, one for you, and two for me" a line from Fallacies by TwaüghtHammër. He will later sing this exact same line in Mike's car ("Shotgun"), also while bored, while mindlessly tapping on Mike's dashboard, also during a musical cue ("1977" by Ana Tijoux.) - While in the waiting room of the hospital waiting for Hank, Walt is shown fixing an uneven leg of the table in front of him. While it may seem innocuous, it actually illustrates a long running thematic thread of Walt's obsessive attention to minor or even non-existent details: the mustard stain on the doctor's coat ("Pilot"), a fly ("Fly"), wood rot ("Over"), and trash in a communal pool. ("Caballo Sin Nombre") - Hank gives Walt Jr. Killing Pablo, a book about the agents who pursued Pablo Escobar. Bryan Cranston would later play one of those agents in The Infiltrator. - Leonel's final appearance, dragging his legless body toward Walt on the I.C.U. floor, is reminiscent of his very first appearance when he was crawling on his belly during the sacrificial procession in the dusty, adobe-lined desert, towards a drawing of Walt. ("No Más") - This is the only episode in the franchise to feature only one of the twins instead of both of them together. - When the ambulance crew is wheeling Hank's stretcher into the emergency room, one of the hospital staff orders "Let's get him two grams of oxygen," which is incorrect. Oxygen is not delivered by mass, but rather by volumetric flow rate in liters per minute. A severe trauma like Hank's would get a high concentration of 15Lpm. Production[] Credits[] Starring Guest Starring | Co-Starring | | Uncredited - John Augustini as Tim - Angela Blake as Nurse - Joe Freeman as The Assassin - Timothy Holmes as DEA Featured Music[] - "Waynedale" by Left Lane Cruiser (playing in Skinny Pete's car as he picks Jesse up in the teaser) - "Shimmy Shimmy Ya" by Prince Fatty (feat. Horseman) (while Jesse goofs around in the lab) Memorable Quotes[] - "Marie, I survived. I had my lobectomy at this hospital. Remember that? Remember how scared we all were? I didn’t want to act like it, but I was terrified. All that week, all I could think of was how they were actually going to cut me open and take out a part of me that was with me my entire life. I couldn’t get that image out of my head. I think the scariest part was when they took me into pre-op–lying there, waiting for them to anesthetize you, knowing that you may never wake up again. Actually, what I really remember about that day is driving to the hospital. Skyler, you remember me wanting to drive that day? Anyway, there we are–driving up Central and we hit every green light. I mean, every single light that we hit–green. It’s just–When does that happen? Just like, bang, bang, green the entire way. And the whole time, all I could think about was–Why today? Why? Why can’t I just spend a few extra minutes in the car with my family? I never wanted to be stuck in traffic so bad in my life. At least I was with my family. I had that. Anyway, I survived this place. And I’m not half the man your husband is." - ―Walter, reassuring Marie about Hank's chances of survival. - Walt: "You knew. You knew my brother-in-law was with the DEA." - Gus: "I investigate everyone with whom I do business. What careful man wouldn't?" - Walt: "He is not a problem for us or our business, but you being here...is this some sort of message?" - Gus: "I'm supporting my community. I hide in plain sight, same as you. Are we done?" - Walt: "No, listen, I, uh...this attack on my brother-in-law, I don't understand it, I don't know what it means. Please, if you may have some knowledge that you can share with me. I fear for my family." - Gus: "I'm sure they'll be fine. I am told the assassin that survived is gravely injured. It's doubtful he'll live. Now thank me and shake my hand." - ―Walt confronting Gus in the hospital lobby.


--- [One Minute | Breaking Bad Wiki - Fandom] ---
"One Minute" is the seventh episode of the third season of Breaking Bad and the twenty-seventh episode altogether. Summary[] [] In a flashback to 1988 in Mexico, two young boys fight over a toy while their uncle, Hector Salamanca, disparages the "chicken man" during a phone call. When Hector finishes the call, one of the boys, Leonel, complains that his brother Marco broke the toy. When Leonel says that he wishes his brother dead, Hector calls Marco over, then dunks his head in a tub of icy water, intent on drowning him. Leonel feebly gets Hector to stop, only for Hector to keep a firm grasp until Leonel slaps him in the face. Hector tells them that "family is all." In 2009, the now-grown Cousins light candles at a makeshift Santa Muerte shrine. In the center, they place a photo of Hank. Act I[] Furious that he was tricked into believing that his wife was in hospital, Hank violently attacks Jesse at his house, knocking him to the floor and punching him in the face until he's unconscious and bleeding. Realizing he's gone too far, Hank stops himself and calls for an ambulance. As Jesse is being taken away by paramedics, ASAC Merkert approaches Hank and advises that he should talk to a lawyer. At the hospital, Walt visits Jesse's hospital room, only to find Saul already there and eager to get Jesse off on grounds of police brutality. When Walt asks what Jesse plans to do next, Jesse says he will set about to destroy Hank's life. Further, Jesse plans to start cooking on his own again and will give up Walt if he gets caught. Outside the patient room, Walt tells Saul that Jesse will eventually "come around", but Saul warns that they will have to discuss "options" for dealing with Jesse if he doesn't. Act II[] At the DEA field office, Hank makes a statement about what happened at the junkyard, but invokes the Fifth Amendment when it comes to his actions at Jesse's house. With Jesse filing charges, the detectives interviewing Hank ask to photograph his bruised knuckles for the record. After he leaves the office, Hank meets Marie at the elevator. She holds Hank as he sobs on the ride down, but they compose themselves before they reach the lobby. There, Hank asks Marie not to tell anyone about what happened, but realizes quickly that she already told someone. He then asks her who she told. Skyler, having been informed of Hank's predicament by Marie, visits Walt at his new condo. She asks if the situation between Hank and Jesse will blow back on him, then pleads with Walt to convince Jesse not to press charges. Walt maintains that he and Jesse have no relationship and that they're not even friends. Later, at the superlab, Walt arrives at work to discover that Gale has already performed several preliminary tasks for the day's cook. "This might be the beginning of a beautiful friendship," as Gale jokes. In the desert, the Cousins meet with a talkative arms dealer who is selling a wide array of weapons from the back of a semi-truck trailer. He gives them a free hollow point bullet, nicknamed "Black Death." The twins ask for bulletproof vests, and the arms dealer shows them a top-of-the-line version. After showing them the vest and displaying that he wears one himself, the Cousins test it by shooting him. When the arms dealer survives, they pay him the two vests and leave him on the floor complaining about possible broken ribs. Act III[] In the superlab, Walt angrily chastises Gale for supposedly making an error. While Gale insists that he followed Walt's instructions, Walt says that he entered the incorrect temperature and that the batch needs to be dumped. Later, Walt calls Gus and tells him that Gale isn't working out, requesting that he be replaced with Jesse. When Walt reminds Gus that he promised to give him the full run of the lab, Gus allows for Jesse to return. At the Schrader residence, Hank rejects Marie's suggestion to lie about his confrontation with Jesse. When she asserts that Jesse is just a lowlife and Hank's more deserving, he replies that he is supposed to be "better than that." Hank admits that he has been unravelling since he shot Tuco and witnessed the El Paso bombing, and intimates that he thinks he is "done as a cop." Walt visits Jesse in the hospital and pitches the job in the superlab, but Jesse initially rejects the proposal as a ploy to save Hank. Walt says he just wants to be equal partners again, reminding Jesse that he will be earning $1.5 million. Jesse angrily states that it isn't the money he is rejecting, but Walt himself, stating that his life has been ruined ever since the two of them started cooking together. Jesse then reminds Walt that he told him that his meth was inferior and questions why Walt would want him as a partner. Right before exiting the room, Walt admits that the meth Jesse cooked alone is as good as his own. When he drives back to his condo, Walt receives a phone call from Jesse, who agrees to reestablish their partnership; in doing so, Jesse chooses not to pursue legal action against Hank. Act IV[] At the DEA office, Hank admits to assaulting Jesse. When he refuses to amend his statement fraudulently to place him, and by extension the agency, in a better light, Merkert has no other choice but suspend him without pay, forcing him to surrender his gun and badge. As Hank leaves, he learns from Merkert that Jesse is not pressing charges after all. When a surprised Hank asks why, Merkert muses that he might have a guardian angel. Later, Hank visits a mall, purchasing gifts for Marie. As he's about to leave in his SUV, Hank receives a phone call in which an electronically disguised voice warns that he has one minute before two men show up to kill him. Hank does not leave the parking lot, believing it to be a prank. Defenseless without his gun, he scans the parking lot instead of driving away. After one minute passes, Leonel appears and shoots through the rear window, hitting Hank in the arm. Hank throws his SUV into reverse and pins Leonel against the car behind him, who drops his gun into Hank's SUV. Marco, striding toward Hank's driver-side window, fires multiple shots and hits Hank in the side as Hank escapes through a rear door, taking Leonel's gun with him. Marco shifts Hank's car into neutral, releasing Leonel. A badly wounded Leonel tells his brother to "finish him". Marco starts searching for Hank, shooting a passerby along the way. Running out of bullets, Marco stops to reload and accidentally drops the "Black Death" bullet on the ground. Hank then surprises him from behind and shoots him with Leonel's gun, unaware that he's wearing a bulletproof vest. Marco shoots Hank twice in the chest. Marco approaches the badly injured Hank and prepares to shoot him in the head, but then states that shooting him is too easy and goes to the trunk of his car to retrieve the axe. Hank notices the "Black Death" bullet and manages to load the round into Leonel's gun as Marco returns. At the last second, Hank chambers the round and shoots Marco in the head, killing him. The falling axe lodges itself in the pavement right next to a bleeding Hank. Official Photos[] Trivia[] - Walter White Jr., Gustavo Fring, and Mike Ehrmantraut do not appear in this episode. - The wooden chair on which Hector Salamanca is sitting resembles a wheelchair, foreshadowing his future handicap. - Hector is on the phone with someone in the Cartel, talking about the "Chicken Man" (Gus). During the phone call he expresses a dislike for him. - "Sudaca" is a derogatory term used in Spain for all Latin Americans. In México it refers to South Americans. - The title refers to Hector Salamanca's question as to how much longer Marco has to live under water. "One minute?" It also refers to how much time Hank has until the Salamanca brothers attack. - After Jesse has a conversation with Walt on the phone about becoming partners again, the clock on his phone is shown to pass one minute from 1:57pm to 1:58pm. - When Hank receives the call regarding the attempt on his life, the clock reads "3:07." This episode is number 3x07. - One minute later, the time is 3:08 - Walt's address is 308 Negra Arroyo, a reminder of how Walt is inextricably connected to all events, even the phone call which ultimately saves Hank as family and prevents the heat Gus would experience if Hank was killed, seen in "I See You". - Gale's line "This might be the beginning of a beautiful friendship" is a reference to the 1942 film Casablanca. - The trucker that the cousins purchase the vests from drives a replica of the Kenworth K-100 Aerodyne that appeared on the show B. J. and the Bear. - Walt and Jesse's conversation in the hospital has some resemblance to a conversation in the 1994 film Pulp Fiction. Walt remarks "So... what happens now?" to which Jesse responds with "What now? I'll tell you what happens now." and lists out how he plans on getting revenge. - Compared to Butch and Marcellus's conversation in Pulp Fiction: "What now?" "What now? Let me tell you what now. I'ma call a couple of hard, pipe-hittin' *iggers, who'll go to work on the homes here with a pair of pliers and a blow torch." - It's not clear who called Hank to tip him off to the hit, since the caller uses an electronic filter to disguise his voice. Thomas Schnauz has mentioned in a tweet that the best guess is that it was Mike or one of Gus's henchman.[1] Schnauz has also suggested that in an early draft of the script, there was a scene showing Gus making the call himself, but it had to be cut because it would put actor Giancarlo Esposito over the limit of episode appearances in his contract. It was also suggested that Gus' voice, even through a filter, would be too recognizable. - According to Jeremiah Bitsui, Victor was the one who called Hank, and also was the one who texted POLLOS to the Cousins to prevent them from killing Walter in "Caballo Sin Nombre".[2] - While looking at people around him right after the mysterious call, Hank tries to reach out for his gun, not remembering that he is suspended at work. Earlier in the episode, Marie told him that his actions are the result of his muscle memory, after doing work for years, his body reacts before the brain. - When Saul Goodman takes a picture of Jesse's injuries and shows him the photo, he makes a reference to the character Rocky from the Rocky series, a professional boxer portrayed by Sylvester Stallone. He also refers to Jesse as "Adrian", who is the spouse of Rocky and is portrayed by Talia Shire. - When Saul Goodman is showing Jesse a picture that he took of his injuries for a brief moment, the image on the phone is actually in an incorrect orientation and is facing upside down. - This is the only episode in series in which Saul is shown wearing a tracksuit. - The final scene between Hank and Marco is replicated in the finale cutscene of the video game 9mm. - Dean Norris said the scene where Hank is talking to Marie and tells her basically he isn't the man she thinks he is was the most affectionate scene for him, because he almost had his head chopped off by an axe afterwards. - Ironically, Marco was killed with the hollow point bullet which the Arms Dealer gave him as a 'freebie courtesy'. - The bullet is described to have "razor claws that expand upon impact". When Marco is killed, said effects can be seen. - Filming of the Cousins' ambush of Hank took two days. Some inserts were later added in, like Hank lying on the ground after Marco shoots him in the chest. Dean Norris said in a 2013 interview that filming those inserts entailed lying down on pavement in freezing cold temperatures due to it being shot during the winter time. - This episode is the only time that the Cousins speak English. When meeting with the arms dealer Leonel says "Vests" while Marco asks "They work?" - There is a deleted scene where Hank calls 911 shortly after he beats up Jesse. Production[] Credits[] Starring | Guest Starring Co-Starring | | Featured Music[] - "The Cousins" by Dave Porter (as the cousins place the picture of Hank on the shrine) - "Hank in Pursuit" by Dave Porter (as Hank beats up Jesse) - "Black Night" by Badar Ali Khan (playing in the lab as Walt arrives) Errors[] - On the final shot of the episode, at least ten people can be seen standing in and around the parking lot where Hank and the Cousins are lying injured. This would be an extremely odd scenario considering the intense shootout that would have occurred moments prior. - The final wide shot of the parking lot doesn't match what happened in the fight. When Hank hits Leonel with his car, it is shown that he crosses from one aisle of lots to another but the shot doesn't have an empty lot for Hank. - Hank's car pushing the second car that Leonel is stuck between wouldn't be possible as the car would've had its brakes engaged from having it in park for an automatic transmission (the car is identified as a sixth generation Cadillac DeVille which only had an automatic). - When Hank shoots Marco, he is seen falling to the right. However, in the next shot, his body is shown to have fallen to the left. - When the axe is dropped, the head lands in the asphalt parallel to where Hank's head is. In the wide shot, the axe is shown embedded further forwards. - The number of shots fired in Hank's fight with the Cousins is incorrect for the guns used. As both Leonel and Marco use a Colt Gold Cup National Match (an M1911A1) they would've only had 8 shots each at most (7 in the magazine and 1 in the chamber). In the scene, Leonel's gun is fired 14 times between Leonel and Hank before it is empty while Marco fires his 11 times in a single magazine. - When Hank leaves his office, the outside light makes it appear to be at late morning or early afternoon. However, when Hank and Marie exit the elevator, the lighting is much darker in the lobby and makes it appear to be at dawn or dusk. - Hank is advised by his lawyer to invoke the 5th amendment, which he does with his testimony about the events with Jesse, but neither him nor the lawyer object when he's asked to present his abrased knuckles for a photo, which would also be protected under the 5th amendment. Memorable Quotes[] - "La familia es todo." - ―Hector Salamanca to the Cousins. - Marie: "It’s some lowlife degenerate versus you doing the job you’re supposed to. Why should you be the one who pays for doing the right thing?" - Hank: "Oh baby, it wasn’t the right thing. It’s not what the job is. I’m supposed to be better than that." - Marie: "And you made one mistake." - Hank: "No, it wasn’t one mistake. I’ve been–I’ve been–unraveling, you know? I don’t sleep at night anymore. I freeze. I freeze up. My chest gets all tight. I can’t breathe. I panic. Ever since that Salamanca thing. I mean, Tuco Salamanca. If ever a scumbag deserved a bullet between the eyes... It changed me. And I can’t seem to control it. I tried to fight it. But then El Paso. And it’s just gotten worse. What I did to Pinkman–that’s not who I’m supposed to be. That’s not me. All this–everything that’s happened, I swear to God, Marie, I think the universe is trying to tell me something, and I’m finally ready to listen. I’m just not the man I thought I was. I think I’m done as a cop." - ―Hank, explaining to Marie that it is time for him to assume the consequences of his actions. - Walter: "Let me understand this. You’re turning down $1.5 million dollars." - Jesse: "I am not turning down the money. I am turning down you! You get it? I want nothing to do with you! Ever since I met you, everything I’ve ever cared about is gone, ruined, turned to shit, dead, ever since I hooked up with the great Heisenberg! I have never been more alone. I have NOTHING! No one! All right?! It’s all gone! Get it? No, no, no. Why would you get it? What do you even care, as long as you get what you want? Right? You don’t give a shit about me. You said I was no good. I’m nothing! Why would you want me, huh? You said my meth is inferior, right? Right? Hey, you said my cook was garbage! Hey, screw you, man! Screw you!" - Walter: "Your meth is good, Jesse. As good as mine." - ―Jesse and Walt in Jesse’s hospital room.


--- [Breaking Bad S3 E8 "I See You" Recap - TV Tropes] ---
I See You Gus: I'm sure they'll be fine. I am told the assassin that survived is gravely injured. It's doubtful he'll live. Now, thank me and shake my hand. A heavily-bruised Jesse is wheeled out of the hospital by an orderly. As he waits outside for his ride, an ambulance arrives from the parking lot shootout with the cartel Cousins, carrying a critically wounded Hank. Jesse watches as the paramedics unload Hank from the ambulance and rush him to the operating room for immediate surgery. Jesse returns outside, where he’s eventually picked up by Skinny Pete in his Thunderbird. When Skinny Pete sees Jesse's injuries and asks if he's okay, Jesse smiles and replies, "Actually, I'm great." In the superlab, Walt tries to fire Gale without hurting his feelings. When Gale pushes for an explanation, Walt tried to use a musical analogy, saying that he’s "classical" while Gale’s "more jazz". At that moment, Gale's replacement Jesse arrives and loudly marvels at the setup in the lab, leaving Gale more confused. When Walt wants to get right to work, Jesse realizes that Walt is unaware that Hank has been shot. Walt rushes to the hospital, where Skyler, Marie, Gomez and ASAC Merkert are assembled. Merkert gives Walt a quick rundown on what they know: Hank was attacked by two cartel hitmen, and he killed one of the assassins and critically wounded the other. Marie denounces Gomez and Merkert for making Hank surrender his gun after he beat up Jesse, leaving him unarmed for the attack. She further blames Walt, saying that Hank would've never even known who Jesse was if Walt hadn't supposedly bought pot from him. Skyler comes to Walt's defense, insisting it wasn't his fault. Crying, Marie apologizes. As Hank's life lays in the balance, fellow cops and DEA agents offer to donate blood in support of him. An impatient Jesse calls Walt, who tells him to sit tight and not cook until he gets to the lab. After Walt hangs up, Skyler suggests they all get breakfast. In the cafeteria, Marie complains about the dirty silverware and declares the hospital a deathtrap. Sensing she’s about to spiral out of control, Walt intervenes. After relating his own anxieties before his surgery in the same hospital, Walt assures Marie, "I survived this place. And I'm not half the man your husband is." At Los Pollos Hermanos, Gus receives a phone call from an angry Juan Bolsa. Bolsa’s not happy, and contends that the Cousins would never have shot Hank without approval, accusing Gus of giving it to them. Bolsa backs down when Gus tells him that he’s "not in the habit of picking [his] own pocket," since the increased DEA attention from the Cousins' attack will delay the cartel's next drug shipment to Gus, but Bolsa vows that he'll learn the truth about the attack from Leonel, the surviving Cousin. Gus, learning that Leonel has survived, hangs up, realizing he's got a loose end to tie up. At the hospital, a doctor announces that Hank is out of surgery. On the way out to run errands for the family, Walt walks into the lobby to find Gomez and other DEA agents holding a vigil. Gomez invites Walt to join them in visiting Leonel's ICU room. There, Walt sees the injuries Leonel sustained during the shooting: after Hank crushed his legs between two cars, both of Leonel's legs have had to be amputated. Sensing the group's presence, Leonel turns to look at them, and recognizes Walt. He sits up, tears at the tubes attached to his body, and pushes himself onto the floor, all the while glaring up at Walt. Utterly seething, Leonel drags himself toward him, trailing blood from his stumps, before doctors subdue and drag him back onto the bed. Stuck in the superlab, Jesse becomes bored and amuses himself by playing with the equipment, such as inflating a hazmat suit with an extractor tube. However, his fun is cut short when Victor catches him and asks why there isn't anything cooking. Jesse contacts Walt about Victor's visit, but a distracted Walt asks if he remembers Tuco mentioning his cousins coming up from Mexico during their captivity in the desert. Jesse thinks he does, but presses Walt about their approaching deadline. Walt delivers toiletry supplies to his family in a waiting room, as well as a book that Hank gave to Junior about the agents who pursued Pablo Escobar. Walt is distracted by a phone call from Gus, lying to him about being "hard at work" and blaming his inability to meet the week's meth quota on Gale's mistakes. He promises to deliver 400 pounds by next week. As another evening falls, Walt asks Gomez if the DEA knows who was behind the shooting, and whether other assassins could be on their way. Gomez assures Walt that the attack on Hank was their one attempt and they failed. Gomez's cell rings, and he spreads the word that food is on the way: Gus is personally delivering fried chicken for every cop in the building. Walt turns pale at the turn of events, knowing Gus will see him. Walt watches Gus console Marie, knowing that Gus is now aware that he had lied about his whereabouts. Walt's family and ASAC Merkert thank Gus for offering a $10,000 reward for information about the shooting, while Gus mentions that he previously met Hank during a visit to the DEA field office and discussed Walt's cancer. Walt catches up to Gus as he walks out, realizing that he knew all along about his brother-in-law being a DEA agent. Gus retorts that he investigates everyone with whom he does business. When Walt asks if Gus' presence is a message to him, Gus says, "I hide in plain sight, same as you." Walt expresses fear for his family's safety, but Gus assures him that there's nothing to worry about, for he's heard rumors of the surviving assassin possibly taking a turn for the worst. He asks Walt to thank him and shake his hand before returning to his restaurant. Just as Gus leaves, there’s a fervor of activity: Leonel's vitals are plummeting. Walt, Gomez, and the other cops rush upstairs, where the doctors are frantically trying to resuscitate him, but to no avail: he has died. The officers quietly celebrate his demise. In their glee, none of them notice Mike slipping away, depositing a syringe in a sharps collection box. Upon returning to Los Pollos Hermanos, Gus receives another call from Bolsa, who complains that pressure from the U.S. government in the wake of Hank's shooting has brought the Mexican Federales to his residence. Bolsa accuses Gus of betraying him, threatening to pay a visit when things calm down. However, Bolsa will never get that chance: the Federales make their move at their moment, and gun down everyone in Bolsa's home, including Bolsa himself. Gus smiles with a smug sense of satisfaction as he ends the call to the sound of gunfire claiming Bolsa's life, before snapping his burner in half and throwing it away. Walt sits with his sleeping family in the waiting room. The doctor enters to inform Marie that she’s finally permitted to see Hank. Marie insists that Walt, Skyler, and Junior accompany her. The family solemnly enters Hank's room. As the Whites look on, Marie kisses Hank's forehead and takes his hand. This episode provides examples of: - And There Was Much Rejoicing: - Considering the beatdown Hank delivered to him in the previous episode, Jesse takes it pretty well when he learns that Hank has been shot after the initial surprise wears off. - Gomez himself is pleased to see that Leonel has died, and some men in the background are smiling and nodding. Gomez: Burn in Hell, you piece of shit. - Anger Born of Worry: Marie lashing out at multiple people, including Gomez and Merkert and Walt himself, is fueled by the fact that Hank's life really does hang in the balance after being attacked by the Cousins. - Bookends: Leonel was first introduced crawling across the ground in order to honor the Mexican saint of death, Santa Muerte. His last scene here has him crawling towards Walter, the man he originally intended to kill, in a murderous rage before the hospital medics force him back into the bed. - Back for the Dead: One of the cousins, Leonel, turns out to have survived the fight and gets a chance to stare down Walt personally, but then is covertly killed by Mike while in the hospital. Originally, both brothers were to die in the shootout with Hank, but Vince Gilligan realized it would be bad storytelling if at least one of them didn't live to see Walt face-to-face. - Blatant Lies: When Gus calls Walt, who he knows perfectly well isn't in the megalab, Walt unconvincingly tries to spin a story about how Gale screwed up their last batch of meth and thus they won't be able to make the week's quota. Gus is clearly unhappy that Walt's lying to him, but knows he isn't in a position to call Walt out, seeing how his own actions in getting the Cousins to make an attempt on Hank's life are the very reason why Walt isn't in the lab. - The Cassandra: Marie tells Walt, "None of this would have happened if you hadn't bought pot from that Pinkman kid!" However, this is inverted since Marie wasn't believed when she said things that were true. - The Chessmaster: The full context of Gus' plan to play the Cartel into screwing itself over is revealed and he shows himself to be far more ruthless and pragmatic than he first appeared. He deliberately sent the Cousins after Hank in order to cause high-profile violence by the Cartel on the DEA. This causes attention to be brought on the Cartel, cutting their supply, and thus competition, off, while Gus is also able to mask an assassination on Bolsa by using Dirty Cops to kill Bolsa during the raid that comes when the federales have to make a big display of cracking down on Cartel activity. - Contrived Coincidence: After the cousins' attack on Hank, he's brought to the same hospital in which Jesse was recovering from the beating Hank gave him. And Hank's ambulance just happens to arrive while Jesse, just discharged, is waiting outside in a wheelchair to be picked up by Skinny Pete. - Death Glare: Leonel has a nasty one when he turns his head to see none other than Walter White looking upon him. - The Determinator: Leonel was just crushed by a car and had both legs amputated. When he sees Walt, he unhooks himself from his IVs, rolls out of his hospital bed, and drags himself toward Walt by his bloody stumps, death-staring him the whole time. While Walt was surrounded by half a dozen cops. - Dirty Cop: Even the South American military going up against hardcore crazy drug dealers observe common legal proceedings. The federales raiding Bolsa's place act more like an execution squad. - Double-Meaning Title: Leonel is able to recognize Walt at the hospital and attempts to kill him, and also plays on the term "ICU". Additionally, this episode also has Gus show that he sees through Walt's lies. It also has Juan Bolsa realise that Gus is somehow working against the cartel and begin to piece his plan together, though this occurs too late to do him any good. - Establishing Character Moment: This is the first episode to establish Gus as a conniving chessmaster hiding underneath the Affably Evil calm persona. - Everyone Has Standards: - Skyler might be distrusting and openly hostile to her husband at the moment, but she immediately jumps to Walt's defense when Marie begins blaming him for Hank's condition by way of Insane Troll Logic. - Similarly, Gustavo Fring is clearly displeased to see that Walt straight-up lied to him when he tried to justify why his shipment of meth will be delayed, but he doesn’t express it to the man since he understands that it would be rather hypocritical for him to do so when Hank's attempted assassination was something he ordered. - Fanservice: Jesse is briefly seen shirtless in the opening scene. - Five-Second Foreshadowing: When Walt speaks to Gus about his concerns for his family's safety, Gus tells him not to worry about it as he has heard that the surviving cousin has taken a turn for the worse. Sure enough, just after Gus leaves, Leonel starts to flatline. - Free Wheel: Jesse is goofing off in the lab and doing some very irresponsible things with an office chair. One shot sees him rolling across the floor on it, and losing his balance briefly before going offscreen, at which point you hear an Offscreen Crash and Jesse groaning in pain. Cue a single chair wheel rolling across from the side he crashed. - He Knows Too Much: Gus has Mike kill Leonel at the hospital so that Bolsa would not be able to find out who allowed the cousins to attempt to kill Hank. - Hoist by His Own Petard: Leonel's rage at Walt results in him getting sedated, meaning that he is unconscious when Mike gives him a lethal injection. - Hospital Gurney Scene: Hank as he is rushed in from the ambulance. - Insane Troll Logic: Played with when Marie starts going around accusing people of being to blame for Hank's shooting. While her anger at Merkert and Gomez is understandable, Merkert's taking away Hank's sidearm was just a case of supremely bad timing (there was nothing stopping Hank carrying a gun of his own other than the fact that he just hadn't had the time to pick one up), and Gomez wasn't able to defend Hank because he was in Texas doing the job that Hank himself had turned down. Then Marie accuses Walt of being to blame for what happened to Hank, which is technically correct (albeit in a very indirect way), but the actual argument she offers is so thin that no-one believes her. Justified, given that she's a wife whose husband is critically injured and is frantic with worry about the situation, causing her to lash out irrationally. - Instantly Proven Wrong: In his phone call to Gus, Bolsa begins to brag that he has powerful connections in the Mexican authorities, including a brother who is a police chief, to imply to Gus that this heat he's somehow created won't last and that Bolsa will be paying Gus a visit to "discuss" this situation once it's died down and Bolsa has managed to figure out what's going on. Unfortunately for Bolsa, he's not quite finished before the federales storm his house and kill him and his men. Apparently, his connections weren't good enough this time. - Internal Reveal: Walt finds out that Gus knows about his cancer and his brother-in-law being a DEA agent, two things he never brought up during their meetings. - Laser-Guided Karma: From Jesse's perspective, at least, Hank got exactly what was coming to him. - Locked Out of the Loop: A minor case: as Jesse discovers, Walt has yet to learn that Hank has been shot. - Mood Whiplash: It cuts from Leonel dragging himself across the floor towards Walt on bleeding stumps with fury in his eyes until he’s forcibly subdued by medics to a bored Jesse goofing around in the lab. - More Dakka: Juan Bolsa is greeted at his door with getting a full mag emptied into him. - Not Quite Dead: After the confrontation with Hank, Leonel survives and loses his legs, but is determined to kill Walter. That is, until Mike finishes him off. - Oh, Crap!: Walt's silent reaction to hearing that Gus is paying the hospital a visit, as Walt realizes he's not as good at keeping secrets from the drug kingpin as he thought he was. - Pet the Dog: - Walter tries his best to comfort Marie about her husband's condition. - When Walt fires Gale he tries to do it in the nicest way possible without hurting his feelings. - Pull the Thread: Subverted. Bolsa has clearly realised that Gus has something to do with the fact that the DEA is running amok, the border is closed, the Cousins are dead and his compound is now surrounded by armed federales, even if he doesn't fully understand what, how or why. He calls Gus up to threaten him that, once the heat has died down a bit, he intends to do some digging and pay him a "visit" once he understands exactly what's going on. But unfortunately, the federales storm his house mid-threat and fill him with bullets, ending his ability to do so before it even really starts. - Punny Title: "I See You," play on the initials "ICU", or "Intensive Care Unit". - Rhymes on a Dime: Skyler defending Walt from Marie's accusations.Skyler: Don't blame Walt, its not his fault. - Right for the Wrong Reasons: Marie is right to blame Walt for indirectly playing a part in Hank's hospitalization, since Walt's activities are what led Hank to Tuco in the first place and brought the cousins across the border, and he is also directly responsible for the actions which led to Hank beating Jesse and getting suspended and disarmed. However, Marie doesn't know about any of that, instead falling back on the assumption that Walt simply bought drugs off of Jesse and put him on Hank's radar. It's clear from Walt's face that he understands the irony of this (although he doesn't yet know the cousins are after him). - Screw the Rules, I Have Connections!: Juan Bolsa attempts to invoke this trope during his last phone conversation with Gus to downplay the threat posed by the federales, before threatening him. Unfortunately for him, it’s at this point that they storm his house and gun him down. - Shame If Something Happened: Zig-Zagged: Walt interprets Gus coming to the hospital and meeting his family as a threat; Gus reassures him that it isn't, as he's more concerned that Leonel isn't likely to survive. However, intended or not, it does nevertheless serve to put Walt on notice that Gus's reach, influence and awareness extends far beyond what he had previously understood, giving him a hint of just how formidable and dangerous he is. - Sickbed Slaying: Leonel survived getting his legs crushed during the parking lot attack. So that he can't get word to Juan Bolsa that Gus orchestrated the attempt on Hank's life, Gus distracts the cops with a personal delivery of fried chicken from Los Pollos Hermanos while Mike sneaks into Leonel's room to administer a lethal injection. - Speak Ill of the Dead: Gomez gives Leonel a touching eulogy after he succumbs to Mike's lethal injection. Justified considering Leonel almost murdered Gomez's best friend.Gomez: Burn in hell, you piece of shit. - Switch to English: Bolsa has to because Gus has so little respect for him that he refuses to respond to him in Spanish. - Villainous Breakdown: Bolsa has an angry one over the phone to Gus when he realizes what his plan was. It ends when he gets gunned down by the federales. - We Do Not Know Each Other: Gus pretends that he only knows Walt through the charity fundraiser Hank had been running for him at the DEA. - We Need a Distraction: Gus bringing chicken to the cops at the hospital serves as this, as Mike is able to sneak in to administer a lethal injection to Leonel. Then as all the cops are milling about when Leonel dies, Mike is able to dispose of his syringe in a sharps bin.


--- [I See You (Breaking Bad)] ---
I See You (Breaking Bad) "I See You" is the eighth episode of the third season of the American television drama series Breaking Bad, and the 28th overall episode of the series. Written by Gennifer Hutchison and directed by Colin Bucksey, it aired on AMC in the United States and Canada on May 9, 2010. The episode's title is a play on "ICU", the Intensive care unit of a hospital. | "I See You" | | |---|---| | Breaking Bad episode | | | Episode no. | Season 3 Episode 8 | | Directed by | Colin Bucksey | | Written by | Gennifer Hutchison | | Featured music | "Shimmy Shimmy Ya" by Prince Fatty (feat. Horseman) | | Cinematography by | Michael Slovis | | Editing by | Kelley Dixon | | Original air date | May 9, 2010 | | Running time | 47 minutes | | Guest appearance(s) | | | | Plot As Jesse is leaving the hospital after Hank's attack on him, he sees Hank being admitted in critical condition with four gunshot wounds. Jesse smiles to himself as Skinny Pete picks him up, satisfied at the karmic justice. Walt tells a confused and upset Gale that they are not working well together and he is being replaced. Jesse then shows up at that moment, much to Walt's dismay, and displays his uncouth and unprofessional personality as he admires the lab, which confuses Gale even further, realizing that this is his replacement. Nevertheless, Walt and Gale shake hands and part ways on relatively amicable terms, while Victor reminds him to not fall behind on their weekly quota. Jesse informs Walt about Hank's condition, and Walt immediately leaves for the hospital. Walt catches up with his family while Steve Gomez and George Merkert explain to him that two Cartel hitmen made an attempt on Hank's life. Gomez expresses astonishment that Hank was able to take down both of the assassins without his gun, and this prompts Marie to question why Hank did not have his gun on him. Merket explains that Hank had to turn it in following his suspension due to the assault on Jesse. Marie lashes out at the both of them, blaming them for leaving Hank defenseless and not backing him up when he needed them most. She also pins blame on Walt, believing that Hank would never have crossed paths with Jesse if Walt had never "bought marijuana" from him. Leonel, his legs now amputated, is being treated within the same hospital as Hank. When Gomez and Walt go to view him from the other side of his door, Leonel recognizes Walt and angrily crawls towards him before eventually being hoisted back to his bed by police. Walt is startled by this and realizes that he might have been their intended target. Gus receives a call from Juan Bolsa. The attempted hit on a DEA agent has prompted the Mexican government to crack down on the Cartel and for the border to be monitored with more scrutiny, forcing him to lie low in Mexico. Bolsa is suspicious that Gus was the one who orchestrated the hit, as Marco and Leonel would not have acted on their own. He tells Gus that he intends to get the truth from Leonel as to who permitted them to act. Walt spends the next few days at the hospital while Jesse remains at the lab, waiting for him to return so that they can resume cooking to meet their quota. Walt eventually receives a call from Gus to check in on their progress. Not wanting to give any information that might reveal that his brother-in-law is a DEA agent, Walt lies about why they're falling behind, saying that Gale has set them back significantly, and to make up for it, he promises to produce 400 pounds of meth next week. Gus agrees to this. Walt is horrified when Gus suddenly shows up at the hospital, bringing free food from Los Pollos Hermanos as a show of his support for the DEA. Gus meets the rest of Walt's family and relates to the time when he first met Hank, revealing to Walt that Gus already knew that his brother-in-law was in the DEA. Walt speaks privately with Gus, assuring him that Hank is not a problem for their business. As Gus leaves, Leonel suddenly goes into cardiac arrest and dies. Mike is then shown disposing of a syringe and leaving unnoticed. Later that night, Gus receives another call from Bolsa, whose house is now surrounded by Mexican federales due to Gus tipping them off to his location. With Leonel now dead, Bolsa is convinced that Gus is behind all of this, and he vows that the Cartel will seek retaliation against him. Immediately after, the federales raid Bolsa's home and shoot him dead. Hearing the sounds of gunfire over the phone, Gus smiles to himself and disposes of his phone. Production The episode was written by Gennifer Hutchison, and directed by Colin Bucksey; it aired on AMC in the United States and Canada on May 9, 2010. Reception Critical reception The episode received positive reviews. Donna Bowman of The A.V. Club noted "this episode is all about the organization now employing Walter — its long reach and ruthless ambition" but criticized the hospital scene as "spouting cliches."[1] Seth Amitin of IGN gave the episode a 9.4/10 rating, calling it "a great episode about the emotional debris left in the wake of last week's amazing melee."[2] In 2019 The Ringer ranked "I See You" 47th out of the 62 total Breaking Bad episodes.[3] Viewership The episode's original broadcast was viewed by 1.78 million people,[4] which was a increase from the 1.52 million of the previous episode, "One Minute". References - Bowman, Donna (May 9, 2010). "Breaking Bad: "I See You"". TV Club. Retrieved January 19, 2020. - Amitin, Seth (May 10, 2010). "Breaking Bad: "I See You" Review". IGN. Retrieved January 19, 2020. - Micah Peters (September 30, 2019). "The Ringer's Definitive 'Breaking Bad' Episodes Ranking". The Ringer. - Julia (April 7, 2010). "Breaking Bad Season 3 Ratings". TV by the Numbers. Retrieved November 10, 2010. External links - "I See You" at the official Breaking Bad site - "I See You" on IMDb - "I See You" at TV.com
