=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Firebrand (DC Comics)]
The Rod Reilly, Danette Reilly, and Alex Sanchez incarnations of Firebrand appear as character summons in Scribblenauts Unmasked: A DC Comics Adventure.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Firebrand_(DC_Comics)

[Firebrand (Character)]
Jun 6, 2018 — Left-wing activist Andre Twist is the fourth incarnation of Firebrand. Firebrand joined Uncle Sam's latest Freedom Fighters after gaining his powers over fire.
URL: https://comicvine.gamespot.com/firebrand/4005-30274/

[Firebrand (DC/Quality Comics) : r/DCcomics]
In the show, Red Inferno was a female android who "debuted as Firebrand" in the JSA. In the comics, Firebrand wasn't an android -- but she WAS ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/DCcomics/comments/9igzwc/firebrand_dcquality_comics/

[Slightly Misplaced Comic Book Characters Case File #500: Firebrand]
... Firebrand, an old name for Charlton/DC Comics. There's been something like five of them to date, and the Janet Fals version seems to be one of the skimpiest ...
URL: https://www.gabbinggeek.com/2024/10/17/slightly-misplaced-comic-book-characters-case-file-500-firebrand/

[Lorendiac's “Character Aliases That Marvel and DC Have Both Used” (3rd ...]
Oct 21, 2008 — Marvel: Villain; member of the Serpent Society. Black Widow. DC: A woman named Princess Hellene, listed in online resources as "Black Widow," ...
URL: https://www.cbr.com/lorendiacs-character-aliases-that-marvel-and-dc-have-both-used-3rd-draft/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Firebrand (DC Comics)] ---
No content


--- [Firebrand (Character)] ---
For the original Firebrand, see Rod Reilly For the second Firebrand, see Danette Reilly For the third Firebrand, see Alejandro Sanchez Origin Activist Andre Twist was in the city of Blüdhaven when the Secret Society dropped the nuclear nightmare Chemo on the city, destroying it. In the nuclear wasteland that resulted, Twist gained the ability to control fire. After the assault, the U.S. Government erected a wall around the city, trying to keep the radiation in. However, the wall also trapped a lot of residents within the city limits. Twist took the name of Firebrand, and tried to help the remaining residents as best he could. He aided the underground railroad that smuggled citizens out of Blüdhaven, and frequently harassed government agencies that tried to control the boundaries of Blüdhaven. He always appealed to the press, using their power to draw attention to the plight of Blüdhaven. Creation After the events of the Infinite Crisis, DC Comics sought to re-launch Firebrand and the Freedom Fighters. The origin for a new group of Freedom Fighters was started in the pages of Infinite Crisis Aftermath: The Battle for Blüdhaven. This six-issue miniseries, written by Jimmy Palmiotti & Justin Gray, would re-introduce characters like the Force of July, Human Bomb, Doll Man, Phantom Lady, and introduce us to Andre Twist, the new Firebrand. This new look for Firebrand was designed by Palmiotti and Dan Jurgens. This Firebrand and his teammates in the new Freedom Fighters would star in two 8-issue maxiseries (also by Palmiotti and Gray) called Uncle Sam and the Freedom Fighters, released in 2006 and 2007. The new Freedom Fighters would guest star in a couple of series before Palmiotti and Gray would launch an ongoing series, Freedom Fighters, in 2010. Key Story Arcs The Battle for Blüdhaven Over the course of a year, Firebrand fought on behalf of the citizens of Blüdhaven. He frequently teamed up with Monolith to try to bring hope to those now homeless. After the U.S. Army confronts the underground railroad, Firebrand’s pleas to the media bring the Teen Titans into the fray.This led to a confrontation between Firebrand and the Titans, but the people sided with Firebrand, forcing the Titans to stand down. Firebrand teamed up with the Titans, Monolith, Alice, and Tilt against the agents of S.H.A.D.E., the government agency in charge of Blüdhaven. S.H.A.D.E., however, was being run by the corrupt Father Time. Father Time’s agents fought the heroes in trying to protect their secret operations in Blüdhaven. During the fight, Firebrand heard a voice calling him to Mississippi. Joining the Freedom Fighters In Mississippi, Firebrand met the reborn Uncle Sam. Uncle Sam sought to reform the Freedom Fighters to combat Father Time and S.H.A.D.E.’s corruption of the U.S. government. Firebrand and Uncle Sam were soon joined by former S.H.A.D.E. agents Doll Man, Human Bomb, Phantom Lady, and the Ray, who turned on Father Time. These new Freedom Fighters, alongside the new Black Condor, were hunted by Father Time, and were captured and tortured. However, with the help of the Red Bee, Invisible Hood, and Miss America, they brought down Father Time’s operation. Firebrand stayed on to become a permanent member of the Freedom Fighters, who now worked for a reformed S.H.A.D.E. This new team helped fight Darkseid during the Final Crisis, and fought the newest El Diablo. Firebrand also began a relationship with the new Red Bee, but was distraught when she had been taken over by an alien insectoid race. The Freedom Fighters saved Red Bee and repel the insectoid’s invasion. During that time, the new director of S.H.A.D.E., Director Robbins, was also revealed to be corrupt. After the Red Bee is returned to normal, the Freedom Fighters disbanded. After a fight alongside Black Condor against the reformed Aryan Brigade, Uncle Sam recruited Firebrand to rejoin the Freedom Fighters. The Vice President of the U.S. had been kidnapped by a secret society called the Arcadians and held for ransom. The Freedom Fighters needed to find American artifacts across the country in return for the Vice President’s life. Over the course of the search, Firebrand and the Freedom Fighters fought the Renegades and the Jailbreakers. During the fight with the Jailbreakers, Firebrand was thrown across a room, where upon impact he could no longer feel his legs. After the fight, he was teleported to S.H.A.D.E. headquarters, where the medics began assessing the damage. It is unknown whether Firebrand will walk again. He was given a modified hover chair so he could rejoin the team. He died in the final battle with The Jester when falling rocks crushed him. Powers and Abilities Twist is good at hand-to-hand combat with some level of athletic and martial arts abilities. He carries a bo staff as an offensive and defensive weapon. Twist's exposure to Chemo granted him control over fire, the limits of this power have yet to be measured.


--- [Firebrand (DC/Quality Comics) : r/DCcomics] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [Slightly Misplaced Comic Book Characters Case File #500: Firebrand] ---
Hey, look at this. I got to #500. And for this one, I’m looking at a barely-there-and-then-forgotten DC hero named Firebrand, the most recent of many to go by that name. Oh, and I may have some other thoughts on something below for this, a special milestone edition of the Misplaced Heroes/Characters series. The first Firebrand was a bored rich guy created by Charlton Comics in 1941, but there have been a few since then. The most recent one is Janet Fals, and she was an EMT who was nearly killed in the Dark Nights: Metal crossover event, only her CIA agent father had her damaged heart replaced by something called the Conflict Engine. In order to stay alive, Janet must get involved in a fight every 24 hours or her heart will stop. She also has some superhuman strength and resistance to injury with some weird pipes that come out of her back that maybe act as rocket engines. Janet first appeared in The Unexpected, a comic series that was part of the same new line that gave the world Sideways. Now, if you’re looking over that backstory there and thinking that sounds like something that must have been really cool to read, well, I have some bad news for ya: those moments are recounted by Janet in the first few pages of The Unexpected #1 from writer Steve Orlando–currently doing decent work with some Scarlet Witch solo series over at Marvel–and artist Ryan Sook. So, the great potential drama of Janet’s injury, recovery, and learning how her new heart worked all happens in the first few pages as backstory and then is largely forgotten. Yeah, The Unexpected ran for all of 8 issues, and read all 8 of them on DC Universe Infinite for this column, and let me just say, in my honest opinion, this series probably ran a few issues too long. It was strange and despite the fact the cover for the first issue showed the team that may or may not be called “The Unexpected” consisted of four members, two of those members known as Ascendant and the Viking Judge were killed in the first issue during a battle with a bad guy called the Bad Samaritan, who admittedly had a good look. All that left was Firebrand and a wizard named Neon the Unknown, perhaps the most useless sorcerer I have ever seen in a comic book in that he didn’t seem capable of doing much of anything, and he and Janet spent most of the series running from bad guys. Hawkman became something of a third member later, but that didn’t mean Viking Judge and Ascendant didn’t keep popping up on covers for one reason or another. One of the “next issue” blurbs on DC Universe promised that the last page of one issue would feature the dramatic return of a villain who hadn’t been seen in ten years, only he’d been seen only a couple issues earlier. And I’m not sure anyone was clamoring for Mandarkk, the vampiric Monitor from Final Crisis. But as far as Firebrand goes, pretty much all there is to say about her is stated above, aside from the fact she was implied to be gay. And that’s kinda disappointing in a way. I mean, I didn’t like The Unexpected series. It was shooting to be some kind of supernatural exploration of DC’s Dark Multiverse or something, but the thing is, I read it to find out more about Firebrand, an old name for Charlton/DC Comics. There’s been something like five of them to date, and the Janet Fals version seems to be one of the skimpiest in terms of character and personality. Some characters are forgotten for good reason, but the one that preceded Janet was one I did remember, the Andre Twist version that first appeared in 2006 in the Battle for Bludhaven mini-series that came out in the wake of Infinite Crisis. That Firebrand lived up to his name a bit by being something of a rabblerouser, a guy who was standing up for the little guy against whoever was doing whatever in the wasted confines of Bludhaven after the Secret Society of Supervillains dropped Chemo onto the place in the middle of the Infinite Crisis. That said, it’s one thing to have a hero who stands up for the little guy, but it’s another to do so with a character whose ideology makes him more of a pain in the ass to everyone who was doing anything, though he was eventually recruited by Uncle Sam for an incarnation of the Freedom Fighters that I mean to check out one of these days. The thing is, that Firebrand was going to be disappointing for the simple reason that DC (and Marvel) are going to be very reluctant to say what the political ideologies of their heroes are for the most part. Now, I have my own personal headcannon on some characters that are basically unconfirmed in many respects. I figure Steve Rogers is a New Deal Democrat as a child of the Great Depression, and sure he could have done like Ronald Reagan and gone the other way as he went older, but if he had, I somehow don’t think that the government would have replaced him with the more blatantly conservative John “U.S.Agent” Walker. And I remember, back in 2000 as the Presidential election was going on over between Al Gore and George W. Bush, I came across a few arguments on the DC Comics message boards about who the different members of the Justice League would vote for. Many a Republican poster argued that the entire League, save the “tree-hugger Aquaman” were voting for Bush. That didn’t sit right with me, so I put forward my own arguments that worked off my understanding of League demographics, and I seem to vaguely recall that people liked what I had to say. Anyway, here was my argument: - Aquaman couldn’t vote because he was at the time the King of Atlantis and not an American citizen. - Wonder Woman likewise couldn’t vote as she was the ambassador of Themyscira and not an American citizen - Martian Manhunter was born and grew to adulthood on Mars, and was not an American citizen. While it would have been quite easy for J’onn to pose as a human and vote if he really wanted to, I likewise figured as a telepathic Martian, he would know better than anyone how sincere any politician was, and likewise, what sort of government philosophy a Martian might have would have been potentially too alien to guess what he thought was the best way to run a country. - Plastic Man might be a convicted felon and may not be able to vote. He’s also likely to vote for silly reasons, and one person even said he was the one most likely to just forget to vote. - The Flash at the time was Wally West, and my understanding was Wally was the most anti-communist of the old Teen Titans, and Wally always struck me as the Young Republican type in those days, so I could see him voting for Bush. - Green Lantern at the time was Kyle Rayner, a freelance artist who moved from Southern California to Greenwich Village in New York City. He probably voted for Gore. - Batman, as a billionaire, may support Republicans in general if for no other reason than their general plans to cut taxes for people in higher incomes meant he could devote more of his personal fortune to his war on crime, but his general hatred of guns makes me think he wouldn’t be too comfortable with a candidate supported by the NRA. I still figured him for a Bush voter, but the gun thing was always a bit hard to square, and inevitably, someone would point out Batman allows Alfred to have a gun. Basically, Batman is something of a conundrum. - Superman was the one I felt least confident about as I figured Clark would vote for the most idealistic candidate, meaning he probably voted for Nader. If anything, I think Superman, especially if his backstory says he came to Earth in a Kryptonian birthing pod and was actually born on Earth, would vote for the person he believed in his heart of hearts would do the most good for the most people. Likewise, it may depend on whether Clark sees himself tied closer to Smallville or Metropolis. A Smallville Clark probably leans conservative while the reporter Clark in Metropolis with, I am guessing, a college degree may lean the other way. However, it’s easy to see why DC and Marvel would prefer not to get too far into those particular weeds. They want their comics to appeal to the maximum number of readers, and identifying a character as having a particular political ideology or even a religion that isn’t some obscure or made-up faith (i.e. Wonder Woman’s gods or Black Panther’s belief in Bast the Panther God) helps in that regard. Yes, sometimes rules are broken there. The Thing was revealed to be Jewish like his creator Jack Kirby in more recent years, and he’s not the only Jewish hero. And there are political heroes, like the aforementioned U.S.Agent or, on the other side of the political spectrum, Green Arrow. The thing is, when I read reprints of Green Lantern/Green Arrow or Justice League of America after Ollie Queen’s political liberalism became more known, it was mostly confined to social issues. What did he think on taxes or the role of government? I don’t know as he mostly worried about civil rights, an admittedly big issue, but his liberalism was mostly rather hollow in the grand scheme of things. Plus, the fabled “conservatism” of his sparring partner Hawkman was rather one-sided in those first few issues at least as Ollie just sniped at Kator for no reason beyond the fact that Katar was a space cop. By the by, my personal headcannon on Katar Hol is that, as a guy who came from a space empire ruled by a monarch, his affection for the American Constitution that came around in later incarnations actually made Katar a big time radical by Thanagarian standards. Regardless, post-Crisis on Infinite Earths, mistakes meant that Katar couldn’t have been the Hawkman on the Silver Age JLA, so JSA Hawkman Carter Hall became that Hawkman instead, and he was outted as a conservative opposite Ollie Queen’s liberal, but that conservatism seems to exist only to give the two something to argue over. However, DC did once attempt to do something a bit more political than most in 2008 with a mini-series called DC Decisions. Alternating between conservative comics writer Bill Willingham and liberal comics writer Judd Winick, the story had DC heroes publicly endorsing different political candidates who were sort of stand-ins for real world candidates like John McCain, Barack Obama, and Hilary Clinton. Or at least, that was my understanding as I never actually read the mini in question and have no desire to do so, based solely on these panels here: I believe that came from the first issue, particularly from writer Willingham as he wrote the odd-numbered issues while Winnick wrote the even-numbered ones. My general understanding is also the mini-series never exactly came out and said who Superman was voting for, but that wasn’t the case for most other heroes. But let’s look at the panels in question here. There’s a lot wrong with those panels. Consider Lois Lane here, coming out as a political conservative based on the fact she was raised that way by her military father. OK, fair enough, I suppose. But really, “I’m proudly for a strong military, small government, low taxes, and maximum individual freedom”? Who talks like that? I could likewise point out that Lois A) kept her own name when she got married and that’s hardly all that traditional a move, B) often clashed with her father over things including marrying a guy Sam Lane never approved of, and C) was a college-educated journalist. Demographically speaking, she could just as easily be a Democrat as much as she is a Republican. Likewise, Clark won’t tell his wife who he votes for? Why? That makes no sense except to make Lois a strawman conservative (as seen by a conservative writer) while allowing Superman to basically have whatever political ideology the reader wants him to have in a very artificial way. So, maybe it’s better that we don’t know how these fictional characters vote. Oh, and the newest Firebrand is a dull character.


--- [Lorendiac's “Character Aliases That Marvel and DC Have Both Used” (3rd ...] ---
No content
