=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Doug Graner - Severance Wiki]
Feb 5, 2025 · Doug Graner was the head of security on the Severed Floor at Lumon Industries. Mr. Graner sits with Kier now. [1] Graner was murdered by Asal Reghabi after he tracked her to an abandoned part of Ganz College and interrupted her meeting with Mark Scout.
URL: https://www.severance.wiki/doug_graner

[Doug Graner | Severance Wiki | Fandom]
Doug Graner was the Head of Security on the Severed Floor at Lumon Industries and one of the company's primary enforcers. When Petey went on the run from Lumon, Graner was sent to track him down. After Mark Scout ran into Petey at Pip's, Graner drove into the parking lot and watched the restauraunt, presumably following a tip from Cobel.[1] When Helly R. attempted to leave the severed floor ...
URL: https://severance-tv.fandom.com/wiki/Doug_Graner

[Severance (TV series) - Wikipedia]
Yul Vazquez as Peter "Petey" Kilmer (season 1; voice season 2), Mark's former severed co-worker and best friend in the MDR division, who left Lumon under mysterious circumstances. Michael Cumpsty as Doug Graner (season 1), the head of security on Lumon's severed floor. Nikki M. James as Alexa (season 1), Devon's midwife and one of Mark's love interests. Sydney Cole Alexander as Natalie Kalen ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Severance_%28TV_series%29

[Every Confirmed Lumon Department In Severance & What They Do]
Jan 14, 2025 · In Severance season 1, Mark obtained a card belonging to Doug Graner, who was the Head of Security at Lumon's Severed Floor until Reghabi killed him. As a result, Dylan used the Security Office's tech to awaken Mark, Helly, and Irving's innies in the outside world in an attempt to escape from Lumon.
URL: https://screenrant.com/severance-lumon-departments-rooms-explained/

[Severance Season 1 Episode 7 Recap – Reel Mockery]
Helly and Mark unlock the security room, where there is a wall of surveillance cameras and large control panels. One panel has controls for the severed workers. A red alert pops up on one of the control panels to alert of Cobel's descent. Mark rushes over the surveillance camera to see Cobel. Helly assures him Cobel won't visit the security ...
URL: https://reelmockery.com/severance-season-1-episode-7-recap/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Doug Graner - Severance Wiki] ---
Proceed with caution. Wiki Menu Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Categories Stay Updated Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Connect Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! | Doug Graner | | | Also Known As | Mr. Graner | |---|---| | Portrayed By | Michael Cumpsty | | Occupation | Head of Security on the Severed Floor at Lumon Industries | | Status | Deceased | | First Appearance | Good News About Hell | Doug Graner was the head of security on the Severed Floor at Lumon Industries. Mr. Graner sits with Kier now.[1] Graner was murdered by Asal Reghabi after he tracked her to an abandoned part of Ganz College and interrupted her meeting with Mark Scout. Reghabi repeatedly struck Graner with an aluminum baseball bat, then compelled Mark to help her conceal the crime. From Graner’s brief interaction with Mark just before his death, it is apparent that Mark’s Outie did not know Graner. It is Graner's key card that allows Mark S., Helly R., and then Dylan G. to access the security room and ultimately activate the Overtime Contingency Protocol. Full synaptic coupling. Petey Kilmer’s memory was reintegrated. You were right, Harmony. We should celebrate.Season 1, Episode 5, The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design (7:46) She … What the fuck are you wearing?Season 1, Episode 6, Hide and Seek (33:13) It’s okay. I’m a friend.Season 1, Episode 7, Defiant Jazz (3:34) If you would like to contribute to this article, please join our Severance Show Discord and submit your suggestions in the #wiki channel.


--- [Doug Graner | Severance Wiki | Fandom] ---
Doug Graner was the Head of Security on the Severed Floor at Lumon Industries and one of the company's primary enforcers. History[] When Petey went on the run from Lumon, Graner was sent to track him down. After Mark Scout ran into Petey at Pip's, Graner drove into the parking lot and watched the restauraunt, presumably following a tip from Cobel.[1] When Helly R. attempted to leave the severed floor with a written message for her Outie, the elevator's Code Detectors were triggered, quickly summoning Graner to the scene. Before he could take Helly away, Mark S. stepped in and vouched for her, trying to frame Helly's attempt as a trainee mistake regarding data-smuggling rules, and he was responsible. Graner sarcastically congratulated Mark on his recent promotion, then escorted him to the Break Room. When Mark called in sick to work the next day, Graner found the timing suspicious.[2] Helly later made a second data-smuggling attempt by smashing her way through the stairwell door's window, but this was also unsuccesful. Graner casually collected her and escorted her to the Break Room as punishment.[3] When Graner learned of Petey's death, he asked Cobel if she'd heard from the Board yet, which she said she hadn't. He attempted to reassure her that her that Petey's death wasn't her fault (or his) and the Board would be sympathetic. When Cobel talked about Petey reintegrating, Graner cut her off and reminded her that the Board has never acknowledged reintegration. Cobel then said they needed to get Petey's chip, so Graner told her his body was set to be cremated after his funeral on Sunday.[4] When Graner learned that Helly had attempted suicide by hanging in the elevator, he ran to it to stop her, where Mark had already found her and was holding her limp body up. Graner untied her noose and crudely tried to fix up the elevator, before ordering a reluctant Mark to get in and leave. Graner delivered Petey's severance chip to Cobel, having run the diagnostics to prove "full synaptic coupling," meaning his memory was fully reintegrated. He suggested they celebrate, assuming she would have taken a beat before informing the Board, especially in light of Helly's suicide attempt. He then realized that Cobel had kept the Board completely in the dark. She ordered him to find source signatures on the chip, but he offered it back as a gift since the data was already saved. She then told him to find the one responsible for Petey's reintegration, intending to present all evidence to the Board collectively. When MDR began wandering the floor, Graner questioned Cobel, wondering how many departments she'd allow them to find. She quoted Kier, saying that "the surest way to tame a prisoner is to let him believe he's free." He made a snide remark about the abundance of Kier quotes and says that "Upstairs" wouldn't be happy with her plan, but she dismissively told him he could talk to her when he figured out who hacked Petey's chip.[5] Once the data from Petey had been run, Graner called Cobel to tell her that ex-Lumon surgeon Asal Reghabi's signature had been detected. She had managed to crack reintegration. He promised to find her and bring her in. Later, after Mark took his team to O&D and delivered a rebellious speech to the workers, Graner wordlessly arrived and once again escorted him to the Break Room. That night, Graner came to Cobel's house and told her he'd found Reghabi, though he was amused by her colourful pyjamas. He received a tip from a campus cop at Ganz College that someone was holed up in one of the lab buildings, but security was told to look the other way by the dean. Certain it was Reghabi, Graner invited Cobel to join him, but she dismissed this and sent him off, ignoring his question about her career outside Lumon.[6] Arriving at Ganz College, Graner searched the premises for Reghabi, but unexpectedly ran into Mark Scout instead. He questioned why Mark was there, reassuring him that he was a "friend" from the Severed Floor. Reghabi suddenly ambushed him and smashed the back of his head with an aluminium baseball bat, cracking his skull open and killing him. Reghabi cleaned up the scene and disposed of Graner's corpse, but not before taking his all-access security card and giving it to Mark. The Board soon learned of Graner's death, but the rest of the Severed Floor were unaware for a time, until Natalie revealed his fate to Cobel. She also informed Seth Milchick, stating that "Mr. Graner sits with Kier now." In his absence, Milchick took over security on the floor.[7] Mark S. discovered Graner's keycard in his pocket during Helly's Music/Dance Experience, revealing it to the rest of MDR when they discussed hijacking the Overtime Contigency Protocol. Mark would use Graner's card to leave MDR and then enter the Security Office with Helly.[8] Later, when the group resolved to use the OTC to make contact on the outside, Mark gave Graner's keycard to Dylan G. in order to access the Security Office and enable the protocol.[9] When Mark S. was on the verge of completing the Cold Harbor file, Graner was added to a massive painting/mural of everyone Mark had met in his short life, titled The Exalted Victory of Cold Harbor.[10] Personality[] Doug Graner was a stern, quiet, and loyal Lumon worker, thoroughly committed to his position as security chief. Graner was uncongenial and dismissive to most, highlighted especially in his treatment of Innies on the severed floor: uncompromising, silent, and barely treating them like human at all. Graner's absolute loyalty to Lumon is questionable, as he does not display the same kind of fanaticism to Kier as many of his other co-workers, even sounding slightly sarcastic when remarking, "There's a Kier quote for everything." That being said, Graner was obviously committed enough to perform off-the-books work for Cobel outside of Lumon, suggesting that while he is a diligent worker, he is not brainwashed by the company's cult-like worship of Kier. Graner also seemed to fear repercussions from "Upstairs" (presumably meaning the Board) as a result of the numerous incidents under Cobel's watch. Physical Description[] Graner is a tall and physically intimidating man, far larger than everyone he encountered by a margin. He wore a dark Navy blue suit on top of a white button shirt and identical blue coloured trousers. He also wore a silver clip on his tie and a small pin of the Lumon Industries logo attached to his suit's lapel. Relationships[] Harmony Cobel[] Graner and Cobel had a peculiar relationship. Their conversations implied a history together, but in most interactions, Cobel is rude and dismissive of him, though Graner seems unbothered by this behaviour. Strangely loyal to Cobel in spite of her attitude, Graner often performed more cloak-and-dagger work outside of Lumon, such as his hunt for the reintegrated Petey Kilmer, and was even willing to hide critical news (such as Helly R.'s attempted suicide) from the Board. Quotes[] "The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design" - Graner: "There's a Kier quote for everything." - Graner: "She-- What the fuck are you wearing?" Notes and Trivia[] Gallery[] Appearances[] | Season 1 | ||||| | #01 | "Good News About Hell" | #04 | "The You You Are" | #07 | "Defiant Jazz" | | #02 | "Half Loop" | #05 | "The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design" | #08 | "What's for Dinner?" | | #03 | "In Perpetuity" | #06 | "Hide and Seek" | #09 | "The We We Are" | References[] - ↑ Good News About Hell, 1x01 - ↑ Half Loop, 1x02 - ↑ In Perpetuity, 1x03 - ↑ The You You Are, 1x04 - ↑ The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design, 1x05 - ↑ Hide and Seek, 1x06 - ↑ Defiant Jazz, 1x07 - ↑ Defiant Jazz, 1x07 - ↑ What's for Dinner?, 1x08 - ↑ Cold Harbor, 2x10


--- [Severance (TV series) - Wikipedia] ---
Severance is an American science fiction psychological thriller television series created by Dan Erickson, and executive produced and primarily directed by Ben Stiller. It stars Adam Scott, Zach Cherry, Britt Lower, Tramell Tillman, Jen Tullock, Dichen Lachman, Michael Chernus, John Turturro, Christopher Walken, Patricia Arquette, and Sarah Bock. The series follows employees at Lumon Industries, a biotechnology corporation, that have undergone "severance"—a procedure that splits a person's memories between work and their personal life. This creates two separate identities for employees: the "innie", who has no knowledge of the outside world, and the "outie", who lives their life outside without any knowledge of their job.
Erickson and Stiller first developed Severance in 2015, with the series being greenlit by Apple TV in 2019, with Scott attached. The cast for the first season was rounded out by December 2020, and the cast for the second season was announced in October 2022. Principal photography for the series has taken place in New York, New Jersey and Newfoundland. Its first season aired from February 18 until April 8, 2022, and its second season from January 17 to March 21, 2025. Severance has been renewed for a third season.  In February 2026, it was reported that Apple TV had acquired the intellectual property and all rights to the series from Fifth Season, with its in-house Apple Studios to become the production company for the series starting with the third season.
Severance has received critical acclaim for its cinematography, direction, production design, musical score, story, and performances. It has received numerous accolades, including 41 Primetime Emmy Award nominations, winning for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series for Lower and Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series for Tillman. Scott's performance earned him nominations for a Primetime Emmy Award, two Television Critics Association Awards, and a Golden Globe Award, while Stiller and Erickson also received Emmy nominations for directing and writing.


--- [Every Confirmed Lumon Department In Severance & What They Do] ---
No content


--- [Severance Season 1 Episode 7 Recap – Reel Mockery] ---
Defiant Jazz – The show begins with Mark Scout (Adam Scott) asking Regabhi (Karen Aldridge) tells him to follow her. She questions why he never tossed Petey Kilmer’s (Yul Vazquez) phone in the trash weeks ago. He repeats his previous question about her identity. She identifies herself as the individual who helped your friend, Petey. Disagreeing, he reminds her reintegration contributed to Petey’s death. She assures him Petey’s death was not related to the procedure, but Petey’s unwillingness to follow the post-op recommendations. He asks if she is a doctor. She admits to implanting the chip in his brain and having the ability to deactivate it. He tells her he may not want his chip deactivated. Reminding him of his innie, she asks what he may want. Regabhi says she detests the term, innie. She describes Mark’s innie as a “baby” since he has only been severed for about two years. He tells her he and his innie live separate lives. Disagreeing, she says they are one and the same. She asks if he believes his innie does anything differently than him. She says his innie may love or hate it, but he will never know. She accuses him of ignoring his innie when opting to enter Severance. He denies being a bad person. Mr. Doug Graner (Michael Cumpsty) refers to Mark as Mr. Scout. Mark questions if he is supposed to know him. Mr. Graner tells him they are co-workers. He asks who he is conversing with. When he doesn’t respond, he promises to be his friend. Regabhi hits Graner beats Mr. Graner unconscious. Hysterical, Mark demands to know what she is doing. She orders him to grab his arms. He says, “Oh my God, oh fu**, my God” as they pull Mr. Graner’s body to Mark tells her they work together. She informs him Mr. Graner works on the severed floor as the head of security. When he alerts her of his need to vomit, she warns him it would spread his DNA everywhere. Suggesting he take Mr. Graner’s security card to work tomorrow, she says he will know what to do. He asks who will know. She says you. She orders him to get rid of his clothes when he returns home. Stumbling to the exit, he asks, “Wha…” She assures him everything will be all right and they will finish what Petey started. Raising her voice, she orders him to get out. He makes it a short distance away before vomiting on the ground. When he returns home, he partially removes his clothes when he hears a loud noise. He stuffs the bag of clothes in a bathroom cabinet when Alexa (Nikki M. James) enters the room. He claims to be getting water. She asks where he is has been. He pretends to be confused. She tells him about hearing the car. He suggests she may have been dreaming. She says it has been about an hour since he was there. He admits taking a drive. She eventually leaves. Mark stares at Mr. Graner’s security card. He runs into Mrs. Selvig (Patricia Arquette) as the tosses his bag of clothes in the trashcan. She questions why he is disposing of his trash so early in the morning when he generally does it in the afternoon. He claims to be getting an early start for the day. After describing his appearance as looking troubled, she invites him for tea and a talk. He agrees to see how the day goes. She makes a joke about Jake Frost. Milchick (Tramell Tillman) tests the elevator to ensure it is operating correctly. He walks into the toilet stall, where Dylan (Zach Cherry) claimed to have hidden the card from Optics and Design. He finds it easily enough. Milchick visits Optics and Design to give Burt G. (Christopher Walken) the card Dylan took the day before. Burt identifies the card as 7199-G. He assures Milchick Oswald will be thrilled. Milchick proposes they complete the final preparations without further interruptions. Burt is surprised when Milchick doesn’t leave. He looks at Burt’s work and calls it “outstanding” as Felicia (Claudia Robinson) watches from her workstation. Milchick tells Burt he deserves something special for his dedicated work. Burt says he doesn’t want another breakroom trip. He assures him it will not be that, but something different. Milchick is standing in front of Dylan when the elevator door opens. Dylan demands to know what happened last night in his home. Milchick refers to it as the “Overtime Contingency.” He describes it as an off-site safeguard to reach workers remotely. Dylan denies knowing anything about Overtime Contingency. Milchick admits to implementing the method without consulting Cobel. He questions if the young boy was his son. Milchick says he violated his agreement to count to a thousand. Getting in Dylan’s personal space, Milchick suggests he not tell the others what happened. Dylan asks what’s his son’s (Blaze James Gorman) name. He assures him it is better to not know. Milchick promises to find him some special perks. Dylan appears confused. While getting his name tag out of his locker, Mark discovers Mr. Graner’s security card. He peeks around to see if Judd (Mark Kenneth Smaltz) is watching. The elevator door opens to show Milchick, with a smile on his face, waiting for him. Mark questions if he is going to the breakroom. Milchick tells him he will be escorted to his desk. Confused, Mark is asked to lead the way. They run into a set of security doors. Mark asks if they are going to be locked in. Milchick informs him it is a new protocol to ensure they remain at their workstations. He unlocks the doors as Mark questions if Mr. Graner is responsible. Milchick informs the others of Mark’s presence. He ignores Helly (Britt Lower) when she asks, “What is this.” When he asks Dylan if he is okay, he gets a dull response. Milchick delivers Mark’s coffee and exits Macrodata Refinement. He contacts Harmon Cobel (Patricia Arquette) to alert her of Mr. Graner’s absence. Mrs. Selvig demonstrates how to properly position a baby for breastfeeding. She tells Devon (Jen Tullock) to try. She is surprised when her baby feeds without hesitation. Mrs. Selvig tells her about an incident, where a woman attempts to express breastmilk in an airport restroom but fails miserably. Devon tells her about Gabby Arteta (Nora Dale) and her husband, Angela Arteta (Ethan Flower). Gabby didn’t remember her from the birth retreat when she tried to converse with her at the park. Mrs. Selvig calls Gabby a “snoot.” Devon explains how Mark’s employer, Lumon Industries, claims to only sever people at work. She asks what if one partner wanted a baby and the other didn’t. Mrs. Selvig shrugs off her concern, saying she probably wouldn’t remember anyone’s name either immediately after giving birth. Mrs. Selvig asks her why she thinks Mark opted to be severed. Devon says he tried to work at the college after losing his wife. She asks if Mark ever sees his wife. Irv questions why the restroom soap dispenser is not labeled. Dylan assures him everyone knows it is soap. Irv says it is a question for Optics and Design. Mark reminds him of them not being permitted to leave. Irv questions if Burt is being disciplined because they visited Optics and Design. Snarky, Dylan tells Irv he can blame it on himself if Burt was disciplined. Milchick rolls in a cart and asks Helly to approach. He awards her with a 5-minute dance experience for reaching 75 percent refinement of Siena. He snaps her photo while Irv complains she only has 73 percent refinement. She is asked to choose an accessory and genre. Dylan appears on the screen in a sullen state. Everyone joins in on the dance except Dylan. Everyone stops dancing to watch Milchick dancing around Dylan who has a flashback of his son. Coming out of his seat, Dylan attacks Milchick. He has Milchick on the ground while demanding to know his name. Milchick screams for someone to get Dylan off of him. Dylan bites Milchick. Helly pushes the emergency button. As Dylan is being pulled off Milchick, you can see his mouth is full of blood. He will need to take a tetanus shot because Dylan bit through the skin. Milchick threatens to report his behavior to Cobel. Dylan suggests they talk to her at the same time. Irate, he tells them the dance experience is canceled. Mark demands to know what is wrong with him. He tells Mark about the Overtime Contingency on the outside. He explains how Milchick woke him up in his home and he saw his son who was thrilled. Irv reminds him the boy belongs to his outie, not. Helly suggests they utilize Overtime Contingency for their own benefit. Mark asks what can stop them. She says they can find what Lumon utilizes to control them. Irv reminds them they are innies. He says it would be perverse. Mark pulls out Mr. Granger’s security card. Dylan recognizes it. Helly asks where he found it. He assumes it was in his pocket when he arrived at work. Helly questions how Mark’s outie has Mr. Granger’s key card. She says they all need a field trip. Dylan suggests they visit the security office. Helly reminds them of only seeing Mr. Granger and no other security guards. They unlock the new security doors. Irv immediately heads to Optics and Design to check on Burt. Mark asks about the plan. Irv pretends to not be able to hear him clearly. Helly and Mark unlock the security room, where there is a wall of surveillance cameras and large control panels. One panel has controls for the severed workers. A red alert pops up on one of the control panels to alert of Cobel’s descent. Mark rushes over the surveillance camera to see Cobel. Helly assures him Cobel won’t visit the security office. Irv combs his mustache while walking to Optics and Design. Cobel runs into Natalie (Sydney Cole Alexander) who informs her Mr. Graner is dead. Shocked, Cobel says, “What.” Natalie says the Board is deeply concerned and wants to know if she was aware Mr. Granger was missing. Cobel assumes Mr. Granger’s killer is the same person who reintegrated Petey. The Board designs reintegration occurred. Cobel claims to have proof of reintegration. Whispering in Natalie’s ear, Cobel offers to share her evidence in person. The Board agrees to meet Cobel next week at the Eagan Family Gala. Irv sees Optics and Design having a party. Dylan calls there being no one in the security room as “lax.” Mark suggests they think them knowing they are being surveilled is enough. Helly tells them everything in Lumon is “bullsh**.” Helly is studying a page from the Lumon security manual. Deciphering the process, Dylan offers to do it after work. Helly suggests the process will take two people to complete. Dylan promises he can do it. Irv watches as Milchick tells Optics and Design to applaud Burt. A note on the wall reads, “Goodbye, Burt!” When Milchick spots Irv he says the security doors will need to be checked. Milchick flips on the computer screen to show Burt’s outie. He tells Optics and Design that Burt has been working with them for about seven years, all of which he hopes were good. He describes how he feels fulfilled and satisfied after returning home from work. He tells the group this is his last day working with them. He promises to never forget them, even though he doesn’t know them subconsciously. Interrupting, Irv asks if they are going to stand by and let Burt die. Burt demands to know what he is talking about. He questions if they are being punished. Milchick assures Irv he will retire one day like Burt. Irv calls Milchick a “smug, mothercu**er.” He goes on a tirade about never forgetting. Milchick orders him to return to Microdata Refinement. Burt pleads with him to let Irv stay. He agrees to let him stay. While Burt’s retirement song plays, his co-workers approach to say goodbye. Everyone stares at Irv when he returns to Optics and Design. Mark asks if he is okay. Irate, he says, “Let’s burn this place to the ground.” Mark is having a drink while researching Ganz College. He opens the door to find Alexa standing there. She claims to have forgotten her phone. He tells her it was between the wall and bed. She asks if he is all right. Tipsy, he says everything is fine. When she tries to leave, he tries to convince her to stay. She tells him he just isn’t ready. He apologizes for talking about his wife, Gemma before ripping her photo into shreds. She turns and walks out of his apartment when him in toll. He assures her they can talk about Gemma all she wants. As she pulls away, he says Alexa is great. He pieces Gemma’s photo back together. Mark explains how his wife was extraordinary and had a nutmeg allergy. She always sneezed two, not once. He loved everything about Gemma. He stares at the photo as the episode comes to an end. Severance Review A fantastic episode. Now, everyone, even heartbroken Irv, is on board with taking down Lumon. Burt’s leaving is most likely Cobel’s way of keeping them apart. The security doors didn’t work, thanks to Mr. Graner’s security pass. It’s obvious, Dylan remembers Milchick’s visit to his home. So, there are some cracks in Lumon’s system. Since they now have access to Lumon’s severed control panel, what will be their next step? They have something to hold over Milchick’s head since Cobel doesn’t know he implemented the Overtime Contingency technique. Even though the series is quite extensive, there doesn’t seem to be a lot of unnecessary filler. The slow pace probably helps in some sense. With Mr. Graner out of the way, the refiners are only left to deal with Milchick and Cobel. While both are desperate to keep their or Lumon’s secret, it is questionable how far they will push it. Desperation calls for desperate measures, which happens to be in this case. Will they bring another security guard onboard? If so, it is likely he will be much more aggressive than Mr. Graner ever thought about being. The directing, acting, and camerawork are excellent. Can’t wait for the next episode. The episode earns an 8. Get more Severance recaps here. Support Reel Mockery by clicking the link to learn more. Jay Skelton is a fan of all television shows and movies. He tries his best to keep up with the latest foreign television shows and movies. Jay loves skinny dipping in the dark too.
