=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dogra Art Museum, Jammu]
The Museum was inaugurated by the first president of India Dr. Rajendra Prasad on 18 April 1954 at the Gandhi Bhawan, Jammu as the Dogra Art Gallery. It was ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dogra_Art_Museum,_Jammu

[(PDF) Mubarak Mandi Palace and Adaptive Reuse]
... Dogra Art Museum is housed in the complex. It was inaugurated in 1954 by Dr. Rajendra Prasad, the first President of India. The museum houses Pahari Paintings ...
URL: https://www.academia.edu/49284528/Mubarak_Mandi_Palace_and_Adaptive_Reuse

[History : Class VIII]
India The Dogra Art Museum was established in the year 1954. The museum was initially inaugurated as Dogra Art Gallery by Dr Rajendra Prasad, the first ...
URL: https://jkbose.jk.gov.in/pdf/Class8thHistory.pdf

[01 Eng Annual Report 2018-19.pmd]
The first President of India, Dr Rajendra Prasad, inaugurated it on 28 January 1953 at a special function held in the. Parliament House. Maulana Abul Kalam Azad ...
URL: https://sangeetnatak.gov.in/public/uploads/reports/164275839545378.pdf

[A Hindu Sovereignty's Kashmiri Muslims]
by M Rai · 2025 · Cited by 1 — 1. Since 5 August 2019, the Dogra dynasty that had ruled the former princely state of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) has been enjoying a renascence ...
URL: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/23801883.2025.2478106


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dogra Art Museum, Jammu] ---
Dogra Art Museum, Jammu previously known as the Dogra Art Gallery is a museum of Dogra cultural heritage housed in the Pink Hall of the Mubarak Mandi complex, Jammu, India. The main attractions of the museum are the Pahari miniature paintings from Basohli.


--- [(PDF) Mubarak Mandi Palace and Adaptive Reuse] ---
Mubarak Mandi Palace and Adaptive Reuse 2019, Speaking Archaeologically Journal Vol 2, No. 1 Sign up for access to the world's latest research Abstract Mubarak Mandi Palace was the seat of the Dogra Dynasty located in Jammu, J&K during the late nineteenth century. The aim of the paper is to analyse the architectural features of the palace and access the damage done to the palace over time due to social and political negligence. The last section of the paper deals with the suggestions of adaptive reuse of the palace and the various issues which need to be addressed. Related papers Civil Engineering and Architecture, 2021 Balinese royal palaces’ forms illustrate the evolving nature of the kingdom's political control and the strategies used by its rulers to foster the stability of its territory. Although every kingdom has opportunities to demonstrate its authority through architecture and layout, architectural hierarchy is presented from the form of architectural productions, including the traditional gate called kori agung among palaces called puris, especially the architectural form in palaces of Gianyar. This phenomenon has risen to the questions on how far the authority power influences the architectural form. Are there any other elements that influence the architectural form design in Gianyar? Drawing from seventeenth- through twentieth-century photographs, correspondences and collected oral traditions, this paper explores the oral traditions and power relationships among the kingdoms that influence the layout and form of the palace’s architectural production called puri in Gianyar Bali. This paper found that the phrase “memada-mada” has influenced the architecture of palaces in Gianyar, especially the kori agung. The term refers to attempting to avoid performing the same or greater acts as those with a higher status. Keywords Local Oral Tradition, Power Relation, Architectural Form, Puri, Hierarchy. A Case Study of Radha Krishna Temple Muzaffarabad: Art and Architecture, 2023 The capital of Azad Jammu and Kashmir is Muzaffarabad, a city that has had a significant historical impact that continues now. Its rich cultural past reflects its unique heritage and historical influences because it is the capital of Azad Jammu Kashmir and is located on historic traveller routes. The district is home to many historical sites that provide proof of its prior civilizational history. Any civilization's living monuments and architectural remains represent the legacy and historic importance of the area. The buildings and construction techniques are passed down through the architectural monuments and ruins, but they also transmit the practices, traditions, and religious beliefs of the different cultures. With the current study, two important aspects of the Hindu legacy that exists in the city's core are covered in depth. The architectural components come first, followed by the interior paintings and frescoes painted inside the temple. 2019 The establishment of the first National Palace in Malaya in 1957 reflects the transformation in the identity of palace architecture. Traditional palace architecture has developed from society’s traditional way of life, as well as the materials and techniques of local construction. However, in the 1950s, significant changes could be seen in the lifestyle, politics, economics and many other areas in Malaya due to modernisation. The changes in the political system and people’s values have influenced the traditional palace architecture during the 1950s. This research aims to highlight the palace’s architecture transformation as direct consequences of changes in the identity of the state and nation. The research employs interpretive historical methodology, with the first National Palace as the case study. The study concluded that the architecture of the first National Palace reflects an image based on the contemporary values of the local community, which meet the political aspiration of ... al-adab, 2025 The icon of Iraqi heritage buildings is what the eyes of millions of viewers see on television screens, books, artists’ paintings, pages of newspapers and magazines, postcards, stamps, advertising posters and media. Everyone watches it, admiring it’s wonderful, eye-catching design, and no two disagree in choosing it among the heritage buildings that old Basra abounds with. International Journal for Research in Applied Science & Engineering Technology, 2021 Jammu which is identified as 'City of Temples' has rich heritage and blend culture. The native's belief that Jammu got its identity, after its founder Raja Jambulochan, who was considered to be ruled in the 14 th century in the region. According to Tarikh-i-Azmi, Jammu came into existence over 900 century. The state of Durgara (modern name 'Duggar' or 'Dogra') is commonly found in the region. It is considered that Vallapura (modern name Billawar) was the capital of Durgara state, and the details of all the kings who were ruled over there were mentioned in Kalhana's Rajtarangini. Raja Bhim Dev is specially stated in the Delhi chronicles as he was a supporter of Mubarak Shah. Jammu is a land of diverse culture, traditions, different languages, norms, values and ethics. Every religion in Jammu has its great significance, people from different communities participated in each other festivals. Large number of architectural monuments, imperial houses, temples, art galleries, palaces, lakes etc. Basohli is famous for its paintings in the Jammu region. Numerous fairs and festivals were celebrated with great enthusiasm. Jammu is also famous for its cuisines like kachalu, gulgule, sund panjeeri, guchiyyan (dried black morel) patisa, kalari cheese, gheur etc. Specialty of Dogri food are rajma with rice, kulthein di dal, maa da madra, auriya and also various types of pickles are poured like kasrod, girgle, mango with saunf, jimikand, tyaoo seyoo etc. Dogra culture depicts their art of style in a magnificient way. This paper attempts to highlight the rich heritage of architectural monuments of temples and unique culture of the region because very few knows about the identity of Dogras and their Culture. The main objective of writing on this paper was that it attract the readers to visit in the region and learned about the historic culture of Dogra's. BOOK OF ABSTRACTS ICCAUA - 2020, 2020 Malatya has been the crossing and junction point of Anatolia and the Middle East throughout the history. Malatya, one of the oldest settled areas in Anatolia had hosted varied civilization such as; Hittites, Persians, Romans, Byzantines, Seljuks, Ottoman Empire and Republic of Turkey. After the Ottoman State added Malatya to its lands, it continued its zoning activities here. In the westernization period, the Ottoman Empire changed its understanding in the field of zoning as in many other areas and started to apply this understanding in the late period structures. Construction of public buildings with development of cities also continued in the Republic period. In this study, the Late Ottoman period and the early Republican public buildings in Malatya will be examined. These period have been chosen to illustrate the continuation of architectural styles through the change regimes. Within the scope of the study, architectural projects obtained from the literature were evaluated, thesis and articles written about the subject were examined and Ottoman archives were investigated. As a result, it is aimed to contribute to the other researchers by observing the development of the public buildings of Late and Early Republican Period in the province of Malatya Speaking Archaeologically Breaking shchaeclogically Vol. II No. 1 Annual Year: 2019 Research Journal Editor: Shriya Gautam Assistant Editors: Diptarka Datta Simran Kaur Saini Rattan Kaur Rainu Priyanshu Mehta Editorial Board Shriya Gautam (OXON) Founder, Speaking Archaeologically Kshitij Krishna Niwas Shilly Rd. Solan, Himachal Pradesh Diptarka Datta Student Editor, Speaking Archaeologically Research Wing Department of History, St. Stephen’s College, University of Delhi Simran Kaur Saini Student Editor, Speaking Archaeologically Research Wing Department of History, Lady Shri Ram College for Women, University of Delhi Kattan Kaur Rainu Student Editor, Speaking Archaeologically Research Wing Department of Conservation, National Museum Institute, New Delhi Priyanshu Mehta Student Editor, Speaking Archaeologically Research Wing Department of Anthropology, Panjab University Chandigarh Guest Editors: Lynda Irene Pease The University of Reading Archaeology Field School University of Reading United Kingdom Max Zeronian-Dalley Department of Archaeology Bangor University, Wales Contact: | shriya.gautam@arch.oxfordalumni.org | +918894202199 | |---|---| | diptarkadatta09473@gmail.com | +919007066306 | | simrankaursaini05@gmail.com | +918447564470 | | rattanratify@gmail.com | +919312773906 | | priyanshumehta25@gmail.com | +917087420239 | Cover Design: Norbu Wangyal and Kirandeep Kaur The Editors and publishers are not responsible for the opinions and views of the contributors. Editor’s Note The editorial team takes this opportunity to thank all the Panelists and Members of Speaking Archaeologically and their efforts in bringing out the present issue of the Speaking Archaeologically Journal. Through the medium of this journal, we have attempted to create a bridge between Archaeology and Economic Development. It has often been contested by not just lay folk but also by established academicians that in developing countries like India, where stable sources of income are the main concern of the population, archaeology is a wasteful luxury, a hobby instead of being a profession. This journal is a product of critical comments such as these, which were received, evaluated and then explored by various archaeological scholars in the Indian subcontinent. Although formally undefined, the term, “archaeological tourism” or “archaeotourism” is used to define travelling or visitation to archaeological sites with the aim of creating public interest in heritage conservation and archaeology and the concept has attracted academic and professional interest worldwide. In the Indian context, however, the prospects of this remain largely unexplored as do its advantages. This journal, therefore, explores the major challenges before archaeotourism and provides possible remedies for various neglected sites in its first section. The second part of the journal is entirely dedicated to the emerging concept of Cultural Economy and studies how archaeological sites and the architectural techniques of the past can be re-employed to create a better, more holistic tomorrow for the coming generations by conserving and harnessing the technological know-how of the past. The Miscellany Section has a myriad of articles, focusing on Palaeolithic Archaeology, Conservation and frescoes and temple architecture in the Early Medieval times, aiming to highlight the architectural legacy and monuments of religious significance. In the next issue, we shall be focusing on temple architecture on a much broader scale with respect to different archaeological aspects of a specific site. CONTENTS SPEAKING ARCHAEOLOGICALLY JOURNAL January 2019 ARCHAEOTOURISM AND HERITAGE TOURISM Challenges before Archaeotourism in the Himalayan Region Shriya Gautam … 9 Tughlaqabad Fort, Delhi: Prospects for Rescue Archaeology and Heritage Tourism Diptarka Datta. … 17 State of Conservation and Scope of Archaeotourism and Development of Ancient Buddhist Sites of Punjab Sirat Gohar and Trishla Garttan. … 45 Tombs of Jhajjar: Conservation Status, Threats and Future Scope of Heritage Tourism Muskan Sangwan … 64 Mubarak Mandi Palace: Present State of Conservation and Prospects for Adaptive Reuse Abhimanyu Kalsotra … 78 The Walled City of Multan: Potential for Archaeotourism in Restoration of the Site MuhammadJunaid Iqbal and SZohaib Iqbal Zaidi. … 101 ARCHAEOLOGY AND CULTURALECONOMY Integration of Medieval Baolis into Cultural Economy: A Case Study of Delhi Simran Kaur Saini … 112 Culture as Development: A Study on the Sustainable Architectural Features of Traditional Mud Constructions in Rakkar Village of Kangra District Priyanshu Mehta. … 146 MISCELLANY The Shalbhanjika Figurines of Sanghol Stupa: A Classification Rattan Kaur Rainu … 176 The Use of Ancient Indian System of Measurement in the Study of Monuments Divyansh Thakur … 195 Palaeolithic Artefacts from Nandrool, Himachal Pradesh Mayank Singh … 206 Thakurdwara Murals of Nurpur: Addressing Some Identification Problems Gunjan Thapar … 213 Contributors Abhimanyu Kalsotra, Department of History, St. Stephen’s College, University ofDelhi Diptarka Datta, Department of History, St. Stephen’s College, University ofDelhi Divyansh Thakur, Department of Anthropology, Panjab University, Chandigarh Gunjan Thapar, Department of History of Art, Kala Bhavana, Vishvabharti University, Santiniketan Mayank Singh, Department of Anthropology, Panjab University, Chandigarh Muhammad Junaid Iqbal, Taxila Institute of Asian Civilization, Quaid-e-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan Muskan Sangwan, MA International Security and Terrorism, University of Nottingham, England Priyanshu Mehta, Department of Anthropology, Panjab University, Chandigarh Rattan Kaur Rainu, Department of Conservation, National Museum Institute, New Delhi Shriya Gautam, Institute of Archaeology, University of Oxford, England Simran Kaur Saini, Department of History, Lady Shri Ram College for Women, University ofDelhi Sirat Gohar, Department of Archaeology, Quaid-e-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan S. Zohab Iqbal Zaidi, Department of Social Sciences, Iqra University, Islamabad, Pakistan Trishla Garttan, Department of History, MCM DAV College for Women, Panjab University, Chandigarh Mubarak Mandi Palace: Present State of Conservation and Prospects for Adaptive Reuse Abhimanyu Kalsotra Introduction The Mubarak Mandi Palace is located on the banks of the Tawi river, in the present day city of Jammu. The city of Jammu was ruled by the Dogra dynasty from 1822 to 1948 and the rulers of the dynasty undertook various tasks to develop the city(Jerath, 1998). As part of these developmental tasks, the royal seat of the dynasty was constructed on the banks of river Tawi as Mubarak Mandi Palace (Jerath, 1998). The palace is located at a distance of 590 kilometers from the national capital, New Delhi, and 6.2 kilometers from the Jammu Railway Station. Its latitude and longitude are 32∘73′′N and 74∘87′′E respectively. The palace was used as the royal seat of government and even after the independence of India, the building was used by various government departments and currently the Dogra Art Museum is housed in the complex. It was inaugurated in 1954 by Dr. Rajendra Prasad, the first President of India. The museum houses Pahari Paintings of Kangra and Basholi School, arms and armoury of the rulers, clothes, jewellery, and few manuscripts in the Archives Section (See Appendix I to this paper). The aim of this paper is to analyse the various architectural features of the palace and assess the damage done to the palace due to political and social negligence. The last section of the paper deals with measures to restore the palace by Adaptive Reuse of the Figure I. Mubarak Mandi Palace building. Before recommending Adaptive Reuse, the paper will try to explore the various other issues that need attention and draw appropriate conclusions. On the basis of the surveys done and information gathered from the site, databases were created and these have been added at the end of the paper. (See Appendices Ito V). The researcher did not find a lot of textual material about the history and other official records of the palace, as many records were accidentally burnt in the fire outbreaks in the palace. The researcher also could not carry out on-site surveys of the various buildings present at the complex. History of the Palace Before the construction of the palace, the Rajas of Jammu resided in the old palace, which was Khalki Mandi (Charak, 1977). Later on, during the reign of Raja Gaje Singh (1692-1707 CE), he selected the new site of the royal residence of the dynasty overlooking the river Tawi. Raja Gaje Singh could not initiate the work on the site. It was his son, Raja Dhruv Dev (1707-1733 CE), who finally laid down the foundation of the new palace (Charak, 1977). Supposedly, during the reign of Farrukhsiyar (1685-1719 CE), Raja Dhruv Dev started the construction of the new residential palace for himself and his family on the banks of River Tawi (Badehra, 1998). He then shifted the royal households to Mubarak Mandi from Purani/Khalki Mandi and the new palace came to be known as Darbargarh. After him, his son Maharaja Map I: Location of Mubarak Mandi Palace Ranjeet Dev (1733-1781 CE) added new buildings to the Mubarak Mandi Palace (Badehra, 1998). Maharaja Gulab Singh (1791- 1857 CE) is known as the founder of the Royal Dogra dynasty of Jammu (Pannikar, 1930). According to the Gulabnama, he was crowned by Maharaja Ranjeet Singh in 1822, on the bank of Chenab near Jio Potha, Akhnoor. After becoming the ruler of Jammu, a mansion was added to the palace and a new building was made on the north-eastern side (Charak, 1977). According to a chronicle kept at the Archives Section of the Dogra Art Museum, Maharajas of Jammu, written by an unknown writer, Maharaja Ranbir Singh (1857-1885 CE) ruled the city and further led the development work of the palace and added façades to the durbar hall. These façades are baroque in nature and add to the aesthetic of the palace. Maharaja Pratap Singh (1885-1925 CE) ascended the throne after Ranbir Singh and constructed the palace of Maharani Charraki Palace. The famous Pink Hall of the palace was also supposedly added by Maharaja Pratap Singh. According to another chronicle, Raje de Mahal da Itihas (History of King’s Palace), written by an unknown writer, a major fire broke out in the palace in the year 1897 CE, during the reign of Maharaja Pratap Singh. The fire damaged various buildings including the Governor’s Office, Dewani Office, Foreign Office and Green Durbar hall (See Appendix V). Before the coronation ceremony of Maharaja Hari Singh (1925-1948 CE), all the damaged buildings were renovated. Maharaja Hari Singh, after coming to the throne, shifted the royal seat of government from Mubarak Mandi to the Amar Singh Palace, near Manda Forest reserve on a hillock, on the banks of the Tawi (Sooden, 1999). Architecture and Features of the Palace The architecture of the palace is an amalgam of different schools of architecture, such as–Western Baroque, Rajputana style and the Mughal style of architecture (Jerath, 1998). The architectural aspects of the palace can roughly be divided into two sections, structural features and decorative features. The structural features of the palace include domes, arches, jharokha, spandrel, pillars, columns, railings, ceilings, projected balconies and many other forms. Domes are primarily divided into three styles, bulbous or onion styled dome, Rajputana styled dome and hemispherical or saucer domes (Jerath, 1998). They are about 5 feet high and are placed on the sides of the main central domes. Most of the domes in the palace are made in the Rajputana style. They have been used in the main building of the Green Hall and the Army Headquarters building. The dome of the Green Hall Building is the biggest dome of the palace and has an iron rod on top of the dome which used to hold the flag of the Dogra dynasty (Jerath, 1998). The hemispherical, saucer-like domes are used in Gole Ghar Complex. A total of three such domes are made on top of the building, out of which only two survive now. The top of these domes are decorated using inverted lotus leaves or the Padmakosha (Jerath, 1998). Figure II (a). Dome on top of Gole Ghar. Figure II (b). Second dome on Gole Ghar An arcade of arches has been used to decorate the Army Headquarters building and the Green Hall façade. This is a typical feature of Baroque architecture (Jerath, 1998). The Department of Foreign Affairs has a long veranda which is decorated with arches. These arches are further decorated with floral patterns. There are a total of 64 arches combined in the Army Headquarters, Foreign Department and Green Hall (See Appendix 1). Figure III: Arcade of arches Figure IV(a) Jharokha in main façade Figure IV(b) Jharokhas in Toshakhana Bay windows or Jharokhas is another feature of the Rajputana architecture in the palace architecture. The main façade, Durbar Hall and Gole Ghar, all have jharokhas. Originally they were carved with deodar wood and fitted with glass frames. These provided relief from rain and sunlight. The façade of Toshakhana also had jharokhas which were destroyed during the earthquake of 1980 and later 2005 (Jerath, 1998). Columns and pillars were added to support the roof of the palace (Jerath, 1998). These pillars were octagonal in their shape and many a time had floral motifs on them. Inside the Green Hall, pillars are provided at regular intervals to support the roof of the hall. Inside the Army Headquarters building, two pillars, each 43 feet high, can still be found. These support the main façade of the building and open into a waiting room. Railings were provided at various buildings. The original railings of Maharani Charraki’s Palace are still intact, though the railings of Green Hall and Nava Mahal collapsed in a fire breakout. The ceilings of the various rooms are decorated using Plaster of Paris and wood. The Gulabnama talks about how artisans of kashmiri kadhai used to come to design patterns for the ceilings. Wooden ceilings were made so that they could be carved in a certain way to add to the beauty of the room (Charak, 1977). The decorative features of the palace include geometric patterns, stucco, motifs and mosaic patterns. Maharaja Ram Singh’s Palace, which was later converted to the Session’s Court, was inspired by Pietra Dura. Therefore, precious and semi precious stones were used to decorate the walls of this part of the palace. Figure V. Marble hall on first floor of Pink Hall The cornice on top of pillars are decorated with floral motifs, especially lotus, petunia and chinar. The Naya Mahal and Maharani Charraki’s Palace had mosaic patterns on the exterior walls, though these could not survive due to fire outbreaks (Refer Appendix V). According to a local chronicle, Raje de Mahal Da Itihas (History of King’s Palace), the Pink Hall was added by Maharaja Pratap Singh. It derived its name from the colour of the walls. The plaster used to cover the walls was pink and that is how it got its name. The Pink Hall was a multi-storey hall and had stucco all over the walls. Present Condition of the Palace According to the Raje De Mahal Da Itihas, the breakout of fire was a constant phenomenon in the palace. The Imperial Gazetteer, Vol XV, 1908 talks about the fire outbreak in 1898 which damaged the palace to a great extent. The earthquakes of 1980 and 2005 and the fire incident of 1980 also proved to be a major reason for deterioration of the palace. The lack of political will and social negligence furthered the process of deterioration (Appendix V ). 84 / Mubarak Mandi Palace: Present State of Conservation and Prospects … The entire complex has few main buildings which had a designated function. After independence, few of these buildings were continued to be used while others were left at the mercy of nature. Following is a list of the most vulnerable buildings at the complex, which need immediate response. | Building | Damage caused | |---|---| | Gole Ghar | Fire outbreak in 1898, 1980, Earthquake 2005 | | Toshakhana | Fire breakout in 1980 | | Main façade of High Court | Earthquake 2005 | | Maharani Charraki’s Palace | Fire outbreak in 1898, 1980, Earthquake 2005 | | Divisional Commission Office | Earthquake 2005 | | Main gateway | Earthquake 2005 | | Dogra Art Museum, Pink Hall | Earthquake 2005 | | Naya Mahal | Fire breakout in 1980, Earthquake 2005 | | Raja Ram Singh Palace | Fire breakout of 1898,1980 | Table 1.: Buildings and cause of threat The Gole Ghar was an important part of the palace. It is a large four storey construction, largely in brick masonry located towards the southern part of the complex. The building has a large open-to-sky courtyard in the middle with rooms on all sides. A major threat to the building was caused in 1980 due to a fire breakout. This gutted down many parts of the complex. The debris is still not cleared from the site. Excessive vegetation has grown in the courtyard. The earthquake of 2005 further caused more damage. One of the three onion domes here was destroyed in 2005 (See Appendix I). The remaining part of the building has got vertical cracks and the structure needs immediate care. Figure VI. Gole Ghar as seen from the road. Toshakhana and Sheesh Mahal were adjacent buildings to the south-east of the complex. The Sheesh Mahal was completely burned down in the fire of 1898 and the remaining part in 1980. Toshakhana survived but experienced a lot of damage. Figure VII. Arch in Gole Ghar cracked Toshakhana is a three storey structure overlooking river Tawi. On the ground and the first level, there exist exquisite wall paintings and Papier-mâché ceilings. One of the chambers has elaborate mirror work in its wall panels. There are minor collapses at the roof level where a portion of the chajja has collapsed. Vertical cracks have appeared at several places inside the building and there have been damages to wall paintings and the Papier-mâché ceiling. Figure VIII (a). Papier-mâché ceilings. Figure VIII (b). Mirror work inside Toshakhana The Divisional Commissioner’s buildings are twin structures along the edge of the triangular open space. These are largely two storey structures with intricate balconies, and the exterior with intricately carved stone columns and balconies. The building has suffered minor damages after the earthquake of 2005 (Appendix I). Figure IX. Old Divisional Commissioner’s Office High Court and UPSC buildings are twin structures along the edge of the triangular open space facing north and constitute the main façade of the palace. The Army Headquarters were also housed in this structure. It has arched pillars, columns and stucco on pillars. These are again, two storey buildings. The major threat was caused due to the 2005 earthquake. Figure X (a). Maharani Charraki’s Palace. Figure X(b). Exterior of palace Maharani Charraki’s Palace is a three storey structure, adjoining the Toshakhana overlooking the Tawi river. The visitors are not allowed to go to this part of the palace and less information is available about the structure. She was a daughter-in-law of the Dogra dynasty and belonged to the Charak family of Samba (Chattopadhyaya, 2002). The building suffered damage due to the fire of 1980 and earthquake of 2005 . Some vertical cracks have appeared from the top to the bottom of the exterior wall. The Dogra Art Museum is an important part of the palace. It was inaugurated in 1954. It is next to the old High Court Building. The structure is also called as Pink Hall due to the use of pink coloured plaster on the walls. The museum building comprises a large single storey hall in Figure XI: Dogra Art Museum front lined with rooms on all sides. The museum suffered minor damage due to Earthquake of 2005 (See Appendix I). The building is being maintained by the Museum Department and has developed hairline cracks at few places. The main gateway is located adjacent to the Divisional Commissioner’s office and is one of the two gateways surviving in the complex. The gateway is a two storey high structure comprising a large arched opening sandwiched between two structures. Another gateway was at the south-east of the complex and Northeast side. But both collapsed due to the fire of 1898 and 1980. The gateway structure is not in a good condition. Outgrowth of trees and failing masonry at places are some of the major reasons for the current situation of the structure. Recommendations to stop further deterioration The current situation of the site, as discussed above, is very vulnerable. Few of the structures are on the verge of falling down, while few have already fallen. The most important step to stop furthering the deterioration of the palace is to bring it under the ambit of a regulating team which could analyse the exact damage done and take care of individual buildings according to the level of damage. If the records available at the Archives Section of the Museum are carefully looked at, many documents can be found which talk about the restoration work carried out by various rulers of the Dogra dynasty. But after independence, the palace was used just as a government house with rapid development that was unsustainable in nature. Thus, wires were laid out and wall paintings were destroyed. All this led the government to move the offices out of the palace and create the “Mubarak Mandi Complex Heritage Society” to look after the building. While talking to the curator of the Dogra Art Museum, it was brought to notice that since 2005, Jammu Mela started to be organized by the society and the state tourism department on the eve of Baisakhi every year. This had been a huge success to begin with and had brought awareness among the people about the history of the palace. However, the success could not last long and the fair proved to be a failure in the later years. The fiscal management of the complex was also highlighted by the curator. The initial corpus of Rs. 300 crores was set up for development by the Department of Tourism, Jammu and Kashmir in 2005, after creating a Detailed Project Report (DPR). However, till 2012, only Rs. 4.3 crore was sanctioned by the government which was used to restore the Army Headquarters and the main façade of the complex. There exists a problem with the funding and direction of funds for restoration work. The problem which is being faced by Mubarak Mandi Palace is not just related to funding but to several others. One such problem is categorization of the monument according to international standards for better analysis of the monument. In 1904, the International Council of Architects was organised in Madrid. The end result of the meeting was to segregate the monuments into two categories, “Dead Monuments” and “Living Monuments” (Harley, 2001). The International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) and the International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property (ICCROM) are two major organizations for the conservation of monuments and they feel that the “dead monuments” should be preserved immediately so as to stop the process of further destroying the historical and technical aspects attached to these monuments (ICOMOS, 2010). Adaptive Reuse of the Palace Adaptive reuse refers to the process of reusing the original building in some other way, which might or might not serve the original purpose of the building (Cynthia, 1979). The main purpose of adaptive reuse is to bring the building under some use so that in future, the building can be maintained well without an extra fund (Cynthia, 1979). The Pink Hall of the palace is already put under adaptive reuse as the Dogra Art Museum and that is the only part of the palace which is under complete protection. While talking about adaptive reuse for the building, the curator of the Dogra Art Museum, highlighted certain things which need to be considered. These pertain to social, economic and environmental issues. Out of the three, the environmental dimension needs to be prioritised the most. The process of rehabilitation and further development should be sustainable and not reckless. The government proposed a project in 2006, to stop further damage to the Gole Ghar. The material used to fill the cracks was of substandard quality which further weakened the structure and the two walls facing Tawi collapsed during the rainy season. Thus, there is a serious need to plan things in a sustainable way which could bring about positive changes and not further the damage to the building. There are two aspects of adaptive reuse: economic feasibility and maintaining the integrity of the building (Baig, 2011). These two generally lead to a conflict of interest which needs to be tackled. The question of compatibility with the cultural richness of the building is usually ignored. Various monuments are usually converted into Heritage Hotels which are economically viable but they make the monument lose its cultural aspect. What needs to be done is, to be more creative while thinking about adaptive reuse of the building (Baig, 2011). Heritage management and heritage tourism are two different means to achieve the objectives of adaptive reuse. Heritage management is not for profit and requires government funds whereas heritage tourism, it could be completely for profit owned by private companies (McKercher, 2005). Heritage tourism is a specialized version of niche tourism that should have inherent in it the vision of preservation and conservation. This vision is fundamental and necessary to the heritage and its marketing as the tourism products are taken care of; it will make heritage tourism a self sufficient multi disciplinary field, seeking infrastructural development of the space where the heritage asset is present (Veeco,2010). A balance needs to be created between heritage tourism and heritage management. Both can work in coexistence if the goals are clear. If the tourist influx is more due to flexible tourism norms, it could pose a threat to management. Similarly, if the management rules are strict, the tourism section could grow weak. Thus, both the stakeholders need to strike a balance and work together (Borg, 1996). In the case of Mubarak Mandi Palace, heritage tourism can be boosted and the palace can easily be brought within the tourism map by linking it with the Vaishno Devi Yatra, as Jammu is the base camp for the Yatra. A part of the palace could be turned into a heritage hotel and could house shops which sell handicrafts. This could not only help maintain the structure of the Mubarak Mandi palace itself, but also give a boost to the local economy. The Ministry of Tourism’s flagship scheme, Darshan (Refer PIB in Bibliography), can be merged with the palace and linked with the Vaishno Devi Yatra circuit. The Government of Jammu and Kashmir has brought various monuments under adaptive reuse. The Hari Singh Palace, is an example whereby one section of the palace has been converted into a restaurant and a banquet hall and the other section is used as the Hari Singh Museum which houses few rare artefacts of the Dogra dynasty (Refer Appendix 4). The Samba Fort, which is in district Samba, about 40 kilometers from the Jammu City, was a fort used by feudatories of the Dogra rulers. The fort was 90 / Mubarak Mandi Palace: Present State of Conservation and Prospects … converted into a school and currently is being maintained by the Government of Jammu and Kashmir as a higher secondary school. This fort was put to adaptive reuse in the 1970’s to maintain the structure and stop further deterioration of the fort (Refer Appendix 4). Thus, by means of heritage tourism, creation of heritage hotels, and making architectural modifications and renovations, while being mindful of the cultural importance and the integrity of the building itself, adaptive reuse can be used to maintain the building. Immediate course of action Before thinking about the issue of adaptive reuse, it needs to be seen if the structure is itself ready for reuse and this can be ensured by fixing a course of action. Different structures need different solutions to stop any further damage. The Gole Ghar Complex should be prioritized as it is an important asset of the palace. Retrofitting and consolidation of walls should be done immediately. The overgrowth of vegetation should be cut immediately as the growth of trees on the wall can add further moisture to the walls and make them vulnerable to fall down before due time. All the broken arches, columns and pillars need to be retrofitted at the earliest. The two domes should also be tackled separately, otherwise they might suffer damage. Maharani Charraki’s Palace is again in a vulnerable state. The entire structure needs retrofitting. All broken arches, jharokhas should be repaired and retrofitted. Stitching of cracks on the exterior wall is also required. Damaged parapets of the building should be repaired using historic building material and original designs so that substandard material does not deteriorate the structure further. Adaptive reuse should be used for repairing and restoring this building. The Toshakhana again needs to be retrofitted entirely. Original designs and material should only be used in order to fix the falling parapet and jharokhas. Restoration of wall paintings, papier-mâché ceiling and mirror panels is required to be undertaken by experts only. The ceiling should be given extra care while carrying out the restoration work. Adaptive reuse could further stop the damage to the building and can ensure due maintenance in future. The Old High Court building should be retrofitted first and then put under adaptive reuse. The reuse should be done effectively as it has intricate cornices and arches in the façade that needs to be handled carefully. The Divisional Commissioner’s Office and the Dogra Art Museum are slightly in a better condition, though structural retrofitting could be recommended for both, keeping in mind the budget available. Further, adaptive reuse could ensure timely maintenance of the structure. The main gateway is the only surviving gateway of the complex and it should again be maintained properly. The cracks should be repaired using original material. The outgrowth of vegetation and trees should be stopped so that no more cracks develop in the gateway due to excessive growth of trees. Conclusion In this paper, the different architectural features of the Mubarak Mandi Palace and their state of preservation and conservation have been analysed. On the basis of the observations at site, possible ways of conserving the site and the scope of adaptive reuse has been explored. These conservation techniques include such things as retrofitting, rehabilitation and promotion of heritage tourism in and around Mubarak Mandi. With the abrogation of Article 370 in 2019, and expansion of the FDI policy, there are chances of bringing archaeological experts to the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, who could analyse the palace properly and carry out the rehabilitation process. Using the palace as a heritage hotel would give a boost to the economy and will be an extra source of revenue for the government. Along with setting up a heritage hotel, the other structures can also be put to reuse. The Ministry of Tourism’s Darshan Scheme, as already mentioned, launched in 2019, enabled the joint development of various sites all over the country that were linked with the popular pilgrimage sites. The Mubarak Mandi Palace can be joined with the Jammu and Kashmir Circuit for its effective maintenance using this scheme. The Rajasthan State Government has been lauded for its various schemes in order to protect the various forts of the state. The Public Private Partnership (PPP) Model can be used in the same way to maintain the Mubarak Mandi palace as well. Part of the palace can be used as an Art Gallery which could house different seminars and art exhibitions and a cafeteria can also be set up by a private firm which could not only ensure private partnership but also serve the tourists who come there. A Papier-mâché workshop can be opened up in the Toshakhana, which has a few intricate ceilings of Papier-mâché, and this could be run using the PPP model. There is also a need to create awareness among people regarding the palace. The Government should launch schemes like ‘Adopt a Monument’, in which people, the most important stakeholders, can be involved with the development work and maintenance of the site, similar to the “Monument Mitra” scheme of the Archaeological Survey of India, while being mindful of its drawbacks and faults. Bibliography - Ahmad,Y., “The scope and definitions of heritage: from tangible to intangible”, International Journal of Heritage Studies 12(3) (2006), p. 292-300. - Baig, Amita, “Reusing Old Buildings”, Architecture Plus Design 13(1) (1996), p. 105. - Borg, J et al., “Tourism in European Heritage Cities”, Annals of Tourism Research 23 (2) (1996), p. 306-321. - Chattopadhyaya, D.P., History of Science, Philosophy and Culture in Indian Civilization, Vol. III, (New Delhi, 2002). - Dewan Kirpa Ram (author) and Charak, S.D.S., Gulabnama, (1977) - Ganesh Das Wadehra (author) and Charak, S.D.S., and Billoaria, A., Rajdarshani, (Jammu, 1991). - Harvey, D., “Heritage pasts and heritage presents: temporality, meaning and the scope of heritage studies”, International Journal ofHeritage Studies 7(4) (2001), p. 319-338. - Jerath, Ashok, Forts and Palaces of the Western Himalaya (New Delhi, 2002). - Jerath, Ashok, Dogra Legends of Art and Culture, ( New Delhi, 1998). - McKercher,B. et al., “Relationship between tourism and heritage management: evidence from Hong kong”, Tourism Management 26 (4) (2005), p. 539-548. - Nargis, Narsingh Dass. Tehriek-Dogra-Desh - Richards,G., “Production and consumption of European cultural tourism” Annals of Tourism Research 23(2) (1996), p. 261-283. - Sooden, Surjit Singh, Jammu under the reign of Maharaja Hari Singh, (Jammu, 1999). - Vecco, M.(2010) “A definition of cultural heritage: From the tangible to the intangible”, Journal of Cultural Heritage 11 (3) (2010), p. 321-324. - Zaitzevsky, Cynthia, and Bunnel, Gene, “Built to Last: A Handbook on Recycling Old Buildings”, Bulletin of the Association for Preservation Technology (1979) - Policy for the Implementation of the ICOMOS World Heritage Mandate.UK: ICOMOS (2010) - The Imperial Gazetteer of India, Vol. XV, (London, 1908). - Raje de Mahal da Itihas (Available at Dogra Archives Section) - Raje de Bande (Available at Dogra Archives Section) - Maharajas of Jammu (Available at Dogra Archives Section) Unpublished work used: - File No. 115 / B - 18 of 1898, Outbreak of Fire in the Mubarak Mandi, C.S. Old record, State Archives and Repository, Jammu - File No. R - 14 / 1986, 1925, Additions and Alterations done to His Highness New Inner Palaces Darbargarh, Jammu S. 1981, C.S. Old records, State Archives and Repository, Jammu - Khan, Khan Bahadur Munshi Ghulam Ahmed, Administration Report on the Census of Kashmir, Lahore, 1901. - PIB dated 15th July, 2029. Ministry of Tourism: Darshan Scheme 94 / Mubarak Mandi Palace: Present State of Conservation and Prospects … APPENDIX I: Interview with Curator of Dogra Art Museum Name: Mr Tirath (name changed) Address: Panjtirthi, Jammu Age: 51 years old Q. Why is the museum not opened on all the days? A. We try our best to keep it open on all the days, except Monday, which is one day off, but due to lack of adequate staff and lack of tourists, we close it sometimes. Q. What are your expectations from the government, in terms of maintenance of place? A. Government has not been keen to maintain the place. Few funds were given to the palace in 2005, but hardly about Rs. 4 crore were actually spent out of the fund. Q. Gole Ghar is in a state of crumbling down. What is being done to restore it? A. Nothing. For now, at least. The earthquake of 2005 caused a lot of damage to the site and the main dome of the Mahal (palace) fell down. It previously got burnt due to the fire incident of 1980. Q. What about the records regarding the palace? A. Most of the records were well documented until 1925. After the change of the seat to Hari Palace near Manda, many official records were lost in the process of shifting. Most of the records left were kept in the Grey Hall after independence. In 1980, a major fire broke out. At that time, most of the archives got burnt. The High Court also used to function in the main façade and it also faced a lot of damage. Hopefully, the Museum has not got impacted much. Q. What about the earthquake of 2005? A. The earthquake of 2005 shook the entire Pir Panjal Ranges. It was the worst earthquake Jammu ever witnessed. Nava Mahal, which was the most newly constructed building in the complex, built by Maharaja Pratap Singh faced a lot of damage. After independence, it was being used as a storage house by the government. Various cracks also developed in almost all the buildings. These cracks have still not been repaired. Q. Is it right so say that the museum has quite a rich collection of artefacts but fails to attract tourists? A. The basic necessities which a tourist looks for are a drinking point, clean toilets, and a cafeteria, besides open gardens and musical fountains. All these things are lacking here. Other than history enthusiasts, we do not get many visitors. Q. Can we see Toshakhana and Maharani Charraki’s Palace from inside? A. Well, both the structures faced a lot of damage due to the earthquake of 2005. A research team from Delhi came in 2006 to assess the damage and recommended that both the structures should be locked and kept out of bound of the tourists. Q. What do you suggest to stop further damage to the building? A. Whatever development work that the government carries out is of low grade. The walls of Gole Ghar collapsed due to substandard quality of material used. The need of the hour is sustainable development. APPENDIX II: Interview with the caretaker of Gole Ghar Name: Ram Singh Age: 57 years Address: Purani Mandi, Jammu Q. How long have you been serving here? A. I have served here for my entire life. First it was my father, and then me. Q. Is the government bothered about the site? A. You can look around and get the answer. I have served my entire life here and no one has any affection for the site. We have been khidmatgars of the royal family. The government does not pay any heed to even look after us, how will they look after the site. Q. What is the best way to preserve the site, according to you? A. The best way according to me would be to let experts come and do the checking of the site themselves. I remember, in 2005, bade Saab (Officer of High Rank), came from Delhi with a team, and conducted a site report. The government also gave money to develop the site. But, the work stopped soon and now the site is again in ruins. Q. Do you think that adaptive reuse could be a nice option for the palace? (I explained him what it means) A. The structure is on the verge of falling. So, the government should focus on preserving the site. That should be the main concern. It should not be turned into a mall or something. It was Raje da Mahal (King’s Palace), and should remain like it. 96 / Mubarak Mandi Palace: Present State of Conservation and Prospects … Q. Do you think social awareness is lacking in people regarding the site? A. (Laughs first and then says) My grandson knows about the history of the palace because I know about it and that is why he respects the palace. If people are made aware about what exactly this place is, it could garner more inflow or tourists and can generate funds. (He also mentioned the Jammu Mela, organised by the government). APPENDIX III: Site Vulnerability Report Name of the Site: Mubarak Mandi Palace Dateline: Foundation laid between 1707-33 CE Location: 32∘73′′N and 74∘87′′E Organization under which site is protected: Jammu And Kashmir Department of Archives, Archaeology and Museums Distance from New Delhi: 590 km Distance from Jammu Railway Station: 6.2 km Is there a tourist reception centre? Yes, at the Dogra Art Museum Is parking available at the site? Yes, near the museum Is it easily accessible? There are no boards around, but can be reached easily by asking locals or using Google Maps. Are all parts of the palace accessible? Not all the parts are accessible by visitors. Only the museum and the Archives Section can be visited by tourists. Are there basic necessities available at the site? There are washrooms at the museum, but no cafeteria or resting room. Is any excavation going on at the site? No Is there encroachment by construction? Yes, near Gole Ghar. Is there any relevant material available about the site? The archive section has few records but most of them got burnt in the fire breakouts. | Gole Ghar from atop a neighbouring structure | | |---|---| | Gole Ghar facing Tawi | | | Maharani Charraki’s Palace | | | Fountain outside the Museum | 98 / Mubarak Mandi Palace: Present State of Conservation and Prospects … Interior courtyard of palace. APPENDIX IV: Adaptive Reuse of other buildings in Jammu & Kashmir | Site | Image | |---|---| | Back side of Amar Singh Palace. | | | Front side of Amar Singh Palace | | Samba Fort, main entrance to the school | | |---|---| | Samba Fort, exterior walls | Both these places serve as an important example of adaptive reuse. Amar Singh Palace has expanded the ambit of revenue sources but it took a lot of effort. In order to establish a hotel at the palace, a housekeeping staff quarters was constructed, and a place was made for parking. The part of the palace used as the museum was fitted with modern electric appliances and wiring. Similarly, Samba Fort was retrofitted entirely. Benches, tables, chairs, blackboards etc were added to the rooms of royalty. Extra vegetation was removed and the ground was leveled to make a playground. If similar changes are required in Mubarak Mandi Palace, we need to take cues from both these places and go forth with the plan of adaptive reuse. One important thing to keep in mind here is that before reusing the palace in whatever way, there is a need to carry out restoration work as it was done with other two case study examples. APPENDIX V: Files from Archives Section Following are few of the files present at the Department of Archives, Jammu and Kashmir, which give details about the various restoration tasks carried about by the rulers of Dogra Dynasty, major incidents like fire outbreaks, coronation ceremonies, etc. - File No. 22 / P - 12, of 1900, Installation of Maharaja Partap Singh, State Archives and Repository, Jammu - File No. 115 / B - 18 of 1898, Outbreak of Fire in the Mubarak Mandi, C.S. Old record, State Archives and Repository, Jammu - File No. 135 / F - 25 - 1898, Supply of copies of file burnt by the fire in the Mubarak Mandi by Residency, C.S. Old records, State Archives and Repository, Jammu - File No. 44 of 1898, Expenditure incurred in connection with the fire in the Mandi Mubarak, Jammu, C.S. Old records, State Archives and Repository, Jammu. - File No. 9 / F - 202 of 1911, Regarding the existing Toshakhana arrangements, C.S. Old records, State Archives and Repository, Jammu - File No. 136 / J - 18, 1913, His Highness orders regarding the decoration of Green Hall, Jammu with oil painting Portraits of Various Personages, State Archives and Repository, Jammu. - File No. 243 / H - 338 of 1914, Control and Maintenance of Mandi lawn Jammu and its staff, C.S. Old records, State Archives and Repository, Jammu - File No. 220 / R - 23 of 1915, Toshakahana, C.S. Old records; State Archives and Repository, Jammu. - File No. 145 / H- 43 of 1915, Fire, C.S. Old records, State Archives and Repository, Jammu - File No. 147 / P - 89 of 1917, Green Hall decoration, C.S. Old records, State Archives and Repository, Jammu


--- [History : Class VIII] ---
No content


--- [01 Eng Annual Report 2018-19.pmd] ---
6 captures 02 Jul 2022 - 13 Sep 2025 Aug SEP Oct 13 2024 2025 2026 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Common Crawl Web crawl data from Common Crawl. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20250913171155/https://www.sangeetnatak.gov.in/public/uploads/reports/164275839545378.pdf


--- [A Hindu Sovereignty's Kashmiri Muslims] ---
No content
