=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Billy Miller - Awards - IMDb]
Daytime Emmy Awards 2018 Nominee Daytime Emmy Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series General Hospital For playing: "Jason Morgan / Drew" 2015 Nominee Daytime Emmy Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series The Young and the Restless
URL: https://www.imdb.com/name/nm1188294/awards/

[Billy Miller (actor) - Wikipedia]
William John Miller II (September 17, 1979 – September 15, 2023) was an American actor. He was recognized for his work on American soap operas, including his award-winning work as Billy Abbott on The Young and the Restless and his dual portrayals of Jason Morgan and Drew Cain on General Hospital.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Billy_Miller_(actor)

[Actor Billy Miller of 'The Young and the Restless' and ...]
Sep 17, 2023 · Miller then joined “General Hospital” as Jason Morgan/Drew Cain, which earned him another Daytime Emmy nomination in 2018 for outstanding lead actor in a drama series.
URL: https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/actor-billy-miller-young-restless-general-hospital-dies-43-rcna105507

[Billy Miller's Cause of Death At 43 Ruled A Suicide - TODAY]
Dec 12, 2023 · In 2014, Miller joined the cast of “General Hospital” playing Jason Morgan/Drew Cain, which earned him another Daytime Emmy nomination in 2018 for outstanding lead actor in a drama series.
URL: https://www.today.com/health/news/billy-miller-cause-of-death-rcna128593

[Jason Morgan | General Hospital Fanon Wikia]
In 2014, the role of Jason was recast with Emmy award winning actor Billy Miller, who made his first appearance as Jason on October 1, 2014. However, due to ...
URL: https://general-hospital-fanon.fandom.com/wiki/Jason_Morgan


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Billy Miller - Awards - IMDb] ---
Menu All All Watchlist Sign in EN Fully supported English (United States) Partially supported Français (Canada) Français (France) Deutsch (Deutschland) हिंदी (भारत) Italiano (Italia) Português (Brasil) Español (España) Español (México) Use app Back Biography Awards Trivia FAQ IMDbPro All topics Awards Billy Miller Jump to Daytime Emmy Awards (6) Gold Derby Awards (1) Soap Hub Award (1) 3 wins & 5 nominations Daytime Emmy Awards 2018 Nominee Daytime Emmy Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series General Hospital For playing: "Jason Morgan / Drew" 2015 Nominee Daytime Emmy Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series The Young and the Restless For playing: "Billy Abbott". 2014 Winner Daytime Emmy Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series The Young and the Restless For playing: "Billy Abbott". 2013 Winner Daytime Emmy Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series The Young and the Restless For playing "Billy Abbott". 2011 Nominee Daytime Emmy Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series The Young and the Restless 1 more See all Gold Derby Awards 2010 Nominee Gold Derby TV Award Supporting Actor - Daytime Drama The Young and the Restless Soap Hub Award 2020 Nominee 1st Annual Soap Hub Award Favorite General Hospital Actor General Hospital Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content Please see our guide to updating awards Learn more about contributing More from this person More to explore Recently viewed You have no recently viewed pages Back to top


--- [Billy Miller (actor) - Wikipedia] ---
William John Miller II (September 17, 1979 – September 15, 2023) was an American actor.  He was recognized for his work on American soap operas, including his award-winning work as Billy Abbott on The Young and the Restless and his dual portrayals of Jason Morgan and Drew Cain on General Hospital.


--- [Actor Billy Miller of 'The Young and the Restless' and ...] ---
Actor Billy Miller, who delighted soap opera fans for years with his portrayal of Billy Abbott on “The Young and the Restless,” has died. He was 43. Miller’s manager confirmed the news of his death in a statement to TODAY.com, adding that Sept. 17 would have been his 44th birthday. “Emmy Award-Winning Actor Billy Miller died on September 15, 2023, in Austin, Texas. The actor was struggling with manic depression when he died,” the statement reads. A cause of death was not provided. Soap opera fans watched Miller get his start on “All My Children” in 2007 as Richie Novak. He stayed on the series for one year before he became a cast member on “The Young and the Restless.” He won three Daytime Emmys — in 2010, 2013 and 2014 — for his role as the reckless playboy Billy Abbott. He stayed on the CBS soap opera until 2014, starring in 719 episodes. Miller then joined “General Hospital” as Jason Morgan/Drew Cain, which earned him another Daytime Emmy nomination in 2018 for outstanding lead actor in a drama series. He departed the ABC series in 2019 after 592 episodes. In addition to his soap opera career, Miller appeared in the 2014 Oscar-nominated movie “American Sniper” and also had recurring roles on “Suits,” “Ray Donovan” and “Truth Be Told.” His last role was a guest spot on “NCIS” in 2022, according to IMDb. Born in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and raised in Grand Prairie, Texas, Miller graduated from the University of Texas, Austin before relocating to Los Angeles. There, he decided to become an actor and booked multiple commercials before he was cast on “All My Children.” The actor is survived by his mother, Patricia, sister Megan, brother-in-law Ronnie, nephew, Grayson and niece, Charley. The statement also said Miller “leaves behind a great many friends and colleagues who will miss his warm personality, generous spirit, and genuine kindness.” In the wake of his death, Miller’s former soap opera co-stars paid tribute to the actor. “The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills” alum and “The Young and the Restless” star Eileen Davidson shared a photo of her and Miller smiling next to each other as they both posed with their Emmys. “I’m so sad to hear of Billy Miller’s passing,” she wrote on X, formerly known as Twitter. “His infectious charm and warmth left lasting impressions on all of us who were lucky enough to have him in our lives.” The “Days of Our Lives” actor continued, “Im gonna miss that mischievous smile. Love you Billy.” “The Young and the Restless” alum Michael Muhney, who appeared with Miller on the soap opera and “Truth Be Told,” said, “Billy, My fellow Texas brother. You lit up every room with your smile. Your quiet intensity onscreen was second only to your gentle kindness and genuine care in private.” He included a photo of them in an episode of the CBS soap opera in his post. Actor Jason Thompson, who starred on “General Hospital” from 2005 to 2016 before taking over the role of Billy Abbott on “The Young and the Restless” in 2016, honored Miller, as well. He tweeted, “I’m so sorry and saddened to hear about my friend, Billy Miller. Heartbreaking. He was funny, had a great laugh and very talented. Light and love to his family and friends.”


--- [Billy Miller's Cause of Death At 43 Ruled A Suicide - TODAY] ---
This story discusses suicide. If you or someone you know is in crisis, call 988 to reach the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline. You can also call the network, previously known as the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline, at 800-273-8255, text HOME to 741741 or visit SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources for additional resources. Soap star Billy Miller died from a gunshot wound, according to an autopsy report by the Travis County Medical Examiner obtained by NBC News. The “General Hospital” and “Young and the Restless” actor was found dead in a bathtub at his home on Sept. 15 at age 43 with "an apparent gunshot wound of the head," the report said. The manner of death was ruled a suicide. Miller had both alcohol and cocaine in his system at the time of his death, according to the report. He also had a history of bipolar disorder and depression. Miller’s manager confirmed the news of his death in a statement to TODAY.com on Sept. 17, noting that Sept. 17 would have been the actor's 44th birthday. “Emmy Award-Winning Actor Billy Miller died on September 15, 2023, in Austin, Texas. The actor was struggling with manic depression when he died,” the statement reads. A cause of death was not provided. Miller got his start playing Richie Novak on “All My Children” in 2007 before he won the role of reckless Billy Abbott on “The Young and the Restless." He won three Daytime Emmys — in 2010, 2013 and 2014 — during his time on the CBS soap. In 2014, Miller joined the cast of “General Hospital” playing Jason Morgan/Drew Cain, which earned him another Daytime Emmy nomination in 2018 for outstanding lead actor in a drama series. He left the ABC series in 2019 after 592 episodes, per IMDB. Outside of soaps, Miller appeared in the 2014 Oscar-nominated movie “American Sniper” and had recurring roles on the TV dramas “Suits,” “Ray Donovan” and “Truth Be Told.” His last role was a guest spot on “NCIS” in 2022, according to IMDb. Many of Miller's fellow soap stars paid tribute to him on social media after his death. "Selling Sunset" star Chrishell Stause, who played Amanda Dillon on “All My Children” from 2005 until 2011, wrote alongside a photo of her and Miller in her Instagram story, "Still processing this. Too many feelings, but you are gone way too soon and I’m so happy I got to work with you all those years, but also call you a friend." "I hope you are at peace now,” added Stause.


--- [Jason Morgan | General Hospital Fanon Wikia] ---
Jason Morgan is a fictional character on the ABC soap opera, General Hospital and has appeared on its SOAPnet spin-off series, General Hospital: Night Shift. He is the son of the late Dr. Alan Quartermaine and his late mistress Susan Moore-Baldwin, and the adoptive son of Dr. Monica Quartermaine. He was the identical twin of former Navy S.E.A.L. Chief Drew Cain. The role was originated on November 11, 1981 by Quinn Carlson until June 3, 1982. Child actor Bryan Beck stepped into the role on September 8, 1982 to 1986. Actor Carmel Fainbaum played Jason as a baby in 2012. The role was portrayed by Emmy award winning actor Steve Burton, on and off, from 1991-2012. During his time as Jason, Burton was nominated for a Daytime Emmy for Outstanding Younger Actor in 1997, won a Daytime Emmy for Outstanding Supporting Actor in 1998, was nominated for a Daytime Emmy for Outstanding Supporting Actor in 2000, and was nominated for a Daytime Emmy for Outstanding Lead Actor in 2005. Burton moved to The Young and the Restless to play Dylan McAvoy starting in 2013 but departed in 2017 after being replaced by Marcus Toji as Brad Cooper for one episode, Michael Easton as Stephen Clay aka "Caleb Morley" before the character's death, Parry Shen as Brad Cooper recast, Michael Shamus Wiles as Vince Rinaldi before the character's death, two unknown actors as Jake Sullivan and Marcus Turner before they ran off, and William deVry as Julian Jerome before the character's death in 2020. In 2014, the role of Jason was recast with Emmy award winning actor Billy Miller, who made his first appearance as Jason on October 1, 2014. However, due to Burton's return in late 2017, Miller's portrayal of Jason was retconned to make his character Jason's twin, Andrew Cain. Burton returned to General Hospital as Jason Morgan from September 19, 2017 to November 19, 2021. He was then replaced by James Patrick Stuart as Valentin Cassadine filling in the void, Lisa Catara as Raquelle Fraser, Charles Shaughnessy as Victor Cassadine, Max Decker as Johann Bauer since their names start with the letter J and ends with the letter N, Scott Hamm and an unknown actor as armed robbers Eric Watson and Harry DeFranco, Dan Buran as music producer Linc Brown, Max Faugno as Oz Haggerty before the character's death, Avery Kristen Pohl as Esme Prince, an unknown actor as The Hook concealing her face and identity for most of 2022 until New Year's Eve 2023 later revealed to be Heather Webber portrayed by Alley Mills, Cyrus Hobbi as Yuri Tamashevich who came back to Port Charles after the death and will reading of Victor Cassadine via drone strike to the Haunted Star by the WSB giving Yuri a second chance with the help of ICE and SEC, John Vance as butler Edward Giles, Darin Toonder as Dr. Damon Montague before the character's arrest, Diahnna Nicole Baxter as Ellen Garten before the character left town, Charles Mesure as Jack Brennan, and Mark Engelhardt as Roman Hume after Burton went back to Days of our Lives as Harris Michaels beginning with Days of our Lives: Beyond Salem. Burton returned as Jason on March 4, 2024 replacing Charles Shaughnessy as Victor Cassadine, Max Decker as Johann Bauer, Dan Buran as Linc Brown, Darin Toonder as Dr. Damon Montague, Diahnna Nicole Baxter as Ellen Garten, Charles Mesure as Jack Brennan, Mark Engelhardt as Roman Hume, and Avery Kristen Pohl as Esme Prince before Mesure's return as Jack Brennan. He is best known for his relationships with Carly Spencer, Robin Scorpio, Elizabeth Webber, Sam McCall, and Sonny Corinthos. Casting[] On June 28, 2017; Soap Opera Digest broke the news that Steve Burton would be returning to GH after 5 years. It was unknown if he would be portraying Jason, as Billy Miller is now Jason, if he will be portraying someone new or if there will be a Tale of Two Jasons. On July 12, 2017, a GH source stated on Twitter that "Miller (current Jason) is currently in contract negotiations while Burton is signing a long term deal. No word who will play "Real Jason" yet." On August 14, 2017; General Hospital's official Twitter page announced that Burton is back on set. On September 8, 2017, TV Line announced that Burton's first appearance would be on September 19. Burton returned as "Patient 6" on September 19, 2017. On December 1, 2017; it was revealed that Burton is in fact Jason and Miller is portraying his twin. On August 13, 2021; it was revealed that Burton has Covid-19. He took time off to tour with Bradford Anderson and had to cancel the tour so his appearances on GH shouldn't be affected. On November 3, 2021; it was heavily rumored that Burton would be leaving GH due to the Covid vaccine requirement but nothing official has been announced. On November 23, 2021; Burton confirmed that he was let go from GH after weeks of rumors but he also revealed that he'd be open to returning as Jason once the mandate was gone. He last taped in the studio on October 27, 2021 and his last onscreen appearance was on November 19, 2021. On November 30, 2021; it was announced that there are currently no plans to recast Jason Morgan as he was later replaced by James Patrick Stuart as Valentin Cassadine filling in the void, Lisa Catara as Raquelle Fraser, Max Decker as Johann Bauer since their names start with the letter J and ends with the letter N, Scott Hamm and an unknown actor as armed robbers Eric Watson and Harry DeFranco, Dan Buran as music producer Linc Brown, Max Faugno as Oz Haggerty, Avery Kristen Pohl as Esme Prince, an unknown actor as The Hook. On November 7, 2022; rumors began to suggest that Burton could return to GH as Jason, but nothing has been confirmed. On November 9, 2022; however, the rumor turned out to be false as it was revealed that Burton will return to Days of our Lives as Harris Michaels in 2023. On January 4, 2024; Laura Wright, Kelly Monaco and Burton himself confirmed that he's returning to GH as Jason on the General Hospital prime-time special 60 Years of Stars & Storytelling. His first air-date is unknown replacing Charles Shaughnessy as Victor Cassadine, Max Decker as Johann Bauer, Dan Buran as Linc Brown, Darin Toonder as Damon Montague, Diahnna Nicole Baxter as Ellen Garten, Charles Mesure as John Brennan, and Mark Engelhardt as Roman Hume. On February 1, 2024; Burton revealed that although he doesn't know when exactly he'll be back on-screen, he starts filming next week which could mean that he'll return as Jason sometime in March. On February 5, 2024; Burton revealed that he's back in the GH studio. He also confirmed that his first air-date will be on March 4, 2024. On March 1, 2024; a first look of Burton's upcoming return was released and shown in a photo. He returned on March 4, 2024.Later on, America's Most Wanted host John Walsh will be portraying as Jason Morgan 25-30 years later on the spin-off General Hospital Beyond as a guest star. Storylines[] When Jason and A.J. returned from boarding school, Jason who was a successful student and athlete was treated as the family favorite while A.J. was failing and dealing with alcoholism. In September 1992, Jason celebrated his 18th birthday and entered his senior year of high school along with Karen and Jagger. Jason had relationships with Karen Wexler, Brenda Barrett, and Keesha Ward who A.J. also loved. Jason had supported Monica through her health crisis and adored his adoptive sister, Emily Quartermaine. In December 1995, an intoxicated A.J. ran his car into a tree. Jason who had been attempting to stop A.J. from driving was in the passenger seat and hit his head on a large boulder after being ejected from the car. Jason and Sam later discover that Sam's mother is Alexis Davis. Although Sam and Jason wanted to have children, she was shot with a bullet meant for Jason, resulting in her inability to become pregnant again. Due to his guilt and under the influence of her new mother, Jason broke up with Sam in the hospital when she woke up from her coma. After months of hurt and rejection, Sam slept with her mother's husband and Sonny's maternal half-brother Ric Lansing to cause her mother grief but Jason discovered them instead. Jason slept with Elizabeth Spencer, which resulted in a pregnancy. Jason and Sam admit their infidelity to one another and agree to work on their relationship when it is later discovered that Elizabeth is pregnant. Jason admitted to Sam that he has a hard time letting go of things and cited how he was unable to return to Carly and Robin in a romantic sense after their betrayals. But with Sam, for the first time in his life he was willing to try and get past it because he didn't want to risk losing her in that way. Eventually a DNA test is completed and all believe the baby to be Elizabeth and her husband Lucky Spencer's child. After months of breakup, Jason and Sam reunite and attempt to try for their baby. Jason also had to come to terms with Sonny dating his sister, Emily. The relationship drove a wedge between Jason and Sonny, and Jason took over Sonny's business entirely without Sonny's consent. This resulted in a fist fight between the two that a teary-eyed Emily had to break up. Jason's estranged father Alan died in early 2007 during the Metro Court hostage crisis leaving Michael, Morgan, and Kristina scared and traumatized along with Diane Miller because of Jerry Jacks, Lorenzo Alcazar who were in revenge for Ryan Chamberlain before he was revealed to be alive, Mayor Garrett Floyd, District Attorney and Sonny's maternal half-brother Ric Lansing, Commissioner Mac Scorpio, and the S.W.A.T. team just as they were beginning to rebuild their relationship. Jason took his death hard, and privately confided to Monica during the memorial service that he had flashes of good childhood memories of Alan and that he regretted all the years he pushed him away. Elizabeth gives birth to a son, Jacob Martin Spencer in May 2007 three months after the Metro Court hostage crisis. Jason had recently discovered that the baby was his son, but they agreed to let Lucky believe he was the father in order to protect their child from the mob. Jason lies to Sam about the baby's paternity pulling away from her emotionally, but when she discovers their lies she spirals out of control. When Sam watches and says nothing when she sees Jason and Elizabeth's son, Jake, being kidnapped. Jason and Sam's relationship ends which began a 2-year breakup, and Jason recovers his son with the help of Amelia Joffe. One year after their one night stand, Jason and Elizabeth admit their affair into love for real as her marriage dissolves. Jason reveals Jake's paternity to Lucky at the Black and White Ball. On September 19, 2017; a man known as "Patient 6" is seen in Russia with Jason's original face. Patient 6 makes his way back to Port Charles, just as "Jason" wakes up. Patient 6 claims to be Jason, and is eventually believed to be the real Jason by many, including his best friends, Sonny and Carly, and his wife Sam whom he saved from one of the gunmen who had ambushed the Metro Court that night who were in revenge for Faison leaving Art Therapist Franco Baldwin unharmed along with Dante's partner Nathan West as the gunmen were later arrested, lawyered up, pleaded guilty, and were sent to prison by judge Natalie Rawles offscreen. It also left Mayor Janice Lomax outraged who later appeared at Charlie's Pub for the Charles Street redevelopment project on December 20 before her resignation. He also learns that Jason's thought to be deceased son Jake is alive because Jason lost five years of his life to Julian Jerome and the Military Gambling Ring. He also learns that Jason's thought to be deceased son Jake is alive. Franco who was left unharmed at that time also thought to be killed and proven to not be Jason's twin brother, reveals that Jason did have a twin brother named Andrew, but they do not know where he is at the same time Nelle Benson met with the editor of the magazine Steven Culp to talk about "Ask Man Landers". It's revealed that Andre Maddox used Jason and Andrew as part of a memory-mapping experiment, putting Jason's memories into Andrew, making them both believe they're Jason. Andre reveals that Patient 6 is Jason, and the "other Jason" is his twin brother Drew Cain. Jason decides to find Faison who the imprisoned gunmen were in revenge for in hopes of figuring out why he and Drew were abducted and switched. Meanwhile, Jason and Sam get closer over time and thanks to Carly, they are left stranded on the Haunted Star on New Year's Eve and ultimately kiss at midnight. In Mid-January 2018, he and Sam file for divorce, as she decides to stay with Drew after Mayor Janice Lomax's resignation as Mayor and Jim Harvey of Niagara Equities coming into Port Charles in the beginning of the year. On January 22, Jason was fighting for Sam in order to stop the wedding, but it was too late when she married Drew. On January 26, Jason found Faison who was in revenge of his imprisoned henchmen who are serving a life sentence at Pentonville holding Carly hostage at the Metro Court and shot him in the chest to save her life because Sonny was told that he was not allowed to engage on Faison because Sonny would be obstructing justice. Faison died five days later from cardiac arrest and so Jason had avenged himself. Faison's son Nathan West whom Faison had shot moments before he attacked Carly, also died that night. In March 2018 during an earthquake that started shaking, Jason and Sam hide safely one month after the deaths of Nathan and Faison respectively. It gained Jim Harvey as Jason's new enemy who was in revenge for the late Faison after Jim colluded with Faison while Jim was attempting to follow former Mayor Lomax's idea. In May, Jason found out that the man who was responsible for his disappearance was Faison's son Peter August, whom Jason wanted to kill for taking away five years of his life to his ex-father-in-law Julian Jerome and the Military Gambling Ring because Peter was also friends with the editor of The Invader named Steven Culp months before. Jason saved Anna from Peter and tried to kill him, but Anna stopped him since Peter was her son as well and therefore Jason allowed him to get arrested. However, it was later revealed that Faison forced Peter to hold Jason captive and thus he was eventually released. In July, after Carly was wrongly sent to Ferncliff by Nelle Benson working in collusion with Peter in revenge for the imprisoned Heather Webber right where Heather was at before being replaced by Nelle, Jason worked with Franco to get her out and she was eventually was freed despite both of them temporarily spending time in jail. In early-mid October 2018, finally after their divorce nearly 9 months ago, Jason & Sam finally lovers again this time for real, by kissing in romance. On January 22, 2019; Jason fell into the catacombs after saving Josslyn and Oscar, but he broke out and swam his way through cold water before reuniting with Sam. The two later made love that night for the first time in years. However, after Kristina joined a cult led by Hank Archer (aka Shiloh) who served in the military with Drew, Jason and Sam teamed up to flush out the cult because Shiloh bore a striking resemblance to the late Nathan West. Sam decided to get closer to Shiloh to do so even though Jason did not like the idea. On February 22; when Shiloh took Sam to the Tower and wanted to spend the night with her, Jason attempted to confront him, but he became blind and fell down the stairs. He was cured at the hospital and there, Carly told him that she was pregnant. On March 4, Jason discovered Carly to be missing in the GH parking lot after she was supposed to confront Kevin Collins about the patient who was next door to her at Ferncliff. Jason then found out from everyone in GH that Ferncliff patient was Kevin's twin Ryan Chamberlain who had locked the real Kevin up for months in the facility, impersonated him, terrorized the town as a serial killer, and has now kidnapped Carly because Ryan wanted to watch Robin like a hawk in teaming up with Jerry and Faison years ago. After finding out from Kim that 'Kevin' and Ava went to Niagara Falls to get married, Jason teamed up with Laura and went to Niagara Falls. After failing to find Ryan and Ava at their motel, Jason saw them walking on a bridge leading to Canada and then shot Ryan in the back of the shoulder before telling Ava to move out of the way. Laura arrives moments later and tries to tell Ava that her fiancee is not Kevin but Ryan and that the real Kevin is back at GH. Jason fires a warning shot and threatens to finish Ryan, who tells him that he will never know what happened to Carly if he kills him now because Ryan is being like Faison and Jerry combined much like Jason did with Faison a year earlier. Meanwhile, Ava continues to believe that 'Kevin' is having another nervous breakdown and is told by Ryan to not believe Laura since she wants them to be separated. As police approach their location, Ryan grabs Ava, profoundly declares his love for her, and throws her and himself off the bridge. Jason is able to catch Ava while Ryan falls into the river below to his presumed death. Laura eventually tells Ava the whole truth, leaving her emotionally destroyed, and Jason rescues Carly. On November 6, Jason learned from Sam that her cellmate was Cassandra Pierce and she was asking Sam about her connection to the Cassadines. Eventually, Jason visited Valentin Cassadine and asked about Cassandra but he didn't give him much. Afterward, Jason rescued his daughter Charlotte from Cassandra's henchman and he helped Anna fight off the goons one of which was Epiphany's ex-husband and Stan's father as she fought with Cassandra leaving Valentin's son and Charlotte's brother Donald unharmed as well as Emma Drake who is remaining in Berkeley. Then Cassandra's henchmen Stephen Ordway and Thomas Johnson were later arrested and sent to prison at Pentonville Penitentiary after Cassandra's death. On January 8, 2020; Jason and Sam went to Robert and asked for his help in getting a new parole officer. On February 28, Jason works with Curtis Ashford and Marcus Taggert to save Trina Robinson and Cameron Webber from Franco Walker and Cyrus Renault's men and women in which Sam's parole officer Dolores Maloney denies any involvement working with Cyrus because Cyrus bores an uncanny resemblance to the late Cesar Faison. On August 11, Sam get's a new parole officer named Owen Anderson who is much friendlier than Dolores after eight months because of Cyrus Renault as Owen shares his disdain of Cyrus. Jason and Sam are back together before Cyrus' first Nurses' Ball after Brad's last Nurses' Ball one year ago before Brad went to prison. One month later, Britt Westbourne was appointed Chief of Staff at General Hospital. Jason and Britt were on the run and in hiding from the police and Cyrus. They grew closer together, especially when Britt found out she had the marker for Huntington's disease, which she inherited from her late father Faison who Cyrus bore and uncanny resemblance to. On May 28, Jason returned to Port Charles to help save Spinelli from Cyrus, whom he shot in the shoulder before getting arrested again because of Yuri Tamashevich being friends with Jerome Grisham as well as assuming the identities of Julian Jerome, Drew Cain, and even his own name. In the end, Gladys rescinded her false statement and Cyrus was arrested after taking Portia Robinson and her daughter Trina hostage in their home because Dante was unavailable to stop him before he was captured. Jason was exonerated for Franco's murder, while Franco's real killer Peter was presumed dead after an altercation with Hamilton Finn because Yuri assumed the identity of the real Franco Baldwin because Yuri came from Belarus. After getting released, the Five Families wanted Jason to eliminate Carly to ensure that he was the true head of the Corinthos organization. He refused and they decided to get married to show the Five Families they were a united front, which devastated Britt. Jason and Carly got married on September 17. Cyrus (in prison) tried to have mob bosses Vincent Novak and Charles Buscema blow up Jason and Carly on their wedding day, but fellow mob boss Selina Wu arranged for the bomb to blow them up instead. After the wedding, Jason and Carly tried to make love, but Sonny arrived, having returned from being presumed dead and living an amnesic life in Nixon Falls. While a conditioned Drew was reporting for duty, Peter sent one of his guards to kill Jason, but Jason killed the guard and confronted Peter. Peter ordered Drew to kill Jason, while he left with Britt and Liesl to the underground tunnels. Jason was able to uncondition Drew during their fight and they went to the tunnels, where Jason shot Peter in the arm when he tried to condition Drew again and forced him to flee. Before the twins, Britt, and Liesl could leave, Peter reappeared and opened fire on them, causing Jason to return fire. The gunfire caused the unstable tunnels to collapse right on Jason and near the others who were subsequently knocked out. Drew, Britt, and Liesl were rescued while Peter was arrested. Jason was never found and was presumed dead once more and later replaced by Victor's henchman and Jason's evil German counterpart and Esme's bodyguard/male counterpart Johann Bauer since their names start with the letter J and ends with the letter N. On March 15, 2022; Monica announced to the family that she would be having Jason legally declared dead and replaced by Johann Bauer. Since his body was never found there is a chance he’s still alive and could resurface again one day. Jason was also replaced by armed robbers Eric Watson and Harry DeFranco, music producer Linc Brown because all of Jason's possessions went to Valentin except his motorcycle which the motorcycle is now Linc's motorcycle, the female serial killer known as The Hook concealing her face and identity for most of the year until they were later revealed to be Heather Webber on New Year's Eve 2023, later Yuri Tamashevich via second chance; and an unnamed sniper concealing his face, identity, and physical appearance later revealed to be working with Jack Brennan, Ellen Garten; and Stone who is concealing his face, identity, and physical appearance just like The Hook killer. On March 4, 2024; Jason was revealed to be alive having survived the tunnel collapse on Cassadine Island after being missed in action because of Victor Cassadine, his evil German counterpart and the late Esme's bodyguard/male counterpart Johann Bauer since their names start with the letter J and ends with the letter N, two armed robbers Eric Watson and Harry DeFranco because Jason denied any involvement of complicity of armed robbery at Charlie's Pub, Heather Webber aka "The Hook" best known to conceal her face and identity for most of 2022 until New Years Eve 2023, Linc Brown a year after his arrest after the death and memorial service of Epiphany Johnson who he missed because of him being missing in action because of Jack Brennan after Jack was imprisoned at Pentonville Penitentiary. He was revealed to be back in Port Charles, appearing to be working with an operative named Hamish Hampton trying to take out mob bosses under Stone's orders. Jason watched as Hamish aimed his sniper at Sonny Corinthos. As Hamish got ready to take a shot, Jason nudged his arm and made him miss before telling him let's go. Later, they were on the pier and when Detective Dante Falconeri found them, Hamish hid as Jason put his hands up and turned around, revealing himself to be alive, shocking Dante. Hamish then came out and shot Dante, who was wearing a vest. Hamish addressed Jason as "Jacobs" and said they should leave, but Jason refused to leave and monitored Dante. As Hamish went to shoot Dante again, Jason fatally shot him in Dante's defense and told Dante to keep breathing. Jason took Dante's vest off of him and propped him up while keeping pressure on his wounds, urging him not to talk. After Jason called 911, the paramedics soon came and Jason told Dante he was going to make it before he disappeared. Later, Jason realized that Hamish had shot him before when he saw that he himself was bleeding out as he's not ready to reclaims his possessions from Valentin and Linc yet. On March 6, Damian Spinelli and Ava Jerome worked to look at any footage of the men who tried to take out Sonny. After Spinelli successfully pulled up the footage, he and Ava were shocked to see Jason. Later, Ava went to reveal the news to Sonny that Jason's alive and appears to be gunning for him, but Sonny refused to believe it because Jason hasn't shown his face and would never try to take him down since they've been friends for years. Ava tried to make Sonny believe it by showing him the tablet of the footage and reminded him that he's being targeted by "Stone", which Ava says stands for "Stonecold". Sonny still refused to believe that Jason could be his enemy. On March 8, Carly Spencer returned home but heard her name from a very familiar voice. She looked to see who it was and was stunned to see it was Jason, who said it's him so she quickly ran into his arms and cried "You came back". After Carly asked where Jason's been, Jason apologized for taking so long and Carly realized he's been shot. Carly decided to get a first aid kit and made him promise not to leave, which he did. Once she came back, she cleaned up his bullet wound and patched him up before asking him how he could be there. Carly wished that she could call her mom Bobbie Spencer and Jason asked her not to call Bobbie which led to Carly revealing that she can't because Bobbie died. When FBI agent John Cates and PCPD Commissioner Anna Devane knocked on Carly's door, Jason hides upstairs as she opened the door. They revealed to her that Jason is alive and asked to search her house, which she refused to let them do but John said that them asking was a courtesy because they have a warrant and don't need her permission. As they searched the house, Jason disappeared so Anna and John quickly deduced that Jason would go to the footbridge he would normally visit. As Jason made it to the footbridge, he was spotted by John and Anna, who tried to reason with him and convince him to turn himself in so they could sort everything out, but Jason jumped off the footbridge. Later, Jason stumbled his way to the Quartermaine Boathouse before he collapsed. On March 12 after waking up; Jason was found by his son Danny who was initially upset to see his father but when Jason convinced him that he didn't shoot Dante, Danny agreed to help him. Danny grabbed a first aid kit for Jason and came back to the boathouse while bringing Michael Corinthos and Michael's wife, Willow. They were shocked to see Jason, who asked Danny not to tell his mother Sam McCall about seeing him and he didn't want Danny to get anymore involved in his legal troubles or having Yuri Tamashevich finding out. As Michael shared a reunion with Jason, he and Willow worked to patch Jason up and give him fresh clothes. Michael thought that Jason should burn his current clothes but Jason said he needed them so no one would think he got help from anyone, so Michael had Willow wash his clothes. On March 14; when Michael noticed that Jason's left arm was covered with tattoos, he wondered what happened to him while he was gone. Jason told Michael that he was not killed in the tunnel collapse - his path to Britt Westbourne, Liesl Obrecht, and his twin brother Drew Cain was blocked so he found another way out to the beach only to be captured by two men with guns and was taken to a room with no windows. Jason also revealed that he's been working as a private military contractor under orders of his boss who has leverage over him and his job is not finished, plus he explained what happened when he first came back to Port Charles. Michael rightfully guessed that Jason wasn't going to tell him what leverage his boss had over him and asked if he would have come back to Port Charles if he didn't have to work a mission in town. Jason admitted he wasn't sure. Later, Jason remembered being held in Quantico where he was greeted by FBI agent John Cates, who told Jason that they have irrefutable proof of RICO violations that could send him to prison for 20 years, revealing that Jason is actually working for John. On March 22 after talking to his attorney Ric Lansing; Jason decided to turn himself in so he could clear himself as a suspect in shooting Dante, so he was arrested by Detective Harrison Chase. On March 25 after Jason was taken into the interrogation room; Chase introduced Jason to John, unaware that they already know each other and reminded him that he doesn't have to speak to him without his lawyer. Jason said he didn't need his attorney, surprising Chase since Ric was with him when he turned himself in. After John told Chase he would take it from there, Chase left and John privately confronted Jason about why he turned himself in. Jason said that he didn't shoot Dante but John said the evidence says otherwise. Jason explained to John what happened at the warehouse and how they were making their way to the extraction team on Pier 50 when Dante caught up with them. Jason stopped but Hamish didn't so he slowly turned around and revealed himself before Hamish shot him. On March 26, Anna visited Jason and asked if he shot Dante. Jason said no and she believed him, plus she knew that John had visited him privately. Jason tried to use his right to counsel, but when Anna mentioned that he and John couldn't have been talking about the old days in high school, Jason said he didn't remember his time in high school. Anna told Jason about Jagger and Jason knew the name but didn't know John was Jagger. After Anna revealed that John was Stone Cates' older brother, Jason suddenly slammed his hands on the table in anger and revealed that he's been working for John since November 2021. Jason told Anna that after the tunnel collapse on Cassadine Island, his path to Britt, Liesl and Drew was blocked so he found another way out to the beach, only to be taken by two FBI agents to Quantico, where John held him in a windowless room. His revelation was interrupted when Anna revealed that Britt was dead by The Hook killer, making Jason emotional and acknowledged that she had a nice smile. Jason then continued explaining where he's been, saying that John has blackmailed him into going deep undercover to infiltrate Pikeman, an organization that Anna was familiar with and since the FBI couldn't send in an official agent due to Pikeman's deep ties with the WSB, they sent Jason in where he signed up as a private military contractor. Jason explained that Pikeman would send different sniper teams each time they tried to take out Sonny and he was only sent during the third attempt with Hamish, where he sabotaged his shot and they were trying to make their way to the extraction team on Pier 50, but Dante showed up. Jason had revealed himself but Hamish shot Dante with armor-piercing bullets, so Jason had killed Hamish and called 911 for Dante before taking off. Later afterwards, John Cates gained Madison Yeung as a new friend since she was hired as an assistant for Nina Reeves at Crimson Magazine as the perfect replacement for the hospitalized Lulu Spencer, Maxie Jones who is now at Deception Cosmetics, and the late Nelle Benson. On September 3, Jason found Isaiah Gannon who was hit by a car driving by Linda Boyle who was trying to kill Ava under John Cates' orders.Crimes Committed[] - Manhandled Ava Jerome [Sep 19, 2017; as Patient 6] - Attacked the doctors in Russia during an escape attempt [Sep 25, 2017; as Patient 6] - Tied Huxley Lynch to a chair [revealed Oct 6-9, 2017; as Patient 6] - Held Sonny Corinthos at gunpoint [Oct 24, 2017; as Patient 6] - Shot Faison's henchman Klein and Faison's gunman Russ Delvin who tried to shoot him [Oct 27, 2017; as Patient 6] - Attacked Franco Baldwin who he thinks that Franco ordered the crime at the Metro Court, but he was revealed to be unharmed along with Nathan West after the crime at the Metro Court by Faison's men that left Mayor Janice Lomax outraged [Nov 2, 2017; arrested; released on bail on Nov 8, 2017; charges dropped by Franco on Nov 30, 2017; as Patient 6] - Shot and killed Anderson, Greg, Klein, and Delvin's boss Cesar Faison in defense of Carly because Sonny was told that he was not allowed to engage on Faison because Sonny would be obstructing justice after Mayor Lomax's resignation leaving the city unprotected without a mayor [Jan 26, 2018; Faison died from cardiac arrest on Jan 31, 2018 and later resulted in an earthquake over a month later in Mar 2-5, 2018] - Broke Carly out of Ferncliff with the help of Franco [Jul 30, 2018; arrested and released] - Forced Mary Pat Ingles and her associate into a room at gunpoint [Jul 30, 2018; arrested and released] - Held two doctors at gunpoint and tied them to the ground in defense of Carly [Jul 30, 2018; arrested and released] - Fugitive; hunted by the PCPD [Jul 30-Aug 7, 2018; arrested and released] - Shot serial killer Ryan Chamberlain in the back of the shoulder while he was trying to flee to Canada and threatened to kill him because Ryan is being like the late Cesar Faison and Jerry Jacks combined much like he shot Faison a year earlier [Mar 8, 2019] - Knocked out a Dawn of Day cult member [May 23, 2019] - Knocked out Officer Billy Pryce in self-defense because Billy is also friends with Daisy Kwan [Jun 27, 2019] - Locked Billy and Rick Evans in a jail cell and escaped from custody (along with Michael) [Jun 27, 2019] - Fugitive; hunted by the Beechers Corners police and PCPD [Jun 27-Jul 11, 2019; Jason surrendered himself and was cleared] - Got into a fight with two of Cassandra Pierce's henchmen Stephen Ordway and Epiphany's ex-husband and Stan's father Thomas Johnson at two separate times Charlotte Cassadine from Cassandra [Nov 12, 2019] - Engaged in a gun battle with Franco Walker and Cyrus Renault's men and women to save Trina Robinson and Cameron Webber in which Dolores Maloney denies any involvement [Feb 28, 2020] - Working deep undercover for a mysterious organization under the alias "Alan Jacobs" to take out mob bosses in order to keep Sonny Corinthos safe [revealed Mar 4, 2024-present after being replaced by Valentin Cassadine, Raquelle Fraser, Victor Cassadine, Johann Bauer since their names start with the letter J and ends with the letter N, armed robbers Eric Watson and Harry DeFranco, music producer Linc Brown, Oz Haggerty, Esme Prince, The Hook later revealed to be Heather Webber, Yuri Tamashevich, Dr. Damon Montague, Warden Ellen Garten, Jack Brennan, and Roman Hume] - Shot and killed an operative named Hamish Hampton in defense of Det. Dante Falconeri who had been shot by Hamish Hampton despite wearing a vest [Mar 4, 2024; as Jacobs] - Fugitive; hunted by the FBI and the PCPD [Mar 4-22, 2024; arrested; released on bail on Mar 28, 2024] - Hid out at Carly Spencer's house [Mar 8-11, 2024; arrested on Mar 22, 2024; released on bail on Mar 28, 2024] - Jumped off the footbridge to escape from John Cates and Commissioner Anna Devane [Mar 11, 2024; as Jacobs; arrested on Mar 22, 2024; released on bail on Mar 28, 2024] - Hid out at the Quartermaine Boathouse while being aided by his nephew Michael Corinthos and Michael's wife Willow Corinthos before Yuri found out since Yuri is a fan of The Invader [Mar 11-22, 2024; arrested; released on bail on Mar 28, 2024] - Engaged in a gun battle [May 31, 2024] - Held Linda Boyle at gunpoint in defense of Ava after the hit and run occurred by Linda herself after hitting Dr. Isaiah Gannon [Sep 3, 2024] - Evidence tampering; destroyed evidence of John Cates' murder by melting the firearm Sonny used to kill him on his (Sonny's) orders [Sep 9, 2024] - Helped Anna temporarily steal Jenz Sidwell's phone by "accidentally" knocking over a drink on him so that he (Sidwell) would remove the jacket in which the phone was contained [Sep 2024] - Fought with two mercenary guards as he and Anna were being taken away in revenge for the late John Cates [Sep 27, 2024] Health and Vitals[] - Got into a fight with two of Cassandra Pierce's henchmen Stephen Ordway and Epiphany's ex-husband and Stan's father Thomas Johnson at two separate times while rescuing Charlotte Cassadine from Cassandra [Nov 12, 2019] - Shot at multiple times by one of Cyrus Renault's men and women in revenge for the late Cesar Faison, the late Hank Archer aka Shiloh, and the late Cassandra Pierce [Jan 30, 2020] - Shot at multiple times by another one of Cyrus' men and women [Feb 4, 2020] - Engaged in a gun battle with Franco Walker and Cyrus Renault's men and women to save Trina Robinson and Cameron Webber in which Dolores Maloney denies any involvement [Feb 28, 2020] - Assaulted and threatened by Scott Baldwin [Mar 10, 2021] - Framed by Peter August and Cyrus for killing Franco Baldwin in revenge for the late Cesar Faison, the late Hank Archer aka "Shiloh", the late Cassandra Pierce, Peter's female counterpart the late Nelle Benson, and Sam's former parole officer Dolores Maloney [Mar 17-Jun 1, 2021; arrested on Mar 17, 2021 and then replaced by Valentin Cassadine who later uses his name as his alias, then Yuri Tamashevich returned the favor; exonerated on Jun 4, 2021] - Falsely accused of disposing the murder weapon used to kill Franco by Gladys Corbin, who pretended to be a witness under Cyrus' orders in revenge for the late Cesar Faison, the late Hank Archer aka "Shiloh", the late Cassandra Pierce, the late Nelle Benson, and Sam's former parole officer Dolores Maloney [Mar 17, 2021; revealed on Mar 18, 2021; arrested and then replaced by Valentin Cassadine who later uses his name as his alias, then Yuri Tamashevich returned the favor; later exonerated as Jason keeps his name while Yuri had assumed the name Drew Cain while the real Drew Cain is held in a foreign prison alive and well] - Shot at by Carl Pine, one of Cyrus' men; in revenge for the late Cesar Faison, the late Hank Archer aka "Shiloh", the late Cassandra Pierce, the late Nelle Benson, and Sam's former parole officer Dolores Maloney while escaping with Dr. Britt Westbourne [May 3, 2021; saved by Brick] - Engaged in a fight with Drew who was programmed by Peter to kill him in revenge for his late father Faison and the late Nelle Benson [Nov 18, 2021] - Presumed dead after being caught in a tunnel collapse which was caused by his shootout with Peter [Nov 19, 2021; Jason was legally declared dead on Mar 15, 2022 and later replaced by Valentin Cassadine, Raquelle Fraser, Victor Cassadine, Johann Bauer since their names start with the letter J and ends with the letter N, armed robbers Eric Watson and Harry DeFranco, music producer Linc Brown, Oz Haggerty, Esme Prince, The Hook later revealed to be Heather Webber, Yuri Tamashevich, Dr. Damon Montague, Warden Ellen Garten, Jack Brennan, and Roman Hume; Jason was revealed to be alive on Mar 4, 2024] - Captured by two F.B.I. agents under orders of Special Agent John Cates and taken to Quantico to make Jason missing in action and replaced by new enemies like Johann Bauer since their names start with the letter J and ends with the letter N, armed robbers Eric Watson and Harry DeFranco, music producer Linc Brown, and a serial killer who goes by "The Hook" late revealed to be Heather Webber, and Dr. Damon Montague in Port Charles [Nov 19, 2021; revealed on Mar 14, 2024] - Blackmailed by John into becoming an F.B.I. informant or else Carly would be sent to prison for 20 years on charges of RICO violations and criminal conspiracy just like the late Kyle Sloane blackmailing Drew Cain to work undercover with the Jerome mob family [Nov 19, 2021-Jul 25, 2024; Jason was revealed to be working for John on Mar 14, 2024; Jason was revealed to be protecting Carly on Apr 2, 2024] - Blackmailed by John into going deep undercover to infiltrate the Pikeman Security Group as a private military contractor under the alias "Alan Jacobs" and take them down [Nov 19, 2021-Mar 4, 2024; Jason was revealed to be an operative on Mar 4, 2024; Jason's cover was revealed to be blown on Mar 25, 2024; Jason was revealed to be infiltrating Pikeman on Mar 26, 2024; as Alan Jacobs] - Shot in the side by an operative named Hamish Hampton after refusing to leave Det. Dante Falconeri's side and is bleeding out as a result [Mar 4, 2024; bleeding revealed on Mar 5, 2024; as Alan Jacobs] - Falsely accused of shooting Dante [Mar 6-29, 2024; as Alan Jacobs; arrested on Mar 22, 2024; released on bail on Mar 28, 2024; charges dropped due to Dante regaining consciousness and clearing his name] - Collapsed and lost consciousness in the Quartermaine boathouse after jumping off the footbridge and possibly due to his gunshot wound [Mar 11-12, 2024; as Alan Jacobs] - Had his left arm tattooed (Steve Burton, Jason's portrayer got his left arm tattooed in real life) [revealed on Mar 14, 2024; as Alan Jacobs] - Blackmailed by FBI Special Agent John Cates into using himself as bait to help take down Pikeman since his cover was blown [Apr 2-Jul 18, 2024] - Threatened with death by Sonny Corinthos if he interfered with Sonny's life or business the same day that Liesl Obrecht was mentioned [Apr 10, 2024] - Engaged in a gun battle with Tony Lewis and another Pikeman operative; shot and killed Tony in self-defense [May 31-Jun 3, 2024] - Blackmailed by John into giving him evidence against Sonny Corinthos or getting on a bus to Quantico or else Carly Spencer would be sent to Pentonville or Steinmauer overseas in Geneva, Switzerland [Jul 22-30, 2024] - Fought with two mercenary guards as he and Anna were being taken away [Sep 27, 2024] - Barely escaped the exploding warehouse where he rescued the hostage Sasha Corbin from warlord Jenz Sidwell who is in revenge for the late FBI Special Agent John Cates, Sasha's former psychiatrist Dr. Damon Montague, Valentin Cassadine, and pharmacist Clement Moore [Nov 8, 2024] Relationships[] - Ace Cassadine - Jason's maternal first cousin twice removed - Michael Corinthos - Jason's nephew - Morgan Corinthos - Jason's godson (deceased) - Josslyn Jacks - Jason's goddaughter - Susan Moore-Baldwin - Jason's biological mother (deceased) - Danny Morgan - Jason's son with Sam - Esme Prince - Jason's maternal first cousin once removed (deceased) - A.J. Quartermaine - Jason's adoptive brother (deceased) - Alan Quartermaine - Jason's father (deceased) - Drew Quartermaine - Jason's brother - Emily Quartermaine - Jason's adoptive sister (deceased) - Monica Quartermaine - Jason's adoptive mother - Ned Quartermaine - Jason's cousin - Olivia Quartermaine - Jason's cousin-in-law - Jake Webber - Jason's son with Elizabeth - Steve Webber - Jason maternal second cousin - Elisha Adams - Officer of the Port Charles Police Department - Owen Anderson - Sam's new parole officer who is much friendlier to Sam and shared his disdain of Cyrus - Curtis Ashford - Jordan's husband, private investigator, and Jason's new friend and ally - Jordan Ashford - Former Commissioner of the Port Charles Police Department and current Deputy Mayor of Port Charles - Shawn Butler - Owner and Publisher of The Invader now living in San Francisco - Joseph Campbell - Former District Attorney now living in Atlanta - Mitch Carson - Nelle's former parole officer - Mia Carter - Geologist at the United States Geological Survey - Charlotte Cassadine - Valentin Cassadine's daughter, the late Helena Cassadine and the late Victor Cassadine's granddaughter, Nikolas Cassadine and the late Spencer Cassadine's cousin, Donald Cassadine's paternal half-sister, Ava Jerome's former niece/cousin-in-law by marriage of Nikolas, the late Britt Westbourne's ex-step cousin once removed, Cyrus Renault and Martin Grey's great niece, and former Mayor Janice Lomax's friend and supporter - Donald Cassadine - Valentin Cassadine's son, the late Helena Cassadine and the late Victor Cassadine's grandson, Nikolas Cassadine's cousin, Charlotte Cassadine's paternal half-brother, and the late Britt Westbourne's ex-step cousin once removed - Nikolas Cassadine - The late Helena Cassadine's grandson, Valentin Cassadine's nephew, Charlotte Cassadine's uncle/cousin, Cyrus Renault and Martin Grey's nephew, and his maternal first cousin twice removed Ace Prince-Cassadine's father (imprisoned) - Spencer Cassadine - His maternal first cousin twice removed Ace's paternal half brother (presumed deceased) - Harrison Chase - Detective of the Port Charles Police Department - Amber Chua - Court judge about ELQ; David's friend and colleague - Kevin Collins - Laura Collins - Current Mayor of Port Charles and Charlotte's maternal grandmother - Brando Corbin - (deceased) - Sonny Corinthos - Jason's longtime best friend - Willow Corinthos - Patrick Daniels - Officer of the Port Charles Police Department - Sarah Davis - Officer of the Port Charles Police Department - Amara Desta - Member of the International Response Team originally from Ethiopia focused on counter-terrorism and crisis negotiation - Anna Devane - Current Commissioner of the Port Charles Police Department and Robin and James' mother - Patrick Drake - Jason's former doctor, Robin's husband, and James' brother-in-law now living in Berkeley - Connie Falconeri - Olivia's cousin (deceased) - Dante Falconeri - Detective of the Port Charles Police Department, Lulu's ex-husband, Cyrus' ex-nephew-in-law - Carol Ferris - aka Star Sapphire - Violet Finn - Now living in Seattle - Pres Floyd - Former Mayor of Port Charles - Russell Ford - (deceased) - Isaiah Gannon - Max Giambetti - Milo Giambetti - Barbara Gordon - aka Batgirl - Alice Gunderson - Quartermaine's housekeeper - Jake Hawthorne - Officer of the Port Charles Police Department S.W.A.T. division - Brad Haynes - U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent - Sarah Hobbs - Officer of the Port Charles Police Department S.W.A.T. division - James Horowitz - His mother Monica's old friend and court judge - Jasper "Jax" Jacks - Carly's ex-husband and Josslyn's father - Josslyn Jacks - Emily Jenkins - S.W.A.T. team - Kiki Jerome - The late Nelle Benson's paternal half-sister (deceased) - Gordon Kauffman - Jason's friend with German ancestry - Paul Kelly - Officer of the Port Charles Police Department - Koriand'r - aka Starfire - Ric Lansing - Jason's current lawyer along with Sonny and Shawn, former District Attorney, Molly's father, and Sonny's maternal half-brother - Molly Lansing-Davis - Assistant District Attorney - Jake Lawson - Jason's new friend from Australia - Richard Lowe - Andre Maddox - Shane McAvoy - Johnny's new attorney - Sam McCall - Jason's ex-wife and his son Danny's mother (deceased) - Adam McCullough - Officer of the Port Charles Police Department - Andy Michaels - Diane Miller - Jason's former lawyer and Yuri's immigration lawyer now living in Los Angeles - Keith Miller - Diane's son with an unknown man - Sally Miller - Diane's daughter with an unknown man now following in his mother's footsteps as an attorney - Sharon Mills - S.W.A.T. team - Griffin Munro - Liesl Obrecht - Delores Padilla - Now living in New York City - Chloe Phillips - Officer of the Port Charles Police Department S.W.A.T. division - Zoe Raleigh - Tim Raymond - Captain of the S.W.A.T. team - Portia Robinson - Trina Robinson - James Scorpio - Detective of the Port Charles Police Department and Robin's brother - Mac Scorpio - Former Commissioner, current Chief of Detectives of the Port Charles Police Department, and Robin and James' uncle - Robert Scorpio - Former Commissioner of the Port Charles Police Department, former WSB agent, current District Attorney, and Robin and James' father - Robin Scorpio-Drake - Jason's longtime best friend now living in Berkeley - Steven Scott - Brad's parole officer before Brad dropped off the canvas after attending the late Epiphany Johnson's memorial service after The Hook attacks and later replaced by Valentin which Jason missed because of him being blackmailed into working for "Stone" aka John Cates as a military contractor and mercenary under the alias "Jacobs" in order to stay out of prison for RICO violations - Ellen Scully - Officer of the Port Charles Police Department - Jim Searcy - Officer of the Port Charles Police Department - James Smith - S.W.A.T. team - Carly Spencer - Sonny's ex-wife, Jason's friend, and Josslyn's mother - Luke Spencer - Jason's longtime best friend (deceased) - Lulu Spencer - His late maternal first cousin once removed Esme's stepcousin - Damian Spinelli - Jason's friend and private investigator - Georgie Spinelli - Ellie Trout - Mildred Turner - Assistant District Attorney - John Walsh - David Walters - Court judge - John Wass - U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent - Cameron Webber - His son Jake's brother and Cyrus' great nephew - Elizabeth Webber - His son Jake's mother - Mary Wells - Nicholas Wells - S.W.A.T. team - Nathan West - The late Cesar Faison's son with Liesl Obrecht, the late Britt Westbourne's brother, and Dante Falconeri's former partner (deceased) - Britt Westbourne - The late Cesar Faison's daughter with Liesl Obrecht, the late Nathan West's sister, Jason's ex-girlfriend, and former Chief of Staff at General Hospital (deceased) - James White - Officer of the Port Charles Police Department - Zuri Wright - Officer of the Port Charles Police Department S.W.A.T. division - Fathia Yare - Member of the International Response Team originally from Somalia focused on counter-terrorism and hostage rescue operations - Zatanna Zatara - Diego Alcazar - (deceased) - Lorenzo Alcazar - (deceased) - Luis Alcazar - (deceased) - Frank Anderson - The late Cesar Faison's former henchman (imprisoned) - Hank Archer - aka "Shiloh" who bore a striking resemblance to the late Nathan West - Peter August - The late Cesar Faison's son with the late Alex Marick, the late Nelle Benson's male counterpart, and Cyrus Renault's former associate following in his late father's footsteps in wanting revenge for the late Nelle Benson and his late father (deceased) - Franco Baldwin - (deceased) - Greg Barnes - The late Cesar Faison's former henchman (imprisoned) - Johann Bauer - Jason's evil German counterpart and his late maternal first cousin once removed Esme Prince's bodyguard/male counterpart since their names start with the letter J and ends with the letter N - Trent Beech - Cyrus' henchman (deceased) - Nelle Benson - Heather Webber's younger counterpart, the late Stephen Clay's niece, his late ex-wife Sam McCall's former stepmother, his son Danny Morgan's former step-grandmother, the late Peter August's female counterpart, the late Sam McCall's former parole officer Dolores Maloney's friend, and Cyrus Renault's possible associate and henchwoman (deceased) - Jack Brennan - Mason and Cyrus' Australian counterpart - Linc Brown - Music producer (captured) - Linda Boyle - Henchwoman/hitwoman hired by the late John Cates and also Jenz Sidwell's new henchwoman/hitwoman (captured) - Hector Carradine - Sonny's late nephew Spencer Cassadine's evil counterpart (deceased) - Michael Carson - Michael of a different stripe and Mary Pat's male counterpart (imprisoned) - Helena Cassadine - Valentin Cassadine's late mother; Nikolas, Donald, and Charlotte Cassadine's paternal grandfather; Ava Jerome's ex-grandmother-in-law, the late Spencer Cassadine and Ace Cassadine's great-grandmother, and Avery Jerome-Corinthos' ex-step great-grandmother (deceased) - Valentin Cassadine - The late Helena Cassadine's son with the late Victor Cassadine, Donald and Charlotte Cassadine's father, Nikolas Cassadine's uncle, the late Britt Westbourne's ex-cousin-in-law, his former doctor Patrick Drake's evil counterpart, and former Mayor Janice Lomax's friend and supporter, former owner of The Invader, and former leader of Pikeman Security Group - Victor Cassadine - Valentin Cassadine's late father, Donald and Charlotte's paternal grandfather, Nikolas Cassadine's great uncle, Ava Jerome's ex-great uncle-in-law, the late Spencer Cassadine and Ace Cassadine's great-great uncle, and Avery Jerome-Corinthos' ex-step great-great uncle (deceased) - John Cates - FBI Special Agent and Sidwell's American governmental counterpart (deceased) - Ryan Chamberlain - Kevin Collins' late twin brother and the late Esme Prince's father (deceased) - Stephen Clay - aka Caleb Morley, the late Cesar Faison's ally/American counterpart, the late Nelle Benson's uncle, and his son Danny's former great uncle by marriage of the late Nelle Benson and the late Julian Jerome (deceased) - Steven Culp - Former editor of The Invader under the late Peter August who became friends with Peter's female counterpart the late Nelle Benson before being replaced by Peter August himself before his death - Harry DeFranco - Armed robber wanting revenge for the late Peter August and the imprisoned Cyrus Renault - Russ Delvin - The late Cesar Faison's former henchman (imprisoned) - Cesar Faison - (deceased) - Sonny Faison - The late Cesar Faison's son with an unknown woman now the last known living and sole surviving child of the late Cesar Faison - Jameson Forsyth - (deceased) - Ron Gallo - Sniper working for Pikeman Security Group who grazed Ava's hand and put her daughter Avery in the line of fire the same day that Spencer dragged Esme with him before FBI agent John Cates came to Port Charles - Mason Gatlin - Cyrus' former henchman and Jack's American counterpart (imprisoned) - James Gunn - Sniper working for Pikeman Security Group who shot Curtis left Ava unharmed and put Violet in the line of fire - Oz Haggerty - (deceased) - Hamish Hampton - (deceased) - Jim Harvey - (deceased) - Bryce Henderson - (deceased) - The Hook - Serial killer whose face and identity concealed and is revealed to be Steve Webber, the late Franco Baldwin, and the late Esme Prince's biological mother Heather Webber unknowingly working for the True Believers (captured) - Paul Hornsby - Jerry's former accomplice, former District Attorney, and Margaux's predecessor (imprisoned) - Roman Hume - (captured) - Jerry Jacks - Gabriel Jenkins - Ava Jerome - Jason's ex-aunt-in-law, the late Nelle Benson's former sister-in-law, and Robin Scorpio-Drake's blonde counterpart now the last known living and sole surviving child of the late Victor Jerome - Julian Jerome - Jason's ex-father-in-law, the late Sam McCall's late father, Ava Jerome's paternal half-brother, Nikolas Cassadine's ex-brother-in-law, the late Spencer Cassadine's former uncle by marriage, his son Danny Morgan's maternal grandfather, and the late Sam McCall's former parole officer Dolores Maloney's friend (deceased) - Thomas Johnson - The late Cassandra Pierce's African-American henchman, the late Epiphany Johnson's ex-husband, and the late Stan Johnson's father (imprisoned) - Richard Klein - The late Cesar Faison's former henchman - Jeffrey Maloney - Sam's former parole officer Dolores' brother and Cyrus' African-American henchman (deceased) - Stuart Mest - Military Gambling Ring - A scheme ran by his ex-aunt-in-law Ava Jerome and his late ex-father-in-law Julian Jerome - Damon Montague - (captured) - Clement Moore - Andrew Olson - (deceased) - Stephen Ordway - The late Cassandra Pierce's henchman (imprisoned) - Shawn Phillips - Shawn of a different stripe and Rupert's counterpart (imprisoned) - Carl Pine - Cyrus' African-American henchman (deceased) - Cassandra Pierce - Cyrus' female counterpart (presumed deceased) - Cyrus Renault - Cassandra's male counterpart and Jason's new enemy from Seattle, Washington who bores an uncanny resemblance to the late Cesar Faison who was the Chairman of the Board at General Hospital before and after his imprisonment; his involvement in replacing Drew Cain who is revealed to be alive held in a foreign prison before Cyrus changed his appearance to look less like Faison and more like Johnny Zacchara 25-30 years later and bore an uncanny resemblance to the late Victor Cassadine before his release from prison now host of KZPC's radio show "Searching with Cyrus", his maternal first cousin twice removed Ace's great uncle, and Jack's American counterpart - Vince Rinaldi - His late ex-father-in-law Julian Jerome's former henchman (deceased) - Manny Ruiz - (deceased) - Frank Ryan - Sidwell's henchman - Joe Scully, Jr. - (deceased) - Jenz Sidwell - The late FBI Special Agent John Cates' bald warlord counterpart and Valentin Cassadine's new friend - Tracker Sloane - (captured) - DeShawn Smith - Sidwell's African-American henchman - Stone - Ultimate villain whose face, identity, and physical appearance concealed later revealed to be Valentin Cassadine just like "The Hook" killer before she was revealed to be Heather Webber - Jake Sullivan - His late ex-father-in-law Julian Jerome's former henchman - Marcus Turner - His late ex-father-in-law Julian Jerome's former African-American henchman - Franco Walker - Cyrus Renault's henchman and Franco of a different stripe (deceased) - Eric Watson - Armed robber wanting revenge for the late Peter August and the imprisoned Cyrus Renault - Heather Webber - His son Jake Spencer's step-grandmother; Steve Webber, the late Franco Baldwin, and the late Esme Prince's mother; and also "The Hook" killer concealing her face and identity for most of 2022 until New Year's Eve revealing her face and identity after Britt Westbourne's death before Jason's return now living in Sedona, Arizona - Anthony Zacchara - (deceased) - Johnny Zacchara - (imprisoned)
