=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Junya Watanabe]
He started his own line under the Comme Des Garçons name "Junya Watanabe Comme Des Garçons" in 1993 and began showing his womenswear in Paris that same year.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Junya_Watanabe

[A MYTH AND LEGEND, AN INTRODUCTION TO THE ... - sabukaru]
Working on the female line, Tricot, as a Chief Designer from 1987 he went to work on Homme as the Chief Designer and then subsequently set up his own namesake ...
URL: https://sabukaru.online/articles/an-introduction-to-junya-watanabe-the-designer

[Designer/Brand Discussion - Junya Watanabe : r/japanesestreetwear]
... Fashion Institute, Watanabe began designing for CDG Tricot and then for CDG Homme. In 1992, he started his own line of clothing “Junya ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/japanesestreetwear/comments/4ltl79/designerbrand_discussion_junya_watanabe/

[Junya Watanabe On The Evolution Of His Menswear]
Watanabe, who has designed under his own name since 1992 and launched Junya Watanabe MAN in 2001, is known to craft garments within a heady ...
URL: https://10magazine.com/junya-watanabe-cover-interview-10-men-issue-59/

[Tao Kurihara: The Quietest Member of The Comme Universe]
1 Established in 1981, Tricot was Kawakubo's first true diffusion line to Comme des Garçons. · 2 Junya Watanabe assumed leadership of Tricot in ...
URL: https://thepleat.substack.com/p/unfolded-tao-kurihara-the-quietest


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Junya Watanabe] ---
Junya Watanabe (born 1961) is a Japanese fashion designer. He was mentored by Comme des Garçons designer Rei Kawakubo. He continues to work for Comme des Garçons; his atelier is located on the second floor of its Tokyo headquarters, and he produces four shows a year in Paris.




--- [A MYTH AND LEGEND, AN INTRODUCTION TO THE ... - sabukaru] ---
A MYTH AND LEGEND, AN INTRODUCTION TO THE WONDER THAT IS JUNYA WATANABE This is not an interview, nor is this an advertisement. This is an open piece of written exploration of the omnipotence that Junya Watanabe has cemented for himself in the world of fashion since his professional working capacity began; In Tokyo, 1984. Whilst being a juggernaut in the fashion industry, revered for challenging staple designs, silhouettes and body feasible adornments, he remains one of, if not THE most enigmatic designer producing regular collections today. The interviews he has given or had dictated and published can be counted on one pair of hands. His public appearances can be counted on the same pair of hands, albeit in the early days he would rarely take the accustomed bow following the last model to walk the catwalk. When giving details on his catwalk shows prior to the event he often uses single words or small combinations affording the vaguest and widest scope of wonder from the lucky numbers that find themselves in Paris on these monumental days. What will they be seeing? None present will know until the models file down the runway under the specially constructed Watanabe vision. Four times a year. Noted in two pieces written about him, his mother’s “made-to-order” store could be a main stimulus for his interests originally; with Cardin and Miyake being his two notable attractions in designer - both experimenting with cutting edge fabrics, construction processes and design practices. Junya Watanabe graduates Bunka Fashion College and is drafted into the Comme des Garcons universe by Rei Kawakubo to be a pattern cutter and pattern maker across labels. Working on the female line, Tricot, as a Chief Designer from 1987 he went to work on Homme as the Chief Designer and then subsequently set up his own namesake label in 1992 under the umbrella of CDG LTD; Junya Watanabe for Comme des Garcons, debuting in Tokyo for Fall Winter of 1992 and then the regularshowing in Paris began in 1993; with his namesake line for a male demographic; Junya Watanabe MAN for Comme des Garcons debuting Spring Summer 2002 in Paris. Dissimilar to other designers he himself handpicks the collaborator brands, items, companies and cultural reference that are seen to be peppered throughout his collections, albeit with his MAN line heading up branded and notable side of collaboration strongly; working with companies for their textiles, for their cultural heritage, their unique processes or for the finishing edges of sheer investment Watanabe has in rounding his works together under an idea. LEVI’S for example has been working with and providing Watanabe with denim as well as his own base models since MAN started. Brands like Carhartt, Gore-Tex and New Balance can be seen as regular collection collaborators to note a few. Working in a scientific and methodical way, Watanabe demonstrates his abnormality to his peers by choosing to foreground a focus on the reality and actuality of design and content. The Bauhaus masters asserted a design philosophy of 'form follows function' which centralized within their art and movement a focus to not be drawn away by worrying about a dogmatic philosophy that would file all work as external representation by interpretation. In retrospective jump from this, Junya's designs are like a turbulent slalom that shakes and bumps his designs and processes until they are far from where he would ever want to be; fitting in? His position as a high modernist, or someone who rejects the appealing preferential and prejudicial elements of designs and constructions; allows him to create in a way that draws out the wearer or the viewers reason to question their own preconceived ideas of what it is to adorn or dress, in this modern world. It’s noted that he actively tries to keep his purity of design by taking little-to-no interest in works by fellow designers across the globe; using his own existence, interests and understandings to inform his vision. When viewing each of his seasons and releases on a comparable field with other designers of that same season there is almost next to no correlation in theme or physical subject matter; Watanabe has a confidence in his output that carries through to the actuality of the adornment of said items. Whether he is working on the reconstruction of a pre-existing staple design, the experimentation of fabrics and textiles or even testing practices and methods that have not been utilized or appropriated before he focuses on the actual. Physical tessellation, geometrical working, three-dimensional and origami constructs are some of the finest examples of working within a specialist field outside of fashion to then translate back into design (Most variated display would be Fall Winter 2015). Scientific and laboratory research style procedures followed to ensure items retain their integrity when moving from one area of art to the wearable side. Honeycomb is a shape and structure that has been utilized to provide volume and fluid movement yet density of structure, whilst allowing to take the shape of an ethereal or magical entity, a Will-O-Wisp (Spring Summer 2000). In a 2002 TV documentary on Rei Kawakubo and Comme des Garcons, Watanabe was interviewed on screen and is quoted in translation as saying, This is the first concrete instance that Watanabe confirms and loosely explains a working ethos, albeit incredibly loose and vague in actual working detail, it in part would only reflect the character of the man himself. Enigmatic yet refined and precise. It’s a statement that even now still rings true; his MAN designs are obtuse in their difference of fundamental construction and exude overt self-gratification to the wearer, yet they can in most instances be described as the perfect item for whatever the function in question is. Fishing shirts with such detail, specific and extra functionality that they are at match for the actual use, sole function brand equivalents. It can be noted that whilst a lot of collections have clear visual themes and stimuli, many items can be utilized across areas of wear or use. So in many ways, the utilitarianism of the designs he creates have abstractions of 20th constructivism within. The visible strapping, attachments, clipping, reinforced seams, panel-construction, layering, functional-detailing, metal, plastics and non-textile detail and elements and accompaniments; everything is made in a way for the easiest and most perfect wear. Allowing us to make vivid connection to the architectural elements he utilizes. Whilst it may be argued by off-the-deep-endfashion aficionados that Watanabe’s physical design work does not grace thought or bearing to the world of haute-couture and the gravitas of industry it holds within a wider trickle down fashion world; he has never made clear his driven intentions of design motivation besides the actuality of him working as designer to design. It is his hard working day job. Through viewing one can see there is a clear difference in his actual design motivations for his mainline Ladies and mainline MAN collections; so when also considering the ageing general understanding that it is popular for females to play with visceral style and image; whilst males are more likely to adorn within the comfort of their pre-understood tribes or ‘ways of dressing’, it is like most other brands, semi gender-binary. Watanabe for a period also ran the line Junya Watanabe MAN PINK for Comme des Garcons that started in 2002 at the same time as MAN; a label that focused on translating men’s designs typically to a more female or feminine body type whilst incorporating actual designs for ladies such as dresses, skirts, corsets and more. By nature, items sizing and fitting can be on the smaller or more fitted side if being worn out of demographic intention. With the seasonal speculation around what may or may not be seen each mainline show, it could be thought that Watanabe really does just love designing and has found his true calling in it; the cryptic one-word, or one-line teasers never leading the audience mind to what is ultimately displayed before them. Almost like a renaissance artist working behind closed doors for extended periods in the fear their work would be seen and copied by lesser counterparts, only to reveal their latest under-wraps project to stun and wow the audience it’s targeting. Watanabe has found innate talent in the adaptation of traditionally valued and understood garments and styles whereby he can take singular or eclectic elements to run through his mental and physical deconstruction, reconstruction and design processes bringing a new outlook on styles people may be less familiar in wearing or less accepting in a general sense when considered in comparison to other iterations of the same style or image. Culturally pre-existing and understood themes have less focus on the originally connoted elements; the re-workings and creations draw more. Regarded as one of the pioneers and most successful or famous Techno-Fashion designers, collections like the Fall Winter 1995 and the Spring Summer AND Fall Winter 1997 women’s collections display in design, an almost utopian vision of modern adornment; and ultimately the famed Spring Summer 2000 collection, with interactions of and the utilization of water as rain, changing models wearing multi-functional technologically advanced fabrics and designs; Watanabe focuses some attentions to the problem solving of the everyday issue and desire; some for innovations and the actual forwarding of the affordability’s taken advantage of in daily life. Designs that aim to make one’s life easier and elevated, like being breathable or waterproof when needed, or when an action is being undertaken that requires specific detail, like climbing or motorsports. In a way Watanabe offers retrospective connotations to a Futurist vision of the world, with clothing that can work with the human body in modern ways; temperature regulations, auto-tension and weave flexibility, administering of chemical and compounds or health managements amongst many other things. Usually confined to film or television costume, of a modern world with flying cars, alien contacts and superpower-like health and care abilities; Watanabe designed through a period which was perfect for the boom and undergo of change and experimentation he is so regarded for. In a way such design and garb can be seen as reference to historic dress, by setting oneself into the future thus looking to the present or to the actual future. Similar yet dissimilar to the work of Thorogood or Chalayan in so far as Watanabe ultimately keeps the end product as actual wearable clothing in a relative sense of how people historically would adorn themselves. It isn’t practical to wear a dress than becomes a table when you take it off, it’s art design over fashion design. Things that may be or should be, are only pertained as ideas until they are physically played with and created by Watanabe. Reference in detail through development of process, specific item detail function and use help ensure a remarkable familiar yet drastically different outlook when viewed or worn. In 2016 he developed, designed and released in incredibly limited quantities, a trench coat with solar-paneling installed to the front and back panels, with a power pack, wiring and the ability to charge devices on-the-go. We can only hope to see more inclusion of actual technology within items and pieces Watanabe produces; although dissimilar to I-Wear and Starlabs work in 1999-2000 with Walter Van Beirendonck, in its actual practical daily use yet still exploring the same ideas of functional ease and maximization of convenience to daily life. With flourishes and nods-of-the-head to chicer eras, like modern grandeur elegance of the 1940s, covered with alternate materials, shapes, reconstructed skirt suits, frock coats, shaped veils, dresses, over-shirts and blouses; in the Fall Winter 1999 collection; providing a darker, moodier and abstract take on the typical dainty upper-class modern woman style. In a way the materials and design difference reflect the times of actual change in rights and acceptance of existence since the un-reworked style was conceived; the changes in rights, standards of adornment, expectance of mental or physical stability and state and societal position or role. Abstraction is played with and favored in womenswear more so than the functionality and the wearability. He takes elements of methodical and research based practices like architecture, science, engineering and mathematics to work his way through countless non-working designs until the perfect or the purpose is reached. Weighted structuring and balance of movements, inter-panel or constructional interactions, change in naturally expected forces impacts on garment appearance, shape and movement to name a few things are clear indications of cross-field research and working. But as an enigmatic yet world-famous designer, he must find the time, ability and attraction to explore, research, meet others and travel to truly widen and refine his actual skillset and abilities. His Spring Summer 2015 MAN collection focuses on the use of denims and the understanding of Boro and patch working, dyeing and overdyeing amongst other traditional or time testament Japanese textile practices. Panelling on items to infer the ideas of a hard-working and hard wearing man, with stitch work and the use of many indigos reinforcing the practical work nature of the country and textile. The patterning used not only harks back and pays homage to the highest of society, of which Japan was known for to the West being a closed nation; but it seems to want to amalgamate all areas of Japanese life and all types of the Japanese person. A collection that truly praises his home country and its history, Japan. It is unclear what truly underpins Watanabe’s processes; could it be the lifelong interest and passion within other fields that he translates into his own working field? Could it be the sheer fact of working environment itself, that he works under Comme des Garcons and by that fact has status and power, and can work as he pleases? It is just his job after all. One thing that is clear is that in part, Watanabe’s work and design is a byproduct of a super-boom in technological and societal understandings and outlooks that revolutionized the ways in which people lived their day-to-day existences. The designs could be seen as a way to almost supercharge living nostalgia by offering iconic (semi-)recognizable pieces and designs that remove the wearer from a sense of normality by foregrounding how much better, how much more practical, elegant, ultimately different things can be whilst still keeping a sense of authenticity. You want to look like a mid-late 20thcentury alpine skier? An American businessman? A sports loving workman? A lady of the manor? A ballerina? A biker? All of these can be done. Whilst experimenting innately with design and creation, he still manages to retain a level of recognition, understanding and palatability; offering things that are within the physical comprehensions and tastes of the audience that are so in love with the content produced. The ease of changing wearable styles is one of the traits Watanabe has tuned so perfectly. Even though many pieces seem unwearable for everyday adornment; it is merely in the outward appearance that lays the foundation for such thought. In hand even some items may be confusing or misleading as to how they are actually put on, but once adorned the fit, movement, weights and shapes are always perfect for the specific piece in question. You wouldn’t exactly go out in something made of silk, organza and tissue in the rain and wind but for function and purpose the items have more consideration to how they interact with the body than many other of his design peers. Misconceptions that Japanese designer clothing always runs smaller and is ill fitting for people in the west is absurd and widely held, much to the dismay of the audience who believes it and excludes themselves from buying into such design. There are pieces from all seasons of the mainline women’s label that can fit and look exemplary on the male body for example, regardless of supposed size or gendering; if it fits, it fits. Ultimately the consumers know how they interact with the designer and as such more often than not, very specific collections and items can be seen far more frequently both being worn or for sale, than items of collections less covered by modern, hype driven media. In essence, Junya Watanabe is a master in his field of work who from display of enigmatic behaviors of definition between working life and personal life, demonstrates that not only should one define one’s life; but they should seek to define their existence and hone their focus on the instant at hand. Whether Junya is exploring techniques of architectural conversion, physics of design and form or configuring the key components of a working garment, he is working; on his brand, on his craft, on his knowledge. And that really helps keep him out of the light. About the author: Rory Cole is a Uk-based Japanese Design Archivist, Fashion Designer and Charity Man; collecting Junya Watanabe, Issey Miyake, Comme des Garcons and Yohji Yamamoto, amongst other designers like Final Home and Kansai Yamamoto. SABUKARU be yet another string to his bow having content with other large international publications.


--- [Designer/Brand Discussion - Junya Watanabe : r/japanesestreetwear] ---
Designer/Brand Discussion - Junya Watanabe The prodigy protégé of Rei Kawakubo, Junya Watanabe, is a legendary Japanese designer originating from famous fashion label Comme des Garcons. Having graduated from the prestigious Tokyo fashion school, Bunka Fashion Institute, Watanabe began designing for CDG Tricot and then for CDG Homme. In 1992, he started his own line of clothing “Junya Watanabe Comme des Garons” and presented in Paris. His own standalone men’s line was started in 2000 and his pieces can be found in the Dover Street Market in various cities; NYC, London, Ginza, and Beijing as well as other major fashion retailers. His design-work is very comparable to Rei Kawakubo, considering his apprenticeship under her. Many of the pieces he’s created are considered avant-garde and definitely innovative. His collections are still some of the popular releases every year. Greater in-depth history can be found here. Men's Collections: Women's Collections: Discussion: Let us know what Junya pieces you have or would like to have. What do you like/dislike about his aesthetic and which of his collections stand out to you?


--- [Junya Watanabe On The Evolution Of His Menswear] ---
There’s a magic distilled in Junya Watanabe’s collections that meets next-level craftsmanship and innovative design, with the 63-year-old’s admiration for style and subculture born on the street. Watanabe, who has designed under his own name since 1992 and launched Junya Watanabe MAN in 2001, is known to craft garments within a heady collision of the functional and the extraordinary. He plays a deft hand in building his collections around everyday wardrobe staples, while time and again he shifts menswear ideals through a quietly radical bent. In Watanabe’s world, gentlemanly suits sit alongside utilitarian outerwear, punky, patchwork denim and the sort of in-the-know workwear that has had brand loyalists looking (and feeling) the dog’s bollocks for the last 23 years. There’s a design dialogue shared among Watanabe’s men’s and womenswear in term of garment manipulation, masterful pattern-cutting and the use of surplus fabrics. Yet the two sides of the brand are distinctly singular. While you could easily spot a Junya man loitering around hip bars and sceney shops dotted around East London, the Junya woman looks at home in a bygone, dingy club buried in the city’s underbelly, or beamed down from a different planet entirely. His menswear has thrived for its clever ability to subtly evolve the clothes we turn to day in, day out, yet his womenswear relishes its otherworldly strangeness. Both arms of the business have existed simultaneously, in alternative universes. Until now, that is. In his SS24 MAN collection, which saw Watanabe team up with an impressive 24 brands in total – from Stüssy and Palace through to C.P. Company and Carhartt – the designer wrote: “This time I focused on Junya Watanabe womenswear as the main collaboration. The idea and the way of my approach in the creation of Junya Watanabe is completely different to MAN, so they are different brands to me. I wanted to incorporate clothes like Junya Watanabe into MAN.” Out came Watanabe’s models, with black oiled locks greased up into ferocious mohawks, porcupine-like spikes and wind-swept bedheads. Soundtracked to Led Zeppelin and Pink Floyd (two of many heroes from Watanabe’s teenage years), they were outfitted in an abrasive collision of all-black hi-vis jackets (ideal for goth workies), indigo denim co-ords and slouchy overalls that came littered with pockets. As if they’ve been lurking in the deepest corners of Slimelight, North London’s goth clubbing palace, these nightcrawlers came enveloped in sculptural silhouettes that felt twistingly opulent. The real showstoppers on view were Watanabe’s Frankensteined concoctions. Belts of beige rain macs were bulldozed into one another to create tunic dresses. Ladies-who-lunch bricolage jackets came chopped up and pieced together to make a sleeveless trench and biker jackets were amalgamated into floor-length overcoats laced with rebel spirit. Each of his men’s and women’s collections this season were made of 29 looks and were mirrored in their anarchic flair. Why, at this moment in his career, did Watanabe strive to establish a new parallel between his collections? “To be honest, the trigger was feeling tired of my own way of creating and thoughts about menswear,” the designer wrote over email. (Watanabe is famously reluctant to do interviews, preferring his work to speak for itself.) “I wondered if my free way of creating womenswear could be a new proposition and decided to implement it.” This quest for “new propositions” has been a natural instinct that has followed Watanabe throughout his career. Born and raised in Fukushima, he would join Comme des Garçons in 1984 after graduating from Tokyo’s Bunk a Fashion College. It was the work of cutting-edge experimentalists Issey Miyake and PierreCardin that originally ignited his interest in clothes.In his formative years he was much more interested in music, particularly sounds reverberating from the UK. “I still love the musicI listened to in my youth,”says Watanabe, who allows a sonic palette to influence his collections. (His AW21women’s show was littered with band merch from everyone from The Who through to The Rolling Stones, and he has since dedicated entire collections to the uniforms of Debbie Harry and Jamiroquai’s Jay Kay.) At Comme, he would work under Rei Kawakubo as a pattern-cutter across the Japanese fashion titan’s varying lines, before being appointed as design director of CDG’s Tricot line in 1987. After a stint as chief designer of the Homme Plus line, Watanabe was encouraged by Kawakubo to launch his own label as part of the Comme umbrella of brands. Watanabe’s debut SS02 MAN collection marked something of a seismic shift in menswear. His models looked like they’d been plucked from an indie-loving boozer in Camden and dropped on the streets of Paris.They wore laddish, short-sleeved shirts that came in vivid shades of tangerine and icing sugar pink, or ladylike Liberty-print florals. Across their chests were block-printed poems or random word associations that felt like doing a Tesco shop on ’shrooms: ‘curryrice’, ‘watermelon’, ‘ham’, ‘German doner’. It was intoxicating in its audaciousness. His first menswear outing also saw Watanabe join forces with Levi’s on a slew of boxy-cut 501 jeans –taking a men’s hero piece and carefully folding it into his own design lexicon. Brand collaborations are routine in menswear today, yet Watanabe was one of the first to master the art within a luxury context and continues to be a pioneer in the field. “I offer collaborations to brands whose clothing or shoes I am interested in,”says the designer. “By continuing collaborations over the years, the number of partnerships has increased.” Season upon season, Watanabe has patchworked his collections with all-American heroes (Converse, Levi’s, Brooks Brothers), gorpcore go-tos (The North Face, Canada Goose, Karrimor) and legendary London eateries (who could forget those St John tote bags from SS20?). His eclectic mixing of brands appeals to a broad range of fashion-forward gents, reflected in the casting. Think back to SS17’s tatted bad boys, who stalked their way across the catwalk, snarling at the front row with the attitudes of gangsters. Look even further back (we’re talking SS06 here) and Watanabe’s lads pastiched Taxi Driver’s De Niro anti-hero Travis Bickle (where mohawked models wore pseudo military garb). It was seemingly a world away from the fresh-faced cast that walked SS19, who resembled kids playing dress up in their schoolboy shorts and camo gear. And there was his AW19 collection, cast entirely on middle-aged silver foxes, who donned handsome suit jackets with pinstripe and plaid torsos combined with MA1 bomber sleeves. “Our customers are always looking for new collaborations, so in a way, I am responding to their expectations,” says Watanabe. Such linkups have become something of fashion folklore – coveted trophy pieces that occupy the wardrobes of Watanabe’s fans globally. There’s a cultish quality to these grailed finds. They’re like rare Pokémons to the designer’s loyal following – gotta catch ’em all!” It’s a community in which you have to earn your stripes. His menswear is built around the sort of unflashy flourishes that might not be obvious to the casual observer. The pocketed lining of a secretly complex blazer for instance, or the heavy-duty construction of a great coat. And those oh-so-clever hybrids, not to mention his ability to collage fragments of the obsessions of his youth across seriously wearable products. That nod of approval from a fellow fan of the brand when you’re donning your finest Junya togs seals the deal: you’re part of the club. I wonder, then, as he steers MAN into its next phase, one that intersects his men’s and womenswear in an experimental commonality, is he looking to push his legion of followers to step outside their comfort zones? “The collection is not in stores yet, so I do not knowhow our customers will react,” he says. “I am not sure if it will be accepted by our customers, but there is also hope that it might attract a new client.” There are newfound freedoms in how we approach getting dressed on the daily. Gender lines are increasingly being blurred and masculine and feminine dress codes are in a state of flux. Was this a catalyst for Watanabe’s change in pace? “I did not specifically think about genderless as a theme. However, I feel thatI have created something interesting that is different from ‘genderless clothing’ in contemporary society.” Why does menswear remain an important vehicle to communicate Watanabe’s creative ideas? “The reason is the universality and coolness inherent in menswear,” he says, “which forms the base of my designs.” It’s telling that when designing his menswear collections, Watanabe says he will sometimes reference pieces from his own wardrobe. In Junya’s world, the magic starts with the master himself. Issue 59 of 10 Men – PRECISION, CRAFT, LUXURY – is on newsstands March 29. Pre-order your copy here. JUNYA WATANABE MAN: THE MAESTRO Photographer JIMI FRANKLIN Fashion Editor GARTH ALLDAY SPENCER Text PAUL TONER Models DYLAN MOFFETT at Milk Management and EDDY EARL at Perspective Management Hair CHIKA F.K using Oribe Hair Care Fashion assistants SONYA MAZURYK and HOLLY SAPNA SINGH Casting SIX WOLVES Clothing and accessories throughout by JUNYA WATANABE MAN


--- [Tao Kurihara: The Quietest Member of The Comme Universe] ---
No content
