=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Van Dyke Parks | Twin Peaks Wiki | Fandom]
Van Dyke Parks is an American musician and actor who appeared as Jack Racine in Twin Peaks. Parks is best known for his work in music, particularly for his collaborations with Brian Wilson of the Beach Boys and his contributions to Silverchair's 2002 album Diorama. Van Dyke Parks at the Internet...
URL: https://twinpeaks.fandom.com/wiki/Van_Dyke_Parks

[TWIN PEAKS ARCHIVE: Exclusive Van Dyke Parks interview!]
Twin Peaks Archive: How long did the part take to film? Van Dyke Parks: It was less than an entire day of honest labor. Twin Peaks Archive: Do you keep up with or are you friends with any of the cast members or crew? Van Dyke Parks: Amazingly, i had met, and worked with Royal Dano, back in 1955 Mr. Dano was the judge in the final episode.
URL: https://twinpeaksarchive.blogspot.com/2007/10/exclusive-van-dyke-parks-interview.html

[Twin Peaks (TV Series 1990-1991) - Van Dyke Parks as Jack Racine - IMDb]
Van Dyke Parks: Jack Racine Twin Peaks Van Dyke Parks credited as playing... Jack Racine It looks like we don't have any photos or quotes yet. Be the first to contribute. Add a photo.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0098936/characters/nm0663026

[Jack Racine - Twin Peaks | TVmaze]
Oct 27, 1990 · Guest cast, played by Van Dyke Parks. Character Guide for Twin Peaks's Jack Racine. Includes character biography, gallery, and a complete list of episode appearances.
URL: https://www.tvmaze.com/characters/40517/twin-peaks-jack-racine

[Twin Peaks Cast List - glastonberrygrove.net]
Minor Characters Teresa Banks Pamela Gidley Caroline Powell Earle Brenda E. Mathers Gwen (Lucy Moran's sister) Kathleen Wilhoite Tim Pinkle David L. Lander Reverend Clarence Brocklehurst Royce D. Applegate Dell Mibbler Ed Wright Colonel Riley Tony Burton Irene Littlehorse Geraldine Keams Dr. Shelvy Tawnya Pettiford-Waites Nicholas "Little Nicky ...
URL: https://www.glastonberrygrove.net/info/castlist.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Van Dyke Parks | Twin Peaks Wiki | Fandom] ---
Van Dyke Parks is an American musician and actor who appeared as Jack Racine in Twin Peaks. Parks is best known for his work in music, particularly for his collaborations with Brian Wilson of the Beach Boys and his contributions to Silverchair's 2002 album Diorama.


--- [TWIN PEAKS ARCHIVE: Exclusive Van Dyke Parks interview!] ---
Exclusive Van Dyke Parks interview! Twin Peaks Archive: Were you aware of David Lynch and/or Twin Peaks before getting the part of defense attorney Jack Racine? Van Dyke Parks: I knew there was a David Lynch before getting the part of the defense attorney. I was aware of the mania surrounding the famous series one conclusion. Yet, i'd not heard/seen any of Lynch's work, nor seen one episode of the show. Generally, i stay out of the present tense. Twin Peaks Archive: How did the part come about for you? Van Dyke Parks: I knew the director of that episode, since about 1969, as a neighbor in Laurel Canyon. He saw me play a cameo as a prosecuting attorney in Nicholson's 'Two Jakes' picture, and figured i could remember my lines. Twin Peaks Archive: How long did the part take to film? Van Dyke Parks: It was less than an entire day of honest labor. Twin Peaks Archive: Do you keep up with or are you friends with any of the cast members or crew? Van Dyke Parks: Amazingly, i had met, and worked with Royal Dano, back in 1955 Mr. Dano was the judge in the final episode. In 1955, i played the title role in 'Elisha and the long knives' a live tv drama, with Mr. Dano cast in the pricipal adult role. Our family loved the Dano family and stayed in normal contact (Christmas cards and the like) About forty years passed, and we met again on the set. That alone was a completely emotive event for me. Dano was a giant, in my view. He was also my favorite portrayal artist of Abraham Lincoln. His singularly sympathetic face held the wisdom of the ages. Twin Peaks Archive: Did you ever think there would be such a successful resurgence of the SMiLE project? Van Dyke Parks: Yes, but not in my lifetime. Twin Peaks Archive: Do you plan on writing an autobiography? Van Dyke Parks: I've thought about it. Still, there's something highly co-optive about it. Most autobiography by celebs in the music racket draw a pretty thin line between fact and fiction. Consider this possible entry: "........so, I was at lunch one day with Barry Gordy Jr. It was my treat. I liked the guy. So I said to Barry '....no Barry, not MOTOR TOWN RECORDS.....call it MOTOWN RECORDS..... Easier to pronounce.....good ad-speak.' Barry turned to me, astonished. He said: '....gee Van Dyke....that's brilliant....can I use it?' I said 'Sure Barry, no prob. Be my guest'." The rest is history. The foregoing, just a sample of the incredible challenge i'd have in writing a plausible rear view for the public. All my best wishes to you Jerry. Thanks for including me. Much fun. VAN DYKE PARKS Make sure and check out Van Dyke Parks brillant solo album 'Song Cycle' Also, 'Smile' should not be missed. Thanks to Hank_Jennings for the screenshots. 'Surf's Up' Brian Wilson/Van Dyke Parks A diamond necklace played the pawn Hand in hand some drummed along, oh To a handsome mannered baton A blind class aristocracy Back through the opera glass you see The pit and the pendulum drawn Columnated ruins domino Canvass the town and brush the backdrop Are you sleeping? Hung velvet overtaken me Dim chandelier awaken me To a song dissolved in the dawn The music hall a costly bow The music all is lost for now To a muted trumpeter swan Columnated ruins domino Canvass the town and brush the backdrop Are you sleeping, Brother John? Dove nested towers the hour was Strike the street quicksilver moon Carriage across the fog Two-Step to lamp lights cellar tune The laughs come hard in Auld Lang Syne The glass was raised, the fired-roast The fullness of the wine, the dim last toasting While at port adieu or die A choke of grief heart hardened I Beyond belief a broken man too tough to cry Surf's Up Aboard a tidal wave Come about hard and join The young and often spring you gave I heard the word Wonderful thing A children's song Child, child, child, child, child A child is the father of the man Child, child, child, child, child A child is the father of the man A children's song Have you listened as they played Their song is love And the children know the way That's why the child is the father to the man Child, child, child, child, child Child, child, child, child, child Na na na na na na na na Child, child, child, child, child That's why the child is the father to the man Child, child, child, child, child 3 comments: - AparecidaProtectUs said... - This was such a cool interview, I haven't known quite what to say. It's so interesting to me the connections that are woven through our lives; who we meet, work with, become friends with in whatever capacity. But even more so, is what can happen in an artistic environment. It often does confirm for me there is a force in the universe that either guides all this, the person involved making their own luck through hard work and endurance, or equal amounts of both. Van Dyke Parks being on Twin Peaks is like Melvin Belli playing the Gorgon on TOS, only much more eclectic, like Twin Peaks itself. Mmmmmmm, great stuff. - October 19, 2007 at 8:19 AM - Jerry Horne said... - It's interesting that so many people can watch the series and not know who Van Dyke Parks was. However, perhaps that evening you hear some music written by him and don't put the pieces together. Like the series itself, it's a puzzle that only time can solve. - October 19, 2007 at 12:23 PM - Alex V Cook said... - Nice interview, and have been enjoying your site while rewatching Twin Peaks. The founder of Motown is BERRY Gordy, Jr. - June 11, 2020 at 1:00 PM


--- [Twin Peaks (TV Series 1990-1991) - Van Dyke Parks as Jack Racine - IMDb] ---
It looks like we don't have any photos or quotes yet. Be the first to contribute.Add a photo.Add a quote.


--- [Jack Racine - Twin Peaks | TVmaze] ---
Login Register Menu Shows People Networks Web Channels Articles Schedule Calendar Countdown Forums Home Shows Twin Peaks Characters Jack Racine Jack Racine Main Gallery AKAs We don't have a biography for Jack Racine yet. Hang in there, or go ahead and contribute one. Share this on: Appearances Twin Peaks Guest cast, played by Van Dyke Parks Episode 2x05: The Orchid's Curse ( Oct 27, 1990 )


--- [Twin Peaks Cast List - glastonberrygrove.net] ---
Twin Peaks Cast ListThe FBI/DEA Twin Peaks Sheriff's Station The Packard Sawmill Hong Kong Connection The Horne Family The Palmer Family The Hayward Family The Briggs Family The Hurley Family The Pulaski Family The Jennings Family The Johnsons The Milford Family The Marshs Other Twin Peaks Residents One Eyed Jack's The Other Side The Court System Twin Peaks High School Horne's Department Store Staff Great Northern Hotel Staff Minor Characters Pawns Insurance Men Ghostwood Estate Investors "Invitation to Love" Cast Notes (2) The first actor listed played the character in the TV series, but was replaced by the second actor in the film "Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me. (3) Piper Laurie played Tojamura in all scenes, but was credited as 'Fumio Yamaguchi' to hide this fact from viewers. This deception by the producers extended to a fake biography released by Lynch/ Frost Productions to the newspaper USA TODAY. This biography stated, among other things, that Yamaguchi had been in several of Akira Kurasawa's films. |
