=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Claude Bourdet - Wikipedia]
Claude Bourdet (28 October 1909 – 20 March 1996) was a writer, journalist, polemist, and militant French politician. Bourdet was a son of the dramatic author Édouard Bourdet and the poet Catherine Pozzi, was born and died in Paris, France. In 1935, he married Ida Adamoff.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Claude_Bourdet

[Claude Bourdet, 86, Leader of French Resistance and Leftist Editor - The New York Times]
Claude Bourdet, a Resistance leader who emerged a starveling from the Nazi concentration camp at Buchenwald to become a leader of France's postwar non-Communist left, died yesterday at his home in Paris.
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/1996/03/22/arts/claude-bourdet-86-leader-of-french-resistance-and-leftist-editor.html

[Obituary: Claude Bourdet | The Independent | The Independent]
Claude Bourdet, journalist and resister: born Paris 28 October 1909; Founder and Editor, France-Observateur (now Le Nouvel Observateur) 1950- 63; books include L'Aventure incertaine 1975; married 1935 Ida Adamoff (two sons, one daughter); died ...
URL: https://www.the-independent.com/news/people/obituary-claude-bourdet-1343622.html

[Ida Adamoff - Wikipedia]
She married Claude Bourdet in 1935 and had two sons and a daughter.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ida_Adamoff

[Claude Bourdet - Biography - IMDb]
Claude Bourdet. Self: Hôtel Terminus. Claude Bourdet was born on 28 October 1909 in Paris, France. He was married to Ida Vartanovna Adamiantz-Adamoff. He died on 20 March 1996 in Paris, France.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/name/nm2635272/bio/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Claude Bourdet - Wikipedia] ---
Claude Bourdet (28 October 1909 – 20 March 1996) was a writer, journalist, polemist, and militant French politician.




--- [Claude Bourdet, 86, Leader of French Resistance and Leftist Editor - The New York Times] ---
Supported by Claude Bourdet, 86, Leader of French Resistance and Leftist Editor Claude Bourdet, a Resistance leader who emerged a starveling from the Nazi concentration camp at Buchenwald to become a leader of France's postwar non-Communist left, died yesterday at his home in Paris. He was 86. A founder of the newspaper Combat and the political weekly L'Observateur, Mr. Bourdet was one of only a few hundred heroes to be designated a Compagnon de la Liberation by Charles de Gaulle for his membership in the National Resistance Council and his leadership of the Resistance movement Combat. He was also an outspoken intellectual and cold-war neutralist unafraid to condemn French repression in Algeria and a resurgence of French anti-Semitism. On a spring dawn in 1956, when Mr. Bourdet was editor of L'Observateur, he was arrested at his home, handcuffed and hauled off to be strip-searched at Fresnes Prison, where the Gestapo had taken him upon his arrest in 1944. The 1956 seizure followed a series of articles in which Mr. Bourdet attacked the French campaign to destroy the guerrillas battling for Algerian independence and condemned plans to call up 100,000 military reservists. "One hundred thousand young Frenchmen are threatened with being thrown into the 'dirty war' of Algeria, with losing the best years of their lives, perhaps with being wounded, indeed killed, for a cause that few among them approve, in a kind of combat that revolts most of them," he wrote. At sundown Mr. Bourdet was released, and in his first post-prison editorial, he observed: "When somebody rings your bell at 6 A.M. and it is the milkman, you are in a democracy." Related Content Advertisement


--- [Obituary: Claude Bourdet | The Independent | The Independent] ---
Obituary: Claude Bourdet - Bookmark - CommentsGo to comments On 31 March 1956 French security police came to arrest Claude Bourdet. He was taken first to the prison of La Sante, then to Fresnes. He was finally taken to some barracks where a magistrate prepared to examine him. "It's curious," Bourdet remarked, "but it's exactly the same as last time. First to Sante, then Fresnes. You've followed the same route as the others." "What do you mean, `the others'?" asked the magistrate, frowning. "Why, the Gestapo, of course," replied Bourdet. "You must have heard of them." The magistrate went white with rage. Bourdet thought he was going to hit him. In 1956 Bourdet was arrested because he had written an article attacking the policies of the French government in Algeria. He was accused of demoralising the army. In March 1944 it was as a leader of the Resistance that he was arrested, deported to Oranienburg, and from there to Buchenwald. The irony of the 1956 incident was that the orders for his arrest came from two former companions of the Resistance, Bourges- Maunoury, the Minister for Defence, and the head of his private office, Louis Mangin, who had been sent from London by de Gaulle to occupied France. Thus Bourdet was able to contemplate to what extent the forces that had been united against the Germans had become disunited. The 1956 arrest was not important, Bourdet being released within hours of his arrest, which had caused a wave of protests. But, 30 years later, he was still recalling the sadness that it had caused him. What he considered to be the best in France had become divided, hostile to each other, enemies. Yet all his life he had contemplated such divisions and had, in no small way, himself contributed to them. In the autumn of 1940, Henri Frenay, a distinguished young officer who was humiliated by the defeat, began to organise patriotic groups in the south of France. Claude Bourdet joined with enthusiasm, and in May 1941 Frenay appointed him the leader of the network in the departments of the Alpes- Maritimes and the Var. The south was not occupied by the Germans, so the task of the Resistance was not so much fighting as propaganda. At this Bourdet and his associates were remarkably successful. From December 1941 onwards their main publication became Combat, which grew from some 5,000 copies an issue to some 150,000. Their Resistance network adopted the name of its newspaper. But there were many problems within the Resistance movements. Frenay believed that Petain, the hero of Verdun, could save France. Bourdet, in long walks along the quais of Marseilles, persuaded him that they had nothing to hope from him. Then there were the Communists. Bourdet was reluctant to co-operate with them, and fearful of their future dominance. Most famous of all were his suspicions of de Gaulle and London, his contempt for those who knew nothing about Resistance work giving orders to those who had gained vast experience and knowledge. This last led him to be less than enthusiastic about Jean Moulin, who was charged by de Gaulle with unifying the different Resistance groupings. But he never wavered in his conviction that the aim of the Resistance was to create a new France, one which would be modern and progressive. Bourdet's father was Edouard Bourdet, a highly successful dramatist; his mother, Catherine Pozzi, a poet with a famous salon. With their divorce, Bourdet studied in Zurich as an engineer. Having become bilingual in French and English through his English nanny, he became tri-lingual with German attached. As a left-wing Catholic he supported the Popular Front, and from 1936 he was attached to the economics minister, Charles Spinasse, who disappointed him by being one of the socialists who voted full powers to Petain in July 1940. On Bourdet's return to France in 1945 he was elected deputy to the first Consultative Assembly and was for a time in charge of national broadcasting. But his future was in political journalism. He succeeded Albert Camus in the peacetime Combat newspaper, but quarrelled with the owner, and left in order to be one of the founders of the weekly France-Observateur, an independent left-wing publication with great influence. I first met Bourdet when I was a student at the Ecole Normale Superieure in 1948, when he came to denounce the war in Indo-China. He told me that he had great hopes of the Labour government in England, and believed that it would become the leader of a united socialist Europe. In 1957 he came to Birmingham University to speak of French misdeeds in Algeria. His English was perfect but dated. It was curious to hear such a militant speaking the language of Bertie Wooster. His visit was a great success. He continued his campaigns. Against de Gaulle in 1958; in favour of the Third World; working for a new independent socialist party; in opposition to a Europe dominated by capitalism and Germany. Some said that he was the sort of man who would drive his car in order to give help, but would knock an innocent bystander down as he did so. Others saw him as the stalwart defender of justice, the tireless believer in a better world, a man of outstanding honesty. Douglas Johnson Claude Bourdet, journalist and resister: born Paris 28 October 1909; Founder and Editor, France-Observateur (now Le Nouvel Observateur) 1950- 63; books include L'Aventure incertaine 1975; married 1935 Ida Adamoff (two sons, one daughter); died Paris 20 March 1996. Join our commenting forum Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies Comments


--- [Ida Adamoff - Wikipedia] ---
Ida Adamoff (Russian: Ида Адамова, IPA: [ˈidə ɐˈdaməvə]: 26 June [O.S. 13 June] 1910 – 5 June 1993) was a French tennis player active in the 1930s.
Adamoff reached the doubles final at the 1935 French Championships with Hilde Krahwinkel Sperling, losing to Margaret Scriven and Kay Stammers. Her best singles performance at a Grand Slam tournament was reaching the third round at the French Championships, in 1929, 1931, 1932 and 1935, and at the Wimbledon Championships in 1934. In 1931 she reached the quarterfinals of the mixed doubles event at Wimbledon with Enrique Maier.
In 1930 Adamoff won the singles title at the Championships of Spain and successfully defended her title in 1931. She defeated Cilly Aussem and Lucia Valerio at the Lenz Cup in Merano, Italy in October. In June 1931, she won the singles event at the Berlin Championships followed up in July with a victory at the Dutch Championships in Noordwijk where she beat Toni Schomburgk in the final. In 19,32 she won the Romanian and Italian Championships singles titles. In July 1933, Adamoff won the doubles title at the Dutch Championships with Mrs. Burke.
In 1930, she was ranked no. 2 in France behind Simonne Mathieu.
She married Claude Bourdet in 1935 and had two sons and a daughter.




--- [Claude Bourdet - Biography - IMDb] ---
- Born - Died - Nickname - Lorrain - Claude Bourdet was born on October 28, 1909 in Paris, France. He was married to Ida Vartanovna Adamiantz-Adamoff. He died on March 20, 1996 in Paris, France. - SpouseIda Vartanovna Adamiantz-Adamoff(1935 - June 5, 1993) (her death, 3 children) - Commandeur de la Légion d'Honneur. - Compagnon de la Libération, the French Order established by Charles de Gaulle. - The Place Claude-Bourdet is named after him in the 13th arrondissement of Paris. - In 1950, he co-founded the news-magazine "L'Observateur". - He was arrested by the Gestapo and he was deported to various concentration camps, including Buchenwald. Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content
