=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Work - David Quiles Guillo]
David Quiles Guilló Developing creative projects and collaborative ventures that merge digital culture, contemporary art, new media, AI, data, literature, jazz and design. Shaping the landscape of global contemporary culture. Founder and creative director of The Wrong Biennale, NOVA Festival and ROJO magazine.
URL: https://davidquilesguillo.com/Work

[SHIFT | PEOPLE | DAVID QUILES GUILLó]
Jul 15, 2009 · Since ROJO® was born, in March 2001, I have teamed up with an international emotional working structure of more than 40 associated directors and more than 800 art contributors, a distribution network in 37 countries, edited 34 issues of the ROJO®magazine, produced 2 issues of the RUGA®magazine DVD, edited 37 monographic artist books ...
URL: https://www.shift.jp.org/en/archives/2009/07/david_quiles_guillo.html

[David Quiles Guilló | Artist | Artfacts]
Nov 1, 2025 · The artist David Quiles Guilló is ranked among the Top 100,000 on ArtFacts. Find out more...
URL: https://artfacts.net/artist/david-quiles-guillo

[The Wrong – S+T+ARTS Prize - ars.electronica.art]
David Quiles Guilló (ES) is an art entrepreneur, new media powerhouse, awarded creative and full weirdo at large. Curator for contemporary digital art, creative director, artist, writer, editor & publisher, experimental musician, digital poet, creative consultant, cultural programmer, and graphic designer.
URL: https://ars.electronica.art/starts-prize/en/the-wrong/

[Quiles Guilló, David | Memoria digital de Elche/Elx]
Feb 17, 2022 · David Quiles Guilló, creador de esta propuesta que traspasa fronteras, arrancó desde cero un proyecto que nació con el objetivo de «subvertir todo el esquema tradicional del arte, desde la generación, hasta su exposición y venta». «Se trataba de adaptarlo al mundo digital, sobre todo por lo accesible y global que es.
URL: https://www.elche.me/biografia/quiles-guillo-david


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Work - David Quiles Guillo] ---
David Quiles Guilló Developing creative projects and collaborative ventures that merge digital culture, contemporary art, new media, AI, data, literature, jazz and design. Shaping the landscape of global contemporary culture. Founder and creative director of The Wrong Biennale, NOVA Festival and ROJO magazine. Publisher at Abstract Editions and 7tNbjV. Author of freestyle literature titles; God Future, 100 Million Dollars Trilogy, Esoplots and Enter the Following. Jazz musician at Cachopou and Tosco West. Founder and creative director of The Wrong Biennale, NOVA Festival and ROJO magazine. Publisher at Abstract Editions and 7tNbjV. Author of freestyle literature titles; God Future, 100 Million Dollars Trilogy, Esoplots and Enter the Following. Jazz musician at Cachopou and Tosco West. Awarded with a European Comission honorary mention at S+T+ARTS for organising and curating collaborative art exhibitions, producing cultural artifacts and building creative networks together with thousands of artists, curators and institutions worldwide. Developed ad-hoc creative strategies, projects, collaborations and events for clients; Absolut Vodka, Adidas, Apple, Comme Des Garçons, Diesel Jeans, Nike, Epson, Estrella Damm, Fiat, Heineken, Frigo, J&B Scotch, Levi Strauss, Mercedes-Benz, Osklen, Paul Smith, Pepe Jeans, Ray-Ban, Red Bull, Kelme, Samsung, Selina, Smart, Tiger Beer, Suvinil and Unilever among many others. Developed ad-hoc creative strategies, projects, collaborations and events for clients; Absolut Vodka, Adidas, Apple, Comme Des Garçons, Diesel Jeans, Nike, Epson, Estrella Damm, Fiat, Heineken, Frigo, J&B Scotch, Levi Strauss, Mercedes-Benz, Osklen, Paul Smith, Pepe Jeans, Ray-Ban, Red Bull, Kelme, Samsung, Selina, Smart, Tiger Beer, Suvinil and Unilever among many others. SMART David Quiles Guilló / ROJO® established a 5 year relationship with SMART, as an international creative director, senior art director, communication and PR partner. During this time ROJO® developed a growing relationship by publishing a special printed issue featuring taylor made artworks for SMART, to later organise art exhibitions and events in Spain, France, Germany, Italy and Brazil, launched limited edition cars, published a second special printed issue, and heavily supported the launch of the SMART brand in USA and Brazil with events in Los Angeles and São Paulo. ®OUT Urban Stage Sao Paulo ROJO®OUT Urban Stage Sao Paulo sponsored by SMART is the natural evolution of Barcelona's International Outdoor Urban Art Exhibition. An on-going project where selected artists create site specific architectured-color projects on massive concrete elements in different locations of the city were traffic is very dense, with the objective to make them more colorful. These pieces will remain as part of the city's permanent urban landscape thanks to SMART, Suvinil, EMURB and Prefeitura de Sao Paulo. Artists: MWM, Tony de Marco, Eltono, Ovni, Nuria Mora, Superblast, Tofer. SMART POP UP Urban Stage Sao Paulo Launch event of the SMART brand in Brazil. Smart Urban Stage is a pop-up space, located at the heart of the vibrant shopping and nightlife district, Jardim Paulista, that combines an art gallery, shopping, showroom and events relating to the themes of urban mobility, creativity and ecological sustainability. In the course of two weeks Tony de Marco, Apo Fousek, Eltono, Ovni and Nuria Mora, curated by David Quiles Guilló / ROJO® transformed the smart Urban Stage into a collective work of art. This also included a SMART fortwo cabrio turned into an art car during the first days of the event by Ovni. Artists: Tony de Marco, Eltono, Ovni, Nuria Mora, Apo Fousek. ®FORTWO in Milano Art exhibition showcasing exclusive new works inspired by the new SMART fortwo made by Mwm, Friends With You, Holly Stevenson, Deanne Cheuk, Chet Purtilar, Jemma Hostetler, Dalek, Ben Summers, Yoshi Tajima, Bruno 9Li, Yoshi Sodeoka, Evgeny Kiselev, Vanessa Da Silva, Cristiano Trindade, Meomi, Todd Tourso, Justine Ashbee, Tofer, Alex Prager, Catalina Estrada, Amir H. Fallah, Sergei Sviatchenko. Installation to present a series of limited edition smart fortwo car series, designed by Catalina Estrada, and exclusively avaliable for sale during Milan Design Week 2008. Original artwork by: Catalina Estrada. Art direction by: David Quiles Guilló ®FORTWO in Los Angeles Launch event of SMART brand in USA, featuring unreleased new artwork by Mwm, Friends With You, Holly Stevenson, Deanne Cheuk, Chet Purtilar, Jemma Hostetler, Dalek, Ben Summers, Yoshi Tajima, Bruno 9Li, Yoshi Sodeoka, Evgeny Kiselev, Vanessa Da Silva, Cristiano Trindade, Meomi, Todd Tourso, Justine Ashbee, Tofer, Alex Prager, Catalina Estrada, Amir H. Fallah, Sergei Sviatchenko. ®FORTWO Open your mind Exclusive limited printed edition featuring new artwork by 22 artists curated by David Quiles Guilló / ROJO® and commisioned by SMART. Artwork by Friends With You, Holly Stevenson, Deanne Cheuk, Ben Summers, Yoshi Tajima, Bruno 9Li, Yoshi Sodeoka, Evgeny Kiselev, Chet Purtilar, Jemma Hostetler, Vanessa Da Silva, Mwm, Cristiano Trindade, Meomi, Todd Tourso, Justine Ashbee, Tofer, Alex Prager, Catalina Estrada, Amir H. Fallah, Sergei Sviatchenko, Dalek. ®SMART fortwo limited edition Limited edition urban vehicle made possible thanks to SMART. Original artwork by Neasden Control Centre. Art direction by David Quiles Guilló. ®SEIS party Milano Sixth anniversary multidisciplinar event as part of Fuori Salone during Milano's design week featuring: Giuseppe Iavicoli, Gianluigi Ruju, Harley & Muscle, Lucia "Lucybee" Barbiero, Fabio Tosti, Frank Siccardi, Polar 11. Artwork by Neasden Control Centre. ®SMART in Berlin Group art exhibition at invaliden1 gallery in Berlin, Germany, curated by David Quiles Guilló / ROJO® and commissioned by SMART. Artwork by Neasden Control Centre, Nuno Valerio, Juju’s Delivery, Albert Bertolin, Tvboy, Sosaku Miyazaki, Patrick Farzar, Fupete, Boris Hoppek, Yummy Industries, Laurent Cairoli, Eduardo Bertone, Lolo, Carolina Melis, Eltono+Nuria, Fabrizio Contarino, Sixeart, Les Mentary Brothers, Mimmo Manes, Diva & Jessica Palazzo, Javier Tles. ®SMART in Barcelona Group art exhibition at KBB gallery in Barcelona, Spain, curated by David Quiles Guilló / ROJO® and commissioned by SMART. Artwork by Neasden Control Centre, Nuno Valerio, Juju’s Delivery, Albert Bertolin, Tvboy, Sosaku Miyazaki, Patrick Farzar, Fupete, Boris Hoppek, Yummy Industries, Laurent Cairoli, Eduardo Bertone, Lolo, Carolina Melis, Eltono+Nuria, Fabrizio Contarino, Sixeart, Les Mentary Brothers, Mimmo Manes, Diva & Jessica Palazzo, Javier Tles. ®SMART open your mind Exclusive limited printed edition featuring new work by 2o artists curated by David Quiles Guilló / ROJO® and commissioned by SMART. Taylor made artwork by Neasden Control Centre, Nuno Valerio, Juju’s Delivery, Albert Bertolin, Tvboy, Sosaku Miyazaki, Patrick Farzar, Fupete, Boris Hoppek, Yummy Industries, Laurent Cairoli, Eduardo Bertone, Lolo, Carolina Melis, Eltono+Nuria, Fabrizio Contarino, Sixeart, Les Mentary Brothers, Mimmo Manes, Diva & Jessica Palazzo, Javier Tles. NIKE David Quiles Guilló / ROJO® established a 4 year relationship with NIKE as an international creative director, senior art director, communication and PR partner. During this time ROJO® developed a growing relationship by publishing a special printed issue inspired in 20 years of AIR products, featuring taylor made artworks for NIKE, distributed worldwide in a special print run of 100.000 copies, to later organise art exhibitions in Spain, France, Germany, Italy and Brazil, create brand events and art installations, and help develop and testdrive the launch of NIKE.ID, an advanced customization shoe digital service. NIKE DUNK ID experience NIKE opens a temporary shop inside ROJO®artspace Barcelona where you can buy virtually your pair of Dunks ID Exclusive. ID Dunk exposition by: TVboy, Actop, Vasava, Sixeart, Boris Hoppek, Frank Kalero, Diva, Area3, Ovni, Toormix, Inocuo. 35 YEARS. The Running Company at Vinçon Ten of Barcelona's best young creatives & independent studios curated by David Quiles Guilló / ROJO® and comisioned by NIKE interpret original products of the 70's with contemporary and groundbreaking artworks inspired by emblematic points of the city of Barcelona. Sala Vinçon, the design icon house in Paseo de Gracia hosted the show during 3 weeks. Artwork by Actop, Silvia Prada, Inocuo, Bernat Lliteras, Vasava, Area3, Diva, Toormix, Catalina Estrada, Javier Tles. ®AIR in São Paulo Art exhibition featuring unreleased new artwork by 31 artists curated by David Quiles Guilló / ROJO® and commissioned by NIKE. Artwork by Deubal, Actop, Tofer, Neasden Control Centre, Eltono & Nuria, Dalek, Boris Hoppek, Meomi, Nano4814, Sebastian Bayona, Fupete, Javier Tles, Filipe Mesquita, Sixeart, 31Ok, April Gertler, Kelyo, Sosaku Miyazaki, Parra, Albert Bertolin, Andrew James Jones, Frank Kalero, Jemma Hostetler, Studio Dascobar, Milena Valnarova, Catalina Estrada, Martin Ezman, Benedita Feijo & Michael Andersen, Roxana Brongo, Yomar Augusto, Patrick Farzar. ®AIR in Madrid Art exhibition featuring unreleased new artwork by 31 artists curated by David Quiles Guilló / ROJO® and commissioned by NIKE. Artwork by Deubal, Actop, Tofer, Neasden Control Centre, Eltono & Nuria, Dalek, Boris Hoppek, Meomi, Nano4814, Sebastian Bayona, Fupete, Javier Tles, Filipe Mesquita, Sixeart, 31Ok, April Gertler, Kelyo, Sosaku Miyazaki, Parra, Albert Bertolin, Andrew James Jones, Frank Kalero, Jemma Hostetler, Studio Dascobar, Milena Valnarova, Catalina Estrada, Martin Ezman, Benedita Feijo & Michael Andersen, Roxana Brongo, Yomar Augusto, Patrick Farzar. ®AIR in Barcelona Art exhibition featuring unreleased new artwork by 31 artists curated by David Quiles Guilló / ROJO® and commissioned by NIKE. Artwork by Deubal, Actop, Tofer, Neasden Control Centre, Eltono & Nuria, Dalek, Boris Hoppek, Meomi, Nano4814, Sebastian Bayona, Fupete, Javier Tles, Filipe Mesquita, Sixeart, 31Ok, April Gertler, Kelyo, Sosaku Miyazaki, Parra, Albert Bertolin, Andrew James Jones, Frank Kalero, Jemma Hostetler, Studio Dascobar, Milena Valnarova, Catalina Estrada, Martin Ezman, Benedita Feijo & Michael Andersen, Roxana Brongo, Yomar Augusto, Patrick Farzar. ®AIR a little less gravity Exclusive limited printed edition to celebrate 2o years of NIKE AIR technology, featuring new works by 3o artists curated by David Quiles Guilló / ROJO® and commissioned by NIKE. Artwork by Deubal, Actop, Tofer, Neasden Control Centre, Eltono & Nuria, Dalek, Boris Hoppek, Meomi, Nano4814, Sebastian Bayona, Fupete, Javier Tles, Filipe Mesquita, Sixeart, 310k, April Gertler, Kelyo, Sosaku Miyazaki, Albert Bertolin, Andrew James Jones, Frank Kalero, Jemma Hostetler, Studio Dascobar, Milena Valnarova, Catalina Estrada, Martin Ezman, Benedita Feijo & Michael Andersen, Roxana Brongo, Yomar Augusto, Patrick Farzar. ABSOLUT VODKA David Quiles Guilló / ROJO® established a 5 year relationship with ABSOLUT VODKA, as a creative director, senior art director, communication and PR partner. During this time ROJO® developed a growing relationship by partnering to organise NOVA contemporary culture festival, creating branded art content to join the festival and other brand PR events, to later create a deluxe printed series of 4 books featuring contemporary brazilian writers and international artists. NOVA cultura contemporânea. NOVA is an interactive, full-environmental experience utilizing color, light, textures, music and design, in the form of collaborative and integrated compositions by a wide range of artists from around the world. From hand-made illustrations to large scale murals to modern digital art; moving image to multimedia convergence, art made without the limitations or restrictions of traditional format and relying heavily on the magic of live improvisation. During this constantly evolving and mutating exhibition, the creative process is to be witnessed as an ongoing work in progress rife with experimentation, challenging traditional and contemporary techniques and the bending of modern technology. NOVA is an art festival building a collective artwork by empowering on-stage live production, collaboration and creative cross pollination between art, music and film, happening in very different settings, once every 6 months, featuring 324 artists, musicians and performers. NOVA premiered in 2o1o in São Paulo, followed with a gallery show edition in Los Angeles. 2o11 was the time for Rio de Janeiro, and São Paulo again, for a immersive cinematic edition. 2o12 saw the biggest NOVA, simultaneously in São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte and Barcelona. NOVA 2o12 São Paulo, Rio De Janeiro, Belo Horizonte & Barcelona. MIS, Sesc Pompeia, Casa Das Caldeiras, Teatro Café Pequeno, Centoequatro & Mitte Barcelona. April 3rd to May 31st, 2o12. NOVA 2o11 São Paulo. Cinemateca Brasileira. September 24th to October 29th, 2o11. NOVA 2o11 Rio de Janeiro. Casa França-Brasil & Parque Lage. March 21st to April 3oth, 2o11. NOVA 2o1o Los Angeles. SCION space. September 18th to October 9th, 2o1o. NOVA 2o1o São Paulo. MIS & SESC Pompeia. July 1st to August 15th, 2o1o. NOVA cultura contemporânea artists: 31ok, A.Bill Miller, Abstract Birds, Adrian Cooper, Afasia, Agnés Farkasvolgyi, Akin, Alberto Cabrera Bernal, Albinoi, Alcemar Vieira, Alex Fischer, Alex Mcleod, Alex Peverett, Alex Prager, Alexandra Dahlstrom, Alexandre Rangel, Ana Carolina Lima, André Damião, André Hallak, André Jotha, Andreas Söderström, Andrew Benson, Andy Denzler, Andy Dixon, Angélica Dass, Angélica Liesze, Anna Linder, Anna Taratiel, Anthony Antonellis, Artur Miglio, Astrid Rieger, Atsuhiro Ito, Autumn Comets, B.Fleischmann, Barbara Hlali, Basavizi, Base-V, Batman Zavareze, Bazófia, Beast, Beth Wexler, Bill Viola, Bjørn Melhus, Bodil Gustafsson Furs, Boris Hoppek, Bosques De Mi Mente, Bradien, Breno Spangler, Bruna, Carl Burgess, Carla Meireles, Carlos Theodoro, Carolina Melis, Caroline Barrueco, Carsten Nicolai, Catherine Genest, Catscars, Cesar Pesquera, Checho Gonzales, Chicks On Speed, Christiane Wöhler, Christopher Scullion, Cláudio Cavalcanti, Clemens Behr, Coletivo Suspenso, Computer Jay, Cristopher Cichocki, Daniel Burkhardt, Daniel Lie, Daniela Aun, David O’reilly, Defi Gagliardo, Deise Oliveira, Dengue Dengue Dengue!, Denis Darzacq, Droid On, E*Rock, Eboy, Eduardo Lassah, Elen Nas, Eltono, Eluvium, Emilio Gomariz, Erik Bünger, Ernesto Solis, Evan Voytas, Felice Varini, Felipe Brait, Felipe Turcheti, Fernanda Branco Polse, Fernando Chamarelli, Fernando Sarmiento, Fernando Visockis, Fibla, Filippo Minelli, Fiorella Mattheis, Flavio Samelo, Frank Kalero, Frederik Heyman, Frida Franker, Fuck Buttons, Fupete, Gabriel Dawe, Gabriel Sabino, Gabriela Brites, Gabriela Maciel, Gam Bodenhausen, Gee Galvão, Gonjasufi, Good Wives & Warriors, Graham Cadwell, Gugga, Guto Nobrega, Hans Appelqvist, Hapax, Heiko Tippelt, Helérida Calazães, Henrique Fogaça, Hess Is More, Highraff, Hildur Gudnadottir, Huper Alm, Isaac Niemand, Isan, Isolde Woudstra, Jan Goldfuss, Jan Verbeek, Jardim Elétrico, Jason Forrest, Jason Redwood, Javier Longobardo, Jay-Jay Johanson, Jayelle Hudson, Jeffers Egan, Jelle Feringa, Jennifer Sanchez, Jesús Olmo, Jimmy Joe Roche, Joan Saló, John Hyatt, Jonathan Mccabe, Jorge Schutze, Josimar Barbosa, Joymar Castro & Marcelo Fontes, Juan Rayos, Julia Oschatz, Julian Rosefeldt, Juliana Almeida, Juliana Maschietto, Julio Lucio, Karl Kliem, Karsten Schmidt, Kate Mccgwire, Keroøàcidu Suäväk, Kevin Francis Grey, Kit Webster, Koen Delaere, Kouichi Okamoto, Koulomek, Krink, Lapin, Laura Put, Lena Szczesna, Leopoldo Pacheco, Levi Van Veluw, Litoral, Ljudbilden & Piloten, Lolo, Lorna Mills, Lucas Simões, Lucía Zapata, Luciana Monte-Mór, Lucy Mcrae, M.Takara3, M4Sk 22, Maíra Valente, Malu Tavares, Marc Davi, Marc Kremers, Marcela Falci, Marcelo Rocha, Marco Grassi Aka Pho, Maria Luiza Calazães, Mariana Rocha, Marina Bychkova, Mario Zoots, Mark Jenkins, Mark Schoening, Mate Steinforth, Mathias Holmberg, Matt M Moore Aka Mwm, Max Hattler, Maxim Zhestkov, Maya Hayuk, Mel Azul, Mello+Landini, Mercurio, Michael Vorfeld, Midaircondo, Midori Hirose, Miguel Nader, Miltos Manetas, Minivegas, Mirella Brandi E Muepetmo, Miyö Van Stenis, Mjp, Modern Witch, Momo, Mouse On Mars, Mulheres Barbadas, Mundo Tigre, Nadine Byrne, Nanna Hellberg, Ney Barros, Nienke Klunder, Nils Frahm, Noemi Assumpção, Noia, Noriko Okaku, Novi_Sad, Objeto Amarelo, Oca, Odilon Wagner, Ohayo, .O.F.A.C. Olaf Breuning, Optical Machines, Oskar Metsavaht, Paco Calavera, Pandapanther, Patrick Kelleher & His Cold Dead Hands, Paul Seen, Paul Simpson, Penique Productions, Philipp Hirsch, Philippe Jusforgues, Piero Chiaretti, Pigmy, Plink Flojd, Porian, Pritty Borges, Protey Temen, Pulselooper, Quayola, Radio Deus, Rafael Monteyro, Rafael Pereira, Rafael Pinto, Rafael Rozendaal, Raphael Grisey, Raúl Cruz, Rebecca Ward, Regina Duarte, Renato Atuati, Renato Baractho, Ricardo Macedo, Ripo, Rob Fracisco Aka Biosfear, Robert Hodgin, Robert Seidel, Roll The Dice, Rollin Leonard, Ros Dolan & The Gang, Rosa Douat, Rosa Menkman, Rosina Lobosco, Russ Mills, Ryoichi Kurokawa, Sabrina Ratté, Sandra Koodi, Sara Ludy, School Tour, Sebastien Preschoux, Seixlack, Semiconductor, Sergei Sviatchenko, Sergio Abdalla, Shane Mcadams, Shima, Silent Disco, Simon Woolham, Sin Fang Bous, Sóley, Sophie Gateau, Sosaku Miyazaki, Sepk Aka Stephanie Mella, Subway Sonicbeat, Suely Cárceles, Tatiana Stepanenko, The Magic State, Thiago Pethit, This Time, Thomas Traum, Thorsten Fleisch, Ticotico, Timalina, Timo Katz, Tofer Chin, Tom Scholefield, Tomas Garcia, Tove Kjellmark, Tunng, Ugi-Gui, Universal Everything, Urubu, Val Perré, Veronica Debom, Verónica Luyo, Vicente Pessôa, Victor De La Rocque, Vidderna, Vjsuave, Volatiluz, Volker Schreiner, Walter Carvalho, Yago Hortal, Yango2, Yochai Matos, Yolanda Domínguez, Yoshi Sodeoka, Yusk Imai, Yves Netzhammer, Zeitguised, Zeitzeit, Zimoun. Created & curated by David Quiles Guilló / ROJO®, organised together with Graziela Calfat and Art Unlimited. Watch the documentary NOVA the film (2o11) in English, Spanish, Portuguese ABSOLUT 214o VOL#2. features exclusive texts by Simone Campos, Ana Paula Maia, Santiago Nazarian, Joca Reiners Terron And Emiliano Urbin, and selected artworks by Brett Amory, Dennis Feddersen, Yago Hortal, Tricia Keightley, Dave Kinsey, Pim Leenen, Momo, Alexander Peverett, Yoshi Sodeoka, Nicola Verlato and Zimoun.View. VOL#1. features exclusive texts by André “Cardoso” Czarnobai, Braulio Tavares, Miguel Del Castillo, Joca Reiners Terron, Alexandre Rodrigues, Paulo Scott, and selected artworks by Ernesto Artillo, Zander Blom, Koen Delaere, Delta Inc, Manuel Fernández, Ismael Iglesias, Henrik Isaksson Garrell, Lauren Pelc-Mcarthur, Penique Productions and Stefan Saalfeld. View. VOL#4. is the third part of the four volume “stereo-storytelling” project, and features texts by Luiz Bras, Ronaldo Bressane, Joca Reiners Terron, André Sant’anna, Leandro Sarmatz and Antônio Xerxenesky. Featuring artworks by Clemens Behr, Erin Case, Andrew Tamlyn, Emilie Gervais, Mark Jenkins, Chris Fraser, Dana Oldfather, Lance Austin Olsen And Mario Wagner. View. VOL#o. is the fourth and final volume of the 8oo pages “stereo-storytelling” project. Featuring texts by Carol Bensimon, André Conti, Joca Reiners Terron, Marcelino Freire, Adriana Lunardi and Carlos Henrique Schroeder. Featuring artworks by Protey Temen, Defi Gagliardo, Good Wives and Warriors, Jay-Jay Johanson, David Quiles Guilló, Jen Ray and David Sardaña. View. ABSOLUT 214o is a “stereo-storytelling” novel delivered in 4 printed volumes of 2oo pages each, with a print run of 5ooo copies each, and distributed for free in São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, in Brazil. It features unpublished texts by 2o brazilian writers and extended visual works by more than 3o artists from around the world. Created, directed and curated by David Quiles Guilló. Graziela Calfat as executive director. Joca Reiners Terron as editorial coordinator and Guilherme Brandão as distribution and event coordinator. Printed in Pancrom, São Paulo, 2o13~2o14. ABSOLUT 214o is a printed project commissioned by ABSOLUT VODKA ROJO out ROJO® out was an international outdoor urban art exhibition started in 2oo6 as an artistic urban initiative aiming to show the talent of international emergent artists on the streets throughout the transformation of the advertising billboards onto outdoor art canvases. A 3x yearly one month exhibition of exclusive unpublished artworks made specifically to be displayed in 44 outdoor large backlight billboards, distributed strategically through the city center, the surroundings and the most important connection routes in barcelona thanks to J&B. In 2oo8 a selection of 16 artworks produced for the first two editions of ROJO® out was showcased at Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía in Madrid. During the exhibition period, 4 artists also did a live art intervention in the glass walls at the new wing of the museum designed by Jean Nouvel. After three consecutive years where its predominant location was Barcelona, in mid 2oo9, ROJO® out expanded its concept to Brazil. Urban Stage São Paulo was the first evolution of Barcelona's international outdoor urban art exhibition, where selected artists created site specific architecture-color projects on massive concrete walls located in different critical points of the city were traffic is very dense, with the objective to make them more colorful. These interventions remain until today as part of São Paulo's permanent urban landscape, thanks to Smart, Suvinil and Prefeitura de São Paulo. Urban Gallery was a second stage outdoor interventions towards making the city more colorful. A project where international selected artists create site specific architecture-color projects on tapumes in different locations of Sao Paulo, Campinas, Rio De Janeiro, Curitiba and Brasilia. These pieces upgraded the urban landscape for a limited amount of time thanks to brookfield incorporações. J&B Barcelona artists: Eboy, Masha Krasnova-Shabaeva, Robert Hardgrave, Anna Taratiel Aka Ovni, Apo Fousek, Benedita Feijo & Michael Andersen, Kill Pixie, Wagner Pinto, Fupete, Hvass + Hannibal, Javier Tles, Momo, Pancho Tolchinsky, Vasava, Neasden Control Centre, Protey Temen, Claudio Parentela, Yomar Augusto, Alexander Egger, Bruno 9Li, Sosaku Miyazaki, Chet Purtilar, Mwm, Raquel Sakristan, Albert Bertolin, Diva, Jon Burgerman, Meomi, 310K, Tofer Chin, Sergei Sviatchenko, Cristiano Trindade, Evgeny Kiselev, Zosen, Jinyoung Shin, Aya Kato, Boris Hoppek, Bruno 9Li, Catalina Estrada, Dalek, Eltono & Nuria Mora, Ovni & Kenor, Sixeart. J&B Madrid artists: Chet Purtilar, Mwm, Diva, Jon Burgerman, Meomi, 310K, Evgeny Kiselev, Tofer Chin, Cristiano Trindade, Jinyoung Shin, Boris Hoppek, Sergei Sviatchenko, Aya Kato, Bruno 9Li, Catalina Estrada, Dalek. J&B Madrid live art intervention at Museo Reina Sofia: Anna Taratiel aka Ovni, Lolo, Sosaku Miyazaki, Fupete. Smart São Paulo artists: Mwm, Apo Fousek, Superblast, Eltono & Nuria Mora, Anna Taratiel aka Ovni, Speto, Wagner Pinto, Sosaku Miyazaki. Brookfield Urban Gallery artists: Tofer Chin, Momo, Flavio Samelo, Mulheres Barbadas, Defi Gagliardo, Ros Dolan, Lolo Y Sosaku. Eltono - São Paulo 2oo9 Mwm - São Paulo 2oo9 Anna Taratiel - São Paulo 2oo9 Fupete - Museo Reina Sofia, Madrid 2oo8 Hvass & Hannibal - Barcelona 2oo8 Bruno 9li - Barcelona 2oo8


--- [SHIFT | PEOPLE | DAVID QUILES GUILLó] ---
DAVID QUILES GUILLó PEOPLEText: Mariko Takei The 8 years have past since ROJO® magazine was born in Barcelona and it was featured on the past issue of SHIFT. During those years it has extremely grown up not only as a magazine but also as all sorts of media and events such as DVD, artist books, exhibitions, lectures, online-shops that explore worldwide for artists and creators to be participated. Founder and CEO David Quiles Guilló has been working since 2001 for new ways of ROJO® to keep in line with the times Could you introduce yourself? I am David Quiles Guilló, born in Elx (Spain) in 1973. Married to Graziela, proud dad of Olivia and just born Martina. I founded ROJO® in 2001 which I CEO since then. Since ROJO® was born, in March 2001, I have teamed up with an international emotional working structure of more than 40 associated directors and more than 800 art contributors, a distribution network in 37 countries, edited 34 issues of the ROJO®magazine, produced 2 issues of the RUGA®magazine DVD, edited 37 monographic artist books, produced 93 art exhibitions, promoted more than 600 events worldwide as well as created different formats and special events to explore different medias in order for artists to join and enjoy. I have given lectures about creative networks and processes in Instituto Cervantes – New York City (USA), International Art Fair ARCO – Madrid (Spain), Hangaram Design Museum in Seoul (Korea), Elisava School for Arts Barcelona (Spain), University of Cuenca (Ecuador), CESC Copacabana – Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), European Cultural Foundation in Rotterdam (Netherlands), University of Malaga (Spain), Colophon at Casino Luxembourg (Luxembourg), Instituto Europeo Di Design – Madrid (Spain) and Instituto Cervantes – Casablanca (Morocco). Based in Barcelona (Spain), I am now on the move to settled my new home in Sao Paulo (Brazil), and I am now travelling back and forth to live in eternal spring-summer seasons. What is your role in ROJO®? I do all kinds of stuff, but mostly, I do the creative direction and curatorship of all ROJO® contents, projects and expos. I am also in charge of taking care of new projects. ROJO® presents Dynamic Equilibrium, a site-specific installation as part of Milan Design Week, in Zona Tortona. Artist: Anna Taratiel aka Ovni. Art direction: Lorenzo Gatti. ROJO® owns and assists galleries worldwide. What is the major feature about the gallery network? The idea behind it is to make many galleries in different cities/countries/continents that already have a similar vision on new art to work together in order to join forces and make a stronger worlwide stand into showing the art they enjoy. Read more ...


--- [David Quiles Guilló | Artist | Artfacts] ---
No content


--- [The Wrong – S+T+ARTS Prize - ars.electronica.art] ---
Honorary Mention The Wrong was born in 2013 as a collaborative effort to create and promote digital art & culture, launching a global art biennale open to participation. The Wrong Biennale happens online and offline: Online happens in pavilions—virtual curated spaces in any accessible online media where selected artworks are exhibited. Offline happens in embassies, institutions, art spaces, galleries, and artist run spaces in cities around the world. An extended team of curators appoint themselves to feature what they like best of the new digital art scene today. Artists also appoint themselves via open calls and routers. Since 2013, more than 5,500 artists and curators have officially participated in The Wrong Biennale. “Counting its viewership in the millions, The Wrong just might be the world’s largest art biennale—the digital world’s answer to Venice.” The New York Times The 4th edition bloomed from November 1st, 2019 until March 1st, 2020, featuring +2300 artists +210 curators +150 online pavilions +100 embassies +320 events +120 locations around the world, and all over the internet. In March 2020, following the end of the 4th edition and in the midst of the Covid19 pandemic outbreak, The Wrong announces new biennale editions for November 1st, 2021, November 1st, 2023, and November 1st, 2025—and adds two new strains: The Wrong Website—an online website featuring a daily feed of digital art & culture links and The Wrong TV—an online tv platform live streaming digital art and culture. “Anyone interested in the field of digital art ought to pay attention to The Wrong.” Christiane Paul, new media curator for The Whitney Museum of American Art Credits Curators and artists: https://biennale.thewrong.org/2019-2020 Team: David Quiles Guilló, Graziela Calfat, Alejandra Raschkes, Jennifer Talbot Council: Ben Grosser, Erica Lapadat-Janzen, Florian Kuhlmann, Guilherme Brandão, Miyö Van Stenis, Jon Cates, Pablo Hannon, Carla Gannis, Moises Mañas, Patrick Lichty With support from: CMCV – Consorci de Museus de la Comunitat Valenciana – Generalitat Valenciana (Spain) https://www.consorcimuseus.gva.es SESC SP – Sao Paulo (Brazil) https://www.sescsp.org.br SOIS CULTURA awards 2019 https://soiscultura.diarioinformacion.com/premiados-2019 CARGO https://cargo.site Foto: David Quiles Guilló. The Wrong Biennale, 4th edition, from November 1st, 2019 to March 1st, 2020. World map of embassies, pavilions and routers. David Quiles Guilló (ES) is an art entrepreneur, new media powerhouse, awarded creative and full weirdo at large. Curator for contemporary digital art, creative director, artist, writer, editor & publisher, experimental musician, digital poet, creative consultant, cultural programmer, and graphic designer. Founder and director of the critically acclaimed international collaborative projects: The Wrong (since 2013), the most compelling digital art biennale ever, NOVA cultura contemporanea (2010-2012), a contemporary culture festival and ROJO magazine (2001-2011), a printed visual magazine & exhibition platform to promote creativity and art. Jury Statement As the COVID-19 pandemic and social distancing shuts down vast swathes of local and global activity, this piece shows an alternative yet ambitious new path for the arts and culture. The Wrong Biennale is a collaborative effort to create and promote digital art and culture across the world, launching a global art biennale open to participation, happening both online and offline, and harnessing the potential of collaboration and the internet. Furthermore, the concept aims to connect the world through online pavilions that are virtually curated spaces and offline exhibitions at embassies, institutions, art spaces, galleries, and artist-run spaces in cities. The event is organized following a bottom-up approach through which an extended team of curators appoint themselves to feature what they like best of the new digital art scene today and artists also appoint themselves via open calls. Since 2013, more than 5,500 artists and curators have officially participated in The Wrong Biennale—a concept that could prove key to the flourishing of the arts and culture in post pandemic times.


--- [Quiles Guilló, David | Memoria digital de Elche/Elx] ---
No content
