=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[William Beechey - Wikipedia]
In 1830, he stood for election as President of the Royal Academy following the death of Thomas Lawrence, finishing second to Martin Archer Shee. In 1836, Beechey retired to Hampstead and on 9–11 June that year, the contents of his studio along with his collection were sold at Christie's.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Beechey

[Sir William Beechey RA (British 1753-1839) — Galleriedesart - 19th & 20th Century Artwork for Sale]
William Beechey retired to Hampstead in 1836, and in the summer of the same year sold his entire studio contents together with his collection through Christies, he would die some three years later on 28th January 1839.
URL: https://www.galleriedesart.com/artist-spotlight/sir/william/beechey

[Sir William Beechey - National Galleries of Scotland]
Sir William Beechey was a successful portrait painter with unparalleled royal patronage. His intended legal career was cut short by a chance meeting with students of the Royal Academy Schools and in 1772 Beechey entered the schools himself. He first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1776. After five years in Norwich, he moved back to London in 1787 where he stepped into the vacuum left by ...
URL: https://www.nationalgalleries.org/art-and-artists/artists/sir-william-beechey

[Sir William Beechey (1753-1839) - Find a Grave Memorial]
Although he fell from favor at court for a while in 1804, he continued to paint royal portraits and was later Principal Portrait Painter to William IV. In 1836 he sold his collection of works of art and retired to Hampstead.
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/269894333/william-beechey

[Dictionary of National Biography, 1885-1900/Beechey, William - Wikisource, the free online library]
In 1836 he sold his collection of works of art and retired to Hampstead. 'He was twice married, and had a large and highly accomplished family.' His wife, Lady Beechey, was an artist who painted miniatures with ability. His sons, Frederick William, George D., and Henry William, are separately ...
URL: https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Dictionary_of_National_Biography,_1885-1900/Beechey,_William


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [William Beechey - Wikipedia] ---
Sir William Beechey  (12 December 1753 – 28 January 1839) was a British portraitist during the golden age of British painting.




--- [Sir William Beechey RA (British 1753-1839) — Galleriedesart - 19th & 20th Century Artwork for Sale] ---
Sir William Beechey RA, (1753-1839). William Beechey was born in the village of Burford to the west of Oxford on the 12th of December 1753, he was one of five children, his parents being William Beechey and Hannah Read. On their deaths he was raised by his uncle Samuel who was a solicitor with hopes that he might follow him into law. As a young man William Beechey did commence his articles, and it was during this period he became acquainted with students of the Royal Academy of Arts and subsequently would abandon his legal training and would himself enter the Royal Academy in 1772. During this period, it is believed he studied under Johan Zoffany, arguably the master of the ‘theatrical conversation piece’ and painting for the likes of David Garrick a celebrated actor of the period and not least King George III and Queen Charlotte, he was also known by such artists as Turner and Reynolds. He would soon establish himself as a fine master portraitist achieving his first exhibited work at the Royal Academy in 1776, and almost every year thereafter, an impressive period of some sixty years. His move to Norwich in 1782 would see him meet his second wife, Anne Phyliss Jessop whom he married in 1793, they would go on to have fifteen children together, and during this period having moved back to London became an Associate of the Royal Academy and portrait painter to Queen Charlotte. This fertile period would see commissions which included portraits of John Douglas Bishop of Carlise, Sir John Wodehouse and King George III. This rich vein of portraiture some arguably in the tradition of Sir Joshua Reynolds, would perhaps recognise the 1790’s as the artists most celebrated period which records the number of Royal commissions markedly increased not least in part a reflection of his election as a full member of the Royal Academy in 1798 and subsequent knighthood of the same year. His most celebrated work is arguably a painting of King George III and the Price of Wales, Prince Frederick and others reviewing the troops for the forthcoming academy exhibition, Revue de Cavalry, was a substantial work and captures this imaginary event in Hyde Park. It was understood to have been extremely well received by King George III, and perhaps this ‘masterpiece’ contributed to his celebrated achievements. Photo Credit: Royal Academy of Arts. It could be argued William Beechey temporarily fell somewhat out of favour around the early nineteenth century he did nevertheless retain the most impressive catalogue of both royal and influential portraiture not least the likes of Admiral Horatio Nelson, Pascal Paoli, John Kemble and many more. Royal favour was soon to return with the appointment to portrait painter of Price William Frederick, Duke of Gloucester and subsequently in 1830 the portraitist to King William IV. William Beechey retired to Hampstead in 1836, and in the summer of the same year sold his entire studio contents together with his collection through Christies, he would die some three years later on 28th January 1839. Sir William Beechey works continue to be highly sought and have been sold at numerous worldwide auctions achieving commendable sums depending on, subject, size medium, the most recent recorded sum being 821,000USD for The Dashwood Children, sold at Christie’s New York in 2014. ‘In a sense, every portrait is a self portrait as the painting will reveal more about the artist than ever their subject’ (J). Galleriedesart.com. Photo credit: Royal Academy of Arts.


--- [Sir William Beechey - National Galleries of Scotland] ---
Biography Sir William Beechey was a successful portrait painter with unparalleled royal patronage. His intended legal career was cut short by a chance meeting with students of the Royal Academy Schools and in 1772 Beechey entered the schools himself. He first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1776. After five years in Norwich, he moved back to London in 1787 where he stepped into the vacuum left by Gainsborough’s death and Reynolds’ retirement. He gained a reputation for straight-forward, unpretentious and careful portraiture and in 1793 he was appointed painter to Queen Charlotte. Not long afterwards he was made a member of the Royal Academy – on King George’s request, it was rumoured – but he fell from royal favour in 1806. He continued to exhibit at the Academy until the year before his death.


--- [Sir William Beechey (1753-1839) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
Portrait Painter. Beechey was born in Burford, Oxfordshire, on 12 December 1753, one of the five children of William Beechey and Hannah Read. Both his parents died when he was young, and he was brought up by his uncle Samuel, a solicitor, who intended him for the law. While articled to a lawyer off Chancery Lane he became acquainted with a number of students of the Royal Academy of Arts, gave up his articles, and entered the Royal Academy in 1772. There is no evidence for assertions that he studied with Reynolds; Dawson Turner, who knew Beechey, states more plausibly that he studied with Johan Zoffany, but this could only have been before July 1772, when Zoffany left England for seven years' sojourn in Italy. Beechey first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1776, and exhibited thereafter almost every year until his death more than sixty years later; he also exhibited regularly at the British Institution (founded 1806). In 1782 he moved to Norwich, where he remained until 1787; there he met his second wife (nothing is known about his first wife, who died sometime after 1784), Anne Phyllis Jessop, whom he married in 1793. They had fifteen children. Also in 1793 he was elected an Associate of the Royal Academy and became Portrait Painter to Queen Charlotte. The 1790s marked the high tide of Beechey's professional success. Later eclipsed by Lawrence, he and John Hoppner were then still dividing the public honors in portraiture with that brilliant young star. In 1798, after painting his huge canvas of the king at a review in Hyde Park, Beechey was knighted and became a full Academician. Although he fell from favor at court for a while in 1804, he continued to paint royal portraits and was later Principal Portrait Painter to William IV. In 1836 he sold his collection of works of art and retired to Hampstead. There he died on 28 January 1839. Portrait Painter. Beechey was born in Burford, Oxfordshire, on 12 December 1753, one of the five children of William Beechey and Hannah Read. Both his parents died when he was young, and he was brought up by his uncle Samuel, a solicitor, who intended him for the law. While articled to a lawyer off Chancery Lane he became acquainted with a number of students of the Royal Academy of Arts, gave up his articles, and entered the Royal Academy in 1772. There is no evidence for assertions that he studied with Reynolds; Dawson Turner, who knew Beechey, states more plausibly that he studied with Johan Zoffany, but this could only have been before July 1772, when Zoffany left England for seven years' sojourn in Italy. Beechey first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1776, and exhibited thereafter almost every year until his death more than sixty years later; he also exhibited regularly at the British Institution (founded 1806). In 1782 he moved to Norwich, where he remained until 1787; there he met his second wife (nothing is known about his first wife, who died sometime after 1784), Anne Phyllis Jessop, whom he married in 1793. They had fifteen children. Also in 1793 he was elected an Associate of the Royal Academy and became Portrait Painter to Queen Charlotte. The 1790s marked the high tide of Beechey's professional success. Later eclipsed by Lawrence, he and John Hoppner were then still dividing the public honors in portraiture with that brilliant young star. In 1798, after painting his huge canvas of the king at a review in Hyde Park, Beechey was knighted and became a full Academician. Although he fell from favor at court for a while in 1804, he continued to paint royal portraits and was later Principal Portrait Painter to William IV. In 1836 he sold his collection of works of art and retired to Hampstead. There he died on 28 January 1839.


--- [Dictionary of National Biography, 1885-1900/Beechey, William - Wikisource, the free online library] ---
Dictionary of National Biography, 1885-1900/Beechey, William BEECHEY, Sir WILLIAM (1753–1839), painter, was born at Burford, in Oxfordshire, 12 Dec. 1753. He is stated by Dayes to have begun life as a house-painter. From other accounts it would appear that he was articled to a solicitor at Stowe, in Gloucestershire, and was afterwards transferred to a lawyer in London. In London he made the acquaintance of some art students, who led him to get his articles cancelled, and he became in 1772 a student of the Royal Academy. In 1775 he exhibited some portraits, and from that time he practised in London with tolerable success. In 1781. however, he removed to Norwich. He stayed there some four or five years, painting subject pieces ('in the manner' of Hogarth) and portraits. Returning to London he settled in Lower Brook Street, and got both work and fame. In 1793 he was elected A.R.A., and painted the same year a portrait of Queen Charlotte, which procured him the appointment of portrait painter to her majesty. A large equestrian group of George III, with the Prince of Wales and the Duke of York, reviewing the 10th hussars and 3rd dragoons, gained great celebrity. It was painted in 1793. This work, now hanging at Hampton Court, is considered his best. 'Although a clever and somewhat showy group of portraits, it has little of real nature, and is full of painters' artifices.' In 1793 he was knighted and elected a full member of the Royal Academy. He was for a long while a fashionable portrait painter; but the great reputation of Lawrence had outshone his own some years before he finally retired. 'His colouring,' according to Redgrave, 'was pleasing. He excelled in his females and children; but his males wanted power. His draperies were poor and ill-cast, and he showed no ability to overcome the graceless stiffness which then prevailed in dress. Yet he possessed much merit, and his portraits have maintained a respectable second rank.' In 1836 he sold his collection of works of art and retired to Hampstead. 'He was twice married, and had a large and highly accomplished family.' His wife, Lady Beechey, was an artist who painted miniatures with ability. His sons, Frederick William, George D., and Henry William, are separately noticed. In the print room of the British Museum are two of Sir William Beechey's drawings landscape studies, sketched freely with a pen. Amongst his most distinguished sitters (besides royal personages) were the Marquis Cornwallis, Earl St. Vincent, John Kemble, David Wilkie, and Joseph Nollekens. Outside the region of portraiture one of Sir William Beechey's most important pictures (as well as his own favourite) was the 'Infant Hercules.' The painter afterwards, with happy versatility, copied the same picture, and made it do duty as 'John the Baptist.' Sir William Beechey died on 28 Jan. 1839 at the age of eighty-six. [Gent. Mag. April 1839; Dayes's Works, 1807; Pilkington's Dict. of Painters; Redgrave's Dictionary of Artists of the English School; Redgraves' Century of Painters, 1866.] Dictionary of National Biography, Errata (1904), p.21 N.B.— f.e. stands for from end and l.l. for last line | Page | Col. | Line | | | 123 | ii | 28-29 | Beechey, Sir William: for Stowe, in Gloucestershire read Stow-on-the-Wold, Gloucestershire | | 7 f.e. | for 1793 read 1798 |
