=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Audrey McLaughlin - Wikipedia]
McLaughlin was an overseas volunteer in Barbados in 1986 with Canadian Crossroads International. Today, she is an honorary patron with Crossroads. In 1991, she was sworn in as a member of the Queen's Privy Council for Canada so that she could access classified documents during the Gulf War.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Audrey_McLaughlin

[Honorary Patrons - Crossroads International]
She volunteered in Barbados with Crossroads International in 1986. A committed advocate for women, Audrey has served as President of the Socialist International Women and as member of the National Democratic Institute with which she helped women in Kosovo run the country’s first democratic election.
URL: https://cintl.org/who-we-are/honorary-patrons/

[10 Facts About Audrey McLaughlin - FactSnippet]
Audrey McLaughlin was an overseas volunteer in Barbados in 1986 with Canadian Crossroads International. 8. Audrey McLaughlin published an autobiography, A Woman's Place: My Life and Politics, in 1992. 9.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-audrey-mclaughlin.html

[Audrey McLaughlin - Wikiwand]
McLaughlin did not run for re-election in the 1997 election. McLaughlin was an overseas volunteer in Barbados in 1986 with Canadian Crossroads International. Today, she is an honorary patron with Crossroads.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Audrey%20McLaughlin

[Audrey McLaughlin explained]
McLaughlin was an overseas volunteer in Barbados in 1986 with Canadian Crossroads International. Today, she is an honorary patron with Crossroads. In 1991, she was sworn in as a member of the Queen's Privy Council for Canada so that she could access classified documents during the Gulf War.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/%5C/Audrey_McLaughlin/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Audrey McLaughlin - Wikipedia] ---
Audrey Marlene McLaughlin  (née Brown; born November 8, 1936) is a Canadian politician and former leader of the New Democratic Party from 1989 to 1995. She was the first female leader of a political party with representation in the House of Commons of Canada, as well as the first federal political party leader to represent an electoral district in a Canadian territory.




--- [Honorary Patrons - Crossroads International] ---
Lyse Doucet (Côte d’Ivoire 1982) Lyse is a Senior Presenter and Correspondent for BBC World. Her first overseas experience was with Crossroads International in 1982 when she volunteered in Côte d’Ivoire. She began her career the following year as a freelance journalist in West Africa, which proved a stepping stone to her career with the BBC. She has said that her Crossroads experience was “the catalyst that propelled me into the international work I do to this day.” She has received many prestigious journalism awards. Ann McCain Evans (Ethiopia 1976) Ann volunteered with Crossroads in Ethiopia in 1976. Currently she serves as Chairperson of the Harrison McCain Foundation and as a Director of the Marion McCain Foundation, The McCain Foundation and the Beaverbrook Art Gallery. She has served on a number of boards and committees, including the Montreal Board of Trade, the Steering Committee of the Westmount Environment Action Committee and served on the Board of Governors of Acadia University among others. Ann is a native of Florenceville, New Brunswick. A 1974 graduate of Florenceville High School, Ms. Evans studied at the Canadian Junior College in Lausanne, Switzerland and L’Université de Grenoble, France (Certificate, Languages, Literature and Civilization, 1978) and Trent University (B.A., Politics and History, 1979). Lawrence Hill (Niger 1979, Cameroon 1981, Mali 1989, Swaziland 2014) Lawrence is the award-winning author of ten books, including The Book of Negroes, which his years of work with Crossroads partly inspired. He has volunteered with Crossroads in Niger, Cameroon, Mali and Swaziland. He won the Rogers Writers’ Trust Fiction Prize, the Commonwealth Writers’ Prize for Best Book, and both CBC Radio’s Canada Reads and Radio-Canada’s Combat des livres. Lawrence is also professor of creative writing at the University of Guelph, in Ontario. The Honourable Audrey McLaughlin (Barbados 1986) Audrey was the leader of the NDP from 1989-1995, making her the first female leader of a political party in the House of Commons. She volunteered in Barbados with Crossroads International in 1986. A committed advocate for women, Audrey has served as President of the Socialist International Women and as member of the National Democratic Institute with which she helped women in Kosovo run the country’s first democratic election. The Hon. Donald H. Oliver, C.M., O.N.S., K.C. (1938 – 2025) As a lawyer, professor, entrepreneur, legal advisor, and senator, Donald Oliver dedicated over 50 years of distinguished service to Canadians. He completed a Crossroads International overseas placement in Ethiopia in 1962, before building a successful career as a civil litigator and law professor. The first Black Canadian appointed to the Senate, he was a lifelong advocate for equity, representation, and inclusion. A long-term donor and honorary patron of Crossroads, his legacy continues to inspire both in Canada and within our organization. Dr. Peter J. Paris (Nigeria 1958) Dr. Paris was the first Canadian to go overseas with Operation Crossroads Africa, volunteering in Nigeria in 1958. Dr. Paris is Professor of Christian Social Ethics Emeritus, Princeton Theological Seminary. He is the senior editor of the New York University series “Religion, Race, and Ethnicity” and continues to teach throughout the United States, Canada, Jamaica, Nigeria, Ghana and South Africa. J. Robert S. Prichard (Zambia 1969) Robert is a Canadian lawyer, economist and academic. He’s the Chairman of the Bank of Montreal and Chair of Torys, one of Canada’s top law firms. He is the past President Emeritus of the University of Toronto where he previously served as Professor and then Dean of Law. He volunteered with Crossroads International in Zambia in 1969 while completing his honours economics Bachelor at Swarthmore College. Betty Plewes (Ethiopia 1964, Liberia 1968) Betty works as a consultant on issues related to the non-profit sector both nationally and internationally. For nearly a decade in the 1990s, she was CEO of the Canadian Council for International Co-operation. She has also filled various senior management roles at Cuso. She joined Crossroads as a volunteer in 1964 (Ethiopia) and 1968 (Liberia) and then served as Executive Secretary in 1968. From 2004-2010, she served on our Board of Directors.


--- [10 Facts About Audrey McLaughlin - FactSnippet] ---
Audrey McLaughlin was the first female leader of a political party with representation in the House of Commons of Canada, as well as the first federal political party leader to represent an electoral district in a Canadian territory. 10 Facts About Audrey McLaughlin Audrey McLaughlin worked as a social worker in Toronto, Ontario, and in Ghana. In 1979, McLaughlin moved to Yukon and set up a consultancy business. Audrey McLaughlin had taken over the NDP during a peak in its popularity. Audrey McLaughlin won her seat in the Yukon but resigned as leader and was succeeded by Alexa McDonough in 1995. Audrey McLaughlin did not run for re-election in the 1997 election. Audrey McLaughlin was an overseas volunteer in Barbados in 1986 with Canadian Crossroads International. Audrey McLaughlin published an autobiography, A Woman's Place: My Life and Politics, in 1992. Audrey McLaughlin has served as the President of the Socialist International Women and as special representative for the Government of the Yukon on Circumpolar Affairs. Audrey McLaughlin was an honorary pallbearer at the state funeral of Jack Layton in 2011.


--- [Audrey McLaughlin - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Audrey McLaughlin explained] ---
No content
