=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[De Gennes Prize - Wikipedia]
The De Gennes Prize (formerly known as the Prize for Materials Chemistry) was established in 2008 and is awarded biennially by the Royal Society of Chemistry for outstanding and exceptional work in the field of materials chemistry.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/De_Gennes_Prize

[Materials Chemistry open prize: de Gennes Prize]
Involvement with Royal Society of Chemistry member groups/networks ... Established in 2008, the de Gennes Prize, formerly the Prize for Materials Chemistry, honours the work of Nobel laureate Pierre-Gilles de Gennes.
URL: https://www.rsc.org/standards-and-recognition/prizes/research-and-innovation-prizes/materials-chemistry-open-prize-de-gennes-prize

[De Gennes Prize - Wikiwand]
The De Gennes Prize (formerly known as the Prize for Materials Chemistry) was established in 2008 and is awarded biennially by the Royal Society of Chemistry for outstanding and exceptional work in the field of materials chemistry.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/De_Gennes_Prize

[De Gennes Prize - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
The de Gennes Prize (formerly known as the Prize for Materials Chemistry) was established in 2008 and is awarded biennially by the Royal Society of Chemistry for outstanding and exceptional work in the field of materials chemistry. The de Gennes Prize honours the work of PierreGilles de Gennes. The
URL: https://alchetron.com/De-Gennes-Prize

[De Gennes Prize — Wikipedia Republished // WIKI 2]
The De Gennes Prize (formerly known as the Prize for Materials Chemistry) was established in 2008 and is awarded biennially by the Royal Society of Chemistry for outstanding and exceptional work in the field of materials chemistry. The de Gennes Prize honours the work of Pierre-Gilles de Gennes.
URL: https://wiki2.org/en/De_Gennes_Prize


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [De Gennes Prize - Wikipedia] ---
The De Gennes Prize (formerly known as the Prize for Materials Chemistry) was established in 2008 and is awarded biennially by the Royal Society of Chemistry for outstanding and exceptional work in the field of materials chemistry. The de Gennes Prize honours the work of Pierre-Gilles de Gennes.
The recipient of the de Gennes Prize receives £5000, a medal and certificate and completes a UK lecture tour.
Pierre-Gilles de Gennes was born in Paris, France, in 1932. After graduating in 1955 from Ecole Normale, de Gennes was a research engineer at the Atomic Energy Centre (Saclay). After a brief time at University of California, Berkeley and 27 months in the French Navy, de Gennes became assistant professor at the University of Paris in Orsay. During his time at Orsay de Gennes worked on superconductors and liquid crystals.
In 1991, Pierre-Gilles de Gennes was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physics for studying the boundary lines between order and disorder in materials like liquid crystals.
After receiving the Nobel Prize, de Gennes visited roughly 200 high schools over a two-year period, from 1992 to 1994, in which he delivered talks on science, innovation and common sense to the students. Pierre-Gilles de Gennes died at the age of 74, on 18 May 2007.




--- [Materials Chemistry open prize: de Gennes Prize] ---
Materials Chemistry open prize: de Gennes Prize The de Gennes Prize is awarded for outstanding contributions to the chemical sciences in any area of materials chemistry. Details | Status | Closed | |---|---| | Nominator eligibility | RSC members | | Nominee eligibility | Individuals | | Nominee location | Global | | Career stage | All career stages | About this prize The De Gennes Prize is awarded for outstanding contributions to the chemical sciences in any area of materials chemistry. - Run biennially (odd years) - The winner receives £3000, a medal and a certificate - The winner will complete a UK lecture tour - The winner will be chosen by the Materials Chemistry Prize Selection Panel Eligibility Individuals named in any of the following roles during the nomination and judging period are not eligible to nominate or be nominated: - Materials Chemistry Prize Selection Panel members - RSC Subject Community Presidents - RSC Prize Committee members - Trustees of the Royal Society of Chemistry - Royal Society of Chemistry staff Nominators: - Only RSC members can nominate for this prize. - Nominees may NOT nominate themselves. Nominees: - The prize is open to nominees based in the UK or internationally. - There are no career stage restrictions associated with this prize. - Nominees can only be considered for one of our Research & Innovation Prizes in any given year. In a case where a nominee is nominated for more than one prize independently, RSC staff will ask the nominee which prize they would like to be considered for. - We will not consider nominations of deceased individuals. - We particularly encourage nominations of disabled people, those who work part-time, or whose career has spanned a break for any reason – for example, a period of parental or adoption leave, caring responsibilities, long-term illness, family commitments, or other circumstances. We understand that these can impact a nominee’s career in different ways, and encourage nominators to use the space provided on the nomination form to explain the nature and impact of the nominees’ individual circumstances (see 'Guidelines for Nominators' for further details). General information - When nominating previous RSC prize winners, please remember that a person cannot be awarded twice for substantially the same body of work. - Nominees should only be nominated once for this prize in any given prize cycle. In cases where we receive more than one nomination for the same nominee, only one nomination will go forward to judging. - All unsuccessful nominations from the previous cycle will be retained on our nomination system ahead of the next cycle. To be considered again, nominators must log in, update details, and resubmit the nomination for the following cycle. Please note that reconsideration is no longer automatic. - RSC staff will write to nominators and nominees to confirm when the nomination window has re-opened. Nominators will receive instructions on how to log in and update the nomination. Submitting your nomination Please use our online nominations system to submit the following information: - Your name, contact details, and RSC membership number (please contact the RSC Membership team if you do not know your membership details).Your RSC membership must be confirmed at the point of nomination – it is not sufficient to have a membership application in process. The identity of nominators is not made known to our judging panels. The RSC reserves the right to amend nominations if necessary to ensure the anonymity of the nominator. - Your nominee's name and contact details. - An up to date CV for the nominee (no longer than one A4 side, 11pt text) which should include a summary of their education and career, and a maximum of 5 relevant publications or patents. - Any information related to career breaks taken by your nominee - for example, a period of parental or adoption leave, caring responsibilities, long-term illness, family commitments, as well as any other circumstances including long-term conditions or disabilities. We understand that these can impact a nominee's career in different ways, and encourage nominators to use the space provided on the nomination form to explain the nature and impact of the nominee's individual circumstances. This information will be shared with the selection panel, but before doing so RSC staff will always seek consent from the nominee in cases where special category data is mentioned. - A short citation describing what the nominee should be awarded for. This must be no longer than 250 characters (including spaces) and no longer than one sentence. - A supporting statement (up to 750 words) addressing the selection criteria. Our guidance for nominators page has more information on writing this supporting statement. - A statement (up to 100 words) describing how your nominee has contributed more broadly to the scientific community. A list of possible examples is outlined in the ‘selection criteria’ tab. - References are not required for this prize and will not be accepted. The RSC reserves the right to rescind any prize if there are reasonable grounds to do so. All nominators will be asked to confirm that to the best of their knowledge there is no impediment, relating to professional conduct, to their nominee receiving this prize. All prize winners will be asked to sign the RSC’s Code of Conduct Declaration for Recognition. Our selection panels base their evaluations on the overall quality of relevant contributions and achievements by nominees, in relation to the selection criteria listed below. The scientific content of any supporting publications, as described in the supporting statement, is much more important than publication metrics or the identity of the journal in which it is published. The selection panel will consider the following aspects of nominations for this prize: - Originality of research - Impact of research - Quality of publications and/or patents and/or software - Innovation - Professional standing - Collaborations and teamwork - Other indicators of esteem indicated by the nominator In an instance where multiple nominees are judged equally meritorious in relation to the above criteria, judging panels have the flexibility to use information provided by the nominator on the nominee’s broader contribution to the chemistry community as an additional criterion. Examples of relevant contributions could include, but are not limited to: - Involvement with Royal Society of Chemistry member groups/networks - Teaching/demonstrating - Effective mentorship - Service on boards, committees or panels - Leadership in the scientific community - Peer-reviewer - Promotion of diversity and inclusion - Advocacy for chemistry - Public engagement and outreach Established in 2008, the de Gennes Prize, formerly the Prize for Materials Chemistry, honours the work of Nobel laureate Pierre-Gilles de Gennes. Born in Paris in 1932 de Gennes went on to become a research engineer at the Atomic Energy Centre, Saclay, where he received his PhD in magnetism in 1957. After completing his postdoctoral training in California he returned to France as an assistant professor at the University of Paris in Orsay. During this time he completed highly influential work in the area of surface superconductivity and wrote the classic book Superconductivity of metals and alloys. His later research interests included liquid crystals, polymer physics, and the physical chemistry of adhesion. He even went on to his investigate the dynamics of wetting to help improve the growing of grapes for wine, demonstrating his keen sense of humour as applied to his work. In 1991 he received the Nobel Prize in Physics for "discovering that methods for studying order phenomena in simple systems can be generalised to more complex forms of matter, in particular to liquid crystals and polymers". His peers considered him to be one of 'the giants in physics and a beacon to the field of liquid crystals'. After receiving this accolade, de Gennes shared his enthusiasm for his subject and visited an impressive 200 schools between 1992 and 1994. From 2020, as part of a series of changes following an independent review of the Royal Society of Chemistry's recognition programmes, this prize (odd years) will alternate with the John B Goodenough Award (even years). | Year | Name | Institution | Citation | | 2025 | Professor Samson Jenekhe | University of Washington | Awarded for outstanding contributions to synthetic chemistry, physics, and applications of conjugated polymers. | | 2023 | Professor Thuc-Quyen Nguyen | University of California, Santa Barbara | Awarded for seminal contributions to the development of organic semiconducting materials and device physics of organic photovoltaics to mitigate climate change. | | 2021 | Professor Chad Mirkin | Northwestern University | Awarded for contributions to supramolecular chemistry and nanoscience, in particular the invention and development of methods for nanolithography, high-area rapid printing, and photocontrol in nanoparticle synthesis. | | 2019 | Professor Eugenia Kumacheva | University of Toronto | Awarded for the design of soft and self-assembled new materials with biomedical applications. | | 2017 | Professor Ian Manners | University of Bristol | Awarded for his pioneering work in the development of living, crystallisation-driven, self-assembly methods for the preparation of functional and complex micelles. | | 2015 | Professor Mercouri Kanatzidis | Northwestern University | Awarded for his development of novel chalcogenide and related materials that are useful in energy conversion and environmental remediation schemes. | | 2013 | Professor Susumu Kitagawa | Kyoto University | Awarded for his creative development of advanced functional porous materials through innovative coordination chemistry. | | 2011 | Steve Mann | University of Bristol | Awarded for pioneering chemical research in the study of bioinorganic materials biomineralization, biomimetic materials and hybrid nanomaterials based on integrated inorganic/organic constructs. | | 2009 | Matthew Rosseinsky | University of Liverpool | Awarded for his outstanding and diverse contributions to the materials chemistry of solids. | Contact our prizes team We're here to help. Please do not hesitate to contact our prizes team if you have any questions. Research & Innovation Prizes Our Research & Innovation Prizes recognise brilliant chemical scientists carrying out amazing work in academia and industry. They include prizes for those at different career stages in chemistry and for those working in specific fields, as well as interdisciplinary prizes and prizes for those in specific roles Selection panel Professor Neil Robertson University of Edinburgh, UK Dr Selina Ambrose Promethean Particles, UK Dr Alexandra Gibbs University of St Andrews, UK Professor Ross Hatton University of Warwick, UK Professor Avtar Matharu University of York, UK Dr Veronica Sofianos University College Dublin, Republic of Ireland


--- [De Gennes Prize - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [De Gennes Prize - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Date 2008 (2008) | Reward(s) £5000 | | Awarded for Outstanding and exceptional work in the field of materials chemistry. Presented by Royal Society of Chemistry Official website www.rsc.org/ScienceAndTechnology/Awards/deGennesPrize/ | The de Gennes Prize (formerly known as the Prize for Materials Chemistry) was established in 2008 and is awarded biennially by the Royal Society of Chemistry for outstanding and exceptional work in the field of materials chemistry. The de Gennes Prize honours the work of Pierre-Gilles de Gennes. The recipient of the de Gennes Prize receives £5000, a medal and certificate and completes a UK lecture tour. Pierre-Gilles de Gennes was born in Paris, France, in 1932. After graduating in 1955 from Ecole Normale, de Gennes was a research engineer at the Atomic Energy Centre (Saclay). After a brief time at University of California, Berkeley and 27 months in the French Navy, de Gennes became assistant professor at the University of Paris in Orsay. During his time at Orsay de Gennes worked on superconductors and liquid crystals. In 1991, Pierre-Gilles de Gennes was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physics for studying the boundary lines between order and disorder in materials like liquid crystals. After receiving the Nobel Prize, de Gennes visited roughly 200 high schools over a two-year period, from 1992 to 1994, in which he delivered talks on science, innovation and common sense to the students. Pierre-Gilles de Gennes died at the age of 74, on 18 May 2007. Winners Source: Royal Society of Chemistry


--- [De Gennes Prize — Wikipedia Republished // WIKI 2] ---
| De Gennes Prize | | |---|---| | Awarded for | Outstanding and exceptional work in the field of materials chemistry. | | Sponsored by | Royal Society of Chemistry | | Date | 2008 | | Reward(s) | £3000 | | Website | www | The de Gennes Prize (formerly known as the Prize for Materials Chemistry) was established in 2008 and is awarded biennially by the Royal Society of Chemistry for outstanding and exceptional work in the field of materials chemistry. The de Gennes Prize honours the work of Pierre-Gilles de Gennes.[1] The recipient of the de Gennes Prize receives £5000, a medal and certificate and completes a UK lecture tour.[1] Pierre-Gilles de Gennes was born in Paris, France, in 1932. After graduating in 1955 from Ecole Normale, de Gennes was a research engineer at the Atomic Energy Centre (Saclay). After a brief time at University of California, Berkeley and 27 months in the French Navy, de Gennes became assistant professor at the University of Paris in Orsay. During his time at Orsay de Gennes worked on superconductors and liquid crystals.[2] In 1991, Pierre-Gilles de Gennes was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physics for studying the boundary lines between order and disorder in materials like liquid crystals.[3] After receiving the Nobel Prize, de Gennes visited roughly 200 high schools over a two-year period, from 1992 to 1994, in which he delivered talks on science, innovation and common sense to the students. Pierre-Gilles de Gennes died at the age of 74, on 18 May 2007.[2][3] YouTube Encyclopedic - 1/3Views:402 1037 407334 - Albert Camus - Discours de réception du prix Nobel, 1957 - Become a student at École normale supérieure, at the heart of Paris - International selection - Jacques GLOWINSKI, Professeur Honoris Causa, HEC Paris Transcription Sir, Madam, Your Royal Highnesses, Ladies and Gentlemen, In receiving the distinction with which your free Academy has so generously honoured me, my gratitude has been profound, particularly when I consider the extent to which this recompense has surpassed my personal merits. Every man, and for stronger reasons, every artist, wants to be recognized. So do I. But I have not been able to learn of your decision without comparing its repercussions to what I really am. A man almost young, rich only in his doubts and with his work still in progress, accustomed to living in the solitude of work or in the retreats of friendship: how would he not feel a kind of panic at hearing the decree that transports him all of a sudden, alone and reduced to himself, to the centre of a glaring light? And with what feelings could he accept this honour at a time when other writers in Europe, among them the very greatest, are condemned to silence, and even at a time when the country of his birth is going through unending misery? I felt that shock and inner turmoil. In order to regain peace I have had, in short, to come to terms with a too generous fortune. And since I cannot live up to it by merely resting on my achievement, I have found nothing to support me but what has supported me through all my life, even in the most contrary circumstances: the idea that I have of my art and of the role of the writer. Let me only tell you, in a spirit of gratitude and friendship, as simply as I can, what this idea is. For myself, I cannot live without my art. But I have never placed it above everything. If, on the other hand, I need it, it is because it cannot be separated from my fellow men, and it allows me to live, such as I am, on one level with them. It is a means of stirring the greatest number of people by offering them a privileged picture of common joys and sufferings. It obliges the artist not to keep himself apart; it subjects him to the most humble and the most universal truth. And often he who has chosen the fate of the artist because he felt himself to be different soon realizes that he can maintain neither his art nor his difference unless he admits that he is like the others. The artist forges himself to the others, midway between the beauty he cannot do without and the community he cannot tear himself away from. That is why true artists scorn nothing: they are obliged to understand rather than to judge. And if they have to take sides in this world, they can perhaps side only with that society in which, according to Nietzsche's great words, not the judge but the creator will rule, whether he be a worker or an intellectual. By the same token, the writer's role is not free from difficult duties. By definition he cannot put himself today in the service of those who make history; he is at the service of those who suffer it. Otherwise, he will be alone and deprived of his art. Not all the armies of tyranny with their millions of men will free him from his isolation, even and particularly if he falls into step with them. But the silence of an unknown prisoner, abandoned to humiliations at the other end of the world, is enough to draw the writer out of his exile, at least whenever, in the midst of the privileges of freedom, he manages not to forget that silence, and to transmit it in order to make it resound by means of his art. None of us is great enough for such a task. But in all circumstances of life, in obscurity or temporary fame, cast in the irons of tyranny or for a time free to express himself, the writer can win the heart of a living community that will justify him, on the one condition that he will accept to the limit of his abilities the two tasks that constitute the greatness of his craft: the service of truth and the service of liberty. Because his task is to unite the greatest possible number of people, his art must not compromise with lies and servitude which, wherever they rule, breed solitude. Whatever our personal weaknesses may be, the nobility of our craft will always be rooted in two commitments, difficult to maintain: the refusal to lie about what one knows and the resistance to oppression. For more than twenty years of an insane history, hopelessly lost like all the men of my generation in the convulsions of time, I have been supported by one thing: by the hidden feeling that to write today was an honour because this activity was a commitment - and a commitment not only to write. Specifically, in view of my powers and my state of being, it was a commitment to bear, together with all those who were living through the same history, the misery and the hope we shared. These men, who were born at the beginning of the First World War, who were twenty when Hitler came to power and the first revolutionary trials were beginning, who were then confronted as a completion of their education with the Spanish Civil War, the Second World War, the world of concentration camps, a Europe of torture and prisons - these men must today rear their sons and create their works in a world threatened by nuclear destruction. Nobody, I think, can ask them to be optimists. And I even think that we should understand - without ceasing to fight it - the error of those who in an excess of despair have asserted their right to dishonour and have rushed into the nihilism of the era. But the fact remains that most of us, in my country and in Europe, have refused this nihilism and have engaged upon a quest for legitimacy. They have had to forge for themselves an art of living in times of catastrophe in order to be born a second time and to fight openly against the instinct of death at work in our history. Each generation doubtless feels called upon to reform the world. Mine knows that it will not reform it, but its task is perhaps even greater. It consists in preventing the world from destroying itself. Heir to a corrupt history, in which are mingled fallen revolutions, technology gone mad, dead gods, and worn-out ideologies, where mediocre powers can destroy all yet no longer know how to convince, where intelligence has debased itself to become the servant of hatred and oppression, this generation starting from its own negations has had to re-establish, both within and without, a little of that which constitutes the dignity of life and death. In a world threatened by disintegration, in which our grand inquisitors run the risk of establishing forever the kingdom of death, it knows that it should, in an insane race against the clock, restore among the nations a peace that is not servitude, reconcile anew labour and culture, and remake with all men the Ark of the Covenant. It is not certain that this generation will ever be able to accomplish this immense task, but already it is rising everywhere in the world to the double challenge of truth and liberty and, if necessary, knows how to die for it without hate. Wherever it is found, it deserves to be saluted and encouraged, particularly where it is sacrificing itself. In any event, certain of your complete approval, it is to this generation that I should like to pass on the honour that you have just given me. At the same time, after having outlined the nobility of the writer's craft, I should have put him in his proper place. He has no other claims but those which he shares with his comrades in arms: vulnerable but obstinate, unjust but impassioned for justice, doing his work without shame or pride in view of everybody, not ceasing to be divided between sorrow and beauty, and devoted finally to drawing from his double existence the creations that he obstinately tries to erect in the destructive movement of history. Who after all this can expect from him complete solutions and high morals? Truth is mysterious, elusive, always to be conquered. Liberty is dangerous, as hard to live with as it is elating. We must march toward these two goals, painfully but resolutely, certain in advance of our failings on so long a road. What writer would from now on in good conscience dare set himself up as a preacher of virtue? For myself, I must state once more that I am not of this kind. I have never been able to renounce the light, the pleasure of being, and the freedom in which I grew up. But although this nostalgia explains many of my errors and my faults, it has doubtless helped me toward a better understanding of my craft. It is helping me still to support unquestioningly all those silent men who sustain the life made for them in the world only through memory of the return of brief and free happiness. Thus reduced to what I really am, to my limits and debts as well as to my difficult creed, I feel freer, in concluding, to comment upon the extent and the generosity of the honour you have just bestowed upon me, freer also to tell you that I would receive it as an homage rendered to all those who, sharing in the same fight, have not received any privilege, but have on the contrary known misery and persecution. It remains for me to thank you from the bottom of my heart and to make before you publicly, as a personal sign of my gratitude, the same and ancient promise of faithfulness which every true artist repeats to himself in silence every day. Winners Source: Royal Society of Chemistry - 2009Matthew Rosseinsky, University of Liverpool. : [4] - 2011Steve Mann, University of Bristol. : [4] - 2013Professor Susumu Kitagawa, Kyoto University. : [1] - 2015Professor Mercouri Kanatzidis, Northwestern University : [5] - 2017Professor Ian Manners , University of Bristol : - 2019Professor Eugenia Kumacheva, University of Toronto : See also References - ^ a b c "de Gennes Prize". Royal Society of Chemistry. - ^ a b "Pierre-Gilles de Gennes-Biography". nobelprize.org. - ^ a b Chang, Kenneth (24 May 2007). "Pierre-Gilles de Gennes, Nobel Prize winner in Physics, dies aged 74". The New York Times. - ^ a b "de Gennes Previous Winners". Royal Society of Chemistry. Retrieved 3 March 2015. - ^ "Materials Chemistry Division open award: De Gennes Prize".
