=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Barbara Liskov wins Turing Award | MIT News | Massachusetts Institute of Technology]
The Turing Award is given annually by the Association for Computing Machinery and is named for British mathematician Alan M. Turing, who invented the idea of the computer and who helped the Allies crack the Nazi Enigma cipher during World War II. Liskov will formally receive the award at an ACM gathering on June 27 in San Diego.
URL: https://news.mit.edu/2009/turing-liskov-0310

[Barbara Liskov - Wikipedia]
Her notable work includes the introduction of abstract data types and the accompanying principle of data abstraction, along with the Liskov substitution principle, which applies these ideas to object-oriented programming, subtyping, and inheritance. Her work was recognized with the 2008 Turing Award, the highest distinction in computer science. Liskov is one of the earliest women to have been granted a doctorate in computer science in the United States, and the second woman to receive the Turing Award.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barbara_Liskov

[Barbara Liskov - A.M. Turing Award Laureate]
In 1968 she became one of the first women in the United States to be awarded a computer science PhD. Her thesis on chess end-games was supervised by John McCarthy. After receiving her PhD, Barbara married Nathan Liskov and moved back to the Boston area to work at the Mitre Corporation in Bedford, MA on computer design and operating systems.
URL: https://amturing.acm.org/award_winners/liskov_1108679.cfm

[Second woman to win a Turing award will receive an honorary doctorate | Mathematics | University of Waterloo]
In addition, the ideas Liskov pioneered in the a programming language she designed called CLU, lie at the heart of C++, C#, Java, Python, and .net languages. In 2008, Liskov was awarded the Turing Award for her “contributions to practical and theoretical foundations of programming languages and system design, especially related to data abstraction, fault tolerance and distributed computing.”
URL: https://uwaterloo.ca/math/news/second-woman-win-turing-award-will-receive-honorary

[Institute Professor Wins Turing Award | MIT Technology Review]
Liskov is only the second woman to receive the prize, which carries a $250,000 purse and is often described as the “Nobel Prize of computing.” The Association for Computing Machinery, which awards the honor each year, credited her with “foundational innovations” in the field of computer ...
URL: https://www.technologyreview.com/2009/04/21/213745/institute-professor-wins-turing-award/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Barbara Liskov wins Turing Award | MIT News | Massachusetts Institute of Technology] ---
Institute Professor Barbara Liskov has won the Association for Computing Machinery's A.M. Turing Award, one of the highest honors in science and engineering, for her pioneering work in the design of computer programming languages. Liskov's achievements underpin virtually every modern computing-related convenience in people's daily lives. Liskov, the first U.S. woman to earn a PhD from a computer science department, was recognized for helping make software more reliable, consistent and resistant to errors and hacking. She is only the second woman to receive the honor, which carries a $250,000 purse and is often described as the "Nobel Prize in computing." "Computer science stands squarely at the center of MIT's identity, and Institute Professor Barbara Liskov's unparalleled contributions to the field represent an MIT ideal: groundbreaking research with profound benefits for humankind. We take enormous pride that she has received the Turing Award," said MIT President Susan Hockfield. "Barbara Liskov pioneered some of the most important advances in fundamental computer science," said Provost L. Rafael Reif. "Her exceptional achievements have leapt from the halls of academia to transform daily life around the world. Every time you exchange e-mail with a friend, check your bank statement online or run a Google search, you are riding the momentum of her research." Liskov heads the Programming Methodology Group in the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at MIT, where she has conducted research since 1972. Last year, she was named an Institute Professor, the highest honor awarded to an MIT faculty member. "For nearly four decades, Barbara has been a seminal leader in programming languages and systems research at MIT, combining great intellectual insights with practicality," said CSAIL Director Victor Zue, the Delta Electronics Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. "All of us at CSAIL are extremely pleased and proud of this latest accolade — the highest honor in computer science." Advances in Software Design Liskov's early innovations in software design have been the basis of every important programming language since 1975, including Ada, C++, Java and C#. Liskov's most significant impact stems from her influential contributions to the use of data abstraction, a valuable method for organizing complex programs. She was a leader in demonstrating how data abstraction could be used to make software easier to construct, modify and maintain. Many of these ideas were derived from her experience at Mitre Corp. in building the VENUS operating system, a small, interactive timesharing system. In another contribution, Liskov designed CLU, an object-oriented programming language incorporating clusters to provide coherent, systematic handling of abstract data types. She and her colleagues at MIT subsequently developed efficient CLU compiler implementations on several different machines, an important step in demonstrating the practicality of her ideas. Data abstraction is now a generally accepted fundamental method of software engineering that focuses on data rather than processes. Building on CLU concepts, Liskov followed with Argus, a distributed programming language. Its novel features led to further developments in distributed system design that could scale to systems connected by a network. This achievement laid the groundwork for modern search engines, which are used by thousands of programmers and hundreds of millions of users every day and which face the challenges of concurrent operation, failure and continually growing scale. Her most recent research focuses on techniques that enable a system to continue operating properly in the event of the failure of some of its components. Her work on practical Byzantine fault tolerance demonstrated that there were more efficient ways of dealing with arbitrary (Byzantine) failures than had been previously known. Her insights have helped build robust, fault-tolerant distributed systems that are resistant to errors and hacking. This research is likely to change the way distributed system designers think about providing reliable service on today's modern, vulnerable Internet. The Turing Award is given annually by the Association for Computing Machinery and is named for British mathematician Alan M. Turing, who invented the idea of the computer and who helped the Allies crack the Nazi Enigma cipher during World War II. Liskov will formally receive the award at an ACM gathering on June 27 in San Diego. A version of this article appeared in MIT Tech Talk on March 11, 2009 (download PDF).


--- [Barbara Liskov - Wikipedia] ---
Barbara Liskov (born November 7, 1939, as Barbara Jane Huberman) is an American computer scientist who has made pioneering contributions to programming languages and distributed computing. Her notable work includes the introduction of abstract data types and the accompanying principle of data abstraction, along with the Liskov substitution principle, which applies these ideas to object-oriented programming, subtyping, and inheritance. Her work was recognized with the 2008 Turing Award, the highest distinction in computer science.
Liskov is one of the earliest women to have been granted a doctorate in computer science in the United States, and the second woman to receive the Turing Award. She is currently an Institute Professor and Ford Professor of Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.


--- [Barbara Liskov - A.M. Turing Award Laureate] ---
No content


--- [Second woman to win a Turing award will receive an honorary doctorate | Mathematics | University of Waterloo] ---
Professor Emeritus of Computer Science at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Barbara Liskov, will receive an honorary doctorate of Mathematics at the June 14 Convocation Ceremony. Liskov holds several honours for her groundbreaking work on software systems design and development of the first methodology for organizing a program around data abstraction. Her early work focused on artificial intelligence; however, her work in software systems design has gained the most attention. Her research contributions have led to it being easier to build and maintain complex computing systems. She also designed Thor – arguably the first high-performance, large-scale distributed persistent object system. After completing a BA in Mathematics at the University of California, Berkeley, Liskov went on to complete her MSc and PhD at Stanford University. She joined MIT as faculty in 1972 after working at Mitre Corporation as a member of the technical staff in the area of Computer Science Research and Development. Early on, she saw the importance of fault tolerance. Using nested transactions, which don't conflict with the actions of a parent transaction, Liskov provided a natural foundation for building fault-tolerant distributed systems. The nested transactions she developed led to the building of the Java RMI system and CORBA standards around these transactions. Several distributed systems around the world incorporate her work. Her solution to the Byzantine Agreement problem was the first practically useful solution. In addition, the ideas Liskov pioneered in the a programming language she designed called CLU, lie at the heart of C++, C#, Java, Python, and .net languages. In 2008, Liskov was awarded the Turing Award for her “contributions to practical and theoretical foundations of programming languages and system design, especially related to data abstraction, fault tolerance and distributed computing.” Her other honours include: - IEEE John von Neumann Medal - Geroge R. Stibitz Computer and Communications Pioneer Award - Harold Pender Award - Fellow of Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) - Member of the US National Academy of Engineering - Member of US National Academy of Sciences - Member of US National Academy of Inventors - Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences Liskov also holds honorary degrees from ETH Zurich, Brown University, Northwestern University, University of Lugano, Carnegie Mellon University and the Technical University of Barcelona. Liskov will give a talk on Thursday, June 13, as well as participate in a panel moderated by the Director of Women in Computer Science, Maura Grossman, as part of the Turing Symposium & Celebrating Women in Computer Science.


--- [Institute Professor Wins Turing Award | MIT Technology Review] ---
Institute Professor Wins Turing Award Every time you exchange e-mail with a friend, check your bank statement online, or run a Google search, you are benefiting from MIT Institute Professor Barbara Liskov’s research. Her pioneering contributions to software design earned Liskov the 2008 Turing Award, one of the highest honors in science and engineering. Liskov is only the second woman to receive the prize, which carries a $250,000 purse and is often described as the “Nobel Prize of computing.” The Association for Computing Machinery, which awards the honor each year, credited her with “foundational innovations” in the field of computer science and lauded her for helping make software more reliable, consistent, and resistant to errors and hacking. Liskov’s early innovations underlie every important programming language since 1975, including Ada, C++, Java, and C#. She not only invented data abstraction, a valuable technique that helps programmers focus on conceptual goals instead of the low-level complexities of code, but was a leader in demonstrating how it could be used to make software easier to construct, modify, and maintain. Many of these ideas were derived from her experience at the defense contractor Mitre in building the Venus operating system, a small, interactive time-sharing system. As one of the first U.S. women to receive a PhD in computer science (from Stanford, in 1968), Liskov has watched from a front-row seat as computers reshaped society. Computer science is on considerably firmer footing now than it was back then, she says, but there’s still a great deal of work that remains to be done. “When I started, most of the field was unexplored and there were obvious problems everywhere–lots of low-hanging fruit, but also very fundamental issues that were poorly understood and very confusing,” she says. “There are still many problems to work on, but now this work happens in the context of all that has gone before.” Liskov heads the Programming Methodology Group in the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at the Institute where she has conducted research since 1972. Last year she was named an Institute Professor, the highest honor that can be granted to an MIT faculty member. Keep Reading Most Popular 10 Breakthrough Technologies 2026 Here are our picks for the advances to watch in the years ahead—and why we think they matter right now. A “QuitGPT” campaign is urging people to cancel their ChatGPT subscriptions Backlash against ICE is fueling a broader movement against AI companies’ ties to President Trump. Moltbook was peak AI theater The viral social network for bots reveals more about our own current mania for AI as it does about the future of agents. Meet the new biologists treating LLMs like aliens By studying large language models as if they were living things instead of computer programs, scientists are discovering some of their secrets for the first time. Stay connected Get the latest updates from MIT Technology Review Discover special offers, top stories, upcoming events, and more.
