=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dr G s Mahajan Appointment as Vc of Du in 1953 - SupremeToday AI]
There are no direct references or details in the provided sources regarding Dr. G.S. Mahajan's appointment as Vice-Chancellor of Delhi University in 1953.
URL: https://supremetoday.ai/search/dr-g-s-mahajan-appointment-as-vc-of-du-in-1953

[Delhi University Resignation of Dr Sn Sen, Vice-Chancellor of the ...]
Delhi University Resignation of Dr Sn Sen, Vice-Chancellor of the Acceptance - Appointment of Dr G S Mahajan ; Type Of Document: Digitized Document ; Department: ...
URL: https://indianculture.gov.in/archives/delhi-university-resignation-dr-sn-sen-vice-chancellor-acceptance-appointment-dr-g-s

[Time line - DU Centenary - Delhi University]
1922. The Bill to constitute the University was introduced in the Central Legislative Assembly on the 16th of January, passed by it on the 22nd of February ...Missing:Mahajan| Show results with:Mahajan
URL: https://centenary.du.ac.in/timeline/

[Mehar Chand Mahajan DAV Souvenir | PDF - Scribd]
Mehar Chand Mahajan DAV Souvenir - Free download as PDF File (.pdf) or read online for free. Mehar Chand Mahajan DAV Souvenir.
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/625487810/Mehar-Chand-Mahajan-DAV-Souvenir

[Delhi University Management: List of Vice Chancellors of DU]
Jan 25, 2024·List of Vice Chancellors of DU ; G. S. Mahajan, 1953-57, Expanded and strengthened science and technology departments ; S.N. Sen, 1950-53 ...
URL: https://www.dusquad.com/list-of-vice-chancellors-of-du/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dr G s Mahajan Appointment as Vc of Du in 1953 - SupremeToday AI] ---
No content


--- [Delhi University Resignation of Dr Sn Sen, Vice-Chancellor of the ...] ---
No content


--- [Time line - DU Centenary - Delhi University] ---
The Bill to constitute the University was introduced in the Central Legislative Assembly on the 16th of January, passed by it on the 22nd of February and by the Council of States on the 28th of February 1922. The Viceroy gave his assent on the 5th of March, the Notification was issued on the 6th of April and the Delhi University Act came into force on the 1st May 1922. Lord Reading, the then Viceroy became the first Chancellor; Hari Singh Gour the first Vice-Chancellor; Muhammad Shafi the first Pro-Chancellor; G. M. D. Sufi the first Registrar; F.J. Western the first Rector; and KC Roy the first Treasurer. There were two Faculties: Arts and Science and eight Departments: English, History, Economics, Sanskrit, Arabic, Persian, Physic and Chemistry. The Viceregal Lodge started in a rented house from the Ritz Cinema building The Delhi University Library started with a collection of 1380 gifted books. 1923 The first convocation was held in the Legislative Assembly Hall on 26 March 1923 1924 The Faculty of Law was established H.L. Chhablani of Economics was appointed as the first Reader in the University out of an Endowment fund from Ghanshyam Das Birla. The Viceregal Lodge shifted to Curzon House on Alipore Road 1925 The old Delhi College was revived as Anglo-Arabic College (present day Zakir Husain Delhi College) and got affiliated with the University of Delhi. 1926 Commercial College (present day SRCC) with Intermediate classes started Govt of India allotted a portion of the Old Secretariat building to The Viceregal Lodge 1927 The University appointed a Site Committee which recommended that the old Viceregal Lodge and estate near the Ridge be given to the University 1930 Commercial College (present day SRCC) became a Degree College Dr. SIR HARI SINGH GOUR RAI BAHADUR Dr. MOTI SAGAR Convocations FIRST CONVOCATION: 26th March 1923 EIGHTH CONVOCATION: 1st March 1930 1932 Lady Irwin College was inaugurated. But it is not yet affiliated to the University of Delhi 1933 The present-day Viceregal Lodge was handed over to the University 1934 The post of Reader in the University, established in 1924, was abolished 1938 Maurice Gwyer was appointed the Vice-Chancellor 1939 Gwyer presented a memorandum to the Government of India outlining his vision of an all- India university for the capital and wished for a complete overhaul of the University of Delhi. The foundation stone of the new building of St Stephen’s College was laid DR. KHAN BAHADUR SIR ABDUR REHMAN DR. RAI BAHADUR RAM KISHOR Convocations NINETEENTH CONVOCATION: 6th May 1941 1942 VKRV Rao of Economics was appointed the first full-time Professor at the University, followed by DS Kothari in Physics. Department of Fine Arts and College of Art were established 1943 The first major amendment in the Delhi University Act that provided for a 3-year degree course and a whole-time paid Vice-Chancellor. The Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB) was set up. 1944 NCWEB became operational with three students 1945 Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) was constituted 1946 Departments of Library Science, Modern European Languages, and Social Work established. College of Nursing (present day Rajkumari Amrit Kaur College of Nursing) started under the Ministry of Health 1947 Silver Jubilee year of the University Professor VKRV Rao hoisted the national flag on the University’s main building and Dr Radhakrishnan on the Law School building Jubilee Hall started on the occasion of the Silver Jubilee of the University Central Institute of Education (CIE) was established under the aegis of NCERT Departments of Anthropology, Botany, Mathematics, and Zoology began 1948 Special convocation was held to celebrate the Silver Jubilee; honorary degrees were conferred on Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru, Lord Mountbatten, Dr Zakir Husain, Maulana Azad, John Sargent and Raj Kumari Amrit Kaur Two colleges on the Campus, Hansraj College and Miranda House, were established 1949 Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel laid the foundation stone of the All-India Tuberculosis Institute, now known as Vallabhbhai Patel Chest Institute. Delhi School of Economics was set-up Delhi University Students Union (DUSU) was inaugurated 1950 Lady Irwin College, inaugurated in 1932, got affiliated to the University of Delhi Maurice Gwyer resigned as the Vice Chancellor Executive Council, while considering Gwyer’s resignation, named the University Hall as Gwyer Hall and Rajpur Quarters as Maurice Nagar. S.N. Sen became the first full-time salaried Vice-Chancellor. The Executive Council adopted the current Logo of the University and the motto ‘Nishtha Dhritih and Satyam’ Department of Home Science was initiated Lady Hardinge Medical College (founded in 1916) got affiliated to the University of Delhi 1951 Commercial College, established in 1926, had its name changed to Shri Ram College of Commerce SGTB Khalsa College was founded SIR MAURICE GWYER Convocations TWENTIETH CONVOCATION: 18th April 1942 TWENTY CONVOCATION: 3rd December 1943 TWENTY SECOND CONVOCATION: 16th December 1944 TWENTY FOURTH CONVOCATION: 8th December 1946 SPECIAl CONVOCATION: 9th January 1947 25th ANNUAL CONVOCATION: 26th January 1948 SLIVER JUBILEE CONVOCATION: 7th March 1948 1952 Major amendment to the Delhi University Act-changing it to a teaching and affiliating university. To have constituent colleges for Honours and affiliated colleges which offered only Pass degrees. Finance Committee was now added as an Authority of the University. The President of India, Chancellor under the old Act was now made the Visitor. The Chancellor was to be elected by the University Court. Departments of Hindi, and Political Science were set-up Deshbandhu College was founded. 1953 Vallabhbhai Patel Chest Institute was formally inaugurated by Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, Union Health Minister Department of Philosophy initiated 1954 Department of Business Management & Industrial Administration began The University campus got another College- Kirori Mal College. 1955 WUS Health Centre was set up. Department of African Studies was inaugurated 1956 The new building of WUS Health Centre was inaugurated. Founded one more women’s college- Lady Shriram College for Women. 1957 Department of Buddhist Studies added PGDAV College established 1958 The present central library building was inaugurated More colleges in the University fold: Maulana Azad Medical College, PGDAV College (Evening), Zakir Husain College (Evening) and Deshbandhu College (Evening) The Institute of Economic Growth (IEG) was set-up 1959 Departments of Urdu, Sociology, and Geography set-up. More colleges established- Janaki Devi Memorial College, Dyal Singh College, Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma and Dyal Singh College (Evening) The Delhi University Music, Arts and Drama Society formed 1960 The Department of Music was instituted One more on-campus college for women started as Pramila College (present day Daulat Ram College) 1961 The Delhi University Press was acquired. Department of Modern Indian Languages and Literary Studies, and Institute of Home Economics founded. Dr C. D. Deshmukh joined as the Vice-Chancellor. Shivaji College and Sri Venkateswara College started Dr. N.S. SEN Dr. G.S. MAHAJANI Dr. V.K.R.V. RAO Dr. N.K. SIDHANTA Convocations TWENTY EIGHTH CONVOCATION: 9th January 1951 TWENTY NINTH CONVOCATION: 30th November 1951 30th CONVOCATION: 13th December 1952 THIRTYFIRST CONVOCATION: 5th December 1953 1962 The School of Correspondence Courses was initiated 1963 Department of Linguistics set-up 1964 The Delhi University Women’s Association (DUWA) was established The Campus got two new departments- Department of Psychology and East Asian Studies. The University grew further with more colleges and institutes- Shyam Lal College, Ram Lal Anand College, Rajdhani College, Moti Lal Nehru College, Kamala Nehru College, G B PantHospital and Delhi Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research. Pramila College was renamed Daulat Ram College after its founder, Daulat Ram Gupta 1965 Two more colleges founded- Lakshamibai College and Moti Lal Nehru College (Evening). 1966 Department of Geology was set-up 1967 Department of Commerce started. There was an addition of seven more colleges- Gargi College, Kalindi College, Maitreyi College, Mata Sundri College for Women, Swami Shradhanand College, Shaheed Bhagat Singh College, and Nehru Homeopathic Medical College and Hospital. 1968 Departments of Architecture and Planning, Civil Engineering, and Electrical Engineering introduced. One more college for women- Jesus and Mary College was established 1969 An evening college and a women’s college added- Shyam Lal College (Evening) and Shyama Prasad Mukherji College. 1970 Women’s education got a boost this year too with a new college- Vivekananda College. 1971 Medical education promoted with the establishment of University College of Medical Sciences. Bharati Mahila College was started, later it became Bharati College Dr. C.D. DESHMUKH Dr. B.N. GANGULI Dr. K.N. RAJ 1972 Golden Jubilee year of the University. The Statute was amended to make the Vice-President of India ex-officio Chancellor of the University. Departments of Homeopathic Medicine, and Pharmacy started. Satyawati College and College of Vocational Studies were founded. Sri Aurobindo College was set-up 1973 CIE, established in 1947, became a part of the University The South Campus was started. Department of Business Economics was started, as the first department in the South Campus Departments of Ayurvedic Medicine, Unani Medicine, Statistics, and Operational Research started. Four more evening colleges added- Satyawati College (Evening), Shaheed Bhagat Singh College (Evening), Ram Lal Anand College (Evening) and Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Khalsa College (Evening) 1975 The Anglo-Arabic College was renamed Zakir Husain College. Institute for the Physically Handicapped started Kasturba Hospital was instituted 1976 Adult & Continuing Education Cell was set-up 1977 National Institute of Health & Family Welfare was established. 1981 Tibia College of Unani Medicine, and Department of Computer Science added Dr. SARUP SINGH Dr. R.C. MEHROTRA 1982 Adult & Continuing Education Cell that was set-up in 1976, was upgraded as Centre for Adult, Continuing Education & Extension 1983 Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering introduced. 1984 Departments of Bio-Chemistry, Genetics, Microbiology, Applied Sciences, and Humanities started. The year saw two more colleges- Sri Aurobindo College (Evening) and Sri Guru Gobind College of Commerce 1985 Centre for Adult, Continuing Education & Extension became a full-fledged Department Departments of Punjabi, Electronic Science, Bio-Physics, and Computer Engineering started 1987 Centre for Professional Development in Higher Education, popularly known as CPDHE was set-up Women’s Studies and Development Centre of Advanced Study (WSDC) was established More colleges added- Delhi College of Arts and Commerce, Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, and Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education and Sports Sciences. 1988 The name of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Khalsa College (Evening) was changed to Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Khalsa Post-Graduate College (Evening) CPDHE started functioning Departments of Germanic and Romance Studies, Slavonic and Finno-Ugrian Studies, and Plant Molecular Biology introduced 1989 One more engineering department added- Department of Instrumentation and Control Engineering. 1990 Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College set-up. 1991 Dr B.R. Ambedkar Centre for Biomedical Research (ACBR) came into existence The University got two more colleges- Acharya Narendra Dev College and Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College. Department of Environmental Studies initiated. One more specialised college for women, Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences for Women was set-up. Prof Gurbakhsh Singh PROF. MOONIS RAZA 1993 Several departments under the Faculty of Medicine Sciences were established. Bhagini Nivedita College, Ahilya Bai College of Nursing, and Institute of Human Behaviour & Allied Sciences started. Developing Countries Research Centre was set-up 1994 Department of Financial Studies was started in the South Campus The University got more colleges- Aditi Mahavidyalaya, Keshav Mahavidyalaya and Maharaja Agrasen College. 1995 The University of Delhi established the D.S. Kothari Centre for Science, Ethics and Education Department of Mechanical Engineering set-up. Two more specialised colleges came up- Bhaskaracharya College of Applied Sciences and Maharshi Valmiki College of Education. 1997 The Institute of Informatics and Communication initiated. 1998 Department of Production and Industrial Engineering came up. 1999 Amar Jyoti Institute of Physiotherapy was started Prof. Upendra Baxi Prof. V.R. Mehta 2002 Institute for the Physically Handicapped, started in 1975, was renamed as Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Institute for the Physically Handicapped School of Rehabilitation Sciences was established 2004 The School of Correspondence Courses was renamed School of Open Learning 2005 Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Khalsa Post-Graduate College (Evening) became a full-fledged day college and its name was changed to Sri Guru Nanak Dev Khalsa College Department of Physical Education and Sports Sciences set-up 2006 Durgabai Deshmukh College of Special Education and Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences founded. 2007 Institute of Life Long Learning (ILLL) was set-up 2008 Department of Dental Sciences (under Faculty of Medical Sciences) introduced 2010 Deshbandhu College (Evening) renamed Ramanujan College 2011 Cluster Innovation Centre (CIC) and Holy Family College of Nursing established PROF. DEEPAK NAYYAR PROF. DEEPAK PENTAL 2012 The Zakir Husain College (earlier named Anglo-Arabic College) was again renamed as Zakir Husain Delhi College Ramanujan College (erstwhile Deshbandhu (Evening) College) became a full-fledged morning college CIC started offering B.Tech. Humanities in five streams (Journalism, Education, Historical Tourism, Art & Design, and Counselling) through the Meta College concept Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya was founded. The cultural festival of the University, Antardhawani was organised for the first time Gyanodaya Express started for educational journeys A special convocation was organised to confer Honorary D. Litt. Degree upon H. E. Dilma Vana Rousseff, the President of the Republic of Brazil. The University started celebrating its Foundation Day 2013 The University signed an MoU with Software Technology Park of India (STPI) College of Nursing at Army Hospital (R&R) was started. 2014 Ram Lal Anand College (Evening) which was set-up in 1973, was made a full-fledged day college and named Aryabhatta College The University established the Intellectual Property Rights Cell at the Research Council 2016 Institute for the Physically Handicapped, started in 1975, then renamed as Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Institute for the Physically Handicapped in 2002, was further renamed as Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya National Insitite for Persons with Physical Disabilities (Divyangjan) WSDC, established in 1987, was recognised as an Advanced Centre of Study by the UGC All-India Institute of Ayurveda was started. 2017 Dyal Singh College (Evening) became a full-fledged day college 2018 The A+ Grade accredited to the University by NAAC 2019 In South Campus, Departments of Business Economics and the Department of Financial Studies were amalgamated to form the Department of Finance and Business Economics Florence Nightingale College of Nursing was set-up 2020 University of Delhi declared as an Institution of Eminence (IoE) Pioneer work done in the evaluation system by conducting Open Book and online examinations, including 100% online evaluations, in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic 2021 Developing Countries Research Centre, set-up in 1993, was renamed Centre for Global Studies All admissions, involving around two lakh students, were conducted in 100% contactless and online mode in wake of Covid-19 pandemic The Maharishi Kanad Bhawan at the University inaugurated For the first time the University distributed online digital degrees in its convocation Foundation stones for two new campuses, East Campus and West campus, were laid. PROF. DINESH SINGH PROF. YOGESH K TYAGI Convocations SPECIAL CONVOCATION: 28th March 2012 NINETY CONVOCATION: 19th March 2013 NINETY THIRD CONVOCATION: 19th November 2016 NINETY FOURTH CONVOCATION: 18th November 2017 NINETY FIFTH CONVOCATION: 19th November 2018 NINETY SIXTH CONVOCATION: 4th November 2019 NINETY SEVENTH CONVOCATION: 27th February 2021 2022 The University adopted the National Education Policy 2020 and decided to introduce a four-year Undergraduate Curriculum Framework with multiple exit options. Admission to the UG programme to be based completely on an entrance examination called Central Universities Entrance Test (CUET). Bachelor of Technology programmes in three frontier areas of technology, viz. Computer Science and Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Electronics & Communication Engineering initiated under the Faculty of Technology


--- [Mehar Chand Mahajan DAV Souvenir | PDF - Scribd] ---
Skip to main content Open navigation menu Close suggestions Search Search en Change Language Upload Sign in Sign in 0 ratings 0% found this document useful (0 votes) 666 views 110 pages Mehar Chand Mahajan DAV Souvenir Mehar Chand Mahajan DAV Souvenir Full description Uploaded by varaprasad_ganji Download Save Save Mehar Chand Mahajan DAV Souvenir For Later Share 0% 0% found this document useful, undefined 0% , undefined Print Embed Report 0 ratings 0% found this document useful (0 votes) 666 views 110 pages Mehar Chand Mahajan DAV Souvenir Mehar Chand Mahajan DAV Souvenir Read more Download 0 ratings 0% found this document useful (0 votes) 666 views 110 pages Mehar Chand Mahajan DAV Souvenir Mehar Chand Mahajan DAV Souvenir Full description Uploaded by varaprasad_ganji Go to previous items Go to next items Download Save Save Mehar Chand Mahajan DAV Souvenir For Later Share 0% 0% found this document useful, undefined 0% , undefined Print Embed Report Download Save Mehar Chand Mahajan DAV Souvenir For Later Fullscreen You are on page 1 110 Share this document Share on Facebook, opens a new window Share on LinkedIn, opens a new window Share with Email, opens mail client Copy link Millions of documents at your fingertips, ad-free Subscribe with a free trial 576648e32a3d8b82ca71961b7a986505


--- [Delhi University Management: List of Vice Chancellors of DU] ---
Delhi University, established in 1922, stands as one of the premier educational institutions in India. Nestled in the heart of the capital city, Delhi, the university has played a pivotal role in shaping the academic landscape of the nation. Its founding principles, guided by Vice Chancellors of DU, have always aimed at providing accessible and quality higher education and have made it a hub of intellectual, cultural, and social development. Comprising a multitude of colleges and faculties, Delhi University offers a diverse range of undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs. The university has consistently been recognized for its emphasis on academic excellence, research contributions, and holistic development of students. Its reputation extends globally, attracting students and faculty from various corners of the world. Central to the functioning of Delhi University is its administrative structure, led by the Vice Chancellors of DU. The Vice-Chancellor, appointed for a specified term, holds a key position in steering the university towards academic innovation, development, and growth. Over the years, the various Vice Chancellors have left indelible marks on the institution through their visionary leadership, academic reforms, and administrative contributions. Who is a Vice-Chancellor? The Vice-Chancellor assumes the role of the principal executive and academic officer of the University, also serving as the ex-officio Chairman of the Board and the Academic Council. In the absence of the Chancellor and Pro-Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor presides over the University convocation and confers degrees on eligible individuals. Following are some of the important duties of a Vice-Chancellor of a University, as highlighted by Section 26 of India Code for Central and State Universities: - It is the responsibility of the Vice-Chancellor to exercise general control over the University’s affairs, ensuring the maintenance of discipline within the institution. - The Vice-Chancellor convenes meetings of the Board, Academic Council, Research Council, and Extension Education Council. - A critical duty of the Vice-Chancellor involves ensuring the faithful observance of the provisions outlined in this Act, as well as adhering to the Statutes and Regulations. - Additionally, the Vice-Chancellor is accountable for presenting the annual financial estimates and the annual accounts to the Board of Management. - In situations demanding immediate action, the Vice-Chancellor may take necessary measures during emergencies. Subsequently, the Vice-Chancellor reports such actions to the relevant authority. In cases of disagreement, the matter is referred to the Chancellor, whose decision is final. - If the Vice-Chancellor finds that a decision of the Board is not in the best interest of the University, it is within their purview to refer the matter to the Chancellor for a final decision. - In instances where actions taken by the Vice-Chancellor adversely affect a person in the service of the University, the affected individual has the right to appeal to the Board within thirty days from the date of being served notice of the action. - Subject to the provisions outlined in the preceding subsections, the Vice-Chancellor ensures the implementation of decisions made by the University Council and Board regarding appointments, promotions, suspension, and dismissal of officers, teachers, and other employees of the University. - The Vice-Chancellor shoulders the responsibility for the effective administration of the University’s affairs, fostering close coordination and integration of teaching, research, and extension education. - The Vice-Chancellor exercises additional powers and fulfils duties as conferred or imposed upon them under the provisions of this Act and the Statutes. List of Vice Chancellors of DU | Vice Chancellors of DU | Years Served | Major Contribution of DU Vice Chancellors | | Yogesh Singh | 2021 – Present | Implementation of New Education Policy | | Yogesh Tyagi | 2016-2020 | Implemented measures to enhance the quality and competitiveness of research | | Dinesh Singh | 2010-2015 | Introduced reforms to the undergraduate curriculum | | Deepak Pantal | 2005-2010 | Emphasised the use of technology in education | | Deepak Nayyar | 2000-2005 | Focused on promoting interdisciplinary research | | V.R. Mehta | 1995-2000 | Implemented initiatives to enhance the quality of education and research | | Upendra Baxi | 1990-94 | Advocated for academic autonomy and freedom | | Moonis Raza | 1985-90 | Fostered international collaborations and partnerships | | Gurbakhsh Singh | 1980-85 | Emphasised diversity and inclusivity in the academic environment | | R.C. Mehrotra | 1974-79 | Focused on infrastructure development and campus expansion | | Sarup Singh | 1971-74 | Strengthened focus on humanities and arts education | | K.N. Raj | 1969-70 | Advocated for social justice and equity in education | | B. N. Ganguly | 1967-69 | Implemented policies for enhanced student welfare | | C. D. Deshmukh | 1962-67 | Focused on financial reforms and resource mobilisation | | N.K. Sidhant | 1960-61 | Contributed to the development of science and technology | | V.K.R.V. Rao | 1957-60 | Developed social sciences, and established the Delhi School of Economics | | G. S. Mahajan | 1953-57 | Expanded and strengthened science and technology departments | | S.N. Sen | 1950-53 | Reorganised university after partition | | Maurice Gwyer | 1938-50 | Developed legal education, expanded Law Faculty | | Ram Kishor | 1934-38 | Promoted inclusion of indigenous knowledge in the curriculum | | Abdur Rehman | 1930-34 | Advocated for and promoted interdisciplinary studies | | Moti Sagar | 1926-30 | Emphasised and promoted research activities | | Hari Singh Gaur | 1922-26 | Pioneered the establishment of separate faculties | Who is the Current Vice Chancellor of DU or Delhi University? Yogesh Singh is an Indian academic who is the current and 23rd Vice-Chancellor of the University of Delhi. In his previous roles, he held the position of Vice Chancellor at Delhi Technological University (DTU). Before joining DTU in 2015, he served as director at Netaji Subhash University of Technology from 2014 to 2017. Furthermore, he served as the Vice-Chancellor of The Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda from 2011 to 2014. From 2001 to 2006, Professor Singh functioned as the Dean of Information Technology at Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University.
