=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Wes Moore - Wikipedia]
In February 2017, Governor Larry Hogan nominated Moore to serve on the University System of Maryland Board of Regents. [104] In October 2020, Moore was named to serve on the transition team of Baltimore mayor-elect Brandon Scott. [105]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wes_Moore

[Gov. Larry Hogan nominates Democratic author Wes Moore to USM ...]
Feb 17, 2017 · Republican Gov. Larry Hogan on Friday nominated Baltimore author Wes Moore for the University System of Maryland Board of Regents. The 17-member board oversees the academic and financial ...
URL: https://dbknews.com/2017/02/17/larry-hogan-wes-moore-baltimore/

[Baltimore author Wes Moore nominated to University System of ...]
Feb 17, 2017 · Republican Gov. Larry Hogan nominated prominent Baltimore author Wes Moore on Friday to the board that oversees the sprawling University System of Maryland. Moore, 38, is a well-respected African ...
URL: https://www.baltimoresun.com/2017/02/17/baltimore-author-wes-moore-nominated-to-university-system-of-maryland-board/

[Career Timeline of Wes Moore: Major Achievements and ...]
February 2017: Nomination to University System of Maryland Board of Regents In February 2017, Governor Larry Hogan nominated Wes Moore to serve on the University System of Maryland Board of Regents.
URL: https://populartimelines.com/timeline/Wes-Moore/career-achievements

[Wes Moore - Wikiwand]
In February 2017, Governor Larry Hogan nominated Moore to serve on the University System of Maryland Board of Regents. 82 In October 2020, Moore was named to serve on the transition team of Baltimore mayor-elect Brandon Scott. 83 In January 2021, Speaker of the Maryland House of Delegates Adrienne A. Jones consulted with Moore to craft her ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Wes_Moore


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Wes Moore - Wikipedia] ---
Westley Watende Omari Moore (born October 15, 1978) is an American politician, businessman, author, and former U.S. Army officer, serving as the 63rd governor of Maryland since 2023.
Moore was born in Maryland and raised primarily in New York. He graduated from Johns Hopkins University and received a master's degree from Wolfson College, Oxford, as a Rhodes Scholar. After several years in the U.S. Army and Army Reserve, he became an investment banker in New York. Between 2010 and 2015, Moore published five books, including a young-adult novel. He served as CEO of the Robin Hood Foundation from 2017 to 2021. Moore authored The Other Wes Moore and The Work. He also hosted Beyond Belief on the Oprah Winfrey Network (OWN), and was executive producer and a writer for Coming Back with Wes Moore on PBS.
Moore is a member of the Democratic Party. He won the 2022 Maryland gubernatorial election, becoming Maryland's first black governor and the third black person elected governor of any U.S. state.




--- [Gov. Larry Hogan nominates Democratic author Wes Moore to USM ...] ---
Republican Gov. Larry Hogan on Friday nominated Baltimore author Wes Moore for the University System of Maryland Board of Regents. The 17-member board oversees the academic and financial operations of the system, such as setting policy and tuition and appointing university presidents. The system comprises the University of Maryland and 11 other state institutions. The Maryland Senate must approve Moore’s nomination for him to take on the role. [READ MORE: The USM Board of Regents has eliminated bonus pay for future chancellors] “The appointments we submitted today represent our administration’s continued commitment to the people of Maryland to provide the most responsive, competent, and well-qualified representatives that Marylanders deserve and expect,” Hogan said in Friday’s news release. Moore, a Democrat who considered entering the Baltimore mayoral race in 2015, is an Army veteran and a Rhodes scholar who rose to prominence for his 2010 book, “The Other Wes Moore: One Name, Two Fates.” The story is about another boy with the same name as Moore who was born a block away in Baltimore. The book explores how the two boy’s paths diverged. He also recently produced a PBS program called “All the Difference” about two African-American teens from the south side of Chicago who become the first in their families to graduate college. Moore has dipped his feet into the education realm as well, running BridgeEdU, a company that works with first-year students at universities to improve retention rates through services such as financial aid consulting and academic support. Thirty-two percent of the submitted names to the state Senate will fill economic development and education roles, the release stated. Moore’s nomination was one of 189 “Green Bag” appointments for different boards and commissions in the Maryland government.


--- [Baltimore author Wes Moore nominated to University System of ...] ---
Republican Gov. Larry Hogan nominated prominent Baltimore author Wes Moore on Friday to the board that oversees the sprawling University System of Maryland. Moore, 38, is a well-respected African-American writer, Army veteran and Rhodes Scholar who runs a company called BridgeEdU that helps universities improve graduation rates by mentoring freshman students. He rose to fame with his 2010 book, “The Other Wes Moore,” which chronicled his life and that of another boy by the same name who was born a block away in Baltimore but traveled a much different path. Moore recently produced a PBS documentary called “All the Difference” about two young African-American men from inner-city Chicago becoming the first in their families to attend college. If approved by the Maryland Senate, Moore would join the Board of Regents that sets policy and tuition for the 12 institutions comprising the state university system. Moore’s nomination was one of 189 so-called “green bag” appointments presented to the Senate on Friday. By tradition, the appointments are delivered in a green satchel. twitter.com/ErinatTheSun


--- [Career Timeline of Wes Moore: Major Achievements and ...] ---
Discover the career path of Wes Moore, from the first major opportunity to industry-changing achievements. Wes Moore is an American politician, businessman, author, and former U.S. Army officer. He is the 63rd and current Governor of Maryland, having assumed office in 2023. Moore's background spans various sectors, including military service, business, and authorship, before entering the political arena and becoming governor. In June 1996, Wes Moore first expressed interest in politics, stating his plans to attend law school and enter politics. In 1998, Wes Moore graduated from Valley Forge Military Academy and College, completed the requirements for the United States Army's early commissioning program, and was appointed a second lieutenant of Military Intelligence in the Army Reserve. In 1999, Wes Moore interned for Baltimore Mayor Kurt Schmoke. In 2005, Wes Moore was deployed to Afghanistan as part of the 82nd Airborne Division. In February 2006, Wes Moore was named a White House Fellow to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. In 2006, Wes Moore continued serving in Afghanistan as part of the 82nd Airborne Division, attaining the rank of captain. In 2006, Wes Moore first expressed interest in running for governor of Maryland. In 2007, Wes Moore started working at Citibank while living in Jersey City, New Jersey. In 2008, Wes Moore gave a speech at the Democratic National Convention, supporting Barack Obama for president. On April 27, 2010, Spiegel & Grau published Wes Moore's first book, "The Other Wes Moore." In 2010, Wes Moore founded Omari Productions, a television production company. In 2010, Wes Moore published his first of five books written between 2010 and 2015, including a young-adult novel. In December 2012, it was announced that "The Other Wes Moore" would be developed into a feature film, with Oprah Winfrey as an executive producer. In 2012, Wes Moore stopped working at Citibank while living in Jersey City, New Jersey. In September 2013, Ember published Wes Moore's second book, "Discovering Wes Moore", which is more accessible to young adults. In May 2014, Wes Moore produced a three-part PBS series, "Coming Back with Wes Moore." In 2014, Attorney General Doug Gansler considered choosing Wes Moore as his running mate in the Maryland gubernatorial election. In 2014, Wes Moore founded BridgeEdU, a company providing support services for students transitioning to college. In 2014, Wes Moore left the Army. In January 2015, Wes Moore wrote his third book, "The Work". In April 2015, following the 2015 Baltimore protests, Wes Moore stated that the demonstrations were a "long time coming" and called for addressing systemic problems. He attended Freddie Gray's funeral but left early to give a speech on urban poverty in Boston. By 2015, Wes Moore had published five books, including a young-adult novel. In September 2016, Wes Moore produced the PBS documentary "All the Difference" and launched "Future City", an interview-based talk show with Baltimore's WYPR station. In November 2016, Wes Moore wrote "This Way Home", a young adult novel. In February 2017, Governor Larry Hogan nominated Wes Moore to serve on the University System of Maryland Board of Regents. In June 2017, Wes Moore became the CEO of the Robin Hood Foundation, a charitable organization in New York City. In 2017, Wes Moore became the CEO of the Robin Hood Foundation. In 2019, BridgeEdU, founded by Wes Moore, was acquired by Edquity, a student financial services company, after failing to achieve financial stability. In March 2020, Wes Moore and Erica L. Green wrote "Five Days: The Fiery Reckoning of an American City", exploring the 2015 Baltimore protests. In October 2020, Wes Moore was named to serve on the transition team of Baltimore mayor-elect Brandon Scott. In 2020, Wes Moore felt the idea of holding elected office only started to feel like a real possibility. In 2020, during Wes Moore's tenure as CEO, the Robin Hood Foundation raised $230 million to assist with increased needs during the COVID-19 pandemic. In January 2021, Speaker of the Maryland House of Delegates Adrienne A. Jones consulted with Wes Moore to craft her "black agenda" aimed at tackling racial inequalities. In February 2021, Wes Moore announced he was considering a run for governor of Maryland in the 2022 election. In April 2021, Unanimous Media announced it would adapt "The Other Wes Moore" into a feature film. In May 2021, Wes Moore concluded his time as CEO of the Robin Hood Foundation. On June 7, 2021, Wes Moore launched his campaign for governor of Maryland, emphasizing "work, wages, and wealth" and running on the slogan "leave no one behind." He selected Aruna Miller as his running mate. In 2021, Wes Moore ended his tenure as CEO of the Robin Hood Foundation. On April 6, 2022, Wes Moore filed a complaint with the Maryland State Board of Elections against the gubernatorial campaign of John King Jr., accusing them of disseminating false information. As of June 2022, the film adaptation of "The Other Wes Moore" has yet to be produced. On July 19, 2022, Wes Moore won the Democratic primary for governor, defeating Tom Perez and Peter Franchot with 32.4% of the vote. In October 2022, Wes Moore announced that he would use a blind trust to hold his assets and resign from every board position if elected governor. In October 2022, Wes Moore told The Baltimore Sun that he felt the idea of holding elected office only started to feel like a real possibility in 2020. In December 2022, Wes Moore was elected to serve as finance chair of the Democratic Governors Association. In 2022, Wes Moore won the Maryland gubernatorial election, becoming the state's first black governor. On January 18, 2023, Wes Moore was sworn in as Governor of Maryland. He took the oath of office on a Bible owned by Frederick Douglass and his grandfather's Bible. He also participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Kunta Kinte-Alex Haley Memorial. In May 2023, Wes Moore finalized his blind trust, becoming the first governor to have one since Bob Ehrlich. In 2023, Wes Moore began serving as the 63rd governor of Maryland. In April 2024, John King's campaign was fined $2,000 after prosecutors connected an email address to an IP address used by Joseph O'Hearn, King's campaign manager, in relation to a smear campaign against Wes Moore. On November 19, 2024, Wes Moore was cited with a Bronze Star Medal for meritorious service in Afghanistan. In December 2024, President Joe Biden signed into law a continuing resolution bill that included a provision to fully fund the Francis Scott Key Bridge replacement after the bridge collapsed during Moore's tenure. In May 2025, Wes Moore signed into law a bill requiring future governors to put their assets into a blind trust or sign an agreement not to participate in decisions affecting their businesses. In July 2025, Wes Moore was elected as the vice chair of the National Governors Association (NGA). On September 9, 2025, Wes Moore announced that he would run for re-election to a second term as Governor. In December 2025, The Baltimore Banner reported that Wes Moore and several members of his administration were using the Google Chat platform with self-deleting messages, raising concerns about compliance with Maryland records laws. During the 2025 legislative session, Wes Moore and leaders of the Maryland General Assembly negotiated and passed a spending plan that cut $2.5 billion in state spending and raised more than $1 billion in new taxes to close a $3.3 billion budget deficit. In February 2026, President Donald Trump excluded Wes Moore and Colorado governor Jared Polis from a bipartisan dinner event for governors, leading to backlash and multiple baseless accusations against him by Trump on Truth Social. Oprah Winfrey is an influential American talk show host television... Barack Obama the th U S President - was the... Under Armour is an American sportswear company based in Baltimore... The White House located at Pennsylvania Avenue NW in Washington... Condoleezza Rice is a prominent American diplomat and political scientist... Washington D C is the capital city and federal district... 49 minutes ago Montgomery County Schools reverses electric bus plan; considers snow day calendar changes. 49 minutes ago Discovering Nuria Brancaccio: Rising Star in Women's Tennis 3 hours ago Zurich Insurance to Acquire Beazley in a Landmark $11 Billion Deal 2 hours ago Chwali?ska and Kawa Shine in Antalya: Polish Tennis Players Achieve Notable Wins 2 hours ago Cazzie David discusses her new book 'Delusions' and the writing process. 6 hours ago Warriors face play-in, Curry's injury raises concerns, Kerr lowers expectations, Moody's role? Jesse Jackson is an American civil rights activist politician and... Hillary Diane Rodham Clinton is a prominent American politician lawyer... Jim Carrey is a Canadian-American actor and comedian celebrated for... XXXTentacion born Jahseh Dwayne Ricardo Onfroy was a controversial yet... Michael Joseph Jackson the King of Pop was a highly... Kashyap Pramod Patel is an American lawyer who became the...


--- [Wes Moore - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
