=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[2016 World Rugby Nations Cup - Wikipedia]
The 2016 World Rugby Cup of Nations was the eleventh edition of the World Rugby Nations Cup rugby union tournament, created by World Rugby (formerly IRB). As with the previous nine tournaments, the competition took place in the Stadionul Naţional de Rugby in Bucharest, Romania.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2016_World_Rugby_Nations_Cup

[Namibia: 2016 Top 10 Sport Stories - allAfrica.com]
Dec 7, 2016 · A month prior to the Africa Cup, Namibia finished third at the World Rugby Nations Cup in Romania, after coming from behind to beat Emerging Italy 38-26 on 19 June.
URL: https://allafrica.com/stories/201612070329.html

[Namibia finish third at Nations Cup - The Namibian]
Jun 19, 2016 · NAMIBIA finished third at the Nations Cup in Romania, after coming from behind to beat Emerging Italy 38-26. It was Namibia’s second victory at the tournament after they beat Spain 34-32 on 13 June, while they finished level on points with Argentina but with an inferior points difference.
URL: https://www.namibian.com.na/namibia-finish-third-at-nations-cup/

[Nations Cup 2016 Results - Rugby Union/World]
Find all of the season's Nations Cup 2016 results, standings.
URL: https://www.flashscore.co.uk/rugby-union/world/nations-cup-2016/results/

[#WRNC16 HIGHLIGHTS Namibia - Emerging Italy 38-26]
Jun 23, 2016 · Dupa o partida cu un final dramatic, Namibia a revenit fiind condusa la pauza cu 18-8 pentru a se impune in fata celor de la Emerging Italy, rezultat 38-26, ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9XWQ8p_i5_w


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [2016 World Rugby Nations Cup - Wikipedia] ---
The 2016 World Rugby Cup of Nations was the eleventh edition of the World Rugby Nations Cup rugby union tournament, created by World Rugby (formerly IRB). As with the previous nine tournaments, the competition took place in the Stadionul Naţional de Rugby in Bucharest, Romania.
Due to Georgia's tour of the Pacific Islands in June, the World Rugby Tbilisi Cup did not take place. Instead, this tournament featured six teams split in two pools of three, where the three European teams played the other three teams. This format was last used in 2012. Hosts Romania won the title, for the fourth time in five years. Romania finished with 13 points after beating the Argentina XV in the decisive match.




--- [Namibia: 2016 Top 10 Sport Stories - allAfrica.com] ---
AFTER the high of 2015, when they produced their best performances in history at the Rugby World Cup, Namibia's national rugby team maintained its position as African champions and the 20th ranked team in the world this year. On 6 August, they clinched the Africa Cup for the third year in a row with an emphatic 60-22 victory against Zimbabwe in Windhoek. ... AllAfrica Subscription Content You must be an allAfrica.com subscriber for full access to certain content. You have selected an article from the AllAfrica archive, which requires a subscription. You can subscribe by visiting our subscription page. Or for more information about becoming a subscriber, you can read our subscription and contribution overview. For information about our premium subscription services: You can also freely access - without a subscription - hundreds of today's top Africa stories and thousands of recent news articles from our home page » Already a subscriber? Sign in for full access to article


--- [Namibia finish third at Nations Cup - The Namibian] ---
NAMIBIA finished third at the Nations Cup in Romania, after coming from behind to beat Emerging Italy 38-26. It was Namibia’s second victory at the tournament after they beat Spain 34-32 on 13 June, while they finished level on points with Argentina but with an inferior points difference. The tournament was won by Romania for the fourth time in the past five years after they beat Argentina XV 20-8 in Saturday’s deciding game at stadionul National Arcul de Triumf in Bucharest. Uruguay meanwhile finished fifth after beating Spain 16-0. Namibia serve up another late show Namibia’s never-say-die spirit was again in evidence as they came from behind to beat Emerging Italy 38-26. Having snatched victory from the jaws of defeat against Spain in round two, it took three tries in the final quarter for the Welwitschias to overhaul the Italians and record their second bonus-point win of the competition in the space of five days. Emerging Italy had built up a 12-0 lead in the first half an hour after Paolo Pescetto kicked two penalties and converted scrum-half Giorgio Bronzini’s try, before the Welwitschias finally got their first points on the scoreboard. Hooker Gert Lotter’s try from a driven lineout, which Theuns Kotze converted, only provided temporary respite as Emerging Italy closed the half with their lead back into double figures when Federico Conforti crossed for his second try of the tournament. Namibia started the second half strongly and they closed the gap to two points when winger Wilson dotted down on 43 minutes for the first of his two tries and Kotze turned the six points into eight with the conversion. The next try went to the Italians, 22-year-old winger Andrea Bettin crossing 10 minutes after Namibia scored. Pescotto converted to make it 26-16. Namibia used their rolling maul to good effect again and when veteran Tinus du Plessis went over with just over a quarter of the match to play, and Kotze converted, they were right back in it. Shortly after replacement forward Guiseppe di Stefano was yellow-carded, full-back Johan Tromp put Namibia in front for the first time with three minutes remaining, and Wilson completed the comeback with his second just before referee Damian Schneider blew for time. With two wins, Namibia finish third at the Nations Cup, a commendable performance considering they finished bottom 12 months ago. “This was an important win for the country, after the good performance in the Rugby World Cup,” said Namibia coach Phil Davies. “It is a big lift for the boys to secure two wins out of there against quality opposition. We are trying to develop our game and this win, based on a combination of flair and courage, as well as frustration, has done just that. We are moving forward as we prepare for our next tournament, the Africa Cup. Emerging Italy blindside flanker and captain Conforti bemoaned his side’s inability to stay focused for the full 80 minutes. “We had a good tournament against very tough teams, and of course we gave 100 per cent. Probably we didn’t respect our game plan during the last 10 minutes and offered the opposition opportunities to score tries.” Oaks’ dominance continues Romania came out on top in a low-scoring affair to again claim the World Rugby Nations Cup silverware. The Oaks’ tries came from hooker Andrei Radoi and full-back Catalin Fercu while resolute defence threatened to shut the Argentinians out until Franco Brarda grabbed a consolation six-pointer on 68 minutes. Having seen record points scorer Florin Vlaicu miss two attempts at goal in the first quarter Romania opted to go for the corner when presented with a third opportunity on the half-hour mark, with the scores still tied at 0-0. Romania secured lineout possession, and after the initial maul was repelled by the Argentine defence, Radoi burrowed his way over from close range for his second international try of the year. Vlaicu added the conversion. Argentina XV pressed for the equalising score as half-time approached but superb defence on their goal-line by Romania kept them at bay. The rearguard action didn’t come without a cost, however, as scrum-half Valentin Calafeteanu was judged to have deliberately knocked on when opposite number Felipe Ezcurra attempted a try-scoring pass to his winger. But the numbers were evened up when Argentine tight-head Lucas Martinez joined him in the sin-bin a minute later. Vlaicu then kicked a straightforward penalty to hand the home side a 10-0 lead at the break. No further points were scored until the final minute of the third quarter when Oaks full-back Fercu crossed for a popular try. With the conversion and a further penalty Romania found themselves in control at 20-0 and on the verge of nilling an Argentinian outfit in the Nations Cup title decider for the second year running. However, Felipe Contepomi’s side avoided the fate that befell the Jaguars, who lost 23-0 in the 2015 edition, when replacement Brarda crossed the line with 12 minutes to go. “It was a good win, and a good tournament,” said triumphant Romania coach Lynn Howells. “We tested seven players and they all proved themselves worthy, I am really proud of them.” Uruguay ended their World Rugby Nations Cup campaign on a winning note with a 16-0 victory against Spain in the opening game of the day. A stop-start first half, frequently punctuated by water breaks due to the sizzling hot weather in the Romanian capital, failed to produce any points as both sides struggled to get any sort of continuity in their attacking game. Spain were also inhibited by the loss of two key players to injury midway through the first half with lively scrum-half Facundo Munilla (dead leg) and number eight and captain Jaime Nava (dislocated shoulder) leaving the field of play within two minutes of each other. In an age of information overload, Sunrise is The Namibian’s morning briefing, delivered at 6h00 from Monday to Friday. It offers a curated rundown of the most important stories from the past 24 hours – occasionally with a light, witty touch. It’s an essential way to stay informed. Subscribe and join our newsletter community. The Namibian uses AI tools to assist with improved quality, accuracy and efficiency, while maintaining editorial oversight and journalistic integrity. Stay informed with The Namibian – your source for credible journalism. Get in-depth reporting and opinions for only N$85 a month. Invest in journalism, invest in democracy – Subscribe Now!


--- [Nations Cup 2016 Results - Rugby Union/World] ---
Les jeux d’argent et de hasard peuvent être dangereux : pertes d’argent, conflits familiaux, addiction… Retrouvez nos conseils sur www.joueurs-info-service.fr (09-74-75-13-13, appel non surtaxé) Retrouvez nos conseils sur www.joueurs-info-service.fr (09-74-75-13-13, appel non surtaxé)


--- [#WRNC16 HIGHLIGHTS Namibia - Emerging Italy 38-26] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC
