=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dora Altbir - Wikipedia]
Dora Altbir (born 21 February 1961) [1] is a Chilean physicist in the field of nanoscience and nanotechnology. She was awarded the National Prize for Exact Sciences (Chile) in 2019 for her work in the theoretical study of magnetic nanostructures. [2][3][4] She is currently a professor at the University of Santiago, Chile.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dora_Altbir

[National Prize for Exact Sciences (Chile) - Wikipedia]
The National Prize for Exact Sciences (Spanish: Premio Nacional de Ciencias Exactas) was created in 1992 as one of the replacements for the National Prize for Sciences under Law 19169. The other two prizes in this same area are for Natural Sciences and Applied Sciences and Technologies. It is part of the National Prize of Chile. The jury is made up of the Minister of Education, who calls it, the Rector of the University of Chile, the President of the Chilean Academy of Sciences, a representative of the Council of Rectors, and the last recipient of the prize.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Prize_for_Exact_Sciences_(Chile)

[Dora Altbir Drullinsky Premio Nacional de Ciencias Exactas 2019]
Doctora Dora Altbir, es el Premio Nacional de Ciencias Exactas 2019. Por contribución al desarrollo en el país de la nanociencia y la nanotecnología.
URL: https://www.mineduc.cl/dora-altbir-premio-nacional-de-ciencias-exactas-2019/

[National Prize winners in Exact Sciences, members of CEDENNA, call for ...]
Jan 17, 2026 · “Facing the bad news of the PAES” is the title of the Letter to the Editor recently published in El Mercurio, written by Dora Altbir, director of the Center for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (CEDENNA) and National Prize for Exact Sciences 2019, together with Miguel Kiwi, researcher at the Center and National Prize for Exact Sciences 2007.
URL: https://cedenna.cl/en/node/1107

[National Prize for Exact Sciences of Chile - AcademiaLab]
The National Prize for Exact Sciences of Chile was created in 1992 as one of the replacements for the old National Prize for Sciences under Law No. 19,169. The other two prizes in this same area are Natural Sciences and Applied and Technological Sciences. It is part of the Chilean National Awards. Jury The jury is made up of the Minister of Education, who convenes it, the Rector of the ...
URL: https://academia-lab.com/encyclopedia/national-prize-for-exact-sciences-of-chile/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dora Altbir - Wikipedia] ---
Dora Altbir (born 21 February 1961) is a Chilean physicist in the field of nanoscience and nanotechnology. She was awarded the National Prize for Exact Sciences (Chile) in 2019 for her work in the theoretical study of magnetic nanostructures. She is currently a professor at the University of Santiago, Chile.
Altbir is director of the Center for the Development of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (CEDENNA) and director of the Dirección de Investigación Científica y Tecnológica (DICYT) at University of Santiago, Chile. She is a corresponding member of the Chilean Academy of Sciences.


--- [National Prize for Exact Sciences (Chile) - Wikipedia] ---
The National Prize for Exact Sciences (Spanish: Premio Nacional de Ciencias Exactas) was created in 1992 as one of the replacements for the National Prize for Sciences under Law 19169. The other two prizes in this same area are for Natural Sciences and Applied Sciences and Technologies.
It is part of the National Prize of Chile.




--- [Dora Altbir Drullinsky Premio Nacional de Ciencias Exactas 2019] ---
Por unanimidad, el Jurado compuesto por Marcela Cubillos Sigall, Ministra de Educación; Ennio Vivaldi, rector de la Universidad de Chile; Rafael Correa, rector de la Universidad de O’Higgins (representante CRUCH); María Cecilia Hidalgo, presidenta Academia Chilena de Ciencias y Guido Garay, Premio Nacional de Ciencias Exactas 2017, galardonó con el Premio Nacional de Ciencias Exactas 2019 a Dora Altbir Drullinsky. El Jurado basó su decisión “en su gran contribución al desarrollo en el país de la nanociencia y la nanotecnología, componentes esenciales de la denominada revolución industrial del siglo XXI. Su obra científica en dichas áreas, en particular del estudio teórico de nanoestructuras magnéticas, ha recibido numerosos reconocimientos internacionales por su creatividad y excelencia”. También se destacó “sus sobresalientes aportes en la formación de científicos jóvenes, su eximio rol en la divulgación de la ciencia, su férrea lucha por derribar estereotipos de género y sus esfuerzos dedicados a la gestión de la ciencia en Chile”. Tras recibir las felicitaciones de la Ministra Cubillos y del Ministro de Ciencia, Tecnología, Conocimiento e Innovación, Andrés Couve, Dora Altbir dijo que esperaba “contribuir a través de este premio a difundir el valor que tiene la ciencia en nuestro país”. “Creo que la ciencia puede generar enormes impactos, mucho más de los que ya genera, en Chile. Y confío que a través del nuevo Ministerio de Ciencias se generen las herramientas para que el capital humano que se ha construido con mucha fuerza en nuestro país pueda efectivamente concretar todas sus esperanzas de aportar al desarrollo de un Chile mejor”, agregó la galardonada. Formación Dora Altbir Drullinsky nació en Santiago el 21 de febrero de 1961 (58 años). Es Licenciada, Magister y Doctora en Física de la P. Universidad Católica de Chile. Actualmente se desempeña en la USACH como profesora titular, académica e investigadora del Departamento de Física y directora del CEDENNA (Centro para el Desarrollo de la Nanociencia y la Nanotecnología) y de la Dirección de Investigación Científica y Tecnológica (DICYT).


--- [National Prize winners in Exact Sciences, members of CEDENNA, call for ...] ---
“Facing the bad news of the PAES” is the title of the Letter to the Editor recently published in El Mercurio, written by Dora Altbir, director of the Center for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (CEDENNA) and National Prize for Exact Sciences 2019, together with Miguel Kiwi, researcher at the Center and National Prize for Exact Sciences 2007. In the text, both prominent scientists analyze the worrying results obtained in the PAES Science test, inviting us to view them not only as a situational warning sign, but as the expression of a structural challenge that requires a long-term perspective and sustained policies over time. The letter emphasizes the need to strengthen science education from an early age, promoting critical thinking, a deep understanding of natural phenomena, and the link between science, society, and development. Likewise, the authors underscore the irreplaceable role of the State in building an educational system capable of training citizens with the tools to understand an increasingly complex and technologically advanced world. From this perspective, the text does not limit itself to diagnosing a difficulty, but rather proposes an invitation to transform challenges into opportunities, moving towards a more solid, equitable and inclusive scientific education, aligned with the needs of the country and its future development. The publication of this letter reinforces CEDENNA's commitment to public debate and to the generation of knowledge that contributes not only to scientific advancement, but also to critical reflection on education, training and public policies in Chile.


--- [National Prize for Exact Sciences of Chile - AcademiaLab] ---
National Prize for Exact Sciences of Chile keyboard_arrow_down Contenido The National Prize for Exact Sciences of Chile was created in 1992 as one of the replacements for the old National Prize for Sciences under Law No. 19,169. The other two prizes in this same area are Natural Sciences and Applied and Technological Sciences. It is part of the Chilean National Awards. Jury The jury is made up of the Minister of Education, who convenes it, the Rector of the University of Chile, the president of the Chilean Academy of Sciences, a representative of the Council of Rectors and the last recipient of this award. List of winners - 1993: Servet Martínez and Eric Goles (mathematic) - 1995: Claudio Bunster (physical) - 1997: María Teresa Ruiz (astrónoma) - 1999: José María Maza Sancho (Astronomer) - 2001: Fernando Lund Plantat (physical) - 2003: Carlos Conca (mathmatic) - 2005: Rafael Benguria (physical) - 2007: Miguel Kiwi (physical) - 2009: Ricardo Baeza Rodríguez (mathematic) - 2011: Patricio Felmer (Mathematic) - 2013: Manuel del Pino (mathematic) - 2015: Mario Hamuy Wackenhut (Astronomer) - 2017: Guido Garay Brignardello (Astronomer) - 2019: Dora Altbir Drullinsky (physics) - 2021: Monica Rubio (astronoma) Contenido relacionado Science Renewable energy Pound (unit of mass) History of artificial intelligence Ig Nobel Prize Más resultados...
