=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[David Crombie - Wikipedia]
DavidEdwardCrombiePC OC OOnt (born April 24, 1936) is a former Canadian academic and politician who served as the 56th mayor of Toronto from 1972 to 1978.Crombiewaselected to Parliament following his tenure as mayor.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Crombie

[The Honourable David Crombie - The Governor General of Canada]
OrderofCanadaOfficeroftheOrderofCanadaAwarded on: May 13, 2004 Invested on: March 11, 2005DavidCrombiehas made a broad and lasting contribution to public life. He is fondly remembered in Toronto as the "tiny perfect mayor". Federally, he served with distinction for a decade, holding several important cabinet posts.
URL: https://www.gg.ca/en/honours/recipients/146-1673

[AGE-WELL | David Crombie]
Crombie served as Mayor of Toronto from1972 to 1978 followed by two years as Member of Parliament where he served in three different Federal Cabinet posts: Minister of Health and Welfare, Minister of Indian and Northern Development, and Secretary of State. Mr. Crombie served as Chancellor of Ryerson University and was conferred the title of Chancellor Emeritus in 2006 and became an Officer of the Order of Canada in 2005....
URL: https://agewell-nce.ca/archives/dt_portfolios/david-crombie

[David Crombie Facts for Kids]
DavidEdwardCrombie(born April 24, 1936) is a Canadian professor and politician. He was the 56th Mayor of Toronto from 1972 to 1978. After being mayor,Crombiewaselected to the Canadian Parliament. He was a member of the Progressive Conservative (PC) Party. He also served as a minister in the Canadian government, holding important roles like Minister of Health and Welfare.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/David_Crombie

[David Crombie - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
On May 13, 2004, he wasappointedanOfficeroftheOrderofCanada.Crombieis the father of actor JonathanCrombie. He also has two daughters, Robin and Carrie. External linksOrderofCanadacitationDavidCrombie- Parliament ofCanadabiography v · d · e Mayors of Toronto
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/297219


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [David Crombie - Wikipedia] ---
David Edward Crombie  (born April 24, 1936) is a former Canadian academic and politician who served as the 56th mayor of Toronto from 1972 to 1978. Crombie was elected to Parliament following his tenure as mayor. A member of the Progressive Conservative (PC) Party, he served as minister of national health and welfare from 1979 to 1980, minister of Indian affairs and northern development from 1984 to 1986, and secretary of state for Canada from 1986 to 1988.




--- [The Honourable David Crombie - The Governor General of Canada] ---
Officer of the Order of Canada - Awarded on: May 13, 2004 - Invested on: March 11, 2005 David Crombie has made a broad and lasting contribution to public life. He is fondly remembered in Toronto as the "tiny perfect mayor". Federally, he served with distinction for a decade, holding several important cabinet posts. His concern for the natural and built environment is reflected in his roles as a commissioner with the Royal Commission on the Future of the Toronto Waterfront and as founding chair of the Waterfront RegenerationTrust. As well, he was the first chancellor of Ryerson Polytechnic University and currently heads the Canadian Urban Institute and the board of directors of Ontario Place.


--- [AGE-WELL | David Crombie] ---
David Crombie The Honourable David Crombie is a politician, professor and consultant. From 2001 to 2007, he was the President and CEO of the Canadian Urban Institute (CUI), a non-profit organization mandated to provide solutions to important issues that impact the quality of life in urban areas and communicate those solutions to a wide audience through a variety of media. More recently, Mr. Crombie has served in various advisory capacities to the city and provincial governments including the Chair of Ontario Place Corporation, Chair of Toronto’s Waterfront Regeneration Trust, Chair of the Advisory Council of the Nuclear Waste Management Organization, and President of David Crombie & Associates Inc. Mr. Crombie served as Mayor of Toronto from 1972 to 1978 followed by two years as Member of Parliament where he served in three different Federal Cabinet posts: Minister of Health and Welfare, Minister of Indian and Northern Development, and Secretary of State. Mr. Crombie served as Chancellor of Ryerson University and was conferred the title of Chancellor Emeritus in 2006 and became an Officer of the Order of Canada in 2005.


--- [David Crombie Facts for Kids] ---
David Crombie facts for kids Quick facts for kids David Crombie | | |---|---| | David Crombie, 2016 | | | 56th Mayor of Toronto | | | In office December 1, 1972 – August 31, 1978 | | | Preceded by | William Dennison | | Succeeded by | Fred Beavis (Interim) | | Member of Parliament for Rosedale | | | In office August 31, 1978 – October 1, 1988 | | | Preceded by | Donald Stovel Macdonald | | Succeeded by | David MacDonald | | Minister of National Health and Welfare | | | In office June 4, 1979 – March 2, 1980 | | | Prime Minister | Joe Clark | | Preceded by | Monique Bégin | | Succeeded by | Monique Bégin | | Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development | | | In office September 17, 1984 – June 29, 1986 | | | Prime Minister | Brian Mulroney | | Preceded by | Doug Frith | | Succeeded by | Bill McKnight | | Secretary of State for Canada and Minister responsible for Multiculturalism | | | In office June 30, 1986 – March 30, 1988 | | | Prime Minister | Brian Mulroney | | Preceded by | Benoît Bouchard | | Succeeded by | Lucien Bouchard | | Other offices | | | 1969–1972 | Toronto Alderman | | Personal details | | | Born | David Edward Crombie April 24, 1936 Swansea, Ontario, Canada | | Political party | Progressive Conservative | | Spouse | Shirley Ann (Bowden) Crombie | | Children | Jonathan, Robin, Carrie | | Occupation | | David Edward Crombie (born April 24, 1936) is a Canadian professor and politician. He was the 56th Mayor of Toronto from 1972 to 1978. After being mayor, Crombie was elected to the Canadian Parliament. He was a member of the Progressive Conservative (PC) Party. He also served as a minister in the Canadian government, holding important roles like Minister of Health and Welfare. Contents Early Life and Community Work David Crombie was born in Swansea, a village that is now part of Toronto, Ontario. In the 1960s, he taught politics and city planning at Ryerson. During this time, he became involved in a movement to improve Toronto's urban areas. At that time, Toronto's city council often approved plans to tear down old buildings and homes. They wanted to build new apartment buildings, offices, and highways. Crombie and other reformers, like John Sewell, led a group of people who wanted to protect older buildings. They also wanted to improve community services and focus on what local residents needed. Becoming Mayor of Toronto Crombie was elected to Toronto's city council in 1970. In 1972, he became the Mayor of Toronto. He brought a new way of thinking about city development, inspired by ideas from urban planners like Jane Jacobs. Crombie was the first mayor from this "reform movement" in Toronto politics. His ideas were very different from the mayors who came before him. Protecting Toronto's Waterfront As mayor, David Crombie worked hard to control new building projects. He first tried to limit new buildings to 45 feet (about 13.7 meters) tall. However, this rule was changed by the Ontario Municipal Board. Crombie then created a new city plan that set different height limits for different areas of the city. This plan was approved. Crombie also helped stop the construction of the Scarborough Expressway. All work on this highway stopped during his time as mayor, and it was eventually cancelled. He also opposed tearing down older, poorer neighborhoods to build large housing projects. Plans to rebuild areas like Trefann Court, Kensington Market, and Cabbagetown ended under Crombie's leadership. Instead, he helped create the St. Lawrence neighborhood. This area has mid-rise buildings with different types of homes and businesses. It was designed to follow Jane Jacobs's ideas for diverse and lively city spaces. Crombie was very popular and was re-elected as mayor in 1974 and 1976. Because of his popularity and his height, people often called him the city's "tiny, perfect mayor." National Politics In 1978, David Crombie left his role as mayor to enter national politics. He won a special election and became a member of the House of Commons of Canada. He was part of the Progressive Conservative Party. Crombie served as the Minister of Health and Welfare from 1979 to 1980. This was during the short time that Joe Clark was Prime Minister. Later, when Brian Mulroney became Prime Minister in 1984, Crombie served as Minister of Indian and Northern Affairs. He also became the Secretary of State and Minister of Multiculturalism. Royal Commission on the Future of the Toronto Waterfront David Crombie decided not to run for re-election in 1988. He returned to working on city issues. He became the head of a special group called the Royal Commission on the Future of Toronto's Waterfront (1988–1992). He wrote important reports like Watershed and Regeneration. These reports suggested new ways to plan cities that are good for the environment and communities. The government then asked Crombie to lead an agency called the Waterfront Regeneration Trust Agency (1992-1999). This agency worked to put his ideas into action. One of the big ideas was to create a waterfront trail. Today, the Great Lakes Waterfront Trail stretches from Quebec to Sault Ste Marie, along Canada's Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River. In 1999, Crombie started the Waterfront Regeneration Trust, which is a charity. This charity continues to work on the trail and helps protect and restore the Rouge Valley, which is now part of the Rouge National Urban Park. Improving Health Services for Indigenous Peoples In 1979, when David Crombie was Minister of Health and Welfare, he made an important statement. He said that the Canadian government wanted to work with Indigenous leaders to review health services for Indigenous communities. This was a big step towards giving Indigenous groups more control over their own health care. Before this, Indigenous groups had been asking for more control over health services in their communities. They also wanted help with environmental health problems. Crombie appointed Gary Goldthorpe to investigate concerns about health care delivery in British Columbia. Later, Justice Thomas Berger recommended that the government talk more with Indigenous and Inuit peoples about health programs. He also suggested providing money to help Indigenous communities develop their own health consultation groups. Crombie's successor, Monique Begin, followed these recommendations. This marked the beginning of a change in how health services were provided to Indigenous peoples. Later Career and Recognition In 1994, David Crombie became the first chancellor of Ryerson University (now Toronto Metropolitan University). He held this role until 1999. Throughout the 1990s, he advised city and provincial governments on urban issues in the Toronto area. He retired as CEO of the Canadian Urban Institute in 2007. In 2014, he spoke out against plans to make the runways longer at Billy Bishop Toronto City Airport on the Toronto Islands. On May 13, 2004, Crombie was given the Order of Canada, which is one of Canada's highest honors. In 2012, he became a member of the Order of Ontario. In 2013, he was recognized in the Canadian Disability Hall of Fame. A park in Toronto is named after him. It is located in an area that used to be industrial but was changed into housing. Personal Life David Crombie has two daughters, Robin and Carrie. His son, Jonathan Crombie, was an actor who starred in the Anne of Green Gables TV series. Jonathan passed away in 2015 at the age of 48.


--- [David Crombie - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- David Crombie - David Edward Crombie Crombie speaks to reporters on the floor of the 1983 leadership convention. Photograph by Alasdair Roberts. Member of the Canadian Parliament for Toronto CentreIn office by-election (1978) – 1988 federal electionPreceded by Donald Stovel Macdonald Succeeded by David MacDonald 56th Mayor of Toronto In office December 1, 1972 – November 30, 1978Preceded by William Dennison Succeeded by Fred Beavis, acting Personal details Born April 24, 1936 Nationality Canadian Political party Progressive Conservative Spouse(s) Shirley Crombie Children Jonathan, Robin, Carrie Occupation Professor David Edward Crombie, PC, OC (born April 24, 1936) is a Canadian politician, professor and consultant. Contents Early life Crombie was a lecturer in politics and urban affairs at Ryerson in the 1960s when he became involved in Toronto's urban reform movement. At the time, the city had a very pro-development city council that allowed a great deal of demolition of older buildings, including houses, to make way for the construction of apartment blocks, office towers, and highways (see Spadina Expressway). Crombie, along with John Sewell and other urban reformers, became a leader in a grassroots movement that favoured curtailing development in favour of improving social services and prioritizing community interests. Municipal politics Crombie was elected to Toronto's city council in 1970, and became Mayor of Toronto in 1972, ushering in an era of socially responsible urban development inspired by thinkers such as Jane Jacobs. Crombie was the first mayor who represented the reform movement of Toronto politics, and his policies differed sharply from those of the Old Guard who preceded him. Much of Crombie's time as mayor was spent trying to rein in the development industry. He initially imposed a 45 foot limit on all new constructions, but this was overturned by the Ontario Municipal Board. Crombie then put forward a new official plan that imposed varying height restrictions across the city, and this was upheld by the board. The Spadina Expressway had been halted by premier Bill Davis in 1971, but Davis continued to support the construction of the Allen Expressway in the north. Crombie attempted but failed to have it halted. He was more successful in countering plans for the Scarborough Expressway; all work was halted during Crombie's term, leading to its eventual cancellation. Crombie also opposed the traditional pattern of demolishing poorer neighbourhoods and replacing them by housing projects. The plans to redevelop areas such as Trefann Court, Kensington Market, and Cabbagetown ended under Crombie. Instead, he oversaw the creation of the St. Lawrence neighbourhood, an area of mid-rise, mixed-use, mixed-income buildings that followed Jane Jacobs vision of urban planning. Crombie was enormously popular as mayor, being re-elected in 1974 and 1976 with large majorities. Because of his great public appeal and small stature, he was repeatedly described in the media as the city's "tiny, perfect mayor". Federal politics He left City Hall in 1978 to move to federal politics, winning a by-election as a Progressive Conservative candidate that gave him a seat in the Canadian House of Commons. Crombie served as Minister of Health and Welfare in the short-lived minority government of Prime Minister Joe Clark which was elected in 1979 but lost power the next year. Crombie stood as a candidate at the 1983 Progressive Conservative leadership convention. He finished fourth and urged his supporters to vote for John Crosbie, rather than Brian Mulroney. This move probably hurt his chances at being appointed to a senior position in a future Tory cabinet. After Mulroney led Conservatives to power in the 1984 election, Crombie became minister of Indian and Northern Affairs, and later Secretary of State and Minister of Multiculturalism. Frustrated in Ottawa, as a Red Tory in an increasingly conservative government, Crombie decided not to run in the 1988 election, and returned to urban affairs as head of the royal commission on the future of Toronto's waterfront. Crombie tried to find an alternative to Red Hill Creek Expressway but the Hamilton city council dismissed his compromise proposal out of hand as being insufficient. Later career Throughout the 1990s, he served in various advisory capacities to city and provincial governments relating to urban issues in the Toronto area. He recently retired from his position as CEO of the Canadian Urban Institute. On April 17, 2008, the Toronto District School Board selected Crombie to negotiate a funding solution to the swimming pool issue. On May 13, 2004, he was appointed an Officer of the Order of Canada. Crombie is the father of actor Jonathan Crombie. He also has two daughters, Robin and Carrie. External links Mayors of Toronto Mackenzie · Sullivan · T. Morrison · Gurnett · Powell · Monro · Sherwood · Boulton · Gurnett · Bowes · Beard · Allan · Robinson · Hutchison · Boulton · Read · Wilson · Bowes · Medcalf · Smith · Harman · Sheard · Manning · Medcalf · A. Morrison · Beaty · McMurrich · Boswell · Manning · W. Howland · Clarke · Fleming · Kennedy · Fleming · Shaw · Macdonald · O. Howland · Urquhart · Coatsworth · Oliver · Geary · Hocken · Church · Maguire · Hiltz · Foster · McBride · Wemp · Stewart · Simpson · McBride · Robbins · Day · Conboy · R. Saunders · McCallum · Lamport · L. Saunders · Phillips · Summerville · Givens · Dennison · Crombie · Beavis · Sewell · Eggleton · Rowlands · Hall · Lastman · Miller · FordSecretaries of State of Canada Langevin · Aikins · Christie · Scott · Aikins · O'Connor · Mousseau · Chapleau · Patterson · Costigan · Dickey · Montague · Ouimet (acting) · Daly (acting) · Tupper · Scott · Murphy · Roche · Coderre · Blondin · Patenaude · Sévigny (acting) · Meighen · Burrell · Sifton · Drayton (acting) · Monty · Copp · Foster · Murphy (acting) · Lapointe · Perley · Rinfret · Cahan · Rinfret · Lapointe · Casgrain · McLarty · Martin · Gibson · Bradley · Pickersgill · Pinard · Fairclough · Courtemanche · Balcer · Dorion · Balcer · Halpenny · Pickersgill · Lamontagne · LaMarsh · Connolly · Marchand · Pelletier · Faulkner · Roberts · MacDonald · Fox · Regan · Joyal · McLean · B. Bouchard · Crombie · L. Bouchard · Weiner · de Cotret · Landry11The department was eliminated in 1993 when the government was reorganized. The position of Secretary of State for Canada was not legally eliminated until 1996 when its remaining responsibilities were assigned to other cabinet positions and departments, particularly the newly created position of Minister of Canadian Heritage. Categories:- 1936 births - Living people - Canadian political scientists - Mayors of Toronto - Metro Toronto councillors - Members of the Canadian House of Commons from Ontario - Officers of the Order of Canada - Members of the Queen's Privy Council for Canada - Progressive Conservative Party of Canada MPs - University of Toronto alumni Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.
