=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Elizabeth Esteve-Coll - Wikipedia]
Esteve-Coll served as Vice-Chancellor of the University of East Anglia from 1995 to 1997, but was forced to step down after being diagnosed with multiple sclerosis.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabeth_Esteve-Coll

[Tributes paid to former UEA Vice-Chancellor]
Sep 18, 2024 · Dame Elizabeth Esteve-Coll was the University of East Anglia's (UEA's) first female Vice-Chancellor from 1995 to 1997, and served as a board member for both the Sainsbury Centre and the Sainsbury Institute for the Study of Japanese Arts and Cultures.
URL: https://www.uea.ac.uk/about/news/article/tributes-paid-to-former-uea-vice-chancellor

[Remembering Elizabeth Esteve-Coll, groundbreaking director of ...]
Dec 4, 2024 · Elizabeth Esteve-Coll is best known in the art world for having been a charismatic but at the time much criticised director of the Victoria and Albert Museum (V&A), in London, from 1988 to...
URL: https://www.theartnewspaper.com/2024/12/04/remembering-elizabeth-esteve-coll-groundbreaking-director-victoria-albert-museum-london

[Between - Best App for Couples]
Between is a private space where you can share each moment only with that special someone. Create, share, and remember all your moments with each other. Get started now!
URL: https://between.us/

[Home - University of Oxford North American Office]
Home University of Oxford North American Office. Use this information to help students and scholars from across the globe. Lord Hague of Richmond elected as new Chancellor of Oxford University. Professor Irene Tracey CBE CBE FRS FMedSci ViceChancellor of Oxford ...
URL: https://www.oxfordna.org/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Elizabeth Esteve-Coll - Wikipedia] ---
Dame Elizabeth Anne Loosemore Esteve-Coll  (née Kingdon; 14 October 1938 – 16 September 2024) was a British academic, museum director and librarian.


--- [Tributes paid to former UEA Vice-Chancellor] ---
By: Communications The University of East Anglia, Sainsbury Centre and Sainsbury Institute for the Study of Japanese Arts and Cultures are deeply saddened to hear of the passing of former Vice-Chancellor, Dame Elizabeth Esteve-Coll. Dame Elizabeth was Vice-Chancellor at University of East Anglia (UEA) from 1995 to 1997. She was the University’s first female Vice-Chancellor and served as a board member for both the Sainsbury Centre and the Sainsbury Institute for the Study of Japanese Arts and Cultures, the latter of which she helped to found in January 1999. She was made a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1995 and awarded an Honorary Doctorate from UEA in 1997. In 2005, she received the Order of the Rising Sun, Gold Rays with Neck Ribbon in recognition of her ‘outstanding contribution to the promotion of Japanese culture and studies to the British People’. UEA Vice-Chancellor Prof David Maguire said: “We are extremely sad to hear of Dame Elizabeth’s passing. Dame Elizabeth leaves a significant legacy of progress across the university’s education and research. “She drove forward many ground-breaking partnerships and projects, particularly in the fields of arts and culture, which were not only visionary, but which have become true strengths of UEA. “She will be fondly remembered by all in our community and I would like to record my enormous gratitude for her contribution to UEA.” Dr Jago Cooper, Director of the Sainsbury Centre, said: “Dame Elizabeth was a trailblazing force for innovation across the arts and culture landscape of the UK. I thoroughly enjoyed working with her on the Sainsbury Centre Board where her infectious enthusiasm was always an active and positive force for us all. We have immense gratitude for all that she has contributed over the years.” Professor Simon Kaner, Executive Director of the Sainsbury Institute for the Study of Japanese Arts and Cultures; and Director of the Centre for Japanese Studies at UEA, said: “Everyone involved with the Sainsbury Institute is deeply saddened by the passing of this great lady whose engagement with Japan spanned more than 60 years. There would have been no Sainsbury Institute without her. “She was a tremendous champion of Japanese arts and cultures in the UK and an inspiration to all of us in the field. To paraphrase the great Haiku poet Bashō, may her dreams continue their wandering.” Prior to her time at UEA, she was the first woman director of a national arts collection when she was appointed as director of the Victoria and Albert Museum in 1987. She was also the first female director of the University of Surrey library in the early 1980s. She served as Chancellor at the University of Lincoln from 2000–2007. Discover the latest research and funding grant successes happening within the University of East Anglia. Read moreA leading climate scientist has sought to set the record straight over “demonstrably incorrect” claims made in a major US government report that misrepresented his work and downplayed the role of human activity in global warming. Read moreUEA University of Sanctuary and the Norwich Bicycle Repair Cooperative have joined forces to provide bikes and parts to Norwich asylum seekers and refugees. Read more


--- [Remembering Elizabeth Esteve-Coll, groundbreaking director of ...] ---
Elizabeth Esteve-Coll is best known in the art world for having been a charismatic but at the time much criticised director of the Victoria and Albert Museum (V&A), in London, from 1988 to 1995, a turbulent period in its history; but she should also be remembered as a professional librarian at Kingston University and the University of Surrey, then keeper of the National Art Library from 1985 to 1988, as well as a briefer period as vice-chancellor of the University of East Anglia (UEA) from 1995 to 1997. After retiring as a result of multiple sclerosis (MS) in 1997, she remained an active figure in the affairs of the Sainsbury Centre at UEA, the Sainsbury Institute for the Study of Japanese Arts and Cultures, the arts panel of the Wolfson Foundation and Norwich Cathedral, as well as serving as chancellor of the University of Lincoln from 2001 to 2008. Elizabeth Kingdon was born in Ripon in 1938, an only child. Her father, Percy Kingdon, worked for the National Provincial Bank, later the NatWest, in Middlesbrough, Darlington, Loftus, Hull and Bedale, while also serving in the army during the Second World War. Her family was bookish, keen on poetry, with strong musical interests, and her parents took her on visits to country houses, cathedrals and castles as well as weekend visits to her grandmother in Whitby. She was head girl at her grammar school in Darlington. After a year doing her A levels at a crammer in Oxford, she went to Trinity College Dublin to read English and Spanish, and fell in love with a Spanish sea captain, José Esteve-Coll, known as Alex, an exile from Franco’s Spain who had served in British intelligence during the war and then in the British merchant navy. She married him in 1960. Records, including a later appearance on BBC Radio 4’s Desert Island Discs, suggest she spent the whole of the 1960s reading, learning languages and travelling the world, but in the mid-60s at least, the couple were living in Muswell Hill, north London, in a flat belonging to Maurice de Sausmarez, author of Basic Design. In the early 1970s she went to evening classes at Birkbeck College, in London, where, with her wide reading and good knowledge of languages, she got a first in history and history of art. This led her to a job as an information librarian in the School of Art at Kingston Polytechnic (now University). From there she was appointed director of the University of Surrey Library. She was an immensely capable, hard-working, professional librarian, knowledgeable about new developments in library science and, in 1985, was appointed keeper of the National Art Library at the V&A by Roy Strong. She could not have been less like the other keepers—relatively young, very dedicated, a breath of fresh air. She changed the atmosphere of the library and its working methods with extreme efficiency. Older members of staff were sent on management training courses. Younger staff were promoted to positions of greater responsibility. This was why, when Strong resigned in 1987, so many of the staff were keen for Esteve-Coll to succeed him: they felt that she could reform the museum in the way that she had the National Art Library. But a big, old-fashioned, hierarchical museum with entrenched ways of working was harder to change. She may not have had the same premeditated confidence as to what needed to be done. So, she established a committee under John Murdoch, keeper of the Department of Paintings, Prints and Drawings, which came up with a multitude of different ways as to how the museum should be reformed, but no consensus. Meanwhile, she consulted friends, colleagues and management experts as to how best to introduce change. At the heart of what she proposed was a clearer separation between research and collections management. This idea, never fully explained, was based on her realisation that many of the curatorial staff devoted too much time on unfocused private research, leading to publications not necessarily related to the museum’s holdings, while relatively little was spent on their core responsibility of looking after, managing and cataloguing the collection, particularly objects in store, and making information about the collection available to a wide public. Esteve-Coll took up her post at the V&A in early 1988. Following a critical report of the conditions of storage by the National Audit Committee, she faced a hearing in front of the Public Accounts Committee in which she was attacked by committee members and asked what she proposed to do. HM Treasury made funds available for a package of senior redundancies on condition that they were spent by the end of the financial year. On 9 February 1989, nine keepers of the museum were summoned to her office and offered voluntary redundancy. It was a radical way of managing change by top-slicing senior management and caused a widespread outcry, including amongst the Board of Trustees who felt they had not been adequately told what had been planned. Martin Kemp, professor of art history at the University of Oxford, resigned. Michael Podro, professor of art history and theory at the University of Essex, made strenuous efforts behind the scenes to mitigate the damage. Robert Armstrong, the chair of trustees, stayed silent and may not have provided the psychological support Esteve-Coll needed. Esteve-Coll paid a heavy price as the odium of the art world was heaped upon her, including a particularly vicious attack by John Pope-Hennessy, her predecessor but one. A revolution that needed to happen In practice, the revolution was not as extreme as first feared. The majority of the existing departments remained semi-intact under Gwyn Miles, a conservator, as surveyor of collections with responsibility for looking after the collections. A research department was created to raise external funding and enable staff from within the museum, as well as outside, to focus on substantial research projects, including exhibitions and publications. The education department was given more responsibility and funding to encourage public interpretation. Her changes [at the V&A] have produced a museum that is better run and focused on the interests of a non-specialist public In retrospect, it was a revolution that needed to happen. Esteve-Coll retained the devoted loyalty of those staff who liked and admired her and supported her reform, but not of the wider museum community. It was not an easy period for the museum or for her as it experimented with new types of exhibition, new ways of advertising itself, and began the important task of updating and re-presenting its galleries. The Nehru Gallery of Indian Art opened in 1990, the T.T. Tsui Gallery of Chinese Art in 1991, the Samsung Gallery of Korean Art in 1992 and a new Glass Gallery in 1994. In the long term, her changes have, as she intended, produced a museum that is better run, more professional, and focused on the interests of a non-specialist public. In 1995, she left the V&A and became vice-chancellor of UEA, a post for which she was ideally suited. By now she was suffering from MS. Two years later she resigned. She remained astonishingly active in spite of increasing immobility, travelling back and forth between Norfolk, Corfu and France, still lively, vigorous, always with a strong sense of humour, very direct and down to earth. She lived in Aylsham, north of Norwich, with Moya Willson, a former pro-vice-chancellor at UEA. Elizabeth Anne Loosemore Kingdon; born Ripon, North Yorkshire, 14 October 1938; keeper, National Art Library 1985-88; director, Victoria and Albert Museum, London, 1988-95; vice-chancellor, University of East Anglia 1995-97; DBE 1995; chancellor, University of Lincoln 2001-08; married 1960 José Alexander Timothy (Alex) Esteve-Coll (died 1980); partner of Moya Willson; died Aylsham, Norfolk, 16 September 2024.


--- [Between - Best App for Couples] ---
Relationship App for Couples Between is a mobile app for couples in love! Chat, share photos and schedules in a private space just for two. Start now and collect all the moments in your relationship. Between is a mobile app for couples in love! Chat, track anniversaries, share photos and video, and plan your schedules together all in one private space. Start using Between now and make your relationship even better! Express yourselves better with cute stickers and emoticons. Have fun with GIF Selfies. Between is the place to have your intimate conversations. Every photo, video, and notes - just between the two of you. Your memories all remain, even if you change phones. Save and share all your precious memories in Between. Never miss a word from the voice you miss most. Between provides free and clear Voice Calls. Keep on talking without the worry of phone call charges. Do you remember the day you first met, your first anniversary, or a special trip together? These special moments, no matter how small, are all important in your relationship. Save and track all your special days and moments on Between, and never forget them. Easily share your individual schedules and make plans. No set up or syncing needed to keep each other updated. Between's Shared Calendar makes planning as a couple smooth as silk. "Korean Couples App Between Raises $3 Million To Expand Into Japan And Other Markets: "Between is huge in Asia — and growing."" "It offers an ultra-private, richer, and meaningful experiential context that nurtures intimacy with your significant other.." "You can have only one contact on Between—your significant other. If Facebook is a high-school reunion and Twitter is a cocktail party, Between is staying home with a boxed set and ordering pizza." Between is a mobile app for couples in love! Chat, share photos and schedules in a private space just for two. Start now and collect all the moments in your relationship. Express yourselves better with cute stickers and emoticons. Have fun with GIF Selfies. Between is the place to have your intimate conversations. Every photo, video, and notes - just between the two of you. Your memories all remain, even if you change phones. Save and share all your precious memories in Between. Never miss a word from the voice you miss most. Between provides free and clear Voice Calls. Keep on talking without the worry of phone call charges. Do you remember the day you first met, your first anniversary, or a special trip together? These special moments, no matter how small, are all important in your relationship. Save and track all your special days and moments on Between, and never forget them. Easily share your individual schedules and make plans. No set up or syncing needed to keep each other updated. Between's Shared Calendar makes planning as a couple smooth as silk. "Korean Couples App Between Raises $3 Million To Expand Into Japan And Other Markets: "Between is huge in Asia — and growing."" "It offers an ultra-private, richer, and meaningful experiential context that nurtures intimacy with your significant other.." "You can have only one contact on Between—your significant other. If Facebook is a high-school reunion and Twitter is a cocktail party, Between is staying home with a boxed set and ordering pizza."


--- [Home - University of Oxford North American Office] ---
| Dec | JAN | Feb | | 04 | || | 2025 | 2026 | 2027 | History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.
