=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[EGOT - Wikipedia]
EGOT, an acronym for theEmmy,Grammy,Oscar,andTonyAwards, is the designation given to people who have won all four of the major performing artawardsin the United States. [1][2] Respectively, theseawardshonor outstanding achievements in television, audio recording / music, film, and Broadway theatre. [3] Achieving theEGOThas been referred to as the "grand slam" of American show ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EGOT

[Full List of EGOT Winners—As Steven Spielberg Joins the Club]
Fewer than 30 Hollywood stars have earned one of the entertainment worlds highest honors: theEGOT,thecombination of anEmmy,Grammy,OscarandTony. Following the 2026GrammyAwards,the...
URL: https://www.newsweek.com/entertainment/egot-emmy-tony-oscar-grammy-award-winners-list-steven-spielberg-11451422

[List of EGOT winners | Names, Years, & Facts | Britannica]
It seems everyone is agog for theEGOT.Theacronym refers to the four major performing-artsawardsin North America:Emmy,Grammy,Oscar,andTony. Winning all of the honors is one of the most coveted achievements in entertainment. However, that was not always the case. In fact, the feat was largely unrecognized until 1984, when Philip Michael Thomas, an actor in the TV series Miami Vice ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/art/list-of-EGOT-winners

[Every EGOT Winner & What They Won For - Billboard]
We mentioned earlier that the definition ofEGOTis having won at least oneEmmy,Grammy,OscarandTonyin competition. There's some debate about that.
URL: https://www.billboard.com/lists/egot-winners-complete-list-analysis/

[Every Celebrity EGOT: Stars Who Won an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar and Tony]
Composer Richard Rodgers became the first-everEGOTwinnerin 1962, when his musical drama No Strings scooped up aTony,GrammyandEmmy. Rodgers, who died in 1979, had previously won anOscarfor ...
URL: https://people.com/celebrity-egot-awards-11897035


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [EGOT - Wikipedia] ---
EGOT, an acronym for the Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony Awards, is the designation given to people who have won all four of the major performing art awards in the United States. Respectively, these awards honor outstanding achievements in television, audio recording/music, film, and Broadway theatre. Achieving the EGOT has been referred to as the "grand slam" of American show business. Including those with honorary or special awards, 28 people have achieved this status. Only one person, Robert Lopez, has won all four awards twice.




--- [Full List of EGOT Winners—As Steven Spielberg Joins the Club] ---
Fewer than 30 Hollywood stars have earned one of the entertainment worlds highest honors: the EGOT, the combination of an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar and Tony. Following the 2026 Grammy Awards, the director Steven Spielberg has joined the elite group for producing Music by John Williams—a documentary on the composer—which took home the award for Best Music Film. Newsweek has rounded up a full list of EGOT winners. What Is an EGOT? To be an EGOT winner means winning at least one Emmy, Grammy, Oscar and Tony. The term was coined by Miami Vice actor Philip Michael Tomas, who told The Associated Press in 1984 that it “Stands for Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony.” It was further popularized after appearing in the TV show 30 Rock, and has now firmly entered the cultural lexicon. See a full list of EGOT winners below. Harry Belafonte Belafonte earned an honorary Oscar in 2014. The late actor and singer-songwriter received a total of six awards in the the four EGOT categories. Mel Brooks Brooks became an EGOT winner after winning three Tonys in 2001 for The Producers. Viola Davis Davis won her Grammy in 2023 for best audiobook for her memoir Finding Me to gain EGOT status. John Gielgud Gielgud earned EGOT status in 1991, winning an Emmy for his performance in Summer’s Lease. The late actor and theater director earned an Oscar in 1982 for his role in Arthur. Whoopi Goldberg Goldberg became an EGOT winner in 2002, after she won a Tony for Thoroughly Modern Millie, for which she was a producer. Marvin Hamlisch Hamlisch achieved EGOT status after the composer, who died in 2012, won two Emmys in 1994 for Barbra: The Concert. Audrey Hepburn Hepburn reached EGOT status posthumously, when she won the Grammy for Best Spoken Word Album for Children for Audrey Hepburn's Enchanted Tales in 1994, a year after her death in 1993 at the age of 63. She had previously won an Oscar for her role in Roman Holiday. Helen Hayes Hayes became the first woman to earn the EGOT status in 1977, after winning the Grammy for Best Spoken Word Recording for Great American Documents. Jennifer Hudson Hudson became an EGOT winner after receiving a Tony Award for A Strange Loop, which she co-produced. She had won an Oscar in 2007 for her role in Dreamgirls, an Emmy for her executive producer role on Baba Yaga and one of her two Grammys for her eponymous album. James Earl Jones The legendary Star Wars actor—Darth Vader in the original trilogy—achieved EGOT status after being awarded an honorary Oscar in 2011. He died in 2024. Quincy Jones The late renowned music producer, who won nearly 30 Grammys, became an EGOT winner in 2016 after receiving a Tony Award for producing The Color Purple. Elton John The singer-songwriter became an Emmy winner in 2024 for Outstanding Live Variety Special for his concert program Farewell from Dodger Stadium. He had previously won Oscars for Rocketman and The Lion King, a Tony for Aida and six Grammys, including the Legend Award. John Legend Legend cemented his EGOT status in 2018, becoming the first Black man to claim the roster of awards, after winning an Emmy for producing Jesus Christ Superstar Live. He won an Oscar for his song Glory, a Tony for co-producing Jitney. He has won multiple Grammy Awards, including Best R&B Soul Single-Male for "Ordinary People." Robert Lopez Lopez is not only the youngest-ever EGOT recipient—at 39 in 2014—but was also the only person to have won all four awards more than once. Lopez won the Academy Award for Best Original Song twice for "Let It Go" from Frozen and "Remember Me" from Coco. Frank Marshall Director and producer Frank Marshall cemented his EGOT status in 2023 after earning a Grammy for Jazz Fest: A New Orleans Story and a Sports Emmy that same year for The Redeem Team. Alan Menken Menken gained EGOT status in 2012, after earning a Tony for Newsies. The composer had previously won Oscars and Grammys for Beauty and the Beast. Liza Minnelli Hollywood legend and daughter of Judy Garland, Minelli earned EGOT status after receiving an honorary Grammy Award in 1990. She had earned an Academy Award for her turn as Sally Bowles in the 1972 musical film, Cabaret. Rita Moreno Moreno was the first Latino star to become an EGOT winner. She earned the title in 1977 for her performance in The Muppet Show. Moreno is the second-fastest person to achieve the honor, after Lopez. Mike Nichols Director Mike Nichols became an EGOT holder after winning two Emmys for the TV movie, Wit. Benj Pasek and Justin Paul Pasek and Paul, the composing duo, earned the EGOT in 2024 when they took home the Emmy award for Outstanding Original Music and Lyrics for the song "Which of the Pickwick Triplets Did It?” from Only Murders in the Building. Scott Rudin Rudin, a producer, earned numerous Tony awards throughout his career. He earned EGOT status in 2012 after winning a Grammy for The Book of Mormon: Original Broadway Cast Recording. Richard Rodgers Rodgers, a composer, was the first ever EGOT winner, achieving the milestone in 1962 when his musical drama, No Strings, won a Tony, Grammy and an Emmy. Tim Rice Songwriter Tim Rice became an EGOT winner in 2018 after scooping up an Emmy for Jesus Christ Superstar Live. He had previously won multiple Grammys and Tonys and earned an Oscar for Evita. Steven Spielberg The legendary director of films, including Saving Private Ryan and the War of the Worlds, earned the Grammy for producing Music by John Williams, a documentary about the composer. He had previously won several Oscars and Emmys, as well as a Tony for producing the Broadway show A Strange Loop. Barbra Streisand The Funny Girl star achieved EGOT status in 1970 after winning an honorary Tony award. Jonathan Tunick Tunick became an EGOT winner in 1997 after winning a Tony award for Best Orchestrations in the musical, Titanic. Andrew Lloyd Webber Webber, composer and Broadway legend, earned an Emmy for his production work on Jesus Christ Superstar Live in 2018, achieving EGOT status.


--- [List of EGOT winners | Names, Years, & Facts | Britannica] ---
list of EGOT winners It seems everyone is agog for the EGOT. The acronym refers to the four major performing-arts awards in North America: Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony. Winning all of the honors is one of the most coveted achievements in entertainment. However, that was not always the case. In fact, the feat was largely unrecognized until 1984, when Philip Michael Thomas, an actor in the TV series Miami Vice (1984–89), came up with the term EGOT to describe his aspirations. He even wore a necklace with the acronym engraved on a medallion. However, the EGOT remained little more than a curiosity until 2009, when the term—and Thomas’s necklace—was a storyline in an episode of the sitcom 30 Rock (2006–13). The EGOT subsequently caught the public’s imagination and became a goal for many entertainers. Although Thomas has yet to win an EGOT, 27 people have achieved the feat: 22 have won competitive EGOTs, and 6 people have completed the EGOT with noncompetitive or honorary awards. The winners are listed below in chronological order by their qualifying award. If the entertainer won multiple prizes at the same ceremony, all are mentioned. The year in parentheses indicates when the award was received. - Related Topics: - EGOT Competitive EGOT winners 1. Richard Rodgers- Emmy: Outstanding achievement in original music composed for television, Winston Churchill: The Valiant Years (1962) - Grammy: Best show album (original cast), The Sound of Music (1961) - Oscar: Best song, “It Might as Well Be Spring” from State Fair (1946) - Tony: Best producer (musical), best original music score, and best musical, South Pacific (1950) - Emmy: Best actress, Schlitz Playhouse of Stars: Not a Chance (1953) - Grammy: Best spoken word recording, Great American Documents (1977) - Oscar: Best actress, The Sin of Madelon Claudet (1932) - Tony: Best actress (play), Happy Birthday (1947) - Emmy: Outstanding continuing or single performance by a supporting actress in a variety or musical program, The Muppet Show (1977) - Grammy: Best recording for children, The Electric Company (1973) - Oscar: Best supporting actress, West Side Story (1962) - Tony: Best actress (featured role, play), The Ritz (1975) - Emmy: Outstanding lead actor in a miniseries or special, Summer’s Lease (1991) - Grammy: Best album for children, The Emperor’s New Clothes (1980) - Oscar: Best supporting actor, Arthur (1982) - Tony: Best director (play), Big Fish, Little Fish (1961) - Emmy: Outstanding individual achievement—informational programming, Gardens of the World (1993) - Grammy: Best spoken word album for children, Audrey Hepburn’s Enchanted Tales (1994) - Oscar: Best actress, Roman Holiday (1954) - Tony: Best actress (play), Ondine (1954) - Emmy: Outstanding individual achievement in music direction and outstanding individual achievement in music and lyrics, Barbra: The Concert (1995) - Grammy: Song of the year (“The Way We Were”), best new artist of the year, best pop instrumental performance (“The Entertainer”), and album of best original score written for a motion picture or a television special (The Way We Were) (1975) - Oscar: Best original dramatic score and best song (“The Way We Were” from The Way We Were) and best original song score and adaptation or scoring: adaptation (The Sting) (1974) - Tony: Best original musical score, A Chorus Line (1976) - Emmy: Outstanding achievement in music direction, Night of 100 Stars (1982) - Grammy: Best instrumental arrangement accompanying vocal(s), “No One Is Alone” (1989) - Oscar: Best original score and its adaptation or adaptation score, “A Little Night Music” from A Little Night Music (1978) - Tony: Best orchestrations, Titanic (1997) - Emmy: Outstanding writing achievement in a variety program, The Sid Caesar, Imogene Coca, Carl Reiner, Howard Morris Special (1967) - Grammy: Best spoken comedy album, The 2000 Year Old Man in the Year 2000 (1999) - Oscar: Best story and screenplay (written directly for the screen), The Producers (1969) - Tony: Best musical (Brooks was a producer), original musical score, book (musical) for The Producers (2001) - Emmy: Outstanding made-for-television movie, Wit (2001) - Grammy: Best comedy performance, An Evening with Mike Nichols and Elaine May (1962) - Oscar: Best director, The Graduate (1968) - Tony: Best director (play), Barefoot in the Park (1964) - Emmy*: Outstanding special class special, Beyond Tara: The Extraordinary Life of Hattie McDaniel (2002) - Grammy: Best comedy recording, Whoopi Goldberg—Original Broadway Show Recording (1986) - Oscar: Best supporting actress, Ghost (1991) - Tony: Best musical (Goldberg was a producer), Thoroughly Modern Millie (2002) - *Daytime Emmy Award - Emmy: Outstanding children’s program, He Makes Me Feel Like Dancin’ (1984) - Grammy: Best musical theater album, The Book of Mormon (2012) - Oscar: Best picture (Rudin was a producer), No Country for Old Men (2008) - Tony: Best musical (Rudin was a producer), Passion (1994) - Emmy*: Outstanding achievement in music direction and composition, Wonder Pets! (2008) - Grammy: Best musical theater album, The Book of Mormon (2012) - Oscar: Best original song, “Let It Go” from Frozen (2014) - Tony: Best original musical score, Avenue Q (2004) - *Daytime Emmy Award; in 2021 Lopez won a Primetime Emmy. - Emmy: Outstanding variety special (live), Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert (2018) - Grammy: Best cast show album, Evita: Premiere American Recording (1981) - Oscar: Best original song, “You Must Love Me” from Evita (1997) - Tony: Best original musical score, Evita (1980) - Emmy: Outstanding variety special (live), Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert (2018) - Grammy: Best cast show album, Evita: Premiere American Recording (1981) - Oscar: Best original song, “A Whole New World” from Aladdin (1993) - Tony: Best original musical score, Evita (1980) - Emmy: Outstanding variety special (live), Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert (2018) - Grammy: Best new artist, best male R&B vocal performance (“Ordinary People”), and best R&B album (Get Lifted) (2006) - Oscar: Best original song, “Glory” from Selma (2015) - Tony: Best revival (play; Legend was a producer), August Wilson’s Jitney (2017) - Emmy*: Outstanding original song in a children’s, young adult, or animated program, “Waiting in the Wings” from Rapunzel’s Tangled Adventure (2020) - Grammy: Best recording for children (The Little Mermaid) and best song written specifically for a motion picture or for television (“Under the Sea”) (1991) - Oscar: Best original score (The Little Mermaid) and original song (“Under the Sea”) (1991) - Tony: Best original musical score, Newsies (2012) - *Daytime Emmy Award - Emmy*: Outstanding interactive media for a daytime program (Hudson was a producer), Baba Yaga (2021) - Grammy: Best R&B album, Jennifer Hudson (2009) - Oscar: Best supporting actress, Dreamgirls (2007) - Tony: Best musical (Hudson was a producer), A Strange Loop (2022) - *Daytime Emmy Award - Emmy: Outstanding lead actress in a drama series, How to Get Away with Murder (2015) - Grammy: Best audio book, narration, and storytelling recording, Finding Me (2023) - Oscar: Best supporting actress, Fences (2017) - Tony: Best actress (featured role, play), King Hedley II (2001) - Emmy: Outstanding variety special (live), Farewell from Dodger Stadium (2024) - Grammy: Best pop performance by a duo or group with vocal, “That’s What Friends Are For” (1987) - Oscar: Best original song, “Can You Feel the Love Tonight” from The Lion King (1995) - Tony: Best original music score, Aida (2000) - Emmy: Best original music and lyrics, “Which of the Pickwick Triplets Did It?” from Only Murders in the Building (2024) - Grammy: Best musical theater album, Dear Evan Hansen (2018) - Oscar: Best original song, “City of Stars” from La La Land (2017) - Tony: Best original score written for the theater, Dear Evan Hansen (2017) - Emmy: Best original music and lyrics, “Which of the Pickwick Triplets Did It?” from Only Murders in the Building (2024) - Grammy: Best musical theater album, Dear Evan Hansen (2018) - Oscar: Best original song, “City of Stars” from La La Land (2017) - Tony: Best original score written for the theater, Dear Evan Hansen (2017) - Emmy: Outstanding animated program (for programming one hour or less), Pinky and the Brain (1996) - Grammy: Best music film (Spielberg was a producer), Music by John Williams (2026) - Oscar: Best picture (Spielberg was a producer) and best director, Schindler’s List (1994) - Tony: Best musical (Spielberg was a producer), A Strange Loop (2022) Noncompetitive EGOT winners Italics denote an award that was honorary or noncompetitive. 1. Barbra Streisand- Emmy: Outstanding individual achievement in entertainment—actors and performers, My Name Is Barbra (1965) - Grammy: Album of the year (other than classical) and best vocal performance (female), The Barbra Streisand Album (1964) - Oscar: Best actress, Funny Girl (1969) - Tony: Special award (1970) - Emmy: Outstanding single program—variety and popular music, Liza with a “Z” (1973) - Grammy: Legend award (1990) - Oscar: Best actress, Cabaret (1973) - Tony: Best actress (musical), Flora, the Red Menace (1965) - Emmy: Outstanding supporting actor in a miniseries or special (Heat Wave) and outstanding lead actor in a drama series (Gabriel’s Fire) (1991) - Grammy: Best spoken word recording, Great American Documents (1977) - Oscar: Honorary award (2012) - Tony: Best actor (play), The Great White Hope (1969) - Emmy: Outstanding performance in a variety or musical program or series, Tonight with Belafonte (1960) - Grammy: Best performance (folk), Swing Dat Hammer (1961) - Oscar: Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award, 2015 - Tony: Best actor (featured role, musical), John Murray Anderson’s Almanac (1954) - Emmy: Outstanding achievement in music composition for a series (dramatic underscore), Roots (1977) - Grammy: Best instrumental arrangement, I Can’t Stop Loving You (1964) - Oscar: Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award, 1995 - Tony: Best revival (musical; Jones was a producer), The Color Purple (2016) - Emmy*: Outstanding long documentary, The Redeem Team (2023) - Grammy: Best music film, Jazz Fest: A New Orleans Story (2023) - Oscar: Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award (2019) - Tony: Best musical (Marshall was a producer), A Strange Loop (2022) - *Sports Emmy Award


--- [Every EGOT Winner & What They Won For - Billboard] ---
When Steven Spielberg won a Grammy for best music film as one of the video producers of Music by John Williams on Sunday (Feb. 1), he officially became an EGOT, having won at least one Emmy, Grammy, Oscar and Tony in competition. It’s fitting that Spielberg clinched EGOT status as a producer of a film about John Williams because the two men have been close collaborators for more than 50 years. Williams has won four of his five Oscars for scoring Spielberg films: Jaws, Star Wars, E.T. – The Extra-Terrestrial and Schindler’s List. Spielberg spoke of his long creative partnership with Williams in statement when the Grammy win was announced: “This acknowledgment is obviously deeply meaningful to me because it validates what I have known for over 50 years: John Williams’ influence on culture and music is immeasurable and his artistry and legacy is unrivaled. I am proud to be associated with Laurent’s beautiful film.” Only 22 people have achieved EGOT status, which has become the ultimate mic-drop move in show business. If the original idea of becoming an EGOT meant going to the very top in four distinct fields of entertainment, shortcuts have materialized to getting there, which has made the achievement more commonplace and less worthy of awe. The Tonys dole out producer credits far too liberally. Both Spielberg and Jennifer Hudson won their Tony Awards for being among more than 40 producers on the 2022 Broadway musical, A Strange Loop. And not all EGOT awards are equally easy or hard to get. There are currently just 24 categories at the Oscars and 26 at the Tony Awards. Far more awards are handed out at the Grammys (95 categories this year) and the Primetime Emmys (a whopping 123 categories this year, spread out over three nights). And that doesn’t even count the various other Emmy shows, such as the Daytime Emmys and the Children’s and Family Emmys. We mentioned earlier that the definition of EGOT is having won at least one Emmy, Grammy, Oscar and Tony in competition. There’s some debate about that. Six more individuals — Barbra Streisand, Liza Minnelli, James Earl Jones, Harry Belafonte, Quincy Jones and director-producer Frank Marshall — qualify if you count honorary or special awards. However, most EGOT experts don’t count non-competitive awards. The whole point is to have won the awards in competition. Here’s a comprehensive rundown on the competitive winners’ road to EGOT. - Richard Rodgers EGOT’ed: May 22, 1962 Emmy: The legendary composer clinched his EGOT status – a term that wouldn’t be coined for another 22 years – at the 1962 Emmys when he won outstanding achievement in original music composed for television for the docuseries Winston Churchill: The Valiant Years. Grammy: In 1960, five years before The Sound of Music became a blockbuster film, Rodgers and Hammerstein won a Grammy, best show album (original cast), for the album from the Broadway show. Following Hammerstein’s death, Rodgers won on his own in that same category in 1962 for No Strings. Oscar: Rodgers began his EGOT journey with a win for best original song in 1946 for the wistful Rodgers & Hammerstein ballad “It Might as Well be Spring” from State Fair. Tony: At the 1950 Tonys, Rodgers won three awards, including best musical, for South Pacific. Rodgers and Hammerstein won best musical two more times – for The King and I (1952) and The Sound of Music (1960). Notes: Rodgers died in 1979, never having heard the acronym EGOT. Miami Vice star Philip Michael Thomas is credited with coining the term in 1984. Rodgers was the only person to qualify for EGOT status for nearly 15 years, until… - Helen Hayes EGOT’ed: Feb. 19, 1977 Emmy: In 1953, when the Emmys were in their infancy, there were far fewer categories. Hayes claimed the best actress trophy for an episode of Schlitz Playhouse of Stars. Grammy: Hayes clinched her EGOT status in 1977 when she won a Grammy for best spoken word album alongside Henry Fonda, James Earl Jones and Orson Welles for Great American Documents. Oscar: Hayes began her EGOT journey in 1932 by winning an Oscar for best actress for playing a prostitute in The Sin of Madelon Claudet. She won a second Oscar for best supporting actress 39 years later as a stowaway in Airport. Tony: Known as “the First Lady of American Theater,” Hayes won her first Tony, best actress in a play, in the comedic play Happy Birthday. She won again in that category 11 years later for Time Remembered. Notes: Hayes was the first woman and the first performer to EGOT. - Rita Moreno EGOT’ed: Sept. 11, 1977 Emmy: Moreno clinched her EGOT with an Emmy for outstanding continuing or single performance by a supporting actress in variety or music for an episode of The Muppet Show. She won another Emmy the following year for outstanding lead actress for a single appearance in a drama or comedy series for an episode of The Rockford Files. Grammy: Moreno and the now disgraced Bill Cosby won best recording for children in 1973 for The Electric Company. Oscar: Moreno began her EGOT journey by winning an Oscar for best supporting actress in 1962 for West Side Story. She beat the sentimental favorite, Judy Garland, who was nominated for Judgment at Nuremberg. Moreno’s Oscar acceptance speech consisted of just 11 words: “I can’t believe it! Good Lord. I leave you with that!” Tony: Moreno sang “Everything’s Coming Up Roses” in The Ritz, and won the 1975 Tony for best featured actress in a play. Notes: Moreno, who was born in Puerto Rico, was the first person of Latin origin to EGOT. No one else EGOT’ed for nearly 14 years, until … - John Gielgud EGOT’ed: Aug. 25, 1991 Emmy: Gielgud clinched his EGOT with a 1991 Emmy win for outstanding lead actor in a miniseries or a special for playing Haverford Downs in Summer’s Lease. Grammy: Sir John won best spoken word, documentary or drama recording in 1980 for narrating Ages of Man: Readings from Shakespeare. Oscar: A “serious” actor known for highbrow performances, it was ironically his part in the Dudley Moore comedy Arthur that put the “O” in his EGOT in 1982 with a win for best supporting actor. Tony: Gielgud began his EGOT journey in 1961 with a Tony win as best director of a drama for the play Big Fish, Little Fish. Notes: Gielgud was the first EGOT born outside of the U.S. (in England) and the first LGBTQ EGOT. He remains the oldest EGOT on completing the awards sweep – 87 years and four months. - Audrey Hepburn EGOT’ed: March 1, 1994 Emmy: Eight months after Hepburn died from cancer, she was awarded the 1993 Emmy for outstanding individual achievement – informational programming for Gardens of the World with Audrey Hepburn. Grammy: Hepburn clinched her EGOT status in 1994, by posthumously winning best spoken word album for children for her narration of Audrey Hepburn’s Enchanted Tales. Oscar: Hepburn began her EGOT journey in 1954 by winning an Oscar for best actress for her role as a princess playing hooky in Roman Holiday. Tony: Just three days after her Oscar win, she won a Tony for distinguished dramatic actress for Ondine. Now, that’s a good week. Notes: Hepburn is the only EGOT who won just one of each of the four awards – just enough to qualify. - Marvin Hamlisch EGOT’ed: Sept. 9, 1995 Emmy: The late composer and conductor clinched his EGOT in 1995 by winning his first two Emmys for his work on Barbra: The Concert. He first worked with Barbra Streisand on Broadway when he was the rehearsal pianist on Funny Girl. He later won two more Emmys, one of them for a subsequent project with Streisand. Grammy: Hamlisch won four Grammys in 1975, including song of the year for “The Way We Were” and best new artist. Oscar: Hamlisch kicked off his EGOT journey with a bang, winning three Oscars in one night – best original song for “The Way We Were,” best original dramatic score for the Streisand/Robert Redford movie of the same name, and best original song score and adaptation or scoring: adaptation for The Sting. Tony: Along with lyricist Edward Kleban, Hamlisch won best musical score in 1976 for A Chorus Line. - Jonathan Tunick EGOT’ed: June 1, 1997 Emmy: The native New Yorker won an Emmy in 1982 for outstanding achievement in music direction on the star-studded variety special Night of 100 Stars. Grammy: As the arranger for “No One is Alone” on the album Cleo Laine Sings Sondheim, Tunick — a frequent Stephen Sondheim cohort — picked up best instrumental arrangement accompanying vocal(s). Oscar: Tunick began his EGOT journey in 1978 by winning an Oscar for best original song score and its adaptation or adaptation score for the film treatment of Stephen Sondheim’s A Little Night Music (which contained the composer’s most famous song, “Send in the Clowns”). Tony: Tunick clinched his EGOT with a 1997 win for best orchestrations for Titanic – the Broadway show, not James Cameron’s concurrent film megahit. He won his second Tony in 2024 – best orchestrations for a revival of Sondheim’s Merrily We Roll Along. Notes: Just as Hamlisch won three of the four EGOT awards for work with Streisand, Tunick won three of the four awards for Sondheim-connected work. - Mel Brooks EGOT’ed: June 3, 2001 Emmy: Brooks began his EGOT journey in 1967 by winning an Emmy for outstanding writing achievement in variety for The Sid Caesar, Imogene Coca, Carl Reiner, Howard Morris Special – a reunion of the fabled cast from the 1950s classic Your Show of Shows. He went on to win three more Emmys in consecutive years (1997-99) for outstanding guest actor in a comedy series for Mad About You. Grammy: Brooks reteamed with Carl Reiner for a sequel to their famous 1961 routine, “The 2000 Year Old Man.” The 2000 Year Old Man in the Year 2000 won best spoken comedy album in 1999. Brooks later won two more Grammys for works linked to his Broadway smash, The Producers. Oscar: Brooks won best original screenplay for The Producers in 1969. Tony: In 2001, The Producers won 12 Tonys, still the most by any show in Tony history. Brooks personally took home three awards that night – best musical, best book of a musical and best original score. Notes: Brooks, his late wife Anne Bancroft, and their son Max Brooks have all won Emmys. - Mike Nichols EGOT’ed: Nov. 4, 2001 Emmy: Nichols won two Emmys in 2001 for the televised adaptation of the Pulitzer Prize-winning play, Wit. He won two more Emmys three years later for Angels in America. Grammy: Nichols began his EGOT journey in 2001 in tandem with then-partner Elaine May, winning a Grammy for best comedy performance for An Evening With Mike Nichols and Elaine May. Oscar: Here’s to you, Mrs. Robinson. Nichols scored the best director statue in 1968 for his work on the generation-defining classic The Graduate. Tony: Nichols won his first Tony in 1964 – best direction of a play for Neil Simon’s Barefoot in the Park. He won eight more Tonys, for works ranging from Annie to Death of a Salesman. - Whoopi Goldberg EGOT’ed: June 2, 2002 Emmy: Goldberg’s only Emmys are a pair of Daytime Emmys. In 2002, she won outstanding special class special for Beyond Tara: The Extraordinary Life of Hattie McDaniel. (Read on and you’ll see the significance of the McDaniel connection.) Seven years later, Goldberg won in a higher-profile category, outstanding talk show host as one of the co-hosts of The View, alongside Joy Behar, Elisabeth Hasselbeck, Sherri Shepherd and Barbara Walters. Grammy: Goldberg began her EGOT journey in 1986 by winning a Grammy for best comedy album for Whoopi Goldberg: Original Broadway Show Recording. Oscar: Goldberg won best supporting actress in 1991 for Ghost. She was the first Black actress to win an Oscar (leading or supporting) since Hattie McDaniel 51 years earlier for Gone With The Wind. Tony: Two weeks after winning her first Daytime Emmy, Goldberg clinched her EGOT by winning a Tony as a producer of Thoroughly Modern Millie, which won as best musical. Notes: Goldberg was the first Black performer to EGOT. No one else EGOT’ed for nearly 10 years, until … - Scott Rudin EGOT’ed: Feb. 12, 2012 Emmy: The producer began his EGOT journey with an Emmy win in 1984 for outstanding children’s program for He Makes Me Feel Like Dancin,’ a documentary about ballet star Jacques d’Amboise. Grammy: Rudin clinched his EGOT with a Grammy win for best musical theater album for The Book of Mormon: Original Broadway Cast Recording. Oscar: Rudin and The Coen Brothers co-produced No Country for Old Men, the best picture winner in 2008. Tony: Rudin won his first Tony in 1994 – best musical for Passion, which featured music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and a book by James Lapine. Rudin has since won 17 more Tonys. Notes: Rudin was the first person who is known primarily as a producer to EGOT. - Robert Lopez EGOT’ed: March 2, 2014 Emmy: Lopez’s first Emmy was a Daytime Emmy in 2008 for outstanding music direction and composition for Wonder Pets!. He won another Daytime Emmy for the same show two years later. He has since also won a Primetime Emmy and a Children’s and Family Emmy. Grammy: Lopez won his first Grammy – best musical theater album – in 2012 for his work on The Book of Mormon: Original Broadway Cast Recording. He won two additional Grammys three years later for Frozen. Oscar: Lopez clinched his EGOT in 2014 with an Oscar win for best original song for “Let It Go” from Frozen. He shared the award with his wife, Kristen Anderson-Lopez. They won again in the same category four years later with “Remember Me” from Coco. Tony: Lopez began his EGOT quest with a Tony win for best original score in 2004 for the trippy puppet musical Avenue Q. He won two more Tonys in 2011 for The Book of Mormon. Notes: Lopez, who was 39 when he became an EGOT, remains the youngest EGOT to date. He collected all four awards in just nine years and eight months, faster than anyone else to that point. He was the first Filipino and Asian to achieve the feat. And he’s the only “double EGOT” – having won each of the four awards twice. - Andrew Lloyd Webber EGOT’ed: Sept. 9, 2018 Emmy: Webber clinched his EGOT with a Primetime Emmy in 2018 as an executive producer of Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert, which was voted outstanding variety special (live). Grammy: Webber won his first Grammy in 1981 – best cast show album for Evita. He has since won two more Grammys. Oscar: Webber won best original song in 1997 for “You Must Love Me” from Evita. Tony: Webber began his EGOT journey with a Tony win for best original score for Evita. He has since won five more Tonys, including best musical for Cats, The Phantom of the Opera and Sunset Boulevard. - Tim Rice EGOT’ed: Sept. 9, 2018 Emmy: Rice clinched his EGOT with a Primetime Emmy in 2018 as an executive producer of Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert, which was voted outstanding variety special (live). Grammy: Rice won his first Grammy in 1981 — best cast show album for Evita. He has since won four more Grammys, including song of the year for “A Whole New World (Aladdin’s Theme).” Oscar: Rice won three Oscars for best original song in a five-year span from 1993-97 – each with a different collaborator. He won for “A Whole New World” from Aladdin, “Can You Feel the Love Tonight” from The Lion King and “You Must Love Me” from Evita. Tony: Rice began his EGOT journey in 1980 when he won two Tonys for Evita. He has since won a third for Aida. Notes: Rice shares all of these awards with fellow EGOTs Andrew Lloyd Webber, Alan Menken and Elton John. - John Legend EGOT’ed: Sept. 9, 2018 Emmy: Legend clinched his EGOT with a Primetime Emmy in 2018 as an executive producer of Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert, which was voted outstanding variety special (live). He has since also won three Daytime Emmys. Grammy: Legend began his EGOT journey in 2006 when he won three Grammys – best new artist, best R&B album for Get Lifted and best male R&B vocal performance for “Ordinary People.” He has since won 10 more Grammys. Oscar: Legend and Common won best original song in 2015 for “Glory” from Selma. Tony: He won best revival of a play in 2017 as a producer of August Wilson’s Jitney. Notes: Legend was the first Black man to become an EGOT. - Alan Menken EGOT’ed: June 26, 2020 Emmy: Menken clinched his EGOT with a Daytime Emmy for outstanding original song in a children’s, young adult or animated program for “Waiting in the Wings” from Rapunzel’s Tangled Adventure. Grammy: Menken won his first two Grammys in 1991 for The Little Mermaid and its song “Under the Sea.” He has since won nine additional Grammys, including song of the year in 1994 for “A Whole New World (Aladdin’s Theme)” from Aladdin. Oscar: Menken has won best original song four times – which puts him in a tie for the all-time record with Sammy Cahn, Johnny Mercer and Jimmy Van Heusen. (Menken is the only one of the four songwriters who is still living.) He has also won best original score four times. Remarkably, he won all eight of those Oscars in a seven-year span, from 1990-96. Tony: Menken won his only Tony in 2012 – best original score for Newsies, based on the 1992 film musical of the same name. - Jennifer Hudson EGOT’ed: June 12, 2022 Emmy: Hudson won a Daytime Emmy in 2021 – outstanding interactive media for a daytime program for Baba Yaga. Grammy: Hudson won her first Grammy in 2009 – best R&B album for her eponymous debut album. She won her second eight years later, best musical theater album for The Color Purple. Oscar: Hudson began her EGOT journey in 2007 with a best supporting actress win for Dreamgirls. Tony: Hudson clinched her EGOT by winning best musical (as one of dozens of producers of A Strange Loop.) Notes: Hudson was 40 years and nine months old when she became an EGOT, making her the youngest woman to achieve the feat. - Viola Davis EGOT’ed: Feb. 5, 2023 Emmy: Davis won outstanding lead actress in a drama series in 2015 for How to Get Away With Murder. Grammy: She clinched EGOT status with a Grammy win for best audio book, narration & storytelling recording in 2023 for Finding Me. Oscar: Davis won best supporting actress in 2017 for Fences. It was the same role for which she had won a Tony as a leading actress. By competing at the Oscars in the supporting category, she avoided going head-to-head with best actress winner Emma Stone in the blockbuster La La Land. Tony: Davis began her EGOT journey with a Tony win in 2001 – best featured actress in a play, for King Hedley II. She won her second, best leading actress in a play, in 2010 for Fences. Both plays were written by August Wilson. - Elton John EGOT’ed: Jan. 15, 2024 Emmy: Elton clinched his EGOT status with an Emmy win in 2024 – outstanding variety special (live) for Elton John: Farewell from Dodger Stadium. Grammy: Elton began his EGOT quest with a (long-overdue) Grammy win in 1987 – best pop performance by a duo or group with vocal for his role in Dionne & Friends’ “That’s What Friends Are For.” He has since won four more Grammys, including two for best male pop vocal performance. Oscar: He has won two Oscars for best original song – “Can You Feel the Love Tonight” from The Lion King in 1995 and “(I’m Gonna) Love Me Again” from Rocketman in 2020. Tony: Elton and Tim Rice won best original score in 2001 for Aida. Notes: Elton, who was 76 years and nine months old when he became an EGOT, is the second-oldest EGOT at time of completion. Only Sir John Gielgud was older. - Benj Pasek and Justin Paul EGOT’ed: Sept. 8, 2024 Emmy: Pasek and Paul clinched their EGOT status with a Primetime Emmy win: outstanding music and lyrics for a song they co-wrote for Only Murders in the Building. Grammy: They won their first Grammy, best musical theater album, in January 2018 for Dear Evan Hansen and their second, best compilation soundtrack for visual media, in February 2019 for The Greatest Showman. Oscar: Pasek and Paul began their EGOT quest with an Oscar for best original song. They won in February 2017 for co-writing “City of Stars” from La La Land. Tony: They won a Tony for best original score in June 2017 for Dear Evan Hansen and won a second Tony in June 2022 for being among the platoon of producers of A Strange Loop, which was voted best musical. Notes: Pasek and Paul set a new record for the fastest climb to an EGOT — a little less than seven years and seven months from the date of their first EGOT win. The previous record was held by Robert Lopez, who took nine years and eight months from the time he collected his first EGOT award in June 2004 to the time he completed the journey in March 2014. In addition, Pasek, who is 39 years and three months old, is the second-youngest EGOT winner ever, trailing only Lopez, who was 39 and one week old when he achieved the feat in March 2014. - Steven Spielberg EGOT’ed: Feb. 1, 2026 Emmy: Spielberg won his first Primetime Emmy in 1996 for Steven Spielberg Presents a Pinky & the Brain Christmas, which was voted outstanding animated program. He has won outstanding miniseries three times, for Band of Brothers (2002), Steven Spielberg Presents Taken (2003) and The Pacific (2010). Grammy: Spielberg clinched EGOT status when he won a Grammy as one of the video producers of Music by John Williams, which was voted best music film. Oscar: Spielberg began his EGOT journey in 1994 when he won two Oscars for Schindler’s List: best director and as one of the producers for best picture. He won his third Oscar five years later when he won best director for Saving Private Ryan. Tony: Spielberg won a Tony as one of the producers of A Strange Loop in 2022. Want to see the full list of producers? Are you sure? Here you go: Produced by Barbara Whitman, Pasek, Paul & Stafford, Hunter Arnold, Marcia Goldberg, Alex Levy & James Achilles, Osh Ashruf, A Choir Full Productions, Don Cheadle & Bridgid Coulter Cheadle, Paul Oakley Stovall, Jimmy Wilson, Annapurna Theatre, Robyn Coles, Creative Partners Productions, Robyn Gottesdiener, Kayla Greenspan, Grove Entertainment, Kuhn, Lewis & Scott, Frank Marshall, Maximum Effort Productions Inc., Joey Monda, Richard Mumby, Phenomenal Media & Meena Harris, Marc Platt & Debra Martin Chase, Laurie Tisch, Yonge Street Theatricals, Dodge Hall Productions/JJ Maley, Cody Renard Richard, John Gore Organization, James L. Nederlander, The Shubert Organization, RuPaul Charles, Alan Cumming, Ilana Glazer, Jennifer Hudson, Mindy Kaling, Billy Porter and Steven Spielberg. Notes: Spielberg, 79, is the second-oldest person upon completion of the EGOT. Sir John Gielgud was 87 when he accomplished the feat.


--- [Every Celebrity EGOT: Stars Who Won an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar and Tony] ---
All of the Celebrities Who Have an EGOT Less than 30 stars have achieved Hollywood's highest honor: winning an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar and Tony By Grace Gavilanes Grace Gavilanes Grace Gavilanes is a former associate editor at PEOPLE. She left PEOPLE in 2018. People Editorial Guidelines and Emily Krauser Emily Krauser Emily Krauser is a contributing writer at PEOPLE. She has been at PEOPLE since 2022. Her work has previously appeared in Entertainment Tonight, Style Network, Parade and J-14 Magazine. People Editorial Guidelines Updated on February 1, 2026 07:31PM EST Leave a Comment Elton John at the Valentino Pavillon des Folies Show during Paris Fashion Week in Paris on Sept, 29, 2024; John Legend at the 67th Grammy Awards in Los Angeles on Feb. 2, 2025; Jennifer Hudson at the 35th Annual GLAAD Media Awards in New York City on May 11, 2024. Credit : Victor Boyko/Getty; Jon Kopaloff/WireImage; Marleen Moise/WireImage The EGOT club is small but mighty! Less than 30 stars have earned Hollywood's highest honor: being awarded at least one Emmy, Grammy, Oscar and Tony in total. In 2026, Steven Spielberg joined the elite group when he won his first Grammy for producing Music by John Williams, which won Best Music Film. The term "EGOT" was coined by Miami Vice actor Philip Michael Thomas, who said it to the Associated Press in 1984 at the height of the NBC action show's success. "That stands for Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony," he said. "Hopefully, in the next five years, I will win all those awards." After the term was used on an episode of 30 Rock, it gained popularity and entered the common lexicon. The first-ever EGOT was composer Richard Rodgers. He received his initial award in 1945 with an Oscar for his Best Original Song from State Fair, "It Might as Well Be Spring." It would take Rodgers 17 years to finally receive his fourth distinct award and EGOT status: an Emmy in 1962 for Winston Churchill: The Valiant Years' original music. In the years since, a total of 28 stars have earned the prestigious title, with some scoring it via honorary awards and others picking up multiple in one category and just that magical solo nod in another. Find out who all the stars are who have earned the prestigious EGOT through the years. 01 of 27 Steven Spielberg Steven Spielberg. Emma McIntyre/Getty The legendary director and screenwriter completed the awards set when he won Best Music Film for producing Music by John Williams, a documentary about the iconic composer. Spielberg previously had three Oscars, numerous Primetime and Daytime Emmys and a Tony for producing Best Musical winner A Strange Loop. 02 of 27 Elton John Elton John performs onstage during his Farewell Yellow Brick Road Tour at the O2 Arena in London on April 2, 2023. Simone Joyner/Getty Images The musical icon won his first Emmy at the 2023 show (held in January 2024 following the WGA and SAG-AFTRA strikes) for Outstanding Live Variety Special for his Farewell from Dodger Stadium concert program. He already had two Oscars, one for Best Achievement in Music Written for Motion Pictures for Rocketman and one for Best Music for The Lion King, a Tony for Best Original Score for Aida and six Grammys, including the Grammy Legend Award. 03 of 27 Viola Davis Viola Davis at the 65th Annual Grammy Awards in L.A. on Feb. 5, 2023. Frazer Harrison/Getty Congrats, Viola Davis! The star picked up her missing piece — a Grammy — at the 2023 ceremony, after previously winning an Oscar for Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role for Fences, an Emmy for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series for How to Get Away with Murder and two Tonys for King Hedley II and the Broadway production of Fences. 04 of 27 Jennifer Hudson Jennifer Hudson at the 75th Annual Tony Awards at Radio City Music Hall in N.Y.C. on Jue 12, 2022. Dia Dipasupil/Getty Jennifer Hudson earned her EGOT with a 2022 Tony for A Strange Loop, which she co-produced. The actress already had an Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for Dreamgirls, two Grammys for her eponymous 2009 R&B album and The Color Purple Broadway cast recording and a Daytime Emmy for her executive producer role on Baby Yaga. 05 of 27 Alan Menken Alan Menken at An Evening With Alan Menken event at the Grammy Museum in L.A. on June 1, 2016. Rebecca Sapp/WireImage With an impressive list of wins to his name — including two Oscars and three Grammys for 1991's Beauty and the Beast — Alan Menken completed his EGOT status in 2012, earning a Tony for Newsies. The big title became a little more official recently, though; while he earned a special Emmy Award in 1990, he won an Emmy for Outstanding Original Song in a Children's, Young Adult or Animated Program for Tangled: The Series at the 2020 Daytime Emmy Awards. 06 of 27 John Legend John Legend at NBC's Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert' FYC event at the Egyptian Theatre in Hollywood, Calif., on May 21, 2018. Paul Archuleta/FilmMagic John Legend cemented his EGOT status in 2018 at the Creative Arts Emmy Awards for producing Jesus Christ Superstar Live. The then-39-year-old already had a whopping 10 Grammy Awards to his name and took home an Oscar in 2015 for his song "Glory," featured in Selma. The singer also won a Tony in 2017 for his role as a co-producer of Jitney. In an Instagram post at the time honoring his fellow winners (and fellow newly minted EGOTs) Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice, Legend wrote, "So happy to be part of this team. So honored they trusted me to play Jesus Christ. So amazed to be in such rarefied air. #EGOT." And as if he weren't decorated enough, Legend, who also won the 2019 season of The Voice, was crowned PEOPLE's Sexiest Man Alive in 2019, leading Blake Shelton to deliver him a pair of bedazzled booty shorts reading "VEGOTSMA." 07 of 27 Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber during a ceremony giving him the key to the city to honor the final performance of 'The Phantom of the Opera' on Broadway at the Majestic Theater in N.Y.C. on April 14, 2023. Bruce Glikas/Getty The Broadway legend won an Oscar in 1996 for Evita, as well as multiple Grammys and Tonys. His EGOT came in 2018 alongside Legend at the Creative Arts Emmys, where he won for his production work on Jesus Christ Superstar Live. Webber wrote on X that he was "honored" to win the Emmy for this work. 08 of 27 Tim Rice Tim Rice at the 2018 Creative Arts Emmy Awards in L.A. on Sept, 9, 2018. JC Olivera/WireImage Longtime Webber collaborator Tim Rice also picked up his Emmy and subsequent EGOT in September 2018 for Jesus Christ Superstar Live. Just like his colleague, he won an Oscar in 1996 for Evita, plus multiple Grammys and Tonys. 09 of 27 Whoopi Goldberg Whoopi Goldberg at the 55th Annual CLIO Awards in N.Y.C. on Oct. 1, 2014. Dave Kotinsky/Getty In 2002, Whoopi Goldberg achieved EGOT status, cementing her new title when she won a Tony for Thoroughly Modern Millie. That year, she also took home a Daytime Emmy. 10 of 27 Audrey Hepburn Audrey Hepburn circa 1955. Archive Photos/Getty It took 41 years for the legendary actress to reach EGOT status. Audrey Hepburn officially joined Hollywood heavyweights with the same honor in 1994, when she post-humously won the Grammy for Best Spoken Word Album for Children for Audrey Hepburn's Enchanted Tales. Hepburn died in 1993 at age 63. 11 of 27 Mike Nichols Mike Nichols speaks onstage during the 38th AFI Life Achievement Award honoring Mike Nichols at Sony Pictures Studios in Culver City, Calif., on June 10, 2010. Kevin Winter/Getty Lauded director Mike Nichols earned the coveted title in 2001 when he scored two Emmys for his TV movie, Wit. 12 of 27 Richard Rodgers Richard Rodgers in London for the opening of 'The Boys From Syracuse'. Ted West/Getty Composer Richard Rodgers became the first-ever EGOT winner in 1962, when his musical drama No Strings scooped up a Tony, Grammy and Emmy. Rodgers, who died in 1979, had previously won an Oscar for Best Original Song in 1945. 13 of 27 Marvin Hamlisch Marvin Hamlisch at 'The Informant!' premiere in N.Y.C. on Sept. 15, 2009. Donna Ward/FilmMagic It took Marvin Hamlisch 23 years to reach EGOT status. The composer, who died in 2012, achieved the honor after receiving two Emmys in 1994 for Barbra: The Concert. 14 of 27 Helen Hayes Helen Hayes poses for a portrait circa 1970. Michael Ochs Archives/Getty Helen Hayes became the first woman to earn the EGOT honor in 1977. She earned the title after her Grammy win for Best Spoken Word Recording for 1976's Great American Documents. Hayes died in 1993. 15 of 27 Liza Minnelli Liza Minnelli at the 86th Annual Academy Awards in Hollywood, Calif., on March 2, 2014. Gregg DeGuire/WireImage Reaching EGOT status in 1990, Liza Minnelli cemented her place in Hollywood's cool kids club with a Grammy Legend Award. 16 of 27 Scott Rudin Scott Rudin at the 68th Annual Golden Globe Awards in Beverly Hills, Calif., on Jan. 16, 2011. Steve Granitz/WireImage Prolific producer Scott Rudin has earned 20 major awards over the course of his career, including one Emmy, one Grammy, one Oscar and 17 Tonys, per The New York Times. The Grammy was what cemented his EGOT status — Rudin earned it in 2012 for Best Musical Theater Album for The Book of Mormon: Original Broadway Cast Recording. In 2021, several former staffers came forward accusing Rudin of abusive behavior. He stepped back from ongoing entertainment projects as a result but made a return to Broadway in 2025 with Little Bear Ridge Road, though it closed eight weeks early, Variety reported. 17 of 27 Harry Belafonte Harry Belafonte at Amnesty International's 50th Annual Gathering in N.Y.C. on March 21, 2015. Noam Galai/WireImage Actor, singer-songwriter and activist Harry Belafonte received his fourth award, an honorary Oscar, in 2014. Over the course of his career, the "Jump in the Line" performer received a total of six awards in the four EGOT categories. Belafonte died in 2023 at age 96. 18 of 27 Robert Lopez Robert Lopez at the Los Angeles Children's Chorus' Annual Gala Bel Canto in L.A. on April 14, 2015. Alberto E. Rodriguez/Getty Not only is Robert Lopez the youngest EGOT recipient, but the songwriter is also the fastest to complete Hollywood's highest honor. Lopez was 39 when he earned his fourth distinction in 2014, winning an Oscar for Frozen's "Let It Go." 19 of 27 Jonathan Tunick Jonathan Tunick at the 2014 Tony Awards' Meet the Nominees Press Reception in N.Y.C. on April 30, 2014. Gary Gershoff/Getty Composer and conductor Jonathan Tunick completed his grand slam in 1997, earning his first-ever Tony for best orchestrations for Titanic. 20 of 27 James Earl Jones James Earl Jones at the American Theatre Wing honors James Earl Jones event in N.Y.C. on Sept, 28, 2015. Walter McBride/WireImage Having swept the three other EGOT categories, James Earl Jones was awarded an honorary Oscar in 2011. The Star Wars star died in 2024 at age 93. 21 of 27 Barbra Streisand Barbra Streisand at the 70th Annual Tony Awards in N.Y.C. on June 12, 2016. Kevin Mazur/Getty In 1970, Barbra Streisand took home her fourth award, an honorary Tony. Over the course of her career, the Funny Girl star has also earned two Oscars, eight competitive Grammys — she also earned the Legend Award and a Lifetime Achievement Award —and four Primetime Emmys. 22 of 27 John Gielgud John Gielgud circa 1985. Tim Roney/Getty Having received six awards in the four categories over the course of his career, Sir John Gielgud, who died in 2000, officially earned EGOT status in 1991 for his performance in Summer's Lease. 23 of 27 Rita Moreno Rita Moreno at the 2024 Academy Museum Gala at the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures in L.A. on Oct. 19, 2024. Taylor Hill/FilmMagic Rita Moreno is the second-fastest person after Robert Lopez to complete an EGOT sweep and the first-ever Latino star to earn the honor. It took the actress 16 years to earn the title, scooping up an Emmy in 1977 for her performance in The Muppet Show. 24 of 27 Mel Brooks Mel Brooks at the 70th EE British Academy Film Awards in London on Feb. 12, 2017. Samir Hussein/WireImage Mel Brooks became an EGOT recipient 34 years into his career, winning the honor after he scooped up three Tonys in 2001 for The Producers. 25 of 27 Quincy Jones Quincy Jones at a screening of 'Keep On Keepin On' before receiving the Seattle International Film Festival Lifetime Achievement Award in Seattle on June 4, 2014. Mat Hayward/Getty Quincy Jones won his first of nearly 30 Grammys in 1964. He earned an Emmy win in 1977 and the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award at the 1994 Oscars before sealing his EGOT status with a win at the 2016 Tony Awards. Jones died in 2024 at age 91. 26 of 27 Frank Marshall Frank Marshall at the U.K. premiere of 'Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny' in London on June 26, 2023. Karwai Tang/WireImage Director and producer Frank Marshall is another recent addition to the club, and he joined fast: he picked up his Oscar in 2019 (the honorary Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award), a Tony in 2022 for producing A Strange Loop, a Grammy in 2023 for directing and producing the Best Music Film winner Jazz Fest: A New Orleans Story and a Sports Emmy in 2023 for Outstanding Long Documentary for The Redeem Team. 27 of 27 Benj Pasek and Justin Paul Benj Pasek and Justin Paul at opening night of 'Dear Evan Hansen' at the Noel Coward Theatre in London on Nov. 19, 2019. Jeff Spicer/Getty The composer duo responsible for the music in Dear Evan Hansen and La La Land earned their full EGOT at the Creative Arts Emmys in September 2024, when they took home the prize for Outstanding Original Music and Lyrics for the song "Which of the Pickwick Triplets Did It?” from Only Murders in the Building, co-written with Marc Shaiman and Scott Wittman. Leave a Comment Read more: Entertainment Awards Shows and Events Close
