=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Trials of Mana - Wikipedia]
Overall, the game is considered by some critics to be a Super Famicom classic. In June 2017, the game was included in theSeikenDensetsuCollection release for the Nintendo Switch in Japan; the collection was released in June 2019 in North America and the PAL region as Collection of Mana withSeikenDensetsu3titled Trials of Mana.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trials_of_Mana

[Seiken Densetsu 3 - 1995 Developer Interview - shmuplations.com]
SeikenDensetsu3- 1995 Developer Interview This 1995 interview from Famitsu and Family Computer Magazine covers the development ofSeikenDensetsu3,thesequel to the beloved Secret of Mana. Over the course of the discussion, director Tanaka,designerIshii and composer Kikuta outline their initial concepts for the game's cast, the realization of
URL: https://shmuplations.com/seikendensetsu3/

[Seiken Densetsu 3 - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
SeikenDensetsu3Infobox VG| title =SeikenDensetsu3developer = Square Co., Ltd. publisher = Square Co., Ltd.designer= Koichi Ishii (game design director) Hiromichi Tanaka (director) Nobuteru Yūki (character illustration) composer = Hiroki Kikuta engine = released = JPN September 30, 1995 genre = Console role-playing game modes = Single player, multiplayer ratings = platforms = Super ...
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/769033

[Seiken Densetsu / Mana series - MobyGames]
TheSeikenDensetsuSeries of Games originally began in 1987, but after Square was almost in financial ruin, they cancelled the project and encouraged people that placed advanced orders for the game to buy Final Fantasy. Once Square had a better reputation as a game developer, they restarted the project. Koichi Ishii has been theleadgamedesignerand/or producer of every game in theSeiken...
URL: https://www.mobygames.com/group/623/seiken-densetsu-mana-series/

[Seiken Densetsu 3 - 1995 Developer Interview | Patreon]
Over the course of this discussion, director Tanaka,designerIshii and composer Kikuta outline their initial concepts for the game's cast, the realization of ideas that couldn't be implemented in the previous game, and the points of differentiation betweenSeikenDensetsuand its sister series, Final Fantasy.
URL: https://www.patreon.com/posts/seiken-densetsu-27240743


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Trials of Mana - Wikipedia] ---
Trials of Mana, also known by its Japanese title Seiken Densetsu 3, is a 1995 action role-playing game developed and published by Square for the Super Famicom. It is the sequel to the 1993 game Secret of Mana, and is the third installment in the Mana series. Set in a high fantasy world, the game follows three heroes as they attempt to claim the legendary Mana Sword and prevent the Benevodons from being unleashed and destroying the world. It features three main plotlines and six different possible main characters, each with their own storylines, and allows two players to play simultaneously. Trials of Mana builds on the gameplay of its predecessor with multiple enhancements, including the use of a time progression system with transitions from day to night and weekday to weekday in game time, and a wide range of character classes to choose from, which provides each character with an exclusive set of skills and status progression.
The game was designed by series creator Koichi Ishii, directed by veteran Square designer Hiromichi Tanaka, and produced by Tetsuhisa Tsuruzono. Artwork was produced by manga and anime artist Nobuteru Yūki, while the music was composed by Secret of Mana composer Hiroki Kikuta. Although the game was only released in Japan at the time, English-speaking players had been able to play Trials of Mana due to an unofficial English fan translation released in 1999.
Trials of Mana received critical acclaim from reviewers, who praised the graphics as among the best ever made for the Super Famicom and the gameplay as an improved version of its predecessor's. The plot received mixed reviews by critics, who found the overlapping stories to be interesting and to enhance replayability, but the characters and plotlines themselves to be flat and clichéd. Overall, the game is considered by some critics to be a Super Famicom classic.
In June 2017, the game was included in the Seiken Densetsu Collection release for the Nintendo Switch in Japan; the collection was released in June 2019 in North America and the PAL region as Collection of Mana with Seiken Densetsu 3 titled Trials of Mana. A 3D remake of the same name was announced alongside it, and released worldwide in April 2020 for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch and PlayStation 4. The remake was released for Xbox Series X/S in 2024.




--- [Seiken Densetsu 3 - 1995 Developer Interview - shmuplations.com] ---
Seiken Densetsu 3 – 1995 Developer Interview This 1995 interview from Famitsu and Family Computer Magazine covers the development of Seiken Densetsu 3, the sequel to the beloved Secret of Mana. Over the course of the discussion, director Tanaka, designer Ishii and composer Kikuta outline their initial concepts for the game’s cast, the realization of ideas that couldn’t be implemented in the previous game, and the points of differentiation between Seiken Densetsu and its sister series, Final Fantasy. Hiromichi Tanaka – Director Koichi Ishii – Designer Hiroki Kikuta – Composer —When did you begin planning Seiken Densetsu 3? Tanaka: We started drafting the plans for SD3 two years ago. We then went through a period of trial-and-error, where we programmed a lot of different systems, erased them, programmed them anew, erased them… and so forth, until finally we came up with something we now like. Ishii: We more or less wanted SD3 to be a continuation of Secret of Mana, but we ended up scrapping all the code from Secret of Mana. It was like, “All these parts that weren’t interesting, let’s try starting from a blank slate and finding another way.” So we essentially reconstructed all the programming for SD3 anew. —Are there any connections between Seiken Densetsu 3 and Secret of Mana…? Tanaka: SD3 takes place in a completely unrelated world from Secret of Mana. It’s similar to how each Final Fantasy game changes everything but always keeps the crystals. However, our overall mindset—how we think about the games—is something we’ve carried over to this sequel, including our underlying ideas about mana. In that sense it’s similar to the first Seiken Densetsu game, maybe. The mana tree and the mana sword, which have been important throughout the series, again make an appearance here. The rabite monsters are also back. Ishii drew the concept art for them, which our graphic artists converted into pixel art. They look more full and three-dimensional this time. We were especially focused on making them look full-bodied, not flat like before, which has in turn increased the sense of realism in the battles. We’ve brought back some characters from the first Seiken Densetsu (aka Final Fantasy Adventure) too. There were also some monsters in Secret of Mana who we had to cut moves and attacks from due to memory limitations, and those have been added back for SD3. There’s about 100 monsters overall. —What can you tell us about the new Motion Battle system? Tanaka: In Secret of Mana you leveled magic and weapons, but we’ve removed that system for SD3. In exchange, we’ve increased the number of different magics. However, we wanted to make players feel like the magic their character used was special, so the number of spells each character learns is more limited. Some characters can only use support spells, and overall we want players to think more about how to use the magic effectively in battle, which spell is appropriate to use when, and so forth. Also, in Secret of Mana, you could swap weapons between all the characters and level them individually, so there was no sense that “this character has to use this weapon” or anything like that. For SD3, however, we wanted to emphasize the distinct classes/roles of each character, so the weapons types are specific to the characters now. Visually, the battles in SD3 resemble those of Secret of Mana, but the programming is completely different. In turn-based RPGs there’s ample time for the processor to calculate everything, display damage, etc. But in the Seiken Densetsu games, everything has to be done in real-time, and the load on the processor is much larger. It’s more cpu-intensive than Chrono Trigger, actually. —When I think of the Seiken Densetsu games (and this was true for Secret of Mana as well), I think of the heavy use of pastel colors and overall bright tone of the graphics. Was this a conscious choice? Tanaka: Seiken Densetsu isn’t meant to be “realistic” like Final Fantasy—it’s composed more with fantasy imagery in mind. Ishii: We had been saying since Secret of Mana, that if we had 32mb for SD3, we could probably make something really amazing, so we threw everything we had into this development. We wanted the map, the characters, and the monsters to all feel visually integrated, like they had a real, three-dimensional presence. —How did you go about creating that “three-dimensional” quality? Ishii: For example, take a boss battle like the fight with Mispolm. That battle is presented to the player from a certain visual angle. If you completely ignore the background when you’re creating the sprites, then the sense of orientation of the scene gets completely messed up. That’s why we had the sprite artists and the background artists work in tandem for SD3, communicating closely with each other as they went. We’re aiming for something better than Disney. Also, for shadows and the like, we’re using deep blues and purples instead of shades of black, to impart a sense of softness. If you use black for that there’s a tendency for things to look cold and sterile. As I mentioned, visually we wanted to go for a more storybook, fantasy vibe rather than something realistic. It’s the same direction we went with in Secret of Mana, but in that game we didn’t have enough memory to fully express what we wanted. —I imagine the programming side must have been very challenging too. Ishii: We built the bosses up section by section, and we wrote out what their movement patterns should be from the start. Each boss part, therefore, had to be programmed independently, and that was very tiring. We wanted the boss fights to have a bit of an action game feel to them, so we spent a lot of time there. Your typical RPG just uses a static image or something for boss fights, but of course, this being Seiken Densetsu, we have a certain pride about “movement”, and we poured a great deal of effort into making it interesting. —So bosses like Dolan and Mispolm, then, with their moving arms and tentacles—that was all planned from the start? Tanaka: Yeah. The player characters have so much freedom of movement, we wanted to make bosses that could match them. —The bosses seem to me like they’re modeled on different animals. How did you come up with them? Ishii: Our concepts generally start out as visual ideas. For example, Tanaka might say “Let’s make this boss a beast of some kind”, then we’d build on that, “Ok, how about something with horns”, gradually fleshing the idea out and solidifying it as we went. The design process continued into the actual graphics work, too, where we would continue to develop the bosses as we saw them take shape as actual sprites. There were also a number of leftover ideas we had from Secret of Mana that we wanted to give life in SD3. —Like what? Ishii: Dolan, for instance. There’s a lot of these really huge bosses in SD3. In Secret of Mana, we were limited in terms of the size and shape for the bosses, and we had to constrain our boss battles within those boundaries. The bosses in SD3 were like a big reaction, or backlash, to those limitations, which explains why so many of them are so huge… —It was all about size then. Ishii: Well, we went to the trouble of making a game where the player characters and the monsters can inhabit the same space, so we wanted the visual comparison to be immediate and clear. You’ve got to create a situation where the strength and fearsomeness of the boss can be instantly appreciated, on a visual level first and foremost. We’re always especially conscious of that when designing the final boss. We want to make players think, “You’ve got to be kidding, there’s no way I can beat this thing!” —Funny you mention that, just a few hours ago I was getting my ass handed to me by a boss. (laughs) Seiken Densetsu 3 also features a very rich backstory, with the six playable characters. Ishii: In the beginning, we thought we might go for a lighter mood for each of the characters, a more light-hearted adventure. But we came around on that idea: if your characters don’t have some kind of heavy burden to shoulder and eventually overcome, then the ending won’t be satisfying or have any weight. Given that fact, well, suffice it to say that personally, I’m very partial to darker stories. (laughs) But Tanaka’s image for the characters was more vibrant and spirited, so he ignored the darker overtones. It turned out to be a blend: the characters, despite having these tremendous burdens to shoulder, nevertheless display an indomitable and bright spirit through their actions. That was the feel we aimed for. It was a bit of a gamble but we did that because we wanted to portray the process of the characters growing up, emotionally and psychologically. To that end, each protagonist has some kind of “complex” that they’re working through. I would say the big theme of SD3 is independence. —Which character do you think has the heaviest past? Tanaka: Well, they’re all burdened by something. As for the character who has the most thankless lot, though… hmm… Charlotte, maybe. —Speaking of Charlotte, where did you come up with that unique way of speaking she has, where she ends everything with “dechi”.2 Ishii: There’s already so many characters that say “dechuu”, so we went with “dechi” instead. Of course if you heard a real kid talk like that, you’d probably think there was something wrong in the head with them. —Was it the plan from the beginning to make Charlotte like that? Tanaka: Before the characters’ backgrounds and personalities were fixed, we had illustrator Nobuteru Yuki create some concept art for us, and the pictures of Charlotte were bright and cheerful through-and-through. Ishii: It was the kind of wonderfully expressive image that only Yuki is capable of. —So did Yuki’s illustrations cause you to re-imagine the character of Charlotte, then? Ishii: Yeah, they did. In the beginning, she was a bit more of a dependable, serious, down-to-earth character. Tanaka: But when we saw the illustrations—how great the character Yuki had imagined was—we felt we had no choice but to go in that direction. —So “dechi” almost didn’t happen! Ishii: If we had gone with the more serious-looking Charlotte, then yeah, she might have turned out as a more stoic character, someone who stands alone and goes their own way. Tanaka: Also, if we’re talking about characters… originally, I wanted to have “love triangles” be a feature of the three-character party system. But when we tried it, and had people actually play through those scenes, their reaction wasn’t good: “Huh, why are these two getting together? This isn’t what I would of wanted.” So I decided to drop the idea. It’s funny, because the whole reason our original plans called for 3 male and 3 female protagonists, all older teenagers, was specifically for that love triangle system. Ishii: We came to realize that our image of how these characters should be, as creators, was subtly different from the feelings the players had for them. Creators shouldn’t trample on the feelings the players have for the characters. And if you try to force players to accept things, “this is how it is, deal with it”… players will rebel against and reject what you’ve made. —Can you tell us more about the different characters in SD3? Ishii: Duran is your “orthodox”, typical hero character. He’s somewhat rough and uncouth. He can be quick to anger, but he’s also got a lot of pride. It’s an injury to his pride which initially causes him to set out on his journey. He’s got that “respect your elders” father complex. We made Kevin because we wanted a transforming character. He sets out on a journey to conquer his own personal complex. He’s half-beast, half-human. His Mother died when he was young, and he was raised as a cold, unfeeling killer—raised to become the next Beast King. His more human side gradually begins to take root as the story progresses, however. Hawkeye has a carefree personality but he cares greatly about the people around him. He has the opposite personality of Duran. He tends to think more about others than himself, when deciding what to do. Of the six, he’s the most adult. Angela never received any love from her Mother. She is always trying to think of ways to get her Mother’s attention and affection. That is what accounts for her apparent selfishness. She tries to win people’s attention by teasing others. Of all the characters, Charlotte has had the hardest lot, but she’s also the most cheerful and optimistic. She’s similar in some ways to Popoi (the sprite) from Secret of Mana. Riesz has a “brother complex”. She lost their Mother at an early age, so she has taken on that role for her younger brother. From her brother’s viewpoint, though, it’s something of an imposition. She’s younger than Angela, but far more stable and responsible. —Can you tell us about the music for SD3? Kikuta: I’m using a different methodology for composing SD3, so I think players may find it sounds different from Secret of Mana. One of my concepts is “not doing the same thing” as the last game. The hardware is the same as before, so I can’t do anything more hi-fi… which means there’s really a need for me to narrow my focus to a few key points. In Secret of Mana, my goal was a clean, pretty sound, clear and hi-definition. For SD3, I’m instead trying to bring out the nuance of each individual instrument. I also want to have a greater variety of high-pitched and low-pitched sounds. While I aimed for a transparent, clear sound in Secret of Mana; this time I wanted more resonant, impactful bass tones. I think if you listen to the SD3 music on a stereo (or good headphones) with good bass response you’ll be quite surprised at what you hear there. I wrote over 60 pieces of music for SD3. Game music is there to support the emotional impact of a scene, and that’s how I try to write my music: to heighten the emotional experience. —How do Seiken Densetsu and Final Fantasy differ in style? Ishii: With Seiken Densetsu, we want to do things that are impossible with the Final Fantasy gameplay system. Final Fantasy divides the battle screen from the map screen where everything else happens, and that makes the battles feel less realistic. In Final Fantasy’s battles, you don’t really feel like you’re damaging the enemies, in a visceral sense. The battles are fine in terms of strategy, but they’re limited in what they can express. For battles in video games to be engaging, it’s better to have a stronger core of action gameplay. That’s certainly one of the main selling points for this series. —Final question: what would be your ideal battle system for an RPG? I’m thinking of things you’d ideally like to include for a Seiken Densetsu 4… Ishii: The direction we went in with the very first Seiken Densetsu was already pretty close to my ideal of an RPG battle system. But I think every person has their own different version of what an “ideal” battle system is, so I think the best system would be one that accommodates each individual’s idea of what’s best. In other words, basically, I suspect there isn’t a single ideal system you can just shove in people’s faces, “Here you are, play this.” That said, I do have my own personal vision of what would be best. —And what is that? Ishii: Well, I think it’s just what you’ve seen in the Seiken Densetsu games. I see Seiken Densetsu as one way of breaking free from the mold of “turn based” RPGs. Final Fantasy’s ATB (Active Battle System) was its own evolution, and the Seiken series likewise branches into a different direction. I think it’s cool seeing all these different riffs and evolutions on turn-based RPGs. If we do actually make a Seiken Densetsu 4, I expect it will probably have a completely different battle system. Tanaka: Yeah, a flexible battle system where players can play however they like would be best… in that sense, we’re trying to present players with a kind of “sandbox”. SD3 is us saying to users, “Look at all the things you can do in here.” How you play in that sandbox is freely up to you. If you've enjoyed reading this interview and would like to be able to vote each month on what I translate, please consider supporting me on Patreon! I can't do it without your help! Sentenced-ending speech inflections are often used in Japanese to impart a cartoonish personality to a character. They often involve some corruption of “da” or “desu”, as here: desu—>dechi. While it may sound trivial to a Westerner, Japanese speakers really respond to the color these made-up “dialects” impart, hence the focus of the next few questions.↩ Sentenced-ending speech inflections are often used in Japanese to impart a cartoonish personality to a character. They often involve some corruption of “da” or “desu”, as here: desu—>dechi. While it may sound trivial to a Westerner, Japanese speakers really respond to the color these made-up “dialects” impart, hence the focus of the next few questions.↩


--- [Seiken Densetsu 3 - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Seiken Densetsu 3 Infobox VG| title = Seiken Densetsu 3 developer =Square Co., Ltd. publisher =Square Co., Ltd. designer =Koichi Ishii (game design director)Hiromichi Tanaka (director)Nobuteru Yūki (character illustration) composer =Hiroki Kikuta engine = released = JPNSeptember 30 ,1995 genre =Console role-playing game modes =Single player , multiplayer ratings = platforms = Super Famicom media = 32-megabit cartridge requirements = input = series = "Mana" seriesnihongo|"Seiken Densetsu 3"|聖剣伝説3|Seiken Densetsu Surī|lit. "Legend of the Holy Sword 3" is aconsole role-playing game developed and published by Square (nowSquare Enix ) forNintendo 'sSuper Famicom as a part of the "Mana" series.The game features three lengthy main plotlines, six different characters, each with their own storylines, and a wide range of classes to choose from, which provides each character with an exclusive set of skills and status progression. The game also makes use of a time progression system, with transitions from day to night and weekday to weekday in game time, adding to the game's challenging gameplay. Although the game was only published in Japan , many Western players have been able to come into contact with "Seiken Densetsu 3" thanks to an unofficial Englishfan translation . In the West, the game is sometimes referred to unofficially as "Secret of Mana 2".Gameplay "Seiken Densetsu 3" acts very much like its predecessor " Secret of Mana ", as it employs a real-time combat system, making use of a "ring menu " which provides the player with quick access to magic spells, items and character information, amongst other options. One of its main differences, though, is that the range of characters is doubled to six, with the player choosing the three members of his or her party when commencing a new game. A single variety of weapon is available for each character, and the "progression by means of use" present on the series' previous game was removed from the weapons and magic systems; now the only factor which influences a spell's damage is how high the character's "magic" attribute is. A storage system was introduced, where excess items can be placed, replacing "Secret of Mana "'s "four-of-a-kind maximum rule". The player can switch items between storage and their nine-slot item ring menu, or else "top-up" items currently in it to a maximum of nine each.A battle mode was introduced as part of the gameplay, which freezes some aspects of normal gameplay (such as item storage) to allow the player to focus on defeating monsters. Players can exit battle mode by moving off-screen or far enough away from the monsters for it to be disengaged (unlike the " Legend of Mana " no-escape mode). When in battle mode, the character adds one point to his or her "power gauge" by making an attack which hits a monster (in place of "Secret of Mana"'s vulnerable charge-up). When the gauge is full enough, special moves can be unleashed - moves vary according to the character and their class. Once all enemies on-screen are defeated, the player has the chance to receive a reward item in a treasure chest. Sometimes, a "prize" wheel of traps is given when opening the chest; this can be eluded by timing the cursor to fall over an "OK" disc.Unlike "Secret of Mana", "Seiken Densetsu 3" only allows for up to two human players, with the other one or two characters being controlled by the AI. A screen in the system menu lets the player control certain preferences on how the AI-controlled characters should act. Unlike the prequel, however, instead of setting the characters' range to the enemy and their level of aggression, the player sets directives on the character's behavior during combat, such as taking an individual target or supporting another character. The player can also determine whether or not the AI characters will make use of their power gauge and what earned abilities they may use, though magic spells must be cast manually by the human player. Classes and Leveling Level progression is coordinated by the player, as a choice is given regarding where to invest a character statistics point at every level up. A "class" system is also present. Once a character reaches level 18, he or she is able to go to a Mana Stone and choose a class to progress to - either a class aligned to "Light" or a class aligned to "Dark" - which provides a different set of skills and different improvements to character statistics. A second class change may be performed at level 38. The second change requires the use of rare items to be performed, and once again an option between a "Light" and a "Dark" is presented; However, there is a key difference between the second class change and the first class change. Although the first class change of "Light" and/or "Dark" is in the players power of choosing, the second class change will advance the character depending on which of the two rare items for that characters class you use in the class change at the Mana Stone. Counting all possibilities there is a total of seven possible classes for every character, including the initial class. Passage of time "Seiken Densetsu 3" also employs a calendar function into its gameplay. The seven-day week cycles much more quickly than an actual one — a day passes in a number of minutes — but it still affects gameplay in certain ways.Each day of the week is represented by a different elemental spirit. On that spirit's day, magic of that element will be slightly stronger: * Luna Day - Moon magic is stronger; * Salamander Day - Fire magic is stronger; * Undine Day - Water magic is stronger; * Dryad Day - Wood magic is stronger; * Jinn Day - Wind magic is stronger; * Gnome Day - Earth magic is stronger; * Mana Holy Day - All elemental magic is balanced.A Day is also divided into day and night, represented by Will-o'-the-Wisp the light elemental (known as Wisp in the rest of the "Mana" series) and Shade the dark elemental, respectively. Reportedly, the use of the opposite elements according to day and time and the game's elementology are not weakened; for example, using water spells on a Salamander Day does not make them weaker than using them on a Gnome Day.Certain events only happen during certain times of day, such as a nighttime-only black market selling particularly rare items. Enemies encountered in the field also change during certain time periods, and some may be sleeping if characters approach them at night. Using an inn's services allows the player to "skip" the game's clock to that day's evening, or the following morning. Mana Holy Day is also notable in the game's calendar as players can use the inns' healing and time-skipping service for free, while a nominal charge is given on other days. Characters Heroes The characters (and their individual stories) are grouped into three main sub-plots. Duran and Angela oppose the Dragon Emperor; Hawkeye and Riesz oppose the Dark Prince; and Kevin and Charlotte oppose the Masked Mage. The main storyline is determined by the first character chosen, however there is significantly more character interaction and dialogue if these pairs of characters are selected in the same party. *nihongo|Angela|アンジェラ|Anjera is the only princess of the ice-covered Magic Kingdom of Altena. Her mother, Valda, the Queen of Reason, uses her magic to keep the Altenish citadel in a perpetual spring. However, like her country, Valda is cold and unfeeling towards her daughter, who has become lonely and selfish as a result of her upbringing. The Queen's spell weakens as Mana starts to fade. So that her spell may continue and Altena does not freeze over, she, with her assistant wizard Koren, decides to invade other nations to claim their Mana Stones. Once done, she would sacrifice her daughter to the ancient spell which would unlock the power of Mana kept in the Stones, opening the way to the infinite power in the Sword of Mana, letting the spell continue. After Angela is told this, she flees Altena. *nihongo|Duran|デュラン|Dyuran, an orphaned mercenary swordsman of the Grasslands Kingdom of Valsena (Forcena in the fan-translation), proudly serves his king, the wise Richard. Duran and his little sister Wendy were raised by their aunt, Stella after Duran's mother died as the result of a long term illness, and their father was lost in battle with the Dragon Emperor. One night, Duran is on guard duty at the castle of Valsena when Koren attacks the castle. Duran is left for dead after confronting him, and after making his recovery, he vows to become the best swordsman in the world and to exact his revenge upon Koren.*nihongo|Hawkeye|ホークアイ|Hōkuai (Hawk in the fan-translation) is a member of a guild of noble thieves based in the desert Sand Fortress of Nevarl (Navarre in the fan-translation). The guild's leader, Lord Flamekhan, suddenly and uncharacteristically declares Nevarl to be a Kingdom. Surprised by this, Hawkeye discusses the matter with his friends, Flamekhan's children, Jessica and Eagle. Hawkeye and Eagle decide to confront Flamekhan about it, only to find that he is in the middle of a meeting with his assistant, the witch Isabella, who turns out to be pulling Flamekhan's strings. Isabella (later revealed as "Bigieu") casts a spell on Eagle to make him attack Hawkeye, who injures Eagle gravely in his self-defense. However, Isabella finishes Eagle off with a spell and puts all the blame on Hawkeye. He is imprisoned and awaits his execution when Isabella informs him that she has given Jessica a cursed necklace; should Hawkeye tell anyone the truth, she will be choked by it. Luckily, he makes an escape. *nihongo|Riesz|リース|Rīsu (Lise in the fan translation) is princess of the mountainous Wind Kingdom of Laurent (Rolante in the fan-translation), and captain of its Amazon army. After her mother, Minerva, dies while giving birth to her younger brother, Elliott, Riesz vows to take care of him. However, two mysterious ninjas from Nevarl, Bill and Ben, discreetly trick Elliott into turning off Laurent's protective winds and kidnap him. With the winds gone, Nevarl attacks Laurent with a cloud of sleep powder and kills its king, Joster. Devastated, Riesz makes her escape. *nihongo|Kevin|ケヴィン|Kevin is the inarticulate prince of Ferolia. He is the son of Gauser, king of the beastmen, and a human mother. Sick of the treatment of his people by "normal" humans, the Beast King's desired revenge is made all the more possible by the appearance of the mysterious "Man who devours death" (Shi wo kurau otoko, Deathjester in the fan translation), with his dark magic at "beck and call". He shows his abilities by making Kevin's beloved wolf-pup orphan friend, Karl, rise up and attack him while both are out in the Moonlight Forest. Kevin defends himself and his werewolf abilities are awoken; unfortunately, they come at the cost of Karl's life. After seeing that the Beast King is sending an invasion force to overthrow the humans' precious Holy City Wendel, Kevin overhears the Beast King congratulate the Deathjester on his spell. Enraged, he confronts the Beast King and is, quite literally, thrown out of the castle. He declares the Beast King not to be his father, and wishes to find his mother and some way to revive Karl. *nihongo|Charlotte|シャルロット|Sharurotto, (Carlie in the fan translation), the "cute little girl who lives in Wendel", is the granddaughter of the Priest of Light. Orphaned by her parents, the cleric Leroy and the elf Shayla, she is looked after by a fellow cleric, Heath. Feeling an evil influence in nearby Jadd, the Priest of Light sends Heath to investigate; however, Charlotte overhears this conversation and makes an escape to find the Deathjester kidnap Heath. This is when she decides she must save him. Villains *Dark Prince (Kuro no Kikoushi, or Young Noble of Darkness in the original): Hawkeye and and Riez's main enemy. He was once a human, though his name as human is never stated. He was the prince of the "Kingdom of Light", but for unexplained reasons was both hated and feared by his people. The demons of the underworld made him a pact that he would become their leader, which the prince accepted and then after-which destroyed his former kingdom. He doesn't have a body of his own, he instead acts throughout the game by possessing body of Reiz's younger brother Eliot (though only in Riez and Hawkeye's plots, in the others his remains are destroyed). His aim to to merge the human world with underworld so he can rule both, and even displays a desire for the demons to be worshipped in place of the Mana Goddess. His true form for the final battle is the "Arch Demon ", in which he's also the only final boss with two forms. The Arch Demon is generally viewed by fans to be the hardest of the three final bosses.*Bigieu (Bijuu, meaning Beautiful Beast in the original): The right hand servant of the Dark Prince, but she's also implied to have romantic feelings for him, especially after dying, though how she met him isn't stated. Bigieu's sole intent is following the will of the Dark Prince, but she notes that he "lost his soul" when he became a demon, and she hoped to "bring his soul back." Despite this he's never displayed any sign of caring for her and considers her expendable. A notable event is that if the main characters aren't Hawkeye or Riez, after the Dark Prince is killed by the main villain, Bigieu kills Jagan off-screen and releases Elliot before killing herself, seeing no reason to live without the Dark Prince. This both strongly indicates she has romantic feelings for him, and shows that she even has some morals herself. *Jagan (called Jagan no Hakushaku, meaning Earl of the Evil Eye in the original): The Dark Prince's other main servant. Jagan is a vampire -like entity, though in game he isn't anundead enemy. His origins aren't stated, he's likely a demon from the underworld. He is fought and killed by the characters if Hawkeye or Riez are the main characters, but if not he's killed by Bigieu after the remains of the Dark Prince's body are destroyed.* Dragon Emperor (Ryutei in the original, which also means Dragon Emperor): Duran and Angela's main enemy. Of the three possible main villains, the Dragon Emperor's past is the least developed. His origin isn't stated, the most that seems to be known is that he's the leader of the clan of dragons. A coalition was led against him by Prince Richard and Loki (Duran's father). At the cost of Loki's life the Dragon Emperor was defeated, but he survived the battle and revived Loki as his servant the Darkshine Knight, later recruited Koren as well. The Dragon Emperor's intent is the most simplistic of the villains, he simply wishes to dominate that world to do with it as he pleases. His true form for the final is described as "Huge Dragon", and lives up to the description as he's so big he's not fully shown on-screen. He's viewed as being in between the difficultly of the other two final bossess*Koren: The Dragon Emperor's main servant. He was once an ordinary human, but possessed no ability for magic until that Dragon Emperor offered to make him the most powerful wizard alive in exchange for a piece of his soul, though what the Dragon Emperor wanted that isn't stated. Koren accepts the offer, though after he's defeated he loses his will to live without the piece of his soul the Dragon Emperor took and kills himself. *Darkshine Knight: The Dragon Emperor's other servant, who is actually Duran's father Loki, though this is only revealed if Duran is in the party when he's fought. Loki was believed to have died fighting the Dragon Emperor, but the Dragon Emperor saw a use for the powerful warrior and revived him as his servant. Although the Darkshine Knight retained his memories from living as Loki, he was fanatically loyal to the Dragon Emperor. After the Darkshine Knight dies he's released from the control that the Dragon Emperor had over him, and tells the heroes that he has faith in their power to stop the Dragon Emperor. If Duran or Angela aren't the main characters, then the Darkshine Knight still reveals that Dragon Emperor revived him before dieing, and that Dragon Emperor's power is what kept him alive. *Masked Mage ("Kamen no Doushi" in the original, meaning Masked Officiating Monk): Kevin and Charlotte's main enemy. He was once a human named Belgar, Wendel's Oracle of Darkness, but originally a priest known for his skill in healing, but eventually found a disease that couldn't be cured with light magic and he descended into dark magic to find a cure, but the victim died before he found it. He eventually found a spell in necromancy that could revive the dead, and challenged the Priest of Light but was defeated and exiled. During this time Belgar became corrupted by the dark magic and became the Masked Mage, developing a strong hatred for the living. He intended to gain the power to exact his revenge on the living. At some point he recruited the Deathjester. The Masked Mage's son Heath tried to stop him, but was corrupted and became he's father's strongest servant. His true form for the final battle is the "DarkLich ". He's viewed as the easiest of the three final bosses.*Heath: The main servant of the Masked Mage. Heath is the son of the Masked Mage and previously a friend of Carlie's. At the start of the plot he goes out to try investigate the disturbances with mana and to try and save his father from his own darkness, but was abducted by the Deathjester and turned evil. If Carlie or Kevin aren't the main characters, he isn't fought as a boss and instead wonders about, and sacrifices his life to cure the illness of the Priest of Light. However, in all endings, regardless of characters, he's revived by the Mana Goddess. *Deathjester (called Shi wo Kurau Otoko, meaning the Death-Eating Man in the original): The other servant of the Masked Mage, and a clown like being as his name would imply. His origins, and motivation for serving the Masked Mage are unknown. He displays the ability to eat souls, hence his Japanese name. Early on he abducts Heath, resulting in his serving the Masked Mage. Unlike the other villains, he seems to survive when the Masked Mage isn't the villain. What happens to the Deathjester after that is unknown. *Benevodons, (God-Beasts in the fan-translation) eight elemental monsters that are described as incarnations of disaster that once threatened the world, but were defeated by the Goddess of Mana. One God-Beast existed for each element in the game,fire ,water ,earth ,wind ,wood ,light ,moon , anddarkness . When the villains acquire the Sword of Mana, the God-Beasts are released into the world. The player can fight the first seven in whatever order they wish. After defeating the first seven, the God-Beast of Darkness can be fought. However, killing the God-Beasts plays right into the hands of the villain as killing them sends their power to the Sword of Mana.tory etting According to "Seiken Densetsu 3"'s in-game lore, the Mana Goddess created the game's world by forging the powerful Sword of Mana and defeating eight benevodons (God-Beasts in the fan-translation) with it, sealing them within eight Mana Stones, before turning herself into the Mana Tree and falling asleep. The game is set at a time when Mana starts to fade and peace has ended, as some people plot to unleash the benevodons from the stones so as to gain ultimate power, politically and magically. "Heroes of Mana" also features this legend at its beginning.Plot With the exception of Charlotte, the characters are told (or otherwise decide) to seek the advice of the Priest of Light in the Holy City Wendel. They arrive at the city of Jadd soon after the Beastmen have invaded. Due to the Beastmen's werewolf powers, they are able to make an escape by night. All characters, on the way to Wendel, stay overnight in Astoria where they are woken by a bright light. Following it, it reveals itself to be a Faerie from the Mana Sanctuary (Mana Holyland in the fan-translation), exhausted by her journey. Out of desperation, the Faerie chooses the main character to be her host, and tells them to get to Wendel. There, while giving her or his grievances to the Priest of Light, the Faerie interrupts and explains that the Mana Tree is dying and that the Sanctuary is in danger. This is grave news for the Priest, for if the Tree dies, the benevodons will reawaken and destroy the world.He goes on to explain further that, because the Faerie has chosen the main character as its host, they must travel to the Sanctuary to draw the Sword of Mana from the foot of the Mana Tree to restore peace to the world, and have their wishes granted by the Mana Goddess if it can be drawn before the Tree dies. However, there is a catch: a lot of power is needed to open the gate to the Sanctuary. The Faerie does not have the strength to do it, and the ancient spell which would do so by unlocking the power in the Mana Stones also takes the caster's life. However, the Stones' guarding spirits (" Secret of Mana "'s Elementals) are seen to be able, once their powers are combined.After journeying across the world to get the Spirits, thwarting the invasion attempts of Navarre and Altena, discovering the powers of the Fire and Water Mana Stones released (by agents of Navarre and Altena, respectively), and learning the disappearance of the Mana Stone of Darkness along the way, the Main Character tries to open the gate to the Mana Sanctuary with the Spirits' assistance. The first attempt fails, but the second succeeds; the Faerie realizes that it was opened because someone released the power from all the Mana Stones. The characters travel into the Sanctuary and the Main Character claims the Mana Sword; however, it is soon discovered that the Main Character's adversaries (Koren and the Darkshine Knight for Angela and Duran; Jagan and Bigieu for Riesz and Hawkeye; or the Deathjester and Heath for Kevin and Carlie/Charlotte) (the villains that aren't the main character's primary enemies are killed by whoever the main villain is) has captured the Faerie and will only release her in exchange for the Mana Sword. The unfortunate trade is made, and once the enemy receives the Sword, the Mana Stones shatter and the benevodons are released. The characters must then defeat the benevodons before they can gather and destroy the world. However, after doing this they realize killing the benevodons gives more power to their main enemy (the Dragon Emperor for Duran and Angela, the Dark Prince for Hawkeye and Riesz, or Masked Mage for Kevin and Charlotte), and the already powerful villain absorbs the power of the Sword of Mana and the benevodons to become a god, but is halted by the Mana Goddess blocking some of his power. After defeating the villains minions the characters go and defeat their main enemy, but are unable to stop him from destroying the Mana Tree. The Faerie fuses with what's left of the Mana Tree and will become the new Mana Goddess in a thousand years, but until then mana won't exist in the world. The characters go back their lives after this. Development "Seiken Densetsu 3" was designed by series creator Koichi Ishii . The game was directed byHiromichi Tanaka , who previously helped design the first three "Final Fantasy " titles and "Secret of Mana". Manga and anime artistNobuteru Yūki was responsible for the character designs. His artwork for the game can be found in the rare "Nobuteru Yuki Seiken Densetsu Illustration Book".cite web | title=Seiken Seiken Densetsu 3 Merchandise | url=http://www.seikens.com/merchandise-sd3.html | work=Seikens.com | accessdate=2008-06-26]Audio The score for "Seiken Densetsu 3" was composed by Hiroki Kikuta , who had previously composed the music for "Secret of Mana". Kikuta completed it with little assistance, having performed the sound selection, editing, effect design, and data encoding himself.cite web | author=Jeriaska | date=June 9, 2007 | title=Where Angels Fear to Tread: A Conversation with Hiroki Kikuta | url=http://squarehaven.com/news/2007/06/09/Where-Angels-Fear-to-Tread-A-Conversation-with-Hiroki-Kikuta/ | work=SquareHaven.com. | accessdate=2008-06-25] The soundtrack features 60 tracks on 3 discs and was published byNTT Publishing onAugust 25 ,1995 and was republished bySquare Enix onOctober 1 ,2004 .cite web | title=Seiken Densetsu 3 Original Sound Version | url=http://www.squareenixmusic.com/albums/s/seikendensetsu3.shtml | work=SquareEnixMusic.com | accessdate=2008-06-25] The main theme from "Secret of Mana", "Where Angels Fear to Tread," makes a return in this installment.cite web | author=Jormungand | title=Seiken Densetsu 3 Original Sound Version | url=http://www.chudahs-corner.com/reviews/index.php?catalog=PSCN-5026%7E8 | work=Chudahs-Corner.com | accessdate=2008-06-25] The track "Meridian Child" was performed by theTokyo Symphony Orchestra for the fifth Orchestral Game Concert in 1996.cite web | title=Orchestral Game Concert 5 | url=http://www.soundtrackcentral.com/cds/orchestralgameconcert5.htm | work=SoundtrackCentral.com | accessdate=2008-06-26] The game also features asurround sound mode.English translation controversy During the game's development and release, "Seiken Densetsu 3" became known abroad as "Secret of Mana 2". [cite news |author=West, Neil | date=September 1994 | title=Interview with Ted Woolsey ( [http://www.chronocompendium.com/wiki/index.php?title=Super_Play_Magazine_Woolsey_Interview full text] ) | work=Super Play Magazine] [cite web | title=Feature: Chrono Cross Development Team Interview and Contest | url=http://www.gamepro.com/sony/psx/games/features/6764.shtml | date=December 1, 2000 | work=GamePro.com | accessdate=2008-06-26] [cite news | title=Secret of Mana 2 | work=GameFan Magazine Vol. 3 Issue #12 | publisher=Diehard Gamers Club | date=December 1995 | accessdate=2008-05-31] Squaresoft stated in a 1995 issue of its North American newsletter that they planned to release the game during the second half of the year. [cite news | title=Around the Corner | work=Ogopogo Examiner | publisher=Square Soft, Inc. | date=1995 | accessdate=2008-06-26] However, "Seiken Densetsu 3" was never localized outside of Japan. There is an apparent misconception among video game fans that the SNES title " Secret of Evermore " was released in lieu of anEnglish language version of "Seiken Densetsu 3" in 1995. Ill feelings towards the lack of an official translation probably stem from titular and mechanical similarities.One suggested reason against "Secret of Evermore"'s favouring over "Seiken Densetsu 3" is due to the establishment of a new development team at Squaresoft's office in Redmond, Washington .cite web | author=Corbie Dillard | date=2008 | title=Interview with Brian Fehdrau (Secret of Evermore) | url=http://www.super-nes.com/evermoreinterview.htm | work=Super-NES.com | accessdate=2008-06-22] According to Brian Fehdrau, the lead programmer for "Secret of Evermore", the decision had absolutely no effect on any such translations and did not tie up any of the people involved in translation; it was specifically hired to create it and they would not have been assembled otherwise. This may have been accompanied by a decision not to continue translating titles, including the sequel to "Secret of Mana". Citing "Nintendo Power ", the probability of a North American release for "Seiken Densetsu 3" was low due to "a technical nature" and that it would have been far too costly to produce at the time. [cite news | title=Epic Center: The Rising Sun | work=Nintendo Power #79 | publisher=Nintendo | page=51 | date=December1995 | accessdate=2008-05-31] This is further supported by Fehdrau, who mentions that "Seiken Densetsu 3" had some bugs, hindering its likelihood of being certified for release by Nintendo of America.In 2000, a fan translation project led by hacker Neill Corlett was successfully completed and made available on the internet as an unofficial patch. Due to the increasing popularity of video game ROMs and the quick progress ofemulator s at the time, the translated version of "Seiken Densetsu 3" was made available to many players from around the world in 2000. [cite book | title=Let Me Play: Stories of Gaming and Emulation | author=Radford Castro | year=2004 | publisher=Hats Off Books | isbn=1-58736-349-6 | pages=pp. 171–172 | chapter=The World of Emulation] At the time of its release, the translation was the most sophisticated hack of its type, with assembly hacks for script compression and variable font width, as well as overcoming technical difficulties in dumping and re-inserting the original script.Reception Heroes of Mana " Heroes of Mana " is a direct prequel to "Seiken Densetsu 3", taking place 19 years before the latter's story. Many of the main characters and story-central NPCs also appear in "SD3", and in some cases are related to its main characters, though none of the main characters appear, most of them having not even been born yet. (The possible exception to this is Hawkeye, who has only just been born to Falcon and Sandarrow. He is never seen directly, and his entry in the character guide features a silhouette in place of artwork, though it also says that he will grow into a hero who will save the world). It also features translations of place names different from the fan-translation of "SD3".References External links * *moby game|id=/seiken-densetsu-3Fan sites * [http://mmxz.zophar.net/rpg/mana2/som2.html Zophar.net - "Seiken Densetsu 3"] * [http://www.seikens.com/seiken-densetsu-3.html "Seiken Densetsu 3 at the Seikens.com"] Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Seiken Densetsu / Mana series - MobyGames] ---
Game Groups > Seiken Densetsu / Mana series The Seiken Densetsu Series of Games originally began in 1987, but after Square was almost in financial ruin, they cancelled the project and encouraged people that placed advanced orders for the game to buy Final Fantasy. Once Square had a better reputation as a game developer, they restarted the project. Koichi Ishii has been the lead game designer and/or producer of every game in the Seiken Densetsu series. He has also supervised the new games that have the Seiken Densetsu trademark. This game is based around the concept of mana, the lifeforce that resides in all living things. Many elements in the games—Mana Trees, the Sword of Mana, the Mana Fortress—incorporate mana as a defining characteristic. Plots of the games often revolve around the world being in danger because mana is being abused in some way. The series mascot is the rabite, a small rabbit-like creature with a cottontail and jumps around the board attacking the hero's party. Another mascot is Flammie, a Mana Dragon used to fly the party to remote areas. Watts the blacksmith has been in every game in the series. Related Groups - Console Generation Exclusives: SNES - Enhanced remakes - Gameplay feature: Bestiary - Gameplay feature: Character gacha - Gameplay feature: Day / night cycle - Gameplay feature: New Game+ - Hokuto no Ken / Fist of the North Star licensees - Legend of Zelda series - Physical Bonus Content: Character Figurine / Bust - Physical Bonus Content: World Map 22 Games [ view in game browser ] [ add game ] This list includes games marked as Adult. Click here to hide Adult games from this list. This list includes DLC. Click here to hide DLC from this list.


--- [Seiken Densetsu 3 - 1995 Developer Interview | Patreon] ---
Seiken Densetsu 3 – 1995 Developer Interview shmuplations.com May 30, 2019 Seiken Densetsu 3 – 1995 Developer Interview May 30, 2019 http://shmuplations.com/seikendensetsu3/ This 1995 interview covers the development of the Square action-RPG Seiken Densetsu 3, the sequel to the beloved Secret of Mana and a game that was famously denied--and has still yet to receive--an official overseas release. Over the course of this discussion, director Tanaka, designer Ishii and composer Kikuta outline their initial concepts for the game’s cast, the realization of ideas that couldn’t be implemented in the previous game, and the points of differentiation between Seiken Densetsu and its sister series, Final Fantasy. Seiken Densetsu 3 – 1995 Developer Interview shmuplations.com May 30, 2019 Seiken Densetsu 3 – 1995 Developer Interview May 30, 2019 http://shmuplations.com/seikendensetsu3/ This 1995 interview covers the development of the Square action-RPG Seiken Densetsu 3, the sequel to the beloved Secret of Mana and a game that was famously denied--and has still yet to receive--an official overseas release. Over the course of this discussion, director Tanaka, designer Ishii and composer Kikuta outline their initial concepts for the game’s cast, the realization of ideas that couldn’t be implemented in the previous game, and the points of differentiation between Seiken Densetsu and its sister series, Final Fantasy.
