=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Azad Kashmir Plebiscite Front - Wikipedia]
In April 1965, the Kashmir Independence Committee merged into the newly launched Plebiscite Front in Muzaffarabad. Abdul Khaliq Ansari was its president, Amanullah Khan the general secretary and Maqbool Bhat the publicity secretary. Journalist Arif Jamal states that, the participants drove ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Azad_Kashmir_Plebiscite_Front

[Kashmir: A Historical Timeline - Adi Magazine]
Maqbool Bhat, having spent years ... him for the murder of a bank official at the hands of one of his associates. ... On May 29, 1977 Amanullah Khan, Abdul Khaliq Ansari and few others from the Azad Kashmiri diaspora in Britain ...
URL: https://adimagazine.com/articles/kashmir-a-historical-timeline/

[Understanding the Kashmir Conundrum: A HistoricalOutline [1752-2019] | Countercurrents]
On 27 May 1964, while he was en route to Muzaffarabad in Pakistani, the news came of the sudden death of Nehru and the Sheikh after addressing a public rally at Muzaffarabad returned to Delhi.] On his suggestion, President Ayub Khan sent a ...
URL: https://countercurrents.org/2019/09/understanding-the-kashmir-conundrum-a-historicaloutline-1752-2019/

[[PDF] Jammu and Kashmir Dispute - Ministry of Foreign Affairs]
On 24 Oct 1947, following the victory in Poonch, the pro-Pakistan chieftains of the western Jammu districts of Muzaffarabad, Poonch and Mirpur proclaimed a ...34 pages·672 KB
URL: https://mofa.gov.pk/storage/files/1/65451083a984b.pdf

[Resolution passed by Jammu and Kashmir Plebiscite Front in March ...]
Adopted by the Central Working Committee of the Jammu & Kashmir Plebiscite Front (for Azad Kashmir & Pakistan) held at Rawalpindi on 22nd and 23rd March 1979.
URL: https://www.kashmiribhatta.in/documentsnameview.php?id=539


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Azad Kashmir Plebiscite Front - Wikipedia] ---
The Plebiscite Front in Azad Kashmir, also called Mahaz-i-Raishumari, was founded by Amanullah Khan in collaboration with Abdul Khaliq Ansari
and Maqbool Bhat in 1965. The organisation had an unofficial armed wing called National Liberation Front, which carried out sabotage activities in Jammu and Kashmir as well as the hijacking of Ganga. Amanullah Khan later moved to England, where he revived the National Liberation Front under the new name Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF).


--- [Kashmir: A Historical Timeline - Adi Magazine] ---
Kashmir: A Historical Timeline A chronicle of key political events that undergird the movement for self-determination. Kashmir emerged as an “international dispute” in 1947, but looking at the Kashmir question exclusively from that prism privileges India-Pakistan state-centric perspectives while erasing Kashmir’s own distinct political history. To begin to understand the Kashmiri aspiration for self-determination, it is important to trace the major events that have shaped Kashmiri political subjectivity. Kashmir’s political history is a complex and volatile interaction between external forces and internal struggles. Keeping this in mind, I present this timeline as a resource for those curious about what drives the Kashmiri movement for self-determination despite the tremendous odds it faces. To be clear, the timeline is not the history of Kashmir, but a chronicle of key political events. In being so, the timeline falls squarely within the long tradition of Kashmiri chronicle writing. I start with the year 1586 because many Kashmiris see the arrival of the Mughals as the first tragic entanglement of Kashmir with South Asia. 1586 Apart from the brief periods, when it was part of the Buddhist empires of Ashoka (~300 BC) and Kushans (~130 AD), Kashmir had remained more or less independent under a series of regional dynasties, including Hindu-Buddhist Karkotas and Muslim Shah-Miris. The centuries of complex interaction between indigenous peoples of Kashmir and Aryan settlers, and later preachers from South India, Central Asia and Iran, had led to mass conversions to Buddhism, Shaivism, and eventually Islam. In 1586, Mughal Emperor Akbar attempts a conquest of Kashmir, but is thwarted by the last native Kashmiri Muslim ruler, Yusuf Shah Chak. Under the pretext of negotiations, Akbar takes Chak as a prisoner and makes Kashmir a part of his Afghan principality. Never allowed to return to Kashmir, Chak’s grave is in present-day Indian state of Bihar. 1750s-1846 As the Mughal empire weakens, Kashmir first falls under the Afghans and then under the Sikhs from Lahore. 1846 In the aftermath of Anglo-Sikh wars in the 1840s, the British East India Company rewards a Dogra chieftain, Gulab, who had betrayed his Sikh overlords during the war, with control over Kashmir. Signed on 9 March 1846, the Treaty of Amritsar allows Gulab to claim the title of Maharaja of the state of Jammu and Kashmir, which now includes the kingdom of Ladakh that had been incorporated into the previous Sikh empire in 1834. In return, Gulab agrees to serve British interests as a buffer state (primarily against the Tsarist Russia) and send Kashmiri soldiers to join British campaigns as and when called upon. A brief rebellion against the treaty by the Sikh-appointed Muslim governor of Kashmir Imam-ud-Din is suppressed. Despite most of their subjects being Muslim, Dogras turn the state into a Hindu kingdom. Except for the period from 1889 and 1905, when the British curtailed some Dogra powers, the Dogra maharajas enjoyed almost full sovereignty over Kashmir. Dogra rule is marked by oppression, forced labor, and heavy taxation. Several artisans’ revolts have been forcibly put down. In particular, the Kashmiri Muslims, who form the majority of the state’s subjects, are systematically impoverished, disempowered and exploited, while the minority upper-caste Hindus become part of the ruling establishment. 1931 On July 13, during the trial of Abdul Qadeer, who is accused of inciting Kashmiris to rebel against the Dogras, people assemble in the capital Srinagar. The Dogra troops shoot 22 Kashmiris dead. Widespread protests erupt all over the country against Maharaja Hari Singh, but the revolt is brutally suppressed. Dozens of Kashmiris are shot dead during the next few days in Islamabad (Anantnag) and Kupwara. In the hilly regions of Poonch, a rebellion erupts which will continue for years. 1932 Kashmiri Muslim leaders petition the British and the Dogra rulers for reforms. Several of them launch the All Jammu Kashmir Muslim Conference (MC) with a goal to fight for governmental reform, education, and representation for Kashmiri Muslims in the government. The Maharaja’s subsequent efforts to redress the grievances, including establishing Praja Sabha (“Subjects’ Assembly”) turn out to be empty as Muslim representation remains disproportionately minimal. A group of radical Kashmiri youth led by Sheikh Abdullah emerges as a popular faction within the Muslim Conference. 1939 MC splits over political approach. Sheikh Abdullah names the major faction the Jammu Kashmir National Conference (JKNC or NC), signaling that their goal is a secular independent state and an end to feudalism. NC mobilizes Kashmiri peasantry. 1940s Several small new Kashmiri parties emerge, including the Worker-Peasant Party. Some socialist and communist organizations also begin to grow. NC grows in popularity for its defiance of the Dogras, while Chaudhary Ghulam Abbas revives the old Muslim Conference and builds significant support among the Muslims of the Jammu province. 1944 NC adopts the “New Kashmir Resolution,” proposing radical socio-economic transformation, the end of monarchy and feudalism, turning Kashmir into a democratic republic, and granting full citizenship rights to all the people of Jammu and Kashmir. 1945 With older roots in Islamist social reform, Jamaat Islami holds its first convention in Kashmir. Influenced by its parent body in British India, which opposed the creation of Pakistan, Jamaat Islami in Kashmir takes a stand against both NC’s secular nationalism and MC’s Muslim nationalism. 1946 NC launches “Quit Kashmir” movement and MC starts a campaign of action; both are against the monarchy. Sheikh Abdullah and Chaudhary Ghulam Abbas are arrested. Over the years, Abdullah has grown closer to Indian Congress leaders and is opposed to Jinnah’s Muslim League. Yet, he agrees Kashmir should remain its own entity. The Muslim Conference leans toward Jinnah. 1947 Between August and October, Kashmir is independent. With Pakistan now a reality, Jamaat Islami activists want Kashmir to join Pakistan if it becomes an Islamic state, yet their parent body in British India has opposed Jinnah. Muslim Conference passes a resolution to join Pakistan. The Socialist Party also wants to join Pakistan. But NC is opposed to the idea. The British withdrawal and the partition of British India into India and Pakistan leads to violence in Bengal, Delhi, Punjab and elsewhere. Kashmiris have been fighting against the monarchy and don’t see their struggle as part of South Asian secular, Hindu, or Muslim nationalisms, but the British ask “Princely Rulers” to accede either to India or to Pakistan based on geographical contiguity and religious demography. According to this Partition logic, Kashmir should have gone to Pakistan, as the state has a close to 77 percent Muslim population. In September and October 1947, Hindu militias and Dogra troops attack Jammu’s Muslims, killing tens of thousands. In Poonch, along the border with newly-created Pakistan, rebels create an independent state called “Azad (Free) Jammu Kashmir (AJK).” As ethnic cleansing of Jammu Muslims continues, many flee to AJK and to Pakistan. Much of Muslim Conference leadership and members are displaced. According to census reports from the time and later research, upwards of 200,000 Muslims are dead and an equal number become refugees. After what will come to be known as the “Jammu Massacre,” Jammu becomes a Hindu-majority city. Meanwhile, the Dogras lose control of Gilgit Baltistan province in the north. With their leader, Sheikh Abdullah, in prison, NC remains dormant. In September, troops from the neighboring state of Patiala and Hindu nationalist paramilitaries of the RSS arrive to bolster the Dogras. Pakistan blocks supplies into Kashmir. Indian Congress leaders put pressure on the Dogras to accede to India and release Abdullah. The Dogra maharaja wants to remain independent and has signed a Standstill Agreement with Pakistan, but India has refused to sign. As rebellion continues along the borders, on October 22, 1947, members of Afridi and other Pashtun groups begin to converge along the border and enter Baramulla to aid Kashmiris but falter without any clear leadership. The Maharaja flees the Kashmir valley and asks India for help. Indians demand he sign the Treaty of Accession and give power over Kashmir’s defense, foreign affairs, and communication to India. Abdullah is made Emergency Administrator and he sees Pashtuns as a threat. On October 26, Indian troops arrive in Srinagar and the next day Maharaja signs the treaty. Indian invasion pulls Pakistani troops in too. The first India-Pakistan war over Kashmir breaks out. On November 21, Nehru says: “I have repeatedly stated that as soon as peace and order have been established; Kashmir should decide about accession by plebiscite or referendum under international auspices such as those of United Nations.” 1948 By the middle of the year, the war has entered a stalemate. India takes the case of Kashmir to the United Nations. Kashmir is officially recognized as a disputed territory. The United Nations Security Council passes a resolution (UNSC Resolution 47) providing for 1. Ceasefire, 2. Withdrawal of Pakistani and Indian troops, and 3. Plebiscite in Kashmir (under international supervision with minimal Indian military presence). UN Commission on India and Pakistan (UNCIP) is created. 1949 Ceasefire is proclaimed under the UN auspices. India is in control of two-thirds of the historic Kashmir state while Pakistan has control over one-third, including the AJK. 1950 India backtracks on its promise of the plebiscite, even though Nehru would continue to make statements about India’s pledge to Kashmiris until 1959. Indian Constitution comes into effect and Article 1 proclaims the entire state of J&K as a part of the territory of India. Article 370 gives a “special” status to the State of J&K, more or less corresponding to the terms of the Instrument of Accession. Pro-Pakistan Kashmiri leaders are arrested, and many are sent into exile. 1951 Elections are held in the state. The UNSC passes a resolution (UNSC Resolution 91) saying elections will not be a substitute for the plebiscite. Sheikh Abdullah wins the elections, mostly unopposed, and becomes the Prime Minister. Abdullah carries out land reforms and adopts measures such as debt relief. The Jammu Kashmir Constituent Assembly is created to draft the constitution for the state. In India, Hindu nationalists begin agitation over giving special status to Kashmir. They demand “one country, one constitution, one flag.” 1952 Land reforms, while benefitting impoverished Kashmiri Muslims and under-caste Hindus, lead to resentment among erstwhile members of Dogra royalty and Hindu feudals, who assemble under the aegis of a Hindu nationalist party, Praja Parishad. Abdullah sees them as a threat but is unable to control their influence. He begins to shift positions between endorsing Kashmir’s accession to India and supporting the right of self-determination for Kashmiris. He signs the Delhi Agreement, but does not confirm the accession of Kashmir to India. The Delhi Agreement says: 1. except in three matters listed under Instrument of Accession, sovereignty will reside in Jammu and Kashmir; 2. Kashmiris will be citizens of India, but the elected Kashmir government will decide permanent residency requirements in the state; 3. Kashmir will have its own flag and constitution; 4. Kashmir will have a Prime Minister (wazir azam) and President (sadr-e-riyasat). Jamaat Islami separates from its parent body in India. 1953 As Hindu nationalist groups coalesce against Abdullah, the Indian government claims he is conspiring with the Chinese, the Arabs, and the Americans to create an independent Kashmir. In August, Abdullah is arrested (he will spend the next decade in prison). One of his aides and the deputy prime minister until then, G.M. Bakshi, is installed as the Prime Minister. Abdullah’s loyalists are removed from the government and the NC. 1954 Bakshi gets the accession formally ratified in 1954. India passes a “Presidential Order” using Article 370 which effectively gives the Indian parliament many more powers than were part of the Instrument of Accession and the Delhi Agreement. This is the start of the “erosion of autonomy,” which will continue in the years to come. All dissent in Kashmir is crushed. 1955 Afzal Beg, a lieutenant of Abdullah’s, forms the Plebiscite Front, which becomes the principal opposition to the governments led by India-loyalist Bakshi and his successors. 1956 The J&K Constituent Assembly adopts a new constitution, declaring the state an integral part of the Indian Union. Kashmiri activists, including those from Plebiscite Front, reject the declaration, and continue to insist on the promised self-determination. 1957 The UN passes another resolution (UNSC Resolution 122) affirming that only the “will of the people expressed through the democratic method of a free and impartial plebiscite conducted under the auspices of the United Nations” will determine Kashmir’s final status, and states that the J&K Constituent Assembly’s actions, including administrative or legal changes, are invalid and would not constitute a final disposition of the state. 1962 India and China fight a war. India loses control over large tracts of land in Ladakh, especially Aksai Chin, that had been part of the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 1963 A holy relic—believed to be a strand of hair from the Prophet’s beard—is found missing from the Hazratbal shrine in Srinagar. Popular agitation erupts across Kashmir Valley and continues until the relic is mysteriously recovered in January 1964. Protests expand against extension of Indian powers to Kashmir including Indian president’s power to dismiss Kashmiri governments. 1965 Second India-Pakistan war breaks out after Pakistan sends infiltrators across the ceasefire line in August. The war ends in a ceasefire on September 23. The status quo remains. India removes the title of Prime Minister and Sadr e Riyasat from its loyalist Kashmiri officials, instead using the term Chief Minister. 1966 Small Kashmiri armed revolutionary groups emerge, some in the shadow of the Plebiscite Front. These groups call for complete independence of Jammu and Kashmir. One of these groups is Jammu Kashmir National Liberation Front (JKNLF) created by Maqbool Bhat and others. Another is Al Fatah, which builds a strong underground network. Most are arrested and will spend years in prison. 1971 India and Pakistan fight a war, resulting in the secession of East Pakistan and the formation of Bangladesh. 1972 India and Pakistan sign the Shimla Agreement, which recognizes the ceasefire line of 1949 as the Line of Control (LoC). The Shimla Agreement includes a clause stating that the final settlement of Kashmir will be decided bilaterally. Kashmiris see themselves as being further sidelined in future negotiations over their own country. 1974 Sheikh Abdullah is allowed to return to Kashmir. Many Kashmiris welcome him. But on Indira Gandhi’s insistence, he disbands the Plebiscite Front. Abdullah agrees to give up the demand for self-determination. 1975 Abdullah accepts the much diminished position of Chief Minister. In June, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi plunges India into an Emergency. Abdullah supports her and does not oppose when the Emergency is extended to Kashmir ten days later. Abdullah and his aide Beg win by-elections, but Syed Ali Geelani, who is a Jamaat Islami legislator, claims election rigging. Abdullah bans Jamaat Islami and closes down dozens of its schools across Kashmir. Revolutionary armed groups that had risen in the shadow of the Plebiscite Front are in a disarray, even though Abdullah drops long-standing cases against Al Fatah members. 1976 Maqbool Bhat, having spent years in Indian and Pakistani jails (in Pakistan, for being suspected as an Indian spy), is arrested again in Kashmir, where a death warrant has earlier been issued against him for the murder of a bank official at the hands of one of his associates. 1977 On May 29, 1977 Amanullah Khan, Abdul Khaliq Ansari and few others from the Azad Kashmiri diaspora in Britain form the Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF) in Birmingham. Maqbool Bhat is proclaimed to have joined the new organization. Sheikh Abdullah wins elections in 1977. With the Indian establishment’s backing, the opposition to his NC is decimated. The old Jamaat Islami, having contested the elections since 1971, wins only one seat in the Assembly. 1979 Iran’s Islamic revolution and the execution of Pakistan’s former Prime Minister, Z.A. Bhutto, on the orders of General Zia ul Haq, causes widespread ripples across Kashmir. Jamaat Islami members, seen as supporters of General Zia, are attacked by NC cadres as well as by some Islamic preachers in the countryside, especially in Islamabad (Anantnag) where Jamaat Islami’s support among the salaried classes is growing. 1982 On September 8, Sheikh Abdullah dies. 1983 Massive election rigging creates dissensions within NC and conflicts begin among Abdullah’s heirs. Indian PM Indira Gandhi, campaigning in Jammu, ignites Hindu passions against Kashmiri Muslims. 1984 On February 11, Maqbool Bhat is hanged in Tihar Jail. Indian authorities refuse to return his body to his family. Small groups of Kashmiris cross the LoC to plan armed movement and return to form underground cells. In April, the Indian Army captures the Siachen Glacier region of Kashmir from Pakistan. In June, the Indian military’s assault on the Golden Temple, the spiritual center of Sikhs in Amritsar, leaves hundreds of Sikhs dead. Many Sikh activists cross the Punjab border into Pakistan to get arms training. In July, the Indian governor in Kashmir openly interferes in Kashmiri politics. Farooq, Abdullah’s son and heir, is dismissed as the Chief Minister and his opponent in the NC and brother-in-law, Ghulam Muhammad Shah, is installed in his place. Small new Islamist groups begin to emerge in Kashmir, mostly led by Kashmir University students. In October, Indira Gandhi is shot dead by her bodyguards. 1986 Mujahideen war against the Soviets in Afghanistan is at its peak. India loyalist and Farooq Abdullah’s brother in law, Ghulam Muhammad Shah, is dismissed as Chief Minister, after Farooq gives assurances to Indian PM Rajiv Gandhi that he will crack down on the growing unrest in Kashmir. Farooq forms a coalition government with the Indian National Congress in Kashmir. 1987 A number of opposition parties join to form an alliance against the NC. They are called the Muslim United Front (MUF). There is blatant poll rigging. Young polling agents of MUF, among them Yasin Malik, are arrested and tortured. Farooq Abdullah is allowed to win the elections and becomes Chief Minister. The MUF wins only four seats—despite a clear wave of support for the party—including one by Syed Ali Geelani of the Jamaat Islami and Qazi Nisar, the Mirwaiz (head preacher) of South Kashmir. MUF contestants, like Yusuf Shah, are arrested. 1988 Repression in Kashmir increases. Protestors demanding basic things, like electricity, are shot down. Several groups of young Kashmiri men, including Hamid Sheikh, Ashfaq Wani, Javaid Mir, and Yasin Malik (now out of jail), cross the LoC for arms training. Later known as the HAJY group (acronym of the first letters of their names), they join the JKLF. Busy fighting the Soviets in Afghanistan, Pakistan however sends them back without promises. Pakistan cuts even minimal support as General Zia dies in a crash and Benazir Bhutto becomes the prime minister, who invites Indian PM Rajiv Gandhi to Pakistan. JKLF declare armed struggle against India, exploding several small bombs in Srinagar. Jamaat Islami opposes armed struggle in its publication Azan and insists on the 1985 amendment to its party constitution that calls for resolution through constitutional means and dialogue. 1989 The judge who had sentenced Maqbool Bhat to death is shot dead. Indian operations to capture JKLF members become intense. Hamid Sheikh has been captured. In November and December, JKLF successfully uses a high-profile kidnapping to negotiate the release of their members, including Sheikh. Vast crowds of Kashmiris come out in support of JKLF and to welcome the rebels. With Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, Pakistan turns attention to Kashmir, but seems interested in creating its own group, one that could profess a pro-Pakistan ideology. Among several such groups, Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) is founded by a Jamaat Islami activist and schoolteacher known as Master Ahsan Dar. Yusuf Shah, also from Jamaat Islami, joins the HM and uses the nom de guerre Syed Salahuddin. 1990 Indian military forces carry out several massacres across Kashmir in January. Protests intensify, and thousands of Kashmiris publicly resign from pro-India parties. The four MUF legislators resign have resigned as well. On January 17, India dismisses Farooq Abdullah’s government and imposes central rule. A Hindu nationalist bureaucrat, Jagmohan, is installed as the governor. He claims that “Kashmir is sick, and I am its nursing orderly,” and ominously threatens Kashmiris. Jagmohan swiftly launches widespread military crackdowns on urban neighborhoods. Intense curfews are imposed. Armed groups carry out assassinations of government officials, NC activists, and intelligence agents. While many of these (~200) are Kashmiri Muslim, a significant number (~70) are Kashmiri Hindus, who have held top positions in the government and constitute three percent of the population. Thousands of Hindu families leave Kashmir on January 19 and head to Jammu in the south. (Years later, many Hindus would claim they left because they were afraid for their lives and that militant groups had threatened them, while many Kashmiri Muslims would blame Jagmohan for convincing Hindus to leave, facilitating their journey, and telling them they would be back after the winter when the rebellion was crushed in the Valley. According to Indian government sources, between 1989 and 2004, 219 Kashmiri Hindus were killed by armed militants, and one since then, while about 165,000 Hindus left Kashmir.) On January 21, an estimated 55-65 unarmed protesters are killed by Indian troops near Gawakadal in Srinagar. Later that day, Jagmohan imposes a long curfew and a military siege leading to widespread misery in the middle of an icy winter. On January 25, Indian forces kill 21 protestors in Handwara town. On March 1, Indian soldiers kill around 50 Kashmiri protestors near Tengpora in Srinagar. In early March, an estimated one million Kashmiris take to the streets for several days. Indian soldiers kill dozens. On March 30, JKLF chief commander Ashfaq Wani is killed during an attack. Considered the main architect of the armed struggle, his death is the first big blow to the movement. Tens of thousands attend his funeral. Hundreds of young Kashmiris cross the LoC and return to join the JKLF. HM also recruits several activists. While the JKLF professes to be “secular” and wants “unification and independence” of Kashmir, the HM professes to be an “Islamic” organization with the goal of Kashmir’s “merger with Pakistan.” On May 21, an estimated million people attend the funeral march of the slain chief preacher of Kashmir, Mirwaiz Maulvi Farooq. An HM activist is blamed for the assassination. Some Kashmiris claim that the HM activist had been released from prison for this purpose. Indian paramilitaries kill 60 mourners and injure 200 near Hawal in Srinagar. Thousands of armed Kashmiris return from AJK training camps and enjoy widespread public support. Indian government replaces Jagmohan with Girish Saxena as the governor. India continues to send troops into the region. There are more than 300,000 active duty Indian soldiers in Kashmir now. By summer, India imposes the Armed Forces Special Powers Act, which gives a free hand to the military. 1991 As repression continues, armed groups in Kashmir proliferate. JKLF is still the most prominent, but HM, the favorite of Pakistan, has now more trained cadres, better weapons, and has been adopted by Jamaat Islami as its armed wing. The Indian military is unable to crush the rebellion. Thousands of Kashmiris are dying in the war. On February 23, Indian soldiers enter two villages in north Kashmir, Kunan and Poshpora, and rape dozens of Kashmiri women. Indian government denies the charge. (Later, a Press Council of India committee would declare the women to be lying, but Kashmiri activists would argue the PCI committee hadn’t even met the victims.) 1992 HM starts to gain more recruits in the countryside, especially where Jamaat Islami influence is predominant. HM ranks—now in thousands—are also filled by Afghan war veterans and Pakistanis. JKLF is still influential, but its main commanders are either dead or in prison. Yasin Malik, its second chief commander, has been in prison since 1990. Tensions between JKLF and HM grow as HM seeks dominance. Master Ahsan Dar is expelled from HM by now Pakistan-based Syed Salahuddin because of Dar’s criticism of HM’s attacks on the JKLF. Dar forms a smaller group named Muslim Mujahideen. Half a million Indian forces are deployed in the Kashmir Valley during this period. Prominent Kashmiri human rights activist and trade unionist H. N. Wanchoo is shot dead. 1993 All Parties Hurriyat Conference (APHC) is formed. It is an amalgamation of dozens of Kashmiri political groups. Its express goal is Kashmir’s “right to self-determination” but keeps the question of independence or merger with Pakistan open. As armed movement continues, Indian military repression grows. In response to a JKLF attack in northern Kashmiri town of Sopore in January, Indian paramilitary Border Security Force (BSF) massacres more than 100 unarmed civilians and burns down several neighborhoods. In April, a prominent Kashmiri heart surgeon and JKLF sympathizer, Abdul Ahad Guru, is shot dead. (Later a key Indian bureaucrat in Kashmir, Wajahat Habibullah, will blame Indian security agencies to have conspired with an HM activist to kill Guru.) In October, BSF kills 55 Kashmiris who had assembled after Friday prayers in Bijbehara town in South Kashmir. Despite several accords, intergroup rivalry leads to frequent clashes between the JKLF and the HM. Better trained HM cadres kill dozens of JKLF members. 1994 On February 22, the Indian Parliament passes a resolution that claims Kashmir to be an “integral part” of India and therefore non-negotiable. More forces are sent to Kashmir to subdue the armed insurgency and to conduct elections. In May, JKLF commander Yasin Malik, on bail from prison, declares a unilateral ceasefire and claims JKLF to be an unarmed political organization that would work for independence of Kashmir. His decision causes a split in the JKLF. One JKLF faction refuses to declare a ceasefire, but its leaders are quickly decimated by Indian forces during a siege in Srinagar. In June, former MUF legislator and head preacher of South Kashmir, Qazi Nisar, is shot dead in Islamabad/Anantnag. Many blame the HM. Pan-Islamic groups like Harkat ul Mujahideen are also now present in parts of Kashmir. With JKLF no longer a competitor, HM targets members of smaller groups. Among these are groups like Muslim Mujahideen and Ikhwan ul Muslimeen, many of whom surrender to the Indian forces. Nisar’s killing has also led to disenchantment with Jamaat, who are seen as HM’s patrons. With support from Indian intelligence agencies, surrendered militants form a new group, Ikhwan ul Muslimoon, or simply “Ikhwan.” Muslim Mujahideen (MM), out of Ahsan Dar’s control, retains its name but now works for Indian forces. Ikhwanis and MM kill dozens of Jamaat Islami members in the countryside, forcing many to run away to Srinagar. An HM vs Ikhwan/MM fight ensues, leading to intense bloodshed. HM loses ground due to persistent Ikhwani/MM assaults. 1995 Foreign armed mujahideen, especially those aligned with Harkat ul Mujahideen (later Harkat ul Ansar) become a formidable force in the Kashmir war. Their goals are unclear, but their presence causes further confusion. They claim to be fighting a jihad, yet some of them seem to be collaborating with the Ikhwan/MM. On July 4, a faction of Harkat, known as Al Faran, kidnaps five western tourists in South Kashmir and after several months—as revealed later by journalists Adrian Levy and Cathy Scott in their book The Meadow—hands them over to an MM commander, who is believed to have killed them. 1996 On March 8, prominent Kashmiri human rights activist and lawyer Jalil Andrabi is abducted by an Indian military officer Avtar Gill. Andrabi’s body is later recovered from a river. In September, India holds elections in Kashmir. NC is contesting. Jamaat is boycotting. Members of Ikhwan/MM form political fronts to contest. There is hardly any participation. NC is declared a winner, and Farooq Abdullah is Chief Minister. 1997 Under intense pressure from the Ikhwanis, Jamaat Islami declares end to ties with the HM. HM launches systematic attacks on the Ikhwanis and decimates them. HM returns to dominance in the countryside, but Indian military has also regained enormous ground. 1998 On January 25, 23 Kashmiri Hindus are killed in a massacre in Wandhama village. India blames Islamist militants. In two other incidents, in Prankot and Champanari in Jammu, several Hindus are killed in April and June. Insurgency spreads to the Muslim districts of Jammu province. In the Kashmir valley, the Indian counterinsurgency war continues. Hundreds of Kashmiris are killed year after year. In May, India and Pakistan conduct nuclear tests. 1999 War between India and Pakistan breaks out in Kargil, a border district on the LoC. India blames Pakistani soldiers for infiltrating into positions on the Indian controlled side of the LoC. Hundreds of soldiers die in the battles. By July, international pressure compels Pakistan to withdraw its forces. Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif accuses General Pervez Musharraf of launching the operation without informing the government. 2000 On March 20, just before US President Bill Clinton’s visit to India, 35 Kashmiri Sikhs are killed by unidentified gunmen in the village of Chattisinghpora in South Kashmir. The government blames Islamic militants, but Kashmiris and prominent Sikh leaders (and later US officials) blame Indian government agencies for orchestrating the attack to seek US sympathy. The perception of the Indian role in the massacre becomes reinforced when a few days after the Chattisinghpora massacre, Indian forces abduct, kill, and mutilate the bodies of five local Kashmiris, claiming they are the foreign Islamist militants responsible for killing the Sikhs. A week after, at Brakpora in Islamabad/Anantnag, Indian forces kill nine protestors demanding an impartial investigation. Despite attempts to fudge the DNA by the NC-led government, subsequent tests of the exhumed corpses prove that the five dead “foreign militants” were actually local civilians. 2001 In July, Indian and Pakistani leaders meet but fail to arrive at a settlement on the Kashmir issue. However, plans for free trade, demilitarization, and shared autonomy in Kashmir are discussed. However, in September, in the wake of the 9/11 attacks in the US, Indian PM Vajpayee requests US President Bush to extend his “War on Terror” to Kashmir as well. The APHC and the JKLF denounce this as opportunistic. The US demands Pakistani support in Afghanistan and declares Pakistan to be a “major non-NATO ally.” Pakistan drastically cuts support to Kashmiri groups. After an armed attack on the Indian Parliament in December, which India blames on Pakistan-backed groups Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) operating in Kashmir, Indian police arrest five Kashmiris, even though all the attackers are dead and are claimed to be from Pakistan. India starts a year-long build-up of military forces on the border, threatening war with Pakistan. 2002 On May 21, prominent APHC leader, Abdul Ghani Lone, is assassinated by unidentified gunmen. India blames the Pakistani ISI and the hardline factions of the APHC, while many in Kashmir blame Indian agencies. In October, former Indian Home Minister of Kashmiri origin, Mufti Syed, and his newly-created Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), win elections and form a coalition government with the Indian Congress. PDP ran its campaign on the idea of establishing “self-rule” in Kashmir. NC ran on the promise of re-establishing the pre-1953 “autonomy” for Kashmir. The remnants of the Ikhwanis are absorbed into regular Indian and local police forces. 2003 The APHC splits in Kashmir. Syed Ali Geelani blames sections of the APHC for fielding proxy candidates in the local elections despite election boycott calls. In April, India launches a major operation in the Jammu province against Muslim insurgents. Dozens are killed. In May, India and Pakistan declare ceasefire along the LoC, restore diplomatic relations, and later start a “Bus service” between Lahore and Amritsar. 2004 Geelani forms Tehreek-e-Hurriyat, leaving his formal position within Jamaat Islami. In September, Indian PM Manmohan Singh and Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf meet in New York to discuss Kashmir. 2006 India and Pakistan hold peace talks. Musharraf proposes 4-Point Formula for peace. The plan includes: 1. free cross-LoC movement for Kashmiris; 2. self-governance for Kashmirs on both sides of the LoC; 3. phased withdrawal of troops; 4. a joint India-Pakistan mechanism to implement these and create a future path toward the final resolution. Geelani’s faction opposes the 4-Point Plan and come to be known as the “Hardliners.” The APHC group led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq support the plan. Based on their stance, they are known as the “Moderate APHC.” The JKLF-led by Yasin Malik demands inclusion of Kashmiris in the final settlement of Kashmir. 2007 The JKLF launches the Safar-e-Azadi mass contact program to put pressure on India and Pakistan to include Kashmiris in the talks. Geelani claims. the 4-Point Formula is an attempt to freeze the Kashmir Dispute. 2008 The Indian governor and members of the PDP-Congress government give 100 acres of land in Kashmir to the Amarnath Shrine Board, a non-Kashmiri entity, to build permanent infrastructure for Indian pilgrims. The “land deal” contravenes protection of land guaranteed under Article 370 and Article 35A, which limit ownership of land only to the permanent residents of Kashmir. The land deal also puts an ecologically fragile mountainous region under threat. Many Kashmiris see it as an attempt to change Kashmir’s demography. By June, widespread protests emerge across Kashmir. The protests are led by a Coordination Committee comprised of APHC factions, JKLF, and several civil society groups. Hundreds of thousands of Kashmiris join weekly protests. Indian reprisal is swift. More than 100 protestors are killed over the next few months and thousands are injured. The land deal is cancelled. In Jammu, angry Hindu nationalists impose an economic blockade on Kashmir for weeks, closing the only highway into Kashmir. During a procession headed toward the LOC to open the border to relieve suffering due to the Jammu blockade, Indian forces kill prominent Kashmiri leader and key APHC leader Sheikh Aziz, along with 20 others. The killings lead to an upsurge of young Kashmiris coming into the streets and confronting Indian soldiers with stones. India puts Kashmir under curfew for months. PDP-Congress coalition government falls. Meanwhile in Pakistan, the months-long “Lawyers Protest” has led President Musharraf to resign. The 4-Point Plan loses its prominent backer. Differences among APHC’s “Moderate” and “Hardline” factions remain. In November, the LeT attacks in Mumbai lead to a formal end of peace talks between India and Pakistan. LoC artillery shelling resumes, causing dozens of Kashmiri deaths on both sides. 2009 In May, the rape and murder of two Kashmiri women in Shopian leads to widespread protests across Kashmir. Independent investigations show Indian forces are involved; doctors establish rape. The Indian government claims the two drowned in a stream and closes the investigation. Widespread protests last months. The chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, and Shiekh Abdullah’s grandson, Omar Abdullah, who had previously served as a junior minister in the Hindu nationalist BJP government in Delhi, makes a U-turn from his initial support for the victims and also concludes that the two women had drowned in the shallow stream. A Kashmiri human rights group discovers 2700 unmarked mass graves across three districts of the highly-militarized North Kashmir. The graves contain some 2900 unknown bodies, many believed to be among the 8000 enforced disappearances that have taken place in Kashmir since 1989. 2010 In April, the Indian military kills three Kashmiri civilians in Machil, Kupwara, and claims them to be “foreign terrorists.” In June, eight-year old Tufail Mattoo is killed in Srinagar when Indian forces hit his head with a teargas shell. His death catalyzes intense new protests that last months. Indian forces impose a curfew and kill more than 100 young Kashmiris during “stone-pelting” protests. Though the protests are led by youth, Geelani emerges as a key leader and his faction issues “protest calendars.” Geelani demands demilitarization, release of political prisoners, and a clear path toward implementing the right to self-determination. India appoints three “interlocutors,” but Kashmiri leaders claim they have no mandate and reject them. By late fall, Geelani calls off the protests. Disappointed, dozens of Kashmiri youth disappear and join armed militant ranks of HM, which is still operating but in a much diminished state. 2013 The Indian government hangs a Kashmiri man, Afzal Guru, in prison since the 2001 attack on the Indian Parliament, on February 9. Several Indian civil society groups had claimed that the evidence of his role in the attacks was thin. Guru had claimed that he was set up by Indian agents in Kashmir. The Indian Supreme Court had infamously declared in its verdict that Guru must be hanged “to satisfy the collective conscience of the Indian society,” provoking shock and criticism across the world. Guru’s body is not returned to his family and is buried next to Maqbool Bhat’s in Delhi’s Tihar Jail. 2014 The APHC faction led by Mirwaiz Umar splits as several of its constituents claim the amalgamation to be ineffective. Several of them join Geelani’s faction, known as APHC (G). The NC, which has been in government in coalition with the Congress since 2008, loses elections. 2015 In March, the PDP forms alliance with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Hindu nationalist BJP, sending Kashmir into a shock. It is the first time that Hindu nationalists have officially come to power in Kashmir since at least 1947. A Jammu Kashmir Coalition of Civil Society report “Structures of Violence” states: “this report is a part of the continuing work to understand and analyze the role of the Indian State in Jammu and Kashmir, an occupied territory internationally recognized as a disputed territory between India and Pakistan, that has resulted in widespread and systematic violence including the disappearance of 8000+ persons, 70,000+ deaths, 6000+ unknown, unmarked and mass graves, and countless cases of torture and sexual violence.” The report also estimates the strength of Indian armed forces in Jammu and Kashmir to be between “656,638 and 750,981” personnel. 2016 On July 8, Indian forces kill Burhan Wani, the 22-year old commander of HM who has become widely popular, partly because of his social media use. Kashmir erupts into stone-pelting protests. Indian forces kill dozens and blind hundreds of young Kashmiris. Half a million people assemble in his hometown of Tral to attend his funeral procession. A months-long curfew is imposed. Wani’s death brings the “New-Age Militancy” out of the shadows. South Kashmir becomes the hot-bed of resistance. Media-savvy, charismatic, but without much training, the young New-Age Kashmiri militants become popular. Each Indian siege to kill them is met with entire villages coming out in their defense. Each killing of these young men leads to tens of thousands joining funeral processions. 2017 The Indian counterinsurgency war, known as “Operation All Out,” intensifies in South Kashmir. Hundreds are killed, mostly young Kashmiri militants and civilians. 2018 In June, the BJP exits the coalition with the PDP and the Indian governor acquires full charge. In November, the governor dissolves the Legislative Assembly. 2019 In February, a Kashmiri bomber attacks an Indian military convoy in South Kashmir, killing 40 soldiers. India launches air attacks in Pakistan. The next day, Pakistan launches air strikes in Indian-controlled Kashmir, and shoots down an Indian jet, while Indian forces mistakenly shoot down their own helicopter. Pakistan returns a captured Indian air force pilot, but tensions remain high. India bans the JKLF and the Jamaat Islami, arresting their leaders, including Yasin Malik. A massive crackdown is launched against APHC activists across Kashmir. Thousands of Kashmiri political and civil society activists are arrested in raids. In late July, tens of thousands of new Indian forces enter Kashmir. On August 5, the Indian government “reads down” Article 370 and revokes Article 35A, removing the last remnants of “autonomy” and “special status” guaranteed under the Instrument of Accession and the Delhi Agreement. The removal of 35A paves the way for Indians citizens to settle in Kashmir, a long standing demand of the RSS. The leaders of NC and PDP are put under detention. Kashmir is under complete curfew and all forms of communication are shut down. On October 31, the Indian government splits the historic State of Jammu and Kashmir into two “Union Territories” under the Jammu Kashmir Reorganization Act passed on August 9. One is the “Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir” which will have a legislative assembly with highly limited powers, and the second is the “Union Territory of Ladakh,” which will have no legislative assembly. The Indian government takes full control over determining land use and residency requirements, while its officials speak about instituting “Israeli-style settler colonies” in Kashmir. An intense crackdown and communication blockade in Kashmir ensure Kashmiris are unable to protest. Pakistan and China protest the Indian move. Diasporic Kashmiris in the West become prominent voices of resistance. 2020 The Indian government enacts a new “Domicile Law” for the Jammu and Kashmir Union Territory, allowing certain classes of Indians to become permanent residents of Kashmir. Indian officials in Kashmir start issuing certificates to Indians that would allow them to get state employment in Kashmir and make them eligible to purchase land. In June, Chinese and Indian forces clash along the border in Ladakh. 20 Indian soldiers die and the Chinese force India to withdraw several kilometers away from what India claims to be its boundary. In July, Geelani leaves his own faction of the APHC, indicating an end to a 70-year-long political career. The Indian government issues new laws to expand military bases and create hundreds of thousands of “new housing units” in the region.


--- [Understanding the Kashmir Conundrum: A HistoricalOutline [1752-2019] | Countercurrents] ---
By the collapse of Mughal rule in 1752, Kashmir came under the administration of the Afghans. Nevertheless, the Sikhs, under Maharaja Ranjit Singh, wrested Kashmir from the Afghans in 1819. In 1820, Maharaja Ranjit Singh appointed the Dogra king Gulab Singh to rule the state. In 1846, the British defeated Sikhs, and Gulab Singh, the Dogra ruler of Jammu, purchased the valley from the British in lieu of political and military favors on the battlefield. The present state was created on 16 March 1846, by a treaty between the British East India Company, acting on behalf of the British government, and Maharaja Gulab Singh in Amritsar. In 1947, the British rule in India ended with the creation of two new nations, India and Pakistan. Each of the 565 Indian states had to decide which of the two nations they would prefer to join. During that time, Maharaja Hari Singh was ruling the state of Jammu and Kashmir. He preferred to remain independent and decided not to join any of the two nations. Nevertheless, when the Kabalis from the North Waziristan encountered Kashmir, the Maharaja called the Indian government for help, which the government of India agreed “with the instrument of accession” with India, which was accepted by Lord Mountbatten, the then Governor-General of India, on 27 October 1947, without the information and the consent of the Kashmiri leadership and the people. It was the first occasion when the Indian troops marched into Kashmir and the accession of Jammu and Kashmir to India was in exchange of the receiving of the ‘Military Aid.’ Being a disputed state, the offer of a plebiscite was made by the Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru in the United Nations Security Council, on December 1947, and a council was made under the banner of the United Nations’ Commission for India and Pakistan (UNCIP). After Nehru’s offer of plebiscite on 5th January 1949, the UNCIP passed a resolution which states: “The question of accession of the state of Jammu and Kashmir to India or Pakistan will be decided through the democratic methods of free and impartial plebiscite” (UN Resolution: Document No. S/1196, Dated 10 January 1949). In the same year (1949), the Government of India promulgated the Article 370, which gave a special status to the state, and Karan Singh, the son of Hari Singh, became the ruler of Kashmir. In November 1951, Karan Singh was designated as Sader-i-Riysat, “the Governor,” instead of the President. Sheikh Abdullah, the founding leader of the Jammu & Kashmir National Conference, was made the Prime Minister of Kashmir (the only state with a separate Prime Minister). He agitated against the rule of the Maharaja Hari Singh and urged self-rule for Kashmir. On 8 August 1953, the then Sadr-i-Riyasat (Constitutional Head of State) Dr. Karan Singh, son of the erstwhile Maharajah Hari Singh, dismissed Sheikh Abdullah as Prime Minister. He was denied the opportunity to prove his majority on the floor of the house and his dissident cabinet minister Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed was appointed as Prime Minister. Sheikh Abdullah was immediately arrested and later jailed for eleven years, accused of conspiracy against the State in the infamous “Kashmir Conspiracy Case” [Kashmir Conspiracy Case was the legal case filed by the Investigations Department of the Government of India, by which Sheikh Abdullah and others were arrested and jailed. Abdullah along with Mirza Afzal Beg and 22 others, who were accused of conspiracy against the state for allegedly espousing the cause of an independent Kashmir. The case was framed in 1958, for which trial began in 1959 was withdrawn in 1964 as a diplomatic decision.] According to Sheikh Abdullah, the central government headed by Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru engineered his dismissal and arrest. On 8 April 1964, the State Government dropped all charges in the so-called “Kashmir Conspiracy Case”. Sheikh Abdullah was released and returned to Srinagar where the people of the valley accorded him an unprecedented welcome. After his release, he was reconciled with Nehru. Nehru requested Sheikh Abdullah to act as a bridge between India and Pakistan and make President Ayub agree to come to New Delhi for talks for a final solution of the Kashmir problem. President Ayub Khan also sent telegrams to Nehru and Sheikh Abdullah with the message that as Pakistan too was a party to the Kashmir dispute any resolution of the conflict without its participation would not be acceptable to Pakistan. This paved the way for Sheikh Abdullah’s visit to Pakistan to help broker a solution to the Kashmir problem. Sheikh Abdullah went to Pakistan in the spring of 1964. President Ayub Khan of Pakistan held extensive talks with him. On 27 May 1964, while he was en route to Muzaffarabad in Pakistani, the news came of the sudden death of Nehru and the Sheikh after addressing a public rally at Muzaffarabad returned to Delhi.] On his suggestion, President Ayub Khan sent a high-level Pakistani delegation led by his Foreign Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto along with him to take part in the last rites of Jawaharlal Nehru. After Nehru’s death in 1964, he was interned from 1965 to 1968 and exiled from Kashmir in 1971 for 18 months. The Plebiscite Front was also banned. This was allegedly done to prevent him and the Plebiscite Front, which was supported by him from taking part in elections in Kashmir. Bakshhi Ghulam Mohammad became the Prime Minister of the state in 1954. On March 30, 1965, Article 249 was formulated, which states that chief minister and governor respectively replace the designations like the prime minister and president of the state. Sheikh Abdullah again became the Chief Minister of the state following the 1974 Indira-Sheikh accord and remained in the top slot until his death on 8 September 1982. Since the Kashmir conflict during the Partition of India in August 1947, which resulted in the creation of India and Pakistan, there have been four wars (1947, 1965, 1971, and 1999) over the disputed issue of Kashmir. Kashmiris continued their freedom struggle since 1947. People like Maqbool Bhat (18 February 1938–11 February 1984), [the co-founder of the Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front], who openly challenged the status quo of Indian rule in Kashmir were killed or arrested. Maqbool Bhat was hanged on 11 February 1984 (much before the armed militancy in Kashmir) in Tihar Jail in New Delhi. Kashmiris have been asking for the mortal remains of Bhat, buried inside the Tihar Jail. A Kashmiri paints a graffiti that reads “Indian Army Get Out From Kashmir” on a street in the old city of Srinagar, India. Since 1989, more than 68,000 people have been killed in the uprising and the subsequent Indian military crackdown that has left ordinary Kashmiris traumatized. (AP Photo/Barbara Walton, File) Even after Bhat’s hanging, the Kashmiri leadership still agreed and decided to continue the fight for the Kashmir cause politically. In 1986, G.M. Shah’s government was dismissed after communal riots in South Kashmir, and a new National Conference–Congress government was sworn in with Farooq Abdullah [son of the NC founder Shiekh Abdullah] as the chief minister, after the Rajiv-Farooq accord. Four months after the assumption of power by Dr. Farooq Abdullah, fresh elections were held for the State Assembly on 23 March 1987, which were contested by the Congress-I and the NC, in the coalition. Before the elections, Jamaat-e-Islami joined hands to form a Muslim United Front (MUF) mainly pointing out that the NC had capitulated before the Centre for the sake of power and bartered away the special status of the State. MUF’s election manifesto stressed the need for a solution to all outstanding issues of Kashmir according to the aspirations of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. The election was held on 23 March 1987. Nearly 75 percent of the voters participated, highest recorded participation in the state. Almost 95% of the people in the Valley voted for MUF. However, the elections were completed rigged. When the counting started, NEW DELHI declared NC-NCI winner and installed Farooq Abdullah as CM, which was the murder of the people’s mandate. For instance, in the Amira Kadal constituency of Srinagar, MUF’s Syed Mohammed Yusuf Shah was a candidate. As the vote-counting began, it was becoming clear that Yusuf Shah was winning by a landslide. His opponent, Ghulam Mohiuddin Shah, went home dejected. However, he was summoned back by the electoral officials on the orders from New Delhi and declared the winner. When the people protested, the police arrived and arrested Yusuf Shah and his supporters. They were held in custody until the end of 1987. Yousf Shah (now Syed Sallhauddin) left Kashmir, joined Hizbul Mujahidin in the Pakistani part of Kashmir (also called Azad Kashmir), and subsequently became the supreme commander of the UJI (United Jihad Counsel)-an umbrella organization of 33 militant groups. All the major leadership, who later formed Hurriyet, were declared unelected. BBC reported that Khem Lata Wukhloo, who was a leader of the Congress party at the time, admitted the widespread rigging in Kashmir. He stated: “I remember that there was massive rigging in the 1987 elections. The losing candidates were declared winners. It shook the ordinary people’s faith in the elections and the democratic process”. People protested, but the state arrested many Kashmiris. This was the first time, Kashmiris lost the remaining faith in Indian Democracy and its practices. Kashmiri leadership and Kashmiri people reached to the conclusion that fighting for the right to self-determination is politically and democratically impossible as Indian will never let it happen. Subsequently, Farooq Abdullah resigned in protest after the GAWKADAL MASSACRE—on 21 January 1990, thousands of Kashmiris took to the streets in protest, demanding independence. The Indian paramilitary troops of the Central Reserve Police Force opened fire indiscriminately killing around 100 people—The massacre happened just a day after the Government of India appointed Jagmohan as the Governor for the second time in a bid to control the mass protests by Kashmiris. The state was brought under Governor’s Rule. At the same time, most of the Kashmiri Pandits living in the Kashmir Valley left in 1990 as the conflict started in the state. Some 95% of the 160,000-170,000 community left the Kashmir valley. Only few stayed back. The question of why did they leave Kashmir has conflicting answers. Many accuse then then governor Jagmohan for conspiring the migration/exodus of Kashmiri pandits. However, many believe that gunmen threatened them to leave the valley. However, many kashmiri pandits are upset with the fellow Kashmiri Muslims, accusing them for not helping/protecting them during their migration/exodus. However, the Kashmiri Muslims express helplessness and maintain that they themselves were vulnerable and held in the crossfire of the conflict, so were unable to do anything for their pandit brethren. Nevertheless, both the Kashmiri communities blame each other for not standing with each other during the times of crisis and sufferings. Around 219 Kashmiri Pundits were killed in Kashmir in 19990s, however, during the same time 8731 Kashmiri Muslims were also killed. However, they still visit each other and share the warmth, leaving apart the conflict induced grudges. They share many common foods, dress, language and jokes. There are many such massacres in which thousands of unarmed Kashmiri civilians were murdered and injured by the Indian security agencies. For instance, the ZUKOORA AND TENGPORA MASSACRE, in which 33 people were killed and 47 injured by the Indian Army soldiers on 1 March 1990. Around 1500 people were protesting seeking for the implementation of a United Nations resolution regarding a plebiscite in Kashmir. These protesters headed towards the Srinagar office of the United Nations to submit a memorandum seeking freedom from India. It led Amnesty International to issue an appeal for urgent action on Kashmir. The other massacres carried by the Indian security forces include the BIJBEHARA MASSACRE, which happened on 22 October 1993 when the 74th Battalion Border Security Force (BSF) troops arbitrarily fired on unarmed protesters (over the siege of the mosque in Hazratbal, Srinagar) killed 51 civilians and injured 200. Indian government barred independent local and international media from entering the town. On 23 October 1993, when a large number of local and foreign media people converged on the town, the army used violence and fired into the air to stop them from visiting the old side of the town, reported Kashmir Affairs. The others include SOPORE MASSACRE (6 January 1993, 55 killed, 400 shops and 57 houses burnt down by the BSF Troops), KUPWARA MASSACRE (27 January 1994, 27 civilians, mostly traders of Kupwara town, fell to bullets of Army men). The government of India rejected all the reports and requests of international media and human rights organizations and other inquiry reports. People are still waiting for justice! One more brutal massacre (WANDHAMA MASSACRE) was executed on 25 January 1998, in which 23 Kashmiri Pandits living in the village of Wandhama were killed by unidentified gunmen. According to the testimony of one of the survivors of the incident, Vinod Kuman Dhar, the gunmen came to their house dressed like Indian Army soldiers, had tea with them, waiting for a radio message indicating that all Pandit families in the village had been covered. After a brief conversation they rounded up all the members of the Hindu households and then summarily gunned them down with assault rifles. NADIMARG MASSACRE took place on 23 March 2003 in which 24 Kashmiri Pandits in the village of Nadimarg in Pulwama were killed by the unknown gunmen. During the mass uprisings in 2008, 2010 and 2016 hundreds of Kashmiri civilians were killed and thousands injured by the Indian security forces. The most prominent was the 2016 unrest in Kashmir. It started with the killing of Burhan Wani, by the Indian security forces on 8 July 2016. Burhan Wani (son of a school principal) like much Kashmiri youth picked up arms only after he and his brother were beaten and humiliated by Indian troops while they were returning on their motorcycle from a cricket ground after playing cricket. After his killing, anti-Indian protests started in all 10 districts of the Kashmir Valley. Curfew was imposed in all 10 districts of the valley on 15 July and mobile services were suspended by the government. Kashmir valley remained under 53 days of consecutive curfew which was lifted from all areas on 31 August, however, was re-imposed in some areas the next day. Jammu and Kashmir Police and Indian paramilitary forces used pellet guns, tear gas shells, rubber bullets, as well as assault rifles, resulting in the deaths of more than 120 civilians, with over 15,000 civilians injured and as the result of pellet guns, many people also were blinded. Interestingly, according to the local reports even after the restrictions and curfew, around 500000 Kashmiris participated in the funeral of Burhan Wani. On the contrary, when the ex-chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir died only 1500 people (including his relatives, policeman and people from the state administration) attended his funeral. Since the mass movement started in the disputed Kashmir, demanding for the plebiscite promised by Nehru according to the United Nations’ resolutions, more than 95000 people have been killed. India installed 700000 troops in Kashmir, with Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA), where they can kill, murder, rape anyone with impunity facing no legal sanctions. The Armed forces killed thousands in fake encounters, sometimes for promotions, sometimes for other rewards (as the CBI found in Pathribal fake encounter case, Machil fake encounter case). Although, many such fake encounters were investigated by the prominent agencies, as CBI and many people were held guilty but the controversial ‘Armed Forces Special Powers Act’ (AFSPA) saved them. For instance, On March 25, 2000, at Pathribal, in Anantnag district, five men were picked up by the officers of the Indian Army’s Rashtriya Rifles in a conspiracy to display a quick breakthrough in the Chittisingh Pora massacre of March 20, in which 36 Sikhs were gunned down by ‘unidentified’ gunmen (Chattisinghpora massacre) . The massacre took place at the time of US President Bill Clinton’s India visit. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), and DNA analyses, suggest the five men – two farmers, two goatherds and a cloth merchant – were innocent and were executed by the Army, their bodies mauled and in one case decapitated, and then burned to eliminate all vestiges of their identity. However, the Army held eight of its men responsible for the 2010 Machil fake encounter. The Times of India on 14th November 2014 reported, “the Army has held accountable two officers and three soldiers for gunning down three unemployed Kashmiri youths and then trying to pass them off as “Pakistani militants” in a stage-managed encounter in Machil sector along the Line of Control in April 2010.” There are many such incidents, some consolidated by the mass graves found in many places of Kashmir. Such incidents have played a crucial role in widening the gap between the Kashmir and New Delhi and have changed Kashmiris’ perception of the ‘Indian democracy’. People waited for justice; the guilty were saved; the wave of injustice has been treated as a routine affair by the Centre. Army involved in the enforced disappearances killed thousands, buried them in mass graves, after killing them in fake encounters or in interrogation centers. The Army raped hundreds of women (e.g., Kunan Poshpora mass Rape). The Kunan Poshspora incident occurred on February 23, 1991, when unit(s) of the Indian army launched a search and interrogation operation in the twin villages of Kunan and Poshpora, located in Kashmir’s remote Kupwara District. The separate teams of army men had entered several houses in the villages, removed men of all ages into makeshift interrogation centers and tortured them and almost 100 women (aged 8-70) were gang-raped by soldiers that night. There are thousands of half-widows (whose husbands were taken by the Army but never returned). India orphaned and physically disabled thousands of people in Kashmir. Thousands of Kashmir young boys and girls were blinded by the troops by firing pellets. Many human rights organizations argue that India is forcefully and against the will of people, occupying Kashmiris with the might of 70000-armed troops (the world’s most militarized zone). India and its media still call it ‘terrorism’ blaming Pakistan for even a protest in Kashmir so that the international community would not raise their voice in favor of Kashmiris. Most of the Indian people are unaware about the Kashmir issue; they only know the what the hyper-jingoistic Indian media feeds them, which most of the time, is full of lies, fake, and propaganda against Kashmiris. Recently, on August 2nd 2019, addition fifty thousand troops were called and stationed in the valley. The annual Amarnath Yatra was suspended 12 days before the scheduled date. Government ordered said that all non-Kashmiris and foreigners should immediately leave Kashmir. Suddenly, on the midnight of August 4th curfew was imposed across the valley and all roads were blocked. There was Huge presence of Forces on every nook and corner of the Kashmir valley. All channels of communication including landlines, mobile phones, Internet services and cable TV network were suspended in the midnight. On 5th August, 2019, the government of India announced the scrapping/abrogating of the Article 370 and 35-A, that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir, which was key to its accession to India in 1947. The Home Minister of India also introduced a separate bill to bifurcate the state into two union territories, Jammu and Kashmir with an assembly – like Delhi — and Ladakh without an assembly. With this announcement, thousands of Kashmiris including the pro-India politicians, their party workers, children, elderly, were arrested and many shifted to the jails outside Jammu and Kashmir. On Srinagar 16th September, 2019, former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir and a sitting Lok Sabha member (MP) Farooq Abdullah was detained under the Public Safety Act (PSA). The PSA allows detention of any individual for up to two years without a trial. Ironically, the law was first promulgated during Sheikh Abdullah’s tenure, father of Farooq Abdullah. Although, Amnesty International has called the PSA a “lawless law,” and rights groups say India has used the law to stifle dissent and circumvent the criminal justice system, undermining accountability, transparency, and respect for human rights. Based on the propaganda feed by the local TV channels, and below standard newspapers (specifically Hindi media), substandard, propaganda media channels and their jingoistic sycophant hyper-patriotic fedayeen anchors and many ill-informed (about the ground realities of Kashmir) Indian panelists, while debating the crisis in KASHMIR can’t even pronounce the word KASHMIR properly. These thuggish channels and their Nano-chip journalists (who at the time of demonetization claimed and befooled 125 crore Indians that the new currency notes issued by the government post-demonetization have GPS nanochips installed in them). It was a propaganda, none of those Nano-chip journalists have apologized to Indians nor have people challenged them and send them behind the bars for spreading propaganda. Because of this constant and regular embedded media propaganda some Indians not only justify the atrocities, murders, killings and raping of Kashmiri women but also advocate for the mass killings of Kashmiris and consider it part of being loyal to mother India and treat themselves as true nationalists. Many Indians do not advocate verbally for carpet bombings of Kashmiris and raping Kashmiri women, but by their ‘silence’ they give consent to the state and are equally complicit in all atrocities done to Kashmiris. However, there are many more Indians who know either by visiting Kashmiri or by reading about the first-hand narratives from Kashmir do protest against the atrocities on common Kashmiris and they do not support the state when it indulges in human rights violations, civilian killings and rapes. Most of the people who have never visited Kashmir even once, know absolutely nothing about the geography and historical narratives of Kashmir, haven’t read a single book about Kashmir, unfortunately, act and pretend to be the ‘extra-wise’ Kashmir experts’. Many such keyboard warriors, ignorant anchors while sitting in air-conditioned office rooms and coffee shops, not only indulge in silly commentary, but also shoot uninvited suggestions, pass immature judgments and imaginary solutions from their comfort zones. However, the people of Kashmir are unable to forget the atrocities done to them by the Indian state and are firm to fight until they get their right to self-determination. Dr. M Ashraf Bhat has pursued his Post-doctorate from the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi and doctorate (PhD) from the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur. His recent book “The Changing Language Roles and Linguistic Identities of the Kashmiri Speech Community” has been published by the Cambridge Scholars Publishing, Lady Stephenson Library, Newcastle, U.K, and is catalogued in the British Library UK, the Penn Library of the University of Pennsylvania, the library of the University of Heidelberg, Germany, the prestigious Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). The author can be reached at [email protected] SIGN UP FOR COUNTERCURRENTS DAILY NEWS LETTER


--- [[PDF] Jammu and Kashmir Dispute - Ministry of Foreign Affairs] ---
11 captures 01 Jan 2024 - 07 Jan 2026 Dec JAN Feb 07 2025 2026 2027 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now Outlinks TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20260107183731/https://mofa.gov.pk/storage/files/1/65451083a984b.pdf


--- [Resolution passed by Jammu and Kashmir Plebiscite Front in March ...] ---
Resolution passed by Jammu and Kashmir Plebiscite Front in March 1970 Adopted by the Central Working Committee of the Jammu & Kashmir Plebiscite Front (for Azad Kashmir & Pakistan) held at Rawalpindi on 22nd and 23rd March 1979. "We are all seized of the harrowing fact that the Kashmir issue, to our utter dismay, is hanging fire for over two decades and consequently our fate is hanging in the balance. "That the nerve-racking suspense and ominous uncertainty about tomorrow, as a consequence of the present stalemate is wholly responsible for continued political unrest, economic debacle and social disorder in the State. "That the victimization of the patriots resulting from our political struggle and the communal frenzy fanned by vested political interests has since taken a very heavy toll of life-a few hundred thousand lives-not to speak of the exodus of the hundreds of terror-stricken people from one side of the cease fire line to the other or from their homeland to India and Pakistan; and "That these pathetic and agonizing conditions have completely shattered the economy of our land bringing in its wale calamities of starvation, distress and disease. "Worst of all the two great Asian powers-India & Pakistan, whose borders are contiguous to the State, are pitched against each other, both politically and militarily, thus wasting their enormous material resources and energies on the army build-up and the maintenance of large armies owing to this unresolved dispute. "Worse still, the Indian and Pak armies which have gone through the havoc of two devastating wars, in spite of them multifarious internal problems are still confronted, against each other posing an imminent danger to peace in the sub-continent, serious repercussions, which on a global scale are inevitable. "It is therefore, high time that lovers of world peace should feel concerned over this explosive and dangerous situation in the sub-continent; believers in human dignity should feel deeply perturbed over the untold sufferings of the subjugated, victimised and oppressed people of the State and the advocates and protagonists of the freedom of subjugated small nations of the world should come forward to uphold and openly support our right of self-determination. "Under the prevailing circumstances, we are full of admiration for the laudatory efforts of Steering Committee of the STATE PEOPLE'S CONVENTION to evolve a formula for a peaceful, democratic, just and realistic solution, for the State's political future, keeping in view the interests of all regions, ethnical, cultural, linguistic and other problems and also the tact that such a solution should foster communal and religious harmony, not only within the State of Jammu and Kashmir but also in the whole sub-continent and should be in conformity with the past traditions and abiding values of our freedom struggle. Fundamentals "Let us first of all analyse our problem and try to agree on the fundamentals. Under the Indian Independence Act of 1947, British India was divided into two independent Sovereign States, namely India and Pakistan. By the same Act the princely States which did not constitutionally form part of British India and were not ruled by the Government of India but enjoyed full autonomy within the British Empire directly, were freed from British Paramountcy and restored their full rights of Sovereignty. Each State in its inherent sovereign right. was, however, given the option to accede to one or the other of the two dominions in keeping with its own interests and according to its own choice. The Act neither compelled any State to choose "accession" in preference to "independence", nor did it provide for the division of any State. "In our particular case foreign forces marched into the Jammu and Kashmir State, unfortunately, before the people could decide and declare their future freely. A dispute ensued between India and Pakistan over the issue with the result that United Nations Security Council had to intervene. Both India and Pakistan affirmed before the Security Council that the people of the State alone had the right to decide their future. The result of the debates and deliberations held at the World Forum was the Security Council Resolution by which it was unanimously agreed that all the foreign forces and other foreign elements shall be withdrawn from the State, and the people of the State shall be given an opportunity to exercise their right of self-determination" to decide the future of the State through. a free and unfettered plebiscite, to be held under the auspices of the U.N.O. Besides recognising our right of self-determination, the U.N.O. has also committed itself to the restoration of the integrity of the Jammu and Kashmir State as it stood immediately before the outbreak of the 1947-48 War. "Apart from these international agreements, solemn pledges and U.N.O's assurances, it is an undeniable and universally known fact that the two great leaders of the sub-continent namely, Quaid-e-Azam Mohammed Ali Jinnah and Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru not only passionately endorsed are recognised, but also vehemently advocated these rights of the people of Jammu and Kashmir State during their life time before as well as after the partition. Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru's support to the revolutionary movement of 1946, which was aimed at liquidating the hereditary despotic rule of the Maharaja and restoring sovereignty to the people, is too well known to need any comment. Later, in his capacity as Prime Minister of India, Pandit Nehru, always advocated and supported the right of self-determination and sovereignty of the subjugated people all over the world, though at a later stage he refused to concede this very basic human right to the people of Jammu and Kashmir State owing to his difference with Pakistan. However, more recently, during his talks with Sher-e-Kashmir Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah in 1964, it is felt that late Pandit Nehru was desirous of settling the Kashmir dispute to the satisfaction of the State people. Similarly, when the question of the future of the States came up for discussion before Quaid-e-Azam soot after the partition, he said, "I hate to be a Maharaja with flattery around stopping you from taking decisions on merits. When we say the people are sovereign, let there be no doubt about it. They are sovereign." (Reported by Justice M.B. Ahmed in Quaid-e-Azam's Anniversary Supplement of Pakistan Times dated 11-9-1969). "The historical facts related above are merely meant to refresh the memory of our compatriots, the rulers and leaders of India and Pakistan and others concerned, otherwise, no arguments were needed to prove the fundamental truth that self-determination is our birthright by virtue of the fact that we belong to the soil of Jammu and Kashmir State and our ancestors have lived here for centuries continuously. That certain World Statesmen and the U.N.O. have also admitted it, is a further confirmation of our basic stand. In fact our freedom movement, right from 1931 to this day which has been carried on an all-State basis long before India and Pakistan came into being, has throughout been aimed at achieving recognition for the exercise of this very right of self determination and sovereignty of the people. The whole State of Jammu and Kashmir has always been not only the field of our political activity but also the subject of our political demands. Our people have suffered untold miseries and made immense sacrifices to achieve these high objectives. Surely, to patriot can ever afford to ignore these sacrifices or lose right of our goal at any cost and under any circumstances. "The logical conclusion we arrive at in the light of the history of our freedom movement is that there are two fundamentals on which we have always relied and on which we should continue to rely and stand firmly until the last. These are: 1. The right of self-determination which implies the right of sovereignty of the people; 2. The inviolability of the integrity of the state. "We cannot, therefore, accept a position which militates against our stand for unqualified and unrestricted right of self determination, or which jeopardises the integrity of our country. "Judged by these standards, the proposals tabulated in the Steering Committee Report (Document B) are commented upon briefly as follows: 1. "Accession to India" or "The present relationship with India to continue forever." "To acquiesce in the super-imposed accession of the State to India or to continue the present relationship of the State with India for ever is tantamount to an abject surrender of our universally accepted right of self-determination and to the division of the State, which no patriot will tolerate in any case, notwithstanding guarantees and assurances for a special status as stipulated under Article 370 of the Indian Constitution or restoration of full autonomy as in 1947 and so on. "Similarly, the continuance of the present position of Azad Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan Frontier Areas as Pakistan controlled territory even though it may be made internally autonomous, will be obviously inconsistent with the aforesaid principles. 2. "Interim arrangements with final solution after specified period" and "some other methods for solving the problem", such as: (a) U.N. control for a specified period; (b) Joint responsibility for India and Pakistan in respect of such subjects as Defence, Elections, Judiciary, Public Service, Economic Development, Audit, and Currency; (c) Full autonomy within existing constitutional framework; (d) Status-quo to be maintained for 5 years; (e) Regional autonomy before attempting to decide the question of overall status; (f) Independence of the whole State with joint control (of India and Pakistan) of foreign affairs and defence; (g) Dickson Plan with independence for the plebiscite area; (h) Zonal plebiscite. "All these proposals amount to the imposition of a decision on the people arbitrarily from outside in utter disregard of their right of sovereignty. Some of these proposals also imply division of the State which again violates the integrity of the state. "Control of U.N.O. or any foreign power or powers or the joint control of India and Pakistan is apt to create more. complications and problems than it may solve. Moreover, it is fraught with the danger of weakening our will and integrity. "Again, Joint Defence or joint Control of India and Pakistan is, firstly, impossible until these powers sincerely resolve to bury their hatchet, come close to each other and decide to live like good neighbours, which, however, as it seems, they are least likely to do in the near future. In fact, it will be like putting the cart before the horse to expect India and Pakistan to co-operate with each other as friends unless and until they are able to solve the Kashmir dispute. Secondly, such joint control, etc, will be diarchy of the worst type and a double embargo on our sovereignty and self-determination. Plebiscite on the Question of Accession alone "The plebiscite restricted to the question of accession alone amounts to depriving the people of their free choice and is against the very spirit of the term "Right of Self-determination" which implies "a nation's right to determine its own polity". The restricted plebiscite therefore implies that those who do not believe in accession must be deprived of their right of self determination outright, quite unjustly and arbitrarily. Secondly, accession under such circumstances will again mean submission to coercion. Accession to India or Pakistan before we are free, competent and strong enough to settle honourable terms with either is likely to prove disastrous for us, because in that case we are bound to be treated as a subject race. Our Proposals "The Jammu and Kashmir Plebiscite Front (for Azad Kashmir and Pakistan) representing the people of Azad Kashmir, Gilgit and Baltistan, Jammu and Kashmir Nationals living in Pakistan, the old guards of the freedom movement on this side of the cease-fire line and the youth engaged in the freedom struggle including those of its members from whom proposals have been invited by the Steering Committee of the State People's Convention, Srinagar, having carefully gone over all pros and cons and having deliberated over the matter in the Front's Working Committee proposes as follows: "1. "All armed forces and armed Police belonging to India and Pakistan or under the control and command of their civil and military authorities must withdraw from the State. "2. The State Army duly reorganised and adequately equipped should replace the external armies. Similarly, external Police force stationed in the State must be replaced, by the Jammu and Kashmir State Police which should also be reorganised according to the new requirements. "3. The "Srinagar-Muzaffarabad, Jammu-Bhimber" and "Bandipur-Gilgit" roads must be thrown open to normal traffic and the unwarranted, unjustified and oppressive restriction on the movement of State nationals from one side of the cease-fire line to the other, within. their homeland, should go. Further, the Jhelum Valley road connecting Srinagar with Rawalpindi and the Banihal Cart road connecting Srinagar and Jammu with Sialkot should also be reopened to normal traffic. "4. The two parts of the State which have been created by an artificial and arbitrary cease-fire line should be reunited. "5. The people who have migrated from one part of the State to the other during the last 22 years may be repatriated or allowed to stay where they are already settled, just as they may like. As regards the State nationals who have taken refuge in India and Pakistan, they shall have to be repatriated to their homeland before plebiscite is held. "6. Free elections should be held to the State legislature and a representative national government formed after the integrity of the State is restored, all external forces are with-drawn and outside interference and pressure is vacated. "The State Legislature may also function as the Constituent Assembly and frame a new Constitution of the State. "7. Elections to an all-State legislature and the election of a Representative National Government for the whole State should be held under the supervision of a neutral administration. Similarly, other steps considered as prerequisite to the plebiscite may also be taken through the agency or under the supervision of the neutral administration. "8. (a) Plebiscite should be held on the question of: (1) Accession to India (2) Accession to Pakistan (3) Independence of the State after a reasonable period, say 5 years during which the elected National Government may be able to repatriate and rehabilitate the refugees and displaced persons, restore normalcy, reorganise the armed forces and take other necessary measures to set the stage; (b) The plebiscite should be held for the entire State; (c) It should be held under the supervision of a neutral administrator who may be assisted by some of the MLAs representing the major political parties of the State and the State Government Officials (including Police) whom the neutral administrator may select. in consultation with the State Government; (d) The neutral administrator should be selected by the U.N.O, in consultation with India, Pakistan and the State peoples' representatives. "9. In case it is not found possible to reorganise the State. army to maintain security, law and order within a reasonably short period (say 6 months) the elected. State Government may either directly or through any. member country of the U.N.O. apply for the deployment of U.N. forces selected from small neutral countries to do the job for some time. "10. As regards financing the plebiscite arrangements, it should be the responsibility of the State Government. But in case it is unable to take the liability it should request the U.N.O. to come to its aid. "11. Before plebiscite actually takes place the terms of accession shall have to be settled by the elected representatives of the Constituent Assembly/Legislature of the Jammu and Kashmir State on the one hand and India and Pakistan on the other. "12. In case the verdict of the people through plebiscite goes in favour of independence: (a) Independent Kashmir shall comprise of all parts and areas as it existed before October 1947; (b) A Federal Independent Republican Government shall be formed with FIVE autonomous Units namely: I. Jammu Erst, comprising of: (i) Jammu (ii) Kathua District including Ramnagar Jagir, (iii) Udhampur District including Chaneni Jagir, and (iv) Lower Reasi. II. Jammu West, comprising of: (i) Upper Reasi viz. Gulabgarh sub-division, (ii) Rajouri, (iii) Mirpur District including Nowshera sub-division, (iv) Poonch District including Poonch City, Rawlakot and III. Kashmir, comprising of: (i) Islamabad, (ii) Baramulla, and (iii) Muzaffarabad. IV. Baltistan, comprising of: (i) Kargil, (ii) Skardu, (iii) Gilgit (iv) Astore, and (v) Hunza, Nagar, Ashkoman, Darel, Tangir Yasin, etc. V. Ladakh Note: (1) If JAMMU EAST, at some later stage feels disposed towards merging with JAMMU WEST, it could take such decision, keeping with the wishes and free-will its population, without any pressure from outside. (2) Minor adjustments the composition of UNITS could also be made keeping view the ethical, linguistic, cultural, economic and other interests of the component parts of each Unit. (c) None of the Units shall have the right of secession from the country. (d) The Units shall be given maximum powers to exercise their autonomy in all important fields to safeguard their ethical cultural, linguistic and other genuine interests in full conformity with the overall integrity of the State. How to Achieve our Objectives "The present position is that the State is divided into two parts both of which are under the occupation of external forces and overall control of external governments, hostile to each other. There is of course a difference between the attitudes of these controlling governments which is that while India claims the State to be its integral part, Pakistan's stand is that the State is a disputed territory whose future is yet to be decided to the satisfaction of its inhabitants. At any rate, both the Governments have started to treat the case as a territorial dispute between themselves and assumed the role of masters (not custodians) of the areas under their respective control. This attitude on their part is also responsible for creating the wrong impression in the world outside that the case of Kashmir is primarily a "territorial dispute" between India and Pakistan and not a "question of the freedom of over five million human beings''. In such circumstances it will not be possible to implement the above proposals. We shall, therefore, have to strive very hard to make India and Pakistan relax their attitude and agree to our proposals which are aimed at a peaceful, just and honourable settlement of the issue. "In order to bring round India and Pakistan, we suggest as follows: (a) Jammu and Kashmir State Peoples Convention as also such political parties and patriots who are not participating in the Convention should press the above demands on the Governments of India and Pakistan with all the force at their command, (b) They should project our case before the outside world as well as the U.N.O., both 'directly' through personal contacts and indirectly through Press, Literature and other helpful Institutions and personalities. (c) Accredited representatives of the people should go about canvassing the rulers, leaders and the people of India and Pakistan. It will be in the fitness of things if a number of such representatives were selected at the next session of the Srinagar Convention. An Ideal Alternative "Under the prevailing circumstances when the continued tension and stained relations between India and Pakistan (which is mainly due to their quarrel over Kashmir) besides crippling their own economies, has virtually put the State people in a quandary and they are made to groan under agonising uncertainty and misery which are the direct result of the stalemate in the case, the selfish powers are inhumanly turning a human problem into an Indo-Pak territorial dispute to aggravate thereby the worry and anxiety of a subjugated people and some short-sighted and unpatriotic elements are raising communal slogans thereby the flame of communal frenzy, creating mistrust and inviting schism and division in the body politic while the patriots are being ground between two millstones. "The only ideal alternative. the line of least resistance is to declare Jammu and Kashmir as an independent State with a natural character, "The emergence of a "unified, neutralised, free Kashmir" would serve as a bridge between India and Pakistan and a friendly link between all Asiatic neighbours. "Independent Jammu and Kashmir State shall guarantee maximum autonomy to its federating units with complete safeguards to ethical, cultural and linguistic interests on Swiss Pattern at District level with minor adjustments wherever necessary. The pattern of Government of the independent State of Jammu and Kashmir shall be such as each Unit however shall in area or population, may have an opportunity to come up to the top authority. Our Resolve "As already explained at some length we the people of Jammu and Kashmir State have been engaged in a continuous struggle for freedom for nearly four decades. We have been aspiring for freedom to exercise the right of self-determination and sovereignty and to promote the prosperity, welfare and happiness of all our countrymen. We believe that these aspirations of our people will be satisfied only in case we are free to decide our political future without let or hindrance, fear or favour, distinctions of castes, creed, colour or clan and above all without and outside pressure. In fine let all of us be quite clear about one thing, that any kind of settlement of the Kashmir dispute which does not fulfil our national aspirations will not be acceptable to us in any case. If, unfortunately, India and Pakistan are not prevailed upon to allow us this opportunity, we must have the will either to live honourably or die honourably, but never be content with a slavish life. We shall have to utilise all our resources and employ all possible means to achieve our cherished sacred goal. In order to forge a United National Front for the most uphill task which lies ahead of us we must first create mutual understanding and inspire confidence among the various sections of our people and shades of opinion among them. The Steering Committee of the State Peoples' Convention has already taken steps in this direction by coming out with broad outlines of the future constitution of the State. A careful study of the proposed constitutional set-up reveals that authors of the "document C" and the delegates to the last year's Convention who passed the political resolution were guided by the desire to entrust a good measure of authority and autonomy in the future democratic Government of the State to every Section of the people in order to inspire confidence in them thus paving way for their unstinted support to the freedom movement. We are not only in agreement with them but also wish still further decentralisation of the Central Authority and delegation of still greater autonomy to every Unit, no matter-how small it may be in respect of size, population and resources, provided it has the necessary qualifications of forming a unit of the State".
