=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Salvador Dali Biography - Early Life, Education, Family and Death - Vedantu]
Dali's mother Felipa Domènech Ferrés died at an early age, he was only 16 years old when his mother died of uterine cancer on 6 February 1921. The death of his mother left young Dali in emotional turmoil.
URL: https://www.vedantu.com/biography/salvador-dali

[The Works of Salvador Dalí - acadweb.hvcc.edu]
On February 6, 1921, Dalí's mother died of uterine cancer. Dalí was 16 years old and later said his mother's death "was the greatest blow I had experienced in my life.
URL: https://acadweb.hvcc.edu/~J-newhouse/webart/newhouse_photodoc/02.html

[Mother's Death - Salvador Dali - Historydraft]
On 6 February 1921, Dalí's mother died of uterus cancer.
URL: https://historydraft.com/story/salvador-dali/mother-s-death/220/259

[Salvador Dali Biography]
Salvador Dali was born on May 11, 1904, at 8:45 a.m. GMT in the town of Figueres, in the Emporda region, close to the French border in Catalonia, Spain. Dali's older brother, also named Salvador (born October 12, 1901), had died of gastroenteritis nine months earlier, on August 1, 1903.
URL: https://www.dalipaintings.com/biography.jsp

[Salvador Dalí]
On 6 February 1921, Dalí's mother died of uterine cancer. Dalí was 16 years old and later said his mother's death "was the greatest blow I had experienced in ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salvador_Dal%C3%AD


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Salvador Dali Biography - Early Life, Education, Family and Death - Vedantu] ---
Who Is Salvador Dali? Salvador Dali is a Spanish artist. He is best known as the surrealist icon, the artist who painted one of the most prominent pictures in the history of Europe called The Persistence of Memory. Before understanding the life and the legacy of the artist it is important to know about Surrealism, it was a movement after world war one in Europe which primarily focused on the creation of visual artworks and writings and the juxtaposition of distant realities to activate the unconscious mind through the imagery. The most famous work of Salvador, The Persistence of Memory is the painting of the molten clocks in a landscape setting. Apart from being known as the icon of surrealism paintings his artistic repertoire also includes works in the field of graphic arts, film, sculpture, design and photography. According to Salvador Dali biography, he was also an author, he primarily worked on fiction, poetry, autobiography, essays and criticism. (Image will be uploaded soon) An image of Salvador Dali Early Life and Family of Salvador Dali He was born on 11 May 1904, in Spain in a small village near the Empordà region, which is close to the French border in Catalonia. He was given the name of Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí I Domènech at his birth, which was shortened to Salvador Dali as he gained fame. His parents were, Salvador Rafael Aniceto Dalí Cusí and Felipa Domènech Ferrés. His father, Salvador Rafael Aniceto Dalí Cusí worked as a lawyer, he was also a notary of his town. He was a firm atheist and was a Catalan federalist. He was very strict with his anti-clerical atheist ideologies, he was also a firm supporter of federalism, his mother on the other hand, always supported her son’s artistic endeavours. It is mentioned in Salvador Dali biography books that he and his father had a strained relationship because of the differences in ideologies and principles, Dali also was noticed having an angry outlook towards his father and other schoolmates. Dali had a nine moth older brother, who was also named Salvador, he died when he was only a few months old. He suffered from gastroenteritis which led to his demise. It is often mentioned in the biographies of the artist that he was considered as a reincarnation of his dead brother. This sentiment was often reflected in his works of metaphysical prose where he mentions his brother as “the first version of myself but conceived too much in the absolute." Most of Salvador’s childhood was spent with his sister. They spent most of their time in the coastal village of Cadaques, his younger sister was named Ana Maria. It was here in the summer house that he primarily focused on his art and paintings, his work and interest were always supported by his parents. Despite having a strained relationship and ideological differences, his father always supported his devotion to the arts. It is also known that he made him a ert studio in the house at Cadaques, before his enrolment in the study of fine arts. Dali’s mother Felipa Domènech Ferrés died at an early age, he was only 16 years old when his mother died of uterine cancer on 6 February 1921. The death of his mother left young Dali in emotional turmoil. He later described the tragic incident as the hardest part of his life. Following the death of his mother his father, Salvador Rafael Aniceto Dalí Cusí married his aunt (his mother’s sister). Dali had great respect and love for his aunt. While growing up Dali had two close friends who remained his good friends throughout the years. They were Sagibarba and Josep Samitier, who grew up to be star footballers of Barcelona. During his childhood, the trio used to play football together during his stay at the summer house of Cadaques. Early Education As mentioned in the Salvador Dali short biography books he was a talented student of arts and music from early childhood. His mother particularly encouraged his artistic studies. His early education of painting took place in the Colegio de Hermanos Maristas and the Instituto in Figueres, which he attended in 1916. His interest in painting was created and heavily influenced by a prominent local painter named Ramon Pichot, he painted particularly in the impressionist style. Dali learnt the art of charcoal painting, his first exhibition was organised by his father in the year 1918. His exhibition was organised in the Municipal Theatre in Figueres. By the starting of 1919 Dali had earned his reputation as an eminent painter. He was introduced to futurism by his uncle Anselm Domènech, and Ramon Pichot. Life At Art School Following his passion, Dali was enrolled on the Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando presently known as the Academia de San Fernando. The school is located in Madrid. Upon enrollment, in the school, he moved to Madrid and lived in Residencia de Estudiantes. He was described as a student with great potential but he gained attention and was often demeaned for his eccentric ways. Although he performed averagely at the school he is one of the most prominent alumni. During his term in art school, he was influenced by several different artistic styles, including Metaphysics and Cubism. Some of the artists that influenced the style as mentioned in Salvador Dali biography books are classical painters like Raphael, Bronzino and Diego Velázquez. One of the interesting aspects of Dali’s life was the influence of avant-garde art movements such as Dada, which was a post-World War I anti-establishment movement. Although the artist was strictly apolitical during his time at the school and remained so during his life the influence of Dada can be easily seen in the various artistic works. Although Salvador Dali was a great artist he never found himself comfortable in the environment of the school, his views and painting style varied greatly from his mates and contemporaries. His interest in Cubism was one of the major distinguishing factors among his peers. As mentioned in Salvador Dali short biography, he was temporarily expelled from the school for criticizing his teachers and allegedly starting a riot among students over the academy's choice of a professorship in 1923. He was then permanently expelled from the school in 1926 for criticizing his teacher. Surrealism And Salvador Dali’s Work The artist is eminently known for his surrealistic style of painting. He was one of the most prominent figures of the Surrealism movement. His journey to the discovery of this art form began in the year of 1926, after his expulsion from the art school. From 1926 to 1929, he made his name in the world of art, during this time primarily travelled to Paris, where he met painters and intellectuals like Picasso, whom he revered. He also made acquaintance with Joan Miró, the Spanish painter and sculptor who, along with poet Paul Éluard and painter Magritte introduced Dali to Surrealism. During this time his works mainly had a constant theme of man's universe and sensations, sexual symbolism and ideographic imagery. It was these experimental works that ultimately led him to surrealism. In 1929 he painted oil paintings that were small collages of his dream images. This was considered his first surrealist work. His painting was influenced by the meticulous classical technique, influenced by Renaissance artists. According to the Salvador Dali brief biography, his major contribution included the "paranoiac-critical method," a mental exercise of accessing the subconscious to enhance artistic creativity. He expanded his work in surrealism in 1929 by exploring the art of filmmaking, he collaborated with a filmmaker called Luis Buñuel on two films, Un Chien Andalou (An Andalusian Dog) and L'Age d’Or (The Golden Age) which was released in 1930. His paintings were also used in films like Alfred Hitchcock's Spellbound, to shoot a dream sequence. His most prominent work called The Persistence of Memory was published in 1931. This led him to global recognition, but this time he had made his name as an eminent painter and artist. The painting is also referred to as the Soft Watches, the painting is believed to convey the theme that time is not rigid and everything is destructible. As war approached Europe, Dali had clashing views with his contemporaries, he was eventually cast out of the movement in 1934, despite the fact he continued attending and presenting his work in various surrealistic exhibitions. At the opening of the London Surrealist exhibition in 1936, he delivered a lecture titled "Fantomes paranoiaques athentiques." he continued to be known as the Surrealistic painter throughout his life. Salvador Dalí’s Personal Life Salvador Dali was married to Elena Dmitrievna Diakonova, who was also known as Gala Dali. according to the Gala Dali biography book, she met Salvador in 1929. The couple got married in 1934 in Spain. Gala Dali was considered a muse and inspiration for the painter. She managed the finances of Salvador and negotiated contracts with dealers and exhibition promoters. The couple moved to The United States during world war II, where he continued his work. The Metropolitan Museum of Modern Art in New York gave him his retrospective exhibit in 1941. He also published his autobiography called The Secret Life of Salvador Dalí published in 1942. The couple moved back to Spain in 1948 at the end of the second world war. Death Salvador died on January 23, 1989, at the age of 84. He suffered from cardiac failure which caused his death. He also suffered from a motor disorder from 1980, that caused permanent trembling and weakness in his hands, which caused him to retire from his work. His funeral was held at the Teatro-Museo, where he was buried in a crypt. Salvador Dali was one of the most iconic artists in history, he is known for his technical skill, precise draftsmanship, and the striking and bizarre images in his work, which is the jest of surrealism. Most of his work is exhibited in The Dalí Theatre-Museum. FAQs on Salvador Dali Biography 1: What is the full name of Salvador Dali? Answer: Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech is the full name of the surrealistic painter. 2: What is the name of Dali’s autobiographical book? Answer: The name of his autobiography is The Secret Life of Salvador Dalí which was published in 1942. 3: Name the most famous painting of Dali? Answer: His most prominent work is called The Persistence of Memory, which was published in 1931. The premise of the painting was the fluidity of time and the destructible nature of materialistic commodities. 4: Name Salvador Dali biography movie? Answer: The name of the biographical movie is Salvador Dalí: In Search of Immortality, which was directed by Directed by David Pujol and was released in 2018.


--- [The Works of Salvador Dalí - acadweb.hvcc.edu] ---
Dalí's Formative Years On February 6, 1921, Dalí's mother died of uterine cancer. Dalí was 16 years old and later said his mother's death "was the greatest blow I had experienced in my life. I worshipped her... I could not resign myself to the loss of a being on whom I counted to make invisible the unavoidable blemishes of my soul." After his wife's death, Dalí's father married her sister. Dalí did not resent this marriage, because he had great love and respect for his aunt. Early on, Dalí's paintings in which he experimented with Cubism earned him the most attention from his fellow students since there were no Cubist artists in Madrid at the time. Cabaret Scene, (1922) is a typical example of such work. Through his association with members of the Ultra group, Dalí became more acquainted with avant-garde movements, including Dada and Futurism. One of his earliest works to show a strong Futurist and Cubist influence was the watercolor Night-Walking Dreams, (1922). At this time, Dalí also read Freud and Lautréamont who were to have a profound influence on his work. In April 1926 Dalí made his first trip to Paris where he met Pablo Picasso, whom he revered. Picasso had already heard favorable reports about Dalí from Joan Miró, a fellow Catalan who later introduced him to many Surrealist friends. As he developed his own style over the next few years, Dalí made a number of works strongly influenced by Picasso and Miró. Dalí was also influenced by the work of Yves Tanguy, and he later allegedly told Tanguy's niece, "I pinched everything from your uncle Yves." From 1927 Dalí's work became increasingly influenced by Surrealism. Two of these works, Honey is Sweeter than Blood, (1927), and Gadget and Hand, (1927) were shown at the annual Autumn Salon (Saló de tardor) in Barcelona in October 1927. Dalí described the earlier of these works, Honey is Sweeter than Blood, as "equidistant between Cubism and Surrealism". The works featured a number of elements that were to become characteristic of his Surrealist period including dreamlike images, precise draftsmanship, idiosyncratic inconography (such as rotting donkeys and dismembered bodies), and lighting and landscapes strongly evocative of his native Catalonia. The works provoked bemusement among the public and debate among critics about whether Dalí had become a Surrealist. Influenced by his reading of Freud, Dalí increasingly introduced suggestive sexual imagery and symbolism into his work. He submitted Dialogue on the Beach (Unsatisfied Desires), (1928) to the Barcelona Autumn Salon for but the work was rejected because "it was not fit to be exhibited in any gallery habitually visited by the numerous public little prepared for certain surprises." The resulting scandal was widely covered in the Barcelona press and prompted a popular Madrid illustrated weekly to publish an interview with the now controversial artist. Some trends in Dalí's work that would continue throughout his life were already evident in the 1920s. Dalí was influenced by many styles of art, ranging from the most academically classic, to the most cutting-edge avant-garde. His classical influences included Raphael, Bronzino, Francisco de Zurbarán, Vermeer and Velázquez. Exhibitions of his works attracted much attention and a mixture of praise and puzzled debate from critics who noted an apparent inconsistency in his work by the use of both traditional and modern techniques and motifs between works and within individual works. In the mid-1920s Dalí grew a neatly trimmed moustache. In later decades he cultivated a more flamboyant one in the manner of 17th-century Spanish master painter Diego Velázquez, and this moustache became a well known Dalí icon. In 1929, Dalí collaborated with Surrealist film director Luis Buñuel on the short film, Un Chien Andalou (An Andalusian Dog). His main contribution was to help Buñuel write the script for the film. Dalí later claimed to have also played a significant role in the filming of the project, but this is not substantiated by contemporary accounts. In August 1929, Dalí met his lifelong muse and future wife Gala, born Elena Ivanovna Diakonova. She was a Russian immigrant ten years his senior, who at that time was married to Surrealist poet Paul Éluard. In works such as The First Days of Spring, The Great Masturbator and The Lugubrious Game Dalí continued his exploration of the themes of sexual anxiety and unconscious desires. Dalí's first Paris exhibition was at the recently opened Goemans Gallery in November 1929 and featured eleven works. In his preface to the catalog, André Breton described Dalí's new work as "the most hallucinatory that has been produced up to now." The exhibition was a commercial success but the critical response was divided. In the same year, Dalí officially joined the Surrealist group in the Montparnasse quarter of Paris. The Surrealists hailed what Dalí was later to call his paranoiac-critical method of accessing the subconscious for greater artistic creativity. Meanwhile, Dalí's relationship with his father was close to rupture. Don Salvador Dalí y Cusi strongly disapproved of his son's romance with Gala, and saw his connection to the Surrealists as a bad influence on his morals. The final straw was when Don Salvador read in a Barcelona newspaper that his son had recently exhibited in Paris a drawing of the Sacred Heart of Jesus Christ, with a provocative inscription: "Sometimes, I spit for fun on my mother's portrait". Outraged, Don Salvador demanded that his son recant publicly. Dalí refused, perhaps out of fear of expulsion from the Surrealist group, and was violently thrown out of his paternal home on December 28th, 1929. His father told him that he would be disinherited, and that he should never set foot in Cadaqués again. The following summer, Dalí and Gala rented a small fisherman's cabin in a nearby bay at Port Lligat. He soon bought the cabin, and over the years enlarged it by buying neighboring ones, gradually building his beloved villa by the sea. Dalí's father would eventually relent and come to accept his son's companion. In 1930, Dalí painted one of his most famous works, The Persistence of Memory, which developed a surrealistic image of soft, melting pocket watches. The general interpretation of the work is that the soft watches are a rejection of the assumption that time is rigid or deterministic. This idea is supported by other images in the work, such as the wide expanding landscape, and other limp watches shown being devoured by ants. Dalí had two important exhibitions at the Pierre Colle Gallery in Paris in June 1931 and May–June 1932. The earlier exhibition included sixteen paintings, of which The Persistence of Memory attracted the most attention. Some of the notable features of the exhibitions were the proliferation of images and references to Dalí's muse Gala and the inclusion of Surrealist Objects such as, Hypnagogic Clock, and, Clock Based on the Decomposition of Bodies. Dalí's last, and largest, exhibition at the Pierre Colle Gallery was held in June 1933 and included twenty-two paintings, ten drawings and two objects. One critic noted Dalí's precise draftsmanship and attention to detail, describing him as a "paranoiac of geometrical temperament". Dalí's first New York exhibition was held at Julien Levy's gallery in November–December 1933. The exhibition featured twenty-six works and was a commercial and critical success. The New Yorker critic praised the precision and lack of sentimentality in the works, calling them "frozen nightmares". Dalí and Gala, having lived together since 1929, were civilly married on January 30th, 1934 in Paris. They later remarried in a Church ceremony on August 8th, 1958 at Sant Martí Vell. In addition to inspiring many artworks throughout her life, Gala would act as Dalí's business manager, supporting their extravagant lifestyle while adeptly steering clear of insolvency. Gala, who herself engaged in extra-marital affairs, seemed to tolerate Dalí's dalliances with younger muses, secure in her own position as his primary relationship. Dalí continued to paint her as they both aged, producing sympathetic and adoring images of her. The "tense, complex and ambiguous relationship" lasting over 50 years would later become the subject of an opera, Jo, Dalí (I, Dalí) by Catalan composer Xavier Benguerel.


--- [Mother's Death - Salvador Dali - Historydraft] ---
Historydraft beta home Home edit Blog layers Collections calendar_today On This Day public World History Timeline Search location_searching Map Search help FAQ mail Contact Facebook Page Twitter Profile Instagram Page Pinterest Page notifications Enable Notifications Subscribe to our newsletter By Codenteam menu Historydraft Historydraft beta language null Salvador Dali keyboard_arrow_up keyboard_arrow_down Mother's Death Sunday Feb 6, 1921 Figueres, Catalonia, Spain On 6 February 1921, Dalí's mother died of uterus cancer. share-alt image/svg+xml warning keyboard_arrow_up keyboard_arrow_down < Analyze


--- [Salvador Dali Biography] ---
Salvador Dali Biography Salvador Dali was born on May 11, 1904, at 8:45 a.m. GMT in the town of Figueres, in the Emporda region, close to the French border in Catalonia, Spain. Dali's older brother, also named Salvador (born October 12, 1901), had died of gastroenteritis nine months earlier, on August 1, 1903. His father, Salvador Dali i Cusi, was a middle-class lawyer and notary whose strict disciplinary approach was tempered by his wife, Felipa Domenech Ferrés, who encouraged her son's artistic endeavors. When he was five, Dali was taken to his brother's grave and told by his parents that he was his brother's reincarnation, a concept which he came to believe. Of his brother, Dali said, "...[we] resembled each other like two drops of water, but we had different reflections." He "was probably a first version of myself but conceived too much in the absolute." Dali also had a sister, Ana Maria, who was three years younger. In 1949, she published a book about her brother, Dali As Seen By His Sister. His childhood friends included future FC Barcelona footballers Sagibarba and Josep Samitier. During holidays at the Catalan resort of Cadaqués, the trio played football together. Dali attended drawing school. In 1916, Dali also discovered modern painting on a summer vacation to Cadaqués with the family of Ramon Pichot, a local artist who made regular trips to Paris. The next year, Dali's father organized an exhibition of his charcoal drawings in their family home. He had his first public exhibition at the Municipal Theater in Figueres in 1919. In February 1921, Dali's mother died of breast cancer. Dali was sixteen years old; he later said his mother's death "was the greatest blow I had experienced in my life. I worshipped her... I could not resign myself to the loss of a being on whom I counted to make invisible the unavoidable blemishes of my soul." After her death, Dali's father married his deceased wife's sister. Dali did not resent this marriage, because he had a great love and respect for his aunt. In 1922, Dali moved into the Residencia de Estudiantes (Students' Residence) in Madrid and studied at the Academia de San Fernando (School of Fine Arts). A lean 1.72 m (5 ft. 7 in.) tall, Dali already drew attention as an eccentric and dandy. He wore long hair and sideburns, coat, stockings, and knee breeches in the style of English aesthetes of the late 19th century. At the Residencia, he became close friends with (among others) Pepin Bello, Luis Buñuel, and Federico Garcia Lorca. The friendship with Lorca had a strong element of mutual passion, but Dali rejected the poet's sexual advances. However, it was his paintings, in which he experimented with Cubism, that earned him the most attention from his fellow students. At the time of these early works, Dali probably did not completely understand the Cubist movement. His only information on Cubist art came from magazine articles and a catalog given to him by Pichot, since there were no Cubist artists in Madrid at the time. In 1924, the still-unknown Salvador Dali illustrated a book for the first time. It was a publication of the Catalan poem "Les bruixes de Llers" ("The Witches of Llers") by his friend and schoolmate, poet Carles Fages de Climent. Dali also experimented with Dada, Dada artists like Max Ernst influenced his work throughout his life. Dali was expelled from the Academia in 1926, shortly before his final exams, when he stated that no one on the faculty was competent enough to examine him. His mastery of painting skills was evidenced by his flawlessly realistic Basket of Bread, painted in 1926. That same year, he made his first visit to Paris, where he met with Pablo Picasso, whom the young Dali revered. Picasso had already heard favorable reports about Dali from Joan Miro. As he developed his own style over the next few years, Dali made a number of works heavily influenced by Picasso and Miro. Some trends in Dali's work that would continue throughout his life were already evident in the 1920s. Dali devoured influences from many styles of art, ranging from the most academically classic to the most cutting-edge avant garde His classical influences included Raphael, Bronzino, Rembrandt van Rijn, Johannes Vermeer, and Diego Velazquez. He used both classical and modernist techniques, sometimes in separate works, and sometimes combined. Exhibitions of his works in Barcelona attracted much attention along with mixtures of praise and puzzled debate from critics. Dali grew a flamboyant moustache, influenced by seventeenth-century Spanish master painter Diego Velazquez. The moustache became an iconic trademark of his appearance for the rest of his life. In late 1920s, Dali began to involved in Surrealism movement. Surrealism is a collective adventure that began in Paris shortly after the first World War, in the form of an association of individuals grouped around Andre Breton. Among the artists to participate in Surrealism were: Giorgio de Chirico, Yves Tanguy, Max Ernst, Andre Masson, Rene Magritte and Salvador Dali. The Surrealist movement was greatly influenced by the theories of psychologist Sigmund Freud, whose interest was dealing with the unconscious self. Surrealists often dealt with the id, ego and superego. According to The Ego and the ID by Freud, the id is the part of the unconscious that is the source of instinctive energy. The ego is the part of the psyche that reacts to the outside world. The superego mediates between the id and ego. In 1929, Dali collaborated with surrealist film director Luis Buñuel on the short film Un chien andalou (An Andalusian Dog). His main contribution was to help Buñuel write the script for the film. Dali later claimed to have also played a significant role in the filming of the project, but this is not substantiated by contemporary accounts. Also, in August 1929, Dali met his muse, inspiration, and future wife Gala, born Elena Ivanovna Diakonova. She was a Russian immigrant ten years his senior, who at that time was married to surrealist poet Paul Éluard. In the same year, Dali had important professional exhibitions and officially joined the Surrealist group in the Montparnasse quarter of Paris. His work had already been heavily influenced by surrealism for two years. The Surrealists hailed what Dali called the Paranoiac-critical method of accessing the subconscious for greater artistic creativity. Meanwhile, Dali's relationship with his father was close to rupture. Don Salvador Dali y Cusi strongly disapproved of his son's romance with Gala, and saw his connection to the Surrealists as a bad influence on his morals. The last straw was when Don Salvador read in a Barcelona newspaper that his son had recently exhibited in Paris a drawing of the "Sacred Heart of Jesus Christ", with a provocative inscription: "Sometimes, I spit for fun on my mother's portrait." Outraged, Don Salvador demanded that his son recant publicly. Dali refused, perhaps out of fear of expulsion from the Surrealist group, and was violently thrown out of his paternal home on December 28, 1929. His father told him that he would disinherit him, and that he should never set foot in Cadaquès again. The following summer, Dali and Gala would rent a small fisherman's cabin in a nearby bay at Port Lligat. He bought the place, and over the years enlarged it, gradually building his much beloved villa by the sea. In 1931, Dali painted one of his most famous works, The Persistence of Memory. which introduced a surrealistic image of soft, melting pocket watches. The general interpretation of the work is that the soft watches are a rejection of the assumption that time is rigid or deterministic. This idea is supported by other images in the work, such as the wide expanding landscape, and the other limp watches, shown being devoured by insects. Dali and Gala, having lived together since 1929, were married in 1934 in a civil ceremony. They later remarried in a Catholic ceremony in 1958. Dali was introduced to America by art dealer Julian Levy in 1934. The exhibition in New York of Dali's works, including Persistence of Memory, created an immediate sensation. Social Register listees feted him at a specially organized "Dali Ball." He showed up wearing a glass case on his chest, which contained a brassiere. In that year, Dali and Gala also attended a masquerade party in New York, hosted for them by heiress Caresse Crosby. For their costumes, they dressed as the Lindbergh baby and his kidnapper. The resulting uproar in the press was so great that Dali apologized. When he returned to Paris, the Surrealists confronted him about his apology for a surrealist act. While the majority of the Surrealist artists had become increasingly associated with leftist politics, Dali maintained an ambiguous position on the subject of the proper relationship between politics and art. Leading surrealist André Breton accused Dali of defending the "new" and "irrational" in "the Hitler phenomenon," but Dali quickly rejected this claim, saying, "I am Hitlerian neither in fact nor intention." Dali insisted that surrealism could exist in an apolitical context and refused to explicitly denounce fascism. Among other factors, this had landed him in trouble with his colleagues. Later in 1934, Dali was subjected to a "trial", in which he was formally expelled from the Surrealist group. To this, Dali retorted, "I myself am surrealism." In 1936, Dali took part in the London International Surrealist Exhibition. His lecture, entitled Fantomes paranoiaques authentiques, was delivered while wearing a deep-sea diving suit and helmet. He had arrived carrying a billiard cue and leading a pair of Russian wolfhounds, and had to have the helmet unscrewed as he gasped for breath. He commented that "I just wanted to show that I was 'plunging deeply' into the human mind." Also in 1936, at the premiere screening of Joseph Cornell's film Rose Hobart at Julian Levy's gallery in New York City, Dali became famous for another incident. Levy's program of short surrealist films was timed to take place at the same time as the first surrealism exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art, featuring Dali's work. Dali was in the audience at the screening, but halfway through the film, he knocked over the projector in a rage. My idea for a film is exactly that, and I was going to propose it to someone who would pay to have it made, he said. "I never wrote it down or told anyone, but it is as if he had stolen it." Other versions of Dali's accusation tend to the more poetic: "He stole it from my subconscious!" or even "He stole my dreams!" At this stage, Dali's main patron in London was the very wealthy Edward James. He had helped Dali emerge into the art world by purchasing many works and by supporting him financially for two years. They also collaborated on two of the most enduring icons of the Surrealist movement: the Lobster Telephone and the Mae West Lips Sofa. In 1939, Breton coined the derogatory nickname "Avida Dollars", an anagram for Salvador Dali, and a phonetic rendering of the French avide a dollars, which may be translated as "eager for dollars". This was a derisive reference to the increasing commercialization of Dali's work, and the perception that Dali sought self-aggrandizement through fame and fortune. Some surrealists henceforth spoke of Dali in the past tense, as if he were dead. The Surrealist movement and various members thereof (such as Ted Joans) would continue to issue extremely harsh polemics against Dali until the time of his death and beyond. In 1940, as World War II started in Europe, Dali and Gala moved to the United States, where they lived for eight years. After the move, Dali returned to the practice of Catholicism. "During this period, Dali never stopped writing," wrote Robert and Nicolas Descharnes. In 1941, Dali drafted a film scenario for Jean Gabin called Moontide. In 1942, he published his autobiography, The Secret Life of Salvador Dali. He wrote catalogs for his exhibitions, such as that at the Knoedler Gallery in New York in 1943. Therein he expounded, "Surrealism will at least have served to give experimental proof that total sterility and attempts at automatizations have gone too far and have led to a totalitarian system. ... Today's laziness and the total lack of technique have reached their paroxysm in the psychological signification of the current use of the college." He also wrote a novel, published in 1944, about a fashion salon for automobiles. This resulted in a drawing by Edwin Cox in The Miami Herald, depicting Dali dressing an automobile in an evening gown. Also in The Secret Life, Dali suggested that he had split with Buñuel because the latter was a Communist and an atheist. Buñuel was fired (or resigned) from MOMA, supposedly after Cardinal Spellman of New York went to see Iris Barry, head of the film department at MOMA. Buñuel then went back to Hollywood where he worked in the dubbing department of Warner Brothers from 1942 to 1946. In his 1982 autobiography Mon Dernier soupir (English translation My Last Sigh published 1983), Buñuel wrote that, over the years, he rejected Dali's attempts at reconciliation. An Italian friar, Gabriele Maria Berardi, claimed to have performed an exorcism on Dali while he was in France in 1947. In 2005, a sculpture of Christ on the Cross was discovered in the friar's estate. It had been claimed that Dali gave this work to his exorcist out of gratitude, and two Spanish art experts confirmed that there were adequate stylistic reasons to believe the sculpture was made by Dali. Starting in 1949, Dali spent his remaining years back in his beloved Catalonia. The fact that he chose to live in Spain while it was ruled by Franco drew criticism from progressives and from many other artists. As such, it is probable that the common dismissal of Dali's later works by some Surrealists and art critics was related partially to politics rather than to the artistic merit of the works themselves. In 1959, André Breton organized an exhibit called Homage to Surrealism, celebrating the fortieth anniversary of Surrealism, which contained works by Dali, Joan Miro, Enrique Tábara, and Eugenio Granell. Breton vehemently fought against the inclusion of Dali's Sistine Madonna in the International Surrealism Exhibition in New York the following year. Late in his career, Dali did not confine himself to painting, but experimented with many unusual or novel media and processes: he made bulletist works and was among the first artists to employ holography in an artistic manner. Several of his works incorporate optical illusions. In his later years, young artists such as Roy Lichtenstein proclaimed Dali an important influence on pop art. Dali also had a keen interest in natural science and mathematics. This is manifested in several of his paintings, notably in the 1950s, in which he painted his subjects as composed of rhinoceros horns. According to Dali, the rhinoceros horn signifies divine geometry because it grows in a logarithmic spiral. He also linked the rhinoceros to themes of chastity and to the Virgin Mary. Dali was also fascinated by DNA and the hypercube (a 4-dimensional cube); an unfolding of a hypercube is featured in the painting Crucifixion (Corpus Hypercubus). Dali's post-World War II period bore the hallmarks of technical virtuosity and an interest in optical illusions, science, and religion. He became an increasingly devout Catholic, while at the same time he had been inspired by the shock of Hiroshima and the dawning of the "atomic age". Therefore Dali labeled this period "Nuclear Mysticism." In paintings such as The Madonna of Port Lligat (first version) (1949) and Crucifixion (1954), Dali sought to synthesize Christian iconography with images of material disintegration inspired by nuclear physics. "Nuclear Mysticism" included such notable pieces as La Gare de Perpignan (1965) and Hallucinogenic Toreador (1968-70). In 1960, Dali began work on the Dali Theatre and Museum in his home town of Figueres; it was his largest single project and the main focus of his energy through 1974. He continued to make additions through the mid-1980s. In 1968, Dali filmed a television advertisement for Lanvin chocolates, and in 1969, he designed the Chupa Chups logo. Also in 1969, he was responsible for creating the advertising aspect of the 1969 Eurovision Song Contest and created a large metal sculpture that stood on the stage at the Teatro Real in Madrid. In the television programme Dirty Dalì: A Private View broadcast on Channel 4 on June 3, 2007, art critic Brian Sewell described his acquaintance with Dali in the late 1960s, which included lying down in the fetal position without trousers in the armpit of a figure of Christ and masturbating for Dali, who pretended to take photos while fumbling in his own trousers. In 1980, Dali's health took a catastrophic turn. His near-senile wife, Gala, allegedly had been dosing him with a dangerous cocktail of unprescribed medicine that damaged his nervous system, thus causing an untimely end to his artistic capacity. At 76 years old, Dali was a wreck, and his right hand trembled terribly, with Parkinson-like symptoms. In 1982, King Juan Carlos bestowed on Dali the title of Marqués de Dali de Púbol (English: Marquis of Dali de Púbol) in the nobility of Spain, hereby referring to Púbol, the place where he lived. The title was in first instance hereditary, but on request of Dali changed for life only in 1983. To show his gratitude for this, Dali later gave the king a drawing (Head of Europa, which would turn out to be Dali's final drawing) after the king visited him on his deathbed. Gala died on June 10, 1982. After Gala's death, Dali lost much of his will to live. He deliberately dehydrated himself, possibly as a suicide attempt, or possibly in an attempt to put himself into a state of suspended animation as he had read that some microorganisms could do. He moved from Figueres to the castle in Púbol, which he had bought for Gala and was the site of her death. In 1984, a fire broke out in his bedroom under unclear circumstances. It was possibly a suicide attempt by Dali, or possibly simple negligence by his staff. In any case, Dali was rescued and returned to Figueres, where a group of his friends, patrons, and fellow artists saw to it that he was comfortable living in his Theater-Museum in his final years. There have been allegations that Dali was forced by his guardians to sign blank canvases that would later, even after his death, be used in forgeries and sold as originals. As a result, art dealers tend to be wary of late works attributed to Dali. In November 1988, Dali entered the hospital with heart failure, and on December 5, 1988 was visited by King Juan Carlos, who confessed that he had always been a serious devotee of Dali. On January 23, 1989, while his favorite record of Tristan and Isolde played, he died of heart failure at Figueres at the age of 84, and, coming full circle, is buried in the crypt of his Teatro Museo in Figueres. The location is across the street from the church of Sant Pere, where he had his baptism, first communion, and funeral, and is three blocks from the house where he was born. Intelligence without ambition is a bird without wings. ” -Salvador Dali


--- [Salvador Dalí] ---
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech, Marquess of Dalí de Púbol (11 May 1904 – 23 January 1989), known as Salvador Dalí, was a Spanish surrealist artist renowned for his technical skill, precise draftsmanship, and the striking and bizarre images in his work. 
Born in Figueres in Catalonia, Dalí received his formal education in fine arts in Madrid. Influenced by Impressionism and the Renaissance masters from a young age, he became increasingly attracted to Cubism and avant-garde movements. He moved closer to Surrealism in the late 1920s and joined the Surrealist group in 1929, soon becoming one of its leading exponents. His best-known work, The Persistence of Memory, was completed in August 1931. Dalí lived in France throughout the Spanish Civil War (1936 to 1939) before leaving for the United States in 1940 where he achieved commercial success. He returned to Spain in 1948 where he announced his return to the Catholic faith and developed his "nuclear mysticism" style, based on his interest in classicism, mysticism, and recent scientific developments.
Dalí's artistic repertoire included painting, sculpture, film, graphic arts, animation, fashion, and photography, at times in collaboration with other artists. He also wrote fiction, poetry, autobiography, essays, and criticism. Major themes in his work include dreams, the subconscious, sexuality, religion, science and his closest personal relationships. To the dismay of those who held his work in high regard, and to the irritation of his critics, his eccentric and ostentatious public behavior often drew more attention than his artwork. His public support for the Francoist regime, his commercial activities and the quality and authenticity of some of his late works have also been controversial. His life and work were an important influence on other Surrealists, pop art, popular culture, and contemporary artists such as Jeff Koons and Damien Hirst.
There are two major museums devoted to Salvador Dalí's work: the Dalí Theatre-Museum in Figueres, Spain, and the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida, U.S.
