=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Past Camsell Medal winners - Royal Canadian Geographical Society]
2023 Mary Jane Starr This medal was granted for her leadership in geographic education, support of programs and mentorship of the Canadian Geographic Education team Anthony Hendrie Anthony has been a generous contributor to and ongoing supporter of the Society and its programs. 2022 Lynn Moorman Lynn Moorman is a professor at Mount Royal University; for her dedication to the Society in the ...
URL: https://rcgs.org/past-camsell-medal-winners/

[Anne Innis Dagg: Camsell Medal 2012 Winner | PDF - Scribd]
Anne Innis Dagg: Camsell Medal 2012 Winner Anne Innis Dagg was a Canadian zoologist and feminist known for being the first person to study wild giraffes, significantly contributing to the understanding of their biology and behavior.
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/817741315/Anne-Innis-Dagg

[2012 Camsell Medal Recipient | PDF | Canada - Scribd]
2012 Camsell Medal Recipient Charles Camsell was a Canadian geologist and the commissioner of the Northwest Territories from 1936 to 1946. He had a distinguished career in public service, including roles as Deputy Minister of Mines and President of the Royal Society of Canada, and he founded the Canadian Geographical Society in 1929.
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/817750624/Charles-Camsell

[Society Awards | Royal Canadian Geographical Society]
To recognize outstanding achievement, The Royal Canadian Geographical Society annually presents a number of medals and awards to deserving individuals. The Society welcomes nominations from the public. Nominations for the Massey Medal, the Gold Medal and the Martin Bergmann Medal are reviewed by the Awards Committee, the Sir Christopher Ondaatje Medal for Exploration nominations are reviewed by the Expedition Committee, while the Alex Trebek Medal for Geographic Literacy and the Gilles Gagnier Medal for Innovation in Geographic Education are managed by Canadian Geographic Education.
URL: https://rcgs.org/programs/society-awards/

[Royal Canadian Geographical Society - Wikipedia]
The Sir Christopher Ondaatje Medal for Exploration, named after gold medal and Camsell Medal recipient Sir Christopher Ondaatje, was established in 2013. ... The 3M Environmental Innovation Award was established in 2009 by the Society and 3M Canada to recognize outstanding individuals in business, ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royal_Canadian_Geographical_Society


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Past Camsell Medal winners - Royal Canadian Geographical Society] ---
2025 Paul VanZant This educator’s service to the Society has been enduring and well-appreciated. He has not only been a Fellow for some time but has more recently acted as the Chair of the Can Geo Education Committee. John Pollack Pollack’s efforts as a past Chair of the Expeditions Committee and RCGS Governor were recognized with the Camsell Medal. 2024 Sandra Smith Sandra Smith, who retired from her position of Executive Assistant to the CEO in June 2024, has been a fixture of the RCGS for thirty-five years. 2023 Mary Jane Starr This medal was granted for her leadership in geographic education, support of programs and mentorship of the Canadian Geographic Education team Anthony Hendrie Anthony has been a generous contributor to and ongoing supporter of the Society and its programs. 2022 Lynn Moorman Lynn Moorman is a professor at Mount Royal University; for her dedication to the Society in the roles of Governor and Can Geo Education Executive, and creating learning resources used in educational outreach. Gavin Fitch For his service to the Society as a Governor, Vice-President and two-term President, in addition to serving as a member on a number of committees, Fitch won this medal. 2021 Alison Gill Gill is a former governor and committee member. Susan Taylor Susan Taylor was recognized a designer and producer of many of the Society medals featured here. 2020 Keith Exelby The medal was awarded to Keith Exelby in recognition of his many contributions to the Society. Exelby served several terms as Treasurer and chaired the Finance Committee, CGE Management Board and Audit Committee. Joan and Doug Heyland Joan and Doug Heyland are exemplary volunteers who have given many years of tireless work on various Society committees. Doug served on the Research & Grants Committee for eight years and the Audit Committee for eight years. Joan, an educational consultant in the Northwest Territories and Nunavut, served on both the Research & Grants Committee and the Fellows Committee. 2019 Beth Dye and Joe Frey, CD Beth Dye, teacher, educator, coach, administrator and Fellow, has served the Society in a range of capacities for more than twenty years. Joseph Frey is an explorer, diver, writer, speaker, world traveler, and tireless advocate for the Society and its mission. 2018 Dr. Paul Ruest and Élisabeth Nadeau Ruest has been an active volunteer and contributor to the Society for 15 years. In 2011, he became vice-president of the Society and in 2014, he assumed the role of president. His focus and determination have resulted in a stronger, more diverse, dynamic and enterprising organization. Élisabeth Nadeau became a Fellow over 20 years ago, and so began two decades of incomparable service to the Society. From her ardent support of Géographica, and through her many contributions to the Board of Governors, Awards Committee, Endowment Fund, Nominating Committee and By-Law Committee, Nadeau strengthened and enhanced the Society. 2017 Jody Decker and Philip Howarth During a period when the Society was functioning under severe financial constraints, Jody Decker was a passionate and constant advocate for the funding of the research and grants program, emphasizing its importance to university students over the course of their geography studies. As a long-standing member and chair of the Lectures Committee, Howarth delivered a national outreach program that engaged Canadians, served the Society’s educational mission, and raised the profile of the RCGS by establishing innovative new partnerships. 2016 Mark Graham, Peter Harrison and Christine Duverger-Harrison Mark Graham is vice-president, research and collections, at the Canadian Museum of Nature. Peter Harrison and Christine Duverger-Harrison are long-serving Society volunteers; Harrison is a past vice-president of the RCGS. 2015 Bruce Amos and Louise Maffett Amos speaks and thinks passionately about Canada, Canadian Geography and the RCGS and our role in the Canadian fabric to promote Canada to the world. As photographer Bruce was the driving force behind the Can Geo Photo Club (2008). Louise Maffett became the Executive Director of the RCGS in 1995, a position she occupied until December 2010. During that period she was instrumental in the rapid and significant increase in membership, and very importantly in helping to raise the funds to launch Géographica. 2014 Dr. Christopher Burn and Dr. Iain Wallace Christopher Burn has served the Society for more than 20 years in positions including vice president and the chair of the Nominating, Research and Grants, and Policy and Planning committees. Iain Wallace has served the Society for 31 years in board positions including the Awards, Editorial Advisory, Research and Grants, and Policy and Planning committees. 2013 Sir Christopher Ondaatje After immigrating to Canada in 1956, Sir Christopher Ondaatje became a member of the Canadian Olympic bobsleigh team in 1964. He then moved on to a successful career in finance and publishing before becoming a writer and global adventurer. 2012 Jean Fournier A Fellow and Governor of The Royal Canadian Geographical Society (RCGS) for more than 15 years, Jean Fournier has helped in fundraising efforts and was involved in the creation of the Canada Post envelope that marked the Society’s 75th anniversary in 2004. 2011 Gisèle Jacob and Arthur E. Collin Gisèle Jacob was the first female president of the Society, a position she held from 2004 to 2010. A number of notable developments occurred under her leadership, including the launch of The Canadian Atlas Online and the publication of Canadian Geographic Travel. Arthur E. Collin was president from 1998 to 2004, the year of the Society’s 75th anniversary and several special initiatives, including the joint publication of The Canadian Atlas with Reader’s Digest Canada. 2010 Pierre Bergeron and Helen Kerfoot A journalist and former book and newspaper publisher, Bergeron offers an invaluable perspective on the publishing industry as a member of the Canadian Geographic Enterprises (CGE) Management Board and the Society’s Finance and Audit committees. An Ottawa-based geographer with an unparalleled expertise in geographical names, Kerfoot has served on the Board of Governors and numerous committees. As a member of the Editorial Advisory Committee, she helped form Canadian Geographic’s policy regarding Canadian place names. 2009 Ted Johnson and James Raffan Johnson joined the Society’s Board of Governors in 1994, contributing his legal and financial expertise to as many as seven committees at once. Raffan is a passionate environmentalist and author who served as a former executive director of the Canadian Canoe Museum in Peterborough. 2008 Ken Boland and Carman Joynt Boland and Joynt served the RCGS for decades, professionally and as volunteers. The former was its legal counsel from 1990 until his retirement and served on the Board of Governors as well as multiple committees. The latter sat on the Canadian Geographic Enterprises Management Board and began his work at the Society as an accountant involved in auditing in 1974. 2007 Brian Osborne and Stuart Semple Stuart Semple not only helped to found the Canadian Council for Geographic Education but was also instrumental in creating the Great Canadian Geography Challenge (now the Canadian Geographic Challenge). Brian Osborne served on multiple RCGS committees for over 20 years and earned a position as adjunct professor emeritus at Queen’s University. 2006 Karen Lochhead and Michael Schmidt Karen Lochhead is a former cartographer for the Atlas of Canada and served as a director and member of several RCGS over the course of decades. Mike Schmidt led the 1992 Logan Expedition and has been a member of the Board of Governors as well as several committees. 2005 Dénis St-Onge and James Maxwell As executive director in the 1990s, James Maxwell helped establish the Canadian Council for Geographic Education. Dénis St-Onge, meanwhile, became president of the RCGS in 1992 and was crucial to our French-language publications. 2004 Alexander Davidson and Samuel Arsenault Al Davidson played an essential part in the dramatic growth of Canadian Geographic Magazine in the 1970’s and served as a Director for 19 years. Samuel Arsenault dedicated a tremendous amount of time to the Society and was commended in particular for his work with the Lectures Committee. 2003 David Kirkwood and Blair Seaborn Blair Seaborn and David Kirwood saw the launch of the French-language magazine géographica as a highlight of their time at the Society. Kirkwood sat on the finance and audit committees, while Seaborn served on the finance and lectures committees. 2002 Alan Gibbons Alan O. Gibbons joined the Board of Directors for the RCGS in 1975 and served for more than a decade during one of the most trying periods in the Society’s history: he played a key role in the finance committee’s efforts to weather that particular storm. 2001 Dickson Mansfield Dickson Mansfield spent thousands of volunteer hours in supporting the educational arm of the Royal Canadian Geographical Society, the Canadian Council for Geographic Education. 2000 Winifred Wadasinghe-Wijay The winner of the 2000 Camsell Award earned the title through 27 years of work above and beyond the call of duty as Society’s accountant, taking the lead in modernizing RCGS’ accounting and payroll departments. 1999 Pierre Camu and Grete Hale The first recipients of the new bronze medal for Camsell Award winners, Grete Hale and Pierre Camu were recognized for their efforts as a long-serving board & committee member and a former Society president, respectively. 1998 George Hobson and Pierre Des Marais II 1997 Enid Byford and Robert Goddard 1996 David Bartlett 1995 William Gilchrist and Lou Sebert 1994 Wendy Simpson-Lewis Simpson-Lewis began her association with the Royal Canadian Geographical Society in the 1970s as a geographer and specialist in the development of public information. She served on several committees, including the executive and educational advisory committees. 1993 David Phillips and Ernest Weeks Climatologist David Phillips served the Society as a Governor, lecturer and writer of the popular “Weather-wise” column in Canadian Geographic. A key member of the Society’s Editorial Advisory Committee for many years, Ernest Weeks was vital to publishing articles on subjects that rarely reach the public. 1992 Keith Fraser and Samuel Hughes The Camsell Award was established to recognize outstanding service to the Society. Dr. J. Keith Fraser was one of two first recipients, as a former executive director. Samuel F. Hughes, a Society treasurer, was the other.


--- [Anne Innis Dagg: Camsell Medal 2012 Winner | PDF - Scribd] ---
Anne Innis Dagg: Camsell Medal 2012 Winner Anne Innis Dagg was a Canadian zoologist and feminist known for being the first person to study wild giraffes, significantly contributing to the understanding of their biology and behavior. She published extensively on various topics including animal behavior, gender bias in academia, and the rights of animals, and faced discrimination in her academic career due to her gender. Dagg received numerous accolades for her work, including being appointed a Member of the Order of Canada, and she passed away on April 1, 2024. Anne Innis Dagg: Camsell Medal 2012 Winner


--- [2012 Camsell Medal Recipient | PDF | Canada - Scribd] ---
2012 Camsell Medal Recipient Charles Camsell was a Canadian geologist and the commissioner of the Northwest Territories from 1936 to 1946. He had a distinguished career in public service, including roles as Deputy Minister of Mines and President of the Royal Society of Canada, and he founded the Canadian Geographical Society in 1929. Camsell was recognized for his contributions to geology and was honored with various awards, including the Founder's Medal from the Royal Geographical Society of London. 2012 Camsell Medal Recipient


--- [Society Awards | Royal Canadian Geographical Society] ---
To recognize outstanding achievement, The Royal Canadian Geographical Society annually presents a number of medals and awards to deserving individuals. The Society welcomes nominations from the public. Nominations for the Massey Medal, the Gold Medal and the Martin Bergmann Medal are reviewed by the Awards Committee, the Sir Christopher Ondaatje Medal for Exploration nominations are reviewed by the Expedition Committee, while the Alex Trebek Medal for Geographic Literacy and the Gilles Gagnier Medal for Innovation in Geographic Education are managed by Canadian Geographic Education. Massey Medal The Massey Medal was established to honour those who have contributed to the exploration, development or description of Canada’s geography. 2024 recipient: Marie-Josée Fortin Awarded to Marie-Josée Fortin, accomplished academic professor and Tier 1 Canada Research Chair in Spatial Ecology; in recognition of her significant contributions to the transformative field of spatial analysis in ecology. 2023 recipient: Dr. Ellsworth LeDrew Awarded to Dr. Ellsworth LeDrew, geographer, climatologist and remote sensing specialist. Dr. LeDrew has made major contributions to the understanding of the changing climate in the Arctic and has spearheaded an Arctic data management system that is available to both scientists and citizens. Gold Medal The Gold Medal was created to provide an opportunity for the Society to recognize a particular achievement by one or more individuals in the general field of geography or a significant national/international event. 2025 recipient: Joni Mitchell Awarded to Joni Mitchell, a Canadian and American singer-songwriter, multi-instrumentalist and painter, in recognition of her extraordinary contributions to Canadian and international culture. 2024 recipient: Jameel Janjua Awarded to Jameel Janjua, a decorated former RCAF fighter pilot and experimental test pilot who flew Virgin Galactic’s VSS Unity into space on the Galactic 07 mission, becoming only the second Canadian to pilot a spaceflight. Martin Bergmann Medal The Martin Bergmann Medal, established in 2012, recognizes achievement for excellence in Arctic leadership. 2025 recipient: Ittaq Heritage and Research Centre Awarded to the Ittaq Heritage and Research Centre in recognition of the Centre’s work in Arctic leadership through research, multimedia, land-based programming and culture and heritage to empower the community. 2023 recipient: Dr. Jackie Dawson Awarded to Dr. Jackie Dawson, professor in Human and Policy Dimensions of Climate Change at the University of Ottawa, for her outstanding contributions to northern research and visionary leadership on Arctic policy. Lawrence J. Burpee Medal Awarded to recognize an outstanding contribution or other achievement that greatly enhances the ability of the Society to fulfill its mission of making Canada better known on a national or international level, and/or contributes to the general advancement of geography. 2025 recipient: Stephen Fry Awarded to Stephen Fry, English actor, broadcaster, comedian, director and writer. 2025 recipient: John Hemming Awarded to John Hemming for his work as an explorer, historian and expert on the Incas and Indigenous peoples of the Amazon Basin. 2024 recipient: Zita Cobb Awarded to Zita Cobb, a businesswoman and social entrepreneur who is the founder and CEO of the registered charity Shorefast, as well as the Innkeeper of the award-winning Fogo Island Inn. Camsell Medal The Camsell Medal recognizes outstanding volunteer service to The Royal Canadian Geographical Society. Only RCGS Fellows may nominate individuals for the Camsell Medal. 2025 recipient: Paul VanZant Awarded to Paul VanZant, a passionate educator, RCGS Fellow and Chair of the Can Geo Education Executive Committee, in recognition of his dedication, mentorship and outstanding service to the Society, which spans decades. 2025 recipient: John Pollack Awarded to John Pollack, a former senior research scientist for the B.C. provincial government and former RCGS Governor who served for many years as Chair of the Expeditions Committee. 2024 recipient: Sandra Smith Awarded to Sandra Smith, a former employee of the RCGS for 35 years, most recently as the executive assistant to the CEO, before her retirement in June 2024. Sir Christopher Ondaatje Medal for Exploration Established in 2013, the Sir Christopher Ondaatje Medal for Exploration recognizes singular achievements and the pursuit of excellence by an outstanding Canadian explorer or a non-Canadian for exploratory achievements within Canada. 2025 recipient: Gregory Horne Awarded to Gregory Horne in recognition of his exploration and scientific research in remote Arctic regions by way of ski mountaineering, cave exploration, canyoneering and high altitude climbing. 2024 recipient: Karsten Heuer Awarded to Karsten Heuer, a wildlife biologist, writer and conservationist. 2024 recipient: Leanne Allison Awarded to Leanne Allison, an award-winning documentary filmmaker who draws inspiration from long wilderness journeys in Canada in support of conservation. Joseph-Elzéar Bernier Medal The Joseph-Elzéar Bernier Medal, established in 2014, recognizes an exemplary deed or activity that has enhanced or aided the Society in fulfilling its mandate at the international, national, provincial or headquarters level. 2025 recipient: Ron Hallman Awarded to Ron Hallman in recognition of his leadership as President and CEO of Parks Canada and strong support of the Society’s mission and programs. 2024 recipient: David Mearns Awarded to David Mearns, a chartered marine scientist, award-winning author and expedition leader of deep ocean projects. Mearns was the Search Director for the 2024 Shackleton Quest Expedition. Louie Kamookak Medal The Louie Kamookak Medal: A distinction named for the Inuit historian and educator, awarded by the Society to any person or organization which has been brought to the attention of the Executive Committee, Awards Committee, or to the CEO, as having made Canada’s geography better known to Canadians and to the world. It is also awarded for a noteworthy deed that has served to advance the discipline of geography. 2025 recipient: Jeremy Dutcher Awarded to Jeremy Dutcher, a classically trained Indigenous tenor, composer, musicologist and activist. 2025 recipient: Susan Aglukark Awarded to Susan Aglukark, a June Award-winning Inuk singer and songwriter. 2025 recipient: Kenn Harper Awarded to Kenn Harper, an educator, businessman and historian whose powerful body of work has shed light on the Arctic. 2024 recipient: Steven Page Awarded to Steven Page, a Canadian musician, record producer, and founding member, lead singer, guitarist and primary songwriter of the music group “Barenaked Ladies.” Alex Trebek Medal for Geographic Literacy Many people work beyond the expectation of their professions toward heightening geographic literacy. This award is to recognize and honour their contributions. 2025 recipient: Claude Tremblay Brun del Re Awarded to Claude Tremblay Brun del Re in recognition of her long service to the geography education community, particularly through her participation in OAGEE/l’AEGEO and work with the Ontario Ministry of Education. 2024 recipient: Ewan Geddes Awarded to Ewan Geddes, a Canadian and world studies teacher in the Toronto District School Board and longstanding member and past president of the Ontario Association of Geography and Environmental Education. Gilles Gagnier Medal for Innovation in Geographic Education Previously called the Innovation in Geography Teaching Award, this award honours the memory of Canadian Geographic publisher and COO Gilles Gagnier, who passed away unexpectedly on Sept. 10, 2021. The award recognizes an inspirational educator who is committed to advancing geographic literacy through innovative teaching and learning strategies. 2025 recipient: Awarded to Andre Boutin-Maloney, who transformed the town of Fort Qu’Appelle, Saskatchewan, into a living classroom through a public-facing, GIS-powered walking tour called Finding Common Ground: A Treaty Walk (& Roll) of Fort Qu’Appelle. 2024 recipient: Joanna Thompson-Anselm Awarded to Joanna Thompson-Anselm, a passionate teacher dedicated to advancing geographic thinking and developing innovative programs like Urban Solutions, which focuses on real-world challenges and uses novel approaches to get students thinking about sustainable development goals. Awards committee members John Iacozza (Chair), Dianne Draper, Chris McCreery, Cheryl McKenna-Neuman, Alison Mountz, Wayne Pollard, Maureen Reed Education committee members Paul VanZant (Chair), Michel Emery, Jack Headley, Ewan Geddes, Christy Harrick, Paula Huddy-Zubkowski, Jennifer Leduc, Gabrielle Rogers, Sandy Welbergen, Rakshin Kandola, Steve Dagar, Tesa Fiddler, Connie Wyatt Anderson, Anne Mansfield, Kelley McClinchey Expedition committee members Zac Robinson (Chair), TA Loeffler (Vice-Chair), John Pollack (Past Chair), Jean-Marie Beaulieu, Jill Heinerth, Priidu Juurand, Helen Sovdat, Tim Patterson


--- [Royal Canadian Geographical Society - Wikipedia] ---
The Royal Canadian Geographical Society (RCGS; French: Société géographique royale du Canada) is a Canadian nonprofit educational organization. It has dedicated itself to spreading a broader knowledge and deeper appreciation of Canada, including its people, places, natural and cultural heritage, as well as its environmental, social and economic challenges.
