=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Augustine George Masih - Wikipedia]
On 6 November 2023, the Supreme ... of the Supreme Court of India. The resolution observed that during his long tenure as a judge of the High Court, Justice Masih had significant experience in diverse fields of law. The resolution also noted that Justice Masih’s appointment will bring ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Augustine_George_Masih

[Know Thy Judge | Supreme Court of India: Justice Augustine George Masih]
Justice Augustine has also held ... George Masih served as Judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court and the Chief Justice of Rajasthan High Court before being elevated to the Supreme Court of India....
URL: https://www.scconline.com/blog/post/2024/03/12/know-your-judge-justice-augustine-george-masih-legal-research/

[Justice Augustine George Masih | Supreme Court of India | India]
Justice Augustine George Masih Born on March 12, 1963 at Ropar [Punjab]. After initial schooling in St. Mary's Convent School, Kasauli (H.P.), completed school education from Saifuddin Tahir High School, Aligarh. Graduated in Science [Honours] and then LL.B. (Hons.) from Aligarh Muslim University at Aligarh.
URL: https://www.sci.gov.in/judge/justice-augustine-george-masih/

[A.G. Masih - Supreme Court Observer]
On 10 July 2008, Justice Masih was appointed as the Additional Judge of Punjab & Haryana High Court. On 14 January 2011, he became a Permanent Judge of the High Court. He held the office until he was elevated as the Chief Justice of the Rajasthan ...
URL: https://www.scobserver.in/judges/augustine-george-masih/

[Augustine George Masih - grokipedia.com]
Augustine George Masih (born 12 March 1963) is an Indian jurist serving as a judge of the Supreme Court of India since 9 November 2023. He previously held the position of Chief Justice of the Rajasthan High Court from 30 May 2023 and served as a judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court from 2008 to 2023.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Augustine_George_Masih


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Augustine George Masih - Wikipedia] ---
Augustine George Masih (born 12 March 1963) is a judge of Supreme Court of India. He is a former chief justice of the Rajasthan High Court and a former judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.




--- [Know Thy Judge | Supreme Court of India: Justice Augustine George Masih] ---
Born on 12-03-1963 in Ropar, Punjab, Justice Augustine George Masih took oath as Judge of the Supreme Court of India. Dr. Justice DY Chandrachud, the Chief Justice of India, administered oath to Justice Augustine George Masih on 9-11-2023. Justice Augustine completed most of his education from Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh before kick starting his career in the legal profession by getting enrolled with the Bar Council of Punjab & Haryana Bar Council in 1987. Given below are the details of Justice Augustine’s schooling, career as an advocate and then a Judge, followed by important judgments delivered by him while serving as the Judge of Supreme Court of India as well as High Court of Rajasthan and Punjab and Haryana. Education Details of Justice Augustine George Masih Justice Augustine completed his schooling from St. Mary’s Convent School, Kasauli (Himachal Pradesh) and Saifuddin Tahir High School, Aligarh (Uttar Pradesh). He completed his graduation in Science (Hons) followed by LL. B (Hons) from Aligarh Muslim University, Uttar Pradesh.1 Career Trajectory Justice Augustine got enrolled as an Advocate with the Bar Council of Punjab & Haryana on 06-06-1987. Justice Augustine holds practical experience in Constitutional Law, Service Law, Labour Law, Civil Law, etc. on both Original and Appellate sides. He has appeared as an advocate before the Supreme Court, Punjab and Haryana High Court, Delhi High Court, Himachal Pradesh High Court, and various other Courts and Tribunals.2 Justice Augustine has also held the posts of Assistant Advocate General, Deputy Advocate General, Additional Advocate General in the office of Advocate General, Punjab before being appointed as the Additional Judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court on 10-07-2008, followed by Permanent Judgeship on 14-01-2011.3 Justice Augustine George Masih served as Judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court and the Chief Justice of Rajasthan High Court before being elevated to the Supreme Court of India. The Supreme Court Collegium while considering Justice Masih’s name for elevation as Supreme Court Judge, took note of his expertise in diverse fields of law, and that his inclusion to the Bench would strengthen the representation of minority communities in the Supreme Court of India. The Collegium thus recommended Justice Augustine George Masih’s name on 6-11-2023, and he took oath as the Judge of the Supreme Court of India on 9-11-2023.4 Notable Decisions by Justice Augustine George Masih Scheduled Tribe members migrating to another State/UT cannot claim ST status if not notified in ST caste list of that State/UT: Supreme Court In an appeal against High Court’s dismissal of appeal holding the migrant eligible for benefit of being member of Scheduled Tribe holding a certificate issued from Rajasthan State as per notification under Article 342 of Constitution, the Division Bench of BV Nagarathna and Augustine George Masih, JJ. set aside the High Court’s stance hinting towards Article 342 of the Constitution empowering the President of India to notify the Scheduled Tribes either for a State or for a Union Territory. [Chandigarh Housing Board v. Tarsem Lal, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 154] Tadoba Scam | Supreme Court upholds Bombay HC order rejecting Thakur brothers’ anticipatory bail In a petition for special leave to appeal filed by Rohit Thakur and Abhishek Thakur (‘Thakur brothers’) who have been charged with over Rs 12.15 crore online ticketing fraud in Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve, against the judgment and order dated by the Bombay High Court, wherein the Court rejected their anticipatory bail applications, the division bench of B.V. Nagarathna and Augustine George Masih, JJ. after considering the nature of the dispute between the parties and after pursuing the impugned order, refused to interfere in the matter. Thereby, refusing to grant them anticipatory bail. However, the Court allowed them to seek regular bail. [Abhishek v. State of Maharashtra, 2024 SCC OnLine SC 155] Educational Institute | No exemption for earlier assessment years when registration was unavailable: SC upholds High Court’s view In an appeal challenging High Court’s dismissal of appeal in regard to exemption to Educational Institution wherein, it was held that exemption cannot be granted by the Court for earlier assessment years for which registration was unavailable, the Division Bench of BV Nagarathna and Augustine George Masih, JJ. dismissed the said SLP under Sections 12-AA and 260 of Income Tax Act, 1961. [Academy of Medical Sciences v. CIT, (2024) 460 ITR 592] Supreme Court dismisses UP Department’s GST demand against Vivo Mobile In an appeal against High Court’s decision in favour of Vivo Mobile India Pvt. Ltd for benefit of input tax credit late accrued to the transactions completed previously, by treating the entire period to be one, during which transactions were completed, against which all input tax credit stood accumulated as on the date of filing return, the Division Bench of BV Nagarathna and Augustine George Masih, JJ. Upheld the said stance holding that condition of month-to-month reconciliation of eligible input-tax credit was relaxed as per Rule 36(4) of the Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017. [State of U.P. v. Vivo Mobile India (P) Ltd., (2024) 122 GSTR 236] Rajasthan HC appoints arbitrator for dispute between Magenta Power and REIL In an application under Section 11 of Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 seeking reference of dispute to the sole arbitrator, Augustine George Masih, CJ raised the fact that the three applications were all made for three identical agreements and accordingly appointed a High Court Retired Judge as the arbitrator. [Magenta Power (P) Ltd. v. Rajasthan Electronics & Instrument Ltd., 2023 SCC OnLine Raj 3391] ‘If no day-to-day explanation, there should be reasonable explanation on justifiable grounds’: Rajasthan HC while denying condonation of 1500 days’ delay In an application seeking condonation of delay of 1500 days in filing the appeal against a writ petition, with the reason of applicant’s family being extremely poor agriculturist, the Division Bench of Augustine George Masih, CJ and Vinit Kumar Mathur, J. clarified that “If there is no explanation for day-to-day delay, there has to be a reasonable explanation for the delay occurred with justifiable grounds for not approaching the Court within the time stipulated.” [Kanta v. State of Rajasthan, 2023 SCC OnLine Raj 2034] P&H HC approves the refund amount given to the petitioner upon surrendering the plot allotted to him In a petition seeking writ of mandamus directing the respondents to refund the entire amount of Rs. 19,19,700/- with interest at the rate of 12% per annum from the date of payment till realization as there has been forfeiture of Rs. 11,38,163/- out of the total amount and a refund of Rs. 7,81,537/- has been made to the petitioner on surrender of the plot which was allotted to him, the division Bench of Augustine George Masih and Vikram Aggarwal, JJ. held that the refund having been made as per the terms and conditions of the allotment letter cannot be faulted with. [Bhim Singh v. State of Haryana, 2023 SCC OnLine P&H 84] P&H HC directs Chandigarh Housing Board to consider the petitioner’s representation vis-à-vis issuing an acceptance-cum-demand letter qua the allotment of 3BHK flat In a petition seeking issuance of a writ of mandamus directing the Chandigarh Housing Board to issue an acceptance-cum-demand letter qua the allotment of 3BHK flat in the oustees category as per the Scheme dated 30-01-2017 and Rules under the Chandigarh Allotment of Dwelling Units to the Oustees of Chandigarh Scheme, 1996, the division Bench of Augustine George Masih and Harpreet Singh Brar, JJ. Directed the authorities to consider the petitioner’s representation regarding the instant matter rather than deciding the matter on merits. [Paramjit Singh v. State (UT, Chandigarh), 2023 SCC OnLine P&H 416] P&H HC | Date of eligibility is synonymous to the date of appointment for a particular post In a petition challenging the order upholding appointment of the respondent as the Lambardar of Village Basma, Augustine George Masih, J. disposed of the present petition on grounds of it being infructuous but clarified that in the light of the eligibility to be seen being the date of appointment on the post of Lambardar, the appointment of Jagtar Singh could not be said to be illegal as, on the said date, he was eligible for appointment to the post of Lambardar. [Satnam Singh v. Financial Commissioner, Punjab, 2019 SCC OnLine P&H 2260] Petitioner had approached the Court before a Bench of Augustine George Masih, J., challenging order passed by the Financial Commissioner, Haryana, whereby the Commissioner had proceeded to set aside the mutation sanctioned in favour of petitioner and Respondent 7 as per their natural succession. Further ordered that the mutation be executed as per the registered Will in favour of Respondents 5 and 6 as the registered Wills were in favour of them. [Bhagwan Dass v. State of Haryana, 2019 SCC OnLine P&H 62] An appeal was made against the judgment and decree passed by the Additional District Judge whereby the suit filed by the appellant-plaintiff for recovery of the amount from the respondent-defendant had been set aside by allowing the appeal and dismissing the suit of the appellant-plaintiff. Augustine George Masih, J. upheld the decision of the lower court as there was no evidence on record to prove the contentions made by the appellant. [Punjab State Warehousing Corporation Limited v. Paramjit Singh, 2019 SCC OnLine P&H 1229] Reinstatement of a workman in service with 50% back wages: P&H HC remands matter back to the single Judge In a civil writ petition challenging an award passed by Labour Court, Amritsar, by which reinstating the respondent-workman in service with 50% back wages, the division bench of Ranjan Gogoi, CJ and Augustine George Masih, J. remanded the matter back to the single judge to determine whether it is an “industry” and the respondent “workman” falls within the meaning of the said expression as defined in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. [Diocese of Amritsar of Church of North India v. Rashid Masih, 2011 SCC OnLine P&H 2731] 1. https://mediationcentrephhc.gov.in/jjmc/. 2. Supra 3. Supra 4. https://main.sci.gov.in/pdf/Collegium/06112023_142822.pdf.


--- [Justice Augustine George Masih | Supreme Court of India | India] ---
Justice Augustine George Masih Born on March 12, 1963 at Ropar [Punjab]. After initial schooling in St. Mary’s Convent School, Kasauli (H.P.), completed school education from Saifuddin Tahir High School, Aligarh. Graduated in Science [Honours] and then LL.B. (Hons.) from Aligarh Muslim University at Aligarh. Enrolled as an Advocate on the rolls of Bar Council of Punjab & Haryana Bar Council on June 06, 1987. Practiced on both Original and Appellate sides in the field of Constitution Law, Service Law, Labour Law, Civil Law, etc. Also appeared in the Supreme Court, High Courts of Punjab and Haryana, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, and various other Courts and Tribunals. Held the posts of Assistant Advocate General, Deputy Advocate General, Additional Advocate General in the office of Advocate General, Punjab. Sworn in as Additional Judge of Punjab & Haryana High Court on July 10, 2008 and became a Permanent Judge on January 14, 2011. Elevated as Chief Justice of Rajasthan High Court on May 30, 2023. Elevated as Judge of the Supreme Court and assumed charge on November 09, 2023.


--- [A.G. Masih - Supreme Court Observer] ---
A.G. Masih A.G. Masih Sitting Judge of the Supreme Court of India Assumed Office9th Nov, 2023 Retires On11th Mar, 2028 Previously Chief Justice of Rajasthan High CourtMay 30th 2023 - November 8th 2023 Permanent Judge of Punjab & Haryana High CourtJanuary 14th 2011-May 29th 2023 Additional Judge of Punjab & Haryana High CourtJuly 10th 2008 - January 13th 2011 Profile Early Life and Education Justice Augustine George Masih was born on 12 March 1963 at Ropar in Punjab. He did his primary education at St. Mary’s Convent School, Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh. He went on to complete high school at Saifuddin Tahir High School, Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh. He graduated with a degree in Science and then did his LLB from the Aligarh Muslim University. Career as an Advocate Justice Masih enrolled as an Advocate at the Bar Council of Punjab & Haryana on 6 June 1987. He practised constitutional law, service law, labour law, and civil law matters. He practised at several Tribunals, the Punjab and Haryana, Delhi, and Himachal Pradesh High Courts and the Supreme Court. During his practice at the Punjab and Haryana High Court, he held the posts of Assistant Advocate General, Deputy Advocate General and Additional Advocate General for Punjab. Career as a Judge On 10 July 2008, Justice Masih was appointed as the Additional Judge of Punjab & Haryana High Court. On 14 January 2011, he became a Permanent Judge of the High Court. He held the office until he was elevated as the Chief Justice of the Rajasthan High Court on 30 May 2023. On 6 November 2023, the Supreme Court collegium, led by former CJI D.Y. Chandrachud, recommended Justice Masih as a Judge of the Supreme Court of India. The resolution observed that during his long tenure as a judge of the High Court, Justice Masih had significant experience in diverse fields of law. The resolution also noted that Justice Masih’s appointment will bring diversity and inclusion to the Supreme Court as he belongs to a minority community. He took oath on 9 November 2023. Justice Masih has authored 101 judgements and has been a part of 227 benches during his tenure so far. Out of his authored judgements, Justice Masih has authored the maximum judgements in criminal matters (24%). This is followed by direct taxation (12%), customs (9%), excise (5%) and service matters (5%). Notable Judgments In V. Senthil Balaji v Directorate of Enforcement (2024), a Bench of Justices A.S. Oka and Masih drew a fine line between robust investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) and the right to a speedy trial under Article 21 of the Constitution. The Court held that although the allegations were grave, Section 45(1)(ii) PMLA does not authorise indefinite pre-trial incarceration. It emphasised that when trial is unlikely to conclude within a reasonable time, bail must be considered. Accordingly, the Bench granted bail to V. Senthil Balaji, a former Transport Minister of Tamil Nadu, subject to stringent conditions and directed expedited trial. In A.K. Jayaprakash v S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao (2025), a Bench of CJI B.R. Gavai and Justice Masih clarified that a delay in compliance does not amount to contempt of court unless there is wilful or contumacious intent. In 2018 the Supreme Court had directed payment of dues by Punjab National Bank to Jayaprakash, a former manager of Nedungadi Bank. Contempt petitions were filed seeking pensionary benefits for allegedly deliberate non-compliance as the Bank released the dues only in 2019. The Justice Masih-authored judgement noted that civil contempt requires proof of intent and reiterated that contempt jurisdiction cannot be used to raise new claims. As the litigation dated back to the 1980s however, the Court awarded 3 lakh compensation to the petitioner’s widow. In Bhawana Gupta v State of Punjab (2023), Justice Masih granted interim bail to Bhawana Kishore and other Times Now reporters who were booked under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 (SC/ST Act) for alleged casteist remarks. Amongst other things, he reasoned that the accused, being a news network’s senior correspondent, deserved to get an interim bail. In Soben Contract and Commercial Ltd v Qonquests Technical Solutions (2022), the appellant approached the Punjab & Haryana High Court for the dismissal of a suit. They contended that there was an arbitration clause in a subsequent agreement. A bench comprising Justice Masih and Justice Sandeep Moudgil however, denied the appeal. They reasoned that a matter could not be referred to arbitration on the basis of a subsequent agreement which was not in dispute when the parties approached the Court. In Randeep Tiwari v State of Haryana (2022), a Bench comprising Justices Masih and Alok Jain had a midnight hearing on the blockade of National Highway-44 by protesting farmers. The Court directed the State of Haryana to ensure that the highway was open for free flow and movement of traffic without any inconvenience to the public. The Bench also directed the government to investigate the cause of the issue. Highlighting administrative failures, the Court remarked that “such illegal activities cannot be permitted” because the National Highway was a lifeline that connects Delhi with different surrounding states.


--- [Augustine George Masih - grokipedia.com] ---
Augustine George Masih (born 12 March 1963) is an Indian jurist serving as a judge of the Supreme Court of India since 9 November 2023.[1][2] He previously held the position of Chief Justice of the Rajasthan High Court from 30 May 2023 and served as a judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court from 2008 to 2023.[1][2][3]Born in Ropar, Punjab, Masih completed his early schooling at St. Mary’s Convent School in Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh, and Saifuddin Tahir High School in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, before earning a B.Sc. (Honours) and LL.B. (Honours) from Aligarh Muslim University.[1][2][3] Enrolled as an advocate with the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana on 6 June 1987, he practiced in constitutional, service, labour, and civil law across the Punjab and Haryana High Court, other high courts, and the Supreme Court, while also serving in governmental roles as Assistant Advocate General, Deputy Advocate General, and Additional Advocate General for Punjab.[1][2][3]Masih was appointed as an additional judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on 10 July 2008, confirmed as a permanent judge on 14 January 2011, and elevated to Chief Justice of the Rajasthan High Court in 2023 before his Supreme Court appointment.[1][2][3] His judicial tenure includes decisions on matters such as interim bail under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, arbitration referrals, and the eligibility of migrant Scheduled Tribe members for benefits in other states.[2][3] He is scheduled to retire on 11 March 2028.[2] Early life and education Birth, family, and upbringing Augustine George Masih was born on 12 March 1963 in Ropar, Punjab.[1][2] His family background reflects a Christian heritage, consistent with his surname "Masih," which denotes a messianic connotation in Punjabi Christian communities, though specific details on his parents or siblings remain undocumented in public records.[4]Masih's upbringing involved relocation for education, beginning with primary schooling at St. Mary's Convent School in Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh, a institution affiliated with the Catholic Church that emphasized disciplined, value-based learning.[1][5] He subsequently completed his secondary education at Saifuddin Tahir High School in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, where he spent much of his formative years, adapting to a diverse educational environment in a Muslim-majority institution.[6][3] This period in Aligarh shaped his early exposure to pluralistic settings, though limited biographical sources provide no further insights into familial influences or socioeconomic context beyond these institutional affiliations.[2] Schooling and university studies Augustine George Masih completed his initial schooling at St. Mary's Convent School in Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh.[2][5] He subsequently finished his secondary education at Saifuddin Tahir High School in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh.[7][5]Masih pursued higher education at Aligarh Muslim University in Aligarh, where he earned a Bachelor of Science degree with honours.[1][3] He then obtained a Bachelor of Laws degree with honours from the same institution, laying the foundation for his legal career.[1][3] Legal practice Enrollment and professional experience as advocate Masih enrolled as an advocate on the rolls of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana on June 6, 1987.[2][8] He commenced his legal practice primarily before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, focusing on constitutional law, service law, labour law, and civil law.[2][8]During his tenure as an advocate, spanning over two decades until his elevation to the judiciary in 2008, Masih served in governmental legal roles for the state of Punjab, including as Assistant Advocate General and Additional Advocate General.[6][9] These positions involved representing the state in high court proceedings across his areas of specialization.[6] Judicial career Tenure at Punjab and Haryana High Court Justice Augustine George Masih was sworn in as an Additional Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on July 10, 2008.[1][2] He was confirmed as a Permanent Judge of the court on January 14, 2011, and continued in that capacity until May 29, 2023, when he was transferred to head the Rajasthan High Court.[2][1] During this approximately 15-year tenure, Masih handled a range of civil, criminal, and constitutional matters, rising to become the senior-most puisne judge at the time of his elevation.[10]One notable decision from his time at the Punjab and Haryana High Court involved granting interim bail in Bhawana Gupta v. State of Punjab (2023), where reporters from Times Now, including senior correspondent Bhawana Kishore, faced sedition charges under Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code for covering a farmer's suicide during protests.[2][8] Masih ruled that the charges appeared prima facie unsustainable, emphasizing that journalistic reporting on public events does not equate to sedition, and directed the release of the applicants on interim bail pending further proceedings.[2]Masih also participated in benches addressing educational policy challenges, such as in a 2013 writ petition contesting the Punjab School Education Board (Amendment) Ordinance, where he, alongside Chief JusticeSanjay Kishan Kaul, examined the ordinance's validity amid concerns over teacher appointments and board autonomy.[11] His judgments during this period were noted by the Supreme Court Collegium for their reasoned approach, contributing to his reputation prior to higher judicial elevations.[12] Chief Justice of Rajasthan High Court Justice Augustine George Masih was appointed Chief Justice of the Rajasthan High Court on 30 May 2023, succeeding Justice Indrajit Mahanty upon the latter's elevation to the Supreme Court of India.[1][13] The appointment was notified by the central government on 27 May 2023, transferring him from his position as the senior-most puisne judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.[14][10]Masih's tenure as Chief Justice was brief, spanning approximately five months until his own elevation to the Supreme Court of India on 9 November 2023.[1][2] During this period, he presided over division benches addressing criminal appeals, including Sulochana v. State of Rajasthan, where the court examined acquittals in a kidnapping case involving minor victims.[15] His administrative role involved overseeing the court's operations amid Rajasthan's pending caseload, though no major institutional reforms or controversies were publicly associated with his leadership.[16]The short duration of Masih's chief justiceship reflected the Supreme Court collegium's recommendation on 6 November 2023, prioritizing his seniority and judicial experience for elevation to the apex court.[2][17] This rapid transition underscored the collegium's assessment of his suitability for higher constitutional adjudication, building on over 15 years of high court service.[16] Appointment and role at Supreme Court of India Justice Augustine George Masih was recommended for appointment as a Judge of the Supreme Court of India by the Supreme Court Collegium on 6 November 2023, recognizing his seniority as the seventh-most senior High Court judge overall and his expertise in constitutional, service, labour, and cooperative matters.[3][8] He was sworn in on 9 November 2023 by Chief Justice D. Y. Chandrachud, marking his elevation from the position of Chief Justice of the Rajasthan High Court.[18][2]Masih's appointment filled one of the vacancies in the Supreme Court, contributing to restoring the court's full strength of 34 judges at the time.[19] His tenure is scheduled to last until retirement on 10 January 2028, upon attaining the age of 65.[18]In his role as a puisne judge, Masih participates in benches constituted by the Chief Justice to adjudicate appeals from High Courts, writ petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution, and other significant cases involving civil, criminal, and constitutional law.[2] His judicial assignments leverage his prior experience from over 15 years on the Punjab and Haryana High Court bench, where he handled diverse matters prior to his elevation to Rajasthan.[6] Notable judgments and decisions Pre-Supreme Court rulings During his tenure as a judge at the Punjab and Haryana High Court from 2008 to 2023, Justice Augustine George Masih delivered several rulings emphasizing procedural fairness, evidence standards, and public interest. In Bhawana Gupta v. State of Punjab (2023), he granted interim bail to senior journalists from Times Now, including Bhawana Kishore, who were booked under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act for alleged casteist remarks during reporting; the decision highlighted their professional status and the principle that bail is the rule rather than the exception in appropriate cases.[2] In Randeep Tiwari v. State of Haryana (2022), Masih directed Haryana authorities to remove a farmer blockade obstructing National Highway-44, issuing the order during a midnight hearing to prioritize public access and administrative responsibility for maintaining essential infrastructure.[2]Other decisions from the Punjab and Haryana High Court underscored evidentiary rigor and administrative eligibility criteria. In Punjab State Warehousing Corporation Limited v. Paramjit Singh (2019 SCC OnLine P&H 1229), Masih set aside a money decree against the corporation, finding insufficient evidence to prove the plaintiff's claimed losses from delayed payments.[3] Similarly, in Bhagwan Dass v. State of Haryana (2019 SCC OnLine P&H 62), he upheld the genuineness of a registered will, directing mutation of property in favor of the beneficiaries named therein based on verified execution procedures.[3] In Satnam Singh v. Financial Commissioner, Punjab (2019 SCC OnLine P&H 2260), the court clarified that eligibility for appointment as a lambardar (village headman) is assessed as of the date of appointment, affirming Jagtar Singh's selection despite subsequent disqualifications.[3]As Chief Justice of the Rajasthan High Court from May 30, 2023, to November 8, 2023, Masih's brief tenure included rulings on arbitration and limitation periods. In Magenta Power (P) Ltd. v. Rajasthan Electronics & Instrument Ltd. (2023 SCC OnLine Raj 3391), he appointed a retired High Courtjudge as arbitrator to resolve disputes arising from three identical contracts, invoking the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, to ensure efficient adjudication.[3] In Kanta v. State of Rajasthan (2023 SCC OnLine Raj 2034), the court rejected a petition seeking condonation of a 1,500-day delay in filing, holding that unexplained lapses beyond the statutory limit undermine judicial timelines unless supported by compelling justification.[3][6] Supreme Court contributions Justice Augustine George Masih assumed office as a judge of the Supreme Court of India on November 9, 2023.[1] In Gyan Prakash v. Union of India (Writ Petition (C) No. 1272 of 2019, decided May 21, 2025), a bench comprising Justices Abhay S. Oka and Masih issued directions to the Union Government and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to remove encroachments on national highways, emphasizing the Central Government's duty to maintain encroachment-free right-of-way for public safety.[20][21] The Court mandated formation of surveillance and patrol teams, regular inspections, and a grievance redressal mechanism, observing that encroachments contribute to accidents and that highways, as Central property, require proactive enforcement under the Control of National Highways (Land and Traffic) Act, 2002.[22]As part of a nine-judge Constitution Bench in Mineral Area Development Authority v. Steel Authority of India (decided July 25, 2024), Justice Masih concurred with the 8:1 majority holding that royalty payable under the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, is a contractual payment for mineral extraction rights, not a tax, thereby affirming States' legislative competence under Entry 23 of List II (Seventh Schedule) to levy taxes on mineral-bearing lands and mineral rights.[23][24] The ruling clarified that royalties do not preclude State taxation, distinguishing them from imposts as even private lessors could demand similar payments without tax authority.[25]In All India Judges Association v. Union of India (decided May 20, 2025), a bench including Chief Justice B.R. Gavai, Justice Masih, and Justice K.V. Chandran directed uniform pension benefits for retired High Court judges under the "one rank, one pension" principle, ruling that States must refund judges' National Pension System (NPS) contributions with interest while retaining their own shares.[26] The decision addressed disparities in pension schemes, mandating parity with judges appointed pre-2006 under the old pension scheme to ensure financial equity post-retirement.[27]Justice Masih authored the judgment in State of Maharashtra v. Bandu (Criminal Appeal No. 2695 of 2025, decided July 23, 2025), upholding a conviction under Sections 302 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code for murder while acquitting on lesser charges, based on eyewitness testimony and circumstantial evidence establishing common intention.[28] In another authored opinion, National Highways Authority of India v. M/s. Hindustan Construction Co. Ltd. (Civil Appeal No. 8540 of 2024, decided November 13, 2024), he addressed contractual disputes in highway projects, interpreting arbitration clauses strictly within agreement parameters.[29]With Justice Dipankar Datta, Justice Masih granted retrospective application of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, in a October 14, 2025, ruling, ordering release of a convict determined to be a juvenile at the time of the offense, prioritizing rehabilitation over prolonged incarceration.[30] These decisions reflect his involvement in constitutional, administrative, and criminal jurisprudence, emphasizing statutory interpretation, governmental accountability, and procedural fairness.
