=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Fernández Anchorena Palace - Wikipedia]
February 11, 2024 -The mansion was commissioned by Juan Antonio Fernández and his wife, Rosa de Anchorena, toEduardo Le Monnier(1873 – 1931), a French Argentine architect. Designed in 1907 in the Second Empire style favored among Argentine high society at the time, the palace was completed in 1909, though ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fernández_Anchorena_Palace

[Eduardo Le Monnier - Wikipedia]
October 27, 2025 -He obtained the Municipal Prize for the Best Facade of 1903 for the residence he built for Bartolomé Ginocchio in Lima Street No. 1642. Two years later he received the third prize for the façade of Felix Egusquiza's residence on Libertad Street No. 1394 and in 1907 presided over the SCA. Thanks to these recognitions, different aristocratic families hire him to make his large residences in the Barrio Norte. The most important of these is the Fernández Anchorena Palace, now home to the Apostolic Nunciature, on Avenida Alvear 1637, built between 1907 and 1909.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eduardo_Le_Monnier

[Fernández Anchorena Palace in Buenos Aires]
The mansion was commissioned by Juan Antonio Fernández and his wife, Rosa de Anchorena, toEduardo Le Monnier(1873 – 1931), a French Argentine architect. Designed in 1907 in the Second Empire style favored among Argentine high society at ...
URL: https://en.advisor.travel/poi/Fernandez-Anchorena-Palace-7188

[Fernández Anchorena Palace: Neoclassical palace in Recoleta, Argentina]
The palace represents the architectural preferences of Argentine high society during the early 20th century, when European styles influenced local construction. Located at coordinates -34.589444, -58.385833, the palace functions as the Apostolic Nunciature, the diplomatic mission of the Holy See in Argentina. The building was never inhabited by its original owners, the Fernández-Anchorena family, who instead used it for social events and ceremonies.
URL: https://aroundus.com/p/4232370-fernandez-anchorena-palace

[Palaces of Buenos Aires | Free Tour Buenos Aires]
December 18, 2025 -It was built by the French architectRene Sergentfor the Chilean diplomat Matías Errazuriz and his wife Josefina de Alvear. Since 1944 it has been the Museum of Decorative Art, which is why it is open to the public.
URL: https://www.buenosairesfreewalks.com/what-to-see/palaces-of-buenos-aires/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Fernández Anchorena Palace - Wikipedia] ---
The Fernández Anchorena Palace is an architecturally significant former residence in the Recoleta section of Buenos Aires, Argentina. Today, it serves as the Apostolic Nunciature in Argentina.


--- [Eduardo Le Monnier - Wikipedia] ---
Eduardo Le Monnier (born Edouard Stanislas Louis Le Monnier; 30 September 1873 in Paris – 14 February 1931 in Buenos Aires) was a French architect recognized for his work in Brazil, Uruguay and mostly in Argentina.


--- [Fernández Anchorena Palace in Buenos Aires] ---
No content


--- [Fernández Anchorena Palace: Neoclassical palace in Recoleta, Argentina] ---
No content


--- [Palaces of Buenos Aires | Free Tour Buenos Aires] ---
Palaces of Buenos Aires, a tour of the most outstanding buildings in the city of Buenos Aires. At the beginning of the SXX, Buenos Aires was one of the richest places in the world. At that time the city was undergoing great urban changes influenced by French fashion in urban planning and architecture. Many of the families of the Buenos Aires aristocracy decided to renew themselves, moving to the north of the city, in the Retiro, Recoleta and Palermo neighborhoods where they built their new houses. The result was a great collection of majestic palaces, whose architectural legacy continues to embellish the streets of Buenos Aires. Here we leave you the best Palaces of Buenos Aires: SAN MARTIN PALACE The San Martín Palace is, today, the headquarters of the Argentine Chancellery. It was originally the great house of the Anchorena family, built by the architect Alejandro Cristophersen for Mrs. María Mercedes Castellanos of Anchorena. It is characterized by a large pointed reception with two staircases of honor that lead to the raised upper floor or “piano nobile”. Its façade follows the guidelines of the Beaux Arts school in Paris. In 1936 it was bought by the Argentine Foreign Ministry and was named “Palacio San Martín” fulfilling the function of Headquarters of Argentine Diplomacy. In our Free Tour Recoleta you will find this beautiful Palace, touring this picturesque neighborhood of Buenos Aires! PEACE PALACE It is the largest Palace in Buenos Aires with 12 thousand square meters. It was the home of José Camilo Paz, founder of the newspaper La Prensa. Its façade reminds us of a fortified French Chateau, with high walls and elegant crowns. Its main door is one of the great jewels of Buenos Aires and, through it, we access the large round room that today remains intact and dazzles all its visitors. Today the Palace belongs to the Military Circle and can be visited by appointment. Here we leave your website for more information. ORTIZ BASUALDO PALACE It is the most refined Palace in Buenos Aires. Its large dome with a lamp crowns the end of Avenida Alvear on the edge of Recoleta and Retiro. The house was built by the Ortiz Basualdo family and decorated by the most famous decoration house in history: the Manson Jansen in Paris. There the Prince of Wales Edward VIII stayed on his visit to Argentina. In 1939 it was bought by the French state to serve as an embassy. In the 70s it was sought to demolish it to build the Illia highway, but the French state opposed the expropriation and survived so that we can see it today. PEREDA PALACE Today it is the Embassy of Brazil. It was originally the home of Celedonio Pereda, who commissioned a palace with a facade inspired by the National Museum of France in Paris. Its ceilings were painted by the great Catalan painter José María Sert. In the 1930s, the President of Brazil Getulio Vargas stayed there, for which, in 1945 after Pereda’s death, it was bought by the Brazilian State to be an embassy. ALZAGA UNZUE PALACE This elegant mansion was the house that Félix Saturnino de Álzaga and Elena Peña Unzué bought after getting married. Today it is the La Mansión Suite of the Four Seasons Hotel, one of the most luxurious places in Buenos Aires and where various celebrities such as Madonna and the Rolling Stones have stayed. It can be enjoyed by attending the hotel restaurant. FERNANDEZ ANCHORENA PALACE It is currently the Apostolic Nunciature, the Vatican Embassy. There, Adelia Harilaos de Olmos lived, one of the most outstanding women in the history of Buenos Aires who served as president of the Society of Charity with a great charitable and philanthropic work throughout the country. Very close to the church, she organized the Eucharistic Congress in 1934 and was named pontifical marchioness. When she died, she donated her house to the church and, today, it is the Nunciature, where Pope John Paul II stayed on his visit to Argentina. This immense palace is part of our Free Tour Recoleta. DUHAU PALACE This beautiful and solemn mansion belonged to Luis Duhau, Minister of Agriculture. Today it operates as part of the Park Hyatt Hotel. The hotel consists of a historic building and a modern one on the other side down the ravine. Between both buildings is a beautiful terraced park where you can attend a luxury restaurant. You will find this Palace in our Free Tour Recoleta! MAGUIRE RESIDENCE This beautiful mansion dazzles all who walk along Avenida Alvear. Its style is very contrasting, with the exposed brick and the large bars worked with the best iron craftsmanship, making it more British than other Buenos Aires palaces. It was the home of Alexander Hume, a Scottish railway entrepreneur and was later bought by the Duhau family. Today it is still a private residence. You will find this mansion in our Free Tour Recoleta. ERRAZURIZ PALACE It is one of the largest and most dazzling palaces in the city, and it can also be easily visited. It was built by the French architect Rene Sergent for the Chilean diplomat Matías Errazuriz and his wife Josefina de Alvear. Since 1944 it has been the Museum of Decorative Art, which is why it is open to the public. There you will see different rooms with different decorative styles, from neo medieval, baroque and even Art Deco. It deserves a visit! Here we leave your website for more information. BOSCH PALACE The Bosch family home is, today, the United States Embassy. It was bought at the initiative of Ambassador Robert Bliss from Ernesto Bosch, who was Chancellor of the Argentine government. Work of the architect Rene Sergent with Carlos Thays Gardens, it was the place where several presidents of the United States such as Roosevelt, Eisenhower, Bush and Obama stayed. BONUS TRACK Buenos Aires has many more Palaces to discover. Some a little smaller or unknown, but here are some: Acevedo Palace (Saudi Arabian Embassy), Leloir Palace (Italian circle) and, outside the city, the Victoria Ocampo House.
