=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Spencer Perceval - Wikipedia]
A follower of William Pitt the Younger, Perceval always described himself as a "friend of Mr. Pitt", rather than a Tory. He was opposed to Catholic emancipation and reform of Parliament; he supported the war against Napoleon and the abolition of the Atlantic slave trade. After a late entry into politics, his rise to power was rapid; he was appointed as Solicitor General and then Attorney General for England and Wales in the Addington ministry, Chancellor of the Exchequer and Leader of the House of Commons in the second Portland ministry, and then became prime minister in 1809.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spencer_Perceval

[Biography of PERCEVAL, Spencer — Archontology]
May 8, 2025 · He was appointed First Lord of the Treasury (4 Oct 1809) and became prime minister, but had a great difficulty in filling posts in his Cabinet and continued to be his own Chancellor of the Exchequer (1807-1812).
URL: https://www.archontology.org/nations/uk/bpm/perceval.php

[The assassination of Spencer Perceval: what does The Gazette reveal?]
In the same year as the King’s golden jubilee, the cabinet’s recommendation of Perceval as the new prime minister was accepted, and on 4 October 1809, he was appointed ‘the Right Honourable Spencer Perceval, Chancellor and Under Treasurer of His Majesty's Exchequer’ (Gazette issue 16312).
URL: https://m.thegazette.co.uk/all-notices/content/100643

[PERCEVAL, Hon. Spencer (1762-1812), of Elm Grove, Ealing, Mdx. | History of Parliament Online]
At a meeting at Lord Lowther’s, 4 July, he was earmarked in his absence as a future chancellor of the Exchequer and leader of the House, with the concurrence of Canning and Castlereagh. Lords Hawkesbury and Bathurst had no objection even to his being premier, but he was not informed of this, ...
URL: https://www.historyofparliamentonline.org/volume/1790-1820/member/perceval-hon-spencer-1762-1812

[Grokipedia: Spencer Perceval]
As Chancellor of the Exchequer from March 1807 to October 1809, Spencer Perceval managed Britain's wartime finances amid escalating expenditures for the Napoleonic Wars, prioritizing loans and administrative efficiencies over broad tax increases ...
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Spencer_Perceval


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Spencer Perceval - Wikipedia] ---
Spencer Perceval (1 November 1762 – 11 May 1812) was a British statesman and barrister who was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from October 1809 until his assassination in May 1812. He is the only British prime minister to have been assassinated, and the only solicitor-general or attorney-general to have become prime minister.
The younger son of The Earl of Egmont, an Anglo-Irish earl, Perceval was educated at Harrow School and Trinity College, Cambridge. He studied law at Lincoln's Inn, practised as a barrister on the Midland circuit, and in 1796 became a King's Counsel. He entered politics at age 33 as a member of Parliament (MP) for Northampton. A follower of William Pitt the Younger, Perceval always described himself as a "friend of Mr. Pitt", rather than a Tory. He was opposed to Catholic emancipation and reform of Parliament; he supported the war against Napoleon and the abolition of the Atlantic slave trade.
After a late entry into politics, his rise to power was rapid; he was appointed as Solicitor General and then Attorney General for England and Wales in the Addington ministry, Chancellor of the Exchequer and Leader of the House of Commons in the second Portland ministry, and then became prime minister in 1809. At the head of a weak government, Perceval faced a number of crises during his term in office, including an inquiry into the Walcheren expedition, the mental illness and incapacity of King George III, economic depression, and Luddite riots. He overcame those crises, successfully pursued the Peninsular War in the face of opposition defeatism, and won the support of the Prince Regent. His position was stronger by early 1812, when in the lobby of the House of Commons, he was assassinated by John Bellingham, a merchant with a grievance against his government. Bellingham was hanged one week later.
Perceval had four older brothers who survived to adulthood. Through expiry of their male-line, male heirs, the earldom of Egmont passed to one of his great-grandsons in the early 20th century and became extinct in 2011.


--- [Biography of PERCEVAL, Spencer — Archontology] ---
Spencer Perceval was the second son of the Earl of Egmont, whose ancestors originated from Ireland. He received his MA degree from Trinity College, Cambridge. He was called to the bar in 1786 and practicised on the Midland Circuit. His political career began in 1796, when he was elected to Parliament for Northampton (MP, 1796-1812). Supported by his patron, William Pitt the Younger, Perceval held successively the two senior posts of Solicitor General (1801-1802) and Attorney General (1802-1806). As an enthusiastic Anglican, Perceval ensured his support for Wilberforce's anti-slavery campaign. He was appointed First Lord of the Treasury (4 Oct 1809) and became prime minister, but had a great difficulty in filling posts in his Cabinet and continued to be his own Chancellor of the Exchequer (1807-1812). While his 1810 Budget was successful, criticism of the Bank of England caused a prolonged financial crisis and increasing inflation caused by the war with Napoleonic France worsened economic problems. He took a firm line against growing restlessness of the population while not interesting himself in the causes of the unrest. Abroad, lack of military success and inability to conclude the war successfully brought increased pressure on his administration. Deteriorating health of King George III led to the successful passing of the Regency Bill (4 Feb 1811) and Perceval was also successful in curtailing financial support for the Prince Regent. The general situation was improving when he was murdered in the lobby of the House of Commons (11 May 1812) by a deranged man who had vainly applied to him for redress of a personal complaint against the government. Biography source: [1, pp. 98-103] |


--- [The assassination of Spencer Perceval: what does The Gazette reveal?] ---
Spencer Perceval is well known by most (pub quiz aficionados) to be the only serving British prime minister to have been assassinated. But what do we know about the man himself, and his political life, before that fateful afternoon in May 1812? And what do we know of the vengeful John Bellingham, who shot the unsuspecting Perceval in the heart in the lobby of the House of Commons, in ‘an act almost unexampled in the annals of English history’ (Gazette issue 16612)? Said to be of good character by contemporaries (if not, perhaps, by the general public), and a moderate Tory, Perceval was a family man not given to excess, who gave to charity and supported the abolition of the slave trade. In his memoirs, William Wilberforce wrote that Perceval 'was one of the most conscientious men I ever knew’. The son of Irish peer, John Perceval, 2nd Earl of Egmont (Gazette issue 9369) and Catherine Perceval (nee Compton), the young Perceval was born on 1 November 1762. After being schooled at Harrow and graduating from Trinity College, Cambridge, he became a solicitor, studying at Lincoln’s Inn, London. He is deputy recorder of Northampton in 1795 Perceval’s first appearance in The Gazette is on 17 November 1795 as deputy recorder of Northampton (a judicial officer), assuring loyalty to the sovereign following unrest in and around Westminster, ‘in gross Violation of the Publick Peace, to the actual Danger of Our Royal Person’ (Gazette issue 13833). This most likely refers to the preceding month’s events, when King George III had been pelted with stones during a time of disorders over the scarcity and high price of food (the Bread Riots). Perceval had also been made commissioner of bankrupts in 1790, a role appointed by, and under the general superintendence of, the lord chancellor or lord keeper. He becomes MP for Northampton in 1796 By his mid-30s, Perceval is elected, unopposed, as member of parliament for the town and borough of Northampton (which he held until his death) in the 1796 general election, and again in 1802: ‘Town and Borough of Northampton. The Honorable Spencer Perceval’ (Gazette issue 13899) and (Gazette issue 15498) He attends the state funeral of William Pitt the Younger In 1806, Perceval acts as emblem bearer at the funeral of William Pitt, prime minister (Gazette issue 15895). He described himself as a friend of Pitt above being a Tory. He is appointed chancellor of the exchequer Perceval was made solicitor general in 1801 and on promotion a year later, remained attorney general until Pitt's death. He held the position of chancellor of the exchequer from March 1807 until his death in May 1812, even while prime minister, through apparent lack of desirable (or available) alternative (Gazette issue 16015). He was also given the chancellorship of the duchy of Lancaster, to bolster his income. He is appointed prime minister In the same year as the King’s golden jubilee, the cabinet’s recommendation of Perceval as the new prime minister was accepted, and on 4 October 1809, he was appointed ‘the Right Honourable Spencer Perceval, Chancellor and Under Treasurer of His Majesty's Exchequer’ (Gazette issue 16312). The Regency Act is passed to address the malady of King George III The most notable legislation under Perceval’s premiership was the passing of the Regency Bill 1810 and the Regency Act 1811. Due to King George III’s worsening mental health following the death of his beloved daughter, Princess Amelia, the bill proposed the appointment of his son, the Prince of Wales, as Regent, but with restrictions for a year, during which time it was hoped that the King would return to health. The act gained royal assent on 5 February 1811 (Gazette issue 16451): A Gazette extraordinary edition followed on 7 February 1811 (Gazette issue 16450), announcing members of the privy council and ‘His Royal Highness the PRINCE of WALES, Regent of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland’. The Prince of Wales continued as Regent until his father's death in 1820, when he was crowned King George IV. He is assassinated by Bellingham On 11 May 1812, while making his way to a committee in the Commons chamber, Perceval was shot in the heart by a pistol at point-blank range by John Bellingham, in an ‘atrocious act of assassination on the person of the Right Honourable Spencer Perceval, First Commissioner of His Majesty's Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer, within the walls of the Honourable House of Commons, on his way to the discharge of his important public duties’ (Gazette issue 16603). Perceval collapsed and died soon after. Bellingham sat down and awaited his arrest. He was taken to a parliamentary cell overnight, before being taken to Newgate Prison. Many loyal addresses to the Prince Regent follow Loyal addresses followed throughout May and June on the melancholy occasion, expressing horror and indignation, along with the desire for punishment of the perpetrator of this ‘foul and barbarous deed’ (Gazette issue 16611). High praise was given from the lord provost of Glasgow, John Hamilton: ‘Honourable Spencer Perceval cannot fail to excite in the bosom of every man who deserves the name of Briton’ (Gazette issue 16609). The lord mayor of Cork, Thomas Dorman, stated that the king had been deprived of a 'faithful, zealous, and enlightened servant, and the country of a virtuous and upright minister’ (Gazette issue 16610). Perceval’s cousin, Spencer Compton, becomes MP for Northampton On 26 May 1812, Spencer Compton succeeded the late-Perceval as MP for Northampton: ‘Borough of Northampton: Spencer Joshua Alwyne Compton, commonly called Lord Compton, in the room of the Right Honourable Spencer Perceval, deceased’ (Gazette issue 16607). An annuity is given to Perceval’s family Parliament voted an annuity to Perceval's wife and 12 children the day after his funeral, after debate in the Commons concerning the amount. This was to make provision for his wife and help school the children, and in so doing, attempt to do justice to the services of their father, acknowledging that he was worse off as a public servant than he would have been as a lawyer. On 13 June 1812, ‘An Act is passed for settling and securing certain annuities on the widow and eldest son of the late Right Honourable Spencer Perceval; and for granting a sum of money for the use of his other children’ (Gazette issue 16611). The final Gazette mention of Perceval is on 10 July 1813, ‘An Act for confirming the renunciation made by Spencer Perceval, Esq. of his pensions, on his taking the office of a Teller of the Exchequer’ (Gazette issue 16751). Perceval was buried in the family vault in St Luke's, Charlton, on 16 May 1812, in a private funeral, at the request of his widow. A marble memorial to Perceval by sculptor Sir Richard Westmacott (Gazette issue 19525) was placed in the nave of Westminster Abbey in 1822. What does The Gazette reveal about John Bellingham? Bankruptcy notice The following 25 March 1794 bankruptcy notice is very likely to be that of the man who went on to assassinate the British prime minister in 1812 (Gazette issue 13635): A notice for creditors’ claims for the same John Bellingham was published on 2 December 1794 (Gazette issue 13728), followed by a meeting of commissioners on 30 December 1794 (Gazette issue 13736) and a final dividend of estate and effects on 5 November 1796 (Gazette issue 13948). Bellingham is said to have opened a tin factory on Oxford Street before he was declared bankrupt. He went on to become a clerk and then a merchant. After marrying Mary Neville in 1803, he went to the port of Arkhangelsk in Russia as an agent for importers and exporters. Imprisoned in Russia It was this John Bellingham, ‘an abandoned and infamous assassin’, ‘with diabolical and unfounded malice’ (Gazette issue 16605), who was arrested and imprisoned in 1804 for supposed insurance fraud while working in Russia. Bellingham had protested and attempted to impeach the governor general on his release a year later, and had pleaded with the British authorities for help. After an additional sentence was served, he was released, but without permission to leave Russia. He petitioned the Russian tsar and was permitted to leave in 1809. Bellingham had spent five years in prison, in most likely appalling conditions, and was set on seeking reparation from the British government. Seeking compensation He returned to Britain in 1809 and worked as an insurance broker, spending three years requesting compensation from the British government – petitioning parliament, writing direct to Perceval and the Prince Regent, as well as the treasury and privy council – for this apparent wrong. Compensation was not given, and ministers refused to get involved or sanction his claims. By now, the increasingly embittered Bellingham was set on more drastic measures, and purchased two pistols from a gunsmith in Skinner Street. He asked a tailor, James Taylor, to make adjustments to the inside pocket of a coat that would be nine inches in depth (to accommodate one of the pistols). Exacting his revenge On the afternoon of Monday 11 May 1812, Bellingham loitered in the lobby of the Houses of Parliament with two loaded pistols concealed under his coat. He had been a frequent visitor there in preceding few weeks, carefully observing members of the government. Once the pistol had been fired, he made no attempt to escape. Tried and executed At his Old Bailey trial on 15 May 1812, presided over by Sir James Mansfield, Bellingham showed no regret for his crime: “Finding myself thus bereft of all hopes of redress, my affairs ruined by my long imprisonment in Russia through the fault of the British minister, my property all dispersed for want of my own attention, my family driven into tribulation and want, my wife and child claiming support, which I was unable to give them, myself involved in difficulties, and pressed on all sides by claims I could not answer; and that justice refused to me which is the duty of government to give, not as a matter of favour, but of right; and Mr. Perceval obstinately refusing to sanction my claims in Parliament; and I trust this fatal catastrophe will be warning to other ministers.” He admitted that he would as well have shot the British ambassador to Russia, Lord Leveson-Gower, had he been there – he saw both as representative of his oppressors. It took the jury less than 15 minutes to find him guilty. On 18 May 1812, two days after Perceval’s funeral, Bellingham was hanged and his body carried away in a cart to St Bartholomew's Hospital to be anatomised. The only mention of his execution in The Gazette appears in the form of a threatening letter addressed to the Prince Regent that is published, with a reward offered for witnesses, that he [the Prince Regent] ‘will meet the same fate as Mr Percival if Billenghall [sic] is hung you shall be shot’ (Gazette issue 16605). Over 200 years later, the Conservative member of parliament for North West Norfolk, Sir Henry Bellingham (Gazette issue 61230), is said to be distantly related to Perceval’s assassin. Sources: Garland J, Byways in History, Spencer Perceval: Britain’s only assassinated Prime Minister [online, pdf] Old Bailey Proceedings Online, May 1812, trial of JOHN BELLINGHAM (t18120513-5), www.oldbaileyonline.org The Parliamentary Debates from the year 1803, to the present time, Vol XXIII, 1812, London, Hansard Images: 'Print showing Spencer Perceval (1762-1812), Prime Minister 1809-12 being assassinated by John Bellingham' and 'Portrait print showing Bellingham in profile published 1812' © Parliamentary Copyright


--- [PERCEVAL, Hon. Spencer (1762-1812), of Elm Grove, Ealing, Mdx. | History of Parliament Online] ---
Go To Section PERCEVAL, Hon. Spencer (1762-1812), of Elm Grove, Ealing, Mdx. Available from Boydell and Brewer Constituency Dates Family and Education b. 1 Nov. 1762, 7th s. of John Perceval†, 2nd Earl of Egmont, being 2nd s. by 2nd w., and bro. of Charles George Perceval*, 2nd Baron Arden [I]. educ. Harrow 1774-9; Trinity Coll. Camb. 1780; L. Inn 1783, called 1786. m. 10 Aug. 1790, Jane, da. of Lt.-Gen. Sir Thomas Spencer Wilson, 6th Bt.†, of Charlton, Kent, 6s. 6da. Offices Held Commr. of bankrupts 1790; surveyor of the meltings and clerk of the irons, Tower of London Mar. 1791; counsel to Admiralty 1794-1801; KC 4 Feb. 1796; bencher, L. Inn 1796, treasurer 1802; solicitor to Ordnance Aug. 1798; counsel to Camb. Univ. 1800; solicitor-gen. Feb. 1801-2, attorney-gen. Apr. 1802-Feb. 1806; chancellor of Exchequer and leader of the House Mar. 1807-Oct. 1809, and first ld. of Treasury 4 Oct. 1809-d.; chancellor of duchy of Lancaster Mar. 1807-d. Vol. London and Westminster light horse 1794-1803. Biography ‘Little P’, as Lord Eldon dubbed him, was an unlikely candidate for the highest political honours: the impecunious younger son, by his second wife, of a courtier whose brief tenure of cabinet office was remarkable only for his silence and who died when Perceval was ten, he had his own way to make. After diligent studies at Harrow and Cambridge, where he was tinged with the ideas of the evangelical Anglicans, he practised as a barrister on the midland circuit. Modest and timid, though of ‘excellent temper and engaging manners’, he did not find business enough to match his undoubted talents for several years, but his connexions and his industry redeemed his plight. The influence of his mother’s family, the Comptons of Castle Ashby, made him deputy recorder of Northampton, and his elder brother Lord Arden’s being a lord of the Admiralty in Pitt’s administration improved his prospects. When he married Arden’s wife’s sister in 1790, he was a commissioner of bankrupts. He next secured for life a legal sinecure worth £119 a year. He published anonymous pamphlets in favour of the continuance of Warren Hastings’s impeachment and in defence of public order against sedition. He was junior counsel for the crown at the trials of Thomas Paine (1792) and John Horne Tooke* (1794) and acted as the law officers’ midland deputy in prosecuting a publisher of The Rights of Man at Knutsford. To his radical opponents he appeared ‘a short, spare, pale-faced, hard, keen, sour-looking man with a voice well suited to the rest’. His private practice prospered and by 1795 he was worth £1,000 a year. In 1794 Arden, after failing in a bid to do so in 1791, had secured him the place of counsel to the Admiralty.1 Perceval’s ambitions were confined to professional honours and he rejected hints of a political career. When late in 1795 Thomas Pelham wished to give up the Irish secretaryship, he was thought of by Pitt and Portland as an eligible successor, as Thomas Steele* declined; the lord lieutenant, Camden, had an office in reversion to tempt him with and Earl Spencer urged him to accept it. But Perceval rejected Pitt’s offer of 2 Jan. 1796 for his growing family’s sake, fearing an ‘inexcusable profusion of the public money’. Instead, in the same month, he obtained a silk gown.2 In May 1796 he entered Parliament unopposed for Northampton, at the desire of his cousin Lord Compton who had succeeded to the earldom and whose heir was a child. Perceval regarded the tenure of the seat as a family trust and at the ensuing general election refused to coalesce with a candidate friendly to administration. He survived this, his only contest, with ease, and though tempted to stand for his university in 1806 and 1807, retained the seat until his death. Pitt contemplated Perceval’s seconding the address, but nothing came of it and he hoped to make his parliamentary debut on the Austrian subsidy, 13 Dec. 1796, attacking Fox violently and inveighing against ‘the spirit of democracy’, which he considered a greater threat to the constitution than the power of the crown, now minimized by the growth of enlightened public opinion, but no such speech was reported. On 24 Feb. 1797 he voted silently against the Quaker relief bill, with ‘most of the lawyers’. Yet he had won a prize for declamation at Cambridge, had been a prominent participant in the Crown and Rolls debating society and prepared assiduously to figure in debate. Drafts of his speeches, by no means all of them delivered, survive: for instance, he drafted attacks on Combe’s motion and Fox’s attempt to repeal the Treason Acts, 19 May 1797; in support of stern measures after the mutiny at the Nore next day and against Grey’s motion for parliamentary reform, 26 May, but only the gist of the Nore speech was reported, and that on 2 June. It was his speech of 4 Jan. 1798 in defence of the assessed taxes, in which he denounced the Foxite secession and panacea of reform and ‘French liberty’, that established his reputation and, according to an enthusiastic Pitt, sent Fox home ‘very sick to his supper’. Pitt was reported to have looked to Perceval as a future leader of the House and even, according to a family tradition, to have regarded him as the most competent person to succeed himself, had he perished in his duel with Tierney.3 In August 1798 Perceval became solicitor to the Ordnance, which made him £300 p.a. the richer, unlike the appointment of solicitor-general to the Queen, for which his name was canvassed and which was honorary.4 He made himself useful in debate by replying to Tierney, 22 Dec. 1798, and also by defending the income tax, 31 Dec. 1798 and 17 Apr. 1800. He defended the Helder expedition, 10 Feb., the campaign in Egypt, 18 Nov. 1800, and was frequently a government teller; on 29 Jan. 1800 he deputized for Pitt, who was ill. On 11 Feb. 1799 he defended the union with Ireland, though he did not regard it as a nostrum against Catholic pretensions, of which he was critical. In the debate on Mildmay’s monastic institutions bill, 23 June 1800, he sounded an alarm about Catholic proselytism. He justified the suspension of habeas corpus, 11 Dec. 1800, but had opposed the government, 5 July 1800, and been teller for the noes on the bread monopoly during scarcity, preferring a free market. By 1800 Perceval earned £2,600 a year, £1,800 of it at the bar. His private reputation was without blemish and he was a castigator of fashionable vices such as adultery, against which he advocated legislation: Henry Bankes maintained that Perceval was ‘as likely as any man to frame a well-digested, and rational bill’. His wife was an authority on confinements and their growing family by now required the house next door in Lincoln’s Inn Fields. He was an authority on Biblical prophecy and in an anonymous pamphlet of 1800 predicted the fall of Buonaparte. Privately, he thought the French revolution was a divine instrument for the downfall of Catholicism, and concluded that the world would end in 1926.5 Perceval had no sympathy for Pitt’s resignation over Catholic relief in 1801 and the succession of Addington provided him with further advancement. He became solicitor-general (refusing a knighthood as the son of a peer) and in the spring of 1802 succeeded Law as attorney-general. He transferred his own practice from King’s bench to Chancery, doubling his fees and outdistancing financial anxiety: by 1804 he earned nearly £10,000 a year. Politically, he soon discovered himself to be embarrassed by Addington’s administration, in which his brother Arden held office; privately, he disliked the peace preliminaries, favouring the retention of Malta and the Cape as military bases. In debate he confined himself to law business as much as possible, otherwise defending the resort to coercion in Ireland and the exclusion of Horne Tooke from Parliament and opposing the Prince of Wales’s claims to the duchy of Cornwall revenues, 31 Mar. 1802, on which subject he was adviser to the cabinet. He further defended the navy estimates, defence precautions and the renewal of war in 1803. Addington need no longer frown at the ‘warlike venom ... of that little spitfire Perceval’, as Creevey had observed him to do. After this he felt more committed to government and staunchly defended them after Emmet’s rebellion in Ireland, of which Lord Redesdale, now his brother-in-law, sent him fiery denunciations which strengthened his own prejudices. He stood by Addington in the defence debates that heralded the minister’s fall, particularly in reply to Fox’s motion of 23 Apr., when he wound up successfully, if vituperatively, for government, and in reply to Canning on 25 Apr. 1804.6 Perceval had become less insistent on purely professional success: he had refused the vacant chief justiceship of the common pleas with a peerage in the autumn of 1803. Although he claimed that, if Pitt had coalesced with Fox on succeeding Addington in 1804, he would have given up public life and accepted the chief justiceship of Chester, his conditions for agreeing to stay in office under Pitt, namely that Fox was excluded, that Addington was not made a scapegoat and that Catholic relief was ruled out, proved no obstacle to his doing so. On 13 and 14 May 1805 he made a full statement in reply to Fox of his objections to Catholic relief in so far as it meant political enfranchisement; on 8 May 1804 he had expressed his dislike of parliamentary reform. On the other hand, he was a steady friend and advocate of the abolition of the slave trade.7 As a law officer, he incurred the hostility of the radicals for his prosecution of Despard and Peltier in 1803 and Cobbett in 1804, and doubtless also for his resistance to the disgrace of Melville, April-June 1805; but he may be credited with a bill, instigated by Jeremy Bentham, to mitigate the convicts’ passage to Botany Bay, with a liberal interpretation of the Combination Acts against trade unions and an unsuccessful bid to promote the regulation of all child labour. His attempts, begun in April 1805 and continued for several years, to promote a resident clergy or alternatively an adequately paid curacy in the Anglican church were also unavailing. Perceval was an emblem bearer at Pitt’s funeral and offered £1,000 towards a subscription to pay Pitt’s debts. Pitt’s death made him poor again. Seeing no prospect of a Pittite government, he and Castlereagh consulted with Pitt’s other leading friends, 8 Feb. 1806, as to the best course of action, and agreed that while Lord Grenville was the natural leader of their party (it was Perceval who suggested the device of a trustee to release Grenville from the auditorship of the Exchequer so as to be first lord of the Treasury), his coalition with Fox and exclusion of themselves obliged them to prepare for opposition until Grenville could shake off Fox, or the King shake off both. Canning, his obvious competitor in debate, was willing for Perceval to take the lead in opposition if necessary and it was Perceval who promoted the opposition stand against Ellenborough’s admission to the cabinet: but it was ill-organized and defeated by 222 votes to 64, 3 Mar. 1806.8 In the ensuing session, in which long speeches were an opposition tactic, Perceval spoke about 70 times, notably in criticism of Windham’s military reforms: he made the attack on the Chelsea Hospital bill his own subject. Contemptuous of the government’s incompetence over business details, he was resolved by May 1806 not to join them, though he disliked the idea of a formal opposition veto on it, as concerted in July. At a meeting at Lord Lowther’s, 4 July, he was earmarked in his absence as a future chancellor of the Exchequer and leader of the House, with the concurrence of Canning and Castlereagh. Lords Hawkesbury and Bathurst had no objection even to his being premier, but he was not informed of this, nor did he learn the details of Grenville’s overtures to Canning to join the government, in which office for him was also stipulated.9 Early in October 1806, Perceval was sounded by Grenville, whose brother the Marquess of Buckingham was very eager to gain him, through Lord Ellenborough, but he made it clear that he would not be an individual recruit to government and that he looked to a general arrangement. He did not even ask what the bait was, but had it been judicial office he would probably have disliked it. He advocated active opposition when it transpired that Fox’s death would lead to no new arrangement and, encouraged by Eldon, Hawkesbury and Castlereagh, passed to the offensive in the new Parliament, November 1806. He opposed the address, 20 Dec., though without proposing an amendment. He did not, however, succeed in rallying opposition and, dependent on an allowance from his brother at a time when Canning had made it clear to Perceval that he was prepared to make his own bargain with government, he was momentarily tempted to do the same: but, while reckoned by others ‘the best debater now in the House’, he did not overrate himself as a catch for government and disagreed too strongly with them on such issues as Anglo-American relations, peace prospects, the case of the Princess of Wales and Catholic relief to pursue the matter. He had criticized the American intercourse bill, June-July 1806 and in January-February 1807 deplored the effect of the orders in council on Anglo-American relations; made a remarkable speech, one of several in which his hearers were reminded of Pitt, on 5 Jan. 1807, on the failure of peace negotiations, and taken the lead in advocating the Princess’s grievances against her husband. If the Prince was so annoyed by Perceval’s opposition to Mrs Fitzherbert’s claim to the guardianship of the child Minny Seymour early in 1806 that ‘he felt he could jump on him and stamp out his life with his feet’, he must have been further irritated by Perceval’s formal defence of the Princess as a ‘much injured lady’. This masterpiece of legal prose was not published at the time: Perceval’s friends objected. The Princess asked for publication, to blackmail the Court, but the government fell before ‘The Delicate Investigation’ was circulated and Perceval had the satisfaction of framing the new government’s formal exoneration of the Princess, 21 Apr. 1807, which recommended her reinstatement at Court.10 Perceval made it clear, in his speeches of 4 and 5 Mar. 1807, that he was an inveterate opponent of Catholic emancipation. He was accused of raising the cry of ‘No Popery’. A week later Lord Sidmouth, resolved to go out of office on this issue, approached Perceval to concert opposition to it; but the government fell before anything came of this. Perceval did nothing to promote its fall, privately urging a compromise with the King. In Portland’s administration he wished only to be attorney-general again and to continue his bar practice, and on 20 Mar. refused the Exchequer with the lead in the House as £3,700 p.a. was totally inadequate. Nor could he swallow a compensatory arrangement: ‘I detest the idea of reversionary pension or place’. The Home Office, with the lead, which would mean £6,000 a year, might tempt him, but on the whole he thought he could do more good as attorney-general. Portland did not wish to press him against his will, but on 23 Mar. he allowed himself to be persuaded by his friends. His fitness was described by Hawkesbury to the King as a matter of being ‘of an old English family and from his sentiments being known to correspond so entirely with those of your Majesty on the subject of the Catholic claims’. Thus qualified for the Exchequer, the lead and the duchy of Lancaster (made up to £4,000 p.a.), Perceval found the House of Commons, to whom ‘in a draped coat’ he stated ‘the largeness of his family’, not so easy to please when his provision was debated on 24 and 25 Mar.: he was conceded the duchy during pleasure only and not for life, by 208 votes to 115. He was, nevertheless, in Lord Grenville’s phrase, ‘the real minister’, the aged Portland having little to say in the unsteady government to which he had offered his name. Canning later alleged that Perceval’s precedence was ‘to a certain degree the result of a compromise between Castlereagh and me’, but this shows hindsight and underestimates Perceval’s ability: Lord Mulgrave thought him ‘the ablest man in the House of Commons’.11 Perceval endeared himself at once to the ‘Saints’ by ensuring the passage of the slave trade abolition bill, if not also by moving house from Belsize to Clapham for a year, but he met with less encouragement in other quarters. The opposition fumed about his re-election address to his constituents on taking office, calling the country to the defence of King and Church, 27 Mar., and his bland speeches on the subject, 9 and 15 Apr. 1807; even his colleagues found his draft of the King’s speech dissolving Parliament so vehement as to require toning down. He was uncertain of his colleagues; Canning shirked attendance to hear the King’s speech on the eve of the new Parliament and he had failed to get his closest friend, Lord Harrowby, into the cabinet. Not surprisingly, in debate he seemed ‘to want nerves ... he hesitates and stammers, and certainly as yet, is quite different in his manner’, reported an opposition witness.12 In the recess of 1807-8 Perceval, who apart from being installed by Portland as locum tenens at 10 Downing Street had at last found ‘a commodious family residence of a plain but desirable character’ at Ealing, drafted the controversial orders in council in retaliation against Buonaparte’s continental embargo. He also prepared the justification of the attack on Copenhagen, January 1808, which the King toned down, but which Perceval ably presented in debate. Described at this time as ‘a prompt ardent speaker, very bold to enter the enemies’ quarters and often happy in severe invective and sarcasmy’, he was less happy on subsequent issues. Opposition harried him over his bid to regulate the export of Jesuits’ bark (for quinine) to France, 23 Feb., 16 Mar. 1808, and his attempt to relieve the West India sugar planters. His obstruction to the claims of John Palmer* was bitterly attacked by them, May-June 1808. Moreover, his leadership of the protestant ultras in opposition to the Maynooth College grant revealed the division in the cabinet on this issue. Perceval wished ‘to let the Roman Catholic know that he has got as much as a Protestant Parliament can give him, and that he must be contented’: he would not compromise, even over tithes. He denied that he was eternally opposed to Catholic claims, but his answer to the problem, a reform of the Irish police and more Anglican churches, hinted at the bigotry he denied. Ministers made no attempt to defend the appointment of Patrick Duigenan* to the Irish privy council when it came under fire, 11 May 1808, but Perceval gained his main point—the rejection of the Catholic petition on 25 May—with ease.13 In the financial field he was a tyro, but found the House less critical on budgetary policy than it was on economic reform, a cause shared by the ‘Saints’ and the opposition. The finance committee was remodelled in 1807 to reduce opposition members, but its reports were a source of embarrassment. Perceval embodied the recommendations of its report on the national debt in his budget of 1808, but the third report, on places and pensions, was delayed by his insistence on extending its scope to all beneficiaries, and not Members of Parliament only, so that it did not appear until the summer of 1810. Meanwhile he blocked Henry Bankes’s reversion bill by enlisting Arden’s help in the Lords in 1807, only to find that in the following year, when he was willing to let it pass, his brother (who held a sinecure worth £38,000 a year) would not co-operate, for which opposition harried him thereafter; nor would the King budge from neutrality. In April 1809 Perceval came to terms with Bankes and a bill passed which was limited to a year. From 1810 to 1812, Bankes tried to make it perpetual, but Perceval, aided by his brother in the Lords, blocked him, until in March 1812 Bankes again capitulated for a bill of limited duration. If, in some cases, Perceval’s obduracy seemed to exacerbate divisions in the cabinet, in others he had to combat the extremism of his colleagues. Unlike Canning and Castlereagh, he was prepared, though he defended them in debate, to revise the orders in council in the spring of 1808 to counter American hostility. When that autumn there was a public outcry against the convention of Cintra, Perceval and Castlereagh resisted Canning’s demand that Sir Arthur Wellesley should be their scapegoat and Perceval rescued Wellesley’s reputation, 25 Jan. and 21 Feb. 1809, at the risk of alienating Canning. In February and March 1809 he played counsel for the defence of the Duke of York in the House. It was a brilliant performance, jeopardized by his client’s bold front in denying all charges and by the obduracy of his client’s father. Perceval was able to dispose of the charges, but the scrutiny of the duke’s and his former mistress Mary Ann Clarke’s correspondence left such an unfavourable impression by 21 Feb. that he warned the King that his son’s future as commander-in-chief of the army hung in the balance. He could secure the duke’s acquittal, but not without censure; and would have to combat the duke’s removal from his office. He was prepared to try, but advised the King that the duke’s voluntary resignation would answer best (14 Mar.). The King resisted this, just as he had toned down Perceval’s draft censure. On 15 and 17 Mar. Perceval won the battle of votes, but warned the King that unless the duke resigned there would be further trouble. On 18 Mar. the duke resigned. A dinner in his honour at Downing Street was his immediate reward and Perceval’s assurance that his disgrace was ‘temporary’ augured his reinstatement two years later.14 The divisions of March 1809 had shown the House at variance with public opinion and there followed a series of radical onslaughts. Perceval, who could no longer count on the support of the ‘Saints’, extricated himself with more ease than his colleague Castlereagh from the charges of corruption brought forward against them by William Alexander Madocks* in May 1809, feeling no guilt whatsoever. Unlike some of his cabinet colleagues, he deprecated Curwen’s reform bill of that month, which he regarded as excluding the government from the market of seats in Parliament, in which they were wont to be the most favoured customer—a threat to the balance of the constitution. He therefore amended the bill drastically to safeguard the influence of the crown: even in its attenuated form, however, it curtailed government’s electoral influence. He had no difficulty in getting the House to reject Burdett’s more extreme proposals, 15 June 1809. But it was not merely the radicals who thought he was (pace Lord Malmesbury) ‘an evading lawyer, without principle’.15 It was not until 22 June 1809 that Perceval learnt of the royal plan for a reshuffle to prevent the resignation of Canning, which would, in the Duke of Portland’s view, ruin his ministry. Canning at once objected: not only because a reshuffle could not be carried out with justice to Castlereagh the day after the cabinet had approved his plan of the Scheldt expedition, but because the whole business implied intrigue and want of good faith between colleagues. Perceval, who to quote John William Ward ‘joined great simplicity to great acuteness’ and ‘knew nothing of the wicked world’, wrote to Canning on 25 June to tell him so. Canning pointed out in reply that the concealment was not his idea, but Perceval was not satisfied. It was not that he was against the reshuffle itself, but that he shunned the thought of ‘some expedient which is not satisfactorily justifiable and honourable towards Castlereagh’. Accordingly he informed Portland on 13 July that he would submit to any rearrangement and any new premier from among themselves, provided Castlereagh could be satisfied—and offered to mediate with him. The admission of Canning’s friend Lord Granville Leveson Gower into the cabinet that month was offset by the admission of Perceval’s friend Harrowby. Canning was mustering his forces in a bid for the premiership and Portland’s stroke in August 1809 made the choice of a successor desirable. Perceval informed William Huskisson on 21 Aug. that he would not consider presiding over such a government of departments as Portland had submitted to. A week later he sounded Canning, explaining that his own favourite was Harrowby, but that Harrowby had declined: any of them with ‘a little more of the responsibility of the Treasury’ than the duke had, would do. Canning at first refused to be drawn, but on 31 Aug. admitted that he looked to a premier in the Commons and that he could not serve under Perceval. This did not surprise Perceval, but Lord Liverpool, after seeing this correspondence, assured Perceval that his colleagues would not serve under Canning. Perceval was in a quandary as to whether it was a degradation to himself to serve under Canning as Home secretary with Canning taking the Treasury, the Exchequer and the lead: his brother assured him that it was. He therefore agreed with Liverpool and Lord Bathurst to resist Canning’s pretensions and, hearing that Canning meant to resign over the failure to implement the pledge given him after the Scheldt expedition, wrote to him suggesting that they serve under any third person. He also wrote with his friends’ concurrence to Portland urging him to resign and thus facilitate a rearrangement of the government without any disgrace to Castlereagh, whose removal would have caused Perceval to resign and, he thought, the break up of the government. Portland agreeing to resign, Perceval assured Canning that this was the way out of the maze: Canning demurred, for the game was not going his way. Bathurst had already assured the King that Perceval, ‘the most straightforward man he had almost ever known’, was preferable in their eyes to Canning, who insisted on resigning and placing the whole matter of the pledge made to him, though without Perceval’s consent, as an obstacle to any conciliation. Canning ceded the field to Perceval, 12 Sept. 1809.16 Without Canning, the cabinet could only turn to Lords Grey and Grenville for support and on 18 Sept. they met at Perceval’s and recommended this course of action to the King. Perceval refused the latter’s proposal that a written pledge against Catholic relief could be required of the two peers, arguing that it could only be implied. On 24 Sept. the bid was made, refused peremptorily by Grey and at length by Grenville: they did not listen to terms. Perceval claimed that he intended a real coalition, not a mere accession, and that he would have served under either of them, asking only for the Home Office for himself. Encouraged by his brother to believe that it was his duty to stand by the crown, he had failed to win over the opposition. Canning was also out of reach: not only did he regard himself as outmanoeuvred by a lawyer’s trick in the struggle for power, but he had tried to oust Perceval in the King’s favour by offering to form an administration of his own, in which Perceval was to be pensioned off with a peerage, the lord presidency and the emoluments of the duchy of Lancaster—or possibly become lord chancellor. This was, as Perceval reflected, ‘to put an extinguisher on my head in the shape of a coronet’. But on 30 Sept. the rump of the cabinet recommended Perceval in all but name to the King, and on 2 Oct. the King acquiesced. Wilberforce thought Perceval’s ‘eminence was not of his own seeking’. Arbuthnot maintained that Perceval had ‘the best regulated ambition I ever witnessed’ and Lord Mulgrave that ‘Perceval has in all this business put self out of the question more than any man I ever saw’. Canning had to content himself with accusing Perceval of circulating their private correspondence to discredit him and poisoning the press against him, neither of which accusations was warranted, though Perceval’s sending Castlereagh Canning’s correspondence with Portland may well have been the unwitting cause of Castlereagh’s issuing a challenge to Canning.17 Perceval’s gaining Lord Wellesley for the Foreign Office when Canning expected him to resign with him exacerbated matters, though Wellesley proved a liability to the government; Canning had already been disappointed in the hope that George Rose, Charles Long, Robert Pemberton Milnes and Lord FitzHarris would go out with him, in the wake of Lord Granville Leveson Gower, Huskisson and William Sturges Bourne. Perceval did not vacate his seat on becoming first lord of the Treasury, on the precedent of Lord North’s not having done so: but he quietly gave up his Exchequer salary, a fact that he did not publicize until the moment was ripe, in a debate the following May. This was a point against Lord Grenville. He induced Portland to accept cabinet office without portfolio before he died. He failed to persuade Speaker Abbot to become a secretary of state and after initial success failed to win over Lord Melville, who was to have an earldom as compensation for being unfit for cabinet office, which would go to his son. Melville could not stomach Perceval’s apology: ‘we are no longer the sole representatives of Mr Pitt’ and, while allowing his son to hold office outside the cabinet, assumed that Perceval preferred the ‘Saints’ to the Scotch legion. But just as he opted for Melvillites without Melville and Canningites without Canning, Perceval wanted Sidmouthites without Sidmouth and the latter was equally outraged. Nor would Lord Hardwicke allow his half-brother Charles Yorke to serve. The difficulties of forming his administration were best illustrated by his having finally to be his own chancellor of the Exchequer: Huskisson had gone out with Canning, and Vansittart, Palmerston, Milnes, Rose and Long all declined it in turn. Similar difficulties occurred over minor offices. An administration which had only two cabinet ministers in the Commons seemed to lack weight and was not expected to last: but the King backed Perceval and he was at least an effective head of government. Nor did he face a united opposition: Lord Malmesbury reported ‘none of the great families have left them, and indeed the generally prevailing sentiment (thanks to the violence of the republicans) of the higher classes is to support and stand by the King’.18 Perceval never called himself a Tory. His principles he believed to be drawn from Pitt’s example and the chief issues of his administration to be the pursuit of the war against Buonaparte in the face of defeatism, and the balance of the constitution against radicalism. His first crucial test was the debate on the Walcheren expedition, which he had to justify in the session of January 1810. The violence of the opposition amendment to the address enabled him to carry it easily with the support of Canning, Castlereagh and the ‘Saints’; but on 26 Jan. the last two deserted him and he was defeated by nine votes on Porchester’s motion calling for an inquiry into the expedition. Five days later he was three times defeated on the composition of the finance committee, as well as suffering setbacks on Bankes’s reversion bill and Horner’s bullion motion. During the inquiry, Lord Chatham’s confidential report to the King was censured by the House: on 23 Feb. and 5 Mar. Whitbread and Canning carried this point against government. Perceval, much as he deplored Chatham’s conduct, felt obliged to stand by Pitt’s brother who, at length, reluctantly resigned office; government breathed again. After such frequent defeats, thought John William Ward, ‘if anything could overturn a government supported by the King, I should think that he must fall’. On 30 Mar. Perceval won all the divisions on the conclusion of the inquiry, though at the price of some concessions to Canning’s manoeuvres, and his majority never rose above 51 in divisions of about 500 Members.19 His onslaught against radicalism was concentrated on his brusque treatment of Sir Francis Burdett: he took advantage of the fears of the country gentlemen and induced Thomas Buckler Lethbridge and Sir Robert Salusbury to take the lead in the proceedings against Burdett. Perceval at length sent him to the Tower, but not without riot and confusion and the reluctant release of Burdett’s Barabbas, John Gale Jones. He subsequently resisted pressure for Burdett’s release and, of course, voted against parliamentary reform on Brand’s motion, 21 May 1810. The burden of Treasury business was familiar to Perceval, who had more or less assumed it in Portland’s administration. From 1807 to 1809, assisted by the financial secretary Huskisson and by Harrison the permanent assistant secretary, he conscientiously overhauled as many departments as his moral urge to provide an efficient and less expensive administration dictated. Retrenchment was in any case the only alternative to increased taxation. In 1808 he budgeted for a small increase in taxes and the overhaul of tax collection; and a sturdy line with the Bank of England, which was induced to lessen its profits, reduced the fiscal burden. Favourable loan terms were also insisted on in succeeding years and Exchequer bills funded annually, usually to the amount of less than half the value of the loan. Even so the mounting expenses of the war threatened to undermine Treasury control. On the eve of his resignation in 1809 Huskisson had warned him that such expenditure could not go on, but Perceval refused to hamper war supplies, much as they always lagged behind demand, especially in the Peninsula. A new plan of finance seemed called for, but he noted the unpopularity of that introduced by Lord Henry Petty in 1807 and, although he thought of raiding Pitt’s sinking fund and redeeming the wartime taxes every two years by additional taxes, he found it impossible to stabilize the annual loan, so he dropped such schemes in favour of annual adjustments.20 More optimistic than the financial experts, his final answer was always that the war against Buonaparte was the compelling factor. When the depreciation of paper currency and shortage of specie led to the Whig-inspired bullion committee in 1810, he resisted their conclusions, which were not debated until May 1811, precisely because to act on them would hinder the war effort, and he defiantly followed this up with a bill to make paper currency legal tender. Perceval’s somewhat reluctant attempts to strengthen his cabinet in the spring of 1810 were unavailing: when Lord Melville’s son resigned for his father’s sake in April, he was thereupon tempted to make a bid for Sidmouth, Castlereagh and Canning and form an administration ‘which would comprehend the several persons who had at any time been connected with Mr Pitt’. But Sidmouth refused to serve with Canning, Canning prevaricated, and Castlereagh was not even asked, as the plan was for all three to be enlisted. Therefore Perceval merely reshuffled, gaining Charles Yorke and regaining Robert Saunders Dundas. Canning urged his friend Lord Wellesley to put pressure on Perceval for his inclusion in June, but Sidmouth still objected. Perceval would not consider Wellesley’s making way for Canning alone, but in July obtained cabinet approval for Wellesley’s suggestion of a joint approach to Canning and Castlereagh; the latter refusing, Canning was again frustrated. Nor could he tempt Perceval by offering him Huskisson as chancellor of the Exchequer, for Perceval was averse to Huskisson’s theories.21 The failure of the negotiations of 1810 to strengthen the government was followed by a critical blow to its stability when its chief support, the King, became insane. Perceval sought to obviate the problem by adjournment after adjournment, making himself ‘king for another fortnight’, but the House became restless and on 13 Dec. 1810 he proposed to revive the statutory restrictions on regency enacted by Pitt in 1788, though for a year only. Opposition played into his hands by proposing an address to the Prince of Wales to assume the Regency as of right and the Prince and his brothers also rebelled against the restrictions. Perceval defended his line with ‘spirited eloquence’ and of the five resolutions in the Regency bill introduced by him on 31 Dec. all were carried by small majorities, except the last, giving the Queen the presidency of the Regency council, which was rejected by 13 votes including those of Canning, Castlereagh and Wilberforce. Perceval tried and failed by three votes to redeem this defeat a day later. In the Lords there was then no difficulty, as Lord Grenville deserted the Whigs, though he, as auditor of the Exchequer, had made it impossible for Perceval to raise supplies by sign manual by withholding the authorization to use it, so that he had to resort to parliamentary authority to proceed by Treasury warrant. On 17 Jan. 1811 he thwarted with ‘manifest superiority’ an opposition bid endorsed by the Lords to restrict the Regency to six months instead of a year. Robert Ward reported that ‘since I have been in Parliament I scarce ever heard such determined cheering as followed Perceval’. The Prince’s friends were instructed to vote against him and he contemplated resigning, but fought gamely and saw the Regency bill through on 29 Jan. Nothing came of speculations about a change of ministry and on 4 Feb. the Prince gave up the Whigs and confirmed Perceval in office, though in a cold manner which suggested that the sudden prospect of the King’s recovery was his chief anxiety. It was reported that Perceval, who had seen the King and continued to obtain his approbation of the Regency proceedings, knew that the Prince could not endure him and laughed at his discomfiture. Whitbread having previously found Perceval ‘as bold as brass’ now found him ‘as saucy as a bantam cock’.22 A breach seemed inevitable, especially when the Prince unsuccessfully pressed him for places for his friends. Perceval had also prevented opposition from making capital of Irish bids for Catholic relief on the basis of a veto on episcopal appointments, 25 May 1810. Under the nom de plume of ‘AB’ he wrote Six Letters on the subject of Dr Milner’s explanation to the Morning Post, which carried fire into the enemy camp; but his main problem was to prevent the Irish government from going too far in its efforts to prevent the Catholics from convening, February 1811. To his surprise, the Regent acquiesced in opposing a Catholic convention and Perceval was able to maintain his authority over the hard-liners at Dublin Castle. In the course of the session of 1811 Perceval went from strength to strength. ‘The country can never be under the direction of a more honourable and virtuous man’, according to the formerly critical Lord Malmesbury. Liverpool informed Wellington, ‘His character is completely established in the House of Commons; he has acquired an authority there beyond any minister in my recollection, except Mr Pitt’. Not only the country gentlemen and the City, but the more magnanimous members of opposition admired him and the Regent neglected his Whig friends in Perceval’s favour, although it was now unlikely that the King would recover. Perceval had the additional gratification of seeing the Peninsular war, which he had never ceased to defend against despondent critics at home, begin to go well, and of reinstating the Duke of York as commander-in-chief of the army in May 1811, without any anxiety about his majority in the House. If the expiry of the Regency restrictions hung over him like a sentence, ‘as hard as iron’ he survived that too. The Regent failed to induce him to accept his grandiose schemes for the King’s household or an additional £50,000 a year to his Regency grant, but insisted, against Perceval’s advice, on inviting Lords Grey and Grenville to come to terms with government. Their refusal on 15 Feb. 1812 confirmed Perceval in office, which the King, in a lucid moment, endorsed. John William Ward had observed: ‘if the Regent changes the government, he must turn out the most popular man in England, which Perceval undoubtedly is, and break with all that party which has supported his father during the whole of his long reign. In short, he must be horribly embarrassed.’ Lord Wellesley was thwarted in his wish to displace Perceval by superior influence at Carlton House, to further which he offered his resignation on the grounds of being unable to serve under Perceval, who was to have been forced to put on ‘the big wig’. Wellesley found his exodus accepted all too readily by the cabinet and the Regent and, as Perceval had intended, Castlereagh stepped into the Foreign Office, while Sidmouth, an ally on the Catholic question, was also introduced into the cabinet with his friend Lord Buckinghamshire and with provision for more of his friends on the cards. The Regent’s favour had ensured the strengthening of Perceval’s administration and when asked why he did not dissolve Parliament in March 1812, Perceval replied ‘why make well, better?’.23 The last act of Perceval’s government was to give reluctant consent to a committee of inquiry into the orders in council. Their relaxation to prevent war with the United States was a matter for negotiation in the winter of 1811-12 when the Luddite riots broke out at home, were severely dealt with and provided opposition with a lever for agitating the question. Government at first resisted inquiry, 3 Mar. 1812, but yielded in the face of a petitioning campaign. Perceval still defended the orders, despite their unpopularity. The committee was at work when Perceval was, to quote his own last word, ‘murdered’ by the maniacal gunshot of John Bellingham as, ‘talking and laughing’, he entered the lobby of the House, 11 May 1812. A politically motivated assassination was at once suspected and the mob seemed inclined to make a hero of Bellingham, but he was not their man, being by his own confession ‘neither fit for this world nor for the next’. The ‘convulsive sob’ with which Perceval died moved the House next day to vote £2,000 p.a. for Jane Perceval and £50,000 for their children, to be known in the family as ‘the blood money’.24 Making due allowance for the ‘apotheosis’ which attended a fate unique in the annals of the British premiership, Perceval was at his death the most outstanding politician in the House: ‘a cunning lawyer and a very frank man’, he had ‘an admirable way of placing the subject which he is discussing in the best point of view’. But he suffered from a reserve as to his intentions and a tendency to ‘concession and half measures’ which was doubtless due to ‘a want of decision occasioned by his honourable anxiety never to do wrong’. That was why Lord Mulgrave thought he only wanted ‘something more of the Devil to be a very good premier’. He never confided in his colleagues (except perhaps the Ryders) and conducted his own defence; he did not readily cultivate supporters and relied on his character and eloquence—for he was prepared to speak until his subject was exhausted and to claim the force majeure of ‘Mr Pitt’s brief’ to command assent in Parliament. Still, as Lord Palmerston commented, ‘it is a great thing when even the bitterest opponents of a minister dare not to impeach his integrity and honour’. Personally incorruptible, he was not eager to reward his family or friends and had no notion of calculating support by favours. Charles Williams Wynn thought that ‘had he lived, he would have been driven out of office before the end of the session’; and Perceval himself was distinctly reported to be ready to resign if defeated on Canning’s imminent motion on behalf of the Catholics, though Canning believed he would dissolve Parliament in the face of it. Once formed, his convictions were fixed, and his differing from Pitt on this issue did not shake him, though Grattan was reported in May 1812 to have been ‘saying these three years that Perceval would in the end emancipate the Catholics’. One English Catholic observed: ‘Mr Perceval was indeed against our emancipation from private prejudice, but I believe he was otherways a very honest and able minister’.25 The fact was that Perceval, ‘an enthusiast in whatever he undertakes’, was that rare bird among English premiers, a stickler for the Church of England as by law established. From 1803 until his death he sought in vain to impose residence on the clergy or adequate payment of their curates by legislation. He wished to purify and expand the national church and supported all its institutions. He submitted his cause to his God. Remarking on the confident face with which he met the world without ‘sufficient strength to carry him through’ at the outset of his ministry, Tierney added, ‘but on what it is that he relies I cannot comprehend’. He did not know of the daily prayers offered up by Perceval to sanctify his office. Chosen prime minister during a crisis, in all his insecurity he never had ‘far to fall’ and his weakness was more apparent to others than to himself. He was, moreover, fertile in expedients to maintain his position and as resilient as Punch, as Whitbread once amused the House by remarking. In fact, despite his nolo episcopari of 1809, he had no intention of resigning office to any other candidate thereafter. Wellesley Pole wrote, 28 Apr. 1810, ‘Perceval does not seem to have an idea that any change in his situation could make it more easy to form a strong administration; I do suppose no person could be found to tell him this, though certainly almost everybody thinks it’. More receptive than his colleagues to the ideas of the ‘Saints’, whose reign he was supposed to have inaugurated, he resisted their pressure to go further than his survival as a minister permitted: his motto was ‘ubi plura nitent, non ego paucis offendar maculis’. John William Ward concluded that: there was nothing to object to in him besides his opinions. His talents were admirable, and if he had not been a lawyer he would probably have risen to the character of a great man. He wanted Mr Pitt’s splendid declamatory eloquence, but in quickness and dexterity as a debater he was (I think) hardly inferior to him. On the whole he appeared to me the most powerful man (independently of his situation) that we had in Parliament since the death of Mr Fox ... Nothing could be so gentlemanlike and fair as his management of the House of Commons. Indeed, I do not believe that in the height of his prosperity he ever showed the least mark of insolence. The Speaker, however, complained in retrospect that ‘he was not desirous of holding high either its credit or its authority’.26 Ref Volumes: 1790-1820 Author: R. G. Thorne Notes Based on D. Gray, S. Perceval the Evangelical Prime Minister (1962), the Perceval (Holland) mss penes Mr David Holland and other Perceval mss in the BL. Many of Perceval’s letters were published by S. Walpole in S. Perceval (2 vols. 1874), but with alterations and omissions, so the original mss have been preferred. - 1. Romilly, Mems. i. 91; Windham Diary, 71; A review of the arguments in favour of the continuance of impeachments notwithstanding a dissolution (Apr. 1791) and The duties and powers of public officers with respect to violations of the public peace (1792), both in the BL; W. Cobbett, Regency and Reign of Geo. IV, 124; cf. Brydges, Autobiog. i. 297; ii. 178; Walpole, Perceval, i. 18; Add 49188, ff. 1, 16. - 2. Geo. III Corresp. ii. 1347, 1349; Camden mss C123/7; PRO 30/8/166, f. 72; 180, f. 235; 326, f. 50; Add. 33101, f. 368; 49184, ff. 22, 36; Walpole, i. 20-25. - 3. Perceval (Holland) mss 11, f. 11; Northampton Mercury, 28 Apr. 1807; PRO 30/8/166, f. 74; Gent. Mag. (1812), i. 589; Colchester, i. 86; Croker Pprs. ed. Jennings, ii. 373; Leveson Gower, i. 193; Rosebery, Pitt. 205; Walpole, 51. - 4. Add. 49188, f. 16; Walpole, i. 54 states that Perceval was appointed solicitor-general to the Queen. Cf. Sidmouth mss, Pitt to Addington, 27 July 1798 and Geo. III Corresp. iii. 1793, 2174. - 5. Sidmouth mss, Bankes to Addington, 20 June 1800; Observations intended to point out the application of a prophecy in the 11th chapter of the book of Daniel to the French power (1800). See Gray, 46. - 6. Harrowby mss, Perceval to Ryder, 25 Oct. 1801; Creevey mss, Creevey to Currie, 11 Mar. 1803; Farington, ii. 182; Brougham, Hist. Sketches, i. 248; Horner Mems. i. 249; Sidmouth mss, J. H. Addington to his sister, 24 Apr.; Malmesbury mss, FitzHarris to Malmesbury, 26 Apr. [1804]. - 7. Add. 49188, f. 109; Colchester, i. 502, 511; Perceval (Holland) mss 11, f. 5; Life of Wilberforce (1838), iii. 154, 216, 231. - 8. Life of Wilberforce, iv. 26; Rose Diaries, ii. 262-4; HMC Lonsdale, 164. - 9. Perceval (Holland) mss 11, f. 10a; Harrowby mss, Ryder to Harrowby, 30 June, 5 July; Camden mss C226/10, 11; Harewood mss, Canning to his wife, 5 July 1806; HMC Bathurst, 53; Add. 42773, f. 121; HMC Lonsdale, 200, 209, 210. - 10. Add. 41851, ff. 262, 268; 49188, f. 17; NLW, Coedymaen mss 20, Buckingham to Williams Wynn, 10, 17 Aug., 2 Oct. Fri., Sun.; Fremantle mss, Temple to Fremantle, n.d.; St. Germans mss, Perceval to Eliot, 20 Nov.; Harrowby mss, Perceval to Ryder, 20 Nov. 1806, Ryder to Harrowby, 3 Jan., 14 Feb. 1807; SRO GD51/1/112/1, 114/2; Leveson Gower, ii. 242; Colchester, ii. 69; Brougham, iii. 63; Romilly, ii. 171; Ward, Letters to ‘Ivy’, 195, 201. - 11. Grey mss, Howick to Bedford, 6 Mar. 1807; Add. 49184, ff. 93, 99; 49188, ff. 29, 33, 35; Malmesbury Diaries, iv. 368; Colchester, ii. 104-5; Harewood mss, Canning to his wife, 20 Mar.; Harrowby mss, Perceval to Harrowby, 21 Mar.; NLW mss 10804, Williams Wynn to Saxton, 26 Mar. 1807; Geo. III Corresp. iv. 3408; Buckingham, Court and Cabinets, iv. 144; Yonge, Liverpool, ii. 414; Farington, iv. 103. - 12. Teignmouth, Reminiscences, ii. 124; Northampton Mercury, 28 Mar.; Blair Adam mss, Adam to Howick, 3 Apr. 1807; Buckingham, iv. 167, 250. - 13. Glenbervie Diaries, ii. 11; Life of Wilberforce, ii. 17-19; NLW mss 10804, Williams Wynn to Saxton, 21 July 1807, 20 Apr. 1808; Grey mss, Tierney to Grey, 14 Dec. 1807, 16, 24 May; Fortescue mss, Fremantle to Grenville, 24 June 1808. - 14. Fortescue mss, Fremantle to Grenville, Â½ past 3 [9 Mar. 1809]; Geo. III Corresp. v. 3799-3841. - 15. Colchester, ii. 183-4, 188; Malmesbury Diaries, iv. 411. - 16. Perceval (Holland) mss 2, ff. 4, 7, 15; 4, ff. 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 11-14, 18; 14, f. 10; Ward, 196; Add. 49188, f. 43. - 17. Walpole, ii. 27-30; Croker Pprs. i. 15-16, 22; Colchester, ii. 228; Rose Diaries, ii. 379, 382; Phipps, Plumer Ward Mems. i. 280; Life of Wilberforce, iii. 432; Lonsdale mss, Mulgrave to Lonsdale, 30 Sept. 1809; Geo. III Corresp. v. 3985; Perceval (Holland) mss 2, ff. 33, 35; 4, ff. 30, 31; A. Aspinall, Politics and the Press 1780-1850, p. 207. - 18. Sidmouth mss, Sidmouth to Bragge Bathurst, 12 Oct. 1809; Whitbread mss W1/913; Perceval (Holland) mss 5, f. 2; 9, ff. 4, 5, 16; Add. 49188, ff. 51, 55; NLW mss 4814, f. 88; Malmesbury Letters, ii. 146; Grey mss, Tierney to Grey, 23 Nov., 21 Dec.; Malmesbury mss, Malmesbury to FitzHarris, 5 Dec. 1809. - 19. Malmesbury mss, Malmesbury to FitzHarris, 4 Mar.; Harewood mss, Canning to his wife, 1 Apr. 1810; Ward, 91. - 20. Gray, 320, 386; Perceval (Holland) mss 14, f. 9; Add. 34458, f. 41. - 21. Lonsdale mss, Ward to Lonsdale, 8 Feb.; NLI, Richmond mss 66/874, 886; Add. 37295, f. 413; 45036, f. 74; Harewood mss, Canning to his wife, 28 Aug. 1810. - 22. Beds. RO, Lee Antonie mss UN452, Whitbread to Lee Antonie, 3 Dec.; Lonsdale mss, Ward to Lonsdale, 22 Dec. 1810, 18 Jan. [1811], Long to same, 25 Dec. 1810, Wharton to same, 1 Feb.; Richmond mss 64/723, 728, 736; Malmesbury mss, Palmerston to Malmesbury, 21 Jan., FitzHarris to same, 22 Jan. 1811; Phipps, i. 380-1; Grey mss, Whitbread to Grey, 23 Dec. 1810, 15 Feb. 1811. - 23. Perceval mss, Malmesbury to Perceval, 2 Jan.; Lonsdale mss, Long to Lonsdale, 9 Jan. 1811, Ward to same, 12 Mar., Perceval to same, 31 Mar. 1812; Yonge, i. 372; Phipps, i. 329, 335; Add. 52180, Allen to Horner [c. Aug. 1811]; Creevey Pprs. ed. Maxwell, i. 145; Farington, v. 188; Geo. IV Letters, i. 1; Richmond mss 363; 67/977, 990; 70/1310; Rose Diaries, ii. 477; Ward, 148; Blair Adam mss, Adam’s memo, 23 Jan.; Harewood mss, Canning to his wife, 14 Jan., 17 Feb.; Londonderry mss, Castlereagh to Stewart, 29 Jan. 1812. - 24. Fitzgerald, Lives of the Sheridans, ii. 90, 159; Jernyngham Letters, ii. 21; Bath Archives ed. Lady Jackson, 374; Malmesbury Letters, ii. 274. - 25. Sidmouth mss, Buckinghamshire to Sidmouth, 14 Oct.; Haddington mss, Binning to Saunders Dundas, 3 Nov. 1809; Add. 41853, f. 254; 51549, Lady Holland to Grey, Mon. [6 June 1808]; Lonsdale mss, Ward to Lonsdale, 19 Mar. 1810, 18 Jan. [1811]; Malmesbury mss, Palmerston to Malmesbury, 18 May; NLW mss 4814, Williams Wynn to Southey, 28 May; Richmond mss 60/277, 67/967, 73/1702, 74/1899; Harewood mss, Canning to his wife, 30 Mar. 1812; Horner mss 5, f. 176; Jernyngham Letters, ii. 21. - 26. Gray, 22; Grey mss, Tierney to Grey, 6 Oct., 9 Dec.; Malmesbury mss, FitzHarris to Malmesbury, 6 Dec. 1809, 29 Mar. 1810; Add. 48228, f. 26; Richmond mss 73/1685, 1687; Glos. RO, Redesdale mss C25, Perceval to Redesdale, 7 Jan. 1804; Ward, 157; Colchester, ii. 381.


--- [Grokipedia: Spencer Perceval] ---
Spencer Perceval Early Life and Formation Childhood and Family Background Spencer Perceval was born on 1 November 1762 at Audley Square in Mayfair, London.[2][5] He was the seventh son overall of John Perceval, 2nd Earl of Egmont, an Anglo-Irish peer who held positions such as First Lord of the Admiralty and Postmaster General, but the second son from the earl's second marriage.[6][7] His mother, Catherine Compton, was the daughter of James Compton, 6th Earl of Northampton, and thus connected to prominent Whig aristocratic lines; she was later created Baroness Arden of Lohort Castle in her own right in 1770, inheriting estates that included properties in Kent and Northamptonshire.[8] The Perceval family maintained a manor house at Charlton in Kent, where Perceval spent aspects of his early years amid the privileges of nobility, though as a younger son without expectation of primogeniture inheritance, he was positioned toward self-reliance through profession rather than landed title.[9] Perceval had one full brother, Charles George Perceval (later 2nd Baron Arden), and several half-siblings from his father's first marriage to Lady Mary Waller, including half-brother John Perceval, who succeeded as 3rd Earl of Egmont.[6] The family's political and social networks, bolstered by the Comptons of Castle Ashby on his mother's side, provided early avenues of influence despite his junior status.[6] His upbringing reflected the era's aristocratic norms, emphasizing classical education and public service, though specific childhood events remain sparsely documented in contemporary records.[10]Education and Early Influences Perceval attended Harrow School from 1774 to 1779, where he received a classical education typical of the era's elite institutions.[6] During this period, he developed an early aptitude for oratory and scholarship, laying the groundwork for his future legal and political pursuits.[11] In 1780, Perceval entered Trinity College, Cambridge, alongside his older brother Charles, studying there until receiving an honorary Master of Arts degree in 1782.[12][1] At Cambridge, he distinguished himself as a noted scholar, earning prizes for academic excellence.[13] His time at the university exposed him to intellectual circles that reinforced his conservative inclinations. A pivotal early influence on Perceval was the Anglican evangelical movement, with which he associated during his Cambridge years, shaping his lifelong devout piety and moral framework.[5] This religious outlook, characterized by strict observance of Sabbath and opposition to radicalism, stemmed from evangelical peers and contrasted with more secular aristocratic norms of the late 18th century.[5] His family's aristocratic heritage, as the second son of the 2nd Earl of Egmont, further instilled a sense of duty and Tory principles that guided his early worldview.[4]Legal Training and Career Perceval commenced his legal training at Lincoln's Inn following his graduation from Trinity College, Cambridge, where he had been awarded a Master of Arts degree in 1782. He was called to the bar in 1786 and joined the Midland Circuit, leveraging family connections in Northamptonshire to establish a prosperous practice focused on civil and criminal cases.[5][14] His early legal work gained traction in the 1790s amid opposition to radicalism inspired by the French Revolution, with Perceval authoring pamphlets that bolstered his reputation among conservative patrons. Appointed king's counsel in 1796, he served as deputy recorder of Northampton, handling judicial duties that enhanced his standing without yet venturing into national politics.[5][4] This foundation in advocacy and circuit practice positioned Perceval for governmental legal roles, though his career remained rooted in provincial courts until parliamentary entry later that year.[6]Political Ascendancy Entry into Parliament (1796–1801) Spencer Perceval entered Parliament in May 1796 following the death of his uncle, Charles Compton, 8th Earl of Northampton, which elevated his cousin Spencer Compton, Lord Compton, to the peerage and vacated the Northampton seat in the House of Commons.[6] Perceval, a King's Counsel since that year, was nominated by his cousin to contest the resulting by-election on 9 May, which he won unopposed as a supporter of Prime Minister William Pitt the Younger.[15] In the general election held shortly thereafter on 30 May 1796, Northampton—a two-member borough constituency—saw Perceval returned alongside the incumbent Whig Edward Bouverie, securing 720 votes to Bouverie's 512 in a contest marked by local influence from the Compton family.[15] This election marked Perceval's only contested campaign for the seat, which he retained unopposed in subsequent general elections until his death.[6] As a new member at age 33, Perceval aligned closely with Pitt's administration amid the ongoing French Revolutionary Wars and domestic threats from radicalism.[4] He quickly established himself through parliamentary interventions defending government policies, including a notable speech in early 1798 that praised Pitt's handling of invasion fears and financial measures against French aggression.[5] Perceval opposed parliamentary reform and radical demands, viewing them as destabilizing in wartime, and served as a government teller on divisions supporting Pitt's legislative agenda.[6] By 1799–1800, Perceval's contributions intensified, as he defended the Anglo-Russian Helder expedition on 10 February 1800 and Pitt's Irish policy, including the Act of Union, while expressing reservations about Catholic concessions that he saw as concessions to potential disloyalty.[6] On 29 January 1800, he deputized for Pitt in debate, and later upheld the Egyptian campaign on 18 November 1800, demonstrating his reliability as a Pitt loyalist focused on national security over appeasement.[6] These efforts, grounded in his legal expertise and evangelical-influenced conservatism, positioned him for higher office by 1801 without compromising his opposition to emancipation or reform.[5]Solicitor General and Attorney General (1801–1806) Perceval was appointed Solicitor General for England and Wales in January 1801 by Prime Minister Henry Addington, shortly after William Pitt the Younger's resignation amid King George III's opposition to Catholic emancipation.[16] In this role, he advised the government on legal matters and represented the Crown in court, building on his prior experience as a barrister and Solicitor to the Ordnance since 1798.[5] His tenure as Solicitor General lasted until April 1802, during which he supported Addington's administration despite personal reservations about its cautious approach to the ongoing Napoleonic Wars.[6] On 14 April 1802, Perceval succeeded Sir John Law as Attorney General, a promotion that elevated him to the chief legal officer of the Crown, responsible for prosecuting major criminal cases and drafting legislation.[17] He retained the position through Addington's resignation in May 1804 and Pitt's return to power, serving until 12 February 1806—a continuity reflecting his alignment with Pittite principles on national security and opposition to radicalism.[16] As Attorney General, Perceval prioritized suppressing perceived threats to order, including prosecutions under laws against sedition and treason amid fears of French-inspired unrest. A prominent case under his oversight was the 1803 trial of Colonel Edward Marcus Despard, accused of conspiring to assassinate King George III and overthrow the government; Perceval led the prosecution, resulting in Despard's conviction for high treason and execution by hanging, drawing, and quartering on 21 February 1803.[5] He also pursued William Cobbett for seditious libel in 1804 over Cobbett's publication criticizing a government-aligned judge, securing a conviction and fine of £1,000, though Cobbett fled to the United States to evade imprisonment.[6] These actions underscored Perceval's commitment to robust enforcement against radicals, yet he tempered some applications of repressive statutes, such as moderating restrictions on trade combinations in certain contexts.[5] In Parliament, Perceval defended government legal policies, including the defense of military expeditions and responses to Irish unrest, while contributing to bills strengthening naval discipline and countering espionage.[6] His tenure ended with Pitt's death in January 1806, after which Perceval transitioned to opposition before later roles, having established a reputation for forensic advocacy and loyalty to Tory constitutionalism.[7]Ministerial Roles Pre-Premiership Chancellor of the Exchequer (1807–1809) Perceval was appointed Chancellor of the Exchequer on 18 March 1807 as part of the Duke of Portland's ministry, which succeeded the Ministry of All the Talents amid political instability following the death of William Pitt the Younger and escalating Napoleonic Wars.[6] In this role, he also assumed leadership of the House of Commons, bearing primary responsibility for funding Britain's war efforts against France through loans, departmental efficiencies, and limited fiscal adjustments rather than broad tax hikes.[5] His tenure emphasized prudent management of national debt and public expenditure, rejecting proposals to raid the sinking fund mechanism established by Pitt for debt reduction in favor of annual loan recalibrations.[6] In his February 1808 budget, Perceval addressed projected expenditures of about £49 million, where existing war taxes proved insufficient, by introducing a modest tax increase, enhancing tax collection efficiency, and securing loans at favorable rates from the Bank of England.[16][6] He overhauled tax administration departments to reduce administrative costs and funded Exchequer bills annually at less than half the value of new loans, thereby rationalizing government operations to support wartime supplies without destabilizing domestic finances.[4][6] These measures sustained Britain's commitment to the conflict, including naval actions like the January 1808 Copenhagen expedition to preempt Danish fleet seizure by France, which Perceval defended in parliamentary debate as essential for national security.[6] Perceval also drafted and defended the Orders in Council of 1807 and 1808, which imposed maritime restrictions on neutral trade to counter Napoleon's Continental System embargo, aiming to economically isolate France while mitigating impacts on British commerce through licensed exceptions.[6] Despite controversies over these blockade measures and rising war costs, his approach preserved fiscal stability, enabling continued military prioritization without immediate recourse to inflationary policies or excessive borrowing.[5] He resigned the chancellorship on 4 October 1809 upon assuming the premiership but continued overseeing Treasury matters unpaid until his death.[6]Key Contributions to War Financing and Policy As Chancellor of the Exchequer from March 1807 to October 1809, Spencer Perceval managed Britain's wartime finances amid escalating expenditures for the Napoleonic Wars, prioritizing loans and administrative efficiencies over broad tax increases to sustain military efforts against France.[4][6] He raised funds through government loans at favorable interest rates, rationalized departmental spending, and overhauled tax collection processes to enhance revenue without imposing major new levies, thereby supporting naval, army, and subsidy payments to continental allies.[12][6] In his 1808 budget, Perceval incorporated recommendations from the Select Committee on Finance's report on the national debt, advocating for prudent debt management and rejecting proposals to raid William Pitt's sinking fund, while securing annual funding for Exchequer bills equivalent to less than half the value of new loans to cover war supplies.[6] This approach included a modest tax adjustment and efficiencies that reduced the Bank of England's profits, enabling the government to borrow effectively despite rising costs estimated at millions for campaigns like the emerging Peninsular War.[6] The 1809 budget similarly avoided significant tax hikes, funding operations such as the Walcheren expedition—which ultimately cost £7 million—through additional loans and departmental reforms.[4][12] Perceval also negotiated directly with the Bank of England to adapt financing mechanisms for wartime needs; on 11 January 1808, he proposed modifying the existing agreement to facilitate advances, including arrangements to redeem £3 million in held bills using proceeds from that year's loan, thereby ensuring liquidity for military disbursements without disrupting monetary stability.[18] These measures reflected a policy of fiscal resilience, delaying broader reforms like the Finance Committee's third report on places and pensions until 1810 to focus on immediate war priorities.[6] On policy, Perceval advocated steadfast commitment to defeating Napoleon, channeling finances toward the Peninsular War's inception, including support for British forces in Portugal following the 1808 Portuguese royal evacuation and early successes like the Battle of Vimeiro, while persevering despite setbacks such as the Corunna retreat.[4][19] His budgets underscored a strategy of economic endurance, blending borrowing with targeted economies to prosecute the conflict vigorously without domestic fiscal collapse.[5]Premiership and Governance Appointment and Cabinet Formation (1809) The Duke of Portland's ministry, formed in 1807, faced mounting pressures in 1809 from the disastrous Walcheren expedition, which resulted in over 4,000 British casualties primarily from disease, and the subsequent resignations and duel between George Canning and Lord Castlereagh. Portland, already in declining health at age 70, tendered his resignation to King George III on 26 September 1809, prompting the cabinet to recommend Spencer Perceval, the incumbent Chancellor of the Exchequer and de facto leader, as successor on 30 September.[4][5] The King approved, and Perceval kissed hands on 4 October 1809 as First Lord of the Treasury, the office denoting prime ministerial authority, while retaining his exchequer role without additional remuneration to signal continuity.[6][7][5] Cabinet formation required navigating weeks of negotiations amid the recent scandals and the need for wartime cohesion, with Perceval prioritizing orthodox Tory loyalists over broader coalitions that might include former opponents like Lord Sidmouth (Henry Addington).[20] The resulting administration largely retained Portland's personnel for stability: John Scott, 1st Earl of Eldon, continued as Lord Chancellor; Robert Jenkinson, 2nd Earl of Liverpool (formerly Lord Hawkesbury), handled foreign affairs initially before shifting; Henry Bathurst, 3rd Earl Bathurst, served as Master of the Mint; and other posts like the Home Office under Liverpool emphasized experienced hands committed to prosecuting the war against Napoleon.[21] Perceval convened meetings at his residence to secure these appointments, rejecting overtures to figures such as Henry Dundas to avoid diluting the government's fiscal conservatism and evangelical moral stance.[21] This compact cabinet of about a dozen core members reflected Perceval's pragmatic realism, focusing on administrative efficiency rather than expansive reform, though it drew criticism for lacking innovation during economic strain.[4] Subsequent adjustments bolstered the ministry: Lord Castlereagh entered as Foreign Secretary in November 1809, leveraging his military expertise, while Perceval's leadership emphasized unity against French aggression over domestic experimentation.[6] The formation underscored the causal link between prior ministerial fractures and the imperative for Perceval's steady, if uncharismatic, hand to preserve Tory dominance in Parliament, where his party held a slim majority of around 100 seats.[20]Foreign Policy: Commitment to Defeating Napoleon Upon assuming the premiership on 4 October 1809 following the Duke of Portland's resignation, Spencer Perceval prioritized the continuation of Britain's coalition efforts against Napoleon Bonaparte, rejecting overtures for peace as tantamount to capitulation.[6] His administration inherited the disastrous Walcheren expedition of July to September 1809, intended to seize Antwerp and disrupt French naval power but resulting in over 4,000 British deaths primarily from malaria, at a cost exceeding £7 million; despite this setback, Perceval maintained resolve in prosecuting the war on multiple fronts.[4][5] A cornerstone of Perceval's strategy was unwavering support for the Peninsular War, where British forces under the Duke of Wellington aided Portuguese and Spanish allies against French occupation.[4] He defended the campaign's viability in parliamentary debates, authorizing substantial subsidies and reinforcements despite early defeats like Talavera in July 1809 and mounting domestic criticism for its expense.[6] Key successes under his tenure included Wellington's victories at Bussaco on 27 September 1810 and the subsequent repulsion of Marshal Masséna's invasion of Portugal by the end of 1811, which fortified lines of Torres Vedras and preserved the Iberian foothold essential to broader anti-Napoleonic coalitions.[4] Perceval also reinforced economic warfare through the Orders in Council, which he had helped draft in 1807-1808 as countermeasures to Napoleon's Berlin Decree and Continental System, effectively barring neutral shipping from French ports and sustaining Britain's naval blockade.[6] Though these measures provoked international tensions, including strained relations with the United States, Perceval upheld them against opposition demands for revocation, only conceding to a parliamentary inquiry in March 1812 amid economic distress and Luddite unrest.[6] To fund these commitments, he as Chancellor secured loans and implemented fiscal economies, resisting proposals like the bullion committee's May 1811 recommendations that risked curtailing war financing.[5][6] This policy of attrition reflected Perceval's conviction, rooted in Pittite principles, that only Napoleon's decisive overthrow could avert continental hegemony and secure British sovereignty.[6]Domestic Policies: Order, Reform, and Evangelical Influence Perceval's government prioritized maintaining social order amid wartime economic distress and industrial unrest, particularly the Luddite machine-breaking riots that escalated in 1811 across textile regions like Nottinghamshire and Yorkshire. In response, on 14 February 1812, Home Secretary Richard Ryder introduced the Destruction of Stocking Frames, etc. Act—supported by Perceval—which elevated frame-breaking from a felony to a capital offense, enabling summary trials and executions or transportation for offenders, with 17 men hanged by year's end for such acts.[6][5] This measure reflected Perceval's longstanding opposition to radicalism, evident in his earlier prosecutions of figures like Colonel Edward Despard for treason in 1803 and his 1810 imprisonment of radical MP Sir Francis Burdett in the Tower of London amid riots, resisting calls for parliamentary inquiries into grievances.[6][5] In terms of reform, Perceval pursued limited administrative efficiencies inherited from his Treasury role, including retrenchment programs to curb wartime expenditures and improvements in tax collection, though these were constrained by ongoing Napoleonic financing needs.[4] More persistently, he advocated ecclesiastical reforms to strengthen the Church of England, continuing pre-premiership efforts from 1803 to mandate clerical residence and adequate curates' salaries via bills like the Curates Bill, which passed the Commons but failed in the Lords due to opposition from higher clergy.[6][4] These initiatives aimed to address pastoral neglect without broader structural changes, aligning with Perceval's conservative view that incremental fixes preserved institutional stability over radical overhaul. Evangelical convictions profoundly shaped Perceval's domestic agenda, as an Anglican of the "Saints" circle akin to William Wilberforce, emphasizing moral stewardship and ecclesiastical purity. His faith informed advocacy for Sabbath observance and philanthropy, including support for the 1807 Slave Trade Abolition Act, while rejecting Catholic emancipation to safeguard Protestant ascendancy—opposing measures like the 1808 Maynooth College grant increase.[6][5] Perceval's policies promoted a reformed Church focused on doctrinal rigor and expansion, viewing public order as intertwined with curbing immorality, though his conservative evangelicalism eschewed enthusiasm for voluntary associations in favor of state-enforced moral discipline.[4][5]Economic Strategies Amid Wartime Pressures Perceval's economic strategies as Prime Minister emphasized fiscal restraint and reliance on loans to fund the Napoleonic Wars, avoiding new taxation while curtailing expenditures. Continuing policies from his chancellorship, he raised war funds through loans secured at low interest rates—often below 5 percent—and implemented departmental rationalizations to reduce administrative waste, such as streamlining procurement and civil list payments.[4][12] This approach sustained Britain's military commitments, including annual subsidies exceeding £7 million to continental allies by 1810 and support for the Peninsular War, without broadening the tax base amid domestic opposition to hikes.[5][10] In response to intensified pressures from French blockades and the 1809 Walcheren expedition's £2 million cost overrun, Perceval coordinated with the Bank of England to expand Exchequer bill issuance for short-term financing, as outlined in his August 1810 letter committing to structured bill purchases aligned with Bank proposals.[18] He defended the sinking fund mechanism to gradually retire debt, rejecting radical spending cuts that risked military efficacy, and upheld the 1799 income tax renewal—yielding £10-12 million annually—while resisting its expansion to lower incomes.[5] These measures maintained liquidity for Wellington's campaigns despite trade disruptions, though they swelled national debt to £500 million by 1812.[4] To counter Napoleon's Continental System, Perceval reinforced the Orders in Council of 1807, tightening maritime restrictions on neutral shipping to France and authorizing seizures that generated prize revenues exceeding £1 million yearly, bolstering customs duties as an indirect revenue stream.[5] This economic warfare preserved British export markets—particularly textiles and metals—against retaliatory closures, even as it fueled smuggling and U.S. tensions culminating in the 1812 war declaration. Critics, including merchants petitioning Parliament in 1811, argued the orders exacerbated domestic unemployment, but Perceval prioritized long-term attrition of French finances over immediate trade liberalization.[12]Assassination and Immediate Aftermath The Assassination Event (11 May 1812) On 11 May 1812, at approximately 5:15 p.m., Spencer Perceval entered the lobby of the House of Commons in the Palace of Westminster after walking from 10 Downing Street.[22] He handed his coat to an attendant, exchanged brief words with journalist William Jerdan, and proceeded toward the chamber for a committee session addressing evidence on sanctions against Napoleon's Continental System.[23][22]John Bellingham, who had been seated near the fireplace, rose, drew a concealed pistol from his overcoat, and approached Perceval, firing a single shot at point-blank range into his chest near the left fourth rib.[24][22] The gunshot produced a loud report and flash, prompting Perceval to exclaim "I am murdered!" before staggering and collapsing face-down.[24][22] Members of Parliament, including William Smith and Francis Philips, immediately lifted Perceval and carried him to the Speaker's apartments, where he was placed in a sitting position on a table; he emitted only convulsive sobs and soon fell silent.[24][22] Surgeon William Lynn examined the wound, which measured over three inches deep and had penetrated obliquely toward the heart, confirming no pulse and Perceval's death within minutes.[22] Bellingham returned calmly to his seat without attempting escape and surrendered readily when seized, yielding a second loaded pistol from his possession.[24][23]Panic ensued in the lobby as news spread, with fears of broader violence prompting a mob to gather outside before being dispersed by Life Guards; the House of Commons adjourned amid the shock of the only assassination of a sitting British prime minister.[24][25]John Bellingham: Motives and Background John Bellingham was born in 1769 in St. Neots, Huntingdonshire, and worked as a merchant based in Liverpool.[25] In 1803, he traveled to Archangelsk, Russia, as an export representative for Liverpool timber traders, having previously worked there as an accountant from 1800 to 1801.[26] His business involved dealings with firms like Dorbecker & Co., but disputes arose over debts, including a claimed obligation of around 4,890 rubles stemming from commercial transactions.[27] In 1804, Bellingham was arrested at the Russian frontier by order of the military governor of Archangelsk while attempting to depart, leading to nearly five years of imprisonment marked by harsh conditions, including confinement on bread and water and transfers between facilities.[28] He attributed his detention to fabricated charges, such as an anonymous letter alleging fraudulent ship insurance, and a coerced payment of 2,000 rubles for a debt he denied owing, despite acquittals in some proceedings.[27] Appeals to British officials, including Consul Sir Stephen Sharp and Ambassador Lord Granville Leveson Gower, yielded limited support but no intervention to secure his release, as they deemed the matter a private commercial dispute outside diplomatic purview.[28] Bellingham was finally released in 1809 with orders to leave Russia and returned to England in December, arriving destitute after years of persecution he blamed on local authorities and inadequate British protection.[26] Upon return, Bellingham petitioned British authorities repeatedly for compensation, arguing the government bore responsibility for failing to safeguard its subjects abroad and for losses incurred during the Napoleonic-era disruptions in trade.[25] In early 1810, he approached Foreign Secretary Marquis Wellesley, who referred the case to the Privy Council and Treasury; subsequent applications to the Prince Regent and Treasury ministers were denied, citing expired petition timelines or lack of governmental liability.[28] In May 1810, he presented a petition directly to Spencer Perceval's office at Downing Street, receiving no redress, which deepened his conviction of systemic denial of justice.[26] By March 1812, he warned Bow Street magistrates of his intent to "execute justice" himself if formal channels failed, framing his plight as a national grievance warranting extraordinary action.[27] Bellingham's motive for assassinating Perceval on 11 May 1812 was explicitly tied to this accumulated frustration, viewing the act as a compelled response to "want of redress and denial of justice" rather than personal animus.[28] He targeted Perceval not for individual fault but as a prominent minister symbolizing the unresponsive administration, stating he would have preferred to confront Leveson Gower but settled on Perceval as an accessible representative of authority.[28] At his Old Bailey trial on 15 May 1812, Bellingham defended his rationality, insisting the killing aimed to force parliamentary inquiry into his case, and rejected any insanity defense, maintaining the government's prior inaction justified his resort to violence.[28]Trial, Execution, and Political Consequences John Bellingham was tried at the Old Bailey on 15 May 1812 for the wilful murder of Spencer Perceval, with the proceedings conducted under the judges of the King's Bench, Common Pleas, and Exchequer.[28][25] Representing himself, Bellingham admitted firing the fatal shot but contended that his actions were justified by the government's refusal to compensate him for losses incurred during wrongful imprisonment in Russia, framing the killing as a deliberate act of retribution rather than insanity.[28][26] The prosecution presented eyewitness testimony and medical evidence confirming the cause of death as a pistol wound to the heart, while the defense elicited no witnesses to support claims of persecution.[28] After a trial lasting approximately two hours, the jury deliberated for about ten minutes before returning a verdict of guilty, leading to an immediate death sentence under common law for murder.[26][27] Bellingham was executed by hanging at Newgate Prison on 18 May 1812, just seven days after the assassination, in front of a large crowd estimated at over 30,000 spectators.[25][29] He reportedly met his death calmly, offering a final statement reiterating his grievances against the government and denying personal malice toward Perceval.[27] Post-execution, his body was subjected to public dissection at St Bartholomew's Hospital as per the Murder Act of 1752, intended as a deterrent against capital crimes; his skull was later retained for phrenological study.[30] The swift judicial process reflected the era's emphasis on exemplary punishment for regicide-like offenses, though contemporaries noted Bellingham's apparent mental delusion without mitigating legal recognition.[26] The assassination precipitated a brief governmental crisis, with Parliament adjourning until late May amid uncertainty over leadership succession.[22] Perceval's death did not alter the Tory ministry's core policies, as Robert Jenkinson, 2nd Earl of Liverpool, formed a reconstituted government on 8 June 1812, continuing the commitment to prosecuting the Napoleonic Wars without immediate concessions.[2] Public shock was widespread, prompting enhanced security protocols at the Palace of Westminster, including restrictions on public access to lobbies, though no broader political realignment occurred due to the apolitical nature of Bellingham's motive—personal grievance rather than ideological opposition.[31] Parliament granted Perceval's widow an annual pension of £2,000 and funded monuments in Westminster Abbey and Peterborough Cathedral, affirming institutional continuity.[22]Legacy and Assessments Achievements in Fiscal Prudence and Moral Leadership As Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1807 to 1809, Perceval presented budgets in 1808 and 1809 that financed the escalating costs of the Napoleonic Wars without raising taxes, relying instead on loans secured at reasonable interest rates and administrative economies.[4][6] This approach incorporated recommendations from the Finance Committee on reducing national debt by converting annuities and optimizing sinking funds, stabilizing public credit amid wartime expenditures exceeding £30 million annually.[6] Perceval's strategy avoided inflationary pressures by maintaining adherence to the gold standard, even as opponents criticized the growing funded debt, which reached £500 million by 1810; he defended this as necessary for sustaining the war effort without overburdening taxpayers.[5][18] Upon becoming Prime Minister in October 1809, Perceval continued this fiscal restraint, balancing a budget strained by military subsidies and naval operations through a mix of exchequer bills and long-term loans rather than property taxes or excises that might provoke domestic unrest.[5] In 1810, he addressed bullion shortages by supporting a committee inquiry but prioritized war funding, raising £24 million via loans in one session alone while resisting demands for retrenchment that could weaken Britain's continental alliances.[18] His policies preserved liquidity in the banking system, with the Bank of England advancing funds judiciously, contributing to economic resilience despite trade blockades.[32] Perceval's moral leadership stemmed from his devout Evangelical Anglicanism, which informed a principled opposition to Catholic emancipation, viewing concessions as a threat to the Protestant constitution established by the Glorious Revolution and the Act of Settlement.[6] He argued that admitting Catholics to Parliament without safeguards would undermine the Church of England's supremacy and invite foreign papal influence, a stance he maintained despite political isolation after Pitt's 1801 resignation over the issue.[6][33] This firmness, rooted in constitutional realism rather than mere prejudice, sustained his government's cohesion amid Irish agitation, prioritizing long-term stability over short-term appeasement.[8] Evangelical convictions also shaped Perceval's advocacy for moral reforms, including strict Sabbath observance to foster public virtue and his support for the 1807 Slave Trade Abolition Act, which he defended as aligning Christian ethics with imperial policy.[5][34] He resisted parliamentary reform and vice societies' excesses but promoted fiscal integrity as a moral duty, linking prudent borrowing to avoiding generational injustice—a perspective that echoed his faith's emphasis on stewardship.[4] Perceval's unyielding character, described by contemporaries as conscientious to a fault, exemplified leadership grounded in duty over expediency, influencing subsequent Tory administrations' ethical governance.[6]Criticisms: Rigidity on Emancipation and Unrest Management Perceval's staunch opposition to Catholic emancipation, rooted in his evangelical Anglican convictions, drew criticism for its inflexibility amid growing demands for religious concessions in Ireland and Britain. In parliamentary debates on 4-5 March 1807, he declared his "inveterate opposition" to granting political rights to Catholics, arguing it would undermine the Protestant constitution and invite undue influence from the Vatican.[6] He rejected Catholic petitions for relief, such as on 25 May 1808, and opposed measures like a proposed veto on Irish episcopal appointments in 1810, viewing them as insufficient safeguards against Catholic ascendancy.[6] Contemporaries and later historians critiqued this rigidity as exacerbating sectarian tensions post-Act of Union (1801), potentially delaying stability by alienating Catholic subjects without offering pragmatic compromises, though supporters contended it preserved the establishment's integrity during wartime vulnerabilities.[6] During the Luddite disturbances of 1811-1812, Perceval's government faced accusations of overly repressive tactics in managing industrial unrest triggered by mechanization, wage cuts, and Napoleonic War-induced hardships. Riots erupted in textile regions like Nottinghamshire and Yorkshire, with frame-breaking attacks destroying hundreds of knitting machines by late 1811.[35] In response, Perceval's administration introduced the Destruction of Stocking Frames, etc. Act in February 1812, elevating machine sabotage from a misdemeanor to a capital felony punishable by death or transportation, which passed Parliament despite opposition from figures like Lord Byron who decried it as disproportionate.[35] Critics argued this punitive approach—deploying troops and authorizing summary executions—ignored underlying economic distress, such as unemployment from wide-frame adoption, and prioritized property over labor reform, fostering resentment rather than resolution; at least 17 Luddites were hanged under the act by 1813, amplifying perceptions of governmental intransigence.[6] Defenders maintained the measures were essential to avert broader anarchy threatening wartime production, yet the severity underscored complaints of Perceval's aversion to conciliatory policies.[6]Historical Reappraisals and Evangelical Impact In the mid-20th century, historian Denis Gray's biography reassessed Perceval's premiership, portraying him not merely as a caretaker leader overshadowed by William Pitt the Younger and Lord Liverpool, but as a steadfast Pittite who maintained policy continuity during a turbulent period of economic strain and Napoleonic wars. Gray emphasized Perceval's administrative competence and principled governance, challenging earlier dismissals of him as insignificant due to his short tenure of less than two years.[36] Subsequent scholarship has built on this, highlighting Perceval's role in stabilizing finances through targeted economies and loans that sustained Britain's war effort without immediate fiscal collapse, crediting his foresight in averting deeper debt crises.[5] Modern reappraisals further credit Perceval with embodying emerging Victorian-era virtues of personal rectitude and public service, viewing his assassination on 11 May 1812 not as an isolated tragedy but as underscoring the risks faced by morally driven leaders amid radical discontent. Historians note his resistance to political expediency, such as rejecting overtures for Catholic emancipation in 1809-1812, as reflective of a coherent worldview prioritizing constitutional order over concessions that he deemed threats to Protestant ascendancy.[23] This reassessment contrasts with 19th-century caricatures of Perceval as rigid or uncharismatic, instead framing his brevity in office as a consequence of systemic instability rather than personal failing.[37] Perceval's evangelical Anglicanism profoundly shaped his public life, marking him as the only British prime minister explicitly identified with the movement, which emphasized personal piety, scriptural authority, and moral reform. His faith manifested in advocacy for clerical residence and curate payments from 1803 onward, aiming to enforce pastoral duties and revitalize Church of England discipline amid perceived spiritual laxity.[6] It informed strict Sabbath observance policies and opposition to vices like gaming and bull-baiting, aligning with evangelical campaigns for societal virtue; for instance, Perceval supported Pitt's moral fiscal restraints, viewing unchecked speculation as ethically corrosive.[5] Though conservative in ecclesiology—rejecting nonconformist models of church governance—his beliefs fostered alliances with figures like William Wilberforce on slave trade abolition in 1807, while underpinning a broader commitment to "Christian gentleman" conduct that integrated private devotion with statecraft.[12] This evangelical lens extended to end-times tracts he authored privately, reflecting a providential view of Britain's trials under Napoleon as divine testing, which bolstered his resolve against peace compromises.[38]Personal Life Marriage and Family Spencer Perceval married Jane Wilson, the youngest daughter of merchant and MP Sir Thomas Wilson, on 10 August 1790 at Horsted Keynes, Sussex.[39][40] The couple's union connected Perceval to a family with parliamentary ties, as Jane's sister Margaretta Elizabeth Wilson had wed Perceval's elder brother, Charles George Perceval, later Baron Arden.[41] Perceval and Jane had twelve children—six sons and six daughters—who survived infancy.[9] The family resided modestly despite Perceval's rising political stature, reflecting his emphasis on personal frugality. Following his assassination in 1812, Parliament voted £50,000 for the support of Jane and the children, addressing concerns over inadequate provision from his estate.[42] Jane Perceval lived until 1844, remarrying Lieutenant-Colonel John James Carr in 1815.[43]Religious Convictions and Character Spencer Perceval was a devout Evangelical Anglican whose faith, shaped during his time at Trinity College, Cambridge, among evangelical peers, profoundly influenced his worldview and personal conduct.[6][5] His convictions manifested in a strict observance of the Sabbath as a day of devotion and a belief in the French Revolution as a divine instrument against Catholicism, as expressed in an anonymous pamphlet predicting the world's end in 1926.[6][5] Perceval advocated for Church of England supremacy, opposing Catholic emancipation on grounds that it would enable political enfranchisement and proselytism, while supporting internal reforms such as mandatory resident clergy and improved pay for curates from 1803 onward, including the ill-fated Curates Bill.[6][4] Contemporaries viewed him as "Christianity personified," an Anglican prime minister committed to purifying and expanding the national church.[44] Perceval's character reflected his evangelical piety through personal incorruptibility, frugality, and moral rigor; he lived modestly, rejecting a reversionary pension in 1807 with the statement, "I detest the idea of reversionary pension or place," and relied on daily prayers amid reserved intentions.[6] His integrity earned admiration even from opponents, such as Lord Palmerston, and he demonstrated distaste for gambling, drunkenness, and adultery while engaging in private philanthropy.[6][3] As a devoted family man, he married Jane Wilson in 1790, fathering six sons and six daughters, with family needs guiding career choices like declining the Irish secretaryship in 1796 to prioritize stability.[5][6] This moral framework also underpinned his support for abolishing the transatlantic slave trade in 1807 and later involvement with the African Institution.[4][3]References - https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Dictionary_of_National_Biography%2C_1885-1900/Perceval%2C_Spencer
