=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Isro man gets 1st Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist Award | Goa News - Times of India]
Nov 17, 2023 · Panaji: Dr Mathavaraj S of the UR Rao Satellite Centre of ISRO has become the first recipient of Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist Award. The award comprises a cash prize of Rs 5 lakh, which is currently the highest cash prize in science and technology, and a citation.
URL: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/goa/isro-man-gets-1st-manohar-parrikar-yuva-scientist-award/articleshow/105299742.cms

[﻿Dr Mathavaraj bags Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist award]
Nov 18, 2023 · The first Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist award will be conferred on Dr Mathavaraj S of U R Rao Satellite Centre, ISRO. Dr Mathavaraj had designed the powered decent trajectory of Chandrayaan-3 Mission that had successfully landed on the South Pole of the moon.
URL: https://www.thegoan.net/goa-news/%C3%AF%C2%BB%C2%BFdr-mathavaraj-bags-manohar-parrikar-yuva-scientist-award/106103.html

[Who is the first recipient of Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist Award?]
Nov 21, 2023 — Dr Mathavaraj S of the UR Rao Satellite Centre of ISRO has become the first recipient of Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist Award. The award comprises a cash ...
URL: https://www.gktoday.in/question/who-is-the-first-recipient-of-manohar-parrikar-yuva-scientist-award

[ISRO'S DR Mathavaraj selected for first Manohar Parrikar yuva scientist ...]
Nov 18, 2023 · Panaji: The first Manohar Parrikar yuva scientist award will be presented to Dr Mathavaraj S of the U R Rao Satellite Centre of ISRO on December 13, chief minister Pramod Sawant announced.
URL: https://goanewshub.com/isros-dr-mathavaraj-selected-for-first-manohar-parrikar-yuva-scientist-award/

[ISRO's Dr. Mathavaraj selected for Goa Govt.'s first… - inkl]
Nov 18, 2023 · The first 'Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist Award' instituted by the Goa government will be presented to Dr Mathavaraj S of the U R Rao Satellite Centre of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) next month, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has announced.
URL: https://www.inkl.com/news/isro-s-dr-mathavaraj-selected-for-goa-govt-s-first-manohar-parrikar-yuva-scientist-award


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Isro man gets 1st Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist Award | Goa News - Times of India] ---
Panaji: Dr Mathavaraj S of the UR Rao Satellite Centre of ISRO has become the first recipient of Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist Award. The award comprises a cash prize of Rs 5 lakh, which is currently the highest cash prize in science and technology, and a citation. The award will be presented at Manohar Parrikar Vigyan Mahotsav at NIO on December 13 on the birth anniversary of Parrikar. “Happy to announce that the award has gone to the person who designed the powered descent trajectory of Chandrayaan-3 mission that had successfully landed on the South Pole of the moon,” chief minister Pramod Sawant announced on Friday. The expert committee, headed by former chairman of Atomic Energy Commission Anil Kakodkar, selected Mathavaraj from 106 applicants, of which they had shortlisted 14. Mathavaraj joined the UR Rao Satellite Centre in November 2011 and has been instrumental in designing the manoeuvre strategies for Chandrayaan-3 and also developed the optimal control algorithm and non-linear tools for powered descent lander trajectory design. He also designed and analysed various lunar trajectories for non-nominal and engine failure cases and was instrumental in achieving the desired lunar orbit and powered descent starting condition for Chandrayaan-3 lander precisely. Mathavaraj has an equal command over both theoretical and practical aspects of spaceflight design and has published several international papers, too.


--- [﻿Dr Mathavaraj bags Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist award] ---
PANAJI The first Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist award will be conferred on Dr Mathavaraj S of U R Rao Satellite Centre, ISRO. Dr Mathavaraj had designed the powered decent trajectory of Chandrayaan-3 Mission that had successfully landed on the South Pole of the moon. There were 106 applicants of which 14 were shortlisted by the government for the award which comprises of Rs 5 lakh and a citation. This is currently the highest cash prize in science and technology. The award will be presented on December 13, the birth anniversary of late chief minister Manohar Parrikar at Manohar Parrikar Vigyan Mahotsav at NIO, Dona Paula. Dr Anil Kakodkar who chaired the Expert Committee for selection of Yuva Scientist said, “happy to announce that the award has gone to the person who designed the powered decent trajectory of Chandrayaan-3 Mission that had successfully landed on the South Pole of the moon”.


--- [Who is the first recipient of Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist Award?] ---
Q. Who is the first recipient of Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist Award?Answer: Dr Mathavaraj S Notes: Dr Mathavaraj S of the UR Rao Satellite Centre of ISRO has become the first recipient of Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist Award. The award comprises a cash prize of Rs 5 lakh, which is currently the highest cash prize in science and technology, and a citation. He designed the powered descent trajectory of Chandrayaan-3 mission. The award was instituted by the Goa government.


--- [ISRO'S DR Mathavaraj selected for first Manohar Parrikar yuva scientist ...] ---
Panaji: The first Manohar Parrikar yuva scientist award will be presented to Dr Mathavaraj S of the U R Rao Satellite Centre of ISRO on December 13, chief minister Pramod Sawant announced. The selection committee headed by Dr Anil Kakodkar has selected Dr Mathavaraj, who designed the powered descent trajectory of Chandrayaan3 mission for the prestigious award. In his post on X handle, Sawant on Friday wrote “ 1st Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist Award is out. Dr. Anil Kakodkar who chaired the Expert Committee of selection of Yuva Scientist has handed over the results to me this evening.” He further said “Happy to announce that the award has gone to the person who designed the powered decent (descent) trajectory of #Chandrayaan3 Mission that had successfully landed on the South Pole of the moon.” Sawant announced “The award recipient is Dr. Mathavaraj S of the U R Rao Satellite Centre @isro. There were 106 applicants out of which 14 were shortlisted.” He said that the award comprises of 5 lakhs rupees and a citation, which is currently the highest cash prize in science and technology. “The award will be presented at Manohar Parrikar Vigyan Mahotsav at NIO on 13th December 2023 i.e. birth anniversary of our beloved Dr. Manohar Parrikar (Bhai),” the chief minister added.


--- [ISRO's Dr. Mathavaraj selected for Goa Govt.'s first… - inkl] ---
The first 'Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist Award' instituted by the Goa government will be presented to Dr Mathavaraj S of the U R Rao Satellite Centre of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) next month, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has announced. The selection committee headed by Dr Anil Kakodkar selected Dr Mathavaraj, who designed the powered descent trajectory of Chandrayaan-3 Mission, for the award. In his post on 'X', Dr. Sawant on Friday said, "First Manohar Parrikar Yuva Scientist Award is out. Dr. Anil Kakodkar who chaired the Expert Committee of selection of Yuva Scientist has handed over the results to me this evening. Happy to announce that the award has gone to the person who designed the powered decent [descent] trajectory of #Chandrayaan3 Mission that had successfully landed on the South Pole of the moon." "The award recipient is Dr. Mathavaraj S of the U R Rao Satellite Centre @isro. There were 106 applicants out of which 14 were shortlisted," he said. The award comprises ₹5 lakh and a citation, which is currently the highest cash prize in science and technology, Dr. Sawant said. "The award will be presented at Manohar Parrikar Vigyan Mahotsav at NIO on 13th December 2023 i.e. birth anniversary of our beloved Dr. Manohar Parrikar [Bhai]," the Chief Minister added.
