=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[2010 ISCB Accomplishment by a Senior Scientist Award: Chris Sander ...]
Activities: • 2009 Puerto Morelos, MEXICO: ("Fundación de SoIBio", joint with EMBnet) Fundation Conference (October 26-29, 2009). • 2010 Termas de Chillán, CHILE: 1st SoIBio Bioinformatics International Conference (September 26-28, 2010). • 2011 Florianopolis, BRAZIL: 2nd SoIBio Bioinformatics International Conference (October 12-15, 2011).
URL: https://www.iscb.org/component/content/article?id=104%3Aaffiliates-south-america

[2010 ISCB Overton Prize Awarded to Steven E. Brenner - PMC]
2010 ISCB Overton Prize: Steven E. Brenner The ISCB's Overton Prize, established in 2001, rewards early- to mid-career scientists who have made major contributions to bioinformatics and/or computational biology. The prize is given in memory of G. Christian Overton, a young bioinformatics researcher and ISCB director who died suddenly in 2000.
URL: https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC2891695/

[ISCB Senior Scientist Award - Wikipedia]
The ISCB Accomplishment by a Senior Scientist Award[1] is an annual prize awarded by the International Society for Computational Biology for contributions to the field of computational biology.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISCB_Senior_Scientist_Award

[2010 ISCB Overton Prize Awarded to Steven E. Brenner]
This year's ISCB Overton Prize winner is Steven E. Brenner of the University of California, Berkeley, California, United States and the 2010 ISCB Accomplishment by a Senior Scientist Award goes to Chris Sander of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, US.
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2010-ISCB-Overton-Prize-Awarded-to-Steven-E.-McKay-Sansom/e41594d49146388c683f82f289629ce8f72d654b

[Who won the first nobel prize for environmental action was...]
Mar 21, 2024 · The first Nobel Prize was awarded in 1901. Wangari Maathai was the first African womand and the first Kenyan to win a Nobel prize. She won the Peace prize in 2004, for her environmental work.
URL: https://www.answers.com/literary-awards/Who_won_the_first_nobel_prize_for_environmental_action_was_awarded_to


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [2010 ISCB Accomplishment by a Senior Scientist Award: Chris Sander ...] ---
2010 ISCB Accomplishment by a Senior Scientist Award: Chris Sander Chris Sander is one of the best-known researchers in protein structure analysis and genomics pathway analysis. Like other founders of bioinformatics, Sander was initially trained as a physicist, with a first degree in physics and mathematics from the University of Berlin in 1967, and a PhD in theoretical physics after graduate studies at the State University of New York, the Niels Bohr Institute in Copenhagen and the University of California in Berkeley. His interest in biology was first kindled by Joe Franklin, a research chemist, during a high school exchange year in Texas. At the age of 21, he went straight to the top to explore this interest, took a trip to Caltech and knocked on the door of Max Delbrück, a physicist turned pioneering bacterial geneticist. Delbrück elaborated on the potential of theoretical physics in molecular biology, but it was not until after completing his first postdoc in theoretical high-energy nuclear physics in Heidelberg that Sander made the lateral transition to biology. Sander chose to work on protein folding because, as he said with a smile, "I liked stereo views of molecules". He became a post-doc with Shneior Lifson, then a leader in the field of molecular force fields for biopolymers at the Weizmann Institute in Israel. "Lifson taught me that the most important skill in science is to ask good questions," Sander says with admiration. Having successfully switched from theoretical physics to biology, he then moved to the Max-Planck Institute for Biophysics in Heidelberg to work with Georg Schulz, a protein crystallographer, and biophysicist Ken Holmes. His first independent collaboration with post-doc colleague Wolfgang Kabsch led to the development of the algorithm for analyzing protein structures, DSSP, that 17 years later is still used as a standard for identifying protein secondary structures in experimental 3D structures. In 1986, Sander took a giant leap from senior post-doc to department chair and founder of the Biocomputing Program at the European Molecular Biology laboratories (EMBL) in Heidelberg, with the support of Sydney Brenner, one of the grand masters of molecular biology. "EMBL is an ideal environment for young, independent scientists to flourish", he says. "It is highly stimulating, collaborative and international." During that period he also pursued his dream of building international collaborations and a worldwide bioinformatics infrastructure as active co-founder of the European Molecular Biology Network (EMBnet). When, in 1995, EMBL moved its bioinformatics research and services from Heidelberg to the European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI) in Cambridge, UK, he joined the new institute as a group leader. Soon thereafter he was a founding member of the Board of Directors of ISCB when the society was established in early 1997. By the late 1990s Sander was motivated by "having more impact in the real world than can be afforded by publications and conferences. While a guest at the MIT Genome Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1998, he co-founded the bioinformatics company Millennium Information, a short-lived spinout from Millennium Pharmaceuticals. Recruited by Harold Varmus, in 2002 Sander accepted the challenge to found his second department of computational biology, now at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, with strong emphasis on translational, i.e., clinically relevant, techniques and applications, particularly in cancer medicine. Sander predicts about his own work: "the best is yet to come". He is continuing to innovate, and expects to present new results in his keynote lecture at ISMB 2010, describing a novel approach to cell biology that builds network models based on systematic perturbation of the cellular system and rich observation of the resulting changes in molecules and cellular phenotypes. "We rapidly cycle between experiment and theory and I now have a wet lab in my group for the first time in my career", he says. Sander reflects, "The two key ingredients for successful science are asking good questions and working with good people in a friendly atmosphere. The results of my past and present work are in essence the product of my collaborations with scientists across varied disciplines and from many countries, and I am their fan."


--- [2010 ISCB Overton Prize Awarded to Steven E. Brenner - PMC] ---
Each year the International Society for Computational Biology (ISCB; http://www.iscb.org) honors a young scientist who has already achieved a significant and lasting impact on our field. The ISCB Awards Committee, comprised of current and former directors of the society and chaired by Søren Brunak, director of the Center for Biological Sequence Analysis at the Technical University of Denmark, has announced that the recipient of the 2010 ISCB Overton Prize is Steven E. Brenner of the University of California, Berkeley, California, United States (Image 1). Additionally, the 2010 ISCB Accomplishment by a Senior Scientist Award goes to Chris Sander of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, US. Each of these awards are recognized well beyond the borders of the discipline of bioinformatics or computational biology as honoring excellence in science. Brunak points out some interesting connections between this year's award winners: “Both Sander and Brenner started out in structural bioinformatics and made distinguished contributions to the analysis of protein structure before moving into genomics-based research and a more translational approach to bioinformatics.” Both honorees will be presented with their awards at the ISCB's 18th annual international conference, Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology (ISMB; http://www.iscb.org/ismb2010), where Brenner will give the opening keynote lecture and Sander will speak on the second day. ISMB 2010 will take place in Boston, Massachusetts, US, July 11–13, 2010. This article features Steven E. Brenner as recipient of the Overton Prize; a future article will highlight Chris Sander's accomplishments that have earned him ISCB's Senior Scientist Award. 2010 ISCB Overton Prize: Steven E. Brenner The ISCB's Overton Prize, established in 2001, rewards early- to mid-career scientists who have made major contributions to bioinformatics and/or computational biology. The prize is given in memory of G. Christian Overton, a young bioinformatics researcher and ISCB director who died suddenly in 2000. Previous recipients have been: Christopher B. Burge (MIT, US); David Baker (University of Washington, US); Jim Kent (University of California, Santa Cruz, US); Uri Alon (Weizmann Institute of Science, Israel); Ewan Birney (European Bioinformatics Institute, United Kingdom); Mathieu Blanchette (McGill University, Canada); Eran Segal (Weizmann Institute of Science, Israel); Aviv Regev (The Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, US); and Trey Ideker (University of California, San Diego, US). The 2010 ISCB Overton Prize winner, Steven E. Brenner, remembers being interested in computers and biology even as a small boy. But, rather than having a dual major, he chose the flexibility of Biochemical Sciences for his undergraduate studies at Harvard, and followed his advisor's encouragement to take computer science courses as well. As an undergraduate, he was able to work in Walter Gilbert's lab, “maybe the very first genome lab in the world.” Gilbert and his colleagues were sequencing the genome of the bacterium Mycoplasma genitalium. While in Gilbert's lab, Brenner met colleagues who introduced him to the idea of combining both his interests into the study of computational biology. After graduation, Brenner obtained a fellowship for graduate study at the University of Cambridge, and studied for his PhD in the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology under Cyrus Chothia. As one of the original authors of the scop: Structural Classification of Proteins database, Brenner presented it at the second ISMB meeting in 1994 [1]. While initially having an uncertain reception, scop has since been cited over 4,000 times and remains widely used today. After leaving Cambridge, Brenner obtained a fellowship to the National Institute of Bioscience, Japan, to work on genome analysis, but he was soon back in the US as a postdoctoral research fellow in Michael Levitt's lab at Stanford University. In Levitt's lab, he continued to work on genome and protein sequence analysis and the detection of distant evolutionary relationships between proteins. In 2000, Brenner moved to the University of California, Berkeley, as an assistant professor, and became a faculty scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory that same year. In 2009 he was appointed as an adjunct professor at the University of California, San Francisco, and is promoted to full professorship at UC Berkeley this year. His lab now includes experimental as well as computational biologists. Over time, Brenner's research interests have broadened away from protein structure. In the decade since obtaining his first independent position, he has contributed to the understanding of genomes, and to protein and RNA function. All of his work, however, can be characterized as using evolutionary principles and statistical and computational methods to understand biology. His most important contribution to the RNA field was the discovery of the prevalence of RNA surveillance and alternative splicing as a novel mode of gene regulation [2], [3]. He continues to work in this area and has extended his work in RNA regulation as a member of the modENCODE consortium, which aims to identify all the functional sequence elements in the Drosophila and Caenorhabditis elegans genomes. His recent research in protein function prediction picks up on scientific interests he first discovered as an undergraduate researcher at Harvard: his group's prediction algorithms are amongst the most accurate available. He has also been involved in establishing computational approaches for the field of structural genomics [4], and has developed an interest in relating human genetic variation to phenotype and disease. He set out his “vision for personal genome interpretation” in a short paper in Nature in 2007 [5], and for the last few years he has been advancing that vision for translational genomics. Outside pure research, Brenner has contributed to the computational biology community at large. He served as an ISCB director from 1998 to 2000 and again from 2002 to 2006. As a dedicated advocate of the open-access and open-source movement, he was one of the founders of the BioPerl open-source software project [6], which for him grew out of a desire to share the scripts he had written for scop so that others could avoid “re-inventing the wheel.” Later, he became a director of the Open Bioinformatics Foundation, which aims to put the creation of open-source software libraries such as BioPerl on a secure financial footing. And he is a founding editor of this journal, the first open-access journal focused on advancing the understanding of living systems through the application of computational methods. Brunak, as Chair of the ISCB Awards Committee, recognizes that Brenner is at the upper end of the seniority bracket that qualifies for the Overton Prize. “Young scientists who achieve a conspicuous success like scop very early in their career too often ‘burn out.’ In contrast, Brenner is a worthy winner because of the long-standing, excellent track record that he has established in research and scholarship,” he says. Brenner himself is quick to attribute much of this success to his “wonderful” mentors, collaborators, colleagues—and especially the postdocs and students in his group from whom he says he learned the most science. He cites inspirations ranging from his parents, to advisors Gilbert, Chothia, and Levitt, who taught him “how to do science at a high level,” to his senior colleague at Berkeley, Jasper Rine. This readiness to share the credit for his achievements further underscores his worthiness as the recipient of the 2010 ISCB Overton Prize. Additional Information The ISCB award winners will be presenting their research at ISMB 2010 in July, which will be held at Boston's John B. Hynes Memorial Convention Center. They will be joined by four other keynote speakers, as well as Robert A. Weinberg (a founding member of the Whitehead Institute and professor of biology at MIT), who will give the first public lecture at an ISMB meeting. The complete conference programme is expected to include over 150 oral presentations, more than 700 posters, a commercial exhibition, and an art and science competition. Full information about ISMB 2010, including registration details, is available at http://www.iscb.org/ismb2010. There is more information about all past winners of the ISCB's major awards on the Society Web site at http://www.iscb.org/iscb-awards. Footnotes The authors have declared that no competing interests exist. CS was paid by ISCB to write this article. References - 1.Murzin AG, Brenner SE, Hubbard T, Chothia C. SCOP: a structural classification of proteins database for the investigation of sequences and structures. J Mol Biol. 1995;247:536–540. doi: 10.1006/jmbi.1995.0159. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar] - 2.Lewis BP, Green RE, Brenner SE. Evidence for the widespread coupling of alternative splicing and nonsense-mediated mRNA decay in humans. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2003;100:189–192. doi: 10.1073/pnas.0136770100. [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar] - 3.Lareau LF, Inada M, Green RE, Wengrod JC, Brenner SE. Unproductive splicing of SR genes associated with highly conserved and ultraconserved DNA elements. Nature. 2007;446:926–929. doi: 10.1038/nature05676. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar] - 4.Chandonia JM, Brenner SE. The impact of structural genomics: expectations and outcomes. Science. 2006;311:347–351. doi: 10.1126/science.1121018. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar] - 5.Brenner SE. Common sense for our genomes. Nature. 2007;449:783–784. doi: 10.1038/449783a. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar] - 6.Stajich JE, Block D, Boulez K, Brenner SE, Chervitz SA, et al. The Bioperl toolkit: Perl modules for the life sciences. Genome Res. 2002;12:1611–1618. doi: 10.1101/gr.361602. [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]


--- [ISCB Senior Scientist Award - Wikipedia] ---
The ISCB Accomplishment by a Senior Scientist Award is an annual prize awarded by the International Society for Computational Biology for contributions to the field of computational biology.




--- [2010 ISCB Overton Prize Awarded to Steven E. Brenner] ---
No content


--- [Who won the first nobel prize for environmental action was...] ---
Create 0 Log in Subjects > Books and Literature > Literary Awards Who won the first nobel prize for environmental action was awarded to? Anonymous ∙ 15y ago Updated: 3/21/2024 Wangari Maathai in 2004. Wiki User ∙ 15y ago Copy Show More Answers (1) Add Your Answer What else can I help you with? Search Related Questions Trending Questions What are some other celebrations that take place around the world? What does the swamper mean by the statement curleys pretty handy? What is the Golden Harness award in the Iditarod? Are there any winners from WV of publisher clearing house sweepstakes? What are the coordinates of Nobel Peace Prize? How many awards did betty ren wright win? What is the antonym for finalist? When rewards that Louis Sachar win? What is status of appointment? What is the criteria for judging a valentine's best dressed? Frank is taller than John Ralph is taller than Frank Therefore John is the shortest? What is the meaning of aknowledgment? What award is boxer and snowball given? What is a formal written statement that is presented to the grang jury? Did princess Diana win a Nobel peace price? Why was Skeleton Creek nominated for Young Readers Choice Awards? In Where the lilies bloom what are the themes? What terms apply to a well described character that is protagonist's challenger? Who are boticelli and roscuro in the tales despereaux? The eye sees all but the mind sHow is us what you want to see This famous quotation was given by?
