=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Captain Shiva Chouhan becomes first women officer operationally deployed at Kumar Post in Siachen - The Hindu]
Captain Shiva Chouhan, an officer from the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers, became the first woman officer to be operationally deployed at Kumar Post in the Siachen Glacier, which is located at an altitude of 15,632 feet.
URL: https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/captain-shiva-chauhan-becomes-first-women-officer-operationally-deployed-at-kumar-post-in-siachen/article66334097.ece

[Meet Capt Shiva Chauhan, the first woman officer to get ...]
Jan 3, 2023 · Captain Shiva Chauhan has become the first woman army officer to get operationally deployed on the Siachen Glacier, the world’s highest battlefield. The officer was deployed at the Kumar post, located at an altitude of around 15,600 feet in Siachen, on Monday for a period of three months after she underwent rigorous training, Army officials said.
URL: https://indianexpress.com/article/india/siachen-glacier-first-woman-officer-deployed-8359430/

[The story of Capt Shiva Singh Chauhan: What it takes to be ...]
Jan 4, 2023 · Capt Shiva Chauhan of Fire and Fury Sappers became the first woman officer to be operationally deployed in Kumar Post, post completion of arduous training, at the highest battlefield of the world #Siachen.
URL: https://www.firstpost.com/explainers/captain-shiva-singh-chauhan-first-indian-army-woman-officer-siachen-highest-battlefield-11924832.html

[Who is the first woman officer to be operationally deployed at Kumar Post, Siachen?]
No snippet
URL: https://www.gktoday.in/question/who-is-the-first-woman-officer-to-be-operationally-deployed-at-kumar-p

[First Woman Officer Operationally Deployed at Kumar Post ...]
Chouhan serves as an officer Corps in the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers. Captain Shiva Chouhan, an officer from the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers, became the first woman officer to be operationally deployed at Kumar Post in the Siachen Glacier, which is located at an altitude of 15,632 feet.
URL: https://www.bharatfirst.in/tag/first-woman-officer-operationally-deployed-at-kumar-post-siachen/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Captain Shiva Chouhan becomes first women officer operationally deployed at Kumar Post in Siachen - The Hindu] ---
Captain Shiva Chouhan, an officer from the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers, became the first woman officer to be operationally deployed at Kumar Post in the Siachen Glacier, which is located at an altitude of 15,632 feet. “Capt. Shiva Chouhan of Fire and Fury Sappers became the first woman officer to be operationally deployed in Kumar Post, post completion of arduous training, at the highest battlefield of the world Siachen,” the Army’s Leh-based 14 Corps said on Twitter. Capt. Chouhan from Rajasthan is a Bengal Sapper Officer commissioned in May 2021. She got inducted to the Siachen Glacier on January 2. The team of Sappers led by her will be responsible for numerous combat engineering tasks and will be deployed at the post for a duration of three months, the Army said, adding she had undergone a month’s training at the Siachen Battle School along with other personnel. She has done her schooling from Udaipur and holds a bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering from NJR Institute of Technology, Udaipur. Kumar Post and ‘Operation Meghdoot’ Kumar Post is named after late Colonel Narinder ‘Bull’ Kumar (retd.), who was instrumental in the Indian Army launching ‘Operation Meghdoot’ and securing the dominating heights of Siachen Glacier in 1984. On April 13, 1984, India launched ‘Operation Meghdoot’ to capture the 76.4 km-long glacier on the Saltoro ridge. A platoon of 4 Kumaon Regiment led by then Captain Sanjay Kulkarni planted the Indian flag at Bilafond La. The operation on the world’s highest battlefield continues till date, making it the longest continuing operation of its kind in the world. In his honour, the battalion headquarters on the glacier has been named ‘Kumar Post’. Published - January 04, 2023 03:18 am IST


--- [Meet Capt Shiva Chauhan, the first woman officer to get ...] ---
Stay updated with the latest - Click here to follow us on Instagram Captain Shiva Chauhan has become the first woman army officer to get operationally deployed on the Siachen Glacier, the world’s highest battlefield. The officer was deployed at the Kumar post, located at an altitude of around 15,600 feet in Siachen, on Monday for a period of three months after she underwent rigorous training, Army officials said. The Leh-based Fire and Fire Corps tweeted the picture of the officer, calling her feat as ‘Breaking the Glass Ceiling’. ‘Breaking the Glass Ceiling’ Capt Shiva Chauhan of Fire and Fury Sappers became the first woman officer to be operationally deployed in Kumar Post, post completion of arduous training, at the highest battlefield of the world #Siachen.#SuraSoi@PMOIndia @DefenceMinIndia @adgpi pic.twitter.com/nQbmJxvLQ4 — @firefurycorps_IA (@firefurycorps) January 3, 2023 Captain Chouhan will be leading the team of Sappers entrusted with the task of carrying out various combat engineering assignments, the Army said. The officer underwent rigorous training at the Siachen Battle School where she trained alongside the officers and men of the Indian Army, officials said, reported news agency PTI. The training included endurance training, ice wall climbing, avalanche and crevasse rescue and survival drills, they said. #WATCH | Capt Shiva Chouhan becomes the first woman officer to get operationally deployed at the world’s highest battlefield, Siachen, after training at Siachen Battle School along with other personnel. (Source: Indian Army) pic.twitter.com/He6oPwdQM9 — ANI (@ANI) January 3, 2023 Earlier, women officers were posted to Siachen base camp, located at about 9,000 feet, as part of their regular postings along with the unit. Terming the move “an encouraging sign”, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh conveyed his best wishes to Capt Chauhan and said he was happy to see more women joining the armed forces and take every challenge in stride. “Excellent news! I am extremely happy to see more women joining the Armed Forces and take every challenge in stride. It is an encouraging sign. My best wishes to Capt Shiva Chauhan,” he tweeted. Located in the Karakoram range in the Himalayas, Siachen Glacier at the height of around 20,000 feet is known as the highest militarised zone in the world. Stay updated with the latest - Click here to follow us on Instagram


--- [The story of Capt Shiva Singh Chauhan: What it takes to be ...] ---
Ain’t no mountain high enough for Captain Shiva Singh Chauhan. Meet the Indian Army’s first woman officer, who is operationally deployed in Siachen Glacier , the world’s highest battlefield. Chauhan belongs to the Leh-based Fire and Fury Corps, which handles some of the most sensitive frontiers and battlefields, including the areas of Western and Eastern Ladakh. The Corps tweeted a picture of the young officer, saying this was “breaking the glass ceiling”. 'Breaking the Glass Ceiling' — @firefurycorps_IA (@firefurycorps) January 3, 2023 Capt Shiva Chauhan of Fire and Fury Sappers became the first woman officer to be operationally deployed in Kumar Post, post completion of arduous training, at the highest battlefield of the world #Siachen.#SuraSoi@PMOIndia @DefenceMinIndia @adgpi pic.twitter.com/nQbmJxvLQ4 Deployed at 15,632 feet Chauhan has been deployed at the Kumar Post , the headquarters of the Northern Glacier Battalion, which is at a height of 15,632 feet. Close to 80 per cent of posts on the glacier are located above 16,000 feet, with the highest post at more than 21,000 feet. Like other soldiers, Chauhan will be deployed in Siachen, where the temperature can dip to minus 60 degrees, for three months. She will be a team leader, responsible for numerous combat engineering tasks. [caption id=“attachment_11925002” align=“alignnone” width=“640”] Captain Shiva Chauhan underwent rigorous training that included ice-wall climbing, avalanche and crevasse rescue and survival drills. Image courtesy: Indian Army[/caption] The arduous training The captain was inducted to the Siachen Glacier on 2 January. The Fire and Fury Corp said that Chauhan was deployed after “arduous training”. This included endurance training, ice-wall climbing, avalanche and crevasse rescue and survival drills at the Siachen Battle School. She trained along with other officers and men from the Indian Army. #WATCH | Capt Shiva Chouhan becomes the first woman officer to get operationally deployed at the world's highest battlefield, Siachen, after training at Siachen Battle School along with other personnel. — ANI (@ANI) January 3, 2023 (Source: Indian Army) pic.twitter.com/He6oPwdQM9 “In spite of various challenges, Captain Shiva with unflinching commitment completed the training,” the army said in a statement. Chauhan is a Bengal Sapper Officer and will be heading a team of Sappers at the Kumar Post. Since she is the first woman to be deployed to the frozen battlefield, special arrangements have been made to accommodate her. She will get a hut and toilet facilities of her own, according to a report in ThePrint. Also read: Why Indian Army activating satellite-based internet on Siachen Glacier is a big deal Getting to the top The officer is known for taking up uphill tasks. She led the Sura Soi Cycling Expedition from Siachen War Memorial to the Kargil War Memorial on Kargil Vijay Diwas in July 2022. She took up the challenge of leading the men of the Sura Soi Engineer Regiment at the world’s highest battlefield, and based on her performance was selected to undergo training at the Siachen Battle School. Hailing from Rajasthan, the captain trained at Officers Training Academy in Chennai. She was commissioned into the engineer regiment in May 2021. Since her childhood days, Chauhan was keen to join the armed forces. She went to school in Udaipur and then pursued engineering. She holds a bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering from NJR Institute of Technology, Udaipur. Chauhan was brought up by her mother, a housewife, who took care of her studies. She lost her father when she was 11 years old. **Also read: Indian Army gets its first woman combat aviator: What’s the Army Aviation Corps that Captain Abhilasha Barak joins?** [caption id=“attachment_11925032” align=“alignnone” width=“640”] Chauhan will lead a team of Bengal Sappers, who will be responsible for numerous combat engineering tasks. Image courtesy: Indian Army[/caption] Women in Siachen In the past 40 years, after India launched Operation Meghdoot to secure the world’s highest and coldest battleground, the army has only deployed men. So far women officers have been posted only to the Siachen camp base, which is at 9000 feet. It is part of the regular postings. Unlike, the Indian Navy and Air Force, the Army does not allow women officers in its combat arm yet. But they continue to make history. Terming Chauhan’s posting as “an encouraging sign”, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that he was happy to see more women joining the armed forces and taking up every challenge in stride.“Excellent news! I am extremely happy to see more women joining the Armed Forces and take every challenge in stride. It is an encouraging sign. My best wishes to Capt Shiva Chauhan,” he wrote on Twitter. With inputs from agencies Read all the Latest News , Trending News , Cricket News , Bollywood News , India News and Entertainment News here. Follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.


--- [Who is the first woman officer to be operationally deployed at Kumar Post, Siachen?] ---
Q. Who is the first woman officer to be operationally deployed at Kumar Post, Siachen?Answer: Captain Shiva Chouhan Notes: Captain Shiva Chouhan, an officer from the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers, became the first woman officer to be operationally deployed at Kumar Post in the Siachen Glacier. The post is located at an altitude of 15,632 feet. Kumar Post is named after late Colonel Narinder Kumar, who was instrumental in the Indian Army launching ‘Operation Meghdoot’ and securing the Siachen Glacier in 1984.


--- [First Woman Officer Operationally Deployed at Kumar Post ...] ---
Chouhan serves as an officer Corps in the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers. Captain Shiva Chouhan, an officer from the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers, became the first woman officer to be operationally deployed at Kumar Post in the Siachen Glacier, which is located at an altitude of 15,632 feet. “Capt. Shiva Chouhan of Fire and Fury Sappers became the first woman officer to be operationally deployed in Kumar Post, post completion of arduous training, at the highest battlefield of the world Siachen,” the Army’s Leh-based 14 Corps said on Twitter. Capt. Chouhan from Rajasthan is a Bengal Sapper Officer commissioned in May 2021. She got inducted to the Siachen Glacier on January 2. The team of Sappers led by her will be responsible for numerous combat engineering tasks and will be deployed at the post for a duration of three months, the Army said, adding she had undergone a month’s training at the Siachen Battle School along with other personnel. She has done her schooling from Udaipur and holds a bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering from NJR Institute of Technology, Udaipur. Kumar Post and ‘Operation Meghdoot’ Kumar Post is named after late Colonel Narinder ‘Bull’ Kumar (retd.), who was instrumental in the Indian Army launching ‘Operation Meghdoot’ and securing the dominating heights of Siachen Glacier in 1984. On April 13, 1984, India launched ‘Operation Meghdoot’ to capture the 76.4 km-long glacier on the Saltoro ridge. A platoon of 4 Kumaon Regiment led by then Captain Sanjay Kulkarni planted the Indian flag at Bilafond La. The operation on the world’s highest battlefield continues till date, making it the longest continuing operation of its kind in the world. In his honour, the battalion headquarters on the glacier has been named ‘Kumar Post’. source/content: thehindu.com (headline edited)
