=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Android Honeycomb - Wikipedia]
Android Honeycomb is the codename for the third major version of Android, designed for devices with larger screen sizes, particularly tablets; however, it has also been unofficially ported to the Nexus One. It is the eighth version of Android. It is no longer supported, as of November 14, 2016.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Android_Honeycomb

[Google officially deprecates Android Gingerbread and Honeycomb with Play Services update - Neowin]
Google released its latest update to Play Services today, bringing it to version 10.2. It's an update that we've known about since November though, as it ends support for both Android 2.3.x Gingerbread and 3.x Honeycomb.
URL: https://www.neowin.net/news/google-officially-deprecates-android-gingerbread-and-honeycomb-with-play-services-update/

[RIP Gingerbread and Honeycomb: Google is ending support in 2017 - Phandroid]
Nov 22, 2016 · The company has announced that the next version of Google Play services will no longer support devices running either Android Gingerbread or Android Honeycomb. We all knew it was a long...
URL: https://phandroid.com/2016/11/22/rip-gingerbread-google-play-services-2017/

[Google Play Services to Discontinue Support for Android Gingerbread, Honeycomb in Early 2017 | Technology News]
Nov 22, 2016 · Google has announced that its Google Play services framework will stop support for Gingerbread and Honeycomb in early 2017. With its version update 10.2.0 next year, Google Play Services will support only those Android devices that run on at least Ice Cream Sandwich.
URL: https://www.gadgets360.com/apps/news/google-play-services-to-discontinue-support-for-android-gingerbread-honeycomb-in-early-2017-1628725

[Google Play Services To Shun Ancient Android 2.3 Gingerbread and 3.0 Honeycomb Devices | HotHardware]
The next scheduled release is Google Play services version 10.2.0, which will increase the minimum supported API level from 9 to 14 (Android 4.0.1 Ice Cream Sandwich) when Google releases it to the public sometime in early 2017.
URL: https://hothardware.com/news/google-play-services-shun-android-gingerbread-honeycomb


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Android Honeycomb - Wikipedia] ---
Android Honeycomb is the codename for the third major version of Android, designed for devices with larger screen sizes, particularly tablets; however, it has also been unofficially ported to the Nexus One. It is the eighth version of Android. It is no longer supported, as of November 14, 2016. Android Honeycomb debuted with the Motorola Xoom in February 2011. Besides the addition of new features, Android Honeycomb introduced a new so-called "holographic" user interface theme and an interaction model that built on the main features of Android, such as multitasking, notifications, and widgets.


--- [Google officially deprecates Android Gingerbread and Honeycomb with Play Services update - Neowin] ---
Google released its latest update to Play Services today, bringing it to version 10.2. It's an update that we've known about since November though, as it ends support for both Android 2.3.x Gingerbread and 3.x Honeycomb. Of course, this doesn't mean that your device will stop working, but over time, you will see a drop in the amount of apps that are available for it. The new minimum API level is 14, which means that you'll need to be running Ice Cream Sandwich to use an app that's developed with SDK release 10.2.x or later. The release notes don't even mention the deprecation of Honeycomb, which represents API levels 11 through 13. There's good reason for this though, as Google hasn't even listed it on its monthly usage breakdown in years, which means that less than 0.1% of Android users are running it. Gingerbread, on the other hand, represents 1% of Android users, as of the latest usage report. Version 2.3.x included API levels 9 and 10, which was the previous baseline for Google Play Services. Of course, if you're on any modern device, you have nothing to worry about for a long time. Even the new baseline Android version, 4.0.x Ice Cream Sandwich, includes just 1% of Android users, and then Jelly Bean still rocks 10.3%.


--- [RIP Gingerbread and Honeycomb: Google is ending support in 2017 - Phandroid] ---
Remember the days where we all fell in love with Android Gingerbread and thought it was the greatest thing since sliced bread? I sure do, and those days have been long gone now that we are on Android Nougat. But Google has continued to support Gingerbread devices, until next year. How could you not love that sweet wallpaper? The company has announced that the next version of Google Play services will no longer support devices running either Android Gingerbread or Android Honeycomb. We all knew it was a long time coming, but it will still be a sad day when Google finally cuts the cord. Version 10.0.0 of the Google Play services client libraries, as well as the Firebase client libraries for Android, will be the last version of these libraries that support Android API level 9 (Android 2.3, Gingerbread). The next scheduled release of these libraries, version 10.2.0, will increase the minimum supported API level from 9 to 14 (Android 4.0.1, Ice Cream Sandwich). This change will happen in early 2017. The changes to the Google Play Services will cap support at Android 4.0.1, Ice Cream Sandwich, leaving all other previous versions in the dust. When looking at the most recent Android Distribution charts, it’s obvious that the time has definitely passed, as Gingerbread only accounts for 1.3% of the total percentage. Regardless, let’s all raise our glasses one more time to Gingerbread and what it offered back in 2010.


--- [Google Play Services to Discontinue Support for Android Gingerbread, Honeycomb in Early 2017 | Technology News] ---
Google has announced that its Google Play services framework will stop support for Gingerbread and Honeycomb in early 2017. With its version update 10.2.0 next year, Google Play Services will support only those Android devices that run on at least Ice Cream Sandwich. Google Play service is an API package for delivering updates and service improvements to Android users without upgrading the entire operating system. It was introduced in 2012, and supported all versions of Android including Gingerbread and Honeycomb. However, the current Google Play services version 10.0.0 will be the last to support the old operating systems. With the version 10.2.0 update slated for early 2017, Google Play Service will require a minimum support of Android 4.0.1 Ice Cream Sandwich (i.e. minimum supported API level will increase from 9 to 14) at least. Google reasons in its developer blog post, "The Gingerbread platform is almost six years old. Many Android developers have already discontinued support for Gingerbread in their apps. This helps them build better apps that make use of the newer capabilities of the Android platform. For us, the situation is the same. By making this change, we will be able to provide a more robust collection of tools for Android developers with greater speed." Google claims that most developers have stopped supporting Gingerbread in their apps, but for those who haven't, it recommends API level 14 to be targeted as the minimum. Devices that run on Gingerbread and below will not get updates of apps that follow these guidelines. For those apps that still have a significant number of users on Gingerbread, Google advices them to build multiple APKs to support those specific devices. However, this constitutes more work for the developer, and this decision is left on the app creator to make. If we look at the latest dashboard numbers, Gingerbread still runs on 1.3 percent of Android devices, much higher than the devices that run on Android 7.0 Nougat (0.3 percent). For details of the latest launches and news from Samsung, Xiaomi, Realme, OnePlus, Oppo and other companies at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, visit our MWC 2026 hub.


--- [Google Play Services To Shun Ancient Android 2.3 Gingerbread and 3.0 Honeycomb Devices | HotHardware] ---
Google Play Services To Shun Ancient Android 2.3 Gingerbread and 3.0 Honeycomb Devices The next scheduled release is Google Play services version 10.2.0, which will increase the minimum supported API level from 9 to 14 (Android 4.0.1 Ice Cream Sandwich) when Google releases it to the public sometime in early 2017. That will effectively leave Gingerbread and Honeycomb behind, rendering them obsolete platforms. For what purpose? Simply put, they're both old versions that most developers have moved away from anyway. "The Gingerbread platform is almost six years old. Many Android developers have already discontinued support for Gingerbread in their apps. This helps them build better apps that make use of the newer capabilities of the Android platform. For us, the situation is the same. By making this change, we will be able to provide a more robust collection of tools for Android developers with greater speed," Google said. Google recommends that developers start targeting API level 14 or higher. Doing so would prevent users on Gingerbread and Honeycomb devices from receiving app updates, but Google doesn't feel many such devices are actively being used anyway. In addition, developers have the option of building multiple APKs if they really want to continue supporting legacy hardware. As it stands, Gingerbread builds (Android 2.3.3 to 2.3.7) are only found on 1.3 percent of all Android devices, according to the Android Developers Dashboard. Honeycomb doesn't even register a blip on the Dashboard, meaning that its distribution sits at less 0.1 percent.
