=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Austrian Decoration for Science and Art - Wikipedia]
The "Austrian Decoration for Science and Art" was established by the National Council as an honour for scientific or artistic achievements by Federal Law of May 1955 (Federal Law Gazette No. 96/1955 as amended BGBl I No 128/2001). At the same time, the National Council also established the "Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art", which is awarded as "Cross of Honour, First Class" (German: Ehrenkreuz 1.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Austrian_Decoration_for_Science_and_Art

[Austrian Decoration for Science and Art - Wikidata]
Jan 23, 2026 · Austrian Decoration of Honour for Science and Art Austrian Medal for Science and Art Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art, 1st class Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and Art, 1st class Träger des Ehrenkreuzes für Wissenschaft und Kunst I. Klasse der Republik Österreich In more languages Configure ... All entered languages
URL: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q306590

[James Conlon Receives Austria's Cross of Honor for Science and Art | Opus 3 Artists]
American conductor James Conlon has been awarded Austria’s Cross of Honor for Science and Art (Österreichische Ehrenkreuz für Wissenschaft und Kunst). The Cross of Honor, instituted in 1955, is a state decoration from the Republic of Austria and is part of the Austrian national honors system.
URL: https://www.opus3artists.com/james-conlon-receives-austrias-cross-of-honor-for-science-and-art/

[First class honour for Lois Lammerhuber - Edition Lammerhuber]
In a special ceremony at the Federal Chancellor’s Office in the Palais Niederösterreich, publisher and photographer Lois Lammerhuber was decorated with the Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art, First Class. The Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art, First Class, is one of ...
URL: https://edition.lammerhuber.at/en/news-en/first-class-honour-for-lois-lammerhuber

[CeMM: Giulio Superti-Furga awarded the Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art, First Class]
On 26 February 2024, Giulio Superti-Furga had the pleasure and honor to receive the Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art, First Class (Österreichisches Ehrenkreuz I.
URL: https://cemm.at/news/detail/giulio-superti-furga-awarded-the-austrian-cross-of-honour-for-science-and-art-first-class


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Austrian Decoration for Science and Art - Wikipedia] ---
The Austrian Decoration for Science and Art (German: Österreichisches Ehrenzeichen für Wissenschaft und Kunst) is a state decoration of the Republic of Austria and forms part of the Austrian national honours system.




--- [Austrian Decoration for Science and Art - Wikidata] ---
Austrian Decoration for Science and Art (Q306590) Appearance Austrian award - Österreichisches Ehrenzeichen für Wissenschaft und Kunst - Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and Art - Ehrenzeichen für Wissenschaft und Kunst - Ehrenkreuz für Wissenschaft und Kunst - Austrian Badge of Honour for Science and Art - Österreichischen Ehrenkreuzes für Wissenschaft und Kunst - Austrian Honorary Cross for Science and Art - Austrian Honor Cross for Science and Art - Austrian decoration of honour for science and art - Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art - Austrian Decoration of Honour for Science and Art - Austrian Medal for Science and Art - Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art, 1st class - Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and Art, 1st class - Träger des Ehrenkreuzes für Wissenschaft und Kunst I. Klasse der Republik Österreich | Language | Label | Description | Also known as | |---|---|---|---| | default for all languages | No label defined | || | English | Austrian Decoration for Science and Art | Austrian award | | Statements Austrian Decoration for Science and Art 0 references Identifiers 1 reference Sitelinks Wikipedia(12 entries) - cswiki Čestný odznak Za vědu a umění - dewiki Österreichisches Ehrenzeichen und Österreichisches Ehrenkreuz für Wissenschaft und Kunst - enwiki Austrian Decoration for Science and Art - eswiki Condecoración Austriaca de las Ciencias y las Artes - fawiki نشان اتریش برای علم و هنر - fiwiki Tieteen ja taiteen ansiomerkki - hewiki העיטור האוסטרי למדע ואמנות - itwiki Medaglia per le scienze e per le arti (Austria) - nowiki Österreichisches Ehrenzeichen für Wissenschaft und Kunst - plwiki Österreichisches Ehrenzeichen für Wissenschaft und Kunst / Österreichisches Ehrenkreuz für Wissenschaft und Kunst - ptwiki Condecoração Austríaca de Ciência e Arte - ruwiki Австрийский почётный знак «За науку и искусство» Wikibooks(0 entries) Wikinews(0 entries) Wikiquote(0 entries) Wikisource(0 entries) Wikiversity(0 entries) Wikivoyage(0 entries) Wiktionary(0 entries) Multilingual sites(1 entry) - commonswiki Category:Austrian Decoration for Science and Art


--- [James Conlon Receives Austria's Cross of Honor for Science and Art | Opus 3 Artists] ---
James Conlon Receives Austria’s Cross of Honor for Science and Art American conductor James Conlon has been awarded Austria’s Cross of Honor for Science and Art (Österreichische Ehrenkreuz für Wissenschaft und Kunst). The Cross of Honor, instituted in 1955, is a state decoration from the Republic of Austria and is part of the Austrian national honors system. The award honors both Austrians and non-Austrians who have “distinguished themselves and earned general acclaim through especially superior creative and commendable services in the areas of the sciences or the arts.” Conlon received the decoration in the presence of the Austrian Ambassador to the United States, Ddr. Petra Schneebauer, and the Austrian Consul General of Los Angeles, Dr. Michael Postl, from Prof. Martin Polaschek, Austria’s Minister for Education, Science, and Research, during a ceremony held at the residence of the Austrian Consul General on October 6, 2023. Recipients of the decoration are presented with a medal and a diploma. Austria’s Cross of Honor is one of the most prestigious European distinctions that Conlon has been awarded over the course of his career. He received the Légion d’Honneur (Legion of Honor) in 2002 and was inducted personally by then-President of France, Jacques Chirac, and in 2004 he was named Commandeur de l’Ordre des Arts et des Lettres (Commander the Order of Arts and Letters) by the French Minister of Culture. He received the Commendatore Ordine al Merito della Repubblica Italiana (Commander of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic) by the President of the Italian Republic in 2018. In 2007 he received the Crystal Globe Award from the Anti-Defamation League and in 2013 he was awarded the Roger E. Joseph Prize at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion for his efforts to eradicate racial and religious prejudice and discrimination. In 1999 he received the Zemlinsky Prize for his defense of the Austrian composer from the Zemlinsky Stiftung (Foundation) in Vienna. In a career spanning over fifty years, James Conlon has devoted himself to classical music, particularly focusing on important elements of Austrian art and culture around the world, with extraordinary passion and dedication. For more than three decades, he has championed the study and performance of repertoire of composers suppressed under the Nazi Regime, including significant Austrian composers such as, among others, Arnold Schönberg, Alexander von Zemlinsky, Franz Schreker, Erich Wolfgang Korngold, Ernest Krenek, and the recently deceased 103 year old Walter Arlen. Through programming concerts, public speaking engagements, and lecturing about the music of the suppressed, forced to emigrate, or executed by the Nazi regime, Conlon has raised significant public awareness of their important, yet still relatively neglected music. In the early 1990s, as Generalmusikdirektor of the city of Köln, Germany, Conlon began programming and recording works that had been banned after 1933. Among his discography are over a dozen recordings of the works of Alexander Zemlinsky, including his entire orchestral and choral output, and three of his eight operas. He continued this work throughout his years as Principal Conductor of the Paris Opera, and with the Chicago and Cincinnati Symphony Orchestras as Music Director of the Ravinia and Cincinnati May Festivals. In 2007 Conlon originated his Recovered Voices mission at the Los Angeles Opera in an effort to bring these lesser-known compositions back to the stage. In that context he conducted several U.S. premieres, for instance, the first full production of any Franz Schreker opera (Die Gezeichneten) and Der Zerbrochen Krug (Viktor Ullman), and west coast premieres of Zemlinsky’s Der Zwerg (to be revived this season) and Eine Florenteinische Tragödie. Conlon’s work on behalf of silenced composers led to the creation of The OREL Foundation, an invaluable online resource on the topic for music lovers, students, musicians, and scholars; the Ziering-Conlon Initiative for Recovered Voices at the Colburn School; and a recent virtual TEDx Talk titled “Resurrecting Forbidden Music.” Conlon has conducted virtually every major symphony orchestra in Europe, the United States and Canada, and at many of the world’s great opera houses, including the Wiener Staatsoper and The Salzburg Festival.


--- [First class honour for Lois Lammerhuber - Edition Lammerhuber] ---
The Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art, First Class, is one of the highest decorations issued by the Republic of Austria, awarded for merits in science and art with a special interest for Austria, of exceptional significance and impact and deserving of special public attention. “It is a special honour for me today to receive this decoration in the company of so many friends and companions.” In his captivating and moving acceptance speech Lois Lammerhuber touched on some milestones of his career and thanked Head of Department, Dr. Michael P. Franz, who presented the cross of honour, as well as the initiators of the decoration, Dr. Peter Seifert, Director of the Geological Survey of Austria, Mag. Thomas Hofmann, Librarian of the Geological Survey of Austria, and Professor Werner E. Piller, whom he has known since their school days; also the two members of the Vienna Philharmonic, Michael Bladerer and Robert Nagy, who provided an elegant musical framework for the ceremony, plus his family and the c. 100 invited guests. “Lois, who once went out to capture through the lens of the camera his personal take on the world in the heart, the head and in pictures, succeeded over time in creating an artistic synthesis, as in an elegant polymerase chain reaction, from what he had seen, experienced and learned. For some time now he has produced splendid and intelligent books, in cooperation with Silvia, his partner in life and work, from his own reportages and those of renowned colleagues. Lois has turned into a well-known, multi-award winning publisher. Being a publisher means to be daring. Trusting yourself to translate good ideas into action, with ever changing actors and constellations. And to carry in yourself the flame of enthusiasm.” This is how Christiane Breustedt, Chief Editor, GEO International, described the phenomenon of Lois Lammerhuber in her eulogy. Lois Lammerhuber was born in St. Peter in der Au, Lower Austria, in 1952. After nearly eight years as a programmer in the newly unfolding digital world, he realized his childhood dream and travelled the Pan-American Highway for two years. To document the journey he turned to photography for the first time. In 1984 he started his close collaboration with GEO magazine, which carries on to this day and has significantly shaped his idea of photography. In addition he has been in charge of the Austria section of GEO magazine as editor and photographer since October 1994. His photographs are in demand across the globe, they have been published in hundreds of books and magazines, in more than 3,000 reportages and on numerous title pages. His many international awards include three Graphis Photo Awards for world’s best reportage of the year. In 1996 he and his wife Silvia founded Edition Lammerhuber publishing house, specializing in unusual book projects on themes from art and science. Nearly all his books have won awards. In 2012 Lois Lammerhuber endowed the Lammerhuber Photography Award, a prize to promote young talents in photo-journalism. In 2013 Edition Lammerhuber and the Photographische Gesellschaft Wien jointly created the Alfred Fried Photo Award for the world’s best photograph on the theme of peace. In the same year Edition Lammerhuber collected the title Best Editor at the European Photo Book of the Year Awards by the Federation of European Professional Photographers. Lois Lammerhuber has been a member of the Art Directors Club New York since 1994. He lives and works in Baden bei Wien.


--- [CeMM: Giulio Superti-Furga awarded the Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art, First Class] ---
Giulio Superti-Furga awarded the Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art, First Class On 26 February 2024, Giulio Superti-Furga had the pleasure and honor to receive the Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art, First Class (Österreichisches Ehrenkreuz I. Klasse für Wissenschaft und Kunst) from the Austrian President Professor Alexander Van der Bellen. The Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art, First Class is awarded based on the recommendation of the Federal Government. Established in 1955, this Austrian state decoration recognizes both, Austrians and leading foreign figures who have distinguished themselves and earned general acclaim through especially superior creative and commendable services in the areas of the sciences or the arts. Giulio Superti-Furga: “It is a tremendous honor to receive this significant distinction, which recognizes not only the work I was fortunate enough to undertake in this highly supportive and generous country, but also the collective efforts of our entire institute. I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to the President of Austria, Prof. Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, and the Minister of Education, Science and Research, Prof. Dr. Martin Polaschek, for bestowing upon me this award. Furthermore, my thanks extend to the President of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, Prof. Dr. Heinz Faßmann, as well as the Rector of the Medical University of Vienna, Prof. Dr. med. Markus Müller, for their steadfast support. Finally, I am profoundly grateful to my laboratory team, the entirety of CeMM and its thriving spin-off community, Anita Ender for being an unwavering partner at the forefront of CeMM's endeavors, and my wife and family for their enduring love and patience.” Giulio Superti-Furga is the Scientific Director of CeMM, the Research Center of Molecular Medicine of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, Professor of Medical Systems Biology at the Medical University of Vienna, and Director of the Ri.MED Foundation and its’ new Research Center in Sicily. Giulio Superti-Furga is a full member of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, the German Academy of Sciences Leopoldina, the European Molecular Biology Organization (EMBO), the European Academy of Cancer Sciences, and the Academia Europaea. He is Commander of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic. He was Austria’s Scientist of the Year in 2011, and has been the recipient of several notable scientific awards. Among his most significant scientific achievements are the elucidation of basic regulatory mechanisms of tyrosine kinases in human cancers and the discovery of fundamental organization principles of the proteome of higher organisms. More recently, his research focus has been on membrane transporters and establishing their relevance as an emerging therapeutic target. The scientific impact of Giulio Superti-Furga is complemented by his community work. From 2017 to 2019, Giulio Superti-Furga was a member of the Scientific Council of the European Research Council (ERC), and as of 2024 he is Chair of EU-LIFE, an alliance of 15 top life science institutes advocating for excellent research in Europe. Giulio Superti-Furga has made important contributions in several areas, such as science innovation, training, science and art projects and outreach activities. He has built organizations that have a translational impact. His leadership skills are characterized by a strong sense of collaboration, and dedication to science. For 8 years, he has been the Chair of the EMBL Alumni Association, creating the EMBL Archive of Molecular Biology. He has initiated “Genom Austria”, an educational science project on genome sequencing, allowing a wide public to consider and discuss the advantages and challenges of genomic medicine based on real examples. In 2005 Giulio Superti-Furga started CeMM, the Research Center for Molecular Medicine in Vienna literally from scratch. CeMM discovers and develops technologies to explore human biology with the purpose of defeating disease at its roots. That CeMM is one of the top life science institutes in Europe is also evidenced by its successful spin-off companies. Various products and services in the field of therapy and diagnostics that have been produced since CeMM was founded are now improving medical practice. CeMM warmly congratulates Giulio Superti-Furga on his significant achievements and this well-deserved and honorable recognition! Related Files Related Links Share this article
