=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Clint Ballard Jr. - Wikipedia]
With minor success he recorded under his own name, as well as under the pseudonym Buddy Clinton. When Ballard was three years old, he played the piano for KTSM, an El Paso radio station. When he was 11, he attended a musical program for gifted students at the University of North Texas.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clint_Ballard_Jr.

[FROM THE VAULTS: Clint Ballard Jr. born 24 May 1921]
Ballard was born in El Paso, Texas where his mother encouraged him to play music at an early age. When he was just three years old, Ballard performed piano for KTSM, an El Paso radio station. At the age of eleven, he attended a program for gifted young musicians at North Texas State Teachers College in Denton. He went on to attend the State University of Iowa and graduated from what is today ...
URL: https://fromthevaults-boppinbob.blogspot.com/2020/05/clint-ballard-jr-born-24-may-1921.html

[Clint Ballard, Jr. - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
When Ballard was 3 years old, he played the piano for KTSM, an El Paso radio station. When he was 11, he attended a musical program for gifted students at the University of North Texas.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/10728960

[Ballard, Conger C., Jr. [Clint] - TSHA]
Clint Ballard, songwriter and musician, was born Conger C. Ballard, Jr., in El Paso, Texas, on May 24, 1931. Clint Ballard is best remembered as a successful pop songwriter, whose tunes have been heard on ten million recordings in both the United States and Great Britain.
URL: https://www.tshaonline.org/handbook/entries/ballard-conger-c-jr-clint

[Clint Ballard Jr. - World Musician Obituaries]
When Ballard was three years old, he played the piano for KTSM, an El Paso radio station. When he was 11, he attended a musical program for gifted students at the University of North Texas. After serving in the US Army, he moved to New York and became a songwriter and a composer of musicals, including Come Back Little Sheba.
URL: https://worldmusicianobituaries.org/musicians/clint-ballard-jr/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Clint Ballard Jr. - Wikipedia] ---
Clinton Conger Ballard Jr. (May 24, 1931 – December 23, 2008) was an American songwriter, singer, and pianist. He wrote two Billboard Hot 100 number one hits. The first was "Game of Love" by Wayne Fontana and The Mindbenders in 1965. The second was the 1975 hit, "You're No Good" by Linda Ronstadt (first sung by Dee Dee Warwick, covered by The Swinging Blue Jeans, Betty Everett and later recorded by Van Halen). He wrote two UK number one singles, recorded by Jimmy Jones ("Good Timin'", 1960) and The Hollies ("I'm Alive", 1965).
Ballard also pursued a solo singing career. With minor success he recorded under his own name, as well as under the pseudonym Buddy Clinton.


--- [FROM THE VAULTS: Clint Ballard Jr. born 24 May 1921] ---
Clinton Conger Ballard Jr. (May 24, 1931 – December 23, 2008) was an American songwriter, singer, and pianist. Ballard also pursued a solo singing career. With minor success he recorded under his own name, as well as under the pseudonym Buddy Clinton. Ballard was born in El Paso, Texas where his mother encouraged him to play music at an early age. When he was just three years old, Ballard performed piano for KTSM, an El Paso radio station. At the age of eleven, he attended a program for gifted young musicians at North Texas State Teachers College in Denton. He went on to attend the State University of Iowa and graduated from what is today the University of Texas at El Paso with a degree in radio studies. While in college, Ballard spent much of his time directing fraternity choirs and dance bands. | | Kalin Twins | Upon graduating from college, Ballard joined the United States Army. After serving as a radio operator in Japan, Ballard moved to New York City to pursue a career in music and often played piano in nightclubs and pitching his original compositions at the famed Brill Building. On a trip to Washington, D.C., in 1957, he discovered the harmony duo the Kalin Twins. Impressed by the brothers, Ballard managed the group and secured them a recording contract with Decca. Ballard wrote the Kalin Twins’ first single, “Jumpin’ Jack.” However, it was not until three months later that the twins scored their first hit with “When,” written by Paul Evans and Jack Reardon, not by Ballard. Too devoted to his own songwriting to focus on the Kalin Twins’ career, Ballard went on to write “Ev’ry Hour, Ev’ry Day of My Life” in 1958. It became a hit in the United Kingdom for British balladeer Malcolm Vaughn. Ballard’s “Hey Little Baby” became the theme song for the 1958 World’s Fair in Belgium after Mitch Miller and his orchestra recorded the single on the B side of “March From the River Kwai.” In 1960 Ballard co-wrote the hit “Good Timin’” with Fred Tobias. Singer Jimmy Jones took the song to the top of the British charts and to Number 3 on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States. Following this success, Ballard wrote “Game of Love,” which was recorded by Wayne Fontana and the Mindbenders. The song became a Number 1 hit in the United States and a Number 2 hit in Britain in 1965. Ballard's own recording career was less successful. In addition to recording several singles under his own name without much success, in 1960 he adopted the alias Buddy Clinton to cut a two-sided single featuring the songs "Take Me to Your Ladder (I'll See Your Leader Later)" and "Joanie's Forever," both co-written by then-unknown composer Burt Bacharach with his writing partner Bob Hilliard. He scored his first Number 1 hit in Britain with “I’m Alive” for the Hollies in 1965. In 1987 “Game of Love” was featured in the film Good Morning, Vietnam, starring Robin Williams. Although Ballard often wrote with a partner, he penned Linda Ronstadt’s Number 1 single “You’re No Good,” by himself. The song was featured on Ronstadt’s Heart Like a Wheel album, released in 1974. “You’re No Good” had previously been recorded by Dee Dee Warwick and Betty Everett in 1963. The song also was covered by the Swinging Blue Jeans in 1964 and became a Top 10 hit in Britain. “You’re No Good” was featured in the movie My Best Friend’s Girl in 2008. Other songs written by Ballard include “Gingerbread” by Frankie Avalon, “There’s Not a Minute” by Ricky Nelson, and “Gotta Get a Hold of Myself” by the Zombies. However, as the sixties continued on, Ballard gravitated away from pop, writing songs for the Ricky Nelson feature film Love and Kisses and teaming with Lee Goldsmith to write a musical adaptation of the drama Come Back, Little Sheba -- while it never reached its intended destination, Broadway, a 2001 revival yielded an original cast recording. Ballard also wrote a series of commercial jingles, including a theme for the Greyhound bus line. Ballard settled in Dallas in 1981 and then moved thirty-five miles north to Denton three years later. He eventually left the music business and became a real estate investor and manager. In 2006 Ballard suffered a stroke, and his health deteriorated in the years that followed. On December 23, 2008, Clint Ballard died at his home in Denton at the age seventy-seven. He is in the Honour Roll of Songwriters in the West Texas Music Hall of Fame. Ballard later wrote songs for the Ricky Nelson film, Love and Kisses. He also wrote a series of commercial jingles, including a theme for Greyhound Line. He died in at his home at Denton, Texas, in December 2008, two years after suffering a stroke. Having no immediate family, his estate and contents were auctioned off during April 2009. (Edited from The Texas State Historical association & Wikipedia)


--- [Clint Ballard, Jr. - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Clint Ballard, Jr. - Clint Ballard, Jr. Birth name Clinton Conger Ballard, Jr. Born May 24, 1931, El Paso, Texas, United States Origin El Paso, Texas, United States Died December 23, 2008, Denton, Texas, United States (age 77) Occupations Songwriter Years active 1960s-1970s Notable instruments piano Clint Ballard, Jr. (born May 24, 1931 in El Paso, Texas; died December 23, 2008 in Denton, Texas[1]) was an American songwriter. He wrote two Billboard Hot 100 number one hits. The first was "Game of Love" by Wayne Fontana and The Mindbenders in 1965.[2] The second was the 1975 hit, "You're No Good" by Linda Ronstadt.[3] He also wrote "I'm Alive" for The Hollies, which was number one in the UK Singles Chart in 1965; and also "Good Timin'" for Jimmy Jones which reached number one in the UK five years earlier in 1960. Other songs include "Gingerbread" for Frankie Avalon, and "There's Not a Minute" for Ricky Nelson and "Gotta Get a Hold of Myself" for The Zombies - see fuller list below. Earlier in his career in 1957, Ballard 'discovered' the Kalin Twins and became their manager.[4] He is not to be confused with fellow music industry notaries; Russ Ballard, Glen Ballard or Hank Ballard. Contents Songwriting credits - "A Cold, Cold Winter" - Walter Jackson - "A Miracle" - Gene McDaniels - "A Very Good Year for Girls" - Johnny Tillotson, Brian Poole & The Tremeloes - "Come Back Little Sheba" - Original cast of Little Sheba - "Come Out Dancin'" - Ricky Nelson - "Don't You Even Care (What's Gonna Happen to Me) - The Hollies - "Fiddle Around" - Jan and Dean - "Game of Love" - Wayne Fontana and The Mindbenders - "Gingerbread" - Frankie Avalon - "Good Timin'" - Jimmy Jones - "Gotta Get a Hold of Myself" - Michael Haslam, Dee Dee Warwick, The Zombies - "Hey Lulu" - Shane Fenton - "I'm Alive" - The Hollies - "In The Rain" - Billy Eckstine - "It Isn't There" - The Swinging Blue Jeans, Johnny Burnette - "It's Better Than Nothing At All" - Louis Prima - "It's Just a Little Bit Too Late" - Wayne Fontana and The Mindbenders, The Druids - "It Would Still Be Worth It" - Connie Francis - "Je Revis" - Frank Alamo - "Journey's End" - Frankie Laine - "My Brother's a Basehead" - De La Soul - "My Precious Angel" - Jimmy Jones - "Now That You've Got Me (You Don't Seem to Want Me)" - The Swinging Blue Jeans - "Oh Julie" - Jan and Dean - "Oh No!" - The Browns - "One of Us (Will Weep Tonight)" - Patti Page - "She Needs Love" - Wayne Fontana and The Mindbenders - "Speak Her Name" - David and Jonathan, Walter Jackson - "Stop Crying, Little Girl" - Arthur Prysock - "Sufferer" - Patti Drew - "There's Not a Minute" - Ricky Nelson - "You Ain't Right" - The Frost - "You're No Good" - Dee Dee Warwick, Betty Everett, The Swinging Blue Jeans, Linda Ronstadt, Wild Orchid, Van Halen, Michael Bolton Growing up When Ballard was 3 years old, he played the piano for KTSM, an El Paso radio station. When he was 11, he attended a musical program for gifted students at the University of North Texas. After serving in the U.S. Army, he moved to New York and became a song writer and a composer of musicals, including Come Back Little Sheba. His song, Hey, Little Baby, was recorded by band leader Mitch Miller and became the theme of the 1958 World's Fair in Belgium.[6][7][8] References - ^ "IMDb.com database". Retrieved on 21 November 2008. http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0050579/bio. - ^ ""Game of Love" at Billboard Hot 100". 1965. http://www.billboard.com/bbcom/esearch/chart_display.jsp?cfi=379&cfgn=Singles&cfn=The+Billboard+Hot+100&ci=3070311&cdi=8812506&cid=05%2F01%2F1965. - ^ ""You're No Good" at Billboard Hot 100". 1975. http://www.billboard.com/bbcom/esearch/chart_display.jsp?cfi=379&cfgn=Singles&cfn=The+Billboard+Hot+100&ci=3070820&cdi=8864136&cid=02%2F01%2F1975. - ^ "Hal Kalin obituary by Alan Clayson". London: Guardian.co.uk. 2005-09-27. http://www.guardian.co.uk/news/2005/sep/27/guardianobituaries.usa. Retrieved 21 November 2008. - ^ "Clint Ballard, Jr. songwriting credits". Allmusic.com. http://www.allmusic.com/artist/p306093/songs/songs-composed-by. Retrieved 21 November 2008. - ^ El Paso Songwriter Clint Ballard Jr. Dies at Age 77, El Paso Times, December 31, 2008 - ^ Obituary: Clinton Conger Ballard, Jr., Denton Record-Chronicle, Dec. 28, 2008 - ^ Douglas Martin, Clint Ballard Jr., Writer of Hit Songs, Dies at 77, The New York Times, Jan 19, 2009 External links Categories:- 1931 births - 2008 deaths - Songwriters from Texas - People from El Paso, Texas - People from Denton, Texas Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Ballard, Conger C., Jr. [Clint] - TSHA] ---
Clint Ballard: A Legacy of Hit Songs and Musical Influence (1931–2008) By: Jennifer Cobb Published: July 25, 2014 Updated: September 2, 2015 Clint Ballard, songwriter and musician, was born Conger C. Ballard, Jr., in El Paso, Texas, on May 24, 1931. Clint Ballard is best remembered as a successful pop songwriter, whose tunes have been heard on ten million recordings in both the United States and Great Britain. Ballard’s most notable songs include “You’re No Good” and “Game of Love.” Ballard’s mother encouraged him to play music at an early age. When he was just three years old, Ballard performed piano on the radio. At the age of eleven, he attended a program for gifted young musicians at North Texas State Teachers College (present-day University of North Texas) in Denton. He went on to attend the State University of Iowa (present-day University of Iowa) and graduated from what is today the University of Texas at El Paso with a degree in radio studies. While in college, Ballard spent much of his time directing fraternity choirs and dance bands. Upon graduating from college, Ballard joined the United States Army. After serving as a radio operator in Japan, Ballard moved to New York City to pursue a career in music and often played piano in nightclubs. On a trip to Washington, D.C., in 1957, he discovered the harmony duo the Kalin Twins. Impressed by the brothers, Ballard managed the group and secured them a recording contract with Decca. Ballard wrote the Kalin Twins’ first single, “Jumpin’ Jack.” However, it was not until three months later that the twins scored their first hit with “When,” written by Paul Evans and Jack Reardon, not by Ballard. Too devoted to his own songwriting to focus on the Kalin Twins’ career, Ballard went on to write “Ev’ry Hour, Ev’ry Day of My Life” in 1958. It became a hit in the United Kingdom for British balladeer Malcolm Vaughn. Ballard’s “Hey Little Baby” became the theme song for the 1958 World’s Fair in Belgium after Mitch Miller and his orchestra recorded the single on the B side of “March From the River Kwai.” In 1960 Ballard co-wrote the hit “Good Timin’” with Fred Tobias. Singer Jimmy Jones took the song to the top of the British charts and to Number 3 on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States. Following this success, Ballard wrote “Game of Love,” which was recorded by Wayne Fontana and the Mindbenders. The song became a Number 1 hit in the United States and a Number 2 hit in Britain in 1965. He scored his first Number 1 hit in Britain with “I’m Alive” for the Hollies in 1965. In 1987 “Game of Love” was featured in the film Good Morning, Vietnam, starring Robin Williams. Although Ballard often wrote with a partner, he penned Linda Ronstadt’s Number 1 single “You’re No Good,” by himself. The song was featured on Ronstadt’s Heart Like a Wheel album, released in 1974. “You’re No Good” had previously been recorded by Dee Dee Warwick and Betty Everett in 1963. The song also was covered by the Swinging Blue Jeans in 1964 and became a Top 10 hit in Britain. “You’re No Good” was featured in the movie My Best Friend’s Girl in 2008. Other songs written by Ballard include “Gingerbread” by Frankie Avalon, “There’s Not a Minute” by Ricky Nelson, and “Gotta Get a Hold of Myself” by the Zombies. Ballard settled in Dallas in 1981 and then moved thirty-five miles north to Denton three years later. He eventually left the music business and became a real estate investor and manager. In 2006 Ballard suffered a stroke, and his health deteriorated in the years that followed. On December 23, 2008, Clint Ballard died at his home in Denton at the age seventy-seven. He is in the Honor Roll of Songwriters in the West Texas Music Hall of Fame. Bibliography: Chicago Tribune, January 22, 2009. The Independent (London), January 15, 2009. Los Angeles Times, January 21, 2009. New York Times, January 19, 2009. Time Periods: The following, adapted from the Chicago Manual of Style, 15th edition, is the preferred citation for this entry. Jennifer Cobb, “Ballard, Conger C., Jr. [Clint],” Handbook of Texas Online, accessed March 03, 2026, https://www.tshaonline.org/handbook/entries/ballard-conger-c-jr-clint. Published by the Texas State Historical Association. TID: FBAFP - July 25, 2014 - September 2, 2015 This entry belongs to the following special projects:


--- [Clint Ballard Jr. - World Musician Obituaries] ---
Clint Ballard Jr. Band:Ricky Nelson Genres:Pop Born:05/24/1931 Died:12/23/2008 From: El Paso, Texas Musician Speciality:Singer/Piano/Songwriter Biography: Clinton Conger Ballard Jr. (May 24, 1931 – December 23, 2008)[1] was an American songwriter, singer, and pianist. He wrote two Billboard Hot 100 number one hits. The first was “Game of Love” by Wayne Fontana and The Mindbenders in 1965.[2] The second was the 1975 hit, “You’re No Good” by Linda Ronstadt (first sung by Dee Dee Warwick, covered by The Swinging Blue Jeans and later recorded by Van Halen).[3] He wrote two UK number one singles, recorded by Jimmy Jones (“Good Timin’“, 1960) and The Hollies (“I’m Alive“, 1965). Ballard also pursued a solo singing career. With minor success he recorded under his own name, as well as under the pseudonym Buddy Clinton. When Ballard was three years old, he played the piano for KTSM, an El Paso radio station. When he was 11, he attended a musical program for gifted students at the University of North Texas. After serving in the US Army, he moved to New York and became a songwriter and a composer of musicals, including Come Back Little Sheba. His song, “Hey, Little Baby”, was recorded by band leader Mitch Miller and became the theme of the 1958 World’s Fair in Belgium.[4][5][6] Earlier in his career in 1957, Ballard ‘discovered’ the Kalin Twins and became their manager.[7] Ballard wrote the Kalins’ Decca debut single, “Jumpin’ Jack”. The follow-up, “When” made the US Top Ten and number one on the UK Singles Chart. After leaving the Kalins, in 1958, he wrote “Ev’ry Hour, Ev’ry Day of My Life”, a hit for Malcolm Vaughan, and Frankie Avalon‘s Top Ten hit “Ginger Bread“. Ballard’s own recording career was less successful. In addition to recording several singles under his own name without much success, in 1960 he adopted the alias Buddy Clinton to cut a two-sided single featuring the songs “Take Me to Your Ladder (I’ll See Your Leader Later)” and “Joanie’s Forever”, both co-written by then-unknown composer Burt Bacharach with his writing partner Bob Hilliard. Ballard wrote one of his most successful songs in 1963, “You’re No Good“, which was first recorded by Dee Dee Warwick. A competing version recorded by Betty Everett appeared weeks later and was a bigger hit, reaching the Top Ten of the US Billboard R&B chart. A year later, the British group The Swinging Blue Jeans also recorded “You’re No Good”. Linda Ronstadt‘s version hit number one on the Billboard chart in 1975. Ballard’s songs were often recorded by artists of the British Invasion. The Swinging Blue Jeans recorded “It Isn’t There”. In 1966, the Zombies recorded his “Gotta Get a Hold of Myself”. Ballard wrote “I’m Alive” for The Hollies, which was number one in the UK Singles Chart in 1965. One of Ballard’s best-known songs, “The Game of Love“, was recorded by Manchester-based Wayne Fontana and the Mindbenders in 1965. The single went hit number one in the US and peaked at number two in the UK. Ballard also wrote the subsequent Mindbenders’ chart singles “It’s Just a Little Bit Too Late” and “She Needs Love“. Ballard later wrote songs for the Ricky Nelson film, Love and Kisses. He also wrote a series of commercial jingles, including a theme for Greyhound Lines. He died in Denton, Texas, in December 2008, two years after suffering a stroke.[8][9] He is not to be confused with fellow songwriters Russ Ballard, Glen Ballard or Hank Ballard.
