=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[PSLV-C56/DS-SAR Mission - Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO)]
PSLV-C56/DS-SAR Mission is accomplished successfully. PSLV-C56 vehicle launched all seven satellites precisely into their intended orbits The launch of PSLV-C56 carrying DS-SAR satellite, along with 6 co-passengers from the first launch-pad of SDSC-SHAR, Sriharikota is accomplished successfully on July 30, 2023 at 06:30 hrs IST.
URL: https://www.isro.gov.in/PSLVC56_DS_SAR_Mission.html

[ISRO to launch PSLV-C56 with six co-passenger satellites on July 30: 5 ...]
The ISRO added that New Space India Limited (NSIL) has procured PSLV-C56 to deploy the DS-SAR satellite. On April 19, the ISRO had launched two satellites, TeLEOS-2 and Lumelite-4 belonging to ...
URL: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-pslv-c56-ds-sar-satellite-july-30-satish-dhawan-space-centre-sriharikota-101690183112223.html

[PSLV C56 ISRO 90th Mission DS SAR Successfully Places Seven Singaporean ...]
Jul 30, 2023 · The primary satellite for PSLV-C56 is DS-SAR, and hence, the mission is also known as the DS-SAR mission. The seven satellites were launched atop a Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) on July 30, 2023, at 6:30 am IST, from First Launch Pad, Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota, Andhra Pradesh.
URL: https://news.abplive.com/science/pslv-c56-isro-90th-mission-ds-sar-successfully-places-seven-singaporean-satellites-into-intended-orbit-1619314

[PSLV-C56/DS-SAR Mission: ISRO successfully launched 7 Singapore ...]
Jul 31, 2023 · On 30th July 2023, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) successfully launched the PSLV-C56/DS-SAR Mission, Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV – C56) carrying 7 Singapore Satellites – DS-SAR as primary satellite along with 6 co-passengers, from the First Launch Pad (FLP) Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) in Sriharikota, Andhra Pradesh (AP). This is a Dedicated Commercial Mission ...
URL: https://affairscloud.com/pslv-c56-ds-sar-mission-isro-successfully-launched-7-singapore-satellites-including-ds-sar-into-space/

[DS-SAR Satellite Mission – GKToday]
The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has recently announced the scheduled launch of the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle-C56 (PSLV-C56), carrying Singapore’s DS-SAR satellite on July 30, 2023. The PSLV-C56 launch, with the DS-SAR satellite and six co-passengers, is set to take place ...
URL: https://www.gktoday.in/ds-sar-satellite-mission/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [PSLV-C56/DS-SAR Mission - Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO)] ---
PSLV-C56/DS-SAR Mission Home / Activities / Future Missions / PSLV-C56/DS-SAR Mission The launch of PSLV-C56 carrying DS-SAR satellite, along with 6 co-passengers from the first launch-pad of SDSC-SHAR, Sriharikota is accomplished successfully on July 30, 2023 at 06:30 hrs IST. PSLV-C56 is configured in its core-alone mode, similar to that of C55. It would launched DS-SAR, a 360 kg satellite into a Near-equatorial Orbit (NEO) at 5 degrees inclination and 535 km altitude. DS-SAR The DS-SAR satellite is developed under a partnership between DSTA (representing the Government of Singapore) and ST Engineering. Once deployed and operational, it will be used to support the satellite imagery requirements of various agencies within the Government of Singapore. ST Engineering will use it for multi-modal and higher responsiveness imagery and geospatial services for their commercial customers. DS-SAR carries a Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) payload developed by Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI). This allows the DS-SAR to provide for all-weather day and night coverage, and capable of imaging at 1m-resolution at full polarimetry. The co-passengers are: More Details


--- [ISRO to launch PSLV-C56 with six co-passenger satellites on July 30: 5 ...] ---
ISRO to launch PSLV-C56 with six co-passenger satellites on July 30: 5 facts The PSLV-C56 will lift off from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC), the first launch pad of SDSC-SHAR, in Andhra Pradesh's Sriharikota at 6:30 am. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) on Monday announced that the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV)-C56 carrying Singapore’s DS-SAR satellite along with 6 co-passengers, will be launched on July 30. The PSLV-C56 will lift off from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC), the first launch pad of SDSC-SHAR, in Andhra Pradesh's Sriharikota at 6:30am. According to the ISRO, the primary payload, DS-SAR satellite, which weighs 360kg and was developed under a partnership between DSTA, representing the Government of Singapore, and ST Engineering, would be launched into a Near-equatorial Orbit (NEO) at 5 degrees inclination and 535 km altitude. The ISRO added that New Space India Limited (NSIL) has procured PSLV-C56 to deploy the DS-SAR satellite. On April 19, the ISRO had launched two satellites, TeLEOS-2 and Lumelite-4 belonging to Singapore onboard the PSLV. Here are 5 things about the new mission: 1. The ISRO said the PSLV-C56 is configured in its core-alone mode, similar to the PSLV-C55 mission launched in April 2023. 2. Once deployed and operational, DS-SAR will be used to support the satellite imagery requirements of various agencies within the government of Singapore. 3. Further, ST Engineering would use the satellite for multi-modal and higher responsiveness imagery and geospatial services for their commercial customers. 4. DS-SAR carries a Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) payload developed by Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI). This allows the DS-SAR to provide for all-weather day and night coverage, and is capable of imaging at 1m-resolution at full polarimetry. 5. Along with DS-SAR, the PSLV-C56 will carry VELOX-AM, a 23 kg technology demonstration microsatellite; ARCADE Atmospheric Coupling and Dynamics Explorer (ARCADE), an experimental satellite; SCOOB-II , a 3U nanosatellite flying a technology demonstrator payload; NuLIoN by NuSpace, an advanced 3U nanosatellite enabling seamless IoT connectivity in both urban and remote locations; Galassia-2, a 3U nanosatellite that will be orbiting at low earth orbit; and ORB-12 STRIDER, satellite is developed under an International collaboration. (With inputs from ISRO)


--- [PSLV C56 ISRO 90th Mission DS SAR Successfully Places Seven Singaporean ...] ---
PSLV-C56: ISRO’s 90th Mission Successfully Places Seven Singaporean Satellites Into Intended Orbit PSLV-C56: The primary satellite for PSLV-C56 is DS-SAR, and hence, the mission is also known as the DS-SAR mission. All the seven satellites have been placed into the intended orbit. PSLV-C56, the Indian Space Research Organisation's (ISRO's) 90th space mission, has successfully placed seven Singaporean satellites into a 535-kilometre circular orbit, and at an inclination of five degrees. The primary satellite for PSLV-C56 is DS-SAR, and hence, the mission is also known as the DS-SAR mission. The seven satellites were launched atop a Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) on July 30, 2023, at 6:30 am IST, from First Launch Pad, Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota, Andhra Pradesh. The fourth stage of PSLV will be placed into a lower orbit, ISRO Chairman S Somanath announced during the livestream of the launch. He explained that the stage will be brought to a lower orbit of 300 kilometres in order to ensure that it has a lower lifespan, and bring it back to reduce space debris. #WATCH | Andhra Pradesh: "Congratulations, PSLV-C56 carrying seven satellites including the primary satellite DS-SAR and 6 co-passenger satellites have been successfully placed in the right orbit," says ISRO chief S Somanath — ANI (@ANI) July 30, 2023 (Source: ISRO) pic.twitter.com/zwQmZB2AQs DS-SAR is a 360-kilogram satellite developed through a partnership between the Defence Science and Technology Agency (DSTA), an agency under the Government of Singapore, and ST Engineering, a Singaporean engineering and technology group. Six co-passenger satellites were launched atop PSLV-C56. These are: Velox-AM, ARCADE, SCOOB-II, NuLIoN, Galassia-2, and ORB-12 Strider, ISRO said in a mission update. ARCADE stands for Atmospheric Coupling and Dynamics Explorer. 🇮🇳PSLV-C56/🇸🇬DS-SAR Mission: — ISRO (@isro) July 30, 2023 The mission is successfully accomplished. PSLV-C56 vehicle launched all seven satellites precisely into their intended orbits. 🎯 Thanks to @NSIL_India and Singapore, for the contract. Velox-AM, ARCADE, and SCOOB-II have been developed by Nanyang Technological University, Singapore; NuLIoN has been developed by NuSpace, an aerospace company in Singapore; Galassia-2 is developed by the National University of Singapore; and ORB-12 Strider is developed by Aliena, a space-tech company in Singapore. ALSO READ | What Are Dark Matter And Dark Energy? Here's What A CERN Scientist Says DS-SAR consists of a synthetic aperture radar payload developed by Israel Aerospace Industries. The function of the synthetic aperture radar is to monitor the weather the entire day, and capture images at one-metre resolution. These satellite images will serve the purposes of different agencies within the Government of Singapore. Meanwhile, ST Engineering will use the DS-SAR satellite to provide geospatial services to commercial customers. According to ISRO, Velox-AM is a 23-kilogram microsatellite which will be launched with the purpose of technology demonstration; ARCADE is an experimental satellite; SCOOB-II is a nanosatellite and will be used for technology demonstration; NuLIoN is an advanced nanosatellite that will enable seamless "Internet of Things" connectivity in urban and remote locations; Galassia-2 is a nanosatellite that will orbit Earth at low-Earth orbit; and ORB-12 Strider is a satellite developed as part of an international collaboration. The PSLV-C56 mission was launched in collaboration with New Space India Limited (NSIL). This was PSLV's second mission this year, and 58th mission so far.


--- [PSLV-C56/DS-SAR Mission: ISRO successfully launched 7 Singapore ...] ---
On 30th July 2023, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) successfully launched the PSLV-C56/DS-SAR Mission, Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV–C56) carrying 7 Singapore Satellites – DS-SAR as primary satellite along with 6 co-passengers, from the First Launch Pad (FLP) Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) in Sriharikota, Andhra Pradesh (AP). - This is a Dedicated Commercial Mission conducted by ISRO under a contract with NewSpace India Limited (NSIL) for ST Engineering, Singapore. - This marks’s the 58th flight of PSLV and 17th flight of PSLV in core alone configuration. - This was the 431st foreign satellite launch from India by ISRO and the 4th dedicated PSLV mission for Singapore government. Highlights: i.The launcher placed all 7 satellites from Singapore into a circular Near-equatorial Orbit (NEO) at an altitude of 535 km with 5 degree orbital inclination. ii.ISRO attempted a unique De-Orbiting Experiment using the PS4, the 4th stage of the PSLV-C56 rocket. iii.PS4 de-orbited to Low Earth circular orbit in a 295×300 km, using left out propellants to reduce orbital life of spent PS4 stage. PS4 will re-enters atmosphere in less than 2 months. Payloads of PSLV-C56/DS-SAR Mission: | Satellite | Agency(country) | Separating Mass(kilogram) | |---|---|---| | DS-SAR (primary payload) | Defence Science and Technology Agency (DSTA) – ST Engineering (Singapore) | 352 | | VELOX-AM | Nanyang Technological University (NTU) (Singapore) | 24 | | ARCADE Atmospheric Coupling and Dynamics Explorer (ARCADE) | 23 | | | SCOOB-II | 4 | | | NuLIoN | ALIENA Private Limited (Singapore) | 13 | | Galassia-2 | National University of Singapore (NUS) (Singapore) | 3.5 | | ORB-12 STRIDER | NuSpace Private Limited (Singapore) | 3 | About DS-SAR Satellite: The DS-SAR satellite, weighing 352 kg, is a Radar Imaging Earth Observation Satellite. - It was developed in partnership with the Government of Singapore’s Defence Science and Technology Agency (DSTA) and ST Electronics, a part of major regional defence and engineering group ST Engineering, Singapore. - DS-SAR carries a Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) payload developed by Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI) based in Lod, Israel. - Synthetic-aperture radar (SAR) is a form of radar that is used to create two-dimensional images or three-dimensional reconstructions of objects. Key Points: i.It will be used to support the satellite imagery requirements of various agencies within the Government of Singapore. ii.This will enables the Singapore government to assess natural disaster damage, monitor land use, track deforestation, and support security and defense operations. iii.ST Engineering will use it for multi-modal and higher responsiveness imagery and geospatial services for their commercial customers. iv.The commercial customers can utilize the satellite for oil and gas exploration, agricultural monitoring, and infrastructure assessment. v.DS-SAR also offers all-weather day and night coverage and is capable of capturing images at 1m-resolution with full polarimetry. Co-passenger of DS-SAR: The following six satellites weigh a total of 70.5kg. VELOX-AM: VELOX-AM is a 23 kg microsatellite developed by Nanyang Technological University (NTU), Singapore. - Its primary purpose is to demonstrate Additive Manufacturing (AM) payloads technology. ARCADE (Atmospheric Coupling and Dynamics Explorer): Weighing 24 Kg, ARCADE is a 27U microsatellite jointly designed and constructed by NTU, Singapore, and the INSPIRE (International Satellite Program in Research and Technology) consortium. - It is equipped with an iodine-based solid propellant propulsion module, and employs a Hall effect thruster for orbit maintenance during its low altitude mission. SCOOB-II: Weighing 4 Kg, SCOOB–II is a CubeSat designed and developed by students at the Satellite Research Centre (SaRC), NTU in Singapore. - It is designed for a 6-month mission and uses a three-axis controlled reaction wheel assembly for attitude control. NuLIoN: Weighing 3Kg, NuLIoN is an advanced 3U nanosatellite developed by NuSpace Private Limited, Singapore. Its purpose is to provide seamless Internet of Things (IoT) connectivity in urban and remote locations. - It serves as a seed satellite for a Low Earth Orbit (LEO) equatorial constellation, offering continuous LoRaWAN (Long Range Wide Area Network) IoT services. Galassia-2: Weighing 3.5 Kg, Galassia-2 is a 3U nanosatellite developed by the National University of Singapore (NUS). - The main mission of GALASSIA-2 is to perform an inter-satellite link (ISL) with TeLEOS-1, Singapore’s 1st commercial Earth observation satellite launched in 2015. - It aims to demonstrate the use of Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) multispectral imagery for space applications. ORB-12 STRIDER: ORB-12 STRIDER, Weighing 13 Kg, was developed under an international collaboration, coordinated by Singapore-based ALIENA Private Limited, including Orbital Astronautics as bus providers, and Aurora Propulsion Technologies as subsystem co-developers. - It demonstrates next-generation propulsion systems tailored for small satellite constellations. - It also carries world’s first Multi-modal all-Electric Propulsion Engine (MEPE), showcasing ALIENA’s Multi-Stage Ignition Compact (MUSIC) Hall thruster and Aurora’s ARM resistojets. Key Points: i.ISRO is set to launch four more missions in 2023 which included another PSLV mission in August or early September 2023, the Gaganyaan test vehicle, third development mission of Satellite Launch Vehicle (SSLV) rocket launcher to deploy small satellites in LEO, and Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV) mission for launching INSAT (Indian National Satellite System)-3DS. ii.It should be noted that the launch of customer satellites by ISRO not only generates revenue but also contributes to India’s space economy’s growth. - In October 2022, a report by industry body Indian Space Association (ISpA) and consultancy firm EY India projected India to become a $13 billion space economy by 2025, of which satellite launch services and applications will account for 36% or over $4.5 billion. iii.PSLV is an 4 Stage Rocket, It’s First & Third Stage Works on Solid Propulsion know as Hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene (HTPB) and Second & Fourth Stage Works on Liquid Hypergolic Fuel. Recent Related News: i.The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) chaired by the Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has approved the Indian Space Policy 2023 that will enable the private sector to participate in various space activities, such as constructing satellites, rockets, and launch vehicles, as well as collecting and sharing data. ii.ISRO has successfully conducted the Reusable Launch Vehicle Autonomous Landing Mission (RLV LEX) at the Aeronautical Test Range(ATR) in Chitradurga, Karnataka. The mission was performed in collaboration with the Defence Space Research Organisation (DRDO), and the Indian Air Force (IAF). About Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO): Chairman – Sreedhara Panicker Somanath Headquarters– Bengaluru, Karnataka Establishment– 1969


--- [DS-SAR Satellite Mission – GKToday] ---
DS-SAR Satellite Mission The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has recently announced the scheduled launch of the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle-C56 (PSLV-C56), carrying Singapore’s DS-SAR satellite on July 30, 2023. The Date and Venue The PSLV-C56 launch, with the DS-SAR satellite and six co-passengers, is set to take place on July 30, 2023, at the Satish Dhawan Space Centre located in Sriharikota. This highly anticipated event marks a significant milestone in space exploration and satellite technology. Orbit Specifications The DS-SAR satellite is destined for a Near-equatorial Orbit (NEO) with an inclination angle of 5 degrees. This strategic positioning will enable the satellite to efficiently execute its designated tasks and capture critical data and imagery. Development Partners The DS-SAR satellite has been developed through a successful collaboration between the Defence Science and Technology Agency (DSTA), acting on behalf of the Government of Singapore, and ST Engineering. The collaboration showcases the combined expertise of these entities, aiming to leverage advanced technology for sustainable satellite solutions. Payload Features The DS-SAR satellite is equipped with a cutting-edge Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) payload, developed by the renowned Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI). This advanced radar technology enables the satellite to conduct all-weather, day and night imaging with remarkable precision at an impressive resolution of 1 meter in full polarimetry. Previous Satellite Launch On April 19, ISRO achieved another milestone by successfully launching two satellites, TeLEOS-2 and Lumelite-4, belonging to Singapore onboard the PSLV. This demonstrated ISRO’s capability and expertise in handling complex missions involving multiple payloads. Co-Passengers on the Mission The PSLV-C56 mission features six co-passengers, each with unique objectives and contributions to space research. Among them are VELOX-AM, ARCADE, SCOOB-II, NuLIoN, Galassia-2, and ORB-12 STRIDER, developed under international collaborations and technology demonstration programs.
