=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[World War Zimmerman - Wikipedia]
"when South Park took an extended hiatus, we dreamed it would pay off in well-thought out, precisely executed performances like these. Bravo, Matt and Trey." Josh Kurp of Uproxx described being left "speechless", and compared Cartman's behavior in the episode to his acts in the fifth season episode ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_War_Zimmerman

[World War Zimmerman | South Park Public Library | Fandom]
"World War Zimmerman" is the third episode of Season Seventeen, and the 240th overall episode of South Park. It aired on October 9, 2013.[1] Cartman sees Tolkien as a threat to all humanity.[1] During school day, Eric Cartman, for some reason, is awkwardly attempting to compliment and converse with Tolkien Black. Stan Marsh, Kyle Broflovski, and Kenny McCormick watch dumbfounded, and Kyle asks ...
URL: https://southpark.fandom.com/wiki/World_War_Zimmerman

["South Park" World War Zimmerman (TV Episode 2013) ⭐ 7.7 | Animation, Comedy]
World War Zimmerman: Directed by Trey Parker. With Trey Parker, Matt Stone, Mona Marshall, April Stewart. Cartman sees Token as a threat to all humanity.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt3169688/

['South Park' Breakdown: 'World War Zimmerman' - Glide Magazine]
Now that's more like it. After a disappointing season premiere and a slightly improved second episode, "World War Zimmerman" feels like the official kick-start to South Park's 17th season. It had all the ingredients of the show's greatest episodes: timeliness, subversion, a sophisticated ...
URL: https://glidemagazine.com/113443/south-park-breakdown-world-war-zimmerman/

[Cartman shoots Token | (S17E3) - YouTube]
Apr 11, 2022 · South Park - World War Zimmerman Season 17 Episode 3 Credits: ViacomCBS, Comedy Central, South Park Studios https://www.southparkstudios.com/ …...more
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V0GRsE06MPM


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [World War Zimmerman - Wikipedia] ---
"World War Zimmerman" is the third episode in the seventeenth season of the American animated television series South Park. The 240th episode of the series overall, it premiered on Comedy Central in the United States on October 9, 2013. The episode parodies the 2013 film World War Z and the killing of Trayvon Martin by George Zimmerman.


--- [World War Zimmerman | South Park Public Library | Fandom] ---
| "Informative Murder Porn" | "World War Zimmerman" | "Goth Kids 3: Dawn of the Posers" | | "World War Zimmerman" | ||||||| |---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | Episode no. | Season 17 Episode 3 | |||||| | Production no. | 1703 | |||||| | Original airdate | October 9, 2013 | |||||| | ||||||| | List of all South Park episodes | "World War Zimmerman" is the third episode of Season Seventeen, and the 240th overall episode of South Park. It aired on October 9, 2013.[1] Synopsis[] Cartman sees Tolkien as a threat to all humanity.[1] Plot[] | Spoiler warning! Plot details follow. | During school day, Eric Cartman, for some reason, is awkwardly attempting to compliment and converse with Tolkien Black. Stan Marsh, Kyle Broflovski, and Kenny McCormick watch dumbfounded, and Kyle asks "Is he doing it again?". As the conversation ends, Cartman asks Tolkien for a fist bump, which Tolkien reluctantly gives. During class, while Mr. Garrison teaches, Cartman has fallen asleep and is having nightmares. He disrupts the class by shouting out loudly about Tolkien and Brad Pitt. At the guidance office, Mr. Mackey gives Cartman a lecture and says this "feud" between Cartman and Tolkien must stop. Cartman tells Mackey that something which happened a long time ago is pissing Tolkien off, and that he blames Cartman. Mr. Mackey eventually is able to talk Cartman into dropping it. That night, at the Cartman residence, Cartman has nightmares again. In his dream, he takes the role of Brad Pitt’s character Gerry from World War Z. He has a wife and two daughters. As they eat breakfast, CNN reports that a verdict is due soon in the Trayvon Martin murder case. Gerry and his wife proceed to take their kids to school. Later, they realize that they are in a ton of traffic and turn on the radio to hear the news. After listening to "It's a Beautiful Day", a bulletin announces that George Zimmerman has been acquitted. Suddenly, all black people become enraged and begin attacking everyone, including Gerry and his family. They escape and climb up a building, only to have the black people climb up as well. They encounter Tolkien on the rooftops and he lunges at Gerry. Cartman then awakes from his terrible nightmare. The next day, a sleep-deprived Cartman tries to be nice to Tolkien once more. This time, however, Tolkien hurries away. In class, once again, Cartman is having a nightmare, screaming Tolkien's name. This leads him back to Mr. Mackey, who is angrier that the "feud" is still going. Tolkien is called in so that Cartman can tell him what he needs to tell him. Cartman tells Tolkien that he was not “in the jury”, but Tolkien has no clue what he's talking about. Cartman reads him a poem. The poem, entitled "I Was Not the Bullet", explains that Cartman is not to blame for the Trayvon Martin verdict, and that Tolkien should not blame him or take revenge. At a school assembly, after the cheerleaders cheer, while Butters Stotch beatboxes, Cartman raps a different form of "I Was Not the Bullet". This enrages Tolkien, who shouts at Cartman. This makes Cartman believe the apocalypse has started and he runs home. He grabs his handgun and dresses up like Gerry. He runs out into the street, warning everyone that there is an “outbreak”. He stops Nelly's Mom, who is driving a Tesla, and makes her drive him to the airport. At the airport, Cartman runs onto a plane, hurrying people inside, and then tells the pilot to take off. At the control tower, air traffic controllers are trying to figure out why the plane took off without permission. One worker alerts his boss of a "survival guide" discovered in the airport (obviously hand-made by Cartman) depicting the apocalypse, which sends everyone into a panic. Cartman explains to the airplane passengers that an outbreak has started and that they need to go to Iceland. Realizing the plane won’t make it, Cartman heads to the bathroom to think. Inside, finds a black man finishing up. Scared, he blocks the door and tells everyone that "one of them" is in the bathroom. One passenger, scared to become a zombie, opens the emergency exit and flies out. As everyone is holding on for dear life, the black passenger gets out of the bathroom and a flight attendant tries to shoot him. The black man ducks, causing the bullet to ricochet and ignite an explosion. The plane crashes violently. The only survivors are Cartman, Nelly’s Mom, and the pilot, although he is fatally injured. Nelly’s Mom calls her husband who says that even though the news says it is the end of the world, nothing is going on where he is. She passes this news to Cartman, giving him hope that the “outbreak” has not yet spread. The pilot asks Cartman to end the apocalypse and then he dies. Later, at the Stotch residence, Butters is watching the news. He immediately recognizes a drawing of “patient zero” from Cartman’s survival guide as Tolkien. At Jimbo's Guns, Cartman attempts to buy a gun. He is informed of the "stand your ground" law in Florida. Distraught that he can't kill Tolkien, he realizes he can abuse this law to kill the other patient zero, George Zimmerman. Cartman and Nelly’s Mom rush onto another airplane and inform the passengers of the situation. Cartman notices a black man on board and again ends up causing the plane to crash. That night, in Florida, Cartman and Nelly’s Mom get ready to take out George Zimmerman. Nelly’s Mom begins to thank Cartman for everything he's doing and is hit by a truck. The next day, at the Zimmerman Residence, George Zimmerman's morning goes just like Gerry's from Cartman's dream. Two agents show up and ask George to kill another African American kid for the sake of the country. George suddenly feels something is wrong and notices Cartman, in blackface and wearing a dark hoodie. George immediately shoots Cartman. At first, the agents commend him, but once they realize that Cartman is white, they send him to court. The Judge finds him guilty, sentences him to death, and he is executed. Channel 4 News reports on Cartman, George Zimmerman, and how the apocalypse is over. The boys are gathered and watching this report, but Tolkien leaves. Outside, Cartman gets his attention and spray paints a red circle around himself. After some arguing, Cartman offers a fist bump. Tolkien goes to bump his fist and Cartman shoots him. He says that Tolkien was on “his land” and that he was simply standing his ground. Later, Cartman is dreaming again, and Gerry is saying he loves his family on a boat, heading to the shore. Cartman suddenly wakes up in class because the ending to World War Z was so bad. Kyle points out that the ending shouldn't be what's bothering him. What should be bothering him is the fact that he's a murderer. Cartman is then called to the guidance office where Tolkien sits, wearing a sling. Mr. Mackey makes Tolkien and Cartman apologize. Cartman says he has nothing to apologize for, as he was simply standing his ground. Tolkien gets mad, shouting that "stand your ground" laws seem to apply only when white people need them to. Cartman freaks out and runs home, presumably to prepare for an outbreak. As the credits roll, a plane is seen falling out of the sky. Critical Reception[] AV Club.com gave "World War Zimmerman" a "A-" rating saying: "It’s not a perfect episode. The World War Z thing bugs me. It doesn’t have the same lasting power as, say, using World War II-era Looney Tunes to mock Osama bin Laden in "Osama bin Laden Has Farty Pants." And some of the jokes that drive home the more serious points—like Zimmerman's quick receipt of justice once he shoots a white kid—lack the subtlety of the episode's best moments. But these quibbles are minor. There are moments that are as sharp as anything the show has done and even the throwaway jokes are pretty great."[2] IGN gave "World War Zimmerman" a "8.7" rating saying: "Delicately treading a fine line between hilarious and heinous, "World War Zimmerman" was a return to form for South Park, as it handily lampooned both the Trayvon Martin case and World War Z in one fell swoop."[3] References[] - ↑ 1.0 1.1 World War Zimmerman (Season 17, Episode 3). southparkstudios.com. - ↑ South Park: "World War Zimmerman". AVClub.com. - ↑ South Park: "World War Zimmerman". IGN.com. | ||||| |---|---|---|---|---|---| | Story Elements | George Zimmerman • "I Was Not the Bullet" • "It's a Beautiful Day" • Tesla driver | |||| | Media | Images • Script • Extras • Watch Episode | |||| | Release |


--- ["South Park" World War Zimmerman (TV Episode 2013) ⭐ 7.7 | Animation, Comedy] ---
Cartman sees Token as a threat to all humanity.Cartman sees Token as a threat to all humanity.Cartman sees Token as a threat to all humanity. Storyline Did you know - TriviaIn the promo, Cartman is wearing his usual attire when he searches for his gun, but in the actual episode, he is dressed in his "rapper" attire. - GoofsWhen Eric Cartman has the dream about the family during the day of the verdict of the Zimmerman case, the husband offers to take the children to school. However, the day of the verdict was on a Saturday in the month of July. - Quotes Eric Cartman: This is hopeless. How am I supposed to shoot Token with all these stupid rules?... Wait a minute. I can't shoot Token, but I can shoot anyone I want in Florida? - ConnectionsFeatured in Jansing & Co.: Episode dated 10 October 2013 (2013) - SoundtracksIt's a Beautiful Day (uncredited) Written by Michael Bublé, Alan Chang and Amy Foster-Gillies Performed by Trey Parker Featured review *Contains spoilers* I must confess that, as a foreigner, I was not aware of the Trayvon Martin ruling and the "stand your ground" laws. This classic episode of South Park brought me right up to speed on those controversial issues, swiftly and roughly. (I'm against the ruling and the law, BTW). This was a great opportinuty for Cartman to wreak havoc on the world, again :-). And the end scene just blew me away. Keep m coming, Trey and Matt! You're making a difference in the world. I'm required to write a few more lines by IMDb. Let's do a poem: The time has come, the walrus said, to talk of many things. Of shoes and ships an sealing wax. Of cabbages and kings. - R-Ronteltap - Oct 11, 2013 - Permalink Details - Runtime21 minutes - Color - Sound mix Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content


--- ['South Park' Breakdown: 'World War Zimmerman' - Glide Magazine] ---
(SPOILERS AHEAD, so proceed with caution, South Park fans!) Season 17, Episode 3: “World War Zimmerman” Written and Directed by: Trey Parker Now that’s more like it. After a disappointing season premiere and a slightly improved second episode, “World War Zimmerman” feels like the official kick-start to South Park‘s 17th season. It had all the ingredients of the show’s greatest episodes: timeliness, subversion, a sophisticated plot, and loads of explosive laughter. Quick Breakdown We open with Cartman at school, randomly complimenting Token, asking if he wants to hang out, while Kyle and Stan wonder if he’s “doing it again.” After an outburst in the classroom, Cartman sees Mr. Mackey and unloads his deepest fear: that Token, the school’s only black student, is a “ticking time bomb.” Sleep-deprived, Cartman battles a reoccurring nightmare: He himself is a child version of Brad Pitt from World War Z, with a cookie-cutter wife and two kids; after getting stuck in a traffic jam, they turn on the radio and hear about the not-guilty George Zimmerman verdict, which elicits a riot of outraged African Americans in the streets. The family is chased up the side of a building, where a zombie version of Token lunges at Cartman — just as he wakes up in a pool of his own sweat. Back at school, Cartman tries to keep friendly with Token (asking, yet again, for a fist-bump), but after another outburst, he’s called back into Mackey’s office, where he confronts Token face-to-face about the Zimmeran verdict — he thinks, of course, that Token blames him for the outrageous outcome. At Mackey’s request, Cartman reads him a non-rhyming poem to express his feelings, and the air is cleared. For awhile, at least. At a pep rally, Cartman performs a pseudo rap version of his poem, backed by Butters’ awful beatboxing. He attempts to get Token to clear the air (in hype man style), and when Token gets angry and addresses the crowd, Cartman freaks out and runs home, where he brandishes his Brad Pitt Survival Guide (including gun, fake beard, and scarf) and hi-jacks a car…and then a plane. “There’s no Denver left to go back to,” he says in action movie style, noting the “outbreak” of enraged black people. (While the episode’s initial exposition is a bit slow-footed and repetitive, the World War Z parody stuff finally adds some momentum.) Air traffic controllers are scrambling to figure out what’s happened with the hijacking and “outbreak.” And they find their answer with Cartman’s Survival Guide, which features drawings of black zombies. Cartman clearly thinks this is the Zombie Apocalypse, and he’s convinced the entire plane of the same. Needing a second to think, he barges into the men’s room, where he finds a black gentleman on the toilet. Cartman traps him inside, and when he groans (trying to push his way out), the passengers are convinced he’s a delirious zombie, and madness ensues. (Side note: South Park has set the bar for hilarious animated death: One dude commits suicide by opening the side hatch and flying out at the sight of the black “zombie” passenger.) After gunshots are fired, the plane plummets to a fiery crash. Token is simultaneously in Mackey’s office, where he’s lectured about not ranting at a school assembly (and encouraged to express his feelings through, naturally, poetry). Cartman encounters the dying pilot, who tells him he has to stop the Zombie Apocalypse by finding “Patient Zero, the person it all starts from.” Cartman is told he must kill Token to save the world. And here’s the point where “World War Zimmerman” transcends to a near-classic episode. As news spreads of Patient Zero, Cartman and his new female friend head to Jimbo’s Guns, where they’re educated on the puzzling intricacies of the Stand Your Ground law — Jimbo tells them that in specific states, you can shoot someone for the mere fear of being threatened. Cartman takes a new approach: Instead of killing Token, he’ll appease the black zombies by killing Zimmerman. So he hijacks another plane (en-route to Baltimore), and it quickly crashes as another conflict with a black passenger ensues. Meanwhile, as Cartman’s new friend is struck and killed by a truck, he paints on black-face and approaches the the Zimmerman household, where, inside, an idyllic family scene unfolds — identical to the one in Cartman’s dream sequence. At the door arrive FBI agents, who inform Zimmerman that he’s needed by the government to come out of murder-retirement and shoot an African American. Since, ya know, he’s an expert. “I gave that up,” he says, like a grizzled, hard-boiled cop. “You’re the best, Zimmerman,” they plead. After hearing a scuffling sound, Zimmerman takes out his gun and shoots at the black-faced Cartman in the lawn. “You did what you had to,” says the FBI. “Wait, this kid isn’t black — he’s white!” Zimmerman is immediately put on trial and convicted of murder, killed by the electric chair (repeatedly), and the Zombie Apocalypse is officially declared over. Token, disillusioned, confronts Cartman in the street; angered by the Patient Zero business, he’s calmed down by Cartman and convinced to give him a fist-bump, so he calmly approaches. Cartman, who spray-painted a red circle around himself, shoots Token on the basis that he stepped into his circle. (He even adjusts the body position so that Token is inside the circle.) It’s rare that South Park actually gets this violent — particularly with its main cast. Seeing poor Token’s lifeless body on the street was a bit of a shock, even in a show this notoriously irreverent. Back in class, Cartman has another awful daydream — but this time, it’s about the terrible ending to World War Z. He feels no remorse about shooting Token (who is alive, waiting in Mr. Mackey’s office). When Mackey agrees with Cartman that Token was asking for it by invading Cartman’s circle, Token gets outraged and starts yelling, which terrifies Cartman. “Ahh, here we go again!,” he screams. And we cut to another plane crash. Rating A- After a series of opening episodes without much sense of cohesion or edginess, “World War Zimmerman” was a triumph. A stellar return-to-form for the show, churning out huge laughs from dark material. Naturally, South Park episodes are either “high stakes” or “low stakes,” depending on the timeliness and sensitivity of the targets. “Let Go, Let Gov” attempted to be a “high stakes” episode (with its NSA-driven plot), but it ended up falling flat with a weak pay-off and clumsy structure. But “World War Zimmerman” took the same “high stakes” approach and succeeded, finding brilliant ways to maneuver its multiple plot threads. This episode crammed a lot of ideas into its 24 minutes: the outrage over the Trayvon Martin/Zimmerman trial (along with the feeling of racial tension throughout the country), the controversial “Stand Your Ground” law, the Zombie Apocalypse (only a matter of time before they went there), and the absurdity of World War Z. It could have been an absolute mess (like “Let Go”) — instead, it was dangerously close to a classic. Now for some random thoughts and my favorite moments of the night… “Why doesn’t standing your ground apply to fucking white people?” — Token “I promise. I won’t let the black people riots destroy the world.” — Cartman; “Wait, what?” — Pilot, before dying “My wife, Token! That’s my wife!” – Cartman “Anne Hathaway — Hot?” “Let me hear ya say, ‘I don’t blame the white people!” – Cartman, rapping at the pep rally


--- [Cartman shoots Token | (S17E3) - YouTube] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC
