=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Diana Ramos - Wikipedia]
Ramos earned both a Bachelor's Degree and Doctor of Medicine from the University of Southern California. She also earned a Master of Public Health from the University of California, Los Angeles and a Master of Business Administration from the University of California, Irvine. [1] Ramos completed her residency in Obstetrics and Gynecology at Los Angeles General Medical Center. [2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diana_Ramos

[California Surgeon General Diana Ramos, MD, to Speak at Dean ... - Newsroom]
Ramos earned her bachelor's degree in communications and science from USC before earning her medical degree at the Keck School. She will be giving up her regular practice as an OB/GYN while in the surgeon general position but will remain on the faculty at LAC+USC Hospital, a place she says has taught her a lot about compassionate care and ...
URL: https://keck.usc.edu/news/california-surgeon-general-diana-ramos-md-to-speak-at-deans-new-leadership-series-at-the-keck-school-of-medicine-of-usc-on-january-25/

[CA surgeon general talks USC journey - Daily Trojan]
Nov 21, 2023 · Dr. Diana Ramos, the surgeon general of California, graduated from USC with a bachelor’s degree in communication in 1988 and a medical degree in 1994. She credits her transformative years at USC for shaping her into the physician she is today.
URL: https://dailytrojan.com/2023/11/21/ca-surgeon-general-talks-usc-journey/

[Laguna Beach doctor appointed state surgeon general]
Aug 26, 2022 · Dr. Diana Ramos, a Laguna Beach resident and adjunct professor at the USC Keck School of Medicine, was appointed by Gov. Gavin Newsom today as California’s next surgeon general. Ramos, 55 ...
URL: https://www.latimes.com/socal/daily-pilot/news/story/2022-08-25/laguna-beach-doctor-appointed-state-surgeon-general

[Diana Ramos, MD, MPH, MBA, FACOG]
Dr. Diana E. Ramos is California's second Surgeon General and first Latina Surgeon General. As California's Doctor, her mission is to advance the health and well-being of all Californians. Raised in South Central California, Dr. Ramos received her medical degree from the University of Southern California and completed her residency training in obstetrics and gynecology at the Los Angeles ...
URL: https://training.acesaware.org/aa/entity?q=771


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Diana Ramos - Wikipedia] ---
Diana Ramos is an American obstetrician and gynecologist who was appointed to serve as the Surgeon General of California by Governor Gavin Newsom.


--- [California Surgeon General Diana Ramos, MD, to Speak at Dean ... - Newsroom] ---
California Surgeon General Diana Ramos, MD, to Speak at Dean’s New Leadership Series at the Keck School of Medicine of USC on January 25


--- [CA surgeon general talks USC journey - Daily Trojan] ---
CA surgeon general talks USC journey Double-Trojan Dr. Diana Ramos is the state’s second surgeon general. Double-Trojan Dr. Diana Ramos is the state’s second surgeon general. In the corridors of the Los Angeles General Medical Center, a young student in the Keck School of Medicine of USC solidified her calling to medicine. Dr. Diana Ramos, the surgeon general of California, graduated from USC with a bachelor’s degree in communication in 1988 and a medical degree in 1994. She credits her transformative years at USC for shaping her into the physician she is today. Her USC education spans from the Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism for her undergraduate degree to Keck for medical school, culminating in a residency in obstetrics and gynecology at L.A. General. Ramos spoke with the Daily Trojan to reflect on her journey, her insights on mentorship and her role as California’s surgeon general. Gov. Gavin Newsom appointed Ramos as California’s surgeon general in August 2022 to serve as a prominent voice for the health and well-being of more than 39 million Californians. Ramos is only the second person to assume the position, which was first established in 2019. Ramos said her three main priorities as surgeon general are mental health, reproductive health and toxic stress. Molly Gervais, executive director of development at Keck, said Ramos’ efforts reflect the mission behind Keck. With a large proportion of its medical students entering primary care fields after graduation, Gervais said caring for underserved populations is “part of the fabric of who we are as a medical school” and that Ramos has taken this framework of supporting traditionally underserved communities and “catapulted that whole mindset to now care for the entire state of California.” Ramos said USC provided a unique environment to cultivate her medical interests, from the immersive clinical experience to the range of mentors available to the unique cases seen at L.A. General — such as the time she encountered a pregnant patient at L.A. General with malaria, a rare finding in the United States. “I would not be where I am had it not been for the opportunity that USC gave me,” Ramos said. “I am forever grateful to USC.” Dr. Raquel Arias, associate dean of admissions at Keck and a clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology, was a mentor for Ramos when she was in medical school. Arias said she knew Ramos had a dedicated eye for serving her community even as a student. “She wanted to do the most good she could in her lifetime,” Arias said. Ramos said mentorship at USC has been essential to her journey. She said Althea Alexander — a former dean of diversity and inclusion at Keck — and Arias were fundamental role models. Arias and Ramos share many parallels in their journeys. As Latina women, both attended USC for medical school, received public health degrees and pursued careers in obstetrics and gynecology. Ramos said Arias supported her journey and served as a role model, calling her the “big sister [she] never had.” “We don’t really pick our mentors, they sort of come to us in an organic way if we’re lucky,” Arias said. Ramos said communication is a topic deeply rooted in her education because of her experience at Annenberg, which provided her with insights into the importance of communication. Ramos said it has a critical role in healthcare and in patient interactions, an often overlooked skill that is crucial for accurate diagnosis and patient care. “We as physicians will interrupt the patient after seven to fifteen seconds of silence,” she said. “Oftentimes, by listening, your patients will tell you exactly what’s wrong with them.” Ramos said attentive listening has become a cornerstone of her practice as surgeon general, influencing how she engages with community health issues and policy-making. For example, she has led an open-platformed office, encouraging Californians to reach out to her so she can help solve their problem or point them in the right direction. In addition to honing their listening skills, Ramos said current healthcare students should “embrace every patient” and keep a diary of patients they encounter so they can later reflect on their experiences. Following the coronavirus pandemic, young adults have been facing growing challenges with mental well-being. Countless studies have highlighted that the pandemic has taken a heavy toll on students, with Frontiers in Public Health noting increased depression and anxiety among students. Ramos said she has made it a priority to take on the mental health crisis affecting transitional age youth, particularly those between 16 to 24 years old. “Mental health is something that is impacting everyone,” Ramos said, emphasizing the critical stage where young people transition from high school to higher education or other life paths. She noted 75% of mental health conditions start by age 24, according to the National Alliance on Mental Illness, often triggered by the stressors of this transitional phase. Ramos is spearheading projects under California’s $4.7 billion Children and Youth Behavioral Health Initiative. This funding aims to provide comprehensive mental health support, including an upcoming mobile app that will provide immediate online assistance. Ramos also said she is working on a unique infographic tool designed to guide young people in supporting their peers facing mental health challenges. Gervais said Ramos has set a standard for using the tools available to improve the world around us. “She’s the quintessential example of how somebody can really rise up and make a difference,” Gervais said. Ramos said she is grateful for the opportunity to serve in her role as surgeon general. She plans to continue working on her fundamental priorities while also growing the health workforce in California. With more than a year in the position, Ramos said she is looking forward to the continued improvement of well-being among Californians. “It’s been a very exciting year,” Ramos said. “It’s really been an honor and a privilege to be the voice of healthcare for California.” Ramos recently joined the Keck’s Alumni Association Board, bringing her expertise and passion to support the next generation of physicians at the school. She has assisted students with interests in policy and served as a supportive role model. Ramos said she believes the community students develop at USC is one of the fundamental takeaways. “You’re not just getting an education, you’re becoming part of something greater,” Ramos said. “You’re becoming part of a family.” We are the only independent newspaper here at USC, run at every level by students. That means we aren’t tied down by any other interests but those of readers like you: the students, faculty, staff and South Central residents that together make up the USC community. Independence is a double-edged sword: We have a unique lens into the University’s actions and policies, and can hold powerful figures accountable when others cannot. But that also means our budget is severely limited. We’re already spread thin as we compensate the writers, photographers, artists, designers and editors whose incredible work you see in our daily paper; as we work to revamp and expand our digital presence, we now have additional staff making podcasts, videos, webpages, our first ever magazine and social media content, who are at risk of being unable to receive the support they deserve. We are therefore indebted to readers like you, who, by supporting us, help keep our paper daily (we are the only remaining college paper on the West Coast that prints every single weekday), independent, free and widely accessible. Please consider supporting us. Even $1 goes a long way in supporting our work; if you are able, you can also support us with monthly, or even annual, donations. Thank you. This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Accept settingsDo Not AcceptWe may request cookies to be set on your device. We use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website. Click on the different category headings to find out more. You can also change some of your preferences. Note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer. These cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features. Because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refusing them will have impact how our site functions. You always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. But this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site. We fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. You are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. If you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain. We provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. Due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. You can check these in your browser security settings. These cookies collect information that is used either in aggregate form to help us understand how our website is being used or how effective our marketing campaigns are, or to help us customize our website and application for you in order to enhance your experience. If you do not want that we track your visit to our site you can disable tracking in your browser here: We also use different external services like Google Webfonts, Google Maps, and external Video providers. Since these providers may collect personal data like your IP address we allow you to block them here. Please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. Changes will take effect once you reload the page. Google Webfont Settings: Google Map Settings: Google reCaptcha Settings: Vimeo and Youtube video embeds: The following cookies are also needed - You can choose if you want to allow them:


--- [Laguna Beach doctor appointed state surgeon general] ---
Laguna Beach doctor appointed state surgeon general - Share via Dr. Diana Ramos, a Laguna Beach resident and adjunct professor at the USC Keck School of Medicine, was appointed by Gov. Gavin Newsom today as California’s next surgeon general. Ramos, 55, currently serves as a public health administrator at the California Department of Public Health’s Center for Healthy Communities, a post she has held since last year. “Dr. Ramos is a distinguished leader in medicine and a trusted public health expert who brings a lifetime of experience protecting and promoting the health of vulnerable communities,” Newsom said in a statement. “I look forward to her partnership in advancing urgent priorities for the state on women’s health, mental health, addressing the gun violence epidemic and more as we continue our work to lift up the health and well-being of all Californians.” Ramos previously served as director of reproductive health at the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health’s Maternal, Child and Adolescent Health Division, chief medical officer at Alpha Medical Center, senior research specialist at Pfizer and a staff obstetrician at Clinica Humanitaria. She has a master’s degree in public health from UCLA, an MBA from UC Irvine, and a medical degree from USC. “I am acutely aware that while we are all Californians, our experiences differ greatly,” Ramos said in a statement. “Many of us are facing economic hardship, mental health conditions, trauma, grief, homelessness, addiction, racism, attacks on our bodies, our choices, and more. “My hope for every Californian is a healthier, more equitable future,” she said. Newsom established the role of state surgeon general after his election in 2019 to address the public and serve as an advisor to the governor on health issues, according to a press release from his office. The appointment requires approval of the state Senate.


--- [Diana Ramos, MD, MPH, MBA, FACOG] ---
No content
