=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[List of Penrose Medal winners - Wikipedia]
List of Penrose Medal winners The Penrose Medal was created in 1925 by R.A.F. Penrose, Jr., as the top prize awarded by the Geological Society of America. Originally created as the Geological Society of America Medal it was soon renamed the Penrose Medal by popular assent of the society's membership, and was first awarded in 1927. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Penrose_Medal_winners

[Peter Vail - Wikipedia]
Vail was well known for being the first to realize that seismic reflections do not follow lithofacies boundaries but instead follow geologic time lines. This concept gave rise to the field of seismic stratigraphy. In 2005 he earned the Benjamin Franklin Medal for his pioneering works in sequence stratigraphy. His other honors include the Legendary Geoscientist Award from the American Geological Institute, the Penrose Medal from the Geological Society of America in 2003, the Sidney Powers Memorial Award, and the Distinguished Educator Award from the American Association of Petroleum Geologists.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Vail

[Dr. Peter R. Vail | Houston Geological Society]
May he rest in peace and may the love so many had for him bring comfort to his family and friends in their loss. ... • Hollis D. Hedberg Award, Energy Institute for the Study Earth and Man, Southern Methodist University (2005) • Benjamin Franklin Medal for Earth Science (2005) • Legendary Geoscientist Award, American Geological Institute (2004) • Penrose Medal, The Geological Society of America, Inc.
URL: https://www.hgs.org/dr-peter-r-vail

[Peter R. Vail | The Franklin Institute]
Vail now uses his vast wealth of experience as president of his own business, Peter R. Vail Oil and Gas and Consulting and Investing Company. Among his many honors are the Legendary Geoscientist Award from the American Geological Institute, the Penrose Medal from the Geological Society of America, and the Sidney Powers Memorial Medal and the Distinguished Educator Award from the American Association of Petroleum Geologists.
URL: https://fi.edu/en/awards/laureates/peter-r-vail

[Peter Vail - Wikidata]
Benjamin Franklin Medal point in time 2005 0 references Penrose Medal point in time 2003 1 reference reference URL Sidney Powers Memorial Award point in time 2003 0 references William Smith Medal point in time 1986 1 reference reference URL William H. Twenhofel Medal point in time 1992 1 reference reference URL described at URL language of work ...
URL: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q2078778


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [List of Penrose Medal winners - Wikipedia] ---
The Penrose Medal was created in 1925 by R.A.F. Penrose, Jr., as the top prize awarded by the Geological Society of America. Originally created as the Geological Society of America Medal it was soon renamed the Penrose Medal by popular assent of the society's membership, and was first awarded in 1927. It is awarded only at the discretion of the GSA council, "in recognition of eminent research in pure geology, for outstanding original contributions or achievements that mark a major advance in the science of geology."




--- [Peter Vail - Wikipedia] ---
Peter R. Vail (January 13, 1930 – December 28, 2024) was an American geologist and geophysicist, the namesake of the Vail curve of sea level changes.  Vail earned his AB at Dartmouth College in 1952, followed by M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Northwestern University in 1956. He was the W. Maurice Ewing Professor, Emeritus, in the Department of Earth Science at Rice University.
Vail was well known for being the first to realize that seismic reflections do not follow lithofacies boundaries but instead follow geologic time lines. This concept gave rise to the field of seismic stratigraphy.
In 2005 he earned the Benjamin Franklin Medal for his pioneering works in sequence stratigraphy. His other honors include the Legendary Geoscientist Award from the American Geological Institute, the Penrose Medal from the Geological Society of America in 2003, the Sidney Powers Memorial Award, and the Distinguished Educator Award from the American Association of Petroleum Geologists. Vail died on December 28, 2024, at the age of 94.




--- [Dr. Peter R. Vail | Houston Geological Society] ---
Dr. Peter R. Vail 1930-2024 Who in the Houston Geological Society hasn’t heard of Peter Vail, the Father of Sequence Stratigraphy? The man who pioneered the integration of sedimentary geology and reflection seismology left a lasting mark, truly to be counted among the greats in geological science history. We are deeply saddened by his passing on December 28, 2024, at 94, but we are so lucky to be living in a world graced by his presence. When you ask almost anyone who knew him, the universal sentiment would be “He has made amazing contributions, but he was an even better person”. What could be a better remembrance? A man of Peter’s stature has had his biography told on many occasions as he garnered prestigious recognition for his achievements. The Benjamin Franklin Institute Award, The Geologic Society of America’s Penrose Medal, and an amusing citation to Peter on his reception of SEPM’s Twenhofel Award from his thesis advisor at Northwestern, Larry Sloss, are just a few examples. Peter Vail’s journey to scientific greatness is well-documented, but his greatness as a person can never be shared too much. Peter Vail was my thesis advisor at Rice University in the early 90’s. When I visited Rice to tour the Geology Department, Pete, as he was known to his many friends, greeted me at the airport as if I were family already. The Department was vibrant in Stratigraphy, with students from around the world coming to work with Bert Bally, John Anderson, André Droxler, and, of course, Vail. These professors attracted and acquired incredible datasets for stratigraphic study. Pete could not have been happier as students brought him new seismic lines in diverse settings that he somehow knew immediately what they were showing him. “Here is the Mid-Oligocene unconformity,” “Look at that Valanginian lowland,” or “This stacking pattern in Norway is the same thing we see in the Gulf Coast.” He would share his interpretation genius and mentor those students so they could run with his guidance. His office at Rice was a chaos of scattered seismic lines and colored pencils, but he never turned away a student seeking help, and those interactions often had an impact for a lifetime. While he had unparalleled stratigraphy knowledge and confidence in his models, he could be convinced to change his thinking in the face of new or contrary data. After vigorous debate when a change seemed to win, Pete would pause and say, “It’s even better!” and embrace a new model incorporating the change. He would then proceed to take the new models and apply them to other problems around the world – always giving credit to the person whose work convinced him to change. “It’s even better” is a lesson for open-mindedness and inclusivity that Pete taught naturally, something that was even more valuable than sequence stratigraphy to me in my career. Those times at Rice were incredibly special because we did not know what was to come. In 1993, while teaching in Europe, Pete hit his head when a chair collapsed and suffered a brain injury that would change his life forever. Although he lost mobility that would limit his teaching and time in the field, he worked hard to come back from the effects of his injury, always remaining upbeat, kind, curious, and generous with his time and insights. Above all, he was devoted to his family and would light up whenever talking to them or sharing news about them. He was passionate about birdwatching, Houston professional sports, and occasional pinot noir. His former students and colleagues would regularly gather with him for “Friends of Pete” meals, celebrations or outings, and we always felt like the lucky ones who got to share him with his family. Pete fundamentally changed stratigraphy and subsurface data interpretation for the better. That contribution and the countless lives he influenced is a legacy that will last forever. I, and so many others whose lives were touched by this remarkable man, will never forget his spirit, humor, kindness, generosity and genius. We are so grateful for every moment we got to spend with him and will cherish those memories. May he rest in peace and may the love so many had for him bring comfort to his family and friends in their loss. Awards Given: • Hollis D. Hedberg Award, Energy Institute for the Study Earth and Man, Southern Methodist University (2005) • Benjamin Franklin Medal for Earth Science (2005) • Legendary Geoscientist Award, American Geological Institute (2004) • Penrose Medal, The Geological Society of America, Inc. (2003) • Sidney Powers Memorial Medal, American Association of Petroleum Geologists (2003) • Distinguished Educator Award, American Association of Petroleum Geologists (1999) • T. Neville George Medal, Geological Society of Glasgow (1995) • Northwestern Alumni Merit Award (1994) • Honorary Medal, University of Burgundy, France (1993) • Geological Society of France Award, European Union of Geosciences Meeting, Strasbourg, France (1993) • Twinhofel Award, Society for Sedimentary Geology (1992) • Honorary Degree, Ghent University, Belgium (1989) • William Smith Medal, Geological Society of London (1986) • Distinguished Achievement Award for Individuals, Offshore Technology Conference (1983) • Best Paper Award, Houston Geological Society (1983) • Matson Award, Author of Best Paper, American Association of Petroleum Geologists Convention (1981) • President's Award, Best Published Paper, American Association of Petroleum Geologists (1977) • Virgil Kauffman Gold Medal, Advancement of the Science of Geophysical Exploration Society of Exploration Geophysicists, Annual Meeting (1976)


--- [Peter R. Vail | The Franklin Institute] ---
For his pioneering and innovative ideas for using seismic reflections to identify sequences of subsurface rock layers, greatly enhancing exploration for oil-containing rock. He also recognized that similar changes in the rock record appear worldwide and can be attributed to global changes in sea level, thus contributing to greater understanding of the earth's geological history. Peter Vail's innovative concepts of sequence stratigraphy have had far reaching implications for both science and commerce, revolutionizing the field of stratigraphy and greatly enhancing methods for oil exploration. Dr. Vail received his B.A. from Dartmouth College in 1952 and his Ph.D. from Northwestern in 1956. Following a 30-year career with Exxon Production Research Company and its predecessors, he began a second career, as W. Maurice Ewing Professor of Oceanography at Rice University, where he taught from 1986 to 2001. Dr. Vail now uses his vast wealth of experience as president of his own business, Peter R. Vail Oil and Gas and Consulting and Investing Company. Among his many honors are the Legendary Geoscientist Award from the American Geological Institute, the Penrose Medal from the Geological Society of America, and the Sidney Powers Memorial Medal and the Distinguished Educator Award from the American Association of Petroleum Geologists. He is a fellow of the Geological Society of London, the Geological Society of America, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science; an honorary member of the Gulf Coast Section of the Society for Sedimentary Geology, the Society of Exploration Geophysicists, and the Houston Geophysical Society; and a member of Sigma Xi, the American Geophysical Union, and the American Geological Institute. Information as of April 2005


--- [Peter Vail - Wikidata] ---
Peter Vail (Q2078778) Appearance American geologist - Peter R. Vail - Peter Robbins Vail | Language | Label | Description | Also known as | |---|---|---|---| | default for all languages | Peter Vail | || | English | Peter Vail | American geologist | | Statements 0 references Identifiers Sitelinks Wikipedia(6 entries) - arzwiki بيتر فيل - dewiki Peter Vail - enwiki Peter Vail - frwiki Peter Vail - nlwiki Peter Vail - vowiki Peter Vail
