=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Edward Robinson (curator) - Wikipedia]
He became assistant director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in 1906, and succeeded Sir Caspar Purdon Clarke in 1910, becoming the third director of "the Met", a position he held for 21 years. [3]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Robinson_(curator)

[Today in Met History: October 31 - The Metropolitan Museum of Art]
Oct 31, 2010 · One hundred years ago today, Edward Robinson, curator of classical art and assistant director at The Metropolitan Museum of Art, was named the Museum's third director.
URL: https://www.metmuseum.org/perspectives/today-in-met-history-october-31

[Edward Robinson (curator) - Wikiwand]
He became assistant director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in 1906, and succeeded Sir Caspar Purdon Clarke in 1910, becoming the third director of "the Met", a position he held for 21 years. [3]
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Edward_Robinson_(archaeologist)

[Edward Robinson (January 1, 1858 — April 18, 1931 ... - Prabook]
In 1910 he was elected director, remaining in office during his lifetime. He was the third to hold the chief administrative position, and the first of American parentage.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/edward.robinson/1109608

[List of directors of the Metropolitan Museum of Art ...]
The Director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art is the director of the museum. The Metropolitan Museum of Art of New York City, colloquially "the Met", is the largest art museum in the United States. With 6,953,927 visitors to its three locations in 2018, it was the third most visited art museum in the world. [2] Its permanent collection contains over two million works, [3] divided among ...
URL: https://www.detailedpedia.com/wiki-List_of_directors_of_the_Metropolitan_Museum_of_Art


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Edward Robinson (curator) - Wikipedia] ---
Edward Robinson (November 1, 1858, Boston – April 18, 1931, New York City) was an American writer and authority on art.


--- [Today in Met History: October 31 - The Metropolitan Museum of Art] ---
John Singer Sargent (American, 1856–1925). Edward Robinson, 1903. Oil on canvas; 56 1/2 x 36 1/4 in. (143.5 x 92.1 cm). The Metropolitan Museum Of Art, New York, Gift of Mrs. Edward Robinson, 1931 (31.60) «One hundred years ago today, Edward Robinson, curator of classical art and assistant director at The Metropolitan Museum of Art, was named the Museum's third director. Known for his broad knowledge, connoisseurship, and professionalism, he was a logical choice to replace the accomplished Sir Casper Purdon Clarke, who had reluctantly resigned from his duties after a long struggle with declining health.» Robinson was the Metropolitan's first American-born and -educated director. Having begun his career at Harvard as a student of classical archaeology, he went on to serve as curator of classical antiquities at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, where he reached the rank of director. A bitter disagreement with a faction of the MFA's board of trustees—over the proposed arrangement of galleries for the museum's new building on the Fenway—allegedly caused Robinson's sudden break with the museum, and he was free to accept a position in New York. The Met benefited greatly from Robinson's vision and diligence. His twenty-one-year tenure as director (1910–1931) was a period of tremendous expansion for the Museum. The number of curatorial departments more than doubled during this time, as did the physical footprint of the Museum. To house its rapidly growing collection, the Museum quickly constructed wings for decorative arts, classical antiquities, and American art, and acquired The Cloisters, a collection of medieval sculpture and architectural fragments owned by the sculptor and collector George Grey Barnard (American, 1863–1938), to showcase medieval art and architecture. (See "Today in Met History: June 12" for more about the Museum's purchase of The Cloisters.) Robinson's work as classical curator, which continued through 1925, did not seem to bias his directorial vision. In fact, one of his great legacies is his pioneering advocacy of American art, which was marked by several major exhibitions during his tenure, featuring artists such as Augustus Saint-Gaudens, Thomas Eakins, and James McNeill Whistler. Photograph of rendering of Old Assay Office facade with proposed garden for the new American Wing. Signed by G. Atterbury to the De Forests, January 1924. Office of the Secretary Records, The Metropolitan Museum of Art Archives Despite Robinson's support of all the Met's curatorial departments, his particular expertise in classical art was noteworthy and merited celebration. In 1928, at the occasion of Robinson's seventieth birthday, Museum staff members gathered around a cake resembling an ancient temple, its portico lined with birthday candles, staged in a miniature courtyard. To enliven the scene, staff of the Classical Department dressed in Greek costume and mingled with the crowd. Photograph of Edward Robinson's seventieth birthday party [Robinson, center], 1928. Photograph Collection, The Metropolitan Museum of Art Archives After twenty-one years of working diligently on behalf of the Museum, Edward Robinson died at the age of seventy-three. Letters of condolence, remembering him for his collegial spirit above all else, flooded in from institutions across the country and from as nearby as the Museum of Modern Art. His contributions to The Metropolitan Museum of Art during a pivotal period provided a solid foundation for continuing scholarship and expansion. Telegram from the Museum of Modern Art to Mrs. Edward Robinson conveying condolences, April 20, 1931. Office of the Secretary Records, The Metropolitan Museum of Art Archives Adrianna Del Collo is associate archivist in the Museum Archives. Related Resource Museum Archives


--- [Edward Robinson (curator) - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Edward Robinson (January 1, 1858 — April 18, 1931 ... - Prabook] ---
Background Edward Robinson, the only son of Edwin Augustus and Ellen (Coburn) Robinson, was born in Boston, Massachussets, United States History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. curator museum director writer lecturer in archaeology president of society Edward Robinson, the only son of Edwin Augustus and Ellen (Coburn) Robinson, was born in Boston, Massachussets, United States He attended the Boston Latin School and graduated from Harvard in 1879. After five years spent in study in Europe, including fifteen months in Greece and three semesters at the University of Berlin, he returned to Boston in 1885 and became curator of classical antiquities at the Museum of Fine Arts. He was elected its director in 1902, holding this position until 1905, when he went to New York as assistant director and curator of classical art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. In 1910 he was elected director, remaining in office during his lifetime. He was the third to hold the chief administrative position, and the first of American parentage. Robinson's administration was notable. His first care was the assembling of a scientific staff and the organizing of departments with a competent curator at the head of each. His own chosen field was classical archaeology, and he set the same high standard for the classical department of the Metropolitan Museum that had made the collection in the Boston Museum outstanding, but he was equally interested in the development of other departments, which all came under the influence of his sound judgment and unerring taste. Several new wings were built to house the rapidly growing collections, many of which, coming as gifts or bequests, presented special problems in their exhibition and care. At the same time the increased use of the Museum by the public made necessary constant cooperation in the way of publications, lectures, and temporary exhibitions. A new stage of Museum development was reached with the establishment, in 1925, of a branch museum, The Cloisters, and the series of symphony concerts given each winter after 1919. In spite of all these activities, which made so great a demand on the time of the Director, he found it possible to serve on the boards of several other institutions. He was a member of the Council of the Archaeological Institute of America and president of its New York society; a member of the managing committee of the American School of Classical Studies in Athens; a trustee of the American Academy in Rome; a member of the Executive Committee of the American Society for the Excavation of Sardis; a director of the American Federation of Arts; a trustee of the Museum of the City of New York, and a member of the Commission for the Excavation of the Agora of Athens. He was also a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences; a member of the German Archaeological Institute; a corresponding member of the American Institute of Architects; a member of the Architectural League of New York; a member of the Commission des Musees royaux des Beaux Arts de Belgique, and of many other learned societies. While in Boston Robinson served for eight years as secretary of the art commission of the city of Boston. He selected and arranged the collection of casts of classical and renaissance sculpture in the Slater Memorial Museum at Norwich, Connecticut, and also formed the collection of casts in the Metropolitan Museum. In 1893-94 and from 1898 to 1902 he was lecturer in classical archaeology at Harvard University. His catalogues of Greek and Roman casts and Greek, Etruscan, and Roman vases in the Boston Museum, as well as scholarly publications in the annual reports, were of value to scholars and students alike. After taking up work in New York, his administrative duties restricted his writing to short articles, appearing chiefly in the Bulletin of the Metropolitan Museum. In recognition of his long and varied service to the world of art numerous degrees and foreign orders were conferred upon him. Member of the Council of the Archaeological Institute of America and president of its New York society; Member of the managing committee of the American School of Classical Studies in Athens; Trustee of the American Academy in Rome; Member of the Executive Committee of the American Society for the Excavation of Sardis; Director of the American Federation of Arts; Trustee of the Museum of the City of New York; Member of the Commission for the Excavation of the Agora of Athens. Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences; Member of the German Archaeological Institute; Corresponding member of the American Institute of Architects; Member of the Architectural League of New York; Member of the Commission des Musees royaux des Beaux Arts de Belgique, and of many other learned societies. In 1881 he married Elizabeth H. Gould, of Boston, and a son was born in 1882.


--- [List of directors of the Metropolitan Museum of Art ...] ---
No content
