=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Joan Berkowitz - Wikipedia]
Joan B. Berkowitz (March 13, 1931 - January 22, 2020) was an American chemist. Her areas of research included materials for the space program, reusable molds for spacecraft construction built from molybdenum disilicides and tungsten disilicides, and the disposal and treatment of hazardous wastes. She was the first woman to serve as president of The Electrochemical Society.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joan_Berkowitz

[Joan Berkowitz - Science History Institute]
Recognition Berkowitz received many honors in her long career. Most notably, she was president of the Electrochemical Society in 1979-1980, the first woman ever to hold that position. She continued to run the consulting firm with Alan Farkas and was an adjunct professor at the University of Maryland University College well into her eighties.
URL: https://www.sciencehistory.org/education/scientific-biographies/joan-berkowitz/

[40 Years After: A Symposium on Diversity - ECS]
Forty years ago, Joan Berkowitz became the first female president of The Electrochemical Society. In honor of the groundbreaking milestone, ECS will host the symposium, "40 Years After: A Symposium on Diversity," taking place on Wednesday, October 16, at the 236th ECS Meeting. The symposium will not only celebrate the past but also look towards the future, encouraging conversations and ...
URL: https://www.electrochem.org/ecsnews/40-years-after-symposium

[women Archives - ECS]
Forty years ago, Joan Berkowitz became the first female president of The Electrochemical Society. In honor of the groundbreaking milestone, ECS will host the symposium, " 40 Years After: A Symposium on Diversity," taking place on Wednesday, October 16, at the 236th ECS Meeting. The symposium will not only celebrate the past but also look towards the future, encouraging conversations and ...
URL: https://www.electrochem.org/ecsnews/tag/women

[American Airlines - Airline tickets and low fares at aa.com]
Relax on a sunny getaway and save up to $250 on an American Airlines Vacations℠ package Book a vacation today Protect your next adventure Allianz Trip Insurance can help you bypass travel emergencies and protect your budget Be a pathfinder Earn AAdvantage® bonus miles Get the AAdvantage eShopping® button and spend $25 to earn Add the button ...
URL: https://www.aa.com/homePage.do?locale=en_US


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Joan Berkowitz - Wikipedia] ---
Joan B. Berkowitz (March 13, 1931 – January 22, 2020) was an American chemist. Her areas of research included materials for the space program, reusable molds for spacecraft construction built from molybdenum disilicides and tungsten disilicides, and the disposal and treatment of hazardous wastes.  She was the first woman to serve as president of The Electrochemical Society.


--- [Joan Berkowitz - Science History Institute] ---
Joan Berkowitz A chemist and leading environmental consultant, Berkowitz tackled everything from preventing water pollution to the best ways to treat industrial wastes. Even as a child in Brooklyn, New York, Joan Berkowitz (1931–2020) loved science. As a young student, she carried out a particularly impressive project on weather systems that earned the highest praise from her teacher, who proclaimed she was destined to be a scientist. After attending Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania and graduating in 1952 with a bachelor’s degree in chemistry, Berkowitz decided to pursue graduate studies in physical chemistry. She set her sights on Princeton University but was prevented from enrolling because Princeton did not accept women into their graduate chemistry program. Instead, she earned her doctorate in physical chemistry at another chemistry powerhouse: the University of Illinois. She went on to do postdoctoral work at Yale University. Investigating High-Temperature Materials In 1957 Berkowitz began working for the technology consulting firm of Arthur D. Little, where she conducted research into high-temperature materials. Much of this work was done to help NASA develop materials for building spacecraft. She was especially concerned with oxidation resistance at high temperatures and found that a material called molybdenum disilicide (MoSi2) resisted oxidation at high temperatures better than just about any other substance known. She also experimented with using electrical fields to prevent oxidation. In other areas Berkowitz did research on gallium arsenide (GaAs), which is used to make solar panels, and she was one of the first chemists to use computers to predict the behavior of substances before they were tested in the laboratory. The Move to Environmental Chemistry Berkowitz’s horizons were broadened when her supervisors sent her to the senior executive program of the MIT Sloan School of Management, from which she graduated in 1979. Working her way up the corporate ladder, in 1980 she became head of a division at Arthur D. Little called Environmental Business World Wide. She left the firm six years later to become CEO of an environmental consulting company, Risk Science International, in Washington, D.C. Then in 1989 she cofounded her own consulting business with Alan Farkas, called Farkas Berkowitz and Company. As an environmental chemist, Berkowitz studied the effects of processes to reduce the particulate emissions from coal-burning power plants. Solid particulate matter is a serious form of air pollution that can cause many respiratory illnesses. She also investigated “scrubbing,” a technique that removes sulfur dioxide—which can cause acid rain when it enters the atmosphere—from coal exhaust by means of a reaction of the sulfur dioxide with calcium carbonate. Also, while still at Arthur D. Little, Berkowitz led the team that created a multivolume index of all commercially produced substances that could harm the environment. Later she contributed to reports on hazardous waste treatment at the request of the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Academy of Sciences, and to periodical surveys of the waste-treatment industry produced by Farkas Berkowitz. Recognition Berkowitz received many honors in her long career. Most notably, she was president of the Electrochemical Society in 1979–1980, the first woman ever to hold that position. She continued to run the consulting firm with Alan Farkas and was an adjunct professor at the University of Maryland University College well into her eighties.


--- [40 Years After: A Symposium on Diversity - ECS] ---
Forty years ago, Joan Berkowitz became the first female president of The Electrochemical Society. In honor of the groundbreaking milestone, ECS will host the symposium, “40 Years After: A Symposium on Diversity,” taking place on Wednesday, October 16, at the 236th ECS Meeting. The symposium will not only celebrate the past but also look towards the future, encouraging conversations and examining options to promote the continued support of not only women in the sciences, but diversity and inclusiveness overall. “I feel like, for me, because of people like Berkowitz, it made it easier for my generation,” says Christina Bock, current ECS president, who recalls being the only woman in her undergraduate program. “It started off with four. Then, it pretty quickly went down to two, and then within a year in a half, there was only one—me.” She said this was difficult, not only within a professional environment but also due to social pressures. “My grandmother would say, ‘Well, how much longer do you want to go and study?’ She’d encourage me to come back home and start a family,” laughed Bock looking back. All barriers she hopes to continue to help break for the next generation. “There are many responsibilities that I have as a president in general, but I also feel I have other responsibilities as a female president. I feel I have an obligation to make sure that we’re paying attention to diversity. I’m in a position that I can facilitate things and advocate for things. I see that as part of my responsibility,” says Bock. Symposium Organizer Alice Suroviec says attendees can expect a panel session where speakers will share their personal experiences as non-traditional electrochemical scientists and discuss what they are doing to advance diversity in the sciences. “The idea is that it will be like a brainstorming session. We’ll discuss what we can do to increase diversity, how to support our colleagues, create an environment that feels inclusive as well as and hear from people who can share their experiences on how they’ve brought about change,” says Suroviec. The symposium will also consist of several invited speakers, include former ECS Executive Director Roque Calvo who will discuss the unique contributions of female leaders within the Society and others who’ve worked to advance the Society’s mission, in his talk, “Four Decades of Diversification and Progress at ECS.” “The simple fact that ECS members selected the first female president 40 years ago shows we are a forward-thinking society,” says Bock. “Now having said that, we still have a load of work to do. This includes making sure that we have diverse committee members, that we bring in more diverse speakers, and making our diversity statement known, which reflects what ECS stands for and that we’re committed to having these discussions. It all helps promote change and guide the future we’re working towards.” Join the discussion!


--- [women Archives - ECS] ---
Forty years ago, Joan Berkowitz became the first female president of The Electrochemical Society. In honor of the groundbreaking milestone, ECS will host the symposium, “40 Years After: A Symposium on Diversity,” taking place on Wednesday, October 16, at the 236th ECS Meeting. The symposium will not only celebrate the past but also look towards the future, encouraging conversations and examining options to promote the continued support of not only women in the sciences, but diversity and inclusiveness overall. (more…) Change isn’t easy. For women, it took lobbying, protests, campaigns, and even jail time to receive the right to vote. It wasn’t until August 26, 1920, when women’s fight for change finally paid off. The Nineteenth Amendment was added to the United States Constitution, giving women the right to vote as citizens of the United States, regardless of their sex. Today, we celebrate women, their achievements, and the continued need for change. Actress, comedian, and author Amy Poehler has put a lot of effort into empowering young girls in science for some time now. Her Smart Girls project took off in 2008, which serves as a place where future women can foster their curiosity and pursue opportunities in STEM. Now Poehler and her Smart Girls group are adding to the women in STEM conversation with their new series, “Experimenting with Megan Amram.” Amram is a Harvard graduate, author, and comedian. The new web series serves as a perfect platform to continue what she already started in her book Science… for Her!. The parody science text is comedic in nature, but takes a hard look at the gender gap in STEM and offers up some pretty solid science as well. As an added bonus, you can even get a step-by-step instructions on how to conduct Amram’s experiments. PS: Head over to the ECS YouTube page to find more educational science videos. One of the quotes I like to keep on my desk is, “A ship in port is safe; but that is not what ships are built for. Sail out to sea and do new things.” “Amazing Grace” Hopper, who said those words, certainly did new things. She was a computer programming pioneer, and the first woman at Yale University to earn a doctorate in math. She is perhaps most noted for having invented key software technologies that laid the ground for today’s computer languages, and which remain a part of our everyday life. She was able to convince industry and government agencies to agree on a common business programming language, called Cobol, which (among many uses) is still used when you withdraw money from a cash machine. She also worked on a device called the Automatic Sequence Controlled Calculator, which worked out flight trajectories for rockets. Named for her are many places and objects, including the U.S. Navy destroyer USS Hopper, the Department of Energy’s flagship computer system “Hopper,” and the Cray XE6 “Hopper” supercomputer at NERSC. Read about just ten of the many women who changed the tech industry forever. Madeline Jacobs has held steadfast to the idea of improving lives through the transforming power of chemistry during her career. Now, after seeing all she set out accomplish during her time as the American Chemical Society’s director and chief executive officer come to fruition, Jacobs is ready to move on to something new. Jacobs started her career with the American Chemical Society (ACS) as a reporter for Chemical & Engineering News in 1969. Here, she rose in the ranks – becoming the magazine’s editor-in-chief in 1995. Her work at Chemical & Engineering News prepared her for the role that she would take on in 2003 as ACS’s executive director. There is no doubt that women have made their mark in science. From Marie Curie to Rosalind Franklin – women have made outstanding contributions to innovation, research, and technology. Still, there is a significant gender bias that exists in the field, which affects research outcomes and discovery. The questions exists: Why are there still so few women in science? How will this affect what we learn from research? According to an article in National Geographic, women make up half the national workforce and earn more college and graduate degrees than men. Still, the gender gap in science exists – specifically in fields such as engineering. This from National Geographic: According to U.S. Census Bureau statistics, women in fields commonly referred to as STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics) made up 7 percent of that workforce in 1970, a figure that had jumped to 23 percent by 1990. But the rise essentially stopped there. Two decades later, in 2011, women made up 26 percent of the science workforce.


--- [American Airlines - Airline tickets and low fares at aa.com] ---
Today's offers Plan a beachside escape Relax on a sunny getaway and save up to $250 on an American Airlines Vacations℠ package Book a vacation today Opens another site in a new window that may not meet accessibility guidelines Get your miles back You have 0 miles that expired. Don’t lose the miles you worked hard to earn. Reactivate them today!
