=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Man Lives in Giant Snowglobe for 78.5 Hours, Sets World Record - Gizmodo]
World Records Academy officially deemed Eckersons stunt as "Longest time spent in an inflatable snowglobe." Snowglobe Boy was allowed to take up to an hour a day to shower, use the bathroom, etc.
URL: https://gizmodo.com/man-lives-in-giant-snowglobe-for-78-5-hours-sets-world-334409

[SET Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of SET is to cause to sit : place in or on a seat. How to use set in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/set

[Durham Man Breaks Record For Living In Snow Globe]
Ben Eckerson entered the snow globe on Tuesday. He acted as a live Christmas card for his company. Eckerson broke a world record for time spent in a snow globe. He gets about 50 minutes in breaks ...
URL: https://www.wfmynews2.com/article/news/local/durham-man-breaks-record-for-living-in-snow-globe/83-402289822

[SET Definition & Meaning | Dictionary.com]
SET definition: to put (something or someone) in a particular place. See examples of set used in a sentence.
URL: https://www.dictionary.com/browse/set

[Obscure Guinness World Records: Surprising Achievements]
A Canadian man, Rolf Buchholz, spent 10 minutes and 45 seconds inside a snow globe. The globe was filled with fake snow and Christmas decorations, and Buchholz had to endure the cold and the limited space while attempting to set the record.
URL: https://www.recordstrivia.com/random/guinness-world-records-the-most-obscure-and-surprising-achievements


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Man Lives in Giant Snowglobe for 78.5 Hours, Sets World Record - Gizmodo] ---
Snowglobe Boy, aka 24-year-old Ben Eckerson, has spent over 3 days living in a giant snowglobe as an advertising stunt for the advertising firm he works for. And though I can’t imagine he had much competition, Eckerson also managed to set a world record for most time spent in a giant snowglobe. World Records Academy officially deemed Eckersons stunt as “Longest time spent in an inflatable snowglobe.” Snowglobe Boy was allowed to take up to an hour a day to shower, use the bathroom, etc. But aside from that, he was confined to his snowglobe, where he spent his time using his laptop, playing video games and generally acting like a tard. [Snowglobe Boy via eFlux Media


--- [SET Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
set; setting; sets 1 : to cause to sit : place in or on a seat 2 a : to put (a fowl) on eggs to hatch them b : to put (eggs) for hatching under a fowl or into an incubator 3 : to place (oneself) in position to start running in a race 4 a : to place with care or deliberate purpose and with relative stability set a ladder against the wall set a stone on the grave b : transplant sense 1 set seedlings c(1) : to make (a trap) ready to catch prey (2) : to fix (a hook) firmly into the jaw of a fish d : to put aside (something, such as dough containing yeast) for fermenting 5 : to direct with fixed attention set your mind to it 6 a : to cause to assume a specified condition, relation, or occupation The bird was treated and then set free. They accidentally set the house on fire. b : to cause the start of set a fire 8 : to cause to assume a specified posture or position set the door ajar 9 10 : to fix or decide on as a time, limit, or regulation : prescribe set a wedding day set the rules for the game 11 a : to establish as the highest level or best performance set a record for the half mile b : to furnish as a pattern or model set an example of generosity c : to allot as a task … setting lessons for the children to work upon at home …—Manchester (England) Examiner 12 a : to adjust (a device and especially a measuring device) to a desired position set the alarm for 7:00 set a thermostat at 68 also : to adjust (something, such as a clock) in conformity with a standard b : to restore to normal position or connection when dislocated or fractured set a broken bone c : to spread to the wind set the sails 13 a : to put in order for use set a place for a guest b : to make scenically ready for a performance set the stage c(1) : to arrange (type) for printing set type by hand (2) : to put into type or its equivalent (as on film) set the first word in italic 14 a : to put a fine edge on by grinding or honing set a razor b : to bend slightly the tooth points of (a saw) alternately in opposite directions c : to sink (the head of a nail) below the surface 15 : to fix in a desired position (as by heating or stretching) 16 : to arrange (hair) in a desired style by using implements (such as curlers, rollers, or clips) and gels or lotions 17 18 a : to hold something in regard or esteem at the rate of sets a great deal by daily exercise b : to place in a relative rank or category set duty before pleasure c : to fix at a certain amount set bail at $500 e : to place as an estimate of worth set a high value on life 19 : to place in relation for comparison or balance theory set against practice 20 a : to direct to action b : to incite to attack or antagonism war sets brother against brother 21 a : to place by transporting was set ashore on the island b : to put in motion c : to put and fix in a direction set our faces toward home once more d of a dog : to point out the position of (game) by holding a fixed attitude 22 : to defeat (an opponent or a contract) in bridge 23 a : to fix firmly : make immobile : give rigid form or condition to set her jaw in determination b : to make unyielding or obstinate 24 : to cause to become firm or solid set milk for cheese 25 : to cause (fruit or seed) to develop 1 chiefly dialectal : sit 2 : to be becoming : be suitable : fit the coat sets well 3 : to cover and warm eggs to hatch them 4 a : to affect one with or as if with weight the pudding sets heavily on my stomach b : to place oneself in position in preparation for an action (such as running) 5 of a plant part : to undergo development usually as a result of pollination 6 a : to pass below the horizon : go down the sun sets b : to come to an end … this century sets with little mirth …—Thomas Fuller 7 : to apply oneself to some activity set to work 8 9 of a dog : to indicate the position of game by crouching or pointing 10 : to dance face to face with another in a square dance set to your partner and turn 11 a : to become solid or thickened by chemical or physical alteration the cement sets rapidly b of a dye or color : to become permanent c of a bone : to become whole by growing together 1 a : the act or action of setting b : the condition of being set 2 : a number of things of the same kind that belong or are used together an electric train set 3 a : mental inclination, tendency, or habit : bent a set toward mathematics b : a state of psychological preparedness to perceive or respond to an anticipated stimulus or situation 4 : direction of flow the set of the wind 5 : the way the body or its parts is formed or carried the formidable set of his shoulders 6 : the manner of fitting or of being placed or suspended His coat was a little faulty in the set of the collar …—G. W. Cable 7 : amount of deflection from a straight line set of a saw's teeth 8 : permanent change of form (as of metal) due to repeated or excessive stress 9 : the act or result of arranging hair by curling or waving 10 or less commonly sett a : a young plant or rooted cutting ready for transplanting b : a small bulb, corm, or tuber or a piece of tuber used for propagation onion sets c : the blossoms of a plant that have set fruit as a result of fertilization 11 or sett : the burrow of a badger 12 : the width of the body of a piece of type 13 : an artificial setting for a scene of a theatrical or film production 14 or less commonly sett : a rectangular paving stone of sandstone or granite 15 : a division of a tennis match won by the side that wins at least six games beating the opponent by two games or by winning a tiebreaker 16 : a collection of books or periodicals forming a unit 17 : a clutch of eggs 18 : the basic formation in a country-dance or square dance 19 : a session of music (such as jazz or dance music) usually followed by an intermission also : the music played at one session 20 : a group of persons associated by common interests 21 : a collection of elements and especially mathematical ones (such as numbers or points) called also class 22 : an apparatus of electronic components assembled so as to function as a unit a television set 23 : a usually offensive formation in football or basketball 24 : a group of a specific number of repetitions of a particular exercise 1 : intent, determined set upon going 2 : intentional, premeditated did it of set purpose 3 : fixed by authority, appointment, or agreement The wedding is set [=scheduled] for early June. Students can drop in during set [=designated] office hours 4 : reluctant to change set in their ways 6 : settled, persistent set defiance 7 a : ready for action, use, etc. : prepared We were set for an early morning start. The table is set. Should I bring out the food? —often used in the phrase all setAre we all set [=completely ready] to leave? We replaced the belt, so your car should be all set. [=fully functional and ready for use] She's all set to blast him, all set to wipe that anxious smile off his face, to tell him some hard home truths. And then she stops. She can't do it.—Norma Fox Mazer b : needing or wanting nothing further "Would you like more coffee?" "No thanks, I'm set." The leak is fixed, so you should be set now. After winning the lottery, they were set for life —often used in the phrase all set"Would you like more coffee?" "No thanks, I'm all set." Can I help you find something, or are you all set? Is the bill all set, or do you need some change? Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [Durham Man Breaks Record For Living In Snow Globe] ---
- EnglishUnited States - Deutsch - English - Español - Français - Italiano - All languages - Afrikaans - azərbaycan - bosanski - català - Čeština - Cymraeg - Dansk - Deutsch - eesti - EnglishUnited Kingdom - EspañolEspaña - EspañolLatinoamérica - euskara - Filipino - FrançaisCanada - FrançaisFrance - Gaeilge - galego - Hrvatski - Indonesia - isiZulu - íslenska - Italiano - Kiswahili - latviešu - lietuvių - magyar - Melayu - Nederlands - norsk - o‘zbek - polski - PortuguêsBrasil - PortuguêsPortugal - română - shqip - Slovenčina - slovenščina - srpski (latinica) - Suomi - Svenska - Tiếng Việt - Türkçe - Ελληνικά - беларуская - български - кыргызча - қазақ тілі - македонски - монгол - Русский - српски - Українська - ქართული - հայերեն - עברית - اردو - العربية - فارسی - አማርኛ - नेपाली - मराठी - हिन्दी - অসমীয়া - বাংলা - ਪੰਜਾਬੀ - ગુજરાતી - ଓଡ଼ିଆ - தமிழ் - తెలుగు - ಕನ್ನಡ - മലയാളം - සිංහල - ไทย - ລາວ - မြန်မာ - ខ្មែរ - 한국어 - 日本語 - 简体中文 - 繁體中文 - 繁體中文香港 - EnglishUnited States - Deutsch - English - Español - Français - Italiano - All languages - Afrikaans - azərbaycan - bosanski - català - Čeština - Cymraeg - Dansk - Deutsch - eesti - EnglishUnited Kingdom - EspañolEspaña - EspañolLatinoamérica - euskara - Filipino - FrançaisCanada - FrançaisFrance - Gaeilge - galego - Hrvatski - Indonesia - isiZulu - íslenska - Italiano - Kiswahili - latviešu - lietuvių - magyar - Melayu - Nederlands - norsk - o‘zbek - polski - PortuguêsBrasil - PortuguêsPortugal - română - shqip - Slovenčina - slovenščina - srpski (latinica) - Suomi - Svenska - Tiếng Việt - Türkçe - Ελληνικά - беларуская - български - кыргызча - қазақ тілі - македонски - монгол - Русский - српски - Українська - ქართული - հայերեն - עברית - اردو - العربية - فارسی - አማርኛ - नेपाली - मराठी - हिन्दी - অসমীয়া - বাংলা - ਪੰਜਾਬੀ - ગુજરાતી - ଓଡ଼ିଆ - தமிழ் - తెలుగు - ಕನ್ನಡ - മലയാളം - සිංහල - ไทย - ລາວ - မြန်မာ - ខ្មែរ - 한국어 - 日本語 - 简体中文 - 繁體中文 - 繁體中文香港 Before you continue to YouTube We use cookies and data to - Deliver and maintain Google services - Track outages and protect against spam, fraud, and abuse - Measure audience engagement and site statistics to understand how our services are used and enhance the quality of those services If you choose to “Accept all,” we will also use cookies and data to - Develop and improve new services - Deliver and measure the effectiveness of ads - Show personalized content, depending on your settings - Show personalized ads, depending on your settings If you choose to “Reject all,” we will not use cookies for these additional purposes. Non-personalized content and ads are influenced by things like the content you’re currently viewing and your location (ad serving is based on general location). Personalized content and ads can also include things like video recommendations, a customized YouTube homepage, and tailored ads based on past activity, like the videos you watch and the things you search for on YouTube. We also use cookies and data to tailor the experience to be age-appropriate, if relevant. Select “More options” to see additional information, including details about managing your privacy settings. You can also visit g.co/privacytools at any time.


--- [SET Definition & Meaning | Dictionary.com] ---
Advertisement Advertisement set 1[set] verb (used with object) to put (something or someone) in a particular place. to set a vase on a table. to place in a particular position or posture. Set the baby on his feet. to place in some relation to something or someone. We set a supervisor over the new workers. to put into some condition. to set a house on fire. to put or apply. to set fire to a house. to put in the proper position. to set a chair back on its feet. to put in the proper or desired order or condition for use. to set a trap. to distribute or arrange china, silver, etc., for use on (a table). to set the table for dinner. to place (the hair, especially when wet) on rollers, in clips, or the like, so that the hair will assume a particular style. to put (a price or value) upon something. He set $7500 as the right amount for the car. The teacher sets a high value on neatness. to fix the value of at a certain amount or rate; value. He set the car at $500. She sets neatness at a high value. to post, station, or appoint for the purpose of performing some duty. to set spies on a person. to determine or fix definitely. to set a time limit. Synonyms: establishto resolve or decide upon. to set a wedding date. to cause to pass into a given state or condition. to set one's mind at rest; to set a prisoner free. to direct or settle resolutely or wishfully. to set one's mind to a task. to present as a model; place before others as a standard. to set a good example. to establish for others to follow. to set a fast pace. to prescribe or assign, as a task. to adjust (a mechanism) so as to control its performance. to adjust the hands of (a clock or watch) according to a certain standard. I always set my watch by the clock in the library. to adjust (a timer, alarm of a clock, etc.) so as to sound when desired. He set the alarm for seven o'clock. to fix or mount (a gem or the like) in a frame or setting. to ornament or stud with gems or the like. a bracelet set with pearls. to cause to sit; seat. to set a child in a high chair. to put (a hen) on eggs to hatch them. to place (eggs) under a hen or in an incubator for hatching. to place or plant firmly. to set a flagpole in concrete. to put into a fixed, rigid, or settled state, as the face, muscles, etc. to fix at a given point or calibration. to set the dial on an oven; to set a micrometer. to tighten (often followed byup ). to set nuts well up. to cause to take a particular direction. to set one's course to the south. Surgery., to put (a broken or dislocated bone) back in position. (of a hunting dog) to indicate the position of (game) by standing stiffly and pointing with the muzzle. Music. to fit, as words to music. to arrange for musical performance. to arrange (music) for certain voices or instruments. Theater. to arrange the scenery, properties, lights, etc., on (a stage) for an act or scene. to prepare (a scene) for dramatic performance. Nautical., to spread and secure (a sail) so as to catch the wind. Printing. to arrange (type) in the order required for printing. to put together types corresponding to (copy); compose in type. to set an article. Baking., to put aside (a substance to which yeast has been added) in order that it may rise. to change into curd. to set milk with rennet. to cause (glue, mortar, or the like) to become fixed or hard. to urge, goad, or encourage to attack. to set the hounds on a trespasser. Bridge., to cause (the opposing partnership or their contract) to fall short. We set them two tricks at four spades. Only perfect defense could set four spades. to affix or apply, as by stamping. The king set his seal to the decree. to fix or engage (a fishhook) firmly into the jaws of a fish by pulling hard on the line once the fish has taken the bait. to sharpen or put a keen edge on (a blade, knife, razor, etc.) by honing or grinding. to fix the length, width, and shape of (yarn, fabric, etc.). Carpentry., to sink (a nail head) with a nail set. to bend or form to the proper shape, as a saw tooth or a spring. to bend the teeth of (a saw) outward from the blade alternately on both sides in order to make a cut wider than the blade itself. verb (used without object) to pass below the horizon; sink. The sun sets early in winter. to decline; wane. to assume a fixed or rigid state, as the countenance or the muscles. (of the hair) to be placed temporarily on rollers, in clips, or the like, in order to assume a particular style. Long hair sets more easily than short hair. to become firm, solid, or permanent, as mortar, glue, cement, or a dye, due to drying or physical or chemical change. to sit on eggs to hatch them, as a hen. to hang or fit, as clothes. to begin to move; start (usually followed by forth, out, off, etc.). (of a flower's ovary) to develop into a fruit. (of a hunting dog) to indicate the position of game. to have a certain direction or course, as a wind, current, or the like. Nautical., (of a sail) to be spread so as to catch the wind. Printing., (of type) to occupy a certain width. This copy sets to forty picas. Nonstandard., sit. Come in and set a spell. noun the act or state of setting or the state of being set. a collection of articles designed for use together. a set of china; a chess set. a collection, each member of which is adapted for a special use in a particular operation. a set of golf clubs; a set of carving knives. a number, group, or combination of things of similar nature, design, or function. a set of ideas. a series of volumes by one author, about one subject, etc. a number, company, or group of persons associated by common interests, occupations, conventions, or status. a set of murderous thieves; the smart set. Synonyms: cliquethe fit, as of an article of clothing. the set of his coat. fixed direction, bent, or inclination. The set of his mind was obvious. Synonyms: attitudebearing or carriage. the set of one's shoulders. Synonyms: posturethe assumption of a fixed, rigid, or hard state, as by mortar or glue. the arrangement of the hair in a particular style. How much does the beauty salon charge for a shampoo and set? a plate for holding a tool or die. an apparatus for receiving radio or television programs; receiver. Philately., a group of stamps that form a complete series. Tennis., a unit of a match, consisting of a group of not fewer than six games with a margin of at least two games between the winner and loser. He won the match in straight sets of 6–3, 6–4, 6–4. a construction representing a place or scene in which the action takes place in a stage, motion-picture, or television production. Machinery. the bending out of the points of alternate teeth of a saw in opposite directions. a permanent deformation or displacement of an object or part. a tool for giving a certain form to something, as a saw tooth. a chisel having a wide blade for dividing bricks. Horticulture., a young plant, or a slip, tuber, or the like, suitable for planting. Dance. the number of couples required to execute a quadrille or the like. a series of movements or figures that make up a quadrille or the like. Music. a group of pieces played by a band, as in a night club, and followed by an intermission. the period during which these pieces are played. Bridge., a failure to take the number of tricks specified by one's contract. Our being vulnerable made the set even more costly. Nautical. the direction of a wind, current, etc. the form or arrangement of the sails, spars, etc., of a vessel. suit. Psychology., a temporary state of an organism characterized by a readiness to respond to certain stimuli in a specific way. Mining., a timber frame bracing or supporting the walls or roof of a shaft or stope. Carpentry., nail set. Mathematics., a collection of objects or elements classed together. Printing., the width of a body of type. sett. adjective fixed or prescribed beforehand. a set time; set rules. specified; fixed. The hall holds a set number of people. deliberately composed; customary. set phrases. fixed; rigid. a set smile. resolved or determined; habitually or stubbornly fixed. to be set in one's opinions. completely prepared; ready. Is everyone set? interjection Also get set! (in calling the start of a race). Ready! Set! Go! verb phrase set down to write or to copy or record in writing or printing. to consider; estimate. to set someone down as a fool. to attribute; ascribe. to set a failure down to bad planning. to put in a position of rest on a level surface. to humble or humiliate. to land an airplane. We set down in a heavy fog. (in horse racing) to suspend (a jockey) from competition because of some offense or infraction of the rules. set on Also set upon. to attack or cause to attack. to set one's dog on a stranger. to instigate; incite. to set a crew to mutiny. set by, to save or keep for future use. set out to begin a journey or course. to set out for home. to undertake; attempt. He set out to prove his point. to design; plan. to set out a pattern. to define; describe. to set out one's arguments. to plant. to set out petunias and pansies. to lay out (the plan of a building) in actual size at the site. to lay out (a building member or the like) in actual size. set about to begin on; start. to undertake; attempt. to assault; attack. set against to cause to be hostile or antagonistic. to compare or contrast. The advantages must be set against the disadvantages. set ahead, to set to a later setting or time. Set your clocks ahead one hour. set in to begin to prevail; arrive. Darkness set in. (of winds or currents) to blow or flow toward the shore. set forth to give an account of; state; describe. He set forth his theory in a scholarly report. to begin a journey; start. Columbus set forth with three small ships. set aside to put to one side; reserve. The clerk set aside the silver brooch for me. to dismiss from the mind; reject. to prevail over; discard; annul. to set aside a verdict. set back to hinder; impede. to turn the hands of (a watch or clock) to show an earlier time. When your plane gets to California, set your watch back two hours. to reduce to a lower setting. Set back the thermostat before you go to bed. set up to put upright; raise. to put into a high or powerful position. to construct; assemble; erect. to be assembled or made ready for use. exercise equipment that sets up in a jiffy. to inaugurate; establish. to enable to begin in business; provide with means. Informal., to make a gift of; treat, as to drinks. Informal., to stimulate; elate. to propound; plan; advance. to bring about; cause. to become firm or hard, as a glue or cement. a paint that sets up within five minutes. to lead or lure into a dangerous, detrimental, or embarrassing situation, as by deceitful prearrangement or connivance. to entrap or frame, as an innocent person in a crime or a criminal suspect in a culpable circumstance in order to achieve an arrest. to arrange the murder or execution of. His partner set him up with the mob. Bridge., to establish (a suit). to set up spades. set apart to reserve for a particular purpose. to cause to be noticed; distinguish. Her bright red hair sets her apart from her sisters. set to to make a vigorous effort; apply oneself to work; begin. to begin to fight; contend. set off to cause to become ignited or to explode. to begin; start. to intensify or improve by contrast. to begin a journey or trip; depart. Set 2[set] noun the brother and murderer of Osiris, represented as having the form of a donkey or other mammal and regarded as personifying the desert. set 1/ sɛt / noun a number of objects or people grouped or belonging together, often forming a unit or having certain features or characteristics in common a set of coins John is in the top set for maths a group of people who associate together, esp a clique he's part of the jet set maths logic Also called: class. a collection of numbers, objects, etc, that is treated as an entity: 3, the moon is the set the two members of which are the number 3 and the moon (in some formulations) a class that can itself be a member of other classes any apparatus that receives or transmits television or radio signals tennis squash badminton one of the units of a match, in tennis one in which one player or pair of players must win at least six games Graf lost the first set the number of couples required for a formation dance a series of figures that make up a formation dance a band's or performer's concert repertoire on a given occasion the set included no new numbers a continuous performance the Who played two sets verb (intr) (in square dancing and country dancing) to perform a sequence of steps while facing towards another dancer set to your partners (usually tr) to divide into sets in this school we set our older pupils for English set 2/ sɛt / verb to put or place in position or into a specified state or condition to set a book on the table to set someone free (also intr; foll by to or on) to put or be put (to); apply or be applied he set fire to the house they set the dogs on the scent to put into order or readiness for use; prepare to set a trap to set the table for dinner (also intr) to put, form, or be formed into a jelled, firm, fixed, or rigid state the jelly set in three hours (also intr) to put or be put into a position that will restore a normal state to set a broken bone to adjust (a clock or other instrument) to a position to determine or establish we have set the date for our wedding to prescribe or allot (an undertaking, course of study, etc) the examiners have set ``Paradise Lost'' to arrange in a particular fashion, esp an attractive one she set her hair the jeweller set the diamonds in silver (of clothes) to hang or fit (well or badly) when worn Also: set to music. to provide music for (a poem or other text to be sung) Also: set up. printing to arrange or produce (type, film, etc) from (text or copy); compose to arrange (a stage, television studio, etc) with scenery and props to describe or present (a scene or the background to a literary work, story, etc) in words his novel is set in Russia to present as a model of good or bad behaviour (esp in the phrases set an example, set a good example, set a bad example ) to value (something) at a specified price or estimation of worth he set a high price on his services (foll by at) to price (the value of something) at a specified sum he set his services at £300 (also intr) to give or be given a particular direction his course was set to the East (also intr) to rig (a sail) or (of a sail) to be rigged so as to catch the wind (intr) (of the sun, moon, etc) to disappear beneath the horizon to leave (dough, etc) in one place so that it may prove to sharpen (a cutting blade) by grinding or honing the angle adjacent to the cutting edge to displace alternate teeth of (a saw) to opposite sides of the blade in order to increase the cutting efficiency to sink (the head of a nail) below the surface surrounding it by using a nail set computing to give (a binary circuit) the value 1 (of plants) to produce (fruits, seeds, etc) after pollination or (of fruits or seeds) to develop after pollination to plant (seeds, seedlings, etc) to place (a hen) on (eggs) for the purpose of incubation (intr) (of a gun dog) to turn in the direction of game, indicating its presence to let or lease to set a house bridge to defeat (one's opponents) in their attempt to make a contract a dialect word for sit to see noun the act of setting or the state of being set a condition of firmness or hardness bearing, carriage, or posture the set of a gun dog when pointing the fit or hang of a garment, esp when worn the scenery and other props used in and identifying the location of a stage or television production, film, etc Also called: set width. printing the width of the body of a piece of type the width of the lines of type in a page or column nautical the cut of the sails or the arrangement of the sails, spars, rigging, etc, of a vessel the direction from which a wind is blowing or towards which a tide or current is moving psychol a temporary bias disposing an organism to react to a stimulus in one way rather than in others a seedling, cutting, or similar part that is ready for planting onion sets a blacksmith's tool with a short head similar to a cold chisel set transversely onto a handle and used, when struck with a hammer, for cutting off lengths of iron bars See nail set the direction of flow of water a mechanical distortion of shape or alignment, such as a bend in a piece of metal the penetration of a driven pile for each blow of the drop hammer a variant spelling of sett adjective fixed or established by authority or agreement set hours of work (usually postpositive) rigid or inflexible she is set in her ways unmoving; fixed a set expression on his face conventional, artificial, or stereotyped, rather than spontaneous she made her apology in set phrases (postpositive; foll by on or upon) resolute in intention he is set upon marrying (of a book, etc) prescribed for students' preparation for an examination set A collection of distinct elements that have something in common. In mathematics, sets are commonly represented by enclosing the members of a set in curly braces, as {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}, the set of all positive integers from 1 to 5. Confusables Note Other Word Forms - interset verb (used with object) interset, intersetting - misset verb misset, missetting - self-set adjective Word History and Origins Origin of set1 Word History and Origins Origin of set1 Origin of set2 Idioms and Phrases More idioms and phrases containing set - all set - dead set against - get (set) someone's back up - get (set) the ball rolling - get set - lay (set) eyes on - on a pedestal, set - put - smart set - tongues wagging, set Example Sentences She set out on the 13-minute walk to the emergency room of UF Health Jacksonville, the hospital where she had given birth to her son. The boats had set off from Al Khums, a port city in northwestern Libya, the organisation said. They get VIP access to the beach club, spa and other amenities at the Faena Miami Beach hotel, and admission to roughly 80 cultural events a year, held in intimate settings for members only. The victory sets up for one of the best games of the college calendar next week, as USC travels to No. 8 Oregon, with a chance to leap into the playoff conversation with a win. After the Trojans defense stiffened, the offense went back on a roll, using another leaping grab by Lemon — this one for 35 yards — to set up a 12-yard TD pass between three defenders to Lemon. Advertisement Related Words Definitions and idiom definitions from Dictionary.com Unabridged, based on the Random House Unabridged Dictionary, © Random House, Inc. 2023 Idioms from The American Heritage® Idioms Dictionary copyright © 2002, 2001, 1995 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Browse


--- [Obscure Guinness World Records: Surprising Achievements] ---
Guinness World Records: The Most Obscure and Surprising Achievements Guinness World Records has been documenting and celebrating the most incredible human achievements since 1955. From the tallest person to the longest fingernails, the records are as diverse as they are impressive. But some records are so obscure and surprising that they make you wonder how anyone even thought to attempt them. In this blog post, we’ll take a look at some of the most unusual records in the Guinness World Records book. Most Apples Crushed By The Bicep In One Minute We’ve all heard of crushing a beer can with your bare hands, but what about crushing an apple with your bicep? That’s exactly what Linsey Lindberg, aka Mama Lou, did in 2018. Mama Lou crushed 10 apples in one minute using only her bicep, setting the record for the most apples crushed by the bicep in one minute. Longest Time Spent Inside A Snow Globe Have you ever wanted to live inside a snow globe? Well, one man did just that in 2016. A Canadian man, Rolf Buchholz, spent 10 minutes and 45 seconds inside a snow globe. The globe was filled with fake snow and Christmas decorations, and Buchholz had to endure the cold and the limited space while attempting to set the record. Fastest Time To Eat A Raw Onion Eating onions can be a challenge for some people, but Australian Brad Jolly was up for the task in 2018. Jolly set the record for the fastest time to eat a raw onion, clocking in at just 29.56 seconds. He even managed to keep it down without shedding a tear. Largest Collection Of Rubber Ducks For some people, collecting stamps or coins just isn’t enough. Charlotte Lee from the UK has been collecting rubber ducks since 1996 and now holds the record for the largest collection of rubber ducks. Her collection consists of over 10,000 rubber ducks of all shapes and sizes. Most Consecutive One-Handed Claps Clapping with one hand might seem like an impossible task, but not for Kent French. In 2018, French set the record for the most consecutive one-handed claps, achieving a total of 427 claps in one minute. It’s hard to imagine how he managed to keep up that pace for so long. Largest Collection Of Traffic Cones Another collector on this list, David Morgan from the UK, holds the record for the largest collection of traffic cones. Morgan has been collecting traffic cones since the 1980s and now has over 550 in his collection. He even has a special room in his house dedicated to his collection. Farthest Distance Skateboarded By A Goat Yes, you read that right. Happie the goat, from California, holds the record for the farthest distance skateboarded by a goat. In 2012, Happie managed to skateboard a distance of 36 meters (118 feet) without falling off. We’re not sure how Happie managed to balance on the board, but it’s definitely impressive. Most Balloons Blown Up In One Hour Blowing up balloons can be tiring, but not for British man Paul Henderson. Henderson set the record for the most balloons blown up in one hour, inflating a total of 910 balloons. That’s an average of 15 balloons per minute! Largest Collection Of Smurfs Fans of the Smurfs will appreciate this next record. Martyn Compton from the UK has been collecting Smurfs since 1986 and now has over 9,000 in his collection. Compton’s love for the blue creatures even extends to his car, which is decorated with Smurf decals. Fastest Time To Assemble Mr. Potato Head Blindfolded Assembling Mr. Potato Head can be a challenge, but what about doing it blindfolded? That’s exactly what American John Cassidy did in 2018, setting the record for the fastest time to assemble Mr. Potato Head blindfolded. Cassidy managed to assemble the toy in just 16.47 seconds. From crushing apples with your bicep to skateboarding goats, the Guinness World Records book is full of obscure and surprising achievements. These records show that with determination and a little creativity, anything is possible. Who knows, maybe you’ll be inspired to attempt a record of your own.
