=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[first "Pillar of Peace" Award year awarded Crossword Clue]
Answers for first %22Pillar of Peace%22 Award year awarded crossword clue, 6 letters. Search for crossword clues found in the Daily Celebrity, NY Times, Daily Mirror, Telegraph and major publications. Find clues for first %22Pillar of Peace%22 Award year awarded or most any crossword answer or clues for crossword answers.
URL: https://www.wordplays.com/crossword-solver/first-%22Pillar-of-Peace%22-Award-year-awarded

["Pillar of Peace Award" first recipient Crossword Clue]
Answers for Pillar of Peace Award%22 first recipient crossword clue, 6 letters. Search for crossword clues found in the Daily Celebrity, NY Times, Daily Mirror, Telegraph and major publications. Find clues for Pillar of Peace Award%22 first recipient or most any crossword answer or clues for crossword answers.
URL: https://www.wordplays.com/crossword-solver/%22Pillar-of-Peace-Award%22-first-recipient

[Otumfuo Nana Osei Tutu II]
In February 2020, Otumfuo Nana Osei Tutu II became the first recipient of the Pillar of Peace Award, in recognition of his role in mediating the Dagbon ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Otumfuo_Nana_Osei_Tutu_II

[FIRST South Carolina]
The mission of FIRST South Carolina is to transform the employment horizon and opportunities for our South Carolina students through a fun and engaging exposure to STEM concepts in a holistic educational experience.
URL: https://www.firstsouthcarolina.org/

[Personal Banking, Credit Cards, Loans | First Citizens Bank]
First Citizens provides a full range of banking products and services to meet your individual or business financial needs. Learn more about our products and services such as checking, savings, credit cards, mortgages and investments.
URL: https://www.firstcitizens.com/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [first "Pillar of Peace" Award year awarded Crossword Clue] ---
Forgot Password Forget your password? Have it sent to the e-mail address on file. Just enter your user name above and click 'Send My Password'. Forgot User Name Forget your user name? Have it sent to the e-mail address on file. Just enter your email below and click 'Send My User Name'. If the email address on file is no longer valid you must register again. If you're having trouble signing in read the FAQ. |


--- ["Pillar of Peace Award" first recipient Crossword Clue] ---
Forgot Password Forget your password? Have it sent to the e-mail address on file. Just enter your user name above and click 'Send My Password'. Forgot User Name Forget your user name? Have it sent to the e-mail address on file. Just enter your email below and click 'Send My User Name'. If the email address on file is no longer valid you must register again. If you're having trouble signing in read the FAQ. |


--- [Otumfuo Nana Osei Tutu II] ---
Otumfuo Nana Osei Tutu II (born Nana Barima Kwaku Duah on 6 May,1950) is the sixteenth Asantehene, king of the Asante people and traditional ruler of the Asante Kingdom in Ghana. He was enstooled on 26 April 1999, succeeding his uncle Otumfuo Opoku Ware II, and is the custodian of the Golden Stool, the sacred symbol of Asante unity and authority.
He was educated at Sefwi-Wiawso Secondary School and Osei Kyeretwie Secondary School, and later studied at Institute of Professional Studies (IPS) in Accra, where he studied Accounting. Prior to his enstoolment, he worked in the private sector in the United Kingdom, building a professional career in accounting and management.
Since ascending the Golden Stool, Osei Tutu II has overseen a period marked by institutional strengthening of traditional governance, peacebuilding, and development-oriented initiatives. He chaired the Committee of Eminent Chiefs, which played a central role in resolving the Dagbon chieftaincy crisis, culminating in the restoration of peace in 2019.
He is the founder of the Otumfuo Osei Tutu II Foundation, which focuses on education, health, and youth development, and has supported hundreds of thousands of beneficiaries across Ghana. He also serves as Chancellor of the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST).
His reign has been marked by periodic milestone commemorations, including the 20th and 25th anniversaries of his enstoolment, reflecting his influence within Asante society and Ghana’s contemporary traditional governance system.




--- [FIRST South Carolina] ---
Upcoming Events Feb 27-28: FTC - South Carolina State Championship Mar 5-7: FRC -FSC District North Charleston Mar 12-14: FRC -FSC District Richland Mar 26-28: FRC -FSC District Hartsville Apr 4: FLLE -iMAGINE Upstate Apr 9-11: FRC -FSC State Championship Upcoming Events Feb 27-28: FTC - South Carolina State Championship Mar 5-7: FRC -FSC District North Charleston Mar 12-14: FRC -FSC District Richland Mar 26-28: FRC -FSC District Hartsville Apr 4: FLLE -iMAGINE Upstate Apr 9-11: FRC -FSC State Championship WE ARE FIRST SOUTH CAROLINA The mission of FIRST South Carolina is to transform the employment horizon and opportunities for our South Carolina students through a fun and engaging exposure to STEM concepts in a holistic educational experience. What is FIRST? Founded in 1989, FIRST® (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology) is a global nonprofit (501(c)(3)) organization that prepares young people for the future through a suite of inclusive, team-based robotics programs for ages 4-18 (PreK-12). Our programs are suitable for schools or structured afterschool activities and receive support from a vast network of volunteers, educators, and sponsor/donors, including over 200 Fortune 500 companies. OVERVIEW OF FIRST PROGRAMS FIRST LEGO League introduces science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) to children ages 4-16* through fun, exciting hands-on learning. FIRST LEGO League participants gain real-world problem-solving experiences through a guided, global robotics program, helping today’s students and teachers build a better future together. In FIRST LEGO League, students engage in hands-on STEM experiences, building confidence, growing their knowledge and developing habits of learning. FIRST LEGO League’s three divisions inspire youth to experiment and grow their critical thinking, coding and design skills through hands-on STEM learning and robotics. FIRST Tech Challenge teams are challenged to design, build, program, and operate robots to compete in a head-to-head challenge in an alliance format. Guided by adult coaches and mentors, students develop STEM skills and practice engineering principles, while realizing the value of hard work, innovation, and working as a team. The robot kit is reusable from year to year and can be coded using a variety of levels of Java-based programming. Teams design and build robots, raise funds, design and market their team brand, and do community outreach to earn specific awards. Participants are eligible to apply for $80M+ in college scholarships. Combining the excitement of sport with the rigors of science and technology. We call FIRST Robotics Competition the ultimate Sport for the Mind. High-school student participants call it “the hardest fun you’ll ever have.” Under strict rules, limited time and resources, teams of students are challenged to raise funds, design a team "brand," hone teamwork skills, and build and program industrial-size robots to play a difficult field game against like-minded competitors. It’s as close to real-world engineering as a student can get. Volunteer professional mentors lend their time and talents to guide each team. Each season ends with an exciting FIRST Championship.


--- [Personal Banking, Credit Cards, Loans | First Citizens Bank] ---
Plan for 2026 with confidence with this practical financial guide Digital Banking Bank from anywhere with your mobile devices Track your spending habits Seamlessly move your money Set alerts for transactions Bank on Customer Service Open an Account Today Our Forever First Promise Forever First® means the name on our door will stay the same for years to come. Forever Stable Taking care of customers—year in, year out—isn't just our track record. It's our promise. Forever Family We're one of America's largest family-controlled banks, led for three generations by members of one family.
