=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[New Zealand rescuers call off US yacht search - BBC News]
Jul 5, 2013 · New Zealand rescuers have called off a search for a US yacht that went missing in waters between New Zealand and Australia last month.
URL: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-23177320

[Schooner Nina – The story of the famous Schooner Nina, and the crew of 7 who lost their lives on its final voyage]
On 4th June 2013, contact with the vessel was lost. This treatise documents everything known about the vessel, the crew, the journey, and the search for the vessel following loss of communication. ... The schooner Niña disappeared during a storm in the Tasman Sea last June.
URL: http://www.schoonernina.com/

[Godmother of Unix admins Evi Nemeth presumed lost at sea]
Obit The New Zealand authorities have formally called off the search for the sailing cruiser Nina, and say its seven-person crew, which includes Evi Nemeth who for the last 30 years has written the system administration handbooks for Unix and Linux, is now presumed lost at sea. Nemeth was sailing off the western coast of New Zealand in the missing 21-metre vintage wooden schooner with its ...
URL: https://www.theregister.com/2013/07/05/evi_nemeth_unix_dead/

[New Zealand rescuers call off US yacht search - BBC News]
The Rescue Co-ordination Centre said it did not find any sign of the wooden yacht or the crew of seven after days of extensive aerial searches. The 85-year-old Nina set sail from Opua in New Zealand on 29 May.
URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-23177320

[12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com]
Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius).
URL: https://www.timeanddate.com/calendar/months/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [New Zealand rescuers call off US yacht search - BBC News] ---
New Zealand rescuers have called off a search for a US yacht that went missing in waters between New Zealand and Australia last month. The Rescue Co-ordination Centre said it did not find any sign of the wooden yacht or the crew of seven after days of extensive aerial searches. The 85-year-old Nina set sail from Opua in New Zealand on 29 May. The contents of a last undelivered text message sent by a crew member on 4 June were released on Thursday. The message said "sails shredded last night". It also said an update on course information would be provided but none came. Six Americans aged between 17 and 73 were on board, along with a 35-year-old British man. Media reports named some of those on board: Captain David Dyche, 58; his wife, Rosemary, 60; and their son David, 17. Also on board was their 73-year-old friend Evi Nemeth, a man aged 28, a woman aged 18 and Briton Matthew Wootton, aged 35, from Lancaster. The Dyche family were said to be experienced sailors who had been sailing around the world for several years. The 70ft (21m) yacht last made contact when it was about 370 nautical miles (685 km) west of New Zealand, officials said. - Published22 August 2023 - Published29 June 2013 - Published27 June 2013


--- [Schooner Nina – The story of the famous Schooner Nina, and the crew of 7 who lost their lives on its final voyage] ---
Introduction The Schooner Niña is famous as a boat that transformed ocean racing yacht design. Prior to its construction in 1928, ocean racing was dominated by gaff-rigged ‘fisherman’ schooners, many named after their designer, John Alden. Nina was a narrower and deeper-hulled boat rigged with a Marconi main sail with staysails forward, and it signaled the future of yacht design by winning its first race (New York to Santander) followed in short order by the Fastnet race (in the Irish Sea and English Channel) – the first American yacht to do so. But the Niña will be remembered for its final voyage, where tragically its crew of seven are presumed to have lost their lives when the Niña disappeared on a voyage from New Zealand across the Tasman Sea to Australia. The largest search in the history of RCCNZ (Rescue Coordination Centre, New Zealand), followed by months of searching organized by relatives of the crew, failed to find any trace of the vessel and crew, or any wreckage. June 4th 2013 marks the date of this greatest loss of life in recreational boating history. The History of Schooner Niña Designer: W. Starling Burgess. Built by: Reuben Bigalow Ship Yard, Cape Cod, Massachusetts, USA . Year Built: 1928 Original Owner: Paul Hammond Burgess “Nina” Specifications: Overall length 70’0”/21.33m. Length on deck 59’0”/17.98m Water Line length 50’0″/15.24m Beam 14’10”/4.52m Draft 9’7”/2.92m. Displacement 44 tons. Sail Area: 2,275 sq ft Foremast: 65′ 0″ / 19.81m – Mainmast: 85′ 0″ / 25.90m Race history Known Racing History: 1928 Winner New York to Santander, Spain. 3,900 mile race in 24 days, greeted by King Alfonso from his launch, with “Well sailed, Niña, I congratulate you! I am the King of Spain.” Niña then went to England for the 600 mile Fastnet Race which takes place through the stormy waters of the English Channel and the Irish Sea. She became the first American yacht to win that race. Her overall time was 4 days, 12 hours, 48 minutes, 13 seconds. 1929 Winner London to Gibson Island Chesapeake Bay. Niña had one more major win, the 1929 race from London to Gibson Island Chesapeake Bay. She was temporarily retired as owner, Paul Hammond, became involved in the 1930 Americas Cup race. 1939 Winner New York Yacht Club Astor Cup, and 1940 Winner New York Yacht Club Astor Cup. In 1934, New York banker, DeCoursey Fales bought Niña, and each year of his life he became more and more devoted to her. He would talk for hours about the ‘old girl’. The rest of Niña’s career was probably fore-ordained as she won the New York Yacht Club Astor Cup in 1939 and 1940. Just before WWII, she won for the first time an event that was to become her specialty, the 233 mile Stanford-Vineyard Race on Long Island Sound. Afterward, she was laid up for the duration of the war. Niña was not allowed to rot, however, and she came out after the war in better shape than ever for a three year stint as flag ship for the New York Yacht Club. 1949 Winner Cygnet Cup Mr. Fales became the NYYC commodore in 1949, and Niña earned her honors by taking first place in ¾ of the yacht club’s squadron races as well as winning the Cygnet Cup in 1949. She made such a habit of winning races that Commodore Fales put the trophies back in competition. It became almost a stock joke that Niña would proceed to win back her own trophies! 1962 Winner Newport to Bermuda Race. In 1962 to thunderous cheers, Niña, became the oldest yacht at 34 years to win the Newport to Bermuda Race, under 72 year old Commodore Fales (the oldest skipper in the race!). In 1966, then 78 year old Commodore Fales passed away while his crew was attempting to repeat the Bermuda win. Niña had five owners after Fales, one being Kings Point Academy. 1989 Winner New York Mayors Cup 1994 Winner Antigua (Schooner Class) 2012 Winner New Zealand’s 37th Tall Ships and Classic Invitation Design Ownership and Restoration, from mid 90’s Nina was purchased in 1988 by David N. and Rosemary Dyche. They undertook much restoration to the vessel. A new deck took 3 years to complete and was finished in 1997. Photos of some of the restoration can be seen here http://www.sail-world.com/111389. In September 2008, the Dyche family, including David junior, began circumnavigating. A replacement engine was fitted and trialled in Opua, shortly before starting the fateful last voyage. The final voyage On 29th May 2013, the Historic American Schooner Niña, with a crew of seven, left Opua, New Zealand on a planned voyage to Newcastle, Australia. On 4th June 2013, contact with the vessel was lost. This treatise documents everything known about the vessel, the crew, the journey, and the search for the vessel following loss of communication.


--- [Godmother of Unix admins Evi Nemeth presumed lost at sea] ---
This article is more than 1 year old Godmother of Unix admins Evi Nemeth presumed lost at sea 'Sails shredded last night,' last message from doomed ship Obit The New Zealand authorities have formally called off the search for the sailing cruiser Nina, and say its seven-person crew, which includes Evi Nemeth who for the last 30 years has written the system administration handbooks for Unix and Linux, is now presumed lost at sea. Nemeth was sailing off the western coast of New Zealand in the missing 21-metre vintage wooden schooner with its owner David Dyche, 58; his wife, Rosemary, 60, and their son David, 17; Kyle Jackson, 27; Danielle Wright, 18, and Briton Matthew Wootton, 35. The boat was last heard from on June 4, when Nemeth requested meteorological information about rough weather they were encountering. "Sails shredded last night," along with the promise of a course update later, was the last message from the Nina, the authorities said on Thursday. The update never came. Rescuers had been hopeful because the boat's EPIRB emergency beacon had not been activated. However, with no trace of the Nina yet discovered and no signal received, it appears the boat may have sunk so swiftly as to give no chance for an alert. It's appears that the boat was carrying an older EPIRB which isn't activated by water pressure. "Unfortunately, no sign of the vessel has been found," said search and rescue mission coordinator Kevin Banaghan. "Our records show that conditions at the last known position for the vessel, on 4 June, were very rough, with winds of 80kmh, gusting to 110kmh, and swells of up to 8m." Nemeth was a keen and experienced sailor who devoted much of her time to on the water since her retirement, and was well-respected in the cruising community. But it was the computing world, specifically her contributions to UNIX and Linux, for which she will be most well-known to Reg readers. She literally wrote the book on Unix Nemeth was born in 1940 and earned her PhD in mathematics in 1971 before entering computer science in 1980. Her math skills were proven when she found problems with the "Diffie–Hellman problem" used for cryptography, but for systems administrators she is best known for her seminal handbooks on network management. In 1989 she wrote the Unix System Administration Handbook, which she revised in 1995 and 2000. She also published the Linux Administration Handbook in 2002 (revised in 2006) and in 2010 authored the combined Unix and Linux System Administration Handbook. All are best-sellers and explain the basics of network topology and administration simply and without recourse to hype. Nemeth saw the need to simplify the arcane language of the IT industry, a language that sometimes did more harm than good. "Many people equate the word 'daemon' with the word 'demon,' implying some kind of Satanic connection between Unix and the underworld," she wrote. "This is an egregious misunderstanding. 'Daemon' is actually a much older form of 'demon'; daemons have no particular bias towards good or evil, but rather serve to help define a person's character or personality." "The ancient Greeks' concept of a 'personal daemon' was similar to the modern concept of a 'guardian angel' – 'eudaemonia' is the state of being helped or protected by a kindly spirit. As a rule, Unix systems seem to be infested with both daemons and demons." In later years, Nemeth worked with the Cooperative Association for Internet Data Analysis (CAIDA), measuring internet traffic. She also organized the Internet Engineering Curriculum (IEC), a repository of IT training tools for the academic world, and worked with Apple cofounder Steve Wozniak to set up academic scholarships in the industry. The sea is a harsh mistress It now seems certain that she has perished while enjoying her favorite sport of sailing – she had successfully completed a circumnavigation under sail. One former crewmate recalls how, when sailing off Senegal, their boat was attacked by a whale. "While everyone was going a bit nuts Evi stayed calm and started the engine to help the whale understand they weren't looking for a fight. It was the first time I understood what seamanship was," he said. Evi sailing her own yacht, Wonderland. Credit: Vincent Cawley It might seem odd that a ship equipped with an emergency beacon and a satellite phone can simply disappear, but it's not unknown. In that kind of weather and without motive power, the boat could have rolled and sunk relatively quickly, and in the panic and chaos, getting a message out would have been impossible. Like any offshore sailor, Nemeth would have been aware of the risks and accepted them. If the Nina is lost with all hands, we can at least take comfort from the fact that Nemeth died doing something she loved. ®


--- [New Zealand rescuers call off US yacht search - BBC News] ---
New Zealand rescuers have called off a search for a US yacht that went missing in waters between New Zealand and Australia last month. The Rescue Co-ordination Centre said it did not find any sign of the wooden yacht or the crew of seven after days of extensive aerial searches. The 85-year-old Nina set sail from Opua in New Zealand on 29 May. The contents of a last undelivered text message sent by a crew member on 4 June were released on Thursday. The message said "sails shredded last night". It also said an update on course information would be provided but none came. Six Americans aged between 17 and 73 were on board, along with a 35-year-old British man. Media reports named some of those on board: Captain David Dyche, 58; his wife, Rosemary, 60; and their son David, 17. Also on board was their 73-year-old friend Evi Nemeth, a man aged 28, a woman aged 18 and Briton Matthew Wootton, aged 35, from Lancaster. The Dyche family were said to be experienced sailors who had been sailing around the world for several years. The 70ft (21m) yacht last made contact when it was about 370 nautical miles (685 km) west of New Zealand, officials said. - Published22 August 2023 - Published29 June 2013 - Published27 June 2013


--- [12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com] ---
Each month has either 28, 30, or 31 days during a common year, which has 365 days. During leap years, which occur nearly every 4 years, we add an extra (intercalary) day, Leap Day, on 29 February, making leap years 366 days long. This is to keep our current calendar aligned with the solar year and astronomical seasons marked by equinoxes and solstices. The 12 Months The Gregorian calendar consists of the following 12 months: - January (31 days) - March (31 days) - April (30 days) - May (31 days) - June (30 days) - July (31 days) - August (31 days) - September (30 days) - October (31 days) - November (30 days) - December (31 days) Tracking the Moon’s Orbit The months originated as a way to mark time and break up the year into shorter periods based on the Moon’s orbit around Earth. The word month is even derived from the word Moon. As far as we know, months were first used in Mesopotamia sometime between the years 500 BCE and 400 BCE to measure the natural period related to the lunar month, or synodic month, which is the time it takes for the Moon to go through all the Moon phases. Moon phases in your cityHow Many Have 28, 29, 30, or 31 Days? The Gregorian calendar has 4 months that are 30 days long and 7 months that are 31 days long. February is the only month that is 28 days long in common years and 29 days long in leap years. From 10 to 12 Months Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius). Calendar with holidaysThe Romans named some of the months after their position in the calendar year: September means the 7th month, October the 8th, November the 9th, and December the 10th month. However, when January and February were eventually added and the beginning of the calendar year was moved to January, the position of these months no longer corresponded with the original meaning of their names. Today, we still call the 9th month of the year September, the 7th month. The Islamic calendar, the Hebrew calendar, and the Hindu calendar also use months to divide up the year. Although the Gregorian calendar is the most commonly used calendar today, other calendars are still used in many parts of the world to calculate certain holidays and annual feasts. Old Names of Months Months in the ancient Roman calendar include:
