=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Klinefelter syndrome - Wikipedia]
1 week ago -Klinefelter syndrome has been identified in ancient burials. InAugust 2022, a team of scientists published a study of a skeleton found in Bragança, north-eastern Portugal, of a man who died around 1000 AD and was discovered by their investigations to have a 47,XXY karyotype.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Klinefelter_syndrome

[1,000-Year-Old Case of Syndrome Causing Small Testes Found in Portugal | Ancient Origins]
Klinefelter Syndrome is a super rare genetic but non-hereditary condition that gives men an extra X chromosome (also called the “47,XXY” syndrome). The genetic condition was found in an11th-century skeleton found in northeastern Portugal.PublishedAugust 28, 2022
URL: https://www.ancient-origins.net/news-history-archaeology/klinefelter-syndrome-0017196

[Rare Genetic Syndrome in 1,000-Year-Old Skeleton Is Oldest Case Ever Found : ScienceAlert]
August 30, 2022 -The earliest ever recorded case of the genetic conditionKlinefelter Syndromehas just been discovered – in a 1,000-year-old skeleton excavated from an archeological site in Portugal.
URL: https://www.sciencealert.com/rare-genetic-syndrome-in-1000-year-old-skeleton-is-oldest-case-ever-found

[Oldest Case of Klinefelter Syndrome Diagnosed in Ancient Skeleton | Technology Networks]
August 30, 2022 -Combining their analyses using the novel method, the researchers concluded that the individual’s karyotype was 47 XXY – meaningthey carried an additional X chromosome. As the individual’s skeleton was well preserved, Teixeira and colleagues ...
URL: https://www.technologynetworks.com/diagnostics/news/oldest-case-of-klinefelter-syndrome-diagnosed-in-ancient-skeleton-365159

[News - Rare Genetic Condition Identified in 1,000-Year-Old Remains - Archaeology Magazine]
October 18, 2023 -CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA—According ... that a skeleton unearthed in northeastern Portugal belonged to a man who hadKlinefelter syndrome....
URL: https://archaeology.org/news/2022/08/30/220831-genetic-klinefelter-syndrome/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Klinefelter syndrome - Wikipedia] ---
Klinefelter syndrome (KS), also known as 47,XXY, is a chromosome anomaly. Subjects affected by the condition are almost always phenotypically male (except for SRY-negative individuals), with common complications such as infertility and small, poorly functioning testicles (if present). These symptoms are often noticed only at puberty, although this is one of the most common chromosomal disorders. The birth prevalence of KS in the State of Victoria, Australia was estimated to be 223 per 100,000 males. It is named after American endocrinologist Harry Klinefelter, who identified the condition in the 1940s, along with his colleagues at Massachusetts General Hospital.
The syndrome is defined by the presence of at least one extra X chromosome in addition to a Y chromosome, yielding a total of 47 or more chromosomes rather than the usual 46. Klinefelter syndrome occurs randomly. The second X chromosome comes from the father and mother nearly equally. An older mother may have a slightly increased risk of a child with KS. The syndrome is diagnosed by the genetic test known as karyotyping.




--- [1,000-Year-Old Case of Syndrome Causing Small Testes Found in Portugal | Ancient Origins] ---
No content


--- [Rare Genetic Syndrome in 1,000-Year-Old Skeleton Is Oldest Case Ever Found : ScienceAlert] ---
The earliest ever recorded case of the genetic condition Klinefelter Syndrome has just been discovered – in a 1,000-year-old skeleton excavated from an archeological site in Portugal. Occurring in around one in every thousand male births, Klinefelter Syndrome is a condition where individuals are born with an extra copy of the X chromosome – resulting in an XXY combination. While it often doesn't produce any obvious symptoms (many cases are never diagnosed), males with the condition are typically tall, with broad hips and sparse body hair. The condition has also been linked to infertility, a lower sex drive, and a slightly increased risk of type 2 diabetes. This latest discovery will now help experts chart the prevalence of Klinefelter Syndrome over the centuries. A multidisciplinary approach covering genetic, statistical, archaeological and anthropological data was required to reach the diagnosis. After the retrieved skeleton was radiocarbon dated to the 11th century, the team undertook a DNA analysis. Part of that analysis involved computationally mapping fragments of X and Y chromosomes to the reference human genome. "We were immediately excited the first time we looked at the results," says evolutionary biologist João Teixeira from the Australian National University. "However, ancient DNA is often degraded and of low quality and abundance, meaning we were initially cautious." Using the Bayesian inference model and a bespoke approach, the researchers were able to be more sure about their diagnosis by comparing their results against a theoretical XXY karyotype (a full set of chromosome information with the additional X). In other words, probability modeling was used to fill in some of the gaps in the DNA record, confirming there was a different ratio of genes between those that belonged to the Y and X chromosomes. This same approach could be improved and expanded to analyze DNA in other cases where only fragments are available, according to the researchers – from modern-day crime scenes to archeological digs. "Given the fragile state of the DNA, we developed a new statistical method that could take into account the characteristics of ancient DNA and our observations to confirm the diagnosis," says Teixeira. An observational study of the skeleton also revealed characteristics consistent with Klinefelter Syndrome – including taller than average height, broader than average hips, and a misalignment of the jaw and teeth. The skeleton itself was well-preserved, the researchers report, taken from the Torre Velha site in north-eastern Portugal. It likely belonged to an adult male more than 25 years old at the time of his death, who was approximately 180 centimeters tall. While Klinefelter Syndrome was originally identified in 1942, no ancient cases have previously been documented, making this easily the earliest case on record – and offering up some clues to help experts better understand it. The researchers are keen to emphasize how important it was to use different lines of evidence using different fields of scientific study to figure out that this skeleton did indeed come from someone with Klinefelter Syndrome. Thanks to the genetic analysis techniques scientists now have access to, ancient DNA is being used to make all kinds of discoveries: covering animal evolution, the history of humans, the spread of disease and much more besides. "In recent years, ancient DNA helped rewrite the history of worldwide human populations," says paleogeneticist Bastien Llamas from the University of Adelaide in Australia. "Our study demonstrates it is now a valuable resource for biomedical research and the growing field of evolutionary medicine." The research has been published in The Lancet.


--- [Oldest Case of Klinefelter Syndrome Diagnosed in Ancient Skeleton | Technology Networks] ---
Oldest Case of Klinefelter Syndrome Diagnosed in Ancient Skeleton A multidisciplinary team of researchers have discovered what is believed to be the oldest case of Klinefelter syndrome in a 1,000-year-old skeleton. The finding is outlined in a new study published in The Lancet. What is Klinefelter syndrome? DNA, the “blueprint” that encodes the proteins required for biological functions, is efficiently packaged into a cell’s nucleus, tightly wound around proteins known as histones. These threads of DNA are arranged into chromosomes, inherited from our parents – 23 from our mother and 23 from our father. The 23rd pair of chromosomes are known as the “sex chromosomes” as they determine whether an individual is born male or female. Individuals assigned female at birth inherit two X chromosomes, whereas those assigned male at birth inherit one X and one Y chromosome. Klinefelter syndrome is a genetic condition that occurs when a male is born with an extra copy of the X chromosome, affecting an estimated 1 in 1,000 individuals. Symptoms of Klinefelter syndrome may include delays in growth and development and/ or issues with fertility and low sex drive. Diagnosis is often achieved using hormonal testing and chromosome (or karyotype) analysis to investigate the shape and number of chromosomes. The oldest known case of Klinefelter syndrome By analyzing ancient DNA, Dr. João Teixeira, ARC DECRA Fellow at The Australian National University (ANU), and colleagues recently uncovered what is believed to be the oldest case of Klinefelter syndrome. A skeleton discovered in the medieval archaeological site of Torre Velha in North-eastern Portugal was radiocarbon dated to the 11th century by scientists at the University of Coimbra, Portugal. The skeleton – an adult male, estimated to have been 25 years old at the time of death – was sent to the Australian research team for genetic analysis. "We were immediately excited the first time we looked at the results," said Teixeira. "However, ancient DNA, is often degraded and of low quality and abundance, meaning we were initially cautious." To overcome the limitations typically associated with ancient DNA analysis from osteological remains, the research team developed a novel Bayesian method that they “believe is a potentially efficient statistical way of analyzing fragmented DNA from a variety of sources (e.g., ancient DNA, cell-free DNA and DNA from forensic cases)”, they write in the paper. "Given the fragile state of the DNA, we developed a new statistical method that could take into account the characteristics of ancient DNA, and our observations to confirm the diagnosis," Teixeira said. DNA was extracted from the remains and genetically analyzed to map the degraded DNA fragments of the X and Y chromosomes against the reference human genome. Combining their analyses using the novel method, the researchers concluded that the individual’s karyotype was 47 XXY – meaning they carried an additional X chromosome. As the individual’s skeleton was well preserved, Teixeira and colleagues could also study its physical traits, which aligned with the diagnosis of Klinefelter syndrome (taller height than the average ancient Portuguese man, a larger bi-iliac width and malocclusion of the jaw and maxillary prognathism). "In recent years, ancient DNA helped rewrite the history of worldwide human populations. Our study demonstrates it is now a valuable resource for biomedical research and the growing field of evolutionary medicine,” Dr. Bastien Llamas, associate professor and head of Molecular Anthropology at the Australian Centre for Ancient DNA, said. Reference: Roca-Rada X, Tereso S, Rohrlach AB, et al. A 1000-year-old case of Klinefelter’s syndrome diagnosed by integrating morphology, osteology, and genetics. The Lancet. 2022;400(10353):691-692. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(22)01476-3. This article is a rework of a press release issued by the Australian National University. Material has been edited for length and content.


--- [News - Rare Genetic Condition Identified in 1,000-Year-Old Remains - Archaeology Magazine] ---
CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA—According to a statement released by Australian National University, an international team of researchers led by João Teixeira of Australian National University has determined that a skeleton unearthed in northeastern Portugal belonged to a man who had Klinefelter syndrome. While analyzing a genetic sample obtained from the man’s remains, the researchers found an extra X chromosome, which characterizes the condition. Klinefelter syndrome is not inherited, but is the result of a random genetic error after conception. People born with Klinefelter syndrome may experience low levels of testosterone, and the condition can also affect physical and intellectual development. The discovery of an ancient case of Klinefelter syndrome could help researchers establish a history of the condition and understand how frequently it may have occurred through time, Teixeira explained. Read the original scholarly article about this research in The Lancet. To read about 350-year-old human remains that were buried in an 8,000-year-old shell midden in the Tagus Valley, go to "Around the World: Portugal." Rare Genetic Condition Identified in 1,000-Year-Old Remains News August 30, 2022 SHARE: Recommended Articles Digs & Discoveries November/December 2023 The Benin Bronzes’ Secret Ingredient Digs & Discoveries March/April 2023 Bird Brains (Museo Arqueológico de Sevilla, REP25837) Off the Grid January/February 2023 Tongobriga, Portugal Off the Grid March/April 2022 Citânia de Briteiros, Portugal (Jason Urbanus) - Features July/August 2022 The Philistine Age Archaeologists are reconsidering the origins and history of a much-maligned ancient people (Glasshouse Images/Alamy Stock Photo) - Letter from Georgia July/August 2022 Soaring With Stone Eagles A complex of Native American rock mounds bears witness to the endurance of ancient traditions - Artifacts July/August 2022 Nordic Ring Fragments (Courtesy Marja Ahola) - Digs & Discoveries July/August 2022 Save the Dates (Bridgeman Images)
