=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[KenKesey- Wikipedia]
and bulbous breasts."[10] Married until his death, they had three children: Jed, Zane, and Shannon.[11] Additionally, with Faye's approval,Keseyfathereda daughter,SunshineKesey,withfellow Merry Prankster Carolyn "Mountain Girl" Adams. Born in 1966,Sunshinewas raised by Adams...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ken_Kesey

[Ken Kesey's Early Life]
KenKeseywas born in La Junta, Colorado. In 1946, the family moved to Springfield, Oregon. In 1956, while attending college at the University of Oregon,Keseyeloped with his high-school sweetheart, Norma Faye. They had three children, Jed, Zane, and Shannon;Keseyhad another child,Sunshine, in 1966 with fellow Merry Prankster Carolyn "Mountain Girl" Adams.Keseygraduated from the ...
URL: https://ken-kesey.weebly.com/early-life.html

[Kenneth Elton Kesey (1935-2001) | WikiTree FREE Family Tree]
Is this your ancestor? Explore genealogy forKenKeseyborn 1935 La Junta, Otero, Colorado, United States died 2001 Eugene, Lane, Oregon, United States including ancestors + children + 5 photos + questions + more in the free family tree community.
URL: https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Kesey-5

[Ken Kesey - Wikiwand]
Additionally, with Faye's approval,Keseyfathered a daughter,SunshineKesey,withfellow Merry Prankster Carolyn "Mountain Girl" Adams. Born in 1966,Sunshinewas raised by Adams and her stepfather, Jerry Garcia.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Ken_Kesey

[Life With Jerry Garcia As Daddy Wasn'T Easy]
In addition, Garcia had a paternal relationship withSunshineKesey, daughter of novelistKenKeseyand Carolyn Adams Garcia. Garcia-McLean recalled times talking to herfatheron the phone when heroin would cause him to nod off in mid-conversation.
URL: https://scholar.lib.vt.edu/VA-news/ROA-Times/issues/1997/rt9701/970108/01080001.htm


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [KenKesey- Wikipedia] ---
Kenneth Elton Kesey (; September 17, 1935 – November 10, 2001) was an American novelist, essayist, and countercultural figure. He considered himself a link between the Beat Generation of the 1950s and the hippies of the 1960s.
Kesey was born in La Junta, Colorado, and grew up in Springfield, Oregon, graduating from the University of Oregon in 1957. He began writing One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest in 1960 after completing a graduate fellowship in creative writing at Stanford University; the novel was an immediate commercial and critical success when published two years later. During this period, Kesey was used by the CIA (supposedly without his knowledge) in the Project MKULTRA involving hallucinogenic drugs (including mescaline and LSD), which was done to try to make people insane to put them under the control of interrogators.
After One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest was published, Kesey moved to nearby La Honda, California, and began hosting "happenings" with former colleagues from Stanford, bohemian and literary figures including Neal Cassady and other friends, who became collectively known as the Merry Pranksters. As documented in Tom Wolfe's 1968 New Journalism book The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test, some of the parties were promoted to the public as Acid Tests, and integrated the consumption of LSD with multimedia performances. He mentored the Grateful Dead, who were the Acid Tests' house band, and continued to exert a profound influence upon the group throughout their career.
Kesey's second novel, Sometimes a Great Notion, was a commercial success that polarized some critics and readers upon its release in 1964. An epic account of the vicissitudes of an Oregon logging family that aspired to the modernist grandeur of William Faulkner's Yoknapatawpha saga, Kesey regarded it as his magnum opus.
In 1965, after being arrested for marijuana possession and faking suicide, Kesey was imprisoned for five months. Shortly thereafter, he returned home to the Willamette Valley and settled in Pleasant Hill, Oregon, where he maintained a secluded, family-oriented lifestyle for the rest of his life. In addition to teaching at the University of Oregon—an experience that culminated in Caverns (1989), a collaborative novel by Kesey and his graduate workshop students under the pseudonym "O.U. Levon"—he continued to regularly contribute fiction and reportage to such publications as Esquire, Rolling Stone, Oui, Running, and The Whole Earth Catalog; various iterations of these pieces were collected in Kesey's Garage Sale (1973) and Demon Box (1986).
Between 1974 and 1980, Kesey published six issues of Spit in the Ocean, a literary magazine that featured excerpts from an unfinished novel (Seven Prayers by Grandma Whittier, an account of Kesey's grandmother's struggle with Alzheimer's disease) and contributions from writers including Margo St. James, Kate Millett, Stewart Brand, Saul-Paul Sirag, Jack Sarfatti, Paul Krassner and William S. Burroughs. After a third novel (Sailor Song) was released to lukewarm reviews in 1992, he reunited with the Merry Pranksters and began publishing works on the Internet until ill health (including a stroke) curtailed his activities.




--- [Ken Kesey's Early Life] ---
Ken Kesey's Early Life Ken Kesey was born in La Junta, Colorado. In 1946, the family moved to Springfield, Oregon. In 1956, while attending college at the University of Oregon, Kesey eloped with his high-school sweetheart, Norma Faye. They had three children, Jed, Zane, and Shannon; Kesey had another child, Sunshine, in 1966 with fellow Merry Prankster Carolyn "Mountain Girl" Adams. Kesey graduated from the University of Oregon's School of Journalism with a degree in speech and communication in 1957. He elected to enroll in the non-degree creative writing program at Stanford University that fall, where he would develop lifelong friendships with fellow writers Ken Babbs, Larry McMurtry, Wendell Berry, Ed McClanahan, Gurney Norman, and Robert Stone. Kesey received the $2,000 Harper-Saxton Prize for his first novel in progress (the oft-rejected Zoo) and continued to audit the graduate writing seminar through 1960 on a Ford Foundation fellowship granted by Leslie Fiedler as he began the manuscript that would become One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. Kesey graduated from the University of Oregon's School of Journalism with a degree in speech and communication in 1957. He elected to enroll in the non-degree creative writing program at Stanford University that fall, where he would develop lifelong friendships with fellow writers Ken Babbs, Larry McMurtry, Wendell Berry, Ed McClanahan, Gurney Norman, and Robert Stone. Kesey received the $2,000 Harper-Saxton Prize for his first novel in progress (the oft-rejected Zoo) and continued to audit the graduate writing seminar through 1960 on a Ford Foundation fellowship granted by Leslie Fiedler as he began the manuscript that would become One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.


--- [Kenneth Elton Kesey (1935-2001) | WikiTree FREE Family Tree] ---
Biography Kesey experimented with LSD before it was illegal, in a program which was later revealed to be run by the CIA, through the Veterans Administration hospital at Menlo Park, CA. He also worked at that same hospital during the same time period. These experiences inspired his first successful novel, "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest." The movie based on the novel won five major Oscars: Best Actor ( Jack Nicholson), Best Actress ( Louise Fletcher), Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Picture and Best Director. It also featured Scatman Crothers. His next novel "Sometimes a Great Notion" was also made into a movie, this time nominated for two Oscars. He continued to use LSD as well as promote its use by others, including at parties called Acid Tests. A cross-country trip in a psychedelic bus named Furthur with a group known as the Merry Pranksters is chronicled by Tom Wolfe in his book "The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test." The bus was driven by Neal Cassady. The LSD was supplied by Owsley Stanley. Kesey competed as a wrestler in college. According to Wikipedia, his winning percentage ranks in the top ten of Oregon competitors to this day. Cause of death was complications from surgery for liver cancer. His 5th GGF Joshua Hightower fought in the Revolutionary War. Sources - Find a Grave, database and images (accessed 17 March 2021), memorial page for Ken Kesey (17 Sep 1935–10 Nov 2001), Find A Grave: Memorial #5965109, citing Kesey Family Farm Cemetery, Eugene, Lane County, Oregon, USA ; Maintained by Find A Grave . - Wikipedia - IMDB - Oregon Cultural Heritage Commission - biography.com - "United States Social Security Death Index," database, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:J5D8-WY4 : 20 May 2014), Ken E Kesey, 10 Nov 2001; citing U.S. Social Security Administration, Death Master File, database (Alexandria, Virginia: National Technical Information Service, ongoing). - "United States Census, 1940," database with images, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/ark:/61903/1:1:VR6G-T9K : 13 March 2018), Ken Elton Keasey in household of Fred Keasey, Ward 1, La Junta, Election Precinct 31, Otero, Colorado, United States; citing enumeration district (ED) 45-10, sheet 9A, line 17, family 184, Sixteenth Census of the United States, 1940, NARA digital publication T627. Records of the Bureau of the Census, 1790 - 2007, RG 29. Washington, D.C.: National Archives and Records Administration, 2012, roll 473. - 1950 Census: "United States 1950 Census" citing Page: 30; Line: 26; Digital film/folder number: 108804919; Image number: 31 FamilySearch Record: 6XVR-MZCP (accessed 1 March 2024) FamilySearch Image: 3QHN-PQH7-T8JM Ken Kesey (14), single son, Helper, in household of Fred A Kesey (38) in Armitage, Lane, Oregon, United States. Born in Colorado. - https://www.historycolorado.org/story/articles-print/2021/06/28/one-flew-west - Death: "Oregon Death Index, 1971-2008" citing Digital film/folder number: 106851086; Image number: 174 FamilySearch Record: C2Q6-PC3Z (accessed 1 March 2024) FamilySearch Image: 3QHV-J3DV-HCZN Ken Elton Kesey death 10 Nov 2001, spouse of Faye, in Lane, Oregon, United States. - Marriage: "Oregon, U.S., State Marriages, 1906-1971" Oregon State Archives; Salem, Oregon; Oregon, Marriage Records, 1906-1910, 1946-1966 Ancestry Sharing Link - Ancestry Record 61677 #139691 (accessed 1 March 2024) Ken Elton Kesey (20) marriage to Norma Faye Haxby on 20 May 1956 in Eugene, Lane, Oregon, USA.


--- [Ken Kesey - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Life With Jerry Garcia As Daddy Wasn'T Easy] ---
ROANOKE TIMES Copyright (c) 1997, Roanoke Times DATE: Wednesday, January 8, 1997 TAG: 9701080001 SECTION: EXTRA PAGE: 1 EDITION: METRO DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO SOURCE: DONNA HOROWITZ SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER It's not what you'd call typical fatherly advice. ``You kids should do drugs,'' Jerry Garcia used to tell his sensible daughters. ``It was sort of a running family joke,'' said Annabelle Garcia-McLean, 26, one of four daughters of the late unofficial leader of the Grateful Dead. She said her mother would also say: ``Why can't you kids be more like us?'' ``We'd tell her, `Mom, no, we don't want to. We learned from you guys.''' Now, years later, two of the daughters are spending hours at the side of their mother, Carolyn ``Mountain Girl'' Adams Garcia, as she dukes it out in court with Garcia's third wife for a share of his estate. Outside the courtroom, the Garcia daughters are living far different lives from their famous dad's. They say they saw the damage done by celebrity and drugs, and are not about to embark on the same lifestyle. ``We saw a lot of older folks we know burn out when we were still so young,'' said Garcia-McLean, an artist whose drawings have been made into lithographs, and who bears a remarkable resemblance to her legendary dad. ``When we'd go to the shows, we'd see young fans - 15 or 16 years old - taking way too many drugs, really being zombied. It really drove it home. You don't want to do that to yourself.'' The guitarist fathered four daughters: Heather Garcia, the oldest, with first wife, Sarah; Garcia-McLean and her sister, Theresa Garcia, with second wife, Carolyn Adams Garcia; and Keelin, 9, with Manasha Matheson, who was not married to him. In addition, Garcia had a paternal relationship with Sunshine Kesey, daughter of novelist Ken Kesey and Carolyn Adams Garcia. Garcia-McLean recalled times talking to her father on the phone when heroin would cause him to nod off in mid-conversation. She'd patiently wait on the line for him to wake up - usually minutes later - and resume their conversation. She confronted him about his drug use. ``I'd say, `Dad, what's the story? Why do you feel like life has so little to offer that you have to do this?''' Once he ``gave me a look over the top of his glasses, and said, `I can't go outside. I'm recognized now.''' Garcia-McLean believes that besides the pressures of celebrity, Garcia, who died of a heart attack at a drug rehabilitation center in 1995, turned to drugs to combat the boredom of life on the road touring with the Dead. ``He was always touring,'' she said. ``There was nothing entertaining to do. He'd spend a lot of time sitting in his hotel room.'' She said she thinks her father had three wives and many girlfriends because ``he was always looking for the one to make it right. The next thing he knew, they were trying to get bucks out of him.'' Garcia-McLean loved her father desperately, though, and one of her strongest desires was that he spend more time with her. ``A little girl has nothing but admiration and love for her father,'' said Garcia-McLean, who shocked people when she said at Garcia's funeral that he was a ``sh---y father.'' ``But I loved him dearly,'' she said. ``He was my best friend and companion.'' She said Garcia wasn't one to give her advice like a typical father until the last few years of his life. ``Every time he'd give a lecture, he'd remember who was talking,'' she recalled. ``It would always end up with him saying, `Well, what do I know?''' So ``there were no lectures, no advice on teeth brushing. It was only when I turned 20 that he turned daddylike and gave me a lecture.'' Perhaps the most memorable of Garcia's few bits of advice was offered one weekend in 1995 when she brought her then-fianc, Scott McLean (now husband), to her dad's home. She recalled her father said of Scott: ``He's a good choice, kid. He looks like a human.'' Sunshine Kesey also recalls Garcia as an extremely laid-back father figure during the years she and her mother lived with him. ``I'm the illegitimate love child,'' Sunshine Kesey said with a wry smile. Kesey appears as a baby in Tom Wolfe's book ``Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test'' about Ken Kesey's troupe of Merry Pranksters as they traveled across the country. Jerry Garcia's band the Warlocks (soon to be the Grateful Dead) provided the music for Kesey's ``Acid Tests'' - concerts where LSD was dispensed in large garbage cans filled with acid-laced Kool-Aid. ``Jerry basically was my dad until I was 6,'' she said. ``He was my mom's mate.'' She found that life with America's most famous hippie wasn't always easy. ``He never lectured,'' said Kesey, a 30-year-old apprentice glassblower who lives in Port Orford, Ore. ``That was a wonderful thing about Jerry. It was also terrible. He never projected any judgment on others. He believed everyone had a right to personal freedom. He said, `Do what you want.''' The lack of structure was often unnerving for the girls. Garcia-McLean's younger sister, Theresa, 22, said she had dreamed of being an office worker. Rejecting her parents' ways, she fell in love with hip-hop and rap music. ``I still love hip-hop a lot and still feel it was kind of rebelling against the hippie scene,'' said Theresa Garcia, a junior majoring in painting at the San Francisco Art Institute. But she, too, loved her father dearly. ``He was this kind-hearted, loving, clever man,'' she said. LENGTH: Medium: 97 lines ILLUSTRATION: PHOTO: Jerry Garcia of the Grateful Dead.by CNB
