=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[NathanMendelsohn- Wikipedia]
NathanSaulMendelsohn, CM FRSC was an American-born mathematician who lived and worked in Canada.Hispaternal grandparents, HymanMendelsohn(1846–1928) and Hinda, née Silverstone (1859–1942)hadoriginally immigrated to Montreal from Romania in 1898.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nathan_Mendelsohn

[NathanMendelsohn]
NathanSaulMendelsohn, CM FRSC (April 14, 1917 – July 4, 2006) was an American-born mathematician who lived and worked in Canada.Mendelsohnwas a researcher in several areas of discrete mathematics, including group theory and combinatorics.
URL: https://www.scientificlib.com/en/Mathematics/Biographies/NathanMendelsohn.html

[NateMendelsohn(Market) and Sam Evian Talk Engineering Secrets...]
NateMendelsohnis a New York-based multi-instrumentalist and recording engineer who performs withhisband Market ; Sam Evian is a songwriter and producer based in upstate New York.
URL: https://www.talkhouse.com/nate-mendelsohn-market-and-sam-evian-talk-engineering-secrets-and-what-it-takes-to-cultivate-a-productive-studio-environment/

[HowmanysonsdidKing Davidhave?]
HowmanysonsdidGoliath the gianthave?HowdidKing David die? Davidhad19sonsexcluding daughters inhislarge Family. SixSonsBorn to David in Hebron: 1. Ammon of Ahinoam of Jezreel (2Sam.
URL: https://ebible.com/questions/17243-how-many-sons-did-king-david-have

[U.S. News & World Report: News, Rankings and Analysis on Politics...]
U.S. Newshasrankedmorethan 30,000 hotels across the world. Find the best hotel for your vacation.Morethan 300,000 car shoppershavepurchased or leased a car through the U.S. News Best Price Program. Shoppershaveseen savings of $2,287 off MSRP across all vehicles.
URL: https://www.usnews.com/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [NathanMendelsohn- Wikipedia] ---
Nathan Saul Mendelsohn,  (April 14, 1917 – July 4, 2006) was an American-born mathematician who lived and worked in Canada. Mendelsohn was a researcher in several areas of discrete mathematics, including group theory and combinatorics.


--- [NathanMendelsohn] ---
. Nathan Mendelsohn Nathan Saul Mendelsohn, CM FRSC (April 14, 1917 – July 4, 2006) was an American-born mathematician who lived and worked in Canada. Mendelsohn was a researcher in several areas of discrete mathematics, including group theory and combinatorics. Nathan Mendelsohn (1999) Early life and education Mendelsohn was born in 1917 in Brooklyn, New York City the eldest of four children of Samuel and Sylvia (née Kirschenbaum) Mendelsohn, Jewish immigrants from Roumania, and Galicia (resp.). In 1918, he and his family moved to Toronto, Canada, after a fire destroyed the tenement they were living in.[1] Mendelsohn and his family lived in a house at 13 Euclid Avenue.[2] Nathan Mendelsohn (1939) Mendelsohn completed all his education at the University of Toronto. He would have been unable to attend university had he not won a four years' tuition and books scholarship. In 1938, he was on the University of Toronto team for the first Putnam Competition, along with Irving Kaplansky and John Coleman.[3] The team placed first[4] and each of the three team members won fifty dollars.[5] Mendelsohn was a junior, the other two were seniors. The subsequent year Mendelsohn was barred from competition as at that time the winning university set the examination for the next year and its students were barred from competition. Mendelsohn completed his Ph.D. dissertation in 1941. It was titled "A Group-Theoretic Characterization of the General Projective Collineation Group", and summarized in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in 1944.[6] His supervisor was Gilbert de Beauregard Robinson. Mendelsohn also began practising magic tricks in high school as a means of steadying a tremor in his hands. He placed second in the 1953? International Brotherhood of Magicians contest, behind Johnny Carson.[1] He could memorize a shuffled deck of cards seeing each card only once briefly, or a list of fifty objects called out in any order. He could identify the position of each card or name the card in any position. Career During the Second World War, Mendelsohn worked on simulations of artillery and code breaking.[2] As with much of the mathematical work for military purposes during the time, it was classified. Although others related after fifty years what their exact role was, Nathan Mendelsohn strictly followed the Official Secrets Act and never revealed exact details of what he had done. From 1945 to 1947, Mendelsohn was a professor at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, Canada.[7] Mendelsohn's son later remarked that Mendelsohn "understood that, as a Jew, he would never get a permanent position" at Queen's, as the university "already had a Jewish professor in the department."[1] In 1947, Mendelsohn moved to the University of Manitoba in Winnipeg, Manitoba. Mendelsohn stayed at the University of Manitoba until his retirement in 2005.[8] During early summers at the University of Manitoba, Mendelsohn would travel to Quebec City to teach to supplement his $3,000 annual salary at the University of Manitoba.[1] In 1958, Mendelsohn and Dulmage published the paper "Coverings of biparte graphs", in which the Dulmage–Mendelsohn decomposition is described. Mendelsohn is also remembered for Mendelsohn triple systems. Nathan Mendelsohn (1939) Mendelsohn was head of the department of mathematics at the University of Manitoba for almost a quarter of a century.[8] In the early 1960s, Mendelsohn returned to classified mathematics, this time at the RAND Corporation.[1] From 1969 to 1971, Mendelsohn was the president of the Canadian Mathematical Society. In 1985, Mendelsohn was the subject of a short film form the National Film Board of Canada, titled "An Aesthetic Indulgence". Retirement Mendelsohn retired from the University of Manitoba in 2005. He died on July 4, 2006 from hepatitis C obtained through tainted blood. Awards In 1957, Mendelsohn was made a fellow of the Royal Society of Canada. He won the Henry Marshall Tory Medal in 1979. On April 15, 1999, Mendelsohn was made a member of the Order of Canada. His citation reads, in part, that Mendelsohn is "known throughout the world as an authority in combinatorics, classical geometry and finite groups".[9] Nathan Mendelsohn Prize In 2008 the Nathan Mendelsohn Prize was established by his family at the University of Manitoba for the highest ranking student at a Canadian University in Putnam Competition. References ^ a b c d e Nathan Mendelsohn, Scholar 1917-2006, Globe and Mail. Published July 21, 2006. ^ a b E. Mendelsohn, "Nathan Mendelsohn: A personal Tribute" CMS Notes May 2003 vol 38 no 5 p. 37-38. ^ [1] American Mathematical Society ^ The Mathematical Association of America's William Lowell Putnam Competition ^ News and Notices, The American Mathematical Monthly, Vol. 45, No. 5. (May, 1938), pp. 330-332. ^ N. Mendelsohn, A Group-Theoretic Characterization of the General Projective Collineation Group, Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1944 September 15; 30(9): 279–283. ^ James Mingo, "Report from the Vice-President" CMS Notes May 2003 vol 35 no 4 p. 9-10. ^ a b R. Padmanabhan, Nathan Saul Mendelsohn Faculty of Science Alumni Newsletter, University of Manitoba, April 2006. ^ Order of Canada citation External links An Aesthetic Indulgence. A short film about Mendelsohn. An Aesthetic Indulgence. National Film Board of Canada webpage. Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/" All text is available under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License


--- [NateMendelsohn(Market) and Sam Evian Talk Engineering Secrets...] ---
Nate Mendelsohn is a New York-based multi-instrumentalist and recording engineer who performs with his band Market; Sam Evian is a songwriter and producer based in upstate New York. Ahead of Market’s new record, The Consistent Brutal Bullshit Gong — out April 29 on Western Vinyl — we’re premiering their single “Old,” which you can check out below along with a conversation between Nate and Sam. — Annie Fell, Editor-in-chief, Talkhouse Music Sam Evian: So how’s everything going with your record release? Nate Mendelsohn: Good, it’s coming up in a few weeks. I’m stoked to have it out there. This Talkhouse feature is going to premiere “Old,” which I think is a kind of relevant song to what we’re talking about. It’s the only song on the record that’s about writing music and recording music — which I try to avoid generally. It was kind of a jokey country song that I wrote, and I never wanted it to be a real song. Then in rehearsal one day, Steve [Becker] was like, “We should play that country song.” And now it’s my favorite, of course, because the joke songs always are the most fun. Sam: I love that song. It’s got that fun snare vibe, the boom-bop. I’m trying to think of other songs that reference the medium… Nate: Yeah, it’s funny when people write songs about writing songs. I feel like there are Leonard Cohen songs [like that]. Sam: I feel like there are country songs that do that. I feel like there’s some songs that George Jones would sing that would be referencing the song itself. Nate: Yeah. It can be great, but sometimes I get worried about it being kind of insular, like musicians making music for musicians or something. Sam: Well, let’s be real, that’s what we do. [Laughs.] Nate: [Laughs.] Hey, I played a show at Baby’s last night, I’m well aware. It was just all my music friends coming to hang out. Sam: I don’t think it’s wrong to admit that you do things for your peers. I think there’s a history of that in music, despite it being maybe uncool to technically be doing that. I don’t know what. Why else would you be doing it? I think it’s weird to write songs for people. Nate: [Laughs.] You want to write songs only for… Sam: They’re for me, you know. Nate: Yeah, well, that’s a whole other question. I think that’s part of why this song ended up being really fun for me, because it felt more relaxed and goofy. It wasn’t supposed to take itself too seriously or present itself a certain way. It was just this song about how you write a song, and then months later you rehearse it with the band, and then months later you record it, and then months later it gets mixed, and months later it gets mastered, and months later it comes out. Then by the time it comes out, it’s like, Who was I when I wrote this song? It’s like a lifetime ago. I like that it came out kind of low-pressure and goofy. Maybe we should be doing less worrying about writing songs for people and more just writing goofy, uninhibited songs. Sam: Well, it’s interesting, because they’re always going to become like a time capsule, right? Nate: Yeah. Sam: You should write a song for your future self. You should write a song that you know you’re going to have to be dealing with in, like, eight to twelve months. Nate: Better write a song that will be more relevant then for you than now. I’m going to write a song that’s, like, about my wife and kids. [Laughs.] About paying my mortgage. Sam: [Laughs.] Maybe you could even plant things in songs that have some statistical odd of a chance of happening. Get some machine prediction models going. Nate: In the music industry today, you need to stay really cutting edge, so you have to write about realities that haven’t even happened. Sam: Yeah, you have to become a fortune teller. So, how did we meet? Nate: Do you remember? Sam: Didn’t I meet you at Oberlin? Nate: Yeah, at your show with Deerhoof and Awkwafina. Sam: I remember this show. That was a special tour for me because I had been a Deerhoof devotee. That was a big one. That was like a going on tour with the heroes kind of situation. 2014? Nate: That sounds about right. I was already a Deerhoof fan, but I’d never seen them live, and I think I became a Deerhoof devotee that night. I was right up front and just had my mind blown off. Sam: That’s how they get you. Nate: And I think I remember you mentioning that night, “Oh, you guys are going to move to New York next year after you graduate? This studio, I’m helping them set it up…” [Sam was an engineer at Figure 8 Studios in Brooklyn.] Sam: I was grooming you. Nate: [Laughs.] Truly. Sam: What a creep! [Laughs.] Nate: It’s just what I needed! And I still came to New York, but I kind of resisted Figure 8 for like, nine months or something. But then finally I was like, OK, I should go intern there. And as soon as I got in there, I was pretty obsessed with the place. Sam: Yeah, Figure 8 is special because everybody there was really self-aware in considering the type of environment that we wanted to cultivate, knowing the tropes of recording studios and how they can be spaces that are not necessarily inclusive, and can be like overtly masculine and obnoxious. Figure 8 was a little special safety zone, I think, where we were self-aware and did try to cultivate a productive environment for all sorts of people. I think we did a pretty good job at that in the beginning stages. Nate: Yeah. Well, I think for starters, everybody there really focused on how it feels to be recording music and to be in a room together, much more so than like, it’s all about this microphone or this compressor, or this whatever. That’s kind of the starting point, being like, “What if stepping into a studio space didn’t have to feel any different than being in a room playing music?” But a lot of times, there’s another layer that might get people tripped up or be less welcoming. Sam: Yeah, 100%. I think a lot of that comes from having the owner and founder of the studio, Shahzad Ismaily, be like a spiritual enigma — and super incredible musician, first and foremost — rather than a stressed out studio owner who’s like, hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt opening a new space. Nate: He came to it with a different energy for sure. Sam: Anyway, so we met at Oberlin, and then you came to work at Figure 8. Nate: Mhm. I was interning, at first, for a while. I think I was probably the longest intern ever. I remember our manager at one point was like, “Do you want to stop interning? Like, you’re not getting paid. Are you OK?” And I was like, “No, I’m good. I’ll keep going.” [Laughs.] Sam: Well, you were yearning to learn. I saw you putting the pieces together and figuring that shit out. It’s an investment, for sure, to move to a place where you’re confident and able to start making money from it. Turning it into your economy takes a minute. Nate: It took me a long time, I think, to feel comfortable. I think it’s partially because I didn’t very quickly learn the lesson of like, it’s not really about a lot of the technical know-how — obviously that stuff is important, but I remember, the same moment where I started feeling really comfortable in the studio, running a session and knowing it was going to be a success, was the same moment when I was like, Oh yeah, you really just have to make people feel good and play good music and the rest is kind of gravy. Sam: 100%. Nate: I think that I learned some version of that lesson from everyone at the studio, but I’ve quoted you specifically many times — sometime really early on, you told me you thought 90% of the job was just two things: hospitality, making people feel comfortable, and troubleshooting, fixing things when they go wrong so that you can get back to recording music as quickly and with as little stress as possible. And then the last 10% maybe is like, “Oh, what microphone am I going to use,” and whatever. Sam: For me, I say 90% hospitality and 10% troubleshooting. Nate: [Laughs.] Oh, maybe I misremembered that. So 0% microphones. Sam: Someone told me that when I was an intern. I worked for this man named Joe Salvatto — he was an old school engineer from Queens, he worked at Electric Lady and then he went and started his own recording studio in Midtown, and transitioned into building studios for people, which is where I learned how to do acoustic treatments and patch-based soldering — which is how I ended up getting involved with Figure 8. Anyway, he told me that the 90/10 rule, and I always remembered it. Nate: Nice. And I always remembered it wrong. Sam: [Laughs.] But you got the gist of it. It’s all about cultivating that environment where people feel supported and able to be themselves, to express themselves through music, through recorded sound. Nate: Through vibrations. Sam: Yes. Nate: At first especially, I really was self-conscious about how to work different things. And then once I just got the bare minimum of like, I can literally turn things on and get sound to come in to the computer, then it was like, Oh actually, people need to have fun. People need to be relaxed. But also you need to keep things on schedule and be efficient, creative, and productive. But relaxed at all these things. It’s actually just completely a people management job. It’s just kind of how to set a vibe in the room and steer the ship. Sam: 100%. Nate: And from that day on, I never learned another thing about a microphone or a compressor. Sam: [Laughs.] Exactly. Nate: Do you like when people ask you, “How did you get that sound?” [Asking] about technical things, or does it bother you? Sam: No. I mean, I’m totally happy to talk tech, but I don’t go out of my way to do it. I always feel like everything I do is just an accident. And if it sounds cool, it’s usually because of the person making the sounds rather than whatever microphone or preamp I put in front of them. But sometimes over the course of doing this, you run into things that work repetitively, like certain combinations of people and microphones. So it’s worth noting when you run into something that really does work. The interesting thing about where music production is at these days [is] everything is so within reach for many people. The technology is becoming so widely available that it’s not so niche to think about recording instruments. A lot of people are able to do it. I’m a big advocate, because that’s how I started, so I’m happy to share that knowledge in the spirit of keeping things open and inclusive and not so locked into the old ways. Nate: Yeah. I definitely on the music side of things have encountered people who want to share, and also people who want to hoard or want to have certain secrets or something. We both came out of the jazz world initially — we were both saxophonists — and there are people in that world who don’t want you copping their sound or playing their licks or whatever. But in general with most people, any time I ask somebody something about recording or just about sound, people are really ready to share. And I also find almost all of the valuable answers are similar to what you’re saying. Like, “Oh, I just did this kind of messed up accidental thing, and then it was awesome.” Not like, “Oh, I have the secret. Here’s the perfect chain.” People never have that clear answers, they’re more just like, “The thing was broken and it was actually so cool.” Sam: It is funny, the idea of coveting certain techniques. I know that back in the day before the internet, in the earlier days of recorded music, it was competitive and technically old school engineers would never tell their little secrets. Nate: But now there’s message boards filled with every drum set breakdown you could ever want. I love the openness and the access that the internet affords. How do you then distinguish your style? Like back in the day, if Glyn Johns had his exact technique, that was his thing. And now I’m sure no matter what technique either of us try to do in our bedrooms, something similar has been talked about on the internet by somebody. How do you approach that? Sam: I guess it’s just like, there are still more unique combinations of chords and lyrics and melodies and microphones than there are stars in the universe. So I wouldn’t be too fussed with that issue. I mean, Miles [Davis] used to get pissed when people would imitate his sound, but it was always one of the driving factors. Or I mean, maybe he just couldn’t help himself. But he never repeated himself. He was consistently after a new approach, a new sound, a new arrangement style. No one Miles Davis record is alike. And he was just he was working with acoustic instruments, and he was still finding new ways of doing things. So as there’s more technology and more knowledge then there will be more opportunities to try new weird sounds out. Nate: Yeah. I think that’s right. That’s what’s fun for me about the recording side of things — I’m not passionate about sound waves and microphones particularly, but I’m passionate about different ways to make new textures or something, new layers. And when there is different technology, it affords you different combinations, and that feels exciting.


--- [HowmanysonsdidKing Davidhave?] ---
Community answers are sorted based on votes. The higher the vote, the further up an answer is. David had 19 sons excluding daughters in his large Family ☞ Six Sons Born to David in Hebron: 1. Ammon of Ahinoam of Jezreel (2Sam. 2:2) 2. Chileab of Abigail (2Sam. 2:3); called Daniel (1Chr. 3:1) 3. Absalom of Maacah of Geshur 4. Adonijah of Haggith (2Sam. 2:4) 5. Shephatiah of Abital 6. Ithream of Eglah (2Sam. 2:5) Please note, Of these six sons and six mothers, half of them had a name beginning with "A." ☞ Thirteen Sons Born to David in Jerusalem: 1. Shammuah of Bathsheba (2Sam. 5:13); called Shimea (1Chr. 3:5; 14:4) 2. Shobab of Bathsheba (2Sam. 5:14); Bathsheba called Bathshua (1Chr. 3:5; 14:4) 3. Nathan of Bathsheba (2Sam. 5:14; 1Chr. 3:5; 14:4) 4. Solomon of Bathsheba (2Sam. 5:14; 1Chr. 3:5; 14:4) 5. Ibhar (2Sam. 5:15; 1Chr. 3:6; 14:5) 6. Elishua (2Sam. 5:15; 1Chr. 14:5); called Elishama (1Chr. 3:6; 14:7) 7. Eliphelet (1Chr. 3:6); called Epalet (1Chr. 14:5) 8. Nephed (2Sam. 5:15; 1Chr. 3:7; 14:6) 9. Japhia (2Sam. 5:15; 1Chr. 3:7; 14:6) 10. Nogah (1Chr. 3:7; 14:6) 11. Elishama (2Sam. 5:16; 1Chr. 3:8; 14:7) 12. Eliada (2Sam. 5:16; 1Chr. 3:8); called Beeliada (1Chr. 14:7) 13. Eliphalet (2Sam. 5:15; 1Chr. 3:8; 14:7) ☞ Daughters Born in Jerusalem: Tamar is mentioned (2Sam. 13:1; 1Chr. 3:9), but David had other daughters (2Sam. 5:13). By my count, as listed in 1 Chronicles 3:1-9, David had a total of twenty identified sons by multiple wives (Amnon (by Ahinoam); Daniel (by Abigail); Absalom (by Maacah); Adonijah (by Haggith); Shephatiah (by Abital); Ithream (by Eglah); Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon, and an unnamed son who died seven days after his birth (by Bathsheba); Ibhar, Elishama, Eliphelet, Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, a second son named Elishama, Eliada, and a second son named Eliphelet (all by unnamed/unspecified wives)), and an unspecified number of additional, unnamed sons by his concubines (who are also not named). (Another son named Jerimoth is mentioned in 2 Chronicles 11:18, although it is unclear whether he is one of the sons mentioned above (using another name) or one of David’s sons by a concubine.) So, as far as I can determine based on information given in the Bible, although twenty specified sons (nineteen of whom are named, and one of whom is unnamed) are definitely listed, it is not possible to precisely identify how many male children he had in total. (He also had at least one identified daughter (Tamar), mentioned in 1 Chronicles 3:9, as well as in 2 Samuel 13:1-19.) In my current study of 1 Chronicles 17, we see the passage at verses 10b to 14 which includes a statement that God will build David a house---that is, a dynasty of kings---and that one of David's sons ("thy seed after thee, which shall be of thy sons") shall " build me an house, and I will stablish his throne for ever. I will be his father, and he shall be my son: and I will not take my mercy away from him, as I took it from him that was before thee: 1 Chronicles 17:12-13 KJV This prophecy could not have referred to Solomon because neither he nor any of David's multitude of other natural sons---both named and unnamed---were recorded as born in Bethlehem Ephratah as Micah 5:2 later made clear. While David might have thought that Solomon would fulfill the prophecy, if he deliberated about the meaning of "stablish his throne for ever" he would have realized that no natural man could ever fulfill that because of the curse of death under which every natural person is born. Although Solomon made a wonderful start to his kingdom, as he gradually built his unmatched harem, as expected, his heart became lukewarm or perhaps even cold toward the LORD, and he finished his life much worse than he began. L C Stansfield, M.Ed; M.Div. All answers are REVIEWED and MODERATED. Please ensure your answer MEETS all our guidelines. A good answer provides new insight and perspective. Here are guidelines to help facilitate a meaningful learning experience for everyone.


--- [U.S. News & World Report: News, Rankings and Analysis on Politics...] ---
Search U.S. News Critical questions loom on revolution, retaliation and the next regime. By Olivier Knox Tracking Trump’s Higher Ed Reform From student loan reform to canceling ‘woke’ programs, Trump has dedicated significant... Oil Prices Leap on Worries About Iran War Oil prices climbed on worries conflict with Iran could clog the flow of crude. Fog of War Engulfs Markets, Oil The joint U.S.-Israel strike on Iran is certain to dominate markets Monday. Iran Conflict Upends Global Air Travel Thousands of flights have been affected, with Mideast airspace virtually shut down. The Latest Compare providers with quality ratings, read reviews and find trusted home health care agencies in your area. Understanding Home Health Care Options Home health care allows you to age in the comfort of your own home while getting the... Does Medicare Cover Home Health Care? Find out whether Medicare covers in-home health care and other services. Assisted Living vs. Home Care Deciding between home care and assisted living? Compare 2026 costs, levels of medical... The Cost of In-Home Care Navigate the complexities of in-home health care costs. Discover average expenses... The Latest U.S. News has ranked more than 30,000 hotels across the world. Find the best hotel for your vacation. The Best Hotels in the USA U.S. News ranked 3,900-plus top properties for 2026. Check out the 50 best. Best Hotels in Europe for 2026 U.S. News evaluates top hotels in Europe using expert insights, awards, class ratings... Best All-Inclusive Resorts in the Caribbean for 2026 The best all-inclusive resorts in the Caribbean offer upscale rooms, delicious dining... Best All-Inclusive Resorts in Mexico for 2026 U.S. News evaluates top hotels in Mexico using expert insights, awards, class ratings... The Latest Private colleges are typically associated with higher sticker prices, but they can also offer more financial aid. By Sarah Wood Tracking Trump’s Higher Ed Reform From student loan reform to canceling ‘woke’ programs, Trump has dedicated significant... Do Siblings Count for Legacy Points? An admissions expert at CollegeAdvisor answers a parent’s burning question. The Magic of Small, Interactive Classes Dean of Admissions Chris Krzak on what makes Saint Mary’s College of California... Best States for Education These states are best positioned amid cuts to federal education spending. The Latest Do you drive for business, charity or medical appointments? Here are the details regarding claiming mileage on taxes. By Maryalene LaPonsie, Katy Marquardt, Susannah Snider and Liisa Rajala AI Layoffs and Your Mortgage Some people envision a world in which white-collar workers are replaced by AI, and... Fog of War Engulfs Markets, Oil Iran retaliated against the U.S.-Israel attack on its leaders, as three U.S. jets were... Mortgage Rates Hold Steady Rates barely budged this week, but buyers are still hesitant to enter the market. What to Know About Trade School Loans There are many trade school loan options, and you might even be able to find employers... The Latest U.S. News photo editors curate this month's most compelling images from at home and abroad. Picturing This Week in History Here's a look back in time through The Associated Press photo archives. The Best Hotels in the USA U.S. News ranked 3,900-plus top properties for 2026. Check out the 50 best. Top Adults-Only All-Inclusive Resorts Discover the best destinations for grown-up getaways. Photos: 2025 Best Leaders Celebration U.S. News & World Report brings together the top leaders in health, business... The Latest Get the Admissions Edge With 'Getting In'! Have the parent playbook for applying to college delivered to your inbox each Thursday. By Signing Up, you will receive the latest updates, including emails, from U.S. News & World Report and our trusted partners and sponsors, and you agree to our Terms and Conditions & Privacy Policy. News You Can Use The 2026 Best Hotels Rankings U.S. News has ranked more than 30,000 hotels across the world. Find the best hotel for your vacation. The Best Jobs in America in 2026 These top occupations offer solid growth, big paychecks and job security. Education Best Colleges Expert advice, rankings and data to help you navigate your education journey and find the best college for you. The Cost of Private vs. Public Colleges Private colleges are typically associated with higher sticker prices, but they can... By Sarah Wood 20 Colleges Where the Most Alumni Donate The average alumni giving rate was 30.9% at these schools, well above the national... By Sarah Wood Best Graduate Schools Rankings, data and advice to help you connect your education to your dream career. 4 Bad Reasons to Get an MBA Business school admissions officers aren't impressed by these motives. Paralegal Experience and Law School Working in a law office provides unique exposure to the legal field. Best Colleges U.S. News provides more than 100 different types of numerical rankings and lists to... Best Graduate Schools U.S. News Best Graduate Schools rankings are designed to help prospective students... Best High Schools The U.S. News rankings include data on nearly 25,000 public high schools in 50 states... Best Online Colleges Find a trustworthy and flexible online college learning option that works best for you... U.S. News Scholarship Finder Looking for scholarships and other financial aid options? Use the Scholarship Finder... A Solution to Wasted Classroom Space Higher ed expert Jeff Selingo shares his latest EdTech innovation rave. How to Keep Ramping Up Research Virginia Commonwealth University President Michael Rao explains how the school found new avenues of funding. College – at 25% Off 3-year bachelor’s degree programs are launching students into the workforce faster. By Danna Lorch Health Best Hospitals Helping patients and families find the best healthcare for more than 30 years. Find the best hospital near you. 2025-2026 Hospital Specialty Rankings See the top hospitals in 15 specialties of complex adult care in the 2025-2026 U.S... Hospitals for Heart & Vascular Surgery These 10 hospitals outperformed all others in the 2025-2026 U.S. News Best Hospitals... Doctors Find the doctor that is the right fit for you. What to Know About Specialist Referrals Navigating the specialist referral process doesn't have to be hard. Learn how medical... Getting Second Opinion When you're facing a life-altering diagnosis, a second opinion can offer reassurance... By Paul Wynn, Micah Yu and Gretel Schueller Senior Living and Tax Deductions Learn how to deduct senior living costs as medical expenses. Discover IRS rules for assisted living, memory care and nursing home tax deductions. By Geoff Williams and Gretel Schueller When Medicaid Stops Paying for Care Facing the sudden loss of Medicaid coverage for nursing home care can be scary, but understanding your rights and taking immediate steps can prevent unnecessary disruption to vital services. By Paul Wynn, Rachael Hood and Bill Buron Supplements for GLP-1 Users Managing GLP-1 side effects like nausea and constipation? Learn the supplements, including protein, HMB, probiotics and key vitamins, to maximize weight loss, preserve muscle mass and address common nutrient gaps while on medications like Ozempic, Mounjaro or Wegovy. Is Medicare Mandatory? Learn who must enroll, key deadlines, potential late enrollment penalties and exceptions for those still employed or with other health coverage. By Geoff Williams, Paul Wynn and Gretel Schueller Money Best Credit Cards U.S. News evaluated hundreds of credit card offers and selected the best credit cards for every type of consumer. Balance Transfer Credit Cards A balance transfer credit card allows you to move one or more account balances to the... Travel Credit Cards Find the best travel credit cards to earn free flights, loyalty perks and more. Rewards Credit Cards Rewards credit cards entice with points, miles or cash back, but make sure rewards... 10 Best Savings Accounts of March 2026: Up to 4.00% A savings account can be a good place to keep your money easily accessible while still earning interest. U.S. News' experts analyzed banks across the country to find accounts with low minimums and high interest rates. The national average annual percentage yield for savings accounts is 0.45%. Best High-Yield Savings Accounts: Up to 4.57% — March 2026 Look to online-only banks to find the best high-interest savings accounts. By Greg Garrison, Mark Evitt and Ray Frager Best Online Banks — March 2026 A bank with no brick-and-mortar locations could offer features that are right for you. Best Checking Accounts — March 2026 A checking account keeps your money readily available for paying day-to-day expenses... By Greg Garrison, Emily Roth and Mark Evitt Calculate Your Retirement Savings Planning for retirement starts with a clear picture of your finances. This free calculator provides a personalized estimate of how long your savings and income can support your lifestyle. Mortgage Calculator This handy tool crunches the numbers to figure out your monthly mortgage payments so... Savings Calculator This free savings calculator will help you project how you can build your savings over... Loan Calculator Our easy-to-use loan calculator will help you estimate monthly payments to avoid... U.S. News Money Research and Surveys U.S. News' money team conducts regular nationwide surveys and other data-driven... Best Mortgage Lenders Learn about the home loan process and how to find the best mortgage lender with competitive rates. Best Personal Loan Lenders and Rates A personal loan can help spread out the cost of big-ticket items, consolidate debt or allow you to make cozy home upgrades over time. Consider making budgeting more manageable with a personal loan. Best Private Student Loans If federal student loans don't fit your needs, compare private student loan interest rates and lenders to find the right financing option for your college expenses. Student Loan Refinance Lenders Refinancing federal, private or both types of student loans can help you pay off your student debt faster and work toward other financial goals, but the pause in federal student loan payments may influence your decision to refinance. By Bob Musinski , Whitney Blair Wyckoff and Erika Giovanetti Best Mortgage Refinance Lenders Find the best refinance lenders for your mortgage to get a lower interest rate or monthly payment. By Erika Giovanetti and Gina Freeman Compare Current Mortgage Rates Mortgage rates are determined by factors that are out of your control and those that are related to your borrower profile and the type of loan. By Jessica Merritt and Erika Giovanetti Cars Best Car Rankings From rankings and reviews to cars for sale in your area – we've done all the car‑buying research so you don't have to. Best SUV Rankings Our SUV rankings are based on two types of information: published reviews from... Best Truck Rankings See our comprehensive list of the best pickup trucks. Best Hybrid Rankings See our list of the best hybrids based on our expert reviews and rankings. Best EV Rankings Find the best electric cars, SUVs and trucks based on our EV rankings. U.S. News Best Price Program More than 300,000 car shoppers have purchased or leased a car through the U.S. News Best Price Program. Shoppers have seen savings of $2,287 off MSRP across all vehicles. Best New Car Deals This Month This is a great time to shop for a new car, truck or SUV, especially as automakers... Best Lease Deals This Month Here are the most recent incentives, which should give you an idea of what might be... Best Used Car Deals This Month Certified pre-owned (CPO) vehicles are worth a look if you're shopping for a used car. Browse Cars and Trucks Find expert reviews, photos and pricing for All Cars and Trucks from U.S. News & World Report. Advice Best AWD Sports Cars If you're burning rubber, you'll want as much traction as you can get. By Jake Thiewes, Ryan Maxin and Nate Parsons 2026 Subaru Trailseeker First Drive Roomy, capable and quick, the Trailseeker is easy to like. By Alex Kwanten and Tony Markovich Safest Electric Cars of 2026 These EVs have high safety scores for added peace of mind. By Cody Trotter, Robert Duffer, Ryan Maxin and Nate Parsons Used Cars for Sale Find cars near you. Best Used Car Rankings If you're planning to buy a used car, our rankings highlight the best used cars for every budget. Compare Cars Compare vehicles and see how they stack up against each other in terms of rankings, performance, features, specs, safety, prices and more. Compare Auto Loan Rates Use our car financing tools to apply for a new or used car loan, or to refinance your current vehicle. Travel Best Cruises U.S. News has ranked more than 200 cruise ships. Find the best cruise for your vacation. The Best Hotels in the USA U.S. News ranked 3,900-plus top properties for 2026. Check out the 50 best. By Christina Maggitas, Zach Watson and Erin Evans Best Vacations U.S. News has ranked more than 1,100 vacation destinations across the world. Find the... Best Travel Rewards Program U.S. News has ranked the top hotel and airline loyalty programs. Choose the best... Top Mountain Resorts in the U.S. These stunning resorts across the U.S. offer a mountain escape year-round. The Best Rome Colosseum Tours Gladiators battled on the arena floor. A good guide will help you battle the crowds. By Laura Itzkowitz, Erin Evans and Ann Henson How Much Does a Cruise Cost? Use this guide to learn what goes into the cost of a cruise. By Gwen Pratesi, Holly Johnson, Ann Henson and Nicola Wood The Best Vatican Tours Guided Vatican tours can make the experience less overwhelming and more enjoyable. By Lyn Mettler, Erin Evans and Ann Henson Travel Guides by Culture Trip Culture Trip, a service of U.S. News, delivers immersive small group adventures and... Best Travel Insurance In our best travel insurance ratings, we take into account traveler reviews, credit... Real Estate & Home Best Places to Live in the U.S. For the 2025-2026 Best Places to Live rankings, we selected 250 major cities to find the best places to live. Best Places to Retire in the U.S. We analyzed data for more than 850 top cities in the U.S. to assess how well they meet... Housing Market Index The U.S. News Housing Market Index is a single number that measures and compares the... Best Big Cities to Live in the U.S. If you dream about the action and amenities offered by a big-city lifestyle, consider... Best Home Warranty Companies When a major appliance or system in your home stops working, a home warranty covers the cost to fix or replace it. Best Home Security Systems We tested and reviewed the best home security systems available. By Serena Lopez and Rachel Hisle Best Moving Companies Moving day is often dreaded, but it’s not the time to be underprepared. By Kathryn Core, Rachel Hisle and Mark Hayes Find a Top Agent We identify the top real estate agents based on individual needs. Search Homes Find the latest homes for sale in your area and nationwide. Discover Your Home’s Worth Get a free home value estimate to help you prepare for a sale. Buying/Selling Advice Expert advice for confident homebuying, selling and improvement. Home Improvement Advice Get expert advice and practical tips on home improvement, covering everything from DIY... Best Internet Service Providers Our guide will help you find the best internet service provider for your needs. By Isabel Roy and Rachel Hisle Best Medical Alert Systems We researched device options, costs and features from several medical alert companies. By Rachel Hisle, Britteny Dee and Kathryn Core Careers Best Companies to Work For U.S. News grouped the Best Companies by industry as well as by geographic region so you can easily access information about the workplaces that might be a good fit. Survey: Interns Want Growth Over Money About 27% of respondents wanted to gain practical work experience, while just 4% were... 7 Internship Tips From the Experts Here are some simple steps to turn your internship into future opportunities, based on... Can Employers Ask My Immigration Status? Find out whether it's legal for employers to ask questions about your immigration... By Jamela Adam, Katy Marquardt and Susannah Snider The Best Jobs in America These top occupations offer solid growth, big paychecks and job security. Survey: Interns Want Growth Over Money About 27% of respondents wanted to gain practical work experience, while just 4% were... The Best Jobs in America in 2026 These top occupations offer solid growth, big paychecks and job security. How U.S. News Ranks the Best Jobs We analyze data about salary, unemployment rate and growth prospects to select the top... 7 Internship Tips From the Experts Here are some simple steps to turn your internship into future opportunities, based on... Use 'Best Companies' in a Job Search Here's how job seekers can use the ratings to better approach job hunting, according... What Is a FIFO Job and How to Find One FIFO jobs offer competitive salaries and extended time off between shifts. By Jamela Adam, Katy Marquardt and Susannah Snider Job Thank-You Emails: 10 Mistakes Don't ask certain premature questions, watch your tone and follow these other tips.
