=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[SoCal Swordfight: Premier HEMA Tournament & Training | Join Us!]
Since our inception in 2012, we've grown from a local Southern California gathering to a renowned international event, attracting instructors and fighters from across the globe. SoCal Swordfight is more than just a tournament; it's a celebration ...
URL: https://socalswordfight.com/pages/about-socal-swordfight

[Sword fight convention strikes up crowd in Costa Mesa | Lifestyle | dailytitan.com]
Feb 20, 2024 · Blades, swords, daggers and sabres swept Costa Mesa during SoCal Swordfight 2024, a Historical European Martial Arts tournament. Hosted at the Orange County Fair and Events Center from Friday through Sunday, SoCal Swordfight remains the largest HEMA tournament in the world. The event held competitive matches in which contestants demonstrated historic fighting techniques and attempted to strike ...
URL: https://dailytitan.com/lifestyle/sword-fight-convention-strikes-up-crowd-in-costa-mesa/article_65a8ce04-ceb0-11ee-8e46-373b4530ed1b.html

[SoCal Swordfight - YouTube]
First held in 2012, SoCal Swordfight remains the only HEMA tournament in Southern California and has grown into the largest HEMA event in the world. The event attracts top instructors and fighters from around the world and is known for its wide ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC6miMqtbfm1DXm2EcEdL29A

[Interview with SoCal Swords Founder RJ McKeehan: Training and Supplying HEMA Part I – Martial Arts of Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow]
Swords were always enticing to RJ McKeehan, especially after a friend from Europe told him about the historical fencing events being held in the continent. He finally got the chance to try his hand at historical fencing in 2010 when he attended California State University. There, he learned from Jonathan Mashar and Jason Taylor who headed the on-campus club at the time. After McKeehan graduated college, he set his sights on founding his own school, SoCal Swords, and an equipment company by the same name.
URL: https://maytt.home.blog/2023/12/14/interview-with-socal-swords-founder-rj-mckeehan-training-and-supplying-hema-part-i/

[Fourth Musketeer – Lean, Solid Dogs]
“A wrestling tournament crash-landed at a Renaissance Fayre and they all intermarried,” was my thought. I'd tagged along with a trio of friends to SoCal Swordfight, a weekend-long HEMA competition: That’s “historical European martial arts,” three days of armored people fighting politely ...
URL: https://leansoliddogs.blog/2023/02/22/fourth-musketeer/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [SoCal Swordfight: Premier HEMA Tournament & Training | Join Us!] ---
No content


--- [Sword fight convention strikes up crowd in Costa Mesa | Lifestyle | dailytitan.com] ---
Blades, swords, daggers and sabres swept Costa Mesa during SoCal Swordfight 2024, a Historical European Martial Arts tournament. Hosted at the Orange County Fair and Events Center from Friday through Sunday, SoCal Swordfight remains the largest HEMA tournament in the world. The event held competitive matches in which contestants demonstrated historic fighting techniques and attempted to strike their opponents for points. Competitions exhibited a variety of weaponry dating back to the 14th century, including longswords, rapiers, sabres and daggers. The event also introduced new weapons at the tournaments, such as the cinquedea dagger, which is an 18-inch dagger that originated in Italy. SoCal Swordfight began in 2012 and was originally hosted in a Southern California elementary school before growing to its current magnitude. The event now includes more activities than just competitions. Chris Ponzillo, managing director of SoCal Swordfight, works to provide new amenities and plan events that participants of diverse backgrounds can enjoy. “If you don't want to fight, you can learn. If you don't want to come in and do classes, you can watch,” Ponzillo said. “We’re trying to have activities for everybody and that I think is where we’re different than we’ve ever been in the past.” This year’s tournament featured an antique weapons showcase with items that were up to 8,000 years old, 110 hours of classes and vendors from across the United States. Last year, Ponzillo was surprised to see 400 spectator tickets purchased and hopes to see that number continue to rise as the event grows in popularity. “Some of our plans going into next year are again focused on how we make it more fun for spectators, how we make it a little bit more of an event for the community to come to,” Ponzillo said. SoCal Swordfight also serves as a hub for the martial arts alliances and allows groups to explore different fighting styles, connect with other teams and represent their clubs. The Cal State Fullerton Medieval Swordsmanship Club attended over the weekend with members participating in various competitions. Nishan Jayasinghe, a second year computer science major at CSUF and club speaker for the Fullerton Medieval Swordsmanship Club, was grateful for the group to be represented and exposed to other organizations. “It's wonderful meeting all the different people with all the different opinions. Seeing how other groups differ from ours, how ours differ from theirs,” Jayasinghe said. “There’s so much interesting cultural retinue to dissect in an event like this.” Jayasinghe studies longsword techniques. However, he explained that the tournament is about much more than combat. Studying the history of various fighting styles is an important aspect to participating and is often what attracts people to the sport. Members of the club study texts written by knights and work to master their techniques using modern safety equipment. “I think it’s really engrossing and immersing to be able to sort of imagine people hundreds of years ago doing the exact same stuff we were doing, reading the same books that we are and coming to sort of similar motor conclusions about how to do things,” Jayasinghe said. Robin John Price, a featured instructor, also emphasized the importance of history and connecting with one’s ancestry. “A lot of people of European descent wonder ‘what did my ancestors do? what kind of martial art did they do?’” Price said. “You learn a lot of the traditions and cultural aspects of the different arts as you learn them.” Price has attended SoCal Swordfight since its first meeting 12 years ago and believes everyone should try a martial art because of the self-confidence it can give. As the event continues to evolve, directors take recommendations from participants to improve. Coordinators are already planning for next year, considering new martial arts styles and displays to include.


--- [SoCal Swordfight - YouTube] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Interview with SoCal Swords Founder RJ McKeehan: Training and Supplying HEMA Part I – Martial Arts of Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow] ---
Swords were always enticing to RJ McKeehan, especially after a friend from Europe told him about the historical fencing events being held in the continent. He finally got the chance to try his hand at historical fencing in 2010 when he attended California State University. There, he learned from Jonathan Mashar and Jason Taylor who headed the on-campus club at the time. After McKeehan graduated college, he set his sights on founding his own school, SoCal Swords, and an equipment company by the same name. Today, McKeehan took some time to talk about his time in HEMA, running a supply store, and the future of historical fencing in the United States. This is the first part of a two part interview. Read the second part here. Martial Arts of Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow: Welcome RJ! Thank you for joining us today. RJ McKeehan: Thank you for having me. MAYTT: When did you start training in historical fencing? RJ: It’s been about thirteen years now, so in 2010. MAYTT: Around that time, how did you find historical fencing? RJ: I was in college at California State University, Fullerton and I had several friends who were in a HEMA club essentially. Basically what Kron Martial Arts is now. We also have an on-campus club presence called the Medieval Swordsmanship Club. My friends, who I knew through the computer science program, basically said, “Hey, you should come join this club. We fight with swords.” I thought that sounded pretty cool. It still took me a little bit of time to get the schedule ironed out to make it, but that was it. It was just basically a college club. MAYTT: Wow, that’s really cool, especially for that time. At what point during your time at the college club did you kind of have that realization that historical fencing was for you? RJ: Many people and I always find swords to be cool. If you give a couple of adults some toy swords, they’ll start wanting to play with them. Before I even started with it, I thought it was great. When I was in high school back in Hawaii, which is where I grew up, there was actually another student – and I don’t know if he was making up stories or telling the truth – but he moved to Hawaii from Europe and he was telling me about how they used to do sword fighting. He was in tournaments there where you had multiple swords and you would put markings on the blades so that they would mark your opponent when you hit them. It seemed relatively plausible. I was like, “Oh yeah, I want to learn how from you.” He said he would teach me, but he never did. I was always interested in it, but there wasn’t really an outlet for it prior to seeing it in college because historical fencing clubs are not popular. Also in Hawaii, there’s not even Modern Olympic Fencing. Basically, I knew before I started I was like, “Yeah, this is going to be fun.” Pretty much immediately after starting it was confirmed. MAYTT: Nice. Being that it was a college club that you started at, how did the club approach training in historical fencing? RJ: The club was created by Jonathan Mashar and Jason Taylor. They both used to be in ARMA and they both left ARMA when John Clements started getting more and more restrictive of things. They basically also helped create the HEMA Alliance. They carried that momentum with themselves from leaving another HEMA style group to creating a national organization for it and their own local club for it. They were the main instructors for classes, and at least at first, we just did whatever training they wanted to do. Sometimes we would try things out for manuscripts, sometimes we would do more modern knife fights and integrate that back into our training. As time went on and more HEMA events became popular, myself and other members of the club would go to them and take classes. There would also be a lot of sharing and teaching information that we learned at events back within the club, which helped it grow. Jonathan and Jason knew nothing about rapier, for example, but Miles Cup and my club and a few other people were really into it. They would just dive into the manuscripts and bring that information back to the rest of the club. I would get interested in some manuscript that we hadn’t looked at before and work on it with another club member and then talk to the other people in the group about it. It was still very casual. That’s the thing I think about most college clubs are; it’s a fun club thing that you’re doing on the site. It’s not really super serious instruction, working hard at it, but it also leads itself to giving you a lot of flexibility in what you want to study and how you want to approach HEMA. MAYTT: It seemed like it was the exact opposite of what Jonathan and Jason experienced in ARMA, and it actually seemed like they did better with the amount of knowledge compared to ARMA. RJ: Definitely. I think that’s a pretty common starting point for modern HEMA and why there’s so much flexibility and cooperation and people working together and discussing things and building it up. Because most of the big leaders that started Modern HEMA all came out of ARMA – at least were very closely tied to it and knew about it – and they wanted the opposite. The HEMA Alliance literally has a Freedom of Study clause, basically saying that they’re not going to ever limit what your club can study. They’re just there to help provide resources like insurance. But the HEMA Alliance doesn’t want to cut down on options for people. Being that my club leaders were part of the creators of that, they were very exploratory and did not want to ever limit what people are interested in. It’s also the opposite of a traditional martial arts approach where you do what your instructor says and then you ask him why. He’ll say, “Well, because that’s how my master taught it to me. He learned it from his master, and you should trust our lineage.” HEMA we’re like, “We don’t have a lineage. I don’t care what you think is right. I’m going to try this out myself and find out if it makes sense.” MAYTT: As HEMA was getting a little more popular, there were more events happening. One of those events is competition, and you have an extensive competitive record stretching all the way back to 2014. How has that experience helped you expand your knowledge and understanding of what is recorded in the historical manuals? RJ: First of all, my competitive record goes further back than that. HEMA Ratings doesn’t go further back than that. I competed in Fechtschule America in 2012, I think. Those early events were all done on spreadsheets and papers – there’s no record for it. To me, competition is an important part of understanding and recreating historical techniques with the caveat of keeping in mind that there are certain things that absolutely will not work in competition due to the fact that we’re not killing each other. There are techniques where if I have your sword collected on my sword and then I stab my sword through your body, it’s going to push your sword back at the same time and basically pin your sword against your body. With a blunt sword bending on you a little bit, your sword is free to flail around and hit me. You have to keep in mind that there are some limitations that we cannot recreate, and that’s okay. But at the same time, every technique that we come up with out of manuscripts we’ve tested in tournaments, and I did that for many years. At this point, I don’t do competition fighting too much just because I’ve done so much of it. I’m a little bit burnt out from fighting in tournaments. I would get more joy out of coaching and watching my students fight. But for many years, that was exactly the pipeline for figuring out a technique. We would read it in the manuscript, we would try to work out slowly with friends and get an understanding of how it might work. Then we would spar pretty hard in the club with it and see how it worked there. It’s working well, let’s try it in a tournament. At the same time as trying it in a tournament, we would also get a chance there to talk to other leaders of HEMA, other instructors, and interpreters and ask them, “What do you think about my take on this?” I got to argue the merits of the technique and why it would be good or not, and literally try it out against uncooperative opponents. I think it’s really critical to actually try your stuff out. There’s some things that won’t work. There are some things where if your opponent doesn’t care about getting a double hit – if they don’t care about being hit back, then there’s nothing you can do that will keep you safe. But if they’re at least fighting in a martial way, you can learn a lot about the efficacy of your techniques. MAYTT: I see. That’s pressure testing what you saw in the manuals. The flip side of that is actually teaching and coaching historical fencing. How have you seen competition assist you in teaching and better coaching historical fencing to others? RJ: It comes back to, again, the ability to go to classes at tournaments. Almost every HEMA event has classes alongside the tournaments. Not all of them do, but probably eighty or ninety percent of them do. Getting to learn from different instructors and hear their teaching styles, and get little ideas of, “Oh wow, that’s a cool way to say this.” That helped a lot. Then the fighting itself, I found that it really gave a lot of examples that I could give to people of specific things. I am still actively teaching. I have a class later tonight, and I might give an example where when talking about taking a direct attack to your opponent without fear and trying to hit them in their head with minimal telegraphing, I’ll tell people about the last tournament I went to out in Michigan. There’s a really skilled and almost famous fighter out there who I’d heard a lot about. I was curious, “Okay, what is this amazing thing they’re doing to win so often?” They basically more or less skip out into the ring. They playfully walk out into the ring, and then as soon as they’re in range, they just hit their opponent in the face and it seems like, “Well, they should be more to it than that,” to the average new fighter. They’re like, “Oh, I can’t just hit them. They’re going to block.” It’s like, “No, if you look at this person and watch their videos, you’re going to find that you can just hit someone in the face if you do things correctly.” Or I’ll tell them that I’ve seen many people get hit because they’re not doing X, Y, or Z. I use it really as a teaching tool. In terms of examples of what to do or not to do, it’s important to point out that it’s not just my fighting in tournaments that has helped with that, but also the fact that I’ve judged and directed hundreds of matches for many hours. When you’re on the edge of the ring judging the fighters and you’re seeing patterns develop over and over again, you’re seeing certain things get set up and then go through, you go, “Okay, I see every time he does that, he gets hit.” Or “Every time he does that, his opponent doesn’t understand that this is about to happen.” When you’re judging, it’s a very difficult task and you’re already stressed out and focused on it, but you can learn a lot from the fighters just being in the ring side and being so focused on the matches. MAYTT: I see. You own and operate your own equipment shop, SoCal Swords. What factors influenced you to start your own business? RJ: Basically, when I was in college, I got a computer science degree, and I thought about what I could do with my degree. I decided I didn’t really like programming that much, which is pretty much what you do with it, and I didn’t really like the concept of just sitting down and programming all day long. I love computers; I have a great computer setup; I can spend hours on it, but I also like moving my body and that physical interaction with people. As I graduated college, I decided, “Let’s try and see what else we can do. This is an option.” I didn’t start SoCal Swords out of college, I started South Coast Swords, but it was the predecessor to this business. The idea was that I noticed HEMA was growing very quickly. I thought, “If you can be one of the first real HEMA business and club in the area, then you have a better chance of being successful.” Most of the large, successful companies aren’t there because they did something super amazing. It’s because they did something first and they stuck with it. The concept was being able to do a job where I can be physical and also potentially make good money on it once it builds up because of being one of the first companies doing it. There’s other people that have sold the gear before, but I’m trying to teach classes as well, and arguably teaching classes is more of the goal, but they don’t make enough money on their own to completely pay the rent. I approach it from two directions: sell gear and teach classes. MAYTT: Since its inception, what goals do you feel that you have achieved? RJ: The biggest thing is having a really professional place where you can learn HEMA on a very consistent basis. With all of the events and training and classes I’ve taken and also the other instructors in my club have taken, we’ve really been able to bring a lot of varied knowledge to the club, to the point where if you come and train with us, you can learn almost any weapon that’s popular in HEMA to a relatively high degree. I won’t say we’re the best instructors in the world. I don’t know who it is, but we definitely understand things really well and teach them really well. We’ve got a lot of praise from students saying – especially students that have visited from other clubs or groups – “Wow, this instruction is really different. It’s a lot better. There’s a lot of details that you understand that other people haven’t been able to explain to me before.” It’s a strong understanding of the techniques, the information, how fighting works and all the while providing a really comfortable safe space to do it in. Our club is very inclusive and we have a nice facility to train at with lights and air conditioning, which when we used to train out on a field, that’s a pretty big difference. At the same time, on the gear side, I feel like I’ve also been able to continue to provide a lot of this international gear that would be a little harder for people to buy normally at customs and transferring currencies. They can order it off the website and get it in a few days. That’s not that notable. There’s other people doing that, but I think it’s good for the big picture. Again, unless you can come into my shop, you wouldn’t really get the full experience. But it is pretty cool for our students to walk in, have a place where they can learn all these things, and they can try the gear on that’s for sale. It feels like a very modern, more developed space than HEMA was just a few years ago where there are a few friends talking about stuff in a park. This feels more like when you go into an archery shop or some other sort of sporting place where you would learn things, like a golf pro shop. You go golfing and then you walk into the pro shop and you talk about the clubs with the person there and it’s all like, “Oh yes, this is the thing we do and here’s the information.” It’s weird to say, but that’s where we’ve come from. I’ve seen HEMA from almost the beginning. People have been doing what we’re doing for many years. The Victorians were doing HEMA; the people in the 1970s were doing HEMA. But what you see as HEMA now with equipment made for HEMA and doing tournaments for our stuff with hundreds or even a thousand people there, that’s relatively new in the last maybe eight years or so. MAYTT: That is cool how people can build upon the stuff that came before, and have the time and the wherewithal to say, “Well, why don’t we do it so we can have something that we didn’t have before?” RJ: If you just look at the sizes of tournaments and the frequency of them, you can see how much HEMA has grown in general. On top of that – of course harder to see – you could look at the gear development over the last ten years, it’s a completely different scene entirely. I like to tell my students about a certain way to guard with their sword, and I tell them, “If you do this guard wrong, you’ll break your thumb like I did.” Then I’ll say, “However, these days, if you’re wearing the correct gloves, you won’t break your thumb. We just didn’t have the right gloves for it.” MAYTT: It was a major trial and error method? RJ: Almost everybody I know from the early days got some broken bones that wouldn’t happen now. We’ve learned through pain and injury, but also through working on things and fighting in tournaments to understand how this all works. Another part I think is more important than just fighting though is using sharp swords. I do a lot of cutting with sharps and I think it’s triangulation, although it’s more like four things in a sense. I like to say you need to look at the manuscripts and interpret them and figure them out, and then you need to fight with your friends in the club and try them out there. Then I say you also need to fight with them in tournaments because there’s actually a pretty big difference in how your opponent acts in the tournament versus in the club. Even if you ask your friends to go hard and don’t hold back, there’s a certain level of intensity and desire to win that comes up when you’re at a tournament. If it’s still working there, then great. But then also with anything that is applicable, you should test it with a sharp sword. If there’s a specific cutting technique or angle or way that you’re using your sword, seeing if it actually makes sense with the sharp sword makes a lot of sense to me because ultimately this should be a martial art that’s about theoretically hitting things with sharp sorts. Now we don’t know how much it really happened historically as we imagine, but at the very least, the manuscript seems to describe these things. MAYTT: Trying to play with sharps against each other, it’s unsafe. RJ: I’ve done it. I have an article about it. This is the first part of a two part interview. Read the second part here.


--- [Fourth Musketeer – Lean, Solid Dogs] ---
“A wrestling tournament crash-landed at a Renaissance Fayre and they all intermarried,” was my thought. I’d tagged along with a trio of friends to SoCal Swordfight, a weekend-long HEMA competition: That’s “historical European martial arts,” three days of armored people fighting politely but hard with steel longswords, rapiers, daggers, and sabers. I’ve been practicing with a local club for a month, as a sideshow when I can’t train wing chun, and having a blast. My three friends were competing, but they’re BMFs and I’m not, so I availed myself of the classes that were running constantly throughout the weekend next door to the actual combat. Desperate Measures First up was “Dagger vs. Sword/Sword vs. Spear Are the Same Thing!” with Tom Levine. Levine proved a superb teacher on account of his healthy reductionism, organizing something chaotic into exactly its bare essentials. I was drawn to the class because I often use a short weapon (namely myself) against tall opponents, and the blurb for the class promised, “Focuses will include half-sword/half-dagger, binding, and aggressive footwork.” This is a technical way of saying, Get past the point of his weapon somehow, keep it away with both hands, and drive hard straight into him. Levine has a background in Japanese jujutsu, which boils down to “weapon grappling”—grim stuff—but today he was teaching techniques from 14th-century Italian mercenary Fiore de’i Liberi. From what I’ve seen in the HEMA world, Fiore stands preeminent as something like the Urvater of the old masters and is probably studied as much as all the rest of them combined. Soldier first and gentleman second, Fiore fought wars, not organized duels, and so he assumes chaos: your opponent may have a different weapon than you, possibly a better one, and he might have friends with him too. In that case, you will probably be killed, but Fiore will give you a sporting chance. With luck, your opponent will be slow or stupid, and you’ll wrestle past his sword point and stab him in the eye with your rondel dagger. Once Levine made the connection for me between Fiore and jujutsu, I saw it all over the place that weekend. The following day, in a class on Fiore’s grappling, I was being helped by a classmate who had the freakish expertise in the minutiae of entries and joint manipulations that I’ve only found among jujutsu practitioners and old cops experienced in “junkyard aikido.” After he grapevined my knife arm again and again, in a different way each time, I asked him, “Okay, come clean with me: what ryūha are you from? You’re an advanced yūdansha in Yoshinkan or something, right?” Nope. This guy trains nothing but Fiore. So what I took from this was, Fiore is medieval Italy’s version of koryū, the preserved remnants of Japanese battlefield techniques. Both have a compact syllabus comprising the few techniques that have half a chance of working in desperate circumstances, and then they refine them and drill them to death to wring every possible percentage point for success out of a bad situation. There was lots of other unarmed stuff to study too. John Patterson taught a class on T.H. Monstery’s really superb simplified boxing system. If someone wanted to learn to fight but would only invest 90 minutes learning, I would hand them Monstery’s book and point them to Patterson’s class. It included a very curious element I’ve never seen before: the lead left is thrown completely palm-up. Not just canted, but with the back of the hand facing all the way toward the floor. Aside from extending your reach a little, it makes you rotate your shoulders into the blow without even thinking about it, in perfect time with your fist. My partner for the class had no training in fisticuffs, but from the very first punch, he torqued his shoulders into that lead hand like a boss. Where I come from, that takes months of practice! Gladder still did my heart glow with warm and fuzzies in Robin Price’s SUPERB hands-on class on shin kicks in 19th century Parisian défense dans la rue (“streetfighting”). This class could almost have been titled, “Wing Chun Highlights From Victorian Lowlifes.” Everyone strapped on very serious shin guards—easy to find at a tournament where people throw leg shots with four feet of steel—and drilled the simple magic of shin kicks. You quickly learned that if you kick shins, you can go a long way toward solving any problem less complicated than affordable life insurance. There was what you could call “strong thematic unity” in the class: the guy throws a punch, so you parry and kick him in the shins. He punches, so you slip it and kick him in the knee. He wants to clinch, so you kick him in the shins. He’s still holding on, so you kick him twice. He skitters back from your shin kick, so you advance and kick the little bones in his ankle. I’ve only gotten to go full-contact to the knees once before, and maybe that’s just as well, because I might get addicted, lazy, and bored: it’s like a cheat code for playing a game in “God mode.” I sought out a saber class taught by Adam Simmons after watching his exciting, Matrix-like tournament fights. The shortest competitor, Simmons neutralized his opponents’ reach advantage with lateral footwork. I think that was the reason that he consistently pulled off something that I’d heard was too dangerous to work, namely saber strikes to the leg. According to the prevailing wisdom, a saber fighter can’t reach down at an opponent’s leg unless he leans his head forward unprotected; then it’s a simple matter for the opponent to withdraw his leg and simultaneouly cut the big, juicy head floating in front of him, like fruit ripe for the plucking. But Simmons chopped legs all afternoon with impunity, because by the time his opponent was swinging for his head, Simmons was sidestepping away from the oncoming blade, like a boxer who circles away from his opponent’s big right hand so it can’t find him. If there was a connecting thread among the classes I sought out, it was “ambidextrous footwork,” where either leg might lead, with the result that the hips face the opponent relatively squarely (instead of blading the body away from him sharply, as if duelling with pistols) and you take fairly natural, short, walking steps. That found its epitome in Robert Redfeather’s class on “Apache Knife Combat.” “Don’t hold your ground!” Redfeather repeatedly told the fifty or so participants as he sparred us one by one. Upright and relaxed, Redfeather ambled in circles away from one student after another armed with a rubber knife, never quite in range but always able to find some tendons to “cut” on an overextended arm. He kept this up for well over 30 minutes, opponent after opponent, all while talking aloud to the group and never losing his breath in spite of his 60+ years. Wing Chun, “Pizza and Pasta” Style If I found the object of my quest—the “sword in the stone” for the weekend—it was the Bolognese style of cut-and-thrust fencing. I had heard about it before, and its reputation for complexity. However, you can often find your way past complexity with the help of a good teacher, and I had several, including Adam Simmons again (the leg-chopping sabreur). He pointed out that Bolognese footwork mostly has you step along an X: forward and left, forward and right, back and left, back and right. Add in one or two pivots to keep your sword between the opponent and your body, and you have something that looks like wing chun footwork, just light and balletic, floating on the toes. And Jeff Jacobson offered a whole class on the tramazzone, the “wheeling” or moulinet cut from the wrist that Bolognese swordsmanship uses like a whirling buzz saw to occupy the center line when you advance, deflecting attacks that the opponent might try to put in your way and then sawing through him. Best off all was a whole series of classes taught by the duo of Raker Wilson and Joe Cantore, who have an infectious Pauline zeal for evangelizing the good news of Bolognese swordsmanship. After running three separate classes in three days—no small feat—they distributed a set of materials to help further digest and solidify the material, including a recording made by Wilson, a professional voice actor, of the last and clearest of the 16th-century Bolognese manuals. Cantore exemplified a trait that delights me about the HEMA subculture: people are antiquarians in a way that is unabashed but also unaffected and leans toward the intellectual and philological. Instead of trying to translate the Italian vocabulary of the Bolognese system, Cantore preserves it and clearly relishes its Italic sonorousness—who could fail to enjoy saying guardia d’alicorno? It’s just cooler than “unicorn guard,” and that’s already saying a lot. (And don’t worry: HEMA is full of plenty of French, Spanish, and German too—the club where Cantore teaches, Einhorn, takes its name from the German word for unicorn. Where else can you do martial arts and get a daily reminder that Germany and Italy were both once bratty siblings in one huge, culturally bifurcated, semi-dysfunctional polity called the Holy Roman Empire, like the Red states and Blue states but with better architecture and no drinking age?) All over the tournament, people chatted about each other’s “sources,” meaning which 14th– through 19th-century texts they studied, and at about half the vendors’ tables you could buy bilingual critical editions of impressive scholarly quality, right next to the swords and shin guard. Try doing that in an MMA gym or a strip mall Taekwondo school!
