=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[An approximate total of how many wishes Nandor has used (as of S4E4)]
The discussion tracks the number of wishes Nandor used in "What We Do in the Shadows" up to Season 4, Episode 4. The thread aims to calculate this total, considering the 52 wishes granted by the Djinn in 'The Lamp'. Comments reflect uncertainty in counting wishes, especially regarding the disposal of wives and modifications to Marwa. Some suggest counting pen clicks by the Djinn. Others anticipate Nandor running out of wishes at a crucial moment and discuss the possibility of wishing for more wishes. There's also speculation about Nandor's final wish. One commenter wonders if the Djinn miscounted the total number of wishes.AI summaries may include mistakes. Learn more.MoreLessSummary
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/WhatWeDointheShadows/comments/wd6r5b/an_approximate_total_of_how_many_wishes_nandor/

['What We Do in the Shadows' Season 4: Nandor Will Use up His Djinn ...]
Jul 19, 2022 · The djinn (Anoop Desai) gave Nandor (Kayvan Novak) 52 wishes and he hasn’t used them all yet. He will before the end of What We Do in the Shadows Season 4, though, the creators said.
URL: https://www.cheatsheet.com/news/what-we-do-in-the-shadows-season-4-nandor-djinn-wishes.html/

[The Lamp (What We Do in the Shadows) - Wikipedia]
" The Lamp " is the second episode of the fourth season of the American mockumentary comedy horror television series What We Do in the Shadows, set in the franchise of the same name. It is the 32nd overall episode of the series and was written by Wally Baram and Aasia LaShay Bullock, and directed by co-executive producer Yana Gorskaya.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Lamp_(What_We_Do_in_the_Shadows)

[Djinn | What We Do in the Shadows Wiki - Fandom]
Djinn is an unnamed djinn who serves Nandor. He is a recurring character in the fourth season of the What We Do in the Shadows TV series. Prior to being summoned by Nandor, Djinn granted others' wishes, and was keen on finding loopholes to try and teach the dangers of greed and desire. Djinn's...
URL: https://whatwedointheshadows.fandom.com/wiki/Djinn

[52 (?) wishes from Nandor's Djinn? : r/WhatWeDointheShadows - Reddit]
The only question I have from the new season is; why does Nandor's Djinn (Genie, Guillermo?) give him so many wishes? Thanks in advance and sorry if this has been covered already I couldn't find an answer.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/WhatWeDointheShadows/comments/wbi3lx/52_wishes_from_nandors_djinn/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [An approximate total of how many wishes Nandor has used (as of S4E4)] ---
An approximate total of how many wishes Nandor has used (as of S4E4) I frequently see posts and comments on this sub wondering how many wishes Nandor has used up, but I have not seen any posts that actually track them and try to total them up. I'm bored and can't sleep, so I figured I would make an attempt. If someone else has already made this post, I apologize, but at least I have a good excuse to rewatch! :) The Djinn is first introduced in S4E2 'The Lamp', and reveals that he can grant 52 wishes. Let the count begin! S4E2- The Lamp - #1: Wishes to know how many wishes he gets - #2: Wishes to bring back all 37 of his dead wives - #3: Wishes for his wives to speak English - This part is what gets tricky. Because we never see Nandor making this wish/wishes, there are two ways this can go: - #4: Wishes to get rid of the wives he does not wish to wed - Originally I just assumed that each elimination cost one wish, but since we never see him wish for that and it is just the wives going to get a coin, I believe it is possible that it was a predetermined single wish to just get rid of them along the way. - - #4-38: Individual wishes to get rid of wives he does not wish to wed - If each death costs one wish, he would have used up 35 wishes to discard of his extra wives. He started with 37 and ended up with one (Marwa), so assuming that A) Nasrin being hit by the truck was as fatal as it looked, and B) none of the other wives died due to outside circumstances, it would take 35 wishes to get rid of the rest. - - - #5 or #39: Wishes for Marwa to have blonde hair - #6 or #40: Wishes for Marwa's hair to have a hint of red - #7 or #41: Wishes for Marwa's hair to return to the original color - Episode total: 7 wishes or 41 wishes S4E3- The Grand Opening - This is another tricky one. Towards the beginning, while confiding in Nadja, Nandor mentions having made some modifications to mold Marwa into his idea of a perfect woman, specifically mentioning her butt. However, he does not address how many wishes it took to make him satisfied. It must be at least one, but it is more likely a higher, unknown number. - #?: Wishes to have the world's biggest penis (and, accidentally, think of Guillermo every time he uses it) - Episode total: Minimum 2 wishes, likely more; 2+ S4E4- The Night Market - #1: Wishes for Marwa to want to stay home from the market - Episode total: 1 wish At this point, that is all the episodes that are available. Based on the information presented so far, the amount of wishes used by Nandor could be anywhere from: - A total of 10 wishes, leaving him with 42 left to use, to - A total of 44+ wishes, leaving him with 8 or less left to use Personally, I'm leaning towards the latter due to the Djinn's comment on Nandor using up wishes in 'The Lamp', Nandor making wishes without actually having to say "I wish..." (also in 'The Lamp"), and obviously the dramatic potential of Nandor running low/out of wishes sooner than later. Of course, we can only count what we see, so it's entirely possible that there have been more off-screen wishes, but this should at least give a pretty good estimate of where it's at. Feel free to correct me if I missed something or miscalculated, and please share any insight you have!


--- ['What We Do in the Shadows' Season 4: Nandor Will Use up His Djinn ...] ---
‘What We Do in the Shadows’ Season 4: Nandor Will Use up His Djinn Wishes Very Soon The FX comedy What We Do in the Shadows introduced a djinn to the vampire world in the season 4 episode “The Lamp.” They’re not done with the djinn yet, either. The djinn (Anoop Desai) gave Nandor (Kayvan Novak) 52 wishes and he hasn’t used them all yet. He will before the end of What We Do in the Shadows Season 4, though, the creators said. What We Do in the Shadows writers and executive producers Stefani Robinson and Paul Simms were on a Television Critics Association panel on June 6. They addressed how long Nandor’s relationship with the djinn would last. What We Do in the Shadows Season 4 airs Tuesdays at 10 p.m. on FX and the next day on Hulu. It was time for a djinn in ‘What We Do in the Shadows’ Season 4 Robinson said the creators of What We Do in the Shadows keep a list of other magical creatures they hope to include on the show. They’ve already had werewolves so season 4 was time for a djinn on What We Do in the Shadows. “We have a running list of mythical creatures that we are hoping to get into the show,” Robinson said. “It’s just a matter of trying to work them in there. So I think, genie, it felt like the perfect time to go ahead and do that.” Nandor will burn through 52 wishes pretty quickly While “The Lamp” didn’t exhaust all of Nandor’s wishes, he doesn’t have a whole season’s worth. The djinn will fulfill any wish so don’t expect Nandor to save his last wish for the What We Do in the Shadows Season 4 finale. “The fun part is in fairytales, it’s three wishes because you have to choose them very carefully,” Simms said. “In our story, it’s 50 wishes, and Nandor blows through all of them within about three episodes. So he’s really not very careful with it.” Robinson said they debated how many wishes to give Nandor in What We Do in the Shadows Season 4. “The 50 wish rule, I feel like we went back and forth on that,” Robinson said. “Like Aladdin, there was the three wish thing. Is it really like the famous genies?” How ‘What We Do in the Shadows’ decided on 50 wishes Most djinn or genies grant three wishes and only three wishes. Simms and Robinson wanted to give more. “I feel like part of it was when we decided we wanted him to bring a genie or djinn back from his ancestral homeland,” Simms said. “Our first conversations were how do we do this without it looking like it’s from the animated Aladdin or something?” The creators of What We Do in the Shadows debated how many wishes would distinguish them from Aladdin. “We wanted to subvert every expectation and have him be just like a genie who is more like a businessman,” Simms said. “And someone who goes, like, ‘Yeah, the three wish rule, that’s all made up, you know. That’s not real.’ There’s more story with 50 wishes. Why not?” But, not a whole season’s worth of story.


--- [The Lamp (What We Do in the Shadows) - Wikipedia] ---
"The Lamp" is the second episode of the fourth season of the American mockumentary comedy horror television series What We Do in the Shadows, set in the franchise of the same name. It is the 32nd overall episode of the series and was written by Wally Baram and Aasia LaShay Bullock, and directed by co-executive producer Yana Gorskaya. It was released on FX on July 12, 2022, airing back-to-back with the previous episode, "Reunited".
The series is set in Staten Island, New York City. Like the 2014 film, the series follows the lives of vampires in the city. These consist of three vampires, Nandor, Laszlo, and Nadja. They live alongside Colin Robinson, an energy vampire; and Guillermo, Nandor's familiar. The series explores the absurdity and misfortunes experienced by the vampires. In the episode, Nandor finds a djinn and decides to resurrect his 37 wives to decide which one to marry again. Meanwhile, Laszlo and Nadja try to get the Guide to approve the vampire nightclub.
According to Nielsen Media Research, the episode was seen by an estimated 0.385 million household viewers and gained a 0.15 ratings share among adults aged 18–49. The episode received extremely positive reviews from critics, who praised the humor and character development, although the pacing received criticism.


--- [Djinn | What We Do in the Shadows Wiki - Fandom] ---
Djinn is an unnamed djinn who serves Nandor. He is a recurring character in the fourth season of the What We Do in the Shadows TV series. Biography[] Early Life[] Prior to being summoned by Nandor, Djinn granted others' wishes, and was keen on finding loopholes to try and teach the dangers of greed and desire. What We Do in the Shadows, Season 4: 2022[] Djinn's lamp came into Nandor's possession after he returned from his homeland of Al Qolnidar with treasures intended to be used as a dowry for his potential wife. Nandor had kept the lamp for many years before this, but had never thought to rub the lamp counter-clockwise until Guillermo de la Cruz suggested it, summoning Djinn. Djinn informs him that he has a total of 52 wishes, but tricks Nandor into wasting one immediately. At Nandor's wedding, Djinn gifts him a miniature lamp, along with three additional wishes, and suggests that he use them wisely. Trivia[] Gallery[] Appearances[] - What We Do in the Shadows (TV series) - Season 4: "The Lamp", "The Grand Opening", "The Night Market", "Private School", "The Wedding"


--- [52 (?) wishes from Nandor's Djinn? : r/WhatWeDointheShadows - Reddit] ---
52(?) wishes from Nandor's Djinn? New to this sub but long time enjoyer of WWDITS, it is the only show I rewatch ad nauseum (for those around me at least). The only question I have from the new season is; why does Nandor's Djinn (Genie, Guillermo?) give him so many wishes? Thanks in advance and sorry if this has been covered already I couldn't find an answer.
