=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Early Life and Education of Dua Lipa: A Complete Timeline]
2008: Move to Pristina In 2008, after Kosovo declared independence, Dua Lipa moved with her family to Pristina, where she attended Mileniumi i Tretë School and considered a music career.
URL: https://populartimelines.com/timeline/Dua-Lipa/early-life-education

[Dua Lipa - Wikipedia]
Dua Lipa (/ ˈduːə ˈliːpə / ⓘ DOO-ə LEE-pə, Albanian pronunciation: [ˈdua ˈlipa] ⓘ; born 22 August 1995) is an English singer and songwriter. Her accolades include seven Brit Awards and three Grammy Awards. Lipa worked as a model before venturing into music and signing with Warner Bros. Records in 2014. She released her eponymous debut album in 2017, which peaked at number three ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dua_Lipa

[Dua Lipa: Everything you need to know about the singer]
Where is Dua Lipa from? Dua Lipa's parents are Albanian, from Kosovo, however they moved to London in the 1990s, where Dua was born in 1995. Whilst in London, Dua attended Sylvia Young Theatre School part-time until she was 13-years-old. The family then moved back to Kosovo in 2006, when Dua's dad was offered a job there. During her time in Kosovo, Dua Lipa was filmed performing at school ...
URL: https://www.hellorayo.co.uk/news/music/pop/dua-lipa

[Dua Lipa biography. British singer, songwriter and model]
Early Life Born Dua Lipa in Westminster, London on August 22, 1995, her name translates from Albanian to "I love," "I want," or "I need." Her parents, ethnic Albanians from Kosovo, left Pristina in the 1990s. Lipa attended the Sylvia Young Theatre School and grew up listening to her father&039;s music, singer Dukagjin Lipa. In 2008, her family returned to Kosovo when the country declared ...
URL: https://biographs.org/dua-lipa

[PRIMARY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of PRIMARY is first in order of time or development : primitive. How to use primary in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/primary


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Early Life and Education of Dua Lipa: A Complete Timeline] ---
How education and upbringing influenced the life of Dua Lipa. A timeline of key moments. Dua Lipa is a highly successful English singer and songwriter, recognized for her significant contributions to the music industry. She has received numerous accolades, including seven Brit Awards and three Grammy Awards, solidifying her status as a prominent figure in contemporary pop music. Her work spans various genres, showcasing her versatility and appeal to a broad audience. In 1997, homosexuality was decriminalized in China, a detail relevant to the subsequent removal of fans waving rainbow flags at Dua Lipa's concert in Shanghai in September 2018. In 2008, after Kosovo declared independence, Dua Lipa moved with her family to Pristina, where she attended Mileniumi i Tretë School and considered a music career. In 2016, Dua Lipa and her father, Dukagjin, co-created the Sunny Hill Foundation to support people in Kosovo experiencing financial difficulties. In mid-November 2018, Dua Lipa participated in UNICEF's "Go Blue" campaign for World Children's Day, contributing a video where she re-recorded her song "Be the One" (2015), changing the word "red" to "blue". In December 2018, Dua Lipa participated in Ellie Goulding's "Streets of London" annual charity event at Wembley Arena, to support people experiencing homelessness in London. Following Dua Lipa's performance at the 2018 UEFA Champions League final, her song "One Kiss" was adopted by Liverpool fans, becoming a club anthem after significant victories. In 2018, American talk show host Wendy Williams mispronounced Dua Lipa's name as 'Dula Peep', which fans affectionately adopted as a nickname, and which she has positively embraced since then. In November 2019, following the 2019 Albania earthquake, Dua Lipa asked fans for donations and co-released a limited edition line of t-shirts called "Pray for Albania" with Albanian fashion designers to raise funds for victims. In 2019, Dua Lipa was part of an initiative organised by Belgian singer Angèle and KickCancer Foundation to fund research against childhood cancer, and it was about a charity raffle in which Lipa offered a manuscript of her song "Don't Start Now" (2019) as a prize. In 2019, an earthquake in Albania severely damaged a kindergarten that Dua Lipa's Sunny Hill Foundation later helped reconstruct through the "Adopt a Kindergarten" initiative. In March 2020, Dua Lipa asked her fans to donate to the UNHCR agency to address the COVID-19 pandemic. She also performed her song "Don't Start Now" (2019) on The Late Late Show with James Corden From His Garage during the "Home Fest" television special to raise money for CDC and Feed the Children. On 23 April 2020, Dua Lipa took part in a charitable project operated by BBC Radio 1 for a cover version of "Times Like These" for the Live Lounge segment. She was part of the charity supergroup Live Lounge Allstars. On 16 May 2020, Dua Lipa performed her song "Break My Heart" (2020) on the television special Graduate Together: America Honors the High School Class of 2020. At the end of May 2020, she participated in a digital event called "Dream with Us" to raise funds, which event consisted of a streaming concert at which a portion of proceeds would go to organisations which help fight COVID-19. In July 2021, through her Sunny Hill Foundation, Dua Lipa joined the "Adopt a Kindergarten" initiative to reconstruct a kindergarten in Tirana, Albania, that was severely damaged by the 2019 Albania earthquake. In October 2021, the reconstructed kindergarten, funded by Dua Lipa's Sunny Hill Foundation, was completed and named "Sunny Hill Kindergarten". In 2021, Dua Lipa performed virtually at the Elton John AIDS Foundation Academy Award Party to benefit the AIDS Foundation to combat HIV disease. In August 2022, Dua Lipa was named an Honorary Ambassador of Kosovo by the President of Kosovo, Vjosa Osmani. Lipa expressed her support for the rights of Kosovans. On 27 November 2022, Dua Lipa was granted Albanian citizenship by President Bajram Begaj. In October 2023, Dua Lipa signed an open letter for the "Artists4Ceasefire" campaign alongside 185 other artists, urging President Biden to push for a ceasefire and an end to the killing of civilians amid the 2023 Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip. In July 2025, Dua Lipa formally announced her engagement to British actor Callum Turner. On 31 July 2025, Dua Lipa was granted Kosovar citizenship by President Vjosa Osmani. Adidas AG is a German multinational corporation and the second-largest... Donald John Trump is an American politician media personality and... Jonathan Lyndale Kirk better known as DaBaby is an American... Bernie Sanders is a prominent American politician currently serving as... Instagram is a photo and video-sharing social networking service owned... Sir Elton John is a highly successful British singer songwriter... 27 minutes ago North Carolina Early Voting Surges Before 2024 Primary Elections, Featuring Thom Tillis 28 minutes ago Jurickson Profar Suspended 162 Games by MLB for Second PED Violation. 1 hour ago Zach Braff surprised by 'Scrubs' reboot cast's age; show returns with new heart. 1 hour ago Mitch Barnhart, Kentucky's Athletic Director, to Retire After Long Tenure 1 hour ago Jets Secure Breece Hall with Franchise Tag: Future Plans and Contract Details 1 day ago Elisabeth Hasselbeck Returns to 'The View', Receives 'Armor of God' Gift Jesse Jackson is an American civil rights activist politician and... Hillary Diane Rodham Clinton is a prominent American politician lawyer... Jim Carrey is a Canadian-American actor and comedian celebrated for... Ken Paxton is an American politician and lawyer serving as... XXXTentacion born Jahseh Dwayne Ricardo Onfroy was a controversial yet... Bill Clinton served as the nd U S President from...


--- [Dua Lipa - Wikipedia] ---
Dua Lipa (  DOO-ə LEE-pə, Albanian pronunciation: [ˈdua ˈlipa] ; born 22 August 1995) is an English singer and songwriter. Her accolades include seven Brit Awards and three Grammy Awards.
Lipa worked as a model before venturing into music and signing with Warner Bros. Records in 2014. She released her eponymous debut album in 2017, which peaked at number three on the UK Albums Chart and spawned the singles "Be the One", "IDGAF", and the UK number-one single "New Rules". She was honoured with the Brit Awards for British Female Solo Artist and British Breakthrough Act in 2018. Her second UK number-one single, "One Kiss" with Calvin Harris, was the best-selling song of 2018 in the UK and won the Brit Award for Song of the Year. She later won the Grammy Award for Best New Artist and Best Dance Recording for "Electricity" featuring Silk City in 2019.
Lipa's second album, Future Nostalgia (2020), became her first UK number-one album and peaked in the top-three in the US. Its lead single, "Don't Start Now", scored the longest top-ten stay for a British female artist on the UK Singles Chart and ranked in the top five on the US Billboard Hot 100 year-end chart of 2020. The album's success continued with the follow-up singles "Physical", "Break My Heart", and "Levitating", with the latter topping the Billboard year-end Hot 100 chart of 2021 and receiving a Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) Diamond certification in the US. Future Nostalgia won the Brit Award for British Album of the Year and the Grammy Award for Best Pop Vocal Album.
Lipa subsequently scored her third and fourth UK number-one singles with the 2021 Elton John duet "Cold Heart (Pnau remix)" and "Dance the Night" from the soundtrack of the film Barbie (2023), wherein she also made her acting debut. Lipa released her third studio album, Radical Optimism (2024), which debuted atop the UK Albums Chart and was preceded by the UK top-ten singles "Houdini", "Training Season", and "Illusion". She also had a supporting role in the 2024 spy film Argylle.


--- [Dua Lipa: Everything you need to know about the singer] ---
Everything you need to know about BRIT Award-winner Dua Lipa She's just finished her 'Radical Optimism Tour'! Dua Lipa is one of the biggest British stars on the planet, thanks to her incredible songs and memorable performances. She's released bangers like 'Physical', 'Break My Heart' and collaborations with Calvin Harris 'One Kiss' and 'Handlebars' with Blackpink's Jennie. Dua has recently taken her 'Radical Optimism Tour' around the world and she's now announced a tour documentary, and released a fifth anniversary edition of her album 'Future Nostalgia'! Let's take a look at how the singer rose to fame from a young singer at a theatre school to a BRIT Award winner... Where is Dua Lipa from? Dua Lipa's parents are Albanian, from Kosovo, however they moved to London in the 1990s, where Dua was born in 1995. Whilst in London, Dua attended Sylvia Young Theatre School part-time until she was 13-years-old. The family then moved back to Kosovo in 2006, when Dua's dad was offered a job there. During her time in Kosovo, Dua Lipa was filmed performing at school. Looking very confident holding a microphone, Dua sings along to the backing track of Alicia Keys' 2007 single 'No One', and receives a round of applause. After just a couple of years in Kosovo, Dua then returned to London where she lived with friends and worked in restaurants whilst writing songs and pursuing a career in music, as well as posting covers of her favourite songs on YouTube, mostly by P!nk and Nelly Furtado. Although Dua only lived in Kosovo for around two years, she describes it as her "home", as she told us in 2019: "Touring, performing in Kovoso, in my home town. That's always a massive 'pinch me' moment, because it's something I've always wanted to do since I was young." Dua received Albanian citizenship in November 2022, sharing the moment she was granted the papers by President Bajram Begaj, Dua wrote in a now deleted Instagram post: 'Thank you President Bajram Begaj and Mayor @erionveliaj for this honour ~ got my Albanian citizenship!!' She added: 'faleminderit, po ndihem shume krenare 🇦🇱❤️👐🏼', which translates roughly to 'thank you, I am feeling very proud'. How old is she? Dua Lipa turned 30-years-old on 22nd August 2025. What was Dua Lipa's breakthrough song? Dua Lipa's breakthrough hit was 'New Rules', although she released a number of tracks before which you might recognise. Dua's debut song 'Be the One' reached the Top 10 on release in 2015, and her song 'Hotter Than Hell' reached Number 15 a year later. However, Dua had to wait until 2017 to see major success with her summer anthem 'New Rules' which reached Number 1 in many countries including the UK, Ireland and The Netherlands. Dua performed the track at the BRIT Awards in 2018 - the same year that she won BRITs for British Breakthrough Act and British Female Solo Artist. How many BRIT Awards has she won? Dua Lipa has won seven BRIT Awards and been nominated for 20 others. In 2018, Dua Lipa won British Breakthrough Act and British Female Solo Artist, then in 2019 she picked up the BRIT Award for British Single of the Year for 'One Kiss', her collaboration with Calvin Harris. She then went on to win British Female Solo Artist and British Album of the Year for 'Future Nostalgia' at The BRITs 2021 where she also gave an incredible performance. Dua picked up the award for Best Pop/R&B Act at The BRITs 2022 and was nominated for the same award in 2023, losing out to Harry Styles. At the 2024 awards, Dua won the British Pop Act award, in addition to opening the show with a spectacular performance of her track 'Training Season'. Most recently, at the 2025 awards, Dua was nominated in FOUR categories — including Pop Act, Artist of the Year, Song of the Year with Mastercard (for 'Training Season') and Mastercard Album of the Year (for 'Radical Optimism'). Unfortunately she was up against some pretty tough competition and didn't win on the night. Dua Lipa's songs Read up on our guide to Dua Lipa's songs right here. Her second album: 'Future Nostalgia' Dua opened up about putting out her album 'Future Nostalgia', which was released on 27th March 2020, just as the first lockdown in the UK started. Speaking to Australia's The Sunday Project, Dua said: "I was really scared to put music out during this time to be really honest," going on to explain that the live streams she did have "been nice to connect with my fans and listeners in a different way." The singer also explained how she's had to conquer some of her fears while being in lockdown explaining: "Things that actually scare me - which is like going on livestream and talking straight to a camera and being really open and speaking about my experiences and talking about the songs." Dua even picked up the Grammy Award for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 2021 ceremony, as well as giving an iconic performance at the 2021 Grammys of her hit track 'Levitating'. In February 2025, Dua announced she would be releasing a special edition of 'Future Nostalgia' to celebrate the fifth anniversary of the album. What is her third album called? Dua's third album is called 'Radical Optimism', and was released on 3rd May 2024. Fans had been eagerly awaiting a release date for the album, with Dua sparking some excitement when she cleared her Instagram account back in October 2023. Dua later returned to Instagram by posting a short video which showed off her new red hair, also now deleted. Many fans thought it could be for an album announcement, however it turns out it was for a single called 'Houdini'. Speaking about her album before its release, Dua told us: "I'm so, so excited, I've just been waiting for so long to finally start releasing music. I've been in the studio for ages and especially like last year on tour, every time between legs I went to the studio to finish it. So now finally it's like, right, it's time, it’s a fresh start, new music. "It definitely has, like quite a clear sonic departure from the last record and it has kind of a darker, more psychedelic influence throughout." Is Dua Lipa going on tour? Dua Lipa recently finished her world tour, including two UK legs in 2025, which included two dates at Wembley Stadium and two in Liverpool. The singer performed many of her new songs from her latest album 'Radical Optimism', with both Charli XCX and Jamiroquai joining her on stage at Wembley. As if that wasn't enough, she also surprised the sold-out crowds by performing older tracks 'IDGAF' and 'Hotter Than Hell'. The set-list for her Wembley Stadium shows can be found below: Act 1 'Training Season' 'End of an Era' 'Break My Heart' 'One Kiss' Act 2 'Whatcha Doing' 'Levitating' 'These Walls' Night 1 - 'Hotter Than Hell' / Night 2 - 'IDGAF' Night 1 - Jamiroquai - 'Virtual Insanity' / Night 2 - Charli XCX - ‘360’ 'Maria' Act 3 'Physical' 'Electricity' 'Hallucinate' 'Illusion' Act 4 'Falling Forever' 'Happy For You' 'Love Again' 'Anything for Love' 'Be The One' Act 5 'New Rules' 'Dance The Night' 'Don’t Start Now' 'Houdini' Glastonbury 2024 Dua performed at Glastonbury in June 2024 headlining the Pyramid Stage on the Friday night of the iconic festival. Announcing the news that she would be performing, she told her fans on her Instagram page: 'FRIDAY NIGHT PYRAMID STAGE HEADLINE!!!! I have dreamt of this moment all my life. Something that lived only in my wildest dreams and highest manifestations !!! I am so excited to see you all in my favourite place on earth and make it a night to remember!! Thank you @emily_eavis ~ GLASTO 4EVER 🌊.' (sic) After the festival, Dua reflected on the experience saying it was 'the best night of her life'. She shared a video on Instagram, and wrote: 'BEST NIGHT OF MY LIFE!!! HEADLINING GLASTONBURY 2024 ~ BEYOND MY WILDEST DREAMS AND IM STILL TAKING IT ALL IN!!! THANK YOU THANK YOU TO EVERYONE WHO CAME TO SEE US! BELIEVE IN THE MAGIC BECAUSE IT'S REAL!!! 'THANK YOU TO THE HARDEST WORKING TEAM AROUND I AM FOREVER GRATEFUL THAT I GET TO WORK WITH THE BEST PEOPLE IN THE 🌎 , THANK YOU @tameimpala FOR JOINING ME AND HELPING ME TICK OFF ANOTHER BUCKETLIST DREAM AND THANK YOU @glastofest @emily_eavis 🫀🫀🫀🫀 (brb about to go watch it all on iplayer!!!!)'. (sic) An evening with Dua Lipa On 8th December 2024, Dua was the subject of a special one-off TV show, in which she performed her hit songs at the Royal Albert Hall, alongside The Heritage Orchestra and special guest, Sir Elton John! An Evening With Dua Lipa, which is available to watch back on ITVX, also included exclusive interviews with the singer. Which other artists has she worked with? In December 2018, Dua Lipa revealed that she had in fact recorded a collaboration with Ariana Grande - something many fans suspected after Dua posted a photo of the pair on Instagram (now deleted) in January 2018. She also released 'Kiss and Make Up' with K-pop group Blackpink. Despite sounding very exciting, the pop star told US TV show Watch What Happens Live that it was unlikely to be released as the timing wasn’t "quite right" for either of them. In 2021, Dua teamed up with her idol Elton John on 'Cold Heart', remixed by Australian electronic trio Pnau, which mashes up previous Elton hits 'Sacrifice' (a 1990 Number 1), 'Kiss the Bride', 'Where’s the Shoorah' and 'Rocket Man'. In March 2022, Dua and American rapper Megan Thee Stallion released a collab called 'Sweetest Pie', the music video featured both artists in a fantasy world, a concept created by Megan. In March 2025, Dua teamed up with Jennie from Blackpink as a solo artist, and the pair released their song 'Handlebars'. It features on Jennie's debut solo album 'Ruby'. Also in March 2025, Dua released a remix of her 2020 song 'Physical' which featured a new verse with Troye Sivan. Dua Lipa's acting roles Dua appeared in the spy thriller Argylle, starring alongside Henry Cavill, Sam Rockwell and Bryce Dallas Howard. Dua took to Instagram, in a now deleted post, to share the first look at her in the film saying: 'First look!! Coming soon… #Argylle @marv_films'. The film is directed by Matthew Vaughn, who has also directed Kingsman. The film was released in UK cinemas in February 2024. Speaking to Schitt’s Creek creator and star Dan Levy on an episode of a podcast Dua Lipa: At Your Service, she revealed: "I had a really great time, and it was really exciting, but I think for me it’s like baby steps." She continued: "I think that’s also just, like, the best way to discover yourself as well. Rather than throwing yourself in the deep end with something that maybe you can’t completely tackle head on. "Like, I think my biggest fear would be taking on a really big role and being, like, f---. Now I have to, like, be an actor and feel these emotions and feelings on camera, when I haven’t, like, you know, brought myself up to that point yet. But definitely really exciting." Dua also appeared in the Barbie movie where she plays Mermaid Barbie, as well as contributing to 'Barbie The Album' with 'Dance The Night' - which is now certified 2x Platinum in the UK. Who is Dua Lipa's dad? Dua Lipa's dad is a marketing manager and the lead vocalist of a Kosovan rock band! His Instagram bio describes him as 'Founder/CEO of REPUBLIKA Communications Agency, Sunny Hill Festival Director and Sunny Hill Foundation President'. Dukagjin became an Internet star after Dua took him to The BRITs 2019, and host Jack Whitehall told the pop star on camera: "You know how much of a dad crush I have. He is the coolest dad. “Look at Dukagjin!” he added: “Can we get a camera on this guy? The silver fox over here, the best looking dad in the music industry. I want to do a dad swap, can you take mine?” However, Dua declined the offer. 😂 On Father's Day 2020, Dua celebrated her dad by posting four photos of the pair together saying: 'Happy Fathers Day to my BFF' (sic). Aww. Dua Lipa X Yves Saint Laurent Dua is a Fragrance Ambassador for YSL Beauté's and shared a short video to promote the brand saying: 'LIBRE... coming soon'. The video shows the singer dressed in black walking across a bridge, wearing a long black glove on her left hand. Is she engaged? Dua is engaged to actor Callum Turner! Rumours of their relationship began to circulate in January-February 2024 after the pair had been spotted out together after the Golden Globes and were pictured kissing after enjoying dinner in LA. Dua also attended the premiere for Callum's TV series Masters of the Air, not long after they got together. Shortly before Christmas 2024, Dua began sharing pics on insta which showed her sporting a pretty sparkly ring on her engagement finger, but she didn't actually confirm the engagement until June 2025, during an interview with British Vogue. Confirming her engagement to the publication, she said: “Yeah we‘re engaged. It’s very exciting.” Dua also shared more information about how she started dating Callum, revealing they were introduced by The River Cafe in London's co-founder, Ruth Rogers. She added: “There’s a lot of Sliding Doors moments, we have so many friends in common.” Who did she date in the past? Dua previously dated 42-year-old French filmmaker Romain Gavras. The pair were spotted together at a BAFTA afterparty in February 2023, and they made their red carpet debut together at the Cannes Film Festival three months later in May. The pair were reported to have split in December 2023. She previously dated Gigi and Bella Hadid's brother, Anwar. Reports of a split emerged just before Christmas in 2021, where an insider ‘confirmed’ the split to celebrity gossip Deux Moi. The pair were not seen together over the festive period, with Dua opting to spend Christmas on holiday with her girlfriends. Split rumours also circulated when fans were worried the couple hadn't posted a photo together for months, something they labelled ‘odd'. The pair were together for almost three years, with Dua telling Rolling Stone magazine: "I'm very comfortable in the relationship, more so than any others." Dua Lipa addressed her relationship status in an interview with Vogue, where she told them: "The next chapter of my life is about truly being good with being alone." She also spoke about being single on her podcast in 2022, saying: "For me, this is the first year I’ve not been in a relationship for a very long time. It’ve been really great to just be alone and only think about myself and kind of be quite selfish." As part of her podcast and newsletter Service95, Dua took herself out on a date at New York’s Cosme. She told Vogue about the experience saying: "Some people on the internet were like, ‘Oh, Dua went out for dinner on her own, blah blah, I do this all the time.’ And I think that’s amazing if you do it all the time. You must be so confident. But it was a big step for me. I was nervous - like, what am I gonna do? I don’t want to be on my phone." Does Dua Lipa have any pets? Dua adopted a puppy in August 2020 with her then-boyfriend Anwar — but it seems he may have ended up living with Anwar after the split. Shortly after adopting the pup, Dua said: “There is nothing like it. I’m obsessed. I spend half of my day when I’m at home kissing and hugging him. He’s also a very needy dog so I like to hold him at all times. He is perfect.” Anwar has since posted lots of pics of him with the dog on Insta. How much is Dua Lipa worth? In 2024 The Sunday Times Rich List had Dua down as being worth a staggering £90 million, although that's reported to be around £100 million now after another big year. Dua featured in heat's Rich List in November 2021 with an estimated net worth of £43.5 million. By the 2022 edition, she'd shot up to an estimated £69.1 million, and in the 2025 edition she was up to an impressive £129 million, having grossed £83 million on her Radical Optimism tour as well as her many projects and modelling opportunities. Dua Lipa's fashion Dua Lipa isn't just a talented singer, she's also a fashion icon having graced runways in the fashion circuits. In January 2023, it was announced that Dua would be a co-chair of one of the biggest nights in the fashion industry - the Met Gala - along with actresses Penélope Cruz and Michaela Coel, tennis champion Roger Federer and Anna Wintour. Dua Lipa's book club The club is called Service95 Book Club, with Dua telling her fans on her website: 'After months of planning, I am so proud to announce the Service95 Book Club, launching later this month! Words cannot express how thrilled I am – sharing the joy of reading is something I feel really passionately about, so this is a dream come true.' She continued: 'And so I’m inviting you all to join – all you need to do is continue to follow along on our socials and at Service95. Each month we’ll announce our chosen book accompanied by author Q&As, discussion guides and more incredible content to help you get the most out of these wonderful reads.' Now take a look at Dua Lipa's incredible career so far: Early life and career beginnings Dua was born in London on 22nd August 1995. As a child, she took cello lessons when at primary school, as well as doing singing lessons at Sylvia Young Theatre School. After moving to Kosovo with her family in 2008, she then came back to London when she was 15, later completing A-Levels in Politics, Psychology, English and Media Studies whilst also doing weekend classes at Sylvia Young and modelling for brands including ASOS and Topshop. 2013 - The X Factor advert As a young singer, Dua shared videos of herself singing covers on SoundCloud and YouTube. In 2013, she appeared in an advert for The X Factor, singing the song 'Lost In Music' by Sister Sledge. Dua then went on to sign a record deal with Warner Records. 2015 - Dua begins releasing music Dua released her debut single 'New Love' in August 2015, with Dua being one of the writers credited on the song. She has said that the song is about 'facing the fear of losing the only thing that matters to you'. Dua then released her second single 'Be The One', which included a video starring actor Ansel Elgort. The song reached Number 9 on the UK Singles Chart and is certified 3x Platinum. 2016 - First tour and 'Hotter Than Hell' Dua embarked on her first UK and Europe tour in January 2016, commencing in Bristol and finishing in London. She released her third single 'Last Dance' in February, and her fourth song 'Hotter Than Hell' in May. 'Hotter Than Hell' reached Number 15 on the UK Singles Chart and is certified Platinum. Then in August, Dua released the single 'Blow Your Mind (Mwah)'. In November 2016, Dua collaborated with Sean Paul on the song 'No Lie', with the single reaching Number 10 on the UK Singles Chart and going on to become certified 3x Platinum in the UK. January 2017 - 'Scared To Be Lonely' Dua teamed up with DJ Martin Garrix on the song 'Scared To Be Lonely', which was released in January 2017. The song reached Number 14 on the UK Singles Chart and Number 2 on the UK Dance Chart, with the song now certified 2x Platinum in the UK. June 2017 - Dua releases her debut album Dua released her debut album 'Dua Lipa' in June 2017. The self-titled album produced eight singles and includes collaborations with Miguel and Chris Martin and reached Number 3 on the UK Albums Chart. 'Dua Lipa' is certified 4x Platinum in the UK. July 2017 - Dua releases 'New Rules' 'New Rules' was released in July 2017 and became a huge hit for Dua, becoming her first Number 1 Single on the UK Singles Chart and going on to be certified 5x Platinum in the UK. The song was also nominated for British Single of the Year at the 2018 BRIT Awards, but lost out to Rag 'n' Bone Man's track 'Human'. However, Dua did scoop the awards for British Female Solo Artist and British Breakthrough Act at the ceremony. Dua was nominated in five categories at the 2018 BRIT Awards – more than any other artist. April 2018 - 'One Kiss' with Calvin Harris Dua teamed up with Calvin Harris on the song 'One Kiss', which was released in April 2018. The song was a huge success and topped the UK Singles Chart, with it winning the award for British Single of the Year at the 2019 BRIT Awards. 'One Kiss' spent eight weeks at the top of the Singles Chart and is certified 5x Platinum in the UK. September 2018 - 'Electricity' with Silk City In September 2018, Dua teamed up with Silk City on the track 'Electricity'. The song reached Number 4 on the UK Singles Chart and is certified Platinum. 'Electricity' won the Grammy award for Best Dance Recording at the 2019 Grammy Awards. February 2019 - Grammy Awards 2019 was a huge year for Dua at the Grammys, as she won the Grammy Award for Best New Artist in 2019 – in the same year, 'Electricity' also scooped the gong for Best Dance Recording. These were Dua's first Grammy Awards. October 2019 - 'Don't Start Now' In October 2019, Dua released the single 'Don't Start Now', the lead single from her second album 'Future Nostalgia.' The song reached Number 2 on the UK Singles Chart and is certified 4x Platinum. Prior to the release of the album, Dua went on to release the single 'Physical' in January 2020. It reached Number 3 on the UK Singles Chart and is certified 2x Platinum. March 2020 - Dua releases her second album 'Future Nostalgia' Dua released her highly-anticipated second studio album 'Future Nostalgia' in March 2020. The album produced six singles, including 'Break My Heart', 'Levitating' and 'Hallucinate', which has since been certified Platinum. 'Future Nostalgia' was originally meant to be released on 3rd April 2020, but the release date was moved forward to 27th March after it was leaked. The album won the BRIT Award for British Album of the Year in 2021 and won the award for Best Pop Vocal album at the 2021 Grammy Awards. It was also nominated for Album of the Year at the Grammys, but lost out to 'folklore' by Taylor Swift. 'Future Nostalgia' reached Number 1 on the UK Albums Chart and is certified 2x Platinum. November 2020 - Dua collaborates with Miley Cyrus Dua teamed up with Miley Cyrus on the track 'Prisoner'. The song reached Number 8 on the UK Singles Chart and is certified Platinum. August 2021 - Dua collaborates with Elton John Dua and Elton John collaborated on the song 'Cold Heart (Pnau Remix)'. Released in August 2021, it's safe to say the track was a monumental hit! The song was produced during the Covid pandemic and reached Number 1 in 12 countries – including the UK. It is certified 3x Platinum in the UK. In June 2023, Elton performed the song during his epic Glastonbury set, but Dua unfortunately didn't join him. February 2022 - Dua embarked on the 'Future Nostalgia Tour' After initially being due to take place in 2020 and being cancelled as due to the pandemic, Dua embarked on the 'Future Nostalgia Tour' in February 2022, starting in Miami. The tour ended in Tirana, Albania in November 2022, having visited the UK in April and May. Dua performed 91 shows in total whilst on the incredible tour! March 2022 - 'Sweetest Pie' with Megan Thee Stallion Dua teamed up with Megan Thee Stallion on the song 'Sweetest Pie', with Megan previously expressing interest in working with the singer. Dua brought out Megan during her 'Future Nostalgia Tour' show in Denver, Colorado in March 2022. The track is certified Silver in the UK. May 2023 - Dua releases 'Dance The Night' for the Barbie movie Dua released 'Dance The Night' in May 2023, which featured on the soundtrack for the Barbie film. The song was a huge hit, reaching Number 1 on the UK Singles Chart, and was nominated for two gongs at the 2024 Grammy Awards. 'Dance The Night' is Dua's fourth UK Number 1 single and is certified 2x Platinum. 2023 - Dua stars in the Barbie movie Dua made her acting debut in the Barbie movie, playing the role of Mermaid Barbie. The highly anticipated film, which was directed by Greta Gerwig, was released to cinemas on 21st July 2023. Margot Robbie and Ryan Gosling play the lead characters. November 2023 - Dua releases 'Houdini' Dua released the single 'Houdini' in November 2023, in addition to dropping a music video for the track. The song features on her highly-anticipated third album 'Radical Optimism', which was released in 2024. 'Houdini' was certified Platinum by the BPI in July 2024, translating to 600,000 sales in the UK! January 2024 - Dua Lipa announced to perform at The BRITs Dua Lipa was announced as the first performer at the 2024 BRIT Awards, she was also nominated for three awards Artist of the Year, Pop Act and Song of the Year with Mastercard. March 2024 - Dua Lipa wins Pop Act award at the 2024 BRIT Awards Dua won the Pop Act award at the 2024 BRIT Awards, in addition to opening the show with a brilliant performance of her track 'Training Season'. March 2024 - Dua Lipa announced as Glastonbury headliner Dua Lipa was announced as the Friday night headliner at Glastonbury Festival in March 2024, meaning that she would be making her debut on the Pyramid Stage at the iconic festival in June 2024. May 2024 - Dua releases her third studio album Dua delighted fans in March 2024 when she revealed that her highly-anticipated third studio album is called 'Radical Optimism' and would released on 3rd May 2024. The album was released in May featuring her hits such as 'Houdini', 'Training Season' and 'Illusion'. June 2024 - Dua Lipa headlines Glastonbury Dua Lipa gave an amazing performance for her fans at Glastonbury Festival, where she headlined the Friday night. July 2024 - Dua Lipa sells out two Wembley shows Dua Lipa announced a huge show at Wembley, as an extension to her 'Radical Optimism' tour, performing on 20th June 2025. Tickets sold out within minutes, so a second Wembley date was added... Which also sold out super quickly! She has now announced a date in Liverpool, also in June 2025. December 2024 - An Evening with Dua Lipa On Sunday 8th December 2024, Dua's very own one-off concert special aired on ITV/STV called An Evening with Dua Lipa. The special showed the singer's incredible performance at the Royal Albert Hall in London, recorded earlier in the year, and along with Dua's hit songs, viewers got the chance to hear intimate interviews with the singer, where she reflects on the pivotal moments of her career. The one-off special also saw guest performances, including the likes of the legendary Elton John. January 2025 - Nominated for four BRIT Awards In January 2025 it was announced Dua was up for no less than FOUR awards at the 2025 BRIT Awards with Mastercard. She was on the shortlist for Pop Act, Artist of the Year, Song of the Year with Mastercard (for her single 'Training Season') and Mastercard Album of the Year (for her latest album 'Radical Optimism'). Unfortunately, she didn't pick up any awards when the winners were announced in March 2025. September 2025: Dua Lipa announces 'Radical Optimism Tour' documentary Dua Lipa announced she would be releasing a 'Radical Optimism Tour' documentary with Apple TV, which has been shot on an iPhone. The singer shared a preview of the film where fans could see backstage footage from the tour. You can hear songs by Dua Lipa on Rayo. Now read: Dua Lipa's biggest collabs: From Calvin Harris to Sean Paul Dua Lipa: Here's what her biggest songs REALLY mean 🎶 Everything you need to know about Calvin Harris


--- [Dua Lipa biography. British singer, songwriter and model] ---
No content


--- [PRIMARY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
pri·ma·ry ˈprī-ˌmer-ē ˈprī-mə-rē ˈprīm-rē 1 : first in order of time or development : primitive the primary stage of civilization the primary lesion of a disease 2 a : of first rank, importance, or value : principal the primary purpose b : basic, fundamental security is a primary need c : of, relating to, or constituting the principal flight feathers of a bird's wing d : of or relating to agriculture, forestry, and the extractive industries or their products e : expressive of present or future time primary tense f : of, relating to, or constituting the strongest of the three or four degrees of stress recognized by most linguists the first syllable of basketball carries primary stress 3 b : not derivable from other colors, odors, or tastes c : preparatory to something else in a continuing process primary instruction d : of or relating to a primary school primary education e : of or relating to a primary election a primary candidate f : belonging to the first group or order in successive divisions, combinations, or ramifications primary nerves g : directly derived from ores primary metals h : of, relating to, or being the amino acid sequence in proteins primary protein structure 4 : resulting from the substitution of one of two or more atoms or groups in a molecule a primary amine especially : being or characterized by a carbon atom having a bond to only one other carbon atom 5 : of, relating to, involving, or derived from primary meristem primary tissue primary growth 6 : of, relating to, or involved in the production of organic substances by green plants primary productivity 7 : providing primary care a primary physician plural primaries 1 : something that stands first in rank, importance, or value : fundamental —usually used in plural 2 : the celestial body around which one or more other celestial bodies revolve especially : the more massive usually brighter component of a binary star system 3 : one of the usually 9 or 10 strong flight feathers on the distal joint of a bird's wing see wing illustration 4 a b : the sensation of seeing primary colors 5 a : caucus b : an election in which qualified voters nominate or express a preference for a particular candidate or group of candidates for political office, choose party officials, or select delegates for a party convention 6 : the coil that is connected to the source of electricity in an induction coil or transformer called also primary coil primaried; primarying; primaries : to run against (an incumbent) in a primary election She won the seat in 2020 after successfully primarying a veteran Democrat in the district.—Brianne Pfannenstiel —usually used in the passiveBut he's apparently going to be primaried—by a couple of people you've never heard of …—Gail Collins He served a single term … but was primaried, and soundly defeated, in his bid for reelection.—Daniel Foster Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged
