=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Monash Gallery of Art rebrands as Museum of Australian Photography]
Mar 3, 2023 · Photo- Brendan Finn. The MGA (Monash Gallery of Art) will become known as the MAPh (Museum of Australian Photography) from 19 March, 2023, when it is rebranding is officially launched. It will be a free community event and open to the public. MELBOURNE, 3 March 2023: After more than 30 years of successfully advocating for the arts and Australian photography, MGA will be transforming into MAPh ...
URL: https://www.southasiatimes.com.au/australia/monash-gallery-of-art-rebrands-as-museum-of-australian-photography-maph/

[Monash Gallery of Art to rebrand as Museum of Australian Photography]
Melbourne's Monash Gallery of Art (MGA) is set to rebrand and become known as the Museum of Australian Photography (MAPh) from later this month. The MGA opened in 1990, with a focus on collecting and exhibiting all types of visual art, including paintings, sculpture, and photography.
URL: https://www.australianphotography.com/news/monash-gallery-of-art-to-rebrand-as-museum-of-australian-photography

[Monash Gallery of Art Rebrand: Unpacking the Museum of Australian ...]
Dec 1, 2025 · The Monash Gallery of Art’s rebrand to the Museum of Australian Photography in 2023 is a strategic move designed to elevate the institution’s national and international profile, solidify its focus as the primary custodian and exhibitor of Australian photography, and broaden its reach beyond its original community gallery origins. This shift transforms a respected regional gallery into a ...
URL: https://www.wonderfulmuseums.com/museum/monash-gallery-of-art-rebrand-museum-of-australian-photography-2023/

[Monash Gallery of Art (MGA) becomes the Museum of Australian Photography]
MGA is changing its name and focus to become the Museum of Australian Photography, the preeminent national institution dedicated to championing Australian photography. The gallery's original collection spanned all types of visual art, including but not limited to paintings, sculpture and photography.
URL: https://www.photoreview.com.au/news/events/monash-gallery-of-art-mga-becomes-the-museum-of-australian-photography/

[Monash Gallery of Art to rebrand as Museum of Australian Photography]
Mar 7, 2023 · Melbourne's Monash Gallery of Art (MGA) is set to rebrand and become known as the Museum of Australian Photography (MAPh) from later this month. The MGA opened in 1990, with a focus on collecting and exhibiting all types of visual art, including paintings, sculpture, and photography.
URL: https://www.capturemag.com.au/news/monash-gallery-of-art-to-rebrand-as-museum-of-australian-photography


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Monash Gallery of Art rebrands as Museum of Australian Photography] ---
The MGA (Monash Gallery of Art) will become known as the MAPh (Museum of Australian Photography) from 19 March, 2023, when it is rebranding is officially launched. It will be a free community event and open to the public. MELBOURNE, 3 March 2023: After more than 30 years of successfully advocating for the arts and Australian photography, MGA will be transforming into MAPh – the Museum of Australian Photography, ensuring that it continues to hold its place as the preeminent national institution dedicated to championing Australian photography and the vital role it plays in our culture and society. MAPh, (formerly known as MGA), established its name at a time when the gallery collected and exhibited all types of visual art, including but not limited to paintings, sculpture, and photography. There were no other institutions in the country who were dedicating their knowledge and expertise exclusively to the collection of Australian photography, and therefore, the resolve was made to solely concentrate on this art form – which was both ground-breaking and a first of its kind in Australia. This untapped opportunity led to MAPh establishing itself as Australia’s leading museum exclusively dedicated to the collection, conservation, promotion and exhibition of photography and still remains the only public institution in the world solely dedicated to collecting Australian photographs. MAPh’s unique focus makes us one of the most culturally significant photography institutions in the country and is an integral part of the City of Monash’s vision of a city that celebrates and advocates for the arts and creative industries. The rebrand is about so much more than just a new name and logo. Not only does our new name ‘MAPh’ perfectly articulate exactly what we do, but it will also help us to take this institution to the next level with a fresh look, new strategies and more innovative ways to help connect our communities, empower Australian artists and bring more value to the arts sector as a whole. Becoming MAPh aims to increase our reach, profile and engagement with local, national and international audiences as we cultivate a community that is actively engaged with Australian photography and its stories, whilst celebrating its artists, says a media release. Driven by creativity, innovation and passion, MAPh and its team of professionals are committed to continuing their mission to be a source of inspiration and enrichment of the diverse community for generations to come. ‘Our transformation of MGA to MAPh is an incredibly significant moment in our history. It is one that celebrates the legacy of all those who have made our gallery into what it is today. Our origins can be traced back to the late 1970s when the City of Waverley had the vision to found a public gallery for its community. Then in the early 1980s, we took the bold step of focusing on collecting Australian photography, becoming the only public gallery to do so in the world. Since then, MGA has established itself as the Australian home of photography and is now home to over 3,700 photographs in the collection and over that time more than 300 staff, committee members, trustees and volunteers have collectively contributed to making it into the institution it is today. Our new name and branding articulates what we do and reflects the value that MAPh brings to both the community and the arts sector, and one that reaches local, national and international audiences as we cultivate a community that is actively engaged with Australian photography. Our new look will be reflected across all our digital and print media, and we are delighted that our new website will also launch, becoming a place to come and explore our incrediblecollection, exhibitions and education and public programs – embedding the digital with the physical with thought-provoking experiences that inspire, delight and engage the mind, body and soul. We are extremely proud of what we have achieved and look forward to sharing MAPh with our incredible community, ‘ says Anouska Phizacklea, Gallery Director. - The report is based on MGA media release, 3 March, 2023.


--- [Monash Gallery of Art to rebrand as Museum of Australian Photography] ---
Monash Gallery of Art to rebrand as Museum of Australian Photography Melbourne's Monash Gallery of Art (MGA) is set to rebrand and become known as the Museum of Australian Photography (MAPh) from later this month. The MGA opened in 1990, with a focus on collecting and exhibiting all types of visual art, including paintings, sculpture, and photography. At the time, there were no other institutions in the country dedicated to the collection of Australian photography, and a decision was made to commit to this art form. Today, the MGA holds a significant collection of over 3700 Australian photographic works, and also runs the prestigious William and Winifred Bowness Photography Prize. Now, more than 30 years from the gallery's launch, MGA will be rebranded as MAPh – the Museum of Australian Photography, with the gallery furthering its ambitions of being the preeminent national institution dedicated to championing Australian photography. According to MaPh, the rebrand also comes with new strategies to 'help connect our communities, empower Australian artists and bring more value to the arts sector as a whole.' Anouska Phizacklea, Gallery Director, says the rebrand will better reflect what the the gallery does. "It reflects the value that MAPh brings to both the community and the arts sector, and one that reaches local, national and international audiences as we cultivate a community that is actively engaged with Australian photography," she says. MAPh will officially launch its rebrand on Sunday 19 March 2023 at 12:00pm, with an art appreciation and family fun day event at the gallery. This is a free community event and open to the public.


--- [Monash Gallery of Art Rebrand: Unpacking the Museum of Australian ...] ---
No content


--- [Monash Gallery of Art (MGA) becomes the Museum of Australian Photography] ---
MGA is changing its name and focus to become the Museum of Australian Photography, the preeminent national institution dedicated to championing Australian photography. The gallery’s original collection spanned all types of visual art, including but not limited to paintings, sculpture and photography. However, with no other institutions in the country dedicating their knowledge and expertise exclusively to the collection of Australian photography, a resolve was made to solely concentrate on this art form – which was both ground-breaking and a first of its kind in Australia. The new focus makes it one of the most culturally significant photography institutions in the country as well as an integral part of the City of Monash’s vision of a city that celebrates and advocates for the arts and creative industries. MAPh will officially launch its rebrand on Sunday 19 March 2023 at 12:00pm, with an art appreciation and family fun day event at the gallery. This is a free community event and open to the public. Click here to visit the gallery’s website for more information.


--- [Monash Gallery of Art to rebrand as Museum of Australian Photography] ---
Monash Gallery of Art to rebrand as Museum of Australian Photography Melbourne's Monash Gallery of Art (MGA) is set to rebrand and become known as the Museum of Australian Photography (MAPh) from later this month. The MGA opened in 1990, with a focus on collecting and exhibiting all types of visual art, including paintings, sculpture, and photography. At the time, there were no other institutions in the country dedicated to the collection of Australian photography, and a decision was made to commit to this art form. Today, the MGA holds a significant collection of over 3700 Australian photographic works, and also runs the prestigious William and Winifred Bowness Photography Prize. Now, more than 30 years from the gallery's launch, MGA will be rebranded as MAPh – the Museum of Australian Photography, with the gallery furthering its ambitions of being the preeminent national institution dedicated to championing Australian photography. According to MaPh, the rebrand also comes with new strategies to 'help connect our communities, empower Australian artists and bring more value to the arts sector as a whole.' Anouska Phizacklea, Gallery Director, says the rebrand will better reflect what the the gallery does. "It reflects the value that MAPh brings to both the community and the arts sector, and one that reaches local, national and international audiences as we cultivate a community that is actively engaged with Australian photography," she says. MAPh will officially launch its rebrand on Sunday 19 March 2023 at 12:00pm, with an art appreciation and family fun day event at the gallery. This is a free community event and open to the public. Article first appeared at www.australianphotography.com
