=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Brilliant Women in U.S. Horse Racing History | America's Best Racing]
Mar 8, 2024 · Elwood was the first Derby runner owned by a woman and also the first bred by a woman, Mrs. J.B. Prather. Kathy Kusner — In 1968, U.S. Olympic equestrian Kusner became the first licensed female jockey after she sued the Maryland Racing Commission for denying her application for a jockey’s license based on gender.
URL: https://www.americasbestracing.net/the-sport/2024-brilliant-women-us-horse-racing-history

[Kathryn Kusner - Wikipedia]
Kathryn Hallowell "Kathy" Kusner (born March 21, 1940) is an American equestrian and Olympic medalist in show jumping. She was one of the first women to ride for the United States Equestrian Team (USET), the first licensed female jockey, and the first American woman to win an Olympic medal in equestrian competition.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kathryn_Kusner

[Rediscovering Kathy Kusner: The country's first licensed female jockey]
After a yearlong fight, however, Kathy Kusner was granted a jockey’s license in October 1968. To become the first female licensed jockey, she had to endure months of sexist criticism from officials at the Maryland Racing Commission, the press ...
URL: https://www.baltimoresun.com/2019/05/23/rediscovering-kathy-kusner-the-countrys-first-licensed-female-jockey/

[Hovdey: Kathy Kusner and her #JockeyToo moment - Daily Racing Form]
Every morning, as the Saratoga summer of 1967 drifted by, Kathy Kusner kept waiting – waiting for one of the talented young women she watched on horseback to step up and apply for a license to ride racehorses in the afternoon.
URL: https://www.drf.com/news/hovdey-kathy-kusner-and-her-jockeytoo-moment

[It's 50 years since the door opened for female riders: how much has ...]
Feb 6, 2019 · Kathy Kusner, an Olympic medalist in show jumping, is the first female to be granted a standard jockey license from a major racing jurisdiction, after a judge overturned the Maryland Racing Commission’s decision to twice deny Kusner’s application.
URL: https://www.thoroughbredracing.com/articles/3908/its-50-years-door-opened-female-riders-how-much-has-changed/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Brilliant Women in U.S. Horse Racing History | America's Best Racing] ---
Stars of Yesterday: Looking Back at Best San Felipe Stakes Winners Brilliant Women in U.S. Horse Racing History LegendsThroughout horse racing history, women have been instrumental in contributing to the progression and advancement of the sport. Although horse racing remains a largely male-dominated world, women continue to break down barriers as jockeys, trainers, owners, breeders, and farm managers. This International Women’s Day, we want to celebrate a few of the women that have made a lasting impact and paved the way for women in the sport today. Laska Durnell — In 1904, Durnell became the first woman to own a Kentucky Derby starter and winner with Elwood. Elwood was the first Derby runner owned by a woman and also the first bred by a woman, Mrs. J.B. Prather. Kathy Kusner — In 1968, U.S. Olympic equestrian Kusner became the first licensed female jockey after she sued the Maryland Racing Commission for denying her application for a jockey’s license based on gender. She later rode on the east coast and in Canada and became the first licensed female jockey to ride races in Mexico, Germany, Colombia, Chile, Peru, Panama, and South Africa. Kusner earned a silver medal at the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich, Germany, to become the first woman to medal in an equestrian competition. Diane Crump — In 1969, she became the first female jockey to ride in a pari-mutuel race when she rode Bridle ’n Bit on Feb. 7 at Hialeah Park. Crump wasn’t the first female to try, however. Penny Ann Early had been granted a license in 1968, but she was denied three times when male jockeys boycotted the race to keep her from competing. Crump also became the first female jockey to compete in the Kentucky Derby, finishing 15th aboard Fathom in 1970. Barbara Jo Rubin — In 1969, 19-year-old Rubin became the first woman to win a pari-mutuel race held at a nationally recognized U.S. racetrack when she rode Cohesion to a half-length victory Feb. 22 at Charles Town. She subsequently became the first female rider to win a race in New York. Cheryl White — On June 15, 1971, White became the first licensed African American woman jockey to ride in the U.S., and on Sept. 2 at Waterford Park she earned her first win aboard Jetolara. After an accomplished riding career competing in Thoroughbred, Quarter Horse, Arabian, Paint, and Appaloosa races, White passed the California Horse Racing Board’s steward examination in 1991 and subsequently served as a racing official at multiple racetracks in several different capacities. She passed away in 2019. Patricia “P.J.” Cooksey — This trailblazing jockey began a 26-year career in 1979, won her first race with Turf Advisor at old Waterford Park (now Mountaineer), and amassed 2,137 victories in her time as a jockey. In 1985, she became the second woman to ride in the Kentucky Derby and the first female jockey to compete in the Preakness, finishing sixth on Tajawa. Rosemary Homeister Jr. — In 1992, Homeister became the first female rider to win an Eclipse Award, earning year-end champion honors as outstanding apprentice jockey. That breakthrough honor signaled the start of a highly successful riding career from 1992-2015 that saw her win 2,784 races. All the while she earned respect as a jockey who had the proper mix of skill, talent, and determination to be a top rider on the ultra-competitive Florida circuit. Julie Krone — In 1993, she became the first woman to win a Triple Crown race when riding Colonial Affair to victory in the Belmont Stakes, and in 2003 Krone became the first woman to win a Breeders’ Cup race when she rode Halfbridled to victory in the Juvenile Fillies at Santa Anita Park. The all-time leader among female riders by victories (3,704) and purse earnings ($90.1 million), Krone was the first woman inducted into the Racing Hall of Fame in 2000. Donna Barton Brothers — She is one of the most decorated female jockeys of her time, retiring in 1998 with 1,130 wins and more than $18.6 million in purse earnings after following in the footsteps of her mother, Patti. She was the second-leading money earner of all time among women at the time of her retirement. Barton Brothers used her talent on horseback to shift careers to on-track reporter in 2000, and she covers marquee events as an award-winning television journalist for NBC Sports. Rosie Napravnik — In 2012, Napravik became the first woman to win the Kentucky Oaks when she guided Believe You Can to victory. She became in 2013 the first female rider to compete in all of the Triple Crown races in the same season, and became the highest-placing woman rider in the Kentucky Derby when she finished fifth aboard Mylute. Napravnik was the first woman to ride multiple Breeders’ Cup winners. She won the leading jockey title at Fair Grounds every year from 2011 to 2014 and topped the fall meet standings at Keeneland in 2013 and 2014. Marylou Whitney — Known as “The Queen of Saratoga,” the philanthropist and socialite helped lift the iconic, upstate New York town back from the doldrums by bringing the biggest Hollywood stars to Saratoga and throwing grand parties. Whitney, who died July 19, 2019, at age 93, carried on the legacy of one of Thoroughbred racing’s great dynasties and did so much more than simply race in the famed Eton blue and brown silks of the Whitney family. She became the first woman in 80 years to breed and own a Kentucky Oaks winner (Bird Town, 2003). She won the Belmont Stakes and Travers the following year with homebred Birdstone. Whitney also was presented with the Eclipse Award of Merit in 2010 and was elected to The Jockey Club in 2011. Penny Chenery — Best known as breeder and owner of 1973 Triple Crown winner Secretariat, “The First Lady of Racing” was so much more than that. In an age when there was little emphasis on providing women with an advanced education, Chenery attended Columbia Business School and used that business acumen to resuscitate faltering Meadow Stable, a racing and breeding operation founded by her father, Christopher. Chenery made sweeping changes and her wisdom and diligence paid off in a big way in 1972 when Riva Ridge won the Kentucky Derby and Belmont Stakes. The next year, Secretariat became the first Triple Crown winner since Citation in 1948. Chenery went on to join Martha Gerry and Allaire du Pont as the first women to be admitted as members of The Jockey Club and remained an inspiration and cultural icon until her death in September 2017. Marje Everett — Racing was in Everett’s blood as the daughter of Benjamin Lindheimer, who owned Arlington Park and the now defunct Washington Park in Illinois, but she carved out her own place in Thoroughbred racing history. She took over as chairwoman at both Arlington and Washington Park following her father’s death in 1960. After selling her interest in both tracks, Everett acquired stock in Hollywood Park, relocated to California, and served on the racetrack's board of directors from 1972 to 1991. Everett was chief executive officer and president of Hollywood Park from 1985 to 1991. She helped bring the Breeders’ Cup to the Inglewood, Calif., track twice during her tenure, including the inaugural event in 1984, and began what is now the Pick 6 in 1983. Stella Thayer — She purchased Tampa Bay Downs for $16.5 million in 1986, outbidding iconic New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner for the racetrack. Soon after, Tampa Bay Downs became the first Thoroughbred racetrack with separate female ownership and management. Thayer also has served as president of the Thoroughbred Racing Association as well as president of the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame from 2005 to 2014. Thayer has been a trustee since 1994 and currently is one of 10 vice chairs for the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame. Barbara Livingston — The chief photographer for the Daily Racing Form, Livingston has amassed six Eclipse Awards, four for photography and two for audio/multi-media, during a brilliant career. In 2018, she told Tom Pedulla that her life revolves around securing the next great image. “It’s not a passion for me. It’s actually an obsession, and I’m not sure it’s always helped me because it’s such a strong drive,” Livingston said. “But what are you going to do? When you are obsessed, you just are.” The results of Livingston’s lifelong obsession speak for themselves. Charlsie Cantey — She never sought to break ground as the first female racing broadcaster … it just sort of happened. The former exercise rider for the great Ruffian, Cantey had an eye for talented racehorses and proved "a natural in terms of communication," according to good friend and mentor Dave Johnson. Cantey spoke from the heart, capturing audiences with her knowledge, folksy style, and charm. That led to a 30-year broadcasting career that went on to include, at one time or another, ABC, CBS, ESPN, and NBC. Editor's Note: This article was originally published in December 2020 and has been updated to include Rosemary Homeister Jr., Marylou Whitney, Penny Chenery, Marje Everett, Stella Thayer, Barbara Livingston, and Charlsie Cantey.


--- [Kathryn Kusner - Wikipedia] ---
Kathryn Hallowell "Kathy" Kusner (born March 21, 1940) is an American equestrian and Olympic medalist in show jumping. She was one of the first women to ride for the United States Equestrian Team (USET), the first licensed female jockey, and the first American woman to win an Olympic medal in equestrian competition.


--- [Rediscovering Kathy Kusner: The country's first licensed female jockey] ---
Although Judy Johnson received a steeplechase jockey’s license during World War II, no female had ever been granted a standard flat track jockey’s license from a major racing jurisdiction. After a yearlong fight, however, Kathy Kusner was granted a jockey’s license in October 1968. To become the first female licensed jockey, she had to endure months of sexist criticism from officials at the Maryland Racing Commission, the press and some fellow jockeys. Through it all, she displayed remarkable dignity, poise and, with the help of her Laurel-based lawyer, the tenacity to endure. Not your typical applicant Kusner’s lifetime of riding led to her recognition as the country’s premier equestrienne. From the time she was a teenager, Kusner won numerous unrecognized flat track and timber (steeplechase) races. In 1960, the 20-year-old Kusner had been named Horsewoman of the Year by the American Horse Shows Association. By 1967, she had been a member of the U.S. Equestrian Team for five years and had competed for the U.S. at the 1964 Olympics in Tokyo. But she wanted to compete against the best on flat tracks, and that meant getting her jockey’s license. Even though she understood the significance, it was much more basic to her. As she told The Baltimore Sun, “This is no great crusade. I just want a license.” In a phone interview, Kusner, 79, explained that achieving her goal was a civil rights issue to her. “This issue was bigger than me,” she said. She felt the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the landmark civil rights and labor law that outlawed discrimination based on, among other things, a person’s gender, meant she was free to pursue her dream of becoming a licensed jockey. The horse racing establishment, however, didn’t see it that way. Before applying to the Maryland Racing Commission, Kusner asked her then-boyfriend, Joe Aitcheson Jr., for advice. Aitcheson, a lifelong member of Laurel’s Iron Bridge Hunt Club, was also a champion steeplechase jockey, and eventually inducted into the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame. He told Kusner she would need a lawyer to see her through the process and he had a recommendation — his ex-wife Audrey Melbourne, who was also active in the Iron Bridge Hunt Club. Attorneys Melbourne and Howard Goldman had set up shop in Laurel for barely a year when Kusner came calling for help. After Melbourne’s death in 2000, Goldman described Melbourne to The Sun: “She was a very strong advocate for women’s rights, yet she functioned very effectively in what was then a very male-dominated profession.” She was precisely what Kusner needed. “She was so wonderful and great,” Kusner told me. Recognizing this as a landmark case, Melbourne took on Kusner as a client and never charged her a cent. Kusner initially asked Melbourne if they could do it quietly with no press, but the attorney said no. She told Kusner that publicity was crucial for them to “have a fighting chance.” Tidal wave of publicity Publicity was never a problem. It started on Nov. 22, 1967, when Kusner and Melbourne showed up at a meeting of the stewards at Laurel Race Course and “dropped a bomb in their laps,” according to the News Leader. The “bomb” was her application for a jockey’s license, which caught the stewards by surprise. In a preview of what was in store for Kusner, J. Fred Colwill, the steward who represented the Maryland Racing Commission, “was obviously shaken by the show of Woman Power and attempted to fend it off with a number of technicalities which were promptly batted down by Attorney Melbourne,” according to the News Leader. Right after Colwill told Melbourne the application had to be submitted to James Callahan, the secretary of the racing commission, Callahan walked into the meeting room, unaware of what was going on. When Melbourne tried to hand the application to Callahan, “Colwill shouted, ‘Don’t touch it! It is an application by a girl for a jockey’s license!'” Backing away from Melbourne, Callahan said the application must be submitted to the chairman of the commission, D. Eldred Rhinehart. At that moment, who should walk in, but Chairman Rhinehart. He initially refused to accept the application but relented when Melbourne cited the Civil Rights Act. Rhinehart accepted the application and promised to take up the matter at the next commission meeting in December. Submitting the application started a tidal wave of publicity, almost all of it tinged with overt sexism. Newspapers across the country reported on the “petite,” “attractive,” “pretty,” “lissome,” “slender, brown-eyed” “frail lass” or “girl jockey” with her “short brown hair trimmed in a boyish bob.” Morris Siegel, of the Washington Star referred to Melbourne as “her lady lawyer, naturally.” In numerous newspaper interviews, Kusner downplayed the hoopla. “I’m not doing it just to take a token ride,” and “I expect no special treatment,” she told The Sun. At the time of her application, Kusner was in training for the 1968 Olympics in Mexico City. She declared that as long as she was still competing as an Olympian, she would not accept payment for riding. The U.S. Olympic Committee assured her that would maintain her amateur standing. The problem of where she would change into jockeys’ silks before races came up frequently. Kusner had her own solution. “Give me a broom closet. No one has to build women’s facilities. I don’t need a shower room. Give me a washcloth between races. Sure if it’s muddy, it’ll be messy, but that doesn’t bother me,” she told The Sun. While the application was being considered, jockeys weighed in through the media. Kusner told me she personally never experienced any criticism or abuse from other jockeys. The News Leader reported, “Several of the Laurel jockeys said it would be a great idea.” ‘It would add some color to racing,’ said jockey Bill Passmore. Another rider, Phil Grimm, told the Star, “I’ve seen a lot of girl exercise riders. They are good and I don’t see why Kathy wouldn’t be a good jock.” Test, then denial The day before the racing commission was to meet, Kusner had to submit to a test of strength by demonstrating her ability to break from the starting gate. The commission issued an exercise girl’s license to her at Laurel Race Course for the demonstration. Riding 2-year-old Beau Tudor, Kusner passed with flying colors. Eddie Blind, Laurel’s starter, told the Star, “I’ve seen all of ’em in my forty years — Acaro, Atkinson, Longden, Shoemaker, Culmone — and none of ’em, at her stage, got out of there any better.” When I asked Kusner if she remembered being nervous at the test, she replied, “No. I’d broken a million horses out of the gate before.” With news cameras recording the proceedings at Laurel Race Course, the Maryland Racing Commission’s meeting the next day was brief. Chairman Rhinehart began with a statement that “this is not an official meeting. We are simply here to get information,” as reported by the News Leader. After a statement read by Melbourne reaffirming their case, Rhinehart then asked Kusner “if she intended to ride for pay.” When Kusner said no, a formal motion was made to deny her the license “on the grounds that it would deprive a male jockey of a means of livelihood.” The motion was approved unanimously, and the 10-minute meeting was over. However, at the next month’s meeting in January 1968, the commission reversed itself when Kusner told them she would accept money for riding but sign any checks over to the U.S. Equestrian Team. Satisfied with that, the commission then required her to exercise horses at Pimlico with stewards observing. Rhinehart told reporters that “if she shows proficiency, then we will go a step further and let her ride in one or two” regular races as an unlicensed apprentice, a regular routine for male apprentices. After working out in front of the stewards, Kusner’s application was once again denied. According to Colwill, one of the attending stewards, Kusner “did not display the ability to ride with professionals in races.” Reversal Months later, in September 1968, Melbourne argued in Prince Georges Circuit Court that the commission’s “arbitrary and capricious” decision should be set aside. She argued that Kusner’s denial of a license was based solely on her sex and not on any lack of ability. She charged the commission with ignoring the parade of witnesses who testified on Kusner’s ability before the various commission meetings. Kusner was not present at the hearing because she was training in New Jersey with the Olympic team. Nine days later, Circuit Judge Ernest A. Loveless reversed the commission’s denial and ordered them to grant Kusner her license. “The commission could never push aside the fact that she was a female entering into the jockey profession,” Loveless said. “The evidence before the commission and the acts of the commissioners themselves show that the petitioner has been substantially prejudiced.” He also found, according to the News Leader, that “the Stewards had disregarded normal procedures and had set up a special set of standards as to her riding ability.” When the racing commission finally presented Kusner with her license on Oct. 29, it released this statement: “Upon the order of the Circuit Court of Prince Georges County, which substituted its judgement for that of the commission and stewards who are familiar with the qualifications of jockeys, the racing commission this date will issue a jockey’s license to Kathryn H. Kusner.” An unidentified rider told the Star, “It is a man’s game and that’s the way it should stay.” Kusner’s reaction to the victory was typically muted. “I just want to ride horses.” A cruel twist of fate With her commitment to both the Olympics and subsequent horse shows in Washington and New York, Kusner announced that she wouldn’t be available to ride in a flat race until the end of November. She seemed to be relieved that the turmoil was coming to a close, telling the Star, “The pressure of all this questioning is just too much. I’ll never talk to the press again, if it goes on like this.” In a cruel twist of fate, while riding in the show in New York after the Olympics, Kusner was thrown from her mount after crashing through a gate and the horse rolled over her. She suffered a broken leg and required nine months to recuperate. She wasn’t able to ride her first professional mount until August 1969. But Kusner’s victory in court opened the floodgates for women applying for jockey licenses. Nick Jemas, the national manager of the Jockeys’ Guild, in reaction to the flurry of female applications, told The Sun, “It is no place for a woman.” After a series of boycotts by jockeys across the country whenever one of the new women jockeys was entered in a race, jockey Diane Crump finished 10th as the first female jockey to race against men, which took place at Hialeah Park in Florida. Kusner’s first professional victory came on Sept. 7, 1969 at Pocono Downs. Kusner is proud of her place in history even at the personal price on her privacy. At a news conference after gaining her license, she was asked what she likes about horses. “They don’t have to give interviews,” she replied.


--- [Hovdey: Kathy Kusner and her #JockeyToo moment - Daily Racing Form] ---
Every morning, as the Saratoga summer of 1967 drifted by, Kathy Kusner kept waiting &ndash; waiting for one of the talented young women she watched on horseback to step up and apply for a license to ride racehorses in the afternoon. Kusner, 27 at the time, was one of those young women, their numbers increasing as trainers discovered that the female of the species could handle a Thoroughbred with as much finesse as their male counterparts. However, conventional wisdom, such as it was, drew the line at women as jockeys. It was a man&rsquo;s game, went the same wisdom, and there were plenty of men in high places determined to keep it that way. Men like the members of the Maryland Racing Commission, who sat in judgment when it was Kusner who finally put herself on the line and applied for a jockey license in the fall of 1967. Four times they considered her application and four times it was denied, while challenging her strength, her emotional stability, and her amateur status as a member of the U.S. Equestrian Team. At that point, Kusner already had competed in the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo and was preparing for the Mexico City games of 1968. Her amateur status, she maintained, was her business, dealt with by her assurances that any purse winnings on the racetrack would be turned over to the USET. As for her ability to handle a horse in high-pressure competition, the commission needed only to refer to Kusner&rsquo;s contribution to the U.S. silver medal at the 1967 Pan American Games, or, for a visual aid, the classic picture of Kusner and the gray horse Aberali clearing a seven-foot, two-inch wall at prestigious Aachen that same year. Kusner, quietly determined, found hope for aspiring women jockeys in the passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. She was convinced that it could be applied to an equal opportunity of employment in a profession that stipulated no physical limitations other than weight. &ldquo;I looked around the racetrack and saw one guy who had worked in a laundromat, another who&rsquo;d been a plumber, and they were urged to become jockeys just because they were small,&rdquo; Kusner recalled recently from her home in suburban Los Angeles. &ldquo;And I&rsquo;d already ridden in two Olympic Games.&rdquo; With attorney Audrey Melbourne by her side &ndash; working pro bono for what she called &ldquo;a landmark case&rdquo; &ndash; Kusner exhausted the commission process then took her case to a Maryland circuit court. On Sept. 27, 1968, Judge Ernest Loveless ruled in favor of Kusner and ordered the Maryland commission to issue a license. &ldquo;It took him all of about five minutes to bring that verdict,&rdquo; Kusner said. As a result of Kusner&rsquo;s legal pioneering, some anniversaries of purest gold are rolling by this year, half a century since those watersheds when women asserted their right to ride alongside men in officially sanctioned parimutuel Thoroughbred events. Feb. 7, 1969 &ndash; Diane Crump becomes the first woman to ride in such a race, at Hialeah Park. Feb. 22, 1969 &ndash; Barbara Jo Rubin becomes the first woman to win an official race, at Charles Town Race Course in West Virginia. March 1, 1969 &ndash; Tuesdee Testa becomes the first woman to win a race at one of North America&rsquo;s major tracks, Santa Anita Park. Kathy Kusner had to watch all the history unfold from the sidelines. In early November 1968, while competing with the U.S. Equestrian Team in the National Horse Show at Madison Square Garden, she suffered a broken right tibia when her horse &ndash; a mare named Fru &ndash; fell during a jumping round. &ldquo;She was a wonderful horse,&rdquo; Kusner said. &ldquo;That&rsquo;s just the way it goes &ndash; she wins her class the night before and then the next day goes end over end.&rdquo; In reporting her Madison Square Garden success, before she was injured, The New York Times referred to Kusner as &ldquo;distinguished particularly because she now is America&rsquo;s first licensed woman jockey for big-time flat racing.&rdquo; She might as well have been described as an elephant with wings. In 1968, the idea that a woman would be allowed to compete against men in a mainstream professional sport was unthinkable. But the dam of legal obstruction had burst. The moment Kusner received her ruling in Maryland, women began applying for licenses. Right on cue, the sporting media rose to the occasion, deploying its most condescending prose in an attempt to explain why these &ldquo;jockettes&rdquo; who wore their silks &ldquo;with a panache no man can match&rdquo; would want to encroach upon turf reserved for men. In its Dec. 13, 1968, issue, Life magazine allowed champion jockey Bill Hartack weigh in on the issue of riding against women. &ldquo;I think women should get a chance to ride,&rdquo; Hartack wrote. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a matter of principle. Women have legal rights, probably too many, but they&rsquo;ve got them, and that&rsquo;s all there is to it.&rdquo; Hartack proceeded to embellish his theme with warnings like, &ldquo;As a group, I don&rsquo;t think their brains are as capable of making fast decisions. Women are also more likely to panic. It&rsquo;s their nature. &ldquo;Hell, women would make racing easier for me,&rdquo; Hartack added. &ldquo;I&rsquo;d like 11 of them in each race.&rdquo; It bears reminding that Hartack, a card-carrying contrarian, was a wellspring of universal scorn who would say anything to anybody. As cringe-worthy as his attitude seems today, he was then giving voice to a widely held view of the growing movement for women&rsquo;s rights, and not just in sports. Penny Ann Early received a provisional license to ride in Kentucky in late &rsquo;68 but was thwarted by male jockey boycotts at Churchill Downs, forcing cancellation of two chances to be the first. That winter, Barbara Jo Rubin&rsquo;s dressing trailer at Hialeah was pelted with rocks, and her passage to and from the paddock required a police escort. Meanwhile, Kusner was in Connecticut, recuperating at the home of Olympic teammate and gold medal winner Bill Steinkraus. Her broken leg would take months to heal, and considerable conditioning was required to recover the muscles needed to ride Thoroughbreds. She finally was able to ride in her first official race during August of 1969 at Pocono Downs. &ldquo;It didn&rsquo;t bother me at all that the other girls rode before I did,&rdquo; Kusner said. &ldquo;In fact, I was glad I didn&rsquo;t have to go through all the attention they received. I got enough of that trying to get my license. And when I did, they were able to go ahead and get theirs.&rdquo; Of course, the ability to get a license was no guarantee of success. Ingrained prejudice toward women jockeys was a rock that required years of erosion before the likes of P.J. Cooksey, Patti and Donna Barton, Julie Krone, Maryann Alligood, Tammi Piermarini, Rosemary Homeister, Vicky Aragon, Emma-Jayne Wilson, Chantal Sutherland, and Rosie Napravnik could make their wider impact. Crump managed 249 mounts in 1969 and won with 24, Rubin won 22 of 89, while Mary Bacon led the sisterhood, with 55 wins from 396 mounts. After her late start and her USET commitments, Kusner had only 13 mounts and one winner that year, on Sept. 7, 1969, at Pocono. &ldquo;You can&rsquo;t call my numbers very impressive,&rdquo; Kusner said. &ldquo;I ended up with 528 mounts and 34 winners by the time I finished that part of my life, nothing like the women who came after.&rdquo; That would be in addition to the silver medal Kusner and her teammates won in the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich. Kusner went on to become a commercial pilot and founder of the Los Angeles-based Horses in the Hood, an organization that gives inner-city youth a summer camp chance to interact with horses. Asked if her fight to get a license long ago was worth the trouble, Kusner challenged the premise. &ldquo;What trouble?&rdquo; she replied. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s no thrill like riding a Thoroughbred racehorse. I loved every minute, and treasured every one of those opportunities.&rdquo;


--- [It's 50 years since the door opened for female riders: how much has ...] ---
In late 1968, the Jockeys’ Guild issued a statement in opposition of females being allowed to participate against male riders. Nick Jemas, a former jockey and the guild’s national managing director, said, “While every rider knows he has to look out for himself in the course of a race, there are times when his life may hinge on the cool judgment and skill of a fellow jockey. A woman’s emotional makeup might betray her at a time like that. It could also imperil the lives of the other jockeys, not to mention her own.” In many ways, the barriers that jockey Diane Crump broke through 50 years ago this week seem light years removed from American horse racing of today. In other respects, not that much has changed, as female jockeys are still a stark minority in the U.S. Crump debuted on February 7, 1969 - 50 years ago tomorrow - at Hialeah Park and broke open the door for women jockeys in the U.S. and eventually across the world. Within months, females took part and prevailed at major tracks around the country. Crump herself won a stakes race at Fair Grounds less than two months after her debut, and within 15 months she would be riding in the Kentucky Derby. Five decades later, a Derby victory has still been elusive for female riders, but Rosie Napravnik, Julie Krone and others have swept away many other glass ceilings for American racing’s most prestigious events. At the same time, the ranks are thin, with the Jockeys’ Guild reporting that women make up just eight percent of its membership. In the absence of Napravnik, who retired at the top of her game in 2014, when she won the Breeders’ Cup Distaff, Kentucky Oaks and three other G1s in her final season, no females ranked in the top 100 jockeys by purse earnings in 2018. Meanwhile, in New Zealand, females made up 43 percent of the country’s licensed jockeys in the 2017-18 season, and, for the sixth time since 2005, a female accounted for the leading riding title. This wave of female jockeys developed even though New Zealand did not allow its first female jockey until 1978, as one of the final frontiers after Crump’s breakthrough. Australia also was late to the game, allowing its first sanctioned female jockey in 1979, but now boasts five of the top seven females in the TRC Global Rankings, which measures achievement in Group and Graded action over a rolling three-year window. Crump rode professionally until 1999, and has moved on to another successful career with horses in Virginia, where she is an agent in private sales of show and sport horses. That realm of competition gives Crump an interesting perspective in assessing the state of play for female jockeys today and compared to her trailblazing roots. “Women are so involved today in so many of the horse sports and they ride at the very top level,” said Crump, who lives in Northern Virginia. “I don't know why that’s not the case in Thoroughbred racing. I mean, they have shown they are capable, but the quantity of riders is nothing like you see with other equestrian sports, where there damn sure is a lot of them and many of them are amazing. “In sport horses, I would say it’s at least 95 percent women. It’s dominated by women. Obviously it’s more accessible for any kid, girl, whatever to get involved with show horses, with sport horses, than it is the racetrack. We just have so many horse outlets. It is very, very popular, but that has not led to a big percentage of female jockeys. “The funny thing is that, when I first started working on the backside of a racetrack, at Florida Downs, which is now Tampa Bay Downs, I was the only female there. For me, it was instant fascination. I was 13 and worked on a farm and I would sneak into the track and little by little I learned how to do everything. But I was just about the only female there in the stable area, probably 99 to 1 among any of the help on the backside. Tiny trailer “Year after year, you would start seeing a few more women working there, and, by the time I started racing, there were more women galloping and doing other things - grooms, hotwalkers, whatever. You saw that and then, over the course of my career, it got where it was 50-50, especially among the exercise riders.” At age 20, Crump finished tenth at Hialeah with her first career mount and came back on the same horse three weeks later at her home track, Florida Downs, to score her first win. Her dressing room that day was a women’s restroom. The next year, the track supplied a tiny trailer as the female ‘jockey quarters’. “I guarantee it was an 8 by 12 trailer, and it was there for years and years,” Crump said. “Maybe one or two girls would ride there in the 1970s. As I wrapped up my career, in 1999, I had been training and I took a string to Tampa Bay Downs, so that would have been 30 years since I got started. “When I went back to Tampa, the girls’ jocks room was upstairs and the mens’ jocks room was downstairs. The space was 50-50, equal, and the riding colony at that time was even too, half of them were women. To me, that meant a lot, that in 30 years it was equal, at least at that one track that happened to be my home track. A lot of the girls that were riding were daughters of the people that I came up with as a kid, whether they were a trainer or a jockey or whatever. “I felt a sense of satisfaction there at the end of my career, that as a woman if you have that desire to be a jockey, at least you have that opportunity. We proved we could do it, and at least I am the one who got to start proving it, and I don’t think anyone said after any race I rode that ‘I don’t know how no one got killed because of her’.” As for the modern game, Napravnik feels she was given a fair shake overall throughout her career, even though she did start out going by ‘A. R. Napravnik’ early on, following old-school advice from Maryland trainer Dickie Small to try to avoid prejudicial prejudgments of her ability. “I thought that was overkill, but at that point in my life I was 17 and I barely recognized the difference between men and women,” Napravnik said. “Now, at 30, with two kids and a husband, I totally get the difference. I did find that it probably served its purpose if someone went through the standings and was totally unaware of who I was, like, say a trainer who was shipping their horse into Maryland for a stakes race. That would help me in that they wouldn’t have to consider that I was female, they would just go by my results. Establishment period “Having said that, once I was established as competitive and successful, and everyone in the country knew I was female, [and] they would still go to the top of the jockey standings and work their way down. “I think there’s just an establishment period where any jockey has to prove themselves as competitive. “As far as getting opportunities, that is what it is all about. There was maybe one point in my career, when I went to New York, where I wondered if being a female was hurting my business, that maybe they were tougher on girls there. It was a short period of time before I reality-checked myself and realized the reason I was having a more difficult time was that the riders were better and I was no better than they were. “I think society will always consider that period where you have to establish yourself as being an equal, and you do, but the opportunities are there.” In her final season as a jockey at Fair Grounds in New Orleans, Napvravnik mentored Ashley Broussard, who is now well-established as one the leading riders on the Louisiana circuit. “She has been the leading rider at Delta Downs and that has to be one of the most ruthless jockey colonies that there is,” Napravnik said. “You want to talk about the southern boys, man, they are tough on her there, but she had the background and the horsemanship to begin with, she worked for Steve Asmussen for a while and was very well prepared. “I think that’s what makes it hard for a lot of young American jockeys, male or female, to break in today: they just don’t have the background compared to riders who come from places like Puerto Rico with the jockey school there. “I feel lucky for the foundation that I had, working with horses from when I was very small. Ashley had a similar background. I mentored her in my last year, and it was so fun for me because she had ‘it’, and she went on to prove it, so that’s been great to see. For me, I always wanted to let my results stand out and in every other way to blend in.” Timeline: female jockeys in Thoroughbred racing October 29, 1968, at Laurel Park in Maryland Kathy Kusner, an Olympic medalist in show jumping, is the first female to be granted a standard jockey license from a major racing jurisdiction, after a judge overturned the Maryland Racing Commission’s decision to twice deny Kusner’s application. Although at the outset of the record, it was stipulated that sex (defined as being female) was not in issue, we nonetheless feel that was the only issue,” Circuit Court Judge Ernest Loveless said in his ruling, which was accepted by other state commissions as a precedent. November 1968 at Churchill Downs Jockeys refuse on three occasions to ride against Penny Ann Early, who would have been the first female jockey to compete against males at a major track* in the U.S. November 28, 1968, in Louisville Early plays one second of an American Basketball Association game for the Kentucky Colonels, just long enough for her to throw the ball inbounds and immediately have a timeout called to allow her to depart. The Colonels signed her to a one-game contract as ‘an expression of sympathy’ for her struggles to reach the races at Churchill Downs. January, 1969, at Tropical Park in Florida Male riders threaten boycotts, preventing both Barbara Jo Rubin and Diane Crump from racing. January 28, 1969, at Hobby Horse Hall Track in Nassau, Bahamas Rubin wins with her first professional mount. February 2, 1969, at Aqua Caliente** in Mexico Penny Ann Early finishes behind Alvaro Pineda in a match race in Tijuana, across the border from San Diego. Pineda was America’s second leading jockey by wins in both 1967 and 68. A track official had Early and Pineda kiss four times for photographers before the race and again afterwards. February 7, 1969, at Hialeah Park in Florida Diane Crump finishes tenth as the first female jockey to race against men at a major track in the U.S. February 22, 1969, at Charles Town in West Virginia Barbara Jo Rubin becomes the first female jockey to win against men at a sanctioned pari-mutuel track in the U.S. March 1, 1969, at Florida Downs (Tampa Bay Downs) Crump, with her parents in attendance at her home track, achieves her first win. March 1, 1969, at Santa Anita Tuesdee Testa, the track’s first female jockey, wins with her second career mount. March 7, 1969, at Pimlico Barbara Jo Rubin scores with her first mount in Maryland. March 14, 1969, at Aqueduct Rubin also wins with her first mount as New York’s first female jockey. March 29, 1969, at Fair Grounds in New Orleans Crump is the first female to win a stakes event, prevailing on Easty Lime in the $20,000 Spring Cup Handicap. April 29, 1969, at Churchill Downs Crump also is the first female to win a sanctioned race in Kentucky. September 30, 1969, at Pocono Downs in Pennsylvania Kathy Kusner records her first win in a sanctioned flat race. Kusner had been sidelined with a leg injury since shortly after she received the license. May 6, 1972, at Kempton Park Meriel Tufnell became the first female rider to partner a winner in Britain under the rules of racing, albeit in a race with all-female jockeys. April 1, 1974, at Nottingham Linda Goodwillwins the first British race with both male and female jockeys. March 31, 1979, at Rosehill Linda Jones becomes the first female jockey to ride in a professional race against men in Australia. Jones also was one of the first females to receive a riding license in her native New Zealand, where females now make up more than 40 percent of the country’s jockey ranks and often in leading roles, with women winning six premierships since 2005. 1982 Mary Russ is the first female jockey to win a North American G1, with Lord Darnley in the Widener Handicap at Hialeah. 1987 Julie Krone is the first woman to win a riding title at a major American track, topping the standings at Monmouth Park, the Meadowlands and Atlantic City. June 5, 1993, at Belmont Park Krone becomes the first female to win a Triple Crown event, scoring on Colonial Affair in the Belmont Stakes. August 21, 1997, at York Alex Greaves guides Ya Malak to a dead heat for the win in the Nunthorpe Stakes, the first victory in a British G1 for a female rider. 2000 Krone is the first and only female jockey elected to the National Racing Hall of Fame. 2011 Rosie Napvravnik is the first woman to lead the jockey standings at Fair Grounds in New Orleans, finishing with 34 more wins than the runner-up. May 4, 2012, at Churchill Downs Napravnik achieves another milestone for a female rider when she becomes the first woman to win the Kentucky Oaks, aboard the appropriately named Believe You Can. Napravnik captures the Kentucky Oaks again in 2014 on Untapable, before retiring that fall after guiding Untapable to victory in the Breeders’ Cup Distaff. *Longacres in Seattle had staged at least one race with four male and four female riders in the 1930s, while female jockeys also had often raced against men at fair and bush tracks. **Aqua Caliente hosted a female jockey race, known as the Powder Puff Derby, for years. In 1949, female jockey Wantha Davis defeated Johnny Longden in a match at Aqua Caliente. Davis is widely credited with winning more than 1,000 races between Caliente and fairs and bush tracks, as well as an annual all-female race at Pimlico.
