=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Battle of the Nations (modern tournament) - Wikipedia]
The Battle of the Nations is an international historical medieval battles world championship, first held in 2009, in Khotyn, Ukraine [1] and held in Europe, in April, every year until the 2020 and 2021 events were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and in 2022 cancelled due to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. It is a full contact competition using metal weapons and a standardized list of ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_the_Nations_(modern_tournament)

[Battle of The Nations]
The world's number first medieval fighting tournament, "Battle of the Nations" 2017, was held at the historic, legendary bullfighting ring "La Monumental Arena" in Barcelona, Spain.
URL: https://botn.info/

[Battle of the Nations | Order Of Holy Darkness Wiki | Fandom]
The Battle of the Nations is an international historical medieval battles world championship, first held in 2009, in Khotyn, Ukraine and held in Europe, in April, every year since. It is a full contact competition using metal weapons and a standardized list of rules. National teams compete in...
URL: https://order-of-holy-darkness.fandom.com/wiki/Battle_of_the_Nations

[Battle of the Nations (modern tournament) - Detailed Pedia]
The Battle of the Nations is an international historical medieval battles world championship, first held in 2009, in Khotyn, Ukraine and held in Europe, in April, every year until the cancelled 2022 tournament. It is a full contact competition using metal weapons and a standardized list of rules. National teams compete in several standard events, with all being full contact - no stage ...
URL: https://www.detailedpedia.com/wiki-Battle_of_the_Nations_(modern_tournament)

[Battle of the Nations (modern tournament) explained]
Battle of the Nations (modern tournament) explained The Battle of the Nations is an international historical medieval battles world championship, first held in 2009, in Khotyn, Ukraine [1] and held in Europe, in April, every year until the cancelled 2022 tournament. It is a full contact competition using metal weapons and a standardized list of rules. [2] [3] National teams compete in several ...
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Battle_of_the_Nations_(Medieval_Tournament)/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Battle of the Nations (modern tournament) - Wikipedia] ---
The Battle of the Nations is an international historical medieval battles world championship, first held in 2009, in Khotyn, Ukraine and held in Europe, in April, every year until the 2020 and 2021 events were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and in 2022 cancelled due to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
It is a full contact competition using metal weapons and a standardized list of rules.
National teams compete in several standard events, with all being full contact - no stage reenactment battles are included.
Teams from up to 60 countries have entered the tournaments.


--- [Battle of The Nations] ---
| Feb | MAR | Apr | | 01 | || | 2025 | 2026 | 2027 | Team was founded at November 2011. For first opening ceremony they decide to go with army beret to show who they are. During 9 years the team fighters were changed a lot. At BotN 2015 they succeed to make own 21×21 team, got silver medal at polearm nomination, woman buhurt cup and best medieval costume cup. At 2019 they succed to bring silver at profights – woman category and best medieval costume cup. Started to try HMB sport in 2015, contacted with HMBIA on 2016, went to BotN from 2017, now 2020 they have 5 Buhurt League teams around 50 fighters, and try to be stronger, and have more gears of the Chinese style. About 8 years ago, the pioneers creators like Fernando Zerbinatti Soares, Felipe Canabrava and Flávio Lopes started a project for sport in Brazil. Since then the love just grew, after many challenges, a team was formed that participated in the Barcelona World Cup and returned with experience and a lot of desire to make the HMB a reality. Today the union of the famous Brazilian Jiu Jitsu and its fighters with the Medieval Combat becomes reality. After achieving important victories in Serbia with the new leadership of João Zerbinatti, HMB in Brazil is preparing to achieve even more in future years. Active buhurt fighters from the province of Quebec, Canada got together and decided to attend Battle of the Nations championships in 2014. They assembled all of the biggest fighters and sent them to Croatia. Battle of the Nations 2018, saw Canada fielding 23 fighters for it’s national team. The amount of fighters willing to represent Canada at a national level is ascending, but the travelling required for such a long-distance event is very demanding economically. This has prevented a good amount of fighters joining the team for world class competitions. In 2019 Canada was placed in the Silver division but was only able to field a single team of 6 fighters, when they were permitted to have 2 teams. Despite making it out of pools into the elimination bracket, the absence of a second Canadian team left the country with too few points to retain it’s spot in the Silver rankings. They now sit at the very top of the Bronze division going into 2021. HMB was started in Australia in 2012 and the first National Team travelled to Battle of the Nations in France, 2013. Since then the national organisation, Australian Medieval Combat Federation, has grown in leaps and bounds. They have competed in every Battle of the Nations since then, culminating in 2019 where they competed in every category and lead the the Asian-Pacific Union into the 150vs150 buhurt. Female buhurt team won Australia’s first HMB medals in Spain, 2017. Ukrainian team is one of the strongest and most experienced teams in HMB. Since 2010, the team participated in all world championships and occupies one of the leading positions in the overall medal standings. National Team of Russia is one of the oldest teams in HMB community. It takes part in the World Championship in HMB “Battle of the Nations” since the very first tournament in 2010. It is the strongest team to date which has won majority of World Championship medals in all categories. “Battle of the Nations” – is a world championship in historical medieval battle (HMB), full-contact martial arts in armour with steel weapons. It has unique concept and you will unlikely find anything remotely the same in the world. Battle of the Nations. Birth of the Legend First Steps Film I “Battle of the Nations”-2010 Khotyn, Ukraine A tree trunk the size of a man grows from a blade as thin as a hair. A tower nine storeys high is built from a handful of earth. A journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step. Lao-Tzu, “Dao De Jing” First “Battle of the Nations” was held as soon as in Spring, 2010 at a magnificent Khotyn Fortress, Ukraine. Four countries took part: Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and Poland. After a huge success of the first festival, the status of World Championship was recognized by the worldwide community and it was decided to hold the championship annually. First overall champion of “Battle of the Nations”-2010 was Russian National Team, and no one has defeated them so far. “Battle of the Nations” was held in Spring, 2011 at the same venue – Khotyn Fortress, Ukraine. 7 countries were able to join the Championship: Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Poland and also Italy, Germany and Quebec, our first oversea participants. Taking into account a huge raise of interest from international teams it was decided to move “Battle of the Nations” in future years to venues in European Union for the convenience of majority of participating countries. “Battle of the Nations” 2012 was held in Warsaw, Poland. Five more countries joined and we had 12 national teams in total: Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Poland, Italy, Germany, Quebec, Austria, USA, Baltic States (United team of Latvia and Estonia), Denmark and Israel. A lot of attention was paid to the Championship and in the result we had a lot of international media outputs. In 2013 “Battle of the Nations” continued to grow at the speed of light. It was held in Aueges-Mortes, France in May with a huge success. National Teams almost doubled in number and participants from 22 national teams attended the Championship: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Spain, Quebec, Luxembourg, New Zealand, Poland, the Baltic states (Estonia, Latvia), Russia, UK, USA, Ukraine and joint team of Czech Republic and Slovakia. HMBIA cooperated with a number of major worldwide media, and after 2013 Championship BBC produced a documentary to broadcast in the UK. At this moment HMBIA was coordinating pioneers of the sport in 30 countries. “Battle of the Nations” 2014 was held in Trogir, Croatia at UNESCO’s Kamerlengo fortress. This time 27 national teams took part in the Championship, eight new nations joined the movement: Mexico, Croatia, Finland, Switzerland, Moldova, Friesland, Serbia and Scotland. It was the year when women’s categories were introduced at the World Championship for the first time in history of our sport. “Battle of the Nations” was held on 7-10th May in Prague, Czech Republic. In the middle of a national park (Petrin) we built a fully closed arena, our own small “Coliseum” as participants called it, and also introduced new categories: polearm duels and women’s mass battles. Twenty-seven national teams participated in that Championship with total numbers of 650 fighters and 2000 participants. In 2016, “Battle of the Nations” bit its own record once again, this time there were 30 national teams with total number over 750 fighters and 2200 participants from 35 countries. Due to a huge number of fighters we had to extend the Championship program for 1 more day, and therefore “Battle of the Nations” 2016 was held during 5 full days of fights on 5-9th May. The world’s number first medieval fighting tournament, “Battle of the Nations” 2017, was held at the historic, legendary bullfighting ring “La Monumental Arena” in Barcelona, Spain. It was the first major event at this venue in the last 7 years, and we had to re-build the inner part of the arena to comply with safety standards – it was a huge task, but we knew it was a smart investment of time and resources. We are proud that the sport of HMB had the honor of opening the doors of “La Monumental” arena for the first time in such a long time. “Battle of the Nations” 2018 was held on 3-6th May under the walls of beautiful Santa Severa castle. About 800 fighters from 31 National Teams participated in 12 fighting categories. This year the program of the festival grown even more – a new experimental category of pro-fights was included to the Championship. Additionally, Women’s “Group Battles” category 3vs3 was modified to 5vs5. This year’s tournament was special, as the Championship had 10 years anniversary in 2019. Here was everything! A record number of countries took part there, fights in traditional and new nominations, and most importantly, meetings with old friends and new acquaintances. What a fights were in the new mass categories 12 vs 12 and 30 vs 30! But is it worth talking about the battles of the banners in 150 vs 150?! Everybody was delighted – the participants and spectators, who filled the stands all the days of the Championship and sincerely and passionately supported the fighters. They in turn encouraged by the audience, showed amazing results.


--- [Battle of the Nations | Order Of Holy Darkness Wiki | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [Battle of the Nations (modern tournament) - Detailed Pedia] ---
No content


--- [Battle of the Nations (modern tournament) explained] ---
No content
