=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kathy Sykes - Wikipedia]
Sykes won the Kohn Award in 2006 for excellence in engaging the public with science. [13] She holds an honorary Doctor of Science degree and honorary fellowship from the University of Gloucestershire [3][14] and won the Suffrage Science award in 2013. Sykes was appointed Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2009 Birthday Honours.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kathy_Sykes

[What Does My Name Mean? The Meaning Of Names]
Find out if your name means beauty, hope, power, bravery, or something different. Learn the origin of your name: English, Hebrew, Spanish, German, or another origin.
URL: https://www.names.org/

[2006: Sykes award | News and features | University of Bristol]
As the winner of the 2006 Royal Society Kohn Award for Excellence in Engaging the Public with Science, Professor Sykes receives a prize of £2,500, a grant of £7,500 for science communication activities and a silver gilt medal.
URL: https://www.bristol.ac.uk/news/2006/5042.html

[Advanced Name Search - The Meaning of Names]
Baby Name Generator Tell us the baby names you like and don't like. We'll make a custom list of ideas just for you.
URL: https://www.names.org/advanced-search/

[Kathy Sykes (born December 20, 1966), British physicist | World ...]
She has also sat on advisory panels in public engagement in science for the Royal Society, the Wellcome Trust and Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council. Achievements Sykes won the 2006 Royal Society Kohn Award for Excellence in Engaging the Public with Science.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/kathy.sykes/2125547


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kathy Sykes - Wikipedia] ---
Katharine Ellen Sykes  (born 20 December 1966) is a British physicist, broadcaster and Professor of Sciences and Society at the University of Bristol. She was previously Collier Professor of Public Engagement in Science and Engineering, from 2002 to 2006. She has presented various BBC2 and Open University TV series, including Rough Science, Ever Wondered about Food, Alternative Therapies. Alternative Medicine and presented for the documentary television miniseries Brave New World with Stephen Hawking in 2011.




--- [What Does My Name Mean? The Meaning Of Names] ---
The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20260129110339/https://www.names.org/ Featured In What can you learn about your name? Celebrity Influence Do you think it's a coincidence that the name Mila74k gained huge bumps in popularity in 1998 and 2010 when actress Mila Kunis had her major career accomplishments? Us either. See lists of names made popular by celebrities. Meaning & Origin Did you know that Matthew1.6m means Gift of God? Find out if your name means beauty, hope, power, bravery, or something different. Learn the origin of your name: English, Hebrew, Spanish, German, or another origin. Peak Popularity Were your parents ahead of the curve when picking their baby's name? You can be. See if your favorite baby name is trending or declining. For instance, Megan440k was most popular in 1990. Geo Popularity Looking for a name that is distinctly southern? Try William4.2m. See what part of the US your name is most popular. Also see what part of the world your name is most popular. Gender Preference Think Charlie216k is a pretty masculine baby name? Traditionally, it has been. However, in recent years, there are almost as many baby girls named Charlie as baby boys! Popular Spellings Have you ever wondered about the spellings of names like Sean, Shawn, and Shaun? Pick the most common name for less misspellings or show their individuality with a less common spelling. Find the perfect baby name. Get a list of names tailored to your preferences to find your favorite. Find based on similar names, meanings, popularity, and more. What does my birthday say about me? What day of the week was I born? What important events happened on my birthday? Know all the facts about your birthday!


--- [2006: Sykes award | News and features | University of Bristol] ---
Kathy Sykes, Professor of Public Engagement in Science and Engineering at the University of Bristol and TV presenter, has been awarded the prestigious Royal Society Kohn Award for her work on encouraging a better understanding between scientists and public audiences it was announced today. Professor Sykes received the award for her work both at an individual and institutional level. She has, for example, organised events with deprived communities in Bristol where the scientific issues discussed such as Do drugs do your head in? were chosen by the communities. In order to encourage interaction at the event Professor Sykes persuaded experts, including neuroscientists, psychiatrists, psychologists and social scientists to sit among the audience rather than on stage. On an institutional level, Professor Sykes has been working towards making public dialogue core to much of the University of Bristol's work. This includes persuading departments to commit money to public engagement activities, setting up a cross-departmental group to share good practice, and encouraging scientists to get more involved with schools. She also involved over 300 staff from her university with interactive science exhibitions that have taken place in a local shopping centre. In addition, Professor Sykes works with Government to encourage and embed the use of dialogue in policy making and improve the quality of dialogue projects. She is, for example, a member of the Science in Society subgroup of the CST (Council for Science and Technology) the Prime Minister's advisory body on science and technology. Professor Sykes co-founded the Cheltenham Science Festival and helped to create the competition Famelab which aims to nurture and talent spot the next generation of science communicators. Professor Martin Taylor, Vice President of the Royal Society said: "Many people will know Kathy Sykes from her appearances on popular TV science programmes including Rough Science and Ever Wondered. She is perhaps less generally well known for her important work encouraging scientists and people from outside the scientific community to talk and interact with one another in various ways so that they can better understand, and learn from, one another's viewpoints. This is incredibly important since science, with all its exciting possibilities and potential challenges, does not happen in a vacuum. Many scientific advances have profound implications for society at large. "Kathy has been awarded the Kohn Award for her deep commitment to promoting a truly two-way conversation on scientific issues and helping to set the national agenda in this area. She is passionate about science and how non-scientists can help plan its future. Crucially she has helped set high standards on public dialogue and acts as a role model for others." Professor Sykes said: "I'm completely delighted to have won this award. I work hard to try and help scientists and policy-makers engage with, and listen to, the public because I really believe it's crucial if we are to make wiser choices about how we use science for society and the environment. It's great that such an august body as the Royal Society is committed to this kind of work and rewards and celebrates it." As the winner of the 2006 Royal Society Kohn Award for Excellence in Engaging the Public with Science, Professor Sykes receives a prize of £2,500, a grant of £7,500 for science communication activities and a silver gilt medal.


--- [Advanced Name Search - The Meaning of Names] ---
Names.org Advanced Search popular this year by origin all lists Toggle navigation Advanced Name Search Names by Origin All Time Most Popular Names Popular Names This Year Last Names Names by First Letter Unique Names Modern All Name Lists Keep scrolling for more Advanced Name Search Advanced Baby Name Search Gender: all boy girl unisex Starts with: Contains: Ends with: Meaning: Origin: Any African African Dutch (Afrikaans) Amharic Arabic Egyptian Eritrea Igbo Islamic/Muslim Kurdish Nigerian Persian/Iranian Portuguese Swahili Xhosa Yoruba African American Aztec (Nahuatl) English Islamic/Muslim Jamaican Mexican Portuguese Native American Arabic Armenian Chinese Hindi Hindu Indian (Sanskrit) Indonesian Islamic/Muslim Japanese Korean Kurdish Persian/Iranian Filipino (Philippines) Punjabi Russian Sanskrit Slavic Tamil Thai Urdu Vietnamese Australian Filipino (Philippines) Islamic/Muslim Polynesian/Hawaiian Albanian Arabic Armenian Celtic Czech Dutch English French Gaelic German Greek Hebrew Hungarian Irish Islamic/Muslim Italian Kurdish Latin Lithuanian Norwegian Persian/Iranian Polish Portuguese Romanian Russian Scandinavian Scottish Serbian Slavic Spanish Swedish Turkish Welsh All-Time US Popularity: Very Popular (500k+) Ex. Lisa, Ashley, Brandon, and Sandra Common (75k to 500k) Ex. Oscar, Violet, Clifford, and Jaden Unique (5k to 75k) Ex. Augustus, Susanne, Patience, and Branson Rare (< 5k) Ex. Nyasia, Kadin, Marita, and Stone All fields are optional, but you must enter at least one search criteria besides popularity. Browse by First Letter A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z By Origin English Arabic Indian African Hebrew Spanish Japanese French Greek German Italian View All Popular Lists Most Popular Popular in 2026 Surnames Unique Top in the 2010s Disney Actresses Modern Unisex Vintage Classic View All Baby Name Generator Tell us the baby names you like and don't like. We'll make a custom list of ideas just for you.


--- [Kathy Sykes (born December 20, 1966), British physicist | World ...] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.
