=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Legendary hockey Olympian Brigadier Hamidi passes away]
Jul 12, 2019 · KARACHI: Legendary Olympian Abdul Hamid aka Brigadier Hamidi, who led Pakistan to its maiden gold medal victory at Rome Olympics in 1960, died at the Rawalpindi CMH Hospital on Thursday, sources ...
URL: https://www.dawn.com/news/1493470

[Hockey icon Brig Hamidi passes away - The News International]
Jul 12, 2019 · ISLAMABAD: One of the icons of hockey and 1960 Olympic gold medal winning team captain Brig (R) Abdul Hamid Hamidi breathed his last at Combined Military Hospital (CMH) Rawalpindi on Thursday, losing battle against lungs injury occurred due to sudden fall at home recently. He was 92.
URL: https://www.thenews.com.pk/print/497284-hockey-icon-brig-hamidi-passes-away

[Brig Hamidi passes away at CMH Rawalpindi - The Nation]
Jul 12, 2019 · ISLAMABAD - Brig (R) Abdul Hamid, alias Brig Hamidi, passed away at CMH Rawalpindi on late Thursday night. Former Pakistan Sports Board (PSB) Director General Brig Hamidi, 93, was the only Olympian, who had played in four Olympics for Pakistan hockey team and was the captain of Pakistan hockey team, which won gold in 1960 Rome Olympics.
URL: https://www.nation.com.pk/12-Jul-2019/brig-hamidi-passes-away-at-cmh-rawalpindi

[Legendary Olympian Abdul Hamid Hamidi laid to rest]
Jul 13, 2019 · Legendary hockey Olympian Brig. Abdul Hamid Hamidi (retired), who led Pakistan to its maiden gold medal victory at Rome Olympics in 1960, was laid to rest in his ancestral graveyard in Bannu town ...
URL: https://www.brecorder.com/news/4707175

[Legendary hockey Olympian Abdul Hamid Hamidi dies at 92.]
Jul 13, 2019 · PESHAWAR -- Legendary hockey Olympian Brigadier (retired) Abdul Hamid Hamidi, who led Pakistan to its maiden gold medal in the Rome Olympics in 1960, passed away on Thursday. He was 92. Hamidi, who was living with his family in Chaklala, was rushed to the Combined Military Hospital (CMH) Rawalpindi two days before his death.
URL: https://www.thefreelibrary.com/Legendary+hockey+Olympian+Abdul+Hamid+Hamidi+dies+at+92.-a0593128147


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Legendary hockey Olympian Brigadier Hamidi passes away] ---
KARACHI: Legendary Olympian Abdul Hamid aka Brigadier Hamidi, who led Pakistan to its maiden gold medal victory at Rome Olympics in 1960, died at the Rawalpindi CMH Hospital on Thursday, sources close to his family said. He was 92. The deceased is survived by a widow and two sons - Maj Nadeem Hameed and Faheem Hameed. He was also the elder brother of another Olympian Abdul Rasheed Jr. Hamidi will be laid to rest in his ancestral home town Bannu in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa on Friday after Asr prayers. Hamidi, who lived with his family in Chaklala, was hospitalised two days ago after his health deteriorated and he breathed his last on Thursday. Hamidi had the honour of representing Pakistan at four Olympics – 1948 at London, 1952 at Helsinki, 1956 at Melbourne and 1960 at Rome. Born on Jan 7, 1927, Hamidi played as inside right and rose to fame when he skippered greenshirts to a solitary goal win over arch rivals India that ended latter’s domination. Later in his career, Hamidi served on important positions including Director General Army Sports Board, DG National Sports Trust (NST) and DG Pakistan Sports Board (PSB) from where he retired on superannuation. He also served as secretary of the Pakistan Hockey Federaton (PHF) for sometime after his retirement from armed forces. “I haven’t seen such a fine captain in my career,” celebrated ex-Olympian Abdul Waheed Khan, who played under Hamidi’s captaincy at Rome, told Dawn. Recalling his playing days, Waheed said Hamidi was appointed captain of Pakistan hockey team in 1954 and served in that position for six years until Rome Olympics. Waheed prayed to Allah to bless the departed soul and give strength to the bereaved family to bear the loss. Published in Dawn, July 12th, 2019


--- [Hockey icon Brig Hamidi passes away - The News International] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [Brig Hamidi passes away at CMH Rawalpindi - The Nation] ---
ISLAMABAD - Brig (R) Abdul Hamid, alias Brig Hamidi, passed away at CMH Rawalpindi on late Thursday night. Former Pakistan Sports Board (PSB) Director General Brig Hamidi, 93, was the only Olympian, who had played in four Olympics for Pakistan hockey team and was the captain of Pakistan hockey team, which won gold in 1960 Rome Olympics. He started his Olympics journey from 1948 Olympics. His funeral will be held at his native city Bannu today (Friday). Brig Hamidi remained Director Army Sports, Director General, National Sports Trust, PSB DG and Pakistan Hockey Federation (PHF) Secretary. PHF President Brig (R) Khalid Sajjad Khokhar prayed Allah Almighty to grant Brig Hamidi highest place in Jannah and give courage to the family to bear this loss. PSB Director General Arif Ibrahim, IPC Secretary Akbar Durrani and entire sports fraternity expressed shock over the death of Brig Hamidi.


--- [Legendary Olympian Abdul Hamid Hamidi laid to rest] ---
No content


--- [Legendary hockey Olympian Abdul Hamid Hamidi dies at 92.] ---
No content
