=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ricksy Business - Rick and Morty Wiki - Fandom]
... best thing that ever happened to him because will be free of Rick forever. Birdperson then teaches him another saying that means "Whatever lets you sleep at ...
URL: https://rickandmorty.fandom.com/wiki/Ricksy_Business

[Birdperson's language | Fandom - Rick and Morty Wiki]
If so, what? The only other phrase I know is "Gubba nub nub doo rah kah" which means whatever helps you sleep at night.
URL: https://rickandmorty.fandom.com/f/p/3100000000000000633

[Never forget. RIP. : r/rickandmorty]
Bird Person: It's not nonsense at all. In my people's tongue, it means "I am in great pain. Please help me." Morty: Well, I got news for ya— ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/rickandmorty/comments/8q64rc/never_forget_rip/

[Top 15+ Rick and Morty Quotes You Need in Your Life]
Sep 18, 2024 — In this article, we will delve into the top 15+ iconic Rick and Morty quotes, from the funny ones to deep, deep and thought-provoking sayings.
URL: https://fendory.com/posts/what-is-the-phrase-from-rick-and-morty

[Quotes - Rick and Morty (TV Series 2013]
Bird Person: My people have another saying: Gubbanubnub Dooraka. It means whatever lets you sleep at night.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2861424/quotes?item=qt3702243


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ricksy Business - Rick and Morty Wiki - Fandom] ---
"Ricksy Business" is the eleventh and final episode of the first season of Rick and Morty. It is the eleventh episode of the series overall. It premiered on April 14, 2014. It was written by Ryan Ridley & Tom Kauffman and directed by Stephen Sandoval. The episode is rated TV-14-DLSV. Synopsis[] When Jerry and Beth go away to take part in a re-creation of the sinking of the Titanic, Rick and Summer throw a party that gets out of control. Plot[] Beth and Jerry leave on a trip to experience the Titanic 2, a recreation of the Titanic experience. Jerry is immensely excited to reenact moments from the movie, while Beth is hesitant and overall uninterested. In Beth and Jerry's absence, Beth orders Rick, Morty, and Summer not to trash the house while they are gone and she threatens to put an end to Rick and Morty's adventures if they do. The trio agree as Beth and Jerry drive off. Summer ignores the warnings and attempts to throw a party to become popular. Rick declines due to his plans to throw a party of his own. Beth and Jerry arrive at Titanic 2, which is a replica of the ill fated ship the RMS Titanic. Jerry sees the line to reenact the famous bow scene from the movie and tries to bring Beth along. Beth blows off his request, and shoves a nearby maid Lucy to join him instead. The two bond quickly over a mutual love for the Titanic. Meanwhile, the party at the Smith Residence begins. Some of the party-goers include Glip Glops, Brad, Bird Person, Gear Head, Squanchy and many more. The party begins to amp up and Morty confronts Rick about their decisions. Jessica appears, and Morty shifts his attention to talking to her. Jerry and Lucy continue to enjoy themselves on the ship, but the planned sinking of the ship goes wrong, and the ship doesn't sink due to technical difficulties. Rick's party is getting crazier, Summer blows off a friend of hers named Nancy, which draws criticism from Rick. Abrodolph Lincoler then smashes through a wall. He gets into a brief altercation with Brad who promptly beats him up. Jessica is upset and runs outside, and Morty joins her to console her. While showing her various gadgets in the garage, he walks in on Squanchy masturbating (or "squanching," as he calls it) in a closet, and in the process accidentally knocks over a contraption that teleports the entire house into a weird planet. After Rick takes a look outside, he lets the party-goers know that everything is fine. Morty begins to freak out about the repercussions of his actions. Rick calms him down and tells him to collect some Collaxion Crystals, which would ostensibly be used to take them back home. Rick convinces Abrodolph Lincoler to join Morty, and Summer talks Nancy into joining them as well. The three set out to find the crystals. On the Titanic 2, Lucy finds Jerry and takes him to a storage room where she quickly strips naked and asks him to draw her. Meanwhile, Morty, Nancy, and Lincoler find the crystals but are attacked by a two-headed beast. Lincoler fends off the beast whilst Morty and Nancy collect the crystals. He is mortally wounded whilst defending them. The remainder of the group return to the party and give the crystals to Rick who promptly crushes them up and snorts them. Rick's eyes turn blue, as he gets high, and he starts a rave called the "Rick Dance" along with other party-goers. Rick admits that he can take them back whenever he wanted. Morty, furious after being lied to, throws the rest of the crystals outside. Meanwhile, Jerry attempts to break away from Lucy on the Titanic 2, but she pulls a gun on him and threatens him. She forces him to a prop car, where she attempts to force herself onto him. Beth arrives just in time, and knocks Lucy out with a book. Beth and Jerry pack up their car to leave and Lucy attaches herself to the underside of the car. She holds on briefly before falling and being run over, presumably killing her. Meanwhile, Morty ends the party and forces everyone out. The Smith House is in total shambles, and the cleanup effort begins. Morty is still immensely upset at Rick, but a conversation with Bird Person reveals to him that Rick is masking a great deal of inner pain, and shows Morty that if he truly wants to stop dealing with his grandfather, he should just leave the place destroyed. At first, Morty agrees that this might be the best thing that ever happened to him because will be free of Rick forever. Birdperson then teaches him another saying that means "Whatever lets you sleep at night." Beth and Jerry arrive home, and Birdperson tells him to make his decision as he leaves with Tammy. Morty realizes he does want to continue on his adventures with Rick and pleads with him to do something about the state of the house before his parents walk through the front door. Rick uses a device that completely freezes time for everyone but them, allowing them an infinite amount of time to clean up the house and prevent Beth and Jerry from knowing the house was ever messy. Post-Credits Sequence[] In the post-credits sequence, Lincoler survives his injuries, and as he swears revenge, he is quickly grabbed by the testicle monsters that proceed to exchange Lincoler with one of the teenagers from the party that had been taken earlier with each other and more of the alien beasts. In disgust, Lincoler questions asks the teen if he's actually enjoying it. The teen replies that he does. Characters[] Major Characters[] - Morty - Rick - Beth - Jerry - Summer - Jessica - Brad - Tammy - Birdperson - Abrodolph Lincoler - Nancy - Lucy - Squanchy - Gearhead Minor Characters[] - Scropon - Slow Mobius - Traflorkians - Grace Smith - Floopydoop - Shmoopydoop - Wharborgarbors - Weird-faced teen - Greebybobes (Cameo) - Pripudlians (Cameo) - Stair Goblins (Cameo) - Council of Ricks (Cameo) - MC Haps (Cameo) - Slippery Stair (Cameo) - Plutonian (Cameo) - Samantha (Cameo) Deaths[] Locations[] Songs[] Transcript[] View a full transcript of this episode here. Trivia[] - This episode features the return of many characters featured throughout the first season, albeit as background characters. Notable examples include two Ricks from the Council of Ricks and MC Haps. - This is confusing, however, as Rick does not like the Council, so it does not make sense that they were invited. - The song that plays in the party and at the end of the episode is "Shake That Ass Bitch" by Splack Pack. - The front door of the Smith's house opens multiple ways: - When Summer opens the door for Brad, the door opens into the house with the knob on the left side of the door (looking from the inside of the house) so that it opens toward the dining room. - After Rick welcomes in his Glip Glops, the scene cuts to a view from the outside of the house where the door opens into the house toward the staircase with the knob to right (looking from the inside of the house). - When Morty goes out to see Jessica, the door opens to the outside. The knob is on the left side of the door (looking from the inside of the house). - When everyone leaves the party, the door opens into the house with the knob on the right side of the door (looking from the inside of the house) so that the door opens toward the staircase ... This is how it remains for the rest of the episode. Cultural references[] - The episode title and premise is a parody of the movie "Risky Business". - The old song from "the black effeminate guy from the 50's" Rick refers to is "Tutti Frutti" by Little Richard (which Rick misnames as "Tiny Rogerts"). - Summer wanting to have a party to invite the cool kids is a reference to the 1999-2000 television series Freaks and Geeks episode "Beers and Weirs". Continuing the reference is the character of Nancy who exactly mirrors that of Millie Kentner, the best friend of Lindsay Weir in Freaks and Geeks. - Revolio Clockberg Jr. Is very similar to a character from the Masters of the Universe franchise called "Roboto" (the gears turning inside a clear torso are similar to the action figure). - Birdperson is a parody of "The Hawk" from Buck Rogers (according to the commentary track on the Season 1 DVD). - When Squanchy asks Rick if he can "squanch" (engage in autoerotic asphyxiation), Rick says "mi casa es su casa", a direct reference to the Pulp Fiction scene in which Vincent Vega asks Lance if he can shoot up in his house and he replies with the same "mi casa es su casa". - The movie Titanic plays a prominent role in the episode. - Lucy clings to the bottom of Jerry's car referencing the movie, Cape Fear. She even mentions the reference before getting killed. Gallery Click here to view this page's gallery. References |


--- [Birdperson's language | Fandom - Rick and Morty Wiki] ---
No content


--- [Never forget. RIP. : r/rickandmorty] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [Top 15+ Rick and Morty Quotes You Need in Your Life] ---
By [email protected] in Sep 18, 2024 Not only is Rick and Morty a critically acclaimed animated series, but it also provides memorable quotes and resonates with fans all around the world. In this article, we will delve into the top 15+ iconic Rick and Morty quotes, from the funny ones to deep, deep and thought-provoking sayings. Rick Sanchez - Season 1, Episode 5 This is one of the best quotes from Rick and Morty. The genius character, Rick Sanchez, is always the central figure in the conflicts of each episode. Hence, this line seems to be his way of expressing humor. However, there is a deeper meaning behind this oddly pronounced quote. In the Bird People’s native language, it means “I am in great pain, please help me”. It can be seen that Rick continues to hide his problematic mental health behind a noisemaker. Rick Sanchez - Season 3, Episode 3 During this scene, Rick turns himself into a pickle to avoid going to see his grandchildren’s school counselor. With his ingenious design, this resultant adventure remains one of the most popular episodes of the series so far. Although “I’m Pickle Ri-i-i-ick!" doesn’t have a complicated meaning, the most well-known line of Rick Sanchez quotes is so catchy that audiences can easily remember and scream out every time they hear it. Rick Sanchez - Season 2, Episode 5 “Get schwifty” is the most meaningless one from Rick and Morty quotes, featuring a song of the same name. It is performed by the two main characters, including Rick Sanchez and Morty Smith. “Schwifty” is a slang term associated with hip-hop culture. It means getting inebriated, getting lit, or crunk. This song led Rick and Morty to a remarkable milestone of getting million views, and “Schwifty” quickly became a trend among its enthusiastic fanbase. Rick Sanchez - Season 1, Episode 9 This one from Rick and Morty captions is a dialogue between Rick and his new-built robot, Purpose Robot. When Purpose Robot asked his owner about the mission, Rick said, “You pass butter," then it repeated the earlier question, “What is my purpose?”. Rick once again stated that it was born to pass butter. Purpose Robot seemed to be unsatisfied, but Rick just responded by saying, “Yeah, welcome to the club, pal.” If we compare this scene with human life, we will see a reflection of people who are born without the freedom to do what they desire. Their lives are pre-programmed, like robots. Rick - Season 2, Episode 10 Rick’s line in the wedding of Birdperson and Tammy once again reinforced his sense of humour. The quip ends up being pretty prophetic, making it even more impressive. This episode features a wedding that swiftly gets raided by the Galactic Federation, leaving many dead in the crossfire. Poopybutthole - Season 2, Episode 4 This line comes out of Poopybutthole during the chaotic moment when the Smiths got attacked by parasitic creatures. Mr. Poopybutthole quotes directly criticize the blind willingness of the characters to Rick in spite of his odd and sometimes dangerous actions. This is an iconic reference to the characters' development in Rick and Morty. Since they want to connect and accompany Rick, but are always caught up in a circle of unwise decisions leading to negative consequences. Rick Sanchez - Season 3, Episode 2 In this episode, Rick and Morty go on an adventure through different dimensions and realities. When Morty feels nervous and confused about what they are doing, this line is said and becomes one of the most meaningful quotes of all time in the animation industry. This line points to the fact that life is worth living when you dare to take risks and move forward. Morty - Season 1, Episode 8 Morty says this line when he first enjoys the interdimensional cable, revealing all sorts of impossible television shows that people on Earth could never dream of. This Morty quote showcases a unique philosophy of life. We only live once, and you are the only one responsible for your life. Hence, instead of constantly trying to please people, why don’t you just ignore everything and enjoy your life happily? Rick Sanchez - Season 1, Episode 6 Rick is always recognized as a talented scientist. Many assume that his view of science is extremely logical and straightforward, but this quote showcases that his perspective is different. He improvises a lot during the series. In comparison with human life, this quote implies the fact that science is not solely based on precise theories and procedures but also includes creativity and flexibility. These elements are always associated with art. Rick Sanchez - Season 1, Episode 10 This line is said by Rick when he is facing dangerous consequences. This Rick and Morty saying is used to criticize people who follow and are easily manipulated, especially those who only follow without critical thought. Rick Sanchez - Season 2, Episode 2 In this episode, Rick is in a conversation with Morty, reflecting on how everyone seems to have a habit of sleeping at night. This statement is part of his sarcasm and dissatisfaction with social norms or human habits, such as sleeping at night. Rick Sanchez - Season 1, Episode 6 This is considered one of the best Rick quotes. When Morty starts to feel hurt by his emotional troubles, Rick says this quote to explain that the love that people purchase is actually just a simple chemical reaction. This quote reflects Rick's dissimilar view of love. Instead of seeing love as a deep emotion, he believes that it is simply a biological response that serves the reproductive purpose of humans. Summer - Season 2, Episode 10 This is a quote from a family scene. Summer is trying to explain to Jerry (father of Morty) about unconditional love, emphasizing that love is not something you should ask for or expect in return. This sentence from Rick and Morty love quotes collection reflects the profound life philosophies embedded in the content. Rick Sanchez - Season 1, Episode 6 This quote represents how Rick approaches the world around him. It reflects Rick's attitude, as he believes that with his abilities and intelligence, he can change anything he doesn't like. The quote emphasizes the ability to change and improve the world around us, a mindset that is very important in modern life. It encourages people not to accept what is, but to proactively improve anything that you feel is not reasonable. Rick Sanchez - Season 2, Episode 1 This quote is said by Rick after the frozen time of Season 1. He tries to mend the timelines with a Time Crystal, but he suddenly becomes self-doubt and even starts to think that his other selves in other timelines might be out to get him. From a broader perspective, this line suggests the significant impact of freedom as well as the mindset of upgrading to break every limitation in human life. Rick Sanchez - Season 1, Episode 9 Rick and Jerry have lots of conflicts, especially when Jerry tries to give advice to Rick. Being an arrogant man, Rick always shows his disrespect and disregard for Jerry's. This quote can easily remind us of self-centeredness which can easily lead to bad consequences in real life. By contrast, listening to others’ opinions plays a crucial role in maintaining healthy relationships. It can be considered one of the best Rick and Morty quotes about life. Rick Sanchez - Season 5, Episode 1 This quote conveys a message indicating that this year life of Rick and Morty will be full of challenges. Adventures are not only exciting but also stressful. In comparison to human life, Rick’s line implies that there will be difficult times people must deal with. However, acknowledging this reality can help us prepare and approach with confidence. Rick Sanchez - Season 1, Episode 10 In this episode, the phrase appears when Rick tries to explain that there are problems which people shouldn’t think too much about. This quote reflects his bold perspective on navigating life. Similarly, in daily life, the quote “Don’t think about it” delivers a meaningful message emphasizing that we can't control everything. Accepting the situation calmly without getting overwhelmed by it can help us make a clear decision. Cartoon Network studio has successfully impressed viewers with deep Rick and Morty quotes. Through memorable dialogue as well as Rick and Morty sayings, many insightful messages were spreaded to the viewers all around the world. The series then becomes more attractive. Stay tuned and explore other famous quote collections from various series with Fendory. Also read: 0 comment


--- [Quotes - Rick and Morty (TV Series 2013] ---
Shared with you - Rick: If you spend all day shuffling words around you can make anything sound bad, Morty. - Morty: Don't run. Nobody exists on purpose, nobody belongs anywhere, everybody's gonna die. Come watch TV. - Therapist: Why didn't you want to come here? - Rick: Because I don't respect Therapy. Because I'm a Scientist. Because I invent, transform, create and destroy for a living and when I don't like something about the World I change it. And I don't think going to some rented office in a strip mall to listen to an Agent of Averageness explain which words mean which feelings has ever helped anyone do anything. I expect it's helped a lot of people get comfortable and stop panicking, which is a state of mind we value in the animals we eat but not something I want for myself. I'm not a cow! I'm a Pickle! When I feel like it. So, you asked... - Rick: I hate to bust your bubble Morty, but love is a chemical reaction that compels animals to mate. It hits hard, then slowly fades leaving you floundering in a failing marriage. Break the cycle, Morty! Focus on science. - Mr Meeseeks: Meeseeks are not Born into this World fumbling for meaning, Jerry! We are Created for a Singular Purpose which we will go to any lengths to fulfill! Existence is Pain to a Meeseeks, Jerry, and we will do anything to alleviate that Pain! - Summer: Is that a real question? - Jerry: Just making conversation - Summer: Are you? What part of that gives me anything to work with? My choices are to say nothing, be sarcastic, or bark "Yes!" like a trained animal. It's not a conversation, you're holding me verbally hostage. - Rick: I put a Spatially Tessellated Void inside a modified Temporal Field until a Planet developed intelligent life. I then introduced that life to the wonders of electricity! Which they now generate on a Global Scale and some of it goes to powering my engine and charging my phone and stuff. - Morty: You have a whole planet sitting around making your power for you? That's Slavery! - Rick: It's society! They work for each other, Morty, they pay each other, they get married and have children to replace themselves when they're too old to make power. - Morty: That just sounds like Slavery with extra steps! - Rick: Ooh la la! Someone's going to get laid in College... - Morty Jnr: I don't want to Masturbate! I want to conquer the planet! - Morty Jnr: I'd rather breathe poison than live another day with you! - [He can breathe fine] - Morty Jnr: My Life has Been a Lie! God is dead! The Government is Lame! Thanksgiving is about killing Indians! Jesus's birthday wasn't on Christmas, they moved the date, it was a Pagan Holiday! - Rick: Good pitches, kids, I'm almost proud. But watch closely as Grandpa topples an empire by changing a one to a zero. - Insectoid 1: Mr President, the blemphlark's value just dropped to nothing! - Insectoid 2: What do you mean? - Insectoid 1: I mean our single centralised Galactic currency just went from being worth one of itself to being worth zero of itself. - Insectoid 2: Calm down people! Deploy the Galactic Militia and declare martial law. - Insectoid 3: Yes sir! What shall I pay them with? - Insectoid 4: Their payment will be the honour they feel to serve... wait a minute, who's paying me to yell at this guy? - Insectoid 1: I can answer that, for money! - Insectoid 2: Gentlemen! There's a solution here you're not seeing. - [Shoots himself] - Alien Werner Herzog: I have dwelt amongst the Humans. Their entire Culture revolves around their penises. - Summer: You're Zuckerberging me? - The Devil: I've been Zuckerberging people since before Zuckerberg's balls dropped! - Jerry Smith: If you ever have an affair with that guy I will come to your hotel room and blow my brains out over your naked bodies. - Jerry: Stop telling me to relax! Have you ever tried to relax? It's a paradox! - Principal Vagina: Hello, this is Principal Vagina. No relation. - Snuffles: Where are my Testicles, Summer? - Summer: That's an intense line of questioning... - Voice Over: Today, on How they Do it: Plumbuses. First, they take the Dinglebop and they smooth it out with a bunch of shleem. The Shleem is then repurposed for later batches. They take the Dinglebop and they push it through the Grumbo. Where the Fleeb is rubbed against it. It's important that the Fleeb is rubbed because the Fleeb has all of the Fleeb juice. Then a Schlamie shows up and he rubs it and spits on it. They cut the Fleeb, there are several hizzards in the way. The Blamphs rub against the Chumbles. And the Plubis and Grumbo are shaved away. That leaves you with a regular old Plumbus. - Rick: I always wondered how Plumbuses got made. - Kyle: It's not much now, but once I learn to accelerate the Temporal Field I'll be able to interact with any Sentient Life that evolves and then introduce them to the wonders of Electricity via a Pulley-based Device I call a Bloobleyank. But what they won't know is... - Zeep: You'll be taking most of their energy, yeah, yeah I get it. - Rick: It's showtime. - Zeep: You do realise this will make the Flooblecrank obsolete? This is wrong, Kyle! What you're doing is wrong! You're basically... - [Rick mimes along] - Zeep: This is slavery, you're talking about creating a Planet of Slaves. - Rick: Told you, Zeep. - Kyle: Oh, they won't be slaves, they'll work for each other, and pay each other money... - Zeep: That just sounds like... slavery... with extra steps. - [Rounds on Rick] - Rick: What? - Zeep: Wait a minute, did you create my Universe? Is my Universe a Miniverse? - Rick: Microverse! - Kyle: I prefer teenyverse. - Zeep: [Flicks off Rick's antennae] You bastard! - [Rick takes Zeep's mask and they fight] - Zeep: Much obliged! - Kyle: What the Hell is happening? - Morty: Ah, this is Healthy, trust me. - Rick: You're my battery mother****** that's all you are! I made you! Your microverse sucks and your miniverse is the size of a ******* lobster tank! It's Wack! - Kyle: Are they not really Aliens? - Morty: Nah, they're just a couple of crazy, wacky scientists. You know? - Kyle: So he made a Universe, and that guy is from that Universe, and that guy made a Universe, and that's the Universe where I was born? Where my Father died. Where I couldn't make time for his Funeral because I was working on my Universe? - Morty: Ha ha ha, yeah! Science huh? Ain't it a thing? You know one time Rick shot his laser pistol right through my hand? I mean, you know, like Old Lady Science! You know, she's a real, you gotta hang on tight, you know, because she bucks pretty hard! Oh my God, no! - [Kyle drives his craft into a Cliff and it explodes] - Abradolph Lincler: Rick, you brought me into this World a suffering abomination, tortured by the duality of its being, but I shall finally know peace when I watch the life drain from your wretched body! - Bird Person: My people have another saying: Gubbanubnub Dooraka. It means whatever lets you sleep at night. - Chaos Chaos: Lay it, lay it down. Let me see your hand. Show me what you got. You're always talking, but you're not playing. It doesn't match your face. 'Cos I'm away, away from this place. Can you take me now? Ah, I want it. I want it real. Are you afraid of me now? Are you afraid of me now? Do you feel it? Do you feel it? Do you feel that I can see your soul? Do you feel it? Do you feel it? Do you feel the beat in your heart? Ah, I want it. I want it real. Run away with me now. Ah, I want it. I want it real. Run away with me now. - Rick: [Drunk] Are you a simulation Morty? - Morty: What? - Rick: [knife at his throat] Are you a simulation Morty? Are you, you little bitch? - Morty: No! - Rick: Are you a simulation Morty? - Morty: Ahh! - Rick: Are you a simulation Morty? - Morty: No! - Rick: Ah right. Sorry Morty. You're a good kid. You're a good kid Morty. - [Falls asleep] - Morty: What the Hell? Oh God! What a life... - Mom: When we were locked in that freezer I realised that every guy I ever dated was like those Meeseeks. They'd say or do anything to... fulfill their purpose. - Dad: Was I like those guys? - Mom: Well, you didn't disappear afterwards. - Dad: I did get you pregnant. - Mom: Yeah... - Abradolph Lincler: I kinda believe all men were created equal, but then... - Squanch Cat: You're not Squanchy enough for a Squanch Party. - Rick: Oh so we're supposed to sleep every night, now? Do you realise that nighttime is like half of all time?
