=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[List of directors of the Metropolitan Museum of Art - Wikipedia]
The Director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art is the director of the museum. The Metropolitan Museum of Art of New York City, colloquially "the Met", is the largest art museum in the United States. With 6,953,927 visitors to its three locations in 2018, it was the third most visited art museum in the world. [2] Its permanent collection contains over two million works, [3] divided among ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Directors_of_the_Metropolitan_Museum_of_Art

[Leadership - The Metropolitan Museum of Art]
Appointed Director of The Metropolitan Museum of Art in April 2018 and Director and CEO in July 2023, Max Hollein is responsible for the leadership of the Museum, including its artistic vision and all of its programming, strategic, fiscal and institutional priorities, as well as local engagement and international relations.
URL: https://www.metmuseum.org/about-the-met/leadership

[List of directors of the Metropolitan Museum of Art ...]
The Director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art is the director of the museum. The Metropolitan Museum of Art of New York City, colloquially "the Met", is the largest art museum in the United States. With 6,953,927 visitors to its three locations in 2018, it was the third most visited art museum in the world. [2] Its permanent collection contains over two million works, [3] divided among ...
URL: https://www.detailedpedia.com/wiki-List_of_directors_of_the_Metropolitan_Museum_of_Art

[List of directors of the Metropolitan Museum of Art]
The collection was purchased by the newly expanded Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in 1872, and Cesnola became the first director in 1879, until his ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_directors_of_the_Metropolitan_Museum_of_Art

[first和firstly以及first of all有什么区别? - 知乎]
以下是一些例句： The first step is to gather your materials. Firstly, let's discuss the budget. First of all, we need to identify the problem. 在大多数情况下，"first" 和 "firstly" 可以互换使用，但 "firstly" 通常用于强调某件事是最重要的。 "first of all" 则通常用于引出一系列要点或步骤。
URL: https://www.zhihu.com/question/626729181


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [List of directors of the Metropolitan Museum of Art - Wikipedia] ---
87 captures 20 Oct 2014 - 03 Mar 2026 Feb MAR Apr 03 2025 2026 2027 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now Outlinks TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20260303020155/https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_directors_of_the_Metropolitan_Museum_of_Art


--- [Leadership - The Metropolitan Museum of Art] ---
Leadership Max Hollein Appointed Director of The Metropolitan Museum of Art in April 2018 and Director and CEO in July 2023, Max Hollein is responsible for the leadership of the Museum, including its artistic vision and all of its programming, strategic, fiscal and institutional priorities, as well as local engagement and international relations. Since beginning at The Met, Hollein has overseen over 100 exhibitions, launched several historic capital projects, including the new Tang Wing for Modern and Contemporary Art (to be opened in 2030), secured preeminent acquisitions and donations, and reenvisioned the Museum’s approach to public outreach through education and digital initiatives. Prior to joining The Met, he was the Director and CEO of the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, where his tenure was characterized by visionary programming, pioneering acquisitions, and rigorous fiscal management. Previously he simultaneously led the Schirn Kunsthalle, the Städel Museum, and the Liebieghaus in Frankfurt, Germany, as Director and CEO, all of which experienced significant growth and increased attendance during his tenure. Born in Vienna, Hollein studied at the University of Vienna (Master of Art History) and the Vienna University of Economics (Master of Business Administration). He began his career at New York's Guggenheim Museum as Chief of Staff to the Director and six years later assumed his leadership role in Frankfurt. Hollein has published and lectured widely and has organized a number of major exhibitions in modern and contemporary art. He is a member of supervisory and advisory boards of major cultural institutions worldwide, including The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, New York; the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University; Neue Galerie, New York; and Phileas – The Austrian Office for Contemporary Art, Vienna. Named a Chevalier of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by the French Minister of Culture in 2009 and a recipient of the Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and the Arts, he received the Goethe badge of honor from the Hessian Ministry of Culture in 2016, the Goethe badge of honor from the City of Frankfurt in 2019, and an Hommage award by the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung in 2020, among other international awards. Andrea Bayer Appointed the Museum's Director of Collections and Administration in October 2018, Andrea Bayer was previously the Jayne Wrightsman Curator in the Department of European Paintings. She received her PhD from Princeton University in 1990 and has been on the staff of The Met since that time. An expert on Italian Renaissance Art, Bayer has worked on a range of exhibitions, both thematic investigations—such as Painters of Reality: The Legacy of Leonardo and Caravaggio in Lombardy (2004), Art and Love in Renaissance Italy (2008-9), and Unfinished: Thoughts Left Visible (2016)—and monographic shows on artists such as Evaristo Baschenis, the great still life painter of musical instruments, and Dosso Dossi, the inventive painter of Renaissance Ferrara. Her most recent exhibition is Making The Met, 1870-2020, organized in celebration of the Museum's 150th anniversary. Outside the department of European Paintings, Bayer served as Interim Head of Education (2008-9), and for six years was coordinating curator for the Curatorial Studies Program run jointly by the Museum and NYU's Institute of Fine Arts. She was the founding Co-Chair of the Director's Exhibition Committee in 2013. In 2016 the Italian government honored her as an Ufficiale of the Ordine della Stella d'Italia. Whitney W. Donhauser As Deputy Director and Chief Advancement Officer, Whitney Donhauser oversees a broad range of development, special events, and membership activities and supports trustee relations activities. Donhauser leads the Museum’s efforts to deepen and broaden its engagement with current and prospective donors locally, nationally, and internationally. She rejoined The Met in January 2023 after previously serving as Senior Advisor to the President under Emily K. Rafferty. Donhauser most recently served as Director and President of the Museum of the City of New York since 2016. There she significantly increased the museum’s public visibility, financial stability, organizational efficiency, and community outreach, doubling its endowment and raising more than $8 million in support for pandemic relief in addition to over $8 million for its Centennial Campaign. Prior to that, as Senior Advisor to the President of The Met, Donhauser led a committee to enhance the Museum’s revenue streams and worked to develop a long-term architectural feasibility plan. Donhauser received a Bachelor of Arts from Vassar College in New York and a degree from the Royal Society of Art at Christie’s Education in London, England. Inka Drögemüller Appointed in February 2019, Inka Drögemüller is the Museum’s Deputy Director for Audience Engagement, overseeing Digital, Education, Marketing, Publications, Imaging, Libraries, and Live Arts. Prior to joining The Met, she was Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer of Germany’s Städel Museum and Liebieghaus Sculptural Collection and Deputy Director of Schirn Kunsthalle Frankfurt. Chief among her accomplishments during 18 years at these institutions were innovative digital and educational projects that expanded the museums’ outreach, introducing diverse audiences to collections, programming, and other initiatives. Following her master’s degree in marketing communication at Berlin Universität der Künste, Drögemüller worked as project developer and art consultant in Berlin and New York. In 2001, at the Schirn Kunsthalle, she established new departments for marketing, communications, and sponsorship. In her capacity to develop major strategic partnerships with global companies and research institutes, she found new collaborators and supporters for the three Frankfurt institutions in the realms of science, technology, and the corporate world, and worked closely with in‐house curators, digital departments, and pedagogical staff to create a new, interdisciplinary culture as a prerequisite to implementing the museums’ advanced digital strategy. She is a speaker at numerous international symposiums and conferences on digitization. Dan Feeley Dan Feeley, The Met’s Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, leads the Museum’s Finance Department. He is responsible for building the Museum’s long-term financial strategy and providing strategic direction to Museum leadership to ensure sustainable financial health as well as for overseeing the annual operating budget, including the prioritization of resources across the Museum. Feeley joined The Met in 2021 as Chief Budget and Planning Officer and was appointed Chief Financial Officer in September 2025. Before joining The Met, Feeley worked for over 10 years in the Office of Budget and Financial Planning at New York University, where he managed the school’s annual operating budget. He holds an MBA in Corporate Finance, Accounting, Leadership, and Change Management from New York University Stern School of Business and a BA in Political Science from NYU’s College of Arts and Science. Quincy Houghton As the Museum's Deputy Director for Exhibitions and International Initiatives, Quincy Houghton leads The Met's program of groundbreaking loan exhibitions, oversees installations of its encyclopedic collection, and supervises key international initiatives. Prior to joining The Met in the summer of 2016, Houghton served as Associate Director for Exhibitions at the J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles, where she was responsible for managing the Getty's program of temporary exhibitions and installations, both at the Getty Center and the Getty Villa. She also coordinated all aspects of the museum's move from the Getty Villa to the Getty Center, including the installation of the collections. Prior to joining the Getty, Houghton worked at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and at Lazard Brothers & Co., Limited, the London investment bank, where as Senior Associate she led a mergers and acquisitions team. Houghton holds a BA magna cum laude in fine arts from Harvard University. Jameson (“Jamie”) Kelleher Jamie Kelleher oversees the operations of the Museum, including Human Resources, Capital Projects, Buildings and Facilities, Technology, Data and Analytics, Finance, Planning, Visitor Experience, Retail, Restaurants, and Security. She joined the Museum in 2014 as Controller, was named Chief Financial Officer in September 2016, and was appointed Chief Operating Officer in May 2023. Prior to joining The Met, Kelleher led auction services and finance at Phillips, an international contemporary art auction house, and worked in the private equity industry on a broad range of financial restructuring initiatives within the food industry. She started her career at PricewaterhouseCoopers in the firm's technology audit practice, and later rose to manager in its capital markets, accounting, and valuation practice, where she advised organizations on a wide range of valuation and due diligence topics. Kelleher is a graduate of Bucknell University and New York University's Stern School of Business. She is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) and Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA). Lavita McMath Turner Lavita McMath Turner, the institution’s first Chief Diversity Officer, joined The Met in January 2021. She collaborates closely with partners in a wide range of departments across the museum to lead initiatives and efforts that support The Met’s goals to become ever more inclusive, equitable, fair, and welcoming. Previously, she served as Assistant Dean for Equity, Inclusion, and Experiential Learning at Stella & Charles Guttman Community College, City University of New York (CUNY), where she provided strategic leadership in shaping the college’s equity, diversity, and inclusion plans and worked to address the equity gaps for students with diverse backgrounds. She was the first Director of Government Relations at CUNY’s Kingsborough Community College, where she led important civic engagement efforts and advocated for providing more equitable access to higher education, and also worked at the Brooklyn Museum, managing their government relations department for six years and supporting the museum’s efforts to engage more deeply with the Brooklyn community. She holds a Ph.D. in Urban Education from The Graduate Center, CUNY; a Master of Science in Urban Policy Analysis and Management from the New School for Social Research; and a Bachelor of Arts in Social Welfare from the University of California, Berkeley. Lauren A. Meserve As Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer, Lauren Meserve oversees the management of the Museum's $3.4 billion investment portfolio, including asset allocation, investment manager selection, and risk management. She joined the Museum's investment team in 2002 and was named Chief Investment Officer in 2014. Previously, Meserve worked at the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, where she assisted in the management of the foundation's endowment, collaborated on two books about higher education (The Shape of the River: Long-Term Consequences of Considering Race in College and University Admissions and The Game of Life: College Sports and Educational Values), and coordinated projects for Artstor. She began her career as an analyst at the Yale Investments Office, Yale University. Meserve has a master's degree from the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University and a bachelor's degree in anthropology from Yale University. She serves on the board of several non-profits, including the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, the Population Council, and American Friends of the National Gallery, London Kerry Mullins As The Met’s Chief Human Resources Officer, Kerry Mullins provides strategic direction and leadership to all Human Resources functions, including Human Resources Operations, Talent Acquisition, Health and Wellness, Employee Engagement, and Compensation and Benefits. Prior to joining The Met, Mullins served as the Chief People Officer for KIPP: NYC Public Schools. During her more than 12 years with KIPP NYC, she helped guide the organization through several phases of complex and dynamic growth. She was responsible for setting the vision and strategy for all talent functions across the organization and was also a member of the Executive Leadership Team responsible for setting organization-wide vision, priorities, and goals. Mullins holds a JD from Fordham Law School and a BA from Hofstra University. Paul Pineau As General Counsel and Secretary, Paul Pineau serves as the principal legal officer for The Metropolitan Museum of Art, overseeing the Museum’s legal affairs and serving as Secretary to the Board of Trustees. He provides strategic legal counsel on a range of matters, including governance, compliance, intellectual property, and institutional policy. Pineau joined The Met in 2025 after serving as Senior Vice President and General Counsel at Johns Hopkins University. For a decade, he advised on governance matters, supported the university’s research initiatives, guided major capital projects, and collaborated on key employee policies. Prior to the University, Pineau was Chief of Staff and Special Assistant State’s Attorney in the Office of the State’s Attorney for Baltimore City. Pineau has served on the boards of several nonprofit organizations dedicated to LGBTQ+ rights, education, and addiction treatment. He holds a J.D. from Harvard Law School and a B.A. from Davidson College.


--- [List of directors of the Metropolitan Museum of Art ...] ---
No content


--- [List of directors of the Metropolitan Museum of Art] ---
The Director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art is the director of the museum. The Metropolitan Museum of Art of New York City, colloquially "the Met", is the largest art museum in the United States. With 6,953,927 visitors to its three locations in 2018, it was the third most visited art museum in the world. Its permanent collection contains over two million works, divided among seventeen curatorial departments. The director, currently Max Hollein, is responsible for acting as a "curator, lawyer and diplomat", according to The Wall Street Journal. They produce around 40 exhibits at the museum a year, manage the museums' approximately 2,200 employees, and oversee the collection and curatorial departments.
The Director currently reports to Daniel H. Weiss, President and CEO of the Museum. The director typically has had a large degree of autonomy in operation, with Philippe de Montebello refusing to report to then president and CEO William Macomber in 1977. It has generally been the highest-ranking official in the museum's leadership, with the director serving as president. On June 13, 2017, the Met announced the reestablishment of a separate museum president, higher than the director.
Past directors have historically been prominent figures in the art world. Past directors include: United States consul at Larnaca in Cyprus and Medal of Honor recipient Luigi Palma di Cesnola, Director of the Victoria and Albert Museum Sir Caspar Purdon Clarke, secretary of the Art Commission of Boston and director of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts Edward Robinson, Parks Commissioner of New York City Thomas Hoving, and director of the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco Max Hollein.




--- [first和firstly以及first of all有什么区别? - 知乎] ---
No content
