=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Pwnium hacking contest winners exploited 16 Chrome zero-days]
May 24, 2012 · Google yesterday revealed that the two researchers who cracked Chrome in March at the company's inaugural "Pwnium" hacking contest used a total of 16 zero-day vulnerabilities to win $60,000...
URL: https://www.computerworld.com/article/1439321/pwnium-hacking-contest-winners-exploited-16-chrome-zero-days.html

[Google Turns Pwnium Competition into Year-Round Program]
Feb 25, 2015 — Google has decided to ditch single-day Pwnium competitions in favor of a year-round program that gives researchers the opportunity to get ...
URL: https://www.securityweek.com/google-turns-pwnium-competition-year-round-program/

[Chrome Owned by Exploits in Hacker Contests, But Google's $1M ...]
Mar 8, 2012 · VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- A $1 million purse that Google has offered to hackers who can produce zero-day exploits against its Chrome browser appears to be safe after the first day of its...
URL: https://www.wired.com/2012/03/pwnium-and-pwn2own/

[ChromeOS]
Pwnium competition. edit. In March 2014, Google hosted a hacking contest aimed at computer security experts called "Pwnium". Similar to the Pwn2Own contest ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ChromeOS

[Google to give away $2.7 mn at Pwnium hacking contest]
Search engine giant Google will offer $2.7 million to researchers who can hack its browser-based operating system, Chrome OS, as part of its Pwnium hacking contest to be held in March.
URL: https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/companies/google-to-give-away-27-mn-at-pwnium-hacking-contest/article20716814.ece


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Pwnium hacking contest winners exploited 16 Chrome zero-days] ---
'Pinkie Pie' used six, Sergey Glazunov 10, to hack Chrome and win $60,000 each in March Google yesterday revealed that the two researchers who cracked Chrome in March at the company’s inaugural “Pwnium” hacking contest used a total of 16 zero-day vulnerabilities to win $60,000 each.The number of bugs each researcher used — six in one case, “roughly” 10 in the other — was dramatically more than the average attack. The Stuxnet worm of 2010, called “groundbreaking” by some analysts, used just four bugs, only three of them previously-unknown “zero-day” vulnerabilities.Google detailed only the half-dozen deployed by the researcher known as “Pinkie Pie” in a post to the Chromium blog yesterday. Details of the 10 used by Sergey Glazunov will not be disclosed until they are patched in other programs they afflict, said Jorge Lucangeli Obes and Justin Schuh, two Chrome security engineers, in the blog. Pinkie Pie and Glazunov were the only prize winners at Pwnium, the March contest Google created after it withdrew from the long-running “Pwn2Own” hacking challenge. Google had pledged to pay up to $1 million, but ended up handing out just $120,000 — $60,000 to each of the men.In previous P2n2Own contests, Chrome had escaped not only unscathed, but also untested by top-flight security researchers.Pinkie Pie strung together six vulnerabilities on March 9 to successfully break out of the Chrome “sandbox,” an anti-exploit technology that isolates the browser from the rest of the system. The vulnerabilities let him exploit Chrome’s pre-rendering — where the browser loads potential pages before a user views them — access the GPU (graphics processor unit) command buffers, write eight bytes of code to a predictable memory address, execute additional code in the GPU and escape the browser’s sandbox.At the time of Pwnium, one Google program manager called Pinkie Pie’s exploits “works of art.”Google patched Pinkie Pie’s bugs within 24 hours of his demonstration. Since then, the company has revealed technical details in its Chromium bug database of five of the six vulnerabilities. Glazunov’s exploits relied on approximately 10 vulnerabilities — they, too, were patched within 24 hours — but Google is keeping information on those secret for now.“While these issues are already fixed in Chrome, some of them impact a much broader array of products from a range of companies,” said Obes and Schuh. “We won’t be posting that part until we’re comfortable that all affected products have had an adequate time to push fixes to their users.”Chrome, currently at version 19, had an estimated 18.9% of the browser usage market in April, according to metrics firm Net Applications. Rival StatCounter, however, pegged Chrome’s share for the month at 31.2%. Gregg Keizer covers Microsoft, security issues, Apple, Web browsers and general technology breaking news for Computerworld. Follow Gregg on Twitter at @gkeizer, on Google+ or subscribe to Gregg’s RSS feed. His email address is gkeizer@computerworld.com.See more by Gregg Keizer on Computerworld.com.Read more about malware and vulnerabilities in Computerworld’s Malware and Vulnerabilities Topic Center. SecurityEnterprise Applications SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER From our editors straight to your inbox Get started by entering your email address below. Please enter a valid email address Subscribe


--- [Google Turns Pwnium Competition into Year-Round Program] ---
No content


--- [Chrome Owned by Exploits in Hacker Contests, But Google's $1M ...] ---
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- A $1 million purse that Google has offered to hackers who can produce zero-day exploits against its Chrome browser appears to be safe after the first day of its three-day Pwnium hacking contest, which yielded just one contestant and one successful zero-day attack. The absence of competitors has made for a very quiet contest, particularly since the sole competitor in the Google competition so far didn't even show up for the event. The successful attack code, which actually exploited two vulnerabilities in Chrome, was developed by Russian university student Sergey Glazunov, who lives somewhere outside Siberia and sent in his code via a proxy who was present at the contest event. Glazunov earned $60,000 from Google for his exploit. The remaining $940,000 in the purse, which Google has promised to pay out in increments of $60,000, $40,000 and $20,000 – depending on the severity and characteristics of the exploits – is awaiting other challengers who so far have yet to join the contest. According to the rules of the Pwnium contest, (pronounced Ponium in hackerspeak), Glazunov is required to hand over details about the vulnerabilities he uncovered and the exploits he created so that Google can patch the security holes. “We’re very happy because we have the full exploits, we have the full details. We’ll be able to figure out everything that needs to be fixed,” said a member of Google’s security team, who asked not to be identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak with the press. Glazunov’s attack takes advantage of the Chrome extension subsystem to sidestep the browser’s sandbox, according to the security team member, but he declined to offer any additional details while the company works on patches for the vulnerabilities. The sandbox is a security feature in Chrome that’s meant to contain malware and keep it from breaking out of the browser and affecting a computer’s operating system and other applications. Sandbox vulnerabilities are highly prized, because they’re rare and hard to find and allow an attacker to escalate his control of a system. Glazunov has an advantage in trying to cash in on Google's bounty. He’s one of Google’s most prolific bug finders, has earned around $70,000 for previous bugs he’s found under the company’s year-round bug bounty program, and is familiar with the Chrome code base. Google’s Pwnium challenge, held for the first time this year, is playing out at the CanSecWest security conference in parallel with another hacking contest, Pwn2Own, which also produced a successful zero-day attack against Chrome on Wednesday. Both contests were aimed this year at uncovering security vulnerabilities in browsers, so that they could be fixed. While Pwnium focused only on Chrome, Pwn2Own asked contestants to find zero-days in Chrome, Microsoft Internet Explorer, Apple Safari and Mozilla Firefox. The contest provides the makers of browser software with valuable information about security flaws in their products, without having to spend the time and resources to uncover the vulnerabilities themselves. The successful Chrome zero-day attack in the Pwn2Own contest was conducted by a five-man team from the French firm Vupen Security, which sells exploits to government customers. Vupen’s attack, which exploited two vulnerabilities that are different from the ones Glazunov exploited, put the team in the lead to win a separate $60,000 payoff being offered by HP Tipping Point, which sponsors the Pwn2Own contest. The Vupen team, composed of company co-founder Chaouki Bekrar and four colleagues, spent about six weeks researching vulnerabilities and developing the exploit. The first vulnerability attack involves bypassing the data execution prevention (DEP) and address space layout randomization (ASLR) features in Windows; the second attack breaks the attackers out of the Chrome sandbox. The team, dressed in matching black "hoodies" with their company name on the back, demonstrated a hack using the exploit that involved a malicious web page containing the exploit code. When the target machine using the Chrome browser visited the page, the exploit automatically executed and opened the calculator application. Because the exploit had been prepared in advance of the conference, it took just a short time after the contest launched for them to demonstrate their attack using it. Bekrar provided details of the first vulnerability to HP Tipping Point so that it can be fixed, but declined to discuss the nature of the second one, saying he would be withholding that information and the exploit to sell to his customers. Under the rules of the Pwn2Own contest, winners aren’t required to hand over details about sandbox exploits. The reporting rule has stirred up controversy and was the reason Google launched its own exploit challenge this year, instead of simply adding its bounty money to the Pwn2Own contest. Pwn2Own organizer Aaron Portnoy, who is manager of Tipping Point's security research team, told Wired that no one would want to participate in the contest if they had to disclose details about sandbox exploits, since these exploits can earn much more money on the open and underground markets than the $60,000 the contest pays out. A Google engineer offered Bekrar $60,000 on top of the $60,000 he stands to earn in the Pwn2Own contest if he handed over the sandbox exploit and details. But Bekrar declined and joked that he might consider the offer if Google bumped it up to $1 million. After the Google engineer left the conversation, Bekrar told Wired that money wasn’t the main enticement for him and he had no plans to hand over the exploit to Google. The Google security team member expressed frustration at Bekrar's reluctance to provide information about the vulnerability so that it could be fixed. “We’re trying to get information out of somebody so that we can fix it, but nobody’s willing to give anything to us,” he said. "[Without that information] it’s not about protecting users anymore, it’s about showing off. It’s good for stroking egos, but aside from that it doesn’t make the web safer.” The Pwn2Own contest consists of two parts. The first part is the zero-day contest, in which contestants can bring zero-day exploits they’ve created in advance. If the exploit works, they earn 32 points for the exploit. The second part of the contest consists of on-the-fly exploits that contestants are required to develop for browser vulnerabilities that have already been patched. They’re only told which vulnerabilities they’ll have to write exploits for after the contest begins, and can earn 10 points on the first day of the contest for every successful exploit against a patched vulnerability, and 9 and 8 points for each day thereafter. At the end of the contest, the points are added up and the first-place winner gets $60,000, followed by the second place prize of $30,000 and a third-place prize of $15,000. Bekrar said his team has three other zero-day exploits in its pocket, each aimed at the other three browsers in the contest - Microsoft Internet Explorer, Apple Safari and Mozilla Firefox — but would only bust them out if it looked like a competitor might show up who seriously threatened their lead position. In addition to demonstrating their zero-day Chrome exploit on Wednesday, the team produced three exploits on-the-fly for patched vulnerabilities in Internet Explorer, Firefox and Safari. So far only one other team is competing in the Pwn2Own contest, but that team, composed of two men, has yet to submit any exploits or even show up in the contest room, preferring to work remotely in another part of the hotel where the conference is being held.


--- [ChromeOS] ---
ChromeOS (sometimes styled as chromeOS and formerly styled as Chrome OS) is a proprietary operating system designed and developed by Google. It is derived from the open-source ChromiumOS operating system (which itself is derived from Gentoo Linux), and uses the Google Chrome web browser as its principal user interface. 
Google announced the project in July 2009, initially describing it as an operating system where applications and user data would reside in the cloud. ChromeOS was used primarily to run web applications. The operating system first shipped with Chromebooks in 2011. It is also offered since 2020 as an installable Linux distribution as ChromeOS Flex.
ChromeOS supports progressive web applications, Android apps from Google Play and Linux applications.
In 2025, Google announced that ChromeOS will be merged into Android as part of a project called AluminiumOS, with the new project using the Android kernel rather than the older "vanilla" Linux kernel based on Gentoo.


--- [Google to give away $2.7 mn at Pwnium hacking contest] ---
Search engine giant Google will offer $2.7 million to researchers who can hack its browser-based operating system, Chrome OS, as part of its Pwnium hacking contest to be held in March. “Security is a core tenet of Chromium, which is why we hold regular competitions to learn from security researchers. Contests like Pwnium help us make Chromium even more secure,” Google said in a blogpost. This year, Pwnium 4, will be hosted in March at the CanSecWest security conference in Vancouver, Canada. “With a total of $2.71828 million in the pot, we’ll issue Pwnium rewards for eligible Chrome OS exploits at $110,000 for browser or system-level compromise in guest mode or as a logged-in user, delivered via a web page,” it said. Google will also pay $150,000 for providing an exploit to be able to persistently compromise an HP or Acer Chromebook, i.e. hacking the device to retain control even after a reboot. The earlier editions of Pwnium competitions focussed on Intel-based Chrome OS devices, but this year Google will allow researchers to also choose from ARM-based Chromebook, the HP Chromebook 11 (WiFi) and the Acer C720 Chromebook (2GB WiFi) based on Intel’s Haswell microarchitecture. Last year, Google had put $3.14159 million in the pot for Pwnium 3. Google said it would consider larger bonuses this year to researchers who demonstrated what it called a "particularly impressive or surprising exploit". “New this year, we will also consider significant bonuses for demonstrating a particularly impressive or surprising exploit. Potential examples include defeating kASLR, exploiting memory corruption in the 64-bit browser process or exploiting the kernel directly from a renderer process,” it said. More Like This Published on January 26, 2014
