=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award]
2020 ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics Richard Anderson, a Professor at the University of Washington, was named recipient of the Eugene L. Lawler Award for contributions bridging the fields of Computer Science, Education, and global health.
URL: https://awards.acm.org/lawler

[ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award - Wikipedia]
The ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award is awarded every two or three years by the Association for Computing Machinery to an individual or a group of individuals who have made a significant contribution to the use of information technology for humanitarian purposes in a wide range of social domains. [1][2] It is named after the computer scientist Eugene Lawler. [3] The award includes a financial reward ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ACM_Eugene_L._Lawler_Award

[Faculty/staff honors: Humanitarian award, early career research support ...]
Jun 14, 2021 · Richard Anderson, professor in the UW’s Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, has received the 2020 ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions Within Computer Science and Informatics from the Association for Computer Machinery. The award, given every two years, recognizes an individual or group who has made a significant contribution through computing ...
URL: https://www.washington.edu/news/2021/06/14/faculty-staff-honors-humanitarian-award-early-career-research-support-literary-journal-guest-editor/

[ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award 2020 Recipient]
Oct 15, 2021 · Celebrating ACM's 2019 & 2020 Award Recipients: ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award October 15, 2021 The surge of the COVID-19 delta variant, international travel restrictions and restrictions on indoor gatherings forced ACM to cancel its Awards Banquet planned for October 23, 2021.
URL: https://www.acm.org/articles/bulletins/2021/october/acm-awards-videos-lawler

[ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award]
Heading for ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award pages ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award Individuals/groups making significant humanitarian contributions through the use of computing technology
URL: https://awards.acm.org/lawler/award-recipients


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award] ---
No content


--- [ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award - Wikipedia] ---
The ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award is awarded every two or three years by the Association for Computing Machinery to an individual or a group of individuals who have made a significant contribution to the use of information technology for humanitarian purposes in a wide range of social domains. It is named after the computer scientist Eugene Lawler. The award includes a financial reward of US$5,000.




--- [Faculty/staff honors: Humanitarian award, early career research support ...] ---
Recent honors and achievements for University of Washington faculty include an award for humanitarian contributions to computer science, early career research recognition and support, and the guest-editing of a new anthology of Black American literature. Allen School’s Richard Anderson receives humanitarian award from Association of Computer Machinery Richard Anderson, professor in the UW’s Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, has received the 2020 ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions Within Computer Science and Informatics from the Association for Computer Machinery. The award, given every two years, recognizes an individual or group who has made a significant contribution through computing technology. Anderson’s award, which comes with a prize of $5,000, recognizes “contributions that bridge the fields of computer science, education and global health.” Anderson co-directs the Information and Communication Technology for Development Lab, which studies how technology can be used to improve the lives of populations in low-income regions. “With his students and collaborators,” the association noted, “Anderson developed a range of innovative applications in health, education, the internet, and financial services, benefiting underserved communities around the globe.” Eugene Leighton Lawler (1933-1994), for whom the award is named, was a professor of computer science at the University of California, Berkeley. Read more about the award on the Allen School blog. * * * UW chemistry professor Dianne Xiao receives award from DOE Early Career Research Program Dianne Xiao, UW assistant professor of chemistry, has been selected by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of Science to receive funding from its 2021 Early Career Research Program. The Early Career Research Program, now in its 12th year, program supports “exceptional researchers during the crucial early years, when many scientists do their most formative work.” The program provides university-based researchers with about $150,000 a year for five years, to cover summer salary and expenses. Eighty-three scientists were selected nationwide, including 32 from the DOE’s national laboratories and 51 from U.S. universities. The awards were announced on May 27. Xiao’s research abstract, listed under the Basic Energy Sciences category, is titled “New Synthetic Approaches Towards Atomically Precise π–d Conjugated Materials.” * * * Charles Johnson guest-edits anthology of Black American literature, parts with archive Charles Johnson, UW professor emeritus of English, has guest-edited and contributed to a special edition of Chicago Quarterly Review, “An Anthology of Black American Literature.” The Chicago Quarterly Review is a nonprofit, independent journal, established in 1994 that publishes short stories, poems, translations and essays by emerging and established writers. An essayist, screenwriter and professional cartoonist as well as author, Johnson won the National Book Award for his novel “Middle Passage.” Johnson wrote the introduction and contributed a story to the anthology — the journal’s volume #33 — called “Night Shift,” which he penned for the 2020 Bedtime Story fundraiser for Humanities Washington. The volume contains work by more than two dozen Black writers. An earlier special edition of the journal was dedicated to South Asian American writers, and an upcoming issue will focus on Native American literature. Also, Washington University in St. Louis announced in May that it has acquired the Charles Johnson Papers, an archival collection of materials related to Johnson’s work as an author and illustrator. “Spanning nearly six decades, the collection brings together manuscripts, drafts, correspondence, artwork and ephemera, and serves as a testament to Johnson’s wide-ranging career as a public intellectual.”


--- [ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award 2020 Recipient] ---
Celebrating ACM's 2019 & 2020 Award Recipients: ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award October 15, 2021 The surge of the COVID-19 delta variant, international travel restrictions and restrictions on indoor gatherings forced ACM to cancel its Awards Banquet planned for October 23, 2021. We continue our series of emails containing videos highlighting the achievements of the 2019 and 2020 Award recipients that were prepared for the Banquet. Click on the image below to view a short video about the 2020 recipient of the ACM Eugene Lawler Award. The ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics recognizes an individual or group who has made a significant contribution through the use of computing technology. It is given once every two years, assuming that there are worthy recipients. The award is accompanied by a prize of $5,000. | 2020 ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics Richard Anderson, a Professor at the University of Washington, receives the 2020 ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics for contributions bridging the fields of computer science, education, and global health. | ACM welcomes nominations for candidates whose work exemplifies the best and most influential contributions to our community, and society at large. More information on nominating candidates for future awards is available on the ACM Awards website here.


--- [ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award] ---
Home ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award Award Recipients ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award Individuals/groups making significant humanitarian contributions through the use of computing technology Year Choose an Award A. M. Turing Award ACM Prize in Computing ACM Charles P. "Chuck" Thacker Breakthrough in Computing Award ACM Distinguished Service Award ACM Doctoral Dissertation Award ACM Frances E. Allen Award for Outstanding Mentoring ACM Gordon Bell Prize ACM Gordon Bell Prize for Climate Modeling ACM - IEEE CS Eckert-Mauchly Award ACM Grace Murray Hopper Award International Science and Engineering Fair ACM Paris Kanellakis Theory and Practice Award ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award ACM - IEEE CS Ken Kennedy Award ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics ACM-IEEE CS George Michael Memorial HPC Fellowships ACM AAAI Allen Newell Award Outstanding Contribution to ACM Award ACM Policy Award ACM Presidential Award SIAM/ACM Prize in Computational Science and Engineering ACM Software System Award ACM Athena Lecturer Award ACM/CSTA Cutler-Bell Prize in High School Computing ACM India Doctoral Dissertation Award ACM India Early Career Researcher ACM India Outstanding Contribution in Computing by a Woman ACM India Outstanding Contribution to Computing Education IPSJ/ACM Award for Early Career Contributions to Global Research CCF-ACM Award for Artificial Intelligence ACM Fellows ACM Distinguished Member ACM Senior Member ACM Luiz André Barroso Award Region Choose a Region Asia Europe North America All Years, All Awards Name Award Year Region DL Ehrensperger, Albrecht ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2005 North America Stone, Antonia ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 1999 North America Siva, Ernest ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2005 North America Abowd, Gregory D. ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2009 North America Nelson, Jelani ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2022 North America Schoening, Johannes ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2012 Europe Blitch, John ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2001 North America Banks, Ken ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2016 Europe Mataric, Maja ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2024 North America Balakrishnan, Meenakshi ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2018 Asia Ball, Patrick ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2003 North America Wang, Randy ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2007 North America Anderson, Richard ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2020 North America Murphy, Robin R ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2014 North America Mbuguah, Solomon ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2005 North America Bartoschek, Thomas ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2012 Europe List of ACM Awards Career-Long Contributions ACM A.M. Turing Award ACM Distinguished Service Award ACM Fellows Early-to-Mid-Career Contributions ACM Grace Murray Hopper Award ACM Prize in Computing ACM Distinguished Member ACM Senior Member Specific Types of Contributions ACM Charles P. "Chuck" Thacker Breakthrough in Computing Award ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics ACM Frances E. Allen Award for Outstanding Mentoring ACM Gordon Bell Prize ACM Gordon Bell Prize for Climate Modeling ACM Luiz André Barroso Award ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award ACM Paris Kanellakis Theory and Practice Award ACM Policy Award ACM Presidential Award ACM Software System Award ACM Athena Lecturer Award ACM AAAI Allen Newell Award ACM-IEEE CS Eckert-Mauchly Award ACM-IEEE CS Ken Kennedy Award Outstanding Contribution to ACM Award SIAM/ACM Prize in Computational Science and Engineering ACM Programming Systems and Languages Paper Award Student Contributions ACM Doctoral Dissertation Award ACM-IEEE CS George Michael Memorial HPC Fellowships ACM/CSTA Cutler-Bell Prize in High School Computing International Science and Engineering Fair Regional Awards ACM India Doctoral Dissertation Award ACM India Early Career Researcher Award ACM India Outstanding Contributions in Computing by a Woman Award ACM India Outstanding Contribution to Computing Education Award IPSJ/ACM Award for Early Career Contributions to Global Research CCF-ACM Award for Artificial Intelligence SIG Awards How Awards Are Proposed Establishing an ACM Award Establishing a Best Paper Award for ACM Periodicals
