=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Margaret Gardiner (art collector) - Wikipedia]
She made her home at 35 Downshire Hill, Hampstead, close to the Heath where she swam in the ponds into her 90s. Her son with Bernal was Martin Bernal, author of Black Athena. [1][4][5] Despite never marrying, Gardiner referred to herself as "Mrs Bernal".
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Margaret_Gardiner_(art_collector)

[Margaret Gardiner and Naum Gabo - Pier Arts Centre]
Jul 24, 2019 · In this blog, Curatorial Assistant Kari Adams discusses how artists, including Naum Gabo, became acquainted with Margaret Gardiner through her endeavors with the Artists Refugee Committee. Against the backdrop of Fascism in Europe, 1930s Hampstead saw a great influx of refugees, including many artists and creative people.
URL: https://www.pierartscentre.com/blog/24/7/2019/margaret-gardiner-and-naum-gabo

['It all depends where you start from': Margaret Gardiner and Jim Ede]
In the summer of 1933, Jim and Helen Ede gained a new lodger at their house on Elm Row in Hampstead, where they lived from 1925 to 1936. It was Margaret Gardiner (1904-2005) who had been recommended by the Ede's friend Barbara Hepworth as a candidate to fill the recently vacated top floor flat. By her own admission, Gardiner moved into Elm Row in a 'state of despondent apathy' following ...
URL: https://www.kettlesyard.cam.ac.uk/stories/it-all-depends-where-you-start-from-margaret-gardiner-and-jim-ede/

[Living history: Downshire Hill – Downshire Hill Residents ...]
Margaret Gardiner (22 April 1904 - 2 January 2005) who lived at number 35 was a patron of artists, most notably a supporter of Barbara Hepworth and her husband, Ben Nicholson. Gardiner came to Downshire Hill with her husband, scientist Desmond Bernal after living with Jim & Helen Ede (Kettle's Yard, Cambridge) at 1 Elm Row.
URL: https://downshirehillra.com/living-history-downshire-hill/

[Herbert Read - METROMOD]
The art collector Margaret Gardiner, who was committed to the artistic avant-garde of her time, such as Barbara Hepworth, Ben Nicholson and Naum Gabo, lived at 35 Downshire Hill (Bohm-Duchen 2019, 160.).
URL: https://archive.metromod.net/viewer.p/69/1470/object/5138-11267250


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Margaret Gardiner (art collector) - Wikipedia] ---
Margaret Emilia Gardiner OBE (22 April 1904 – 2 January 2005) was a radical modern British patron of artists and resident of Hampstead, London, from 1932, where she was also a left wing political activist. She was also for a time the partner of Professor John Desmond Bernal. She was known as "Mrs Bernal" for most of her life, but they were never married. In the 1980 Birthday Honours she was awarded an OBE for services to the Pier Arts Centre Trust, Stromness. She was referred to as Margaret Emilia Gardiner Bernal on the list.


--- [Margaret Gardiner and Naum Gabo - Pier Arts Centre] ---
In this blog, Curatorial Assistant Kari Adams discusses how artists, including Naum Gabo, became acquainted with Margaret Gardiner through her endeavors with the Artists Refugee Committee. Against the backdrop of Fascism in Europe, 1930s Hampstead saw a great influx of refugees, including many artists and creative people. Margaret Gardiner (1904-2005), the founder of the Pier Arts Centre, lived at 35 Downshire Hill, Hampstead, was instrumental in establishing the Artists Refugee Committee along with her friends and neighbours Roland Penrose and Fred and Diana Uhlman. Hampstead quickly became a centre of activity for practical and moral support for refugee artists, including Piet Mondrian, Moholy-Nagy, Walter Gropius, Marcel Breuer and Naum Gabo. Margaret Gardiner described Naum Gabo (1890-1977) as, ‘small and compact, with a look of slightly puzzled expectancy and a slow smile, he enchanted us all.’ (Margaret Gardiner, a scatter of memories p. 182). Gabo responded in new and unprecedented ways to the revolutionary political and scientific ideas of his time. And, together with his fellow artists, Gabo shared the same passions and beliefs – ultimately, the conviction that society could be changed for the better through the power of art. Gabo is predominantly associated with the fundamentals of Constructivism* – which was supressed in his native Russia during the 1920s – and along with his brother Antoine Pevsner, has been a major influence on modern sculpture. * Definition: Constructivism was a branch of abstract art founded by Vladimir Tatlin and Alexander Rodchenko in Russia around 1915. The movement was in favour of art as a practice for social purposes and saw the development of new techniques, influencing architecture, photography, photomontage and graphic design. ‘His own beautiful and lucid sculptures – constructions in space, he called them – in which ‘space is an absolute sculptural element, released from any closed volume’, were of great importance in this new conception of art. Space as an element in sculpture was not, of course, a new discovery – but Gabo’s use of it and his use of a new material – Perspex – was an exciting development.’ (Margaret Gardiner, a scatter of memories, p. 183) During the war years (1936-1946), Gabo settled in England and produced many artworks concerned with modern geometry and physics, and the idea that empty space could be used as an essential element of sculpture. An example of such is Linear Construction No. 1 (1942-3), made from perspex and nylon monofilament (single fibre fishing line), which is included within the Pier Arts Centre’s current Permanent Collection display. To discover more about Margaret Gardiner and her life-long active approach in defence of peace, liberty and culture, visit our exhibition Margaret Gardiner – A Life of Giving. The exhibition is part of Insider/Outsider, a nationwide arts festival taking place from March 2019 to March 2020 to celebrate refugees from Nazi Europe and their contribution to British culture.


--- ['It all depends where you start from': Margaret Gardiner and Jim Ede] ---
In the summer of 1933, Jim and Helen Ede gained a new lodger at their house on Elm Row in Hampstead, where they lived from 1925 to 1936. It was Margaret Gardiner (1904-2005) who had been recommended by the Ede’s friend Barbara Hepworth as a candidate to fill the recently vacated top floor flat. By her own admission, Gardiner moved into Elm Row in a ‘state of despondent apathy’ following a broken love affair; but in the new ‘light and airy rooms’, and with her good friend Hepworth living nearby at Parkhill Studios, Gardiner soon cheered.[1] While living with the Edes at Elm Row, Gardiner made frequent appearances at their Sunday gatherings of friends and acquaintances. These were lively discussions and performances of music in the rooms of their home that were decorated with modern art. On 7 January 1934 Ede’s appointment diary records a Sunday at home in Hampstead with guests including Gardiner with the pianist Vera Moore and the artist Ivon Hitchens. On 28 January and 4 February Gardiner’s name appears alongside that of the Indian-born engineer Najmuddin Tyabji (1912-2001) who was studying in England at the time. On 25 February the artist and curator Nicolete (née Binyon, 1911-1997) and her husband, the art historian Basil Gray (1904-1989) were guests alongside Gardiner. In March, Gardiner’s name appears with another frequent guest of the Edes at that time, the artist David Jones (1895-1974) and in June with the poet Cary Ross (1903-1951). In October 1934, Ede’s diaries record a Sunday at home with Gardiner and – among others – the figurative painter Graham Bell (1910-1943) and the art critic Adrian Stokes (1902-1972). [2] Gardiner clearly thrived in this artistic and sociable atmosphere, having – as Stokes later described – a ‘genius for friendship’.[3] She had first met Hepworth in 1930 through their mutual friend, the zoologist and collector of modern art, Solly Zuckerman. The two women relished living near each other in Hampstead. Gardiner recalls many evenings spent at Hepworth’s studio smoking, talking, drinking tea and, evidently, grilling steaks to eat at midnight. [4] From Hepworth, Gardiner learned to appreciate sculpture, and she was godmother to her and Ben Nicholson’s three children – triplets – born in October 1934. Gardiner came from a wealthy family, and she purchased work from the couple in order to support them, as well as works from Naum Gabo and Alfred Wallis. As Gill Hedley describes, Gardiner’s purchases were not intended to amount to ‘a formal collection’ but rather stand as ‘evidence of personal connections.[5] Gardiner moved into her own house in Hampstead in 1937, where she raised her son, Martin Gardiner Bernal (1937-2013). She was a founding member of the Institute of Contemporary Arts in 1946 and continued to buy works by the younger generation of St. Ives artists she encountered, including Peter Lanyon, Patrick Heron, Terry Frost, Margaret Mellis, John Wells and Roger Hilton. Throughout her life, Gardiner campaigned for intellectual and political freedom. In the 1930s she was active in groups such as For Intellectual Liberty and during the Second World War by working with the Artists Refugee Committee which supported artists in danger of being sent to concentration camps in Europe in the 1960s and 1970s with the International Confederation for Peace and Disarmament. As scholar Joanna Gardner-Huggett describes, ‘What remained a constant theme in Gardiner’s activism is how she believed in avant-garde art as a model for social change.’[6] In 1956 – just as Jim and Helen Ede themselves had returned to England to look for a house which would become Kettle’s Yard – Gardiner first visited Orkney with her son, purchasing an abandoned cottage on the island of Rousay. She enjoyed spending time there and ultimately decided to donate her art collection to the people of Orkney, leading to the founding of the Pier Arts Centre in 1979. When Ben Nicholson commented that her gallery was so far away, Gardiner’s rejoinder was ‘It all depends where you start from’.[7] The collection of the Pier Arts Centre contains the work of many artists who are also represented in the collection of Kettle’s Yard – Barbara Hepworth, Ben Nicholson, Henry Moore, Roger Hilton, William Scott, Italo Valenti to name but a few. These echoes between the institutions of course reflect the friendships shared between Margaret Gardiner and Jim Ede in London in the 1930s. In their foundational aspiration to be of benefit to the public, both Kettle’s Yard and the Pier Arts Centre also reflect the utopian idealism of that decade before the Second World War that so influenced both Gardiner’s and Ede’s thinking throughout their lives. Footnotes [1] Margaret Gardiner, Barbara Hepworth: A Memoir (Edinburgh: Salamander Press, 1982) pp. 20-21. [2] Jim Ede’s pocket diary, 1934. Papers of H.S. ‘Jim’ Ede. KY/EDE/6. [3] ‘Margaret Gardiner’, obituary in The Times, 10 January 2005. [4] Margaret Gardiner, Barbara Hepworth: A Memoir (Edinburgh: Salamander Press, 1982) p. 10. [5] Gill Hedley, ‘Margaret Emilia Gardiner’, Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (Oxford University Press, 2017) [6] Joanna P Gardner-Huggett, ‘Margaret Gardiner: Collecting as activism’, British Art Journal, vol. 6, no. 2, Autumn 2005, p. 78. [7] Gill Hedley, ‘Margaret Emilia Gardiner’, Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (Oxford University Press, 2017)


--- [Living history: Downshire Hill – Downshire Hill Residents ...] ---
I discovered Downshire Hill almost 25 years ago. At the time, I was a new Londoner, living in a small flat above a pub in Tufnell Park. Occasionally I would do the walk across Hampstead Heath making sure I would walk along Downshire Hill to see the gardens and houses that lined this unique street. I wished I lived here. Now I do. A year ago I moved with my partner into a small Georgian terrace house on the south side of the street. A brick-fronted terrace (one of only three) with an elevation set back from the street and typical of the houses built here in the 1820s. In the year we’ve been here, we’ve slowly come to know the many stories, secrets, rumours and history of this remarkable street. Downshire Hill is a well-known street amongst Hampstead locals. It’s not as well known as some of London’s more famous streets, but ask many Londoners if they know it and it’s usually followed by a beaming smile. It is not a commercial street, it has no shops (although it did once), and it’s largely made up of houses and apartments. With its deep-set gardens and well-presented frontages, it has a charm that is hard to resist. Some residents, like me, are new. Some have been here for quite some time. Others live in homes that have been in their families for generations. When you finally arrive here, you generally tend to stay. Recently a house went on sale; a somewhat rare occurrence. I chatted to the selling agent who was waiting on the pavement for yet another visitor. He told me that they had had 70 viewings within the month. People really want to live on this street. Of course, Downshire Hill is not just a pretty face; behind the facade is a 200-year history of art, literature, music, entertainment, architecture and science. The street has a history of accommodating high achievers and continues to do so today. Architecture If you’re an architect, you may enjoy the mix of building styles; Regency, Georgian, Victorian, Art Deco and late modernist high tech. In 1976, Sir Michael Hopkins built one of the last new buildings on the street (Number 3 circa 2003 and number 9 was completely rebuilt between 2008 and 2012), The Hopkins house is a Grade II* Listed (2018) building; a machine-like metal and glass box, sitting low down beside a tall Victorian apartment building and a small Georgian house. It’s every bit as impressive as any Californian Case Study House and will go down in history as one of Britain’s most important examples of high-tech architecture. After 35 years, it looks as good as it ever did and reflects the continuous evolution of the street over 200 years. Halfway down the road, sitting beside an imposing Georgian house is another interesting piece of architecture; the 1936 Modern Movement villa designed by Charlotte Gray (A.R.I.B.A) and MJH Bunney (F.R.I.B.A). Michael John Hewetson Bunney was the son of Michael Frank Wharlton and a second-generation RIBA architect. They built many houses in and around Hampstead Garden Suburb; this seems to be the only modernist movement house they built. The house is featured in a publication of Modern movement examples – if you’re interested in this style of architecture be sure to source this book. Art Hampstead has long built itself a reputation as an artist’s enclave and Downshire Hill has often played host, pre and post-war, to many important British art moments; from John Constable to Dante Rosetti to Dadaist illustrator, John Heartfield, who lived at number 47 between 1938 and 1943 (Blue Plaque). Artist Richard Carline and his family moved into the same house in 1916 and lived there until 1936. Carline was part of the Downshire Hill group of artists which included John Nash, Stanley Spencer, Henry Lamb, and Mark Gertler. Richard’s father, George Carline, his mother Anne and brother Sydney, his sister Hilda (Mrs Stanley Spencer), and his wife Nancy were all painters. Richard painted this scene of friends and family on the terrace at number 47 Downshire Hill. In Carline’s painting above, from left to right are Stanley Spencer, James Wood, Kate Foster, Hilda Carline (later to become Mrs Hilda Spencer, married to Stanley Spencer), Henry Lamb, Richard Hartley, Annie Carline and Sydney Carline. Artist and writer Fred Uhlman and his family lived initially at number 46 before moving to 47. Uhlman was born in Stuttgart and left Germany shortly after Hitler became Chancellor. Along with his wife, Diana Croft, they established the Free German League of Culture and the Artists’ Refugee Committee enabling European artists, like Oskar Kokoschka, to emigrate to the United Kingdom. Like many German refugees, he was considered an enemy alien and interned in Hutchinson Camp on the Isle of Man. His daughter Caroline Compton was a long-time resident of Downshire Hill, living at numbers 47 and 48 and then finally at 41. She died aged 81, in May 2022. Photographer, Lee Miller and Surrealist artist Roland Penrose lived at number 21 as did John Constable, briefly in around 1826. Back then the house was referred to as ‘No.2 Langham Place‘. Artist Dora Carrington, who was involved with Bloomsbury Group writer Lytton Strachey and artist Mark Gentler (whose studio was nearby) was a regular visitor to number 45. On a few occasions in November 1918, she wrote to Lytton reflecting on the people living nearby. (Carrington’s Letters, edited by Anne Chisholm – pages 98 and 102) Margaret Gardiner (22 April 1904 – 2 January 2005) who lived at number 35 was a patron of artists, most notably a supporter of Barbara Hepworth and her husband, Ben Nicholson. Gardiner came to Downshire Hill with her husband, scientist Desmond Bernal after living with Jim & Helen Ede (Kettle’s Yard, Cambridge) at 1 Elm Row. Gardiner donated her extensive art collection to the Pier Art Centre in Orkney, established in 1976 and was awarded an OBE in 1980. In her garden at number 35, she had a Barbara Hepworth sculpture entitled ‘Curved Form (Trevalgan) ‘, a Bronze made in 1956, now at Pier Art Centre. Literature As a writer, you might visit Downshire Hill and its surrounds to see the homes of some of Britain’s most famous literary personalities. John Keats (Keats House) and Edith Sitwell (Bryher House) are the most well-known writers of the area. Hampstead Hill Mansions was built in 1896 on the site of ‘Spring Cottage’ the former home of Dante Gabriel Rossetti and his wife Lizzie Siddal. Sir Max Beerbohm created a watercolour in 1917 of Rossetti & Siddal inside of Spring Cottage whereupon ‘Coventry Patmore comes round from Elm Cottage yonder, and very vehemently preaches to the Rossettis that a tea-pot is not worshipful for its form and colour, but rather as one of the sublime symbols of Domesticity.’ The Garnett family lived at number 6 during the First World War, Constance Garnett was an English translator who made the great works of Russian literature available to English and American readers in the first half of the 20th century. Having taught herself Russian, she set about translating major novels; her translations of Dostoyevsky and Chekhov are arguably still the most widely read versions. She translated the complete works of Turgenev and Gogol and the major works of Tolstoy. Her son, David, a writer and publisher, was a central figure in the Bloomsbury group and a lover of the artist Duncan Grant. He would go on to marry Duncan and Vanessa Bell’s daughter Angelica in 1942. Elizabeth Jenkins lived at number 8, from where she wrote her 2004 memoir ‘The View From Downshire Hill’. She was a successful novelist; ‘The Tortoise and the Hare’ was her most widely read novel. She wrote acclaimed biographies of Jane Austen, Henry Fielding, Lady Caroline Lamb, Joseph Lister and Elizabeth I. She was awarded an OBE in 1981. Fleet Street publisher and writer Arthur St John Adcock lived at number 43, along with his daughter Marion who was a highly regarded novelist, poet and author of some 20 children’s books. Many of her ‘Fairies Series’ of poems and short stories are set around the landscape of Hampstead Heath. In 2018, Guy Fraser-Sampson published the fifth book in his series of Hampstead murders entitled ‘The House On Downshire Hill’ loosely based on the events surrounding the demise of 86-year-old Allan Chappelow in 2004. Science Downshire Hill was home to Peter Medawar (25), the Brazilian-born biologist and immunologist. He was once described by Richard Dawkins as “the wittiest of all scientific writers”. In 1960 he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for developing and proving the theory of acquired immunological tolerance, a model that paved the way for successful organ and tissue transplantation. At number 45, Alix and James Strachey were regular visitors. James and Alix produced the English translation of the ‘Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud’, published in 24 volumes between 1953 and 1966. Up until recently, Egle and Moses (Moe) Laufer lived at number 42; both contributing extensively to the study and understanding of child psychoanalysis. Entertainment Academy Award-winning English actress, Peggy Ashcroft lived in Hampstead Hill Mansions at the top of the road. Puppeteer, Jim Henson lived next door at number 50 and soon after moving in he acquired 1b Downbshire Hill as the workshop for the Henson Creature Shop (the former postal sorting station and now the NHS Keats Practice). Number 7 Downshire Hill was home to Martin Shaw (1875-1958), the English composer, conductor, and theatre producer who wrote the hymns All Things Bright and Beautiful and Morning Has Broken. Actress, Dame Flora Robson lived briefly at number 37 Downshire Hill after 1936. In the next post, I will publish information about the making of Downshire Hill and the likely origin of the name. If you have any information to add to our knowledge please let us know by contacting the association.


--- [Herbert Read - METROMOD] ---
Sir Herbert Edward Read The British art historian Herbert Read established himself as a central figure in the London artistic scene in the 1930s and was one of the outstanding supporters of exiled artists. Word Count: 30 Art in Britain 1930–40 centred around Axis, Circle, Unit One, exh. cat. Marlborough Fine Art, London, 1965. Bohm-Duchen, Monica. “Modernist Sanctuary: Hampstead in the 1930s and 1940s.” Insiders Outsiders. Refugees from Nazi Europe and their Contribution to British Visual Culture, edited by Monica Bohm-Duchen, Lund Humphries, 2019, pp. 157–164. Carullo, Valeria. Moholy-Nagy in Britain 1935–1937. Lund Humphries, 2019. Chambers, Emma. “Schwitters und England.” Schwitters in England, edited by Emma Chambers and Karin Orchard, exh. cat. Sprengel Museum Hannover, Hannover, 2013, pp. 6–19. Erlhoff, Michael, and Klaus Stadtmüller, editors. Kurt Schwitters Almanach, vol. 8. Postskriptum-Verlag, 1989. MacLean, Caroline. Circles & Squares. The Lives & Art of the Hampstead Modernists. Bloomsbury, 2021. Moholy-Nagy, László. Letter to Ben Nicholson. Ben Nicholson Papers (Tate Library and Archive, London, 29 March 1946). Nyburg, Anna. Émigrés. The Transformation of Art Publishing in Britain. Phaidon, 2014. Nyburg, Anna. “Émigré Art Publishers.” Insiders Outsiders. Refugees from Nazi Europe and their Contribution to British Visual Culture, edited by Monica Bohm-Duchen, Lund Humphries, 2019, pp. 115–119. Read, Herbert. Art Now. An Introduction to the Theory of Modern Painting and Sculpture. Faber & Faber, 1933. Read, Herbert. Art and Industry. The Principles of Industrial Design. Faber & Faber, 1934. Read, Herbert. “A New Humanism.” Architectural Review, October 1935, p. 151. Read, Herbert. “Paul Klee.” Paintings and Watercolours by Paul Klee, exh. cat. The Leicester Galleries, London, 1941a, pp. 2–6. Read, Herbert. “Zum 50. Geburtstag von John Heartfield.” Freie Deutsche Kultur, no. 6, 1941b, p. 6. Read, Herbert. Letter to Margaret Leischner. Margaret Leischner Papers (Bauhaus-Archiv Berlin, 5 December 1944). Read, Herbert. “Foreword.” Nikolaus Pevsner. Visual Pleasures from Everyday Things. An attempt to establish criteria by which the aesthetic qualities of design can be judged, Council for Visual Education (C.V.E.), 1946, pp. 2–3. Read, Herbert. “British Art 1930–1940.” Art in Britain 1930–40 centred around Axis, Circle, Unit One, exh. cat. Marlborough Fine Art, London, 1965a, pp. 5–6. Read, Herbert. “A Nest of Gentle Artists.” (1962) Art in Britain 1930–40 centred around Axis, Circle, Unit One, exh. cat. Marlborough Fine Art, London 1965b, pp. 7–8. Word Count: 313 University of Leeds Special Collections, Herbert Read Archive. Word Count: 8 3 Mall Studios, Parkhill Road, Belsize Park, Hampstead, London NW3 (residence, 1933–c.1937). The art historian Rosa Schapire, a supporter of Expressionist art, contributed to the presence of Expressionist art in England with loans and donations from her art collections rescued to London. Word Count: 30 László Moholy-Nagy emigrated to London in 1935, where he worked in close contact with the local avantgarde and was commissioned for window display decoration, photo books, advertising and film work. Word Count: 30 After escaping from his first exile in Prague in December 1938, the political artist John Heartfield lived in London since 1950, working for Picture Post and the publisher Lindsay Drummond. Word Count: 28 The artist and poet Kurt Schwitters lived in London between 1941 and 1945, where he stood in contact to émigré and local artists, before moving to the Lake District. Word Count: 27 The designer Margaret Leischner lived in England from 1938, worked for textile and furniture companies, taught at the Royal College of Art and was honoured as Royal Designer for Industry. Word Count: 29 Visual Pleasures from Everyday Things is a booklet written in 1946 by the emigrated architectural historian Nikolaus Pevsner with the aim of aesthetic education and teacher training. Word Count: 26 Friends and colleagues came together on 9 March 1937 to send off the architect Walter Gropius and his wife Ise Gropius, who had decided to leave for the United States. Word Count: 28 The 20th Century German Art exhibition of 1938 gave visibility to artists who had been defamed at the Munich exhibition Entartete Kunst and were persecuted by the National Socialist regime. Word Count: 29 The Modern Art Gallery, founded by the émigré painter, sculptor and writer Jack Bilbo, was a forum for the presentation of modern art, specialising in the work of emigrant artists. Word Count: 30 The emigrants Eva Feuchtwang (later Eva Neurath) and Walter Neurath founded the Thames & Hudson publishing house in 1949, which published art history books, photo books and collection catalogues. Word Count: 28 The Kulturwissenschaftliche Bibliothek Warburg in Hamburg achieved a new presence in London after 1933 under the name The Warburg Institute as a research institution with a library and photo archive. Word Count: 29 Faber & Faber shows the importance of publishing houses as supporters of contemporary art movements and of the contribution of emigrants, helping to popularise their art and artistic theories. Word Count: 29 Julian Huxley was the director of London Zoo from 1935 to 1942 and worked closely with emigrant photographers, artists and architects, including Berthold Lubetkin, Erna Pinner and Wolf Suschitzky. Word Count: 27 Marlborough Fine Art was founded in 1946 by the Viennese emigrants Harry Fischer and Frank Lloyd in the Mayfair district, focused on Impressionists, Modern and Contemporary Art. Word Count: 26 The Free German League of Culture was an association of emigrant artists and authors who organised exhibitions, concerts and lectures. The events were announced in the Freie Deutsche Kultur newsletter. Word Count: 30
