=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Eni announces a significant oil discovery in Block 4, offshore Ghana]
It was drilled by the Saipem 10000 drilling ship in a water depth of 545 meters and reached a total depth of 4179 meters (measured depth). Eban - 1X proved a single light oil column of approximately 80m in a thick sandstone reservoir interval of Cenomanian age with hydrocarbons encountered down to 3949m (true vertical depth).
URL: https://www.eni.com/en-IT/media/press-release/2021/07/eni-announces-significant-discovery-block-ghana.html

[Eni makes new discovery in Ghana - Upstream Nigeria Oil & Gas and ...]
It was drilled by the Saipem 10000 drilling ship in a water depth of 545 meters and reached a total depth of 4179 meters (measured depth). Eban - 1X proved a single light oil column of approximately 80m in a thick sandstone reservoir interval of Cenomanian age with hydrocarbons encountered down to 3949m (true vertical depth).
URL: https://upstreamnigeria.com/news/eni-makes-new-discovery-in-ghana/

[Eni discovers oil on Eban exploration prospect in CTP Block 4, offshore ...]
It was drilled by the Saipem 10000 drilling ship in a water depth of 545 meters and reached a total depth of 4179 meters (measured depth). Eban - 1X proved a single light oil column of approximately 80m in a thick sandstone reservoir interval of Cenomanian age with hydrocarbons encountered down to 3949m (true vertical depth).
URL: https://africabusinesscommunities.com/oil-and-gas/eni-discovers-oil-on-eban-exploration-prospect-in-ctp-block-4-offshore-ghana/

[Eni boasts 'significant' oil discovery offshore Ghana]
It was drilled by the Saipem 10000 drilling ship in a water depth of 545 meters and reached a total depth of 4179 meters (measured depth). Eban - 1X proved a single light oil column of approximately 80m in a thick sandstone reservoir interval of Cenomanian age with hydrocarbons encountered down to 3949m (true vertical depth).
URL: https://www.worldports.org/eni-boasts-significant-oil-discovery-offshore-ghana/

[Eni Strikes Oil With Eban Well Off Ghana - JPT]
The well encountered a single light-oil column of about 80 m in a thick sandstone reservoir interval of Cenomanian age with hydrocarbons encountered down to 3949 m. Production-testing data show a well deliverability potential estimated at 5,000 B/D of oil, similar to the wells already in production from the Sankofa field.
URL: https://jpt.spe.org/eni-strikes-oil-with-eban-well-off-ghana


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Eni announces a significant oil discovery in Block 4, offshore Ghana] ---
Press Office - +39.0252031875 - +39.0659822030 Or , our new artificial intelligence tool. San Donato Milanese (Milan), 6 July 2021 – Eni announces a significant oil discovery on the Eban exploration prospect in CTP Block 4, offshore Ghana. The Eban - 1X well is the second well drilled in CTP Block 4, following the Akoma discovery. Preliminary estimates place the potential of the Eban–Akoma complex between 500 and 700 Mboe in place. The Eban - 1X well is located approximately 50 kilometers off the coast and about 8 kilometers Northwest of Sankofa Hub, where the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO is located. It was drilled by the Saipem 10000 drilling ship in a water depth of 545 meters and reached a total depth of 4179 meters (measured depth). Eban - 1X proved a single light oil column of approximately 80m in a thick sandstone reservoir interval of Cenomanian age with hydrocarbons encountered down to 3949m (true vertical depth). The new discovery has been assessed following comprehensive analysis of extensive 3D seismic datasets and well data acquisition including pressure measurements, fluid sampling and intelligent formation testing with state-of-the-art technology. The acquired pressure and fluid data (oil density and Gas-to-Oil Ratio) and reservoir properties are consistent with the previous discovery of Akoma and nearby Sankofa field. The production testing data show a well deliverability potential estimated at 5000 bopd, similar to the wells already in production from Sankofa Field. The estimated hydrocarbon in place between the Sankofa field and the Eban-Akoma complex is now in excess of 1.1 Bboe and further oil in place upside could be confirmed with an additional appraisal well. Due to its proximity to existing infrastructures, the new discovery can be fast-tracked to production with a subsea tie-in to the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO, with the aim to extend its production plateau and increase production. The Eban discovery is a testimony to the success of the infrastructure-led exploration strategy that Eni is carrying out in its core assets worldwide. The Joint Venture of CTP Block 4 is operated by Eni (42.469%), on behalf of partners Vitol (33.975%), GNPC (10%), Woodfields (9,556%), GNPC Explorco (4,00%). Eni has been present in Ghana since 2009, and accounts currently a gross production of about 80,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. +39.0252031875 - +39.0659822030 800940924 +80011223456 +39 02 52031875 +39 06 59822030 Piazza Vanoni, 1 - 20097 San Donato Milanese (MI) +39 0252051651 +39.0659821 If you want to change topic, clear the chat and make a new query to receive more relevant results. This will delete the question history. If you want to change topic, clear the chat and make a new query to receive more relevant results. This will delete the question history. Here you can find the full list of your queries. The answers are generated by artificial intelligence, therefore they may contain inaccuracies. Please read the terms and conditions of use. EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions. EnergIA can also perform a search on a specific topic, providing the most up-to-date data available, or it can invite you to delve deeper into a topic of your interest by suggesting links and specific readings. Start now! EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions. Start now! EnergIA (ener'dʒia) is a system based on Generative Artificial Intelligence. Thanks to this technology, we can respond to your requests by querying the most relevant content and documents available on eni.com. (Note: financial documents from the last 12 months and press releases from the last 2 years are considered.) Through EnergIA, you can delve into topics of interest and have a real-time window into the world of Eni. If you wish to search for a specific document, press release or news, use the traditional search engine via the magnifying glass icon. Like all systems that leverage Generative Artificial Intelligence, EnergIA may generate inaccurate or outdated responses. Always consult the sources that EnergIA proposes as the origin of the generated information. If the system fails to find an exact match for the requested content, it still tends to provide a response. If you find any inaccuracies in the provided response, please send us your feedback at the bottom of the page: it will be very helpful for us to improve. Remember that the content generated by the system does not represent Eni’s official position. We therefore invite stakeholders to refer to their designated contacts for official statements: Press Office for journalists, Investor Relations for analysts and investors, Company Secretariat for shareholders etc.. EnergIA can understand questions posed in almost all languages, but we prefer to provide you with a response in English or Italian, the two languages available on eni.com. If you ask a question in Italian, the content on the site in Italian will be consulted. If you ask it in English or any other language, the content in English will be consulted. (Note: the language Eni uses for financial documents/content is predominantly English.) If questions are formulated that violate the set security criteria, the system will not proceed with processing the response. Please remember not to send personal data. By using this service, the users acknowledge that they have read and accepted the terms and conditions of use. Search EnergIA (ener'dʒia) is a system based on Generative Artificial Intelligence. Thanks to this technology, we can respond to your requests by querying the most relevant content and documents available on eni.com. (Note: financial documents from the last 12 months and press releases from the last 2 years are considered.) Through EnergIA, you can delve into topics of interest and have a real-time window into the world of Eni. If you wish to search for a specific document, press release or news, use the traditional search engine via the magnifying glass icon. Like all systems that leverage Generative Artificial Intelligence, EnergIA may generate inaccurate or outdated responses. Always consult the sources that EnergIA proposes as the origin of the generated information. If the system fails to find an exact match for the requested content, it still tends to provide a response. If you find any inaccuracies in the provided response, please send us your feedback at the bottom of the page: it will be very helpful for us to improve. Remember that the content generated by the system does not represent Eni’s official position. We therefore invite stakeholders to refer to their designated contacts for official statements: Press Office for journalists, Investor Relations for analysts and investors, Company Secretariat for shareholders etc.. EnergIA can understand questions posed in almost all languages, but we prefer to provide you with a response in English or Italian, the two languages available on eni.com. If you ask a question in Italian, the content on the site in Italian will be consulted. If you ask it in English or any other language, the content in English will be consulted. (Note: the language Eni uses for financial documents/content is predominantly English.) If questions are formulated that violate the set security criteria, the system will not proceed with processing the response. Please remember not to send personal data. By using this service, the users acknowledge that they have read and accepted the terms and conditions of use. A new window into Eni’s world, at your disposal. EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions.


--- [Eni makes new discovery in Ghana - Upstream Nigeria Oil & Gas and ...] ---
Eni has made a significant oil find offshore Ghana, close to its existing Sankofa hub, which would allow it to fast track production. Eni announces a significant oil discovery on the Eban exploration prospect in CTP Block 4, offshore Ghana. The Eban – 1X well is the second well drilled in CTP Block 4, following the Akoma discovery. Preliminary estimates place the potential of the Eban–Akoma complex between 500 and 700 Mboe in place. The Eban – 1X well is located approximately 50 kilometers off the coast and about 8 kilometers Northwest of Sankofa Hub, where the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO is located. It was drilled by the Saipem 10000 drilling ship in a water depth of 545 meters and reached a total depth of 4179 meters (measured depth). Eban – 1X proved a single light oil column of approximately 80m in a thick sandstone reservoir interval of Cenomanian age with hydrocarbons encountered down to 3949m (true vertical depth). The new discovery has been assessed following comprehensive analysis of extensive 3D seismic datasets and well data acquisition including pressure measurements, fluid sampling and intelligent formation testing with state-of-the-art technology. The acquired pressure and fluid data (oil density and Gas-to-Oil Ratio) and reservoir properties are consistent with the previous discovery of Akoma and nearby Sankofa field. The production testing data show a well deliverability potential estimated at 5000 bopd, similar to the wells already in production from Sankofa Field.


--- [Eni discovers oil on Eban exploration prospect in CTP Block 4, offshore ...] ---
No content


--- [Eni boasts 'significant' oil discovery offshore Ghana] ---
No content


--- [Eni Strikes Oil With Eban Well Off Ghana - JPT] ---
Eni has struck a significant oil discovery on the Eban exploration prospect in CTP Block 4, offshore Ghana. The Eban‑1X well is the second well drilled in CTP Block 4, following the Akoma discovery. Preliminary estimates place the potential of the Eban-Akoma complex between 500 and 700 million BOE in place. The Eban-1X well is located approximately 50 km off the coast and about 8 km northwest of Sankofa Hub, where the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO is located. It was drilled by drillship Saipem 10000 in a water depth of 545 m and reached a total depth of 4179 m. The well encountered a single light-oil column of about 80 m in a thick sandstone reservoir interval of Cenomanian age with hydrocarbons encountered down to 3949 m. Production-testing data show a well deliverability potential estimated at 5,000 B/D of oil, similar to the wells already in production from the Sankofa field. The estimated hydrocarbons in place between the Sankofa field and the Eban‑Akoma complex is now in excess of 1.1 billion BOE and further oil-in-place upside could be confirmed with an additional appraisal well. Because of its proximity to existing infrastructure, the new discovery can be fast-tracked to production via a subsea tie-in to the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO, with the aim to extend its production plateau and increase production. CTP Block 4 is operated by Eni (42.469%) on behalf of partners Vitol (33.975%), GNPC (10%), Woodfields Energy Resources Ltd. (9.556%), and GNPC Explorco (4%).
