=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Fatima Sydow Passes Away | Fatima Sydow Cooks]
Fatima Sydow, a culinary luminary, was born on the 12th of November 1973 to Abduraghmaan and the late Waseela (nee Davids) Sydow on the Cape Flats in Cape Town, South Africa. Her culinary odyssey commenced at the tender age of 9, standing alongside her mother, peeling potatoes, and cutting onions.
URL: https://fatimasydow.co.za/2023/12/19/60304/

[Fatima Sydow - A Culinary Legend - MyKitchen]
Fatima's journey started alongside her mother, the late Waseela (née Davids) Sydow, where she would often help her with peeling potatoes and chopping onions - marvelling at the art of how her mother was able to perform culinary miracles with the simplest of ingredients.
URL: https://mykitchen.co.za/fatima-sydow-a-culinary-legend/

[MEC Marais mourns death of celebrity cook Fatima Sydow | SAnews]
Western Cape Cultural Affairs and Sport MEC, Anroux Marais, has expressed shock and sadness at the passing of celebrity cook, Fatima Sydow, at the age of 50. According to a statement released by the family, Sydow passed away peacefully on Tuesday at Vincent Pallotti Hospital in Cape Town, after battling soft tissue sarcoma since 2020. She was surrounded by her immediate family. Marais said ...
URL: https://www.sanews.gov.za/south-africa/mec-marais-mourns-death-celebrity-cook-fatima-sydow

[Keeping a community's traditions alive through cooking]
Fatima Sydow says her food journey is partly a celebration of her mother, Wasiela's, life. Fatima Sydow was raised to celebrate and share in the traditions of her neighbours. She has managed to turn this and her love of cooking into a career, publishing two cook books and hosting a cooking show with her twin sister, Gadija.
URL: https://www.foodformzansi.co.za/mzansi-flavour-keeping-a-communitys-traditions-alive-through-cooking/

[Cultural Affairs MEC Marais mourns beloved Cape Town chef Fatima Sydow ...]
Dec 20, 2023 · Sydow is a renowned culinary artist and beloved personality known for her exceptional culinary skills, infectious enthusiasm and warm personality. The cook was born on 12 November 1973 to Abduraghmaan and the late Waseela (nee Davids) Sydow on the Cape Flats in Cape Town.
URL: https://fullview.co.za/cultural-affairs-mec-marais-mourns-beloved-cape-town-chef-fatima-sydow/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Fatima Sydow Passes Away | Fatima Sydow Cooks] ---
It is with deep sadness that we, the Sydow Family, announce the passing of our beloved sister, Fatima Sydow. As a renowned culinary artist and beloved personality, she has left an indelible mark on the culinary world. Fatima, known for her exceptional culinary skills, infectious enthusiasm and warm personality, passed away peacefully earlier today at Vincent Pallotti Hospital in Cape Town, after battling soft tissue sarcoma since 2020. She was surrounded by her immediate family. As a family, we express our deepest gratitude for the outpouring of love and support during this challenging time. Fatima Sydow, a culinary luminary, was born on the 12th of November 1973 to Abduraghmaan and the late Waseela (nee Davids) Sydow on the Cape Flats in Cape Town, South Africa. Her culinary odyssey commenced at the tender age of 9, standing alongside her mother, peeling potatoes, and cutting onions. Inspired by her mother’s ability to perform culinary miracles with few ingredients, creating dishes that generously fed many hungry stomachs, Fatima found the spark that would ignite her own culinary journey. Fatima rose to prominence through her Facebook page, initiated in 2011. She was unapologetic about her background being from humble beginnings and continued to generously share herself with the community. Despite her ascent to culinary stardom, Fatima remained rooted in her origins, always embracing and celebrating the richness of her Cape Malay heritage. Her journey was not just about cooking; it was a heartfelt narrative of love, unity, and connection through the universal language of food. The culmination of her culinary journey resulted in the self-publication of her inaugural book in 2015, “The Journey of Cape Malay Cooking with Fatima Sydow.” This book resonated widely with many readers, young and old, its appeal rooted in her easy-to-follow recipes that evoked cherished memories of growing up with Cape Malay Cuisine. Her ascent continued with the television show “Kaap, Kerrie, and Koesisters” on ViaTV, co-hosted with her twin sister, Gadija Sydow. Originally intended for one season, the show’s popularity led to an unprecedented six-season run, concluding in 2021. This success paved the way for her second book, “Cape, Curry, and Koesister,” published by NB Publishers in 2019, a compendium of beloved Cape Malay recipes contributed by both Fatima and Gadija. In 2021, fuelled by boundless energy and enthusiasm, Fatima unveiled “Fatima Sydow Cooks,” her third book infusing a modern twist into cherished Cape Malay recipes. Amid the challenges of the Covid era, she ventured into the realm of YouTube, sharing her kitchen, expertise and infectious giggle. Her channel quickly garnered widespread acclaim, becoming a beacon of joy for viewers around the world. In her final literary contribution, “Fatima Sydow Cape Malay Cooking – My Story, My Heritage,” published in 2023, she wished to leave a legacy of love, unity, and connection through the communal experience of food. Additionally, beyond her television success and bestselling cookbooks, Fatima introduced a successful spice and Cape Malay savouries range, aimed at sharing her Cape Malay culture with others. This venture further showcased her commitment to making the flavours of her heritage accessible to a wider audience, adding another layer to her culinary legacy. As we bid farewell to a culinary visionary, let us remember Fatima for her enduring impact on the culinary world and the lives she touched with her warmth and expertise. May her legacy live on in the kitchens and hearts of those who continue to be inspired by her culinary artistry. In her memory, we encourage everyone to celebrate her life by sharing a meal with loved ones and cherishing the moments spent together.


--- [Fatima Sydow - A Culinary Legend - MyKitchen] ---
We pay tribute to one of South Africa’s beloved personalities, a culinary visionary and the queen of Cape Malay cooking, heritage, and culture. Her infectious enthusiasm and warm and loving personality will live long in every recipe she has left behind. Fatima Sydow was born in the Cape Flats in Cape Town, South Africa. Her culinary journey began early in her childhood: “I remember like it was yesterday, the very first time mom called me to come and help her in the kitchen. I was only 9 years old with scruffy, wavy hair and big brown eyes. I would stop whatever I was doing at that moment and run barefoot in a sprint and in the kitchen I will be,” – and so a culinary luminary was born. Fatima’s journey started alongside her mother, the late Waseela (née Davids) Sydow, where she would often help her with peeling potatoes and chopping onions – marvelling at the art of how her mother was able to perform culinary miracles with the simplest of ingredients. The food that came out of her mother’s kitchen would feed many, not only filling tummies but filling the soul. Fast forward to 2011, Fatima started her Facebook page Cape Malay Cooking with Fatima Sydow where she’d share her rich heritage through comforting culinary creations that embraced the roots of her origins. As Fatima continued to share herself with the public, her social media prominence began to rise since it became clear that her journey was not just one of cooking; but a love story, a deep and heartfelt narrative of unity, sharing and the universal language that is food. “On a chilly autumn morning in 2015, I took a deep breath and tightened my apron. There was something special and very different about that day… I could feel it in the air. I was excited, scared, nervous, thinking about what was about to take flight – not knowing that it would change my life and the course of my food journey and adventures forever.” – Fatima Sydow Eggs, flour, sugar and blobs of silky soft butter were transformed into a rich, buttery biscuit dough ready to be shaped and baked. What was baking in that oven that day was the first recipe for her self-published cookbook The Journey of Cape Malay Cooking with Fatima Sydow, a book she managed to publish with little resources. Filled with the lessons and memories passed down by her late mother, this cook book resonated with so many readers both old and young thanks to its easy-to-follow steps and humble ingredients. The doors to the culinary kingdom continued to open, welcoming all that Fatima had to offer. From her television show Kaap, Kerrie en Koesisters on ViaTV, co-hosted with her twin sister, Gadija Sydow Noordien. The TV show was originally scheduled to only run for one season, but became so popular that it led to a unprecedented six-season run, with the finale airing in 2019. This paved the way for Fatima’s second cookbook Cape, Curry, and Koesisters, published in 2019 and translated to Afrikaans. The pages are filled with a rich compilation of Cape Malay recipes from both Fatima and Gadija. From homemade masala mixes to make the most memorable curries and a killer dhaltjie recipe, to comforting potato pudding with stewed fruit (yes it’s a thing, a very delicious thing indeed!) and, of course, koesisters. The use of everyday ingredients, simple methods as well as Fatima’s boundless energy and enthusiasm to keep sharing her culinary knowledge and heritage paved the way for her third cookbook: Fatima Sydow Cooks. In this book, tradition gets a modern twist, with some flavourful surprises in tow. The ability to add a modern twist to traditional cuisine is something only Fatima could do – from roti and curry pies to prawn chaat and so much more. “Remember me through this cookbook, feel me on every page, in every story, word and picture. I love you all, and I hope I have made you proud and encouraged you to create your own beautiful pockets of memories with your loved ones. I will forever be in your hearts.” Fatima Sydow’s legacy will live on through every spice blend and every vibrant dish that graces our tables as a testament to her profound influence and enduring spirit. So let’s raise our forks and continue the culinary journey that she so beautifully began. Fatima was extremely generous and compassionate. Loved her family and her dog, Sunny Boy, fiercely. Whenever I visited her, I never left empty-handed. She would even pack in barakat for my mom. Food was her love language. – Donna Lewis, photographer Three-egg milk tart Serves 8 The craving for milk tart happens quite often in my house. But sometimes you only have three eggs. What to do? Ask mom of course. This is my late mother’s recipe. She was a lady who always made a plan and, before we knew it we would all have a piece of delicious milk tart in our hands. Ingredients ¾ Cup (180g) butter ½ cup (125ml) sugar 1 egg, extra large 1 tsp (5ml) vanilla essence 2 ½ cups (625ml) cake flour 1 tsp (5ml) baking powder For the custard filling 1 cup + 7 Tbsp (355ml) milk 1 Tbsp (15ml) custard powder ¼ cup (60ml) sugar 3 extra-large eggs Pinch of ground cardamom ½ tsp (2.5ml) vanilla essence ½ tsp (2.5ml) ground cinnamon, for dusting Method - Preheat the oven to 180°C. - In a mixing bowl or the bowl of an electric mixer, cream together the butter and sugar for about 2 minutes. Whisk in the egg and vanilla essence until combined. - Gently fold in the flour and baking powder. By hand, mix the dough until smooth and the sides of the bowl are clean. Cover with cling wrap and chill in the fridge for 20 minutes. - Grease a round 20-cm baking dish. Roll out the dough to about half a centimetre thick and line the dish with the dough. Ensure there are no holes in the base. - Whisk together the custard ingredients, excluding the cinnamon, until smooth. Pour the mixture through a sieve and into a jug. Carefully pour the mixture into the prepared baking dish. Sprinkle the cinnamon over just before baking dish. Bake for 40 to 45 minutes until the custard is almost set. Cool completely before serving. Bollas This delicious treat is basically a deep-fried thick vanilla cake batter that’s then dunked in sugar syrup and sprinkled with a light snowfall of desiccated coconut. Traditionally served during Ramadan, but they can be made throughout the year for a lovely Sunday afternoon treat. Ingredients ½ cup (125ml) castor sugar 2 large eggs 5 Tbsp (75ml) oil 1 Tbsp (15ml) vanilla essence 2¾ Cup (700ml) cake flour 1 Tbsp (15ml) baking powder 1 ¼ cup (300ml) buttermilk Oil for deep-frying For the syrup 2 cups (500ml) water 2 cups (500ml) sugar 1 cup (250ml) desiccated coconut Method - In a large bowl, beat the castor sugar and eggs together until light and creamy. Next, add the oil and vanilla essence and whisk until fluffy. Sift in the dry ingredients, then add the buttermilk and mix until well combined. Cover the bowl of batter with plastic wrap or a tea towel and allow to rest for 30 minutes. - Once ready, use a tablespoon to scoop up the batter. On medium to high heat, deep-fry the bollas in the oil until golden brown on each side. Remove with a slotted spoon and place on pieces of paper towel. - In a separate pot, boil the water and sugar together for 15 minutes to make sugar syrup. Dunk the bollas into the warm syrup just once and remove with a slotted spoon. Sprinkle with desiccated coconut and serve. Words by: Gail Damon Photographs: Donna Lewis


--- [MEC Marais mourns death of celebrity cook Fatima Sydow | SAnews] ---
Western Cape Cultural Affairs and Sport MEC, Anroux Marais, has expressed shock and sadness at the passing of celebrity cook, Fatima Sydow, at the age of 50. According to a statement released by the family, Sydow passed away peacefully on Tuesday at Vincent Pallotti Hospital in Cape Town, after battling soft tissue sarcoma since 2020. She was surrounded by her immediate family. Marais said Sydow would be missed by everyone she touched with her warm personality, including the many fans of her hit TV show, Kaap, Kerrie en Koesisters. “The sun will shine a little less brightly after Fatima lost her battle, so bravely fought, against soft tissue sarcoma, which has robbed the Western Cape of one of its most beloved residents. Her recipes were often short and simple enough for anyone to attempt. Yet the end product, often with Cape Malay flair, would always be so spectacular,” Marais said. The MEC thanked Sydow’s family and loved ones for supporting her so that she might share her gift with the nation. “She made her mark and will be sorely missed by all those who knew and cared for her. Her life and work will live on through her recipes. I send my most heartfelt condolences and hope that you will find peace and strength during this difficult time,” Marais said. Sydow is a renowned culinary artist and beloved personality known for her exceptional culinary skills, infectious enthusiasm and warm personality. The cook was born on 12 November 1973 to Abduraghmaan and the late Waseela (nee Davids) Sydow on the Cape Flats in Cape Town. “Her culinary odyssey commenced at the tender age of nine, standing alongside her mother, peeling potatoes, and cutting onions. “Inspired by her mother's ability to perform culinary miracles with few ingredients; creating dishes that generously fed many hungry stomachs, Fatima found the spark that would ignite her own culinary journey,” said Marais. In 2015, she published a book, The Journey of Cape Malay Cooking with Fatima Sydow. She subsequently published three more books, Cape, Curry & Koesisters, Fatima Sydow Cooks, and My Story, My Heritage. Her funeral will take place on Wednesday in Cape Town. – SAnews.gov.za


--- [Keeping a community's traditions alive through cooking] ---
Fatima Sydow was raised to celebrate and share in the traditions of her neighbours. She has managed to turn this and her love of cooking into a career, publishing two cook books and hosting a cooking show with her twin sister, Gadija. As a young girl she was stuck to the hip of her mother, Wasiela, in the kitchen, while she cooked for events. Ever since, the kitchen has been a place where Sydow (45) felt at home. “You know, for most people it is the heart of the home. It is where most of the memories are created. I somehow gravitated toward the kitchen. It is not necessarily the food, but it was the feeling that you get in the kitchen when you cook. It can’t be compared to anything else,” says Sydow. Born in Manenberg in the Western Cape, Sydow was raised in Mitchells Plain along with her five siblings. After dropping out of school, she enrolled again and managed to matriculate in 1994. “I left school in grade 10 and I was out of school for three years. Then, one day I just woke up and I said ‘No, I want to make something of my life and do something and education is important’. And I went back to school at 19 years old and I finished with flying colours,” she says, chuckling. Sydow is the fun aunty that any youngster would want to be friends with. She has a good sense of humour, makes delicious food, loves hip-hop music and she can rap. She has always loved delving into history, so much so that she enrolled as an archaeology student. Sydow had to drop out because she didn’t have enough money to cover her study fees. Instead, she went on to follow her dream and started her journey in the culinary world. Sydow has already published a cook book called The journey of Cape Malay cooking. Her cooking show with Gadija is called Cape, Curry and Koesisters and has been running for the past two years. It is also the title of their next cook book. She claims they are the first South African twins to publish a cook book a together. Through the cook book Sydow hopes to preserve the traditions of Cape cooking for the generations to come. She adds that her entire food journey has been partly a celebrations of her mother’s life. “At the end of the day all we really have is our stories. Now, what we’re trying to do is preserve the stories and not just from our parents, but from ourselves. We are preserving our own story and documenting it and then sharing it with the world in the hopes that it not just inspires, but evokes an emotion that uplifts.” It is that time of the year again when people enjoy pickled fish and hot cross buns. Sydow says as a child she remembers her mother preparing pickled fish for Easter every year. “My Mom came from Bo-Kaap and her family is from District Six and everyone celebrated things together. They were there for each other. So, it was just a common thing to make everything and share it with your neighbour and just enjoy it and get together. We grew up having pickled fish every Easter without fail.” Although she might have tweaked her mother’s pickled fish recipe for her own liking over the years, Sydow continues the tradition. As a bonus she also prepared hot cross buns and chuckles as she says: “cross and all”.


--- [Cultural Affairs MEC Marais mourns beloved Cape Town chef Fatima Sydow ...] ---
By Lehlohonolo Lehana. Western Cape Cultural Affairs and Sport MEC, Anroux Marais, says the sun will shine a little less brightly after Fatima Sydow lost her battle, so bravely fought, against soft tissue sarcoma, which has robbed the Western Cape of one of its most beloved residents. The family of renowned Cape Town chef and ‘Cape Malay Cooking’ author Fatima Sydow announced her passing after a long battle with cancer. A statement on her Facebook page said Sydow died peacefully in hospital, surrounded by her immediate family. She had been battling soft tissue sarcoma for about three years. Marais said Sydow would be missed by everyone she touched with her warm personality, including the many fans of her hit TV show, Kaap, Kerrie en Koesisters. The MEC thanked Sydow’s family and loved ones for supporting her so that she might share her gift with the nation. “She made her mark and will be sorely missed by all those who knew and cared for her. Her life and work will live on through her recipes. I send my most heartfelt condolences and hope that you will find peace and strength during this difficult time,” Marais said. Sydow is a renowned culinary artist and beloved personality known for her exceptional culinary skills, infectious enthusiasm and warm personality. The cook was born on 12 November 1973 to Abduraghmaan and the late Waseela (nee Davids) Sydow on the Cape Flats in Cape Town. “Her culinary odyssey commenced at the tender age of nine, standing alongside her mother, peeling potatoes, and cutting onions. “Inspired by her mother’s ability to perform culinary miracles with few ingredients; creating dishes that generously fed many hungry stomachs, Fatima found the spark that would ignite her own culinary journey,” said Marais. In 2015, she published a book, The Journey of Cape Malay Cooking with Fatima Sydow. She subsequently published three more books, Cape, Curry & Koesisters, Fatima Sydow Cooks, and My Story, My Heritage. Renowned cookbook author and local TV personality Sydow was laid to rest at Mowbray Cemetery in Cape Town on Wednesday.
