=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sing Sing - Wikipedia]
In 1989, the institution was accredited for the first time by the American Correctional Association, which established a set of national standards by which it judged every correctional facility. [31] As of 2019, Sing Sing housed approximately 1,500 inmates, employed about 900 people, [1] and hosted over 5,000 visitors per month.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sing_Sing

[NYCHS excerpts: Mark Gado's 'Stone Upon Stone: Sing Sing Prison']
As Sing Sing enters its third century of continuous operation, it houses more than 2,000 inmates and employs approximately 1,000 people. More than 5,000 visitors pass through its gates each month. . . . In 1989, the institution was accredited for the first time by the American Correctional Association, which established a set of national standards by which every correctional facility should be ...
URL: https://correctionhistory.org/auburn&osborne/bighouse5.htm

[Sing Sing Explained]
May 5, 2025 · In 1989, the institution was accredited for the first time by the American Correctional Association, which established a set of national standards by which it judged every correctional facility. [28], Sing Sing houses approximately 1,500 inmates, employs about 900 people, and has hosted over 5,000 visitors per month.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Sing-Sing_Prison/

[Sing Sing - Wikiwand]
In 1989, the institution was accredited for the first time by the American Correctional Association, which established a set of national standards by which it judged every correctional facility. [29] As of 2019, Sing Sing houses approximately 1,500 inmates, employs about 900 people, [1] and has hosted over 5,000 visitors per month.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Sing_Sing_State_Prison

[Sing Sing Correctional Facility | New York State Archives]
In addition, the enabling legislation ... similar to the statute passed in 1847 that originally mandated what records would be kept by prison officials. In 1984 the prison was renamed the Sing Sing Correctional Facility....
URL: https://www.archives.nysed.gov/creator-authority/sing-sing-correctional-facility


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sing Sing - Wikipedia] ---
Sing Sing Correctional Facility is a maximum-security prison for men operated by the New York State Department of Corrections and Community Supervision in the village of Ossining, New York, United States. It is about 30 miles (48 km) north of Midtown Manhattan on the east bank of the Hudson River. It holds about 1,700 inmates as of 2007, and housed the execution chamber for the State of New York for a period, with the final execution there occurring in 1963; instead Green Haven Correctional Facility had the execution chamber by the late 20th century, before the total abolition of capital punishment in New York in 2007.
The name "Sing Sing" derives from the Sintsink Native American tribe from whom the New York colony purchased the land in 1685, and was formerly the name of the village. In 1970, the prison's name was changed to Ossining Correctional Facility, but it reverted to its original name in 1985.  There are plans to convert the original 1825 cell block into a period museum.
The prison property is bisected by the Metro-North Railroad's four-track Hudson Line.




--- [NYCHS excerpts: Mark Gado's 'Stone Upon Stone: Sing Sing Prison'] ---
| NYCHS is honored to be permitted to post this excerpts presentation of Mark Gado's Stone Upon Stone: Sing Sing Prison appearing on Court TV's Crime Library web site that retains all rights under its copyright. Visit Court TV's Crime Library web site to view the complete 16-chapter article, including more historical images, a useful bibliography and the full long list of New Rochelle Detective Gado's other articles on that site. Thanks also to the Ossining Historical Society for use of images from its archives. | | | Films like The Big House(1930), Angels With Dirty Faces (1938) and 20,000 Years at Sing Sing (1932) helped to form an image of the prison in the public mind that exists even today. Numerous celebrities have visited the facility and some have become part of the folklore of the institution. President Abraham Lincoln, James Cagney, Victor Mature, Mayor Jimmy Walker, Spencer Tracy and many more have stood inside Sing Sing's marble walls . . . . New York Yankees played the New York Giants [at Sing Sing in 1925] and during the game, Ruth blasted a home run over the right field wall, which was said to be 620 feet . . . . Sing Sing no longer resembles the prison constructed by Captain Elam Lynds and the Auburn inmates in 1825. Though the original structure still stands, it does not and never will house prisoners again. Plans are presently underway to convert the huge structure into a museum, an idea which may soon become a reality. An economic study prepared in 2002 indicated a prison museum would bring between 100,000 to 210,000 visitors to the area and generate $20 million annually to Westchester County. . . . Visit Chapter 14 on the the Court TV's Crime Library site for a photo gallery featuring images of Sing Sing prison around 1915, Captain Elam Lynds, the punishment shower bath, a flogging and an electric chair. Visit Chapter 15 on the the Court TV's Crime Library site for a list of resources used by author Mark Gado in researching Sing Sing history. First mentioned on the list of 19 entries is Roberta Arminio of the Ossining Historical Society who provided Sing Sing prison records, photographs and newspaper clippings. Mark Gado is a police detective with the City of New Rochelle Police Department in New York where he has been employed for nearly 25 years. He was a federal agent assigned to the Westchester County D.E.A. Task Force in WhitePlains, N.Y. from 1997 to 1999. He received the International Award of Honor from the Narcotic Enforcement Officers Association in New Orleans in 1998. Mark was also named Investigator of the Year 2000 and received dozens of other awards and commendations during his long police career. He has been a freelance writer for over 20 years and his work has appeared on numerous websites and in many publications, including Law Enforcement Journal, Cobblestone, A History Magazine for Young People and several cover stories for Strange Days magazine. Mark holds a Bachelors Degree in Criminal Justice 1998 and a Masters in Criminal Justice from Iona College 2001. | Also on this New York Correction History Society site: [Evolution of the NY Prison System] || [NYCHS home page] || [Excerpts of Det. Mark Gado's Killer cop] | NYCHS is honored to be permitted to post this excerpts presentation of Mark Gado's Stone Upon Stone: Sing Sing Prison appearing on Court TV's Crime Library web site that retains all rights under its copyright. Visit Court TV's Crime Library web site to view the complete 16-chapter article, including more historical images, a useful bibliography and the full long list of New Rochelle Detective Gado's other articles on that site. Thanks also to the Ossining Historical Society for use of images from its archives. |


--- [Sing Sing Explained] ---
No content


--- [Sing Sing - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Sing Sing Correctional Facility | New York State Archives] ---
You are here Sing Sing Correctional Facility History New York's first state prison, Newgate, opened in New York City in 1797. Newgate was quickly found to be unsatisfactory due to poor construction and the impossibility of developing viable industries. As a result, a commission was formed in 1825 (Chapter 25) for the purpose of building a new state prison in the first or second senatorial district, based on the design of Auburn Prison, which opened in 1816. The commission was authorized to sell Newgate and was appropriated {dollar}70,000 to erect a prison to house 800 convicts. The commission chose a site named Mount Pleasant in the town of Sing Sing (now Ossining) and purchased 130 acres of land formerly worked as a silver mine. Plans were immediately drawn up for the construction of the prison and work progressed steadily (although somewhat slowly) by utilizing convict labor from Auburn and Newgate prisons. By the middle of 1826, 169 men were confined in the prison while the rest of the cells were being completed. In may of 1828, the entire inmate population of Newgate was transferred to the prison and the building itself was finished that October. Newgate was sold for {dollar}100,000. By the end of 1828, Mount Pleasant's prison population was 513. In addition to prisoners sentenced to crimes above Grand Larceny, the male population included mentally incompetent and insane criminals. These men were segregated from the rest of the prison population until 1848, when insane men were transferred to the Utica State Hospital. In 1854 the legislature prohibited this practice. In 1859 Auburn Prison opened the first facilities designed especially for the criminally insane. Prior to 1848, supervision of Sing Sing was entrusted to a local board of inspectors who were appointed by the governor and the senate and who resided in the vicinity of the prison. The constitution of 1846 changed this system by providing for the election of three inspectors of state prisons. These men were granted supervisory powers over Sing Sing (as well as the other state prisons) and appointed all of the officers therein. The day-to-day supervision of the prison belonged to an agent and a warden appointed by the inspectors. The agent purchased the supplies, negotiated and controlled contracts, and oversaw the financial matters while the warden supervised the overall operation of the prison. According to Chapter 459 of the laws of 1847, the agent was to provide the inspectors a full account, accompanied by the necessary vouchers, of all monies received and expanded by him on account of the prison. He was also mandated to send to the comptroller a general account of the receipts and expenditures for each month and an abstract of the expenditures in detail. The warden was to keep a daily journal of the proceedings of the prison in which every infraction of prison rules and regulations by prison officials was recorded. In addition records were to be kept of every punishment inflicted on a convict, the nature, amount and by whom, and convict complaints regarding bad or insufficient food, lack of clothing, or cruel and unjust treatment by a prison keeper. In addition to these records, the keepers were to keep a correct daily account of the labor of each convict. The doctors and chaplains were required to make reports to state inspectors and to keep a daily record of all admissions. Except for the razing and erection of buildings within the prison, the establishment and elimination of inmate programs reflecting correctional theories of different eras, and fluctuations in the number and composition of the inmate population, the history of Sing Sing and other state prisons is essentially the same, the only real change occuring in the administration of the prison. In November of 1877, the electorate approved of a constitutional amendment creating the office of Superintendent of Prisons. This superintendent was appointed by the governor and was empowered to appoint all of the officials connected with New York's prisons. These officials were mandated to generate records as provided for in Chapter 107 of the Laws of 1877 which in essence was a rewording of the 1847 statute as far as recordation is concerned. In 1926, Chapter 606 reorganized the state government and established the Department of Correction. This act provided for a Commissioner of Correction to assume the powers of the superintendent of prisons as well as for the generation of records that had been outlined in two previous laws. The statute also provided for the continuation of the New York State Commission of Prisons (now renamed the Commission of Correction) which had been established in 1895 to aid the superintendent of prisons in the supervision of the facilities through regular site inspections. This administrative structure remained intact until 1970 when the Department of Correctional Services was established by Chapter 475 of the Laws of 1970. This organization places the state's prisons under the superintendents of prisons (formerly wardens). At about this time, Sing Sing became formally known as the Ossining Correctional Facility. The Commissioner is mandated by law to "prescribe a system of accounts and records to be kept at each correctional facility" and to "make rules and regulations for a record of photographs and other means of identifying each inmate received into the facility." In addition, the enabling legislation requires the daily recording of fiscal matters and proceedings by the superintendent to be submitted on daily and annual dates to the Commissioner. The exact wording of this section of the law is very similar to the statute passed in 1847 that originally mandated what records would be kept by prison officials. In 1984 the prison was renamed the Sing Sing Correctional Facility. It remains a maximum security prison.
