=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records, Additions]
Appointed by the board, Art Becofsky (CDF's first executive director) and a staff of eleven managed the day-to-day business of running the dance company. The staff attended to such concerns as company management, marketing and surveys, fundraising, writing grant proposals, and development and long-range planning for the company and the ...
URL: https://archives.nypl.org/dan/18602

[Merce Cunningham - Wikipedia]
Merce Cunningham was born in Centralia, Washington, in 1919, the second of three sons. Both of his brothers followed their father, Clifford D. Cunningham, [4] into the legal profession. Cunningham first experienced dance while living in Centralia. He took a tap dance class from a local teacher, Mrs Maude Barrett, whose energy and spirit taught him to love dance. Her emphasis on precise musical ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merce_Cunningham

[Merce Cunningham | Biography, Dance, & Facts | Britannica]
Merce Cunningham (born April 16, 1919, Centralia, Washington, U.S.—died July 26, 2009, New York, New York) was an American modern dancer and choreographer who developed new forms of abstract dance movement. Cunningham began to study dance at 12 years of age.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Merce-Cunningham

[We was or We were which is correct? - English Language Learners...]
We was is not standard English, it is used in some regional dialects: The verb 'to be' has two simple past forms in Standard English - I/he/she/it was and you/we/they were. Apart from the special case of you, the distinction is, therefore, between singular was and plural were In some regional dialects, however, this pattern is not observed. In some parts of the country, speakers use was ...
URL: https://ell.stackexchange.com/questions/185313/we-was-or-we-were-which-is-correct

[Merce Cunningham - National Endowment for the Arts]
Jo Reed: Merce Cunningham came of dance age in the 1940's when he first went to New York City. Suzanne Carbonneau: Cunningham would have been coming into New York at a time when modern dance was really becoming established as an American art form that people like Martha Graham, and Doris Humphrey, and Hanya Holm, and Helen Tamiris were ...
URL: https://www.arts.gov/stories/podcast/merce-cunningham


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records, Additions] ---
Scope and arrangement The Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records, Additions hold administrative files, company management and technical files, development files, and repertory files, as well as press materials, programs, and photographs. Administrative files consist of Board of Directors material as well as financial ledgers, contracts, film and music documents, and the papers of CDF's archivist, David Vaughan. Company Management files document the technical logistics of touring a dance company. Development files hold grant applications, correspondence with individual donors, and materials related to galas and art sales which supported the company. Repertory files document the creation of individual dances. Press materials consist of clippings, flyers, newsletters, and press releases. Photographs include professional shots of dancers and individual dances, as well as slides and negatives documenting the company and CDF events. The Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records, Additions are arranged in seven series: - 1890-2011 The Cunningham Dance Foundation administrative files consist of Board of Directors material as well as contracts; financial ledgers; artist, film, and sound documents; and the papers of Merce Cunningham and CDF's archivist, David Vaughan. Board of Directors correspondence, arranged alphabetically, includes updates on ongoing projects, items of interest for individuals on specific committees (such as the Financial Committee), reminders to raise a yearly contribution, and resignation and acceptance letters. Board of Directors minutes, arranged by year, hold a record of each meeting, memos, and copies of financial and executive committee reports, as well as information about fundraising efforts. Board meetings covered the financial well being of CDF, election of new members, and strategies for growth. David Vaughan's files hold correspondence with current and past co-workers, lecture and study notes, writings, and notes compiled using information found in the archive. The notes include a dance-by-dance compilation of information relating to individual compositions by Cunningham. They consist of statements by Cunningham regarding the development or intention of the dance, remembrances of the dances by Vaughan and others, photocopies of articles and related published material, and quotes by Cunningham on the nature of dance in general. Vaughan's notes were ultimately used to compile his 1984 article, "The Choreography of Merce Cunningham: Chronology and Commentary" which is also held in these files. A limited selection of artist files hold correspondence and designs from visual artists and costume designers who worked with Cunningham. Such designs often preceded a dance – for example, Suzanne Gallo's file holds a fully formed design idea, including costumes, lighting, and sets with no particular dance attached. These files may also contain gallery loan information and summaries of the artist's work. Film files hold correspondence with collaborators on visual projects, video preservation documentation, transcripts and their translations, and video inventories. Sound files consist of correspondence with musical artists and composers, contracts, and scores produced for or used by Cunningham. There is also a small selection of late 19th/early 20th century published sheet music, some of which was used for Dime a Dance (1953). Since Cunningham did not choreograph specifically for music or vice versa, these materials were kept separately. There are also personnel files, financial ledgers, sample dance company contracts, and surveys. This series also contains a small selection of Merce Cunningham's personal files. These consist of incoming correspondence and "notes to Merce" from staff, presidential invitations and honorary degrees, and the Life Forms manuals for his dance creation software. There are also notes used by Cunningham to conduct classes, workshops, and rehearsal warm-ups. Electronic records in this series include files created while Elliot Caplan was the filmmaker in residence. These files include correspondence regarding screenings, personal appearances and lectures; reviews of his films; interview requests for Cage/Cunningham; and responses to requests for copies of his films or press kits. Michael Stier's electronic files hold correspondence regarding video licensing and distribution requests and inventories created during his time as CDF's film and video distribution coordinator. David Vaughan's records include drafts of Vaughan's histories of the company by year (1935-1996), video clips compiled for the CDF website, photographs of Cunningham and others, and some individual dance descriptions and biographical information on Merce Cunningham and other artists. There are also copies of the Board of Directors meeting minutes (1992-1999) which are accompanied by company budgets and some staff resumes. Arranged alphabetically by file type. Electronic records are currently unavailable. - 1945-2011 The company management files were created by the administrative staff and various road staff, including stage managers and technical directors. These materials document the logistics of moving a company to its various performances and locations each year. There is correspondence between event organizers, local staff, managers, and CDF staff. Correspondence details lighting, sound, and electrical needs; hotel bookings; rehearsal space rental arrangements; numbers of traveling crew and performers; and local fire codes. There are also loading lists, local contracts, tour itineraries, production schedules, and program mockups. For venues where the company performed regularly (such as City Center), there are close-out notes with suggestions for changes to be made in the next year with light rentals and scenery positioning, as well as reminders of quick fixes that worked. These files track the details of setting an individual dance or series of dances into a specific venue. Technical files include light plots, instrument schedules, structural drawings, light cues, line set schedules, channel hook-ups, and magic sheets. Magic sheets provided a quick visual reference to each channel and the fixture(s) it controlled. Most of the technical drawings contain production and venue information. Some technical files contain memos advising the house crew working at each venue as to the specific electrical needs of the company. Electronic records in this series are both company management and technical files, and include tour itineraries, correspondence from production managers to various venues, load-in lists, light cue sheets, and outlines of specific venue configurations. This series is arranged chronologically. Electronic records are currently unavailable. - 1965-2010 The Development files hold grant materials, individual donor files, and material relating to fundraisers and galas hosted by CDF. The grant files consist of grant applications, contracts, vouchers, reports, correspondence with grant-giving organizations and meeting minutes. The bulk of the files are grant applications with the National Endowment for the Arts and New York City's Department for the Development of Cultural Affairs. Individual donor files hold correspondence thanking non-corporate donors for one time or continuing gifts. These files primarily date from 2009 to 2011, during the height of the campaign to fund the Legacy Plan. Gala and fundraising files consist of correspondence, invitations, guest books, and planning notes related to CDF's other fundraising opportunities. These include gala performances, art shows and sales, and post-performance "meet and greet" receptions. These files also contain correspondence with artists who donated works to be sold or shown by CDF. Arranged alphabetically by file type. - 1953-2008 Repertory production files document the creation and packaging of individual dances. Created by Cunningham and collaborating artists and technicians, these files hold original light cues, photographs, costume designs, credit sheets, prop lists, cue sheets, universal stage diagrams, and correspondence with scenic designers. These files document the assembly of a dance up until the minute it is ready to go on the road. Event files often have little to no division between individual Events. For files relating to the mounting of dances at specific venues, users should consult Series II, Company management and technical files. Electronic records in this series consist of files used to compile the dance capsules. Pioneered by the Cunningham Dance Foundation before it closed, these digital capsules were created to preserve 58 works from the Cunningham repertory for study and setting the dances on other companies. The Events capsule contains files from many separate Events. The capsules include varying levels of detail in content. Dance capsule files may include a brief description of the dance, audio samples of music, scans of costume sketches, photographs, and set designs, lighting plots, video clips of the entire dance or just a portion, and choreographic notes. Organized into productions and events, productions are arranged alphabetically by title of piece. Electronic records are currently unavailable. - 1948-2009 The photographs series consists of professional prints, slides and negatives of dancers, artists, Cunningham, and individual productions and events. The individuals files are largely headshots, though photographs of Merce Cunningham also consist of unlabeled rehearsal, workshop, and performance shots. The productions and events images are either action shots of the dance in progress or full stage shots of the props and art used in tandem with each piece. There are also candid snapshots from galas and other CDF events, and photographs of posters, magazine covers, and other material related to CDF. Promotional photographs include images of the full company used for advertising. Photographs of the archive as it was housed at CDF before its move to the library are here. Electronic records in this series are 80 images taken of a Totem Ancestor revival. Arranged alphabetically by file title. Electronic records are currently unavailable. - 1950-2011 Series VI holds programs and accompanying ephemera documenting performances by the Merce Cunningham Dance Company and the Repertory Understudy group. The bulk of the materials date from 2003 to 2011, and contain some promotional materials interspersed with the programs. These items include venue calendars, ticket stubs, souvenir booklets, flyers, postcards, organizational publications, and invitations. A smaller selection of programs dating from 1950 to 2002 are also present, as well as materials representing the performances of Cunningham choreography by outside dance companies. This series also holds monographs, exhibition catalogs, and other materials showcasing festivals, lectures, art installations, tribute galas, and other events involving Cunningham and his collaborators (including John Cage, Charles Atlas, Bruce Nauman, Robert Rauschenberg and fashion house Comme des Garçons). Arranged chronologically. - 1940-2012 Press and publicity materials consist of advertising files, clippings, flyers, CDF newsletters, and press releases. Advertising files hold correspondence with dance magazines and other publications as well as design mockups. The clippings (both domestic and foreign) were kept by administrative staff throughout CDF's existence. Many of the clippings are photocopy reproductions. Press releases document new works, changes at the company, tour dates, and fundraising galas. CDF newsletters (2006-2008) were sent to donors, other dance companies, and various other supporters of Cunningham's work and provided updates on upcoming events and seasons, as well as articles by Cunningham himself. The flyers, used for advertisement on tour and when the company was in residence at City Center or another venue, advertise performance dates, ticket sale times, and workshops. Electronic records in this series are scanned clippings, 1989-1990. Arranged alphabetically by file title. Electronic records are currently unavailable.


--- [Merce Cunningham - Wikipedia] ---
Mercier Philip Cunningham (April 16, 1919 – July 26, 2009) was an American dancer and choreographer who was at the forefront of American modern dance for more than 50 years. He frequently collaborated with artists of other disciplines, including musicians John Cage, David Tudor, Brian Eno, and graphic artists Robert Rauschenberg, Bruce Nauman, Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein, Frank Stella, and Jasper Johns; and fashion designer Rei Kawakubo. Works that he produced with these artists had a profound impact on avant-garde art beyond the world of dance.
As a choreographer, teacher, and leader of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, Cunningham had a profound influence on modern dance. Many dancers who trained with Cunningham formed their own companies. They include Paul Taylor, Remy Charlip, Viola Farber, Charles Moulton, Karole Armitage, Deborah Hay, Robert Kovich, Foofwa d'Imobilité, Kimberly Bartosik, Flo Ankah, Jan Van Dyke, Jonah Bokaer, and Alice Reyes.
In 2009, the Cunningham Dance Foundation announced the Legacy Plan, a plan for the continuation of Cunningham's work and the celebration and preservation of his artistic legacy.
Cunningham earned some of the highest honours bestowed in the arts, including the National Medal of Arts and the MacArthur Fellowship. He also received Japan's Praemium Imperiale and a British Laurence Olivier Award, and was named Officier of the Légion d'honneur in France.
Cunningham's life and artistic vision have been the subject of numerous books, films, and exhibitions, and his works have been presented by groups including the Paris Opéra Ballet, New York City Ballet, American Ballet Theatre, White Oak Dance Project, and London's Rambert Dance Company.




--- [Merce Cunningham | Biography, Dance, & Facts | Britannica] ---
Merce Cunningham - Who was Merce Cunningham? - What kind of dance did Merce Cunningham do? - What was special about the way Merce Cunningham choreographed dances? - How did Merce Cunningham work with music and movement in his dances? - Who were some people Merce Cunningham collaborated with? - How did Merce Cunningham change modern dance? Merce Cunningham (born April 16, 1919, Centralia, Washington, U.S.—died July 26, 2009, New York, New York) was an American modern dancer and choreographer who developed new forms of abstract dance movement. Cunningham began to study dance at 12 years of age. After high school he attended the Cornish School of Fine and Applied Arts in Seattle, Washington, for two years. He subsequently studied at Mills College (1938) with dancer and choreographer Lester Horton and at Bennington College (1939), where he was invited by Martha Graham to join her group. As a soloist for her company, he created many important roles, and his incredible jumps were showcased in Graham’s “El Penitente” (1940), “Letter to the World” (1940), and “Appalachian Spring” (1944). Encouraged by Graham, Cunningham began to choreograph in 1943. Among his early works were Root of an Unfocus (1944) and Mysterious Adventure (1945). Increasingly involved in a relationship with the composer John Cage, Cunningham started collaborating with him, and in 1944 he presented his first solo concert, with music by Cage. After leaving Graham’s company in 1945, Cunningham worked with Cage on numerous projects. They collaborated on annual recitals in New York City and on a number of works, such as The Seasons (1947) and Inlets (1978). In 1953 Cunningham formed his own dance company. Like Cage, Cunningham was intrigued by the potential of random phenomena as determinants of structure. Inspired also by the pursuit of pure movement as devoid as possible of emotional implications, Cunningham developed “choreography by chance,” a technique in which selected isolated movements are assigned sequence by such random methods as tossing a coin. The sequential arrangement of the component dances in Sixteen Dances for Soloist and Company of Three (1951) was thus determined, and in Suite by Chance (1953) the movement patterns themselves were so constructed. Suite by Chance was also the first modern dance performed to an electronic score, which was commissioned from American experimental composer Christian Wolff. Symphonie pour un homme seul (1952; later called Collage) was performed to Pierre Schaeffer and Pierre Henry’s composition of the same name and was the first performance in the United States of musique concrète, or music constructed from tape-recorded environmental sounds. Cunningham’s abstract dances vary greatly in mood but are frequently characterized by abrupt changes and contrasts in movement. Many of his works have been associated with Dadaist, Surrealist, and Existentialist motifs. In 1974 Cunningham abandoned his company’s repertory, which had been built over a 20-year period, for what he called “Events,” excerpts from old or new dances, sometimes two or more simultaneously. Choreography created expressly for videotape, which included Blue Studio: Five Segments (1975–76), was still another innovation. He also began working with film and created Locale (1979). Later dances included Duets (1980), Fielding Sixes (1980), Channels/Inserts (1981), and Quartets (1982). - Born: - April 16, 1919, Centralia, Washington, U.S. - Awards And Honors: - Praemium Imperiale (2005) - Kennedy Center Honors (1985) - Subjects Of Study: - “Cunningham” When arthritis seriously began to disrupt his dancing in the early 1990s, Cunningham turned to a special animated computer program, DanceForms, to explore new choreographic possibilities. Although he left the performance stage soon after Cage died in 1992, he continued to lead his dance company until shortly before his own death. In 2005 he received the Japan Art Association’s Praemium Imperiale prize for theatre/film. To mark Cunningham’s 90th birthday, the Brooklyn Academy of Music premiered his new and last work, Nearly Ninety, in April 2009. His career was the subject of the documentary Cunningham (2019).


--- [We was or We were which is correct? - English Language Learners...] ---
# We was or We were which is correct?

I several times, particularly,while reading novels, encountered the sentence ' we was ....' .But as per my knowledge is concerned were is appropriate verb instaed of was. Please explain it. Thank you

Usage examples: 

From 
The Life and Times of Ray Hicks: Keeper of the Jack Tales: 


  We was hurryin' so as not to get caught in a blizzard storm. The northwest wind blowed over the mountain and was so strong ......The snow started a comin' down so fast, in short order we couldn't see where we was goin. ice was a freezin' on our faces. We turned to walk backwards, then forwards , ...


From Tom Sawyer, Detective
By Mark Twain:


  What we was after was a couple of noble big di'monds as big as hazel-nuts, which everybody was running to see. We was dressed up fine, and ...




--- [Merce Cunningham - National Endowment for the Arts] ---
Merce Cunningham Transcript of the appreciation of Merce Cunningham Merce Cunningham: The dance is an art is space and time. The object of the dancer is to obliterate that. The fortunate thing in dancing is that space and time cannot be disconnected and everyone can see and understand that. A body still is taking up just as much space in time as a body moving. The result is that neither the one nor the other moving or being still is more or less important except it’s nice to see a dancer moving. Jo Reed: That was legendary dancer and choreographer Merce Cunningham from a talk he gave in 1952 called “Space, Time and Dance.” Curious and Relentless, Cunningham pushed the boundaries of movement and in the process, influenced the way we think about dance and choreography. Welcome to Art Works the program that goes behind the scenes with some of the nation’s great artists to explore how art works, I’m your host Josephine Reed. Merce Cunningham was born in Centralia Washington in 1919 and he died in NYC in 2009. Simply put, Merce Cunningham is one of America’s great artists. Critics have compared his impact on modern dance with Isadora Duncan’s, Martha Graham’s, and George Balanchine’s. It’s no surprise he received a National Medal of Arts and a MacArthur genius grant. His work looked like no one else’s. Dancer and choreographer Elizabeth Streb. ES: When I saw Merce, my whole world was exploded and shattered on a certain level. It was reptilian, subcutaneously organized in this manner in which you couldn't comprehend. Initially there were bodies doing the movement, you couldn't understand the intention. I was so steeped in emotionalism, and also in psychology, that's sort of like, what's the impetus for action, and what he was doing was simply taking the human-- the human skeleton and its muscles and manipulating it, and I didn't understand the language, but I was just totally spellbound. Because, in some way, I thought he was telling the truth, in a way that the other form did not. Jo Reed: Dance critic and historian Suzanne Carbonneau Suzanne Carbonneau: Cunningham was the first person that challenged modern dance as it had been inventedThere was the idea of modern dance with its beginnings early in the 20th Century, was that the inner soul of a person would be revealed through dance. It was a reaction against ballet. Cunningham came in and acted the notion that dance was going to be about something completely different, once again. So that, that didn't include those psychological narrative dramatic interests of early modern dance. Jo Reed: Elizabeth Streb Elizabeth Streb: The territory he scoped out, such as, you know, it's about movement, movement in and of itself. We have so far to go, we have an infinite distance to go to understand movement on earth, and I feel that's what he was doing. And I think, for me, even though you'd look at my work at Streb work, and you'd look at Cunningham work, and you wouldn't understand what the relationship, perhaps was. It has everything to do with the ground plan he laid down in terms of the questions I started to ask. Jo Reed: Suzanne Carbonneau Suzanne Carbonneau: The work after Cunningham took very, very different forms from Cunningham, but he had laid the groundwork for them to be able to make work about something other than what the early modern dancers had made work about, and that dance, in itself, contained everything that was necessary for articulate and deep expression without reference to other ideas and other forms. Jo Reed: Merce Cunningham came of dance age in the 1940’s when he first went to New York City. Suzanne Carbonneau: Cunningham would have been coming into New York at a time when modern dance was really becoming established as an American art form that people like Martha Graham, and Doris Humphrey, and Hanya Holm, and Helen Tamiris were beginning to be recognized as genuine important American artists. Modern dance was still, probably by the general public, thought of as something a little outré, but artists were beginning to take it very seriously. And Cunningham came into modern dance as a member of Martha Graham's dance company; the work that he was doing with Graham was really astonishing, and actually he-- his presence in the company changed the way that she was choreographing. Jo Reed: From the beginning, Merce Cunningham engaged in a series of collaborations with artists across disciplines including painters, Robert Rauschenberg, Frank Stella and Jasper Johns, innovative musicians like David Tudor, Radiohead, Sonic Youth and his partner of fifty years, composer John Cage. Suzanne Carbonneau. Suzanne Carbonneau: The partnership was both personal and professional. They met at the Cornish School, now the Cornish College of Arts in Seattle, where Cunningham was an undergraduate. And they started working together at Cornish and continued when they came to New York. That was a partnership that lasted until Cage's death in 1992. It was one of those extraordinary artistic partnerships where neither would have been who he was, as an artist, without the other, and together they really changed modern art. Music - Totem Ancestor Jo Reed: We’re listening to “Totem Ancestor,” a piece composed by John Cage in 1942; he’s also playing the piano. It’s one of the first collaborations between Cage and Merce Cunningham. One of their most controversial innovations is the independence of music and dance. The dance isn’t partnered with music is performed parallel to it. Elizabeth Streb found Cunningham’s relationship with music inspiring. Elizabeth Streb: I kind of feel he ignored it, which I so admire, because I think music is a true enemy of dance, of course, and I think that he was not a metered dancer. He didn't count. You know, I learned early on, as a young dancer, when my teacher would say, one, two, three, two, two, three, three two, three, and I'd be like, and then they'd have all this movement you were supposed to do within that timeframe. And I knew-- I felt just deeply, intuitively that was incorrect. That was a incorrect assessment of how to move. And Merce's sense of music was, he wanted it in the room, he had a broad definition of music, certainly, vis-à-vis the collaborators he chose, such as John Cage, etcetera, but he did not count. He did not believe, I don't think,well perhaps he counted, but he did not believe that music and dance, that sound governed movement, it was just juxtaposed. Jo Reed: But how is music the enemy of dance? Elizabeth Streb. Elizabeth Streb: If you think just methodologically, the method of putting sounds together, compared to the method of putting action together, you know, oral composition is completely, completely foreign to physical composition which is causal. You couldn't possibly borrow those mechanisms of composition from that field, music to be used by dance. I think it's wrong, I think it artificializes action, I think it's just not deep enough thinking about, gee, I wonder what the iambic pentameter of action might be? What are the rhythms, the juxtapositions, the archetypal moments of time, body, space, that would be purely, almost, you know, manufacture an ah-ha moment, but for purely physical reasons. If music is playing, it's too bossy, it's, we will never arrive at our goal of understanding what the compositional techniques of movement are, if we keep using music. Jo Reed: Merce Cunningham’s collaborations remained unique because of his commitment to the independence of the music, the set design and the choreography. So, for example, Robert Rauschenberg designesd the sets, John Cage composed the music, Cunningham choreographed the dance, and everybody saw the work of the others for the first time at dress rehearsal. Suzanne Carbonneau. Suzanne Carbonneau: This is one of the difficulties with Cunningham. We think of an artistic theatrical production as all the elements should be united, combining into a unified whole. The notion that we get from Wagner, all the idea coming together as a unified whole. Cunningham and Cage actually believed, again, that we could experience things simultaneously—that no art form should be subordinated to another, that no artist should, no artist's vision is more important than another artist's vision, and so that in fact these artists were free to do the work that they felt they needed and wanted to do, and that they could just exist in the same space and the same time, and we could take all these-- all this in, and this goes very much to their study of Zen Buddhism which they studied as a way to develop an artistic practice with notions that were separate from these psychological states of art that had really been with us from even-- from way back to the Romantic Period, actually. Jo Reed: Merce Cunningham Merce Cunningham: A prevalent feeling among many painters that lets make the space in which anything can happen is a feeling dancers may have too. Imitating the way nature makes a space and puts lots of things in it: heavy and light, little and big, all unrelated yet each affecting all the others. Jo Reed: In fact as time went on, the relationship between music and Cunningham’s choreography became even freer. Suzanne Carbonneau. Suzanne Carbonneau: I think audiences may be bewildered, although it's quite interesting, when you see the work together in the theatre, you usually don't know how that work was created. Cunningham chose his collaborators carefully. He chose collaborators that he felt an artistic connection with, and Cunningham continued to experiment throughout his life. I think it's one of the things that sets Cunningham apart from almost every other artist who, if you follow artistic lives, people tend to have an experimental period, and then they find their voice, and when they find their voice, they tend to speak in that same voice, repeat that voice through the rest of their lives. Cunningham never did that. Cunningham continued to push himself, to experiment, right up until the very, very end of his life, and when an audience thinks that they know an artist, and they go to see that artist, and that artist has changed on the audience, that presents difficulties for audiences. It means that the audience has to be willing to go for a ride with the artist over and over again. The audience can't rest on its laurels either. Jo Reed: Executive Director of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, Trevor Carlson. Trevor Carlson: And what’s wonderful, if one gets to a place, and is able to experience Merce's work, and, in that experience, is able to sort of free their mind, free themselves from the need to have narrative or continuity or make relationships or connections, that, in point of fact, those connections exist quite beautifully and magically and there's situations where you have the option to play different types of tracks of music while you're watching some movement, because things will happen organically where there will be an upbeat in the music, and a dancer will suddenly be in the air. And that coincidence is extraordinary. And somehow that much more magical in that situation than it is when you have the upstroke of a bow on a violin, and a dancer's then left flying in the air. and it hasn't been planned or orchestrated. Jo Reed: But this method of working does present special challenges to the dancers Trevor Carlson: Merce's work is so very fixed, the timing, the organization, sometimes that fixed aspect allows the dancer to make choices but they're making them within a real defined framework, and so I would say, more than anything else, comparing to classical dance, for example, that Merce's works are really dependent on the dancer's understanding of what their part in this is, aside from executing movement. There's a real level of intelligence and play that goes into performing one of Merce's dances that I would say doesn't quite exist in the classical world because there are a lot of other landmarks there. The music is a perfect example, and classical movement, classical ballet one has a form of measure outside of one's own body, and that's the music, and one can use that in order to time and space the distance between one movement and the next. And in Cunningham's work, it's all dependent on the dancer's own internal rhythm and timing, and if that changes for that dancer, that throws the other things off. It's really the creation of the independence between the dance and the movement, the movement and the sound, creates a real challenge for the dancer, because they're sort of left alone in this world. Radiohead instrumental Jo Reed: However legendary Merce Cunningham might have been on the stage or in the classroom. Personally, he was generous and gracious with his time and his ideas. Elizabeth Streb Elizabeth Streb: Merce Cunningham was a slow-mo driver. You know, he was on steady pace. He was iambic pentameter. You know, he listened to his heart, and he talked like that, he smiled like that, he was one of the kindest men of that stature I've ever met. Jo Reed: Suzanne Carbonneau. Suzanne Carbonneau: Cunningham was a very gentle soul, a very kind soul, I think he was a person who kept his-- who had reserve, but I had a wonderful experience with Cunningham where I had to do a public interview with him, and I was quite nervous about it. The first question I asked him at this interview was to tell me about the structures of the work we had just seen. It was at the end of a performance. And his face lit up and he burst into smile, at the idea that somebody wanted to talk to him about structures, because it's the thing he cared most about. Jo Reed: In the latter part of Merce’s life, he depended upon and grew close to Trevor Carlson who would become the executive director of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company Trevor Carlson: I moved back to New York to work for the company at that time. That was in 1998, and started as the company manager for the company, and was really quite fortunate. In fact, I don't think Merce would agree, but I felt, and feel fortunate in that it was a time in Merce's life where he was becoming physically dependent on others in order to get from one place to the next, and being the company manager, I was on the road, and responsible for transportation, and making sure that everyone was in the right place at the right time, and quite literally, became Merce's shoulder for transport. And those periods, those many, many opportunities that we had to spend time together, in cars and backstage, and at dinners and so on, we really began to develop a close friendship. Jo Reed: Cunningham was creative but he was also a practical man. And he thought about what would happen to the company and to his dances when he passed on. It is challenging to pass dances along from one generation to the next….and this is particularly true in the case of Merce Cunningham’s work because they are so dependent on the individual dancer. Trevor Carlson Trevor Carlson : Dance is transferred for the most part, by communicating from one person to the next, and through that communication, you have this physical act, and that has been a real issue for us, because we want to do as much as we can to maintain the elements that we have to maintain, knowing in the time that we were spending with Merce, that that time was limited, and we-- I think really found that having as many resources available to pull from, would be most helpful but really the information needed to be communicated from one dancer to another, and that we just hope that we've created enough support material from our perspective to maintain that for decades to come. It's nice to have the recordings of the dances, but those who know dance well, know dance is really-- dance on camera is not equal to dance on stage by any stretch of the imagination, and to expect that it would replace it would be a real disservice to the field. Jo Reed: Cunningham decided after his death, that the company would embark on a two year tour, offering audiences a final chance to see the choreography performed by the company Merce personally trained. Then, with generous provisions for all the company would be disbanded. Trevor Carlson Trevor Carlson: Well, we talked a great deal with Merce about this and what he wanted to have happen. He, in 2000, created the Merce Cunningham Trust, which is a nonprofit organization as well, the same as our Foundation that supports the dance company, and he gave the trust the rights to all of his choreography and in doing so, created, frankly an opportunity to free up the work and the manner in which it's been presented and maintained, and cared for over these great number of decades, that way being really dependent on having artistic director in place, someone, the creative force behind it all. By creating the Merce Cunningham trust, he allowed the opportunity for the work to transition from being sort of lively engaged and an ongoing creative process, to being something that's being preserved and presented and used by scholars and dancers to help educate for the future. It's a type of preservation that changes the expectation that we might become a touring dance museum, and allows the work to sort of have a presence and existence without the burden created by having a dance company without a leader. Jo Reed: Merce Cunningham Merce Cunningham: For me, it seems enough that dancing is a spiritual exercise in physical form, and that what is seen is what it is. And I do not believe it is possible to be too simple. What the dancer does is the most realistic of all possible things and to pretend that a man standing on a hill could be doing everything except just standing is simply divorce: divorce from life, from the sun coming up and going down, from clouds in front of the sun, from rain that comes from the clouds and sends you into the drugstore for a cup of coffee, from each thing that succeeds each thing. Dancing is a visible action of life. Jo Reed: Merce Cunningham died in July 2009. The Merce Cunningham Dance Company's final legacy tour will run until December 31, 2011. Our thanks to our contributors Elizabeth Streb, Suzanne Carbonneau, and of course, Trevor Carlson. Special thanks to Adam Kampe and the Merce Cunningham Dance Company’s Kevin Taylor. Excerpt from Split/Sides composed and performed by Sigur Ros Excerpt from Split/Sides composed and performed by RadioHead Both used courtesy of The Merce Cunningham Dance Company Totem Ancestor written and performed by John Cage- used courtesy of Laura Kuhn and The John Cage Trust The Arts Work Podcast is posted every Thursday at www.arts.gov. Next week, a conversation with Academy Award-winner and National Medal of Arts recipient, actress Rita Moreno. To find out how art works in communities across America, keep checking the Art Works blog, or Follow us @NEAarts on Twitter. For the National Endowment for the Arts, I'm Josephine Reed. Thanks for listening. Additional Credit: “Totem Ancestor,” composed by John Cage, Copyright ©1960 by Henmar Press, Inc. All rights reserved. Used by permission. An appreciation of the life and legacy of one of our greatest choreographers. [22:52]
