=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Zanele Muholi - Wikipedia]
Zanele Muholi FRPS (born 1972) [1] is a South African artist and visual activist working in photography, video, and installation. Muholi's work focuses on race, gender and sexuality with a body of work that dates back to the early 2000s, documenting and celebrating the lives of South Africa's Black lesbian, gay, transgender, and intersex communities. [2] Muholi is non-binary and uses they/them ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zanele_Muholi

[This GLAMOUR Women of the Year winner is making it big in the Big Apple]
Photographer, activist and 2014 GLAMOUR Women of the Year winner, Zanele Muholi, is now dazzling Times Square, Broadway and the NYC subway to name a few places. Having opened her most recent show at Yancey Richardson Gallery in New York, Zanele Muholi is dominating the city with massive billboards and digital screens. Publicly exhibiting her photographs, performing queer music, and ...
URL: https://www.glamour.co.za/celebrity-news/this-glamour-women-of-the-year-winner-is-making-it-big-in-the-big-apple-17318111

[Zanele Muholi | Biography, Artwork, Photography, Self-Portrait, Faces ...]
Zanele Muholi (born July 19, 1972, Umlazi, South Africa) identifies as a visual activist—rather than an artist—and is nonbinary, using they/them pronouns. Their work, primarily photography, seeks to make more visible the Black LGBTQIA+ community in South Africa, where discrimination has often repressed queer and trans stories. Muholi says of their ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Zanele-Muholi

[2013 July 26: Muholi wins another award - inkanyiso.org]
Jul 26, 2013 · Sibonelo Muholi received it on behalf of Zanele. Read more about The 6th Annual Glamour of the Year Awards 2013 Latest article and interview featuring Muholi Exclusive DRUM magazine interview by Emma Liwela featuring Buyaphi Mdladla & wife on cover. p. 108 – 109 Glamour Magazine with Zoe Saldanha on cover and it is the Aug. 2013 issue.
URL: https://inkanyiso.org/2013/07/26/2013-july-26-muholi-wins-another-award/

[Can a Work of Art Shaped by Western Obsessions Ever Be Truly Decolonial ...]
Feb 20, 2024 · The subject of countless exhibitions and prizes, including Glamour magazine's "Campaigner of the Year," the body of work burnished the artist's reputation as a "visual activist." The photos, often exhibited in large grids, catalog membes of Muholi's community in a bid for social recognition.
URL: https://www.culturedmag.com/article/2024/02/20/zanele-muholi-photography-south-africa/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Zanele Muholi - Wikipedia] ---
Zanele Muholi  (born 1972) is a South African artist and visual activist working in photography, video, and installation. Muholi's work focuses on race, gender and sexuality with a body of work that dates back to the early 2000s, documenting and celebrating the lives of South Africa's Black lesbian, gay, transgender, and intersex communities. Muholi is non-binary and uses they/them pronouns, explaining that "I'm just human".
Muholi has described themselves as a visual activist as opposed to an artist. They are dedicated to increasing the visibility of black lesbian, gay, transgender, and intersex people. They researched and documented the stories of hate crimes against the LGBTQI community in order to bring forth the realities of "corrective rape," assault, and HIV/AIDS, to public attention.[1]
Muholi was shortlisted for the Deutsche Börse Photography Prize in 2015. They received an Infinity Award from the International Center of Photography in 2016, a Chevalier de Ordre des Arts et des Lettres in 2016, and an Honorary Fellowship of the Royal Photographic Society in 2018.
Muholi had a retrospective exhibition on at Maison européenne de la photographie in Paris from 1 February to 25 May 2023. Their work was also shown that year at Mudec-Museo delle Culture in Milan, from 31 March through 30 July 2023, showcasing 60 self-portraits in black and white chosen especially for Mudec.




--- [This GLAMOUR Women of the Year winner is making it big in the Big Apple] ---
Photographer, activist and 2014 GLAMOUR Women of the Year winner, Zanele Muholi, is now dazzling Times Square, Broadway and the NYC subway to name a few places. Having opened her most recent show at Yancey Richardson Gallery in New York, Zanele Muholi is dominating the city with massive billboards and digital screens. Publicly exhibiting her photographs, performing queer music, and collaborating with black LBTQI communities, Zanele is spreading her #VisualActivism throughout New York City, to wide acclaim. Take a look at a snippet of her work in New York, and see for yourself just how powerful it is: A post shared by Zanele Muholi (@muholizanele) on Nov 3, 2017 at 8:07pm PDT Want to join us at this year’s GLAMOUR Women of the Year Awards? Click here to book your tickets!


--- [Zanele Muholi | Biography, Artwork, Photography, Self-Portrait, Faces ...] ---
Zanele Muholi - Who is Zanele Muholi? - What does it mean to be a visual activist? - What type of art does Zanele Muholi create? - How does Muholi's work support LGBTQ+ communities in South Africa? - What are some notable themes in Muholi's photography? - How has Zanele Muholi influenced both art and activism around the world? Zanele Muholi (born July 19, 1972, Umlazi, South Africa) identifies as a visual activist—rather than an artist—and is nonbinary, using they/them pronouns. Their work, primarily photography, seeks to make more visible the Black LGBTQIA+ community in South Africa, where discrimination has often repressed queer and trans stories. Muholi says of their work that “my mission is to re-write a Black queer and trans visual history of South Africa for the world to know of our resistance and existence at the height of hate crimes in South Africa and beyond.” Early life and career in South Africa Zanele Muholi, whose first name translates to ‘‘enough’’ or ‘‘last one’’ in Zulu, is the youngest of eight children of father Ashwell Tanji Banda, a tradesperson who died shortly after Muholi’s birth, and mother Bester Muholi, a domestic worker who cleaned the homes of white families. Born and raised in Umlazi, a township in what is now KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, Zanele Muholi came of age during apartheid, a policy implemented in 1948 that governed relations between South Africa’s white minority and nonwhite majority. It sanctioned racial segregation and political and economic discrimination against nonwhites. By the early 1990s the legislation that formed the foundation of apartheid had been repealed. In 1996 a new, progressive constitution went into effect, becoming the first to abolish discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. Ten years later South Africa became the first African country to legalize same-sex marriage. However, the social and economic repercussions of apartheid have persisted well into the 21st century, and the LGBTQIA+ community continued to experience harassment and violence. A hate crime called corrective rape, in which the victim is targeted for rape on the basis of their perceived gender or sexual orientation, remained particularly pervasive in South Africa. Against this backdrop, Muholi began working for the South African website Behind the Mask, which featured stories about the local LGBTQIA+ community. By then, Muholi had relocated to Johannesburg and had spent most of their twenties working as a hairstylist and holding various corporate jobs. At Behind the Mask, they photographed women who recounted tales of rape, harassment, and abduction, stories rarely reported in the mass media. In response to what they learned, in 2002 Muholi cofounded the Forum for the Empowerment of Women (FEW), an organization dedicated to facilitating safety and advocacy for women. The following year Muholi enrolled in the Market Photo Workshop, a school, gallery, and art space in Johannesburg founded by South African photographer David Goldblatt in 1989. They later received an M.F.A. in documentary media from Ryerson University, Toronto, in 2009. That same year Muholi founded Inkanyiso, a nonprofit organization focused on queer visual activism and media advocacy. Only Half the Picture Soon after enrolling at the Market Photo Workshop, Muholi held their first solo show (2004), at the Johannesburg Art Gallery. The exhibition featured photographs from Muholi’s earliest series, Only Half the Picture (2003–06). Shot in black-and-white, the works document members of the Black LGBTQIA+ community in intimate moments that defy taboos. Participants’ faces are not shown, only isolated parts of the body, such as a hairy chest in a lace bra (Bra [2003]) or a thigh showing a long thick scar (Aftermath [2004]). The show was met with critical acclaim, and Muholi was soon showing internationally, including in Vienna, Amsterdam, Milan, and Lagos. Faces and Phases and other series Moving from the anonymity of Only Half the Picture, Muholi began photographing specific individuals in 2006. The ongoing series, Faces and Phases, documents each participant’s expression, attire, posture, and gestures. By the 2020s the collection comprised some 300 photographs, which were often exhibited in grids, showcasing the diversity of the LGBTQIA+ community in South Africa. Muholi continued their focus on the community with such series as Of Love & Loss (2014), which includes installations and videos interweaving scenes of the funerals of hate crime victims with the weddings of nonconforming couples, and Brave Beauties (2014– ), which focuses on transgender women. South African scholar Gabeba Baderoon noted in Visual Century: South African Art in Context Volume 4: 1990–2007 that Muholi’s “photographs have helped to reframe ways of seeing the Black body and have brought details of Black lesbian and gay life closer to the centre of South Africa’s political and artistic debates.” Somnyama Ngonyama In 2014 Muholi turned the lens on themselves for the ongoing series, Somnyama Ngonyama (Hail the Dark Lioness). Shot in black-and-white, the photographs capture Muholi looking directly at the camera in a variety of poses and guises, sometimes wearing thick necklaces, large headpieces, and intricate hair clips. In postproduction they deliberately toned down any highlights and saturated their skin color in order to exaggerate its darkness. From a distance, the portraits recall anthropological photographs of Africans, the likes of which once appeared on the covers of National Geographic. Upon closer inspection, however, the viewer discovers that Muholi’s adornments are not African jewelry but everyday items, such as chopsticks, a vacuum hose, and a cosmetics bag. Muholi’s subversion of the viewer’s expectation offers humor, but they often chose a specific object for its meaning beyond mere play. In such works as Bester I, Mayotte and Bester V, Mayotte (both 2015), for example, Muholi adorns themselves with clothespins in the former and scouring sponges in the latter; objects that suggest housework. The pieces honor the labor of their mother, who died from liver cancer in 2009. A few of the self-portraits are similarly personal, but, like those in Muholi’s other series, the photographs also consider the ways in which Black bodies in general are represented. Of the series, Muholi told The Guardian in 2017, “The black body itself is the material, the black body that is ever scrutinised, and violated and undermined.” - Born: - July 19, 1972, Umlazi, South Africa (age 53) Paintings, exhibitions, and collections In 2020, during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, which limited Muholi’s photography practice, they turned to painting. Their colorful self-portraits recall the compositions of Somnyama Ngonyama and continue Muholi’s investigation of the Black body, gender, and representation. That same year a major survey of their work was held at Tate Modern, London. Other exhibitions include “Zanele Muholi: Eye Me” (2024) at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art; “Being Muholi: Portraits as Resistance” (2022) at the Gardner Museum, Boston; and “Zanele Muholi” (2021) at Gropius Bau, Berlin. Their photographs are in the collections of many world-renowned institutions including the Centre Pompidou, Paris; the Guggenheim Museum, New York; and the Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art Africa, Cape Town.


--- [2013 July 26: Muholi wins another award - inkanyiso.org] ---
Server Maintenance Your server is going through a few minutes of routine maintenance. Please don't touch your browser for a few minutes. What do I do? - If you were posting a comment or making a post on your blog then do not press BACK on your browser. Wait 5 minutes and press the refresh icon on your browser. Your comment or post will be sent as normal. - If you are browsing a blog here just wait a few moments and hit refresh. The page you were expecting will appear.


--- [Can a Work of Art Shaped by Western Obsessions Ever Be Truly Decolonial ...] ---
In 2003, when I visited Johannesburg as a graudate student in a course on the history and culture of South Africa, I heard a joke directed at African Americans by local comedian Judy Jake. "This is not your homeland," she said, tired of Black Americans making ancestral pilgrimages to the new democracy. "You meant to go way over there." She waved toward the western part of the continent, some 4,000 miles away. The message of that trip was clear: South Africa had its own history, its own dynamics that could not be readily framed within the Black American experience. The township was not the ghetto, a braai was not a fish fry. In 1990, the legendary South African lawyer Albie Sachs warned that a reductionist view of the country’s culture could stifle artistic creation. “Our movement has developed a style of its own, a way of doing things and of expressing itself… And what a rich mix it is,” he said. “African tradition, church tradition, Gandhian tradition, all the languages and ways and styles of the many communities in our country.” South African perspectives, I learned, were distinct and particular, and demanded respect on their own terms. Imagine my surprise, some 20 years later, to find that one of the preeminent South African artists of their generation, Zanele Muholi, is also perhaps one of the first photographers of what the late economist Theodore Levitt deemed “a flat earth,” a phase of globalization ushered by new technologies, homogenizing culture along the way. The threats of a flat society have been predicted, with slightly different intonations, since at least 2005, when observers from Andrew Keen to Lawrence Lessig debated the impact of networked technologies. Unlike “post-Internet art,” which emerged around the same time, what I call flat photography is not about the Internet, but reflects, visually, the logics of visibility, publicity, and digestibility that developed online throughout the 2000s. Flat photography—of which Muholi’s work is a prime example—is often born from the global connections of Web 2.0, but speaks to a Western audience. It is vaguely democratic, rich in easy-to-parse symbolism, and fluent in the trends and language of digital culture. Coinciding with the 30th anniversary of the end of apartheid, Muholi’s first major exhibition on the West Coast, “Zanele Muholi: Eye Me,” is on view at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art through Aug. 11; another major survey opens in June at the Tate Modern in London. To understand Muholi’s career, and the rise of flat photography in general, one must understand social media in its infancy. Facebook, and its promise of global community, arrived in 2004 at the end of a roughly 10-year period of influential group exhibitions organized to warm international audiences to African contemporary art. Muholi embraced social media early, posting pictures to Facebook and Tumblr, uploading videos to YouTube, and starting their own long-running digital publication, Inkanyiso. The network social media afforded the Durban native had once been unimaginable. Muholi was born in 1972, four years before television was introduced to South Africa, reversing a state-sanctioned strategy to isolate the nation from the rest of the world. Until the end of apartheid in 1994, South African artists often worked in anonymity or in exile, censored by their governments and subject to cultural boycotts. In 2012, when Muholi returned from a film screening in South Korea to find they had been robbed of five years’ worth of work, the news quickly reached an international public and the artist garnered support from around the world. Born to a domestic worker and a tradesman who died when they were an infant, Muholi was raised by relatives on the coast before moving to Johannesburg. There, they held a series of jobs: as a hairdresser and in a corporate communications firm. They began photographing the LGBTQIA+ community for the website Behind the Mask before attending the Market Photo Workshop in 2003. In an early series, “Only Half the Picture,” Muholi, who had documented hate crimes across the country as a lesbian rights advocate, dispelled the idea that queer identity was a Western import. Another project, “Being,” depicted the intimate lives of queer couples. In 2010, South Africa’s minister of arts and culture condemned Muholi's work as "immoral," spurring national debate. While completing an MFA at Ryerson University in Toronto, Muholi rose to international acclaim with "Faces and Phases," an ongoing series of black-and-white portraits of young Black LGBTQI South Africans. The subject of countless exhibitions and prizes, including Glamour magazine's "Campaigner of the Year," the body of work burnished the artist's reputation as a "visual activist." The photos, often exhibited in large grids, catalog membes of Muholi's community in a bid for social recognition. Muholi’s work has gained renown amid a growing respect for practices of “participatory” or “socially engaged” photography made with the sitter's collaboration. (Muholi eschews the term “subject,” which implies an imbalance of power between artist and sitter.) In "Faces and Phases," Muholi's approach—vertical black-and-white portraits, eyes staring directly into the camera with a crinkle of recognition—echoed the work of community and visual literacy projects, from the earnest portraits of veteran educator Wendy Ewald to the paste-up murals of French celebrity street artist JR. As social media evolved into the monolith it is today, Muholi’s work, in which the participant is invited to control their presentation, became resonant with another emerging practice: image management. Their practice reflected an intensifying veneration of personal expression found everywhere from advertising to human rights and was exhibited during a shifting discourse in photography from “the body” (practical, vulnerable) to “the self” (creative, heroic). As personalization and accommodation were shaping discourses of “visibility” on the Internet, the virtue of “seeing one’s self” in an image took on a new, reductionist dimension. Muholi’s culturally specific attempts to create an archive of Black, queer life in South Africa, where homosexuality is enshrined in the constitution but men perform “corrective rapes,” were increasingly flattened into the generic and therapizing language of American-style identity politics. Muholi’s work came to reflect two interrelated digital trends: the flatness of activist speech and the glorification of the individual. In 2014, Muholi began a series of self-portraits to, as they wrote at the time, “reclaim my blackness,” a phrase frequently invoked by Black Twitter. In “Somnyama Ngonyama (or Hail, the Dark Lioness),” the resulting series of more than 200 self-portraits, Muholi dons a set of easily recognizable symbols: Afro-picks, a miner’s goggles, and crucially, a series of items worn as crowns. The portraits are striking, borrowing from the history of fashion photography, but mistake iconicity with social justice. A new series of large-scale sculptures—including a giant clitoris and the artist’s likeness as a Madonna, offering benediction—lands somewhere between agit-prop and a hashtag. Twenty years ago, a number of exhibitions, essays, and conferences sought to understand the meaning of globalization to the African artist, and convey Africa’s influence on the West. Today, it may be salient to consider the impact of the West’s online discourse on African artists, especially when it sets the terms of engage- ment in international art markets. The culturally flat world can be seen in the work of sculptor Mary Sibande, who uses toy soldiers and Western comic book heroes, or the self-portraits of Samuel Fosso and Omar Victor Diop, who have depicted themselves as Martin Luther King Jr. and Trayvon Martin, respectively. Can a work of art shaped by Western obsessions ever be truly decolonial? In 2018, to commemorate 25 years of democracy in South Africa, Muholi initiated a self-funded, multimillion-rand project, inviting 25 students to make portraits of the artist— one painting for each year of freedom—for an exhibition that traveled across the globe. I’ll let those engaged in South African politics inter- pret the symbolic dimensions of such a tribute. To me, it illustrates how, in flat photography, the wider the world expands, the narrower the scope of vision becomes. It calls to mind a perverse reading of the phrase, “Umuntu ngumuntu ngabantu,” which evokes our shared humanity and translates from Zulu to, “I am, because you are.” Recently, Muholi posted the expression to social media, thanking their followers. I think, in the end, the artist has got it right.
