=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[A Visit to the Negrych Homestead: The Best Preserved Pioneer Homestead in Canada!]
Jul 13, 2020 · Amongst the ten buildings are unique and extremely rare features, including the only Canadian example of a long single Carpathian roof and a rare fully preserved working clay oven — the massive log and clay cook stove that was once the heart of every Ukrainian home.” This plaque says: “Wasyl Negrych Homestead, Venlaw.
URL: https://www.mennotoba.com/wasyl-negrych-homestead/

[Wasyl Negrych Pioneer Homestead National Historic Site]
Description of historic place Wasyl Negrych Homestead National Historic Site of Canada is believed to be one of the most complete and best-preserved example of an early Ukrainian farmstead in Canada . It is located near the town of Dauphin, Manitoba. Situated in a sheltered valley, the site consists of ten log buildings with fields and orchards situated on either side of an early colonization ...
URL: https://parks.canada.ca/culture/designation/lieu-site/wasyl

[Wasyl Negrych Pioneer Homestead (PHS) | Travel Manitoba]
Constructed in 1899, there are 10 log buildings. The 1908 bunkhouse contains a rare example of a traditional Ukrainian clay bake-oven and is the only known structure to feature a long-shingle wooden roof.
URL: https://www.travelmanitoba.com/directory/wasyl-negrych-pioneer-homestead-phs/

[The pioneer life of a unique family – Our Communities]
The Negrych family left a lasting impression on the Canadian frontier, and unknowingly made their mark on Canadian history. Clothing, letters, pictures, magazines, knick-knacks, and countless other personal items still adorn the home. The walls remain decorated with religious images, family pictures, and a Gilbert Plains calendar from the year 1922. Strolling among the homestead’s ten intact buildings, surrounded by a thick forest of towering tamarack and poplars, one can’t help but feel the family’s spirit still lingering.
URL: https://www.winnipegfreepress.com/our-communities/column/2013/07/10/the-pioneer-life-of-a-unique-family

[The Ukrainian Canadian Experience - UNL Digital Commons]
by JW Darlington · 1997 — These generations of buildings-labeled here pioneer, traditional, transitional, and modern- provide clear evidence of the economic progress and cultural ...32 pages·2 MB
URL: https://digitalcommons.unl.edu/context/greatplainsresearch/article/1312/viewcontent/4___The_Ukranian_Canadian_Farm_Experience.pdf


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [A Visit to the Negrych Homestead: The Best Preserved Pioneer Homestead in Canada!] ---
Ever since Gordon Goldsborough spoke at the MHV last fall, sharing his Manitoba exploration adventures, Andrew and I have wanted to see the site that Gordon said was the very best one of all: the Negrych Homestead by Gilbert Plains. The homestead is about 10 miles north of Gilbert Plains in Western Manitoba and is a National Historic Site of Canada! It’s quite remote, which may be why it’s also so well-preserved. After winding down a very long road, you’ll arrive at what is perhaps the best-preserved Ukrainian pioneer homestead in Canada, a collection of more than ten log buildings built in the late 1800s/early 1900s. It was a real treat to visit this place! I will let the pictures and the plaques do the talking here. Join me for a tour! I’m not sure how many visitors they get, but we were there at 3:30 in the afternoon on a Friday and we were just the second visitors of the day. It costs only $5 for adults to visit and is definitely worth a visit if you’re in the area. It’s not too far from Riding Mountain National Park, Dauphin, or Asessippi, so seek it out!


--- [Wasyl Negrych Pioneer Homestead National Historic Site] ---
Wasyl Negrych Pioneer Homestead National Historic Site The Wasyl Negrych Pioneer Homestead was designated a national historic site in 1997. Commemorative plaque: Negrych Road, Gilbert Plains, Manitoba Footnote 1 This homestead is one of the earliest and best preserved examples of a Ukrainian farm in Canada. Wasyl and Anna Negrych immigrated with their children, and along with many of their compatriots, settled in the Dauphin area. Between 1897 and 1910, the Negrych family constructed these rustic log buildings using local materials. Notable features such as long roof shingles, a traditional bake oven, and homemade hardware illustrate Ukrainian craftsmanship. The farm illustrates the resourcefulness of these immigrants as they adapted to life on the Canadian prairies. Description of historic place Wasyl Negrych Homestead National Historic Site of Canada is believed to be one of the most complete and best-preserved example of an early Ukrainian farmstead in Canada . It is located near the town of Dauphin, Manitoba. Situated in a sheltered valley, the site consists of ten log buildings with fields and orchards situated on either side of an early colonization road. Its ten buildings illustrate rare features such as a long-shingled Carpathian roof and a fully preserved peech, the massive log and clay cookstove that was once the heart of every Ukrainian home. Heritage value Wasyl Negrych Homestead was designated a National Historic Site in 1996 because: - dating to the beginnings of the Dauphin Block Ukrainian Settlement, it is believed to be the earliest, best preserved example of a Ukranian pioneer farm in Canada - and the house, its centre piece, is the oldest known Ukrainian dwelling in the country still on its original site. The heritage value Wasyl Negrych Homestead lies in the integrity of its cultural landscape as an expression of the settlement experience of Ukranian immigrants. Its value is illustrated by the landscape and functional disposition of the site, its setting, and the nature and composition of the early structures it contains. Wasyl Negrych Homestead was built by the family of Wasyl and Anna Negrych between 1897 and 1910, just after they immigrated to Canada and were assigned their land in the Dauphin Block Settlement. The homestead contains 10 rustic log buildings, eight of which date from this initial period of construction including the house, a bunkhouse and bake-ovens. Built of local materials, these structures reflect skills and ideas brought from Negrych family’s native Ukraine. This farm, with its well-preserved landscape, now functions as a heritage site interpreting the settlement experience of Ukrainian immigrants. Source: Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada, Minutes, Nov. 1996, Dec. 2002. The National Program of Historical Commemoration relies on the participation of Canadians in the identification of places, events and persons of national historic significance. Any member of the public can nominate a topic for consideration by the Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada. Related links Related information about this designation - Date modified :


--- [Wasyl Negrych Pioneer Homestead (PHS) | Travel Manitoba] ---
- Things To Do - Manitoba Events - Food & Drink - Places To Go - Winnipeg - Churchill - Eastern Region - Central Region - Interlake Region - Parkland Region - Western Region - Manitoba North - Must-See Destinations - Itineraries - Island Getaway on the Prairies - Adventure From Here on Out - Wheat City Wanderings in Brandon - Escape to the water and the wild - St. Boniface Winter: Passion and History - Follow the path to a story in Neepawa - Unleash your inner Viking this winter - Explore Clear Lake This Winter Like Never Before - Breathe in the Whiteshell this winter - Go North for a boreal forest escape - Treaty Areas - Where To Stay - Trip Essentials - #ExploreMB Blog


--- [The pioneer life of a unique family – Our Communities] ---
The pioneer life of a unique family Advertisement Hey there, time traveller! This article was published 10/07/2013 (4619 days ago), so information in it may no longer be current. Visiting Wasyl Negrych Pioneer Homestead is the next best thing to travelling back to the turn of the 20th century. Nestled away off a dusty, nearly-deserted gravel road just north of Gilbert Plains, Man., this pristine property is well worth seeing. In the late 1800s, immigrants to Canada were offered deeds to generous portions of land on the prairies at very reasonable prices, under the condition they build homesteads and remain as settlers. Along came Wasyl Negrych, his wife Anna, and seven children, from the highlands of Western Ukraine. They bought a quarter section of land in 1897 for the compulsory $10 fee. The temporary shelter that would house the growing family (five more offspring would be born in Manitoba, bringing the total number of Negrych children to 12) was constructed of poplar poles and cowhide. This was their home until 1899, when construction of the main house was completed. The Negrych clan was amazingly resourceful and self-sufficient. They raised cows, pigs and chickens. They built barns, granaries, a chicken coop, a pigpen and a bunkhouse. They grew and harvested wheat, rye, barley, oats and flax. They maintained vegetable and herb gardens, and an abundant orchard. They made their own clothing, oil, rope, utensils and tools. All building materials were found on the farm site, with structures using traditional building techniques of logs with saddle and notch cornering. Heavy wooden doors were made movable with hand-carved wooden door hinges, and secured with innovative door locking systems utilizing a hole in the wall, an odd-looking wooden key, and a sliding plank of wood lined with strategically-placed notches. The original house has a sturdy beamed ceiling and an extremely rare wooden roof — the only Canadian example of a long-shingle Carpathian roof. A modest dwelling, its layout consists of a central kitchen area and two side rooms. Both the interior and exterior are finished with handmade plaster, which keeps the buildings refreshingly cool in summer and toasty warm during winter. The residence remains intact today on its original site, and is touted as the oldest known Ukrainian dwelling in Canada. The Negrych family left a lasting impression on the Canadian frontier, and unknowingly made their mark on Canadian history. Clothing, letters, pictures, magazines, knick-knacks, and countless other personal items still adorn the home. The walls remain decorated with religious images, family pictures, and a Gilbert Plains calendar from the year 1922. Strolling among the homestead’s ten intact buildings, surrounded by a thick forest of towering tamarack and poplars, one can’t help but feel the family’s spirit still lingering. Remarkably, the two youngest Negrych children lived there into the 1990s without modern improvements — no electricity, running water, sewer, and telephone lines were ever introduced. It truly is an impressive site, believed to be the earliest and best preserved example of a Ukrainian farm in Canada. Designated a Heritage Site by the Province of Manitoba, it was also commemorated with a bronze plaque and recognized as a National Historic Site by the Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada. RoseAnna Schick is an avid traveller who seeks inspiration wherever she goes. Email her at rascreative@yahoo.ca. RoseAnna Schick Travelations RoseAnna Schick is an avid traveller and music lover who seeks inspiration wherever she goes. Email her at rasinspired@gmail.com Our newsroom depends on a growing audience of readers to power our journalism. If you are not a paid reader, please consider becoming a subscriber. Our newsroom depends on its audience of readers to power our journalism. Thank you for your support.


--- [The Ukrainian Canadian Experience - UNL Digital Commons] ---
Ask the publishers to restore access to 500,000+ books. Loading... https://digitalcommons.unl.edu/context/greatplainsresearch/article/1312/viewcontent/4___The_Ukranian_Canadian_Farm_Experience.pdf | 10:37:53 September 07, 2024 Got an HTTP 302 response at crawl time Redirecting to... https://digitalcommons.unl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?params=/context/greatplainsresearch/article/1312/&path_info=4___The_Ukranian_Canadian_Farm_Experience.pdf
