=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Taj Mahal - Wikipedia]
The Taj Mahal (/ ˌtɑːdʒ məˈhɑːl, ˌtɑːʒ -/ TAHJ mə-HAHL, TAHZH -⁠; Hindustani: [t̪ɑːd͡ʒ ˈmɛɦ (ɛ)l]; lit. 'Crown of the Palace') is an ivory-white marble mausoleum on the right bank of the river Yamuna in Agra, Uttar Pradesh, India. It was commissioned in 1631 by the fifth Mughal emperor, Shah Jahan (r. 1628-1658), to house the tomb of his beloved wife, Mumtaz Mahal; it ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taj_Mahal

[Mumtaz Mahal, The Woman Who Inspired The Taj Mahal]
The wife of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan, Mumtaz Mahal died at the age of 38 — prompting her husband to build a grand mausoleum in her honor. Wikimedia Commons Mumtaz Mahal's death inspired the Taj Mahal. India's Mughal Empire was one of the largest and most powerful empires in the world.
URL: https://allthatsinteresting.com/mumtaz-mahal

[Mumtaz Mahal | Facts, History, Tomb, & Biography | Britannica]
Mumtaz Mahal, byname of Arjumand Banu Begum, wife of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan. He built the Taj Mahal in her memory. A niece of Nur Jahan, Arjumand was born into the inner court of the dynasty. When Shah Jahan became emperor, he gave her the title Mumtaz Mahal. She died years later shortly after giving birth.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Mumtaz-Mahal

[Mumtaz Mahal]
Mumtaz Mahal was the empress consort of Mughal Empire from 1628 to 1631 as the chief consort of the fifth Mughal emperor, Shah Jahan. The Taj Mahal in Agra, ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mumtaz_Mahal

[Ever Wondered Who Built India’s Most Iconic Structure? It’s a ...]
Contrary to popular belief, the Taj Mahal - which is located in Agra, Uttar Pradesh, India, is not a temple; in fact, it is a mausoleum. It was commissioned in 1631 by the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan, to house the tomb of his beloved wife, Arjumand Banu Begum - also known as Mumtaz Mahal-which means "jewel of the palace", Mumtaz died whilst giving birth to their 14th child, Gahuara ...
URL: https://www.discovery.com/exploration/the-taj-mahal-s-love-story


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Taj Mahal - Wikipedia] ---
The Taj Mahal ( TAHJ mə-HAHL, TAHZH -⁠; Hindustani: [t̪ɑːd͡ʒ ˈmɛɦ(ɛ)l]; lit. 'Crown of the Palace') is an ivory-white marble mausoleum on the right bank of the river Yamuna in Agra, Uttar Pradesh, India. It was commissioned in 1631 by the fifth Mughal emperor, Shah Jahan (r. 1628–1658), to house the tomb of his beloved wife, Mumtaz Mahal; it also houses the tomb of Shah Jahan himself. The tomb is the centrepiece of a 17-hectare (42-acre) complex, which includes a mosque and a guest house, and is set in formal gardens bounded on three sides by a crenellated wall.
Construction of the mausoleum was completed in 1648, but work continued on other phases of the project for another five years. The first ceremony held at the mausoleum was an observance by Shah Jahan, on 6 February 1643, of the 12th anniversary of the death of Mumtaz Mahal. The Taj Mahal complex is believed to have been completed in its entirety in 1653 at a cost estimated at the time to be around ₹32 million, which in 2015 would be approximately ₹52.8 billion (US$827 million).
The building complex incorporates the design traditions of Indo-Islamic and Mughal architecture. It employs symmetrical constructions with the usage of various shapes and symbols. While the mausoleum is constructed of white marble inlaid with semi-precious stones, red sandstone was used for other buildings in the complex similar to the Mughal era buildings of the time. The construction project employed more than 20,000 workers and artisans under the guidance of a board of architects led by Ustad Ahmad Lahori, the emperor's court architect.
The Taj Mahal was designated as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1983 for being "the jewel of Islamic art in India and one of the universally admired masterpieces of the world's heritage". It is regarded as one of the best examples of Mughal architecture and a symbol of Indian history. The Taj Mahal is a major tourist attraction and attracts more than five million visitors a year. In 2007, it was declared a winner of the New 7 Wonders of the World initiative. The Taj Mahal and its setting, surrounding grounds, and structures are a Monument of National Importance, administered by the Archaeological Survey of India.




--- [Mumtaz Mahal, The Woman Who Inspired The Taj Mahal] ---
The wife of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan, Mumtaz Mahal died at the age of 38 — prompting her husband to build a grand mausoleum in her honor. India’s Mughal Empire was one of the largest and most powerful empires in the world. Emperor Shah Jahan, who ruled from 1628 to 1658, poured his empire’s wealth into building the stunning Taj Mahal, a gleaming white monument that looms over the city of Agra. Visited by millions every year, the towering marble structure was constructed for one reason: to remember the emperor’s lost love, his wife, Mumtaz Mahal. So who was Mumtaz Mahal, the woman who inspired the construction of the Taj Mahal — one of the Seven Wonders of the World? Born a Persian princess, Mumtaz Mahal married her husband in 1612. Trusted by the emperor and loved by the people, she became an important figure in the empire. Mahal served as the patron for humanitarian programs that supported the needy, and was her husband’s loyal advisor. Tragically, the empress died during childbirth at the age of 38. And Shah Jahan built the Taj Mahal to honor her memory. Who Was Mumtaz Mahal? The Life Of The Empress Consort Born Arjumand Banu Begum on April 27, 1593, Mumtaz Mahal came from a powerful Persian family. Her grandfather had become a trusted advisor of Mughal emperor Akbar (1556 to 1605), and her aunt married Mughal emperor Jahāngīr (1605 to 1627) in 1611, intertwining the family with royalty. When she was around the age of 14 years old, the princess crossed paths with Prince Khurram, Jahangir’s son and heir, at a bazaar. The two quickly fell in love and, in 1607, were betrothed. Five years later, on a date selected by court astrologers, the two wed. And Arjumand Banu Begum’s husband gave her a new name: Mumtaz Mahal, which meant “Chosen One of the Palace.” When he became emperor Shah Jahan in 1628, Mahal became the empress consort of Mughal Empire. While many royal marriages were meant to cement political alliances, the union between Shah Jahan and Mumtaz Mahal was a love match. And though the emperor had two other wives, Muhal remained his favorite. She traveled across the empire with her husband, serving as his loyal advisor. In return, Jahan gave her his imperial seal, the highest possible honor. As empress, Mumtaz Mahal also won the hearts of the people. She served as a patron of the arts and a champion of the poor. She sent food to widows and orphans and spent her free time writing Persian poetry, as well as enjoying the beauty of a riverside garden in Agra. She and her husband also had 14 children together – but sadly, childbirth would eventually lead to Mumtaz Mahal’s death. The Tragic Death Of Mumtaz Mahal In Childbirth — And The Intense Mourning Of Her Husband Shortly after Shah Jahan became emperor, he led a military campaign in the Deccan Plateau. Mumtaz Mahal traveled with her husband to Burhanpur, in spite of the fact that she was heavily pregnant with her 14th child. After traveling more than 400 miles with her husband and his army, Mahal went into labor. She struggled through a 30 hour labor, finally giving birth to a daughter. But Mahal then suffered from postpartum hemorrhage and, despite the efforts of her lady-in-waiting, her doctor, and the many midwives summoned to help, Mahal was beyond saving. The emperor rushed to his wife’s side, but there was nothing to be done. Mumtaz Mahal died in his arms on Jan. 17, 1631. She was 38 years old. Shah Jahan was devastated. The emperor purportedly wept for eight days and went into seclusion for a year. He stopped listening to music, gave up his luxurious clothes and jewelry, and emerged from seclusion with his black hair suddenly stark white. Because Mumtaz Mahal died on a Wednesday, the emperor also banned any entertainment on that day. Mahal’s body was temporarily buried in a walled garden near the military encampment in Burhanpur. But soon after her death, the emperor ordered his wife’s body disinterred. Encased in a gold casket and escorted by one of her sons, the body of Mumtaz Mahal returned to Agra. Then, Shah Jahan began to plan a monument that would encapsulate his love for Mumtaz Mahal for all time. The Woman Who Inspired The Taj Mahal, One Of The Seven Wonders Of The World After putting down the rebellion that had brought him to Burhanpur, Shah Jahan returned to Agra with a plan to memorialize his lost love. Shah Jahan vowed to build a tomb fit for the empress. According to the Taj Mahal website, the emperor put together a group of architects to build a mausoleum like no other (though the names of the monument’s designer are sadly lost to time). Ultimately, the magnificent monument would take 22 years and 20,000 workers to construct. Over more than two decades, workers transported white marble from a quarry 200 miles away. A thousand elephants carried the marble to Agra, where a 10-mile ramp was constructed to move marble upward. Inside the imposing structure, a master calligrapher etched Quran verses into the white marble. Stonecutters chipped away at the marble to create floral designs in which they embedded dozens of different kinds of precious stones, including jade from China, turquoise from Tibet, and malachite from Russia. The Taj Mahal also glitters with the color and light of carnelian, agates, chalcedonies, lapis lazuli, bloodstone, and garnet. In a nod to how “Paradise” in Islam is described as a garden, the Taj Mahal was designed to look like heaven on earth. It includes a garden divided by rivers which flow into a central pool. At the core of the mausoleum complex, under the majestic dome, rests the cenotaph tomb of Mumtaz Mahal. But it stands empty – the empress’ body was interred beneath the Taj Mahal in a crypt. The Taj Mahal: A Tomb For Mumtaz Mahal And Shah Jahan Shortly after the Taj Mahal was completed, Shah Jahan fell ill. His weakness led his sons to fight amongst themselves and his third son, Aurangzeb, eventually seized power. Aurangzeb then confined his father in Agra Fort, where the aging emperor could see the Taj Mahal from his window. Then, in 1666, Shah Jahan died. Though the emperor had once dreamed of building his own mausoleum, a black version of the Taj Mahal, his son Aurangzeb instead ordered that Shah Jahan be buried in the original Taj Mahal. Today, Shah Jahan and Mumtaz Mahal are the only people buried in the mausoleum. But after Aurangzeb died in 1707 the Mughal Empire began to decline. The British soon swept into India, carving precious stones from the walls of the mausoleum. However, the Taj Mahal has since been preserved. After an early 20th-century restoration project, the monument gained world renown and a spot on the UNESCO World Heritage list. Today, it’s considered one of the Seven Wonders of the World. Yet while the Taj Mahal’s architectural brilliance captures the wealth and culture of the Mughal Empire, few know the story of the woman who inspired it. The gleaming white monument is a mausoleum, but it’s also an eternal symbol of the love of Shah Jahan for one person — his beloved wife, Mumtaz Mahal. After reading about Mumtaz Mahal, the woman who inspired the Taj Mahal, discover the incredible stories of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. Or, learn about the Koh-I-Noor Diamond which Shah Jahan placed atop his Peacock Throne — and which is now part of England’s Crown Jewels.


--- [Mumtaz Mahal | Facts, History, Tomb, & Biography | Britannica] ---
Mumtaz Mahal Mumtaz Mahal, (born c. 1593—died June 17, 1631, Burhanpur, India), wife of Shah Jahān, Mughal emperor of India (1628–58). Having died at a young age only a few years into her husband’s reign, her memory inspired the construction of the Taj Mahal, where she is entombed. Life, family, and marriage Born Arjumand Banu, she was a member of a family that came to command the inner court of the Mughal dynasty in the 17th century. Her family’s high status was secured when her aunt Mehr al-Nesāʾ married Shah Jahān’s father, Jahāngīr, in 1611 (and thereafter she was known as Nūr Jahān). Arjumand’s grandfather Mirzā Ghiyās Beg (known also as Iʿtimād al-Dawlah, “Pillar of the State”), who had entered the royal court during the reign of Akbar (reigned 1556–1605), was then appointed the grand vizier of the empire. Abū al-Ḥasan Āṣaf Khan, Arjumand’s father and Nūr Jahān’s brother, also attained a high rank within the court and later became grand vizier under Shah Jahān. Arjumand was betrothed to Prince Khurram (the pre-regnal name of Shah Jahān) in 1607, but it was not until 1612—the date chosen by the court astrologers—that they were permitted to marry. In the meantime, he had taken another wife, and Arjumand thus became his second wife. She bore 14 children during their marriage, seven of whom survived to adulthood. Their third son was Aurangzeb, the last great Mughal emperor (1658–1707). - Byname of: - Arjumand Banu - Also called: - Arjumand Banu Begum - House / Dynasty: - Mughal dynasty - Notable Family Members: - spouse Shah Jahān - son Aurangzeb Legacy Shah Jahān acceded the throne in 1628 and conferred on Arjumand the title of Mumtāz Maḥall (“Chosen One of the Palace”). Though she did not assert authority to the extent her aunt had done, she used her position to promote humanitarian programs for the needy. In 1631, though pregnant, she accompanied Shah Jahān on a military campaign in the Deccan. While in Burhanpur, she gave birth to their 14th child and soon after died from hemorrhaging. She was buried temporarily in Burhanpur, until her body was transferred to Agra in January 1632. That same month, construction began on the Taj Mahal over the site of her burial.


--- [Mumtaz Mahal] ---
Mumtaz Mahal (Persian pronunciation: [mum.ˈtɑːz ma.ˈhal]; lit. 'The Exalted One of the Palace'; born Arjumand Banu Begum; 27 April 1593 – 17 June 1631) was the empress consort of Mughal Empire from 1628 to 1631 as the chief consort of the fifth Mughal emperor, Shah Jahan. The Taj Mahal in Agra, often cited as one of the Wonders of the World, was commissioned by her husband to act as her tomb.
Mumtaz Mahal was born Arjumand Banu Begum in Agra to a family of Persian nobility. She was the daughter of Abu'l-Hasan Asaf Khan, a wealthy Persian noble who held high office in the Mughal Empire, and the niece of Empress Nur Jahan, the chief consort of Emperor Jahangir and the power behind the emperor. Arjumand Banu was married at the age of 19 on 10 May 1612 or 16 June 1612 to Prince Khurram, later known by his regnal name Shah Jahan, who conferred upon her the title "Mumtaz Mahal" lit. 'The Exalted One of the Palace'. Although betrothed to Shah Jahan since 1607, she ultimately became his second wife in 1612. Mumtaz and her husband had 14 children, including Jahanara Begum (Shah Jahan's favorite daughter), and the Crown prince Dara Shikoh, the heir-apparent, anointed by his father, who temporarily succeeded him until deposed by Mumtaz Mahal's sixth child, Aurangzeb, who ultimately succeeded his father as the sixth Mughal emperor in 1658.
Mumtaz Mahal died in 1631 in Burhanpur, Deccan (present-day Madhya Pradesh) during the birth of her 14th child, a daughter named Gauhar Ara Begum. Shah Jahan had the Taj Mahal built as a tomb for her, which is considered to be a monument of undying love. As with other Mughal royal ladies,  no contemporary likenesses of her are accepted, but imagined portraits were created from the 19th century onwards.




--- [Ever Wondered Who Built India’s Most Iconic Structure? It’s a ...] ---
Grant Faint The Romantic, Heartbreaking Love Story Behind the Taj Mahal Ivory white columns rise from the earth, framing the central masterpiece: an intricately carved marble domed structure stood on a square plinth, resplendent with arched doorways, and topped by a bronze moon that reaches for the sky. The entire magnificent building is mirrored in a long reflective pool, fringed by symmetrical Cyprus and fruit trees that resemble both life and death. This man-made marvel is, of course, the breathtaking Taj Mahal, one of UNESCO’s seven new wonders of the world. Rabindranath Tagore, one of India’s most beloved poets, famously called the Taj Mahal “a teardrop on the cheek of time”, and the story behind the structure lives up to its reputation. Adrian Pope India, Uttar Pradesh, Agra, Taj Mahal and early morning fog framed by arches. Contrary to popular belief, the Taj Mahal – which is located in Agra, Uttar Pradesh, India, is not a temple; in fact, it is a mausoleum. It was commissioned in 1631 by the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan, to house the tomb of his beloved wife, Arjumand Banu Begum – also known as Mumtaz Mahal–which means “jewel of the palace”, Mumtaz died whilst giving birth to their 14th child, Gahuara Begum. Construction began the following year, and the mausoleum was finally completed in 1648, while the stunning gardens were finished five years later. Jahan first spotted his future wife in the bazaar at Agra, selling silks and beads. History has it that Jahan fell madly in love at first sight with Mumtaz, who was a Persian aristocrat. He pursued Mumtaz for five years until he married her in 1612–making her one of his wives (he already had two, as was the tradition). Mumtaz has been immortalized as the epitome of feminine beauty, but she was also an astute political practitioner, and was entrusted with the royal seal, even accompanying Jahan on the battlefield–whilst pregnant! Frédéric Soltan The Taj Mahal is an ivory-white marble mausoleum on the south bank of the Yamuna river in the Indian city of Agra in Uttar Pradesh. When Mumtaz died of postpartum complications, Jahan was inconsolable and plunged the imperial court into mourning for two entire years. He began planning the construction of the Taj Mahal, the ultimate testament of his love for his favorite wife. He summed Muslim artists and architects from all across the land to design a mausoleum worthy of Mumtaz. Altogether, 20,000 artisans assisted in building the Taj Mahal and its gardens, helped by 1,000 elephants, over 22 years. The Taj Mahal is unparalleled in beauty, incorporating Persian, Ottoman, and Islamic art and traditions, and its design is inspired by descriptions in the Koran of heaven. It is also a masterpiece of symbolism. Its bilateral symmetry is dominated by a central axis, an image that has long been used to demonstrate a ruling force that brings balance and harmony. The structure is also aligned in the cardinal north-south direction and the corners have been positioned so that when one stands in the center, the sun can be seen rising and setting on the north and south corners during the summer and winter solstices. Thanks to the flawless white marble, the building appears to change color depending on the time of day and the weather, ensuring the sky is incorporated on the surface of the building–as well as in the reflective pools, a sure way to imply the presence of the Islamic god Allah. Nick Rains The intricate ceiling of the Taj Mahal Mosque. The Taj Mahal is an architectural masterpiece, and the fact that there is an exquisite love story behind its inception means it will continue to stand the test of time for centuries to come.
