=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Nobiru Nobi | Doraemon Wiki | Fandom]
This article is for Nobita Nobi's grandfather. Don't confuse this character with Nobirou Nobi, Nobita Nobi's uncle Nobiru Nobi is Nobita's paternal grandfather, the father-in-law of Tamako Nobi, the husband of Nobita's grandmother, and also the father of Nobirou Nobi and Nobisuke Nobi. When Nobita's father was little, he used to be treated in a disciplined manner by Nobita's grandfather ...
URL: https://doraemon.fandom.com/wiki/Nobiru_Nobi

[Nobiru Nobi (Doraemon (1979)) - MyAnimeList.net]
Read more information about the character Nobiru Nobi from Doraemon (1979)? At MyAnimeList, you can find out about their voice actors, animeography, pictures and much more! MyAnimeList is the largest online anime and manga database in the world! Join the online community, create your anime and manga list, read reviews, explore the forums, follow news, and so much more!
URL: https://myanimelist.net/character/221928/Nobiru_Nobi

[Characters in Doraemon: The Parents and Relatives - TV Tropes]
Nobita's paternal grandfather. Abusive Parents: In flashbacks, he's shown to ... Ancestral Name: Nobisuke is named after his paternal grandfather. Book ...
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Characters/DoraemonTheParentsAndRelatives

[Nobiru Nobi - Doraemon - AnimeList.moe]
Nobiru Nobi was Nobita's paternal grandfather and husband to Nobita's grandmother. He was also the father of Nobirou and Nobisuke, making him Tamako's father-in-law. He ran a pretty strict household—when Nobisuke was growing up, Nobiru didn't go easy on him.
URL: https://animelist.moe/character/eywjqr/nobi-nobiru

[Nobiru Nobi | The Nobi Nobita Show Wiki | Fandom]
Nobiru Nobi Nobiru Nobi is Nobita 's paternal grandfather, the father-in-law of Tamako Nobi, the husband of Nobita's grandmother, and also the father of Nobirou Nobi and Nobisuke Nobi. When Nobita's father was little, he used to be treated in a disciplined manner by Nobita's grandfather.
URL: https://nobitashow.fandom.com/wiki/Nobiru_Nobi


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Nobiru Nobi | Doraemon Wiki | Fandom] ---
- This article is for Nobita Nobi's grandfather. Don't confuse this character with Nobirou Nobi, Nobita Nobi's uncle Nobiru Nobi is Nobita's paternal grandfather, the father-in-law of Tamako Nobi, the husband of Nobita's grandmother, and also the father of Nobirou Nobi and Nobisuke Nobi. When Nobita's father was little, he used to be treated in a disciplined manner by Nobita's grandfather. Nobita's paternal grandfather passed away before Nobita was born (or Nobisuke had married with Tamako). Nobita's paternal grandfather appears in a few episodes. Nobita and Doraemon meet him by going to the past using a time machine. He appears to love his son a lot, but does not seem to express his affection to his son, so that he doesn't get spoiled. Appearance[] His physical appearance is almost identical to Nobisuke, except Nobiru has a mustache and a different hairstyle. Personality[] He was shown to be very strict and rude toward his son, Nobisuke, because he valued physical strength and athleticism which Nobisuke lacked, but deep down he loved him so much as seen in the one episode when Nobisuke gets first prize in school in painting. Though Nobiru was being harsh towards him, he secretly took his painting (which Nobisuke has thrown in the dustbin) and preserved it, showing his love and affection towards his son. In one episode/chapter, when Nobita time travel to the past to learn what kind of person his grandfather was, Nobiru meet his future grandson outside his house. Nobiru instantly recognized Nobita as his grandson and treats him nicely unlike how he treated Nobisuke throughout his childhood. Nobiru also stated that he is glad that Nobisuke is living well and raise a son in the future, further showing how much he love his son despite his harsh attitude towards him. Trivia[] - Nobiru Nobi made a cameo on the movie: Stand by Me Doraemon 2, as a picture frame only.


--- [Nobiru Nobi (Doraemon (1979)) - MyAnimeList.net] ---
| Animeography Mangaography Member Favorites: 0 | Nobiru Nobi (野比 のびる)Nobiru Nobi is Nobita's paternal grandfather, the father-in-law of Tamako Nobi, the husband of Nobita's grandmother, and also the father of Nobirou Nobi and Nobisuke Nobi. When Nobita's father was little, he used to be treated in a disciplined manner by Nobita's grandfather.Nobita's paternal grandfather passed away before Nobita was born (or Nobisuke had married with Tamako). Nobita's paternal grandfather appears in a few episodes. Nobita and Doraemon meet him by going to the past using a time machine. He appears to love his son a lot, but does not seem to express his affection to his son, so that he doesn't get spoiled. (Source: Doraemon Wiki) Voice Actors |


--- [Characters in Doraemon: The Parents and Relatives - TV Tropes] ---
Nobita's Family Nobita's parents. - Adults Are Useless: They are usually present in Nobita's life only to scold him or give orders. While they care about their son, they are completely oblivious to most of his problems, like being bullied, and they usually don't even notice when Nobita is upset (which happens all the time). Doraemon is the one who supports him and gives him advice instead of his parents. - Big, Thin, Short Trio: Nobisuke is big, Tamako is thin, and Nobita is short (well, he's just a kid). - Happily Married: They have a good relationship most of the time. - Informed Ability: According to "The Day When I Was Born" (the story of Nobita's birth), Nobita's mom was good at school and Nobita's dad was good at sports, and Nobita apparently inherited the worst traits of both his parents. However, the abilities of his parents are contradicted in other flashback episodes: - Tamako as a child is shown to be mediocre/below average at both academics and sports. Nobita sees that with the time machine in one episode. - Another flashback shows Nobisuke as a child being weak and bad at athletic activities, when he was trained by his strict father. - Normal Fish in a Tiny Pond: The Nobi family is not rich compared to other Japanese families, but they're actually quite well-off by foreign standards. In one particular story, they even consider buying an entire castle in Germany! - Parental Obliviousness: - They are seemingly oblivious to the fact that their child is constantly victim of violence and bullying. Nobita never talks about that to his parents, just to Doraemon. - They don't know almost anything about Doraemon and pretty much never ask questions about him and where he comes from. They only know he lives in their son's bedroom and he has magic gadgets. - Every time Nobita goes on adventures with Doraemon around the world, they mostly remain oblivious about everything. Although the other kids' parents aren't any brighter either. - Parental Substitute: It's not clear how they ended up accepting the mysterious robot cat who suddenly came to live in their house overnight, however they treat Doraemon as a member of the family. - Stern Parent, Doting Parent: Tamako is very strict and demanding, whereas Nobisuke is more laid-back. - Tiny Guy, Huge Girl: Mrs. Nobi is 5'10" (177 cm) and is much taller than her husband who is 5'7" (169 cm). Nobita's mom. Tends to have bad mood because of her son's educational performance and hates every sort of pet. Her maiden name is Kataoka. - Abusive Parents: While she has her good moments, her parenting is often questionable at best, similar to Gian's mother: - Like Gian's mother, she's not above usive Corporal Punishment on her son. In some cases, she chases her son with an object in hand, with the intention of hitting him with it. - In one episode, Nobita misuses one of Doraemon's gadgets and now he is stuck outside in the rain without being able to move. Both Tamako and Doraemon agree to leave him there the entire night as a punishment. - Her son clearly has serious learning difficulties and needs help. Instead of helping him to find a different method of studying (or finding someone who can help him), her only reaction is yelling at him and punishing him. And then she is outraged that he keeps getting bad results. - When she finds stuff she doesn't know in Nobita's room, she often throws it in the trash, without even asking anything to her son. In one case, she does it with Nobita's handmade present for her. - Animals Hate Her: She hates animals and forbids Nobita to own a pet. That said, one chapter has her slowly forming a bond with a stray cat, to the point that she becomes depressed when it is returned to its owner. There's also how she almost started an interplanetary war after clubbing a seal-like alien (that insists to stay awhile because of Nobita's hijink with a UFO-calling device Doraemon mistakenly left) with a broom. - Aw, Look! They Really Do Love Each Other: No matter how much she scolds her son, she will always care about him and shows it many times. - Berserk Button: Nobita's bad grades, especially if he hides these from her. Her punishments are harsher for Nobita if he hides them rather than just showing them the same day. - Control Freak: She's the one who in charge of the family and is often very strict. - Crash-Into Hello: How she first met Nobisuke. After he bumped on her, she accidentally dropped ID card, which was how he found a way to see her again. - Education Mama: A pretty justified and understandable example, since all her son does is loaf around when he's at home instead of doing his homework, score zeroes on his tests, and generally show no academical improvement. - The Glasses Gotta Go: 2005's anime show that in her younger days she looks very good when removing her glasses. - Hair-Trigger Temper: As a result of her son's actions and bad grades. - Hard-Drinking Party Girl: She's shown getting drunk in one story where Doraemon's gadget turned water into sake and ends up singing on the rooftop. - Happily Married: To Nobisuke, they have a good relationship most of the time. - Housewife: Tamako is the one who cooks and cleans the house like a typical Japanese housewife. - Jerkass Has a Point: Control freak as she is, she has every right to get mad at Nobita, usually when he performs poorly at school or attempt to skip his chores. - Jerk with a Heart of Gold: Usually strict towards Nobita, but he really has it coming most of the time. She's actually a very caring mother. - Light Feminine and Dark Feminine: The Dark Feminine to her future daughter-in-law Shizuka's Light Feminine. - NO INDOOR VOICE: A lot of her scenes involve her yelling at Nobita. - Parental Hypocrisy: Her being an Education Mama comes off as hypocritical in the episode where Nobita finds out she wasn't a good student either and was similar to her son. - Parents as People: Though she seeks to improve Nobita's grades, her strictness does little to help him. - Pink Means Feminine: She usually wears pink, especially in the 1979 anime. - Scary Shiny Glasses: When she is very angry. - Tough Love: She's known for being very strict, bad-tempered, and always scolding Nobita. Even though she means well and really does care for him, her temper can easily get the best of her. There is also the fact that she hates animals while Nobita is generally a Friend to All Living Things (except for Angry Guard Dog). Nobita's dad, whose childhood somewhat resembles his son's. He is usually portrayed as Nobita's voices of reason and morality, as he seems to be nicer toward him compared to other adults. - Alliterative Name: Averted in the dub. - Bumbling Dad: Not as prominent as other examples, but still has shades of this. - Crash-Into Hello: How he met Tamako. - Dads Can't Cook: Whenever he tries cooking for the family (usually because Tamako has urgent business somewhere else), the results are bound to be disastrous. - Dark and Troubled Past: He is a former child laborer during World War Two, often got belittled and singled out by the Imperialist foreman and his peers due to his pushover attitude. - Drives Like Crazy: He really can't drive. One of his driving instructors gave up on him by calling him a lost cause. - Everyone Has Standards: He can be stern and angrily admonishing Nobita whenever he needs to, such as giving advice on how to overcome hardships (which made Nobita asking Doraemon for something that turn a relatively menial task into a hard task), and Nobita's lack of interest toward reading (which made Doraemon showing Nobita an encyclopedia that produces miniatures of something the user said). - Good Parents: Barring the occasional rare moment where he's seen yelling at Nobita alongside his wife, Nobisuke is usually kinder and more reasonable toward his son. Notably, he buys or builds sporting goods for Nobita on multiple occasions, such as when he secretly buys skiing boards for him, hoping that his son will become more physically active. He's also seen trying to educate Nobita with practical examples, such as burying money for him to find and telling him to earn money by giving him back massages to appreciate the value of hard work. - Happily Married: To Tamako, they have a good relationship most of the time. - Henpecked Husband: He's more submissive compared to his short-tempered wife, who can be bossy with him as well. - Like Father, Like Son: When he was young, he had many similarities with Nobita. Namely, they both fail academically and are physically weaker than their peer (Nobisuke was bullied back in his day as a child laborer for being too weak). However... - Like Father, Unlike Son: While Nobita still draws like a toddler despite being in primary school, Nobisuke is actually so great an artist that he could have been famous if he wanted to. Also, Nobisuke becomes rather athletic during his adult years, frequently going mountain climbing and golfing, while Nobita remains a pushover even as an adult. - Nice Guy: The nicest in the family. - Only Sane Man: Sometimes takes this role, when his wife and son get into petty fights. - Out of Focus: While not an Invisible Parents like all the fathers of Nobita's friends, he still appears much less than the rest of the family. - Salaryman: The typical Japanese salary man: Working in a firm as a commoner, maintaining various hobbies and traits such as golfing, fishing, and smoking. - Tragic Dream: Dreamed to be an artist, and even had a chance to be successful via an Arranged Marriage, but he declined and never became what he wanted to be. He does not regret it, however. Nobita's paternal grandmother. - Cool Old Lady: She was an eccentric but loving woman. - Doting Grandparent: When she was still alive, she always defended from his parents and bullies and spoiled Nobita during his early years. Unfortunately, this is Deconstructed in the anime as her coddling negatively affected Nobita's life by slowly developing bratty behaviors and being unable to stand up for himself after she passed away. - Have We Met Yet?: She easily recognizes Nobita when he travels back on the times he was a toddler. - Posthumous Character: She died when Nobita was in kindergarten before the main storyline. Nobita's paternal grandfather. - Abusive Parents: In flashbacks, he's shown to be very harsh to Nobisuke because he wants to toughen up his son. He appears in Nobisuke's dreams in a present-day episode, telling him to tough Nobita up. - Doting Grandparent: Contrary to how he treats his son, he is quite doting on Nobita. - Jerkass Has a Point: In the present-day, his ghost appears in Nobisuke's dreams to criticize his soft parenting and spoiling of Nobita. While Nobisuke takes his advice too far, Tamako agrees with him, given Nobita's usual poor performance and laziness. - Jerk with a Heart of Gold: He cares for his son. The abusive part above is of the Tough Love variety. - My God, What Have I Done?: After Nobisuke didn't came home since he sent Nobisuke to fight back. Shortly after, Nobita and Doraemon came to the era, asking him to tell present day Nobisuke to treat Nobita well. - Posthumous Character: He died before Nobita's birth. - Ancestral Name: Nobisuke is named after his paternal grandfather. - Book Dumb: One of the few things he has in common with his father. - The Bully: To Gian and Suneo's sons, ironically. - Extremely Protective Child: He instantly jumps to defend the younger version of his dad when Gian bullies him. - Like Father, Unlike Son: He is a popular and athletic kid, a far cry to the wimpy loser that is his father as a kid. It may seem that the only thing he might have inherited from his mother is her affinity for taking baths, though the Doraemon Fukayomi Guide compiled under the supervision of Fujiko Pro suggests that his headstrong personality and athletic aptitude actually came from Shizuka. - Muscles Are Meaningless: He is the same size as Nobita was at his age, but proves to be stronger than Gian (when he visits his father in the past). - Like Mother, Like Daughter: Tamako inherited the habit of scolding harshly her son from her mother, who similarly scolded her when she was a kid. Doraemon's Family Doraemon's sister, who tends to be more sensible and strict compared to her brother. She loves melon buns and hates cockroaches. In the Doraemons series, she is portrayed as Dora the Kid's Tsundere girlfriend. She also has her own Spin-Off Short Film series. - The Ace: She succeeds and perfects anything that Doraemon can do. - Ascended Extra: Downplayed. Since the dawn of the new millenia, Dorami starts to appear more often in the movies including in the remakes of The Records of Nobita, Spaceblazer and Nobita and the Steel Troops, either as a cameo appearance or The Sixth Ranger to the group. - Belligerent Sexual Tension: With Dora the Kid. - Big Damn Heroes: In more than one of the movies. - She retrieves and restores Doraemon and Nobita after they're turned into stone in the last act of Doraemon: Nobita's Great Adventure into the Underworld, and provides the equipment necessary for their raid on the Demon Planet. - Doraemon: The Record of Nobita's Parallel Visit to the West have her arriving in Ancient China to save the gang from the rampaging Bull Demon. And inspires the legend of Guanyin, the Goddess of Mercy, in the process. - Doraemon: Nobita's Great Battle of the Mermaid King have Dorami backing up the gang in the midst against the battle against King Bulkin and his mer-demon army. - Big Sister Mentor: To Nobita, as she's one of the few people who know how to help him and deal with him, with much better results than her brother. As a result, Nobita gets along better with her and seems to like her more than Doraemon at times, especially when he's arguing with the latter (though he ultimately always remains closer to Doraemon). - The Cutie: She's the most adorable thing and generally nice toward people around her. - Distaff Counterpart: She's a female Doraemon, just yellow instead of blue, and wearing a bow. - Drop-In Character: Acts as one in the series, occasionally travels to Nobita's time to hang out or to help Doraemon with something. - Early-Installment Weirdness: A preview for her character implied she would be Doraemon's Love Interest before she was officially introduced as his little sister. The role of Doraemon's love interest was instead taken over by Noramyako. - Foil: To Doraemon. She's sweet and polite but assertive when she needs to be, while Doraemon is snarky and sometimes abrasive, but often becomes an Extreme Doormat. Dorami is smart and levelheaded, while Doraemon is a clumsy Ditzy Genius. - Foolish Sibling, Responsible Sibling: She's more reasonable than her brother. - Iconic Sequel Character: She doesn't appear in the series until March 1973 when she was first introduced in the manga. - Mature Younger Sibling: She is more level-headed than her brother most of the time, despite being the younger sibling. - Nice Girl: She has a sweet and friendly personality. - Not So Above It All: She is usually The Reliable One who succeeds where Doraemon fails, but her over-eagerness to help can also result in unwanted consequences, and she sometimes gets into petty arguments with Doraemon. She is also shown to be more quarrelsome and short-tempered when interacting with Dora the Kid. - Pint-Sized Powerhouse: Only a meter (3 ft 3 in) tall, able to produce 10,000 horsepower. - Red Oni, Blue Oni: When Dorami appears, Doraemon becomes the Red Oni compared to his wiser and more level-headed sister. Ironically, because he's usually the reasonable Blue Oni to Nobita's impulsive Red Oni. - The Reliable One: Almost anything Doraemon can do, she can do better. In some of the movies, her intervention is what saves the heroes when all seems lost. - Robo Family: She and Doraemon are considered siblings because they were injected with oil from the same can. - Robot Buddy: She is this to Sewashi, who was Doraemon's original owner before he left Doraemon to his ancestor Nobita. - Sibling Rivalry: While she always look up to his brother, Dorami occasionally gets herself into argument with him over small things. - The Sixth Ranger: Occasionally she joins Doraemon and the gang or as part of The Doraemons. - Super-Strength: She can produce 10,000 horsepower, making her many times stronger than a human or even Doraemon. However, she rarely seems to use her superhuman strength for anything except handling larger gadgets, though one story does show that she can use it to easily restrain Doraemon and bust through a jammed Anywhere Door. - Superior Successor: She is a younger but more advanced robot than Doraemon. - Temporary Substitute: Whenever Doraemon is out or busy, she's usually the one who takes care of Nobita in the meanwhile. She's often better at it as well. She is also takes over Doraemon's role in the The Doraemons spinoffs whenever her brother is unavailable, even wielding his Best Friend Telecard in a few occasions. - Tertiary Sexual Characteristics: Her ribbon functions as one. - Trademark Favorite Food: Melon buns. - Tsundere: Her type A gets cranked up in a spinoff manga featuring her Jerk with a Heart of Gold boyfriend, Dora the Kid. - Unwanted Assistance: She can be sometimes a bit pushy when trying to help the others. - Why Did It Have to Be Snakes?: She's scared of cockroaches. - Wide-Eyed Idealist: Dorami believes hard working will pay off in the end. This includes how Nobita can be successful if he tries; a stark contrast to Doraemon's resentful attitude toward the boy's attempt at trying anything longer than a week, having lived with and known him more than she does. - Adaptation Dye-Job: Usually black-haired, but in "Stand by Me Doraemon" his hair is ginger. - Childhood Friends: "2112: The Birth of Doraemon" reveals that he and Doraemon have been friends for a long time. - Nice Guy: Despite his occasional Brutal Honesty, he is very friendly, and gets along with both Nobita and Doraemon. - Odd Name Out: The only one who averts the Nobi family's Theme Naming. - Small Role, Big Impact: He doesn't appear very often, but he's the one who sends Doraemon back to the past to look after Nobita at the beginning of the story. - Strong Family Resemblance: Looks a lot like Nobita. - Born from Plants: As revealed in Doraemon: Nobita's Secret Gadget Museum, the Mini-Doras are birthed from the fruits of a plant-like machine attached to a factory's production line. - The Cavalry: Some of the movies (notably Doraemon: Nobita's Treasure Island) have Mini-Doras serving as crews to whatever vehicle gadget Doraemon brought out, and they're pretty good at their jobs in backing up the heroes, too. - The Cutie: They are seen this way even in-universe! - Keet: They're often excitable and energetic. - Mini-Me: Miniature versions of Doraemon created to assist their namesake. They're even stocked with the same gadgets that Doraemon owns, only smaller. - Mr. Fixit: One of their most helpful skills is being able to enter Doraemon's body and fix him when he breaks down. - Pokémon Speak: They speak by saying "Dorara" and variations thereof. - Trademark Favorite Food: Like Doraemon, they love dorayaki. - The Unintelligible: The "Mini-Dora" language, consisting of words like Dorara and speaking with gibberish accent. Shizuka's Family Shizuka's kind and caring parents. Michiko is a stay at home mother who takes care of Shizuka's grade and piano lesson. Yoshio is a business man. - A Day in the Limelight: Yoshio has a very prominent role in The Night Before Nobita's Wedding in confirming that her choice for Nobita to be her husband is the best one. - Education Mama: Applies to all main character's mother but mostly to Shizuka's. Michiko always scolds her daughter if her grade is anything but perfect. - Housewife: Michiko. - Invisible Parents: Yoshio appears very rarely. - Memento MacGuffin: Michiko has a pearl necklace given to her by her husband as a wedding gift, which she gives to Shizuka as a wedding present. - Out-of-Character Moment: Despite being an Education Mama, Shizuka's mom is usually shown to be a very kind woman and mother, but in one episode she locks Shizuka outside for coming home very late at night. The episode is weird in general, since the ending makes Shizuka a Butt-Monkey, something that usually never happens. Suneo's Family Suneo's rich parents who spoiled their son with gifts and wealth. Mr.Honekawa is a company owner who has influences with many high-class people. - Blue Blood: Mr. Honekawa's ancestors are shown to be Samurai in several stories, implying that the Honekawa used to be a very prominent Samurai clan. Judging from his family's riches, they probably held enough lands to be compensated very handsomely in return for giving up their status during the Meiji Restoration. - Doting Parent: Mostly Suneo's mother. It's the reason why Suneo is such a Spoiled Brat. - Education Mama: Suneo's mother, while normally a doting parent, doesn't tolerate if her son has bad grade. - Fiction 500: They're apparently one of the richest families in Tokyo. - Their wealth is depicted differently in numerous stories, sometimes they'll be depicted as incredibly wealthy, yet in other chapters/episodes, Suneo will have to lie to impress his friends, such as bragging for renting a nice villa to study (but actually, a small, rundown, leaking villa that his mother claims is the cheapest one she can find) and for flying to Brazil with his parents in first class (they're actually flying coach). - Generation Xerox: Suneo is similar to his mom, in both looks and personality (though being an adult, she's more mature than him). - House Wife: Suneo's mother. - Invisible Parents: Suneo's father appears very rarely. - Rich Bitch: Suneo's mother, who tend to shows off her jewelry to other three housewives. Like mother, like son... - Strong Family Resemblance: They all look like Suneo, even the family's cat. - Unnamed Parent: Their first names are not revealed. - Big Brother Worship: He respects Suneo a lot, but only because of Suneo's arrogant brags and lies in their correspondence. - Foolish Sibling, Responsible Sibling: The Foolish to Suneo's Responsible. - Nice Guy: Unlike his brother (mostly), he's kind, polite, and well-meaning. Unfortunately this niceness also comes with naivety. - Strong Family Resemblance: Looks exactly like the rest of his family, but with a different hairstyle - Blue Blood: He is came from Samurai social class and would have contributed to Honekawa's social status in the future. - Jerk with a Heart of Gold: While he is arrogant, he is willing to aid his family and friends, even Nobita. - Strong Family Resemblance: He has the same facial features as his descendant, Suneo. Gian's Family - Abusive Parents: While it's pretty satisfying to see Gian get a taste of his own medicine, coming from his own mother can make this more disturbing than funny to some readers, though it's always Gian who starts being mischievous first. - Corporal Punishment: Mrs. Goda's way of dealing with her son, when he makes her angry. - Death by Adaptation: She was dead in the 1973's anime, as her role was passed to Gian's father. - Generation Xerox: Gian seems to share his temper and violent tendencies with his mother. - Hair-Trigger Temper: Mrs. Goda to her son. - Jerk with a Heart of Gold: Like Mrs. Tamako, Mrs. Goda is also shown to love her son dearly. - Large and in Charge: Gian is terrified of his mom. - Parental Favoritism: Gian's mom is much kinder to her daughter, Jaiko. Kind of justified due to how much trouble Gian causes to everyone. - Tough Love: Mrs. Goda's abuse punishment of her son comes across as this since she actually cares for him and don't want him to bully other children. - Unnamed Parent: Her first name has never been revealed. - Abusive Parents: He has shown some of these traits in his few appearances on the main series. - Adaptational Wimp: In the 1973 anime he was shorter than Gian and another one of his victims. - Ascended Extra: In the 1973's anime, where he replaces Gian's mom. - Invisible Parents: He only appears on a few episodes on the entire franchise. - Unnamed Parent: His first names is not revealed in most of the adaptions. However, in the 1973 anime he was known as Sasuke Gouda. Giant's chubby little sister. Initially portrayed as the gong, but has more characterization as the show goes on. She is interested in arts and celebrities. - Ascended Extra: Was created as a foil of Shizuka and to show how miserable Nobita's life will become, but she gets more characterizations over time and become kind, caring and imaginative girl in her own right. - Bad Future: In a reverse effect and as revealed in a better future, if Nobita married her, she would never have become a professional manga artist and had to tolerate her husband's poverty. - Characterization Marches On: She starts off as a Bratty Half-Pint and being just as irresponsible as her brother, but in later stories she's portrayed as much nicer than her brother. Additionally, Jaiko's desire to become a manga artist is only added in later chapters. - Foolish Sibling, Responsible Sibling: The Responsible to Gian's Foolish. - Future Loser: Her original future without Doraemon helping Nobita was as much a Downer Ending as it could get. She married Nobita and became her housewife, being forced to take care of all the children she had with him and being a victim of Nobita's awful financial decisions that put them in a huge debt, instead of becoming a successful mangaka. - Gonk: Looks very similar to her brother (who is also considered a Gonk) with slightly longer hair. - Gonky Femme: She looks uglier than the other girls in the series, but is also sweet, sensitive, and wears pink and feminine clothes. - Morality Pet: To her brother Gian. Gian may be The Bully but not a Big Brother Bully, since Jaiko is usually the only person he treats with kindness. - Pink Means Feminine: Wears a pink beret and a pink skirt. - Sequential Artist: Her hobby is making amateur manga, which Gian like to... aggressively publish despite its quality. Understandable as she's still in grade school, but some one-shot characters noted that she had potential. - Strong Family Resemblance: Looks just like her brother in a dress. - Supreme Chef: In subversion to Gian's Lethal Chef status, Jaiko's cooking, while look inedible, is actually quite delicious.


--- [Nobiru Nobi - Doraemon - AnimeList.moe] ---
Nobiru Nobi was Nobita's paternal grandfather and husband to Nobita's grandmother. He was also the father of Nobirou and Nobisuke, making him Tamako's father-in-law. He ran a pretty strict household—when Nobisuke was growing up, Nobiru didn't go easy on him. That said, he clearly cared about his son deeply, even if he wasn't the type to show it outright. He believed that being too soft would spoil the kid, so he kept his affection close to the chest. Nobiru died before Nobita was even born, so the two never actually met. Despite this, Nobita and Doraemon manage to encounter him a handful of times throughout the series by using the time machine to visit the past. These brief appearances give us glimpses into what Nobisuke's childhood was really like and hint at where some of Nobita's family quirks might come from. Content compiled by AnimeList.moe from publicly available sources.


--- [Nobiru Nobi | The Nobi Nobita Show Wiki | Fandom] ---
No content
