=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[United Nations Security Council Resolution 47 - Wikipedia]
United Nations Security Council Resolution 47, adopted on 21 April 1948, concerns the resolution of the Kashmir conflict. After hearing arguments from both India and Pakistan, the Council increased the size of the UN Commission created by the former Resolution 39 to five members, instructed the Commission to go to the subcontinent and help the governments of India and Pakistan restore peace ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Nations_Security_Council_Resolution_47

[UN mediation of the Kashmir dispute - Wikipedia]
Following the set-up of the United Nations Commission for India and Pakistan (UNCIP), the UN Security Council passed Resolution 47 on 21 April 1948. The measure imposed an immediate cease-fire and called on the Government of Pakistan 'to secure the withdrawal from the state of Jammu and Kashmir of tribesmen and Pakistani nationals not normally ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UN_mediation_of_the_Kashmir_dispute

[Resolution 47 (1948) /]
TitleResolution 47 (1948) / [adopted by the Security Council at its 286th meeting], of 21 April 1948. ... Security Council resolution 47 (1948) [on restoration of peace and order and the plebiscite in the State of Jammu and Kashmir]
URL: https://digitallibrary.un.org/record/111955?ln=en

[Security Council resolution 47 (1948) [The India-Pakistan Question] | Refworld]
... The five members of the United Nations Commission for India and Pakistan were: CZECHOSLOVAKIA (nominated by India on 10 February 1948); BELGIUM and COLOMBIA (appointed by the Council on 23 April 1948 - see the decision below); ARGENTINA ...
URL: https://www.refworld.org/legal/resolution/unsc/1948/en/112999

[Resolution 47 (1948) - The India-Pakistan Question | UNSCR]
Resolution 47 (1948) addresses the dispute between India and Pakistan concerning the State of Jammu and Kashmir and establishes a framework aimed at restoring peace and determining the future status of the territory through a democratic process.
URL: https://unscr.com/en/resolutions/47/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [United Nations Security Council Resolution 47 - Wikipedia] ---
United Nations Security Council Resolution 47, adopted on 21 April 1948, concerns the resolution of the Kashmir conflict. After hearing arguments from both India and Pakistan, the Council increased the size of the UN Commission created by the former Resolution 39 to five members, instructed the Commission to go to the subcontinent and help the governments of India and Pakistan restore peace and order to the region and prepare for a plebiscite to decide the fate of Kashmir.
Secondly, the Resolution recommended a three-step process for the resolution of the dispute. In the first step, Pakistan was asked to withdraw all its nationals that entered Kashmir for the sake of fighting. In the second step, India was asked to progressively reduce its forces to the minimum level required for law and order. In the third step, India was asked to appoint a plebiscite administrator nominated by the United Nations who would conduct a free and impartial plebiscite.
The resolution was adopted paragraph by paragraph; no vote on the resolution as a whole was taken.
Both India and Pakistan raised objections to the Resolution. However, they welcomed mediation by the UN Commission. Through its mediation, the Commission amplified and amended the Security Council Resolution, adopting two resolutions of its own, which were accepted by both India and Pakistan. Subsequently, a cease-fire was achieved by the Commission at the beginning of 1949. However, a truce was not achieved due to disagreements over the process of demilitarisation. After considerable efforts, the Commission declared its failure in December 1949.


--- [UN mediation of the Kashmir dispute - Wikipedia] ---
The United Nations has played an advisory role in maintaining peace and order in the Kashmir region soon after the independence and partition of British India into the dominions of Pakistan and India in 1947, when a dispute erupted between the two new States on the question of accession over the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir. India took this matter to the UN Security Council, which passed resolution 39 (1948) and established the United Nations Commission for India and Pakistan (UNCIP) to investigate the issues and mediate between the two new countries. Following the cease-fire of hostilities, it also established the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) to monitor the cease-fire line.


--- [Resolution 47 (1948) /] ---
Resolution 47 (1948) / [adopted by the Security Council at its 286th meeting], of 21 April 1948. 1948 Formats | Format | | |---|---| | BibTeX | | | MARCXML | | | TextMARC | | | MARC | | | DublinCore | | | EndNote | | | NLM | | | RefWorks | | | RIS | Files Details SymbolS/RES/47(1948) TitleResolution 47 (1948) / [adopted by the Security Council at its 286th meeting], of 21 April 1948. Other titles Security Council resolution 47 (1948) [on restoration of peace and order and the plebiscite in the State of Jammu and Kashmir] AccessEnglish: S_RES_47(1948)-EN - PDF ; Español: S_RES_47(1948)-ES - PDF ; Русский: S_RES_47(1948)-RU - PDF ; 中文: S_RES_47(1948)-ZH - PDF ; Call number UNS(01)/R3 Action note1948-04-21 Vote summary Adopted by voting para. by para., 286th meeting DraftS/726 Meeting record S/PV.286 Date1964 Description [6] p. Notes Concerns restoration of peace and order and the plebiscite in the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Text of draft resolution on the subject contained in document S/PV.286. In: Resolutions and decisions of the Security Council, 1948. - S/INF/2/REV.1(III). - 1964. - p. 3-8. - (SCOR, 3rd year). Text of draft resolution on the subject contained in document S/PV.286. In: Resolutions and decisions of the Security Council, 1948. - S/INF/2/REV.1(III). - 1964. - p. 3-8. - (SCOR, 3rd year).


--- [Security Council resolution 47 (1948) [The India-Pakistan Question] | Refworld] ---
Security Council resolution 47 (1948) [The India-Pakistan Question] - Document source: - Date: 21 April 1948 47 (1948). Resolution of 21 April 1948 [S/726] The Security Council, Having considered the complaint of the Government of India concerning the dispute over the State of Jammu and Kashmir, Having heard the representative of India in support of that complaint and the reply and counter-complaints of the representative of Pakistan, Being strongly of the opinion that the early restoration of peace and order in Jammu and Kashmir is essential and that India and Pakistan should do their utmost to bring about a cessation of all fighting, Noting with satisfaction that both and Pakistan desire that the question of the accession of Jammu and Kashmir to India or Pakistan should be decided through the democratic method of a free and impartial plebiscite, Considering that the continuation of the dispute is likely to endanger international peace and security, Reaffirms its resolution 38 (1948) of 17 January 1948; Resolves that the membership of the Commission established by its resolution 39 (1948) of 20 January 1948 shall be increased to five and shall include, in addition to the membership mentioned in that resolution, representatives of . . . and . . . , and that if the membership of the Commission has not been completed within ten days from the date of the adoption of this resolution the President of the Council may designate such other Member or Members of the United Nations as are required to complete the membership of five; Instructs the Commission to proceed at once to the Indian subcontinent and there place its good offices and mediation at the disposal of the Governments of India and Pakistan with a view to facilitating the taking of the necessary measures, both with respect to the restoration of peace and order and to the holding of a plebiscite, by the two Governments, acting in co-operation with one another and with the Commission, and further instructs the Commission to keep the Council informed of the action taken under the resolution; and, to this end, Recommends to the Governments of India and Pakistan the following measures as those which in the opinion of the Council are appropriate to bring about a cessation of the fighting and to create proper conditions for a free and impartial plebiscite to decide whether the State of Jammu and Kashmir is to accede to India or Pakistan: A. Restoration of Peace and order 1. The Government of Pakistan should undertake to use its best endeavours: (a) To secure the withdrawal from the State of Jammu and Kashmir of tribesmen and Pakistani nationals not normally resident therein who have entered the State for the purpose of fighting, and to prevent any intrusion into the State of such elements and any furnishing of material aid to those fighting in the State; (b) To make known to all concerned that the measures indicated in this and the following paragraphs provide full freedom to all subjects of the State, regardless of creed, caste, or party, to express their views and to vote on the question of the accession of the State, and that therefore they should co-operate in the maintenance of peace and order. 2. The Government of India should: (a) When it is established to the satisfaction of the Commission set up in accordance with the Council's resolution 39 (1948) that the tribesmen are withdrawing and that arrangements for the cessation of the fighting have become effective, put into operation in consultation with the Commission a plan for with-drawing their own forces from Jammu and Kashmir and reducing them progressively to the minimum strength required for the support of the civil power in the maintenance of law and order; (b) Make known that the withdrawal is taking place in stages and announce the completion of each stage; (c) When the Indian forces have been reduced to the minimum strength mentioned in (a) above, arrange in consultation with the Commission for the stationing of the remaining forces to be carried out in accordance with the following principles: (i) That the presence of troops should not afford any intimidation or appearance of intimidation to the inhabitants of the State; (ii) That as small a number as possible should be retained in forward areas; (iii) That any reserve of troops which may be included in the total strength should be located within their present base area. 3. The Government of India should agree that until such time as the Plebiscite Administration referred to below finds it necessary to exercise the powers of direction and supervision over the State forces and police provided for in paragraph 8, they will be held in areas to be agreed upon with the Plebiscite Administrator. 4. After the plan referred to in paragraph 2 (a) above has been put into operation, personnel recruited locally in each district should so far as possible be utilized for the re-establishment and maintenance of law and order with due regard to protection of minorities, subject to such additional requirements as may be specified by the Plebiscite Administration referred to in paragraph 7. 5. If these local forces should be found to be inadequate, the Commission, subject to the agreement of both the Government of India and the Government of Pakistan, should arrange for the use of such forces of either Dominion as it deems effective for the purpose of pacification. B. Plebiscite 6. The Government of India should undertake to ensure that the Government of the State invite the major political groups to designate responsible representatives to share equitably and fully in the conduct of the administration at the ministerial level while the plebiscite is being prepared and carried out. 7. The Government of India should undertake that there will be established in Jammu and Kashmir a Plebiscite Administration to hold a plebiscite as soon as possible on the question of the accession of the State to India or Pakistan. 8. The Government of India should undertake that there will be delegated by the State to the Plebiscite Administration such powers as the latter considers necessary for holding a fair and impartial plebiscite including, for that purpose only, the direction and supervision of the State forces and police. 9. The Government of India should, at the request of the Plebiscite Administration, make available from the Indian forces such assistance as the Plebiscite Administration may require for the performance of its functions. 10. (a) The Government of India should agree that a nominee of the Secretary-General of the United Nations will be appointed to be the Plebiscite Administrator. (b) The Plebiscite Administrator, acting as an officer of the State of Jammu and Kashmir, should have authority to nominate his assistants and other subordinates and to draft regulations governing the plebiscite. Such nominees should be formally appointed and such draft regulations should be formally promulgated by the State of Jammu and Kashmir. (c) The Government of India should undertake that the Government of Jammu and Kashmir will appoint fully qualified persons nominated by the Plebiscite Administrator to act as special magistrates within the State judicial system to hear cases which in the opinion of the Plebiscite Administrator have a serious bearing on the preparation for and the conduct of a free and impartial plebiscite. (d) The terms of service of the Administrator should form the subject of a separate negotiation between the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Government of India. The Administrator should fix the terms of service for his assistants and subordinates. (e) The Administrator should have the right to communicate directly with the Government of the State and with the Commission of the Security Council and, through the Commission, with the Security Council, with the Governments of India and Pakistan and with their representatives with the Commission. It would be his duty to bring to the notice of any or all of the foregoing (as he in his discretion may decide) any circumstances arising which may tend, in his opinion, to interfere with the freedom of the plebiscite. 11. The Government of India should undertake to prevent, and to give full support to the Administrator and his staff in preventing, any threat, coercion or intimidation, bribery or other undue influence on the voters in the plebiscite, and the Government of India should publicly announce and should cause the Government of the State to announce this undertaking as an international obligation binding on all public authorities and officials in Jammu and Kashmir. 12. The Government of India should themselves and through the Government of the State declare and make known that all subjects of the State of Jammu and Kashmir, regardless of creed, caste or party, will be safe and free in expressing their views and in voting on the question of the accession of the State and that there will be freedom of the press, speech an assembly and freedom of travel in the State, including freedom of lawful entry and exit. 13. The Government of India should use and should ensure that the Government of the State also use their best endeavours to effect the withdrawal from the State of all Indian nationals other than those who are normally resident therein or who on or since 15 August 1947 have entered it for a lawful purpose. 14. The Government India should ensure that the Government of the State releases all political prisoners and take all possible steps so that: (a) All citizens of the State who have left it on account of disturbances are invited, and are free, to return to their homes and to exercise their rights as such citizens; (b) There is no victimization; (c) Minorities in all parts of the State are accorded adequate protection. 15. The Commission of the Security Council should at the end of the plebiscite certify to the Council whether the plebiscite has or has not been really free and impartial. C. General provisions 16. The Governments of India and Pakistan should each be invited to nominate a representative to be attached to the Commission for such assistance as it may require in the performance of its task. 17. The Commission should establish in Jammu and Kashmir such observers as it may require of any of the proceedings in pursuance of the measures indicated in the foregoing paragraphs. 18. The Security Council commission should carry out the tasks assigned to it herein. Adopted at the 286th meeting.[1] * * * The five members of the United Nations Commission for India and Pakistan were: CZECHOSLOVAKIA (nominated by India on 10 February 1948); BELGIUM and COLOMBIA (appointed by the Council on 23 April 1948 - see the decision below); ARGENTINA (nominated by Pakistan on 30 April 1948); UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (designated by the President of the Council on 7 May 1948, in the absence of agreement between Argentina and Czechoslovakia on the member to be designated by them). -------------------- 1 The draft resolution was voted on paragraph by paragraph. No vote was taken on the text as a whole. -------------------- Decision At its 287th meeting, on 23 April 1948, the Council, pursuant to its resolution 47 (1948), appointed Belgium and Colombia as the additional members of the United Nations Commission for India and Pakistan. Adopted by 7 votes to none, with 4 abstentions {Belgium, Colombia, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics). This is not a UNHCR publication. UNHCR is not responsible for, nor does it necessarily endorse, its content. Any views expressed are solely those of the author or publisher and do not necessarily reflect those of UNHCR, the United Nations or its Member States.


--- [Resolution 47 (1948) - The India-Pakistan Question | UNSCR] ---
Resolution 47 (1948) addresses the dispute between India and Pakistan concerning the State of Jammu and Kashmir and establishes a framework aimed at restoring peace and determining the future status of the territory through a democratic process. Expressing concern that the continuation of the conflict could endanger international peace and security, the Security Council reaffirms its earlier resolutions and expands the membership of the United Nations Commission for India and Pakistan to strengthen mediation efforts. The resolution instructs the Commission to proceed to the subcontinent to offer its good offices to both Governments, with the dual objectives of securing a cessation of hostilities and creating conditions for a free and impartial plebiscite to decide whether Jammu and Kashmir should accede to India or Pakistan. It recommends detailed measures for restoring peace and order, including the withdrawal of non-resident fighters, phased reductions of Indian forces to the minimum required for civil order, and safeguards to prevent intimidation or coercion of the population. The resolution further outlines comprehensive arrangements for the conduct of the plebiscite, including the establishment of an independent Plebiscite Administration, the appointment of a Plebiscite Administrator nominated by the Secretary-General, guarantees of political freedoms, protection of minorities, the release of political prisoners, and the return of displaced persons. It mandates ongoing reporting to the Security Council and assigns the Commission responsibility for supervising implementation and certifying whether the plebiscite is conducted in a genuinely free and impartial manner.
