=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[History of Ferrari - Wikipedia]
Enzo Ferrari decided to pursue racing in 1908, at the age of ten: to this end, he eventually began a career as a racing driver in 1919. [1]: 31 During the 1920s he worked for Alfa Romeo, both as a driver in various local races and as an employee in its Milan sales depot. [2][3] In 1929, though, he broke from this line of work to found and ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Ferrari

[Enzo Ferrari: "We can not describe passion, we can only live it"]
Enzo Anselmo Ferrari was born in Modena on February 18, 1898. An entrepreneur, engineer and Italian racing driver, in 1947 in Maranello he founded a car company naming it "Ferrari", giving way to a story that would make Ferrari the most successful Formula 1 team and most famous car company ever.
URL: https://www.motorvalley.it/en/stories/enzo-ferrari-story/

[Enzo Ferrari - Wikipedia]
Enzo Anselmo Giuseppe Maria Ferrari (/ fəˈrɑːri /; Italian: [ˈɛntso anˈsɛlmo ferˈraːri]; 18 February 1898 - 14 August 1988) was an Italian racing driver and entrepreneur, the founder of Scuderia Ferrari in Grand Prix motor racing, and subsequently of the Ferrari automobile marque. Under his leadership in Formula One, Ferrari won nine World Drivers' Championships and eight World ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enzo_Ferrari

[16 November 1929: the foundation of Scuderia Ferrari]
Enzo Ferrari, born in Modena on 18 February 1898, attended his first race with his father and brother on 6 September 1908. It was the Coppa Fiorio, near Bologna. Little Enzo, just ten years old, was fascinated by the world of motor racing and started to dream of becoming a driver. In the following ...
URL: https://www.ferrari.com/en-EN/magazine/articles/foundation-scuderia-ferrari-formula-one-team

[16 Intriguing Facts About Enzo Ferrari - This Way To Italy]
Enzo Ferrari entered the racing scene at the age of 20, although he had harbored dreams of it since he was 10. His journey began with CMN (Construzioni Meccaniche National), a small car manufacturer that boasted a racing team.
URL: https://thiswaytoitaly.com/facts-about-enzo-ferrari/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [History of Ferrari - Wikipedia] ---
Ferrari is an Italian company which has produced sports cars since 1947, but traces its roots back to 1929 when Enzo Ferrari formed the Scuderia Ferrari racing team.
In January 2016, Ferrari officially split off from its former parent company Fiat Chrysler Automobiles.




--- [Enzo Ferrari: "We can not describe passion, we can only live it"] ---
Enzo Anselmo Ferrari was born in Modena on February 18, 1898. An entrepreneur, engineer and Italian racing driver, in 1947 in Maranello he founded a car company naming it “Ferrari”, giving way to a story that would make Ferrari the most successful Formula 1 team and most famous car company ever. The second son of Adalgisa Bisbini, noble landowner from Forlì, and Alfredo Ferrari, owner of a mechanical workshop in Carpigiana, Enzo Ferrari spent his childhood in Maranello, in the house that is now home to the Casa Enzo Ferrari Museum. His first encounter with racing occurred at age 10, when Mr. Alfredo took him to Bologna to attend a car race. The little Enzo, who had already shown an interest in mechanics, was very impressed. In 1916 a double tragedy hit the family. Both his father and brother died prematurely within a few months of each other. He quickly became head of the family and interrupted his studies, finding employment as an instructor in the ‘Modena’s firefighters’ workshop, before his life was in upheaval because of the war. However, his experience in the Royal Army proved shorter than expected – he was drafted and assigned to the III Alpine Artillery Regiment, suffered a serious illness followed by two operations and was then discharged. Once recovered, Enzo sought employment at FIAT in Turin, receiving a refusal from the then director of personnel Diego Soria. At the end of 1918, whilst still in Turin, he found employment as a tester at a small company that made the much sought-after “Torpedo” (a type of car body). In 1919 he moved to Milan and found a new job at the C.M.N (National Mechanical Engineering), first as a test driver and later as a racing driver. His debut race took place that year, in the uphill Parma-Poggio di Berceto race, where he finished fourth in the three liter category. In 1920, after a difficult race at the helm of an Isotta Fraschini 100/110 IM Corsa, he beat Targa Florio to the finish line, driving an Alfa Romeo. Thus began the twenty-year collaboration of Enzo Ferrari with the company from Biscione. A relationship that would last until September 1939 and that would lead him to fill positions as test, pilot, commercial collaborator and, finally, director of the Alfa Corse department. In 1923, Enzo Ferrari won his first “Circuito del Savio” trophy, a motorcycling and motoring event that ignited the passion for engines in Romagna. On this occasion Enzo Ferrari met Count Baracca, father of the famous Francesco Baracca, ace of the Italian aviation whose triumphs – including thirty-four air victories during the First World War, which earned him a gold medal for military valor – are told in the Museum dedicated to him in Lugo. Later he would also meet the Countess Baracca, from whom he would receive a photo with a dedication and an invitation to use the “Prancing Horse” as a lucky charm on his cars. “It was she who told me one day – Enzo says – Ferrari, put the prancing horse on your machines. He will bring you luck. “(…)” I still keep the photograph of Baracca, with the dedication from his parents with whom I entrust the emblem. The pony was and remained black; I added the canary yellow background which is the color of Modena.” On May 20, 1928, Enzo won the 2nd Circuit of Modena at the wheel of an Alfa Romeo, and in 1929 he founded the “Scuderia Ferrari” in Modena, a sports club whose aim was to “race” its members . The Scuderia competed both with cars, especially with Alfa Romeos, and with motorcycles. Over time it would become a technical-competitive Alfa Romeo branch, before aquiring in 1933, also the management of the sporting activity. 1931 was the year of his last race as a driver. Enzo hung up his helmet and gloves on August 9th after the Circuit of the Three Provinces, at the age of 33. The birth of his son Alfredo, known as Dino (19 January 1932), by his wife Laura Garello, and the ever-increasing commitments as director of the Scuderia, led him to decide to retire from racing. Dino suffers from muscular dystrophy, a genetic disease that in a short time, in 1956, at only 24, lead him to his death. “I had deluded myself that our care could restore his health – Enzo Ferrari explained years later – because a father always deludes himself … I was convinced that he was like one of my cars, one of the engines.” Ferrari in the meantime had another son, Piero, Ferrari’s vice-president since 1988, born in 1944 from Lina Lardi, a woman whose presence was as discreet as it is was important in the private and professional life of the great builder. In 1937 the Scuderia Ferrari built the Alfa Romeo 158 “Alfetta”, which would become the longest and most successful car in the history of modern sporting motoring. At the end of the same year the Scuderia was dissolved however, following the decision by Alfa Romeo to officially resume its engagement in competitions. Enzo Ferrari moved to Milan, to take up the post of director of the new Alfa Corse, but the difference in views with the management from Biscione led the two to separate already in September. From that day on, beating Alfa Romeo with a car built by him became his big goal. Bound by the clause that he could not use the name “Ferrari” associated with racing for at least four years, on 13 September 1939, Enzo Ferrari founded the Auto Avio Costruzioni in Modena, Viale Trento e Trieste, on the same premises as the former Scuderia Ferrari. During the Second World War, the Auto Avio Costruzioni moved from Modena to Maranello, where the first part of what would be the final Ferrari headquarters was built. Two bombings between November ’44 and February ’45 did not prevent Enzo Ferrari from starting the design of the first car, such was his ambition, also strengthened by his friendship / competition with two Modenese automobile manufacturers: Adolfo Orsi, owner of Maserati, and Vittorio Stanguellini, pioneer of aerodynamics that at the end of the forties dominated world circuits with the ably modified FIAT cars. After the embargo on the name, after the war Enzo recreated the “Scuderia Ferrari”, the sports section of the car company. His creature was thus officially part of the world of competitions from which it originated, to give full follow-up to the sporting vocation that would have always distinguished Ferrari from all the other car manufacturers. The first race in the Formula 1 championship was the Monaco Grand Prix on 21 May 1950. The first victory came in the 1951 Grand Prix in Great Britain with José Froilán González, beating the Alfa Romeo squadron. It is this victory that marked the decline of Alfa in the world of F1 and at the same time the ascent of Ferrari sports. The first world title came in 1952, with Alberto Ascari. During his lifetime, Ferrari was awarded many titles. What he most boasted about was the title of “mechanical engineer”, conferred to him in 1960 by the University of Bologna. In 1988 he also received an honorary degree in Physics from the University of Modena and Reggio Emilia. His first official recognition by the state dates back to 1924, when he was named Cavaliere for sporting merits. Then, in 1925, he became official Cavaliere and finally, in 1927, Commendatore. The Italian Republic in 1952 awarded him the title of Cavaliere al merit del Lavoro, and later, in 1979, that of Cavaliere di Gran Croce. In 1962 the UN awarded him the prestigious Hammarskjöld Prize for Social Sciences, while in 1994 and 2000 he was introduced, respectively, into the Hall of Fame of car racing and automobile racing. “With so many awards, I doubted that I was a real person.” Enzo Ferrari died on 14 August 1988 at the age of ninety. The news of his death, following his wishes, was disclosed only after his funeral. The Enzo Ferrari House Museum, inaugurated in 2012 in Modena, is dedicated to the life and work of the “Drake” (nickname given to him by his colleagues / adversaries due to his racetrack nature). In the museum, in addition to the cars on display, there is a show that tells the magical story of Enzo’s 90 years of life. To add to this journey through the past, in the workshop of Enzo’s father, now perfectly restored, there is the Ferrari Motors Museum. A story in history that emphasizes the uniqueness of Ferrari. This complex story of memories is added to the Ferrari Museum of Maranello, which tells the story of Ferrari of today and tomorrow through a permanent exhibition dedicated to Formula 1 that has its roots in the extraordinary story of the Prancing Horse. Partners involved: Area involved:


--- [Enzo Ferrari - Wikipedia] ---
Enzo Anselmo Giuseppe Maria Ferrari (; Italian: [ˈɛntso anˈsɛlmo ferˈraːri]; 18 February 1898 – 14 August 1988) was an Italian racing driver and entrepreneur, the founder of Scuderia Ferrari in Grand Prix motor racing, and subsequently of the Ferrari automobile marque. Under his leadership in Formula One, Ferrari won nine World Drivers' Championships and eight World Constructors' Championships during his lifetime. 
He was widely known as il Commendatore or il Drake, a nickname given by British opponents in reference to the English privateer Francis Drake, due to Ferrari's demonstrated ability and determination in achieving significant sports results with his small company. In his final years, he was often referred to as l'Ingegnere ("the Engineer"), il Grande Vecchio ("the Grand Old Man"), il Cavaliere ("the Knight"), il Mago ("the Wizard"), and il Patriarca ("the Patriarch").


--- [16 November 1929: the foundation of Scuderia Ferrari] ---
16 November 1929: the foundation of Scuderia Ferrari Enzo Ferrari, born in Modena on 18 February 1898, attended his first race with his father and brother on 6 September 1908. It was the Coppa Fiorio, near Bologna. Little Enzo, just ten years old, was fascinated by the world of motor racing and started to dream of becoming a driver. In the following years, he also developed a passion for journalism and writing. Driving debut After the First World War, Ferrari moved to Milan to work at CMN, a small car factory where he was also a test driver. From there it was a short step to his racing debut: his first race was the Parma-Poggio Berceto on 5 October 1919, and four years later he won the Circuito del Savio. It was there that he met the mother of First World War hero Francesco Baracca and it was she who, admiring his courage, entrusted him with the prancing horse emblem that her son carried into battle on the fuselage of his plane. The project takes shape On 12 October 1929 Ferrari was invited to the celebrations for the world speed record set in Cremona by Baconin Borzacchini. On that occasion, Ferrari, Alfredo Caniato and Mario Tadini laid the foundations for the Scuderia. The project took shape on 16 November in the offices of Modenese notary Alberto Della Fontana and received judicial approval on the 29th of that month. Scuderia Ferrari, founded to "buy Alfa Romeo racing cars and take part in the races on the national sports calendar and in the calendar of the 'Associazione Nazionale Automobil Clubs', was officially established. The company, under the chairmanship of Mario Tadini, also included Enzo Ferrari, Alfredo and Augusto Caniato and Ferruccio Testi as well as Alfa Romeo and Pirelli.


--- [16 Intriguing Facts About Enzo Ferrari - This Way To Italy] ---
How much do you know about the mind behind the most famous Italian car brand? Read on to learn some intriguing facts about Enzo Ferrari! Born Enzo Ferrari is believed to have been born in Modena, Italy, on February 18, 1898. However, his birth was officially recorded on February 20, as it couldn’t be reported at the local registry office promptly due to a snowstorm. Enzo Ferrari’s legacy extends far beyond his birthplace as he went on to become one of the most influential and legendary figures in the world of motorsport and the automotive industry. In his twilight years, Enzo Ferrari was affectionately called L’Ingegnere (“The Engineer”) or Il Grande Vecchio (“The Grand Old Man”). As the visionary founder and chief designer of the famous automobile marquee Ferrari, he propelled the brand to iconic status, making it the epitome of success in the sports car manufacturing world. 16 Intriguing Facts About Enzo Ferrari Now, let’s check out more intriguing facts about Enzo Ferrari that you might not know. 1. Enzo Ferrari worked with metals early in life Enzo Ferrari’s father loved working with metal and set up a workshop at their home to craft metal parts. It was in this workshop that Enzo gained valuable hands-on experience and honed his skills in working with metal. Today, the Casa Enzo Ferrari Museum occupies this very same workshop in Modena. EXPLORE FURTHER: Best Car Museums in Italy To Visit 2. Enzo Ferrari fought in World War I Enzo Ferrari served in World War I with the Italian Army’s mountain artillery regiment, surviving the conflict but grappling with shell shock, post-traumatic stress disorder, and an ensuing morphine addiction that took a toll on his health. 3. He lost his father and brother to the flu pandemic Enzo Ferrari faced profound personal loss during the devastating flu pandemic in 1916, which claimed the lives of both his father and brother. Tragically, his father passed away prior to the onset of World War I, while his brother succumbed to the flu during the war. Enzo himself faced a life-threatening bout of the flu in 1918. He ultimately survived but was subsequently discharged from the Italian military service. 4. He started racing at the age of 20 Enzo Ferrari entered the racing scene at the age of 20, although he had harbored dreams of it since he was 10. His journey began with CMN (Construzioni Meccaniche National), a small car manufacturer that boasted a racing team. Ferrari took the wheel of their 15 hp open-wheeled racer, marking the start of his racing endeavors. 5. He built a robust racing team from scratch Following his departure from CMN, he became a mechanic/racer at Alfa Romeo. There, he went on to establish the iconic racing team known as Scuderia Ferrari (Ferrari Racing Team). Starting from the ground up in 1929, he recruited some of the most renowned pre-war drivers in Europe, leading the Scuderia to numerous victories. 6. Enzo Ferrari founded his namesake car brand in 1947 Later on, Scuderia Ferrari became its own separate thing. Ferrari started making cars with his name on them after the war. He created Ferrari S.p.A., an automobile marque, in 1947. This showed the start of Enzo Ferrari’s important role in the car industry. READ ALSO: Best Italian Car Brands That Are Synonymous with Luxury and Performance 7. Ferrari’s logo comes from an Italian pilot during the World War II era The famous Prancing Horse emblem has its origins in the World War I era, attributed to Italian pilot Francesco Baracca. For good luck during battles, Baracca adorned his plane with a horse atop a white background. Following Baracca’s death, his mother asked Ferrari to adopt the horse symbol for continued good luck on his cars. Ferrari agreed, and to this day, the Ferrari brand continues to use the logo, albeit with a slight modification — now featuring a canary yellow shield as a background. This particular shade of yellow is the color of Modena, Enzo Ferrari’s hometown. 8. Enzo Ferrari was a very competitive and ambitious person Enzo Ferrari thought that competition could make people better, but he also saw how it could go too far. He himself was very competitive and ambitious. He wanted to win every race and every championship. He also aspired to establish dominance across various markets and industries. 9. He was very superstitious as well Enzo Ferrari had a lot of superstitions. He believed in lucky numbers, colors, and symbols. To avoid bad luck, he always wore dark sunglasses and had a habit of touching iron when he felt nervous or anxious. EXPLORE FURTHER: 10. Enzo Ferrari was a huge fan of opera Enzo Ferrari was a very passionate and loyal fan of opera. He enjoyed the works of Giuseppe Verdi, Giacomo Puccini, and Richard Wagner. He also frequently went to watch opera shows and became friends with well-known singers like Maria Callas, Luciano Pavarotti, and Placido Domingo. 11. He was highly creative and innovative Enzo Ferrari was a highly creative and innovative person. He designed and built some of the world’s most stunning and high-performance cars, including the 250 GTO, 288 GTO, F40, and F50. Ferrari led the way in developing various technologies and ideas, including the mid-engine layout, monocoque chassis, and turbocharger. 12. He was also very secretive Enzo Ferrari seldom did interviews or public appearances, opting for communication through letters or phone calls. Additionally, he maintained a network of spies and informers to stay informed about the actions of his competitors and adversaries. 13. He married twice and had four children Enzo Ferrari had two marriages. His first wife was Maria Teresa de Berti (1907–1974), whom he married in 1920. His second wife was Marlene Dietrich (1901–1990), whom he married in 1960. Ferrari had four children: Alfredo (named after Enzo’s father), Piero, Edoardo, and Maria Teresa. 14. He lost his firstborn to muscular dystrophy In 1956, Enzo Ferrari lost his son Alfredo -nicknamed Dino – at the age of 24 due to Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Dino was born in 1932 and was groomed to be Enzo’s successor. After his death, Enzo dedicated the Dino series of cars to his son, using the V6 engine he suggested. 15. Enzo Ferrari outlived nearly all his closest family members Enzo Ferrari died on August 14, 1988, in Maranello due to leukemia. He was 90 years old. Nearly all his closest family members had passed away before him, including his son Dino, and they all faced health complications. 16. His death was announced publicly a day after he was buried Due to his intensely private nature and concerns about potential public backlash following Ferrari’s team being consistently defeated by McLaren throughout the 1988 season, Enzo Ferrari requested that news of his death be disclosed in the media only on August 16, the day after his burial. This decision aligned with his wish for a discreet burial, witnessed solely by his family on August 15.
