=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Alexej von Jawlensky - Wikipedia]
Following a trip to the Baltic coast, and renewed contact with Henri Matisse in 1911 and Emil Nolde in 1912, Jawlensky turned increasingly to the expressive use of colour and form alone in his portraits. [5] Expelled from Germany in 1914 due to WWI, he moved to Switzerland.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexej_von_Jawlensky

[Alexej Von Jawlensky - arthur.io]
In December the first exhibition took place in Munich. Two years later the Blauer Reiter was established as a new idea of cooperation. In 1913 Jawlensky participated in Herwarth Walden's first German autumn Salon in Berlin. When in 1914 World War I began, Jawlensky was expelled from Germany due to his Russian citizenship.
URL: https://arthur.io/art/alexej-von-jawlensky

[Alexej von Jawlensky - Discover Works | Kunsthaus ARTES]
Expelled from Germany as a Russian citizen in 1914, during the beginning of World War l, the artist settled in Switzerland and later in Wiesbaden, Germany. During this time he created his famous abstract heads. Jawlensky died of a serious illness in 1941. "My art is meditation or prayer in colours", Jawlensky once said, and indeed his work is characterised by great religiousness. This is ...
URL: https://www.kunsthaus-artes.de/en/artists/jawlensky-alexej-von/

[Alexej von Jawlensky - Discover Works | ars mundi]
Expelled from Germany as a Russian citizen in 1914, during the beginning of World War l, the artist settled in Switzerland and later in Wiesbaden, Germany. During this time he created his famous abstract heads. Jawlensky died of a serious illness in 1941. "My art is meditation or prayer in colours", Jawlensky once said, and indeed his work is characterised by great religiousness. This is ...
URL: https://www.arsmundi.de/en/artists/jawlensky-alexej-von/

[Alexej von Jawlensky Biography - Infos for Sellers and Buyers]
Two years later the 'Blauer Reiter' was established as a new idea of co-operation. In 1913 Jawlensky participated in Herwarth Walden's first German autumn Salon in Berlin. When in 1914 world war I began, Jawlensky was expelled from Germany due to his Russian citizenship. He moved with his family and Marianne von Werefkin to Prex on Lake Geneva.
URL: https://www.alexej-von-jawlensky.com/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Alexej von Jawlensky - Wikipedia] ---
Alexej Georgewitsch von Jawlensky (Russian: Алексе́й Гео́ргиевич Явле́нский, romanized: Alekséy Geórgiyevich Yavlénskiy; 13 March 1864 – 15 March 1941), surname also spelt as Yavlensky, was a Russian expressionist painter active in Germany. He was a key member of the New Munich Artist's Association (Neue Künstlervereinigung München), Der Blaue Reiter ("The Blue Rider") group, and later Die Blaue Vier ("The Blue Four").


--- [Alexej Von Jawlensky - arthur.io] ---
The content on this page is aggregated and is not affiliated with the artist. Torschok 1864 - Wiesbaden 1941 Jawlensky began his artistic training in 1889 in St. Petersburg after a career as an officer in the tsarist army. He studied under Ilja Repin who introduced him to Marianne von Werefkin and Helene Nesnakomoff, his later wife. Jawlensky accompanied these two to Munich in 1896 where they wanted to visit a private art school. Here Jawlensky met Wassily Kandinsky. The artist undertook several trips to France and was able to show 10 paintings at the Salon d'automne with the help of Sergej Djagilev. Jawlensky also met Matisse for the first time. In summer 1908 he worked with Kandinsky, Marianne von Werefkin and Gabriele Münter in Murnau. There, the four artists developed the idea for the foundation of the Neue Künstlervereinigung München to which they aligned with other artists. In December the first exhibition took place in Munich. Two years later the Blauer Reiter was established as a new idea of cooperation. In 1913 Jawlensky participated in Herwarth Walden's first German autumn Salon in Berlin. When in 1914 World War I began, Jawlensky was expelled from Germany due to his Russian citizenship. He moved with his family and Marianne von Werefkin to Prex on Lake Geneva and remained in Switzerland until 1921, where he began painting his abstract heads in 1918. His final move to Wiesbaden took place in 1921. An attack of arthritis in 1929 forced the artist to visit various spas at regular intervals. Jawlensky suffered from a progressing paralysis and had difficulties in painting. One year later the painter began the series of small-format Meditationen. 72 of his works were confiscated in 1937 as "degenerate". Three years later in 1941 Jawlensky died in Wiesbaden. At the beginning Jawlensky's style was influenced by the Fauves, particularly by Matisse, but the artist soon discovered his own, Expressionist style, which is characterized by strong colors and simple forms. Later he turned to those calm... [http://www.alexej-von-jawlensky.com/]


--- [Alexej von Jawlensky - Discover Works | Kunsthaus ARTES] ---
Alexej von Jawlensky: Buy original works 1864-1941, German-Russian painter It was not until 1889 that the former Russian Imperial Guard Alexej von Jawlensky in the Tsarist army began his artistic training. In 1896, he moved to Munich to attend a private art school where he met Wassily Kandinsky. In Murnau Jawlensky first worked together with Kandinsky and Gabriele Münter. And together they founded the Artist's Association "Neue Künstlervereinigung München". In addition, Jawlensky was a key member of the "Blauer Reiter" movement. He later co-founded the group "The Blue Four" with Klee, Kandinsky and Feininger. Expelled from Germany as a Russian citizen in 1914, during the beginning of World War l, the artist settled in Switzerland and later in Wiesbaden, Germany. During this time he created his famous abstract heads. Jawlensky died of a serious illness in 1941. "My art is meditation or prayer in colours", Jawlensky once said, and indeed his work is characterised by great religiousness. This is particularly noticeable in the series of works of the Saviour’s faces and the abstract heads, which Jawlensky summarises in his memoirs as "saints' heads". The influence of orthodox iconography is unmistakable, and they were already understood as a modern version of the icon by contemporary artist colleagues. The human face in many variations – mostly in strong, even bright colours – had already been a focus of his work before. With the saints' heads, he became more restrained in colour and reduced the subject of the portrait to the face itself. They seem de-individualised without losing expressiveness. A progressive abstraction, lead to an iconic form, which in the sequence seem like a search for an unattainable divine archetype. Influenced by Fauvism, Alexej von Jawlensky painted with bright colours, fierce brushwork and dark outlines. His works are among the most sought-after works of classical modernism and can be found in the world's great museums.


--- [Alexej von Jawlensky - Discover Works | ars mundi] ---
Alexej von Jawlensky 1864-1941, German-Russian painter It was not until 1889 that the former Russian Imperial Guard Alexej von Jawlensky in the Tsarist army began his artistic training. In 1896, he moved to Munich to attend a private art school where he met Wassily Kandinsky. In Murnau Jawlensky first worked together with Kandinsky and Gabriele Münter. And together they founded the Artist's Association "Neue Künstlervereinigung München". In addition, Jawlensky was a key member of the "Blauer Reiter" movement. He later co-founded the group "The Blue Four" with Klee, Kandinsky and Feininger. Expelled from Germany as a Russian citizen in 1914, during the beginning of World War l, the artist settled in Switzerland and later in Wiesbaden, Germany. During this time he created his famous abstract heads. Jawlensky died of a serious illness in 1941. "My art is meditation or prayer in colours", Jawlensky once said, and indeed his work is characterised by great religiousness. This is particularly noticeable in the series of works of the Saviour’s faces and the abstract heads, which Jawlensky summarises in his memoirs as "saints' heads". The influence of orthodox iconography is unmistakable, and they were already understood as a modern version of the icon by contemporary artist colleagues. The human face in many variations – mostly in strong, even bright colours – had already been a focus of his work before. With the saints' heads, he became more restrained in colour and reduced the subject of the portrait to the face itself. They seem de-individualised without losing expressiveness. A progressive abstraction, lead to an iconic form, which in the sequence seem like a search for an unattainable divine archetype. Influenced by Fauvism, Alexej von Jawlensky painted with bright colours, fierce brushwork and dark outlines. His works are among the most sought-after works of classical modernism and can be found in the world's great museums.


--- [Alexej von Jawlensky Biography - Infos for Sellers and Buyers] ---
Alexej von Jawlensky Torschok 1864 - Wiesbaden 1941 Jawlensky only began his artistic training in 1889 in St. Petersburg after a career as an officer in the tsarist army. He studied under Ilja Repin who introduced him to Marianne von Werefkin and Helene Nesnakomoff, his later wife. Jawlensky accompanied these two to Munich in 1896 where they wanted to visit a private art school. Here Jawlensky met Wassily Kandinsky. The artist undertook several trips to France and was able to show ten paintings at the 'Salon d'automne' with the help of Sergej Djagilev. Jawlensky also met Henri Matisse for the first time. In summer 1908 he worked with Kandinsky, Marianne von Werefkin and Gabriele Münter in Murnau for the first time. There, the four artists developed the idea for the foundation of the 'Neue Künstlervereinigung München' to which they aligned with other artists. In December the first exhibition took place in Munich. Two years later the 'Blauer Reiter' was established as a new idea of co-operation. In 1913 Jawlensky participated in Herwarth Walden's first German autumn Salon in Berlin. When in 1914 world war I began, Jawlensky was expelled from Germany due to his Russian citizenship. He moved with his family and Marianne von Werefkin to Prex on Lake Geneva. And remained in Switzerland until 1921, where he began painting his abstract heads in 1918. His final move to Wiesbaden took place in 1921. An attack of arthritis in 1929 forced the artist to visit various spas at regular intervals. Jawlensky suffered from a progressing paralysis and had difficulties in painting. One year later the painter began the series of small-format 'Meditationen'. 72 of his works were confiscated in 1937 as "degenerate". Three years later in 1941 Jawlensky died in Wiesbaden. At the beginning Jawlensky's style was influenced by the Fauves, particularly by Matisse, but the artist soon discovered his own, Expressionist style, which is characterised by strong colours and simple forms. Later he turned to those calm, spiritualised and mystical images of the Human face, which are so typical of Jawlensky. Would you like to sell a work by Alexej von Jawlensky?
