=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[SAVAGE TEXTILES - Sarah Aaronson]
Words End Sweater • Spring / Summer 1982 Savage Collection • Vivienne Westwood & Malcolm McLaren Runway model for the Savage show • London • October 1981 • Image courtesy of Vivienne Westwood by Claire Wilcox
URL: https://www.sarahaaronson.com/blog/mglrfbzoxyp3udgu5yo0be5nahopxi

[Vivienne Westwood - Wikipedia]
Dame Vivienne Isabel Westwood (née Swire; 8 April 1941 - 29 December 2022) was an English fashion designer and businesswoman, largely responsible for bringing modern punk and new wave fashions into the mainstream. [6] In 2022, Sky Arts ranked her the 4th most influential artist in Britain of the past 50 years. [7] Westwood came to public notice when she made clothes for the boutique that ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vivienne_Westwood

[World's End by Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm Mclaren 'Savages ... - 1stDibs]
A rare World's End 'Savages' ensemble designed by Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm Mclaren for the Spring/Summer 1982 collection which was there second runway show. The ensemble features a knitted brown acrylic jumper with looped tube of fabric linking each breast, the reverse woven in bright colours on a pink ground and a white cotton sleeveless dress with the iconic 'Savages' print on front and ...
URL: https://www.1stdibs.com/fashion/clothing/sweaters/worlds-end-vivienne-westwood-malcolm-mclaren-savages-ensemble-c-1982/id-v_1182712/

[Vivienne Westwood - Dress - British - The Metropolitan Museum of Art]
The "toga dress" first appeared in Westwood's spring/summer 1982 "Savage" collection. Although they were designed for women, Boy George and Steve Strange began wearing them on the London club scene in the early 1980s.
URL: https://www.metmuseum.org/art/collection/search/95531

[World's End by Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm Mclaren... | Depop]
World's End by Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm Mclaren 'Savage' Collection Ensemble, c. 1982 A rare World's End 'Savages' ensemble designed by Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm Mclaren for the Spring/Summer 1982 collection which was their second runway show.
URL: https://www.depop.com/products/430kingsroad-worlds-end-by-vivienne-westwood/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [SAVAGE TEXTILES - Sarah Aaronson] ---
SAVAGE TEXTILES How Malcolm McLaren and Dame Vivienne Westwood found textile inspiration in Mable Morrow’s book, Indian Rawhide | An American Folk Art, first published in 1975... The duo transformed several of the traditional tribal patterns referenced in Morrow’s book into neo-primitive cotton separates. The uniquely colorful designs also made their way into knitwear in the form of wool jumpers and leg warmers. After a brief cameo in the previous Pirate collection, the iconic printed pieces electrified the runway of their brilliant Spring 1982 follow up, referred to as the Savage collection… The shockingly modern graphic designs found on parfleches and other rawhide accessories crafted by various Native American tribes, eventually found their way onto the backs of the emerging New Romantics, who often frequented the infamously storied Worlds End boutique… ”...That year Westwood launched her second collection, Savage (S/S 1982). She showed prints with geometric patterns derived from Native American Indian saddlebags, leather frock coats, foreign legion hats worn back-to-front with eye slits, soft leather bag boots, bowler hats with padded headbands so that they looked too big, ‘petti-drawers’ and shorts. The catwalk models were styled with body paint, with mud plastered into their hair. ‘The Savage collection... was simply wonderful, combining rich decorative patterns in a very exciting way,’ Valerie Mendes recalls.” • Claire Wilcox in Vivienne Westwood by V&A Publications ”Indian rawhide was the basis of one of the major and widespread pre-Columbian folk arts of the North American continent. Rawhide provided the containers for the preservation of dried buffalo meat, the basic food, and for other supplies. It supplied shelter as lodges and was fashioned into clothing. When the buffalo disappeared, a whole way of life was destroyed in a relatively few years for the Indians of North America.” • Indian Rawhide | An American Folk Art


--- [Vivienne Westwood - Wikipedia] ---
Dame Vivienne Isabel Westwood (née Swire; 8 April 1941 – 29 December 2022) was an English fashion designer and businesswoman, largely responsible for bringing modern punk and new wave fashions into the mainstream. In 2022, Sky Arts ranked her the 4th most influential artist in Britain of the past 50 years.
Westwood came to public notice when she made clothes for the boutique that she and Malcolm McLaren ran on King's Road, which became known as Sex. Their ability to synchronise clothing and music shaped the 1970s UK punk scene, which included McLaren's band, the Sex Pistols. She viewed punk as a way of "seeing if one could put a spoke in the system".
Westwood opened four shops in London and eventually expanded throughout Britain and the world, selling a varied range of merchandise, some of which promoted her political causes such as the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, climate change and civil rights groups.




--- [World's End by Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm Mclaren 'Savages ... - 1stDibs] ---
Dame Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm McLaren (1941–2022; 1946–2010) met in London during the early 1960s — Westwood, who was born in a village in Derbyshire, in central England, initially began her career by making necklaces and other jewelry, while McLaren was an artist, activist and entrepreneur. They became involved romantically and she made clothes for him in the style of the Teddy Boys — the city’s music-crazed, occasionally violent teenagers at the time who wore high-waisted trousers and tailored velvet blazers that drew on Edwardian-era fashions. For someone who regularly swatted away the industry that made her, Westwood certainly knew her way around a garment. And the audacious British fashion designer knew how to provoke. “I don’t follow fashion,” Westwood once told the New York Times. “I’ve never been interested in it.” She was instead moved by parallel passions: a love of British design history and an unflinching urge to put a stick in the eye of authority. Today, collectors are deeply interested in vintage Vivienne Westwood dresses, handbags, lingerie and jackets. Westwood and McLaren opened a vintage shop on King’s Road in London in 1971. The flared denim and peasant blouses of the 1960s, then still popular with the “peace and love” set, didn’t hold any weight for Westwood. Instead, she was interested in provocative, edgy apparel. She repaired used clothing and endeavored to create bold new designs from scratch. Together Westwood and McLaren sold older rock-and-roll records, customized T-shirts with antiestablishment slogans, biker jackets and snug trousers inspired by the Marlon Brando film The Wild One as well as bondage fetish wear. The shop, once called Let It Rock and then Too Fast to Live, Too Young to Die before Sex became a more appropriate moniker, evolved into a youth mecca. The DIY garments — zippered tops, burnt tees emblazoned with anarchist messages — flew off the shelves. More notably, it brought punk to the masses. Westwood was soon dressing the Sex Pistols, a band that McLaren managed, all the while bridging the gap between music and fashion in a manner that has reverberated throughout the industry for decades. In 1981, the couple’s first fashion show marked the debut of their Pirate collection — a swashbuckler-themed line that sprang from Westwood’s research into Indigenous Americans and the “power garments” of the Louis XIV era. The line’s ample proportions and cutting-edge tailoring countered punk’s geometry and tight latex fits as well as what rocker Adam Ant called the “Puritanism” that plagued England at the time. The Pirate collection’s enduring influence on the world of fashion as well as the theatrical work of designers such as John Galliano and Alexander McQueen is undeniable. McLaren and Westwood separated soon afterward, during the early 1980s. For the colorful corsets of her 1990 Portrait collection, Westwood drew on 18th-century oil paintings — her models donned the pearl necklaces that have become a social media star and a favorite of influencers and fashion lovers all over the world. For a jacket-and-shorts suit from her Fall/Winter 1996–97 Storm in a Teacup line, the designer used the extreme asymmetry of a tartan mash-up to confront, according to Westwood, “the horror of uniformity and minimalism.” The self-taught Westwood enjoyed a rapid ascent in fashion, with British society embracing her looks and Vogue immortalizing them in its glossy pages. She garnered accolades for introducing corsets to the runway and dressed Kate Moss and Helena Bonham Carter. And an original Vivienne Westwood wedding dress is featured in 2008’s Sex and the City film. Find vintage Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm McLaren day dresses and other clothing on 1stDibs.


--- [Vivienne Westwood - Dress - British - The Metropolitan Museum of Art] ---
Dress Perhaps because it was so crucial to the social and political definitions of citizenship and, therefore, masculinity in the Roman Empire, the toga has often been a source of inspiration for contemporary designers. The "toga dress" first appeared in Westwood's spring/summer 1982 "Savage" collection. Although they were designed for women, Boy George and Steve Strange began wearing them on the London club scene in the early 1980s. Many versions had an integral hood, a design feature that references the Roman practice of drawing the toga over the head when engaged in a sacrificial or religious rite. Artwork Details - Title: Dress - Designer: Vivienne Westwood (British, 1941–2022) - Designer: Malcolm McLaren (British, London 1946–2010 Switzerland) - Date: ca. 1982 - Culture: British - Medium: cotton - Credit Line: Purchase, Richard Martin Bequest, 2003 - Object Number: 2003.387 - Curatorial Department: The Costume Institute More Artwork Research Resources The Met provides unparalleled resources for research and welcomes an international community of students and scholars. The Met's Open Access API is where creators and researchers can connect to the The Met collection. Open Access data and public domain images are available for unrestricted commercial and noncommercial use without permission or fee. To request images under copyright and other restrictions, please use this Image Request form. Feedback We continue to research and examine historical and cultural context for objects in The Met collection. If you have comments or questions about this object record, please contact us using the form below. The Museum looks forward to receiving your comments.


--- [World's End by Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm Mclaren... | Depop] ---
No content
