=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

["Who are the two authors who wrote the review paper "Infant sleep ...]
New releases and popular books related to "Whoarethetwoauthorswhowrotethereviewpaper"Infant sleep disturbance: Description of a problem behavior process,"publishedinVolume3,Number4of Sleep MedicineReviewsin1999?" from Simon & Schuster.
URL: https://www.simonandschuster.com/search/books/Format-Mass-Market-Paperback/_/N-i8q/Ne-i7h/Ntt-Who+are+the+two+authors+who+wrote+the+review+paper+"Infant+sleep+disturbance:+Description+of+a+problem+behavior+process,"+published+in+Volume+3,+Number+4+of+Sleep+Medicine+Reviews+in+1999?

[Quality of Preterm Infants’ NightSleep: and Online Community-Based...]
Results: Of the 55% of motherswhoreported that their infants hadsleepproblems, 17% described the problem as serious.France, K. G., & Blampied, N. M. (1999).Infantsleepdisturbance:Descriptionofaproblembehaviorprocess.SleepMedicineReviews,3, 265-280.
URL: https://www.sciencepubco.com/index.php/IJANS/article/view/2412

[NewbornSleepCourse by BabySleepAnswersReview2026]
This platformisthemost user-friendly platform for online learning. The classistaught using video content. It also contains a narrative at the end of each video for thosewhoprefer to read rather than watch.1999.Infantsleepdisturbance:Descriptionofaproblembehaviorprocess.
URL: https://empiricalmama.com/baby-we-are-home-now-lets-sleep-review/

[Unknown]
No snippet
URL: N/A


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- ["Who are the two authors who wrote the review paper "Infant sleep ...] ---
No content


--- [Quality of Preterm Infants’ NightSleep: and Online Community-Based...] ---
Quality of Preterm Infants’ Night Sleep: and Online Community-Based Survey of Maternal Factors and Perceptions of Infants’ Nighttime Awakenings and Sleep Problems - https://doi.org/10.14419/ijans.v3i2.2412 Received date: April 10, 2014 Accepted date: May 30, 2014 Published date: June 25, 2014 - Abstract Background: Between one-quarter and one-third of infants aged six months to five years have sleeping problems. Infants' night sleep patterns, in particular problematic night waking with crying, are a common concern for parents. Many factors can influence the development of infants’ night sleep patterns and sleep problems, including parental interaction. Objectives: To examine the associations between premature infants’ nighttime awakening, mothers’ reports of sleep problem severity, and maternal factors, including mothers’ styles of attachment and behaviors used to settle their infants to sleep. Method: The cross sectional survey study used a web-based questionnaire to collect data from a community-based sample of 105 mothers of singleton premature infants aged 5-6 months (corrected age) across a number of English speaking countries. The main outcome measures were mothers’ perceptions of infants’ nighttime awakenings (frequency and duration) and presence of infant sleep problems. Results: Of the 55% of mothers who reported that their infants had sleep problems, 17% described the problem as serious. The majority of infants woke 2.1 times per night for an average of 45.7 minutes per night. Mothers’ style of attachment and personal history of sleep problems predicted the duration of the infants’ nighttime awakening, whereas maternal active physical comforting predicted the frequency of nighttime awakenings. Conclusions: The findings can guide healthcare providers to screen mothers for an anxious style of attachment, perceptions of infant sleep problems, and use of active physical comforting strategies for bedtime settling when assessing premature infants’ sleep problems. Keywords: Maternal Attachment, Nighttime Awakenings, Premature Infant, Settling Strategies, Sleep Problem - References - Alexander, R. Feeney, J., Hohaus, L., & Noller, P. (2001). At-tachment style and coping resources as predictors of coping strategies in the transition to parenthood. Personal Relationships, 8, 137- 152. - Als, H. (1982). Toward a synactive theory of development: Promise for the assessment and support of infant individuality. Infant Mental Health Journal, 3, 229-243. - Armitage, R., Flynn, H., Hoffmann, R., Vazquez, D., Lopez, J., & Marcus, S. (2009). Early developmental changes in sleep in infants: The impact of maternal depression. Sleep, 32, 693-696. - Bayer, J.K., Hiscock, H., Hampton, A., & Wake, M. (2007). Sleep problems in young infants and maternal mental and physical health. Journal of Paediatric and Child Health, 43, 66–73. - Benoit, D., Zeanah, C. H., Boucher, C., & Minde, K. K. (1992). Sleep disorders in early childhood: Association with insecure maternal attachment. Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 31, 86-93. - Byles, J., Byrne, C., Boyle, M., & Offord, D. (1988). Ontario Child Health Study: Reliability and validity of the general functioning subscale of the McMaster Family Assessment Device. Family Process, 27, 97-104. - Dunn, J. F., Plomin, R., & Daniels, D. (1986). Consistency and change in mothers' behavior toward young siblings. Child Development, 57, 348-356 - Epstein, N. B., Baldwin, L. M., & Bishop, D. S. (1983). The McMaster Family Assessment Device. Journal of Marital and Family Therapy, 9, 171-180. - Feeney, J. A. (2003). Adult attachment, involvement in infant care, and adjustment to new parenthood. Journal of Systemic Therapies, 22, 16-30. - Feeney, J. A., Noller, P., & Hanrahan, M. (1994). Assessing adult attachment. In M. B. Sperling & W. H. Berman (Eds.), Attachment in adults: Clinical and developmental perspectives (pp. 128-152). New York: Guilford Press. - Feldman, R., & Eidelman, A. I. (2006). Neonatal state organization, neuromaturation, mother-infant interaction, and cognitive development in small-for-gestational-age premature infants. Pediatrics, 118, e869-e878. DOI: 10.1542/peds.2005-2040. - Fiese, B. H., winter, M. A., Sliwinski, M., & Anber, R. D. (2007). Nighttime waking in children with asthma: An exploratory study of daily fluctuations in family climate. Journal of Family Psychology, 21, 95-103. - Forcada-Guex, M., Pierrehumbert, B., Borghini, A., Moessinger, A., & Muller-Nix, C. (2006). Early dyadic patterns of mother-infant interactions and outcomes of prematurity at 18 months. Pediatrics, 118, e107-e114. DOI: 10.1542/peds.2005-1145. - France, K. G., & Blampied, N. M. (1999). Infant sleep disturbance: Description of a problem behavior process. Sleep Medicine Reviews, 3, 265-280. - Georgiades, K., Boyle, M. H., Jenkins, J. M., Sanford, M., & Lipman, E. (2008). A multilevel analysis of whole family functioning using the McMaster family assessment device. Journal of Family Psychology, 22, 344-354. - Goodlin-Jones, B. L., Burnham, M. M., Gaylor, E. E., & Anders, T. F. (2001). Night waking, sleep-wake organization and self-soothing in the first year of life. Journal of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics, 22, 226-233. - Hall, W., Saunders, R. A., Clauson, M., Carty, E. M., & Janssen, P. A. (2006). Effects of an intervention aimed at re-ducing night waking and signaling in 6- to 12-month-old infants. Behavioral Sleep Medicine, 4, 242–261. - Henderson, J. M. T., France, K. G., & Blampied, N. M. (2011). The consolidation of infants' nocturnal sleep across the first year of life. Sleep Medicine Reviews, 15, 211-220. - Hiscock, H., Canterford, L., Ukoumunne, O. C., & Wake, M. (2007). Adverse associations of sleep problems in Australian preschoolers: National population study. Pediatrics, 119, 86-93. - Hiscock, H., Bayer, J.K., Hampton, A., Ukoumunne, O.C., & Wake, M. (2008). Long-term mother and child mental health effects of a population-based infant sleep intervention: Cluster-randomized, controlled trial. Pediatrics, 122, 621–627. - Holditch-Davis, D. (2010). Development of sleep and sleep problems in preterm infants. In R. E. Tremblay, M. Boivin, & R. deV Peters (Eds.), Encyclopedia on early childhood development (pp. 1-8) [online]. Montreal, PQ: Centre of Excellence for Early Childhood Development. Available at: http://www.child-encyclopedia.com/pages/PDF/Holditch-DavisANGxp3.pdf. (Accessed 31 December 2010). - Huber, P. J. (1981). Robust statistics. New York: Wiley. - Johnson, J. L., Ratner, P. A., Bottorff, J. L., Hall, W., & Dahinten, S. (2000). Preventing smoking relapse in postpartum women. Nursing Research, 49, 44-52. - Lam, P., Hiscock, H., & Wake, M. (2003). Outcomes of infant sleep problems: A longitudinal study of sleep, behavior, and maternal well-being. Pediatrics, 111, e203-e207. DOI: 10.1542/peds.111.3.e203. - Loutzenhiser, L., Ahlquist, A., & Hoffman, J. (2011). Infant and maternal factors associated with maternal perceptions of infant sleep problems. Journal of Reproductive and Infant Psychology, 29, 460-471. - Magai, C., Hunziker, J., Mesias, W., & Culver, L. C. (2000). Adult attachment styles and emotional biases. International Journal of Behavioral Development, 24, 301-309. - Meltzer, L. J., & Mindell, J. A. (2007). Relationship between child sleep disturbances and maternal sleep, mood, and parenting stress: A pilot study. Journal of Family Psychology, 21, 67-73. - Mindell, J. A., Kuhn, B., Lewin, D. S., Meltzer, L. J., & Sadeh, A. (2006). Behavioral treatment of bedtime problems and night wakings in infants and young children. Sleep, 29, 1263-1276. - Morrell, J., & Cortina-Borja, M. (2002). The developmental change in strategies parents employ to settle young children to sleep, and their relationship to infant sleeping problems, as assessed by a new questionnaire: The Parental Interactive Bedtime Behaviour Scale. Infant and Child Devel-opment, 11, 17-41. - Morrell, J. M., & Steele, H. (2003). The role of attachment security, temperament, maternal perception and care-giving behavior in persistent infant sleeping problems. Infant Mental Health Journal, 24, 447-468. - Muller-Nix, C., Forcada-Guex, M., Pierrehumbert, B., Jaunin, L., Borghini, A., & Ansermet, F. (2004). Prematurity, maternal stress and mother-child interactions. Early Human Development, 79, 145-158. - Radloff, L. S. (1977). The CES-D Scale: A self-report depression scale for research in the general population. Applied Psychological Measurement, 1, 385–401. - Ramos, K. D., Youngclarke, D., & Anderson, J.E. (2007). Parental perceptions of sleep problems among co-sleeping and solitary sleeping children. Infant and Child Development, 16, 417-431. - Sadeh, A. (2004). A brief screening questionnaire for infant sleep problems: Validation and findings for an internet sample. Pediatrics, 113, e570- e577. - Sadeh, A., Mindell, J. A., Luedtke, K., & Wiegand, B. (2009). Sleep and sleep ecology in the first 3 years: A web-based study. Journal of Sleep Research, 18, 60-73. - Scher, A. (2001). Attachment and sleep: A study of night waking in 12-month-old infants. Developmental Psychobiology, 38, 274-284. - Shaha, P. E., Robbinsh, N., Coelhob, R. B., & Poehlmannc, J. (2013). The paradox of prematurity: The behavioral vulnerability of late preterm infants and the cognitive susceptibility of very preterm infants at 36 months post-term. Infant Behavior & Development, 36, 50– 62. - Sigman, M., Cohen, S. E., Beckwith, L., & Parmelee, A. H. (1981). Social and familial influences on the development of preterm infants. Journal of Pediatric Psychology, 6, 1-13. - Simola, P., Liukkonen, K., Pitkaranta, A., Pirinen, T., & Aronen, E. T. (2012). Psychosocial and somatic outcomes of sleep problems in children: a 4-year follow-up study. Child: care, health and development, 40, 60-67. - Stephens, T., & Graham, D. F. (Eds.). (1993). Canada's health promotion survey 1990 (Tech. Rep.). Ottawa: Health and Welfare Canada. - Taveras, E. M., Rifas-Shiman, S. L., Oken, E., Gunderson, E. P., & Gillman, M. W. (2008). Short-sleep duration in infancy and risk of childhood overweight. Archives of Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine, 162, 305-311. - Taylor, N., Donovan, W., & Leavitt, L. (2008). Consistency in infant sleeping arrangements and mother-infant interaction. Infant Mental Health Journal, 29, 77–94. - Teti, D. M., & Crosby, B. (2012). Maternal Depressive Symptoms, Dysfunctional Cognitions, and Infant Night .Waking: The Role of Maternal Nighttime Behavior. Child Development, 83, 939–953 - Touchette, E., Petit, D., Paquet, J., Boivin, M., Japel, C., Tremblay, R. E., & Montplaisir, J. Y. (2005). Factors associated with fragmented sleep at night across early childhood. Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine, 159, 242-249. - Touchette, E., Cote, S. M., Petit, D., Liu, X., Boivin, M., Falissard, B., et al. (2009). Short nighttime sleep-duration and hyperactivity trajectories in early childhood. Pediatrics, 124, e985–993. DOI: 10.1542/peds.2008-2005. - Downloads - How to Cite Ali, R., Hall, W., Warnock, F., Wong, S., & Ratner, P. (2014). Quality of Preterm Infants’ Night Sleep: and Online Community-Based Survey of Maternal Factors and Perceptions of Infants’ Nighttime Awakenings and Sleep Problems. International Journal of Advanced Nursing Studies, 3(2), 59-64. https://doi.org/10.14419/ijans.v3i2.2412


--- [NewbornSleepCourse by BabySleepAnswersReview2026] ---
Newborn Sleep Course by Baby Sleep Answers Review For first time moms, getting their newborn to sleep at night may seem like an impossible task. But with the right approach, you can make it possible! Here is my honest review of Newborn sleep course by Baby Sleep Answers. While the first-time moms are busy preparing for their nursery or getting ready for giving birth to their babies during the third trimester of pregnancy, no one thinks about what to expect once you have a baby. What no one tells you about your “fourth trimester” is how little sleep you are going to get when you bring your newborn home! And if you are not realistic about your expectation for sleep once you have a baby, you will be really overwhelmed and frustrated!! With all those postpartum hormones, recovery after birth, and “the baby”, all you want to do is sleep. While you want to sleep, your baby will want to breastfeed around the clock. That means, you are getting a few hours of sleep at night, that too if you are lucky. I am not exaggerating at all here. I have been through it with my first one, who wouldn’t sleep at night during the first 12 weeks. All I wanted at that time was a baby to sleep so I can sleep too. I am sure you have already got some advice – ‘Sleep when baby sleep’. Little bit adds up, but it is certainly not enough when your body needs to recover after birth. And If you are here to know whether this Infant sleep course will help your newborn sleep at night so you can sleep too, then you are at the right place!! In this Newborn Sleep Course by Baby Sleep Answers review, I will help you decide whether this infant sleep course is what you needed to get your sleep back. In this review, I will talk about what this course covers, pros and cons, and my thoughts on this course and whether it is worth the price. Let’s go right into this, Recommended Readings - 10 Best Postnatal Vitamins for Breastfeeding Moms - 8 Beverages to keep Breastfeeding Moms Hydrated other than Water Disclosure: This post contains affiliate links. As an affiliate and amazon associate, I earn commission on qualified purchase at no extra cost to you. What is Newborn Sleep Course? Newborn Sleep course by Baby Sleep Answers is a newborn/Infant (0-3 months) sleep basics course. This online course was designed to teach new or expecting moms the basics of newborn sleep. The course is designed by a certified Infant sleep consultant – Andrea De La Torre. Andrea is been helping sleep-deprived new or expecting moms all over the world to get their babies right on track for better sleep. In addition to Newborn Sleep course, she provides Newborn 1-on-1 consultation as well as provides customized sleep plans depending on your need. What is the Structure of this Class? The class is offered online using the Teachable platform. This platform is the most user-friendly platform for online learning. The class is taught using video content. It also contains a narrative at the end of each video for those who prefer to read rather than watch. This online course comes with a downloadable eBook covering concepts of Newborn sleep basics. Course Details - Cost: $$ - Length of Class: 14 videos, 75 minutes total - Access: Lifetime - 30-day no-risk money-back guarantee and no questions asked. Course Contents One of the biggest mistakes we make as a new mom is having a false expectation about newborn sleep. In Newborn Sleep Course, you will learn exactly what to expect during the newborn sleep stage and how to navigate through it with good knowledge of newborn sleep basics. Let’s look at what this course covers, - Emotional readiness for both of you - Why baby flights sleep - Feeding baby and Sleep - Creating a perfect environment for baby sleep - Newborn Sleep 101 - Calming a baby - How to teach baby to fall asleep on their own - Middle of the night awakening help - What to do when baby won’t sleep alone Now, let’s look at the highlights of the most important topics that this course teaches. Newborn Sleep 101 This chapter is a really important part of this course. It teaches new moms what to expect when it comes to newborn sleep. And this is where most new moms struggle with. The knowledge shared by Andrea in this section is pure gold and you don’t want to miss this section. This chapter talks about when to put your baby to sleep, how to identify sleep cues, how to fix day/night confusion, bedtime routine, and much more!! It pretty much teaches you everything that you need to know for the newborn phase. Andrea takes her time to teach how to recognize the early and late sleep cues, which is where all new moms struggles. I loved the videos with an actual example of a tired infant that is worth the watch. She also did justice in teaching the whole day/night confusion thing that is a deal with newborn, without boring you about melatonin science. At the end of this session, she talks about establishing a bedtime routine and insist on being consistent with it. The subsection of this video also talks in detail about calming a fussy baby. Let’s look at the highlight of it. How to Calm a Fussy Baby You might don’t know as an expectant mom how hard it is to put a fussy baby to sleep!! Or if you are experiencing it with your newborn, you know how frustrating and impossible it is to put a screaming baby to sleep. And calming a fussy baby is an essential skill that we all have to learn at some point to keep our sanity. And unless you learn this skill, there will be no sleep! Andrea did a great job of explaining and showing how to calm a fussy baby step-by-step. Teaching Baby How to Fall Asleep Independently In this section, Andrea goes through exactly what you need to do to teach your newborn to fall asleep independently. Don’t worry, she won’t ask to leave a room and let your baby cry. She is all about meeting the needs of your newborn without throwing yourself in there and not giving your baby a chance to learn. Her focus in this session is to teach your baby to learn the skill of falling asleep independently without enforcing any particular sleep training method. Andrea shows step by step how to teach baby fall asleep independently with a real-life example. This section lays a great foundation for introducing early independent sleep habits in a baby. Middle of the Night Awakening Help Your baby is certainly going to wake up multiple times at night. And if you are here in expectation that this course will teach you how to make your baby sleep through the night, then this is not for you. Infect, no one in the universe can make your newborn sleep through the night. And even if they do, it is not healthy for them. Newborns have a small tummy and they can only hold enough breastmilk/formula to get them through 2-2.5 hours. And wait until they have a growth spurt – they will want to feed every hour!! That’s why it is unrealistic to expect a baby to sleep through the night. But with the right approach, you can get into the habit of falling back to sleep after their demands (feeding or diaper change or both) are met. In this section, Andrea talks about what to do and how to respond when your baby wakes in the middle of the night. Extra Perks that Comes with Newborn Sleep Course As I mentioned earlier, this course comes with a downloadable eBook covering all the important points that you have learned in the course. You can keep the copy with you and refer it back when you need it without going through the video again. Who is this Infant Sleep course for? This course is designed for new moms or expecting moms to teach them the basics of newborn sleep. The course is suitable for babies 0-3 months old. If your baby is 6 months old, this course won’t apply to you as there is a huge difference in sleep training 3 months old vs 6 months old. That being said, what you learn in this course still applies to your 6 months old, but sleep training 6 months old requires a specific sleep training method and this is not the scope of this course. Who is this Course Not For? If you have already read sleep books or your baby is older than 4 months, this course is not for you. This course is designed to teach you the foundation of great baby sleep, without emphasis on any specific sleep training methods. When to take Newborn Sleep Course This is an online course, so you have the flexibility of taking it anytime you want. Ideally, you should take this class during the early third trimester of pregnancy. So, it is easy to retain the information you learned and apply it when you need it. If you didn’t get a chance to take this class during the third trimester, you can still take it when you have a newborn. But keep in mind that this course is designed for the age group 0-3 months. So don’t wait to take this course once you have a baby. How Long is the Accessibility of this Course once Purchased? Forever. Once you purchase this course, it is yours for a lifetime. You can access it whenever you want. It a great investment if you are planning to have multiple kids. What if I am NOT Satisfied with the Course? I guaranty that it won’t be a case, but in case you are not, the course creator Andrea and Liesel will be happy to offer a 30-day money-back guarantee. I am 100% confident that you will learn the foundations necessary to help your newborn sleep much faster than you would do without taking this course. PROS of taking Newborn Sleep course - Affordable - 75 min of video content - Access to downloadable eBook - Access to a private Facebook group - Designed for 0-3 months old babies - Teaches fundamental of Newborn Sleep - Lays the groundwork for future sleep training - Teaches how to calm a baby with a real example - Lifetime access - 30-Day money back Guarantee CONS of taking Newborn Sleep course - Do not cover any specific sleep training method - May not apply to babies older than 3-month old My Thoughts on Newborn Sleep course When I was pregnant with my first one, I did not even think for one minute about the newborn phase during those nine months. I had my nursery ready to go for my baby but never thought about-sleep wise- what to expect when the baby comes. Our first one was a terrible sleeper. He would wake up every hour at night. Although I did not have any predetermined expectation about how much sleep I am going to get once I had a baby, but it was a bummer. I was tired, exhausted, and clueless about how to make him fall asleep at night. Those were the longest sleepless 3 months in my life!! When I heard about this course, I really wanted to check it out whether this course would be helpful for my readers or not. When I took this course, I was very happy with the course content and its affordability. Andrea, Sleep Consultant and course creator, takes her time to give you a realistic idea of what newborn sleep will look like. And that is huge for a first-time mom-to-be. It will give them a realistic expectation of the newborn sleep phase and in my theory, that’s a half battle. When you know what to expect, you are better prepared for it!! This isn’t a Sleep Training course for a Newborn Young babies need to feed at night, and their circadian rhythm is still immature. Because of that reason, even the researcher says that cry-it-out sleep training is inappropriate for babies under 5-6 months old (1-2). For that reason, I am glad that this Newborn Sleep Course does not enforce any specific sleep training method. Rather than focusing on any specific sleep training method, Andrea’s goal by delivering this course is to teach the basics of newborn sleep to expectant moms or exhausted new moms. The course actually teaches you a science-driven methodology of newborn sleep without many bluffs. The main focus of this course is to teach how to lay the foundation of great sleep habits early on for your newborn. When you learn the basics of newborn sleep, your newborn will sleep much easier. What this course delivers is the groundwork for any sleep training method that you are going to use for your baby in the future. So, it is basically what you absolutely need to learn to get your baby to sleep at night. Period. I can guarantee that by the end of this course, you will have a solid foundation you need to get your newborn to sleep without much fight. Is it worth taking this Course? Now that you have gone through what this course is about, course content, and my thoughts on this course, you already have an idea of what you want to do.. but if you are still wondering whether this course is worth the price? Let’s take a moment and think about it. When you go shopping, how much you spend on a good brand Jean pant? It is easily more than $50…right? Wouldn’t you want to invest (less than $50) in something that helps you teach your newborn how to sleep through the night so you can sleep too!! If you are an expecting mom, you might not know the seriousness of a newborn phase. But if you ask the new moms who are going through it now, would tell you how helpless they feel about not knowing what to do when the baby cries for hours and wouldn’t go to sleep even though they are tired. You can save yourself from this frustration by learning the foundations of great newborn sleep offered through this course. If you are an expecting mom and does not have any idea about infant sleep, or a new mom in desperate need of help or don’t want to hire a costly sleep consultant, this course is for you! Newborn Sleep Course by Baby Sleep Answers Review : Conclusions Here you go, mama! I hope this Newborn Sleep Course review helped you decide if this newborn sleep course is for you. I am 100% confident that knowing the basics of newborn sleep will be a lifesaver during those first 3 months!! Before you go, please let me know in comment below, if you have any specific question about this newborn sleep course. I am here to help you!! If you decide to take the course, please let me know what you think of it below. Alternatively, if you have any questions, seriously, just ask them in the comments below! References - France KG and Blampied NM. 1999. Infant sleep disturbance: Description of a problem behavior process. Sleep Medicine Reviews 3(4): 265-280. - Owens JL, France KG, and Wiggs L. 1999. Behavioral and cognitive-behavioural interventions for sleep disorders in infants and children: A review. Sleep Medicine Reviews 3(4): 281-302. RELATED POSTS


--- [Wayback Machine] ---
Ask the publishers to restore access to 500,000+ books. Search the history of more than 1 trillion web pages. Capture a web page as it appears now for use as a trusted citation in the future. Please enter a valid web address
