=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Santa Bárbara, Antioquia - Wikipedia]
Santa Bárbara is a town and municipality in the Colombian department of Antioquia. Part of the subregion of Southwestern Antioquia. Santa Barbara is located in a valley about 1.5 hours drive from Medellín by car or bus.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Santa_B%C3%A1rbara,_Antioquia

[Santa fe de Antioquia - Tourism | Colombia Travel]
Santa Fe de Antioquia was founded in 1541 by Marshal Jorge Robledo, a Spanish soldier from the Popayán province, who, in his effort to claim these lands for the Spanish Crown, imprinted colonial architecture that remains intact due to the care ...
URL: https://colombia.travel/en/santa-fe-de-antioquia

[Santa Bárbara - Wikidata]
municipality of the department of Antioquia, Colombia · Santa Barbara edit · instance of · municipality of Colombia · 0 references · inception · 1733 · 1 reference · imported from Wikimedia project · German Wikipedia · Wikimedia import ...
URL: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q1441781

[Colombian Heritage Towns: Santa Fé de Antioquia | BnB Colombia Tours]
Founded in 1541 by Jorge Robledo, Santa Fé de Antioquia, originally Villa de Santafé, became the City of Antioquia in 1545 after receiving its coat of arms from King Felipe II of Spain.
URL: https://bnbcolombia.com/colombian-heritage-towns-santa-fe-de-antioquia/

[The history of Santa Fe de Antioquia - Spray's World]
Santa Fe de Antioquia is a captivating colonial town that makes a perfect day-trip from Medellin. It is the region’s oldest settlement, founded by Jorge Robledo in 1541 on the banks of the river Cauca, and was once the capital of Antioquia. ...
URL: https://spraysworld.com/the-history-of-santa-fe-de-antioquia/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Santa Bárbara, Antioquia - Wikipedia] ---
Santa Bárbara is a town and municipality in the Colombian department of Antioquia. Part of the subregion of Southwestern Antioquia. Santa Barbara is located in a valley about 1.5 hours drive from Medellín by car or bus. It lies at an elevation of 1,800 m (5,900 ft) above the sea level.


--- [Santa fe de Antioquia - Tourism | Colombia Travel] ---
Santa Fe de Antioquia is a Colombian Heritage Town that preserves the most important historical treasures from the colonial and republican periods in the Antioquia department. Situated an hour and a half from Medellín, you can reach Santa Fe de Antioquia by land via the road leading to the Urabá antioqueño. It has a warm climate ranging between 25 and 35 degrees Celsius, where the city’s park vegetation and the ornamentation of houses will surprise you as you walk its cobblestone streets under a blue sky. The history and location of Santa Fe de Antioquia Santa Fe de Antioquia was founded in 1541 by Marshal Jorge Robledo, a Spanish soldier from the Popayán province, who, in his effort to claim these lands for the Spanish Crown, imprinted colonial architecture that remains intact due to the care of its own population. For over two centuries, it was one of the main centers of economic and urban development in the region. Its architecture attests to this: spacious colonial-style houses, mostly white, with two-story structures featuring balconies and carved wooden doors. Ten minutes from the urban center of Santa Fe de Antioquia, you’ll find the Puente de Occidente, a beautiful National Monument, an emblem of the town and likely its architectural icon. It spans 291 meters over the Cauca River. Designed by engineer José María Villa in 1887, this suspension bridge brought an economic boom to the region by connecting the town to the rest of the country, enabling the flow of goods and passengers to and from the sea. With its unique beauty, this bridge is an engineering marvel you must see. Discover: Parks and gardens in Medellín Recently renovated, the Parque Plaza Mayor Simón Bolívar, located in the historic center of Santa Fe de Antioquia, is the main meeting place for locals. There, you’ll find a pedestrian walkway filled with trees and gardens, benches, lanterns, and a beautiful fountain narrating the history of water management during the colonial era. In the northeastern corner of this plaza stands the Catedral Basílica Metropolitana de la Inmaculada Concepción, a stunning temple built between 1797 and 1837 in a neoclassical Renaissance style, with a central altar and tabernacle that will amaze you with their beauty. The sacristy houses sacred art pieces and jewels. Thus, Santa Fe de Antioquia boasts multiple structures dedicated to Catholic worship, including: Iglesia de Santa Bárbara. With an imposing stone and brick facade, this temple was built in 1728. It is the oldest church in the municipality and region, popular for weddings. Its plaza, called “Plazuela de Santa Bárbara,” is adorned with the Cruz del Humilladero at its center. Iglesia de Nuestra Señora de Chiquinquirá is a neoclassical temple located in the Plazuela Martínez Pardo or Plazuela de la Chinca, featuring a monument with two women—an indigenous and a Spanish one—and a tribute to Marshal Robledo above them. Next to this church is the Archiepiscopal Palace. We also recommend visiting Iglesia de San Pedro Claver, San Martín de Porres, Jesús Nazareno, and the Templo de Nuestra Señora del Carmen. Museums of Santa Fe de Antioquia Museo Juan del Corral: Located on Calle de la Amargura, it is the guardian of the city’s historical heritage. This imposing building houses artifacts and documents donated by the community, telling the town’s history through invaluable items. Museo de Arte Religioso Francisco Cristóbal Toro. Its collection includes colonial-era decorative items like gold pieces, paintings, and two rooms dedicated to Holy Week and Mother Laura, Colombia’s only saint, who protected indigenous people and the most vulnerable. Horseback ride to Casa de las Dos Palmas This ecological horseback ride lets you observe the classic Antioquian landscape while learning about the region’s flora and fauna. It ends at a typical “hacienda paisa,” where we recommend exploring the region’s traditional architecture, with original carved wood and leather furniture and rustic artifacts needed for a simple life. Discover: Shopping in Medellín If the architecture surprises you, the most striking aspect of Santa Fe de Antioquia is undoubtedly its people. No one is a stranger here; they’ll welcome you like family, friend, or sibling, always offering guidance, companionship, or a drink. This is why its cultural events are so popular among the thousands of tourists visiting this town: Tamarind Festivals in August. This cultural festival includes activities like exhibitions, dance performances, and everything related to this exotic fruit. Film and Video Festival in December. An open-air cinema celebration, free to attend, promoting conversations and access to the seventh art. Holy Week celebration is a wonderful event where you’ll immerse yourself in the faith of this unique place with its customs and traditions. Fiestas de los Diablitos. During colonial times, enslaved people were granted one rest day per year, leading to a grand festival where they dressed as their masters with masks and capes. After slavery was abolished, this festival was created, celebrated in late December, allowing playful pranks while preserving hand-painted masks. Santa Fe de Antioquia is one of Colombia’s most beautiful and traditional towns, where you can experience firsthand the characteristics of our country’s colonial towns. Don’t miss the chance to be amazed by this town. Learn more about this wonderful region at turismoantioquia.travel


--- [Santa Bárbara - Wikidata] ---
Santa Bárbara (Q1441781) Appearance municipality of the department of Antioquia, Colombia - Santa Barbara | Language | Label | Description | Also known as | |---|---|---|---| | default for all languages | Santa Bárbara | || | English | Santa Bárbara | municipality of the department of Antioquia, Colombia | | Statements Identifiers 1 reference Sitelinks Wikipedia(25 entries) - avkwiki Santa Bárbara (Antioquia) - cebwiki Santa Bárbara (munisipyo sa Kolombiya, Departamento de Antioquia, lat 5,87, long -75,58) - dewiki Santa Bárbara (Antioquia) - enwiki Santa Bárbara, Antioquia - eswiki Santa Bárbara (Antioquia) - fawiki سانتا باربارا (انتیوکیا) - frwiki Santa Bárbara (Antioquia) - glwiki Santa Bárbara, Antioquia - iewiki Santa Bárbara - ilowiki Santa Bárbara, Antioquia - itwiki Santa Bárbara (Antioquia) - kawiki სანტა-ბარბარა (ანტიოკია) - mswiki Santa Bárbara, Antioquia - nlwiki Santa Bárbara (Antioquia) - plwiki Santa Bárbara (Antioquia) - ptwiki Santa Bárbara (Antioquia) - rowiki Santa Bárbara, Antioquia - ruwiki Санта-Барбара (Антьокия) - scowiki Santa Bárbara, Antioquia - svwiki Santa Bárbara (kommun i Colombia, Antioquia, lat 5,87, long -75,58) - tlwiki Santa Bárbara, Antioquia - viwiki Santa Bárbara, Antioquia - warwiki Santa Bárbara, Antioquia - zh_min_nanwiki Santa Bárbara (Antioquia) - zhwiki 聖芭芭拉 (安蒂奧基亞省)


--- [Colombian Heritage Towns: Santa Fé de Antioquia | BnB Colombia Tours] ---
SANTA FÉ DE ANTIOQUIA We work with and recommend booking flights with www.kiwi.com Deep within the Central Cordillera of the Andes in north eastern Colombia, Santa Fé de Antioquia rises more than 1,650 feet/500 meters above sea level, between the Cauca and Tonusco rivers. Founded in 1541 by Jorge Robledo, Santa Fé de Antioquia, originally Villa de Santafé, became the City of Antioquia in 1545 after receiving its coat of arms from King Felipe II of Spain. By 1547, it had been elevated to Parish Church by Popayan’s Archbishop, and seven years later, it became the capital of the surrounding region of Antioquia. In his eagerness to declare these lands part of the Spanish Crown, Robledo inserted the colonial imprint on its architecture, which is still preserved intact today. Santa Fé was the capital of the department of Antioquia until 1826, when the government moved to Medellín. The stunning colonial pueblo of Santa Fé de Antioquia is an easy and scenic drive from Medellín. Santa Fé de Antioquia is one of eighteen Pueblos Patrimonio to be honoured by the Colombian government for their pivotal role in history. There are whitewashed buildings with colourful doors and windows decorated with flowers. The cobblestone streets portray an antique feel to the pueblo. It is truly a beautiful sight to behold. GETTING TO SANTA FÉ DE ANTIOQUIA Santa Fé is situated about 90 minutes north of Medellín by car and easily accessible as a day trip by bus. To get there using public transportation, take a bus from Terminal del Norte in Medellín. Returning to Medellín, buses leave from the small bus terminal, which is located just a short distance from Plaza Mayor Simón Bolívar. CLIMATE AND WEATHER Santa Fé de Antioquia is known for its year-round warm climate, making it a popular weekend getaway. Visitors can enjoy traditional Antioquian cuisine and explore local museums. The climate in Santa Fé de Antioquia remains fairly constant, offering comfortable temperatures throughout the year. Typically, average maximum daytime temperatures range from a comfortable 25c/77f in August to an equally comfortable 23c/73f in the coolest month, January. Nights are cooler, with lows often dropping to around 13c/54f during the cooler months. Santa Fé de Antioquia is known for its substantial rainfall, with annual precipitation reaching 2,983mm/117 inches. However, there is significant variation throughout the year. Expect heavy rainfall in April, with an average of 386mm/15 inches of precipitation over 20 rainy days. In contrast, January offers drier and sunnier days, with around 104mm/4 inches of rainfall over 12 rainy days. Humidity is high year-round. Lightweight tropical cotton clothing is recommended with a wide-brimmed hat and high-factor sunscreen. Good hiking footwear is essential. A light jacket for the evening is a good idea. Santa Fé is at an altitude of 500m/1,640 feet. Santa Fé de Antioquia is a colonial gem that serves as a living museum of Colombia’s history. This former gold mining pueblo charms visitors with its well-preserved architecture and cobblestone streets. Cradled by the lush green vegetation of the surrounding mountains, the cobblestone streets of the historic centre meander past homes dating back to the 16th century that are made of rammed earth, adobe and bahareque (wattle and daub). The Cathedral, constructed in 1797 and additional churches demonstrate the colonial influence of the Catholic Church and the architectural wealth of the pueblo. THINGS TO DO AND SEE The pueblo’s centre piece is the whitewashed Cathedral Basilica of the Immaculate Conception, dominating the main plaza. Surrounding it are colourful colonial houses with wooden balconies, some now converted into boutique hotels, restaurants and artisan shops. Recently renovated, the Plaza Mayor Simón Bolívar Park is in the historic centre of Santa Fé de Antioquia and is the principal meeting place for locals. There are walkways shaded by tall trees with gardens, seats and a fabulous fountain. There are many street stalls that sell arts and crafts as well as the delicious tamarind sweets/candy. On the north eastern side of this plaza is the Cathedral Basilica of the Immaculate Conception. A beautiful church built between 1797 and 1837, in neoclassical Renaissance style, whose central altar and sanctuary are totally gorgeous. The rectangular tower is 47m/154 feet high. In the Sacristy, there are revered pieces of art and jewels. The Cathedral was designed by Fray Domingo de Petrés, who also designed the Bogotá Cathedral. Cathedral Basilica of the Immaculate Conception Semana Santa/Holy Week Processional Carriages Santa Fé de Antioquia has numerous buildings dedicated to the Catholic religion, among which the following are the most interesting: The Church of Santa Bárbara, with an imposing façade made of stone and brick, this church was built in 1728. It is the oldest church in the municipality and is very popular among those wishing to be married. The Church of Our Lady of Chiquinquirá is of a neoclassical design in the Plazuela Martínez Pardo. In the centre of the plaza is a monument displaying two women, one indigenous and one Spanish. Above them, a tribute to Jorge Robledo, founder of Santa Fé. Next to this church is the Archbishop’s Palace. Statue of Juan del Corral The churches of San Pedro Claver, San Martín de Porrés, Jesús Nazareno and Nuestra Señora del Carmen are others worth mentioning. Museums of Santa Fé de Antioquia - Juan del Corral Museum on Calle de la Amargura is the guardian of the city’s historical heritage. It is an imposing building, where articles and documents donated by the community are preserved, which tell the history of the pueblo. The museum exhibits nearly five hundred objects, including documents, colonial art and different archaeological and other pieces in seven rooms. - Francisco Cristóbal Toro Museum of Religious Art has a collection that includes decorative pieces from the colonial era. Items made of gold, paintings and two rooms dedicated to the processions of Semana Santa/Holy Week and Mother Laura. - The goldsmiths of Santa Fé de Antioquia: Wandering along the narrow streets, the sound of a hammer lightly striking metal intrigues the ears. These are the goldsmiths at work. The pieces they carve are true works of art belonging to a tradition dating back more than five centuries. Each of their creations is unique and meticulously assembled from the precious metal extracted from the mines of Santa Fé. So enjoy a privileged moment with one of these jewellers, who will let you discover their technique. Acquire an incredible custom-made piece. Begin organizing your dream Colombian getaway right away by using our Plan My Trip page! Ten minutes from the city centre of Santa Fé de Antioquia, there is the Puente de Occidente, a National Monument, a famous emblem of the pueblo and an architectural icon. The bridge is 291 meters/955 feet long across the Cauca River. Designed by engineer José María Villa in 1887, this suspension bridge brought an economic boom to the region. It connected the residents with the remainder of the country, allowing the flow of goods and passengers to and from the coast to the interior. At the time, this was the longest of its kind on the continent and was initially open only to pedestrians, but was later also opened to light vehicles. Make your Colombian dreams a reality with our Plan My Trip page—begin your journey now! POPULAR CULTURAL EVENTS The pueblo comes alive during its many festivals, including the Festival of Sweets and Typical Cuisine in October, showcasing the region’s culinary traditions. - The Tamarind Festival takes place in August and includes activities such as exhibitions, dance performances and everything and anything related to the tamarind. - An open-air film and video festival is held in December with free admission. - The celebration of Semana Santa/Holy Week is a wonderful time to appreciate the faith of Santa Fé, unique in its customs and traditions. - The Diablitos Festival commemorates slavery in colonial times when slaves were only given one day of rest per year. A big fiesta/party was traditionally held on the day, in which slaves dressed up as their masters with masks and capes. When slavery was finally abolished, this festival was created and is celebrated at the end of December. GASTRONOMY Gastronomy lovers will be able to delight in the authentic flavours of Antioquia cuisine. The pueblo’s traditional dishes showcase the region’s rich agricultural heritage, with fresh produce sourced from nearby farms. The Colombian national dish is the bandeja paisa. This is a typical dish from the region of Antioquia and is composed of beef, ground meat, chicharrón (fried pork belly or rind), chorizo, black beans, rice, fried egg, plantains, arepas, hogao and avocado. Other traditional local specialties include sancocho, a filling broth with chicken or meat with vegetables and obleas, a popular caramel-filled wafer. Complement these local specialties with refreshing fruit juices or a glass of locally produced aguardiente, a distinctive Colombian liquor. The vibrant food scene offers a delightful taste of Santa Fé de Antioquia’s cultural tapestry. Like to create or customize a fantastico package tour of Colombia? Use our Plan My Trip page to start planning your dream Colombian vacation now!


--- [The history of Santa Fe de Antioquia - Spray's World] ---
Santa Fe de Antioquia is a captivating colonial town that makes a perfect day-trip from Medellin. It is the region’s oldest settlement, founded by Jorge Robledo in 1541 on the banks of the river Cauca, and was once the capital of Antioquia. It oozes history. The history of Santa Fe de Antioquia It’s said time stopped when the region’s capital shifted southward from Santa Fe to Medellin in 1826. Indeed the town centre looks much as it did in the 19th century. The town is characterised by narrow cobbled streets with single story white-washed houses, many of which front peaceful courtyards. Attractive carved woodwork adorns the doors and windows along with antioquian brickwork. There are historic churches and charming plazas. The heart of the town is the Plaza Bolivia (formerly Plaza Mayor) with its impressive white cathedral. As I arrive in the later afternoon, it’s alive with activity despite the heat. With a considerably lower elevation (555m) to Medellin, Santa Fe can be hot and sticky. The mainly Colombian tourists amble about and relax below the wooden balconies that surround the square, enjoying the piping vallenato music. I check into my hotel, Caseron del Parque, a mansion built in 1601 directly opposite the cathedral, where the Spanish governors used to stay. Two blocks away, I stumble upon the Iglesia de Santa Barbara, an elegant brick baroque church topped with swirling scrolls. Its three arched wooden doors are wide open, no doubt to help cool down the worshipers. Built by the Jesuits in the 18th century, the poet Julio Vives Guerra called it the ‘grandmother of Antioquian churches’. A further block away, the streets are empty, allowing you to fully appreciate the preserved colonial architecture tranquilly, transporting you back in time. Jorge Robledo, the founder of Santa Fe de Antioquia Robledo was a Spanish conquistador that made his mark in Antioquia. Born of noble origin in Spain, he played a role in the conquest of modern day Guatemala and Peru as well as joining the hunt for the elusive El Dorado. In addition to establishing Santa Fe in 1541, Robledo was involved in the founding of Cali and Popayan, where he was later made mayor. See my post on the history and origin of modern day Colombia to find out more. His end was not so glorious. He was sentenced to beheading by fellow conquistador, Sebastian de Belalcazar, following a dispute over control of the conquered territories. Yet, Robledo is still celebrated in the town: his statue, atop a plint buttressed by a two statuses – one representing a spanish-american woman and the other an indigenous woman – lies in Parque de La Chinca, itself named after the Virgin of Chiquinquirá, patron saint of Colombia. Robledo gives his name to the town’s best hotel, Mariscal Robledo, an attractive colonial style building also off Parque de la Chinca. The spacious rooms include antiques. The Puente de Occidente During the 19th century, Medellin and many parts of Antioquia were isolated and cut off from the sea by the Cauca river, limiting the opportunities to trade. The state government offered generous concessions in order to improve the infrastructure. One such result was the construction of the Puente de Occidente, originally the longest suspension bridge in the Americas when it was completed in 1895. The local engineer in charge – Jose Maria Villa – earned his stripes as part of the team that designed the Brooklyn Bridge, which employed a similar system. In 1978 the bridge was declared a national monument. It’s a 45 minute, mainly uninteresting, walk from town so you’re better off paying for a 30,000 peso round trip. The driver will wait as you walk across. Juan del Corral, the dictator of Antioquia Santa Fe de Antioquia has a number of museums. Its best is the Museo Juan del Corral, a preserved colonial mansion on Calle de la Amargura. It’s a well curated collection of objects that show the history of the towns and region from the pre-colonial period up to and beyond Colombia’s independence. The house across the street was the home of the museum’s namesake Juan del Corral, a local hero. Juan del Corral is considered a Colombian patriot and was an important figure in the nation’s push for independence. At the turn of the 19th century, discontent at Spanish rule grew stronger, particularly relating to new taxes. When Napoleon installed his own brother as the new Spanish king in 1808, many of the colonies refused to recognise the new ruler. As if like dominoes, Colombian regions declared their independence. After an uprising in Bogota in 1810, del Corral was appointed as the Antioquia’s representative for a newly established autonomous body to replace Spanish rule. In 1813, when Antioquia feared an invasion from the Spanish, he was named the dictator of the free state of Antioquia to prepare the region’s defence. In the same year, del Corral proclaimed the declaration of independence to consolidate the state’s rupture from Spain: That the State of Antioquia ignores Fernando VII as its king and any other authority that does not emanate directly from the People, or its Representatives, completely breaking the political union of dependency with the Metropolis and remaining forever separated from the Crown and Government of Spain One of his most important contributions was his proposal of the liberation of children of slaves, which was passed by the Antioquian legislature two weeks after his death in 1814, aged 35. The Fiesta de Los Diablitos Unfortunately I was about a week too late for the town’s most popular festival, the Fiesta de los Diablitos (the party of the little devils). It occurs during the last week of each year, a tradition dating back to 1653 when the landowners wanted to give the slaves a day of rest. The slaves would dress up as Spaniards with colourful costumes, make-up and extravagant hair-styles (unfortunately I assume the devils refers to the slaves rather than the Spanish landowners). The celebration continues today and it includes musical performances, dances, parades and a beauty contest (see my post on the origin of Miss Universe). The participants still dress up wearing clay masks that have been hand-painted by local artists. How to get there There are buses every hour from Medellin, departing from the Terminal del Norte. The journey lasts about an hour and a half and costs 14,000 pesos. - The history of Santa Fe de AntioquiaSanta Fe de Antioquia is a captivating colonial town that makes a perfect day-trip from Medellin. It is the region’s oldest settlement, founded by Jorge Robledo in 1541 on the banks of the river Cauca, and was once the capital of Antioquia. It oozes history. The history of Santa Fe de Antioquia It’s said time stopped […] - The history of Miss UniverseMiss Universe takes place on Saturday the 14th of January at 8pm (GMT -5) in New Orleans, the United States. It is one of the ‘big four’ beauty pageants, which include Miss World, Miss Earth and Miss International. The contest is watched by an estimated half a billion people in over 190 territories. In time […] - When the British tried to invade ColombiaIn 1741, a vast British naval force died in a disastrous attack trying to capture Cartagena. They were repelled by a wily and mutilated Spanish naval commander, named Blas De Lezo, who managed to withstand the invasion with his much smaller force. This is the story of when the British tried to invade Colombia. A […] - First day in Cuba: arrival to Santa ClaraFirst day in Cuba: arrival to Santa Clara – September 25th 2022 It’s the red eye from Toronto. We haven’t slept since the night before. At the check-in desk the air hostess hands us a piece of paper. Hurricane Ian is approaching Cuba. Travel is not recommended. Refunds are available. Groggy with fatigue, we ignore […]
