=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[LucieAwards- Wikipedia]
The LucieAwardsis an annual gala ceremony presented by the Lucie Foundation (a 501 (c)3 non-profit charitable organization), honoringphotographersand their achievements. The Lucies bring togetherphotographersfrom all over the world and pay tribute to their colleagues.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucie_Awards

[Winners | International Photography Awards]
Nicolo Filippo Rosso, Colombia ExodusDeeperPerspectivePhotographerOf theYear, Professional Category Winners View More →
URL: https://www.photoawards.com/winner/?compName=IPA+2020

[Slideshow: Winners of the 2020 Int'l Photography Awards]
Oct 29,2020·We seephotographyat its best--whether covering the COVID pandemic, or the world’s uprising against injustice--the images captured are breathtaking. I can easily say these are the best images I have seen in the last decades,' says Hossein Farmani, IPA’s founder and president.
URL: https://www.dpreview.com/news/0759586804/slideshow-winners-of-the-2020-int-l-photography-awards

[Winners | International Photography Awards]
Chloe Meynier, United States Made in the Shade Fine ArtPhotographerOf theYear, Non-Professional Category Winners View More →
URL: https://www.photoawards.com/winner/index.php?compName=IPA+2020&level=student

[2020 International Photography Awards winners - Capture Mag]
The following photographers are also finalists for the title ofInternationalPhotographeroftheYear, which receives The Lucie Trophy and a $10,000 cash prize.
URL: https://www.capturemag.com.au/news/2020-international-photography-awards-winners


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [LucieAwards- Wikipedia] ---
The Lucie Awards is an annual event honoring achievements in photography, founded in 2003 by Hossein Farmani.
The Lucie Awards is an annual gala ceremony presented by the Lucie Foundation (a 501 (c)3 non-profit charitable organization), honoring photographers and their achievements. The Lucies bring together photographers from all over the world and pay tribute to their colleagues. Every year, the Advisory Board nominates individuals for their contributions to photography across a variety of categories, and once the nominations are tallied, they are pre-announced months before the Lucies.
In addition to honoring photographers, the Lucie Awards also showcase the finalists and winners of the International Photography Awards (Lucie Foundation's sister-effort) annual photography competition, presenting over $22,500 in cash prizes and four distinct titles: The International Photographer of the Year (given to a professional), The Discovery of the Year (awarded to a non-professional), The Deeper Perspective Photographer of the Year (awarded to either a professional or non-professional) and the Moving Image Photographer of the Year (awarded to either a professional or non-professional).
The Lucie Awards also present statues to photographers in six different categories, entitled the Support Category Awards. Those categories acknowledge those integral to crafting an image. They are Book Publisher of the Year, Print Advertising Campaign of the Year, Fashion Layout of the Year, Picture Editor of the Year, Curator/Exhibition of the Year and Photography Magazine of the Year.
In the week leading up to the Lucie Awards, there are exhibitions and artist talks in New York City, including the annual International Photography Awards “Best of Show”, which shows 45 winning images from each calendar year's competition, selected by a different curator each year.


--- [Winners | International Photography Awards] ---
International Photographer of the Year Looking out from Within, 2020 International Photographer of the Year View More → Discovery of the Year In Epicenter of Covid 19 Discovery of the Year View More → Advertising Photographer Of the Year A sustainable future of exquisite luxury mobility Advertising Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Analog / Film Photographer Of the Year New Seas Analog / Film Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Architecture Photographer Of the Year From the stage Architecture Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Book Photographer Of the Year ANTARCTICA: The Waking Giant Book Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Deeper Perspective Photographer Of the Year Exodus Deeper Perspective Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Editorial / Press Photographer Of the Year Pro Democracy Demonstrations, Hong Kong: The Revolution of Our Time Editorial / Press Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Event Photographer Of the Year Elements Event Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Fine Art Photographer Of the Year Looking out from Within, 2020 Fine Art Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Nature Photographer Of the Year Black Mountain Nature Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → People Photographer Of the Year Odilo Lawiny - Handmade soccer balls People Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Special Photographer Of the Year The Silent Menace Special Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Sports Photographer Of the Year THE SHAPE OF THE NFL Sports Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Still in Motion / Video Photographer Of the Year The journey to the land of dreams Still in Motion / Video Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More →


--- [Slideshow: Winners of the 2020 Int'l Photography Awards] ---
Winners of the 2020 Int'l Photography Awards This year's International Photography Awards (IPA) received over 13,000 submissions from 120 countries. Judges selected winners and finalists for 13 categories and they were announced on Tuesday, October 27th. 'In these unprecedented times, this year's entries reflect some of the biggest challenges facing our generation--not the least of which is dealing with a virus which, for the first time, is an event that has affected every person on earth in some way. We see photography at its best--whether covering the COVID pandemic, or the world’s uprising against injustice--the images captured are breathtaking. I can easily say these are the best images I have seen in the last decades,' says Hossein Farmani, IPA’s founder and president. This slideshow contains images from Professional Category winners who received the Lucie Trophy and a $10,000 cash prize. The Non-Professional/Student Finalists for “DISCOVERY OF THE YEAR," who were awarded a Lucie Trophy and $5,000 cash prize, can be found here. The final winners of the Pro and Non-Pro titles will be announced in an online event later this year and will be recognized at the Lucie Trophy at the 2021 Lucie Awards event.


--- [Winners | International Photography Awards] ---
International Photographer of the Year Looking out from Within, 2020 International Photographer of the Year View More → Discovery of the Year In Epicenter of Covid 19 Discovery of the Year View More → Advertising Photographer Of the Year Temple of Colors Advertising Photographer Of the Year, Non-Professional Category Winners View More → Analog / Film Photographer Of the Year Vova's summer evening Analog / Film Photographer Of the Year, Non-Professional Category Winners View More → Architecture Photographer Of the Year Vanishing Lines Architecture Photographer Of the Year, Non-Professional Category Winners View More → Book Photographer Of the Year Uninhabited places Book Photographer Of the Year, Non-Professional Category Winners View More → Deeper Perspective Photographer Of the Year In Epicenter of Covid 19 Deeper Perspective Photographer Of the Year, Non-Professional Category Winners View More → Editorial / Press Photographer Of the Year Say Their Names Editorial / Press Photographer Of the Year, Non-Professional Category Winners View More → Event Photographer Of the Year Muslim Congregation in Dhaka Event Photographer Of the Year, Non-Professional Category Winners View More → Fine Art Photographer Of the Year Made in the Shade Fine Art Photographer Of the Year, Non-Professional Category Winners View More → Nature Photographer Of the Year magnificence of desert Nature Photographer Of the Year, Non-Professional Category Winners View More → People Photographer Of the Year Blackout People Photographer Of the Year, Non-Professional Category Winners View More → Special Photographer Of the Year The Incoming Thunderstorm Special Photographer Of the Year, Non-Professional Category Winners View More → Sports Photographer Of the Year The Maldives: Skydiver Photographer Perspective Sports Photographer Of the Year, Non-Professional Category Winners View More → Still in Motion / Video Photographer Of the Year Psi-Covid-19 Still in Motion / Video Photographer Of the Year, Non-Professional Category Winners View More →


--- [2020 International Photography Awards winners - Capture Mag] ---
2020 International Photography Awards winners Over 13.000 submissions from 120 countries were received for the 2020 International Photography Awards (IPA), and judges have named the winners in the 13 categories in both Professional and Non-Professional/Student divisions. Hossein Farmani, IPA’s founder and president, commented, "In these unprecedented times, this year's entries reflect some of the biggest the challenges facing our generation – not the least of which is dealing with a virus which, for the first time, is an event that has affected every person on Earth in some way. We see photography at its best – whether covering the COVID pandemic, or the world’s uprising again injustice – the images captured are breathtaking. I can easily say these are the best images I have seen in the last decades." In order to support and honour the outstanding work of both professional and amateur photographers around the world during the COVID-19 crisis, International Photo Awards will match the cash prizes that are awarded to the Category Winners this year with an equal cash donation to the charity of the winning photographer’s choice in their community. IPA 2020 Professional Category Winners The following photographers are also finalists for the title of International Photographer of the Year, which receives The Lucie Trophy and a $10,000 cash prize. - Mike Dodd (Advertising) – A sustainable future of exquisite luxury mobility. - Paulius Makauskas (Analog/Film) – New Seas. - Jesús M.Chamizo (Architecture) – From the stage. - Sebastian Copeland (Book) – ANTARCTICA: The Waking Giant. - Nicolo Filippo Rosso (Deeper Perspective) – Exodus. - Kiran Ridley (Editorial/Press) – Pro Democracy Demonstrations, Hong Kong: The Revolution of Our Time. - Katja Ogrin (Event) – Elements. - Julia Fullerton-Batten (Fine Art) – Looking out from Within, 2020. - Ari Rex (Nature) – Black Mountain. - Brian Hodges (People) – Odilo Lawiny - Handmade soccer balls. - Toby Heikkila (Special) – The Silent Menace. - Howard Schatz (Sports) – Bodies of the NFL. - Iwona Podlasinska (Still in Motion/Video) – The journey to the land of dreams. IPA 2020 Non-Professional/Student Category Winners The following photographers are also finalists for the title of Discovery of the Year, which receives The Lucie Trophy and $5,000 cash prize. - Rebeka Legovic (Advertising) – Temple of Colors. - Elena Litvinova (Analog/Film) – Vova's summer evening. - Peter Li (Architecture) – Vanishing Lines. - Teodelina Detry (Book) – Uninhabited places. - F. Dilek Uyar (Deeper Perspective) – In Epicenter of Covid 19. - Tim Evans (Editorial/Press) – Say Their Names. - Wei Fu (Event) – Muslim Congregation in Dhaka. - Chloe Meynier (Fine Art) – Made in the Shade. - Babak Mehrafshar (Nature) – Magnificence of desert. - Hossein Fardinfard (People) – Blackout. - Aaron Chuo (Special) – The Incoming Thunderstorm. - Augusto Bartelle (Sports) – The Maldives: Skydiver Photographer Perspective. - Simone Francescangeli (Still in Motion/Video) – Psi-Covid-19. Winners of Photographer of the Year for the Professional categories and Discovery of the Year for the Non-professional/Student categories will be announced later this year. Along with the Category Winners, IPA also revealed the recipients of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd prize in each of the competition’s sub-categories, and Honorable Mentions from across both professional and amateur entries. The full list of this year’s winners can be viewed on the IPA website. Get more stories like this delivered free to your inbox. Sign up here.
