=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Minor Characters | Transistor Wiki | Fandom]
October 29, 2024 -A chyronon a terminal south of Goldwalk Promenade, dated 06-25-67 at 15:48, reads "Baudelere Unveils New Model-9 PWC." Red commandeers a Baudelere Type-8 PWC from the pier at the Empty Set.
URL: https://transistor.fandom.com/wiki/Minor_Characters

[Sybil Reisz | Transistor Wiki | Fandom]
January 9, 2026 -The invitation, which can be viewed on an easily missed OVC Terminal in Goldwalk Promenade, is Sybil's first appearance in the game, but despiteRed and Unknown's recent run-in with her, they do not remark on the author of the post.
URL: https://transistor.fandom.com/wiki/Sybil_Reisz

[Cloudbank | Transistor Wiki | Fandom]
January 9, 2026 -A prevailing fan theory is that Cloudbank is not really a city, but a virtual simulation, or some other world inside of a computer system. There are a great deal of computer-related motifs in the game ("firewalls," "terminals" and "administrators" to name a few), including the name of the city itself ("cloud" computing can take place over a data "bank"). When Red and the Transistor visit Junction Jan's in the Goldwalk district, they are able to use an OVC terminal to order takeout food - but there is no mention of paying for it.
URL: https://transistor.fandom.com/wiki/Cloudbank

[OVC Terminal - Transistor Wiki]
Posted 06-28-67 09:88 byAmelia Garbur, Associate Editor ... One of Cloudbank's most influential voices has gone silent amid the 'Process' epidemic spreading through the city unchecked.
URL: https://transistor-archive.fandom.com/wiki/OVC_Terminal

[Part 1 - Transistor Guide - IGN]
December 23, 2014 -After saving, head South into the Goldwalk Channel. Battle: You've got several Weeds here, and a Jerk 2.0 who will move faster once he is below 50% health. Afte defeating the jerk, you will likely get your next level up. Choose whichever function you prefer and head to where the Jerk appeared for a quick story piece. Head northeast and you'll come across an access point you can use to swap in your new function, save your progress and continue. There is also a working OVC Terminal to use before leaving the area.
URL: https://www.ign.com/wikis/transistor/Part_1


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Minor Characters | Transistor Wiki | Fandom] ---
Minor characters are named characters whose faces do not appear in the game. Baudelere[] Baudelere is a company that builds speedboats. A chyron on a terminal south of Goldwalk Promenade, dated 06-25-67 at 15:48, reads "Baudelere Unveils New Model-9 PWC." Red commandeers a Baudelere Type-8 PWC from the pier at the Empty Set. Coby Tessel[] Coby Tessel is the manager of the Empty Set. On 04/22/67 at 20:41, Tessel posted a final-round poll to choose whether Red or Facsimile would headline the venue next month. The poll can be accessed at the OVC Terminal in the Empty Set. Facsimile[] Facsimile was downtown Cloudbank's hottest act. They made it to the final round of voting for next month's headlining act at the Empty Set, losing to Red. If the player is connected to the internet, the results of the poll are determined via the votes of other players. Red currently always wins the poll, though dialogue from Unknown does exist and is programmed to be played in the situation that Facsimile is winning. The poll can be accessed at the OVC Terminal in the Empty Set. Highrise Hammers[] The Highrise Hammers are a sports team whose troubled star quarterfielder, Olmarq, is reported to have recently retired. They are the challengers in the pennant play-offs against the Sunset Clientele. An 06/27/67 post by Amelia Garbur, available on a terminal near the Selection Office, notes the Central Authority's unexplained postponement of their upcoming match, assuring ticket holders of a complimentary gift and resumption of the season soon. Red, a Hammers fan, comments at the terminal that there is "no way the Clientele are going to beat us anyway." Q. Precht[] The body of Q. Precht, a person with a patient disposition, is found in the Amphitheater Parkway outside the Empty Set. Precht explains to Unknown that he had been wiped out by "the Process." Unlike Lillian Platt and Preston Moyle, Precht is already 84% processed and "too far gone" for his Trace to be integrated. Though no Function is associated with him, he is the first person to refer to the Process by name. Leftover strings in the game's scripts suggest Load() was originally Q. Precht's Trace's Function. Sunset Clientele[] The Sunset Clientele are the defending champions in the pennant play-offs against the Highrise Hammers. An 06/27/67 post by Amelia Garbur, available on a terminal near the Selection Office, notes the Central Authority's unexplained postponement of their upcoming match, assuring ticket holders of a complimentary gift and resumption of the season soon. Red, a Hammers fan, comments at the terminal that there is "no way the Clientele are going to beat us anyway." Walther Nees[] Walther Nees is a Chief Inspector in Cloudbank. According to an 06/26/67 post by Amelia Garber, Nees had praised the 18th Precinct's work investigating problems that had led to the evacuation of Goldwalk, calling the investigation "the most thorough procedure ever conducted on my watch."


--- [Sybil Reisz | Transistor Wiki | Fandom] ---
"Sybil Reisz, life of the party. She was bad news from the first." --Unknown Sybil Reisz is a major antagonist in Transistor. She was a popular event planner in Cloudbank and was secretly a member of the Camerata. Her disposition was meticulous, and her Trace carried the Help() Function. Her projects included planning Cloudbank's 67th Annual Fashion Week. She was involved in an incident involving Red (therefore the first member of the Camerata to face Red and Transistor) on the Empty Set and afterwards fell foul of the Process, registering as 98% processed by the time Red confronted her again. Reisz was voiced by Kristin Wilson, who also provided voice work for Red. Function Files[] Background[] Known in elite social circles throughout Cloudbank, Ms. Sybil Reisz organized many of the city's popular public events, from ground-breaking ceremonies to contemporary festivals. She was everywhere, and yet somehow she made time to lead a second, hidden life. As one of the Camerata, Ms. Reisz was responsible for gathering information about potential high-value targets, people who could contribute for their cause. She did this job to perfection, drawing no notice, though one target in particular caused her much frustration. Meeting Red[] Ms. Reisz met Red while putting together a small program for up-and-coming artists, and became infatuated first with Red's music then with her. According to diary entries there was something inscrutable and confident about Red that Ms. Reisz could not explain. However, Ms. Reisz was frustrated to find that Red grew increasingly distant. Through all this, Ms. Reisz observed the aloofness of one of Red's companions, and decided he must have been insinuating Red against her. Ms. Reisz considered various ways to rectify this. Recommendations[] One night Ms. Reisz nominated Red as a target for her Camerata colleagues, citing Red's surging popularity in the city and her unusual set of selections. Red could substantially advance the Camerata's agenda, and was not yet so ubiquitous that her sudden disappearance couldn't be sufficiently disguised. Ms. Reisz promised that the Camerata could get to Red at a time when she would be completely alone. Trace data reveals an 85% chance she falsified this claim. Backstory[] Despite Sybil's perfect record in scoping and spying the Camerata's assimilation targets, her emotions and obsession for Red ultimately led to her downfall, directly triggering the beginning events of the game. While Sybil's sexuality is never directly addressed, it is heavily implied that Sybil was in (unrequited) love with Red, based on her trace data, behavior and dialogue during the boss battle, and the lyrics to In Circles (which plays during the battle). She lied to her associates about Red being alone to try to get rid of Red's lover. While her plan succeeded (against the cabal's wishes), the Camerata lost control of The Process. Either distraught by the outcome or foolishly believing that her relationship would somehow pan out, Sybil waits for Red at the Auditorium, where The Process eventually takes her. When Red finally encounters Sybil at the auditorium, Sybil has been 98% processed and is almost completely insane as a result. Sybil lashes out and attacks Red. She ultimately fails in the ensuing fight and is defeated. Following her defeat, Red absorbs Sybil's Trace into the Transistor and discovers the whereabouts of the three remaining Camerata members, and she heads downtown to the High Rise. Confrontation[] The encounter with Sybil at the Empty Set is the game's first boss fight. Sybil, as a Process, behaves similarly to the Youngladies. She is able to fire multiple laser beams and has a particularly strong charge attack with her parasol-turned-spear. However, if Red is able to use Jaunt and Breach, none of these attacks are particularly threatening, especially since Sybil cannot teleport at the same rate as Youngladies can. As the fight progresses, Sybil will draw Weeds, Creeps, and new cover terrain into the arena. Fighting her is a matter of cleaning up the arena while avoiding her charge attacks, then focusing on Sybil herself. The fight has three phases, providing Sybil with 1,000 hit points each. In Recursion mode, this is increased to 1,600 hit points each. Trivia[] - Sybil posted an invitation to Cloudbank's 67th Annual Fashion Week on 06-25-67 at 15:48, promising a three-day extravaganza over eight square blocks from Goldwalk Boulevard through Halcyon Street, featuring "more than 275 Local and Exotic Brands!" The invitation, which can be viewed on an easily missed OVC Terminal in Goldwalk Promenade, is Sybil's first appearance in the game, but despite Red and Unknown's recent run-in with her, they do not remark on the author of the post. - In Circles, a song by Red, plays during Red's fight with Sybil. During the first phase of the fight, the song features Red's vocals and humming. In the second phase, the vocals become mixed with an autotuned, synthesized version of the same vocal track titled _n C_rcl_s. By the third phase, the completely synthetic vocals dominate. This song's changing tone and its desolate lyrics parallel Sybil's decline into the Processed monster that Red must now defeat. - Unknown recognized Sybil when the Camerata came for Red, and mused that after their "run-in," she remained there until he and Red returned. He described Sybil as the "life of the party" and seemed surprised when she "lost her damn mind" at the Empty Set, but also said she was "bad news from the first." Sybil could also hear his voice from within the Transistor during their fight, providing further confirmation that she had been aquainted with him as well as Red before he died. - Her dialog suggests that she intended to "save" Red from the Camerata, thus winning her favor after their disposal of Unknown, though this goal conflicts with the reasons she gave her colleagues to collect Red's Trace. Her intent to "save" Red contrasts with the lyrics of In Circles, where Red sings, "But I won't save you." However, after being defeated, Sybil's Trace reads as "Processed 0%," a far cry from the high percentage recorded before the battle, suggesting that in defeat she was indeed "saved" from the infection that had overtaken her. - Once defeated, Sybil crawls slowly toward the right side of the stage, moving in the direction of the lower right corner of the screen. She continues trying to crawl even if blocked by Process pillars or the edge of the battle area, and will continue in the same direction if intervening pillars are removed. Red cannot exit the arena until Sybil is killed and her Trace is integrated into the Transistor. - After Sybil's defeat, Backdoors to the Sandbox become available. The solitary island space, with its hammock, beachball, music player, and tame Fetch, provide a new window into Sybil's character. - A chyron associated with a news post by Amelia Garbur, dated 06-28-67 01:33, reads, "Event Planner Sybil Reisz a Suspect in Empty Set Case?" - Dialog suggests that Grant Kendrell's fate stemmed from not wanting to "end up like Sybil." - Sybil Reisz's Trace Bank is the leftmost unit in the lowest row, numbered 103. - Sybil's Processed form is internally referred to as 'Berserker.' - Darren Korb cited her as a character he liked a lot.[1] - Her Steam Trading Card reads "Known in elite social circles throughout Cloudbank, she organized many of the city's popular public events." Related Achievments[] | Icon | Name | How to Obtain | |---|---|---| | Reisz() | Confront Sybil at the Empty Set. | - List of Achievements Gallery[] References[] - ↑ Transistor Devs Q&A. Archived by the Wayback Machine; retrieved 04 August 2024.


--- [Cloudbank | Transistor Wiki | Fandom] ---
"Everybody has a voice in Cloudbank." --Reveal Trailer Cloudbank is the city in which the majority of Transistor takes place. It is home to Red, the Camerata, and all the other characters of the game, and is under attack from the Process. Architecture[] Cloudbank is a densely populated urban area, with many tall buildings packed closely together. The city has multiple vertical layers, connected by staircases and gondolas. Some blocks are connected by bridges suspended in the sky, and there are highways running through the city. The buildings feature a menagerie of design styles, but equilateral triangles serve as somewhat of a common design element, as it does throughout the game. Politics[] The city is overseen by Cloudbank Central Administration and operated on a completely democratic basis. Popular votes, carried out via OVC terminals, dictate every aspect of Cloudbank's environs. If the people vote for a building to change shape, or for the sky to change color, or the weather to be different, it will happen. While the voting system attempts to ensure that "everyone has a voice," some citizens choose to be nonvoters and marginal perspectives with fewer voteshares can end up sidelined, potential problems which Niola Chein attempted to solve through education and activism in her district. The ubiquity of the system also colored the city's history with transience and volatility, leading to the formation of the Camerata, a group disillusioned by how quickly public opinion could foment change. The city as a whole appears to be "in the midst of some cultural/generational changes."[1] Districts[] Cloudbank, being a very large area, has several districts. Not every area is accessible through gameplay, but many are explorable. Goldwalk[] Goldwalk is the northwestern district of the city. The area features the Empty Set and Junction Jan's, as well as the Canals District with its seventeen public houses. The suitor of famous skypainter Farrah Yon-Dale lived in Goldwalk, and numerous community improvement efforts by resident Niola Chein included the controversial opening of the Goldwalk Channel. Highrise[] A neighboring district to Goldwalk, Highrise is the home of Red and the Highrise Hammers, including their troubled star quarterfielder, Olmarq. The district is far from the water. Other notable features include Traverson Hall, the Annex Building, and Bracket Towers, home of Central Administration. A planned metro from Highrise to Goldwalk was outvoted in favor of the Goldwalk Channel, drawing ire from those who wanted the bridge. Fairview[] Fairview Island, accessible only by air and sea, is known as Cloudbank's most secluded and beautiful getaway. There is a petition for a footbridge to Fairview from the southeast edge of Goldwalk Bay. Sunset[] Sunset is home to the Sunset Clientele. It is the only district never visited in the game. Sandbox[] The Sandbox, accessible via backdoors throughout the town, is a private island created by Sybil Reisz. It functions at a remove from the rest of Cloudbank, having its own internal ecosystem and being shielded from the effects of the Spine. A Virtual World?[] - A prevailing fan theory is that Cloudbank is not really a city, but a virtual simulation, or some other world inside of a computer system. There are a great deal of computer-related motifs in the game ("firewalls," "terminals" and "administrators" to name a few), including the name of the city itself ("cloud" computing can take place over a data "bank"). - When Red and the Transistor visit Junction Jan's in the Goldwalk district, they are able to use an OVC terminal to order takeout food - but there is no mention of paying for it. In fact, there is no mention of money being used for anything in Cloudbank - people's careers seem to exist only to occupy their time or describe their ambitions. We see no poverty or class struggle; everyone seems to coexist with little or no conflict. This may imply that currency is not used at all, and possibly may never have been used in Cloudbank. In this way, Cloudbank is a strange opposite to the typically dark dystopia found in similar cyberpunk fiction. Instead, it is a post-scarcity society. - All of the Transistor's powers are named as if they were programming functions, right down to the parentheses. Breach(), for example, would be valid syntax in most programming languages for calling or defining a nullary function named Breach. - When a fight ends in Transistor, the line "Process Terminated" appears. In software programming, a process is an instance of a computer program that is being executed, i.e. being actively run by the CPU. To terminate a process is to stop it before it completes. - By that reckoning, the Process could be some kind of malware or computer virus, set loose upon the system, and determined to erase everything on it (much like formatting a hard drive). Late in the game, Royce explains that the Process are the original forces responsible for the constant changing of the city, though the question of how, or where they came from, is never explored. - The citizens themselves may not even be human, since their Traces (essentially their "souls") can be downloaded and stored on the Transistor as if they were data, without need for their bodies to exist. Additionally, "trace" is a programming term for a record of all the steps taken by an individual program. Gallery[] - ↑ Transistor Devs Q&A. Archived by the Wayback Machine; retrieved 04 August 2024.


--- [OVC Terminal - Transistor Wiki] ---
The OVC Terminal are locations on the map which when activated enable you view daily updates that are happening in The City of Cloudbank, as well as to make adjustments, order food and more! Some OVC Interactions[] Hungry? Grab a Bite! Satisfy your craving with a complimentary Junction Jan's Gourmet Flatbread! Posted 06-26-67 19:40 by Junction Jan's Please select your meal preference: - SUPREMO DELUXE - HARVEST GARDEN - SEA MONSTER - MYSTERY JAN'S Blue Skies are a Choice Help create an unforgettable quarterly solstice by choosing your favorite evening sky color! Posted 06-27-67 04:41 by Highrise Community Forum Popular color choices in the Highrise district: - COBALT BLUE - DEEP RED - SEA GREEN - BURNT ORANGE (Accessing the terminal Transistor says "The sky looks blue because we want it to.") (Upon selecting 'Cobalt Blue', Transistor responds "See?"; 'Deep Red', "Still the best."; 'Sea Green', "Green!? Nice."; and 'Burnt Orange' "Orange? Okay.") URGENT: Immediate Response Requested Your input is needed to expedite relief in case of emergency. Posted 06-28-67 02:01 by Cloudbank Central Authority Central Authority urges all individuals to provide relocation preferences as soon as possible. - NARROW SEARCH - HIGHER QUALITY - WIDE SEARCH - MORE RESULTS URGENT: List of Known 'Process' Symptoms Are you or anyone you know experiencing any of the following? Posted 06-28-67 03:19 by Cloudbank Central Authority Known Symptoms of Process Infections - SKIN PALLOR - FEVER - FORGETFULNESS - FATIGUE (Upon selecting 'Forgetfulness', Transistor remarks that "You never forget."; 'Skin Pallor', "You look fine."; 'Fever', "I hope you're joking."; and 'Fatigue' "You just need a rest.") Monstrosity Attacks Bracket Towers Eyewitness reports confirm presence of a massive organism in downtown Cloudbank. Posted 06-28-67 01:33 by Amelia Garbur, Associate Editor DEVELOPING A huge serpentine creature was seen clinging to Bracket Towers South in the Highrise district early this morning, amid spreading panic and devastation caused by the Process outbreak ravaging the city. Administration warns that the creature is extremely dangerous and is to be avoided at all costs. The 18th Precinct is launching a full-scale effort to draw the creature away from populated centers. Any residents remaining in Highrise are urged to leave the area immediately. [Post Comment?] (results in a brief conversation between Red and Transistor) > Hey. It's me. It's me. Are you still there? Answer me. "Red, I...what...? > Look we're going to get ourselves out of this OK? "OK...OK...I...yeah. > Hold on you just try to hold on all right? "I'm trying...I'm trying..." > Hold on, you have to hold on, I'm going to......... (Red deletes this comment) "Go get 'em..." > I'm going to find the thing that's doing this and I'm going to break its heart. "I believe you..." Red, 27, Mourned as 'Process' Toll Climbs Vigil held for popular musician after she vanished in the week's catastrophic outbreak. Posted 06-28-67 09:88 by Amelia Garbur, Associate Editor IN MEMORY One of Cloudbank's most influential voices has gone silent amid the 'Process' epidemic spreading through the city unchecked. Red became active as a musician from a young age, though her popularity surged in recent years, as her songs consistently charted in the top tenth percentile for the past five years according to OVC data. While Red is but one of thousands of disappearance this week, thousands more gathered to honor her life and her music on the eastern perimeter, as the sound of her voice cut through the darkness. [Post Comment?] (results in a brief conversation between Red and the Transistor) > None of this is coming through anymore is it... "I think you're right." > Though you still hear me don't you.... "Of course. Of course I do." > You're all I have. "Red..." > There has to be (Red deletes this comment, then starts over) > There has to be a way to get you out of there. "We'll figure it out when we get there. > Yes we will. Farewell to Cloudbank One reporter's eyewitness account of the city's final hours. Posted 06-28-67 by Amelia Garbur, Associate Editor EDITORIAL As I stand here on the eastern perimeter awaiting the inevitable, I am surrounded by my community, and I am at peace. It has been my honor and my privilege helping spread the news of the day among the people of this city, and my only regret is having no more time to share with you all. To the west I see nothing, and to the east there is nothing, and so we wait, together, shoulder to shoulder. We will not leave our fair city under any circumstance. I suspect even the Process has figured that out by now. Farewell. [Post Comment?] > ....Is everyone "How about we get out of here..." (Red deletes most of her comment) > ... Junction Jan's is Closing its Doors Circumstances beyond our control! Have one last flatbread -- on the house! Posted 06-28-67 01:00 by Junction Jan's | The City | | Red | The Process | The Transistor | Cloudbank | Sandbox | Backdoors | Locations | OVC Terminal | Junction Jan's | Access Points | Fairview | Camerata | The Story | The Country | The Spine of the World |


--- [Part 1 - Transistor Guide - IGN] ---
Checklists Part 1 In Part 1 of Transistor, after screeching to a halt, the bike is useless and you are now on your own to get to the Empty Set. The first thing you'll come across is process in boxes. Battle: The Creep in this attack has leveled up and when you take your turn, his improvements will be revealed. There are also a number of Bad cells, but they can be taken out quickly and easily. Keep your distance from the creeps and use the white columns for cover. Head North and you'll come across a few story locations, Junction Jan's and the OVC Food Terminal further North. Choose a food option and you'll be greeted with: Battle: Creep 2.0 and a few regenerative Weed process. The close quarters should work in your favor. Just continue to hide behidnd the white columns when the Creep shoots his laser attack. After the battle, you'll want to head west, the alley just North of Jan's. Here you will come across your first section of fertile ground and you will be prompted to "Flourish". Flourishing is a quite beautiful character animation in which Red will throw the Transistor in the air and spin herself in the air. The animation is neat but the fertile ground will restore your health. Head north and you'll find yourself an access point. After saving, head South into the Goldwalk Channel. Battle: You've got several Weeds here, and a Jerk 2.0 who will move faster once he is below 50% health. Afte defeating the jerk, you will likely get your next level up. Choose whichever function you prefer and head to where the Jerk appeared for a quick story piece. Head northeast and you'll come across an access point you can use to swap in your new function, save your progress and continue. There is also a working OVC Terminal to use before leaving the area. The OVC Terminals are the only place you'll see Red express herself. Head around the corner and you'll pop back to the fertile lands north of Jan's. You will go north from there to find your next fight. Battle:Unfortunately, the area is packed with Weeds and you'll have two Creep 2.0's to deal with. Use whatever AoE attacks you have to make a whole in the room to set up your base of operations and use cover whenever possible. You can use the access point at the top of the room before continuing through the passthrough. The transistor warns you, but you're in the clear for now. On your way up, stop to the right to activate a story point by the waterway. Continue up from there and you'll find your next fight. Battle: A new process is introduced here in the form of a Cheerleader. The cheeleader will protect other process from attack, so you will want to take it out first. Then you can worry about the two Creeps that accompanied it. Hit of the access point before going to the ampitheater parkway. The body of Q. Precht (as well as a new function) lay on the ground in the south of the parkway. Collect the essence and the continue into the middle of the room to confront the process that took him out. Battle: Here you have quite a few Weeds to deal with, along with one or two Cheerleaders and of course the Younglady. She has twice the firepower, so don't let her get you in her sights. Stay away and use your ranged attacks. Once you take her out, be sure to get ready to collect those cells so the don't turn bad. Just off to the left of the battle is the Box Office. Head in and you'll find a working OVC Terminal. Share your thoughts and head back out. Just above the box office, there are a few promo materials that you'll want to activate before progressing. Follow the long hallway up to the access point before the stairs. Save and continue down the stairs to the empty set. There is a working OVC Terminal at the bottom of the stairs that you can use to vote on future acts for teh venue. Follow the path and it will lead you to the main stage. The beautiful lights focus on the center stage and the microphone. Follow the prompt to begin humming and it will trigger the moving still cinematic that tells the story of the actions of the Camarata and the start of Red's and the transistor's tale. You'll awaken in a flashback to the beginning of the game and will need to collec tthe transistor again. This time the OVC Terminal is active, so use it. Listen as the transistor calls out for you and head to the body to grab it. This is where the story began, and gives a better sense of who si in the transistor. Once you grab it, the transistor will continue to speak and you will return to the present day, standing on the empty set stage and confronted by the firt member of the Camarata, Sybil Reisz.
