=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ludwig Bieberbach - Wikipedia]
He began working as a Privatdozent at Königsberg in 1910 and as Professor ordinarius at the University of Basel in 1913. He taught at the University of Frankfurt in 1915 and the University of Berlin from 1921–45. Bieberbach wrote a habilitation thesis in 1911 about groups of Euclidean motions ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ludwig_Bieberbach

[Ludwig Bieberbach (1886 - 1982) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics]
In the following year, on 25 March, he married Johanna (Hannah) Friederike Stoermer (1882-1955); they had four sons, Georg Ludwig (born 1915), Joachim (born 1916), Ulrich (born 1918) and Ruprecht (born 1922).
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Bieberbach/

[Ludwig Bieberbach - Scientific Lib]
Ludwig Georg Elias Moses Bieberbach (December 4, 1886 - September 1, 1982) was a German mathematician. Biography Born in Goddelau, near Darmstadt, he studied at Heidelberg and under Felix Klein at Göttingen, receiving his doctorate in 1910. His dissertation was titled On the theory of automorphic functions (German: Theorie der automorphen Funktionen). He began working as a Privatdozent at ...
URL: https://www.scientificlib.com/en/Mathematics/Biographies/LudwigBieberbach.html

[Person: Bieberbach, Ludwig Georg Elias Moses]
Bieberbach was appointed professor of mathematics in Basel in Switzerland in 1913 and gave an inaugural address Über die Grundlagen der modernen Mathematik Ⓣ(On the foundations of modern mathematics) on the foundations of mathematics.
URL: https://bookofproofs.github.io/history/19th-century/bieberbach.html

[Grokipedia: Ludwig Bieberbach]
Bieberbach completed his doctorate ... the University of Königsberg, where he lectured on topics in analysis and geometry.[5] In 1913, he was appointed as a full professor (Ordinarius) of mathematics at the University of Basel ...
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Ludwig_Bieberbach


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ludwig Bieberbach - Wikipedia] ---
Ludwig Georg Elias Moses Bieberbach (German: [ˈbiːbɐbax]; 4 December 1886 – 1 September 1982) was a German mathematician and leading representative of National Socialist German mathematics ("Deutsche Mathematik").


--- [Ludwig Bieberbach (1886 - 1982) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics] ---
Ludwig Georg Elias Moses Bieberbach Quick Info Goddelau, Darmstadt in Hessen, Germany Oberaudorf in Oberbayern, Germany Biography Ludwig Bieberbach's father was Eberhard Sebastian Bieberbach (1848-1943), who was a medical doctor, and his mother was Karoline (Lina) Ludwig, the daughter of Georg Ludwig who was also a medical doctor. Georg Ludwig was the director of the mental hospital in Heppenheim, founded in 1866, and in 1897 his son-in-law Eberhard Bieberbach took over from him as director of the mental hospital. The Bieberbach family was well-off and, up to the age of eleven, Ludwig was taught by private tutors. In 1905 he entered the Humanistic Gymnasium in Bensheim, a town very close to Heppenheim. Ludwig became interested in mathematics when studying at this Gymnasium, inspired by an excellent mathematics teacher. After completing his studies at the Gymnasium in 1905 and being awarded a certificate for university entrance, he undertook military service for a year (1905-06) stationed in Heidelberg. While he was on his military service, he attended a course of lectures on the theory of functions given by Leo Königsberger at the University of Heidelberg and was enthused both by the material and by the high quality of Königsberger's lecturing. Bieberbach decided to look at the list of announcements of mathematics courses given in different universities which appeared in the Jahresbericht der Deutschen Mathematiker-Vereinigung and, after studying the possibilities, decided that Hermann Minkowski's course on 'Invariant theory' at the University of Göttingen looked the most attractive. Although Göttingen was the leading centre for mathematics at this time, that was not the reason Bieberbach chose to go there, for he was totally unaware of its reputation when he made his decision.At Göttingen there was an enthusiastic atmosphere for research which had a great influence on Bieberbach. He attended the algebra course by Minkowski which had brought him there, but he was influenced even more strongly by Felix Klein and his lectures on elliptic functions. Another strong influence on the direction of Bieberbach's mathematical interests came from Paul Koebe who was only four years older than Bieberbach. Koebe, an expert on complex function theory, become a dozent at Göttingen in 1907 and also encouraged Bieberbach towards analysis. It was under Klein's direction that Bieberbach researched into automorphic functions for his doctorate which was awarded in 1910 for his thesis Zur Theorie der automorphen Funktionen Ⓣ. Another of the dozents at Göttingen was Ernst Zermelo and in 1910 he was chosen to fill the professorship at Zürich left vacant when Erhard Schmidt moved to Erlangen. He was allowed to appoint a young mathematician to assist him, and he asked Bieberbach if he would go to Zürich with him. Already Bieberbach had gained a reputation for his contribution to one of Hilbert's problems. The first part of Hilbert's eighteenth problem asks whether there are only finitely many essentially different space groups in -dimensional Euclidean space. Arthur Schönflies had been asked by Klein in the late 1880s to investigate the crystallographic space groups and he had classified those in dimensions 2 and 3 in 1891. In 1908, while Bieberbach was Klein's research student, he had been asked by Klein to give lectures on Schönflies's results. From that time on he became interested in answering the first part of Hilbert's eighteenth problem, namely generalising Schönflies's results to dimensions, He succeeded in 1910 and in that year announced his result with a sketch of the proof. Soon after he arrived in Zürich, Bieberbach left to go to the University of Königsberg where Schönflies, who was the professor there, had arranged a teaching position for him. There he worked out the details of his solution to the first part of Hilbert's eighteenth problem publishing them in two papers Über die Bewegungsgruppen der Euklidischen Räume Ⓣ (1911, 1912). He submitted this work to Zürich as his habilitation thesis in 1911. Answering a question from Hilbert's famous collection certainly gave the young Bieberbach an international reputation. Bieberbach was appointed professor of mathematics in Basel in Switzerland in 1913 and gave an inaugural address Über die Grundlagen der modernen Mathematik Ⓣ on the foundations of mathematics. In the following year, on 25 March, he married Johanna (Hannah) Friederike Stoermer (1882-1955); they had four sons, Georg Ludwig (born 1915), Joachim (born 1916), Ulrich (born 1918) and Ruprecht (born 1922). By the time their first son Georg Ludwig was born, on 29 October, Bieberbach had moved to Frankfurt am Main where he had been appointed to the second chair at the new university. Schönflies who had been appointed to the first chair of mathematics at Frankfurt am Main in 1914, the year that the university opened, strongly supported Bieberbach for the second chair. He had also been supported by Georg Frobenius who described him as [1]:- ... someone who attacks, with his unusual mathematical acuity, always the deepest and most difficult problems, and might be the most sharp-witted and penetrating thinker of his generation.One has to add that Frobenius had a very close knowledge of Bieberbach's work for he too had studied the first part of Hilbert's eighteenth problem, had simplified Bieberbach's first paper on the topic, and had produced ideas which had led Bieberbach to further results. Prior to his appointment, in 1914 Bieberbach had studied the polynomials that are now named after him, which approximate a function that conformally maps a given simply-connected domain onto a disc. Of course World War I began in July of 1914 but, although Bieberbach had done military training ten years earlier, he was not called for military service being unfit on health grounds. It was while Bieberbach was at Frankfurt that he produced the Bieberbach Conjecture for which he is best known today. The Conjecture, which appears as a footnote in his 1916 paper Über die Koeffizienten derjenigen Potenzreihen, welche eine schlichte Abbildung des Einheitskreises vermitteln Ⓣ states a necessary condition on a holomorphic function to map the open unit disk of the complex plane injectively to the complex plane. More precisely, he conjectured that if is a conformal mapping of a unit disk on any domain and , then . In the 1916 paper Bieberbach showed that , and Charles Loewner showed in 1923. When Loewner did this Bieberbach told him he had joined the "realm of the immortals". After many years of slow but steady progress, the Conjecture was finally proved by Louis de Branges in 1985. Certainly around the time he made his conjecture, there is considerable evidence that Bieberbach was not greatly liked as a person since he thought so highly of himself. A nice comment in a letter Albert Einstein wrote to Max Born in 1919 says [8]:- Herr Bieberbach's love and admiration for himself and his muse is most delightful.However, he continued to increase his influence in German mathematics, becoming secretary of the Deutschen Mathematiker-Vereinigung (German Mathematical Society) in 1920 and having his article New investigations concerning Functions of a Complex Variable published in the Encyklopädie der Mathematischen Wissenschaften Ⓣ. Frobenius died in 1917 following which his chair at the University of Berlin was filled by Constantin Carathéodory. However, Carathéodory left in 1919 and again the chair became vacant. The first four mathematicians to be offered the chair (Brouwer, Weyl, Herglotz and Hecke) all turned it down. A new attempt to fill the chair produced two leading contenders, Wilhelm Blaschke and Bieberbach, although the Faculty's strong support for Bieberbach also showed slight doubts [1]:- If also his exposition now and then shows lack of desirable care, this is far outweighed by the liveliness of his scientific initiative and the large-scale range of his investigations.On 2 January 1921 Bieberbach accepted the Berlin professorship, delighted to hold a chair held by Frobenius for many years. He took up this eminent chair of geometry on 1 April 1921. After this appointment Bieberbach's research contribution was somewhat reduced, with perhaps his most significant being joint work with Issai Schur, published in 1928, Über die Minkowskische Reduktiontheorie der positiven quadratischen Formen Ⓣ. At Berlin he acquired a reputation as an inspiring but rather disorganised teacher, perhaps reflecting the doubt already expressed by the Faculty. The conversion of Bieberbach to the Nazi cause seems to have been quite sudden. On 30 January 1933 Hitler came to power and on 1 April there was the so-called "boycott day" when Jewish shops were boycotted and Jewish lecturers were not allowed to enter the university. Hirsch writes in [4]:- Everyone who was there had to make a little speech about the rejuvenation of Germany etc. And Bieberbach did this quite nicely and then he said "A drop of remorse falls into my joy because my dear friend and colleague Schur is not allowed to be with us today."However, soon after this Bieberbach was converted to the views of the Nazis and energetically persecuted his Jewish colleagues. On 7 April 1933 the Civil Service Law was passed which provided the means of removing Jewish teachers from the universities, and of course also to remove those of Jewish descent from other roles. All civil servants who were not of Aryan descent (having one grandparent of the Jewish religion made someone non-Aryan) were to be retired. Bieberbach, together with his four sons, showed their support for the Nazi cause by taking part in an SA march from Potsdam to Berlin. By November 1933, when he acted as one of Walter Ledermann's examiners, Bieberbach was wearing Nazi uniform when conducting the examination. Also at this time he was teaching a course entitled Great German mathematicians, a race-theoretic approach and these lectures formed the basis for three papers he published on the topic. Bieberbach developed the notion of a 'German' synthetic style mathematics as opposed to the abstract 'Jewish' analytic style. He founded a journal Deutsche Mathematik to encourage this German style in mathematics but, happily, the journal failed in 1943. His behaviour from 1933 onwards was to make political criteria completely override his mathematical judgement. For example [8]:- It also seems characteristic of Bieberbach's handling of things that a number of very talented young mathematicians - like Collatz, Grunsky, Rinow, and Wielandt - were not given regular positions at the Institute.In 1934 Edmund Landau was dismissed from his post at Göttingen. By this time Bieberbach was strongly in favour of such actions against Jewish mathematicians. He wrote [7]:- A few months ago differences with the Göttingen student body ended the teaching activities of Herr Landau. ... This should be seen as a prime example of the fact that representatives of overly different races do not mix as students and teachers. ... The instincts of the Göttingen students felt that Landau was a type who handled things in an un-German manner.Bieberbach was managing editor of the Jahresbericht der Deutschen Mathematiker-Vereinigung in 1934 and he published an "open letter" in the journal which was highly critical of Harald Bohr because he had attacked Bieberbach's racist views. Since the letter had been published by Bieberbach without him having obtained approval from the other editors, the Deutschen Mathematiker-Vereinigung was critical of his actions and Bieberbach was forced to resign his editorial position. On 7 April 1938 Schur was forced to resign from the Commissions of the Berlin Academy of Sciences after Bieberbach had written (on 29 March):- I find it surprising that Jews are still members of academic commissions.Helmut Grunsky, who was a doctoral student of Bieberbach's in 1932, became editor of the Jahrbuchs über die Fortschritte der Mathematik Ⓣ in the mid-1930s. He resisted pressure put on him by Bieberbach not to use Jewish referees. At the beginning of 1938 Bieberbach wrote to Grunsky:- Above all, may you finally dismiss the Jews from your staff in the New Year. ... I emphasise again that your staff of referees must be in accordance with the regulations which have been obligatory to all Germans since 30 January 1933. ... You see how your conduct harms the good reputation of the Academy.Bieberbach wrote many papers expressing his racist views. Grunsky wrote the obituary [2] of Bieberbach, yet in this article he does not mention Bieberbach's ideological papers at all. Many mathematicians feel that Bieberbach could not have honestly held the views he did, rather the feeling is that he was ambitious to become the leader of German mathematics and followed a route which he thought would make him successful in this. Schappacher writes [8]:- ... three basic conflicts merged ... the question of how much openness to international mathematical relations was adequate for German mathematicians after years of postwar isolation and ill feelings; the longstanding rivalry between Berlin and Göttingen, and the debate about intuitionism vs. formalism ... In this perspective, Bieberbach's sudden conversion to Nazism appears as the attempt to replay the old battle, taking advantage of the new distribution of power in Germany.After the end of World War II in 1945 Bieberbach lost all his positions because of his political involvement, being dismissed and arrested. Despite this Alexander Ostrowski invited him to lecture at Basel University in 1949. Ostrowski respected Bieberbach's contribution as a mathematician, and considered his political views were irrelevant to his remarkable contributions to mathematics. Many were critical of Ostrowski for making this invitation to Bieberbach. Perhaps there is an irony in the fact that de Branges became the first winner of the Ostrowski Prize for solving the Bieberbach conjecture. In 1951 Bieberbach and Friedrich Wilhelm Levi were on a list to fill the second chair in Berlin. Both were in their 60s but had very different wartime experiences, Levi having been dismissed from the University of Leipzig in 1935 because he was Jewish, and Bieberbach having been the leading Nazi mathematician. Perhaps only one outcome was possible in the circumstances - Friedrich Levi was appointed. In [3] Grunsky gives a list of 137 papers and books by Bieberbach, and a list of 17 students whose doctorates he supervised before his dismissal in 1945 including Wilhelm Süss (1920) and Helmut Grunsky (1932). The books have been particularly influential and we should indicate the range of topics they cover. His first book was Einführung in die konforme Abbildung Ⓣ (1915) which went through many editions (fourth edition 1949, English translation as 'Conformal mapping' in 1953, new updated German edition 1967). This work was followed by Differentialrechnung Ⓣ (1917), Integralrechnung Ⓣ (1918), Lehrbuch der Funktionentheorie. I. Elemente der Funktionentheorie Ⓣ (1921), Funktionentheorie Ⓣ (1922), Theorie der Differentialgleichungen Ⓣ (1923), Lehrbuch der Funktionentheorie. II. Moderne Funktionentheorie Ⓣ (1926), Vorlesungen über Algebra Ⓣ (1928), Analytische Geometrie Ⓣ (1930), Projektive Geometrie Ⓣ (1931), Differentialgeometrie Ⓣ (1932), Einleitung in die höhere Geometrie Ⓣ (1933), Carl Friedrich Gauss. Ein deutsches Gelehrtenleben Ⓣ (1938), and Galilei und die Inquisition Ⓣ (1938). All these works went through several editions in which Bieberbach added further material. After Bieberbach was dismissed following the end of World War II, he continued to produce excellent books such as Theorie der geometrischen Konstruktionen Ⓣ (1952) "The style is clear and lively", Theorie der gewöhnlichen Differentialgleichungen auf funktionentheoretischer Grundlage dargestellt Ⓣ (1953) "written in the author's well-known lively (and sometimes snappy) style, and it makes good reading. Considerable care has been devoted to the simplification of known proofs and to the detailed discussion of phenomena which usually are given but casual attention", Analytische Fortsetzung Ⓣ (1955) "No mathematician who is interested in the Taylor series, in interpolatory theory, or in the study of the singularities of analytic functions, can afford to be without it", and Einführung in die Theorie der Differentialgleichungen im reellen Gebiet Ⓣ (1956). References (show) - S L Segal, Mathematicians under the Nazis (Princeton, NJ, 2003). - L de Branges, Das mathematische Erbe von Ludwig Bieberbach (1886-1982), Nieuw Arch. Wisk. (4) 9 (3) (1991), 366-370. - H Grunsky, Ludwig Bieberbach zum Gedächtnis, Jahresberichte der Deutschen Mathematiker-Vereinigung 88 (4) (1986), 190-205. - K Hirsch, Sixty years of mathematics, Mathematical Medley 14 (1986), 35-50. - J Korevaar, Ludwig Bieberbach's conjecture and its proof by Louis de Branges, Amer. Math. Monthly 93 (7) (1986), 505-514. - J Korevaar, Laudatio on the Ostrowski Prize for Louis de Branges, Nieuw Arch. Wisk. (4) 9 (3) (1991), 359-365. - H Mehrtens, Ludwig Bieberbach and Deutsche Mathematik, in E R Phillips (ed.), Studies in the history of mathematics (Washington DC, 1987), 195-241. - N Schappacher, The Nazi era : the Berlin way of politicising mathematics, in Mathematics in Berlin (Berlin, 1998), 127-136. - A Shields, Klein and Bieberbach: mathematics, race, and biology, The Mathematical Intelligencer 10 (3) (1988), 7-11. Additional Resources (show) Other pages about Ludwig Bieberbach: Other websites about Ludwig Bieberbach: Honours (show) Honours awarded to Ludwig Bieberbach Cross-references (show) Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update February 2010 Last Update February 2010


--- [Ludwig Bieberbach - Scientific Lib] ---
. Ludwig Bieberbach Ludwig Georg Elias Moses Bieberbach (December 4, 1886 – September 1, 1982) was a German mathematician. Biography Born in Goddelau, near Darmstadt, he studied at Heidelberg and under Felix Klein at Göttingen, receiving his doctorate in 1910. His dissertation was titled On the theory of automorphic functions (German: Theorie der automorphen Funktionen). He began working as a Privatdozent at Königsberg in 1910 and as Professor ordinarius at the University of Basel in 1913. He taught at the University of Frankfurt in 1915 and the University of Berlin from 1921–45. Bieberbach wrote a habilitation thesis in 1911 about groups of Euclidean motions that helped solve Hilbert's 18th problem. He worked on complex analysis and its applications to other areas in mathematics. He is known for his work on dynamics in several complex variables, where he obtained results similar to Fatou's. In 1916 he formulated the Bieberbach conjecture, stating a necessary condition for a holomorphic function to map the open unit disc injectively into the complex plane in terms of the function's Taylor series. In 1984 Louis de Branges proved the conjecture, which is now called de Branges' theorem. There is also a Bieberbach theorem on space groups. In 1928 Bieberbach wrote a book with Issai Schur titled Über die Minkowskische Reduktiontheorie der positiven quadratischen Formen. Bieberbach was a speaker at the International Congress of Mathematicians held at Zurich in 1932. Politics Without being an active Nazi like Oswald Teichmüller, Bieberbach was, like Martin Heidegger, a fellow traveller and Nazi sympathizer. He was involved in the repression of Jewish colleagues, including Edmund Landau and his former coauthor Schur. Bieberbach was heavily influenced by Theodore Vahlen, another German mathematician and anti-Semite, who along with Bieberbach founded the "Deutsche Mathematik" ("German mathematics") movement and journal of the same name. The purpose of the movement was to encourage and promote a "German" (in this case meaning intuitionistic) style in mathematics. Bieberbach's and Vahlen's idea of having German mathematics was only part of a wider trend in the scientific community in Nazi Germany towards giving the sciences racial character, there were also pseudoscientific movements for "German physics", "German chemistry", and "German biology". In 1945, Bieberbach was dismissed from all his academic positions because of his support of Nazism, but in 1949 was invited to lecture at the University of Basel by Ostrowski, who considered Bieberbach's political views irrelevant to his contributions to the field of mathematics. Quotation "... the spatial imagination is a characteristic of the Germanic races, while pure logical reasoning has a richer development among Romanic and Hebraic races. ... In the intellectual sphere the race shows in the manner of creation, the evaluation of the results, and I guess also in the standpoint considering foundational questions. ... Formalism wants to build a realm of mathematical truths which is independent of man, whereas Intuitionism is based on the idea that mathematical thinking is a human endeavor and thus cannot be separated from man." (in Stilarten mathematischen Schaffens, i.e. Styles of mathematical creation/endeavour, p. 357). See also * Fatou–Bieberbach domain Further reading * Cornwell, John, Hitler's Scientist: Science, War and the Devil's Pact, Penguin Books, 2003, ISBN 0-14-200480-4. External links Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/" All text is available under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License


--- [Person: Bieberbach, Ludwig Georg Elias Moses] ---
◀ ▲ ▶History / 19th-century / Person: Bieberbach, Ludwig Georg Elias Moses Person: Bieberbach, Ludwig Georg Elias Moses Ludwig Bieberbach was a German mathematician best known for his conjecture on holomorphic functions. He was an enthusuastic supporter of the Nazis. Mathematical Profile (Excerpt): - Georg Ludwig was the director of the mental hospital in Heppenheim, founded in 1866, and in 1897 his son-in-law Eberhard Bieberbach took over from him as director of the mental hospital. - Ludwig became interested in mathematics when studying at this Gymnasium, inspired by an excellent mathematics teacher. - Bieberbach decided to look at the list of announcements of mathematics courses given in different universities which appeared in the Jahresbericht der Deutschen Mathematiker-Vereinigung and, after studying the possibilities, decided that Hermann Minkowski's course on 'Invariant theory' at the University of Göttingen looked the most attractive. - Although Göttingen was the leading centre for mathematics at this time, that was not the reason Bieberbach chose to go there, for he was totally unaware of its reputation when he made his decision. - At Göttingen there was an enthusiastic atmosphere for research which had a great influence on Bieberbach. - Another strong influence on the direction of Bieberbach's mathematical interests came from Paul Koebe who was only four years older than Bieberbach. - Koebe, an expert on complex function theory, become a dozent at Göttingen in 1907 and also encouraged Bieberbach towards analysis. - It was under Klein's direction that Bieberbach researched into automorphic functions for his doctorate which was awarded in 1910 for his thesis Zur Theorie der automorphen Funktionen Ⓣ(On the theory of automorphic functions). - He was allowed to appoint a young mathematician to assist him, and he asked Bieberbach if he would go to Zürich with him. - Already Bieberbach had gained a reputation for his contribution to one of Hilbert's problems. - In 1908, while Bieberbach was Klein's research student, he had been asked by Klein to give lectures on Schönflies's results. - Soon after he arrived in Zürich, Bieberbach left to go to the University of Königsberg where Schönflies, who was the professor there, had arranged a teaching position for him. - Answering a question from Hilbert's famous collection certainly gave the young Bieberbach an international reputation. - Bieberbach was appointed professor of mathematics in Basel in Switzerland in 1913 and gave an inaugural address Über die Grundlagen der modernen Mathematik Ⓣ(On the foundations of modern mathematics) on the foundations of mathematics. - Schönflies who had been appointed to the first chair of mathematics at Frankfurt am Main in 1914, the year that the university opened, strongly supported Bieberbach for the second chair. - One has to add that Frobenius had a very close knowledge of Bieberbach's work for he too had studied the first part of Hilbert's eighteenth problem, had simplified Bieberbach's first paper on the topic, and had produced ideas which had led Bieberbach to further results. - Prior to his appointment, in 1914 Bieberbach had studied the polynomials that are now named after him, which approximate a function that conformally maps a given simply-connected domain onto a disc. - It was while Bieberbach was at Frankfurt that he produced the Bieberbach Conjecture for which he is best known today. - When Loewner did this Bieberbach told him he had joined the "realm of the immortals". - Certainly around the time he made his conjecture, there is considerable evidence that Bieberbach was not greatly liked as a person since he thought so highly of himself. - On 2 January 1921 Bieberbach accepted the Berlin professorship, delighted to hold a chair held by Frobenius for many years. - After this appointment Bieberbach's research contribution was somewhat reduced, with perhaps his most significant being joint work with Issai Schur, published in 1928, Über die Minkowskische Reduktiontheorie der positiven quadratischen Formen Ⓣ(On the Minkowski reduction theory of positive quadratic forms). - The conversion of Bieberbach to the Nazi cause seems to have been quite sudden. - Bieberbach, together with his four sons, showed their support for the Nazi cause by taking part in an SA march from Potsdam to Berlin. - By November 1933, when he acted as one of Walter Ledermann's examiners, Bieberbach was wearing Nazi uniform when conducting the examination. - Bieberbach developed the notion of a 'German' synthetic style mathematics as opposed to the abstract 'Jewish' analytic style. - By this time Bieberbach was strongly in favour of such actions against Jewish mathematicians. - Bieberbach was managing editor of the Jahresbericht der Deutschen Mathematiker-Vereinigung in 1934 and he published an "open letter" in the journal which was highly critical of Harald Bohr because he had attacked Bieberbach's racist views. - Since the letter had been published by Bieberbach without him having obtained approval from the other editors, the Deutschen Mathematiker-Vereinigung was critical of his actions and Bieberbach was forced to resign his editorial position. - Helmut Grunsky, who was a doctoral student of Bieberbach's in 1932, became editor of the Jahrbuchs über die Fortschritte der Mathematik Ⓣ(Yearbook on the progress of mathematics) in the mid-1930s. - He resisted pressure put on him by Bieberbach not to use Jewish referees. - Bieberbach wrote many papers expressing his racist views. - Many mathematicians feel that Bieberbach could not have honestly held the views he did, rather the feeling is that he was ambitious to become the leader of German mathematics and followed a route which he thought would make him successful in this. - In this perspective, Bieberbach's sudden conversion to Nazism appears as the attempt to replay the old battle, taking advantage of the new distribution of power in Germany. - Many were critical of Ostrowski for making this invitation to Bieberbach. - Perhaps there is an irony in the fact that de Branges became the first winner of the Ostrowski Prize for solving the Bieberbach conjecture. - In 1951 Bieberbach and Friedrich Wilhelm Levi were on a list to fill the second chair in Berlin. - Both were in their 60s but had very different wartime experiences, Levi having been dismissed from the University of Leipzig in 1935 because he was Jewish, and Bieberbach having been the leading Nazi mathematician. - All these works went through several editions in which Bieberbach added further material. Born 4 December 1886, Goddelau, Darmstadt in Hessen, Germany. Died 1 September 1982, Oberaudorf in Oberbayern, Germany. View full biography at MacTutor Tags relevant for this person: Origin Germany, Number Theory, Special Numbers And Numerals Thank you to the contributors under CC BY-SA 4.0! - Github: - - non-Github: - @J-J-O'Connor - @E-F-Robertson References Adapted from other CC BY-SA 4.0 Sources: - O’Connor, John J; Robertson, Edmund F: MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive


--- [Grokipedia: Ludwig Bieberbach] ---
Ludwig Georg Elias Moses Bieberbach (4 December 1886 – 1 September 1982) was a German mathematician specializing in geometric function theory and complex analysis.[1] His most famous contribution is the Bieberbach conjecture, formulated in 1916, which posits that for normalized univalent analytic functions on the unit disk, the absolute values of the coefficients ∣an∣≤n, with equality holding only for rotations of the Koebe function.[2] This problem remained unsolved for nearly seven decades until its proof by Louis de Branges in 1985, marking a milestone in the field.[2]Bieberbach held professorships at institutions such as the University of Berlin and contributed to the study of schlicht functions, Fatou-Bieberbach domains, and inequalities in complex variables.[3] During the Nazi regime, he emerged as a prominent advocate for "Deutsche Mathematik," founding the journal Deutsche Mathematik in 1936 to promote what he described as an intuitive, personality-driven Aryan approach to mathematics, contrasting it with a supposedly formalistic Jewish style exemplified by figures like David Hilbert and Felix Klein.[3][4] Bieberbach actively supported the regime's racial policies in academia, intervening in appointments and purges to align mathematics with National Socialist ideology, actions that advanced his own influence amid the politicization of German scholarship.[3] Early Life and Education Family Background and Childhood Ludwig Georg Elias Moses Bieberbach was born on December 4, 1886, in Goddelau, a town in the Darmstadt district of Hessen, Germany.[5] His father, Eberhard Sebastian Bieberbach (1848–1943), was a physician who later became director of the mental hospital in Heppenheim starting in 1897.[5] His mother, Karoline (Lina) Ludwig, was the daughter of Georg Ludwig, a physician who had founded the same hospital in 1866.[5] The family came from a medical background on both sides and was financially secure, enabling them to employ private tutors for Bieberbach's early education until he reached the age of 11.[5]Bieberbach's paternal lineage included Jewish ancestry, though the family was assimilated and his mother was of non-Jewish descent. Following private instruction, he attended the Humanistic Gymnasium in Bensheim, a classical secondary school emphasizing humanities and sciences, where he completed his studies and obtained his university entrance qualification (Abitur) in 1905.[5]During his time at the Gymnasium, Bieberbach displayed an early aptitude for mathematics, sparked by an engaging teacher who lectured effectively on mathematical topics.[5] This familial and educational environment, rooted in professional achievement and intellectual rigor, fostered his foundational interests in the sciences without yet extending to formal higher studies.[5] University Studies and Influences Bieberbach commenced his higher education at the University of Heidelberg in 1905, attending lectures on the theory of functions delivered by Leo Königsberger while fulfilling his military service obligations.[5] This initial exposure introduced him to foundational concepts in analysis that would inform his subsequent pursuits.[5]In 1906, he relocated to the University of Göttingen, a leading center for mathematical research, where he engaged with luminaries such as Hermann Minkowski, whose courses on algebra and invariant theory emphasized structural rigor, and Felix Klein, who lectured on elliptic functions and provided direct supervision.[5] Paul Koebe also exerted influence at Göttingen, steering Bieberbach toward deeper exploration of complex function theory through discussions and shared research interests.[5]Under Klein's guidance, Bieberbach completed his doctoral dissertation in 1910, titled Zur Theorie der automorphen Funktionen, which examined foundational aspects of automorphic functions within the framework of complex analysis.[5][6] This period at Göttingen exposed him to David Hilbert's programmatic challenges, particularly the eighteenth problem on crystallographic groups, fostering an appreciation for axiomatic precision and geometric classification that permeated his analytical approach.[5]These encounters collectively oriented Bieberbach toward the interplay of geometry, group theory, and function theory, establishing the intellectual bedrock for his emphasis on concrete, intuition-driven mathematics over abstract formalism.[5] Academic Career Early Positions and Research Focus Bieberbach completed his doctorate at the University of Göttingen in 1910 under David Hilbert with a dissertation on the theory of automorphic functions.[5] Following this, he took up the position of Privatdozent at the University of Königsberg, where he lectured on topics in analysis and geometry.[5] In 1913, he was appointed as a full professor (Ordinarius) of mathematics at the University of Basel in Switzerland, marking his first permanent academic post and allowing him to expand his teaching and research in function theory.[5]By 1915, Bieberbach had moved to the newly established University of Frankfurt am Main, where he held the second chair in mathematics and continued to build his reputation through work on complex variables.[5] His return to Germany culminated in 1921 with his appointment as full professor at the University of Berlin, succeeding Georg Frobenius in the chair of pure mathematics; this position, held until 1945, provided a prestigious platform in one of Europe's leading mathematical centers.[5]Throughout the interwar period up to 1933, Bieberbach's research agenda emphasized complex analysis, with a particular focus on univalent functions and their geometric properties in the complex plane.[5] He also engaged in organizational roles within the German mathematical community, serving as secretary of the Deutsche Mathematiker-Vereinigung starting in 1920, which involved coordinating society activities and contributing to its publications.[5] These early institutional affiliations facilitated collaborations and positioned him as a key figure in advancing analytic methods applicable to broader mathematical problems.[5] Professorships in Berlin and Strasbourg Bieberbach assumed the full professorship of mathematics at the University of Berlin (now Humboldt University) on April 1, 1921, succeeding Ferdinand Georg Frobenius in the chair previously dedicated to geometry and continuing its focus on pure mathematics.[5] He retained this position through 1945, despite wartime disruptions that included bombings and faculty relocations, maintaining administrative continuity by serving as dean and fostering a prominent mathematical institute that attracted students and collaborators.[5][7][8]In 1923, Bieberbach was elected a member of the Prussian Academy of Sciences, where he participated in editorial and oversight roles for mathematical publications, leveraging the academy's resources to support his departmental activities in Berlin. He mentored key students, such as Heinrich Wilhelm Jung, who benefited from Bieberbach's Berlin network and later secured academic positions influenced by these associations.[9]From 1940 to 1941, amid Nazi wartime expansions into annexed territories, Bieberbach held a temporary appointment at the University of Strasbourg, which had been incorporated into the German Reich and subjected to faculty reallocations from mainland universities.[10] This stint reflected broader efforts to integrate Alsatian institutions into German academic structures but was curtailed by ongoing military campaigns.Following Germany's defeat in 1945, Bieberbach was dismissed from his Berlin chair and all associated roles due to his administrative entanglements during the regime, though he avoided prolonged internment and later regained limited lecturing privileges, including invitations to the University of Zurich starting in 1949, preserving informal influence among select mathematical circles in postwar Europe.[5][11] Mathematical Contributions Work in Complex Function Theory Bieberbach's doctoral dissertation, completed in 1910 at the University of Göttingen under the supervision of David Hilbert and Felix Klein, centered on the construction of domains for conformal mappings, establishing foundational results in representing simply connected regions via analytic functions.[5] This work built upon Klein's earlier investigations into automorphic functions, which Bieberbach extended by exploring their behavior under discrete group actions, including aspects of modular groups that preserve certain conformal properties.[5] His approach emphasized the geometric interpretation of analytic continuations and the boundaries of function domains, providing tools for mapping problems in complex analysis during the 1910s.[12]In the subsequent decade, Bieberbach advanced the study of univalent functions—holomorphic injections from the unit disk to the complex plane—through representation theorems that normalized such functions via their Taylor series expansions centered at the origin.[13] These theorems facilitated the analysis of conformal mappings by expressing univalent functions in forms amenable to coefficient estimation, influencing later developments in growth and distortion estimates. By 1916, he had proven that for a normalized univalent function f(z)=z+a2z2+⋯, the second coefficient satisfies ∣a2∣≤2, with equality achieved for specific rotations of extremal mappings.[13] This result underscored the role of explicit examples in bounding coefficients, highlighting the sharpness of inequalities derived from conformal invariance.Bieberbach's 1920s contributions further refined these ideas by incorporating empirical checks against prototype functions, such as the Koebe function k(z)=z/(1−z)2, which maps the unit disk onto the plane minus a radial slit and attains maximal values in several coefficient problems.[14] Through such verifications, he demonstrated how particular univalent mappings could saturate bounds, informing broader theorems on the radii of starlikeness and convexity in function classes.[15] These efforts established a rigorous framework for coefficient problems in univalent function theory, prioritizing geometric constraints over purely algebraic manipulations.[13] Bieberbach Conjecture and Its Development The Bieberbach conjecture, formulated by Ludwig Bieberbach in 1916, concerns the Taylor coefficients of normalized univalent holomorphic functions f(z)=z+∑n=2∞anzn mapping the unit disk onto a simply connected domain symmetric with respect to the origin and containing the origin. It posits that ∣an∣≤n for each integer n≥2, with equality holding precisely when f is a rotation of the Koebe function k(z)=z/(1−z)2, which maps the unit disk onto the complex plane minus a radial slit from −1/4 to infinity.[16][17]Bieberbach established the case n=2, showing ∣a2∣≤2, as a consequence of his area theorem for univalent functions. Progress on higher coefficients was slow; Karl Löwner proved ∣a3∣≤3 in 1923 using parametric representations of univalent functions via Löwner's differential equation, which parametrizes such functions by subordinations to the identity. In 1955, Paul Garabedian and Marvin Schiffer verified ∣a4∣≤4 employing variational methods and extremal problems in the Schwarzian derivative, confirming the conjecture's bound via the asymptotic behavior of coefficient functionals. Subsequent efforts extended this to n=5 by Rudolph Schäffer and Z. Spencer in 1950 using Bieberbach's distortion theorems, and to n=6 through refined extremal partition techniques by Charles Pommerenke and others in the 1960s, though these partial results relied on increasingly complex computations without generalizing fully.[17][18][19]The conjecture's resolution came in 1985 with Louis de Branges's proof, published after initial announcement in 1984, which demonstrated the inequalities by establishing the stronger Milin conjecture on logarithmic coefficients via positivity of certain quadratic forms in Hilbert spaces of entire functions. De Branges's approach, rooted in operator theory and the theory of invariant subspaces, showed that univalent functions correspond to contractions in specific reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces, implying the coefficient bounds through subordination chains and Pick-Nevanlinna interpolation. This method not only confirmed Bieberbach's hypothesis but also advanced geometric function theory by linking univalence to spectral properties of Hankel operators, influencing subsequent work on hypergeometric functions and coefficient problems in the class S.[18][20][21] Other Areas: Geometry of Numbers and Crystallography Bieberbach made foundational contributions to the theory of crystallographic groups, addressing David Hilbert's 18th problem from 1900, which asked whether there are finitely many groups of motions in n-dimensional Euclidean space that leave invariant some fundamental domain of finite volume. In 1910, he announced a positive solution, proving that only finitely many such space groups exist in any dimension n, with the full proof published in two parts during 1911 and 1912 in the paper "Über die Bewegungsgruppen der Euklidischen Räume."[5] These results generalized Arthur Schönflies' classifications from two and three dimensions to higher dimensions, establishing Bieberbach's theorems: for any crystallographic group Γ acting properly discontinuously on ℝn with compact fundamental domain, the translation subgroup T ≤ Γ forms a full lattice in ℝn (spanning n linearly independent directions), and Γ / T is finite (a crystallographic point group).[22] This finiteness implies that the number of distinct space groups is finite in each dimension, with exactly 230 in three dimensions as later enumerated, providing the abstract framework for classifying crystal symmetries despite Bieberbach's focus on pure geometry rather than physical applications.[23]His work intersected crystallography through these space groups, which describe the symmetries of periodic crystal lattices, including cubic ones; Bieberbach's 1911 analysis of Euclidean motion groups identified conditions for translational subgroups of finite index, directly applicable to cubic lattices where rotations combine with translations to form space groups like Pm3m or Fd3m.[24] Though primarily theoretical, these theorems underpin modern crystallographic computations in physics and materials science, enabling the enumeration of higher-dimensional analogs beyond the 65 two-dimensional and 230 three-dimensional cases.[25]In geometry of numbers, Bieberbach built on Hermann Minkowski's foundational ideas, including lattice theory and successive minima, during his time in Göttingen and Königsberg. Influenced by Minkowski's geometry of numbers—emphasizing convex bodies and lattice points—Bieberbach contributed to related problems on quadratic forms and reductions. In 1928, he co-authored with Issai Schur the paper "Über die Minkowskische Reduktionstheorie der positiven quadratischen Formen," advancing Minkowski's reduction theory for positive definite quadratic forms by exploring minimal representations and lattice packings.[5] This work connected discrete geometry to Diophantine approximation, addressing lattice point enumeration in convex domains, though Bieberbach's primary innovations remained in the crystallographic realm rather than standalone geometry-of-numbers theorems.[26] Philosophical Views on Mathematics Personality Typology and Mathematical Styles Bieberbach developed a philosophical framework for understanding mathematical styles through the lens of psychological typology, drawing on Erich Jaensch's Seelentypenlehre as elaborated in works like Jaensch's 1931 Grundformen seelischen Lebens. He contended that individual personality structures determine not only problem selection and proof preferences but also the depth of mathematical insight, with creativity arising from intuitive faculties rather than detached logical manipulation. This prefigured his later emphases but remained grounded in typological psychology, positing that mathematicians exhibit innate predispositions toward holistic integration of experience or abstract inference, influencing their contributions to fields like function theory and geometry.[27]Central to Bieberbach's typology was the distinction between the "J-type" mathematician, characterized by anschaulich (intuitive, visualizable) methods that prioritize geometric intuition and causal connections, and the "S-type," oriented toward formal, technical virtuosity and schematic abstraction. J-types, such as Carl Friedrich Gauss in his treatment of imaginary quantities, derived proofs from concrete, life-affirming structures, fostering organic progress in mathematics. In contrast, S-types excelled in rigorous but "inorganic" manipulations, often prioritizing logical inference over experiential grounding, as seen in certain analytical traditions. Bieberbach argued this typological divide explained stylistic clashes, with J-types experiencing unease (Unbehagen) toward S-type formalism, which he viewed as prioritizing conceptual juggling over substantive understanding.[28][27]Bieberbach maintained that true mathematical advancement favors J-type intuition, which aligns with causal realism by embedding proofs in tangible geometric realities rather than axiomatic detachment. He critiqued David Hilbert's formalism—despite acknowledging Hilbert's own J-type affinities in earlier intuitive works—as excessively abstract, arguing it severed mathematics from applicative contexts and real-world causality: "Hilbert's scientific deal is directly inimical to the needs of applications." This perspective elevated personality-driven geometric intuition as essential for creativity, subordinating pure axiomatic systems to holistic proofs that reveal underlying structures, as evidenced in Bieberbach's own research on conformal mappings where intuitive visualizations preceded formal verification.[29][27] Critique of Formalism and Abstraction Bieberbach rejected mathematical formalism, particularly the axiomatic and logical rigor associated with David Hilbert's program, as a methodology that emphasized syntactic manipulation over substantive understanding, thereby risking detachment from the intuitive core of mathematical discovery. In his view, formalism, as practiced in the analytic traditions of figures like Edmund Landau, rendered mathematics "foreign to reality" and "antagonistic to life," prioritizing abstract consistency at the expense of vital, experience-grounded insight.[30] He contended that this approach represented a transitory phase in the evolution of mathematical thought, stifling applications and broader scientific progress by subordinating geometry and intuition to pure symbol handling.[27]Instead, Bieberbach championed a concrete, synthetic style of mathematics rooted in geometric intuition and empirical alignment, arguing that true mathematical validity emerges from holistic comprehension rather than isolated abstractions. He praised approaches like those of Erhard Schmidt for their "concrete, intuitive" character, which integrated logical structure with visual and practical elements, fostering a mathematics attuned to physical phenomena and constructive methods.[30] This preference extended to his endorsement of Luitzen Egbertus Jan Brouwer's intuitionism, which he lauded in 1928 for countering formalism's mechanistic tendencies with a focus on constructive, mind-dependent processes that preserved the immediacy of mathematical acts.[27] Bieberbach maintained that excessive abstraction, akin to precursors of later structuralist trends, undermined truth-seeking by severing mathematics from its causal ties to observable structures, such as those in complex function theory and crystallography.[5]Influenced by phenomenological emphases on lived experience and Gestalt psychology's principles of holistic perception, Bieberbach advocated for mathematical styles that favored integrated wholes over fragmented analysis, viewing abstraction as a reductive distortion that obscured underlying patterns. Drawing on psychological typologies that distinguished integrative thinkers from analytic ones, he argued for methods that captured the "gestalt" of mathematical objects—emphasizing perceptual unity and spatial intuition over relativistic formal games.[27] This stance positioned formalism not as a universal truth but as a culturally contingent mode, potentially relativistic in its dismissal of intuitive evidence, thereby privileging first-principles reasoning grounded in direct apprehension over axiomatic detachment.[30] Political Involvement Pre-1933 Political Leanings During the Weimar Republic, Ludwig Bieberbach was generally regarded as a loyal supporter of the republican system, distinguishing him from many German professors who harbored monarchist sympathies.[31] This stance reflected a conservative orientation within academic circles, where widespread dissatisfaction with the republic's political instability—marked by hyperinflation in 1923, ongoing economic crises, and frequent government collapses—fostered nationalist sentiments among intellectuals seeking cultural and national renewal.[32]Bieberbach's emerging nationalism manifested in critiques of internationalism in scientific affairs, particularly evident in his opposition to large-scale German participation in the 1928 International Congress of Mathematicians in Bologna. He aligned with Dutch mathematician L.E.J. Brouwer in protesting the delegation of 76 German mathematicians organized under David Hilbert's influence, viewing it as an excessive concession to post-World War I international reconciliation efforts that undermined German scientific autonomy.[31] By the late 1920s, these positions marked Bieberbach as a politically active nationalist, though his views remained framed within a meritocratic emphasis on national traditions in mathematics rather than overt extremism.[33]His pre-1933 leanings showed continuity with broader conservative academic discontent over perceived cultural decline, including debates on the role of abstract, "international" mathematical styles versus more intuitive, German-oriented approaches, without evident antisemitic undertones in his collaborations or public statements. Bieberbach maintained professional ties with Jewish mathematicians, such as co-authoring a 1928 paper with Issai Schur and supporting Robert Remak's habilitation in 1923, indicating that any resentments over academic demographics were not yet politicized in his work.[31] These sentiments positioned him as skeptical of unchecked globalism in science, prioritizing national intellectual heritage amid Weimar's turmoil.[32] Alignment with National Socialism Bieberbach joined the Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei (NSDAP) on November 1, 1933, less than ten months after Adolf Hitler's appointment as Chancellor on January 30, 1933.[5] This marked a abrupt shift, as Bieberbach had previously viewed National Socialism with skepticism, but he rapidly embraced its ideological framework, particularly its emphasis on racial and national renewal in intellectual pursuits.[34] His pre-1933 reservations gave way to active promotion of Nazi principles within mathematics, aligning with the regime's broader cultural and racial policies to foster a purportedly authentic German scientific tradition.Bieberbach's ascent within Nazi mathematical circles stemmed from his outspoken anti-Semitic positioning, which framed abstract and formalist approaches—often linked to Jewish scholars—as alien to German intellectual character, while elevating intuitive, concrete methods as inherently Aryan.[5] This stance facilitated his influence in party-affiliated academic networks, where he advocated for the "Aryanization" of university mathematics departments through the removal of Jewish personnel, including figures who had shaped earlier German mathematical developments.[5] Such efforts contributed to the regime's goal of purging institutions of perceived racial impurities, though Bieberbach's personal history included collaborations with Jewish mathematicians prior to 1933, highlighting the ideological rupture induced by Nazi doctrine.In defending National Socialism, Bieberbach portrayed its intervention in academia as a vital counter to the universalist abstractions he associated with leftist internationalism, arguing that the regime's national focus revived a organically German mathematical spirit suppressed by Weimar-era cosmopolitanism.[31] He viewed this mobilization as achieving a cultural purification that strengthened German science against degenerative influences, yet his zealous application drew internal critique; for instance, fellow Nazi supporter Pascual Jordan, a party member since 1933, rejected Bieberbach's racial typologies in mathematics as unhelpful to the movement's practical aims, deeming them overly speculative and divisive even within National Socialist bounds.[35] This tension underscored criticisms of Bieberbach's excesses, where ideological fervor occasionally outpaced strategic alignment with regime priorities. Role in Academic Purges Bieberbach, serving as a prominent figure in the Berlin mathematical faculty and later dean of mathematics and natural sciences at the University of Berlin, actively supported the implementation of the Civil Service Restoration Law of April 7, 1933, which mandated the dismissal of non-Aryan civil servants, including university professors.[5] He endorsed the boycott of Jewish mathematician Edmund Landau at Göttingen in late 1933, publicly congratulating the students involved for their "manly" action against perceived Jewish influence in mathematics.[31] In Berlin, Bieberbach pressured colleagues such as Helmut Grunsky to dismiss Jewish referees from journals in early 1938 and advocated for the removal of figures like Issai Schur, whom he helped force into early retirement in August 1935 while proposing to suppress Schur's chair as redundant.[5][31] These efforts aligned with his broader push to exclude mathematicians of Jewish descent, whom he characterized as promoting an incompatible "J-type" analytical style detrimental to intuitive German mathematical traditions.[5]Bieberbach's involvement extended to university administration, where he examined candidates in Nazi uniform as early as November 1933 and taught a course titled "Great German Mathematicians: A Race-Theoretic Approach" in the winter term of 1933/34, integrating racial criteria into academic evaluation.[5][31] He clashed with moderates like Erhard Schmidt, who protested the initial wave of dismissals in 1933, highlighting tensions between hardline proponents of purification and those seeking to preserve institutional continuity.[36] Bieberbach opposed retaining scholars akin to Emmy Noether, dismissed from Göttingen in 1933 under the new laws, viewing their abstract approaches as emblematic of non-Aryan tendencies unfit for a nationalized academy.[5]The purges Bieberbach championed resulted in the expulsion or flight of over 145 Jewish mathematicians from German institutions by the late 1930s, contributing to a documented brain drain that diminished Germany's preeminence in fields like complex analysis and geometry.[37] While Nazi-aligned metrics, as articulated by Bieberbach, framed these removals as eliminating underproductive or ideologically alien elements to streamline focus on applied, war-relevant mathematics—potentially aiding short-term national priorities—postwar analyses reveal net productivity losses, with emigrants like John von Neumann advancing key developments abroad that Germany forfeited.[38][5] Empirical assessments of output, such as declining international citations for German pure mathematics journals after 1933, underscore the causal harm from talent exodus over any purported streamlining benefits.[4] Deutsche Mathematik Initiative Founding and Principles Deutsche Mathematik was established in 1936 by Ludwig Bieberbach, with Theodor Vahlen as nominal editor and publisher, as a dedicated journal to advance a mathematical tradition aligned with German intellectual heritage amid perceived dominance of abstract international styles.[33] This initiative sought to counter journals and approaches Bieberbach viewed as overly influenced by non-German elements, prioritizing instead methods rooted in concrete intuition and spatial reasoning.[34]At its core, the movement promoted intuitive, geometric mathematics—emphasizing visualization and organic structures—over the axiomatic abstraction and set-theoretic formalism prevalent in fields like topology and algebra, which Bieberbach associated with logico-deductive tendencies detached from empirical reality.[34] Bieberbach grounded these tenets in a typology of mathematical personalities, drawing on Erich Jaensch's framework of J-types (favoring holistic intuition) versus S-types (favoring analytic dissection), positing that German mathematicians exemplified the former through historical precedents like Felix Klein's integrative geometry and, more broadly, the foundational contributions of Carl Friedrich Gauss in number theory and geometry.[39]Bieberbach contended that such styles reflected innate national character, stating that "mathematics is an emanation of our racial qualities too and anything which reveals our national character in a forceful manner requires no additional justification," thereby linking mathematical validity to verifiable German achievements in applied and geometric domains.[34] Proponents framed this as cultural preservation of a productive tradition, while critics, including many contemporary mathematicians, rejected it as unsubstantiated racial typology masquerading as methodological critique, lacking rigorous causal evidence for stylistic causation by ethnicity.[30] Journal and Propagation Efforts Bieberbach co-founded and served as the responsible editor of the journal Deutsche Mathematik in 1936 alongside Theodor Vahlen, who acted as publisher under the auspices of the German Research Foundation (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft). The publication ran until 1944, featuring articles that advanced the principles of "German mathematics," including critiques of the Hilbert school's emphasis on formalism and abstraction, which Bieberbach contrasted with more intuitive, geometrically oriented approaches aligned with his personality typology framework. Contributions often highlighted historical figures like Felix Klein as exemplars of the purported Aryan mathematical style, while decrying influences associated with Jewish mathematicians such as Richard Courant or Emmy Noether.[5][40]Propagation efforts extended beyond the journal through Bieberbach's public lectures and writings, such as his 1934 address delineating stylistic differences between German and non-German mathematics, and manifestos advocating for the exclusion of "alien" abstract methods from academic discourse. He organized seminars at the University of Berlin to foster adherence to these ideals and lobbied for curricular reforms in universities and secondary schools, pushing for pedagogy that prioritized concrete, nationalistic content over internationalist abstraction—efforts tied to his roles in mathematical societies and as a dean. These initiatives sought to embed Deutsche Mathematik in educational standards, including proposals for revised textbooks emphasizing German historical contributions.[5]Despite initial state-backed distribution reaching 6,500 copies per issue, subscriptions dwindled to approximately 500 by the early 1940s, reflecting scant interest from the broader mathematical community. The journal's cessation in 1944 coincided with wartime disruptions, but its propagation yielded negligible long-term adoption, as mainstream mathematical research continued to favor rigorous, universal methods irrespective of nationalistic framing, with no discernible shift in post-war curricula or publications attributable to Bieberbach's campaign.[40][5] Reception and Critiques The Deutsche Mathematik initiative garnered limited support among nationalist-leaning German mathematicians who appreciated its advocacy for culturally specific mathematical styles, emphasizing an intuitive, concrete approach aligned with what Bieberbach termed the "Aryan" or "German" psychological type, drawing on traditions of geometric intuition in works by Felix Klein and David Hilbert.[4] Advocates, including contributors to the associated journal such as Oswald Teichmüller, viewed it as a defense of national intellectual heritage against perceived encroachments of abstract formalism, which Bieberbach associated with "Jewish" influences favoring set-theoretic abstraction over empirical intuition.[41] This perspective positioned the movement as promoting methodological diversity, potentially aiding applied geometry in industrial contexts like Germany's rearmament-era engineering demands, though explicit links to practical achievements remain contested.[42]Critics within the contemporary mathematical community, including even some Nazi-aligned figures like physicist Pascual Jordan, rejected Deutsche Mathematik as pseudoscientific and divisive, arguing it subordinated rigorous inquiry to racial ideology and facilitated the exclusion of talented researchers regardless of merit.[4] Responses highlighted its failure to engage universal mathematical truths, such as the formal structures underpinning successes in theoretical physics, and included pointed rebukes like Harald Bohr's 1934 condemnation of Bieberbach's racial theories, which contributed to Bieberbach's resignation from the Deutsche Mathematiker-Vereinigung amid internal conflicts.[34] Oskar Perron's 1939 publication subtly mocked the initiative's preferences through ironic references to "German" figures like Dedekind, underscoring its perceived lack of substantive innovation.[34]Bieberbach defended the initiative against charges of mere politicization by framing it as grounded in observable psychological typologies—echoing Jungian ideas—rather than arbitrary ideology, claiming empirical evidence from mathematicians' working styles justified distinguishing "type N" (intuitive, German) from "type J" (formalist, international).[4] Nonetheless, the broader reception deemed it marginalizing, with the journal Deutsche Mathematik achieving only niche circulation and waning regime backing by the late 1930s as pragmatic needs prioritized functional expertise over stylistic purity.[34] Postwar historiography, as in Sanford Segal's analysis, reinforces critiques of its racialist underpinnings as antithetical to mathematics' apolitical universality, though some accounts note its role in spotlighting debates over abstraction versus intuition that persisted in later mathematical philosophy.[4] Post-War Period and Legacy Denazification Proceedings Following the Allied victory in May 1945, Bieberbach was dismissed from his academic positions and excluded from the Prussian Academy of Sciences on July 31, due to his membership in the NSDAP and active promotion of Nazi-aligned ideologies in mathematics.[43] He was briefly arrested as part of initial denazification measures but released without charges related to war crimes or direct atrocities.During interrogation by Allied authorities, Bieberbach defended his pre- and wartime activities by asserting that his advocacy for Deutsche Mathematik derived from a longstanding personal philosophy of mathematical typology rooted in racial psychology, predating and independent of National Socialist doctrine, rather than political opportunism. This argument contributed to his classification as a Mitläufer (follower) under the denazification categories established by Control Council Law No. 10, indicating nominal rather than ideological commitment.In 1946, at age 60, Bieberbach reached mandatory retirement age and was granted a full pension, but barred from reinstatement to any teaching or administrative role, marking him as an exception among Nazi-era academics.[44] While thousands of university professors classified similarly as Mitläufer or Minderbelastete (lesser offenders) were rehabilitated and resumed careers in both West and East Germany through amnesties by 1949–1951, Bieberbach's prominent role in ideological campaigns precluded such leniency. Later Reflections and Death Following his denazification, Bieberbach experienced professional isolation within the mathematical community owing to his prior National Socialist engagements, though select colleagues acknowledged his foundational contributions to complex analysis and geometry. In 1949, Alexander Ostrowski extended an invitation for him to deliver lectures at the University of Basel, a rare post-war academic engagement amid widespread criticism. By 1951, he was a candidate for a professorship in Berlin, but the position went to Friedrich Wilhelm Levi instead.[5]Bieberbach persisted in scholarly output, authoring texts such as Theorie der geometrischen Konstruktionen in 1952, which elaborated on constructive methods in geometry. He offered no public disavowals of his earlier typological frameworks or political stances, maintaining continuity in his intellectual pursuits despite marginalization. Personal details from his later decades remain sparse, with no documented health deteriorations or shifts in family circumstances beyond his 1914 marriage to Johanna Stoermer and their four sons born between 1915 and 1922.[5]Bieberbach spent his final years in Berlin before passing away on September 1, 1982, at age 95 in Oberaudorf, Bavaria.[5] Enduring Mathematical Impact Bieberbach's formulation of the Bieberbach conjecture in 1916, concerning the coefficients of power series expansions for univalent holomorphic functions mapping the unit disk to the complex plane, stood as a cornerstone problem in geometric function theory for nearly seven decades until its proof by Louis de Branges in 1985.[17] The conjecture's partial verifications, including Bieberbach's own proof for the second coefficient and subsequent cases by Loewner (n=3) and others up to n=6, spurred methodological advances in function theory, such as the development of variational techniques and coefficient bounds that influenced inequalities in complex analysis.[14] De Branges's resolution, leveraging Hilbert space methods and model theory, not only confirmed the conjecture but also catalyzed broader applications in operator theory and approximation problems, demonstrating the conjecture's role in bridging analytic and geometric insights.[2]In geometry, Bieberbach's theorems from 1910–1912 established the foundational structure of Euclidean crystallographic groups, proving that such discrete groups acting properly on Euclidean space possess a finite-index translationsubgroup and a compact fundamental domain, now known as the first Bieberbach theorem.[45] This characterization theorem classifies crystallographic groups up to isomorphism via their holonomy representations, providing the algebraic framework for understanding periodic lattices and flat manifolds, which remains integral to modern studies of orbifolds and tilings.[46] His results underpin applications in materials science, where crystallographic symmetries dictate atomic arrangements in solids; for instance, Bieberbach groups classify space groups essential for modeling crystal defects and quasiperiodic structures in alloys and semiconductors.[47]These contributions persist independently of Bieberbach's political activities, as evidenced by ongoing citations in peer-reviewed literature on group actions and symmetry analysis, countering attempts to retroactively diminish their validity. Theorems on lattice periodicity and quasiperiodicity derived from his work continue to inform computational geometry and topological crystallography, ensuring their enduring utility in theoretical and applied mathematics.[22]
