=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Chris Hani | Biography, Wife, History, Assassination, & Death ...]
Martin Thembisile Hani was born to Gilbert Hani and his wife, Mary (née Nomayise) Hani, and was one of three of the couple’s six children who survived infancy. Gilbert Hani was a migrant worker and frequently had to live away from his family. Young Martin Hani attended a Roman Catholic primary school and was devout in his beliefs.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Chris-Hani

[Chris Hani, Aspired to religious calling, Jumped bail and ...]
Martin Thembisile Hani was born June 28, 1942, the fifth of six children born to Gilbert and Mary Hani; only three of the children, including Chris, survived infancy.
URL: https://reference.jrank.org/biography-2/Hani_Chris.html

[A TRIBUTE TO FORMER CHIEF STAFF & COMMANDER MK: CHRIS MARTIN ...]
Jun 19, 2024 · ‘Chris Hani’, born Martin Thembisile Hani SSAG, SSA, SBS, CLS, DMG, MMS was the fifth of six children of Gilbert and Mary (néé Nomayise) Hani. He was born on 28 June 1942 in Cofimvaba, Eastern Cape (formerly Transkei), South Africa.
URL: https://ditsong.org.za/en/a-tribute-to-former-chief-staff-commander-mk-chris-martin-thembisile-hani-ssa-sbs-cls-dmg-mms/

[South Africa: Overcoming Apartheid]
Apr 10, 1993 · Freedom fighter and political activist Tembisile Chris Hani was born in the rural village of Sabalele, in the Cofimvaba region of the former Transkei. He was the fifth of the six children of Gilbert and Mary Hani. Three of the children died in childhood.
URL: https://overcomingapartheid.msu.edu/people.php?kid=163-574-616

[Remembering Chris Hani – La Nkosi Writes]
Jul 11, 2022 · He was the fifth of their six children and was named Martin Thembisile Hani (Chris was adopted by Thembisile as a pen name, it was also his brother’s name).
URL: https://lankosiwrites.home.blog/2022/07/11/remembering-chris-hani/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Chris Hani | Biography, Wife, History, Assassination, & Death ...] ---
Chris Hani - Who was Chris Hani? - What was Chris Hani known for in South Africa? - What role did Chris Hani play in the anti-apartheid movement? - Which organisations was Chris Hani involved with? - How did Chris Hani’s actions impact the fight against apartheid? - What happened to Chris Hani, and why is he remembered today? Chris Hani (born June 28, 1942, Cofimvaba, South Africa—died April 10, 1993, Boksburg) was a South African political activist who was a prominent member of the African National Congress (ANC), the political party and Black nationalist organization that led the fight to eliminate South Africa’s racially discriminatory policy of apartheid, and served as chief of staff (1987–91) of the ANC’s military wing, Umkhonto we Sizwe (“Spear of the Nation”). Hani also served as secretary-general (1991–93) of the South African Communist Party (SACP). Early life, education, and introduction to activism Martin Thembisile Hani was born to Gilbert Hani and his wife, Mary (née Nomayise) Hani, and was one of three of the couple’s six children who survived infancy. Gilbert Hani was a migrant worker and frequently had to live away from his family. Young Martin Hani attended a Roman Catholic primary school and was devout in his beliefs. He admired the social justice aspect of his religion and was enthralled with the Latin language used in the mass. He became an altar server as a young boy and later wanted to become a priest, but his father discouraged that route. Hani joined the ANC Youth League in 1957 while attending Lovedale school. He went on to study Latin and classics at the University of Fort Hare from 1959 to 1961 and at Rhodes University, from which he earned a bachelor’s degree in 1962. Involvement with the ANC, Umkhonto we Sizwe, and the SACP After graduating, he briefly prepared for a legal career, but his involvement with the SACP, which he had joined in 1961, and Umkhonto we Sizwe, which he joined the next year, soon took precedence. He underwent military training, fought with Black nationalists in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), and directed guerrilla operations against South Africa from bases in Lesotho and Zambia. During this period Hani adopted the first name Chris to help him elude capture by South African authorities. In 1974 Hani married Limpho Sekamane; they would go on to have three daughters. Also that year Hani was elected to the ANC executive council. He was named deputy commander of Umkhonto in 1982 and chief of staff five years later; at the same time, he rose through the leadership ranks of the SACP. Hani was foremost among the so-called Young Lions—ANC members who endorsed using violence and accepted that their violence could affect civilians and, indeed, might be the only way to make apartheid unpalatable for the minority white population, in opposition to the more moderate tactics of older leaders, such as Nelson Mandela and Oliver Tambo. In a 1988 interview with The New York Times, Hani said: I don’t think most whites want to die for apartheid.…Our intention is to make them see, so that when they are maimed and they are in hospital, others will go there to visit them and will say: this is the price of apartheid.…How long are they going to sacrifice loss of limb to maintain a system that deprives the overwhelming majority of the right to vote, the right to a proper house, to proper medical attention, to education? After the ban on the ANC was lifted by South African Pres. F.W. de Klerk in 1990, Hani returned to South Africa and participated in the negotiations for the peaceful transfer to majority rule. He officially resigned as Umkhonto chief of staff in 1991, when he succeeded Joe Slovo as SACP secretary-general. Hani served as secretary-general of the SACP until his death in 1993. Assassination and aftermath Hani, who had survived a number of assassination attempts in previous years, was shot and killed on April 10, 1993, outside his home in Boksburg, a racially integrated suburb near Johannesburg. - Byname of: - Martin Thembisile Hani - Born: - June 28, 1942, Cofimvaba, South Africa - Died: - April 10, 1993, Boksburg (aged 50) - Political Affiliation: - African National Congress - Communist Party of South Africa - Umkhonto we Sizwe Black South Africans were gripped with grief and outrage over Hani’s assassination, which threatened to derail the tense negotiations for majority rule. In the ensuing days, an estimated one and a half million persons took part in rallies, marches, and other forms of protest. Janusz Waluś, a Polish immigrant, and Clive Derby-Lewis, a leading member of the Conservative Party, were soon arrested for Hani’s murder. It was learned that the two had planned the assassination together. Waluś had been the one to shoot Hani, while Derby-Lewis had supplied Waluś with Hani’s address and the weapon used to kill him. They later admitted that they had hoped Hani’s assassination would derail the negotiations for majority rule and plunge the country into chaos. The two were found guilty in October 1993 and received death sentences that were later commuted to life imprisonment. Derby-Lewis was granted medical parole in 2015 and died in 2016. Waluś was paroled in 2022 and deported back to Poland in December 2024.


--- [Chris Hani, Aspired to religious calling, Jumped bail and ...] ---
The South African military leader and politician Chris Hani (1942–1993) was a major figure in the struggle against the apartheid system in South Africa. Rising through the ranks to become general secretary of South Africa's Communist Party, Hani was widely admired among young black South Africans. He was assassinated during the critical period in which apartheid was being dismantled, and his death sparked unrest that threatened to derail the country's movement toward democracy. Chris Hani was born in Sabalele in the Cofimvaba district of Transkei, South Africa. An all-black homeland for Xhosa-speaking native people, Transkei was a “Bantustan,” one of ten areas wherein whiteruled South Africa segregated the black ethnic population under a system known as apartheid. In 1963, Transkei would become the first of four bantustans to be designated as nominally independent countries by South African Prime Minister B.J. Vorster, an act that further entrenched his government's system of racial segregation. In response to Vorster's action, the oppositional African National Congress (ANC) announced that the move “was designed to consolidate the inhuman policies of apartheid.” Transkei became part of South Africa's Eastern Cape province in 1994 and was renamed Mthatha 20 years later. Martin Thembisile Hani was born June 28, 1942, the fifth of six children born to Gilbert and Mary Hani; only three of the children, including Chris, survived infancy. Gilbert Hani was a miner and unskilled construction worker who was frequently absent from the family home, and Mary Hani helped the family survive by raising food on their small farm. Hani walked 20 kilometers to and from school weekly, and then the same distance to and from church on Sunday. Raised as a Catholic, he was devout as a child. For a time he aspired to a career as a priest, but his parents removed him from a Catholic school and enrolled him in public school. At first, Hani kept his activist tendencies under wraps, and in 1959 he won admission to the University of Fort Hare, a historically black institution whose distinguished alumni included activists Nelson Mandela and the Rev. Desmond Tutu. Here he had his first exposure to Marxist political thought. The young man's main interest, academically, was not political struggle but English literature and the classics of ancient Greece and Rome. “My studies of literature further strengthened my hatred of all forms of oppression, persecution and obscurantism,” Hani later wrote in an autobiographical essay posted on the South African Communist Party website. For the rest of his life he retained a fondness for tailored clothes and classic English literature. Meanwhile, in 1961, Hani joined the South African Communist Party. He also transferred to Rhodes University in Grahamstown, South Africa, graduating the following year with majors in Latin and English. Following college, Hani took a job as a clerk with the law firm of Schaefer & Schaefer but soon dropped out. His career as a political outlaw began when he was arrested at a police roadblock and charged with possession of communist literature—actually some pamphlets that argued against the government's policy of detention without trial. Granted bail, he fled the country for Botswana. He was arrested in Lusaka, Zambia when he tried to return, put on trial, and sentenced to 18 months in prison. While appealing his sentence, he was released from prison and in 1963 went underground. For several months, Hani he stayed below police radar in Cape Town and Johannesburg. Then, on the orders of his ANC superiors, he and 30 other young ANC members departed for the U.S.S.R. for training in guerrilla warfare. In 1964 Hani returned to Africa, landing in Tanzania. The sympathetic government there had offered land to the Umkhonto weSizwe (known as MK), an armed wing of the revolutionary ANC, for a training camp. Hani was put in charge of organizing the camp, which eventually grew to a force of 500 volunteers. Dismayed by the low level of literacy among his forces, he began teaching adult basiceducation courses at the camp. He also did journalistic writing during this period. In 1966 Hani moved again, this time to Zambia, where he helped train forces attempting to overthrow the white minority government in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe). The following year, he was arrested in Botswana for illegal arms possession; he was jailed there and in Zambia, and was finally freed in 1969. For several years, Hani lived in Maseru, Lesotho, where he studied military communications and gained expertise in getting messages to the MK fighters then being infiltrated into South Africa. Such activities spread his fame, as did his call for workers to sabotage elements of the government's war machine by introducing sugar and sand into the workings government trucks being manufactured in factories. A broadside known as the “Hani Memorandum” leveled several charges against the ANC leadership and endeared him to the movement's ordinary rank and file. In 1970, Hani joined the central committee of the Communist Party, and in 1974 he traveled to communist East Germany for further guerrilla command training. The following year he was named to the ANC's executive committee. In 1981, just as his family was growing to include a third daughter, Hani became the target of the first of several assassination attempts via car bomb in Maseru, Lesotho. The following year a second attempt failed when a bomb exploded in the hands of Hani's potential assassin. He and his family moved to an area of Maseru called Kuane Flats, which was home to many ANC members and deemed relatively safe. However, on December 9, 1982, the complex was raided by South African forces, leaving 42 ANC members as well as 12 civilians dead, among them women and children. Perhaps the target of this raid, Hani was not home at the time. After more attempts on his life, Hani was sent to Lusaka, Zambia, and then to Maputo, Mozambique. Hani's attitudes toward violence against civilians evolved in the late 1980s and early 1990s, as the South Africa government began to discuss and then move toward ending the apartheid system. “I don't think most whites want to die for apartheid,” he was quoted as saying in 1988, according to the New York Times. “Our intention is to make them see, so that when they are maimed and they are in hospital, others will go there to visit them and will say: this is the price of apartheid.” As the democratization process gathered momentum, however, he moderated his view, asserting that the anti-apartheid struggle was not aimed at destroying whites as a group, but toward replacement of the apartheid system. Hani was sometimes seen as a bridgebuilder between ANC policymakers and more militant black activists, many of them radicalized young people. In 1990, the year ANC leader Nelson Mandela was released from prison, South African president F.W. de Klerk allowed Hani to return from exile. The ANC and the country's communist party were legalized that same year. The following year, Hani was chosen by party members as general secretary of the South African Communist Party, replacing longtime and ailing leader, Joe Slovo. In 1992 he was one of the leaders of the march that resulted in the Bisho Massacre, in which 28 ANC marchers were killed by forces loyal to the Ciskei Bantustan, a homeland that, like Hani's native Transkai, was inhabited by Xhosa-speaking blacks. After the ANC affirmed its support for private property rights and preparations for free elections gathered force, Hani left the organization of which he had been a member for more than 30 years. As he announcing plans to form a new socialist group, some observers speculated that he planned a run for president of South Africa. In 1974, Hani had married Limpho Sekamane, and the couple raised three children. On the night of April 10, 1993, in the Dawn Park area of the Johannesburg suburb of Boksburg, he was at home with his family, having given his bodyguards the evening off. He went out alone to buy groceries and was shot and killed by Polish immigrant and right-wing white extremist Janusz Walus. Walus and Clive-Derby Lewis, a pro-apartheid member of the South African parliament, together with Clive's wife Gaye, were arrested and charged with planning Hani's murder. Gaye Derby-Lewis was acquitted, but Walus and Clive Derby-Lewis were convicted and imprisoned. Unrest flared after Hani's death, but ANC leader Mandela and his organizers appealed for calm and succeeded in tamping down the worst of the violence. Mandela made a televised speech urging peace on April 14, 1994, and 12 days later de Klerk announced a date for democratic elections. Hani remains a revered figure in modern-day South Africa. In 1997, Baragwanath Hospital in Johannesburg's Soweto area, the largest in the world outside China, was renamed Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital. Although Clive Derby-Lewis was released from prison in 2016, suffering from terminal cancer; Walus remained in custody as legal proceedings continued. Davis, Stephen M., Apartheid's Rebels: Inside South Africa's Hidden War, Yale University Press, 1987. Globe & Mail (Toronto, Ontario, Canada), April 12, 1993, p. a1. New York Times, June 12, 1988; April 15, 1993; August 14, 1997. South African Communist Party website, http://www.sacp.org.za/ (September 5, 2016), Chris Hani, “My Life: An Autobiography Written in 1991.” South African History website, http://www.sahistory.org.za/ (July 21, 2016), “Thembisile ‘Chris’ Hani.” African National Congress Press Release, number GA/5498, October 26, 1976.❑


--- [A TRIBUTE TO FORMER CHIEF STAFF & COMMANDER MK: CHRIS MARTIN ...] ---
A TRIBUTE TO FORMER CHIEF STAFF & COMMANDER MK: CHRIS MARTIN THEMBISILE HANI, SSA, SBS, CLS, DMG, MMS By: Tinyeko Captain Ndhlovu – Curator: Insignia, Memorial Plaques, Postal History DITSONG: National Museum of Military History The name of Chris Hani (combat name) appears amongst the heroes and legends who fought against the Apartheid regime. These heroes dedicated their lives for the course of liberation and democracy of the southern African region. Chris Hani (see Fig. 1) joined the liberation armed struggle during the 1960s and received his military training in the USSR. Hani served as an anti-apartheid activist, revolutionary politician, and Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) guerrilla between the 1960s and 1990s. Figure 1. Former Chief Staff and Commander of (MK): Chris Martin Thembisile Hani SSA, SBS, CLS, DMG, MMS (Image Source: Wikipedia). Early life, education, and political career ‘Chris Hani’, born Martin Thembisile Hani SSAG, SSA, SBS, CLS, DMG, MMS was the fifth of six children of Gilbert and Mary (néé Nomayise) Hani. He was born on 28 June 1942 in Cofimvaba, Eastern Cape (formerly Transkei), South Africa. Chris Hani followed in the steps of his father Gilbert who was a mine union labour and political activist, who left South Africa into exile during the 1960s and returned to the country in the 1990s. Chris Hani joined the African National Congress (ANC) Youth League at the age of 15 because of his father, Gilbert Hani’s political influence. During his school and tertiary education, Hani did not participate in any sport activities. Chris Hani once said, “I would rather combat apartheid than play sport.” In 1961, after being influenced by leaders such as Ray Simons, Govan Mbeki, and Moses Kotane, Chris Hani joined the South African Communist Party (SACP). He furthered his tertiary education in English, Latin, modern and classical literature and graduated at the University of Fort Hare (1959-1961) and Rhodes University (1962). Post his tertiary graduation, Chris Hani secured his first job as an article clerk for Schaeffer and Schaeffer legal firm in Cape Town. In the course of time, Hani could not take it anymore, due to his frustration with the Apartheid system. He worked at the law firm from 1962-1963 but did not complete his article assignment. Chris Hani joined Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK), the military wing of the ANC in 1962. Following his detention in 1962, and under the Suppression of the Communism Act of 1950, Hani went underground in Cape Town after four months, and then moved to Johannesburg where he was advised to go abroad for military training. Military training, and operations In 1963, Chris Hani fled to the Soviet Union to receive military training. By 1964 about 300 MK cadres had left South Africa for military training in many newly African independent states, China, the USSR, and Czechoslovakia. By 1965 MK had enough trained cadres around the globe. Hani returned from the USSR in 1967 where he actively served in joint military operations of MK/Zimbabwe People’s Revolutionary Army (ZIPRA), such as the Wankie Campaign or Operation Nickel. During that time Chris was an Acting Political Commissar of ZIPRA. He eventually became a Political Commissar of MK in 1967. The Wankie Campaign (also known as Operation Nickel) was a military operation launched by the Rhodesian Security Forces from 1 August – 8 September 1967 in response to the ZIPRA and MK crossing the Zambian border. Another campaign where Chris Hani participated in was the Sipolilo Campaign (1967-68) under MK/ZIPRA during the Zimbabwean War of Liberation/Rhodesian Bush War. One of the most significant experiences of the liberation struggle was contained in the Wankie/Sipolilo Campaigns (1967-1968). Figure 2. Commander Chris Hani inspecting the MK troops at Langa Stadium, Cape Town, in 1991(Source Image: South African History Online). “Chris Hani knew every (MK) soldier by name and by their combat. He was down to earth, and easy to talk with” (Quoted by Ronald Masinda, Chris Hani’s former bodyguard). Chris gained the status of an African guerrilla warrior who was able to challenge the Apartheid government and its associates. Chris Hani grew within the MK ranks and became Second in Command to Commander Joe Modise who was the supervising commander of MK. Hani spent a good deal of time as an underground organizer of the MK, conducting the guerrilla operations in South Africa and Lesotho during the mid-1970-80s. During the 1980s, Chris Hani became prominent enough to be a target of assassination attempts. He left Lesotho to the MK/ANC headquarters in Lusaka, Zambia. It was also observed that Chris promoted women’s rights, safety, and wellbeing, especially the MK female operatives at the training camps. He eventually became the Chief of Staff of MK in 1987. Marriage and family In 1973 Chris got married to Limpho (néé Sekamane) Hani in Lusaka and they were blessed with three daughters: Neo Hani, Nomakhwezi Hani, and Lindiwe Hani. Chris Hani’s family was obliged to live separately; his wife Limpho Hani and their daughters were living in Lesotho, while Chris was based in Lusaka, Zambia, and across the globe due to MK underground activities and the danger of his duties. However, they were able to visit Chris once a year in Zambia. Both Chris Hani and his family encountered several life-threatening moments and assassination attempts during the liberation armed struggle era. Homecoming and Hani’s assassination in the early 1990s The ANC and other political parties were unbanned on 2 February 1990. Chris Hani and other MK cadres permanently returned from exile to South Africa. During the SACP Conference on 8 December 1991, Hani was elected and took over from Joe Slovo as the Head/General Secretary of the SACP. Hani was also elected to be at the Top 6 of the NEC of the ANC. Chris Hani was in support of the suspension of the MK/ANC’s armed struggle in favour of the negotiations. Chris Hani was the most popular figure in the MK, SACP, and ANC after Nelson Mandela. Unfortunately, on 10 April 1993, Chris Hani was assassinated outside his home in Dawn Park, Boksburg. Following his assassination, two culprits, namely Janusz Walus a Polish immigrant and far-right anti-communist who used the gun, given by Clive Derby-Lewis (SA Conservative Party MP), were arrested and sentenced to death. Chris Hani’s assassination stirred anxiety among South Africans at a point that it was left with great fear that the country would end up in civil war. However, Nelson Mandela intervened by addressing the nation and appealing for peace. The following year South Africa agreed to hold the first national democratic election on the 27th April1994. Later the death penalty was abolished and replaced by life sentence due to a RSA Constitutional Court ruling of 1995. Hani’s killers appeared before the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. After many attempts of seeking parole, Derby-Lewis was granted medical parole (he was diagnosed with terminal lung cancer) in May 2015. He lived for a further 18 months and died on 3 November 2016. Januz Waluz was denied parole four times, before the SA Constitutional Court ordered his release on parole in November 2022. However, it should be noted that various political organizations, Chris Hani’s family and the SACP attempted with all their strength to oppose both paroles of Chris Hani’s killers. Civilian honours and military awards Chris Hani’s contributions in the armed liberation struggle in Southern Africa was noticed by the Republic of South Africa and the following civilian honours and Military awards were posthumously awarded to Hani (See Figs 3-10): Figure 3. Star of South Africa (Gold) post-nominals SSA (Source Image: Wikipedia). Figure 4. Star for Bravery (Silver) post-nominal SBS (Source Image: Wikipedia). Figure 5. Conspicuously for Leadership Star (Silver) post-nominal CLS (Source Image: Wikipedia). Figure 6. Decoration for Merit (Gold) post-nominal DMG (Source Image: Wikipedia). Figure 7. Merit Medal (Silver) post-nominal MMS (Source Image: Wikipedia) Figure 8. Service Medal (Gold) (Source Image: Wikipedia). Figure 9. Service Medal (Silver) (Source Image: Wikipedia) Figure 10. Service Medal (Bronze) (Source Image: Wikipedia). Chris Hani joined the liberation armed struggle from a tender age. He rose through the MK ranks to the point that he was considered a vicious rival of the Apartheid government. The 10th of April this year will mark the 31st anniversary of the passing of the former Chief of Staff/Commander of MK and General Secretary of SACP, Chris Hani. He dedicated his entire life as an anti-apartheid activist, revolutionary politician, and military veteran. Hani managed to balance his life as a MK cadre and husband, father, and the son of the soil. His involvement in the armed liberation struggle in Southern Africa was not left unnoticed. Chris Martin Thembisile Hani, SSA, SBS, CLS, DMG, MMS was posthumously awarded with various civilian recognitions of honour and military awards. In 1993, French philosopher Jacques Derrida dedicated Spectres de Marx to Chris Hani. The Baragwanath Hospital, one of the largest hospitals in the world was renamed the Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital in his memory in1997. In 2010 a shopping mall was built and named after Christ Hani in Ekuruleni. Various district municipalities and streets/roads were also renamed after Chris Hani. Works Cited Chris Hani at Langa Stadium | South African History Online also available at: https://www.sahistory.org.za/image/chris-hani-lamga-stadium Peris Walubengo, ‘The life and times of Chris Hani’, also Available at: https://briefly.coza/34756-the-life-times-chris-hani.html Rendani Moses Ralinala, Jabulani Sithole, Gregory Houston & Bernard Magubane, ‘The Wankie and Sipolilo’ Campaigns, Chapter 12, 13, 14’ pp.479-540. Wikipedia ‘Chris Hani’, also Available at: https://en.m.wikipedia.org YouTube Videos Sites Visited: eNCA (2022 Dec 11) ‘Chris Han| Former Bodyguard Tells his Story’, http://www.youtube.com/@encanews eNCA (2013 April 10) ‘Remembering Chris Hani’, http://www.youtube.com/@encanews Afravision (2013 Jul 3) ‘Leaders – Chris Hani’, http://www.youtube.com/@encanews SABC News (2014 April 10) ‘Life and times of Chris Hani’, http://www.youtube.com/@sabc


--- [South Africa: Overcoming Apartheid] ---
No content


--- [Remembering Chris Hani – La Nkosi Writes] ---
When those who continue to step on our necks come out and parade themselves as revolutionaries, quoting the likes of uTat’Hani I can’t help but wonder why they think we are blind to the truth. Tat’Chris Hani, was a beacon of hope for the oppressed not only in South Africa but the Mother continent and the rest of the world. He stood out from those he led with as a true revolutionary of the working class and the poor at a time, when the leadership of the mass democratic movement had abandoned the vision for a just, classless, socialist society. He was a firm revolutionary that was feared by the system. His Early Life On the 28th of June 1942 Mme Nomayise and her Husband Tat ‘Gilbert Hani welcomed a beautiful baby boy into the family, in a small town called Cofimvaba which is in the Eastern Cape. He was the fifth of their six children and was named Martin Thembisile Hani (Chris was adopted by Thembisile as a pen name, it was also his brother’s name). He grew up under oppressive and impoverished conditions, like most working class Africans across the colonised continent which led to his father having to leave their home to look for employment. Tat ‘Gilbert found work in the Transvaal mines and began his career as a migrant worker for the same capitalist system that forced him out of his home and into joining the reserves of native migrant workers who sold their labour for cheap. He would send what he could back home, but it was not enough to sustain the household. Thembisile and his siblings stayed with his mother who was now the head of the household like most African mothers, she supplemented the household income through her work as a sustenance farmer. The Hani family were devout Christians and the children would walk 25 kilometres to go to church on Sundays, at the age of 8 young Thembisile became an altar boy and actually wanted to become a priest one day, a dream the father had no interest in. Now with his father being away from home young Chris tended to the livestock until he was a suitable age to start with school. The distance to school was the same as that to church, Young Chris and his siblings would walk 25 kilometres to school on weekdays. During his mid-teen years, the South African government introduced the Black Education Act of 1953, which formalised the segregation of black schooling and it laid the foundation for the emergence of ‘Bantu Education’. He was now awake and his eyes were opened to the limitations the apartheid regime had put in place for the native youth of South Africa. In his own words, “This angered and outraged us and paved way for my involvement in struggle.” He now understood that Bantu Education was designed to indoctrinate native students into accepting the supremacy of europeans and their exploitation. In 1956 when the Treason Trial began, Chris joined the African National Congress an organisation his father was a member of. He then joined the Youth League the following year which could have been influenced by one of his teachers at school, Tat’ Simon Makana. He then matriculated from Lovedale High School in 1959 and enrolled at the University of Forthare to study modern and classical literature in English, Greek and Latin. The university of Forthare was known to be a liberal campus, this was also where he was introduced to the Marxist philosophy which heavily influenced his future career. During this time the extension of the university education act (1959) had put an end to the attendance of natives in white universities especially in Cape Town and the Witwatersrand, this then led to the birth of separate institutions for Europeans, Coloureds, Indians and lastly Natives. Tat’Chris Hani was a very active student on campus protests over the takeover of Forthare by the Department of Bantu Education, he then graduated in 1962 from the Rhodes University of Grahamstown with a Bachelor’s Degree in classics & English right before his expulsion for participating in political activism. With a mind like his and the qualification he accumulated opportunities to study abroad presented themselves, instead of taking up the offer he chose to stay and form part of the struggle in South Africa, he joined the revolutionary armed struggles in his own words, “My basic objective is the struggle in South Africa. You know I could have left you see, as others did to go and study. I had a degree from Rhodes University but I, felt that I was not going to go and study. It was my revolutionary duty to be part of the armed struggle of the revolution in South Africa.” About The Communist Party The Communist Party of South Africa was founded in 1921, Hani’s uncle was a very active member until they dissolved the organization in response to the Suppression of Communism Act of 1950. Despite this, ex-communists continued to operate in secret this then led to the underground formation of the SACP in 1953. Tat’Chris joined the SACP in 1961 after moving to Cape Town, in his own words: “In 1961, I joined the underground SACP as I realised that national liberation, though essential would not bring about the economic liberation. My decision to join the Party was influenced by such greats of our struggle like Govan Mbeki, Bram Fischer, JB Marks, Moses Kotane, Ray Simons etc.” (Hani, February,1991) He then joined the military wing of the ANC, and with his level of intelligence he was quick to rise through the ranks. He had come to the realization that there was a need to take up arms in for them to challenge the apartheid state’s supremacy that was maintained by its monopoly. Arrest & Exile In 1962, Tat’Hani was arrested for the first of many times under the suppression of communism act. After being tried and exhausted all possible legal appeals against his conviction, in 1963 upon his release he went into exile with his father in Lesotho. Being the revolutionary leader that he was, he joined multiple military training operations which were based in Zimbabwe, Zambia, Botswana, Lesotho and South Africa. Tat ‘Hani was then sent to the Soviet Union for military training and returned to Africa in 1967 so he could take an active role in the Rhodesian Bush War, where he acted as a political commissar of the Zimbabwe People’s Revolutionary Army. ZIPRA which was under the command of Tat ‘Joshua Nkomo operated outside the Zambian borders, Hani was present for the three battles during the Wankie Campaign and identified as being a part of the Luthuli detachment of combined ANC & Zimbabwean African People’s Union forces. The campaign at the time had gained traction due to the propaganda that was put out about the struggle in Rhodesia and South Africa, but could be viewed as a flop when looked at from a military lens – they could have achieved more if it weren’t for those locals who frequented the police stations to alert them on guerrilla groups. During that same year, Hani managed to narrowly escape into Botswana only for him to find the police waiting to arrest him on the other side for being in possession of weapons. He then went back to Zambia during the last few months of 1968 and continued his work with ZIPRA. Due to his growth within the ranks of the ANC, MK and the SACP he was transferred to Lesotho in 1973 where he was tasked to organize units of the MK for guerrilla operations in South Africa. By 1982 he had become prominent in such a way that he became the main focus for assassination attempts which also included the bombing of his ca not only from the apartheid regime but the sell-outs that were now in the ANC. He was then transferred from the Capital of Lesotho Maseru, to the centre of the ANC political leadership base in Lusaka. During the same year, he was elected into the ANC’s National Executive Committee and by 1983 he had been promoted to Political Commissar of the MK where he worked with student recruits who had joined the ANC in exile after the 1976 uprising. When the dissident members of the ANC who were being detained in concentration camps based in Angola mutinied against their harsh treatment between 1983-1984, it was Hani who suppressed the call for uprisings. He continued to rise through the ranks and was made chief of staff in 1987 of the MK, and had also been granted the status of being a senior member of the SACP. Coming Back Home When the ANC and SACP were unbanned in 1990 on the 2nd of February, Tat ‘Hani came back home and he did not stop with his activism, he became a charismatic popular voice in the townships. By 1990 he was known to be a close link to the SACP’S secretary general at the time, Joe Slovo. The two were seen as a threat to the AWB and the Conservative Party. When Slovo announced that he had cancer in 1991, Hani took over as the SG. *INTERESTING FACTS* – In 1991 when Nelson Mandela was elected as the president of the ANC, Tat ‘Hani contested the position of DP against Thabo Mbeki. -In 1992 Tat ‘Hani stepped down as the chief of staff of the MK so he could devote more time to the organization of the SACP. Communists were prominent in the ANC and the Council of South African Trade Unions but they were under threat due to the collapse of the Soviet Union in Europe which discredited the global movement. Despite this Tat ‘Hani remained unshaken and campaigned for the SACP in townships and around South Africa, seeking to redefine its place as a national political party. It then began to do well, better than the ANC especially when it came to the young people of South Africa. The youth had no real experiences of the pre-apartheid era and no commitment to the democratic leaders of the more moderate Mandela and his cohort. It was no secret that Tat’Hani was loved by Native south Africans, he was known to be a charming, passionate and charismatic leader. Hence those who loved him were seen as cultists. This got to the point where he became the only leader who had an influence on the radical township self-defence groups that had distanced themselves from the authority of the ANC. Hani’s SACP would have proved a serious match for the ANC during the elections of 1994. Why Did They Take Him Out? Tat’Chris Hani’s views got him killed by his own comrades and the regime, they could not even act disheartened or angry about his passing. Their outrage was very subtle and they were quick to extinguish the fires created by the masses who were angry. He was a leader whose views could not be bought, a voice of the voiceless and a true leader of the people. Here are five of his fiery quotes: “It makes me realise with impatience the need to defeat this regime, I don’t mince my words when I am speaking about this regime I hate it intensely.” Chris Hani “I disagree with a lot of people who think that FW De Klerk and others have changed.” Chris Hani “Some of us have got reservations about the amnesty they are talking about. Before you consider amnesty, let us see what they did. When we were coming back they forced us to fill in forms to say what we did and I think that should apply to them as well.” Chris Hani “I want to be honest, I was annoyed. I was angry and bitter that this decision was taken without comprehensive consultation.” Chris Hani “When there was a press conference early in the morning announcing the suspension of military activities, I felt like crying.” Chris Hani Relationship with uMama Winnie Chris Hani was prepared to fight until the end to secure a freedom that was genuine hence his close relations with Mama Winnie. The two had a very strong bond and they were viewed as a threat to the apartheid regime and the right-wingers in the ANC. In a touching tribute to her father during the 25th anniversary commemoration event held in Boksburg at the Thomas Nkobi memorial park, Lindiwe had this to say “My father loved uMama Winnie and she loved him as well. As a child coming to South Africa from Lesotho, it was incredibly overwhelming. We didn’t know what to expect, when our parents told us that we would be staying with Mama Winnie and her family in Soweto. This was not a strangers’ name, we grew up hearing about uMama Winnie and you could hear the love and respect in my father’s voice when he spoke about her.” Lindiwe goes on to say “Her name came up when uDaddy would tell his girls that there is nothing that we couldn’t do once we put our minds together, and that we are just as strong and powerful as boys, if not more so, and she would be illustrated in that example” [Citypress, 10 April 2018]. This is a perfect example of the relationship the two families had, and through this we are reminded of why Mama was coined the Mother of the Nation. It is unfortunate that we grew up reading articles that ridiculed uMama and Tat ’Hani where we were spoon-fed heroes to look up to and were ridiculed for falling in love with the radical revolutionaries who the masses on the ground relate to. The Hani family inspire me, because they made it a point to ensure that the legacy of Tat ‘Chris continues to live on, safeguarding it from the vultures who parade themselves as comrades and yet they spread the distorted versions of who Chris Hani was and his views, despite books being accessible. His Assassination On the 10th of April 1993, on his way back to his Dawn Park home, he was assassinated by Jansuz Waluz who was an anti-communist Polish refugee that had close links to the white nationalist AWB. The day before his assassination his daughter Lindiwe and her mother drove to Lesotho for the Easter Holiday, it was the late Nomakhwezi who witnessed the brutal murder of her father. When Mme Limpho received the news and relayed it to Lindiwe the dream she had of being the prefect family was shattered. His death also came at a time when the SACP was on the brink of attaining significant status as an independent political party- but it was now bereft of funding and without a strong leader. The democratic process was faltering and those who till this day continue to act dismayed by his passing allowed their seniors and peers to use his assassination as a persuasive tool to push negotiations of a multi-party negotiating forum to come up with a date for the first South African democratic elections. They were also very calm for an angry people you see this in the statements they made in articles during interviews. Matamela as the Secretary General of the ANC used his platform to divert the attention from looking for the main culprits who gave the order from within the ANC, to pushing for the CODESA negotiations Hani and Mama were against. To expose his disconnect from the masses on the ground he had the following to say “Hani’s death should act as a catalyst, to make sure the negotiations process gathers momentum. It is what Comrade Chris would have expected all of us to do” He should have just said it is what they wanted and the apartheid regime. We are still angry and bitter towards those who were part of these negotiations because they continue to act dismayed only a few were genuine, the likes of Peter Mokaba a fiery leader of the ANCYL spoke in a language we understand and these were his words “We’re always being told to be calm when we want to hit back, for 3 years now we’ve been negotiating. The leaders talk of a political solution, but the so called peace process is not on, what is on is war.” Those who called for war were quickly hushed by the ones who were leading the negotiations. Hani was brutally murdered and his family was robbed of a husband, father, brother, uncle and the nation…a leader! The system and it’s minions took him out because he advocated for freedom against the supremist capitalist system which continued to assault the revolutionary socialist project! He was taken out because he advocated for our freedom through a revolutionary construction of a worker-led socialist society. He was taken out because he posed as a threat to the system and the sell-outs within movement. In an interview on the Huffpost which aired sometime in August 2017, Mama Winnie had this to say: It is scary how our leaders were quick to shift the focus from investigating the gruesome murder of one of their own to promoting the negotiations that led to his assassination, it is also scary how the very same regime was worried about the safety of our leaders hence they provided them with protection and the ANC was comfortable with that because a hit-list was found? Why not investigate? What good is your protection when the killers are among us? When Walzus & Derby were captured, sentenced and jailed after the 6 months they were sentenced to death-row but it did not happen because South Africa and its new constitution entered a new dawn where the death sentence was scrapped off. Their sentences were changed into life imprisonment, they even applied for amnesty in 1997 during the TRC claiming to have committed a political act because of their affiliation to the Conservation Party, this lousy move was however ruled out but the TRC found that Hani’s assassination was by right-wing extremists who did so independently. To the not so innocent bunch who continue to act disheartened, you need to find another home for that fakeness. You allowed things to spiral out of control, you kept quiet when several opportunities presented themselves to you for the truth to be told, you chose to dine with the enemy and spread the falsified version, unlike before we shall continue to spread the parts of the tales that were hidden from us. When there are loopholes in a story, you only prompt us to dive deep. May the spirit of Chris Hani continue to live on and may his legacy be respected. Sources:
