=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hank Williams family, wife, children, parents, siblings]
Hank Williams children Hank has two children, a son and a daughter who have been identified as Hank Williams Jr. and Jett Williams respectively. Both children are musicians. Hank Williams parents He is the son of Jessie Lillybelle (1898-1955) and Elonzo Huble Williams (1891-1970). His father was a railroad engineer for the W. T. Smith lumber company and was drafted during World War I ...
URL: https://celebfaqs.com/hank-williams-family-wife-children-parents-siblings/

[Hank Williams Jr.'s Kids: All About Hank Williams III, Holly, Hilary ...]
5 days ago · Hank Williams Jr.’s children — Hank Williams III, Hilary, Holly, Katherine and Samuel — are carrying on their family’s country music legacy. The “A Country Boy Can Survive”...
URL: https://people.com/all-about-hank-williams-jr-children-8643821

[The Hank Williams Family Tree of Performers - Saving Country Music]
There are many incredibly important legacy families to the country music lineage, from the Carter's to the Cash's. But arguably no crop of performers have offered more entertainment, influence, intrigue, and tragedy than the family tree that sprouts from the loins of Hank Williams. And so to pay tribute to this critically important country music family, to chronicle its members (which have ...
URL: https://savingcountrymusic.com/the-hank-williams-family-tree-of-performers/

[Hank Williams' Daughter Didn't Know That He Was Her Father ... - Biography]
Dec 15, 2020 · But it wasn’t until decades later that she set off on a long and complicated journey to figure out that she was the daughter of the famous Hank Williams. His daughter lived with four families...
URL: https://www.biography.com/musicians/hank-williams-daughter-jett

[Where Are Hank Williams' Children Now? 'I Saw The Light' Puts The ...]
Mar 24, 2016 · The film makes note of multiple women Williams loved, impregnated, and then separated from along the way, and in real life, the singer fathered two children: Hank Williams Jr. and Jett...
URL: https://www.bustle.com/articles/149115-where-are-hank-williams-children-now-i-saw-the-light-puts-the-singers-family-in-the


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hank Williams family, wife, children, parents, siblings] ---
Regarded as one of the most significant and influential American singers and songwriters of the 20th century, many were in shock after news of his demise hit them. He January 1, 1953, in Oak Hill, West Virginia, United States. He was an American singer, songwriter, and musician who recorded 55 singles that reached the top 10 of the Billboard Country & Western Best Sellers chart, including 12 that reached No. 1. In this article, we will dive into his personal life to know more about him, especially his family. Hank Williams wife He was a married man as of her time of death. He was married twice. He was first married to Audrey Williams. They tried the knot in 1944 and parted away in divorce in 1952. In 1952, he married Billie Jean Horton. Their marriage ended in 1953 after the singer died. Hank Williams children Hank has two children, a son and a daughter who have been identified as Hank Williams Jr. and Jett Williams respectively. Both children are musicians. Hank Williams parents He is the son of Jessie Lillybelle (1898–1955) and Elonzo Huble Williams (1891–1970). His father was a railroad engineer for the W. T. Smith lumber company and was drafted during World War I, serving from July 1918 to June 1919. Hank Williams siblings He is from a family of three siblings. He happens to be the youngest among the siblings. He has an elder brother, Ernest Huble Williams, who was born to first child on July 5, 1921; he died two days later. He has an elder sister Irene Williams.


--- [Hank Williams Jr.'s Kids: All About Hank Williams III, Holly, Hilary ...] ---
Hank Williams Jr.'s Kids: All About Hank Williams III, Holly, Hilary, Samuel and Katherine Hank Williams Jr.'s sons and daughters have followed in his musical footsteps By Emily Weaver Emily Weaver Emily Weaver is a shopping writer with three years of experience covering home and kitchen deals, fashion finds, and celebrity looks for PEOPLE. People Editorial Guidelines Updated on February 26, 2026 11:53AM EST Leave a Comment Left: Holly Williams and Hank Williams Jr. during 2006 CMT Music Awards in Nashville, Tennessee. Right: Hank Williams Jr. and Samuel Williams backstage during the 14th Annual Academy Of Country Music Honors at Ryman Auditorium on August 25, 2021 in Nashville, Tennessee. Credit : Jeff Kravitz/FilmMagic; Terry Wyatt/Getty Hank Williams Jr.’s children — Hank Williams III, Hilary, Holly, Katherine and Samuel — are carrying on their family’s country music legacy. The “A Country Boy Can Survive” singer-songwriter welcomed his first child, son Hank Williams III, with his ex-wife Gwen Yeargain. After they divorced, Hank married Becky White and welcomed daughters Hilary and Holly. Following their relationship, Hank found love again with Mary Jane Thomas, who was the mother of Hank’s late daughter, Katherine, and son Samuel. Despite growing up with a celebrity for a father, Hank’s kids have said that they had a fairly normal childhood. “My dad did not want to talk about music when he was off the road. He would always say, ‘I’m not Bocephus. I’m daddy,' " Holly told WATE 6, referencing her father's nickname. "He wanted to hunt and fish and cook, but he didn’t want to talk about music.” Hank Williams Jr. with his daughter Holly and son Hank Williams III. Holly Williams/Instagram In 2020, tragedy struck the Williams family when Katherine died in a car accident at age 27. While promoting his debut album, Glasshouse Children, Samuel told PEOPLE he was going “to keep going” in his late sister’s honor. "That would be really important to her, so that's really important to me, too,” he shared. Here's everything to know about Hank Williams Jr.’s children: Hank Williams III, Hilary, Holly, Katherine and Samuel. Hank Williams III, 53 Hank Williams III of Hank III performs on stage during Azkena Rock Festival at Recinto Mendizabala on June 16, 2012. Jordi Vidal/Redferns via Getty Hank and Gwen welcomed their son, Hank Williams III, on Dec. 12, 1972. Speaking with Glide in 2012, Hank III noted he had “a really normal childhood.” He grew up in Nashville with his mother, but they moved to Atlanta when she remarried. “I went to public schools, I played sports ... it was a pretty average childhood,” he explained. "Most people think I was spending a lot of my time with Hank Jr. on the road and stuff like that, but I would only see him about a week or two out of the year. So I wasn’t really raised around it.” Also known as Hank 3, he began carving a name out for himself in the punk rock space. He put out his first album, Risin’ Outlaw, in 1999. Five years later, he released Straight to Hell. He followed it up with the 2012 country album Long Gone Daddy, inspired by his grandfather and namesake. Hank III has released a total of 13 studio albums, his most recent being Ramblin’ Man in 2014. In an interview with Noise11, Hank III referred to his family’s legacy as both “a blessing and a curse.” “If you’re involved with somebody that has a famous father or famous grandfather, there’s expectations people have of you and in the end you’re being yourself," he said. "You gotta satisfy yourself and some of those people get let down." Following Ramblin’ Man, Hank III retreated from the spotlight and has lived a relatively private life. He has a son named Coleman Williams from a previous relationship, who is also a musician. Hilary Williams, 47 Hank Williams Jr. with his daughter Hilary Williams. Hilary Williams/Instagram Hank and Becky welcomed their daughter Hilary Williams on Feb. 26, 1979. While appearing on The Big Plan podcast in 2024, Hilary shared that, growing up, she and her siblings weren’t aware of their father’s fame. “I had no idea he was this massive country singer," she recalled. "I was just like, well, these are dad’s friends, you know? I didn’t know they were icons.” A singer-songwriter herself, Hilary’s career in the music industry was largely shaped by a near-death experience. In 2006, she and Holly were involved in a serious car incident that left Hilary with severe injuries and needing 30 different surgeries. “They said I shouldn’t have lived over 20 minutes because I lost six pints of blood,” Hilary told PEOPLE in 2018. She channeled that experience into her debut album, My Lucky Scars. The alternative country-rock record gets its name from “the scars on my body,” she said. “I am very lucky and grateful to be alive.” While the artist took time off to heal and recover (she had to learn how to walk again), she noted music has always been deep in her bones. “Because of my dad and grandfather, ever since I can remember I have always been very into music,” she shared. “My dad used to play the guitar and banjo around the house, which piqued my interest of music and as soon as I could talk ... I realized pretty early on that music was for me and what I wanted to do with my life.” Hilary made her Grand Ole Opry debut in June 2018 and spoke about the “very surreal moment” in an interview with Parade. “Walking into the circle was something I have dreamed of since I was a little girl and started to sing,' she said. "I’ve seen videos of my grandpa on that stage and have been in the audience watching my dad and my sister, I couldn’t wait for my moment as well. I will never forget the audience that night." In September 2024, Hilary celebrated her dad's new song with Post Malone, "Finer Things," by posting on Instagram about attending Hank's concerts. "Had such a great time this summer at my Dad’s show in Clarkston, MI with my friends," she wrote in the caption. Holly Williams, 44 Hank Williams Jr. with his daughters Holly and Hilary. Hilary Williams/Instagram Hank and Becky welcomed their second child, daughter Holly Audrey Williams, on March 12, 1981. Her middle name was inspired after Hanks’ mother, Audrey Mae Williams. Despite having a famous musician for a dad, Holly told The Boot she had “a pretty normal childhood.” Still, she knew from an early age she was destined to be a singer-songwriter just like her father and grandfather. In her early 20s, Holly released her debut album, The Ones We Never Knew, and subsequent albums Here with Me and The Highway in 2009 and 2013, respectively. She’s collaborated with major artists, including Dierks Bentley, Jewel and Keith Urban and made her Grand Ole Opry debut in 2013. However, a life-changing car incident in 2006 led Holly to switch career paths. She launched a women’s clothing boutique in Nashville called H. Audrey — a fusion of her and her grandmother’s first names. In 2013, she restored an old gas station and opened White Mercantile, named after her maternal grandparents, Warren and June White, according to her website. The upscale general store sells clothing, books, home products and more. “Coming from a family of so many creative talents is a reminder for me to always stay true to my artistic vision — whether that comes in the form of a new album, a retail venture, an old house renovation, or a fresh take on really good roasted chicken,” she wrote on her website. In honor of Hank's 74th birthday, Holly penned a heartfelt tribute on Instagram, reminiscing on their good and hard times together and the many lessons he’s taught her along the way. “He keeps himself healthy with constant nature-loves hunting & fishing more than anyone I’ve ever seen, and taught us, and now his grandchildren, such respect for these practices and the animals involved,” she captioned a carousel of family photos. She continued, “He was the star of the show at grandparent’s day, and loves every t ball game he can get to! We walked the darkest days of our lives together, when my sister died in a car crash 3 years ago. I’ve seen him at the very bottom, at the very top, and he remains the strongest man in the world, to me.” Holly and drummer Chris Coleman tied the knot in September 2009. They share four children: daughters Stella June, Lillie Mae and Georgia Grace, and son Arlo Gale. Katherine Williams-Dunning Hank Williams Jr. and his daughter Katherine Williams-Dunning. Katherine Williams-Dunning/Instagram Hank and Mary welcomed their daughter Katherine Williams-Dunning on Oct. 21, 1992. She died in a car crash at age 27 on June 13, 2020. Katherine and her husband, Tyer Dunning, were driving an SUV with a boat hitched to the back when it crossed the highway median and rolled over, a Tennessee Highway Patrol spokesperson told PEOPLE at the time. Tyler survived the crash but was airlifted to a nearby hospital for further evaluation. Hilary commemorated her sister’s memory on her Instagram Stories, writing, "My beautiful little sister Katie. I'll always love and miss you. 💔 I'll see you again one day beyond the blue." Katherine and Tyler married on Oct. 15, 2015, and their journey down the aisle was documented by TLC’s Say Yes to the Dress. They welcomed two children: son Beau Weston and daughter Audrey Jane. Katherine was also a business owner: She operated a clothing company called Weston Jane that sold items designed and made by mothers. Samuel Williams, 29 Samuel Williams and 2020 inductee Hank Williams Jr. attend the 2021 Medallion Ceremony, celebrating the Induction of the Class of 2020 at Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum on November 21, 2021. Jason Kempin/Getty Hank and Mary welcomed their son Samuel Williams in 1997. In a 2019 interview with Cowboys & Indians, Samuel said he was “very academic as a kid, but I kind of stayed away from music for a very long time.” He briefly attended Belmont University but decided to walk away from school to focus on his budding music career. Samuel released his first album, Glasshouse Children, in 2021, followed by his EP titled The Thaw in January 2024. The song “The Lost Grandchild’s Plea” is a tribute to his late grandparents, Hank and Audrey Williams, whom he never met. He also covered his dad’s 1981 hit “Weatherman.” As he’s come into his own as a musician, Samuel said he’s learned a lot from studying his dad’s impressive career. "He tried to be his dad and make his dad's music and just sing his songs for a long time and he did good at it, but there came a time and place where he had to do what he was put here to do, and that was change the entire genre of country music. That was to take country music from Nashville and take it worldwide,” he told Cowboys & Indians. “He's an icon internationally and that's something I've learned from him, just to be myself because that's what you're supposed to do." In 2022, Samuel came out as gay in a music video for his single, “Tilted Crown.” "I felt like I was promoting invisibility, like I wasn't being visible and wasn't being myself. I just thought it was the perfect opportunity to just show who I was,” he said during an appearance on Apple Music’s Proud Radio with Hunter Kelly. He continued, "I identify as gay, and I've never said that to anybody else. I mean, people at my label know and people in my personal life know, but this is the first time that I've ever been, besides a show or two, that I've ever been this public about it." These days, Samuel is busy releasing his studio album Scarlet Lonesome and taking care of his son, Tenny, whom he often shares about on his Instagram. Close Leave a Comment Read more: Celebrity Celebrity Family Celebrity Kids


--- [The Hank Williams Family Tree of Performers - Saving Country Music] ---
The Hank Williams Family Tree of Performers There are many incredibly important legacy families to the country music lineage, from the Carter’s to the Cash’s. But arguably no crop of performers have offered more entertainment, influence, intrigue, and tragedy than the family tree that sprouts from the loins of Hank Williams. And so to pay tribute to this critically important country music family, to chronicle its members (which have recently grown), and to give curious country music fans a compass and guidepost of what is what, and who is who, here is a run down of the performing members of the Hank Williams family. Hank Williams Hiram “Hank” Williams (September 17, 1923 – January 1, 1953) The King of Country Music. Country music’s first superstar. The Hillbilly Shakespeare. In a word, Hank. There’s a reason he was the first inductee to the Country Music Hall of Fame. In a short period starting in the early 40’s until 1952, he would transform country music from hillbilly hokum to an art form revered across the United States and World, and impart a songwriting legacy that looms as large as any other, and still to this day. Sure, dying poetically in the back of his Cadillac on New Years Day, 1953 has allowed the legacy of Hank Williams to achieve mythological status, and leaving us at the age of 29 meant there was no opportunity to sully his grandeur by a late-career decline. But some 70 years later and counting, and there’s no sign his memory and influence will ever fade. If anything, time has reaffirmed his lasting importance. Hank was one of the very first to take the very kernels of human emotion, and cohere them in song. Without Hank Williams, we would not only not be talking about any of the others below. It’s likely we may not be still talking about country music in the 2020’s, period. Hank Williams Jr. Randall Hank Williams (born May 26, 1949) Mother: Audrey Williams Bocephus. One of country music’s first ever arena acts. 70 millions records sold, 5 total wins for Entertainer of the Year from the CMA and ACM Awards, 6 platinum records, 20 gold records, thirteen #1 albums, ten #1 singles, and now (finally) a Country Music Hall of Famer as of 2020. The offspring of the notorious and tumultuous marriage of Hank and Audrey Williams that became the inspiration for so many of his father’s songs, Bocephus took the “Hank” name and made it proud. But Hank Jr.’s story is not just one of his success, but how he continued the Hank Williams legacy of doing things your own way. First goaded into becoming nothing more than a tribute act to his father from an early age, and paraded all around the country to sing his father’s hits with mother Audrey presiding over him with a short leash, Hank Jr. would later wrangle free of this destiny that probably would have resulted in him being nothing more than a living jukebox for the rest of his life to form his own legacy. Now Hank Jr. is considered a living legend in his own right, famous father notwithstanding. After breaking away from his mother’s control, Hank Jr. adopted a more Southern rock sound, started writing his own songs, and the son of Hank was soon going as Rockin’ Randall, that is until August 8th, 1975 when he nearly died after a 500 foot fall off of Ajax peak in Montana. Still, the accident helped facilitate the transformation, and after many surgeries and a lengthy recovery, Hank Jr. emerged as a strong voice in both country and Southern rock. He’s also commonly underrated as a singer, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist. Jett Williams Antha Belle Jett, later Catherine Yvonne Stone (born January 6, 1953) Mother: Bobbie Jett The daughter of Hank Williams and love interest Bobby Jett that Hank was bunking with between his marriages with Audry Williams and Billy Jean Jones [Horton], Jett was born five days after Hank Williams passed away. Initially she was adopted by Hank’s mother Lillie, but when Lillie died in 1955, Jett became a ward of the State of Alabama, and later adopted, not knowing that Hank Williams was her father until the early 1980’s. Though Hank Jr. initially fought it at every turn, Jett Williams was finally recognized as a legitimate heir to Hank Williams in 1985, and became co-executor of the Williams estate with Hank Jr. Since then, the two have had a “go along to get along” relationship, and she’s worked extensively to keep her father’s memory alive. Jett Williams has also been a performer and recording artist in her own right, toured with a version of Hank’s backing band The Drifting Cowboys for a spell, and has released four studio albums. Though she took a strange path to becoming part of the Hank Williams legacy, she’s now considered an important part of it. Hank Williams III Shelton Hank Williams (born December 12, 1972) Mother: Gwen Yeargain Like his father, Tricephus has done things his own way, adopting the family name, but refusing to ride off it simply as a tribute act. In fact the story of the third generation performer is one of becoming a triple threat in music: a throwback classic country crooner and songwriter drenched in pedal-less steel like Hank Sr., a “Hellbilly” infusing rock with country, and eshewing the family legacy entirely by diving head first into straight up punk and speed metal. First making his way in punk and metal bands and installing garage doors to make a living, it appeared perhaps the third and final member of the Williams clan who could indisputably adopt the “Hank” name may not perform country music at all. But when a paternity suit had a judge telling him to “get a real job,” he acquiesced, and signed a deal with Mike Curb who’d been in the hospital when he was born. Just like Jr., at first they tried to dress Hank3 up as a Hank tribute, and they had him playing tourist shows in Branson theaters to refine his chops. But shortly thereafter, Hank3 rebelled, finding his inspiration in punk music and from modern day throwback hillbillies such as Wayne “The Train” Hancock, and soon people though they were seeing and hearing the ghost of Hank Williams … until he’d bust into the Hellbilly music. Perhaps most importantly—especially after the release of his 2006 magnum opus Straight to Hell—Hank Williams III inspired an underground in country music that previously had only existed in spirit. Turning thousands of punk and metal kids onto the virtues of country, and establishing a DIY attitude that stood apart from the Music Row industry, the legacy Hank3 forged and the doors he opened directly resulted in this massive success independent country artists such as Tyler Childers, Cody Jinks, and Sturgill Simpson enjoy today. Hank Williams III has been mostly dormant since 2014, but the contributions he’s left to country music are critical to the country music resurgence, and leave his contributions to the Hank Williams legacy as undeniable. Hilary Williams (born February 26, 1979) Mother: Becky White By all accounts, Hilary Williams enjoys the same natural attributes as her forefathers and siblings, with her father Hank Jr. once saying about her, “She sings like a queen, like a star.” But she also was a significant part of one of the many tragedies that has marked the Hank Williams lineage just as much as the successes. On March 15, 2006, Hilary was driving to her grandfather’s funeral (on her mother’s side) with her sister Holly when she lost control of her SUV on Mississippi’s historic Highway 61. Both of Hank Jr.’s daughters were left in critical condition, but for Hilary, the injuries were more severe, and the results more long-lasting. “I had broken too many bones to count. Both of my legs, my ankle, my back, collarbone, tailbone, pelvis, right femur, and three ribs were all broken. My hips were shattered. I had a ruptured colon and bruised lungs.” Nonetheless, Hilary has persevered through the tragedy to become a worthy contributor to the Hank Williams legacy, releasing a triumphant EP in 2013, and her full-length record My Lucky Stars in 2018. Holly Williams Holly Audrey Williams (born March 12, 1981) Mother: Becky White The daughter of Hank Jr. and half sister of Hank3 left us all with sort of inconclusive assessments early on in her performing career. Her first two albums—The Ones We Never Knew in 2004 and Here With Me in 2009—were both released on major labels, and left one wondering about Holly’s true music identity. Neither were particularly commercially successful. But she really didn’t seem to align with the independent world of music either. She was neither here nor there, and without a proper home, her career just sort of drifted. 2013’s The Highway released on her own Georgiana label changed all of that. Produced by Holly and Charlie Peacock, and written mostly by Williams herself, The Highway put Holly Williams smack dab in the middle of the revolutionary crop of young women emerging in independent country and Americana at that time, and announced her as an important contributor from the Hank Williams clan. For some, it was one of the landmark records of the previous decade, and confirmed the pedigree of the Williams legacy in country music. Holly Williams spent the years after The Highway regularly performing on the Opry. After having three kids, she’s living a bit more of a domestic lifestyle in Florida. But she still remains an important part of the Williams legacy. Sam Williams Samuel Williams Mother: Mary Jane Thomas The half-brother of Hank3, Hilary, and Holly, Sam Williams initially didn’t want anything to do with the family business, instead wanting to lead a normal life. That changed when he became a father at 19, and began to develop a music bug that has expressed itself in now numerous singles and live performances. Sam Williams still seems to be searching for his true musical identity—whether he wants to follow in the footsteps of the Hank lineage, or strike out towards something different. But one thing is for sure, the Hank talent is still there, in whatever direction Sam wants to point it. Katie Williams Katherine Diane Williams-Dunning (1993 – June 13, 2020) Mother: Mary Jane Thomas Though not a performer—and the only known child or grandchild of the Hank Williams clan who did not chose music as at least part of their worldly pursuits—it would feel sacrilegious to not mention the daughter of Hank Jr. and sister of Sam Williams, especially since she is part of the tragic narrative of the Hank Williams family. On June 13th, 2020, Katie Williams was driving a 2007 Chevy Tahoe southbound towing a boat when it crossed the dividing median of Highway 79 in Tennessee and stared rolling over, eventually crossing into the northbound lanes. Katie was pronounced dead on the scene. She was 27-years-old. Her husband, 29-year-old Tyler J. Dunning, was also injured in the accident. Katie Williams was from Paris, TN, and lived in nearby Springville. She was the mother of a five-year-old son Beau, and two-year-old daughter Audrey Jane when she passed away. She was also the owner of the clothing company called Weston Jane that she set up to help support herself as a mother, and other mothers. “IV” Coleman Finchum Williams The son of Hank Williams III and first great grandson of Hank Williams has recently emerged as a hopeful performer himself under the moniker of “IV.” He is not claiming the Hank name, even though hypothetically, he possibly could for the stage. Instead Coleman, or “IV” is keeping clear of any controversy that could arise from it, while still laying claim to his legitimate standing in the Hank Williams lineage. His last named Finchum comes from his mother. Though there’s much to still determine about the direction of IV’s career, it does appear he is leaning more towards a rough-and-tumble style of country similar to his father. (READ MORE) The Wives of Hank Williams Audrey Williams Audrey Mae Sheppard Williams (February 28, 1923 – November 4, 1975) A singer and songwriter herself (of marginal talent, according to critics of the day, and Hank Williams biographer Colin Escott), Audrey played an important role setting off the Hank Williams legacy by both inspiring many of Hank’s most important songs, and goading him to be more ambitious. Audrey also helped to keep the Hank Williams legacy alive after his death. Billie Jean Horton Billie Jean Jones Eshleman Williams Horton Berlin (born June 6, 1933) The second wife of Hank Williams, she was introduced to him haplessly by Faron Young when she was dating him at the time. She also briefly dated Johnny Cash. The true widow of Hank Williams, she would also go on to marry Johnny Horton, who also died tragically in 1960 in a car accident, making her twice widowed by country legends. Billie Jean has worked tirelessly throughout her life to keep the memory alive of her famous husband’s, especially Johnny Horton, who Billy Jean and many others believe has never received his proper due. And yes, at the time of publishing, she is still alive. Wives of Hank Williams Jr. (Years of marriage) Gwen Yeargain – 1971-1977 Becky White – 1977-1983 Mary Jane Thomas – 1990- Ricky Fitzgerald, a.k.a. Hank Williams IV The case of Ricky Fitzgerald is far and away the most difficult one to solve when it comes to the performing lineage and bloodline of the Hank Williams family. But long story short, there is a long-rumored third son of Hank Williams named Lewis “Butch” Fitzgerald. Though Hank Williams biographer Colin Escott and others believe Butch is the son of Hank and Hank’s cousin Marie, this has never been bulletproof determined. Nonetheless, Butch’s grandson, Ricky Fitzgerald, has been performing as part of the Hank Williams lineage since he was 4 or 5-years-old, sometimes as Ricky Fitzgerald, and sometimes as Hank Williams IV, since if his grandfather Butch truly is Hank’s son, he would have at least some claim to the name. What we do know for sure is Ricky’s great-grandmother Marie is Hank Sr.’s cousin, which would still make Ricky kin to the Williams clan in some capacity. As Ricky has grown older, he now has adopted the Hank Williams IV stage name in full. To take a deep dive into that complex story, CLICK HERE.


--- [Hank Williams' Daughter Didn't Know That He Was Her Father ... - Biography] ---
The year 1953 should have been one of hope and promise for singer-songwriter Hank Williams, one of America’s first country music superstars, known for his songs like “Your Cheatin’ Heart,” “Hey, Good Lookin’” and “I’ll Never Get Out of This World Alive.” In fact, he was on his way to perform at a concert Canton, Ohio, on New Year’s Day of that year when he died in the backseat of his 1952 powder blue Cadillac at the age of 29. While it’s been reported that the cause was a heart attack, the Los Angeles Times also says it may have been from “complications brought on by alcohol and drug addiction.” Five days later, a baby girl was born in Montgomery, Alabama. The child was passed from guardian to guardian before she was adopted at the age of three by Wayne and Louis Deupree in Mobile, Alabama, and became Cathy Deupree. But it wasn’t until decades later that she set off on a long and complicated journey to figure out that she was the daughter of the famous Hank Williams. His daughter lived with four families in four years The young Deupree was shuffled around often — living with Williams' mother Lillian Stone until she died and then ultimately being put into the system for adoption since Williams' sister Irene Smith, who was the next in line, wouldn’t take care of her. "I had four families before I was four, was orphaned three times and had six name changes," Deupree — who now goes by Jett Williams — said in a 2002 speech at the Library of Congress. "My life was repeatedly changed with the stroke of a pen, be it by an attorney, social worker, judge, family member or the courts." Jett was 21 when she realized Williams could be her biological father While Jett was a college junior at the University of Alabama in Montgomery majoring in recreation therapy, her adoptive parents came to visit and gave the then 21-year-old $2,000 that had been held for her when she turned 21 from Stone. And that was her first “crumb” that she could possibly be Williams' daughter. “There’s nothing you can do about it, there’s no proof,” Jett remembers her adopted mother telling her. But that wasn’t good enough for Jett. She became “obsessed” with finding out the true identity of her father. Jett learned that Williams planned to take full custody of her Jett set off on a huge treasure hunt to discover the truth about her own past, digging into all sorts of legal and adoption records — as well as lost family connections. Eventually, she got in touch with an uncle and Williams' cousin, Marie Harvell. She learned that her birth mother was a secretary in Nashville who became pregnant with Williams' baby just months before he married another woman, Billie Jean Eschliman. But her father was committed to make sure the unborn baby was taken care of — pledging to pay the medical bills and giving Jett a one-way ticket to California, with the promise that after two years, he would take custody of the child. "My daddy loved me enough to do something just for me," she said in 2002. "He entered into a pre-birth custody agreement that gave him full custody and responsibility for me... My father never intended for me to be adopted." She entered a legal battle to prove Williams was indeed her birth father But clearly Williams' tragic death got in the way of that plan. As did other family members, like Hank Williams, Jr., who didn’t acknowledge his half-sister for years — in fact, they were in a legal battle for nine years. Court battles and family rivalries challenged whether Jett truly was in Williams' lineage, as she kept hitting "one brick wall after another," adding that “my case was argued in probate court, circuit court, the state supreme court, the federal courts in New York, the appellate court and no less than five times in the U.S. Supreme Court." Eventually, she met a lawyer named Keith Adkinson who found documentation of the arrangement between Williams and Jett’s mom (though how he came to obtain it has never been revealed). And in 1985, the Alabama State Court determined legally that she was indeed the singer’s daughter. (And in 1986, she married Adkinson.) Jett sings to help stay connected to Williams During Jett’s quest to bond with her late dad, she also started to sing, making her professional debut in 1989 before performing at Nashville’s Grand Ole Opry in 1993. And to truly step into her own dad’s footsteps, she reached out to two of her dad’s old sidemen, Jerry Rivers and Don Helms, to have them play with her. With all the constant reminders, Jett is reminded of what she doesn’t have. “I’m never going to have memories of Christmas with my father or of sitting in his lap, but I still feel I know him,” she says. Jett believes Williams is her 'guardian angel' Some time in her 30s, Jett gave herself the name Jett Williams — a combination of her birth mother Frances “Bobbie” Jett and her father’s names. And in 1990, she published an autobiography Ain’t Nothin’ as Sweet as My Baby: The Story of Hank Williams’ Lost Daughter and released the 1995 album That Reminds Me of Hank. After all, it’s music that has kept their relationship alive. “When I hear my dad sing, to me it sounds like his life depends on it. I mean, you stop and catch your breath, and you feel as if he's singing that song just to you,” Jett told NPR in 2008. “I believe that I’ve had a guardian angel. I really, really do,” she told the Los Angeles Times in 1990. And I’ve implied that I think my father is my guardian angel — and that he’s looking down.”


--- [Where Are Hank Williams' Children Now? 'I Saw The Light' Puts The ...] ---
Like most biopics, I Saw The Light, a movie about the tragically short lived life of country music icon Hank Williams (Tom Hiddleston), doesn't sugarcoat any of its protagonist's personal failings. Following in the footsteps of musical biopics Ray and Walk The Line, I Saw The Light depicts Hank Williams' troubled marriage to Audrey Mae Williams (Elizabeth Olsen), which endured multiple affairs, some of which ended up with pregnancy. The film makes note of multiple women Williams loved, impregnated, and then separated from along the way, and in real life, the singer fathered two children: Hank Williams Jr. and Jett Williams, who had to fight to be recognized as Williams' daughter in court after his death in 1953. The musician's family legacy is, no doubt, a complicated one, but where Hank Williams' children are now will bring relief to viewers of the new film. Williams married Audrey in 1944 when he was still struggling to make it as a country performer. Not only did he become a husband, he also became stepfather to Audrey's young daughter from her first marriage, Lycretia. They had their first and only child, Hank Williams, Jr., five years later in 1949. Three years later, in July of 1952, the two divorced. In October of that same year, Williams re-married to a woman named Billie Jean Jones Eshlimar. A few months later, Williams died. Meanwhile, in between the end of his first marriage and the beginning of his second, Williams had an affair with Bobbie Jett, who gave birth to their daughter, Jett Williams, less than one week after Williams died. Hank Williams, Jr. was only three years old when his father died, and Jett Williams was raised by adoptive parents, but their father's legacy seems to have heavily influenced both of them. Williams Jr. followed in his father's footsteps as a teenager in the 1960s, singing country music and performing with a band called the Rockin' Randall and the Rockets (he was born Randall Hank Williams). At first, according to an interview with Rolling Stone , Williams Jr. performed many of his father's originals, but soon he got tired of emulating his father on stage. "As I got older and started to realize that I needed to create my own sound and identity, it took people back. They really didn't want me to do anything but Hank Williams [Sr.] music," Williams Jr. said. Eventually, though, he carved his own career in country music, and WIlliams' only son is still making music today. Not to be outdone, Jr.'s son, Hank III, has also followed in the family footsteps. Jett Williams, whose legal name is Cathy Deupree Adkinson, didn't learn that she was Hank Williams' daughter until she was 21. Born after her father was already dead, Jett was initially raised by Williams' mother, Lillian Stone. Stone died two years later, and Jett was put up for adoption at the age of three. It wasn't until years later that Jett learned that her father was a famous musician, Hank Williams. Even after Jett learned the truth, she had to battle in court to be recognized as an heir of the Williams estate. During that time, she changed her name, adopting the stage name of Jett Williams, and launched a singing career. In 1989, after more than a decade of court battles during which a written custody agreement signed by her mother and Williams was found, the Alabama State Supreme Court ruled in her favor, People reported at the time. Despite Williams Jr.'s refusal to acknowledge her as his sister, Jett has maintained that she is only doing what her father would have wanted. "You don't choose your real parents. For me the point is finding out what my father wanted and then carrying out his wishes," Jett told The Los Angeles Times following her victory in court. Jett has been very involved with preserving Hank Williams' legacy, and is the only one of Williams' children that has publicly supported I Saw The Light , attending the film's Nashville premiere in October. But perhaps now that the movie is being seen by the public, more of Williams' family will come out with their opinions about Williams' on-screen legacy. Images: Sony Pictures Classics; Hank Williams Jr./Facebook
