=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dina Nath Walli - Wikipedia]
Dina Nath Walli (1908-2006), also known by his pen name Almast Kashmiri, was an Indian water colour artist and poet from Srinagar city in the Kashmir Valley. He was the part of the modern art movement in the state of Jammu and Kashmir and was known for painting everyday scenes of Kashmir. [1][2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dina_Nath_Walli

[Dina Nath Walli - Kashmiri Painters]
In 1936 he returned to Srinagar and concentrated on landscape painting in transparent water colors. In 1939 he was awarded a Gold Medal by the Government of ...Missing: watercolor | Show results with:watercolor
URL: http://www.ikashmir.net/dnwalli/index.html

[dina nath walli forgotten poet painter and musician of kashmir - SHEHJAR]
His water colours adorn many offices, galleries and homes all over the world. Walli sahib began his career in Calcutta in 1930 but returned to kashmir in 1936.Missing: concentrated | Show results with:concentrated
URL: https://www.shehjar.com/blog/Forgotten-Painter-of-kashmir-with-Video1520

[Dina Nath Walli (1908-2006): a Pioneer of Watercolour in The Kashmir Valley]
In 1936, he came back to Srinagar and built a successful career in art using watercolours as his medium. Landscape painting was his domain, and he pioneered watercolour art in the Kashmir valley. Kashmir is everywhere in the watercolours of D N Walli. His special focus has been to present speaking images of life in Kashmir.
URL: https://autarmota.blogspot.com/2024/10/dina-nath-walli-1908-2006-pioneer-of.html

[Dina Nath Walli - Bharatpedia]
Dina Nath Walli (1908-2006), also known by his pen name Almast Kashmiri, was a renowned water colour artist and poet from Srinagar city in Kashmir valley. He was the part of the modern art movement in the state of Jammu and Kashmir and was known for painting everyday scenes of Kashmir.
URL: https://en.bharatpedia.org/wiki/Dina_Nath_Walli


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dina Nath Walli - Wikipedia] ---
Dina Nath Walli  (1908–2006), also known by his pen name Almast Kashmiri, was an Indian water colour artist and poet from Srinagar city in the Kashmir Valley. He was the part of the modern art movement in the state of Jammu and Kashmir and was known for painting everyday scenes of Kashmir.




--- [Dina Nath Walli - Kashmiri Painters] ---
Circular Road Gulmarg Gulmarg (meadow of flowers) is one of the most beautiful spots in Kashmir. Its height is 8500 ft. from the sea level. The Golf Course at Gulmarg is supposed to be the best in the world. Gulmarg is now getting famous for winter sports too. It has two circular roads - inner and outer. The present scene has been painted from the outer circular road. In the background is Ferozpore peak and pass. Most of the Pakistani infiltrators entered the valley through this pass in the year 1965. | | Dal Lake in Summer The picture has been painted in early summer when only a few lotuses are in bloom and the Kotwal peak is clearly visible in the background. In summer when lotuses are in full bloom hazy atmosphere covers the beautiful distant mountains. The summer season is rather dull except for the lotuses and the people prefer to go to distant mountain valleys Pahalgam, Gulmarg, Sonamarg, Yusemarg, etc. | | | | A Street on the Bund Occasional floods in river Jehlum would often overflow and cause much damage to Srinagar city. So to protect the city from flood waters its banks were raised and are called the Bund . By constructing this Bund the Srinagar city has been saved from floods. The area has become an active center of business with banks, Post Office, etc. It is not so important now as there are other bazaars and shopping centers in the city. This painting has been done about quarter a mile below the business center. | | Nangaparbat from Gulmarg The visit to Gulmarg is incomplete if one is not able to see the majestic Nangaparbat from its northern end. It is visible in the early hours or the morning and mostly remains surrounded by the clouds and haze. One should try to see it in the morning especially in spring or autumn. If one is fortunate enough to see it in summer it can only be after rainfall when the climate is clear. It is 26260 feet above the sea level. | | | | A Riverside Temple While passing through the waters of river Jehlum in a taxi shikara one comes across many temples and mosques. Some of the small temples look very beautiful along with the picturesque old Kashmir houses with overhanging balconies and grass grown roof tops. These beautiful grass grown roofs are being replaced now with galvanized iron sheets or wood. On the steps of the river banks one can see women washing clothes and children playing which adds more color to the landscape. | | Pirpanchal in Autumn Autumn is the most colorful season in Kashmir especially when there is new snow- fall on distant mountains. It does not only clear the atmosphere of the summer haze and dust but also provides a beautiful background of blue and white against yellow orange and red trees. | | | | Houseboats on Nigin Lake Most of the visitors who come to Kashmir valley spend the major portion of their holidays in Houseboats in Nigin lake because of its crystal clear waters and beautiful surroundings. This is the best place in the whole valley for bathing and water skating. This picture has been painted from the north western bank of Nigin lake wherefrom one can see the beautiful Mount Mahadev in the background. | | Akbar's Bridge This bridge was made in the time of Mughal Emperor Akbar in 1586. Therefore it is called Akbar's bridge. Under it passes the main water way to famous Shalimar and Nishat gardens and the Nigin lake. The shortest foot-path to Nishat and Shalimar gardens goes over this bridge. One of the main water pipes which brings water from Harwan water reservoir for the Srinagar city passes over this bridge. | | | | Houseboat in Moonlight Houseboat in Kashmir is an ideal place to live in. Especially so when it is bathing in full moonlight. One thinks that as if he is in some dreamland or elsewhere in heavens. Those who want to stay in houseboats must try to enjoy full moon in a houseboat. | | Road to Pirpanchal The Pirpanchal range encircling the valley of Kashmir covers the valley from one end to the other. This fact has made this mountain range more popular than the other ranges. In the south west it separates Kashmir valley from Jammu province. The range has many beautiful spots like Gulmarg, Konsarnag, Kongawatan, Yusemarg, etc. Its average height is about 15000 feet. The historical Mughal route crosses the range through Shupyan Pass. | | | | Sheshnag Waters, Pahalgam This scene has been painted about one mile above proper Pahalgam, (village of shepherds) 7200 feet from sea level. The rushing water comes from the frozen lake of Sheshnag situated at a higher altitude in snow mountain ranges on the way to Amarnath Cave the - famous Hindu Shrine. | | Mar Canal at Rainawari Wherever the back waters of the Dal Lake touch the banks of Srinagar City it is known as Mar Canal. It has adopted this name from the beautiful Marsar as the major portion of the water of the Dal Lake comes from the Marsar lake situated beyond Harwan water reservoir. It is a restricted area because the Marsar supplies water to the Harwan water reservoir for the Srinagar City. There is a net work of Mar Canals between Dal lake and the Srinagar city. |


--- [dina nath walli forgotten poet painter and musician of kashmir - SHEHJAR] ---
No content


--- [Dina Nath Walli (1908-2006): a Pioneer of Watercolour in The Kashmir Valley] ---
DINA NATH WALLI (1908-2006): A PIONEER OF WATERCOLOUR IN THE KASHMIR VALLEY (Artist D N Walli with his wife) This author’s sister is married to the Bradoo family, who used to live (before 1990) in Badiyaar Bala, just near artist D N Walli’s house. Accordingly, the author would frequently pass by the house that had a small name plate ‘D N Walli Artist’ hung on its main door. In 1979, Bal Ji Bradoo (father-in-law of the author’s sister) told him something like this: - This author records his sincere thanks to Dr T K Walli for sending a copy of his book having a biographical sketch of the painter-poet Dina Nath Walli (1908-2006). Dina Nath Walli was the father of Dr T K Walli. The book is spread over 116 pages out of which 42 pages have been devoted to describing the life and art of Dina Nath Walli while the remaining pages carry his paintings or newspaper cuttings relating to various exhibitions of the artist in India and abroad. The beautiful thing about this book is that the album section contains about 60 watercolours of the artist on hard paper in A-4 size. These watercolours include some well-known works of the artist like, ‘Houseboat in Moonlight ‘, ‘Jhelum Valley Road in Autumn Season’, ‘A River-side Temple’and “ Maar Canal Near Bohri-Kadal”. The foreword by well-known writer Siddharth Gigoo reads this:- “Our lost Kashmir, in all its pristine beauty and romance, will continue to live and breathe in our collective consciousness and memory, as long as the legacy of Dina Nath Walii, one of the finest painters the state has produced, is celebrated and cherished.” In March 2010, this author saw his watercolours in an exhibition organised by his son Dr T K Walli in collaboration with J&K Academy of Art Culture And Languages at Jammu. Looking at his colours and style, one doesn’t hesitate to say that he is our Degas or Monet or Pissaro or Cezanne. Call him anything but he remains the valley's watercolour pioneer and an icon. . Dina Nath Walli was fully aware of various forms of Modern Art especially Surrealism, Cubism, Expressionism, Impressionism, Pop art and Abstract art, but he kept his doors closed and focused on his style and subject. His medium was watercolours. The Progressive group of artists consisting of Triloke Koul, P N Kachru, S N Butt and G R Santosh tried hard to bring this stalwart to the Modern Art camp but failed. He remained steadfast to his medium, style and subject. (A watercolour by D N Walli) EXHIBITIONS D N Walli held some ‘Group Exhibitions’ in Kolkata ( 1940), Delhi ( 1949 and 1950 ) and Srinagar ( 1956 and 1957 ). However, he held his first solo exhibition in 1953. Held at Nedou’s Hotel, Srinagar, it was inaugurated by Percy Brown. This exhibition was covered by the prestigious ‘Marg’ magazine. It was followed by another exhibition at Jahangir Art Gallery in Mumbai in 1954. The Mumbai solo exhibition was inaugurated by S K Patil. The Mumbai exhibition was widely covered by national newspapers. The Mumbai solo exhibition was followed by another solo in Delhi in 1954. Held at AIFACS gallery, it was inaugurated by Sardar K M Pannikar. D N Walli held another solo exhibition in Pune in 1955 followed by yet one more successful solo exhibition at Kolkatta inaugurated by Dr Kali Das Nag. A major one-man show in Delhi was organized in 1955 and the same was inaugurated by Dr M S Randhawa. At the suggestion of Dr M S Randhawa, he brought out his famous album titled,’ Kashmir Landscapes in Watercolours’ in 1970. This album had 12 master paintings by the artist. His paintings started appearing in ‘Dharmyug’ and ‘The Illustrated Weekly of India’ with detailed reviews and write-ups. About his painting, ‘A Houseboat in Moonlight ‘, Dr M S Randhawa writes this:- “It is a wonderful painting, a masterpiece from Walli. Its haunting beauty casts an unforgettable spell on the viewer.” Thereafter, many more solo exhibitions were held by him within the state and outside. Some memorable and widely covered exhibitions of his paintings are listed below:- (1) 1985 New Delhi exhibition inaugurated by Lt Governor M M K Walli held at Lalit Kala Akademi Gallery. (2) Exhibition of his Watercolours held in Kuwait in 2004 organised by Tareq Rajeb in collaboration with Indian embassy. (3) Exhibition of his paintings held at Jammu in 2010 inaugurated by Vijay Bakaya IAS (4) Exhibition held in 2012 at Triveni Kala Sangam, New Delhi inaugurated by Keshav Malik. Those who attended the exhibition included Amal Allana, Kishori Kaul and Dr A Jahanara Kabir About his Mumbai exhibition of 1954, The Bombay Chronicle wrote this:- “The artist’s forte is landscape in which he appears to have acquired deep insight and experience.” For the Delhi exhibition of 1954, The Indian Express wrote this:- “Ever since the exhibition of American watercolours some time back, there has been no other exhibition of landscapes in the capital that can be favourably compared with the present exhibition.” D N WALLI, THE POET “Pamposhav kurr chaen gamkhwaarie Baer baer aakh aiesh taariye Lalvukh bochhi kin lol bemarie Dal manz chi van haariye “These lotus flowers too sympathize with you, And tearful they are with your feelings. You bear with the pangs of love, And also the cramps of hunger, O carefree myna of Dal Lake….” SAHARAAVUKY POSH (Desert Flowers ) has been dedicated by Dina Nath Walli to the poor artisans of Kashmir. A poem about these poor artisans, exploited by them for centuries, goes as under:- “Tse phutaruth koth kambar panunuy Koruth khaali tse sar panunuy Tse zolukh bochhi haendi naaran Tse Mujee pyaeh mulveniah taaran Dwodas kaend chhuyi su pataa tsaaraan Tsa khyonakh darmiyaan- daaran.” (You tear up your limbs in labour, And you drain your energy pool as well. The fires of hunger keep burning at your doorstep While you receive just peanuts for your labour. Then the middleman niggles at your craftsmanship And keeps exploiting you. ) And then the poet in Walli also feels about the futility of a poor man’s youth. “Kala me ousum Kanienaai chhavun Dil myon ouss handaraavun kyuth Paan myoun ouss vatie vatie shignaavun Yaavun myon ouss raavun Kyuth” (Alas! This head of mine was meant only to be struck against boulders. And this poor heart of mine to be glaciated. And this body only meant to be put to disrepute over here. Alas this youth visited me For being lost and wasted away.) Beginning his career in Kolkata in 1930, he returned to Kashmir in 1936. Thereafter he remained in Kashmir till 1982 when he went to Karnal to stay with his son Dr T K Walli, a scientist based in Karnal. He painted Kashmir landscapes in Karnal purely from his memory for 22 long years. He breathed his last in karnal only. Babu Ji to his immediate family, Dina Nath Walli remained away from liquor all along his life though he smoked especially while painting. He liked Kashmiri food and lived a disciplined life. Dr T K Walli, the son of the artist has been exhibiting his father’s work in various cities after his death. He organised many exhibitions even before the death of his father. I end this write-up with an Urdu couplet of Dina Nath Walli that conveys his passion for presenting Kashmir through his work. "Mein uriyaan kar ke chhorroonga Jhalak uss husne pinha ki, Tabhi to kheenchtaa huun roz mein tasveer janaan ki ." (I shall uncover and make the world see a glimpse of that hidden beauty, For that reason alone, I keep drawing pictures of my beloved every day) (Avtar Mota)


--- [Dina Nath Walli - Bharatpedia] ---
No content
