=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mariah Carey – Hero Lyrics - Genius]
"Hero" is a song by American singer and songwriter Mariah Carey, released as the second single from Mariah's third album Music Box. The song charted at #1 on the Billboard Hot 100 back in 1993.
URL: https://genius.com/Mariah-carey-hero-lyrics

[Mariah Carey - Hero Lyrics | AZLyrics.com]
"Hero" was released via Columbia Records as the second single from Mariah Carey's third studio album on the 19th of October 1993. Mariah Carey and Walter Afanasieff originally wrote and produced this song for Gloria Estefan. Carey was reluctant to record it thinking it wouldn't fit her style.
URL: https://www.azlyrics.com/lyrics/mariahcarey/hero.html

[Lyrics: Hero - Mariahpedia]
Lyrics: Hero "Hero" is one of Mariah Carey's most iconic and beloved ballads, featuring heartfelt Mariah Carey lyrics for "Hero" that have inspired millions. Originally written by Mariah for Gloria Estefan as part of the movie Hero starring Dustin Hoffman, the song changed course when Tommy Mottola urged her to keep it for herself.
URL: https://mariahpedia.com/lyrics-hero/

[first和firstly以及first of all有什么区别? - 知乎]
以下是一些例句： The first step is to gather your materials. Firstly, let's discuss the budget. First of all, we need to identify the problem. 在大多数情况下，"first" 和 "firstly" 可以互换使用，但 "firstly" 通常用于强调某件事是最重要的。 "first of all" 则通常用于引出一系列要点或步骤。
URL: https://www.zhihu.com/question/626729181

[Mariah Carey - Hero lyrics | Musixmatch]
Lyrics for Hero by Mariah Carey. There′s a hero If you look inside your heart You don't have to be afraid Of what you are T...
URL: https://www.musixmatch.com/lyrics/Mariah-Carey/Hero


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mariah Carey – Hero Lyrics - Genius] ---
There's a hero If you look inside your heart You don't have to be afraid Of what you are There's an answer If you reach into your soul And the sorrow that you know Will melt away [Chorus] And then a hero comes along With the strength to carry on And you cast your fears aside And you know you can survive So when you feel like hope is gone Look inside you and be strong And you'll finally see the truth That a hero lies in you [Verse 2] It's a long road When you face the world alone No one reaches out a hand for you to hold You can find love If you search within yourself And the emptiness you felt Will disappear And then a hero comes along With the strength to carry on And you cast your fears aside And you know you can survive So when you feel like hope is gone Look inside you and be strong And you'll finally see the truth That a hero lies in you [Bridge] Lord knows Dreams are hard to follow But don't let anyone Tear them away Hold on There will be tomorrow In time You'll find the way [Chorus] And then a hero comes along With the strength to carry on And you cast your fears aside And you know you can survive So when you feel like hope is gone Look inside you and be strong And you'll finally see the truth That a hero lies in you That a hero lies in you That a hero lies in you “Hero” is a song by American singer and songwriter Mariah Carey, released as the second single from Mariah’s third album Music Box. The song charted at #1 on the Billboard Hot 100 back in 1993. The song’s key is in E-Major. Lyrically, the song is an inspirational ballad that emphasizes the importance of being confident in oneself and staying strong in the face of struggle. The song became one of her signature songs and subsequently one of her most performed. One of her most notable performances is at the benefit concert America: A Tribute To Heroes in 2001. Find answers to frequently asked questions about the song and explore its deeper meaning On her 1993 DVD, Mariah stated: There’s not really one specific inspiration for the song, “Hero” but the basic theme is looking inside yourself – being your own role model. She reiterated this in her 1994 tour program, saying: “‘Hero" is about being your own role model, about looking inside yourself to gather strength. The song was originally written for Gloria Estefan and intended to be on the soundtrack for the 1992 film Hero. In an interview with Fred Bronson producer Walter Afanasieff described the early stages of the song: I went to New York and we were in the studio and came to a break. I was sitting at the piano and told Mariah about this movie. Within two hours, we had this incredible seed for this song, ‘Hero’. It was never meant for Mariah to sing. In her mind, we were writing a song for Gloria Estefan for this movie. And we went into an area that Mariah didn’t really go into-in her words, it was a little bit too schmaltzy or too ballady or too old-fashioned as far as melody and lyrics" The song became Mariah’s track after music executive Tommy Mottola, her finance at the time, heard the demo and grew interested in the song. According to Afanasieff: Are you kidding me? You can’t give this song to this movie. This is too good. Mariah, you have to take this song. You have to do it." Yes. The spanish version, titled ‘Héroe’, was released on a CD Single and can be listened to here: - 1.Dreamlover - 2.Hero - 4.Music Box - 7.Without You - 13.Endless Love - 15.Workin’ Hard - 16.My Prayer


--- [Mariah Carey - Hero Lyrics | AZLyrics.com] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [Lyrics: Hero - Mariahpedia] ---
“Hero” is one of Mariah Carey’s most iconic and beloved ballads, featuring heartfelt Mariah Carey lyrics for “Hero” that have inspired millions. Originally written by Mariah for Gloria Estefan as part of the movie Hero starring Dustin Hoffman, the song changed course when Tommy Mottola urged her to keep it for herself. Though Mariah initially thought the song was too “schmaltzy,” it became her 8th number-one hit on the Billboard Hot 100 and has since resonated deeply with fans, helping them through tough times. Now, “Hero” is cherished not only by fans but also by Mariah herself, who has grown to admire its powerful message of hope and resilience. Hero [Verse 1] There’s a hero If you look inside your heart You don’t have to be afraid Of what you are There’s an answer If you reach into your soul And the sorrow that you know Will melt away [Chorus] And then a hero comes along With the strength to carry on And you cast your fears aside And you know you can survive So when you feel like hope is gone Look inside you and be strong And you’ll finally see the truth That a hero lies in you [Verse 2] It’s a long road When you face the world alone No one reaches out a hand for you to hold You can find love If you search within yourself And the emptiness you felt Will disappear [Chorus] And then a hero comes along With the strength to carry on And you cast your fears aside And you know you can survive So when you feel like hope is gone Look inside you and be strong And you’ll finally see the truth That a hero lies in you [Bridge] Lord knows Dreams are hard to follow But don’t let anyone Tear them away Hold on There will be tomorrow In time You’ll find the way [Chorus] And then a hero comes along With the strength to carry on And you cast your fears aside And you know you can survive So when you feel like hope is gone Look inside you and be strong And you’ll finally see the truth That a hero lies in you [Outro] That a hero lies in you That a hero lies in you Songwriters: Mariah Carey / Walter Afanasieff Tap the image above to explore on Amazon Did you like these Mariah Carey lyrics for Hero? Check out more at Careyoke


--- [first和firstly以及first of all有什么区别? - 知乎] ---
No content


--- [Mariah Carey - Hero lyrics | Musixmatch] ---
There's a hero If you look inside your heart You don't have to be afraid Of what you are There's an answer If you reach into your soul And the sorrow that you know Will melt away And then a hero comes along With the strength to carry on And you cast your fears aside And you know you can survive So when you feel like hope is gone Look inside you and be strong And you'll finally see the truth That a hero lies in you It's a long road When you face the world alone No one reaches out a hand For you to hold You can find love If you search within yourself And the emptiness you felt Will disappear And then a hero comes along With the strength to carry on And you cast your fears aside And you know you can survive So when you feel like hope is gone Look inside you and be strong And you'll finally see the truth That a hero lies in you Lord knows Dreams are hard to follow But don't let anyone Tear them away Hold on There will be tomorrow In time You'll find the way And then a hero comes along With the strength to carry on And you cast your fears aside And you know you can survive So when you feel like hope is gone Look inside you and be strong And you'll finally see the truth That a hero lies in you That a hero lies in you Writer(s): Mariah Carey, Walter N. Afanasieff Last activities These lyrics have been translated into 28 languages - Traduction de Hero - Übersetzung von Hero - Traduzione di Hero - Hero の翻訳 - Hero 의 번역 - Tradução de Hero - Traducción de Hero - other 21 translations - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero - Translation of Hero
