=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Harnaam Kaur]
In March 2015, photographer Mr. Elbank included a photo of Kaur in his exhibit at Somerset House in London, which featured portraits of over 80 individuals ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harnaam_Kaur

[Some Of The World's Greatest Beards Have Been Put On ...]
Harnaam Kaur. Elbank began photographing beards while working in Sydney. Through a friend he then met charity campaigner Jimmy Niggles (below) ...
URL: http://www.buzzfeed.com/richardhjames/some-of-the-worlds-greatest-beards-have-gone-on-display-in-l?sub=3721985_5215160

[Brock Elbank's beard photography exhibition opens in Sydney Australia]
Mar 9, 2016 — One striking portrait is of Harnaam Kaur, the now model and body confidence activist known as the 'bearded lady.' Ms Kaur, whose polycystic ...
URL: https://www.dailymail.co.uk/lifestyle/article-3483042/Brock-Elbank-s-beard-photography-exhibition-opens-Sydney-Australia.html

[Beard Season]
Nov 19, 2015 — The exhibition, which was shot and curated by iconic British photographer Brock Elbank (aka Mr Elbank), consisted of a series of portraits ...
URL: https://collectivehub.com/2015/11/beard-season/

[Hublot partners with Beard Season at private view of Beard by Mr Elbank at ...]
Mar 6, 2015 — Hublot partners with Beard Season at private view of Beard by Mr Elbank at Somerset House ... 6th March 2015, London. Luxury Swiss watchmaker ...
URL: https://www.watchprosite.com/news-central/hublot-partners-with-beard-season-at-private-view-of-beard-by-mr-elbank-at-somerset-house/112.978628.6845213/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Harnaam Kaur] ---
Harnaam Kaur (born 29 November 1990) is a British social media personality, postpartum coach, life coach, and motivational speaker.


--- [Some Of The World's Greatest Beards Have Been Put On ...] ---
A series of beard portraits has gone on display at Somerset House in central London. The 80-plus images were taken by award-winning photographer Brock Elbank. The subjects vary from actor John Hurt... ...to Harnaam Kaur, a woman from Slough who suffers from polycystic ovary syndrome – which causes excessive hair growth. Elbank began photographing beards while working in Sydney. Through a friend he then met charity campaigner Jimmy Niggles (below). Elbank then started #Project60, taking pictures of 60 people with beards to raise awareness of Niggles’ Beard Season campaign. The subjects travelled from all over the world to Elbank's Warwickshire home for the studio session. The exhibition includes some of those images, plus other, previously unseen pictures. Simply titled Beard, the exhibition will run until 29 March. You can find out more information here.


--- [Brock Elbank's beard photography exhibition opens in Sydney Australia] ---
From the Bearded Lady to bushy hipsters: Photography exhibition opens featuring portraits of men - and one woman - with facial hair - Brock Elbank's Beard portrait exhibition features people with facial hair - It has previously been shown in London and is now on display in Sydney - The exhibition features actor John Hurt and designer Angelo Gallemini - The 'bearded lady' Harnaam Kaur was also photographed by Elbank Beards are very in. They have been for a while, with hipsters not looking to let go of the trend anytime soon. Brock Elbank, a British photographer, has been photographing bearded people of all ages, races and genders, for years, His exhibition, titled Beard, is now on display in Sydney, Australia after being shown at the prestigious Somerset House in London. Blue steel: Brock Elbank's Beard exhibition, featuring men and women with facial hair, has opened in Sydney, Australia Not just men: 'Bearded lady' Harnaam Kaur (above) was one of the people photographed by Elbank. Ms Kaur is a model who has a condition that causes excessive hair growth The Doctor is in: Actor John Hurt (above) was another famous face featured in the exhibition, which is being shown at the Michael Reid Gallery in Sydney The exhibition consists of beautiful portraits of men and women with beards, and even includes some famous faces like actor John Hurt. One striking portrait is of Harnaam Kaur, the now model and body confidence activist known as the 'bearded lady.' Ms Kaur, whose polycystic ovary syndrome causes her to grow excessive body hair, was bullied as a teenager because of the side effects of her condition. She embraced her hair after being a Sikh and recently shot to fame on social media. Hair, hair, everywhere: The show was previously in London and exhibited at the prestigious Somerset House last year Hipsterfication: Elbank's beard exhibit is in Sydney until the start of April - pictured, Jimmy Niggles, 2012 Silver fox: Italian model Alessandro Manfredini (above) was also featured in Elbank's Beards Long hair, don't care: Elbank showcased men and women of all different cultural backgrounds and ages Another portrait is of Italian fashion designer Angelo Gallemini, who is known for his impressive snow white beard. The series proves that beards, often associated only with men, can be present on people of all genders. One work that stands out is Elbank's photograph of bearded drag queen Stefan Bostrom. Mr Bostrom, who goes by Madame Heinz when in drag, is photographed in a beaded dress and stunning eye makeup, his hair tousled and his bushy beard prominent. Gender bender: Elbank's work explores gender and beards, photographing people who wouldn't be expected to have beards like drag queen Stefan Bostrom (above) A work in progress: One of Elbank's first portraits for the exhibition (above) was taken in 2012, with its subject only known as 'Miles' Elbank, who started his career in advertising before becoming a photographer, has made a career by photographing people who look vastly different but have one common feature- like a beard. His follow up work focused on people with freckles, which Elbank started photographing in 2013 when he was living in Sydney. Beard is currently being shown at the Michael Reid Gallery in Sydney, Australia until the start of April.


--- [Beard Season] ---
Photography by Andrew Goldie Like many great ideas, the concept behind Beard Season was brainstormed around a pub table – but this wasn’t your average drinking session. Scott Maggs and his mates had gathered at the wake of their university friend, Wes Bonny, who had died of a malignant melanoma. He was 26 years old when skin cancer took his life. “At Wes’ wake we sat around a table in shock,” recalls Scott. “We were all talking about how we had no idea that malignant melanoma was such an aggressive disease, especially to happen to someone so young. We did a little Google search and found out that most people who die from melanoma are aged between 18 and 45 and the majority are men.” According to the Cancer Council of Australia, two in three Australians will be diagnosed with skin cancer by the time they’re 70 – but it is treatable if caught early enough. The five-year relative survival rate for melanoma is 90 per cent for Australian men and 94 per cent for women. However once it has spread, the odds of surviving fall dramatically. “Sitting around the table we were, quite literally, the most at-risk group of people,” says Scott. “I suppose a lot of blokes think we’re bulletproof. We started thinking, ‘How could we get men to get a regular skin check?’” This conversation took place in 2010 and since then Scott has become the face of a skin cancer campaign – or at least the chin of it. You may recognise the 33-year-old as his alter ego ‘Jimmy Niggles’, whose signature bushy beard has become a social media star in its own right, appearing in fashion campaigns and an international exhibition. These days it’s hard to imagine Scott with a clean-shaven complexion, but at Wes’ wake the Sydneysider, an advertising creative, didn’t even have a five o’clock shadow. “When we were sitting in the pub we saw this group of old guys with the most amazing beards,” says Scott. “We said, ‘Wow, those are great beards. Why don’t blokes our age have good beards?’ They’re such a good conversation starter.” This was five years ago, just before the hipster facial hair trend kicked off, before beards became the perfect accessory for drainpipe jeans and man buns. Scott and his friends decided they’d all put a ban on shaving that winter. Whenever anyone asked about their beards, they’d talk about Wes and encourage that person to get a skin check. Since then Beard Season has become an annual occasion with tens of thousands of ‘ambassadors’ around the world signing up to the challenge – a concept reminiscent of Movember. The difference is Beard Season isn’t about raising funds for research. The campaign has no monetary component, instead it’s all about spreading a message. On the Beard Season website, any Australian worried about a blemish can type their postcode into a search engine and be directed to their nearest accredited skin cancer clinic. This tool is vital to ensure people are easily able to access clinics with specialists trained to accurately identify malignant melanoma. Wes had visited a clinic when he first noticed a worrying mole, but it was misdiagnosed as benign. By the time he went for a second opinion it was too late. Scott admits he never expected Beard Season to grow into something so big (no pun intended). “It just started as a project between friends,” he says.“But it happened to coincide with this huge resurgence in beard popularity and our photos began to go viral. I started to get messages from friends around the world saying, ‘I just saw your beard in a fashion magazine or in a shop window.’” Last Christmas, UK advertising agency Grey London even launched a range of ‘Beard Baubles’ and asked buyers to tweet a picture of their face foliage decorated like a Christmas tree (profits from the product’s sales went to Beard Season to aid their raising awareness of melanoma). But Scott and his follicles reached a new level of fame in March this year, when the Beard Exhibition opened at one of London’s most prestigious venues, Somerset House. The exhibition, which was shot and curated by iconic British photographer Brock Elbank (aka Mr Elbank), consisted of a series of portraits of some of the world’s most impressive beards. “The collaboration was huge,” says Scott. “For over 18 months Mr Elbank, bless him, dedicated so much time and energy into going through thousands of applicants and photographing people.” The final line-up included British ‘bearded woman’ Harnaam Kaur, who has been growing a beard since the age of 16 after being diagnosed with polycystic ovary syndrome. Over 37,000 people came through the exhibition and Scott estimates it generated the equivalent of more than £2 million of free media for Beard Season. The group’s latest campaign, #BeardSeasonPoint, asks people to take a selfie with their doctor when they get a skin check and share it with their friends. “The biggest challenge is reminding people there’s a real cause behind the cool images,” says Scott. “At least once a week I get a message from someone, either over Instagram or email, who sends me a picture of their scar [where they’ve had a suspicious mole removed].” One person who is thankful for Beard Season is social entrepreneur Avis Mulhall, the creator of Think Act Change, who met Scott when they were both speaking on stage at TEDxSydney in 2013. “Jimmy asked me straight up if I had gone for a skin check recently,” says Avis. “I hadn’t but, like most people, I put it off until later that year [when] I met Jimmy again. When I went to get a check the doctor took one look at a mole on my leg and said he wanted to do a biopsy immediately.” A few days later, when Avis got a call from her doctor, the first person she messaged was Scott (aka Jimmy). “I remember even now,” she says, “I just typed, ‘F**k dude. I have melanoma. You just saved my life.’” Avis was lucky; her cancer was stage one and she is now in remission. “The crazy thing is I found out about my cancer on Wes’ birthday,” she says, “If that’s not positive affirmation that Jimmy is doing the right thing with his life, I don’t know what is.” Although Scott is undoubtedly the poster boy for Beard Season, he doesn’t want to wear the logo on his skin forever. In 2016, his mission is to sell his beard for AU$1 million, to enable Beard Season to employ staff and scale the not-for-profit further. “Ideally I’d want it to go to someone like Richard Branson, who is arguably the biggest beard in the business,” says Scott. “We want to prove it’s worth that much first, by getting it blessed by the Pope, dipped in gold and insured like Jennifer Lopez’s arse or Keith Richards’ middle finger. We’ve even had interest from television producers who might film our mission.” So what does he think Wes would make of the movement? “At college every year we’d have this weird event called ‘Wig Off’ that Wes loved,” recalls Scott. “It would take place at exam time when everyone was really stressed out. You had to wear a crazy, ridiculous wig everywhere you went for as long as possible. You could only take it off in the shower. It was just a break from the norm. I think Beard Season is a bit like that in a way.”


--- [Hublot partners with Beard Season at private view of Beard by Mr Elbank at ...] ---
6th March 2015, London. Luxury Swiss watchmaker Hublot announced its partnership with Beard Season last night as Principal Sponsor of the private view to open the photography exhibition Beard by Mr Elbank at Somerset House. Hublot Announces Partnership with Beard Season at Private View of Beard by Mr Elbank at Somerset House Brand proves once again “Hublot Loves Art” by celebrating the cultural rise of the beard and its ability to save lives Hublot’s brand philosophy of “The Art of Fusion” and “Hublot Loves Art” platform was once again brought to life with the support of the exhibition’s private view, merging the creativity at the heart of the brand with that of the art world. As well as officially opening the hotly-anticipated Somerset House exhibition, the event also marked the brand’s global partnership with Beard Season, the viral movement which inspired many of the exhibition’s most celebrated images. In 2010, after losing one of his best friends to melanoma at the age of 26, Jimmy Niggles created Beard Season. Long before the hipster and even more recent “lumbersexual” movements, Jimmy and his friends all grew beards as conversation starters, so that every time someone asked about their facial follicles, they could share their friend’s story. The campaign went viral and is now an Instagram sensation, with a simple message: Commit to getting a skin check, grow a beard and become a Beard Season Ambassador. On the Beard Season and Hublot partnership, Jimmy Niggles commented, “Everybody knows growing a beard takes time and dedication. But a beard can actually give time, by carrying a message which can lead to the early detection of one of the world's deadliest cancers. To have Hublot recognise this power and help share it with the world is a truly inspiring relationship, which Mr Elbank and I thoroughly look forward to building." Ricardo Guadalupe, Hublot CEO, said of the collaboration, “Hublot are honoured to support Beard’s private view and officially announce our partnership with Beard Season. Much like those who adorn their wrists with a Hublot, Mr Elbank’s magnificent images celebrate people who defy convention and face the world with blazing attitude. We look forward to continuing to work with Beard Season and helping Jimmy and all Beard Season Ambassadors save lives, beard by beard.” Beard is a celebration of the enduring international beard trend and of individuals who wear their facial hair with uncompromising style. International photographer Mr Elbank began documenting beards as a personal project, drawn to the beauty in an unconventional face. After meeting Jimmy Niggles, his work gained a new purpose. Mr Elbank began a sequence of portraits tagged #Project60, a mission to find and photograph the world’s most sensational beards, bringing global awareness to the Beard Season movement. The exhibition encompasses Mr Elbank’s early work, the Beard Season #Project60 sequence, as well as new, unseen photographs shot especially for the Somerset House exhibition. His work is masculine but beautiful, with the portraits revealing the power of the personality behind the beard. His subjects come from all walks of life and include American footballer Tim Howard, British actor Sir John Hurt, and fashion savant Nick Wooster. There's also a striking Sikh woman, Harnaam Kaur, whose medical condition gives her a beard she wears with confident elan. Nearest Hublot Boutique 31 New Bond Street London W1S 2RW United Kingdom +44 20 3214 9970 About Hublot “A different way to progress" say those who know this unique Swiss luxury watch company, where each and every moment moves forward to create the future at breathtaking speed. A dream, initiated and developed by Hublot's Chairman Jean-Claude Biver with CEO, Ricardo Guadalupe, these two men are responsible for turning the Hublot brand into a genuine success story in which the Big Bang, King Power and Classic Fusion represent the symbols of a constantly evolving tradition. From watch complications and revolutionary materials to world-class collaborations such as FIFA World Cup™ and Ferrari, Hublot characterizes itself through the "Art of Fusion" philosophy, bringing tradition into the future. On a commercial level, the network of approved retailers has grown rapidly and currently stands at 750 points of sale and more than 70 exclusive boutiques around the world (Geneva, Cannes, Saint-Tropez, Paris, London, Berlin, Moscow, New York, Miami, Beverly Hills, Las Vegas, Atlanta, Singapore, Shanghai, Beijing, Hong Kong, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Kuala Lumpur, Ginza...). About Beard Season Beard Season is a global movement turning beards into life saving conversation starters; challenging you, your friends and family to book a skin check for melanoma - one of the world's deadliest cancers. About Somerset House Somerset House is a unique part of the London cultural scene, Somerset House is an historic building where surprising and original work comes to life. From its 18th century origins, it has been a centre for debate and discussion – an intellectual powerhouse for the nation. Today, Somerset House is a key cultural destination in London in which to experience a broad range of artistic activity, engage with artists, designers and makers and be a part of a major creative forum – an environment that is relaxed, welcoming to all and inspirational to visit while providing a stimulating workplace for the cultural and creative industries. Since its opening in 2000, Somerset House has built up a distinctive outdoor public programme including Skate, concerts, an open-air film season and a diverse range of temporary exhibitions throughout the site focusing on contemporary culture including photography, fashion, architecture and design, with an extensive integrated learning programme. We currently attract well over 2 million visitors every year. It is now the home of London Fashion Week in February and September each year and probably the biggest community of creative organisations in London including The Courtauld Gallery and Institute of Art, King’s College London Cultural Institute and over 100 other creative businesses.
