=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Princess Shruti of Nepal - Wikipedia]
Princess Shruti Rajya Lakshmi Devi Shah of Nepal (Nepali: श्रुती राज्य लक्ष्मी देवी शाह) (15 October 1976 - 1 June 2001) was the daughter of King Birendra and Queen Aishwarya, and sister of King Dipendra and Prince Nirajan.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Princess_Shruti_of_Nepal

[Who are the daughters of late princess Shruti Rajya Laxmi Shah Rana?]
Jun 4, 2016 · The younger daughter Surangana Rana was born on October 2, 2000. About the father, Kumar Gorakh Shumsher Jung Bahadur Rana The father of the two, Kumar Gorakh Shumsher Jung Bahadur Rana is the descendants of the Rana prime minister, Chandra Shamsher Jang Bahadur Rana. Gorakh and Shruti got married on 7 May 1997 in Kathmandu.
URL: https://xnepali.net/who-are-the-daughters-of-late-princess-shruti-rajya-laxmi-shah-rana/

[Shruti Rajya Laxmi Devi Shah - askmeaboutnepal.com]
Princess Shruti with husband Gorakh Shumsher Rana and daughters Girvani and Surangana King Birendra used to host a monthly family gathering every third Friday of the month at the Tribhuwan Sadan banquet hall of the Narayanhiti Palace in Kathmandu.
URL: https://www.askmeaboutnepal.com/post/shruti-shah

[Surangana, who lost her mom Shruti in royal massacre, obtains master's ...]
Where are Girvani and Surangana, the two daughters of late Princess Shruti Rajya Laxmi Shah Rana, who died in the royal massacre, and what are they doing? Little information is available about Girvani and Surangana Rana, who became orphans due to the royal massacre, as they are not seen much in public life. Among them, Surangana Rana, the youngest daughter of Shruti and Kumar Gorakh Shamsher ...
URL: https://en.nepalkhabar.com/news/detail/5557/

[Princess Shruti of Nepal - Alchetron, the free social encyclopedia]
Sep 21, 2024 · Princess Shruti Rajya Laxmi Devi Shah (Nepali: श्रुती राज्यलक्ष्मी देवी शाह) (15 October 1976 – 1 June 2001) was the daughter of King Birendra and Queen Aishwarya, and sister of King Dipendra and Prince Nirajan.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Princess-Shruti-of-Nepal


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Princess Shruti of Nepal - Wikipedia] ---
Princess Shruti Rajya Lakshmi Devi Shah of Nepal (Nepali: श्रुती राज्य लक्ष्मी देवी शाह) (15 October 1976 – 1 June 2001) was the daughter of King Birendra and Queen Aishwarya, and sister of King Dipendra and Prince Nirajan.
Princess Shruti was widely regarded by the public as a compassionate and approachable figure, earning her the affectionate nickname of 'the people's princess' in Nepal.
Princess Shruti of Nepal was known for her active engagement in social and humanitarian causes during her brief lifetime. As a member of the Nepalese royal family, she participated in various charitable activities, with a focus on education, children’s welfare, and women’s empowerment. She supported initiatives aimed at improving access to schooling for underprivileged children in rural Nepal and was involved in programs that promoted skill development and self-reliance among women. Passionate about Nepalese culture, Princess Shruti also contributed to the preservation of traditional arts and music. Her philanthropic work, though limited by her untimely death, is remembered as part of her enduring legacy.


--- [Who are the daughters of late princess Shruti Rajya Laxmi Shah Rana?] ---
(This is one of the very few posts that I write here, that is not related to Nepali movies.) The daughters of late princess Shruti Rajya Laxmi Shah Rana are Girvani Rana and Surangana Rana. The daughter of late King Birendra Bir Bikram Shah, Shruti was married to Gorakh Shumsher Jung Bahadur Rana. After giving birth to two daughter, Shruti was killed in the Royal Massacre that happened in the Narayanhiti Royal Palace on June 1, 2001. Father Gorakh Shamsher Jung Bahadur Rana raised the infant daughters of Shruti, who were 2 and 3 years old at the time of the death of their mother in the royal massacre. Ex-crown Princess Shruti Rajya Laxmi Shah’s elder daughter Girvani Rana was born on January 22, 1998. The younger daughter Surangana Rana was born on October 2, 2000. About the father, Kumar Gorakh Shumsher Jung Bahadur Rana The father of the two, Kumar Gorakh Shumsher Jung Bahadur Rana is the descendants of the Rana prime minister, Chandra Shamsher Jang Bahadur Rana. Gorakh and Shruti got married on 7 May 1997 in Kathmandu. After the death of Shruti in 2001, he raised the daughters remaining single for almost a decade. Gorakh Rana married the daughter of the younger brother of ex-prime minister Lokendra Bahadur Chand, Deepti Chand on December 5, 2008. Deepti and Gorakh have a daughter from the second marriage. Gorakh currently works in Standard Chartered Bank in Kathmandu. Where do Girvani Rana and Surangana Rana live? Both Girvani Rana and Surangana Rana live in Dehradhun, India and study in a school there. They live in one of their relatives’ home. They do visit Kathmandu during the school holidays. They were seen in Narayanhiti Palace gate on the last of May, 2016. Before that,Â the last time Girvani was seen in the public function was four years ago. In 2069, Girwani Rana was spotted with her father Gorakh Shumsher at Art Council, during a photo exhibition of the photos of the royal family, organized by the royal physician Khagendra Sherstha. 14-years-old Griwani Rana had cried while watching the photos in the event. Girvani Rajya Laxmi Rana Surangana Rajya Laxmi Rana Latest photos of the royal grandchildren: Video report: The mother Shruti Rajya Laxmi Devi Shah The mother of Grivani Rajya Laxmi Rana and Surangana Rajya Laxmi Rana, Shruti Rajya Laxmi Devi Shah was born on October 15, 1976 at the Narayanhiti Royal Palace. Shruti studied in Kanti Ishwari Sishu Vidhyalaya in Tripureswar and St. Mary’s School in Kathmandu. She went to Mayo College Girls School in Ajmer, India for the intermediate studies. Shruti did her bachelor’s degree in Padma Kanya Campus. She married Kumar Gorakh Shumsher JBR on May 7, 1997 and gave birth to her first child, Girvani, in 8 months after the marriage. Shruti was 24 years old at the time she was killed in 2001. Shruti in 1994, during her France visit with her parents. An undated photo of Shruti Shruti participating in a Padma Kanya College event. Reference: - The video is based on an article in Philopost. - Remembering late king Birendra (internal llink) - Conspiracy theories of Royal Massacre (internal llink) - Wikipedia article on the Royal Massacre


--- [Shruti Rajya Laxmi Devi Shah - askmeaboutnepal.com] ---
Princess Shruti Rajya Laxmi Devi Shah was the daughter of the Late King Birendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev and Queen Aishwarya Rajya Laxmi Shah. She was born on Asoj 29, 2033 BS (15 October 1976) at the Narayanhiti Royal Palace. She was the only daughter of King Birendra and Queen Aishwarya. She had two siblings Prince Dipendra and Prince Nirajan. Shruti Shah did her primary schooling at Kanti Ishwari Sishu Vidhyalaya in Tripureswar and junior-level at St. Mary’s School, both in Kathmandu. During her school days, she was an active member of the Scout along with her baby brother Nirajan. Later she went to Mayo College Girls School in Ajmer, India for her Intermediate studies for two years and cam back to Nepal for her Bachelor's degree at Padma Kanya Campus in Nepal. Birendra Shah and Aishwaya with their children, Dipendra, Shruti and Nirajan (1980) Princess Shruti married Kumar Gorakh Shumsher Jung Bahadur Rana on 8 May 1997 , the grandson of Chandra Shumsher Rana who was the last Rana Prime Minister. She had two daughters Girvani and Surangana Rana. The elder daughter Grivani Rana was born on 22 January 1998 and the younger daughter Surangana was born on 2 October 2002. Princess Shruti keenly participated in various social activities and was graced with many National and International Awards, - National Honours Member First Class of the Order of Gorkha Dakshina Bahu (29 December 1995 AD) - Commemorative Silver Jubilee Medal of King Birendra (31 January 1997 AD) - Bisista Sewa Padak (1999) - Foreign Honours France: Grand Officer of the Order of the Legion of Honour (9 September 1994 AD) - Germany: Dame Grand Cross Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany (25 November 1996 AD) Princess Shruti with husband Gorakh Shumsher Rana and daughters Girvani and Surangana King Birendra used to host a monthly family gathering every third Friday of the month at the Tribhuwan Sadan banquet hall of the Narayanhiti Palace in Kathmandu. So as usual Princess Shruti with her husband arrived at the family gatherings on Jestha 19, 2058 BS (1 June 2001), too. More than twenty immediate Shah members had gathered at the Tribhuvan Sadan wing for the dinner on that tragic day. Princess Shruti along with her father Birendra, mother Aishwarya, brother and Nirajan, brother Dipendra was shot dead in one of the world's greatest tragedies, The Royal Massacre. Royal Prince Dipendra, the elder brother of Shruti allegedly orchestrated the massacre and himself in the head with a 9mm pistol. The following family members lost lives in the unlikely incident - King Birendra Bir Bikram Shah (56 years) 19 Jestha 2058 BS at 9:15 died - Queen Aishwarya Bir Bikram Shah (52 years) 19 Jestha 2058 BS at 9:15 pm - Prince Dipendra Bir Bikram Shah (30 years) 22 Jestha 2058 BS at morning 3:45 - Prince Nirajan Bir Bikram Shah (23 years) 19 Jestha 2058 BS at 9:24 pm - Princess Shruti Bir Bikram Shah (25 years) 19 Jestha 2058 BS at 9:55 pm - Prince Dhirendra Bir Bikram Shah (51 years), 22 Jestha 2058 BS at 5:57 pm - Princess Shanti (60 years) 19 Jestha 2058 BS at 9:35 pm - Princess Sharada (58 years) 19 Jestha 2058 BS at 9:30 pm - Kumar Khadka (58 years) 19 Jestha 2058 BS at 9:35 pm - Princess Jayanti (55 years) 19 Jestha 2058 BS at 9:30 pm The following were wounded - Princess Shova Shahi - Kumar Gorakh Shamsher JBR - Komal Rajya Laxmi Devi Shah - Ketaki Chester - Paras Bir Bikram Shah Dipendra, still in a coma was proclaimed de jure King of Nepal upon his father Birendra's death. He died at the Army hospital at the Chhauni Military Hospital without gaining consciousness 3 days later. Tribhuvan Sadan, a wing northwest of Narayanhiti Palace, the venue of the massacre was the private residence of Prince Dipendra was razed to the ground in 2005 and reconstructed in 2016. The funeral for the royal family was held on Sunday 2 days i,e Jestha 21, 2058 BS (3 June 2001) after the Royal Massacre aka "Durbar Hatyakanda". Hundreds of thousands of people poured onto the streets to bid a final farewell to the deceased. Their bodies were cremated at the royal funeral grounds of Pashupatinath Temple, following Hindu tradition. On 4 June (Jestha 22), after Dipendra died, the government imposed a curfew on the entire country. His body was transferred on a truck and not on a decorated vehicle to the Pashupatinath Temple. He was cremated without any royal farewell, without witnesses or family members under a nationwide curfew. 13 day mourning period was declared and senior civil servants were ordered to shave their heads and eat saltless for three days as a sign of respect for the deceased. Thousands of men queued at barbers in the capital to have their heads shaved to mourn their beloved royal family. Nirajan, Shruti and Dipendra Shah All photos from Social medias


--- [Surangana, who lost her mom Shruti in royal massacre, obtains master's ...] ---
No content


--- [Princess Shruti of Nepal - Alchetron, the free social encyclopedia] ---
Name Princess of | || Spouse Kumar Gorakh Shamsher Jang Bahadur Rana Issue Girvani Rajya LaxmiSurangana Rajya Laxmi Children Surangana Rana, Girvani Rana Parents Birendra of Nepal, Aishwarya of Nepal Cousins Paras, Crown Prince of Nepal, Princess Prerana of Nepal, Shreya Shah Similar People Aishwarya of Nepal, Birendra of Nepal, Prince Nirajan of Nepal, Dipendra of Nepal, Mahendra of Nepal | Princess Shruti Rajya Laxmi Devi Shah (Nepali: श्रुती राज्यलक्ष्मी देवी शाह) (15 October 1976 – 1 June 2001) was the daughter of King Birendra and Queen Aishwarya, and sister of King Dipendra and Prince Nirajan. Contents Education Princess Shruti studied at Kanti Ishwari Sishu Vidhyalaya in Tripureswar, Nepal, St. Mary's School in Kathmandu, Nepal, and later at Mayo College Girls School in Ajmer, India. She completed her bachelor's degree at Padma Kanya Campus in Nepal. Marriage and Family She was married to Kumar Gorakh Shamsher Jang Bahadur Rana, a member of an aristocratic Rana family of Nepal, descendants of Maharaja Chandra Shamsher Jang Bahadur Rana on 7 May 1997 in Kathmandu. They had two daughters: On 5 December 2008 in Kathmandu, Kumar Gorakh Shamsher Jang Bahadur Rana, married Deepti Chand, a humanities student at Kathmandu's Padma Kanya Multiple Campus, who is also the niece of a former royalist prime minister Lokendra Bahadur Chand. Death She, her mother, father, and brother Nirajan, and other six Royal relatives were killed in the Nepalese royal massacre on 1 June 2001.
