=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Claverleigh National Historic Site of Canada - Parks Canada]
Plaque (s) Built in 1871 as a parish rectory, this charming house is a significant example of a Gothic Revival villa in Victorian Canada. With its board-and-batten siding and lively elevations featuring steep gabled roofs, pointed arches, decorative chimney stacks, and varied projections, the dwelling blends harmoniously with its natural setting in accordance with 19th century ideals of the ...
URL: https://www.pc.gc.ca/apps/dfhd/page_nhs_eng.aspx?id=365

[Claverleigh National Historic Site of Canada, ON]
The heritage value of this site resides in its physical expression of the Gothic Revival-style villa in Canada. The house was built in 1871 by William Forster as a parish rectory, to plans by his brother, British architect Richard Forster. The Gothic Revival style was considered suitably ecclesiastical in character for the style of a small rectory.
URL: https://www.historicplaces.ca/en/rep-reg/place-lieu.aspx?id=7597

[Claverleigh celebrates historical significance - The Creemore Echo]
The house was built as the parish rectory in 1871 by St. Luke's Church Rev. William Forster, who emigrated from England in 1850. It was designed by his brother, Richard Forster, an architect in England who also designed St. Luke's. It is believed the name Claverleigh is an homage to their hometown of Claverton Down near Bath.
URL: https://creemore.com/2017/07/14/claverleigh-celebrates-historical-significance/

[Claverleigh National Historic Site - Parks Canada]
Claverleigh was designated a national historic site in 1990. Commemorative plaque: 8242, County Road 9, Creemore, Ontario 1 Claverleigh Built in 1871 as a parish rectory, this charming house is a significant example of a Gothic Revival villa in Victorian Canada. With its board-and-batten siding and lively elevations featuring steep gabled roofs, pointed arches, decorative chimney stacks, and ...
URL: https://parks.canada.ca/culture/designation/lieu-site/claverleigh

[Claverleigh, Creemore, Ontario - canada.ca]
Built in 1871 as a parish rectory, this charming house is a significant example of a Gothic Revival villa in Victorian Canada. There are few Canadian examples of this architectural style. The Gothic Revival villas of the mid-19th century were spacious, asymmetrical dwellings with steep roofs and prominent chimney stacks that created a striking silhouette. They were designed, in accordance to ...
URL: https://www.canada.ca/en/parks-canada/news/2017/07/claverleigh_creemoreontario.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Claverleigh National Historic Site of Canada - Parks Canada] ---
Claverleigh National Historic Site of Canada Creemore, Ontario General view © Parks Canada Agency / Agence Parcs Canada - Chris Johnstone Address : 8242 Regional Road #9, Creemore, Ontario Recognition Statute: Historic Sites and Monuments Act (R.S.C., 1985, c. H-4) Designation Date: 1990-11-16 Dates: - 1871 to 1871 (Construction) Event, Person, Organization: - William Forster (Person) - Richard Forster (Architect) Other Name(s): - Claverleigh (Designation Name) Research Report Number: Gothic Revival -1989 Plaque(s) Built in 1871 as a parish rectory, this charming house is a significant example of a Gothic Revival villa in Victorian Canada. With its board-and-batten siding and lively elevations featuring steep gabled roofs, pointed arches, decorative chimney stacks, and varied projections, the dwelling blends harmoniously with its natural setting in accordance with 19th century ideals of the picturesque. The projecting porch, bay window, second-floor balcony, and verandah act as transitional spaces between the house and the surrounding park-like grounds, reflecting a life of rural calm and agrarian gentility. Description of Historic Place Claverleigh is a Gothic Revival-style villa set in extensive park-like grounds in an isolated rural setting 3.2 kilometres (2 miles) west of the Village of Creemore, Ontario. Heritage Value Claverleigh was designated a national historic site in 1990 as a very fine representative example of a Gothic Revival-style villa. The heritage value of this site resides in its physical expression of the Gothic Revival-style villa in Canada. The house was built in 1871 by William Forster as a parish rectory, to plans by his brother, British architect Richard Forster. The Gothic Revival style was considered suitably ecclesiastical in character for the style of a small rectory. Sources: Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada, Minutes, June 1989, February 1990, June 1990, November 1990. Character-Defining Elements Key features contributing to the heritage value of this site include: — the picturesque massing created by two one-and-a-half storey wings capped by steep roof gables joined by a small central entryway; — the entry under a smaller, gable-roof porch and dormer window; — the lively articulation of exterior elevations through the use of varied forms such as indentations (deep roof eaves) and projections (tall chimneys, small central roof gable, projecting porch, bay window, second floor balcony and verandah); — the irregular articulation of its exterior surfaces through the use of textured finishing materials (shingle roof, board and batten walls); — Gothic Revival exterior detailing including the pointed arch, label moulding framing the wooden entry door, the Gothic arches and tracery remnants of its second storey windows, the design of the bay window as an allusion to a cross); — the Gothic Revival elements of its interior decor such as the spandrels of the wooden arches supporting its minstrel gallery; — the building's scenic setting in expansive park-like grounds.


--- [Claverleigh National Historic Site of Canada, ON] ---
Other Name(s) Claverleigh Claverleigh Claverleigh National Historic Site of Canada Links and documents n/a Construction Date(s) 1871/01/01 Listed on the Canadian Register: 2007/06/18 Statement of Significance Description of Historic Place Claverleigh is a Gothic Revival-style villa set in extensive park-like grounds in an isolated rural setting 3.2 kilometres (2 miles) west of the Village of Creemore, Ontario. Heritage Value Claverleigh was designated a national historic site in 1990 as a very fine representative example of a Gothic Revival-style villa. The heritage value of this site resides in its physical expression of the Gothic Revival-style villa in Canada. The house was built in 1871 by William Forster as a parish rectory, to plans by his brother, British architect Richard Forster. The Gothic Revival style was considered suitably ecclesiastical in character for the style of a small rectory. Sources: Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada, Minutes, June 1989, February 1990, June 1990, November 1990. Character-Defining Elements Key features contributing to the heritage value of this site include: — the picturesque massing created by two one-and-a-half storey wings capped by steep roof gables joined by a small central entryway; — the entry under a smaller, gable-roof porch and dormer window; — the lively articulation of exterior elevations through the use of varied forms such as indentations (deep roof eaves) and projections (tall chimneys, small central roof gable, projecting porch, bay window, second floor balcony and verandah); — the irregular articulation of its exterior surfaces through the use of textured finishing materials (shingle roof, board and batten walls); — Gothic Revival exterior detailing including the pointed arch, label moulding framing the wooden entry door, the Gothic arches and tracery remnants of its second storey windows, the design of the bay window as an allusion to a cross); — the Gothic Revival elements of its interior decor such as the spandrels of the wooden arches supporting its minstrel gallery; — the building's scenic setting in expansive park-like grounds. Recognition Jurisdiction Federal Recognition Authority Government of Canada Recognition Statute Historic Sites and Monuments Act Recognition Type National Historic Site of Canada Recognition Date 1990/11/16 Historical Information Significant Date(s) n/a Theme - Category and Type - Expressing Intellectual and Cultural Life - Architecture and Design Function - Category and Type Current - Residence - Single Dwelling Historic Architect / Designer Richard Forster Builder n/a Additional Information Location of Supporting Documentation Heritage Conservation and Commemoration Directorate, Documentation Centre, 3rd Floor, Room 366, 30 Victoria St, Gatineau, Quebec Cross-Reference to Collection Fed/Prov/Terr Identifier 365 Status Published Related Places n/a


--- [Claverleigh celebrates historical significance - The Creemore Echo] ---
Claverleigh celebrates historical significance The historical significance of Claverleigh was celebrated July 8 with an elegant garden party, held in the fashion of the day. With gardens at their peak and blessed with beautiful weather, about 140 guests attended the official unveiling of a plaque to be installed at the home of Meg and Greg Young, located just outside of Creemore. Their weekend and summer getaway was originally built as the rectory for Creemore’s St. Luke’s Anglican Church. Although formally recognized as a historic site in 1990, Parks Canada and the Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada have been holding a number of plaque unveilings this year in celebration of Canada’s sesquicentennial. “Built in 1871 as a parish rectory, this charming house is a significant example of a Gothic Revival villa in Victorian Canada,” reads the plaque. “With its board-and-batten siding and lively elevations featuring steep gabled roofs, pointed arches, decorative chimney stacks and varied projections, the dwelling blends harmoniously with its natural setting in accordance with 19th century ideals of the picturesque. The projecting porch, bay window, second floor balcony and verandah act as transitional spaces between the house and the surrounding park like grounds, reflecting a life of rural calm and agrarian gentility.” Parks Canada and the Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada proposed an online unveiling through social media but the Youngs had something more traditional in mind. They decided to host an event “to replicate the parties of Rev. and Mrs. Forster held for the congregation,” said Meg. “Except we served wine and they most likely would have served tea and biscuits.” Dignitaries, visitor and community members gathered for the unveiling, speeches and tours of the house. The house was built as the parish rectory in 1871 by St. Luke’s Church Rev. William Forster, who emigrated from England in 1850. It was designed by his brother, Richard Forster, an architect in England who also designed St. Luke’s. It is believed the name Claverleigh is an homage to their hometown of Claverton Down near Bath. The Youngs have had the house since 1983 after they bought it from Meg’s father George McEvenue, who purchased in 1971. The great-great grandchildren of Rev. Forster and his younger brother Fred Forster attended the ceremony, along with descendants of others who owned the house over the years. Meg said they made an effort to invite anyone who has contributed to the ongoing preservation of the house. Some people were married at the house, under the tulip tree, which was brought over from England and is in full bloom for the occasion. “Many people have a connection to the house,” said Meg, whether through the church or the community or as groundskeepers. The house continues to hold a certain fascination for locals and visitors.


--- [Claverleigh National Historic Site - Parks Canada] ---
Claverleigh National Historic Site Claverleigh was designated a national historic site in 1990. Commemorative plaque: 8242, County Road 9, Creemore, OntarioFootnote 1 Claverleigh Built in 1871 as a parish rectory, this charming house is a significant example of a Gothic Revival villa in Victorian Canada. With its board-and-batten siding and lively elevations featuring steep gabled roofs, pointed arches, decorative chimney stacks, and varied projections, the dwelling blends harmoniously with its natural setting in accordance with 19th century ideals of the picturesque. The projecting porch, bay window, second-floor balcony, and verandah act as transitional spaces between the house and the surrounding park-like grounds, reflecting a life of rural calm and agrarian gentility. Claverleigh Built in 1871 as a parish rectory, this charming house is a significant example of a Gothic Revival villa in Victorian Canada. There are few Canadian examples of this architectural style. The Gothic Revival villas of the mid-19th century were spacious, asymmetrical dwellings with steep roofs and prominent chimney stacks that created a striking silhouette. They were designed, in accordance to picturesque ideals, to be well-integrated within large, landscaped properties, fostering a sympathetic relationship with the natural setting. Deep eaves, balconies, and verandahs functioned as transitional spaces that provided access to the outdoors, while also providing opportunities to play with sunlight and shadow. Exterior decoration was generally limited to the gables, mouldings, and shaped chimney stacks. Despite their distinct design, Gothic Revival villas were designed, first and foremost, to be comfortable homes. William Forster was the original owner of Claverleigh. He came to Canada West (today, Ontario) from England in 1850 and was subsequently ordained as an Anglican priest. In the 1870s, he asked his brother, architect Richard Forster, to design him a home and rectory befitting of a gentlemen priest. Construction began within a year at a site in rural Ontario, near Creemore. With its board-and-batten siding and lively elevations featuring steep gabled roofs, pointed arches, decorative chimney stacks, and varied projections, Claverleigh blends harmoniously with its natural setting in accordance with 19th century ideals of the picturesque. The projecting porch, bay window, second-floor balcony, and verandah act as transitional spaces between the house and the surrounding park-like grounds, reflecting a life of rural calm and agrarian gentility. This press backgrounder was prepared at the time of the Ministerial announcement in 2017. Description of historic place Claverleigh is a Gothic Revival-style villa set in extensive park-like grounds in an isolated rural setting 3.2 kilometres (2 miles) west of the Village of Creemore, Ontario. Heritage value Claverleigh was designated a national historic site in 1990 as a very fine representative example of a Gothic Revival-style villa. The heritage value of this site resides in its physical expression of the Gothic Revival-style villa in Canada. The house was built in 1871 by William Forster as a parish rectory, to plans by his brother, British architect Richard Forster. The Gothic Revival style was considered suitably ecclesiastical in character for the style of a small rectory. Sources: Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada, Minutes, June 1989, February 1990, June 1990, November 1990. The National Program of Historical Commemoration relies on the participation of Canadians in the identification of places, events and persons of national historic significance. Any member of the public can nominate a topic for consideration by the Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada. - Date modified :


--- [Claverleigh, Creemore, Ontario - canada.ca] ---
Claverleigh, Creemore, Ontario Backgrounder Built in 1871 as a parish rectory, this charming house is a significant example of a Gothic Revival villa in Victorian Canada. There are few Canadian examples of this architectural style. The Gothic Revival villas of the mid-19th century were spacious, asymmetrical dwellings with steep roofs and prominent chimney stacks that created a striking silhouette. They were designed, in accordance to picturesque ideals, to be well-integrated within large, landscaped properties, fostering a sympathetic relationship with the natural setting. Deep eaves, balconies and verandahs functioned as transitional spaces that provided access to the outdoors, while also providing opportunities to play with sunlight and shadow. Exterior decoration was generally limited to the gables, mouldings and shaped chimney stacks. Despite their distinct design, Gothic Revival villas were designed, first and foremost, to be comfortable homes. William Forster was the original owner of Claverleigh. He came to Canada West (today, Ontario) from England in 1850 and was subsequently ordained as an Anglican priest. In the 1870s, he asked his brother, architect Richard Forster, to design him a home and rectory befitting of a gentlemen priest. Construction began within a year at a site in rural Ontario, near Creemore. With its board-and-batten siding and lively elevations featuring steep gabled roofs, pointed arches, decorative chimney stacks, and varied projections, Claverleigh blends harmoniously with its natural setting in accordance with 19th century ideals of the picturesque. The projecting porch, bay window, second-floor balcony, and verandah act as transitional spaces between the house and the surrounding park-like grounds, reflecting a life of rural calm and agrarian gentility. -30-
