=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Monica Lewinsky - Wikipedia]
Monica Samille Lewinsky (born July 23, 1973) [1] is an American activist. She became internationally known in the late 1990s after U.S. president Bill Clinton admitted to having had an affair with her during her days as a White House intern between 1995 and 1997. The affair and its repercussions (which included Clinton's impeachment) became known as the Clinton–Lewinsky scandal. Following ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monica_Lewinsky

[Full History Of Monica Lewinsky In Timeline From 1973 ...]
1992: Affair with Drama Instructor In 1992, Andy Bleiler, Monica Lewinsky's former high school drama instructor, alleged that they began a five-year affair.
URL: https://populartimelines.com/timeline/Monica-Lewinsky/full

[Monica Lewinsky - Wikiwand]
Monica Samille Lewinsky (born July 23, 1973) [1] is an American activist. She became internationally known in the late 1990s after U.S. President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an affair with her during her days as a White House intern between 1995 and 1997. The affair and its repercussions (which included Clinton's impeachment) became known as the Clinton–Lewinsky scandal.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Lewinsky

[Married drama instructor says he had five-year affair with Lewinsky]
Jan 1, 1998 — Monica Lewinsky said she had a sexual relationship with a "high-ranking White House official," her former high school drama instructor said.
URL: https://www.capecodtimes.com/story/news/1998/01/01/married-drama-instructor-says-he/51045001007/

[Monica Lewinsky _ AcademiaLab]
In 1992, she reportedly began a 5-year affair with Andy Bleiler, her married former high school drama instructor. In 1993, enrolled at Lewis & Clark College in Portland, Oregon, graduating with a bachelor's degree in psychology in 1995.
URL: https://academia-lab.com/encyclopedia/monica-lewinsky/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Monica Lewinsky - Wikipedia] ---
Monica Samille Lewinsky (born July 23, 1973) is an American activist. She became internationally known in the late 1990s after U.S. president Bill Clinton admitted to having had an affair with her during her days as a White House intern between 1995 and 1997. The affair and its repercussions (which included Clinton's impeachment) became known as the Clinton–Lewinsky scandal.
Following the scandal, Lewinsky designed a line of handbags under her name, served as an advertising spokesperson for a diet plan, and worked as a television personality. She obtained a master's degree in psychology from the London School of Economics in 2006. In 2014, Lewinsky began speaking out as an activist against cyberbullying.




--- [Full History Of Monica Lewinsky In Timeline From 1973 ...] ---
Monica Lewinsky is an American activist who gained international notoriety due to her affair with President Bill Clinton while she was a White House intern from 1995 to 1997. The Clinton-Lewinsky scandal that followed significantly impacted American politics and culture. In recent years, Lewinsky has become an anti-bullying activist, speaking out against online harassment and public shaming, drawing from her own experiences during the scandal. She has also contributed to discussions about the #MeToo movement and the power dynamics inherent in workplace relationships. On July 23, 1973, Monica Samille Lewinsky was born. She is an American activist who later became known for her involvement in the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal. In 1988, Monica Lewinsky’s parents divorced, and each has remarried since. In 1991, Monica Lewinsky graduated from Bel Air Prep (later known as Pacific Hills School). In 1992, Andy Bleiler, Monica Lewinsky's former high school drama instructor, alleged that they began a five-year affair. In 1993, Monica Lewinsky enrolled at Lewis & Clark College in Portland, Oregon. In July 1995, Monica Lewinsky secured an unpaid summer White House internship in the office of White House chief of staff Leon Panetta and moved to Washington, D.C. Starting in November 1995 and continuing until March 1997, Monica Lewinsky stated that she had nine sexual encounters with President Bill Clinton in the Oval Office. In December 1995, Monica Lewinsky moved to a paid posting in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs. In 1995, Monica Lewinsky graduated from Lewis & Clark College with a bachelor's degree in psychology. In 1995, Monica Lewinsky started as a White House intern. It was during her time as an intern between 1995 and 1997 that she had an affair with U.S. president Bill Clinton. In April 1996, Monica Lewinsky's superiors transferred her from the White House to the Pentagon because they felt that she was spending too much time with Clinton. She became an assistant to chief Pentagon spokesman Kenneth Bacon. In March 1997, the nine sexual encounters between Monica Lewinsky and President Bill Clinton in the Oval Office concluded. These encounters started in November 1995. In September 1997, after Lewinsky told co-worker Linda Tripp about her relationship with Clinton, Tripp began to secretly record their telephone conversations. In December 1997, Monica Lewinsky left her position at the Pentagon. In 1997, the affair between Monica Lewinsky and U.S. President Bill Clinton concluded. The repercussions of this affair became known as the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal. In January 1998, Monica Lewinsky submitted an affidavit in the Paula Jones case denying any physical relationship with Clinton. In January 1998, news of the Clinton–Lewinsky relationship broke, leading to intense media scrutiny. Lewinsky spent the following weeks in seclusion at her mother's residence. On January 26, 1998, President Clinton stated, "I did not have sexual relations with that woman, Miss Lewinsky" during a White House news conference, further fueling the media frenzy. On August 17, 1998, Bill Clinton defended his previous statement about not having sexual relations with Monica Lewinsky, arguing it depended on the meaning of the word "is". In 1998, according to Monica Lewinsky, the truth and context were lost amidst the political and financial interests surrounding the scandal, reducing the women involved to serve various purposes. On March 3, 1999, Barbara Walters interviewed Monica Lewinsky on ABC's 20/20, which was watched by 70 million Americans. In March 1999, Andrew Morton's biography "Monica's Story", which included Monica Lewinsky's side of the Clinton affair, was published. It was excerpted as a cover story in Time magazine. On May 8, 1999, Monica Lewinsky made a cameo appearance as herself in two sketches during an episode of NBC's Saturday Night Live. In June 1999, Ms. magazine published a series of articles discussing whether Monica Lewinsky's behavior had any meaning for feminism. In September 1999, Monica Lewinsky launched a line of handbags bearing her name under the company name The Real Monica, Inc. In February 2000, Jenny Craig stopped running the commercials featuring Monica Lewinsky. In February 2000, Monica Lewinsky appeared on MTV's The Tom Green Show. In April 2000, Jenny Craig concluded Monica Lewinsky's advertising campaign entirely and only paid her $300,000 of the $1 million contracted for her involvement. In March 2002, Monica Lewinsky, no longer bound by her immunity agreement, appeared in the HBO special "Monica in Black and White", part of the America Undercover series, answering questions about her life and the Clinton affair. In 2003, Monica Lewinsky hosted the reality television dating program Mr. Personality on Fox Television Network. In 2004, after Bill Clinton's autobiography, "My Life", appeared, Monica Lewinsky gave an interview with the British tabloid Daily Mail. By 2005, Monica Lewinsky found that she could not escape the spotlight in the U.S., which made both her professional and personal life difficult. She stopped selling her handbag line and moved to London to study social psychology at the London School of Economics. In December 2006, Monica Lewinsky graduated from the London School of Economics with a Master of Science degree. Her thesis was titled, "In Search of the Impartial Juror: An Exploration of the Third-Person Effect and Pre-Trial Publicity". In 2006, Monica Lewinsky obtained a master's degree in psychology from the London School of Economics. In 2009, Monica Lewinsky corresponded with scholar Ken Gormley and wrote that Clinton had lied under oath when asked about their relationship. In 2013, items associated with Monica Lewinsky that Andy Bleiler had turned over to Starr were put up for auction. In May 2014, Monica Lewinsky wrote an essay for Vanity Fair magazine titled "Shame and Survival", discussing her life and the scandal. She became a Vanity Fair contributor afterwards. In July 2014, Monica Lewinsky was interviewed in a three-part television special for the National Geographic Channel, titled "The 90s: The Last Great Decade." The series explored various events of the 1990s, including the scandal that brought Lewinsky into the national spotlight. This marked Lewinsky's first interview of this type in over a decade. In October 2014, Monica Lewinsky took a public stand against cyberbullying, identifying herself as "patient zero" of online harassment. At a Forbes magazine "30 Under 30" summit, she shared her experiences following the scandal and expressed her desire to help other victims of online shaming. In 2014, Monica Lewinsky began speaking out as an activist against cyberbullying. In March 2015, Monica Lewinsky continued her advocacy against cyberbullying by delivering a TED talk, calling for a more compassionate Internet. In June 2015, Monica Lewinsky became an ambassador and strategic advisor for the anti-bullying organization Bystander Revolution. That same month, she delivered an anti-cyberbullying speech at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity. In September 2015, Monica Lewinsky was interviewed by Amy Robach on Good Morning America, discussing Bystander Revolution's Month of Action campaign for National Bullying Prevention Month. In October 2017, Monica Lewinsky tweeted the #MeToo hashtag to indicate that she was a victim of sexual harassment or sexual assault, but did not provide further details. In October 2017, Monica Lewinsky wrote the foreword to the book "Shame Nation: The Global Epidemic of Online Hate" by Sue Scheff and Melissa Schorr. In the March 2018 issue of Vanity Fair, Monica Lewinsky wrote an essay in which she reflected on her relationship with Bill Clinton, characterizing it as an "abuse of power" due to the age and power differential, and revealed her diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder. In May 2018, Monica Lewinsky was disinvited from an event hosted by Town & Country after Bill Clinton accepted an invitation to the same event. In September 2018, Monica Lewinsky spoke at a conference in Jerusalem. During the Q&A session, she walked off stage after being asked by journalist Yonit Levi about whether she thought Bill Clinton owed her a private apology, a topic she had previously deemed off-limits. On August 6, 2019, it was announced that the Clinton–Lewinsky scandal would be the focus of the third season of the television series American Crime Story, titled "Impeachment." In 2019, Monica Lewinsky was interviewed by John Oliver on his HBO show "Last Week Tonight with John Oliver." They discussed the importance of addressing public shaming and how social media might have affected her situation during the scandal in the late 1990s. In October 2020, production began on the third season of American Crime Story, titled "Impeachment," which focuses on the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal. Monica Lewinsky served as a co-producer for the series. In June 2021, Monica Lewinsky started her own production company, Alt Ending Productions, and signed a first look deal with 20th Television. On September 7, 2021, the third season of American Crime Story, titled "Impeachment," premiered. The season portrays the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal and is based on Jeffrey Toobin's book, "A Vast Conspiracy: The Real Story of the Sex Scandal That Nearly Brought Down a President." In October 2021, Monica Lewinsky served as executive producer for the HBO documentary "15 Minutes of Shame," directed by Max Joseph, which explores the themes of public shaming, online ostracism, and humiliation. In February 2025, Monica Lewinsky launched her podcast, "Reclaiming with Monica Lewinsky". Home Box Office HBO is an American pay television service... Bill Clinton served as the nd U S President from... The White House located at Pennsylvania Avenue NW in Washington... Saturday Night Live SNL is a late-night live sketch comedy... The National Broadcasting Company NBC is a major American commercial... Los Angeles is the most populous city in California and... 5 minutes ago NFL teams scout Maxx Crosby; Lions pursue a 'mega-deal' amid trade rumors. 5 minutes ago Lamar Odom claims he experienced the afterlife after 2015 overdose in Netflix Untold. 1 hour ago North Carolina Early Voting Surges Before 2024 Primary Elections, Featuring Thom Tillis 1 hour ago Jurickson Profar Suspended 162 Games by MLB for Second PED Violation. 2 hours ago Zach Braff surprised by 'Scrubs' reboot cast's age; show returns with new heart. 2 hours ago Mitch Barnhart, Kentucky's Athletic Director, to Retire After Long Tenure Jesse Jackson is an American civil rights activist politician and... Hillary Diane Rodham Clinton is a prominent American politician lawyer... Jim Carrey is a Canadian-American actor and comedian celebrated for... Ken Paxton is an American politician and lawyer serving as... XXXTentacion born Jahseh Dwayne Ricardo Onfroy was a controversial yet... Bill Clinton served as the nd U S President from...


--- [Monica Lewinsky - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Married drama instructor says he had five-year affair with Lewinsky] ---
Married drama instructor says he had five-year affair with Lewinsky PORTLAND, Ore. — Monica Lewinsky said she had a sexual relationship with a "high-ranking White House official," her former high school drama instructor said as he admitted to having a five-year affair with her. Andy Bleiler, 32, was joined by his wife Kathy at a news conference outside their home just minutes before President Clinton began his State of the Union address Tuesday night. The president has denied allegations that he had sex with Ms. Lewinsky, a former White House intern, and then told her to lie about it. Bleiler's lawyer, Terry Giles, portrayed Ms. Lewinsky as a manipulative liar who refused to break off her affair with the drama instructor and wormed her way into the family's confidence. "Kath Andy would both describe Monica as having a pattern of twisting facts, especially to enhance her version of her own self-image," said Giles, of Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. Bleiler worked in the drama department at Beverly Hills (Calif.) High School, which Ms. Lewinsky attended. He said their affair started in 1992, a year after Ms. Lewinsky graduated from another high school and a year after he was married. He said the affair continued during the two years she attended Lewis Clark College here, and after she graduated in 1995 and left for Washington. Bleiler, now a theater technician at the Vancouver (Wash.) School of Arts and Academics, said the relationship ended last April after his wife found out about it. That happened when she learned Ms. Lewinsky had bragged about the affair to college acquaintances. William Ginsburg, Ms. Lewinsky's attorney, confirmed his 24-year-old client had an affair with Bleiler but dismissed its importance. "This is a grown woman," Ginsburg said. "She has had relationships with men. That is neither shocking nor is it surprising." Ms. Lewinsky told Bleiler that she was having oral sex with a "high-ranking White House official" and was "frustrated and agitated" that that was all he wanted to have, Giles said. The attorney added that Ms. Lewinsky confided in the couple long after she went to work at the White House. He said she never mentioned Clinton specifically, but referred to the White House official as "the creep." Sources have said Ms. Lewinsky referred to Clinton as "the creep" on secretly recorded tapes made by a former White House colleague. Giles also said Ms. Lewinsky told the Bleilers when she left for her Washington internship in June 1995: "I'm going to the White House to get my presidential kneepads." After starting at the White House as an unpaid intern, Ms. Lewinsky moved to a paid White House position handling mail, then went to the Pentagon in April 1996. She left last December. Giles said Ms. Lewinsky told the couple that after she had been reassigned from the White House to the Pentagon, she had an abortion. Giles did not address the question of who the father might have been. Ms. Lewinsky sent the Bleilers some documents and photographs, Giles said, that they were to turn over to Whitewater special prosecutor Kenneth Starr's office today. They did not specify what the documents and photographs were, but said none of the photos were of Clinton and Ms. Lewinsky. "It has been a very difficult time for my wife and I, the past year trying to mend this," Bleiler said. "I couldn't in good conscience just sit on this and not tell the authorities what I know." Mrs. Bleiler, whose eyes were filled with tears, said Ms. Lewinsky brought gifts to the couple's two children, and later baby-sat for them. She said she believed the younger woman was trying to work her way into the family. Giles said Ms. Lewinsky refused to break off the relationship even though Bleiler wanted to end it as early as 1993. Giles said Ms. Lewinsky became friends with Bleiler's wife to manipulate him. Ginsburg described Bleiler's insinuation that Ms. Lewinsky forced herself on him as "silly." — — 169 1997 Cape Cod Times. All rights reserved.


--- [Monica Lewinsky _ AcademiaLab] ---
Monica Lewinsky Monica Samille Lewinsky (San Francisco, California, July 23, 1973) is an American activist, television personality, and fashion designer. She became known for the Lewinsky or Monicagate scandal. Then-President of the United States, Bill Clinton, later admitted that he had an "inappropriate relationship" with Lewinsky while she was working as an unpaid intern (entry-level minor staff) at the White House between 1995 and 1996, at the age 22 years. The scandal broke out after allegations of sexual harassment brought against Clinton by Paula Jones, and after President Clinton admitted under oath to his extramarital affairs with Gennifer Flowers. Its repercussion resulted in an impeachment to Bill Clinton. After the scandal, Lewinsky gained international recognition, having a variety of projects, which involved designing a line of handbags under her name and working as a spokesperson and television personality. Subsequently, he left public life to obtain a master's degree in psychology in London. In 2014, he returned to public life as a social activist against cyberbullying. Biography Lewinsky was born in San Francisco. He grew up in a wealthy family in southern California, on the west side of Los Angeles, and later in Beverly Hills. His father is Bernard Lewinsky, born in El Salvador, an oncologist by profession and the son of German Jews who immigrated to Central America to escape Nazism. His father arrived when he was 14. His mother, Marcia Kaye Vilensky, the daughter of a Jewish father and a Lithuanian Russian-Romanian mother, is an author under the nickname Marcia Lewis. His mother wrote the gossip book The Private Life of Three Tenors, where she discussed the love life of Plácido Domingo, Luciano Pavarotti and José Carreras. The book received high-profile publicity when the Lewinsky affair broke, as journalists compared the "innuendos" to the other. de Lewis about an affair with Plácido Domingo with the facts (at the time unproven) involving his daughter. Monica's maternal grandfather, Samuel M. Vilensky, was Lithuanian Jewish, and Monica's maternal grandmother, Bronia Poleshuk, was born in the British Tianjin Concession, China, to a Russian Jewish family. Monica's parents separated and divorced between 1987 and 1988, which affected Monica. Her father later married his current wife, Barbara; her mother married R. Peter Straus, a media executive and former director of Voice of America under President Jimmy Carter. The family attended Los Angeles Temple Sinai, and Monica attended Akiba Sinai Academy, their religious school. For his elementary education, he attended Bel-Air's John Thomas Dye School. He attended Beverly Hills High School for his first three years of high school, before transferring to Bel Air Prep (later known as Pacific Hills School) for his senior year, graduating in 1991. He went to Santa Monica College, a 2-year community college. She worked for the Beverly Hills High School drama department and at a tie store. In 1992, she reportedly began a 5-year affair with Andy Bleiler, her married former high school drama instructor. In 1993, enrolled at Lewis & Clark College in Portland, Oregon, graduating with a bachelor's degree in psychology in 1995. In an appearance on Larry King Live in 2000, she revealed that she began an affair with a 40-year-old married man. in Los Angeles when he was 18, and that the affair continued while he attended the Lewis & Clark College in the early 1990s. She did not reveal the identity of the man. With the help of a family contact, he secured an unpaid summer internship at the White House in the office of White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta. Lewinsky moved to Washington, D.C. and took over the post in July 1995. He moved to a paid position in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs in December 1995. Scandal During her time in the White House as an honorary fellow, she had relationships with President Bill Clinton. Lewinsky maintained that her relationship with Clinton consisted of performing oral sex and other sexual acts (but not sexual intercourse) on her in the Oval Office of the White House during her working hours. She believed she was having a love affair with him, but he denied everything. The report resulting from the Kenneth Starr investigation (Starr Report) culminated in a criminal charge against the president for perjury, since Clinton had publicly denied before the media and before Congress his relationship with Lewinsky. After much denial, and in the face of DNA evidence, Clinton acknowledged that Lewinsky was telling the truth. On March 4, 1999, the book Monica's Story, an authorized biography written by Andrew Morton detailing his affair with Bill Clinton, was released in the United States. It was also featured as a cover story in Time magazine. On her album Beyoncé, singer Beyoncé mentions Monica Lewinsky in the song Partition or Yoncé. On March 31, 2016, singer Bebe Rexha released her single "No Broken Hearts" with Nicki Minaj, where the rapper, in one of her verses, quotes the name "M. Lewinsky». Likewise, rapper Eddy D mentions her in "Take off my glove." Also Daddy Yankee on the song "La ocasión"; Bryant Myers in "Drinking and Smoking"; and Anuel AA in "23 Preguntas", a song dedicated to her ex-partner, Karol G. In Eminem's single "Rap God" he mentions her as "Monica Lewinsky feelin & # 39; on his nutsack" at 0:45 of the song. In 2019 it was confirmed that the third season of the series American Crime Story would be about the sex scandal with Bill Clinton and that actress Beanie Feldstein would play Lewinsky. Later Life The affair brought the pop culture celebrity to Lewinsky, as he had become the focus of a political storm. On March 3, 1999, Barbara Walters interviewed Lewinsky on ABC's 20/20. The show was watched by 70 million Americans, which ABC said was a record for a news program. Lewinsky earned around $500,000 for her part in the book and another million for the international rights to Walters' interview, but was still beset by high legal bills and costs of living. In June 1999, the feminist magazine Ms. published a series of articles by writer Susan Jane Gilman, sexologist Susie Bright, and author and presenter Abiola Abrams arguing from three generations of women if Lewinsky's behavior had any significance for feminism. Also in 1999, Lewinsky refused to sign an autograph at an airport, saying, "I'm known for something that's not so great to be known for." She made a cameo appearance as herself in two skits. during the May 8, 1999 episode of NBC's Saturday Night Live, a show that had satirized his relationship with Clinton for the previous 16 months. By her own account, Lewinsky had survived the intense media attention during the period of the scandal by knitting. In September 1999, she expanded on this interest by beginning to sell a line of handbags bearing her name, under the company name The Real Monica, Inc. They were sold both online, in New York, California, and London. Lewinsky designed the bags and traveled frequently to oversee their manufacture in Louisiana. In the early 2000s, she began appearing in television commercials for the diet company Jenny Craig, Inc. Also in the early 2000s, she moved to New York City, lived in the West Village, and became a guest top of the line on the Manhattan social scene. In February 2000, she appeared on MTV's The Tom Green Show, in an episode in which host Tom Green took her to her parents' house in Ottawa to find fabric for the her new bag business. Later in 2000, Lewinsky worked as a Channel 5 UK correspondent on the Postcards from Monica programme, reporting on American culture and trends from a variety of locations. In March 2002, Lewinsky, no longer bound by the terms of her immunity agreement, appeared on the HBO special, "Monica in Black and White,' part of the series America Undercover. In it, she answered questions from the studio audience about her life and the Clinton case. Lewinsky hosted a reality dating show, Mr. Personality , on the Fox Television Network in 2003, where he advised young contestants who chose men hidden by masks. She was highly critical in 2004 when Bill Clinton's autobiography My Life came out, noting that "he had lied," that she "at least hoped he would correct his false statements" and that he did not accept "that he had to completely desecrate his character". By 2005, she found she couldn't escape the spotlight in the United States, which made both her professional and personal life difficult. She stopped selling her handbag line and moved to London to study social psychology at London School of Economics. In December 2006, he graduated with a Master of Science. For the next decade, he tried to avoid publicity. She corresponded in 2009 with academic Ken Gormley, who was writing an in-depth study of the Clinton scandals and maintained that Clinton had lied under oath when asked detailed and specific questions about his relationship with her. In 2013, Bleiler's ex-wife auctioned off items associated with Lewinsky that Bleiler had given to Starr. During his decade out of the public eye, Lewinsky lived in London, Los Angeles, New York and Portland; but, due to her notoriety, she had trouble finding employment in the communication and marketing positions of the non-profit organizations where she had been interviewed. In May 2014, Lewinsky wrote an essay for Vanity Fair magazine titled "Shame and Survival," in which he discussed his life and the scandal. She maintained that the relationship was mutual, writing that while Clinton took advantage of her, it was a consensual relationship. She added: "I, myself, am deeply sorry for what happened between me and President Clinton. Let me say it again: me. Deeply. Lament. What happened". In July 2014, she was interviewed in a three-part television special for National Geographic Channel, titled The 90s: The Last Great Decade. The series looked at various events of the 1990s, including the scandal that put Lewinsky in the national spotlight. This was Lewinsky's first such interview in over ten years. In October 2014, she took a public stand against cyberbullying, calling herself "patient zero" online bullying, speaking at Forbes "30 Under 30" summits and TED Talks calling for a more compassionate Internet. In June 2015, she became an ambassador and strategic advisor for the anti-bullying organization Bystander Revolution. In September 2015, Amy Robach interviewed Lewinsky on Good Morning America, about Bystander Revolution's Month of Action campaign for National Bullying Prevention Month. Lewinsky wrote the foreword to an October 2017 book by Sue Scheff and Melissa Schorr, Shame Nation: The Global Epidemic of Online Hate. In October 2017, Lewinsky tweeted the hashtag #MeToo to indicate that he was a victim of sexual harassment and/or assault, but did not provide details. He wrote an essay in the March 2018 issue of Vanity Fair in which he did not directly explain why he used the hashtag in October. She did write that in reviewing her relationship with Bill Clinton, even though it was consensual, because he was 27 years her senior and in a position with much more power than she had, in her view the relationship constituted an "abuse of power" by Clinton. She added that she had been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder that she lived through after the relationship was revealed. In 2019, she was interviewed by John Oliver on his HBO show Last Week Tonight with John Oliver, where they discussed the importance of solving public shaming and how their situation might have been different if social media would have existed at the time the scandal broke in the late 1990s. On August 6, 2019, it was announced that the Lewinsky scandal would be the focus of the third season of the television series American Crime Story under the title Impeachment. The season began production in October 2020. Lewinsky was a co-producer. It consists of 10 episodes and premiered on September 7, 2021 on FX. Actress Beanie Feldstein plays Monica Lewinsky.
