=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Johnny Damon Birthday - National Today]
He played baseball in the South Orange Little League and the Walker Jr. High baseball team as a child. Later, he attended Dr. Phillips High School in Orlando, ...Missing:two| Show results with:two
URL: https://nationaltoday.com/birthday/johnny-damon/

[All you need to know about Johnny Damon - TruthPulse News]
Jan 6, 2026·Damon, however, was not only interested in baseball; he also ran track and played football in high school. How old is Johnny Damon? He is ...
URL: https://modelbooker.co.uk/all-you-need-to-know-about-johnny-damon.html

[Johnny Damon - Missouri Sports Hall of Fame]
Damon later played for the Oakland Athletics, Boston Red Sox, New York Yankees, Detroit Tigers, Tampa Bay Rays and Cleveland. He helped the 2004 Red Sox win the ...
URL: https://mosportshalloffame.com/inductees/johnny-damon/

[JOHNNY DAMON - FENWAY PARK DIARIES]
He made the football team and eventually developed into one of the school's best players in high school. In the spring of 1989, Johnny won the varsity starting ...Missing:sports| Show results with:sports
URL: https://fenwayparkdiaries.com/best+players/johnny+damon.htm

[DAMON IN THE ROUGH – HOW JOHNNY GREW FROM SHY, STUTTERING KID TO BASEBALL STAR | New York Post]
Jan 1, 2006·Damon got into sports to emulate his brother. “He was always ... Soon, Damon would star for his high school's baseball and football teams.
URL: https://nypost.com/2006/01/01/damon-in-the-rough-how-johnny-grew-from-shy-stuttering-kid-to-baseball-star/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Johnny Damon Birthday - National Today] ---
Johnny Damon, born November 5, 1973, is an actor, former professional baseball outfielder, and reality television star. He is known for starring in “Fever Pitch” and appearing in “The Bros.” He had a fantastic baseball career and was one of the highest-paid baseball players in his prime. He has appeared on several reality television shows like “Celebrity Apprentice,” “Dancing with the Stars,” “Tanked,” “M.T.V. Cribs,” and “Below Deck Mediterranean.” Damon has had a fine career, and we are happy to celebrate his special day here. Fast Facts Full Name: Johnny David Damon Nickname: The Caveman Birth date: November 5, 1973 Age: 52 Zodiac Sign: Scorpio Height: 6' 2" Relationship Status: Married Net Worth: $40 million Background Johnny David Damon had a reputation for being an extremely effective baseball hitter. He had keen bat control in his prime and got more hits than other players except for Ichiro. Damon was born on November 5, 1973, in Fort Riley of Geary and Riley counties, Kansas. He has Thai, Croatian, and Irish ancestry. His parents are Yome Damon and Jimmy Damon. Damon’s father served in the Army, and that means the family had to move often. After his father left the Army, the family settled in Orlando, Florida. He played baseball in the South Orange Little League and the Walker Jr. High baseball team as a child. Later, he attended Dr. Phillips High School in Orlando, where he was rated the top high school prospect in the country by “Baseball America.” He also played football and athletics in high school. Coincidentally, he played against Warren Sapp in a high school football game, and the latter gave him the first concussion of his life. The Kansas City Royals drafted Damon in 1992 but sent him to the minor leagues. He made his Major League Baseball debut with them in 1995 and remained with the team till 2001 when he moved to Oakland Athletics. He spent a season there and headed to Boston Red Sox in 2002. Damon’s journey with the Boston Red Sox was profitable, as he helped win the World Series in 2004 while setting many personal records. He left the Boston Red Sox in December 2005 to join the New York Yankees. He spent the next three years with them and won the second World Series of his career. He left the Yankees in 2010 for the Detroit Tigers. He played his final M.L.B. game for the Cleveland Indians in 2012. Career timeline Johnny Damon plays his first M.L.B. game with the Kansas City Royals. After playing for the Kansas City Royals in the M.L.B. for five years, Damon leaves for the Oakland Athletics. Damon joins the Boston Red Sox from Oakland Athletics. Damon helps break the 86-year Red Sox "Curse of the Bambino" by winning the World Series. Damon plays his final game with the Cleveland Indians and retires. Why We Love Johnny Damon Damon advocates for injured service workers Johnny Damon supports the Wounded Warrior Project, which raises funds for injured servicemen and women. He cares deeply about the welfare of these people who have served the public in their prime. He loves to help others Damon set up the Johnny Damon Foundation to help the less privileged members of society. He also participates in fundraiser events championed by other people. Damon spreads happiness Damon and his wife started a Christmas caroling challenge to spread music, laughter, and good energy during the holidays. He surprised a few houses with no idea he was coming, and they were happy with the pleasant surprise. 5 Surprising Facts Damon owns a beverage line Johnny Damon owns A-Game, a line of sports drinks. His favorite tequila brand Damon is a big fan of Tequila Avion and says the drink is responsible for the conception of his fifth daughter. He has a favorite tree Damon loves the outdoors, and his favorite tree is the Yellow Tabebuia. Damon's favorite past time Damon enjoys playing Golf with his wife while his children tag along. Damon's favorite teammate Damon's favorite teammates over his career are Jermaine Dye, Mike Sweeney, and Jason Giambi. Johnny Damon FAQs Does Johnny Damon have a son? Yes, Damon has a son. His son’s name is Jackson. Who is Johnny Damon's former wife? Damon’s former wife is Angela Vannice. She was his high school sweetheart. How many kids do Johnny Damon and his wife have? Damon and his wife have six children together. They have five daughters and a son. Johnny Damon’s birthday dates | Year | Date | Day | |---|---|---| | 2026 | November 5 | Thursday | | 2027 | November 5 | Friday | | 2028 | November 5 | Sunday | | 2029 | November 5 | Monday | | 2030 | November 5 | Tuesday |


--- [All you need to know about Johnny Damon - TruthPulse News] ---
No content


--- [Johnny Damon - Missouri Sports Hall of Fame] ---
2 captures 27 Mar 2025 - 12 Aug 2025 Jul AUG Sep 12 2024 2025 2026 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Common Crawl Web crawl data from Common Crawl. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20250812155240/https://mosportshalloffame.com/inductees/johnny-damon/ Loader Please wait while your request is being verified...


--- [JOHNNY DAMON - FENWAY PARK DIARIES] ---
! File not found (404 error) If you think what you're looking for should be here, please contact the site owner.


--- [DAMON IN THE ROUGH – HOW JOHNNY GREW FROM SHY, STUTTERING KID TO BASEBALL STAR | New York Post] ---
Johnny Damon learned the art of making money at an early age. When he was five years old, his parents remember Damon buying packs of baseball cards and then selling them to neighborhood kids – marked up for a profit, of course. “We never did have much because I was in the Army,” said his father, Jimmy. “We never went hungry or anything, but it was hard. I think he just figured out a way to make some spending money.” Damon would soon be featured on baseball cards, his skills strong enough to earn him tens of millions of dollars, including his new four-year, $52-million deal with the Yankees. The 32-year-old center fielder is one of baseball’s biggest stars today. His trip to the salon after joining the Yankees was the most covered haircut since Elvis joined the Army. The ultra-confident Damon was not always comfortable in the spotlight, though. He grew up as a shy kid, the son of Jimmy and Yome Damon, who met in Yome’s native Thailand while Jimmy was stationed there during the Vietnam War. He was born on Nov. 5, 1973 in Fort Riley, Kan., the Damons’ second son. “He was a very shy kid,” said James Damon, Johnny’s older brother. “He had a stuttering problem, so he didn’t like to talk. It’s weird to see him speaking a lot now. He never liked to be in the spotlight because he was embarrassed.” Damon was four months old when his father was transferred to Okinawa. Yome soon brought Johnny to Thailand to meet her parents. The trip nearly turned tragic when Johnny broke free from his mother on a train. Yome spotted him at the open end of the train, where she grabbed him before he fell off. “He had a lot of energy from the time he was a baby,” Yome said. “He would always be running.” Damon’s energy would get him into mischief from Okinawa to Orlando, where the family settled after returning to the United States. At 14, he took his mother’s car and drove it more than an hour away to Daytona. When a police officer stopped him, Damon told him that he’d forgotten his license. When asked for his name, he gave the name of his big brother. As a child, Damon idolized James, who was a standout athlete. Damon got into sports to emulate his brother. “He was always James’ little brother,” James said. “That made him work harder and harder. Now, of course, I’m always Johnny’s older brother.” Soon, Damon would star for his high school’s baseball and football teams. A linebacker, he stopped playing football after his sophomore year to concentrate on baseball. He became one of the top prospects in the country during his junior season and scouts flocked to his games. “He was a fierce competitor,” said Royals general manager Allard Baird, who signed Damon out of high school. “I don’t think that’s ever changed. People forget this guy had high expectations on him at 17 years old. Beneath the surface of whatever Johnny is into is a fierce competitor and a will to win.” Damon became a local celebrity, signing autographs and being featured in newspapers and on television. Before his first at-bat of his senior season, the public-address announcer introduced him as the “No. 1 player in America.” His statistics slumped that year, some say because of the pressure. After being projected to go No. 1 in the 1992 amateur draft, Damon slid to 35th, where the Royals made him a sandwich pick between the first and second rounds. He tore up the minor leagues, winning the player of the year at each level he played. On Aug. 12, 1995, he made his major-league debut against the Mariners at Kauffman Stadium. He went 3-for-5 with an RBI, run scored and a triple – the birth of a star. The Royals made him the centerpiece of their youth movement, and he was soon dubbed the next George Brett. Damon liked Kansas City but never got used to playing for a franchise where losing is a way of life. “He wanted to win,” said Danny Allie, his high school coach. “The biggest thing he used to say was, ‘I just want to get somewhere where they’re showing me we can win.’ It gets frustrating when you leave spring training knowing you can’t win.” Damon was due to become a free agent after the 2001 season. He made it clear he had no interest in signing a long-term deal with the Royals, and they traded him to Oakland in January 2001. With the A’s, he was seen as the missing piece to get them past the Yankees. He teamed with Jason Giambi and Miguel Tejada on a team that won 102 games but lost in the playoffs to the Yankees again. It was in Oakland where Damon began to change from the shy, stuttering kid to the outgoing celebrity he would become in Boston. “In Oakland, I saw him transform into a confident, assured person,” James Damon said. “He had always been so shy. He was never cocky. I think Giambi helped him out a lot.” He would leave the A’s after one season, signing as a free agent with the Red Sox, where he would finally get past the Yankees in 2004. The long-haired, bearded Damon became an icon in Beantown. All of those close to him say he was conflicted about leaving the Red Sox, but their offer of $12 million less than the Yankees was just not enough. “I think he feels sorry for the fans,” his dad Jimmy said. “It wasn’t his choosing. It was the management of the Red Sox.” One day this winter, Johnny’s cell phone rang while James was visiting him. Joe Torre was on the other end, delivering a recruiting pitch as Giambi and Alex Rodriguez had. Soon, he would be fitted for pinstripes. “He was impressed by the way the Yankees came after him,” James said. Now, the kid who’s been at various stops the nation’s top prep player, the next George Brett, the A’s missing ingredient and Boston’s biggest star gets a new form of pressure – patrolling center field at Yankee Stadium. Those who know him best say don’t worry, he can handle it. “The big things when you looked at Johnny lately were the hair and beard and all that,” Baird said. “I think, to some degree, that’s taken away some people’s appreciation of how much of a competitor he is. Every time he goes to work, he gives you 100 percent. That’s one hell of a quality.” Whether it’s selling baseball cards or putting numbers on the back of them. brian.costello@nypost.com
