=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[D. C. Reeves - Wikipedia]
Mayor of Pensacola 2022 Pensacola mayoral election On September 1, 2021, Reeves announced his candidacy for mayor of Pensacola in 2022. [8] On August 23, 2022, in the primary election, Reeves earned the majority, 7,682 votes (51.11%), against three opponents, Jewell Cannada-Wynn, Sherri Myers and Steven Sharp.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D._C._Reeves

['Go time!' Mayor-elect D.C. Reeves has lofty goals, starting with showing value of living in Pensacola]
Reeves was elected as Pensacola's third "strong mayor" during the Aug. 23 primary election, beating out three other candidates to win 51% of the vote and avoid a runoff election. The early win gave Reeves 13 weeks to prepare for a transition, ...
URL: https://www.pnj.com/story/news/local/pensacola/2022/11/21/pensacola-mayor-elect-d-c-reeves-takes-office-tuesday/10706793002/

[r/Pensacola - Perfect Plain owner D.C. Reeves files to run for mayor of Pensacola]
Pensacola businessman D.C. Reeves is officially running for mayor of Pensacola. Reeves arrived at the Escambia County Supervisor of Elections office just before 9 a.m. Wednesday to file paperwork declaring his candidacy for the mayor of Pensacola.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Pensacola/comments/pfwp1s/perfect_plain_owner_dc_reeves_files_to_run_for/

[D.C. Reeves to become Pensacola's new mayor - WUWF]
Aug 24, 2022 · The 38-year-old Reeves, who moved back to his native Pensacola seven years ago, avoided a November 8 runoff by getting 51% of the vote to outdistance three other candidates. Avoiding a mayoral runoff is also a first under the 2009 city charter.
URL: https://www.wuwf.org/local-news/2022-08-24/d-c-reeves-to-become-pensacolas-new-mayor

[D.C. Reeves elected next Pensacola Mayor - WEAR]
PENSACOLA, Fla. -- D.C. Reeves will be Pensacola's next Mayor. Reeves earned 51% of the vote in Tuesday's Primary Election to earn the outright victory. The race will not go to the November ...
URL: https://weartv.com/news/local/dc-reeves-elected-next-pensacola-mayor


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [D. C. Reeves - Wikipedia] ---
Darcy Curran Reeves is an American businessman, journalist and politician who has served as the 64th mayor of Pensacola since 2022. 




--- ['Go time!' Mayor-elect D.C. Reeves has lofty goals, starting with showing value of living in Pensacola] ---
'Go time!' Mayor-elect D.C. Reeves has lofty goals, starting with showing value of living in Pensacola As he is set to take office, Pensacola Mayor-elect D.C. Reeves said he hopes to show city residents the value of living in the city of Pensacola. Reeves will be sworn-in as mayor of Pensacola at noon Tuesday. Reeves was elected as Pensacola's third "strong mayor" during the Aug. 23 primary election, beating out three other candidates to win 51% of the vote and avoid a runoff election. The early win gave Reeves 13 weeks to prepare for a transition, and he told the News Journal in an interview Friday he's been putting that time to good use. "We haven't wasted a day," Reeves said. For average city residents looking at the new mayoral administration, Reeves said one of the biggest differences they will perceive in a year's time is the value of being a city resident. Reeves said residents should be able to see the value they get in everything the city offers, from the look and feel of public spaces and the response times of emergency workers to fees for a youth soccer team being lower for city residents compared to non-city residents. "Every mayor before me, and myself included, talk about annexation and growing the city and growing population and that the city get larger," Reeves said. "The first step of wanting to attract more people to live here is setting the value of living in the city." Reeves said any city resident asked by a non-city resident friend should be able to explain why its worth living in the city. While the city has room to improve on what it offers residents, he said, there are already a lot of positives — the challenge comes from being able to communicate those benefits. "We've got to play better offense in communication," Reeves said. "We owe that to our citizens." After the election, Mayor Grover Robinson opened the doors of City Hall to Reeves and his transition team. Reeves was given an office on the seventh floor of City Hall and has been able to meet department heads and city employees to get a handle on the various projects in the works at the city. "Mayor Robinson could have said, 'We'll see you on Nov. 22,'" Reeves said. "This is not a legal requirement. So I am, and always will be, appreciative that I'm significantly more prepared now than I would have been because of his willingness and his open door." During the campaign, Reeves said one of the first things he would do in office is hire a full-time grant writer to help the city pull down state and federal funding for which it may be eligible. Reeves said the job description for two positions, a grant manager and grant writer, in the city's first Grant Office are being finalized now. Reeves also said he's working to expand Palafox Market to Plaza Ferdinand. Reeves has also been able to sit in on Robinson's meetings with Baptist Hospital officials as the city works out a plan to bring affordable housing to what will become the old Baptist Hospital campus. Reeves said improving the housing situation in Pensacola is a top priority for his administration. "We sit in an attainable housing crisis in this moment, and everything's on the table," Reeves said. "And so it's a priority for us. It has to be." Reeves said in any project or initiative the city wants to do, from economic development to improving vibrancy, attainable housing has to be a factor. "It can't happen without the ability for people to live here that are underserved, people who live here that are first responders, our firefighters, our teachers. None of the stuff we want to get done can happen without that," Reeves said. As part of his transition, Reeves formed a 29-member transition team that was tasked with holding public meetings and coming up with policy recommendations for the next administration in everything from public safety to planning and permitting. The team is working to issue a report next month. Reeves said he would use the report as a guide to set priorities of things to accomplish, but said he wants to set the expectation that he may not be able to accomplish every recommendation in his first term. "As I've said to the members, we're asking for your best and brightest ideas," Reeves said. "It's not a guarantee that we'll get to every one of them. It's not a guarantee that we'll get to every one of them in four years. What we're going to do is take all of these amazing ideas and say, 'What is the greatest need for Pensacola, Florida?'" Taking their oaths of office before Reeves on Tuesday will be three City Council members. Jared Moore will be sworn-in for a second term of office along with two new council members, Allison Patton and Charles Bare. Reeves said he's met with all council members and expects to be able to have a great working relationship with all council members. "I think part of this job is patience and a short memory," Reeves said. "Meaning we can disagree about one issue, and then I should be able to get on a plane with that council member the next morning and go sell our city and try to bring 1,000 jobs here." The two previous "strong mayors" have taken a different approach when it came to working with the council, with Robinson giving council members a wide berth to interact with city department heads while former Mayor Ashton Hayward required all questions of city department heads to be routed through his office. Reeves said he would take a split approach and at least initially want to be included in communications with council members and department heads. "I'm going to want to be more looped in for my own learning ability," Reeves said. "Council could be asking questions about things that, as I go through this phase, I'm still learning." Reeves said he's spoken with each of the council members about the issue and doesn't think it will be an issue. "As we start this journey of this new council and this new administration, I foresee no issues with their ability to communicate to a certain degree with our folks, as well as the council having the respect of the administration to ensure, as the day-to-day operator of the city, that we're given that ability to do so," Reeves said. When asked if he plans to make any major staff changes in his administration, Reeves said he believes in a several months evaluation period for all administration officials. "It would be short-sighted for the administration to have any knee-jerk reaction to staffing, to procedure, to policy," Reeves said. "I'm really going to spend these first few months digging in and learning and making sure that everybody has the tools and equipment that they need in their departments to be successful, to make sure they have the proper procedure to be successful." As he's heading into Tuesday, Reeves said he views taking office as the next step in his career, which he has always viewed as trying to have a positive impact on people's lives — from his sports journalism days to working as chief of staff for Quint Studer, to starting his own business and helping others start theirs to now becoming mayor of Pensacola. "This is go time," Reeve said. "… I told every person that I'd give them everything that I have to make this the best city we can make it." Jim Little can be reached at jwlittle@pnj.com and 850-208-9827.


--- [r/Pensacola - Perfect Plain owner D.C. Reeves files to run for mayor of Pensacola] ---
Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/Pensacola Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to Pensacola r/Pensacola • pencola Perfect Plain owner D.C. Reeves files to run for mayor of Pensacola pnj.com Open Share Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 1, 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2021 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation


--- [D.C. Reeves to become Pensacola's new mayor - WUWF] ---
Journalist, entrepreneur, economic developer. Now, D.C. Reeves is preparing to add another title to his resume — Mayor of Pensacola. “I just want to say thank you to the citizens of Pensacola and as you can imagine, it’s a flattering, overwhelming experience to win,” said the mayor-elect. The 38-year-old Reeves, who moved back to his native Pensacola seven years ago, avoided a November 8 runoff by getting 51% of the vote to outdistance three other candidates. Avoiding a mayoral runoff is also a first under the 2009 city charter. “We kind of looked at each other [Tuesday] afternoon, after waving all morning at every precinct, and 11 months of hard work and put in the best effort and we’ll see what happens,” Reeves said. “As you can imagine, how it played out with the results coming in and being so close to that 50-51 [percent], every time there was a new update, it was pretty suspenseful.” Next up, the transition from the Grover Robinson administration to that of D.C. Reeves over the next couple of months, before Reeves officially takes office. That involves putting together a transition team. “I have spoken with Mayor Robinson, and he has been very gracious and amicable with allowing me to be integrated into things that are happening, and that’s not something that he has to do,” Reeves said. “As involved as I can be without a distraction. We’re going to move pretty swiftly as far as the transition team goes.” Once he takes office, Reeves says his “to-do” list is rather lengthy. It’s divided into short-and long-term goals. The former includes starting the city’s first grants office. “We’re going to hire a grant writer that wakes up every morning looking about how we can get some of this unprecedented infrastructure money into our city, that’s coming down federally,” he said. “That’s something I don’t want to wait a year on. I want to get that person in position as this money starts to come down the line.” Among the long-term projects, are improving public safety and addressing affordable housing. On the latter, the mayor-elect urges patience. “Those solutions aren’t going to be in a month, or in two months," he said. "We know that those are long-range things. That doesn’t mean we’re going to wait on taking action. It just means what are these things that I kind of want to start moving on, and trying to get some progress on things like that. Like land development code and economic development.” Among the first decisions to be made will be what to do with policies and projects implemented and overseen by the Robinson administration. Reeves, who worked on the current mayor’s transition four yeas ago, says the ball is already rolling on that. “I’ve met with every city department, every city council person. I’ve met with every city administration at least twice, said Reeves. “And now that I’m mayor-elect, the nice part is that’s still very valuable. It comes in a much better position to be able to start asking even deeper questions during the transition process – because I got that good foundational understanding of how the city operates.” And if you enjoyed Grover Robinson’s “Mondays with the Mayor” news conferences — fear not. D.C. Reeves says he plans to continue the relatively new tradition, but with some possible changes and tweaks. “Now, we may move the time or maybe it’s ‘Tuesdays With the Mayor’ instead of Mondays — I’m going to look at that,” he said. “Maybe a little change here and here, [but] it may not change. But at the end of the day we want to be an accessible administration, and we want to be an accountable one.”


--- [D.C. Reeves elected next Pensacola Mayor - WEAR] ---
D.C. Reeves elected next Pensacola Mayor PENSACOLA, Fla. -- D.C. Reeves will be Pensacola's next Mayor. Reeves earned 51% of the vote in Tuesday's Primary Election to earn the outright victory. The race will not go to the November general election. He defeated Jewel Cannada-Wynn (20%), Steven Sharp (16%) andSherri Myers (13%). This is a developing story. Check back here for more updates. NEWS IN PHOTOS: "Local"4 American Airlines flight makes emergency landing in Pensacola after cabin smoke reported 3 Escambia County man's 21st arrest opens discussion about resources for habitual offenders 4 Hilton considers new hotel for Downtown Fort Walton Beach landmark site 3 FHP, FDOT honors tow-truck driver after stopping wrong-way driver on I-110 in Pensacola
