=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hunter Schafer - Wikipedia]
In seventh grade, Schafer came out to her parents as a gay boy; however, she started experiencing gender dysphoria in eighth grade. In ninth grade, she came out as a transgender girl and began transitioning after being diagnosed with dysphoria. [6][7][8] She had also questioned if she had a non-binary identity. [4]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hunter_Schafer

[Hunter Schafer Love » Hunter Schafer]
While studying in the ninth grade, she was diagnosed with genetic dysphoria as she became anxious about her gender identity during puberty. As a transgender woman, Schafer voices her opinion on issues pertaining to LGBT rights. Welcome to Hunter Schafer Love, your online resource dedicated ...
URL: https://hunter-schafer.com/hunter/

[Hunter Schafer Love » Articles]
After coming out as gay in seventh grade, Hunter says she was “the only gay kid who took on that stereotypical role of being gay. Expressing some femininity really wasn’t enough and I wanted to keep pushing the envelope of what my gender could be. Eventually I started wearing makeup and ...
URL: https://hunter-schafer.com/articles/

[英語「grade」の意味・使い方・読み方 | Weblio英和辞書]
grade (third-person singular simple present grades, present participle grading, simple past and past participle graded) (chiefly Canada, US) To assign scores to the components of an academic test, or to overall academic performance.
URL: https://ejje.weblio.jp/content/grade

[Hunter Schafer Age, Height, Affairs, Movies, Net Worth, And More]
Jun 11, 2025 · In seventh grade, Schafer came out to her parents as a gay boy; however, she started experiencing gender dysphoria in eighth grade. She came out as a transgender girl and began transitioning after being diagnosed with Dysphoria.
URL: https://biographywallah.com/hunter-schafer/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hunter Schafer - Wikipedia] ---
Hunter  Schafer (born December 31, 1998) is an American actress, model and activist. Born in Trenton, New Jersey, and raised in Raleigh, North Carolina, she came to public attention after joining a 2016 lawsuit against North Carolina's Public Facilities Privacy & Security Act, a so-called "bathroom bill" which prevented transgender people from using public bathrooms corresponding to their gender identity. For her activism, she was named to Teen Vogue's "21 Under 21" list in 2017.
Schafer has studied watercolor painting and clothing design; in 2017, she began work as a fashion model for various brands. Schafer had initially planned to attend an arts college to further study clothing design, but instead decided to transition to acting when she was cast in the HBO teen drama television series Euphoria (2019–present). Her role as transgender high school student Jules Vaughn, and her co-writing credit on an episode of the series, garnered her critical praise.
Schafer has since starred in the films The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes (2023) and Cuckoo (2024), and had minor roles in Kinds of Kindness (2024) and the English dub of the Japanese film Belle (2021). Schafer has continued to model after getting into acting, serving as brand ambassador for Shiseido Makeup, Prada, and Mugler.


--- [Hunter Schafer Love » Hunter Schafer] ---
Full name: Hunter Schafer Hair color: Blonde Eye color: Blue Height: 5’8 Birth date: December 31, 1999 Birthplace: Raleigh, North Carolina Zodiac: Leo Parents: Katy and Mac Schafer Siblings: Two younger sisters and one younger brother Occupation: Artist, Designer, Model, Actress Years active: 2017-present Education: University of North Carolina School of the Arts. Social Media Accounts: Official Twitter, Official Instagram Hunter Schafer was born on December 31, 1999 in Raleigh, North Carolina, USA, to Katy and Mac Schafer. Her father serves as a pastor at ‘Hudson Memorial Presbyterian Church’ in Raleigh, North Carolina. Schafer was raised in Raleigh, along with her three younger siblings. While studying in high school in 2016, she became a plaintiff in the lawsuit against ‘the bathroom bill’ (North Carolina House Bill 2) which required people in North Carolina to use restrooms in accordance with their sex assigned at birth. Apart from being a plaintiff in the lawsuit, she also published an essay, criticizing the bill and detailing her own experience as a transgender woman. After graduating from high school in 2017, Schafer moved to New York City to establish a career in fashion modeling. Hunter Schafer started her modeling career with the ‘New York Fashion Week.’ She then started modeling for brands such as ‘Dior,’ ‘Tommy Hilfiger,’ ‘Miu Miu,’ ‘Versus Versace,’ ‘Maison Margiela,’ and ‘Helmut Lang.’ She also landed opportunities to work with famous fashion designers like Rick Owens, Vera Wang, Marc Jacobs, Ann Demeulemeester, and Emilio Pucci among other popular designers. Meanwhile, she was also featured in popular magazines like ‘Teen Vogue,’ which granted her an interview with Hillary Clinton after mentioning her on its ‘21 Under 21’ list. Schafer’s popularity increased in 2019, when she was cast to play Jules Vaughn in the teen drama TV series ‘Euphoria.’ In the series, she can be seen alongside actress and singer Zendaya, who plays Jules’ friend Rue Bennett. Despite her new-found fame as an actress, Schafer maintains that she would love to continue working as a fashion model. She also aspires to collaborate with her fashion idols. Hunter Schafer transitioned from male to female when she was in her freshman year of high school. In one of her interviews, she said that she knew about her sexuality right from her childhood. She came out as gay to her parents when she was in her seventh grade. While studying in the ninth grade, she was diagnosed with genetic dysphoria as she became anxious about her gender identity during puberty. As a transgender woman, Schafer voices her opinion on issues pertaining to LGBT rights.


--- [Hunter Schafer Love » Articles] ---
Ahead of her breakout role in Sam Levinson’s teen drama Euphoria, Hunter Schafer talks to Rowan Blanchard about her love of fantasy and moving to California At a time when trans rights are more under threat than ever, the spring 2019 issue of Dazed takes a stand for the global creativity of the LGBTQIA+ communities and infinite forms of identity. You can pre-order a copy of our latest issue here, and see the whole Infinite Identities campaign here. For her role in Euphoria, a forthcoming HBO show set to update the high school drama for 2019, Hunter Schafer had to make a few life adjustments. For one, she had to reconnect with what it felt like to be a sophomore, before she became the model and artist she is known as today. Secondly, it required a move from New York to Los Angeles. In the show, Schafer plays Jules, a new-to-town trans teenager navigating the trials and triumphs of coming of age. As the brainchild of Sam Levinson, director of last year’s gonzo big-screen satire Assassination Nation, the project is both the next stage of Schafer’s multiplicitous career, and the one which has felt like the most natural fit. Schafer, 20, has always aligned herself with iconoclastic talents. Last September, she cut a spiky figure at Rick Owens’ SS19 show, striding around the designer’s blazing, witchy pyre in the courtyard of the Palais de Tokyo. Her elven-like beauty – austere with flickers of a youthful sincerity – was the perfect foil for the designer’s meaningful severity. “Rick Owens is one of my absolute fucking favourite designers!” Schafer exclaims. “I had been wanting (to do) that show ever since I started modelling.” It was also earlier that year, at Miu Miu’s 2019 cruise show, where Schafer met kindred spirit and politically minded actress Rowan Blanchard – when they phone me while sitting next to each other one day in December, Blanchard interviewing Schafer, it’s a proper young actress summit. “I was a fan of Hunter long before I actually met her,” says Blanchard, referencing Schafer’s work outside of fashion, which includes her stint as a contributing artist for the seminal, recently folded Rookie magazine. From the age of 15, Schafer created watercolour paintings, collages, sketches, comics, photos and essays displaying her romantic, buoyant touch for the website. It was a style in conversation with that of founder Tavi Gevinson, who has also parlayed her knack for world-building into fashion, then acting. Working for Rookie, Schafer says, introduced her to the idea of making art to a deadline and with an audience in mind. When Schafer was 17, she was a plaintiff in the lawsuit brought by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) against her home state of North Carolina regarding House Bill 2, which, per the ACLU, banned “transgender people from accessing restrooms and other facilities consistent with their gender identity and blocks local governments from protecting LGBT people against discrimination in a wide variety of settings.” Schafer was, notably, the youngest plaintiff in the suit and her considered, heartfelt perspective cut through the noise. At the time, she penned a widely shared piece for Teen Vogue, explaining her position, writing that she was fighting not only to reverse the law, “but also to represent other transgender youth in North Carolina who are as hurt as I am, and to raise awareness and acceptance for transgender individuals”. Three years later, the label of ‘activist’ feels a bit baggy on Schafer. She sees the course she’s charting as primarily an artistic practice, explaining, “When I took my place as a plaintiff in the House Bill 2 lawsuit, I did that because I could. I was in a really privileged place where I wasn’t struggling with my transness in the way I had been previously. I felt like I could be of use to my community, but before that it had always been my intention to be an artist.” For now, she’s relishing the chance to focus on being an actress, and is already thinking about the worlds she could create for herself on-screen. “There’s a lot of room for us to expand into roles that are completely out of this world,” she muses to Blanchard, in typically thoughtful fashion. “I think trans people know fantasy really well.” Where in California are you guys right now? Hunter Schafer: I recently moved to a house by Silver Lake. Rowan Blanchard: Yeah, she’s in this cute townhouse in Silver Lake. And Rowan, are you nearby? Rowan Blanchard: I’m literally right next to her… (laughs) Oh, you mean in LA. Yeah I’m really close to Hunter! Like, 15 minutes away. Did you meet in LA, or had you met through friends elsewhere? Rowan Blanchard: I was a fan of Hunter’s long before I actually met her. I followed her on Instagram and was just really captivated by her art. Then she followed me back and we started talking a little bit, I think. Hunter Schafer: We kind of mutually acknowledged each other. Rowan Blanchard: And then we were both in Paris for Miu Miu! We were walking the show and I saw her backstage and I was like, ‘I am so overwhelmed and I’m freaking out…’ Hunter Schafer: It was so nuts! Rowan Blanchard: Then we had a fun night in Paris and got close. We’ve been friends ever since! Amazing. So, Rowan, I think you’re supposed to take over from me and be the journalist? Rowan Blanchard: All right! Can I go in? Thora Siemsen: Go for it! Rowan Blanchard: I guess the first thing I wanted to talk to you about, Hunter – seeing as we’ve gotten closer since you moved to LA – is how LA has impacted you as an artist, as opposed to New York? Hunter Schafer: It’s hard for me to compare the two cities from a neutral perspective because my circumstances were just so different. When I was living in New York I tried to make it work for a year but I didn’t really have my own space to be creative. It was really inspiring, but I think that coming to LA has allowed me to take a breath. Having a job is a different circumstance. I get allotted time off and I only have to really focus on one consistent thing, which is being this character. I have room to grow here. I think there’s more contrast between the circumstances of my being in those cities than the cities themselves. They’re both really lovely and I love them both in their own ways. Rowan Blanchard: Did you ever see yourself coming to LA until you had booked Euphoria? Hunter Schafer: No, I thought I was going to be in school in London right now. I was on my way to Central Saint Martins (to study design). I had wanted to nurture that practice with my gap year in New York and make a little money to help pay for school, and make contacts in the fashion industry. LA was never part of the plan. Rowan Blanchard: I feel like you’re responding so well to it. How did Euphoria come into your life? Hunter Schafer: I saw the open call over Instagram. A lot of trans women I know in New York were sharing it, trying to get each other to audition. So I saw that and then a few days later I got a call from my modelling agent saying they were asking if I would be interested in going in for the audition. I took a look at the people involved and was like, ‘I don’t know, this looks kind of weird. This is a white, cis, straight man writing what seems like a really intense show about a lot of different intersections of various identities that aren’t directly related to him.’ But I decided to give it a shot because I had been interested in performance art and acting and hadn’t really been given an opportunity to try it. I went in, got asked to come back, and kept getting more and more of the script. Rowan Blanchard: When I’m auditioning for something over and over again, I start developing this connection to the character that gets very possessive in a way. When did you start feeling that connection to Jules and her inner workings? Hunter Schafer: At one point in the audition process, I got all four of the first episodes. A lot happened in those first four episodes that I, as a transfeminine person and a queer person, really identify with. Seeing the arc of what she’s going through really clicked with me. I could start seeing her in my brain and I sketched her out. “No matter what I’ve worked on or what art practices I’ve delved into, they’ve always been an attempt to world-build” – Hunter Schafer Rowan Blanchard: How old is Jules? Hunter Schafer: She’s a sophomore in high school, 16 or 17. I was looking back to when I was a sophomore and putting myself in the situations she was in. That’s when it clicked. It’s the way Sam writes and the way he writes music into the script – and which music correlated with Jules’s scenes. I could see her and feel her. Rowan Blanchard: Even though this is your first time acting, it doesn’t feel like a big departure from what you’ve been doing before. I was looking back at your performance art and the photos you take of yourself. It’s all performative, in a way. Hunter Schafer: No matter what I’ve worked on or what art practices I’ve delved into, they’ve always been an attempt to world-build. Whatever was not in my direct vicinity that I needed in order to feel fulfilled, I tried to create. When I decided to start acting it just felt like another level of world-building, because the way I’ve been approaching acting and this role, I feel like I’m living in two realities right now. This is the most fully realised world I’ve helped build or create. Rowan Blanchard: Those worlds can start to feel confusing, especially when you’re doing TV. Hunter Schafer: I’m definitely still in the thick of that. I just got a separate journal for Jules, so I’m not journalling in my own journal as Jules any more. Rowan Blanchard: That’s a really healthy update! (laughs) Hunter Schafer: I’m starting to develop my practice, learning how to come home after a really long day of shooting and letting myself breathe. I’m drawing and painting and listening to my music and keeping those things separate. Rowan Blanchard: The way that Jules’s character is set up in the pilot is so beautiful. She’s very fully formed, even in how she does her hair and the clothes she wears. Hunter Schafer: One of my favourite things about working on this show is the fact that it is so collaborative. We had sessions where we just tried on outfits for hours – it was like playing dress-up at home! I think earlier in my transition, where Jules is right now, I definitely relied on clothes and dressing-up as a way to affirm myself. More than I do now, I think. Being in high school and having that many eyes on you, or feeling like you have that many eyes on you, and sticking out like a sore thumb. I feel less pressure to dress for the eyes of other people now. I think that happened once I started modelling, near the end of high school. Rowan Blanchard: Tell me, what was it like walking the Rick Owens show? Hunter Schafer: Oh my God, it was just magical. Rick Owens is one of my absolute fucking favourite designers! I had been wanting (to walk) that show ever since I started modelling. The space that he used for the show – the Palais de Tokyo – was magic, and they had this giant, burning, witchy sort of totem in the middle. I really was feeling what I was wearing – I felt like myself. It was the closest I felt to myself while on the runway. “I come from a background of working in modelling and high fashion… Not a lot of transgender women are able to occupy that space” – Hunter Schafer Rowan Blanchard: I feel like as an actress you do interact with fashion in a different way. Do you see acting as something you want to do for a long time? Hunter Schafer: I think so! Jules is an amazing place to start, because she is so close to home for me, but I would love to delve into something that’s not so close next time. I think that’s something trans women in this industry might be able to identify with, because we have a sense of adaptability that a lot of cisgendered people might not have to think about. There’s a lot of room for us to be able to expand into roles that are completely out of this world. I think that trans people know fantasy really well. That’s something I’m really interested in, a fantasy role. Rowan Blanchard: You want to do it all! Let’s talk about your relationship to Sam (Levinson). I spoke to Hari (Nef, actress in Levinson’s film Assassination Nation) about him, too. How did you come around to accepting that a cis straight person was able to portray (a trans woman)? Hunter Schafer: In the final audition for Euphoria, when it started getting serious, I had to sign something saying that if I got this role, I was going to commit. That meant I wasn’t going to school and was fully committed to filming this entire show. It was an intense moment, but I came out to that audition in LA and that’s when I met Sam, and we became really close. We had a five-hour meeting on the day that I got the role. We met at this coffee shop; he really wanted to listen to me and my thoughts. He’s writing these roles around all of us. He’s listening and using his privilege to uplift our stories and make them complex. Rowan Blanchard: It feels good that he was able to write these characters with identities that are different from his without trying to make them represent the entire community. Hunter Schafer: I was worried about that. I come from a background of working in modelling and high fashion, which has a pretty toxic set of standards. Not a lot of transgender women are able to occupy that space. I have a lot of privilege working in an industry like this and I was putting pressure on myself, worrying about how many facets of the trans community would not be represented by this one singular trans character. Rowan Blanchard: Well, there aren’t a lot of trans roles in Hollywood right now, so of course you’re going to feel that pressure and expectation. Hunter Schafer: That’s a really good point. There’s much more freedom in the idea that people can represent themselves instead of feeling that pressure to represent others. Rowan Blanchard: Did you see the Hilma Klint show (at the Guggenheim) yet? I was thinking about her, and (feminist filmmaker) Barbara Loden… Hunter Schafer: Yeah, I feel like we all identify with (Loden’s 1970 film) Wanda! Rowan Blanchard: I wanna remake Wanda with you in it! (laughs) Yeah, I was just thinking about all these women who made work that was never seen at the time). Even though I never feel like things are changing, it does feel nice that we’re making things that get to be seen in our own lifetimes, and we don’t have to hide them. Hunter Schafer: That’s a huge thing. Just think about all the beautiful things that are made behind closed doors, the things that haven’t been seen yet or are still to come – especially from your brain! Women are fucking powerful. Thora Siemsen: You’ve both just said some really lovely things to each other and I feel lucky to have talked to you. Rowan, come and take all of our jobs, please. Rowan Blanchard: Oh God, no, I couldn’t! I can’t. Hunter Schafer: Yeah, this is the best interview I’ve ever had. Rowan Blanchard: Aw, I love you!


--- [英語「grade」の意味・使い方・読み方 | Weblio英和辞書] ---
gradeとは 意味・読み方・使い方 追加できません (登録数上限) 意味・対訳 等級、階級、品等、グレード、度合い、程度、同一等級に属するもの、(小・中・高校の)学年、年級、同学年の全生徒 gradeの | gradeの | | gradeの | gradeの学習レベル | レベル：1英検：3級以上の単語学校レベル：中学以上の水準TOEIC® L&Rスコア：220点以上の単語 | 研究社 新英和中辞典での「grade」の意味 | | grade 1 可算名詞 | a high grade of intelligence 高度の知性. | a 可算名詞 (小・中・高校の)学年，年級 (《主に英国で用いられる》 form) 《★【解説】 通例 6‐3‐3 ないし 8‐4 学年制であるが，1 年級から 12 年級まで通して数える; なお，大学では用いない》. | The first grade was allowed to leave school early. 1年生は早く帰宅することを許された. | 3 可算名詞 《主に米国で用いられる》 (生徒の)成績(点), 評点，評価 《★【解説】 次の 5 段階評価が普通: A (Excellent 秀), B (Good 優), C (Fair，Average，Satisfactory 良), D (Passing 可), F (Failure 不可); D 以上が合格》. | at gráde | màke the gráde | | on the dówn [úp] gráde | | gráde dówn | gráde úp | - 履歴機能過去に調べた 単語を確認! - 語彙力診断診断回数が 増える! - マイ単語帳便利な 学習機能付き! - マイ例文帳文章で 単語を理解! Eゲイト英和辞典での「grade」の意味 | | grade 等級；程度；学年；成績；等級を付ける 名詞 2((米))（小・中・高校の）学年；((the ～))（ある学年の）全生徒（((英))form） 3((米))成績，評点（((英))mark） 4((the ～s))=『grade school』 5((米))（道路・鉄道などの）勾配（こうばい），斜面（((英))gradient） 成句at grade ((米))同一平面で 成句be on the up [down] grade 上り坂［下り坂］である 成句make the grade ((口))（仕事や試験で）必要な水準に達する，成功［及第］する 動詞 他動詞 自動詞 参考 米国では普通6歳で小学校に入学し6‐3‐3制，または8‐4制の教育を受ける．日本の中学1年に当たるのはthe seventh grade7年，高校1年に当たるのはthe tenth grade10年となる⇒school図 | 参考 米国の高校・大学ではExcellent (A), Very Good (B+), Good (B), Fair (C), Below Average (D), Failure (F)の成績評定が一般的．D以上が及第だが，Dを不可とする場合もある | マイクロソフト用語集での「grade」の意味 | | grade 対訳 グレード 解説 A rank or category assigned to a material resource that denotes functional use but not level of quality. A low-grade resource is not necessarily a low-quality resource. Wiktionary英語版での「grade」の意味 | grade 出典:『Wiktionary』 (2026/01/12 20:01 UTC 版) 語源 Borrowed from Middle French grade (“a grade, degree”), from Latin gradus (“a step, pace, degree”), from Proto-Italic *graðus, from Proto-Indo-European *gʰradʰ-, *gʰredʰ- (“to walk, go”). Doublet of gradus. Cognate with Gothic 𐌲𐍂𐌹𐌸𐍃 (griþs, “step, grade”), Bavarian Gritt (“step, stride”), Lithuanian gri̇̀diju (“to go, wander”). 発音 名詞 - A rating. - (chiefly Canada, US, Philippines) Performance on a test or other evaluation(s), expressed by a number, letter, or other symbol; a score. - A degree or level of something; a position within a scale; a degree of quality. - 1986–2012, paul wheaton permaculture, “Diatomaceous Earth (food grade): bug killer you can eat!”, in richsoil.com, retrieved 17 March 2014: - There are a lot of varieties of diatomaceous earth, so when you are shopping, be sure to get the right stuff! Make sure that you get food grade diatomaceous earth. Some people make 3% of the food they eat be diatomaceous earth. - - - (linguistics) Degree (any of the three stages (positive, comparative, superlative) in the comparison of an adjective or an adverb). - A slope (up or down) of a roadway or other passage - (Canada, US, Philippines, education) A level of primary and secondary education. - (Canada, education) A student of a particular grade (used with the grade level). - An area that has been flattened by a grader (construction machine). - The level of the ground. - (mathematics) A gradian. - (geometry) In a linear system of divisors on an n-dimensional variety, the number of free intersection points of n generic divisors. - A harsh scraping or cutting; a grating. - (systematics) A taxon united by a level of morphological or physiological complexity that is not a clade. - (medicine) The degree of malignity of a tumor expressed on a scale. - (Philippines, ophthalmology) An eyeglass prescription. 動詞 grade (third-person singular simple present grades, present participle grading, simple past and past participle graded) - (chiefly Canada, US) To assign scores to the components of an academic test, or to overall academic performance. - To organize in grades. - To flatten, level, or smooth a large surface, especially with a grader. - (sewing) To remove or trim part of a seam allowance from a finished seam so as to reduce bulk and make the finished piece more even when turned right side out. - (patternmaking) To increase or decrease the dimensions of a garment pattern from the initial base size in such a way that the overall proportions of the silhouette are maintained across all sizes. - To apply classifying labels to data (typically by a manual rather than automatic process). - (linguistics) To describe, modify or inflect so as to classify as to degree. - 1999, Jon Franco, Alazne Landa, Juan Martín, Grammatical Analyses in Basque and Romance Linguistics: Papers in Honor of Mario Saltarelli, John Benjamins Publishing, →ISBN, page 65: - He has rightly observed that while -ísimo superlatives are typically prenominal, adjectives graded with the intensifier muy "very" are characteristically postnominal. - - 2014, Angela Downing, English Grammar: A University Course, Routledge, →ISBN, page 430: - Adjectives graded for comparative and superlative degree can function both attributively and predicatively. Most descriptive adjectives are gradable: As modifiers of a noun Have you got a larger size? […] - - - (intransitive) To pass imperceptibly from one grade into another. - (Canada, dated, intransitive) To pass from one school grade into the next. 派生語 - 0th grade - 10th grade - 11th grade - 12th grade - 13th grade - 1st grade - 2nd grade - 3rd grade - 4th grade - 5th grade - 6th grade - 7th grade - 8th grade - 9th grade - age grade - aggrade - A-grade - at-grade - at grade - beyond one's pay grade - bigrade - centigrade - C-grade - consumer-grade - cross-grade - decigrade - disgrade - downgrade - e-grade - eighth grade - eleventh grade - field grade - fifth grade - first grade - food-grade - fourth grade - full-grade - gradability - gradable - grade 0 - grade 1 - grade 10 - grade 11 - grade 12 - grade 13 - grade 2 - grade 3 - grade 4 - grade 5 - grade 6 - grade 7 - grade 8 - grade 9 - grade-A - gradebook - grade cricket - grade crossing - gradee - grade eight - grade eleven - grade five - grade four - grade-grub - grade grubber - grade grubbing - grade inflation - gradeless - grade line - grade nine - grade on a curve - grade one - grade point - grade point average - grader - grade school - grade-separated - grade seven - grade six - grade sixer - grade system - grade-taking - grade ten - grade thirteen - grade thirteener - grade three - grade twelve - grade two - gradewide - grade zero - gradient - helper grade - high-grade - industrial-grade - intergrade - lengthened grade - letter grade - lieutenant junior grade - low-grade - low grade - low-grade fever - make the grade - meibograde - midgrade - military grade - milligrade - misgrade - monograde - multigrade - ninth grade - o-grade - orthograde - outgrade - overgrade - passing grade - paygrade - pay grade - pharmaceutical grade - quadrigrade - rear admiral junior grade - regrade - reserve grade - ruling grade - sashimi grade - second grade - seventh grade - sixth grade - slab on grade - subgrade - sushi grade - tenth grade - third grade - thirteenth grade - top-grade - twelfth grade - undergrade - upgrade - vanishing grade - weapons-grade - weapons-grade uranium - zero-grade - zero grade - zeroth grade -grade Weblio例文辞書での「grade」に類似した例文 | | grade the characteristic of dignity and grace かぞえること a rope the first class―the first grade a score the positive degree the accusative case 「grade」を含む例文一覧 該当件数 : 7269件 a commercial grade of beef発音を聞く 例文帳に追加 徳用の牛肉. - 研究社 新英和中辞典 a high grade of intelligence発音を聞く 例文帳に追加 高度の知性. - 研究社 新英和中辞典 the order of merit and grade発音を聞く 例文帳に追加 勲等と位階 - EDR日英対訳辞書 the grade of quality or ability of someone or something発音を聞く 例文帳に追加 等級 - EDR日英対訳辞書 | 1 2 4 5 10 | | | gradeのページの著作権 英和辞典 情報提供元は 参加元一覧 にて確認できます。 | Copyright (c) 1995-2026 Kenkyusha Co., Ltd. All rights reserved. | | | Copyright © Benesse Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved. | | | © 2000 - 2026 Hyper Dictionary, All rights reserved | | | © 2026 Microsoft | | | Copyright (C) 1994- Nichigai Associates, Inc., All rights reserved. | | | Copyright (C) 2026 安藤設計事務所 All rights reserved. | | | ※この記事は「日本法令外国語訳データベースシステム」の2010年1月現在の情報を転載しております。 | | | DBCLS Home Page by DBCLS is licensed under a Creative Commons 表示 2.1 日本 License. | | | All Rights Reserved, Copyright © Japan Science and Technology Agency | | | Copyright (C) 2026 日本図学会 All rights reserved. | | | ※この記事は「原子力資料情報室（CNIC）」ホームページ内の「脱原発のための和英小辞典」の情報を転載しております。 | | | Copyright ©2004-2026 Translational Research Informatics Center. All Rights Reserved. 財団法人先端医療振興財団 臨床研究情報センター | | | Copyright (C) 2026 ライフサイエンス辞書プロジェクト | | | 日本語ワードネット1.1版 (C) 情報通信研究機構, 2009-2010 License All rights reserved. WordNet 3.0 Copyright 2006 by Princeton University. All rights reserved. License | | | Copyright(C)2002-2026 National Institute of Information and Communications Technology. All Rights Reserved. | | | Copyright © 2026 CJKI. All Rights Reserved | | | Copyright (C) 1994- Nichigai Associates, Inc., All rights reserved. 「斎藤和英大辞典」斎藤秀三郎著、日外アソシエーツ辞書編集部編 | | | Text is available under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike (CC-BY-SA) and/or GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL). Weblio英和・和英辞典に掲載されている「Wiktionary英語版」の記事は、Wiktionaryのgrade (改訂履歴)、-grade (改訂履歴)の記事を複製、再配布したものにあたり、Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike (CC-BY-SA)もしくはGNU Free Documentation Licenseというライセンスの下で提供されています。 | | | CMUdict | CMUdict is Copyright (C) 1993-2008 by Carnegie Mellon University. | ピン留めアイコンをクリックすると単語とその意味を画面の右側に残しておくことができます。 | | ログイン | Weblio会員(無料)になると 検索履歴を保存できる！ 語彙力診断の実施回数増加！ | weblioのその他のサービス | ログイン | Weblio会員(無料)になると 検索履歴を保存できる！ 語彙力診断の実施回数増加！ |


--- [Hunter Schafer Age, Height, Affairs, Movies, Net Worth, And More] ---
Hunter Schafer is an American actress and model. She is the first Transgender woman who has worked as a model, actress, artist, and activist for LGBT rights. Hunter Schafer Biography | Real Name | Hunter Schafer | | Nickname | Hunter Schafer | | Profession | Actress, model, artist, activist | | Date of Birth | 31 December 1998 | | Age | 27 years (as of 2025) | | Birth Place | Trenton, New Jersey, United States | | Nationality | American | | Hometown | Trenton, New Jersey, United States | | Gender | Transgender women | | Zodiac Sign | Capricorn | | Ethnicity | Not known | | Religion | Christian | | Hobbies | Update soon | | Social Media | Instagram X (Twitter) | Education Qualification | School | Needham B Broughton High School North Carolina School of the Arts | | College | None | | Education Qualification | High School graduated | Hunter Schafer Age Hunter Schafer was born on 31 December 1998 in Trenton, New Jersey, United States. She is 27 years old as of 2025, and her zodiac sign is Capricorn. Hunter Schafer Relationships | Marital Status | Unmarried | | Affairs/Boyfriend | Update soon | | Spouse/Husband | N/A | | Children | N/A | Hunter Schafer Family | Father’s Name | Mac Schafer | | Mother’s Name | Katy Schafer | | Brother’s Name | One younger brother | | Sister’s Name | Two younger sisters | Career | Debut | Film – 2022: Belle TV – Euphoria: 2019-present | | Awards | Update soon | Hunter Schafer Movies | Movies | Release Date | |---|---| | Belle | 2022 | | The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds & Snakes | 2023 | | Cuckoo | 2024 | | Kinds of Kindness | 2024 | | Mother Mary | 2025 | Hunter Schafer Television Shows – - 2019 – Present – Euphoria - 2025 – RuPaul’s Drag Race - TBA – Blade Runner 2099 Hunter Schafer Height And Weight | Height (approx) | In centimeters – 178 cm In meters – 1.78 m In feet & inches – 5’10” | | Weight (approx) | In kilograms – 57 kg In pounds – 126 lbs | | Eye Colour | Brown | | Hair Colour | Blonde | | Body Measurements | 32-24-33 | Read More Hunter Schafer Net Worth | Net Worth (approx) | $6 Million (as of 2025) | | Annual Income (approx) | Update soon | | Salary (approx) | Update soon | | Income Source | Acting, modeling, endorsement, social media, etc. | Some Lesser Facts About Hunter Schafer - Hunter Schafer was born in Trenton, New Jersey, USA, to parents Katy and Mac Schafer. Her father is a Presbyterian minister. - Her family moved between churches and congregations in New Jersey, Arizona, and finally Raleigh, North Carolina, where she was raised. - She has three younger siblings, two sisters and one brother. - Schafer said she started expressing femininity as a toddler. - In seventh grade, Schafer came out to her parents as a gay boy; however, she started experiencing gender dysphoria in eighth grade. - She came out as a transgender girl and began transitioning after being diagnosed with Dysphoria. - She first made headlines in 2016 when she became the youngest name listed as a plaintiff on the ACLU and Lambda Legal’s lawsuit. - In early childhood, Schafer developed skills in visual arts, including watercolor painting. In high school, she used these skills to design clothes. - She posted watercolor and photography works on her Instagram account, which became popular. - Her clothing designs, which often incorporated political activist messaging, were profiled by Huffington Post in 2017. - In 2017, Schafer became a semifinalist in the U.S. Presidential Scholars Program. - Hunter Schafer started modeling shortly after high school. - In early 2018, she worked for nine fashion houses, including Marc Jacobs, Miu Miu, and House of Holland. - She made her debut at New York Fashion Week and traveled abroad for a time to model in Europe. - After some time modeling, she decided to focus on acting and she received a role on the HBO series Euphoria. - Schafer also worked with the show’s costume designer, Heidi Bivens, to make Jules’ wardrobe. FAQ: How old is Hunter Schafer? 27 years (as of 2025) Who is Hunter Schafer’s partner? Not known, she is likely single. How rich is Hunter Schafer? As of 2025, Hunter Schafer’s estimated net worth is $6 Million. What made Hunter Schafer famous? For playing ‘Jules Vaughn’ in the sitcom Euphoria. Are Zendaya and Hunter Schafer still friends? Hunter Schafer calls Zendaya ‘one of my best friends in the world’. What is Hunter Schafer actual gender? Hunter Schafer is a transgender girl. Disclaimer: We cannot guarantee that the information on this page is 100% correct.
