=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Fabless semiconductor startup Mindgrove launches India's first indigenously designed commercial high-performance MCU chip]
indgrove Technologies, a Peak XV Partners-backed fabless semiconductor startup, has launched India’s first commercial high-performance SoC (system on chip) named Secure IoT.
URL: https://www.design-reuse.com/news/16043-fabless-semiconductor-startup-mindgrove-launches-india-s-first-indigenously-designed-commercial-high-performance-mcu-chip/

[Semiconductor company Mindgrove launches India's first commercial MCU chip]
May 6, 2024 · Peak XV Partners-backed fabless semiconductor startup Mindgrove Technologies said on Sunday that it launched what it claimed is India’s first commercial high-performance SoC (system on chip). Named Secure IoT, it is designed for IoT devices and will likely cost 30% less than other chips in similar segments.
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/technology/semiconductor-company-mindgrove-launches-indias-first-commercial-mcu-chip/articleshow/109862909.cms

[Micron Celebrates Opening of India's First Semiconductor Assembly and ...]
3 days ago · State-of-the-art site in Sanand, Gujarat, expands Micron’s global footprint and advances India's semiconductor ecosystem SANAND, India, Feb. 28, 2026 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Micron Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ: MU) today celebrated the grand opening of its semiconductor assembly and test facility in Sanand, Gujarat, India. The state-of-the-art facility converts advanced DRAM and NAND wafers from ...
URL: https://investors.micron.com/news-releases/news-release-details/micron-celebrates-opening-indias-first-semiconductor-assembly

[SoC chip: Semiconductor company Mindgrove launches India's first ...]
May 6, 2024 — Semiconductor company Mindgrove launches India's first commercial MCU chip ... Mindgrove Technologies introduced Secure IoT, India's first SoC for ...
URL: https://m.economictimes.com/tech/technology/semiconductor-company-mindgrove-launches-indias-first-commercial-mcu-chip/articleshow/109862909.cms

[India's First Commercial MCU Chip - M9.news]
May 6, 2024 · Indian semiconductor startup Mindgrove Technologies has developed the first commercial high-performance system on chip (SoC) for Internet of Things devices, called Secure IoT. The RISC-V based processor costs 30% less and has features that are comparable to those of competitors.
URL: https://www.m9.news/technology/india-first-commercial-mcu-chip/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Fabless semiconductor startup Mindgrove launches India's first indigenously designed commercial high-performance MCU chip] ---
May. 06, 2024 – May 6, 2024 -- Mindgrove Technologies, a Peak XV Partners-backed fabless semiconductor startup, has launched India’s first commercial high-performance SoC (system on chip) named Secure IoT. The RISC-V-based chip will allow Indian Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) to use an Indian SoC in their products and help reduce the cost of their feature-rich devices, without compromising on high-end features. The chip is estimated to cost 30 percent less than other chips in the similar segment. Secure IoT is a high-performance microcontroller clocked at 700 MHz. It is the only Indian chip that is commercially available in this segment. Mindgrove’s chip is designed to provide programmability, flexibility, security and superior computing power for controlling applications on a wide range of connected smart devices. This chip - can control everything from wearables like smartwatches to smart city devices like connected electricity, water, and gas meters to connected home devices like smart locks, fans, speakers, as well as, as well as EV battery management systems and control systems, amongst others. “The pandemic revealed the wide gap between high-end and low-end players in the embedded systems space, with the latter prioritizing cost and volume over the chip’s actual performance,” says Shashwath TR, CEO and C0-Founder of Mindgrove Technologies. “Thus, we set out to design chips that target the middle market. ‘Right-sizing’ has been the key differentiating factor when it comes to Mindgrove, giving it an edge over others, with enhanced flexibility, adaptability, security and cost-efficiency coupled with a robust support system.” In addition to selling the chip, Mindgrove offers design support to Indian brands to accelerate innovation and scale of production in India, which will be a significant step towards self-sufficiency and global positioning in the semiconductor and electronics space. Talking about the market for these chips, Shashwath added, “India consumes over a billion chips a year and anywhere between 10 to 50 million of them can be replaced by Secure IoT. Further, there is widespread demand for microchips worldwide, and we expect global buyers to be excited about a new option from India,” he added. The IITM Pravartak Technologies Foundation and IIT Madras Incubation Cell incubated start-up highlighted that the chip has had a successful MPW tape-out, the silicon industry term for prototyping, at the 28nm node, and that reference boards will be available for OEMs to try out in the coming weeks. Secure IoT offers a wide range of features, such as a large number of I/Os, key security algorithms implemented as hardware accelerators, secure boot, and on-chip one-time programmable memory. The chip is intended to be used with bare metal code or any microcontroller RTOS (real-time operating system), thus opening up arenas like traffic control systems, autonomous vehicles, medical equipment, etc. About Mindgrove Headquartered at the IIT Madras Research Park in Chennai, Mindgrove Technologies designs state-of-the-art scalable and reliable System-on-Chips (SoCS) in India under the brand name Mindgrove Silicon. These SoCs are built to be power-efficient and cost-effective for use in IoT, vision, automobiles, and more. Mindgrove was founded by Shashwath T R and Sharan Srinivas J and is backed by Peak XV Partners, Speciale Invest and Whiteboard Capital. It is incubated by IITM Pravartak Technologies Foundation and IIT Madras Incubation Cell.


--- [Semiconductor company Mindgrove launches India's first commercial MCU chip] ---
Peak XV Partners-backed fabless semiconductor startup Mindgrove Technologies said on Sunday that it launched what it claimed is India’s first commercial high-performance SoC (system on chip). Named Secure IoT, it is designed for IoT devices and will likely cost 30% less than other chips in similar segments. The startup, supported by IITM Pravartak Technologies Foundation and incubated in the IIT-Madras Incubation Cell, said the chip has had a successful MPW tape-out (the silicon industry term for prototyping) at the 28nm node, and that reference boards will be available for original equipment manufacturers to try out it in the coming weeks. The Chennai-based startup said the chip will allow local companies to use an Indian SoC in their products and help reduce the cost of their devices, without compromising on high-end features. Secure IoT is a high-performance microcontroller clocked at 700 MHz. The company said it is the only Indian chip that is commercially available in this segment. The chip is designed to provide programmability, flexibility, security and superior computing power for controlling applications on a wide range of connected smart devices, it said. "This chip can control everything from wearables like smartwatches to smart city devices like connected electricity, water and gas meters to connected home devices like smart locks, fans, speakers, as well as EV battery management systems and control systems, amongst others," the company said in a statement. In addition to selling the chip, Mindgrove will offer design support to Indian brands to accelerate innovation and scale of production in India. "India consumes over a billion chips a year and anywhere between 10 and 50 million of them can be replaced by Secure IoT. Further, there is widespread demand for microchips worldwide, and we expect global buyers to be excited about a new option from India,” said Shashwath TR, chief executive and cofounder of Mindgrove Technologies. The pandemic revealed the wide gap between high-end and low-end players in the embedded systems space, with the latter prioritising cost and volume over the chip’s actual performance, Shashwath said. "This led us to set out to design chips that target the middle market." Secure IoT offers a wide range of features and is intended to be used with bare metal code or any microcontroller RTOS (real-time operating system), thus opening up arenas like traffic control systems, autonomous vehicles, medical equipment, etc., Mindgrove said. Mindgrove was founded by Shashwath and Sharan Srinivas J and is backed by Peak XV Partners, Speciale Invest and Whiteboard Capital. The startup, supported by IITM Pravartak Technologies Foundation and incubated in the IIT-Madras Incubation Cell, said the chip has had a successful MPW tape-out (the silicon industry term for prototyping) at the 28nm node, and that reference boards will be available for original equipment manufacturers to try out it in the coming weeks. The Chennai-based startup said the chip will allow local companies to use an Indian SoC in their products and help reduce the cost of their devices, without compromising on high-end features. Secure IoT is a high-performance microcontroller clocked at 700 MHz. The company said it is the only Indian chip that is commercially available in this segment. The chip is designed to provide programmability, flexibility, security and superior computing power for controlling applications on a wide range of connected smart devices, it said. "This chip can control everything from wearables like smartwatches to smart city devices like connected electricity, water and gas meters to connected home devices like smart locks, fans, speakers, as well as EV battery management systems and control systems, amongst others," the company said in a statement. In addition to selling the chip, Mindgrove will offer design support to Indian brands to accelerate innovation and scale of production in India. "India consumes over a billion chips a year and anywhere between 10 and 50 million of them can be replaced by Secure IoT. Further, there is widespread demand for microchips worldwide, and we expect global buyers to be excited about a new option from India,” said Shashwath TR, chief executive and cofounder of Mindgrove Technologies. The pandemic revealed the wide gap between high-end and low-end players in the embedded systems space, with the latter prioritising cost and volume over the chip’s actual performance, Shashwath said. "This led us to set out to design chips that target the middle market." Secure IoT offers a wide range of features and is intended to be used with bare metal code or any microcontroller RTOS (real-time operating system), thus opening up arenas like traffic control systems, autonomous vehicles, medical equipment, etc., Mindgrove said. Mindgrove was founded by Shashwath and Sharan Srinivas J and is backed by Peak XV Partners, Speciale Invest and Whiteboard Capital.


--- [Micron Celebrates Opening of India's First Semiconductor Assembly and ...] ---
State-of-the-art site in Sanand, Gujarat, expands Micron’s global footprint and advances India's semiconductor ecosystem SANAND, India, Feb. 28, 2026 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Micron Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ: MU) today celebrated the grand opening of its semiconductor assembly and test facility in Sanand, Gujarat, India. The state-of-the-art facility converts advanced DRAM and NAND wafers from Micron's global manufacturing network into finished memory and storage products. Once fully ramped, the first phase of Micron’s Sanand operation will feature more than 500,000 square feet of cleanroom space, making it one of the world’s largest single-floor assembly and test cleanrooms. The site serves customers worldwide to meet the growing global demand for memory and storage fueled by AI. The facility represents a combined investment of approximately $2.75 billion by Micron and its government partners, advancing semiconductor manufacturing capabilities in India. Micron Chairman, President and CEO Sanjay Mehrotra and other executives witnessed the opening ceremony with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister of Gujarat Bhupendra Patel, Union Minister for Railways, Communications, Electronics & IT Ashwini Vaishnaw, U.S. Ambassador to India Sergio Gor and other distinguished government officials and guests. "Today is a proud moment for Micron and India's growing semiconductor industry," said Sanjay Mehrotra, Chairman, President and CEO of Micron Technology. “This pioneering facility, the first assembly and test site of its kind in the country, helps build a resilient ecosystem that underpins the global AI economy. We are deeply grateful to the government of India, the Gujarat government and all of the partners involved for their steadfast support in making this achievement possible." The Sanand site is ISO 9001:2015 certified and has begun commercial production. To mark the grand opening of the site, Micron presented its first shipment of made-in-India memory modules to Dell Technologies for its laptops made in India for India. Micron expects to assemble and test tens of millions of chips at Sanand in 2026, scaling to hundreds of millions in 2027. The expansion of conventional assembly and test operations in India complements Micron's planned development of advanced manufacturing and packaging capabilities in the United States and strengthens the company’s global assembly and test network. “The inauguration of Micron’s semiconductor facility in Sanand marks a historic milestone as Bharat begins its first commercial semiconductor chip production,” said Union Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. “This is a decisive step towards building a trusted, resilient and self-reliant semiconductor ecosystem under the leadership of Hon’ble PM Shri Narendra Modi Ji. India is now moving from being a consumer of chips to becoming a global hub for semiconductor manufacturing and innovation.” Micron is building India's next generation of semiconductor talent to support its operations in India. Through partnerships with Pandit Deendayal Energy University (PDEU), Namtech, leading universities nationwide and government-sponsored skills development programs, Micron is supporting STEM education, specialized training, workforce readiness for advanced manufacturing roles and community initiatives, including digital and AI literacy programs across the region. Micron built and is operating the assembly and test facility in accordance with the company's sustainability goals, rigorous health and safety standards, and with local and global environmental commitments. The facility is designed to meet or exceed Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold standards. Additionally, the facility uses advanced water-saving technologies to enable zero liquid discharge. About Micron Technology, Inc. Micron Technology, Inc. is an industry leader in innovative memory and storage solutions, transforming how the world uses information to enrich life for all. With a relentless focus on our customers, technology leadership and manufacturing and operational excellence, Micron delivers a rich portfolio of high-performance DRAM, NAND and NOR memory and storage products. Every day, the innovations that our people create fuel the data economy, enabling advances in artificial intelligence (AI) and compute-intensive applications that unleash opportunities — from the data center to the intelligent edge and across the client and mobile user experience. To learn more about Micron Technology, Inc. (Nasdaq: MU), visit micron.com. Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding expectations of future production. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please refer to the documents Micron files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically its most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. These certain factors can be found at https://investors.micron.com/risk-factor. Although Micron believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, Micron cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, or achievements. Micron is under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release to conform these statements to actual results. © 2026 Micron Technology, Inc. All rights reserved. Information, products, and/or specifications are subject to change without notice. Micron, the Micron logo, and all other Micron trademarks are the property of Micron Technology, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Micron Media Relations Contact Mark Plungy +1 (408) 203-2910 corpcomms@micron.com Micron Investor Relations Contact Satya Kumar +1 (408) 450-6199 satyakumar@micron.com


--- [SoC chip: Semiconductor company Mindgrove launches India's first ...] ---
Peak XV Partners-backed fabless semiconductor startup Mindgrove Technologies said on Sunday that it launched what it claimed is India’s first commercial high-performance SoC (system on chip). Named Secure IoT, it is designed for IoT devices and will likely cost 30% less than other chips in similar segments. The startup, supported by IITM Pravartak Technologies Foundation and incubated in the IIT-Madras Incubation Cell, said the chip has had a successful MPW tape-out (the silicon industry term for prototyping) at the 28nm node, and that reference boards will be available for original equipment manufacturers to try out it in the coming weeks. The Chennai-based startup said the chip will allow local companies to use an Indian SoC in their products and help reduce the cost of their devices, without compromising on high-end features. Secure IoT is a high-performance microcontroller clocked at 700 MHz. The company said it is the only Indian chip that is commercially available in this segment. The chip is designed to provide programmability, flexibility, security and superior computing power for controlling applications on a wide range of connected smart devices, it said. "This chip can control everything from wearables like smartwatches to smart city devices like connected electricity, water and gas meters to connected home devices like smart locks, fans, speakers, as well as EV battery management systems and control systems, amongst others," the company said in a statement. In addition to selling the chip, Mindgrove will offer design support to Indian brands to accelerate innovation and scale of production in India. "India consumes over a billion chips a year and anywhere between 10 and 50 million of them can be replaced by Secure IoT. Further, there is widespread demand for microchips worldwide, and we expect global buyers to be excited about a new option from India,” said Shashwath TR, chief executive and cofounder of Mindgrove Technologies. The pandemic revealed the wide gap between high-end and low-end players in the embedded systems space, with the latter prioritising cost and volume over the chip’s actual performance, Shashwath said. "This led us to set out to design chips that target the middle market." Secure IoT offers a wide range of features and is intended to be used with bare metal code or any microcontroller RTOS (real-time operating system), thus opening up arenas like traffic control systems, autonomous vehicles, medical equipment, etc., Mindgrove said. Mindgrove was founded by Shashwath and Sharan Srinivas J and is backed by Peak XV Partners, Speciale Invest and Whiteboard Capital. The startup, supported by IITM Pravartak Technologies Foundation and incubated in the IIT-Madras Incubation Cell, said the chip has had a successful MPW tape-out (the silicon industry term for prototyping) at the 28nm node, and that reference boards will be available for original equipment manufacturers to try out it in the coming weeks. The Chennai-based startup said the chip will allow local companies to use an Indian SoC in their products and help reduce the cost of their devices, without compromising on high-end features. Secure IoT is a high-performance microcontroller clocked at 700 MHz. The company said it is the only Indian chip that is commercially available in this segment. The chip is designed to provide programmability, flexibility, security and superior computing power for controlling applications on a wide range of connected smart devices, it said. "This chip can control everything from wearables like smartwatches to smart city devices like connected electricity, water and gas meters to connected home devices like smart locks, fans, speakers, as well as EV battery management systems and control systems, amongst others," the company said in a statement. In addition to selling the chip, Mindgrove will offer design support to Indian brands to accelerate innovation and scale of production in India. "India consumes over a billion chips a year and anywhere between 10 and 50 million of them can be replaced by Secure IoT. Further, there is widespread demand for microchips worldwide, and we expect global buyers to be excited about a new option from India,” said Shashwath TR, chief executive and cofounder of Mindgrove Technologies. The pandemic revealed the wide gap between high-end and low-end players in the embedded systems space, with the latter prioritising cost and volume over the chip’s actual performance, Shashwath said. "This led us to set out to design chips that target the middle market." Secure IoT offers a wide range of features and is intended to be used with bare metal code or any microcontroller RTOS (real-time operating system), thus opening up arenas like traffic control systems, autonomous vehicles, medical equipment, etc., Mindgrove said. Mindgrove was founded by Shashwath and Sharan Srinivas J and is backed by Peak XV Partners, Speciale Invest and Whiteboard Capital.


--- [India's First Commercial MCU Chip - M9.news] ---
Indian semiconductor startup Mindgrove Technologies has developed the first commercial high-performance system on chip (SoC) for Internet of Things devices, called Secure IoT. The RISC-V based processor costs 30% less and has features that are comparable to those of competitors. It took Mindgrove Technologies eight months to reach design and manufacturing readiness, as opposed to the industry standard of two to three years. Clocked at 700 MHz, Secure IoT provides strong processing power, programmability, and security, making it appropriate for managing smart devices such as wearables, smart city infrastructure, and electric car management systems. The organisation also helps Indian brands with their designs in an effort to increase local production scale and innovation. An important milestone has been reached with the chip’s successful MPW tape-out at the 28nm node; reference boards will shortly be made available to OEMs. Wearables, smart city gadgets, household appliances, and EV battery management systems can all be operated by the chip. Apart from marketing the chip, Mindgrove will help Indian firms with their designs in an effort to boost creativity and manufacturing there. Between 10 and 50 million of the over a billion chips that India consumes each year could be replaced by Secure IoT. Buyers from around the world should be thrilled about the new Indian choice.
