=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Helmut Lang - Exhibitions - Sperone Westwater]
The exhibition space in Zurndorf is dominated by white. The white, relief-like wall panels made from resin, fabric and enamel and the whitewashed forms of phallic sculptures plunge the room into contemplative silence. Complementing this is the black dominated STADTRAUM in Vienna.
URL: https://www.speronewestwater.com/exhibitions/helmut-lang6

[sw_2017_pr - h-lang.studio]
Helmut Lang has upcoming solo shows at Sammlung Friedrichshof (Burgenland, Austria) and Stadtraum (Vienna, Austria) from 6 May - 19 November, 2017. Helmut Lang: new work is on view at Sperone Westwater from 30 March - 29 April 2017, with an opening reception on Thursday, 30th March, from 6:00 - 8:00 pm.
URL: https://www.h-lang.studio/sw_2017_pr.html

[Helmut Lang | SCHLEBRÜGGE.EDITOR]
Published on the occasion of the exhibition “Helmut Lang—Various Conditions” at Sammlung Friedrichshof, Zurndorf & Vienna, May 07 - November 19, 2017. Helmut Lang's sculptures and objects oscillate between figuration and abstraction.
URL: https://schlebruegge.com/en/content/various-conditions

[basis wien - Helmut Lang]
2017 ÄSTHETIK DER VERÄNDERUNG , Universität für angewandte Kunst Wien, Museum für angewandte Kunst (Group exhibition) 2017 Helmut Lang. Various Conditions, Sammlung Friedrichshof, Sammlung Friedrichshof STADTRAUM (Solo exhibition)
URL: https://www.basis-wien.at/db/person/16566?lang=en

[Helmut Lang: What remains behind]
MAK Center for Art and Architecture presents What remains behind by Helmut Lang in the artist's first solo institutional exhibition in Los Angeles at the ...
URL: https://www.mak.at/en/program/exhibitions/helmut_lang_what_remains_behind


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Helmut Lang - Exhibitions - Sperone Westwater] ---
SAMMLUNG FRIEDRICHSHOF premises in Zurndorf, as well as at the STADTRAUM in Vienna present an extensive show of Helmut Lang´s latest works, on view for the first time in Austria. For his exhibition Various Conditions, Lang has designed concepts of space based on the dualism of black and white. The exhibition space in Zurndorf is dominated by white. The white, relief-like wall panels made from resin, fabric and enamel and the whitewashed forms of phallic sculptures plunge the room into contemplative silence. Complementing this is the black dominated STADTRAUM in Vienna. There the wall is clad in black panels and the space itself is defined by arrow-like black sculptures. A video in which black and white come together connects the two concepts. Helmut Lang´s sculptures and objects oscillate between figuration and abstraction. They borrow from some forms of classical sculpture (wall reliefs, freestanding sculptures) and ritual objects (idols), which he deconstructs, abstracts and transforms during his artistic work process. Essentially, this is achieved via the radical reduction of form and colour, through decontextualisation, which is based on the variable integration of objects and sculptures into superordinately installative space design, and by the use of predominantly readily available materials such as scrap metal, fabric or industrial waste. Lang has stated he prefers materials "with a certain history, elements with irreplaceable presence and with scars and memories of a former purpose." The fabric scraps he moulds with resin into sculptures are, for example, the remains of his archive Seance de travail, which he shredded in an act of creative destruction in order to generate from it something new. Lang´s dealings with material allows for contextualisations with Vienna Actionism, in which material collages and structural studies of a wide variety of materials play an essential role according to the equation matter = colour. Everything is material and is treated equally, whether it is mud, scrap, food, blood or, as a further consequence, the body. Helmut Lang has exhibited since 1996 in Europe and the United States, among others, at the Florence Biennale, Florence (1996); Kunsthalle Wien, Vienna (1998); The Journal Gallery, New York (2007); kestnergesellschaft, Hanover (2008); The Fireplace Project, Long Island (2011); Schusev State Museum, Moscow (2011); Mark Fletcher, New York (2012); Deste Foundation, Athens (2013); Sperone Westwater, New York (2015/2017) and Dallas Contemporary, Dallas (2016).


--- [sw_2017_pr - h-lang.studio] ---
| press release selected press | || New York, NY – 21 March 2017: Sperone Westwater is pleased to present new work by Helmut Lang in the artist's second solo exhibition at the gallery. Since 2007, Lang has worked with found objects and readily available materials to create a dense, raw, and enigmatic body of work. Lang’s work is process-oriented, and the residue of his experimentation is left visible in the final product. The objects he creates have an intense physicality that evokes the human body and human condition while remaining essentially abstract. This exhibition showcases three new bodies of work created between 2015 and 2017. A series of floor sculptures and wall reliefs utilizing memory foam is displayed on the main ground-floor. These eccentric forms hover between abstraction and figuration, physical presence and absence, amputated or erased memories, as the materials he employs also often retain the impression of the human body. Knotted around themselves, the floor sculptures hint at sensations of personal vulnerability. With their soft and sometimes glutinous surfaces and golden-brown colour, they mark a clear break with the multi-coloured vertical monoliths of Lang’s previous exhibition. In his wall reliefs, the foam has been distressed to create imprints on the cusp of attraction and the reality of malfunction. The tactile dimension of both series is especially pronounced, inducing an awareness of different tissues and textures of the body. The east gallery on the ground floor features several hanging sculptures made with shellacked paper. Like the memory-foam sculptures, these layered forms possess a strong anthropomorphic presence and an unmistakable erotic charge. There is a suggestion of cruelty in the way that some are suspended at the middle from industrial hooks. Like twisted husks or shed skins, they appear to bear witness to some obscure process of metamorphosis. The third body of new work consists of a series of surrogate skin-like wall reliefs in silk, oil, and shellac. This exhibition demonstrates Lang’s ongoing development of a singular and provocative visual language. Helmut Lang lives and works in New York. He has exhibited since 1996 in Europe and the United States, among others, at the Florence Biennale, Florence (1996); Kunsthalle Wien, Vienna (1998); The Journal Gallery, New York (2007); kestnergesellschaft, Hanover (2008); The Fireplace Project, Long Island (2011); Schusev State Museum, Moscow (2011); Mark Fletcher, New York (2012); Deste Foundation, Athens (2013); Sperone Westwater, New York (2015) and Dallas Contemporary, Dallas (2016). Helmut Lang has upcoming solo shows at Sammlung Friedrichshof (Burgenland, Austria) and Stadtraum (Vienna, Austria) from 6 May - 19 November, 2017. Helmut Lang: new work is on view at Sperone Westwater from 30 March – 29 April 2017, with an opening reception on Thursday, 30th March, from 6:00 – 8:00 pm. For more information please contact: Aurelia Rauch, Creative Director aurelia@speronewestwater.com +1 212 999 7337 | ||


--- [Helmut Lang | SCHLEBRÜGGE.EDITOR] ---
Helmut Lang's sculptures and objects oscillate between figuration and abstraction. They borrow from some forms of classical sculpture (wall reliefs, freestanding sculptures) and ritual objects (idols), which he deconstructs, abstracts and transforms during his artistic work process. Essentially, this is achieved via the radical reduction of form and colour, through decontextualisation, which is based on the variable integration of objects and sculptures into superordinately installative space design, and by the use of predominantly readily available materials such as scrap metal, fabric or industrial waste. Lang has stated he prefers materials "with a certain history, elements with irreplaceable presence and with scars and memories of a former purpose." The fabric scraps he moulds with resin into sculptures are, for example, the remains of his archive Séance de travail, which he shredded in an act of creative destruction in order to generate from it something new. Lang's dealings with material allows for contextualisations with Vienna Actionism, in which material collages and structural studies of a wide variety of materials play an essential role according to the equation matter = colour. Everything is material and is treated equally, whether it is mud, scrap, food, blood or, as a further consequence, the body.


--- [basis wien - Helmut Lang] ---
Helmut Lang Keywords video installation lives and works in New York / United States show all close all + Activities [2] - Hochschule für angewandte Kunst, Wien / Österreich - Teaching Listed Students - Universität für angewandte Kunst Wien, Wien / Österreich - Teaching Listed Students No result + Exhibitions / Events [12] - 2026 Farbenspiel. Mode aus vier Jahrhunderten, Schella Kann, Wien Museum - 2025 Helmut Lang. SÉANCE DE TRAVAIL 1986–2005, Museum für angewandte Kunst (Solo exhibition) - 2025 Fernheilung. Die 1980er und frühen 1990er Jahre im Zerrspiegel einer Sammlung, Heiligenkreuzer Hof (Group exhibition) - 2022 Jewellery & Garment, Bröhan-Museum (Group exhibition) - 2017 ÄSTHETIK DER VERÄNDERUNG , Museum für angewandte Kunst, Universität für angewandte Kunst Wien (Group exhibition) - 2017 Helmut Lang. Various Conditions, Sammlung Friedrichshof STADTRAUM, Sammlung Friedrichshof (Solo exhibition) - 2015 Vienna for Art’s Sake!/Archive Austria, Winterpalais, Imago Mundi (Group exhibition) - 2011 Helmut Lang. Make_hard [abgesagt/canceled], Museum für angewandte Kunst - 2011 Austria Davaj! Der Gipfel des kreativen Österreich, National Museum of Architecture by A. V. Shusev, Walking Chair Design Studio - 2003 Mimosen-Rosen-Herbstzeitlosen. Künstlerinnen. Positionen 1945 bis Heute, Kunsthalle Krems - 1998 Louise Bourgeois / Jenny Holzer / Helmut Lang, Kunsthalle Wien, video installation - 1991 Körper & Körper, Steirischer Herbst 1991, Grazer Kunstverein, Stadtmuseum No result + Publications [12] - Lang in Wien. in: Falter. 03.12.2025 - Mention - MAK zeigt Mode von Susanne Bisovsky im Geymüllerschlössel. in: Salzburger Nachrichten online. 10.06.2022 - Mention - Christian Egger. Shows, Signals, Unvernehmen – Collected Re- & Interviews 2005-2020. 11.2020 - Mention - Geschrederte Mode zu Skulpturen veredelt. in: Falter. 03.05.2017 - Mention - Großausstellung zu Helmut Lang abgesagt. in: Der Standard online. 01.06.2011 - Mention - MAK sagt Großausstellung zu Helmut Lang ab. in: Die Presse online. 01.06.2011 - Mention - Langs drittes Auge. in: Der Standard. 06.06.2001 - Mention - Mit unfehlbarer Hand. Ein Stadtindianer führt den Modezirkus an: Helmut Lang und der Geist der Zeit. in: Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. 01.04.2000 - Mention - Die ganze Welt an einem Ort. in: Der Standard. 09.04.1999 - Mention - Blick in den Spiegel. in: Handelsblatt. 08.01.1999 - Mention - Louise Bourgeois, Jenny Holzer und Helmut Lang in der Kunsthalle am Karlsplatz. in: Kunstbulletin online. 12.1998 - Mention - Louise Bourgeois. Jenny Holzer. Helmut Lang. 1998 - Creator No result last modified at 03.06.2011


--- [Helmut Lang: What remains behind] ---
No content
