=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sea Life Kelly Tarlton's Aquarium - Stingray Bay Exhibit, Auckland, New ...]
Originally opened 1985, SEA LIFE Kelly Tarlton's Aquarium undertook a major refurbishment in 2004, culminating in the launch of its 300,000-litre Stingray Bay exhibit in December of that year.
URL: https://www.advanced-aquariums.com/case-studies/sea-life-kelly-tarltons-aquarium-stingray-bay/

[Kelly Tarlton's Sea Life Aquarium - Wikipedia]
Kelly Tarlton's Sea Life Aquarium (formerly Kelly Tarlton's Underwater World) is a public aquarium opened in 1985 in Auckland, New Zealand. Located at 23 Tamaki Drive, it was the brainchild of New Zealand marine archaeologist and diver Kelly Tarlton (1937-1985). [1][2] Built in disused sewage storage tanks, the aquarium used a new form of acrylic shaping, which allowed curved tunnels rather ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kelly_Tarlton%27s_Sea_Life_Aquarium

[Kelly Tarlton's opens new exhibit | Scoop News]
Dec 20, 2004 · Kelly Tarlton’s Operations Manager, Andrew Baker, says the opening of the new Stingray Bay exhibit is the culmination of detailed planning and months of challenging construction work in...
URL: https://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/SC0412/S00046.htm

[What is inside SEA LIFE Kelly Tarlton's?]
Opened in 1985, the original Underwater World was the vision of Kelly Tarlton - an extraordinary Kiwi adventurer, diver, explorer and inventor, who wanted to share his love of the ocean with others. Turtle Bay is the only turtle hospital in New Zealand.
URL: https://support.kellytarltons.co.nz/hc/en-us/articles/115000516052-What-is-inside-SEA-LIFE-Kelly-Tarlton-s

[Kelly Tarlton's Sea Life Aquarium facts for kids]
Kelly Tarlton's Sea Life Aquarium (once called Kelly Tarlton's Underwater World) is a public aquarium. It opened in 1985 in Auckland, New Zealand. The aquarium is located at 23 Tamaki Drive. It was the amazing idea of a New Zealand diver and marine expert named Kelly Tarlton (1937-1985). The aquarium was built inside old, unused sewage ...
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Kelly_Tarlton%27s_Sea_Life_Aquarium


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sea Life Kelly Tarlton's Aquarium - Stingray Bay Exhibit, Auckland, New ...] ---
Originally opened 1985, SEA LIFE Kelly Tarlton’s Aquarium undertook a major refurbishment in 2004, culminating in the launch of its 300,000-litre Stingray Bay exhibit in December of that year. As part of this make-over, Advanced Aquarium Technologies (AAT) transformed the life support systems (LSS) on two one-million-litre tanks, freeing up space for the new stingray exhibit. AAT also decommissioned and replaced gravity sand filters with vertical bed pressurized sand filters while keeping the LSS in operation. We also installed advanced electronic monitoring, control and reporting automation systems and replaced the ocean water intake from the aquarium to sea access. Four years later, Kelly Tarlton’s invited AAT back to the aquarium to restore and refurbish its 110-meter acrylic tunnel. (Read more about the Kelly Tarlton acrylic tunnel restoration project here.)


--- [Kelly Tarlton's Sea Life Aquarium - Wikipedia] ---
Kelly Tarlton's Sea Life Aquarium (formerly Kelly Tarlton's Underwater World) is a public aquarium opened in 1985 in Auckland, New Zealand. Located at 23 Tamaki Drive, it was the brainchild of New Zealand marine archaeologist and diver Kelly Tarlton (1937–1985).
Built in disused sewage storage tanks, the aquarium used a new form of acrylic shaping, which allowed curved tunnels rather than viewing areas with flat panels only, as in previous aquariums. The project was also one of the first to use moving walkways for people to travel slowly through the viewing areas.


--- [Kelly Tarlton's opens new exhibit | Scoop News] ---
Kelly Tarlton’s opens new exhibit 20 December 2004 Christmas gift for Auckland city – Kelly Tarlton’s opens new Stingray Bay exhibit Forget the two front teeth wished for in the childhood chant. All Phoebe, the giant short-tailed stingray, wants for Christmas is to be in her new home – and it’s no ordinary home that’s being built for her either because she has a wing-span of two metres and weighs over 200kgs! Phoebe is the largest of the rays at Kelly Tarlton’s Antarctic Encounter and Underwater World and her Christmas wish will be granted when she and the aquarium’s other rays move next week into a super-sized 350,000 litre open topped acrylic tank in the new Stingray Bay exhibit. At 40 years of age, Phoebe is the oldest of Kelly Tarlton’s rays, having been brought to the aquarium by Kelly Tarlton himself when he opened the now legendary attraction 20 years ago. Stingray Bay is stage two of the $12 million dollar redevelopment being carried out by the aquarium’s owner, Tourism Holdings Limited. The tank features a life-like habitat for the stingrays and curved walls that show off these remarkable marine creatures to best advantage. The new exhibit also includes an interactive display featuring touch-screen technology that allows visitors to learn more about the rays. Added to this large picture windows offering views across Okahu Bay back towards Auckland city have been installed, plus there is a coffee kiosk and new restroom facilities. In the first stage of development earlier this year a $1.5 million state-of-the-art filtration system was installed. The next two stages taking place over the next two years include further interaction opportunities for visitors, including new shark tank windows which will show off these denizens of the deep to greater effect and allow for better viewing of their feeding time. A reconfiguration of the Antarctic Encounter will also allow better viewing of the King and Gentoo penguins and their chicks. Added to this, the smaller aquarium displays will be converted into full height tanks and there will be zones where functions, such as cocktail receptions and seminars, can be held. Kelly Tarlton’s Operations Manager, Andrew Baker, says the opening of the new Stingray Bay exhibit is the culmination of detailed planning and months of challenging construction work in the aquarium, which is built in former sewage tanks under Tamaki Drive. “This must be one of the most demanding construction jobs to have taken place in Auckland city – or below it, for that matter! To install the new filtration plant and create Stingray Bay, we’ve cut through the half-metre thick concrete walls of the original sewage tanks, removed tonnes of sand used by the old technology filtration system and laid metres of fresh concrete – and all of this while staying open for visitors seven days a week and without stopping traffic on the busy Tamaki Drive above.” Some of the facts of the redevelopment to date: 800 cubic meters of material has been taken out – old sewage tank walls, silt and sand, etc – and 350 cubic meters of concrete put back in to reshape the attraction The superior filtration provided by the new plant has generated such a change to water quality that the aquarium’s water is now a blue shade, making it look more like tropical water At high tide the bottom of the sea windows in the Stingray Bay area will be awash with sea water; the acrylic used for the windows is left over from Kelly Tarlton’s original build in 1985 All of the sand for the new filters was delivered in 25 kg bags and hand tipped into the new filter banks. A further 20 tonnes for the floor of the Stingray Bay tank was also in 25 kg bags and required manual washing before it was tipped into the new tank. ENDS


--- [What is inside SEA LIFE Kelly Tarlton's?] ---
Step into SEA LIFE Kelly Tarlton's and experience magical mystery underwater worlds while meeting some of the incredible animals that call these environments home. Opened in 1985, the original Underwater World was the vision of Kelly Tarlton - an extraordinary Kiwi adventurer, diver, explorer and inventor, who wanted to share his love of the ocean with others. Turtle Bay is the only turtle hospital in New Zealand. Rescued injured turtles will go through last stage of their rehabilitation at Turtle Bay before released back to the wild. Delve deep into the Underwater Tunnel to see the rich variety of underwater species. Come face to face with sharks, giant stingrays and other incredible deep sea creatures on the moving walkway. New Zealand's rocky shore and tropical species await you in Fish Gallery. See everything from crayfish to seahorses, octopus to piranha and moray eels. Then journey into the Seahorse Kingdom with seahorses from around the world. The adventurous visitor can choose to take part in an Animal Adventure - We offer both snorkelling with the sharks with Shark Cage Adventure or mingling with the penguins on the ice with Penguin Passport. To pre-book your tickets and save up to 20% (depending on your date of visit) please click here.


--- [Kelly Tarlton's Sea Life Aquarium facts for kids] ---
Kelly Tarlton's Sea Life Aquarium facts for kids | Kelly Tarlton's Sea Life Aquarium logo | | | Entrance to Kelly Tarlton's Sea Life Aquarium on Tamaki Drive | | | Date opened | 1985; 41 years ago | |---|---| | Location | 23 Tamaki Drive, Ōrākei, Auckland 1071, New Zealand | | Coordinates | 36°50′45″S 174°49′2″E / 36.84583°S 174.81722°E | | No. of animals | 1500+ | | No. of species | 50+ | | Major exhibits | 8 | Kelly Tarlton's Sea Life Aquarium (once called Kelly Tarlton's Underwater World) is a public aquarium. It opened in 1985 in Auckland, New Zealand. The aquarium is located at 23 Tamaki Drive. It was the amazing idea of a New Zealand diver and marine expert named Kelly Tarlton (1937–1985). The aquarium was built inside old, unused sewage storage tanks. It used a new way of shaping clear plastic. This allowed for cool curved tunnels instead of just flat viewing windows. It was also one of the first places to use moving walkways. These walkways help people travel slowly through the viewing areas. Discovering Kelly Tarlton's History How the Aquarium Began In 1983, Kelly Tarlton suggested building an aquarium. He wanted to use the old sewage tanks under the Auckland waterfront. His idea was to let people see fish through a long, clear tunnel. The aquarium opened in 1985. It took only 10 months to build. Kelly Tarlton created a new way to make the plastic tunnels. He took large sheets of clear plastic and heated them. They then took the shape of a mold. Some of these sheets weighed over one tonne! Seeing Fish Up Close When you look through the water and the plastic, fish can look smaller. This is because of something called refraction. Refraction happens when light bends as it passes through different materials. In this case, it's light going through water and the plastic sheets. A long tunnel, about 110 meters (360 feet) long, was built. It was placed in sewage tanks that had not been used since the 1960s. These tanks are under the Ōrākei area. They are on Tamaki Drive and look out over the Waitematā Harbour. Filling the Tanks with Life After the tunnels were ready, the tanks were filled with water. This was to check for any leaks, and luckily, none were found! Then, a beautiful underwater world was made. It had caves and reefs built from concrete. Finally, the basins were filled with water and animals. One section got over 1,800 different sea creatures. Another section was filled with sharks and stingrays. The sharks included bronze whalers, sevengill sharks, wobbegongs, and school sharks. New Exhibits and Ownership Changes In 1994, the aquarium added a new area. It included a copy of the hut used by Captain Robert Falcon Scott. He used it on his trip to Antarctica. This new area also became home to a group of Antarctic penguins. They live in a special cold exhibit. In December 2004, the aquarium opened Stingray Bay. This area has a huge open-topped tank. It holds 350,000 liters (92,000 US gallons) of water. It is 2.6 meters (8.5 feet) deep. The tank is made of very clear plastic for great viewing. In 2008, a company called Village Roadshow Theme Parks bought the aquarium. They paid NZD $13 million. This company also owns other aquariums like Sydney Aquarium. In December 2010, Kelly Tarlton's received five new sand tiger sharks from the United States. In 2011, Village Roadshow sold Kelly Tarlton's to the Merlin Entertainments group. In March 2012, Merlin Entertainments announced a big upgrade. They spent $5.5 million to add new exhibits and a new layout. The aquarium also became more interactive. It reopened in September 2012. As part of this change, it was renamed Kelly Tarlton's Sea Life Aquarium. This made it part of Merlin Entertainments' worldwide Sea Life Centres brand. Exploring the Aquarium's Facilities Kelly Tarlton's Sea Life Aquarium has many cool features. The main ones are the Antarctic Encounter and the Underwater World. It also has other exhibits and rooms for learning. Antarctic Ice Adventure and Scott Base This exhibit opened in 1994. It is the first area visitors see. You can watch the aquarium's penguins through glass. They live in a special habitat that keeps them cold. After seeing the penguins, you walk through a copy of Captain Robert Falcon Scott's hut. He used this hut during his trip to the South Pole in 1912. The aquarium has a group of king penguins and gentoo penguins. NIWA Southern Oceans Discovery This room is next to Turtle Bay. It helps teach kids about the ocean and Antarctica. It aims to be fun and educational at the same time. Turtle Bay This area has a large open-topped plastic tank. It holds 350,000 liters (92,000 US gallons) of water. This tank is home to rescue turtles. Kelly Tarlton's helps these turtles get better. This area used to have stingrays. There is also a snack bar here. Pacific Shark Zone and Shipwreck Explorer This is the original part of the aquarium. It has a 110-meter (360-foot) long plastic tunnel. This tunnel takes visitors through two huge tanks. These tanks can hold up to 2,000 animals. The first tank is called the predator tank. It holds about 3,800,000 liters (1,000,000 US gallons) of water. It is mostly filled with different kinds of sharks. The second tank has many schooling fish, like blue mao mao. Fish Gallery and Seahorse Kingdom This area has smaller aquariums. Each one usually holds a single type of animal. Here you can see two tropical marine tanks. You might also find red bellied piranhas, an octopus, sea horses, moray eels, and crayfish. There is also a tank with stonefish and pufferfish. These are in the Poisonous and Venomous fish tank. The gift shop and exit are next to this area. See also In Spanish: Acuario de vida marina de Kelly Tarlton para niños
