=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kenny Ball - Wikipedia]
Kenneth Daniel Ball (22 May 1930 [1] - 7 March 2013) was an English jazz musician, best known as the bandleader, lead trumpet player and vocalist in Kenny Ball and His Jazzmen.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenny_Ball

[John Bennett - Potters Bar Museum]
In 1958 John and Kenny Ball set up Kenny Ball's Jazzmen, using John's mother's maisonette in The Walk as their headquarters and John played trombone with the Kenny Ball Jazzmen well into the 2010s he outliving Kenny by a few years. Their annual Potters Bar concert was always a sell-out gig.
URL: https://www.pottersbarmuseum.org.uk/pbdlhs-2/john-bennett/

[The Story and Music of Kenny Ball and His Jazzmen - Mental Itch]
Kenny Ball and His Jazzmen brought traditional jazz to a mass audience during a time when pop and rock dominated the airwaves. Their success with "Midnight in Moscow" proved that jazz could still top charts and cross international borders. With charisma, talent, and dedication, Ball helped keep the flame of trad jazz burning for decades.
URL: https://mentalitch.com/the-story-and-music-of-kenny-ball-and-his-jazzmen/

[Remembering John Bennett …]
The band cuts a formidable line up, especially John alongside Kenny. This is one of my all time favourites and how could it not be! It hit the charts in 1962 when I was just 20. It was influential in drawing me into jazz when I lived in Herne Bay, Kent, where so many of the great bands of those years performed at The Kings Hall on The Downs.
URL: https://www.jazzandjazz.com/2017/06/remembering-john-bennett/

[Kenny Ball And His Jazzmen - Songs - All But Forgotten Oldies]
ABOUT Kenny Ball & His Jazzmen were a veteran English Dixieland jazz-styled band that became famous during the early 1960s. They are best known for the toe-tapping "Midnight In Moscow" (1962), a jazz instrumental remake of a popular Soviet-Russian song co-written in 1955 by composer Vasily Solovyov-Sedoi and poet Mikhail Matusovsky.
URL: https://www.allbutforgottenoldies.net/kenny-ball-and-his-jazzmen.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kenny Ball - Wikipedia] ---
Kenneth Daniel Ball (22 May 1930 – 7 March 2013) was an English jazz musician, best known as the bandleader, lead trumpet player and vocalist in Kenny Ball and His Jazzmen.


--- [John Bennett - Potters Bar Museum] ---
Skip to content British jazz trombonist and trumpeter. John Bennett was born in 1936 and passed away from cancer in June 2017. In 1958 John and Kenny Ball set up Kenny Ball’s Jazzmen, using John’s mother’s maisonette in The Walk as their headquarters and John played trombone with the Kenny Ball Jazzmen well into the 2010s he outliving Kenny by a few years. Their annual Potters Bar concert was always a sell-out gig. Off stage, a different John was if anything rather shy and diffident. John was a PBDHS member for a very long time and was the author of our best-selling publication on the shooting down of the Zeppelin L31 in 1916. Nobody would expect a professional jazz musician to also be a serious historian, but John was just that. In 2016 he showed a thick file on just how serious his research for the L31 book had been, visiting Frau Mathy, widow of the Zeppelin commander and corresponding with Great War experts in many countries. Another of his contributions was to collate historic photographs and relevant documents and press cuttings in a series of albums covering all the main roads in the town, these are in geographic order, so easy to understand. Some years ago, when John was thinking of moving out of Potters Bar, he donated his collection to the museum, where they are readily available for people to study and an extremely useful easy reference. Our of our volunteers Sarah Bulling has indexed the entire collection and if you click here you can see what an extensive collection it is. JohnBennettFoldersIndexA-Z


--- [The Story and Music of Kenny Ball and His Jazzmen - Mental Itch] ---
In the early 1960s, when traditional jazz—or “trad jazz”—had a strong foothold in Britain, one band stood out from the rest: Kenny Ball and His Jazzmen. Fronted by trumpeter and vocalist Kenny Ball, the group combined energetic performances with catchy arrangements that brought jazz to the top of the pop charts. Their signature tune, “Midnight in Moscow,” became a global sensation, reaching #2 in the U.S. and U.K. Ball may be remembered in the U.S. for that one hit, but in Britain, he and his band were consistent chart performers and household names. | Attribute | Details | |---|---| | Band Name | Kenny Ball and His Jazzmen | | Frontman | Kenny Ball | | Born | May 22, 1930, Ilford, Essex, England | | Died | February 7, 2013 (aged 82) | | Genre | Trad Jazz, Dixieland | | Years Active | 1958–2013 | | Biggest Hit | “Midnight in Moscow” (#2 US, #2 UK) | | Popular Albums | The Best of Ball, Barber and Bilk (1966) | | Key Collaborations | Acker Bilk, Chris Barber, Louis Armstrong | | Label | Pye Records, Decca | | Posthumous Legacy | Band continued by Keith Ball (Kenny Ball Jr.) | Early Life of Kenny Ball Kenneth Daniel Ball was born on May 22, 1930, in Ilford, Essex, and raised in Dagenham. He was the youngest of nine children. His father, a World War I veteran, worked as a bookbinder to support the family through the Great Depression. Ball’s early love for music began during Sunday family sing-alongs. Inspired by harmonica virtuoso Larry Adler, Ball soon picked up the trumpet. At age 13, he bought his first instrument with money saved from a job at an advertising agency. While working full-time, he took trumpet lessons and played in bands after hours. He eventually left clerical work to become a full-time musician. His early professional gigs included stints with Sid Phillips, Charlie Galbraith, Eric Delaney, and Terry Lightfoot, all prominent names in British jazz. The Formation of Kenny Ball and His Jazzmen By 1958, Ball had gained enough experience and confidence to start his own band. He assembled a group of talented musicians and launched Kenny Ball and His Jazzmen. Original members included: - Kenny Ball – trumpet, vocals - John Bennett – trombone - Dave Jones – clarinet, vocals - Ron Weatherburn – piano - Paddy Lightfoot – banjo - Ron Bowden – drums - Vic Pitt – bass The band quickly became known for their lively performances, tight arrangements, and strong jazz roots. Rise to Fame: “Samantha” and “Midnight in Moscow” View this post on Instagram Their first taste of success came with “Samantha” in 1961, which reached #13 on the U.K. charts. But it was their next release that became legendary. “Midnight in Moscow” was originally a Soviet folk tune titled “Podmoskovnye Vechera.” Ball’s version transformed it into a jazz hit. The single peaked at #2 in the U.S. and U.K., sold over a million copies, and earned a gold disc. It remained on the charts for months and was covered by many notable jazz artists, including Eddie Condon and Teddy Buckner. Continued Success and Album Releases In 1962, the band released “March of the Siamese Children,” a jazz take on a tune from The King and I. It reached #4 in the U.K. That same year, they became fixtures on BBC radio and TV. They performed on shows like Easy Beat, Top of the Pops, and Saturday Night at the Mill. In 1966, Ball teamed up with fellow trad jazz icons Chris Barber and Acker Bilk to release the collaborative album The Best of Ball, Barber and Bilk, which topped the U.K. album charts. This project solidified his place among the genre’s elite. The band continued to release a steady stream of U.K. hits throughout the 1960s, including: - “So Do I” (#14) - “The Pay Off” (#23) - “Sukiyaki” (#10) - “Casablanca” (#21) - “Acapulco 1922” (#27) - “Hello Dolly” (#30) - “When I’m Sixty-Four” (#43) Though U.S. chart success was limited, the band enjoyed consistent popularity in Europe, Australia, and Japan. International Touring and Honors The band’s fame extended far beyond Britain. They toured the Soviet Union, Japan, Australia, and the United States. In 1963, Ball appeared in the movie Live It Up! and later that year, was made an honorary citizen of New Orleans, becoming the first English jazz musician to receive that honor. In 1968, the band toured Europe with jazz legend Louis Armstrong. This tour was Armstrong’s last on the continent, making the collaboration especially historic. Ball also performed for British royalty, most notably at the 1981 wedding reception of Prince Charles and Lady Diana, which he later described as a career highlight. Style, Sound, and Popularity Kenny Ball’s playing style was full of energy, with a big, brassy sound. His band mixed New Orleans jazz with British showmanship. Their upbeat rhythms and humorous flair made them favorites on both radio and television. Ball’s band remained relevant thanks to appearances on programs like Morecambe and Wise and New Faces. Despite changes in musical trends, their music continued to appeal to traditional jazz lovers. Later Years and Legacy In 2001, Ball appeared on the Decca compilation British Jazz Legends, alongside Don Lusher, Acker Bilk, George Melly, and others. Even in his later years, Ball continued performing regularly. He remained active until just before his death from pneumonia in February 2013, at age 82. Today, his legacy lives on through his son, Keith Ball, who leads the band now renamed Kenny Ball Junior and His Jazzmen. They continue to perform across the U.K., keeping the music and spirit of trad jazz alive. Chart Hits in the U.S. and U.K. U.S. Billboard Hot 100: - “Midnight in Moscow” – #2 - “The Green Leaves of Summer” – #87 - “March of the Siamese Children” – #88 U.K. Chart Hits (Select List): - “Samantha” – #13 - “So Do I” – #14 - “Sukiyaki” – #10 - “When I’m Sixty-Four” – #43 - “Midnight in Moscow” – #2 - “March of the Siamese Children” – #4 Notable Songs In addition to the hits listed above, here are more standout songs by Kenny Ball and His Jazzmen: - “Teddy Bear’s Picnic” - “Waltzing Matilda” - “The Night They Raided Minsky’s” - “The Music Goes ‘Round and Around” - “Swanee River” - “Fleet Street Lightning” - “Saturday Night” - “Tryolean Stomp” - “The Bare Necessities” - “I Wanna Be Like You” - “Let Me Sing a Happy Song” - “Red Square” - “Brazil” - “My Mother’s Eyes” - “Chimes Blues” Final Thoughts Kenny Ball and His Jazzmen brought traditional jazz to a mass audience during a time when pop and rock dominated the airwaves. Their success with “Midnight in Moscow” proved that jazz could still top charts and cross international borders. With charisma, talent, and dedication, Ball helped keep the flame of trad jazz burning for decades. Thanks to his son and ongoing performances, that flame is still alive today.


--- [Remembering John Bennett …] ---
Sadly John Bennett is no longer with us. Yet another Jazz Great Star to depart the scene. What better way to commemorate him than to repost Alan Bateman’s magical portrait of him back in his days with Kenny Ball and his Jazzmen. Plus this massively memorable performance of Midnight in Moscow. The band cuts a formidable line up, especially John alongside Kenny. This is one of my all time favourites and how could it not be! It hit the charts in 1962 when I was just 20. It was influential in drawing me into jazz when I lived in Herne Bay, Kent, where so many of the great bands of those years performed at The Kings Hall on The Downs. Jim Appleton has emailed “John’s funeral will be held at 12.30, Wednesday, 21st June at Enfield Crematory, Great Cambridge Road on the A10. After at the pub next to the Wyllotts Theatre in Potters Bar.” Peter M Butler Editor & Proprietor Jazz&Jazz


--- [Kenny Ball And His Jazzmen - Songs - All But Forgotten Oldies] ---
ABOUT Kenny Ball & His Jazzmen were a veteran English Dixieland jazz-styled band that became famous during the early 1960s. They are best known for the toe-tapping "Midnight In Moscow" (1962), a jazz instrumental remake of a popular Soviet-Russian song co-written in 1955 by composer Vasily Solovyov-Sedoi and poet Mikhail Matusovsky. Born in Ilford, Essex, Kenny Ball (May 22, 1930 - March 7, 2013) began taking trumpet lessons at age 14 and soon after started playing semi-professionally in various local bands. He turned professional in 1953 and performed with Eric Delaney, Charlie Galbraith, Terry Lightfoot, and Sid Phillips before forming Kenny Ball & His Jazzmen in 1958. In addition to Ball, who served as bandleader, lead trumpeter, and vocalist, other original and early members included, at various times, Colin Bates (piano), John Bennett (trombone), John Benson (bass, bass guitar), Ron Bowden (drums), Andy Cooper (clarinet), Diz Disley (banjo), John Fenner (guitar, banjo), Dave Jones (clarinet), Hugh Ledigo (piano), Paddy Lightfoot (banjo), Johnny Parker (piano), Vic Pitt (bass, bass guitar), and Ron Weatherburn (piano), with many personnel changes over the years. As their popularity grew, Kenny Ball & His Jazzmen became one of the leading acts of Britain's "trad jazz" revival. Their first charting song came in 1961 in the U.K. with their Top 20 hit cover of Cole Porter's "Samantha." Kenny Ball & His Jazzmen debuted in the U.S. in early 1962 with "Midnight In Moscow," which topped the Adult Contemporary chart, reached #2 on the Billboard Hot 100, and soon after went gold. This smash, which also reached #2 in the U.K. and became their greatest hit worldwide, was followed by several other Dixieland jazz instrumental remakes including "March Of The Siamese Children" (1962, from "The King And I"), the Dimitri Tiomkin/Paul Francis Webster-penned "The Green Leaves Of Summer" (1962), the Al Hoffman/John Klenner-penned "Heartaches" (1963), and "From Russia With Love" (1964), the title theme to the 1963 James Bond movie. The group's hits continued on the U.K. charts through 1967 with their rendition of The Beatles' "When I'm Sixty-Four" (1967) as their final charting song. After their commercial peak in the 1960s, Kenny Ball & His Jazzmen continued to record and perform actively to the early 2010s. Since Ball's passing in 2013, the band has continued to the present day with the same name under his son's direction. LINKS - For more info about Kenny Ball & His Jazzme, both past and present, visit kennyball.co.uk. - The Guardian remembers Kenny Ball. SHOP EXCLUSIVE RECORDINGS FOR KENNY BALL AND HIS JAZZMEN Disclosure: The following links will take you to various online merchants outside of allbutforgottenoldies.net that sell recordings and other merchandise for the performing artist featured on this page. Please note that these are referral or affiliate links from which allbutforgottenoldies.net may receive, at no additional cost to you, a commission if you should make any purchases through them. - Kenny Ball And His Jazzmen - CDs, vinyl, & more - Amazon.com - Kenny Ball And His Jazzmen - Digital music - Amazon.com - Kenny Ball And His Jazzmen - Rare vinyl, CDs, & more - MusicStack.com SONGS To listen to a song clip, click any song title that has a speaker icon. This will take you to a list of links to CD and/or MP3 product pages from one or more online merchants that have sound samples. Kenny Ball And His Jazzmen - Midnight In Moscow 1962 (This jazzy instrumental song also became a minor hit for Jan Burgens and His New Orleans Syncopators (1962).) Previous Artist | Next Artist
