=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Friend of slain mother Heidi Broussard sentenced to 55 years in prison]
Feb 4, 2023 · The Texas woman accused of killing Heidi Broussard and kidnapping the victim’s infant has been sentenced to 55 years in prison after pleading guilty to the 2019 murder, according the Travis ...
URL: https://www.cnn.com/2023/02/04/us/heidi-broussard-murder-fieramusca-guilty-plea

[Texas woman accused of killing friend and taking her baby sentenced to 55 ...]
Feb 3, 2023 · Magen Fieramusca, 37, was sentenced to 55 years in prison for the death of Heidi Broussard, 33, Travis County District Attorney Jose Garza announced in a statement. Fieramusca waved her right to...
URL: https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/texas-woman-accused-killing-friend-taking-baby-sentenced-55-years-pris-rcna68954

[Judge sentences Magen Fieramusca to 55 years in prison for 2019 killing of ...]
Feb 3, 2023 · Magen Fieramusca wiped away tears in a Travis County courtroom Thursday after a state district court judge sentenced her to 55 years in prison for the 2019 murder of Austin mother Heidi Broussard.
URL: https://www.click2houston.com/news/local/2023/02/03/judge-sentences-magen-fieramusca-to-55-years-in-prison-for-2019-killing-of-austin-mother/

[Texas woman pleads guilty, gets 55 years for killing friend and taking her ...]
Feb 2, 2023 · Magen Fieramusca was sentenced to 55 years in jail for killing her friend Heidi Broussard and taking her baby in 2019.
URL: https://abc13.com/post/heidi-broussard-texas-mom-killed-magen-rose-fieramusca-woman-sentenced-for-killing-friend/12764114/

[Magen Fieramusca gets 55 years for killing friend, kidnapping]
Feb 3, 2023 · Magen Rose Fieramusca, 37, kidnapped and killed her pal Heidi Broussard, 33, in Austin on Dec. 12, 2019, stuffed her body in a duffel bag and placed it in the trunk of a car at the home where she ...
URL: https://nypost.com/2023/02/03/magen-fieramusca-gets-55-years-for-killing-friend-kidnapping/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Friend of slain mother Heidi Broussard sentenced to 55 years in prison] ---
The Texas woman accused of killing Heidi Broussard and kidnapping the victim’s infant has been sentenced to 55 years in prison after pleading guilty to the 2019 murder, according the Travis County District Attorney’s Office. Magen Fieramusca, 37, was arrested more than a week after Broussard’s body was discovered in a vehicle at Fieramusca’s residence. The baby was found, unharmed, in Fieramusca’s home. Broussard, 33, and her newborn daughter, Margot Carey, went missing on December 12, 2019, after Broussard dropped her son off at an elementary school. As part of the plea agreement, “Fiermusca waived her right to appeal, meaning that her cases will not remain open for post-conviction litigation after sentencing,” Travis County District Attorney José Garza said in a statement on Tuesday. “We are hopeful that this outcome will bring some closure to the Broussard and Carey families and help them continue their healing process,” Garza said. “This outcome will save the families from having to endure the difficult post-conviction litigation process.” Fieramusca’s attorney, Brian Erskine, said In a statement to CNN affiliate KPRC that the agreement was the best resolution to avoid possible appeals. “After considerable discussion, in conjunction with significant compelling mitigation related to Ms. Fieramusca and the possible appellate issues related to the search of her residence, both parties feel that this is the appropriate resolution,” Erskine said. “I imagine many have questions that will never be adequately answered, nevertheless, I hope that this plea brings some closure to this family’s great loss.” Fieramusca was indicted in 2020 by a grand jury in Travis County. She was accused of kidnapping Broussard and the baby and asphyxiating Broussard. At the time, Fieramusca’s bond was set at $1 million for the capital murder charge. Margot was reunited with her father and brother. Friends for more than a decade Broussard and Fieramusca had been friends for more than a decade, Broussard’s boyfriend Shane Carey told police, according to an arrest affidavit. They met while attending the Texas Bible Institute in Columbus, Texas, the document said. Fieramusca had said she and Broussard were pregnant at the same time, according to the affidavit. Carey told investigators that “both women had spoken about the possibility of delivering on the same date,” according to the affidavit. It’s unclear if Fieramusca was ever pregnant. But, the affidavit said, she convinced friends and an ex-boyfriend that she had given birth and then tried to pass off Broussard’s child as her own. Surveillance video taken by a neighbor showed Fieramusca’s vehicle in the parking lot of Broussard’s apartment complex on the day of her disappearance, the affidavit said. A resident of the apartment complex told investigators that she saw a woman with a small infant get into the back seat of the vehicle before it sped away. FBI agents searching for Broussard and her daughter followed Fieramusca’s ex-boyfriend Christopher Green as he left their shared home in Houston and approached him as he left a Target store with baby clothes and formula, the affidavit said. When they showed him a flier with pictures of the missing mother and child, he replied, “That’s the baby at my house,” the affidavit said. Green said he believed that Fieramusca had been pregnant with his child, the document said, and Fieramusca told him that she had given birth. Fieramusca told investigators that she had given birth at a birthing center in The Woodlands, an area north of Houston, and brought the baby home the same day. When questioned by investigators she could not recall the name of the center, the affidavit said. CNN’s Ray Sanchez, Madeline Holcombe, Dave Alsup, Hollie Silverman, Rosa Flores and Pierre Meilhan contributed to this report.


--- [Texas woman accused of killing friend and taking her baby sentenced to 55 ...] ---
AUSTIN, Texas — A Texas woman accused of killing a close friend in 2019 who had just given birth and abducting the baby as part of an elaborate scheme to pass the infant off as her own pleaded guilty to murder charges Thursday, prosecutors said. Magen Fieramusca, 37, was sentenced to 55 years in prison for the death of Heidi Broussard, 33, Travis County District Attorney Jose Garza announced in a statement. Fieramusca waved her right to appeal. The conviction follows a crime in Austin, Texas, that began with the disappearance of a 3-week-old baby girl and was followed with widening interest as the investigation unfolded and police zeroed in on Fieramusca. Police say the child was later found alive at a home in the Houston area along with Broussard’s body in the trunk of Fieramusca’s car. According to an arrest affidavit at the time, Fieramusca abducted Broussard on Dec. 12, 2019, and packed her into a black duffel. Broussard had last been seen dropping off an older child at an elementary school in Austin. Her death was ruled homicide by strangulation. The baby, Margot Carey, was returned to her father. “We are hopeful that this outcome will bring some closure to the Broussard and Carey families and help them continue their healing process,” Garza said. Fieramusca and Broussard were friends who met about a decade ago at church camp, according to court records. At one point, Fieramusca had a key to Broussard’s apartment and the women discussed being pregnant together, even considering that they might give birth on the same day, the court record states. Broussard’s fiance told investigators that she told him on Dec. 8 or 9 that Fieramusca had given birth to a baby girl, but he never saw any photos of the child. Fieramusca told a Texas Ranger that she went to the beach with a cousin on the day Broussard was abducted. But she later told the same officer that she gave birth on that day, although she was unable to provide specifics of her delivery, according to the affidavit.


--- [Judge sentences Magen Fieramusca to 55 years in prison for 2019 killing of ...] ---
Magen Fieramusca wiped away tears in a Travis County courtroom Thursday after a state district court judge sentenced her to 55 years in prison for the 2019 murder of Austin mother Heidi Broussard. Broussard and her newborn baby disappeared from their Austin apartment in December 2019. A week later, Broussard’s body was found in the trunk of a car parked at the home where Fieramusca was living in northwest Harris County. The baby was safe and returned to her family. According to investigators, Fieramusca presented Broussard’s baby as her own to her boyfriend. Travis County Judge Selena Alvarenga told Fieramusca no sentence can change the fact that she destroyed an entire family, and that it’s “difficult if not impossible” to find justice in any sort of resolution to such a “horrendous crime.” Broussard’s mother Tammy spoke directly to Fieramusca during the plea and sentencing hearing. “We miss her dearly. She’s forever strong in the midst of all the people,” Tammy said. “She was just so much fun and just so full of life and now it’s been taken.” Court documents indicate Fieramusca and Broussard were friends for years after meeting at a church camp. Fieramusca visited Broussard in Austin in the days after she gave birth, about two weeks before the kidnapping. Prosecutors initially charged Fieramusca with capital murder, which meant she faced the possibility of life in prison without parole. She pleaded guilty to murder and will be eligible for parole after serving about half of her 55-year sentence. The 37-year-old will also receive credit for more than three years already served. “We’re really grateful to our law enforcement partners and to our prosecutors who helped win justice today and saved the family from potentially decades of post-trial litigation,” Travis County District Attorney Jose Garza said. “We are hopeful that the outcome today will bring some level of closure for the families and allow them to continue their healing process.” Fieramusca’s defense attorney Brian Erskine wrote in a statement that both parties felt this was the best resolution to avoid possible appeals. “After considerable discussion, in conjunction with significant compelling mitigation related to Ms. Fieramusca and the possible appellate issues related to the search of her residence, both parties feel that this is the appropriate resolution. I imagine many have questions that will never be adequately answered, nevertheless, I hope that this plea brings some closure to this family’s great loss,” Erskine wrote. The sentence won’t change the Broussard family’s heartbreak. “She loved beyond measure and she never gave up on anyone,” Tammy Broussard said. “This is something that I never imagined in my whole life.” SEE MORE:


--- [Texas woman pleads guilty, gets 55 years for killing friend and taking her ...] ---
Heidi Broussard went missing out of Austin in 2019. Days later, her body was found in her friend's trunk in the Houston area. AUSTIN, Texas -- A Texas woman accused of killing a close friend in 2019 who had just given birth and abducting the baby as part of an elaborate scheme to pass the infant off as her own pleaded guilty to murder charges Thursday, prosecutors said. Magen Fieramusca, 37, was sentenced to 55 years in prison for the death of Heidi Broussard, 33, Travis County District Attorney Jose Garza announced in a statement. Fieramusca waived her right to appeal. SEE ALSO: Austin mom killing: What may have happened before Heidi Broussard's death The conviction follows a crime in Austin that began with the disappearance of a 3-week-old baby girl and was followed with widening interest as the investigation unfolded and police zeroed in on Fieramusca. Police say the child was later found alive at a home in the Houston area along with Broussard's body in the trunk of Fieramusca's car. According to an arrest affidavit at the time, Fieramusca abducted Broussard on Dec. 12, 2019, and packed her into a black duffel. Broussard had last been seen dropping off an older child at an elementary school in Austin. Her death was ruled homicide by strangulation. The baby, Margot Carey, was returned to her father. "We are hopeful that this outcome will bring some closure to the Broussard and Carey families and help them continue their healing process," Garza said. Fieramusca and Broussard were friends who met about a decade ago at church camp, according to court records. At one point, Fieramusca had a key to Broussard's apartment, and the women discussed being pregnant together, even considering that they might give birth on the same day, the court record states. Broussard's fiancé told investigators that she told him on Dec. 8 or 9 that Fieramusca had given birth to a baby girl, but he never saw any photos of the child. Fieramusca told a Texas Ranger that she went to the beach with a cousin on the day Broussard was abducted. But she later told the same officer that she gave birth on that day, although she was unable to provide specifics of her delivery, according to the affidavit.


--- [Magen Fieramusca gets 55 years for killing friend, kidnapping] ---
Texas woman Magen Rose Fieramusca sentenced to 55 years for killing friend, kidnapping baby A Texas woman was sentenced to 55 years behind bars after pleading guilty to murdering her “best friend” in a depraved scheme to abduct her newborn baby and pass the infant off as her own. Magen Rose Fieramusca, 37, kidnapped and killed her pal Heidi Broussard, 33, in Austin on Dec. 12, 2019, stuffed her body in a duffel bag and placed it in the trunk of a car at the home where she lived with her ex-boyfriend, Christopher Green, near Houston. She murdered Broussard by “ligature strangulation, with a leash and with her hand,” according to the indictment. The victim’s 3-week-old daughter, Margot, was found unharmed inside Fieramusca’s home and was later returned to her dad, Broussard’s fiancé, Shane Carey. Fieramusca’s capital murder charge was reduced to first-degree murder as part of a plea deal in which she also waived her right to appeal, according to the Travis County District Attorney’s Office. “We are hopeful that this outcome will bring some closure to the Broussard and Carey families and help them continue their healing process,” DA José Garza said in a statement. “This outcome will save the families from having to endure the difficult post-conviction litigation process. We are grateful to our prosecutors and law enforcement partners who worked tirelessly on this case and secured justice for the victim’s families and our community,” he added, Fox 7 Austin reported. Fieramusca had initially been charged only with kidnapping and tampering, according to an arrest affidavit that indicated she faked her own pregnancy for months and planned to pass off her friend’s newborn as her own. She was later hit with a capital murder charge. The two women had been pals since they met at a church camp when they were 11 years old, according to reports. At one point, Fieramusca had a key to Broussard’s apartment, and the women discussed being pregnant together — even considering they might give birth on the same day, according to court documents. Carey told investigators that Broussard told him that Fieramusca had given birth to a baby girl, but he never saw any photos of the child. Fieramusca later told police she went to the beach with a cousin on the day Broussard was abducted — and that when Green saw her the next day, she told him, “Don’t be mad, don’t be mad,” KXAN reported. When he asked why, Fieramusca told him she went to a birthing center and had the child, according to the affidavit. Green said that Fieramusca’s stomach had grown, but due to their rocky relationship, he never saw her bare stomach, according to police. Police saw Green buying baby formula a few weeks after Broussard went missing and when they showed him a flier of Margot, he said, “That’s the baby in my house,” the affidavit states, KXAN reported. Fieramusca told investigators she had given birth but was unable to provide specifics of her delivery. On Thursday, Broussard’s mother Tammy Broussard told the court: “She’s forever strong in the midst of all the people’s lives she touched. And she’ll live on forever. “This is something I never imagined in my whole life, me and my husband. She was just so much fun and so full of life, and now it’s been taken from her,” she said, Fox 7 Austin reported. “Heidi’s hugs were strong, full of love. They lingered in the atmosphere. I still feel them now. She loved beyond measure, and she never gave up on anywhere. When I think of her, which is every moment, in everything I do, I ask what would Heidi do? It gives me comfort,” Tammy added. Travis County District Court Judge Selena Alvarenga told a tearful Fieramusca: “It is difficult, if not impossible, to find justice for this horrendous crime. You have deprived an innocent child — an innocent baby — of the opportunity of growing up with her mother.” She added: “You have destroyed an entire family. And no matter what the sentence, no matter how long, no matter how harsh, nothing can change that, nothing can make this family whole again.” With Post Wires
