=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Habba Khatoon - Wikipedia]
Habba Khatoon deliberately used Persian to revive Kashmiri music, which had been neglected due to a lack of patronage. As Yousuf Shah was a patron of the arts, Habba Khatoon received training from renowned practitioners in the performance of ghazals and songs in the Iranian style.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Habba_Khatoon

[Rah Bakshtam || Kalam-e-Habba Khatoon || Original Version]
''Rah bakshtam'' is a poem by the iconic Kashmir poetess Habba khatoon. Habba Khatoon (born Zoon; 1554 – 1609; sometimes spelled Khatun), also known by the honorary title The Nightingale of...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4jaDGOmCzdg

[Rah Bakshtam: Composer and Lyrics | PDF - Scribd]
The lyrics of 'Rah Bakshtam' by Ali Safuddin express a plea for forgiveness from Allah and a search for guidance. The singer reflects on their struggles and the futility of death, questioning what Allah would gain from their demise. The song also emphasizes the importance of love and the beauty of faith despite personal turmoil.
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/886770147/Rah-Bakshtam-Lyrics-Kasheer-Lyrics

[Suhayb Nazyr - IMDb]
Suhayb Nazyr. Composer: Rah Bakshtam. Suhayb Nazyr is known for Rah Bakshtam, Faded Musical (Cover) Ft. Suhayb Nazyr (2018) and Jiyun Kaise ft. Suhayb Nazyr (2020).
URL: https://www.imdb.com/name/nm11085357/

[67. Rah Bakshtam: Habba Khatoon]
Feb 3, 2025 · راہ بخشتم سٲری پروردگارو ژٕہ کہو واتہ یو میٲنی مرنۓ Rah bakshtam saaer Parvardigaro Che Kyoho waatiyo myani marnai Rah: راہ: Fault, Sin, Shortcomings Oh my Sustainer, forgive all of my faults, What will you gain from my death. Explanation: An entreaty to the God to forgive the shortcomings in loving Him and reciprocate the love. In remorse the lover ...
URL: https://kashmiripoetrysimplified.blogspot.com/2025/02/67-rah-bakshtam-habba-khatoon.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Habba Khatoon - Wikipedia] ---
Habba Khatoon (Kashmiri pronunciation: [habɨ xoːt̪uːn]; born Zoon Rather (Kashmiri pronunciation: [zuːn]) ; sometimes spelt Khatun), also known by the honorary title The Nightingale of Kashmir, was a Kashmiri Muslim poet and ascetic in the 16th century. 
According to Kashmiri oral tradition, Habba Khatoon is believed to have married Yusuf Shah Chak, the last ruler of the Chak dynasty, after he was captivated by her poetic talent. This account portrays her as his queen and links her later poetry to the political upheaval following the Mughal annexation of Kashmir in 1586. 
However, several modern historians have noted that contemporary Persian chronicles and Mughal court sources do not provide clear evidence of this marriage. As a result, while the association between Habba Khatoon and Yusuf Shah Chak remains deeply embedded in Kashmiri cultural memory, some scholars regard the narrative as shaped by later literary and folkloric embellishment rather than firmly established historical documentation.
Habba Khatoon's music pushed her poetry gradually into learned circles and those who had fled on the works of immortals like Firdausi, Omar and Hafez were bound to raise their eyebrows at first. This wobbling of Habba Khatoon under her peculiar compulsions and with her own limitations created the symphony of romantic words running side by side with mystic poetry till it over stripped and outshone it.




--- [Rah Bakshtam || Kalam-e-Habba Khatoon || Original Version] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Rah Bakshtam: Composer and Lyrics | PDF - Scribd] ---
Rah Bakshtam: Composer and Lyrics The lyrics of 'Rah Bakshtam' by Ali Safuddin express a plea for forgiveness from Allah and a search for guidance. The singer reflects on their struggles and the futility of death, questioning what Allah would gain from their demise. The song also emphasizes the importance of love and the beauty of faith despite personal turmoil. Rah Bakshtam: Composer and Lyrics


--- [Suhayb Nazyr - IMDb] ---
Menu All All Watchlist Sign in EN Fully supported English (United States) Partially supported Français (Canada) Français (France) Deutsch (Deutschland) हिंदी (भारत) Italiano (Italia) Português (Brasil) Español (España) Español (México) Use app Biography IMDbPro All topics Suhayb Nazyr Composer Actor IMDbPro Starmeter See rank Suhayb Nazyr is known for Rah Bakshtam , Faded Musical (Cover) Ft. Suhayb Nazyr (2018) and Jiyun Kaise ft. Suhayb Nazyr (2020) . More at IMDbPro Contact info Agent info IMDbPro Starmeter See rank Add to favorite people Add photos, demo reels View contact info at IMDbPro Known for Rah Bakshtam Composer Faded Musical (Cover) Ft. Suhayb Nazyr Video Actor 2018 Jiyun Kaise ft. Suhayb Nazyr Video Composer 2020 Credits Edit IMDbPro Composer Upcoming 1 Rah Bakshtam Composer Filming Previous 1 Jiyun Kaise ft. Suhayb Nazyr Video Composer 2020 Actor Previous 1 Faded Musical (Cover) Ft. Suhayb Nazyr Video 2018 Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content Learn more about contributing Edit page More to explore Recently viewed You have no recently viewed pages Back to top


--- [67. Rah Bakshtam: Habba Khatoon] ---
67. Rah Bakshtam: Habba Khatoon راہ بخشتم سٲری پروردگارو ژٕہ کہو واتہ یو میٲنی مرنۓ Rah bakshtam saaer Parvardigaro Che Kyoho waatiyo myani marnai Rah: راہ: Fault, Sin, Shortcomings Oh my Sustainer, forgive all of my faults, What will you gain from my death. Explanation: An entreaty to the God to forgive the shortcomings in loving Him and reciprocate the love. In remorse the lover may die but the beloved will not get anything out of this death and infact beloved will lose a sincere lover. ہؠنہٕ بو آیس، دؠن کہو بریو وؠنہٕ کُۓ رنگ گوم خاص ببرے لۄلہ سُے تھوتھمو لولہ وُن نارو ژٕہ کہو واتہ یو میٲنی مرنۓ Hyene bo aayas denn kyoho bariyo, Wenkui rang goam khaas Babray Lolli sui thovtham lalvun naaro, Che kyoho waatiyo Myani marnei Hyene yun: ہؠنہٕ یُن: To get caught in quagmire of anything. Here it's quagmire of love. Denn: دؠن برُن: To tide over the day i.e., in dire or difficult circumstances. Here it may mean the difficulty of quagmire of love. Wenne: وؠنہٕ: Wild peppermint. It has a whitish gray gloss over its leaves. Connotes the fading of good youthful colours. Babir: ببٕر: Sweet Basil. It's leaves are green. Connotes youthfulness as against the wild peppermint leaves. Lollih: لۄلہ: It means lap or near bosom i.e., heart Lollawun: لۄلوُن: to keep fire alive or kindled. I am deep caught in quagmire, how will I tide over the day, The wild peppermint colour took over my Sweet Basil like hue. You kept the fondling fire within my bosom kindled, What will you gain from my death. Explanation: I am caught in quagmire of love and I am not able to tide over even a day. This difficulty in love faded my youthfulness and turned it pale. The beloved kept the love in my heart aflame. If my love remains unrequited, I may die but then it will be of no gain to the beloved. لٔدی لٔدی دراہمو مال کھچالو ژھرِ اتھٕ ساونۓ لرِ قبرے ادہٕ کونہ مدٕی وتھہمو لۄکچارو ژٕہ کہو واتہ یو میٲنی مرنۓ Laedd laedd drahamo maal e khachalo, Chhari athhe saawnai larri qabray. Addeh koane maddih woth-hamo lokchaaro, Che kyoho waatiyo myaeni marnai. Laedd laedd: لٔدی لٔدی: To load many things on something tightly. Maal e khachalo: مال کھچالو:The loaded Donkey/pony Maddih wasun: مدٕی وسُن: to descend from pride or intoxication. U continue to pack donkey-loads (of things/desires), Empty handed you will be laid in the grave. Why then didn't you sobered up, O my youthfulness, What will you gain from my death. Explanation: The youthfulness that was supposed to be in love and find its meaning is after the worldly gains. The poetess has grudge with here wasted youthfulness which may lead to her death which again will not be of any gain to her conceited youthfulness. سِپارہٕ ترٚہہ مرہ پرؠم اکہ آنو پھیرہ نو کُنہ گوم زیرِ زبرے عشقُن خط کانسہ پۆر نہ یکبارو ژٕہ کہو واتہ یو میٲنی مرنۓ Sipaar trih mar parem aki aano, Phaire nou kuni goam zer zabray. Ashqun khat kansi pour na yakbaro, Che kyoho waatiyo myaeni marnai. I read around all the thirty parts(of Qur'an) in an instant, I didn't erred in any of the diacritics. Nobody reads the love letter all at once, What will you gain from my death. Explanation: The most intense stanza of the poem. Poetess says that she read the Holy Book of Qur'an in an instant without erring even slightly despite it being the heaviest message in the universe. However, she finds a love letter from her beloved very tough to read all at once. Pertinent to mention that in poetic circles, love is basis of all things and thus the poetess has put the love letter on higher pedestal than the Holy Book. It's just an imagination and should not be interpreted in the literal sense. E.g., Ghalib's imagination in one of the couplets has created a creature that doesn't exist at all but to give meaning to another non-existent thing he first created a non-existent creature. میں عدم سے بھی پرے ہوں ورنہ غافل بارہا میری آہ آتشیں سے بال عنقا جل گیا I exist beyond the non-existence and O Ignorant otherwise, Because of my fiery pain, the wings of Phoenix burnt many a times. Phoenix is a non-existent creature which is considered to resurrect infinite times in mythologies. Here Ghalib shows his existence even beyond the world of Phoenix, a non-existent creature. Moreover, when a person is in love, the emotions take over and the consistency is defeated by such emotions. تپھ چُھم بدنس حبہٕ خوتونے ادہٕ نو آہام زانہہ تہ خبرے تیلہ یِکھاہ یؠلہٕ ترٚاونم اند مزارو ژٕہ کہو واتہ یو میٲنی مرنۓ Taph chhum badnas Habbe Khotoonay, Adde no aahaam zanh ti khabray. Telle yikha yelli traavnam andh mazaaro Che kyoho waatiyo myaeni marnai. I, Habbe Khotoon, has body burning in fever, And not once did you come to ease my pain, Will you come when I am laid in a corner of graveyard, What will you gain from my death. Explanation: Again a stanza of unrequited love where the lover has regret that despite she being burning in love, her love remain unrequited. She further says that if her love remains unrequited, she may die but then her death will bestow no gain onto the beloved.
