=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[History - Savannah State University]
Its name changed again in 1950 to Savannah State College, and the institution received initial accreditation from the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) in 1955. The USG Board of Regents elevated the college to university status in 1996 and renamed the institution Savannah State University.
URL: https://savannahstate.edu/history/

[Fisk University and Jefferson Street | CPCRS]
Feb 12, 2021 · The National Register for Historic Places designated the campus of Fisk University a national landmark in 1978. Among other elements of a rich and storied history, Fisk was the first Historically Black College or University (HBCU) to gain accreditation by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, and Jubilee Hall, named after the acclaimed choral group who sustained Fisk in its early ...
URL: https://cpcrs.upenn.edu/initiatives/fisk-university-and-jefferson-street

[A History of Historically Black Colleges and Universities]
On April 29, 1854, Lincoln University, founded by John Miller Dickey and his wife, Sarah Emlen Cresson, received its charter from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, making it the nation's first degree-granting Historically Black College and University (HBCU).
URL: https://hbcufirst.com/resources/hbcu-history-timeline

[Historical Black Colleges and Universities - Quizlet]
In 1930, Fisk was the first African-American institution to gain accreditation by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS). Accreditations for specialized programs soon followed.
URL: https://quizlet.com/452977429/historical-black-colleges-and-universities-flash-cards/

[The Founding of Black Colleges (2025) | Gilder Lehrman Institute of ...]
Today, there are 107 schools designated as historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) in the United States. Many of these institutions were founded during a period of intense racial and political conflict in America. The first Black college, the Institute for Colored Youth (ICY), was founded in Philadelphia in 1837 during the Jacksonian era. At the same time, slavery continued to ...
URL: https://www.gilderlehrman.org/ap-african-american-studies/unit-3/black-organizing-early-twentieth-century/founding-black-colleges


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [History - Savannah State University] ---
Savannah State University (SSU) is the first public historically black college and university in the state of Georgia and the first institution of higher learning in the city of Savannah. The school was established in 1890 as a result of the Second Morrill Land Grant Act, which mandated that southern and border states develop land-grant colleges for black citizens. Later that year, the Georgia General Assembly passed legislation creating the Georgia State Industrial College for Colored Youths, which served as Georgia’s 1890 land-grant institution until 1947. A preliminary session of the Georgia State Industrial College was held in the Baxter Street School Building in Athens, Ga., before moving to Savannah in October 1891. Richard R. Wright Sr., was appointed the first president of the institution in 1891, which opened with five faculty members and eight students. The college awarded its first degree in 1898 to Richard R. Wright Jr., the son of the founding president, who became the ninth president of Wilberforce University. Cyrus G. Wiley of the class of 1902 was the first alumnus to become college president in 1921, the same year the first female students were admitted as residents on campus. In 1928, the college became a four-year, degree-granting institution, ending its high school and normal school programs. Upon the creation of the University System of Georgia (USG) in 1932, the college became one of the first members of the system and its name was changed to Georgia State College. Its name changed again in 1950 to Savannah State College, and the institution received initial accreditation from the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) in 1955. The USG Board of Regents elevated the college to university status in 1996 and renamed the institution Savannah State University. Savannah State established the city’s first master’s degree program in elementary education in 1968, and became the first institution in Savannah to receive accreditation from the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE) from 1971-81. The teacher education program was transferred from SSU in 1979 as part of a federally mandated USG desegregation plan. In 2013, the SSU School of Teacher Education was reestablished at SSU with emphasis on preparation of middle and high school teachers in STEM disciplines. Located on a salt water estuary, SSU offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in marine sciences — an innovative program launched in 1979. The marine sciences program is nationally recognized as a top producer of degrees and an important resource for the coastal area. Savannah State was the first institution of higher education in Georgia to offer a bachelor’s degree in homeland security and emergency management and the second in the state to offer a bachelor’s degree in forensic science. Savannah State continues to engage in groundbreaking research. SSU sent cutting-edge genetic material from campus laboratories to the International Space Station (ISS) in 2014. Savannah State also earned two patents in 2016. One allows for the collection and harvest of organic material necessary for long-distance space travel. The other is a new chemical that has implications for treating Alzheimer’s, ALS and dementia. SSU expanded its facilities with two new science and technology buildings. The university purchased property on Livingston Avenue for a new 17,000 square foot marine sciences laboratory and deep water dock. On the main campus, a new two-story, 30,000 square foot building houses engineering technology and chemistry laboratories. The university has embarked upon a new era — building upon the rich legacy of academic excellence and community engagement that has defined it for the last 135 years.


--- [Fisk University and Jefferson Street | CPCRS] ---
The Location: Jefferson Street & I-40 Fisk was established along Jefferson Street, described as “a wide footpath that evolved into a wagon road” from the local plantation to the Cumberland river in the antebellum years.[2] The school was rechartered in 1872 buoyed by the financial support of the Jubilee Singers’ tours and Jubilee Hall was completed as the school’s first permanent structure in 1876, with Jefferson Street directly behind it. Tennessee Agricultural and Industrial State Normal School (later Tennessee State University or TSU) situated itself at the western edge of Jefferson Street in 1912. Meharry Medical College moved from South Nashville in the mid-1930s with Jefferson Street as its northern boundary. As Fisk, TSU, and Meharry emerged as anchors for Jefferson Street Mitchell describes the overall district as a “23-block area from Fifth Avenue, North, to Twenty-eighth Avenue, North” which came to answer the multiple calls of black life: religion, retail, and entertainment. Jefferson Street’s heyday (considered by some to be 1935-1965) follows the arc of many Black commercial districts across the U.S. Jim Crow laws forced proximity and collaboration and the tumult and promise of integration and the Civil Rights movement began to pull away at the fabric. Underlying this was the effects of redlining in the 1930s by the Home Owner’s Loan Corporation which labeled the entire area as “D” for hazardous. Perhaps the biggest impact, however to Jefferson Street was the construction of Interstate-40 in the late 1960s. Despite resistance from a consortium of 40 community leaders self-named the “I-40 Steering Committee” which took their fight all the way to the Supreme Court, the Interstate continued as planned thereby decimating the district. According to Metro figures, 1,400 Nashvillians were displaced by the construction of I-40 and I-265 (which would become I-65). Houston writes that “the two-and-a-half-mile stretch of interstate would demolish a hundred square blocks” and lead to “the demolition of approximately 650 homes and 27 apartment buildings.” According to the Tennessee State Museum, the value of remaining housing dropped more than 30 percent. [3]


--- [A History of Historically Black Colleges and Universities] ---
On April 29, 1854, Lincoln University, founded by John Miller Dickey and his wife, Sarah Emlen Cresson, received its charter from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, making it the nation's first degree-granting Historically Black College and University (HBCU). In October 1853, the Presbytery of New Castle approved Dickey’s plan for the establishment of “an institution to be called Ashmun Institute, for the scientific, classical and theological education of colored youth of the male sex.” On April 4, 1866, the The Ashmun Institute was re-named Lincoln University in honor of President Abraham Lincoln. At that time, Dickey then proposed to expand the college into a full-fledged university and to enroll students of “every clime and complexion.” Law, medical, pedagogical and theological schools were planned in addition to the College of Liberal Arts. White students were encouraged to enroll and two graduated in the first baccalaureate class of six men in 1868. During its early years, Lincoln was known colloquially as "the Black Princeton" due to its Princeton University-educated founder and early faculty, rigorous classical curriculum, ties to the Presbyterian Church and its similarities in colors and mascots. Thurgood Marshall, the first Black U.S. Supreme Court justice and civil rights advocate, and the legendary poet and activist Langston Hughes — were classmates and notable graduates of Lincoln University.


--- [Historical Black Colleges and Universities - Quizlet] ---
No content


--- [The Founding of Black Colleges (2025) | Gilder Lehrman Institute of ...] ---
Today, there are 107 schools designated as historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) in the United States. Many of these institutions were founded during a period of intense racial and political conflict in America. The first Black college, the Institute for Colored Youth (ICY), was founded in Philadelphia in 1837 during the Jacksonian era. At the same time, slavery continued to grow in the South. The US forced many Indigenous nations off their land to make room for that aggressive expansion. Before the Civil War, tension over slavery intensified. Early Black colleges served a major role in defending the humanity of African Americans during this period. At this time across much of the South, it was illegal to teach enslaved African Americans to read. There was considerable resistance to the idea of educating them in the North as well. Still, two additional colleges joined the ICY during this period. Lincoln University (1854) was founded approximately fifty miles outside of Philadelphia. Wilberforce University (1856) was established in southwestern Ohio. These three schools played a critical role in training their students to lobby Congress on behalf of enslaved Black people. The schools equipped their students with the intellectual skills to argue for the passage of the Reconstruction Amendments that ultimately abolished slavery, guaranteed birthright citizenship regardless of previous conditions of servitude, and provided African American men the right to vote. African Americans post-emancipation saw education as a major tool toward the upward mobility that would secure their social, political, and economic rights. During the Reconstruction era, new HBCUs were founded all across the Deep South. Many began with the support of various church denominations and religious organizations such as the American Missionary Association. This included Fisk University (1866), founded by members of the American Missionary Association in Nashville, Tennessee. HBCUs received a second boost in growth with the Second Morrill Act, passed by the federal government in 1890. This legislation required states to provide college education opportunities for African Americans. This was accomplished through either admission to existing public institutions or at separate institutions, including HBCUs. These schools trained youth in engineering and agriculture. While federal support and private philanthropy were critical to the founding of HBCUs, it was the fervor for education among African Americans that fueled the rapid expansion of Black colleges. Debates emerged about the kind of education HBCUs should offer. Some schools focused on vocational education, as opposed to the liberal arts traditions that were being taught at other HBCUs. Both fields of study offered viability and usefulness to African Americans by the late nineteenth century, an age of Jim Crow laws and rampant racial violence. Booker T. Washington, the nation’s most famous African American leader in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, favored agrarian and domestic pragmatism as a viable solution for the problems confronting Black America. Washington was an 1876 graduate of Hampton Institute, an HBCU located in Virginia. Hampton served as the primary source of this philosophy that championed vocational training for Black students. Washington brought the Hampton Model with him to Tuskegee, Alabama, and founded Tuskegee University in 1881. In contrast, W. E. B. Du Bois strongly favored a broad liberal arts education. This course of study would prepare Black students to forcefully articulate the freedom dreams of African Americans. The common denominator for both philosophies was the political backdrop of the era. The aggressive rise of Jim Crow laws in both the North and the South and the blatant disregard for Black life led to systemic discrimination and rampant racial violence. In this political atmosphere, HBCUs served as “shelters in a time of storm.” They helped Black students become advocates and activists. These young people would radically transform the social and political contours of the nation. HBCUs provided one of the few spaces where Black youth could gain the confidence to counter the dominant messages of Black inferiority. The schools served as the main training ground for Black teachers, who went into service in segregated classrooms across the Deep South. These institutions also trained their students to strongly believe in the principles of American democracy, even in a system that violently robbed African Americans of these rights on a daily basis. This unwritten “second curriculum” was the dominant and pervasive ethos that defined the Black college experience for generations. These lessons played a critical role in launching the powerful civil rights movement of the twentieth century. Dr. Jelani M. Favors is the author of Shelter in a Time of Storm: How Black Colleges Fostered Generations of Leadership and Activism (2019), which won the Museum of African American History’s Stone Book Award and the Southern Regional Council and the University of Georgia Libraries’ Lillian Smith Book Award.
