=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Questions remain after bombmaker's escape from Nevada prison went ...]
Sep 30, 2022 · Associated Press LAS VEGAS — Authorities say they are investigating how a convicted bombmaker was able to easily escape from a Nevada prison without anyone noticing for four days, before a tip led to his capture at a transit center in Las Vegas Wednesday night as he prepared to board a bus out of town. State corrections officials didn’t realize until Tuesday that Porfirio Duarte-Herrera ...
URL: https://www.corrections1.com/escapes/articles/questions-remain-after-bombmakers-escape-from-nevada-prison-went-unnoticed-for-4-days-0f29zU8gGoYZbFA9/

[Authorities investigate how convicted Vegas bombmaker was able to ...]
Sep 30, 2022 · State corrections officials didn’t realize until Tuesday that Porfirio Duarte-Herrera had escaped Sept. 23 from the medium-security prison where he was serving a life sentence for a deadly 2007 ...
URL: https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/authorities-investigate-convicted-vegas-bombmaker-was-able-escape-pris-rcna50139

[How convicted killer Porfirio Duarte-Herrera escaped a Nevada state ...]
Oct 15, 2023 · Convicted killer Porfirio Duarte-Herrera used lotion and an electric device to erode his cell window and scaled three fences to escape prison after his appeal failed.
URL: https://www.reviewjournal.com/crime/report-details-how-convicted-killer-escaped-nevada-state-prison-2922009/

[Confidential source informed Las Vegas-area prison staff about inmate ...]
Oct 4, 2022 · The Nevada Department of Corrections originally said in a press release that staff learned about the escape during a count on Tuesday morning. Porfirio Duarte-Herrera, 42, was serving a life sentence without the possibility of parole at the Southern Desert Correctional Center for the murder of Willebaldo Dorantes Antonio, who was 24. The medium-security prison is about 40 miles northwest of ...
URL: https://www.newsbreak.com/8-news-now-1589924/2771629761057-confidential-source-informed-las-vegas-area-prison-staff-about-inmate-days-after-escape

[Inmate pleads guilty after Nevada prison escape - FOX5 Vegas]
Nov 7, 2023 · Porfirio Duarte-Herrera was serving a life sentence for murder at the prison in Indian Springs when he escaped last September. After five days on the run, he was captured in downtown Las Vegas on ...
URL: https://www.fox5vegas.com/2023/11/07/inmate-pleads-guilty-after-nevada-prison-escape/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Questions remain after bombmaker's escape from Nevada prison went ...] ---
Associated Press LAS VEGAS — Authorities say they are investigating how a convicted bombmaker was able to easily escape from a Nevada prison without anyone noticing for four days, before a tip led to his capture at a transit center in Las Vegas Wednesday night as he prepared to board a bus out of town. State corrections officials didn’t realize until Tuesday that Porfirio Duarte-Herrera had escaped Sept. 23 from the medium-security prison where he was serving a life sentence for a deadly 2007 explosion outside a Las Vegas Strip resort. Las Vegas police said they were informed Wednesday night that a person matching the description of Duarte-Herrera was in the area. Officers took the man into custody, confirmed he was Duarte-Herrera, 42, and arrested him, the department said. “The policies and procedure and all the failures that occurred on Friday and up to Tuesday need to be addressed,” said Clark County Sheriff Joe Lombardo at a press conference Thursday. Lombardo, a Republican who is trying to unseat Democratic Gov. Steve Sisolak in November’s election, said he was imploring Sisolak to make good on his pledge to conduct a thorough investigation to make sure it doesn’t happen again. “Infrastructure issues and prison system staffing issues, the ability for this individual to do it — from what I’ve been told — as simply as he did it is a grave concern to me and the entire law enforcement community and the community as a whole,” he said. Lombardo, the U.S. Marshall for Nevada and an FBI special agent said it was the cooperation of numerous law enforcement agencies, extensive media coverage and ultimately a tip from the public that led to his capture. “In this case, the individual had a four-day head start,” Lombardo said. “Fortunately, and unfortunately, he remained in the area and we were able to apprehend him with the assistance of the public.” Lombardo told reporters Thursday any information about the escape itself will have to come from the Department of Corrections, “and hopefully they will provide you information shortly with the circumstances of the escape.” When asked by a reporter whether DOC was invited to participate in the joint law enforcement news conference, Lombardo said yes. Department officials did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Thursday. Sisolak ordered an investigation into the escape after he said late Tuesday his office learned Duarte-Herrera had been missing since early in the weekend. The governor’s office said in a statement emailed to The Associated Press Thursday he is working directly with Department of Corrections Director Charles Daniels “to ensure swift action is taken to address the conduct which led to the escape.” “Failure to follow protocol or procedures cannot be tolerated where public safety is at stake. Beyond this incident, addressing larger scale deficiencies in staffing remains a priority to the governor,” said Meghin Delaney, his communication’s director. “Correctional institutions across the country are facing staffing shortages and NDOC is looking at innovative ways to increase recruitment at all facilities within this state,” she wrote. Officials didn’t realize until Tuesday morning that he was missing during a head count at Southern Desert Correctional Center near Las Vegas. Neither Lombardo nor Sisolak would comment on a KLAS-TV report citing unnamed sources that Duarte-Herrera used acid to help erode the area securing his cell window so he could climb out. That report also said he had created a cardboard dummy to leave in his cell, and sewed a coat in a prison class, which he took with him after his escape. Officials were investigating whether he had an accomplice. Lombardo said he spoke with the inspector general’s office at the Department of Corrections, “and I have confidence they are going to get to the bottom of this and employ resources to prevent it from happening in the future.” Duarte-Herrera, from Nicaragua, was convicted in 2010 of killing a hot dog stand vendor using a motion-activated bomb in a coffee cup atop a car parked at the Luxor hotel-casino. Records show his co-defendant, Omar Rueda-Denvers, remains in custody. The 47-year-old from Guatemala is serving a life sentence at a different Nevada prison for murder, attempted murder, explosives and other charges. A Clark County District Court jury spared both men from the death penalty in the slaying of Willebaldo Dorantes Antonio, whom prosecutors identified as the boyfriend of Rueda-Denvers’ ex-girlfriend. Prosecutors said jealousy was the motive for the attack on the top deck of a two-story parking structure. The blast initially raised fears of a terrorist attack on the Strip. Gary Schofield, U.S. Marshal for Nevada, said authorities were continuing to investigate where Duarte-Herrera was and what he did between the escape and when someone dropped him off near the transit center. “He was able to get a little bit of money and a little bit of transportation just from specifically that area. ... Mainly he just kind of laid low and tried to avoid the public, and tried to avoid law enforcement,” he said. Schofield said state corrections officials initially notified the U.S. Marshal Service regional task force based in Los Angeles, which notified his office of the escape Tuesday afternoon. “That was the first time any authorities within Nevada were aware of what was occurring out at the prison,” he said.


--- [Authorities investigate how convicted Vegas bombmaker was able to ...] ---
LAS VEGAS — Authorities say they are investigating how a convicted bombmaker was able to easily escape from a Nevada prison without anyone noticing for four days, before a tip led to his capture at a transit center in Las Vegas Wednesday night as he prepared to board a bus out of town. State corrections officials didn’t realize until Tuesday that Porfirio Duarte-Herrera had escaped Sept. 23 from the medium-security prison where he was serving a life sentence for a deadly 2007 explosion outside a Las Vegas Strip resort. Las Vegas police said they were informed Wednesday night that a person matching the description of Duarte-Herrera was in the area. Officers took the man into custody, confirmed he was Duarte-Herrera, 42, and arrested him, the department said. “The policies and procedure and all the failures that occurred on Friday and up to Tuesday need to be addressed,” said Clark County Sheriff Joe Lombardo at a press conference Thursday. Lombardo, a Republican who is trying to unseat Democratic Gov. Steve Sisolak in November’s election, said he was imploring Sisolak to make good on his pledge to conduct a thorough investigation to make sure it doesn’t happen again. “Infrastructure issues and prison system staffing issues, the ability for this individual to do it — from what I’ve been told — as simply as he did it is a grave concern to me and the entire law enforcement community and the community as a whole,” he said. Lombardo, the U.S. Marshall for Nevada and an FBI special agent said it was the cooperation of numerous law enforcement agencies, extensive media coverage and ultimately a tip from the public that led to his capture. “In this case, the individual had a four-day head start,” Lombardo said. “Fortunately, and unfortunately, he remained in the area and we were able to apprehend him with the assistance of the public.” Lombardo told reporters Thursday any information about the escape itself will have to come from the Department of Corrections, “and hopefully they will provide you information shortly with the circumstances of the escape.” When asked by a reporter whether DOC was invited to participate in the joint law enforcement news conference, Lombardo said yes. Department officials did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Thursday. Sisolak ordered an investigation into the escape after he said late Tuesday his office learned Duarte-Herrera had been missing since early in the weekend. The governor’s office said in a statement emailed to The Associated Press Thursday he is working directly with Department of Corrections Director Charles Daniels “to ensure swift action is taken to address the conduct which led to the escape.” “Failure to follow protocol or procedures cannot be tolerated where public safety is at stake. Beyond this incident, addressing larger scale deficiencies in staffing remains a priority to the governor,” said Meghin Delaney, his communication’s director. “Correctional institutions across the country are facing staffing shortages and NDOC is looking at innovative ways to increase recruitment at all facilities within this state,” she wrote. Officials didn’t realize until Tuesday morning that he was missing during a head count at Southern Desert Correctional Center near Las Vegas. Neither Lombardo nor Sisolak would comment on a KLAS-TV report citing unnamed sources that Duarte-Herrera used acid to help erode the area securing his cell window so he could climb out. That report also said he had created a cardboard dummy to leave in his cell, and sewed a coat in a prison class, which he took with him after his escape. Officials were investigating whether he had an accomplice. Lombardo said he spoke with the inspector general’s office at the Department of Corrections, “and I have confidence they are going to get to the bottom of this and employ resources to prevent it from happening in the future.” Duarte-Herrera, from Nicaragua, was convicted in 2010 of killing a hot dog stand vendor using a motion-activated bomb in a coffee cup atop a car parked at the Luxor hotel-casino. Records show his co-defendant, Omar Rueda-Denvers, remains in custody. The 47-year-old from Guatemala is serving a life sentence at a different Nevada prison for murder, attempted murder, explosives and other charges. A Clark County District Court jury spared both men from the death penalty in the slaying of Willebaldo Dorantes Antonio, whom prosecutors identified as the boyfriend of Rueda-Denvers’ ex-girlfriend. Prosecutors said jealousy was the motive for the attack on the top deck of a two-story parking structure. The blast initially raised fears of a terrorist attack on the Strip. Gary Schofield, U.S. Marshal for Nevada, said authorities were continuing to investigate where Duarte-Herrera was and what he did between the escape and when someone dropped him off near the transit center. “He was able to get a little bit of money and a little bit of transportation just from specifically that area. ... Mainly he just kind of laid low and tried to avoid the public, and tried to avoid law enforcement,” he said. Schofield said state corrections officials initially notified the U.S. Marshal Service regional task force based in Los Angeles, which notified his office of the escape Tuesday afternoon. “That was the first time any authorities within Nevada were aware of what was occurring out at the prison,” he said.


--- [How convicted killer Porfirio Duarte-Herrera escaped a Nevada state ...] ---
Report details how convicted killer escaped Nevada state prison A convicted killer whose 2022 prison escape led to the resignation of the state prison director used lotion and electricity to break out of his cell window and needed only minutes to scale three fences, knowing that the prison’s towers were not manned. A 16-page report made last December by a U.S.-led task force and released Thursday by the Nevada Department of Corrections details the planning, escape and capture of Porfirio Duarte-Herrera, who left the Southern Desert Correctional Center 37 miles northeast of Las Vegas on Sept. 23, 2022, and was arrested five days later. The daring escape from the prison was denounced by then-Gov. Steve Sisolak as “a serious and unacceptable breach of protocol” and induced state Corrections Director Charles Daniels to resign on Sept. 30, 2022. State officials complained that the department under Daniels did not notify law enforcement until four days after learning that Duarte could not be found at the prison. Eight correctional officers were placed on paid administrative leave during the investigation. In the report, Duarte, 43, sentenced to life in prison in 2010 for first degree murder, described how he eluded prison authorities to state and local investigators who were working with the Pacific Southwest Regional Fugitive Task Force run by the U.S. Marshals Service in Los Angeles. Duarte stated he decided to escape in part because of the failure of the appeal of his conviction for the murder of Willebaldo Dorantes Antonio, who died in the blast of a bomb set on his car in the parking lot of the Luxor in 2007 by Duarte and Duarte’s friend Omar Rueda-Denvers, also convicted of murder. Rueda-Denvers arranged the bomb attack to bring harm to an ex-girlfriend who was romantically linked to Dorantes Antonio, prosecutors said. Duarte’s other reason was that he knew the prison’s guard towers “had not been manned for the previous three years” and “he would not have attempted to escape if the towers had been operational, specifically stating not wanting to be shot,” according to the report. He stated he fashioned a “dummy” made from cardboard and towels and put it in his bunk prior to going to dinner on the evening of his escape. With dinner over, Duarte stated that he hid behind a partition for five hours and while wearing gloves to avoid injury he climbed three prison fences, “one without razor wire and two with razor wire,” in a matter of only about four minutes. “He stated that he used gloves (all leather) that prison yard labor inmates would regularly use,” based on the report. Task force investigators determined Duarte broke through the cell window after using an electronic device he made, falsely claiming it was a hair trimmer, to operate as a transducer to supply electrical current through Suave Brand lotion smeared on the metal slats attached to the window frame to erode it. “Research revealed that lotions are incredible electrical conductors due to the lanolin and other chemical make-up of the lotion,” the report stated. “This investigator opines that Duarte used the transducer/voltage reducer device that Duarte manufactured and that the lotion as a conductor to eventually cut through the window slat or at the very least to degrade the metal.” “It is highly possible,” investigators wrote, that he used the method “to eventually weaken the metal enabling Duarte to force or kick the slat from the frame thereby creating an opening for his small stature (5’4” 135 lbs.) to fit through.” The probe into Duarte’s escape, which included investigators from the state Attorney General’s Inspector General’s office and detectives from the Metropolitan Police Department, discovered yet another factor — his use of an illegal mobile phone. The report stated that as of September last year, “in the previous 10 months there has been over 60 illegal cellphones found in the prison and was likely that Duarte was in possession of an illegal cellular phone.” Duarte used the phone to call his niece in Las Vegas the day he escaped to see if she received money he had sent and asked her to pick him up at Mount Charleston and U.S. Highway 95, which she declined. Duarte, who claimed to have walked to Las Vegas, appeared at the home of his sister-in-law on Sept. 27 and told her that he had completed his sentence. She agreed to give him $800 cash and a ride in her car to a station on Bonanza Road to catch a passenger van to Tijuana, Mexico. While at the station, he bought a ticket to Tijuana for $101. On Sept. 28, state investigators distributed wanted flyers and posters with Duarte’s photo at local bus stations. Time had already to run out for Duarte when his niece learned about his escape on the news and called 911, fearing he might harm her for not agreeing to pick him up. On Sept. 28, at 9:40 p.m., an employee at the station on Bonanza called 911 to report seeing Duarte there, based on a wanted flyer, only minutes from his 9:59 p.m. scheduled departure for Mexico. Duarte used a fake name on a counterfeit consular ID he bought for $120 at a swap meet. But Las Vegas police arrested him on suspicion of being an escaped prisoner, a felony. Duarte is currently housed at the High Desert State Prison in Indian Springs, according to state prison records. Contact Jeff Burbank at jburbank@reviewjournal.com or 702-383-0382. Follow him @JeffBurbank2 on X.


--- [Confidential source informed Las Vegas-area prison staff about inmate ...] ---
48K Posts 75K Followers 8NewsNow.com is the most trusted local news site in Las Vegas for breaking news, weather, and traffic updates in real time, wherever you go. Confidential source informed Las Vegas-area prison staff about inmate days after escape By Vanessa Murphy, 2022-10-04LAS VEGAS (KLAS) — Nevada prison staff learned about the escape of a convicted murderer from a confidential source, according to an internal memo obtained by the 8 News Now Investigators. The Nevada Department of Corrections originally said in a press release that staff learned about the escape during a count on Tuesday morning. Porfirio Duarte-Herrera, 42, was serving a life sentence without the possibility of parole at the Southern Desert Correctional Center for the murder of Willebaldo Dorantes Antonio, who was 24. The medium-security prison is about 40 miles northwest of Las Vegas in the rural community of Indian Springs. As the 8 News Now Investigators first reported last week, Duarte-Herrera escaped from the prison on Friday, Sept. 23. Prison officials did not alert the public about his escape until Tuesday, Sept. 27 — two hours after the 8 News Now Investigators’ reporting . Las Vegas Metro police arrested Duarte-Herrera in the area of Owens and Eastern avenues near downtown Las Vegas around 10 p.m. Wednesday, Sept. 28. Since Duarte-Herrera was taken into custody, now-former Department of Corrections Director Charles Daniels resigned at Gov. Steve Sisolak’s request. Six corrections officers are also on paid administrative leave. Duarte-Herrera was rebooked into the Ely State Prison, a maximum-security facility, records showed. “For the NDOC, the security breakdowns that led to this escape represent the worst possible breach of our most fundamental mission objective — to protect the public,” acting prisons director William Gittere wrote in the memo. “We have already implemented many fundamental ‘back to basics’ security changes to ensure that a breach of this nature never happens again.” Gittere also acknowledged staffing challenges in the memo, stating “it will mean even longer hours.” The 8 News Now Investigators have also learned that the department is asking officers from the nearby High Desert State Prison to help with staffing at the Southern Desert Correctional Center. The memo concluded, “…I know the officers and support personnel of this organization will meet the challenge and regain the trust of our friends, families, neighbors and the citizens of Nevada. They must know that we are rededicated and determined to protect them without exception.” Duarte-Herrera and Omar Rueda-Denvers were convicted in 2009 for killing Dorantes Antonio, who died when a bomb, hidden in a coffee cup, exploded at the Luxor Las Vegas. The incident happened at a parking garage at the hotel in 2007. Dorantes Antonio was Rueda-Denvers’s ex-girlfriend’s new boyfriend. Copyright 2022 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.For the latest news, weather, sports, and streaming video, head to KLAS. Comments / 2 YOU MAY ALSO LIKE New York Post 8NewsNow.com is the most trusted local news site in Las Vegas for breaking news, weather, and traffic updates in real time, wherever you go. 47.8K Posts 75.0K Followers It’s essential to note our commitment to transparency: Our Terms of Use acknowledge that our services may not always be error-free, and our Community Standards emphasize our discretion in enforcing policies. As a platform hosting over 100,000 pieces of content published daily, we cannot pre-vet content, but we strive to foster a dynamic environment for free expression and robust discourse through safety guardrails of human and AI moderation.


--- [Inmate pleads guilty after Nevada prison escape - FOX5 Vegas] ---
Inmate pleads guilty after Nevada prison escape LAS VEGAS, Nev. (FOX5) - A convicted murderer has entered a guilty plea on charges that he escaped from Southern Desert Correctional Center last year. Porfirio Duarte-Herrera was serving a life sentence for murder at the prison in Indian Springs when he escaped last September. After five days on the run, he was captured in downtown Las Vegas on Sept. 28, 2022. On November 2, an agreement was filed in Clark County District Court in which Duarte-Herrera entered a guilty plea to one count of escape, which is a class B felony. The parties agreed on an incarceration term of 19-48 months in the Nevada Department of Corrections, to run consecutive to his current sentence. After he was taken back into custody, Duarte was interviewed by investigators and admitted that he had escaped SDCC on the evening of September 23, 2022 by hiding near a pony wall outside the unit and then climbing three prison fences. He then walked and ran all the way through the desert to Las Vegas, where he was given a bus ticket by a bystander. He added that he “knew the towers at the prison were not operational and had not been manned for the previous three years.” He said that he never would have attempted it if the towers were operational because he didn’t want to be shot. It took him about four minutes to climb over all three prison fences. The terms of the plea agreement also state that Duarte-Herrera may be fined up to $10,000 and could be required to pay any necessary restitution. He has a sentencing hearing scheduled for December 14. Copyright 2023 KVVU. All rights reserved.
