=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Aryabhata Award - Wikipedia]
The Aryabhata Award or Aryabhatta Award is an annual award, presented to individuals with notable lifetime contributions in the field of astronautics and aerospace technology in India. [1][2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aryabhata_Award

[Prof Roddam Narasimha gets Aryabhatta Award | India News]
Aryabhatta Award, named after the fifth century Indian astronomer and mathematician, and in commemoration of the first Indian satellite Aryabhatta launched on April 19, 1975, is presented annually ...
URL: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india/prof-roddam-narasimha-gets-aryabhatta-award/story-SCaWAsNmaKFrED8Flh02xI.html

[Astronautical Society of India Announces Annual Awards — Prof R Narasimha Gets Aryabhata Award]
Prof R Narasimha, Member Space Commission, former Director of National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS) and currently Chairman, Engineering Mechanical Unit, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR), Bangalore, has ...
URL: https://indiantelevision.com/news-headline/astronautical-society-of-india-announces-annual-awards-prof-r-narasimha-gets-aryabhata-award/

[Aryabhata Award - Bharatpedia]
The award is named after the fifth century Indian astronomer and mathematician Aryabhata, [6] and in commemoration of the first Indian satellite Aryabhata (launched 19 April 1975). Award winners [edit | edit source] P. D. Bhavsar (1999) [7] R.P. Shenoy (2000) [7] Roddam Narasimha (2004) [8] P.S. Goel (2005) [9] Pramod Kale (2006) [10]
URL: https://en.bharatpedia.org/wiki/Aryabhata_Award

[Aryabhata Award - Wikiwand]
The award is named after the fifth century Indian astronomer and mathematician Aryabhata,[6] and in commemoration of the first Indian satellite Aryabhata (launched 19 April 1975).
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Aryabhata_Award


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Aryabhata Award - Wikipedia] ---
The Aryabhata Award or Aryabhatta Award is an annual award, presented to individuals with notable lifetime contributions in the field of astronautics and aerospace technology in India.
It was instituted by the Astronautical Society of India (ASI) (established 1990), an International Astronautical Federation member since 1958. The award is usually presented by the Minister of State of the Prime Minister's Office, and consists of a citation and ₹1 lakh (₹100,000).




--- [Prof Roddam Narasimha gets Aryabhatta Award | India News] ---
Prof Roddam Narasimha gets Aryabhatta Award The award was conferred on Narasimha for his outstanding lifetime contribution to the promotion of astronautics in India. Minister of State in the Prime Minster's Office (PMO) Prithviraj Chauhan on Saturday presented the Aryabhatta award 2004 to Prof Roddam Narasimha in Ahmedabad. The award was conferred on Narasimha for his outstanding lifetime contribution to the promotion of astronautics in India. Eighteen gold medals were also presented by the Astronautical Society of India (ASI), including the Best Women Scientist award, under the aegis of ISRO, Ahmedabad. Aryabhatta Award, named after the fifth century Indian astronomer and mathematician, and in commemoration of the first Indian satellite Aryabhatta launched on April 19, 1975, is presented annually to an individual for outstanding lifetime contribution to the promotion of astronautics in India. Prof Narasimha is presently Chairman of Engineering Mechanics Unit of Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research. GK Kuruvilla was presented the ISRO-ASI award for his significant contribution in the area of rocket and related technologies. Kuruvilla is the Associate Director, Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre, Bangalore and Deputy Director, propulsion research and studies, Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre, Thiruvananthapuram. D Narayana Moorthi, visiting scientist at ISRO headquarters, was awarded the ISRO-ASI award for his outstanding contribution to space systems management. MN Satyanarayan bagged the award for his significant contributions in the area of spacecraft and related technologies. He is the Executive Director, Space Industry Development, at ISRO headquarters. JS Parihar, Group Director of ISRO, at Ahmedabad was awarded for his contribution to Space Sciences and Applications. S Panneerselvam, Project Director, Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle in Defence Research and Development Laboratory, DRDO was awarded for his contribution in the area of Rocket and Related Technologies. Kulinder Pal Singh, professor (H) at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai was awarded for his significant contributions in the field of Space Science and Applications. KR Sridhara Murthi was given the ASI medal for his contribution in the area of space systems management. Surendra Pal was presented the award for his contribution to space systems management. He is outstanding Scientist and Deputy Director, Digital and Communication area at ISRO Satellite Centre, Bangalore. AV Patki was awarded for his immense contributions to the area of spacecraft and related technologies. He is presently the vice-president, Satyam Technology Centre, Hyderabad. Geetha Varadan was presented with the Best Women Scientist Award for her important contribution to Data Products Management. She is currently Project Director, Special Projects, ISRO Headquarters, providing interface with important users. Yogesh Prasad bagged the Young Scientist Award for his commendable contribution to the development of Phased Array Antenna. He is currently a design engineer in ISRO Satellite Centre (ISAC), Bangalore. G Viswanathan and V Rama Rao and their team of scientists R Ranga Rao, T Satyanarayana, J Shanmugasundari, S Rajendran, Anitha Daniel, L Shyla, Ganesh Babu, Ceena Sunil and G Sunil Kumar were presented with the Team Achievement Award 2004 for the development of Indian Doppler Weather Radar System. All of them are presently working in ISRO's Radar Development Unit, Bangalore. SA Ilangovan was presented with the Space Gold Medal 2005 for Meritorious Service. Currently he is an engineer at Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, ISRO, Thiruvananthapuram. Subramanya Udupa was also presented with a Space Gold Medal 2005 for his overall contributions to the satellite programmes. He is presently the head of Onboard Systems Section, Control Systems Group, at ISRO Bangalore. MSR Murthy too bagged the Space Gold Medal 2005 for meritorious service. Murthy is the head of Forestry and Ecology division, National Remote Sensing Agency (NRSA), Hyderabad. Shilpa Pandya was awarded Space Gold Medal 2005 under the Women Employees' category. She is currently the Project Manager, (Product Assurance), for INSAT-4A, 4B, 3D and OCEANSAT-2 at Space Applications Centre, ISRO, Ahmedabad. P Janarthanan was awarded the Space Gold Medal 2005 for meritorious service. Janarthanan currently specialises in Fitting Trade and works in ISRO Satellite Centre, Bangalore.


--- [Astronautical Society of India Announces Annual Awards — Prof R Narasimha Gets Aryabhata Award] ---
News Broadcasting Astronautical Society of India Announces Annual Awards — Prof R Narasimha Gets Aryabhata Award BANGALORE: Astronautical Society of India (ASI), Bangalore, has announced its annual awards for the year 2004. Prof R Narasimha, Member Space Commission, former Director of National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS) and currently Chairman, Engineering Mechanical Unit, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR), Bangalore, has been selected for the prestigious Aryabhata Award. The detailed list of awards is as follows: Aryabhata Award 2004 Prof R Narasimha, Member Space Commission and Chairman, Engineering Mechanical Unit, JNCASR, Bangalore. ASI Awards 2004: Rocket Related Technology Dr Panneer Selvam, DRDL, Hyderabad Space Sciences & Applications Prof K P Singh, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai Space Systems Management Shri K R Sridhara Murthy, ANTRIX Corporation, Bangalore and Dr Surendra Pal, ISRO Satellite Centre, Bangalore Spacecraft & Related Technology Prof A V Patki, Sr Consulting Engineer, Satyam Computer Services Ltd., Hyderabad ISRO-ASI Awards 2004 (sponsored by ISRO) Rocket & Related Technologies Shri G K Kuruvilla, Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre, Thiruvananthapuram Space Sciences & Applications Shri J S Parihar, Space Applications Centre, Ahmedabad Space Systems Management Shri D Narayana Moorthi, Visiting Scientist, ISRO HQ, Bangalore Spacecraft & Related Technology Shri M N Sathyanarayan, Executive Director, Space Industries Development (Retd), Bangalore Women Scientist Award 2004 Smt Geetha Varadan, ISRO Headquarters, Bangalore Young Scientist Award Shri Yogesh Prasad, ISRO Satellite Centre, Bangalore Team Achievement Award G Viswanathan and his Team, ISRO Radar Development, Bangalore It may be noted that Astronautical Society of India (ASI), set up in 1990, is fostering the development of astronautics in the country through dissemination of technical and other information related to astronautics. ASI has instituted several awards to recognise talented Indian individuals who have made significant contributions to astronautics. Aryabhata Award carries a citation and Rs.1 lakh in cash while each of the ASI awards and Women Scientist Award carry a citation and Rs 25,000/- in cash. Team Achievement Award carries a citation and Rs 1 lakh in cash while the Young Scientist Award carries a citation and Rs10,000 in cash. ISRO – ASI Awards are sponsored by ISRO. The awards will be presented at a function to be organised shortly. News Broadcasting Parikshit Luthra exits CNBC-TV18 after 20-year run Former bureau chief to take brief pause before next role NEW DELHI: Senior journalist Parikshit Luthra has signed off from CNBC-TV18, marking 28 February 2026 as his final day and closing nearly two decades with Network18 Media & Investments Limited, including eight years at the business news channel. During his tenure, Luthra interviewed prominent business leaders and Union ministers, reporting on economic policy, corporate strategy, the automobile sector and financial markets. His coverage spanned key inflection points in India’s economic narrative. He also led new programming formats such as Newscentre, Global Eye and Global Lens, shows that examined politics and foreign policy through an economic prism, reflecting the channel’s push towards globally linked business reporting. In a LinkedIn post, Luthra said his final weeks were spent covering the Union Budget, the India AI Summit, India’s trade agreements with the US and EU, and the group’s flagship Rising Bharat Summit 2026. He added that he continued anchoring until his last day and briefly met Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his closing assignments. Luthra joined CNBC-TV18 in June 2018 as assistant editor, later rising to senior editor and chief of bureau, a position he held for over two years. Before that, he worked with Republic TV and CNN-News18. He said he plans to take a short break before embarking on his next professional chapter.


--- [Aryabhata Award - Bharatpedia] ---
No content


--- [Aryabhata Award - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
