=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[2019 Hyderabad gang rape and murder - Wikipedia]
The victim had pursued a degree in a veterinary college in Rajendranagar mandal. [19] She was a resident of Shamshabad [20] and was working as a veterinary assistant surgeon at the state-run hospital at Kollur village. [21] As Indian laws do not permit the use of victim's real name in such cases; pseudonyms were being used by various media houses and police officials including "Disha" and ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019_Hyderabad_gang_rape_and_murder

[2019 Hyderabad gang rape - Dharmapedia Wiki]
2019 Hyderabad Gang Rape refers to the case of the rape and murder of a 26-year-old veterinary doctor from Shamshabad in Hyderabad,[1] whose partially burnt dead body was found under Chatanpalli bridge in Shadnagar on 28 November 2019. She had been raped and killed the day before.[2] The incident ...
URL: https://en.dharmapedia.net/wiki/2019_Hyderabad_gang_rape

[Hyderabad vet rape-murder: A remote Telangana village remembers a beloved doctor - India Today]
Here's how people in the remote Telangana village of Kollur remember the victim of the brutal Hyderabad gang rape, a crime that has left India shaken.
URL: https://www.indiatoday.in/india/story/hyderabad-gang-rape-murder-kollur-village-1624772-2019-12-03

[Hyderabad Gang Rape and Murder case - Law Insider India]
December 23, 2019 - Three member team of forensic expert reached Hyderabad for the re-postmortem of all the four accused in Disha Rape and murder case. December 30, 2019 - The re-postmortem report of the four accused in the Disha rape and murder case was submitted to the Telangana High Court by the Forensics Department of AIIMS.
URL: https://lawinsider.in/judgment/hyderabad-gang-rape-rape-and-murder-case

[2019 Hyderabad gang rape and murder explained]
She was a resident of Shamshabad [15] and was working as a veterinary assistant surgeon at the state-run hospital at Kollur village. [16] As Indian laws do not permit the use of victim's real name in such cases; pseudonyms were being used by various media houses and police officials including " Disha " and " Hyderabad Nirbhaya " which was in ...
URL: https://everything.explained.today/2019_Hyderabad_gang_rape_and_murder/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [2019 Hyderabad gang rape and murder - Wikipedia] ---
2019 Hyderabad gang rape and murder of a 26-year-old veterinary doctor in Shamshabad, near Hyderabad, sparked outrage across India. Her body was found in Shadnagar on 28 November 2019, the day after she was murdered. Four suspects were arrested and according to the Cyberabad Metropolitan Police, confessed to having raped and killed the doctor.
The Telangana Police Department stated the victim parked her scooter near a toll plaza, catching the attention of two lorry drivers and their assistants. According to police, they deflated her tire, pretended to help her and pushed her into nearby bushes, where they raped and smothered her. Allegedly, they loaded her corpse onto a lorry and dropped it by the roadside.
The police arrested four men based on the evidence gathered from CCTV cameras and the victim's mobile phone. The accused were taken into judicial custody at Cherlapally Central Jail for seven days. The Chief Minister of Telangana ordered the formation of a fast-track court to try the accused for their alleged crimes. The rape and murder elicited outrage in several parts of the country. Protests and public demonstration against rape were organised nationwide after the incident, with the public demanding stricter laws against rape and rapists. The Minister of Home Affairs criticised the Telangana Police and stated that the government intended to amend the Indian Penal Code and Code of Criminal Procedure to introduce laws for quicker punishment by fast-track courts.
All four accused were killed on 6 December 2019, under a bridge on the Bengaluru-Hyderabad national highway, while they were in police custody. According to the police, the suspects were taken to the location for a reconstruction of the crime scene, where two of them allegedly snatched guns from the policemen escorting them and attacked the police. In the ensuing shootout, all four suspects were shot dead. Some accused the police of extrajudicial execution, while hundreds of thousands of people celebrated the men's deaths.
The first post-mortem of the four accused who were killed in the encounter was conducted on the same day at a government hospital in Mahbubnagar from where the bodies were subsequently moved to the Gandhi Hospital. The Telangana High Court on 21 December ordered the re-postmortem of the four accused. The second autopsy was done by a team of forensic experts of AIIMS Delhi at a hospital in Hyderabad. After re-postmortem, the bodies were handed over to the next of kin after due identification process was done. In 2022, an Inquiry Commission appointed by the Supreme Court of India concluded in its report that the custodial killing had occurred in a staged encounter, and the matter was transferred to the Telangana High Court for further action.
The matter is pending before telanagana high court who were killed in encounter 4 deceased family members approach telangana high court for registration of crime against the police who were killed  illegally without trail 
2 writ petitions are pending 
The matter taken up by Advocate D.suresh kumar civil liberties leader ,senior advocate ,and young advocate marati Dinesh civil liberties advocate fighting for justice behalf of the 4 deceased 
In this matter supreme court senior advocate vrinda grover argued behalf of victims registered a crime against the police ,the matter is still pending .




--- [2019 Hyderabad gang rape - Dharmapedia Wiki] ---
No content


--- [Hyderabad vet rape-murder: A remote Telangana village remembers a beloved doctor - India Today] ---
Hyderabad vet rape-murder: A remote Telangana village remembers a beloved doctor Here's how people in the remote Telangana village of Kollur remember the victim of the brutal Hyderabad gang rape, a crime that has left India shaken. Sarpanch Raju remembered her with a teary eye. She was young, conscientious, used to long commutes: the first veterinarian posted in his remote Telangana village, Kollur, in a decade. Raju would pick her up and drop her at the village bus stand nearly every day. From there, she would travel back to the toll plaza where she parked her scooter. The same toll booth where four young lorry workers -- all school dropouts -- gangraped and killed her last week. She was in her mid-twenties. Balayya, an attender who worked with the young vet, was heartbroken. He dabbed his eyes with a piece of cloth as he crouched at the doorway of a government building. Nayak, an mandal parishad official, remembered her good work in Kollur, located some 60 km from Hyderabad. She had joined a local hospital as an assistant veterinary surgeon in January 2017, and worked with farmers and thousands of livestock. The sheer brutality shown by her rapists has left India seething with rage, and Monday's Parliament session was marked by impassioned interventions by MPs -- one of whom said the four young men should be hanged by New Year's Eve. Inputs from Sanjay


--- [Hyderabad Gang Rape and Murder case - Law Insider India] ---
Timeline of events from November 27, 2019 to December 6, 2019 November 27, 2019– The 27-year-old veterinarian goes missing near Hyderabad’s Shamshabad toll plaza. Mohammed Ali alias Arif, Jollu Naveen, Chennakeshavulu alias Chenna and Jollu Shiva all four were accused of raping and murdering her. After that, the accused are said to have taken her body to a nearby under-construction bridge and set it on fire. Earlier, around 6.15 p.m., the victim parked her two-wheeler at the toll gate and hired a cab to Gachibowli. Her bike had a flat tyre when she returned around 9 p.m. She called her sister at 9.22 p.m. to say she was afraid and to ask her to keep talking to her. November 28, 2019– The burnt body of a Hyderabad veterinarian recovered by police. November 29, 2019– Police arrested all the four suspects and place them in Cherlapally Central Prison’s high-security cells for a period of 14 days. They were charged under sections 302 (murder), 375 (rape), and 362 of the Indian Penal Code (abduction). December 4, 2019– The Telangana government has formed a special court to try the four accused in the case. Three police officers have been suspended for allegedly failing to file a FIR in the case of the ‘missing’ woman veterinarian, who was subsequently discovered raped and murdered. December 6, 2019– The accused is taken to Chatanpally by the police in order to recover the victim’s phone at around 3: 00 A.M. 3:45 A.M.: The police and the perpetrator arrive at the scene of the crime, where the latter is accused of burning the victim alive. 3:55 A.M.: The police demand that the accused show them where the victim’s belongings were disposed of. 4:05 A.M.: The accused begin walking into the field with the police to show them where the victim’s phone, wrist watch, and power bank were thrown. 4:30 A.M.: The accused begin/pretend to check for the victim’s belongings until 5.30 a.m. 5:30 A.M.: The accused snatches two guns from the officers and flees. 5:40 A.M.: The accused are asked to raise their hands in the air and surrender their arms. 5:55 A.M.: Two of the accused threw stones at the officers, while the other two took up positions and pointed their stolen guns at them. 6:10 A.M.: The police are attempting to reclaim the weapons. 6:15 A.M.: In an encounter, the police opened fire on the accused, killing all four of them. 6:30 A.M.: The investigative officials inform senior officers about the encounter and the accused’s death. December 8, 2019– According to reports, eleven bullets were recovered from the bodies of the four accused persons in the Hyderabad doctor’s rape and murder case, who were shot by police in the early hours of December 6 at Chatanpally near Shadnagar. A team of forensic experts recovered the bullets during a postmortem at Mahbubnagar Government Hospital, where the bodies are being preserved in accordance with High Court orders. The bodies of prime accused Mohd Pasha alias Areef, Jollu Shiva, and Jollu Naveen each had two bullets recovered, and the body of Chintakunta Chennakesavalu had three bullets recovered. Shiva was shot in the neck, while the others sustained gunshot wounds to the chest and abdomen. Meanwhile, on December 7, 24 hours after the encounter, the clues team used sophisticated equipment to sweep the encounter site. They gathered bullet clips, grenades, and pellets used in the shootout between the accused and the police officers. Since it had become difficult to identify bullets and other metal parts in the dense foliage, the clues team that arrived on Saturday brought equipment such as metal detectors to track the material items at the site. On Friday, the team seized two handguns from the accused’s hands, as well as blood samples, Gunshot Residue (GSR), and other evidence. In this encounter case, Surender Reddy has been appointed as the investigating officer. December 12, 2019– A three member inquiry commission is constituted by the Supreme Court in encounter in Telangana Rape case. The commission will be led by former Supreme Court Justice VS Sirpurkar, former Bombay High Court Judge RP Sondurbaldota and former CBI director DR Karthikeyan. The bench also ordered that all proceedings initiated by the Telangana High Court and the National Human Rights Commission into the Telangana encounter be stayed, and that no other courts should hear any pleas related to the case. The bench also said,” We believe that an unbiased investigation into the death of the four people accused of gang rape and murdering a veterinarian in Telangana should be conducted.” It also mentioned that there are aspects of Telengana version which needs an inquiry. December 13, 2019– The division bench in Telangana High Court has asked the state government to preserve the bodies of the accused killed in encounter until further notice. December 19, 2019– The families of four accused in the Disha rape and murder case moved Supreme Court seeking a compensation of Rs. 50 lakhs each and CBI investigation into the alleged “fake” encounter. December 21, 2019– The Telangana High Court ordered re-postmortem of the bodies of the four accused killed in the police encounter. The court also ordered SIT to investigate the incident, seize the weapon used in the encounter and send them to the forensic lab for analysis, collect the case dairy, logbooks, the registered FIR, etc for the analysis. All collected evidences are to be presented before the inquiry commission set up by the Supreme Court. December 23, 2019– Three member team of forensic expert reached Hyderabad for the re-postmortem of all the four accused in Disha Rape and murder case. December 30, 2019– The re-postmortem report of the four accused in the Disha rape and murder case was submitted to the Telangana High Court by the Forensics Department of AIIMS. January 17, 2020– The Supreme Court defined the power of the commission set up for the inquiry in the encounter in Telangana Rape case. “To inquire into the alleged incident resulting in the death of four persons on December 6, 2029 in Hyderabad, namely, Mohammed Arif, Chintakunta Chennakeshavulu, Jolu Shiva and Jollu Naveen, who were arrested in connection with the rape and murder of a young veterinary lady doctor, while they were in the custody of police,” the bench said as its first term of reference. For the second term of reference the court said it would “inquire into the circumstances that led to the death of afore-mentioned four persons and to ascertain as to whether any offence appears to have been committed in the course. If yes, to fix the responsibility of erring officials.” The commission has to submit its report within a period of six months from the date of first hearing in the matter. The commission has to fix its first day of hearing at Hyderabad. The chairman will choose secretarial assistance, and the state government will make provisions in this regard. The commission will be provided security by Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). The commission has all the powers to inquire under the Commission of Inquiry Act. (Chairman will be provided Rs. 1.5 lakh per sitting and others members Rs. 1 lakh and all others expenses will be borne by the Telangana Government.) February 3, 2020– The three member inquiry commission constituted by the Supreme Court reached Telangana High court and commenced its task from the chamber allotted to then in ‘C’ blocks building on court premises. February 28, 2020– The Supreme Court rejected a plea seeking a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh and FIR against the police personnel over the encounter in which all the four accused were killed. The court while quashing the plea suggested the petitioner to approach the inquiry commission for the same. The petitioner also sought quashing of FIR against the four deceased for attempting to kill some police personnel. The Bench headed by Justice SA Bobde said, “We are not inclined to entertain this petition at this statue. The petitioner is at liberty to tender evidence before the commission set up by this court….after the commission gives the report petitioner will be at liberty to claim compensation before the High Court”. The petitioners were Pinjari Hussain father of Ahmed, Jollu Rajaya father of Jollu Siva, Chinthakuntla Kurmanna father of Chinthakuntla and Jollu Lakshmi mother of Jollu Naveen. July 24, 2020– The Supreme Court extended the time for inquiry by 6 months for the commission to conclude the investigation while hearing the panel’s plea. As of now, the extension provided to the inquiry commission is the last update in the encounter case.


--- [2019 Hyderabad gang rape and murder explained] ---
No content
