=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Aadat (album) - Wikipedia]
adat is a 2004 studio album by the Pakistani band Jal. The album features three bonus tracks (Dr. Zeus & Kais Mix) and has an exclusive bonus VCD with all Jal videos. Atif Aslam released his debut solo album Jal Pari after he left the band, ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aadat_(album)

[The artistic growth of Atif Aslam | Instep | thenews.com.pk]
Atif Aslam, Pakistan’s most popular musician, has released just three studio albums – Jalpari (2004), Doorie (2006) and Meri Kahani (2008) – after arriving on the music scene with the breakthrough song, ‘Aadat’ with his then-band Jal in 2003.
URL: https://www.thenews.com.pk/tns/detail/1014032-the-artistic-growth-of-atif-aslam

[Aadat — Jal | Last.fm]
Listen free to Jal – Aadat (Rangon Mein, Lamhay and more). 12 tracks (54:00). Aadat (Urdu: عادت, literal English translation: habit) is the debut album released by Pakistani rock band, Jal in 2004.
URL: https://www.last.fm/music/Jal/Aadat

[The Best Ever Pakistani Music Collection!: Jal The Band]
"I always wanted to have a band of my own and a common friend introduced Farhan Saeed to me. Then we jammed together for five-ten minutes and thereafter we started our performances. We never looked back after 2003 album 'Aadat' was released.
URL: http://musicfaheem.blogspot.com/2009/07/jal-band.html

[Aadat (song) - Wikipedia]
Aadat (original version) by Atif Aslam (composed by Atif and Goher) released in Atif Aslam's Jal Pari in 2004. Aadat (deep blue version) by Atif Aslam for his own album Jal Pari in 2004.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aadat_(song)


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Aadat (album) - Wikipedia] ---
Aadat is a 2004 studio album by the Pakistani band Jal.
The album features three bonus tracks (Dr. Zeus & Kais Mix) and has an exclusive bonus VCD with all Jal videos.




--- [The artistic growth of Atif Aslam | Instep | thenews.com.pk] ---
As Pakistan’s most celebrated artist drops a new song, ‘Moonrise’, here’s looking back at his artistic evolution. | ‘ | ‘Moonrise’ by Atif Aslam released late last month, and since then, fans on both sides of the border have been debating whether Atif Aslam could be the most romantic singer. There are other contenders in Pakistan and neighboring India such as Farhan Saeed and Arjit Singh respectively, but when it comes to celebrity power, they have not surpassed Aslam. ‘Moonrise’ is very much a romantic song and a genre that Atif Aslam has conquered from his early years in music to the present day. Directed by Adnan Qazi and featuring Amy Jackson - who is known for her work in regional Indian films - and released by Tarish Music, the song is backed by a slick music video with a crisp duration of being just under 3 minutes and 36 seconds. The music video is elaborate and a full-blown romantic affair akin to a short Bollywood film and if that floats your boat, great. But if it doesn’t, the song is good enough to compensate. Would we feel as positively towards it if someone else were singing it? Unlikely. But Aslam singing a song where the musicality tilts towards electronic dance, fused with Punjabi lyrics and a love-fueled music video, is good fun. Is the song a bit dull with over-the-top visuals? Maybe. That could apply to other artists who are also known for this particular genre. But when the artist in question is Atif Aslam, the answer is complex and not as simple as yes-or-no. The biggest strength here is not the music and lyrics, to be honest. It is Aslam’s voice and when he applies that voice to any genre, it sounds extraordinary. ‘Moonrise’ is, therefore, a song that will appeal to all those who have a soft corner for Atif Aslam’s voice. Though Atif delved deeper into acting with the serial Sang E Mah, the fact is that he’s featuring a lot of new music including ‘Rafta Rafta’ ft. Sajal Aly (July 2021), ‘Raat’ ft. Mansha Pasha, Syra Yousuf, Kiran Malik (February 2021), ‘Ajnabi’ ft. Mahira Khan in (September 2021) – in addition to commercial work. ‘Moonrise’ fits nicely into his discography. “I’m a new day rising/I’m a brand new sky/To hang the stars upon tonight.” -’Times Like These’ by Foo Fighters Atif Aslam, Pakistan’s most popular musician, has released just three studio albums – Jalpari (2004), Doorie (2006) and Meri Kahani (2008) – after arriving on the music scene with the breakthrough song, ‘Aadat’ with his then-band Jal in 2003. Aslam became a solo artist after ‘Aadat’ with his last LP arriving in 2008. On the surface, it may even sound like he’s living on the glory of those albums. But that’s just semantics. The albums appealed not only to music enthusiasts within Pakistan but across the border and eventually fans across the globe. During those days, in an interview with Instep, Aslam noted that it’s more difficult to create a song that has mass appeal than one that appeals to a small number of fans. It’s this philosophy that turned him into the globe-trotting musician he was and still is - decades later. Between 2008 and 2022, Aslam rewrote his own musical graph. By appearing on the second season of Coke Studio (Pakistan), the singer-songwriter turned his staunchest critics into fans. He made his Coke Studio debut in 2009 with songs such as ‘Jalpari’, ‘Kinara (with Riaz Ali Khan)’, ‘Wasta Pyar Da’, ‘Mai Ne’, and ‘Humain Kya Hua’ and established his authority in music beyond contemporary songs that belonged to him. He showcased his skills as a multilingual artist who could do justice to various genres explored within the Coke Studio realm. We were sold. A different side of Atif Aslam had emerged. After his 2009 appearance on the series, he returned to the platform on multiple occasions, creating demographic diversity every time. In season five of Coke Studio, he went all-in, singing songs like ‘Charkha Nolakha’ (with Qayaas), ‘Rabba Sacheya’ and ‘Dholna’. He followed it up with ‘Channa’ on season six and ‘Tajdar-e-Haram’, ‘Man Aamadeh Am (with Gul Panra)’, ‘Kadi Aao Ni (with Mai Dhai)’ in season eight. In season 12, Atif Aslam performed ‘Wohi Khuda Hai’, ‘Mubarik Mubarik’ (with Banur’s Band) and ‘Aaye Kuch Abr’ on the series. And, for the latest season, in 2022, Atif Aslam appeared on the Coke Studio horizon again with originals like ‘Sajan Das Na’ (with Momina Mustehsan), and ‘Go’ (with the prodigious Abdullah Siddiqui). What is remarkable, in hindsight, is what Atif did on each of those seasons. He went from bilingual to multilingual and worked with a slew of artists, singing songs in various forms of music including qawwali, ghazal, raga, folk and originals. He worked with Rohail Hyatt as music producer on most songs, but he also worked with other music producers the series had hired in later years including Strings and Zulfiqar Jabbar Khan (aka Xulfi). It seemed as if there was nothing Atif Aslam couldn’t accomplish. Combine these Coke Studio songs and Atif has enough songs in his repertoire that it qualifies as a fourth LP. When criticism followed the series for focusing on cover songs alone, the music series changed gears with the last two seasons firmly focusing on original songs and Atif was right in the midst of that change and mixed it up as required. “Destiny is calling me/ Open up my eager eyes/Cause I’m Mr. Brightside.” – ‘Mr. Brightside’ by The Killers On the other side of the spectrum and beyond Coke Studio, Atif continued to not only perform as a live artist in Pakistan and across continents, he became one of the strongest musicians in Pakistan, making fans in territories where other artists simply didn’t have a chance. Atif Aslam became one of the few voices that continued to make a mark while other artists who had emerged at the same time as he did were calling it a day or refocused their attention to other forms of performing arts like acting. Bands broke up. Some went solo and found a certain degree of success. Others never could make a mark even though they had earned it on the basis of merit and music philosophy. Think Aaroh, EP, Qayaas and many artists who appeared on the music scene during the same time as Atif Aslam but eventually disappeared or embraced other sides of the performing arts. Noori is the exception as the band hasn’t broken up but is simply on a hiatus. Even Strings broke up after six studio albums, with Thirty being their last record. ‘Pyaar Ka Rog’ on Velo Sound Station became the last song that Faisal Kapadia and Bilal Maqsood sang together. The stage was already set since Velo Sound Station was spearheaded by Bilal Maqsood sans Faisal Kapadia. Both are now flying as solo artists. Even music’s pioneering acts were ending their run as a unit such as the mighty Junoon with Ali Azmat going solo and dropping a variety of singles, and two beautiful albums. No matter what occurred, Atif stayed on course. His voice being the biggest arsenal in his musical toolbox, Atif found enormous success in India as a playback singer for films featuring the likes of Katrina Kaif, Ranbir Kapoor, Salman Khan, Saif Ali Khan, Akshay Kumar, Shahid Kapoor, Deepika Padukone, John Abraham and several others. In the process, Atif also influenced other singers in Bollywood with Arijit Singh becoming a successful name while singing in a similar tone as Atif Aslam. No, he hasn’t surpassed Atif’s recognition in India or managed to copy his voice, but he has based his vocal delivery in a fashion that belongs first and foremost to Atif Aslam. Singh’s popularity didn’t diminish Aslam’s Bollywood run. His universal appeal is visible when you go to various beauty salons where the best of Atif Aslam is usually playing in the background. I speak from experience. “I feel my heart underneath my skin/and I feel my heart beating/oh you make me feel/like I’m alive again.” - ‘Adventure Of A Lifetime’ by Coldplay When political relations between Pakistan and India soured, artists (from musicians to actors) had to pull back from going to India for any reason – be it for acting or as musicians. One contemporary artist emerged as someone who was above this line in the sand then and now. Taking the India ban in his stride, Atif worked in ways that he shone in Pakistani content while maintaining his popularity in India. Fawad Khan is another artist popular on both sides of the border but his widespread standing in India has more to do with acting and less to do with music. The latter is not looking to drop music on his fans anytime soon. Atif, on the other hand, did try acting in Shoaib Mansoor’s Bol years ago but that was purely because he was lending his star power to the social drama. With Sang E Mah, Atif has shown he can act as well as make music - at the same time. The acting bug is something that is also visible in his recent music videos such as ‘Moonrise’. It looks like the post-pandemic Atif Aslam will continue to swim rather than sink by experimenting with various forms of the performing arts. In doing so, his artistic evolution is both: obvious and an achievement in wretched times.


--- [Aadat — Jal | Last.fm] ---
Aadat (Urdu: عادت, literal English translation: habit) is the debut album released by Pakistani rock band, Jal in 2004. Sales of the album were such that it remained at the top of the Pakistani music charts for several weeks after its release. The album contained five songs which received Top 40 airplay in Pakistan, including "Aadat", "Lamhey", "Ik Din AyeGa", "Dil Harey", and "Teri Yaad". Two of these songs, as well as one other song from the album, also appeared on Atif Aslam's debut album after Aslam left Jal. This led to a d… read more Aadat (Urdu: عادت, literal English translation: habit) is the debut album released by Pakistani rock band, Jal in 2004. Sales of the album were such … read more Aadat (Urdu: عادت, literal English translation: habit) is the debut album released by Pakistani rock band, Jal in 2004. Sales of the album were such that it remained at the top of the Pa… read more Jal (Urdu: جل, literal English translation: "water") is a pop rock band from Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan. The band originally consisted of song writer, vocalist and lead guitarist, Goher Mumtaz and vocalist, Atif Aslam. Founded in 2002, they first became popular playing in Lahore's underground music scene with the release of their song "Aadat", which was a massive hit in Pakistan topping all local music charts. The band initially achieved critical and commercial success with the release of their music video "Aadat", directed by Umer Anwar, in 2003. Af… read more Jal (Urdu: جل, literal English translation: "water") is a pop rock band from Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan. The band originally consisted of song writer, vocalist and lead guitarist, G… read more Jal (Urdu: جل, literal English translation: "water") is a pop rock band from Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan. The band originally consisted of song writer, vocalist and lead guitarist, Goher Mumtaz and vocalist, Atif Aslam. Founded … read more


--- [The Best Ever Pakistani Music Collection!: Jal The Band] ---
Jal (Urdu: جل) is a Pakistani pop band founded by Aatif Aslum and Goher Mumtaz. The original band members were Atif Aslam and Goher Mumtaz but later Atif left the band and then replaced by Farhan Saeed, and Shazi on bass guitar. The band is among the first of contemporary Pakistani bands that fuse Urdu vocals with modern Pop. Formation and first years (2002-2004) Jal was formed in Lahore in 2002 when Atif and Gohar Mumtaz composed their first song by the name "Aadat". Soon after, began their search for like minded musicians to complete his band. They ran into Shazi (Aamir), a bass guitarist and after a few jamming sessions invited Shazi to join Jal. Jal's first single "Aadat" was released in December, 2003. Before the release of its video "Aadat" was released of the internet through a local Pakistani web portal. The song enjoyed the status of the most downloaded Pakistani song on the internet for quite some time and was extensively popular by the time the video was released. Directed by Umer Anwar the single burst into the Pakistani music scene and took it by storm. Receiving an amazing amount of air time by all the music channels and entering music charts. The video was rated 4th best video of the year 2003 by ARYThe Muzik within days of its release. The success of the "Aadat" can partly be gauged by the countless concert offeres the band recieived immediately after the release of the song and partly by its rating to date on music channels. However, by the end of December, 2003 due to musical differences, Atif Aslam parted ways with the band while Gohar Mumtaz once again searched for a vocalist. It was then that Sultan Raja, Bassist of Call, introduced Farhan Saeed Butt to Gohar and thus Jal found a new voice. By the time Jal came up with their new line-up "Aadat's" video was already doing rounds on the local music channels with the former singer Atif Aslam's vocals. The song was thus re-done for the official release in their debut album Aadat. Band Members: Farhan Saeed: Farhan Saeed Butt (Urdu: فرحان سعید بٹ) is the 25 year old lead singer of the Pakistani band Jal. Born on September 14, 1984, he is known for his distinctive vocal stylings. At the tender age of 6, Farhan started showing his love for music. He grew up absorbedly listening to his father and his brothers sing. By the age of 9, he was already singing alongside his brothers and his father. Up until he took his O levels at Crescent, Farhan only sang among his family and friends at which time his greatest supports were his two brothers, Salman and Haroon Saeed, both talented musicians. In 1999 when Farhan started his A levels at KIMS, he also started singing in front of larger audiences. He then was acknowledged by his fellow students and teachers and went on to win numerous competitions. In 2001, Farhan went on to National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences in Peshawar but then migrated the campus in Lahore for his bachelors degree. There, during a singing competition, Zulfikar Jabbar Khan ,a.k.a Xulfi eP, was siting in the audience and he was impressed by Farhan's classical yet modern-contemporary style. In mid-2004, Sultan Raja, bassist of another Pakistani band Call, introduced Farhan to Goher Mumtaz who was in search of a lead singer. Apart from Jal's debut hit single "Aadat" which was re-done in Farhan's vocals, he has to his credit seven other tracks for the Jal's debut album which include "Rangon Main," "Ik Din Aaye Ga," "Lamhay," "Teri Yaad," "Manchala," "Har Jaga Hai Jal," "Panchi," "Dil Haray Pukare" and "Bikhra Hoon Main". Farhan has managed to capture the attention of audiences all over the world and have proven his vocal talents on various occasions. Gohar Mumtaz: Goher Mumtaz took his education from Divisional Public School Faisalabad. His inspirations were primarily Junoon. He started taking guitar classes from Faisalabad when he was in 8th class from imran.After that he went to Lahore for his masters in business administration from Punjab college for Business Administration. He is the lead guitarist of the Pakistani rock band JAL. He debuted in the band, "The Jupiters" in Late 1999. He formed JAL and first appeared with Atif Aslam in December, 2002. The band's first single was "Aadat". Atif and Goher met at college at PCBA in Lahore, and first performed in various hotels in Lahore and Islamabad. After their first single Aadat Atif and Gohhar made their own bands. Atif made a solo album in 2004. Xulfiqar Jabbar (Xulfi), a member of Call band introduced Shazi, a bassist, Jal. Goher added Farhan Saeed after seeing him in a concert at Islamabad. All 10 tracks were by Goher Mumtaz. They released their 2nd album, Boondh, On November 13/14. Aadat (2004-2006) Jal released their debut album, "Aadat", which did well at the charts. Their first single "Aadat" topped the charts and stayed at the top for two weeks. In 2006, Jal had created waves as the latest Pakistani band on the block, even as their album Aadat continues to climb the charts locally, and their track "Woh Lamhe" was a hit, even a year after its release. “What makes us special is our music and the compositions. They are a unique blend of pop and rock, with a subtle sufi influence. Speaking about the rising popularity of a host of Pakistan-based singers in India, including the likes of Strings and Adnan Sami, Shazi, who is the bass guitarist, says, “For us, both the countries are quite different in terms of performing. It’s only the border that is common, and that is why we are different...India has totally a different type of music" Jal is fond of Junoon, and is influenced by singers like Hamid Ali Khan and Mehdi Hassan. Apart from the trip what’s keeping the band busy right now is also their next album, which Mumtaz promises, “Will be much more mature, as we’ve learnt a lot over the years.” Boondh (2007-present) In 2007 Jal released its second music album named "Boondh" and in 2008 released it in Mumbai, India.Goher Mumtaz, a guitarist, vocalist-composer and lyricist of the band, narrates how this band was formed. "I always wanted to have a band of my own and a common friend introduced Farhan Saeed to me. Then we jammed together for five-ten minutes and thereafter we started our performances. We never looked back after 2003 album 'Aadat' was released. Thus, the band was formed, with the name 'JAL'."says Goher The name suggests that the band is just a small droplet of water in the sea of music. "Boondh" which features Bollywood actress Amrita Rao in one of it's music videos has a total of 12 songs, including two unplugged versions and two remixes. Farhan Saeed, the lead vocalist of the band, explained in detail why the album was titled 'Boondh'. "'Boondh' is not the name of any song in the album, but is basically the theme of the album and covers all the songs in it. The name suggests that we as a band are just like a small droplet of water in the sea of music, which covers Pakistan, Asia and the entire world where our music is heard. It is our small contribution to the sea of music," said Farhan. This album focuses primarily on the pop and the soft rock genres. The album was followed by a live tour, mainly in South Asia, with concerts all over Pakistan, and a few places in India. Awards and Honours The original band members were Atif Aslam and Goher Mumtaz but later Atif left the band and then replaced by Farhan Saeed, and Shazi on bass guitar. The band is among the first of contemporary Pakistani bands that fuse Urdu vocals with modern Pop. Formation and first years (2002-2004) Jal was formed in Lahore in 2002 when Atif and Gohar Mumtaz composed their first song by the name "Aadat". Soon after, began their search for like minded musicians to complete his band. They ran into Shazi (Aamir), a bass guitarist and after a few jamming sessions invited Shazi to join Jal. Jal's first single "Aadat" was released in December, 2003. Before the release of its video "Aadat" was released of the internet through a local Pakistani web portal. The song enjoyed the status of the most downloaded Pakistani song on the internet for quite some time and was extensively popular by the time the video was released. Directed by Umer Anwar the single burst into the Pakistani music scene and took it by storm. Receiving an amazing amount of air time by all the music channels and entering music charts. The video was rated 4th best video of the year 2003 by ARYThe Muzik within days of its release. The success of the "Aadat" can partly be gauged by the countless concert offeres the band recieived immediately after the release of the song and partly by its rating to date on music channels. However, by the end of December, 2003 due to musical differences, Atif Aslam parted ways with the band while Gohar Mumtaz once again searched for a vocalist. It was then that Sultan Raja, Bassist of Call, introduced Farhan Saeed Butt to Gohar and thus Jal found a new voice. By the time Jal came up with their new line-up "Aadat's" video was already doing rounds on the local music channels with the former singer Atif Aslam's vocals. The song was thus re-done for the official release in their debut album Aadat. Band Members: Farhan Saeed: Farhan Saeed Butt (Urdu: فرحان سعید بٹ) is the 25 year old lead singer of the Pakistani band Jal. Born on September 14, 1984, he is known for his distinctive vocal stylings. At the tender age of 6, Farhan started showing his love for music. He grew up absorbedly listening to his father and his brothers sing. By the age of 9, he was already singing alongside his brothers and his father. Up until he took his O levels at Crescent, Farhan only sang among his family and friends at which time his greatest supports were his two brothers, Salman and Haroon Saeed, both talented musicians. In 1999 when Farhan started his A levels at KIMS, he also started singing in front of larger audiences. He then was acknowledged by his fellow students and teachers and went on to win numerous competitions. In 2001, Farhan went on to National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences in Peshawar but then migrated the campus in Lahore for his bachelors degree. There, during a singing competition, Zulfikar Jabbar Khan ,a.k.a Xulfi eP, was siting in the audience and he was impressed by Farhan's classical yet modern-contemporary style. In mid-2004, Sultan Raja, bassist of another Pakistani band Call, introduced Farhan to Goher Mumtaz who was in search of a lead singer. Apart from Jal's debut hit single "Aadat" which was re-done in Farhan's vocals, he has to his credit seven other tracks for the Jal's debut album which include "Rangon Main," "Ik Din Aaye Ga," "Lamhay," "Teri Yaad," "Manchala," "Har Jaga Hai Jal," "Panchi," "Dil Haray Pukare" and "Bikhra Hoon Main". Farhan has managed to capture the attention of audiences all over the world and have proven his vocal talents on various occasions. Gohar Mumtaz: Goher Mumtaz took his education from Divisional Public School Faisalabad. His inspirations were primarily Junoon. He started taking guitar classes from Faisalabad when he was in 8th class from imran.After that he went to Lahore for his masters in business administration from Punjab college for Business Administration. He is the lead guitarist of the Pakistani rock band JAL. He debuted in the band, "The Jupiters" in Late 1999. He formed JAL and first appeared with Atif Aslam in December, 2002. The band's first single was "Aadat". Atif and Goher met at college at PCBA in Lahore, and first performed in various hotels in Lahore and Islamabad. After their first single Aadat Atif and Gohhar made their own bands. Atif made a solo album in 2004. Xulfiqar Jabbar (Xulfi), a member of Call band introduced Shazi, a bassist, Jal. Goher added Farhan Saeed after seeing him in a concert at Islamabad. All 10 tracks were by Goher Mumtaz. They released their 2nd album, Boondh, On November 13/14. Aadat (2004-2006) Jal released their debut album, "Aadat", which did well at the charts. Their first single "Aadat" topped the charts and stayed at the top for two weeks. In 2006, Jal had created waves as the latest Pakistani band on the block, even as their album Aadat continues to climb the charts locally, and their track "Woh Lamhe" was a hit, even a year after its release. “What makes us special is our music and the compositions. They are a unique blend of pop and rock, with a subtle sufi influence. Speaking about the rising popularity of a host of Pakistan-based singers in India, including the likes of Strings and Adnan Sami, Shazi, who is the bass guitarist, says, “For us, both the countries are quite different in terms of performing. It’s only the border that is common, and that is why we are different...India has totally a different type of music" Jal is fond of Junoon, and is influenced by singers like Hamid Ali Khan and Mehdi Hassan. Apart from the trip what’s keeping the band busy right now is also their next album, which Mumtaz promises, “Will be much more mature, as we’ve learnt a lot over the years.” Boondh (2007-present) In 2007 Jal released its second music album named "Boondh" and in 2008 released it in Mumbai, India.Goher Mumtaz, a guitarist, vocalist-composer and lyricist of the band, narrates how this band was formed. "I always wanted to have a band of my own and a common friend introduced Farhan Saeed to me. Then we jammed together for five-ten minutes and thereafter we started our performances. We never looked back after 2003 album 'Aadat' was released. Thus, the band was formed, with the name 'JAL'."says Goher The name suggests that the band is just a small droplet of water in the sea of music. "Boondh" which features Bollywood actress Amrita Rao in one of it's music videos has a total of 12 songs, including two unplugged versions and two remixes. Farhan Saeed, the lead vocalist of the band, explained in detail why the album was titled 'Boondh'. "'Boondh' is not the name of any song in the album, but is basically the theme of the album and covers all the songs in it. The name suggests that we as a band are just like a small droplet of water in the sea of music, which covers Pakistan, Asia and the entire world where our music is heard. It is our small contribution to the sea of music," said Farhan. This album focuses primarily on the pop and the soft rock genres. The album was followed by a live tour, mainly in South Asia, with concerts all over Pakistan, and a few places in India. Awards and Honours - Within days after release Aadat's video was declared the 4th best video. It remained on the top of the charts for over two weeks since its video release. - Jal's single Woh Lamhey broke through to the charts instantly and stayed on the top for two continuous months. - Jal's video Ik Din Aye Ga was declared the 2nd best video among the top 100 videos selected by The Musik channel. - Jal's debut album Aadat was declared the best selling album of 2004 on Geo TV by Mr. Khalid Sadaf (Owner of Sadaf Stereo). - Jal also received a special award by Shaukat Khanum Cancer Hospital in recognition of their support and efforts to raise funds for fighting cancer in Pakistan. - In 2006, Jal won an award at MTV Asia Awards 2006, following an award Indus Music Awards for best rock band in Pakistan. - In 2008 Jal won a best song Musik Award for the song Chalte Chalte. - In 2008 Jal won a best song award, The Best video and the best album of the year at the Lux Style Awards. Jal Official Website-jaltheband.com Jal Videos Jal Albums: - Aadat - Boondh


--- [Aadat (song) - Wikipedia] ---
"Aadat" (Urdu: عادت transl. Habit!) is originally a song by the Pakistani pop rock band Jal. It was sung by Atif Aslam and composed by Atif and Goher Mumtaz. Later it was released in several different versions in Jal's album Aadat by Farhan Saeed and Atif Aslam's solo album Jal Pari. It was also used in the Bollywood films Kalyug and Chocolate.
