=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jun Takahashi - Wikipedia]
The Paris store Colette liked his clothes so much that they asked Takahashi to present his 1998 collection "Exchange" in their store. UnderCover made its debut at Paris Fashion Week in October 2002, for Spring/Summer 2003.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jun_Takahashi

[Undercover SS03 'SCAB' Runway Show By Jun Takahashi]
The Undercover Spring Summer 2003 "Scab" was undoubtably a revolutionary turning point in Jun Takahashi's career! This was the first time he showcased his debut collection to the world, at Paris ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kLUy83Kc9g8

[Decoding Jun Takahashi's Undercover - SSENSE]
This is epitomized by the invitation to Undercover's first runway show in Paris in 2002, showing a woman's injured knee with crusts of dry blood covering a ...
URL: https://www.ssense.com/en-dk/editorial/fashion/decoding-jun-takahashis-undercover

[God Save Jonio: The Punk Influences of UNDERCOVER - sabukaru]
Mar 24, 2022 · The turning point for Jun Takahashi’s career was his first show during Paris Fashion Week in 2002. UNDERCOVER presented “SCAB” [SS2003], a standing ovation to a heightened version of crust punk, hence the title of the collection as “scab”.
URL: https://sabukaru.online/articles/god-save-jonio-the-punk-influences-of-undercover

[Undercover - Catwalk Yourself]
In 2002, UNDERCOVER had its biggest breakout yet during the Paris Fashion Week Show which was a turning point in his career. In Takahashi's SS2003 'Scab' runway collection, he references the 9/11 attack that occurred at the time and had wanted to convey a messageabout ethics and morals towards the Muslim community's treatment post 9/11.
URL: https://www.catwalkyourself.com/fashion-biographies/undercover/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jun Takahashi - Wikipedia] ---
Jun Takahashi (高橋 盾, Takahashi Jun; IPA: [takahaɕi dʑɯɴ]; born 21 September 1969) is a Japanese fashion designer who created the brand "UnderCover" (alternatively rendered as "Under Cover" or "Undercover").




--- [Undercover SS03 'SCAB' Runway Show By Jun Takahashi] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Decoding Jun Takahashi's Undercover - SSENSE] ---
No content


--- [God Save Jonio: The Punk Influences of UNDERCOVER - sabukaru] ---
God Save Jonio: The Punk Influences of UNDERCOVER In the light of the recent revival of pop-punk music, punk brands and DIY clothes have been making a comeback, rubbing shoulders with slick and subtle minimalist high fashion. UNDERCOVER, a legendary Japanese brand, has been the epitome of these two opposing styles. Elegant but grunge silhouettes and striking political statements, UNDERCOVER has upgraded the game for both streetwear and high fashion. Jun “Jonio” Takahashi, the brain behind UNDERCOVER’s success, owes it mostly to his taste for punk culture. UNDERCOVER started in 1990, while Jun Takahashi was still a student at the Bunka Fashion College in Tokyo. In 1993, with NIGO [2GO], fellow fashion designer best known for creating BAPE, they opened a small shop in the Urahara area named “NOWHERE”, a play on being “No Where” and “Now Here”, where they would sell their own creations and curated clothing. Years back, when Takahashi was in middle school, he was initiated to the flourishing punk scene in the United-Kingdom and found himself fully absorbed in his fascination for the brand Vivienne Westwood and the iconic punk band Sex Pistols, so much that a few years later he started a copy band, “Tokyo Sex Pistols” with Hikaru of BOUNTY X HUNTER, and Katchin’ of DOG DAY AFTERNOON. NIGO was also said to drum when there was no drummer. Jonio became his new nickname, as Takahashi often took the position of Johnny Rotten from the Sex Pistols. The brand Seditionaries by Vivienne Westwood and Malcom McLaren was also essential to the building of his artistic foundation. Somewhere during the mid 2000s, as tribute to this brand, Takahashi teamed up with Hiroshi Fujiwara to publish a collection of Seditionaries pieces. Take a look at the book here. This will set the tone for the main themes and inspiration sources for UNDERCOVER. Nowadays, Jun Takahashi takes inspiration from his dark side, instead of trying to make comfortable and palatable clothing, staying loyal to UNDERCOVER’s motto “WE MAKE NOISE, NOT CLOTHES”. In addition, duality is an important concept for Takahashi. Meshing high fashion with punk culture, mixing elegance with grime, often alluding to the concept of “chaos vs balance” in his clothes [which he also has tattooed on his arms], symbolizing his need for imagination and destruction in order to create something never done before. UNDERCOVER is a brand that really hits home for him and he says that the brand will evolve with the flow, at his own pace and inspirations of that period. The turning point for Jun Takahashi’s career was his first show during Paris Fashion Week in 2002. UNDERCOVER presented “SCAB” [SS2003], a standing ovation to a heightened version of crust punk, hence the title of the collection as “scab”. Models in chrome, copper, off-whites, and visible stitching, topped off with buckles and belts and the classic punk spikes and studs, walked down the runway. Zippers and holes in dresses, cargo pants, and boy shorts flashed before the audience. This fashion show took inspiration from the political circumstances of that time. The big boom of the show was when models walked out in colorful burqas. What would be now a questionable decision was absolutely outstanding and never done before a few decades ago. This was to call out the events surrounding 9/11 and the concerned authorities, and Jun Takahashi was pushing big political statements through his clothes. Since then, he’s been like a protégé of Rei Kawabuto, designer of Comme des Garçons, who then said that Takashi was the “only one with courage”. Politics was not a thing that the UNDERCOVER designer feared away from. Additionally, during a previous season, Takahashi came up with the slogans of “GFU” or “GFY” for his collection “Teaser” [SS2000], short for “Generation Fuck You”, as a way to denounce the economical downgrade in Japan after the economic boom that the generation prior thrived through. Supreme also used this slogan in their collaboration in 2016. More recently, his collection “Brainwashed Generation” [AW2017] was anti-media and called out the effects of social media, specifically the generation affected by it. Calling out the kind of control that the social media CEO and tech teams have, since practically no one is immune to the algorithm’s grasp, through clothes was a first for punk fashion. The feeling of riot that arises with these collections really hit the bullseye of punk culture. Many brands in the past few years have been under fire for culturally appropriating punk culture. This would result in watered-down, misrepresented political statements and overall deriving far from anti-capitalist feelings. However, UNDERCOVER has been applauded by critics many times for mixing elegance, politics, and the chaos of punk fashion. Jun Takahashi, being one of the designers to truly show appreciation for punk culture and representing it in his brand, found ways to modernize it and merge it with streetwear and haute couture simultaneously. Punk is for the people, for rebels with anti-imperialist, anti-war, anti-capitalist, and anarchist sentiments, and, boiling with rage and passion and a desire to be shocking, is not meant to be polished and put on display like a golden trophy, rather it’s meant to be worn until it is tearing at the seams and to provoke a change in society. Actually, designers of high fashion making clothes for the elite are essentially the archnemesis of traditional punk ideology, so it is difficult to pay tribute to it without derailing completely. However, Takahashi never fails to find the perfect middle ground between anarchy and high fashion. The cultural impact that this brand has on streetwear and runway fashion is considerable. Takahashi says that one of the main reasons for their success is working in collaboration with other creators. UNDERCOVER has collaborated with Uniqlo, Supreme, Nike, and artists like Thom Yorke from Radiohead, Cindy Sherman, and Hiroshi Fujiwara. Although proud to represent the Japanese fashion scene, UNDERCOVER never explicitly based their creative direction on Japanese culture [except for his show “Fallen Man” in 2020 which was inspired by a Kurosawa movie, with an exceptional dance performance], but instead Takahashi transforms his vision of the West and its grungy, underground subcultures into his own aesthetic. Today, UNDERCOVER is a prominent figure in the fashion industry, but it still comes out with novelty, revolution, and, as long as Jun Takahashi remains Jonio in spirit and continues to redefine the rules of fashion, the brand's punk legacy will carry on through their future projects. About the Author: Mizuki Khoury Born in Montreal, based in Tokyo. Sabukaru’s senior writer and works as an artist under Exit Number Five.


--- [Undercover - Catwalk Yourself] ---
Undercover Founded by Jun Takahashi in 1990 “The first time I heard the name of Jun Takahashi was in the 1990s in Tokyo. Rei Kawakubo of Comme des Garcons pronounced his name with one word: brave” – Suzy Menkes, Vogue Born in Kiryu, Gunma Prefecture, Japan September 1969, Jun Takahashi is the founder and designer of UNDERCOVER. It is a Japanese fashion brand known for its streetwear aesthetics taking influence from punk culture, art, and Japanese subculture. It is regarded as a luxury streetwear and is often showcased at Paris Fashion Week. Influenced by punk culture and UK fashion, Takahashi’s interest in fashion piqued around the age of 15 and he wanted to become a designer. Since then, Takahashi studied Fashion Design and enrolled in Bunka Fashion College in 1988. While attending his first Comme des Garcons runway show during his time in college, he founded the brand ‘UNDERCOVER’ along with his friend Hironori Ichinose, who helped him come up with the name. Seeing Rei Kawakubo’s runway show full of effortless fusion of high-end fashion and streetwear; it changed his mindset about fashion, and Takahashi became influenced by her works. After graduating from Bunka Fashion College, Takahashi began publishing and writing a column in the magazine Takarajima along with NIGO, the creator of Bathing Ape, whilst also selling punk inspired graphic tees heavily influenced from early Vivienne Westwood works and Rock bands The Sex Pistols that aligned with his visions and influence of youth culture for ‘UNDERCOVER’ in 1993 at a Japanese store called Billy’s. It was then when they decided to open a store in Harajuku called ‘NOWHERE’ around the same time ‘UNDERCOVER’ was launched, creating a name. Thanks to the success of ‘NOWHERE’ , Takahashi began to grow a following in which Tokyo fashion insiders became ‘in the know’ of his works and designs which led him to start working on his first debut collection. With much anticipation on Takahashi’s debut collection, he finally presented UNDERCOVER in the fall winter collection in 1994 at Tokyo Fashion Week which put him on the map of the fashion industry. His first collection consisted of Avant-Garde streetwear with a blend of punk and grunge mix wear highlighting a rebellious side to his craft incorporating traditional Japanese clothing with a flare of English punk. It channeled everything he loved and it was enchanting and out there to say the least. The release of UNDERCOVER’s first debut collection made a huge impact on Takahashi’s career because it showcased his technical skills along with his vision influencing the punk and streetwear scene. Throughout his career, Jun Takahashi style has been known for his references to pop cultures and art forms in his collections. One of his most notable references to an art form is in the Fall winter 2019 season of ‘A Clockwork Orange’ inspired by the Stanley Kubrick film. But above all his punk and pop culture references, Jun Takahashi also showcases political movement within his label. In 2002, UNDERCOVER had its biggest breakout yet during the Paris Fashion Week Show which was a turning point in his career. In Takahashi’s SS2003 ‘Scab’ runway collection, he references the 9/11 attack that occurred at the time and had wanted to convey a messageabout ethics and morals towards the Muslim community’s treatment post 9/11. He did this by including ‘Crust Punk’ aesthetic and fabrics ranging onto trying different styles sending anti-war, anti-imperialist and anti-capitalist messages in this runway season, setting up his later collections. With gaining recognition with well renowned designers like Rei Kawakubo of Comme Des Garcons, Jun Takahashi has received multiple fashion awards including the Mainichi Fashion Grand prize of ‘New Face’ in 1997 and ‘Grand Prize’ award in 2001 and 2013. Today, Jun Takahashi continues to elevate his vision and inspiration towards his label UNDERCOVER and is part of the Official Paris Fashion Week whilst also having store locations across the globe including: Hong Kong, Taiwan, Tokyo along with retail stall at Rei Kawakubo’s infamous store, Dover Street Market. By Lina Hansrong, a student on the BA Journalism course at London College of Communication
