=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Chinese paddlefish - Wikipedia]
It was unanimously agreed to be extinct by the Species Survival Commission Sturgeon Specialist Group of the IUCN on 15 September 2019, with its conservation status being formally updated by the IUCN Red List in July 2022. The main cause of its extinction was the construction of the Gezhouba ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_paddlefish

[Chinese paddlefish added to list of world's extinct species]
Jul 23, 2022 · On Jan 1, 2021, a complete 10-year fishing ban took effect in certain stretches of the Yangtze, China's longest river, which has provided unprecedented opportunities for aquatic species to recover, Wang said.
URL: https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202207/23/WS62db3c5ca310fd2b29e6df0f.html

[IUCN Red List reassessment reveals further decline of sturgeons and paddlefishes | Oryx | Cambridge Core]
Sturgeons have survived epochal ecological changes but are succumbing to the greed of Homo sapiens. A Red List update by the IUCN Sturgeon Specialist Group on 21 July 2022 revealed that the already precarious state of sturgeon populations has further declined. The Chinese paddlefish Psephurus gladius, endemic to the Yangtze River, is extinct.
URL: https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/oryx/article/iucn-red-list-reassessment-reveals-further-decline-of-sturgeons-and-paddlefishes/96F80B956D65A5B807A3A558D0D38493

[12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com]
Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius).
URL: https://www.timeanddate.com/calendar/months/

[Month - Wikipedia]
A month is a unit of time, used with calendars, that is approximately as long as a natural phase cycle of the Moon; the words month and Moon are cognates.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Month


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Chinese paddlefish - Wikipedia] ---
The Chinese paddlefish (Psephurus gladius; simplified Chinese: 白鲟; traditional Chinese: 白鱘; pinyin: báixún: literal translation: "white sturgeon"), also known as the Chinese swordfish, is an extinct species of fish that was formerly native to the Yangtze and Yellow River basins in China. With records of specimens over 3.6 metres (12 ft) and possibly 7 m (23 ft) in length, it was one of the largest species of primarily freshwater fish. It was the only species in the genus Psephurus and one of two recent species of paddlefish (Polyodontidae), the other being the still-living American paddlefish (Polyodon spathula). The species was not a strictly freshwater fish, with individuals having migrated down the Yangtze into the sea as juveniles, where they spent time in coastal waters, before returning into the river by adulthood, and migrating upriver to spawn. Unlike the American paddlefish, which is a filter feeder on plankton, the Chinese paddlefish was a piscivorous predator that primarily consumed small to medium-sized fish.
Since the 1990s, the species was officially listed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) as critically endangered, and was last seen alive in 2003. A 2019 paper including scientists from the Yangtze River Fisheries Research Institute found the species to be extinct based on its absence from extensive capture surveys, with the extinction suggested to have occurred by 2005, and no later than 2010, although it had become functionally extinct by 1993. It was unanimously agreed to be extinct by the Species Survival Commission Sturgeon Specialist Group of the IUCN on 15 September 2019, with its conservation status being formally updated by the IUCN Red List in July 2022.
The main cause of its extinction was the construction of the Gezhouba Dam in 1981, fragmenting the population and blocking the migration of the fish to its upriver spawning grounds required to sustain its population. Overfishing also played a significant role in its decline. Fishing of the Chinese paddlefish dates back centuries, with annual harvests reaching 25 tons by the 1970s.


--- [Chinese paddlefish added to list of world's extinct species] ---
Chinese paddlefish added to list of world's extinct species It's official. We will never see a living Chinese paddlefish again as it has been declared extinct. For many in the country, this may have been the first time they heard the name of the fish that was once a denizen of the Yangtze River Basin. On Friday, the topic was one of the most discussed on the Sina Weibo, a social media platform. Many said that they are sad to see the species that has outlived dinosaurs relegated to oblivion by human activity. Meanwhile, it has provided an opportunity for conservation experts to raise public awareness about the urgency of protecting freshwater species in the Yangtze River Basin and educate the public on the need for more efforts to save from extinction other species living in the region. On Thursday, the International Union for Conservation of Nature updated its Red List of Threatened Species－the world's most comprehensive information source on the global conservation status of plants and animals－which assesses their risk of extinction. It confirmed the extinction of the Chinese paddlefish and moved the Yangtze sturgeon from critically endangered to extinct in the wild. According to the IUCN, the global sturgeon reassessment found that all remaining 26 sturgeon species in the world are now at risk of extinction, up from 85 percent in 2009. Their decline over the past three generations is steeper than previously thought. The Chinese paddlefish was among the world's biggest freshwater species and could grow up to 7.5 meters in length. The ancient fish is thought to have been around since some 200 million years ago. It was last spotted in 2003. The extinction of the Chinese paddlefish should be a warning for everyone, said Zhou Fei, China's chief program officer at the World Wide Fund for Nature. "To prevent further loss of fresh-water species in China, we must act urgently. There is no time to waste. Also, long term threats to their life and habitats must be eliminated by implementing systematic protection measures. It's not something that can be achieved by certain departments. Instead, it requires joint effects from all sectors of society," Zhou said. There are about 400 species of fish in the Yangtze River Basin and 92 of them have been included on the Red List. The task of protecting fish in the river is very challenging but a significant move has been made, said Wang Limin, vice-president of the Changjiang (Yangtze River) Conservation Foundation. On Jan 1, 2021, a complete 10-year fishing ban took effect in certain stretches of the Yangtze, China's longest river, which has provided unprecedented opportunities for aquatic species to recover, Wang said. "After people become aware of the extinction of the Chinese paddlefish, I believe they will be more willing to make more efforts in the conservation of the endangered Chinese sturgeon as well as helping the Yangtze sturgeon, which can be bred in captivity, returned to the wild. These species still have a chance." - GBA cultural investment conference secures 6 billion yuan - Winter scenery across China - China's Xinjiang hosts regional forum to boost Central Asia links, trade - Exhibition on ancestors of Chinese nation opens in Taipei - Aid continues pouring in one week after Hong Kong's Tai Po fire - Chinese team uses AI to create wide-angle 3D display not requiring glasses


--- [IUCN Red List reassessment reveals further decline of sturgeons and paddlefishes | Oryx | Cambridge Core] ---
No content


--- [12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com] ---
Each month has either 28, 30, or 31 days during a common year, which has 365 days. During leap years, which occur nearly every 4 years, we add an extra (intercalary) day, Leap Day, on 29 February, making leap years 366 days long. This is to keep our current calendar aligned with the solar year and astronomical seasons marked by equinoxes and solstices. The 12 Months The Gregorian calendar consists of the following 12 months: - January (31 days) - March (31 days) - April (30 days) - May (31 days) - June (30 days) - July (31 days) - August (31 days) - September (30 days) - October (31 days) - November (30 days) - December (31 days) Tracking the Moon’s Orbit The months originated as a way to mark time and break up the year into shorter periods based on the Moon’s orbit around Earth. The word month is even derived from the word Moon. As far as we know, months were first used in Mesopotamia sometime between the years 500 BCE and 400 BCE to measure the natural period related to the lunar month, or synodic month, which is the time it takes for the Moon to go through all the Moon phases. Moon phases in your cityHow Many Have 28, 29, 30, or 31 Days? The Gregorian calendar has 4 months that are 30 days long and 7 months that are 31 days long. February is the only month that is 28 days long in common years and 29 days long in leap years. From 10 to 12 Months Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius). Calendar with holidaysThe Romans named some of the months after their position in the calendar year: September means the 7th month, October the 8th, November the 9th, and December the 10th month. However, when January and February were eventually added and the beginning of the calendar year was moved to January, the position of these months no longer corresponded with the original meaning of their names. Today, we still call the 9th month of the year September, the 7th month. The Islamic calendar, the Hebrew calendar, and the Hindu calendar also use months to divide up the year. Although the Gregorian calendar is the most commonly used calendar today, other calendars are still used in many parts of the world to calculate certain holidays and annual feasts. Old Names of Months Months in the ancient Roman calendar include:


--- [Month - Wikipedia] ---
A month is a unit of time, used with calendars, that is approximately as long as a natural phase cycle of the Moon; the words month and Moon are cognates. The traditional concept of months arose with the cycle of Moon phases; such lunar months ("lunations") are synodic months and last approximately 29.53 days, making for roughly  12.37 such months in one Earth year. From excavated tally sticks, researchers have deduced that people counted days in relation to the Moon's phases as early as the Paleolithic age. Synodic months, based on the Moon's orbital period with respect to the Earth–Sun line, are still the basis of many calendars today and are used to divide the year.
Calendars that developed from the Roman calendar system, such as the internationally used Gregorian calendar, divide the year into 12 months, each of which lasts between 28 and 31 days. The names of the months were Anglicized from various Latin names and events important to Rome, except for the months 9–12, which are named after the Latin numerals 7–10 (septem, octo, novem, and decem) because they were originally the seventh through tenth months in the Roman calendar. In the modern Gregorian calendar, the only month with a variable number of days is the second month, February, which has 29 days during a leap year and 28 days otherwise.


