=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[How Did Season 2 of Happy Valley End? - CBR]
Jan 23, 2023 · The Season 2 finale concluded John Wadsworth's story as viewers saw the character jump off a bridge and land on a passing car. Although his death wasn't clearly indicated, his leap at least did irreversible damage to his life and those around him.
URL: https://www.cbr.com/happy-valley-season-2-ending-explained/

[What Happened in ‘Happy Valley’ Seasons 1 & 2? Get Up to Speed Before the Final Season]
She confronts her colleague on a bridge, and he confesses to the killing before jumping to his death. Season 2 ends with Royce receiving a letter in prison from Ryan. And Catherine still has no idea that her grandson is in touch with his criminal ...
URL: https://www.tvinsider.com/1090397/happy-valley-seasons-1-2-recap-final-ending/

[John Wadsworth | Happy Valley Wikia | Fandom]
48 year old Detective Sergeant John Wadsworth is a man who is losing a grip on all aspects of his life. He's a father to young children - Jack, Ben and Amber - and is married to Amanda. But their relationship is strained to the point where they are both seeing other people. He has no relief at work, where he's working with the murder investigation team under Detective Superintendent Andy ...
URL: https://happy-valley.fandom.com/wiki/John_Wadsworth

[Happy Valley season 2 recap: Key things to remember for season 3 | Radio Times]
ohn emotionally confesses to killing Vicky on the bridge outside the police station before jumping to his death. In Catherine's personal life, we find out that Cecily Wheland is actually Frances' dead sister and subsequently, she is arrested ...
URL: https://www.radiotimes.com/tv/drama/happy-valley-season-2-recap/

[Happy Valley | List of Deaths Wiki - Fandom]
Welcome to List of Deaths Wiki The List of Deaths wiki is a wiki dedicated to death lists in films, film series, TV series, games, etc. (much like Wikiquote does quotes). Some sites, like Horror Film and Dragonball, accept the death lists, and even create tables out of them.
URL: https://listofdeaths.fandom.com/wiki/Happy_Valley


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [How Did Season 2 of Happy Valley End? - CBR] ---
Since Season 2 of BBC One's crime drama Happy Valley debuted in February 2016, fans waited very patiently for its return. The third and final season of Happy Valley premiered on New Year's Day 2023 -- almost seven years later! Given that wait, it's no surprise that some viewers may not remember how Happy Valley Season 2 ended. After solving Ann Gallagher's abduction case and putting Tommy Lee Royce in Gravesend Prison, Sergeant Catherine Cawood faced a new crisis. She couldn't eliminate herself as a suspect in several murders, including that of Tommy Lee Royce's mother Lynn Dewhurst. Here are the many ways in which Happy Valley Season 2 left plenty of suspense for Happy Valley Season 3. John Wadsworth Took a Shocking Turn in Life Happy Valley would not be the same without a good-natured family man going the wrong way. John Wadsworth was an ordinary detective who made a bad decision at the wrong time. Wadsworth was drugged and blackmailed by his mistress Vicky Fleming. Out of desperation and rage, he strangled her and utilized his insider knowledge to stage the death as part of the ongoing serial killer case. His secret eventually surfaced as the real killer denied murdering Fleming. Audiences later saw that John wasn't Fleming's only victim. The Season 2 finale concluded John Wadsworth's story as viewers saw the character jump off a bridge and land on a passing car. Although his death wasn't clearly indicated, his leap at least did irreversible damage to his life and those around him. Who Was the Killer in Happy Valley Season 2? Just when fans began to wonder if Catherine and law enforcement had caught the right guy, the season finale put all the doubts to rest with a bang (pun intended). A confession from bullied farm boy Daryl Garr to his mother Alison unmasked the real person behind the murders, similar to how The Little Things ended. Happy Valley didn't reveal too much about Daryl and Alison, but the two clearly acted in shocking and violent ways. The backstories that drove them to that point remain a mystery for now. Ryan Cawood Stepped Into Danger With Tommy Lee Royce With Frances Drummond influencing him at school, Ryan Cawood began to question the people who raised him. Tommy became even more enraged toward Catherine, whom he believed was his mother's murderer and the main obstacle between him and Ryan. Even from behind bars, Tommy was able to alienate Ryan from Catherine. There's no telling what Royce could do in Season 3 now that he can communicate with Ryan directly through the mail. Frances Drummond's True Identity Was Revealed Frances Drummond's deranged appearance in Season 2 was unsettling, and the finale's revelation about the character was even more disturbing. Frances was a 45-year-old pharmacist from Linlithgow with no previous criminal record, who had been keeping respectful jobs for 15 years until she met Tommy Lee Royce. Misled by her blind love for Tommy and his fake promise of marriage, Frances took extreme measures to approach Ryan, including stealing her dead sister's identity to stalk Catherine's family. But Frances was only one of many women whom Tommy groomed to achieve his goals. The Season 2 finale of Happy Valley offered a glance at an innocent woman blinded by her love and affection for a psychopath. Catherine Cawood Continued to Surprise Fans Catherine Cawood has been a tough and intimidating policewoman throughout Happy Valley. Although she has shed tears and expressed anger, her role as a police sergeant still defines her. However, toward the end of Season 2, the character surprised viewers with two moves worth exploring in the future. After rescuing Alison from attempted suicide, Catherine offered comfort to the woman who shot her son. As a policewoman, Catherine has always had a black-and-white worldview, but as a woman who lost her child, she related to Alison on a human level instead of seeing her as the mother of a serial killer. Catherine also made an effort to understand and help Frances. Those were two of the most powerful scenes in the Season 2 finale. Catherine Cawood may not be perfect after losing her daughter, but moments those this make fans want to see more from Happy Valley's most respected policewoman. Happy Valley Season 1 & 2 are available to stream on Crackle. New episodes of Season 3 air every Sunday on BBC One.


--- [What Happened in ‘Happy Valley’ Seasons 1 & 2? Get Up to Speed Before the Final Season] ---
What Happened in ‘Happy Valley’ Seasons 1 & 2? Get Up to Speed Before the Final Season After a hiatus of seven years, Happy Valley is coming back to American TV for a third and final season, premiering on BBC America on Monday, May 22, at 10/9c, with episodes streaming the same day on AMC+ and Acorn TV. The first two seasons of the British crime procedural are currently available on both of those streaming platforms, but in case you don’t have time for a full debrief on the action so far, here’s a recap of Seasons 1 and 2. (Content warning: Happy Valley includes storylines involving sexual assault and suicide.) As the series starts, viewers meet Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire), a police sergeant in a West Yorkshire community beset by drug problems. Catherine’s daughter Becky died by suicide, and Catherine blames a man named Tommy Lee Royce (James Norton) for Becky’s death, since Royce raped Becky. Now Catherine is raising Ryan (Rhys Connah), the child that resulted from that rape, and living with her sister, Clare Cartwright (Siobhan Finneran), who’s recovering from a heroin addiction. Royce is still around town, unfortunately. In fact, he gets involved in a ransom scheme soon after getting out of prison. Accountant Kevin Weatherill (Steve Pemberton) wants more money from his boss, Nevison Gallagher (George Costigan), so he teams up with the criminal Ashley Cowgill (Joe Armstrong) to kidnap Nevison’s daughter, Ann (Charlie Murphy), and demand ransom. Cowgill brings in two goons, Royce and another man named Lewis Whippey (Adam Long). Kevin has a crisis of conscience about the ransom idea, but it comes too late — the criminals have already abducted Ann. So Kevin goes to the police station and starts giving a statement to Catherine, but he leaves before detailing everything. It gets worse: Whippey later discovers that Royce raped Ann as well. Royce also murders police officer Kirsten McAskill (Sophie Rundle), Catherine’s protégé, when she pulls over his van for speeding. After spotting Royce around town, Catherine does some digging and uncovers evidence of the kidnapping. She learns about the abductee when Nevison and his wife finally tell the police about the kidnapping, defying Cowgill’s orders. Catherine visits the house of Royce’s mother’s, Lynn Dewhurst (Caroline O’Neill), and that happens to be where Royce stashed Ann after Cowgill ordered him to kill her. Catherine finds and frees Ann, but Royce attacks her, and the ensuing fight lands Catherine in the hospital. While Catherine recuperates, police arrest Kevin and Cowgill for abduction, but Cowgill snitches about a drug smuggling ring in exchange for witness protection. He never makes it into that protection, though: He’s gunned down by other smugglers before assuming his new identity. As for the other two accomplices, Royce overhears Whippey telling a friend about all the crimes Royce has committed — raping Ann, killing Kirsten, attacking Catherine — and so Royce adds Whippey to his list of murder victims. Royce, who previously let slip to Ryan that he’s his father, then abducts the boy and even threatens to kill him, but Catherine finds Ryan’s bicycle and then Ryan before it’s too late. Season 2 starts with Catherine finding Lynn’s decomposing body. Improbably, Catherine finds herself a suspect in the case — and in two similar killings — because of her animosity toward Royce. And Royce, now imprisoned, also blames Catherine for Lynn’s death. He even makes a lunge at Catherine, despite his handcuffs, at Lynn’s funeral. Viewers also find out in Season 2 that Royce has forged a connection with a woman named Frances Drummond (Shirley Henderson), who’s working under a fake name as a teaching assistant at Ryan’s school. And Frances tries to get Ryan to become closer to Royce, even buying a birthday present for the boy on Royce’s behalf. Frances eventually realizes, though, that she’s not as engaged to Royce as she thinks she is. In fact, Royce is “engaged” to many other women. Meanwhile, a detective sergeant, John Wadsworth (Kevin Doyle), is blackmailed by Vicky Fleming (Amelia Bullmore), his mistress, who tells him to either pay her a ransom each month or leave his wife and children. In an ensuing argument, John strangles and mutilates Vicky and burns down her flat to make her death look like the work of the serial killer who has been murdering sex workers in the region. Eventually, a farmer named Daryl Garrs (Robert Emms) confesses to the crimes to Alison Garrs (Susan Lynch), his mother, who then shoots him dead to save him from a life in prison. Alison then overdoses on diazepam, and Catherine arrives at the farm to find Daryl dead and Alison clinging to life. Catherine arrests Alison, who maintains that Daryl said he wasn’t involved in Vicky’s death. After hearing from Clare’s new boyfriend about Vicky’s blackmailing ways and hearing from others about John’s violent streak, Catherine realizes that John was the one who killed Vicky. She confronts her colleague on a bridge, and he confesses to the killing before jumping to his death. Season 2 ends with Royce receiving a letter in prison from Ryan. And Catherine still has no idea that her grandson is in touch with his criminal father… Happy Valley, Season 3 Premiere, Monday, May 22, 10/9c, BBC America (and streaming on AMC+ and Acorn TV)


--- [John Wadsworth | Happy Valley Wikia | Fandom] ---
| John Wadsworth | | |---|---| | Portrayed by | Kevin Doyle | | First Appearance | Series 2 Episode 1 | | Last Appearance | Series 2 Episode 6 | | Cause/Reason | Jumped off a bridge | | Duration | 2016 | | About | | | Status | Deceased | | Occupation | Detective Sergeant & Criminal | | Relationships | | | Spouse | Amanda Wadsworth | | Romances | Vicky Fleming | | Sons | Jack & Ben | | Daughters | Amber | 48 year old Detective Sergeant John Wadsworth is a man who is losing a grip on all aspects of his life. He’s a father to young children - Jack, Ben and Amber - and is married to Amanda. But their relationship is strained to the point where they are both seeing other people. Storyline[] He has no relief at work, where he’s working with the murder investigation team under Detective Superintendent Andy Shepherd’s leadership. They are busy on a major case after a string of dead bodies were been found in the area. John has the makings of a decent detective. He’s experienced enough to take young and eager police officers under his wing, and given another time and place, John would have been a brilliant mentor. But as the net begins to close - both at home and at work - John is unable to unpick the tangled web that he’s in and he loses sight of the harmless, happy-go-lucky family man he used to be. John is a man on the edge. And being desperate drives you to do desperate things. What happens when you have a split second to make a decision? What if you make the wrong choice? But being a detective has its advantages and John is going to need nerves of steel to get through his ordeal.


--- [Happy Valley season 2 recap: Key things to remember for season 3 | Radio Times] ---
Happy Valley recap – what you need to remember before season 3 With the acclaimed series finally returning to our screens, here's everything you need to remember ahead of season 3. **Warning: Contains major spoilers for seasons 1 and 2** After a long, long wait, Happy Valley is finally back on our screens for a third season. The Sally Wainwright-penned series enthralled viewers with two seasons released in 2014 and 2016 respectively, and now the hotly-anticipated third instalment is here. Considering it's been seven years since season 2 came to a dramatic conclusion, some of the previous season's grittiest details may have slipped to the back of your mind. So, in an effort to make sure that there aren't any moments of confusion or finger-pointing at various characters, allow us to refresh your memory about what happened in season 2 of Happy Valley. Only read on if you have watched it as there are major spoilers ahead. Want to see this content? To show this content, we need your permission to allow Google reCAPTCHA and its required purposes to load content on this page. Happy Valley season 2 recap In season 2, we once again follow Catherine as she investigates a major crime in the Calder Valley. But, of course, all roads in her life somehow always seem to lead back to her nemesis: kidnapper, murderer and rapist Tommy Lee Royce (James Norton). Catherine is tasked with investigating a human trafficking operation after multiple prostitutes are found dead across the Valley, including Royce's mother, Lynn Dewhurst. Royce believes Catherine is involved in some way and tells penpal-turned-love interest Frances Drummond (Shirley Henderson) as such when she visits him in prison. And so Royce maps out a plan of revenge. It mainly centres on Frances killing Catherine but also involves getting in contact with his son Ryan, though that's strictly prohibited. How, then, you may ask? Drummond falsifies her identity and is placed into Ryan's school as new teaching assistant Miss Wheland, who coerces the young boy into believing he should forgive his dad and write him a letter. Elsewhere, one of the lead investigating officers on the serial murder case is DCI John Wadsworth (Kevin Doyle), who is caught up in a love affair with Vicky Fleming (Amelia Bullmore). When he attempts to end it between them, she drugs and blackmails him with compromising images she'd staged. When she threatens to send them to his entire contact list – thus jeopardising his career and personal life – John strangles and kills her in a fit of rage and fear. As one of the officers on the serial murder case, he has the knowledge needed to stage the scene to make it look like another in the string of serial murders of women in the area, and thinks he's got away with it too – until the real murderer is revealed. In episode 1, we meet Daryl, the young farmer whose sheep were stolen and who is continually terrorised by local youths. He lives with his mother Alison and seems like a background character until we find out that actually, he's the killer behind the murders of local prostitutes. Later in the season, he confesses to his doting mother, who promises she will stick by his side. In the morning, though, after making him one final cooked breakfast, she shoots Daryl dead. She does so to protect him from prison life, she later tells Catherine, but then proceeded to attempt to take her own life. In the hospital after Catherine saves her, she tells Catherine she became pregnant with Daryl after being raped by her father. Daryl was always an "aberration" in her eyes was always going to turn out badly. As for the murders themselves, Daryl tells his mother that he didn't kill Vicky, explaining that he “wouldn’t have had to have done that last one if people hadn’t kept thinking he’d done that Vicky Fleming one”. With a renewed interest in catching Vicky's murderer, the police appeal for anyone who may have noticed suspicious activity on the evening of her death. Want to see this content? This page contains content provided by YouTube. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as YouTube may use cookies and other technologies. To view this content, choose 'Accept and continue' to allow YouTube and its required purposes. The season 2 finale sees the truth close in around John. His wife's boyfriend comes forward with information about John's whereabouts on the night of Vicky's murder, Catherine's sister Clare's (Siobhan Finneran) new partner Neil (Con O'Neill) confesses that Vicky also blackmailed him in the past (thus providing a potential motive for her murder) and John's colleagues realise that the existence of him as a contact on Vicky's phone is very suspicious. Catherine soon figures out that John could be the perpetrator, wrapping up the season with a manhunt. John emotionally confesses to killing Vicky on the bridge outside the police station before jumping to his death. In Catherine's personal life, we find out that Cecily Wheland is actually Frances' dead sister and subsequently, she is arrested for fraud. After being released on bail, though, Catherine visits Frances to inform her that Royce is engaged to three more women. The series ends with the revelation that Frances did get Ryan to write a letter to his dad and in it, he tells Royce that he loves him. What do these Happy Valley storylines mean for season 3? Well, Happy Valley season 2 ended with Catherine looking fondly on at Ryan and, while many would've liked to believe that it was simply a scene of a grandmother and her grandchild, some were inclined to deduce that actually, Catherine was having some thoughts about Ryan's future. Namely, whether the young boy and his angry temperament points to any commonality with his criminal father. Undoubtedly, this will be a focus in season 3, with Ryan being 16 and the season 2 finale ending with Royce looking unexpectedly hopeful for a future with his son. Does the apple actually fall far from the tree? We'll just have to watch on and find out. Who will be the key characters in Happy Valley season 3? Of course, Happy Valley would be nothing without Sarah Lancashire leading the cast as Sergeant Catherine Cawood but another notable character is James Norton as Tommy Lee Royce. The convicted criminal is spending time in prison for his crimes (not least trying to stage a murder-suicide with Ryan in series one). We find Royce still in prison seven years on but this time round, he's being questioned over links to a gangland murder. Another character who is due to get a lot more screen time and consideration in this new season is Ryan (Rhys Connah). Now 16, Wainwright has revealed that throughout the third season, Ryan will be grappling with his identity and his upbringing, stating to Radiotimes.com that "he's someone who's trying to make sense of his past and find out the truth about his past". Want to see this content? This page contains content provided by YouTube. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as YouTube may use cookies and other technologies. To view this content, choose 'Accept and continue' to allow YouTube and its required purposes. Of course, everyone in the Happy Valley cast is vital to the drama but something tells us that this third series will hone in on these three in a very big way. For a comprehensive list of who else will be returning and joining the new season, read more about the Happy Valley season 3 cast. Happy Valley season 3 continues on BBC One at 9pm on Sunday. Seasons 1-3 are available to watch on BBC iPlayer now. If you're looking for more to watch, check out our TV Guide and Streaming Guide or visit our Drama hub for more news and features. Try Radio Times magazine today and get 12 issues for only £1 with delivery to your home – subscribe now. For more from the biggest stars in TV, listen to the Radio Times View From My Sofa podcast. Authors Morgan Cormack is a Drama Writer for Radio Times, covering everything drama-related on TV and streaming. She previously worked at Stylist as an Entertainment Writer. Alongside her past work in content marketing and as a freelancer, she possesses a BA in English Literature.


--- [Happy Valley | List of Deaths Wiki - Fandom] ---
Happy Valley is a British crime drama television series that was released on BBC One between April 2014 to February 2023. It is set and filmed in the Calder Valley, West Yorkshire and stars Sarah Lancashire, James Norton, and Siobhan Finneran. Yorkshire-based crime drama centering on the personal and professional life of Police Sergeant Catherine Cawood. Victims[] Series 1[] Episode One[] - Rebecca 'Becky' Cawood - Committed suicide by hanging herself after being raped by Tommy Lee Royce off-screen, grave shown. - Sylvia Plath Hughes - Died in an unspecified manner off-screen, grave shown. - Total - 2 Episode Two[] - None Episode Three[] - Police Constable Kirsten McAskill - Crushed against a van and repeatedly ran over by Tommy Lee Royce with a car. - Total - 1 Episode Four[] - None Episode Five[] - Bird - Died in an unspecified manner off-screen, mentioned. - Lewis Whippey - Throat slit by Tommy Lee Royce with a kitchen knife off-screen, body shown. - Brett McKendrick - Strangled to death by Tommy Lee Royce. - Total - 3 Episode Six[] - Ashley Cowgill - Shot in the head by either Darius Knezevic or Zeljko Knezevic with a 9mm Glock. - Total - 1 Series 2[] Episode One[] - Sheep - Repeatedly hit in the head by Sergeant Catherine Cawood with a rock and injected by Nicky Baxter with pentobarbital after being mauled by dogs, shown in a flashback. - Six Dogs - Died after eating a sheep injected with pentobarbital off-screen, bodies shown in a flashback. - Lynn Dewhurst - Strangled and bottled by Daryl Garrs off-screen, body shown in a flashback. - Both of Catherine Cawood's Parents - Died in an unspecified manner off-screen, mentioned. - Ana Vasalescu - Killed and bottled by Daryl Garrs off-screen, mentioned. - Aurelija Petrovic - Killed and bottled by Daryl Garrs off-screen, mentioned. - Total - 12 Episode Two[] - Helen Gallagher - Died of cancer off-screen, mentioned. - Victoria 'Vicky' Fleming - Strangled to death by Detective Sergeant John Wadsworth with a cable. - Total - 2 Episode Three[] - Goran Dragovic - Hanged by unknown person on the orders of Darius Knezevic off-screen, body shown. - Total - 1 Episode Four[] - None Episode Five[] - Elise May Hughes - Killed and bottled by Daryl Garrs off-screen, mentioned. - Daryl Garrs - Shot in the back of the head by Alison Garrs with a rifle off-camera. - Total - 2 Episode Six[] - Cecily Wealand - Died from a stroke off-screen, mentioned. - Unnamed Man - Committed suicide by jumping from a height off-screen, mentioned. - Detective Sergeant John Wadsworth - Committed suicide by jumping off a bridge onto a van. - Total - 3 Series 3[] Episode One[] - Gary James Gackowski - Shot in the head by Darius Knezevic with a 9mm Glock off-screen, skeleton shown. - Two Unnamed People - Died in a car accident off-screen, mentioned. - Total - 3 Episode Two[] - Danielle Womersley - Committed suicide by jumping out of a window after being imprisoned by Josip Matic, Ivan Sertic, and Matija Jankovic off-screen, mentioned. - Total - 1 Episode Three[] - Joanna Hepworth - Hit over the head by Faisal Bhatti with a rolling pin, then injected with air. - Total - 1 Episode Four[] - None Episode Five[] - None Episode Six[] - Marco - Stabbed in the stomach by Tommy Lee Royce with a knife. - Viktor - Throat slashed by Tommy Lee Royce with a knife. - Zeljko Knezevic - Repeatedly hit on the head by Tommy Lee Royce with a rock. - Tommy Lee Royce - Died of his injuries after committing suicide by burning himself alive by dousing himself in gasoline which he then ignited with a match. - Total - 4 Deaths[] - Total - 36 - Series 1 - 7 - Series 2 - 20 - Series 3 - 9 Kill Counts[] - Tommy Lee Royce - 7 (Deceased) - Daryl Garrs - 4 (Deceased) - Darius Knezevic - 3 (Alive) - Sergeant Catherine Cawood - 1 (Alive) - Faisal Bhatti - 1 (Alive) - Alison Garrs - 1 (Alive) - Ivan Sertic - 1 (Alive) - Matija Jankovic - 1 (Alive) - Josip Matic - 1 (Alive) - Nicky Baxter - 1 (Alive) - Zeljko Knezevic - 1 (Deceased) - Detective Sergeant John Wadsworth - 1 (Deceased) Notes[] - A real graveyard is shown, these will not be counted as these are real deaths, and this is not a fictional portrayal of their deaths.
