=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[How Motsoeneng twins cheated Comrades Marathon - The South African]
Jun 13, 2023 · According to OFM, Motsoeneng twins, Sergio and Fika admitted to cheating in the Comrades Marathon once they got caught. He reportedly admitted his guilt through his lawyer, Clem Harrington of...
URL: https://www.thesouthafrican.com/lifestyle/breaking-fika-sergio-motsoeneng-twins-cheated-comrades-marathon-1999-13-june-2023/

[How Motsoeneng twins cheated Comrades Marathon - AffluenceR]
Jun 13, 2023 · According to OFM, Motsoeneng twins, Sergio and Fika admitted to cheating in the Comrades Marathon once they got caught. He reportedly admitted his guilt through his lawyer, Clem Harrington of Bethlehem and said his actions were those of a desperate man from a poverty-stricken family.
URL: https://affluencer.co.za/2023/06/how-motsoeneng-twins-cheated-comrades-marathon/

[Fordyce calls it the 'race of shame']
Fordyce, winner of nine Comrades Marathons, said the people behind the scam involving the Motsoeneng brothers must also be brought to book.
URL: https://iol.co.za/sport/1999-07-22-fordyce-calls-it-the-race-of-shame/

[They've Gone Down in History for Their 1999 Running Ruse - Newser]
Jan 28, 2023 · He was a "no-name runner" and this was his first time running the Comrades. Weeks later, the truth emerged via a side-by-side photo comparison: Runner 13018 was Arnold at the race's start.
URL: https://www.newser.com/story/330661/their-tale-of-ultramarathon-cheating-just-wont-die.html

[TRACK AND FIELD; Deception in Marathon Has Race Officials Seeing Double]
Sergio Motsoeneng, 21, who finished ninth in South Africa's most famous road race, 56-mile Comrades Marathon, admits that he had cheated by running it in relays with his virtually identical ...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/1999/07/22/sports/track-and-field-deception-in-marathon-has-race-officials-seeing-double.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [How Motsoeneng twins cheated Comrades Marathon - The South African] ---
How Motsoeneng twins cheated Comrades Marathon We look into how the Motsoeneng twins, Sergio and Fika cheated the Comrades Marathon 24 years ago and got caught. OFM reveals how the Motsoeneng twins Sergio and Fika cheated the Comrades Marathon 24 years ago and got caught. ALSO READ: How some runners cheated the Comrades Marathon RUNNERS: MOTSOENENG TWINS CHEATED Supersport reports that Motsoeneng twins Sergio and Fika switched out in a mobile toilet along the route during the 1999 race but made an error of wearing their watches on opposite wrists. [see photo below] OFM adds Sergio, who was the first runner exchanged vests and shoes with his twin brother Fika in a mobile toilet along the route. The one brother Sergio ran the first 45km of the 89km race, while the second brother Fika completed the second half to finish in ninth place. Images of them running were picked up by various media outlets and they were banned from participating in the Comrades Marathon for a decade. Former Comrades runner Nick Bester also revealed he never saw Motsoeneng overtaking him. The publications add that one of the twin brothers, Sergio returned to the race in 2010 and finished third but was later banned after testing positive for an ‘unknown substance’. ALSO READ:Tweeps amused by Comrades Onalenna Khonkhobe’s ‘bush break’ COMRADES MARATHON RUNNER ADMITS CHEATING According to OFM, Motsoeneng twins, Sergio and Fika admitted to cheating in the Comrades Marathon once they got caught. He reportedly admitted his guilt through his lawyer, Clem Harrington of Bethlehem and said his actions were those of a desperate man from a poverty-stricken family. This is after they obtained ninth position and won prize money of under R6000 back in 1999. It is believed Motsoeneng brothers were suspended for a decade from participating in the race by the Comrades Marathon Association. Sergio Motsoeneng reportedly got banned again 11 years later after failing ‘drug’ tests and lost all chances of receiving the gold medal and prize money to the amount of R90 000. ALSO READ:Comrades Marathon: International runners love SA’s ultra road race ALSO READ:WATCH: Comrades Marathon roads will be closed [VIDEO]


--- [How Motsoeneng twins cheated Comrades Marathon - AffluenceR] ---
How Motsoeneng twins cheated Comrades Marathon OFM reveals how the Motsoeneng twins Sergio and Fika cheated the Comrades Marathon 24 years ago and got caught. ALSO READ: How some runners cheated the Comrades Marathon RUNNERS: MOTSOENENG TWINS CHEATED Supersport reports that Motsoeneng twins Sergio and Fika switched out in a mobile toilet along the route during the 1999 race but made an error of wearing their watches on opposite wrists. [see photo below] OFM adds Sergio, who was the first runner exchanged vests and shoes with his twin brother Fika in a mobile toilet along the route. The one brother Sergio ran the first 45km of the 89km race, while the second brother Fika completed the second half to finish in ninth place. Images of them running were picked up by various media outlets and they were banned from participating in the Comrades Marathon for a decade. Former Comrades runner Nick Bester also revealed he never saw Motsoeneng overtaking him. The publications add that one of the twin brothers, Sergio returned to the race in 2010 and finished third but was later banned after testing positive for an ‘unknown substance’. ALSO READ:Tweeps amused by Comrades Onalenna Khonkhobe’s ‘bush break’ According to OFM, Motsoeneng twins, Sergio and Fika admitted to cheating in the Comrades Marathon once they got caught. He reportedly admitted his guilt through his lawyer, Clem Harrington of Bethlehem and said his actions were those of a desperate man from a poverty-stricken family. This is after they obtained ninth position and won prize money of under R6000 back in 1999. It is believed Motsoeneng brothers were suspended for a decade from participating in the race by the Comrades Marathon Association. Sergio Motsoeneng reportedly got banned again 11 years later after failing ‘drug’ tests and lost all chances of receiving the gold medal and prize money to the amount of R90 000. ALSO READ:Comrades Marathon: International runners love SA’s ultra road race ALSO READ:WATCH: Comrades Marathon roads will be closed [VIDEO]


--- [Fordyce calls it the 'race of shame'] ---
Comrades legend Bruce Fordyce on Thursday called for the latest scandal involving the marathon to be fully exposed. Fordyce, winner of nine Comrades Marathons, said the people behind the scam involving the Motsoeneng brothers must also be brought to book. Fordyce, speaking to John Perlman on SAfm, praised the Comrades Marathon Association for exposing the scandal, but urged that more should be done to reveal other culprits. The Motsoeneng brothers had turned an illustrious event into a race of shame. The 21-year-old Sergio Motsoeneng started the 89.9-km race before swopping running gear with his younger brother Arnold, 19, after the first 45 minutes (about 15km). Arnold also took over the computer chip which is used to track runners. Each Comrades runner is issued with such a chip which is laced to a runner's shoe to capture times and positions at strategic points in the race. Arnold ran until just before halfway (44km) when the brothers again changed clothes, this time in a mobile toilet. Sergio then ran on finish ninth after he had been given a lift from the point where he handed over to his brother. Fordyce said the person who had driven the car - it is believed to be a bakkie or a combi - should be named in the investigation of the scandal. The Brothers Motsoeneng scandal is the latest to hit the race and prompted Fordyce to speak out. This is not the first time someone has cheated to improve a position in the race. As the table below shows, Bellville runner Herman Matthee joined the 1993 race only 30km from the finish after he took a ride in a taxi. He finished in the first 10. Drug scandals hit the race in 1992 when winner Charl Mattheus' urine sample contained traces of a prohibited substance. This year Russian Viktor Zhdanov and South African Mahlala Mohloli failed drug tests after both had finished in the top 10. Zhdanov was second to the winner, Jaroslaw Janicki of Poland, and Mohloli ended sixth. The cheating and drug scandals have left the organisers with the difficult task of recovering the gold medals and R65 000 in prize money from the three culprits in this year's race. Zhdanov must repay R50 000 and Mohloli R9 000. Sergio Motsoeneng will have to return the R6 000 he was given. Comrades Marathon Association chairman Adrian Stowell said that if they could not get the money back from the two South African runners, they would approach the runners' clubs. He said the CMA executive was also discussing the possibility of not paying out prize money straight after the race in future. "We are looking at the possibility of only paying out after the results of the drug testing and any other appeals allow us to declare the results official." Athletics South Africa will now have to decide on punishments for Mohloli and Motsoeneng, but an official of Motsoeneng's club, Henry Windell, made a plea for mercy. "It won't serve a purpose if they decide to suspend him for two years or go overboard and ban him for life," Windell said. He said there should be understanding for why the runner cheated. Motsoeneng comes from a big family in the Free State who have been hit by poverty and entered the race hoping to use the prize money to pay off debts. The new top 10 positions and prize money are: 1 Jaroslaw Janicki (R100 000), 2 Andrew Kelehe (R50 000), 3 Lucas Matlala (R25 000), 4 Alexei Volgin (R12 500), 5 Anatoliy Korepanov (R10 000), 6 Walter Nkosi (R9 000), 7 Joseph Ikaneng (R8 000), 8 Konstatin Santalov (R7 000), 9 Shaun Meiklejohn (R6 000), 10 Grigoriy Murzin (R5 000).


--- [They've Gone Down in History for Their 1999 Running Ruse - Newser] ---
No content


--- [TRACK AND FIELD; Deception in Marathon Has Race Officials Seeing Double] ---
Supported by TRACK AND FIELD TRACK AND FIELD; Deception in Marathon Has Race Officials Seeing Double One of the top finishers in South Africa's most famous road race admitted today that he had cheated by running it in relays with his virtually identical brother. Sergio Motsoeneng, 21 years old, and his brother, Fika, 19, were desperate for prize money, their lawyer said, and gave the $1,000 Sergio won to their father, who lives in Qwa Qwa, a depressed former black homeland, with 11 children. The lawyer added that the family had been on the verge of selling the $85 gold medal Sergio received for finishing in the top 10. The Comrades Marathon, first run in 1921 by 34 men raising money for a veterans group known as the League of Comrades of the Great War, has grown into South Africa's biggest road race, with nearly 15,000 entrants of all ages. Each year, it reverses direction between two cities, Pietermaritzburg in the Drakensberg Mountains and Durban on the coast. This year, on June 16, it was the downhill run, which is 89.9 kilometers long (about 56 miles), for which the record is 5 hours 24 minutes 7 seconds. But watching the winner finish is less entertaining than the bitter end of the race. It is considered a great shame to be among the last 1,500 competitors who fail to finish in 11 hours and are ''swept up by the broom wagon,'' sometimes paralyzed by cramps and clawing at the rescue vehicles. The whole race is covered on national television, and most of the runners finish in the last hour, staggering into the stadium, collapsing at the finish line, crawling or carrying each other over it. According to an account by the South African Press Association, Nick Bester, a former champion who finished 15th this year, had complained that something was wrong with Sergio Motsoeneng's ninth-place finish. Bester had counted everyone who passed him in the final miles and there was one too many -- and electronic-race records showed Sergio was behind him earlier. Related Content Advertisement
