=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Zhang Earns ACM SIGPLAN Dissertation Award - Department of Computer Science - Purdue University]
Zhang Earns ACM SIGPLAN Dissertation Award 03-26-2008 Prof. Xiangyu Zhang is the recipient of the 2006 ACM SIGPLAN Doctoral Dissertation Award. This highly competitive award is presented to one author each year in the area of Programming Languages. Zhang will receive a $1,000 prize for his outstanding efforts.
URL: https://www.cs.purdue.edu/news/articles/2008/zhang-award.html

[John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award - SIGPLAN]
Feb 23, 2026 · The dissertation describes both algorithms and experiments, and it shows, for example, a 30-fold speedup over existing algorithms for analyzing concurrent programs. The members of the award committee were impressed by the unusual scope and depth of the dissertation and its excellent presentation.
URL: https://sigplan.org/Awards/Dissertation/

[John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award]
The Reynolds Dissertation Award recognizes the contributions to computer science that John C. Reynolds made during his life. It is a renaming of the SIGPLAN Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award to encourage the clarity and rigor that Reynolds embodied and at the same time provides a reminder ...
URL: https://www.sigplan.org/Awards/Dissertation/

[SIGPLAN - Programming Languages]
SIGPLAN John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award Presented annually to the author of the outstanding doctoral dissertation in the area of programming languages.
URL: https://awards.acm.org/sig-awards/sigplan

[Other Awards at SIGPLAN-sponsored Events]
In recognition of the contributions to computer science that John Vlissides made during his lifetime, SIGPLAN has established the John Vlissides Award. The award is presented annually to a doctoral student participating in the OOPSLA Doctoral Symposium showing significant promise in applied ...
URL: https://www.sigplan.org/Awards/Other/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Zhang Earns ACM SIGPLAN Dissertation Award - Department of Computer Science - Purdue University] ---
Zhang Earns ACM SIGPLAN Dissertation Award 03-26-2008 Prof. Xiangyu Zhang is the recipient of the 2006 ACM SIGPLAN Doctoral Dissertation Award. This highly competitive award is presented to one author each year in the area of Programming Languages. Zhang will receive a $1,000 prize for his outstanding efforts. The ACM SIGPLAN award recognizes work intended "to explore programming language concepts and tools focusing on design, implementation and efficient use." Zhang's dissertation Fault Location via Precise Dynamic Slicing aims to smooth out the debugging process programmers face. His work focuses on reducing the cost of dynamic slicing and producing small fault candidate sets through innovative precise dynamic slicing. To reduce time cost Zhang has developed a novel series of optimizations to produce a compact representation of large dynamic dependence graphs. He developed a compression algorithms to apply in order to achieve space efficiency. This compression allows a couple billion instructions to be held in a single Gigabyte of memory. To further scale he proposes another approach using checkpointing/logging to enable collection of dynamic history of only the relevant window of execution. Zhang's work also contributes innovative ways of using precise dynamic slicing to produce smaller fault candidate sets. Thousands of statements can be produced from fault candidate sets, and faulty code becomes time consuming to identify. Techniques proposed by Zhang improve effectiveness of dynamic slicing for fault location reducing fault candidate sets by nearly a factor of 3. Congratulations to Prof. Xiangyu Zhang for this accomplishment!


--- [John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award - SIGPLAN] ---
Presented annually to the author of an outstanding doctoral dissertation in the area of Programming Languages. The award includes a prize of $1,000. The awardee can choose to receive the award at ICFP, SPLASH, POPL, or PLDI. At the discretion of the Selection Committee, multiple awards and/or honorable mentions may be presented for a given year. The Reynolds Dissertation Award recognizes the contributions to computer science that John C. Reynolds made during his life. It is a renaming of the SIGPLAN Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award to encourage the clarity and rigor that Reynolds embodied and at the same time provides a reminder of Reynolds’s legacy and the difference a person can make in the field of programming language research. All questions about the John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award should be directed to the SIGPLAN Awards co-Chairs. Nominations can be submitted at any time at https://reynolds26.hotcrp.com/. The nomination application consists of Nominations submitted on or before January 22nd will be considered for award that year. The nominated dissertation must have been submitted for award of the doctoral degree in the year prior to the nomination deadline, and be available in English (to facilitate evaluation by the selection committee). Recipients are selected by a committee constituted as follows: The current committee is: If any member of the committee has a conflict of interest with a given nominee they shall declare that to the committee; once so declared, conflicts of interest shall not automatically prevent a committee member from taking part in the selection process. However, if a member of the committee, or the chair of the committee, feels that the association of a committee member with a nominee would interfere with impartial consideration of the nominees, that conflicted member shall be absented from the relevant parts of the discussion. If a committee member has conflicts of interest with more than one nominee, the Chair of the Committee may ask the constituency that appointed the committee member to select a replacement member. The SIGPLAN EC Chair will adjudicate as necessary. Property-Based Testing for the People Advisor: Benjamin C. Pierce Citation: Harry Goldstein’s dissertation, Property-Based Testing for the People, makes groundbreaking contributions to software reliability by advancing the theory and practice of Property-Based Testing (PBT). His work introduces novel mathematical foundations—free and reflective generators—that automate the construction of high-quality test-case generators, dramatically improving usability and effectiveness. Through empirical studies with industrial users, Harry identified key challenges in PBT adoption and addressed them with Tyche, an interactive framework that enhances testing visibility and control. His research, bridging programming languages, software engineering, and human-computer interaction, lays the foundation for a new generation of practical, powerful PBT tools, with substantial impact across both academia and industry. - Selection committee: Niki Vazou, Anders Møller, Loris D’Antoni, Santosh Nagarakatte, Umut Acar, Michael Greenberg. Modular Abstractions for Efficient Hardware Design Advisor: Adrian Sampson Citation: Nigam’s dissertation lays the semantic and practical foundations for a new generation of hardware description languages, applying deep ideas from programming languages to an area long neglected by the community. As the industry shifts toward specialized hardware with smaller, agile teams, the limitations of legacy languages like Verilog have become increasingly acute. Nigam’s work offers a groundbreaking rethinking of hardware design, particularly through his novel treatment of timing via substructural type systems, enabling predictable and composable hardware semantics. His “timeline types” innovation in the Filament system, which enforces timing correctness compositionally, is already influencing industry practice. Beautifully written, technically deep, and with growing impact beyond academia, this dissertation exemplifies the best of programming languages research and will serve as a guide for future work at the intersection of PL and hardware design. - Selection committee: Niki Vazou, Anders Møller, Loris D’Antoni, Santosh Nagarakatte, Umut Acar, Michael Greenberg. High-Level Quantum Programming Advisor: Martin Vechev Citation: Benjamin Bichsel’s dissertation makes significant contributions to the emerging domain of quantum computing, with the goal of making quantum programming easier, provably safer, and more accessible. Specifically, the thesis tackles two key challenges in quantum programming. The first challenge is uncomputation: in a quantum program, the computation of temporary variables must be explicitly reversed to avoid unwanted side effects, making programs more complex and error-prone. The dissertation explores two approaches to this challenge: (1) a new, high-level quantum programming language called Silq, whose design and type system ensure that every temporary variable can be uncomputed automatically; (2) an algorithm for synthesizing uncomputation in existing, low-level quantum languages. The second key challenge tackled by the thesis is simulation: the ability to run quantum programs on classical computers, which is notoriously computationally expensive, yet crucial for debugging purposes. The dissertation introduces a new framework for quantum simulation, which uses abstract interpretation to trade off precision for efficiency. Overall, the thesis combines a deep insight into the nature of quantum computing with advanced programming language techniques, such as (linear) type systems and abstract interpretation. The work spans the entire range from theory to systems: each chapter comes with a working system and the corresponding clean mathematical proofs. Finally, the work has already had significant impact: the Silq language is being used in teaching at UCLA and in a textbook on quantum computing. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Tom Reps, Ron Garcia, Nadia Polikarpova, Stephen Kell Efficient and Scalable Parallel Functional Programming through Disentanglement Advisor: Umut Acar Citation: Writing understandable and performant concurrent programs, especially ones that exploit racing updates, is one of the most important problems in computing. Sam Westrick’s dissertation introduces a new concept, disentanglement, that can be exploited to design efficient parallel and concurrent programs. The work assembles a benchmark suite of existing programs to evaluate the proposed techniques and shows that the technique is widely applicable. The thesis also develops the MPL compiler and shows how disentanglement can be exploited to improve execution, notably garbage collection. Overall, the thesis is clearly written, with every technical concept introduced with an informative example, and is a pleasure to read. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Philip Wadler, Milind Kulkarni, Stephanie Weirich, Hidehiko Masuhara Machine Learning for Programming Language Processing Advisor: Eran Yahav Citation: Uri Alon’s dissertation has made significant contributions to the emerging area of “language models for code,” an exciting topic that lies at the intersection of Machine Learning and Programming Languages research. A central question of the dissertation is how to effectively leverage the structure available in programming languages to provide novel neural solutions to programming-related tasks. The key contribution of this work is to leverage paths in the AST representation of the program to design new machine-learning models and to apply such models to solve a number of tasks of practical importance, including code completion, code captioning, and method-name prediction, and to do this across a number of different programming languages. Overall, Uri Alon’s dissertation combines insights from the PL and ML communities in an elegant way to solve many coding-related problems of practical interest. The thesis stands out in terms of its breadth of contributions, interdisciplinary nature, and high-quality writing. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Tom Reps, Milind Kulkarni, Stephanie Weirich, Hidehiko Masuhara Novel Polynomial Approximation Methods for Generating Correctly Rounded Elementary Functions Advisor: Santosh Nagarakatte Citation: Jay Lim’s dissertation makes foundational advances on techniques for generating correctly rounded math libraries for numerous elementary functions (e.g., sin, cos, log) for multiple representations (float, posits) and rounding modes. The resulting libraries are significantly faster than the state-of-the-art while producing correct results for all inputs. This is a remarkable achievement that stands out in terms of its direct and immediate impact. In more detail, this dissertation proposes a collection of novel techniques for generating polynomial approximations that produce correctly rounded results of an elementary function. The dissertation shows how this problem can be structured as a linear-programming problem in a way that accounts for numerical errors that arise from polynomial approximation and range reduction. The dissertation also shows how to generate a single polynomial approximation that produces the correctly rounded results for multiple rounding modes and multiple precision configurations. Overall, the dissertation is very well-written and combines elegant theoretical insights with exemplary experimental results to solve an open problem of practical interest. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Tom Reps, Milind Kulkarni, Stephanie Weirich, Hidehiko Masuhara Understanding and Evolving the Rust Programming Language Advisor: Derek Dreyer Citation: Ralf Jung’s dissertation aims to provide an understanding and justification for the practical memory and concurrency safety that the type system of Rust is meant to enforce. The main new challenge is posed by libraries that use unsafe, aren’t checked by the type system, but are assumed to be “safe”. In particular, the usual progress-and-preservation style of proof of type soundness does not work in this setting because it relies on a closed-world assumption. To address the problem, the thesis contributes a semantic characterization of the semantics of the properties to enforce, which is non-trivial due to the richness of Rust’s typing abstractions. In collaboration with colleagues Ralf Jung developed a rich program logic, called Iris, based on ideas of higher-order, concurrent, separation logic, used to give a semantic interpretation of Rust’s types. Iris has now been used in other contexts, e.g., in the practice to reason formally about other kinds of low-level systems code (e.g., C and assembly), as well as by systems and security researchers. The primary contribution of the dissertation is the development (and validation) of a semantic model of Rust’s type system using Iris, all developed within Coq, that makes precise the informal notions that the Rust designers had in mind. That precision, in turn, makes it possible to set up criteria that unchecked libraries must satisfy in order to ensure that checked code that is linked against them will respect the memory and data-race safety properties that the type system was intended to enforce. The effectiveness is demonstrated by verifying a number of the critical un-checked library abstractions. Like Iris, the ideas underlying the verification regime proposed here transfer to reasoning about any practical systems that are a mix of of languages, e.g., to reasoning about Java programs involves reasoning about the run-time system that is implemented in C. Ralf Jung did not only formalize everything in a proof assistant, so the proofs are machine-checked and re-usable by others, but also put together practical tools that people can use today. The thesis will continue to influence PL researchers via Iris and will continue to influence practitioners via Rust. Scalable Automated Reasoning for Programs and Deep Learning Advisor: Martin Vechev and Markus Püschel Citation: The central research question addressed by Singh’s dissertation is how to enable scalable and precise automated reasoning based on the abstract interpretation framework in the domains of numerical software and deep learning models. With regard to numerical software the thesis contributes a new method to online decomposition of program variables, which speeds up the Polyhedra domain and also generalizes to other abstract domains by providing a theory that gives a general construction for obtaining decomposed transformers from existing non-decomposed ones. This method is effective in removing redundant computations at each analysis step. In addition, the thesis proposes a reinforcement learning method to learn policies for selectively losing precision at different analysis steps, which however do not impact the overall precision, because some precise steps may eventually be discarded later and hence do not affect the end result. The methods are implemented in the ELINA library, which includes a number of important numerical domains (e.g., Octagon, Polyhedra, Zone), and is shown to outperform the state-of-the-art Polyhedra library by orders of magnitude. ELINA is currently the state-of-the-art library for numerical static analysis and is used in both industry and academia To address the analysis of deep learning models, the dissertation provides a set of abstract domains, specifically designed for deep learning models. The observation motivating this design decision is that standard numerical abstract domains are not suited for analyzing neural networks due to the nature of transformations of these networks and their non-linearity. A key contribution is the DeepPoly domain and its transformers for handling the usual activation functions used in deep networks. All domains and transformers are carefully implemented in a neural network verifier, called ERAN, which is currently the state-of-the-art system for neural network certification and is also used in both academia and industry. Overall, the thesis includes everything one would like to see in an outstanding doctoral dissertation: clean mathematical concepts with corresponding efficient algorithms which solve hard and important problems, ones that have resisted a solution for decades, a complete implementation of all ideas in state-of-the-art libraries used in academia and industry, all while opening new directions of research that have been picked up by the community as demonstrated by the large set of follow-up works. Combinatorial Constructions for Effective Testing Advisor: Rupak Majumdar Citation: Soundness is at the core of most PL verification techniques and random testing is a commonly used technique for analyzing software. Developing a theory of soundness for random testing is thus very important, but very few results existed before this thesis. Randomized techniques are seldom used in (sound) program analyses; hence, addressing the problem requires the development of new ways to approaching it. Filip’s thesis is among the first to apply deep techniques from randomized algorithms and combinatorics understanding and explaining the effectiveness of random testing. In turn, the theory helps with the design of new random testing approaches. The thesis adresses a hard problem brining in novel theory and proving hard theorems. When we see a phenomenon that we cannot immediately explain (in this case that random testing is so effective), we should try to build a scientific explanation. For some problems, including random testing, it is unclear that one can actually formulate a precise theory, because the “real world” is extremely messy. The fact that Filip is able to formulate the problem precisely and prove nontrivial theorems about them is surprising and opens the door to a new field. Network Control Plane Synthesis and Verification Advisor: David Walker Citation: Ryan Beckett’s thesis addresses the highly relevant topic of ensuring the correctness of computer network configurations. Computer networks connect key components of the world’s critical infrastructure - their misconfiguration may have severe consequences for our society. While the problems Ryan considers are from the networking community, the methods that he uses to solve them are drawn from the programming languages and formal methods communities, including declarative languages, automata, logic, compilers, bisimulation, static analysis, abstraction. Using these methods Ryan thesis describes new principles, algorithms, and tools for both verification and synthesis of network control plane algorithms. On the verification side, Ryan’s key insight is that one can characterize the fixed points to which routing algorithms converge. By carefully representing the constraints that define such fixed points as SMT formula, he developed the world’s most general and efficient control plane verification engine. To further speed up verification, he defined clever new algorithms capable of computing small, abstract networks that are behaviorally equivalent to much larger ones. On the synthesis side, Ryan defines a new programming language called Propane for specifying network control plane behavior. The work demonstrates that it takes just 50 lines of code in the right high-level programming language (as opposed to 1000s of lines of configuration, per device, for hundreds of separate devices) to specify core network requirements that are compiled to industry-standard devices. Ryan also defines new analyses that guarantee correctness in the presence of device failures. Ryan’s results have been published in top programming languages and networking conferences. While all aspects of the work could easily have been submitted to programming languages or formal methods venues, submitting his work to networking conferences has certainly maximized his impact in his domain of study. Most notably, his work on the Propane language won the best paper award at SIGCOMM in 2016. With his thesis, Ryan Beckett has demonstrated his capability to conduct truly interdisciplinary research of the highest scientific quality: The results were possible only with a deep knowledge across the programming languages, formal methods and networking domains. Moreover, the thesis is an excellent witness of the profound impact that programming language and formal reasoning methods can have on other research areas. Probabilistic Couplings for Probabilistic Reasoning Advisor: Benjamin C. Pierce and Aaron Roth Citation: The thesis explores and generalizes the COUPLING proof technique, for establishing properties of randomized algorithms. A correspondence between two different probabilistic programs (or two runs of the same program) requires the specification of the c orrelation between corresponding pairs of random draws and then extending this coupling on samples to a coupling on the resulting output distributions, which can then be used to establish the desired property on the programs. As Probabilistic Relation al Hoare Logic has just the right structure to be able to formally encode these coupling arguments, the thesis analyzes the structure of these arguments through this formal lens, justifying the attractiveness of the coupling approach in terms of compo sitionality. It then considers an enriched logic and its connection to approximate couplings, which in turn are directly connected to differential privacy. Working in this logic, it gives novel proofs of some key constructions from differential priv acy, including the exponential and sparse vector mechanisms. The proof for sparse vector is the first ever to be carried out in a machine-checkable form. Taken together, these results constitute a significant advance in our ability to mechanize key properties of important randomized algorithms such as those found in the differential privacy literature. Practical Formal Techniques and Tools for Developing LLVM’s Peephole Optimizations Advisor: Santosh Nagarakatte Citation: This thesis proposes abstractions and formal tools to develop correct LLVM peephole optimizations. A domain specific language (DSL) Alive enables the specification and verification of peephole optimizations. An Alive transformation is shown to be correct automatically by encoding the transformation and correctness criteria as constraints in first-order logic, which are automatically checked for validity using an SMT solver. It then generates C++ code for an LLVM pass. Peephole optimizations in LLVM are executed numerous times until no optimization is applicable and one optimization could undo the effect of the other resulting in non-terminating compilation. A novel algorithm based on directed-acyclic-graph (DAG) composition determines whether such non-termination bugs can occur with a suite of peephole optimizations. The Alive toolkit can generate concrete input to demonstrate non-termination as well as automatically generating weakest preconditions. It is actively used by the LLVM community and has detected numerous bugs in existing passes and is preventing bugs from being added to the compiler. Self-compilation and Self-verification Advisor: Mike Gordon and Magnus Myreen Citation: This thesis establishes end-to-end verification with a comprehensive chain of connections all the way from the semantics of a theorem prover expressed in set theory down to x86 machine code running it. It also makes striking use of self-application for both the compiler and the theorem prover. The “CakeML” compiler is compiled with itself. But more than that: it is formally proved correct, and the core of the theorem prover used to prove its correctness is also compiled using CakeML and formally verified using itself. Not only is this a compelling demonstration of the possibilities for formally correct software, and the promise of the CakeML system as an enabling technology for it, but gives perhaps the first really convincing correctness proof for the core of a higher-order logic interactive theorem prover. It is possible that this combination of theorem prover and formally verified path to machine code will become one of the primary platforms for developing high-assurance software. Parallel Proofs for Parallel Programs Advisor: Azadeh Farzan Citation: This thesis proposes a new solution for the problem of concurrent program verification introducing the use of explicitly parallel models and logics to represent and reason about concurrent programs. An effective way of finding a sweet spot in the cost-precision spectrum is provided, weaving together the two steps of constraint generation and cons traint resolution, offering a new way to think about proofs of concurrent programs. This paradigm shift has been missing in the space of “automated” program verification of infinite-state programs, since despite the absolute elegance of Owicki-Gries and Rely-Guarantee proof techniques, the completeness of these techniques heavily relies on the concept of auxiliary proof state. In this thesis, “inductive data flow graphs” (iDFG) offer the same completeness and elegance as the Owicki-Gries method minus the need for the auxiliary state in generating provably “compact” proof arguments. The elegance of iDFGs are generalized into a proof method “proof spaces” for concurrent programs with “unboundedly” many threads. Automatic Reasoning for Pointer Programs Using Decidable Logics Advisor: Mooly Sagiv Citation: Automated verification of imperative data structures such as lists is challenging because of the need to define complex loop invariants that have a sensible interpretation in an underlying program logic. This thesis presents a number of foundational results that greatly simplify the proof obligations that must be provided by the programmer for the verification of such programs. Through the introduction and application of concepts such as deterministic transitive closure and property-directed reachability, the thesis demonstrates the feasibility of using a decidable logic (EPR) as an effective basis for answering reachability queries on an expressive class of imperative list-manipulating programs. The thesis also extends these foundational ideas to define modular principles for reasoning about imperative data structures across procedure boundaries. These contributions ultimately lead to a system that can effectively infer loop invariants from an expressive template family using existing SAT solver and shape analysis technology. Collectively, these results lead to a thesis that makes very important foundational and practical contributions to our understanding of the potential of automated program verification and its application to real-world programs. - Selection committee: Susan Eisenbach, Tiziana Margaria, Antony Hosking, Suresh Jagannathan A Dependently Typed Language with Nontermination Advisor: Stephanie Weirich Citation: This work represents a major step toward the holy grail of “general-purpose dependently typed programming” – i.e., the design of programming languages that allow programs to be written using the full spectrum of standard features and idioms while, supporting machine-checked correctness proofs for these programs, expressed in the very same language. Such languages, combining the logical power of full-spectrum dependent languages such as Coq and Agda with the convenience and expressiveness of mainstream functional languages and supporting “lightweight verification” targeting just the most important properties of the most critical parts of the code, have been imagined for decades, but realizing this dream has proved technically challenging. The language and its accompanying metatheory introduce two important innovations. The first, and more technical, of these is the design of a core language combining a call-by-value evaluation order, a pragmatically motivated treatment of computational irrelevance (to support compilation to efficient machine code), and a novel treatment of propositional equality. The second is a new approach to surface-language design, where two terms (including proof terms) are considered to be equivalent if one can be rewritten to the other by applying a set of “known equalities” arising from previous definitions, which is quite convenient and intuitive for programmers. This beautiful thesis will be a cornerstone of a new generation of language designs supporting significantly more robust and reliable software development. - Selection committee: Susan Eisenbach, Tiziana Margaria, Antony Hosking, Suresh Jagannathan The C11 and C++11 Concurrency Model Advisor: Peter Sewell Citation: Mark Batty’s dissertation makes significant contributions to the understanding of memory models for C and C++. The ISO C++ committee proposed a design for C and C++ concurrency that was not up to the task of capturing a realistic relaxed-memory concurrency model. Batty’s work uncovered a number of subtle and serious flaws in the design, and produced an improved design in completely rigorous and machine-checked mathematics. Using software tools to explore the consequences of the design, derived directly from the mathematics, it showed that it has the desired behavior on many examples, and developed mechanized proofs that the design meets some of the original goals, showing that for programs in various subsets of the language one can reason in simpler models. The standards committee have adopted this work in their C11, C++11, and C++14 standards. The members of the award committee were impressed with the quality of the work, the impact it has had on the standardization process for C++, and the clarity of the presentation. Understanding and Expressing Scalable Concurrency Advisor: Mitchell Wand Citation: Aaron Turon’s dissertation makes several major contributions to the design, implementation, and verification of scalable concurrent programs. First, the dissertation presents “reagents”, a high-level language of combinators for designing—and composing—lock-free data structures. Second, the dissertation shows how lock-free data structures can be used to scalably implement Fournet and Gonthier’s join calculus, in a newly re-engineered C# library that significantly outperforms prior lock-based implementations. Third, the dissertation develops powerful theoretical foundations—based on logical relations and separation logic—for verifying the correctness of scalable concurrent algorithms via contextual refinement. The members of the award committee were impressed with both the breadth and depth of the work, as well as the elegance of the exposition. Verifying Low-Level Programs via Liquid Type Inference Advisor: Ranjit Jhala Citation: Patrick Rondon’s dissertation makes several significant contributions to the field of automatic program verification. It takes a type system – a highly scalable yet not quite precise method of dealing with programs – and refines it using Satisfiability Modulo Theory (SMT) techniques to compensate for the precision loss. There are implementations for both OCaml and C. The achieved degree of effectiveness and automation is astonishing: programs that are beyond the existing verification tools can be handled fully automatically within seconds. It demonstrates that formal verification can yield significant reliability guarantees for mainstream software engineering, at a reasonable cost. In addition, the thesis contains a comprehensive formalization with very detailed, readable proofs. The members of the award committee were impressed by the quality of the work and the clarity of the presentation. Simplified Semantics and Debugging of Concurrent Programs via Targeted Race Detection Advisor: Todd Millstein Citation: This dissertation addresses the problem of obtaining reliable results from concurrent programs. As a first step, the dissertation presents LiteRace, which uses sampling to dynamically detect race conditions. As a second step, the dissertation presents DRFx, which is a memory model that enforces sequential consistency, where hardware and software share responsibility for detecting violations of sequential consistency. Finally, the dissertation presents the design of an optimizing compiler that preserves sequential consistency. The dissertation thus demonstrates how a revised distribution of responsibilities among programmers, programming languages, and hardware can help detect and avoid concurrency violations. The committee was impressed with the dissertation’s broad vision for both the problems of concurrency and the possible solutions. Selection committee: - John Boyland (U. Wisconsin Milwaukee) - Chen Ding (U. Rochester) - Matthew Flatt (U. Utah) - David Gregg (Trinity U.) - Norman Ramsey (Tufts U.) - Jeremy Siek (U. Colorado) - Adam Welc (Oracle) An Effect System and Language for Deterministic-by-Default Parallel Programming Advisor: Vikram Adve Citation: This dissertation makes several significant contributions to the field of parallel and concurrent programming. The main technical contribution is a type and effect system that enables reasoning about non-interference at a fine granularity. A second contribution is support for non-deterministic code sections that are explicitly marked as such. A third contribution is support for object-oriented frameworks, where user extensions are guaranteed to adhere to the framework’s effect restrictions. These contributions are backed by formal models, soundness proofs, and the Deterministic Parallel Java implementation. Evaluation shows that highly satisfactory speedups can be achieved on interesting code bases, sometimes beating the performance of hand-crafted implementations. The members of the award committee were impressed by the quality of the work and the clarity of the presentation. Selection commmittee: Ras Bodik, Matthew Dwyer, Matthew Flatt, Matthew Fluet, Kevin Hammond, Nathaniel Nystrom, Kostis Sagonas, Peter Sewell, Peter Thiemann Interprocedural Analysis and the Verification of Concurrent Programs Advisor: Thomas Reps Citation: This dissertation develops improvements to interprocedural program analysis through context-bounded analysis and through Lal’s extended weighted push down systems, which generalize weighted push down systems to handle local variables. The dissertation describes both algorithms and experiments, and it shows, for example, a 30-fold speedup over existing algorithms for analyzing concurrent programs. The members of the award committee were impressed by the unusual scope and depth of the dissertation and its excellent presentation. Language and Compiler Support for Stream Programs Advisor: Saman Amarasinghe Citation: This dissertation describes the StreamIt synchronous dataflow language, for which Thies led the definition. The language supports several novel constructs, notably teleport messaging. Thies’s dissertation includes a technique for processing compressed video data, and it also describes dynamic analysis techniques to convert legacy C applications to streaming applications. The members of the award committee were impressed with the novelty, interdisciplinary nature, and breadth of the work, the care given to evaluation, and the quality of the presentation. Diagnosing and Tolerating Bugs in Deployed Systems Advisor: Kathryn McKinley Citation: This dissertation makes several significant contributions to the problems of tracking down and tolerating software errors in deployed systems. It proposes a variety of techniques, ranging from a breakthrough, probabilistic method of compactly representing calling contexts, to novel techniques for tracking null pointers, to garbage collector modifications that let programs tolerate memory leaks. The evaluation committee was impressed by Michael’s fresh perspective on these problems and the thorough experimental evaluation by which he backs up his claims. His research has already had broad adoption and impact, and we believe that his techniques will be brought to bear on a wide range of future applications. Modular Fine-grained Concurrency Verification Advisor: Alan Mycroft and Matthew Parkinson Citation: This dissertation introduces a novel logic for reasoning about concurrent shared-memory programs. This logic subsumes both rely/guarantee reasoning and separation logic in an elegant and natural manner. The dissertation establishes the semantic properties of the logic and demonstrates its applicability on a range of highly complex concurrent algorithms and data structures. The evaluation committee found the clarity of Viktor’s presentation and the technical depth of his results particularly compelling, and we believe that this work creates a foundation for new tools and automated techniques for reasoning about concurrent programs. Logics and Algorithms for Software Model Checking Advisor: Rajeev Alur Citation: The thesis explores a formalism called nested trees, that can represent complex branching behavior (loops and recursion) and support modular statement of context-sensitive correctness conditions. It further makes a specific technical contribution by offering the first algorithm for reachability in in nested trees that is sub-cubic in performance. The committee believes this work has great potential for long-term utility. Fault Location via Dynamic Slicing Advisor: Rajiv Gupta Citation: Dynamic slicing is a technique for determining which variables and data structures affected values causing a fault (bug) at a particular location in a particular run of a program, thus allowing a programmer to work backwards to determine the ultimate cause of a fault. Previously this approach was too expensive to use in practice. Zhang has improved the performance by orders of magnitude, making it practical. The committee believes this work will have considerable impact and value in practice. Program Analysis using Random Interpretation Advisor: George Necula Isolation, Resource Management and Sharing in the KaffeOS Java Runtime System Advisor: Wilson Hsieh Advisor: Scott Nettles Path-Sensitive Value-Flow Optimizations of Programs Advisor: Rajiv Gupta and Mary Lou Soffa


--- [John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award] ---
Presented annually to the author of an outstanding doctoral dissertation in the area of Programming Languages. The award includes a prize of $1,000. The awardee can choose to receive the award at ICFP, SPLASH, POPL, or PLDI. At the discretion of the Selection Committee, multiple awards and/or honorable mentions may be presented for a given year. The Reynolds Dissertation Award recognizes the contributions to computer science that John C. Reynolds made during his life. It is a renaming of the SIGPLAN Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award to encourage the clarity and rigor that Reynolds embodied and at the same time provides a reminder of Reynolds’s legacy and the difference a person can make in the field of programming language research. All questions about the John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award should be directed to the SIGPLAN Awards co-Chairs. Nominations can be submitted at any time at https://reynolds26.hotcrp.com/. The nomination application consists of Nominations submitted on or before January 22nd will be considered for award that year. The nominated dissertation must have been submitted for award of the doctoral degree in the year prior to the nomination deadline, and be available in English (to facilitate evaluation by the selection committee). Recipients are selected by a committee constituted as follows: The current committee is: If any member of the committee has a conflict of interest with a given nominee they shall declare that to the committee; once so declared, conflicts of interest shall not automatically prevent a committee member from taking part in the selection process. However, if a member of the committee, or the chair of the committee, feels that the association of a committee member with a nominee would interfere with impartial consideration of the nominees, that conflicted member shall be absented from the relevant parts of the discussion. If a committee member has conflicts of interest with more than one nominee, the Chair of the Committee may ask the constituency that appointed the committee member to select a replacement member. The SIGPLAN EC Chair will adjudicate as necessary. Property-Based Testing for the People Advisor: Benjamin C. Pierce Citation: Harry Goldstein’s dissertation, Property-Based Testing for the People, makes groundbreaking contributions to software reliability by advancing the theory and practice of Property-Based Testing (PBT). His work introduces novel mathematical foundations—free and reflective generators—that automate the construction of high-quality test-case generators, dramatically improving usability and effectiveness. Through empirical studies with industrial users, Harry identified key challenges in PBT adoption and addressed them with Tyche, an interactive framework that enhances testing visibility and control. His research, bridging programming languages, software engineering, and human-computer interaction, lays the foundation for a new generation of practical, powerful PBT tools, with substantial impact across both academia and industry. - Selection committee: Niki Vazou, Anders Møller, Loris D’Antoni, Santosh Nagarakatte, Umut Acar, Michael Greenberg. Modular Abstractions for Efficient Hardware Design Advisor: Adrian Sampson Citation: Nigam’s dissertation lays the semantic and practical foundations for a new generation of hardware description languages, applying deep ideas from programming languages to an area long neglected by the community. As the industry shifts toward specialized hardware with smaller, agile teams, the limitations of legacy languages like Verilog have become increasingly acute. Nigam’s work offers a groundbreaking rethinking of hardware design, particularly through his novel treatment of timing via substructural type systems, enabling predictable and composable hardware semantics. His “timeline types” innovation in the Filament system, which enforces timing correctness compositionally, is already influencing industry practice. Beautifully written, technically deep, and with growing impact beyond academia, this dissertation exemplifies the best of programming languages research and will serve as a guide for future work at the intersection of PL and hardware design. - Selection committee: Niki Vazou, Anders Møller, Loris D’Antoni, Santosh Nagarakatte, Umut Acar, Michael Greenberg. High-Level Quantum Programming Advisor: Martin Vechev Citation: Benjamin Bichsel’s dissertation makes significant contributions to the emerging domain of quantum computing, with the goal of making quantum programming easier, provably safer, and more accessible. Specifically, the thesis tackles two key challenges in quantum programming. The first challenge is uncomputation: in a quantum program, the computation of temporary variables must be explicitly reversed to avoid unwanted side effects, making programs more complex and error-prone. The dissertation explores two approaches to this challenge: (1) a new, high-level quantum programming language called Silq, whose design and type system ensure that every temporary variable can be uncomputed automatically; (2) an algorithm for synthesizing uncomputation in existing, low-level quantum languages. The second key challenge tackled by the thesis is simulation: the ability to run quantum programs on classical computers, which is notoriously computationally expensive, yet crucial for debugging purposes. The dissertation introduces a new framework for quantum simulation, which uses abstract interpretation to trade off precision for efficiency. Overall, the thesis combines a deep insight into the nature of quantum computing with advanced programming language techniques, such as (linear) type systems and abstract interpretation. The work spans the entire range from theory to systems: each chapter comes with a working system and the corresponding clean mathematical proofs. Finally, the work has already had significant impact: the Silq language is being used in teaching at UCLA and in a textbook on quantum computing. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Tom Reps, Ron Garcia, Nadia Polikarpova, Stephen Kell Efficient and Scalable Parallel Functional Programming through Disentanglement Advisor: Umut Acar Citation: Writing understandable and performant concurrent programs, especially ones that exploit racing updates, is one of the most important problems in computing. Sam Westrick’s dissertation introduces a new concept, disentanglement, that can be exploited to design efficient parallel and concurrent programs. The work assembles a benchmark suite of existing programs to evaluate the proposed techniques and shows that the technique is widely applicable. The thesis also develops the MPL compiler and shows how disentanglement can be exploited to improve execution, notably garbage collection. Overall, the thesis is clearly written, with every technical concept introduced with an informative example, and is a pleasure to read. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Philip Wadler, Milind Kulkarni, Stephanie Weirich, Hidehiko Masuhara Machine Learning for Programming Language Processing Advisor: Eran Yahav Citation: Uri Alon’s dissertation has made significant contributions to the emerging area of “language models for code,” an exciting topic that lies at the intersection of Machine Learning and Programming Languages research. A central question of the dissertation is how to effectively leverage the structure available in programming languages to provide novel neural solutions to programming-related tasks. The key contribution of this work is to leverage paths in the AST representation of the program to design new machine-learning models and to apply such models to solve a number of tasks of practical importance, including code completion, code captioning, and method-name prediction, and to do this across a number of different programming languages. Overall, Uri Alon’s dissertation combines insights from the PL and ML communities in an elegant way to solve many coding-related problems of practical interest. The thesis stands out in terms of its breadth of contributions, interdisciplinary nature, and high-quality writing. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Tom Reps, Milind Kulkarni, Stephanie Weirich, Hidehiko Masuhara Novel Polynomial Approximation Methods for Generating Correctly Rounded Elementary Functions Advisor: Santosh Nagarakatte Citation: Jay Lim’s dissertation makes foundational advances on techniques for generating correctly rounded math libraries for numerous elementary functions (e.g., sin, cos, log) for multiple representations (float, posits) and rounding modes. The resulting libraries are significantly faster than the state-of-the-art while producing correct results for all inputs. This is a remarkable achievement that stands out in terms of its direct and immediate impact. In more detail, this dissertation proposes a collection of novel techniques for generating polynomial approximations that produce correctly rounded results of an elementary function. The dissertation shows how this problem can be structured as a linear-programming problem in a way that accounts for numerical errors that arise from polynomial approximation and range reduction. The dissertation also shows how to generate a single polynomial approximation that produces the correctly rounded results for multiple rounding modes and multiple precision configurations. Overall, the dissertation is very well-written and combines elegant theoretical insights with exemplary experimental results to solve an open problem of practical interest. - Selection committee: Işil Dillig, Tom Reps, Milind Kulkarni, Stephanie Weirich, Hidehiko Masuhara Understanding and Evolving the Rust Programming Language Advisor: Derek Dreyer Citation: Ralf Jung’s dissertation aims to provide an understanding and justification for the practical memory and concurrency safety that the type system of Rust is meant to enforce. The main new challenge is posed by libraries that use unsafe, aren’t checked by the type system, but are assumed to be “safe”. In particular, the usual progress-and-preservation style of proof of type soundness does not work in this setting because it relies on a closed-world assumption. To address the problem, the thesis contributes a semantic characterization of the semantics of the properties to enforce, which is non-trivial due to the richness of Rust’s typing abstractions. In collaboration with colleagues Ralf Jung developed a rich program logic, called Iris, based on ideas of higher-order, concurrent, separation logic, used to give a semantic interpretation of Rust’s types. Iris has now been used in other contexts, e.g., in the practice to reason formally about other kinds of low-level systems code (e.g., C and assembly), as well as by systems and security researchers. The primary contribution of the dissertation is the development (and validation) of a semantic model of Rust’s type system using Iris, all developed within Coq, that makes precise the informal notions that the Rust designers had in mind. That precision, in turn, makes it possible to set up criteria that unchecked libraries must satisfy in order to ensure that checked code that is linked against them will respect the memory and data-race safety properties that the type system was intended to enforce. The effectiveness is demonstrated by verifying a number of the critical un-checked library abstractions. Like Iris, the ideas underlying the verification regime proposed here transfer to reasoning about any practical systems that are a mix of of languages, e.g., to reasoning about Java programs involves reasoning about the run-time system that is implemented in C. Ralf Jung did not only formalize everything in a proof assistant, so the proofs are machine-checked and re-usable by others, but also put together practical tools that people can use today. The thesis will continue to influence PL researchers via Iris and will continue to influence practitioners via Rust. Scalable Automated Reasoning for Programs and Deep Learning Advisor: Martin Vechev and Markus Püschel Citation: The central research question addressed by Singh’s dissertation is how to enable scalable and precise automated reasoning based on the abstract interpretation framework in the domains of numerical software and deep learning models. With regard to numerical software the thesis contributes a new method to online decomposition of program variables, which speeds up the Polyhedra domain and also generalizes to other abstract domains by providing a theory that gives a general construction for obtaining decomposed transformers from existing non-decomposed ones. This method is effective in removing redundant computations at each analysis step. In addition, the thesis proposes a reinforcement learning method to learn policies for selectively losing precision at different analysis steps, which however do not impact the overall precision, because some precise steps may eventually be discarded later and hence do not affect the end result. The methods are implemented in the ELINA library, which includes a number of important numerical domains (e.g., Octagon, Polyhedra, Zone), and is shown to outperform the state-of-the-art Polyhedra library by orders of magnitude. ELINA is currently the state-of-the-art library for numerical static analysis and is used in both industry and academia To address the analysis of deep learning models, the dissertation provides a set of abstract domains, specifically designed for deep learning models. The observation motivating this design decision is that standard numerical abstract domains are not suited for analyzing neural networks due to the nature of transformations of these networks and their non-linearity. A key contribution is the DeepPoly domain and its transformers for handling the usual activation functions used in deep networks. All domains and transformers are carefully implemented in a neural network verifier, called ERAN, which is currently the state-of-the-art system for neural network certification and is also used in both academia and industry. Overall, the thesis includes everything one would like to see in an outstanding doctoral dissertation: clean mathematical concepts with corresponding efficient algorithms which solve hard and important problems, ones that have resisted a solution for decades, a complete implementation of all ideas in state-of-the-art libraries used in academia and industry, all while opening new directions of research that have been picked up by the community as demonstrated by the large set of follow-up works. Combinatorial Constructions for Effective Testing Advisor: Rupak Majumdar Citation: Soundness is at the core of most PL verification techniques and random testing is a commonly used technique for analyzing software. Developing a theory of soundness for random testing is thus very important, but very few results existed before this thesis. Randomized techniques are seldom used in (sound) program analyses; hence, addressing the problem requires the development of new ways to approaching it. Filip’s thesis is among the first to apply deep techniques from randomized algorithms and combinatorics understanding and explaining the effectiveness of random testing. In turn, the theory helps with the design of new random testing approaches. The thesis adresses a hard problem brining in novel theory and proving hard theorems. When we see a phenomenon that we cannot immediately explain (in this case that random testing is so effective), we should try to build a scientific explanation. For some problems, including random testing, it is unclear that one can actually formulate a precise theory, because the “real world” is extremely messy. The fact that Filip is able to formulate the problem precisely and prove nontrivial theorems about them is surprising and opens the door to a new field. Network Control Plane Synthesis and Verification Advisor: David Walker Citation: Ryan Beckett’s thesis addresses the highly relevant topic of ensuring the correctness of computer network configurations. Computer networks connect key components of the world’s critical infrastructure - their misconfiguration may have severe consequences for our society. While the problems Ryan considers are from the networking community, the methods that he uses to solve them are drawn from the programming languages and formal methods communities, including declarative languages, automata, logic, compilers, bisimulation, static analysis, abstraction. Using these methods Ryan thesis describes new principles, algorithms, and tools for both verification and synthesis of network control plane algorithms. On the verification side, Ryan’s key insight is that one can characterize the fixed points to which routing algorithms converge. By carefully representing the constraints that define such fixed points as SMT formula, he developed the world’s most general and efficient control plane verification engine. To further speed up verification, he defined clever new algorithms capable of computing small, abstract networks that are behaviorally equivalent to much larger ones. On the synthesis side, Ryan defines a new programming language called Propane for specifying network control plane behavior. The work demonstrates that it takes just 50 lines of code in the right high-level programming language (as opposed to 1000s of lines of configuration, per device, for hundreds of separate devices) to specify core network requirements that are compiled to industry-standard devices. Ryan also defines new analyses that guarantee correctness in the presence of device failures. Ryan’s results have been published in top programming languages and networking conferences. While all aspects of the work could easily have been submitted to programming languages or formal methods venues, submitting his work to networking conferences has certainly maximized his impact in his domain of study. Most notably, his work on the Propane language won the best paper award at SIGCOMM in 2016. With his thesis, Ryan Beckett has demonstrated his capability to conduct truly interdisciplinary research of the highest scientific quality: The results were possible only with a deep knowledge across the programming languages, formal methods and networking domains. Moreover, the thesis is an excellent witness of the profound impact that programming language and formal reasoning methods can have on other research areas. Probabilistic Couplings for Probabilistic Reasoning Advisor: Benjamin C. Pierce and Aaron Roth Citation: The thesis explores and generalizes the COUPLING proof technique, for establishing properties of randomized algorithms. A correspondence between two different probabilistic programs (or two runs of the same program) requires the specification of the c orrelation between corresponding pairs of random draws and then extending this coupling on samples to a coupling on the resulting output distributions, which can then be used to establish the desired property on the programs. As Probabilistic Relation al Hoare Logic has just the right structure to be able to formally encode these coupling arguments, the thesis analyzes the structure of these arguments through this formal lens, justifying the attractiveness of the coupling approach in terms of compo sitionality. It then considers an enriched logic and its connection to approximate couplings, which in turn are directly connected to differential privacy. Working in this logic, it gives novel proofs of some key constructions from differential priv acy, including the exponential and sparse vector mechanisms. The proof for sparse vector is the first ever to be carried out in a machine-checkable form. Taken together, these results constitute a significant advance in our ability to mechanize key properties of important randomized algorithms such as those found in the differential privacy literature. Practical Formal Techniques and Tools for Developing LLVM’s Peephole Optimizations Advisor: Santosh Nagarakatte Citation: This thesis proposes abstractions and formal tools to develop correct LLVM peephole optimizations. A domain specific language (DSL) Alive enables the specification and verification of peephole optimizations. An Alive transformation is shown to be correct automatically by encoding the transformation and correctness criteria as constraints in first-order logic, which are automatically checked for validity using an SMT solver. It then generates C++ code for an LLVM pass. Peephole optimizations in LLVM are executed numerous times until no optimization is applicable and one optimization could undo the effect of the other resulting in non-terminating compilation. A novel algorithm based on directed-acyclic-graph (DAG) composition determines whether such non-termination bugs can occur with a suite of peephole optimizations. The Alive toolkit can generate concrete input to demonstrate non-termination as well as automatically generating weakest preconditions. It is actively used by the LLVM community and has detected numerous bugs in existing passes and is preventing bugs from being added to the compiler. Self-compilation and Self-verification Advisor: Mike Gordon and Magnus Myreen Citation: This thesis establishes end-to-end verification with a comprehensive chain of connections all the way from the semantics of a theorem prover expressed in set theory down to x86 machine code running it. It also makes striking use of self-application for both the compiler and the theorem prover. The “CakeML” compiler is compiled with itself. But more than that: it is formally proved correct, and the core of the theorem prover used to prove its correctness is also compiled using CakeML and formally verified using itself. Not only is this a compelling demonstration of the possibilities for formally correct software, and the promise of the CakeML system as an enabling technology for it, but gives perhaps the first really convincing correctness proof for the core of a higher-order logic interactive theorem prover. It is possible that this combination of theorem prover and formally verified path to machine code will become one of the primary platforms for developing high-assurance software. Parallel Proofs for Parallel Programs Advisor: Azadeh Farzan Citation: This thesis proposes a new solution for the problem of concurrent program verification introducing the use of explicitly parallel models and logics to represent and reason about concurrent programs. An effective way of finding a sweet spot in the cost-precision spectrum is provided, weaving together the two steps of constraint generation and cons traint resolution, offering a new way to think about proofs of concurrent programs. This paradigm shift has been missing in the space of “automated” program verification of infinite-state programs, since despite the absolute elegance of Owicki-Gries and Rely-Guarantee proof techniques, the completeness of these techniques heavily relies on the concept of auxiliary proof state. In this thesis, “inductive data flow graphs” (iDFG) offer the same completeness and elegance as the Owicki-Gries method minus the need for the auxiliary state in generating provably “compact” proof arguments. The elegance of iDFGs are generalized into a proof method “proof spaces” for concurrent programs with “unboundedly” many threads. Automatic Reasoning for Pointer Programs Using Decidable Logics Advisor: Mooly Sagiv Citation: Automated verification of imperative data structures such as lists is challenging because of the need to define complex loop invariants that have a sensible interpretation in an underlying program logic. This thesis presents a number of foundational results that greatly simplify the proof obligations that must be provided by the programmer for the verification of such programs. Through the introduction and application of concepts such as deterministic transitive closure and property-directed reachability, the thesis demonstrates the feasibility of using a decidable logic (EPR) as an effective basis for answering reachability queries on an expressive class of imperative list-manipulating programs. The thesis also extends these foundational ideas to define modular principles for reasoning about imperative data structures across procedure boundaries. These contributions ultimately lead to a system that can effectively infer loop invariants from an expressive template family using existing SAT solver and shape analysis technology. Collectively, these results lead to a thesis that makes very important foundational and practical contributions to our understanding of the potential of automated program verification and its application to real-world programs. - Selection committee: Susan Eisenbach, Tiziana Margaria, Antony Hosking, Suresh Jagannathan A Dependently Typed Language with Nontermination Advisor: Stephanie Weirich Citation: This work represents a major step toward the holy grail of “general-purpose dependently typed programming” – i.e., the design of programming languages that allow programs to be written using the full spectrum of standard features and idioms while, supporting machine-checked correctness proofs for these programs, expressed in the very same language. Such languages, combining the logical power of full-spectrum dependent languages such as Coq and Agda with the convenience and expressiveness of mainstream functional languages and supporting “lightweight verification” targeting just the most important properties of the most critical parts of the code, have been imagined for decades, but realizing this dream has proved technically challenging. The language and its accompanying metatheory introduce two important innovations. The first, and more technical, of these is the design of a core language combining a call-by-value evaluation order, a pragmatically motivated treatment of computational irrelevance (to support compilation to efficient machine code), and a novel treatment of propositional equality. The second is a new approach to surface-language design, where two terms (including proof terms) are considered to be equivalent if one can be rewritten to the other by applying a set of “known equalities” arising from previous definitions, which is quite convenient and intuitive for programmers. This beautiful thesis will be a cornerstone of a new generation of language designs supporting significantly more robust and reliable software development. - Selection committee: Susan Eisenbach, Tiziana Margaria, Antony Hosking, Suresh Jagannathan The C11 and C++11 Concurrency Model Advisor: Peter Sewell Citation: Mark Batty’s dissertation makes significant contributions to the understanding of memory models for C and C++. The ISO C++ committee proposed a design for C and C++ concurrency that was not up to the task of capturing a realistic relaxed-memory concurrency model. Batty’s work uncovered a number of subtle and serious flaws in the design, and produced an improved design in completely rigorous and machine-checked mathematics. Using software tools to explore the consequences of the design, derived directly from the mathematics, it showed that it has the desired behavior on many examples, and developed mechanized proofs that the design meets some of the original goals, showing that for programs in various subsets of the language one can reason in simpler models. The standards committee have adopted this work in their C11, C++11, and C++14 standards. The members of the award committee were impressed with the quality of the work, the impact it has had on the standardization process for C++, and the clarity of the presentation. Understanding and Expressing Scalable Concurrency Advisor: Mitchell Wand Citation: Aaron Turon’s dissertation makes several major contributions to the design, implementation, and verification of scalable concurrent programs. First, the dissertation presents “reagents”, a high-level language of combinators for designing—and composing—lock-free data structures. Second, the dissertation shows how lock-free data structures can be used to scalably implement Fournet and Gonthier’s join calculus, in a newly re-engineered C# library that significantly outperforms prior lock-based implementations. Third, the dissertation develops powerful theoretical foundations—based on logical relations and separation logic—for verifying the correctness of scalable concurrent algorithms via contextual refinement. The members of the award committee were impressed with both the breadth and depth of the work, as well as the elegance of the exposition. Verifying Low-Level Programs via Liquid Type Inference Advisor: Ranjit Jhala Citation: Patrick Rondon’s dissertation makes several significant contributions to the field of automatic program verification. It takes a type system – a highly scalable yet not quite precise method of dealing with programs – and refines it using Satisfiability Modulo Theory (SMT) techniques to compensate for the precision loss. There are implementations for both OCaml and C. The achieved degree of effectiveness and automation is astonishing: programs that are beyond the existing verification tools can be handled fully automatically within seconds. It demonstrates that formal verification can yield significant reliability guarantees for mainstream software engineering, at a reasonable cost. In addition, the thesis contains a comprehensive formalization with very detailed, readable proofs. The members of the award committee were impressed by the quality of the work and the clarity of the presentation. Simplified Semantics and Debugging of Concurrent Programs via Targeted Race Detection Advisor: Todd Millstein Citation: This dissertation addresses the problem of obtaining reliable results from concurrent programs. As a first step, the dissertation presents LiteRace, which uses sampling to dynamically detect race conditions. As a second step, the dissertation presents DRFx, which is a memory model that enforces sequential consistency, where hardware and software share responsibility for detecting violations of sequential consistency. Finally, the dissertation presents the design of an optimizing compiler that preserves sequential consistency. The dissertation thus demonstrates how a revised distribution of responsibilities among programmers, programming languages, and hardware can help detect and avoid concurrency violations. The committee was impressed with the dissertation’s broad vision for both the problems of concurrency and the possible solutions. Selection committee: - John Boyland (U. Wisconsin Milwaukee) - Chen Ding (U. Rochester) - Matthew Flatt (U. Utah) - David Gregg (Trinity U.) - Norman Ramsey (Tufts U.) - Jeremy Siek (U. Colorado) - Adam Welc (Oracle) An Effect System and Language for Deterministic-by-Default Parallel Programming Advisor: Vikram Adve Citation: This dissertation makes several significant contributions to the field of parallel and concurrent programming. The main technical contribution is a type and effect system that enables reasoning about non-interference at a fine granularity. A second contribution is support for non-deterministic code sections that are explicitly marked as such. A third contribution is support for object-oriented frameworks, where user extensions are guaranteed to adhere to the framework’s effect restrictions. These contributions are backed by formal models, soundness proofs, and the Deterministic Parallel Java implementation. Evaluation shows that highly satisfactory speedups can be achieved on interesting code bases, sometimes beating the performance of hand-crafted implementations. The members of the award committee were impressed by the quality of the work and the clarity of the presentation. Selection commmittee: Ras Bodik, Matthew Dwyer, Matthew Flatt, Matthew Fluet, Kevin Hammond, Nathaniel Nystrom, Kostis Sagonas, Peter Sewell, Peter Thiemann Interprocedural Analysis and the Verification of Concurrent Programs Advisor: Thomas Reps Citation: This dissertation develops improvements to interprocedural program analysis through context-bounded analysis and through Lal’s extended weighted push down systems, which generalize weighted push down systems to handle local variables. The dissertation describes both algorithms and experiments, and it shows, for example, a 30-fold speedup over existing algorithms for analyzing concurrent programs. The members of the award committee were impressed by the unusual scope and depth of the dissertation and its excellent presentation. Language and Compiler Support for Stream Programs Advisor: Saman Amarasinghe Citation: This dissertation describes the StreamIt synchronous dataflow language, for which Thies led the definition. The language supports several novel constructs, notably teleport messaging. Thies’s dissertation includes a technique for processing compressed video data, and it also describes dynamic analysis techniques to convert legacy C applications to streaming applications. The members of the award committee were impressed with the novelty, interdisciplinary nature, and breadth of the work, the care given to evaluation, and the quality of the presentation. Diagnosing and Tolerating Bugs in Deployed Systems Advisor: Kathryn McKinley Citation: This dissertation makes several significant contributions to the problems of tracking down and tolerating software errors in deployed systems. It proposes a variety of techniques, ranging from a breakthrough, probabilistic method of compactly representing calling contexts, to novel techniques for tracking null pointers, to garbage collector modifications that let programs tolerate memory leaks. The evaluation committee was impressed by Michael’s fresh perspective on these problems and the thorough experimental evaluation by which he backs up his claims. His research has already had broad adoption and impact, and we believe that his techniques will be brought to bear on a wide range of future applications. Modular Fine-grained Concurrency Verification Advisor: Alan Mycroft and Matthew Parkinson Citation: This dissertation introduces a novel logic for reasoning about concurrent shared-memory programs. This logic subsumes both rely/guarantee reasoning and separation logic in an elegant and natural manner. The dissertation establishes the semantic properties of the logic and demonstrates its applicability on a range of highly complex concurrent algorithms and data structures. The evaluation committee found the clarity of Viktor’s presentation and the technical depth of his results particularly compelling, and we believe that this work creates a foundation for new tools and automated techniques for reasoning about concurrent programs. Logics and Algorithms for Software Model Checking Advisor: Rajeev Alur Citation: The thesis explores a formalism called nested trees, that can represent complex branching behavior (loops and recursion) and support modular statement of context-sensitive correctness conditions. It further makes a specific technical contribution by offering the first algorithm for reachability in in nested trees that is sub-cubic in performance. The committee believes this work has great potential for long-term utility. Fault Location via Dynamic Slicing Advisor: Rajiv Gupta Citation: Dynamic slicing is a technique for determining which variables and data structures affected values causing a fault (bug) at a particular location in a particular run of a program, thus allowing a programmer to work backwards to determine the ultimate cause of a fault. Previously this approach was too expensive to use in practice. Zhang has improved the performance by orders of magnitude, making it practical. The committee believes this work will have considerable impact and value in practice. Program Analysis using Random Interpretation Advisor: George Necula Isolation, Resource Management and Sharing in the KaffeOS Java Runtime System Advisor: Wilson Hsieh Advisor: Scott Nettles Path-Sensitive Value-Flow Optimizations of Programs Advisor: Rajiv Gupta and Mary Lou Soffa


--- [SIGPLAN - Programming Languages] ---
SIGPLAN - Programming Languages SIGPLAN Distinguished Service Award Awarded on the basis of value and degree of service to the Programming Languages Community. The award recognizes contributions to ACM SIGPLAN, its conferences, publications, or its local activities, and includes a prize of $2,500. SIGPLAN Programming Languages Achievement Award Given to recognize an individual who has made a significant and lasting contribution to the field of programming languages. The contribution can be a single event or a lifetime of achievement. The award includes a prize of $5,000. SIGPLAN Programming Languages Software Award Presented to an institution or individual(s) to recognize the development of a software system that has had a significant impact on programming language research, implementations, and tools. The award includes a prize of $2500. SIGPLAN Most Influential PLDI Paper Award Presented to the author(s) of a paper presented at the PLDI Conference held ten years prior that has proved to be most influential in the intervening decade. The award includes a prize of $1,000. SIGPLAN Most Influential POPL Paper Award Presented to the author(s) of a paper presented at the POPL Conference held ten years prior that has proved to be most influential in the intervening decade. The award includes a prize of $1,000. SIGPLAN John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award Presented annually to the author of the outstanding doctoral dissertation in the area of programming languages. The award includes a prize of $1,000. SIGPLAN Robin Milner Young Researcher Award Given annually to a young investigator who has made an outstanding contribution to research in programming languages. The award includes $2500 and a plaque and is presented at POPL. John Vlissides Award Given annually to a doctoral candidate at OOPSLA to recognize significant promise in the area of software architecture and development. The award includes $2,000 and a plaque. SIGPLAN Most Influential ICFP Paper Award Presented annually to the author(s) of a paper presented at the ICFP held 10 years prior to the award year. The award includes a prize of $1,000 to be split among the authors of the winning paper. SIGPLAN Most Influential OOPSLA Paper Award Presented annually to the author(s) of a paper presented at the OOPSLA Confeence held 10 years prior to the award year. The award includes a prize of $1,000 to be split among the authors of the winning paper. SIGARCH/SIGPLAN/SIGOPS ASPLOS Influential Paper Award Presented annually to the author(s) of one paper that appeared in the International Symposium on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS) 10 or more ASPLOS conferences prior to the award year. The Award will be presented at ASPLOS each year and includes an honorarium of $1000 and a plaque. SIGPLAN Distinguished Educator Award Given annually in explicit recognition of an outstanding contribution in the area of programming language pedagogy. The award includes a prize of $2,500. Join an ACM SIG Network with like-minded professionals and enjoy unique opportunities to share technical expertise and first-hand knowledge of the latest trends. Virtual Conferences: A Guide to Best Practices In March 2020 ACM formed a Presidential Task Force (PTF) to help conference organizers transition their events to online. The PTF is working on a guide to offer practical advice and shed light on the largely unfamiliar territory of online conferencing. The report, available here, includes pointers to a live document with additional resources. We welcome comments, suggestions and experience reports from the community.


--- [Other Awards at SIGPLAN-sponsored Events] ---
A number of awards are regularly presented at SIGPLAN-sponsored events, but are not awarded directly by SIGPLAN. The ASPLOS Most Influential Paper Award recognizes a historical ASPLOS paper that has had major influence on the field. The Program Committee nominates highly influential papers from any ASPLOS conference that occurred ten or more conferences ago, with the final selection being made by the ASPLOS Steering Committee. In recognition of the contributions to computer science that John Vlissides made during his lifetime, SIGPLAN has established the John Vlissides Award. The award is presented annually to a doctoral student participating in the OOPSLA Doctoral Symposium showing significant promise in applied software research. All doctoral candidates participating in the annual OOPSLA Doctoral Symposium are eligible. The award includes a prize of $2,000. The John Vlissides Award was established by generous contributions from the following companies, individuals, and organizations: IBM, Addison-Wesley, William Pugh, and SIGPLAN. Selection Committee The selection committee consists of the following members: The committee is chaired by the OOPSLA Program Chair. The OOPSLA Program Chair shall adjudicate conflicts of interest, appointing substitutes to the committee as necessary. Citation: Noam Zilberstein’s PhD work presents a new formal foundation and style of proof system called Outcome Logic, designed to encompass both correctness and incorrectness reasoning for a variety of different program logics and corresponding program analysis techniques. Its motivations and contributions are partly theoretical, providing a broad, generic theory that can connect and combine many disparate reasoning ideas. However, the work also has strong potential for practical impact: for example, the generic support for incorrectness reasoning has applications for the rigorous development of future automated bug-finding tools. Rethinking the Library OS from the Top Down, ASPLOS 2011 Design and evaluation of a compiler algorithm for prefetching, ASPLOS 1992 A VLIW Architecture for a Trace Scheduling Compiler, ASPLOS 1987 The Cache Performance and Optimizations of Blocked Algorithms, ASPLOS 1991 Improving the Accuracy of Dynamic Branch Prediction Using Branch Correlation, ASPLOS 1992 Value Locality and Load Value Prediction, ASPLOS 1996 A comparison of software and hardware techniques for x86 virtualization, ASPLOS 2006 Citation: Eduardo Geraldo’s PhD work combines static and dynamic analysis to develop a value-dependent approach to information flow control to enable the detection of information leaks in Java programs that if detected could compromise data confidentiality. Hoard: A Scalable Memory Allocator for Multithreaded Applications OceanStore: an architecture for global-scale persistent storage Automatically characterizing large scale program behavior Citation: Silvia Grewe’s work aims to provide better automation of type soundness proofs for new languages, thus lowering the barrier to developing sound general-purpose and domain-specific languages. Theorem-proving systems are increasingly adept at automating proofs, and soundness proofs based on progress and preservation seem especially ripe for automation due to patterns that appear in the proofs, but theorem-proving systems currently lack tactics to directly support such proofs. Silvia is working to extract proof patterns and integrate them into theorem provers to make automation more effective and accessible. Citation: Chang Liu’s work explores programming language support for oblivious applications, an important dimension of security in the presence of side channels. His work bridges two disjoint efforts on opposite ends of the hardware-software design spectrum – oblivious RAM and oblivious algorithms – and adopts a language design approach to facilitate users in their development of efficient oblivious applications. The new language is endowed with a type system providing formal guarantees of obliviousness, and can support both sequential and parallel applications. The promising approach Chang proposed may significantly improve development productivity and performance of oblivious applications. Citation: Christopher Hall’s work explores the classic design tension between user friendly versus expert friendly user interface design as well as the classic design tension between binary versus printable data format design. His work sets out to expose both sets of design tensions as having the same cause and solution. Information representations and user interface architecture both lack a self descriptive capacity. By raising the common denominator of computing to a foundation that is metadata friendly, structured editing can place human-readable strings and graphical user interfaces on the same spectrum. Smoothing out the gradients of interacting with computation creates new opportunities for unifying software systems as a developer and having an outlet for accruing and applying computational literacy as an end-user. Citation: Zalia Shams’ work is motivated by the observation that software testing is frequently being added to programming courses at many schools, but current assessment techniques for evaluating student-written software tests are imperfect. Code coverage measures are typically used in practice, but that approach does not assess how much of the expected behavior is checked by the tests and sometimes overestimates the true quality of the tests. Running one student’s tests against others’ code (known as all-pairs testing) and mutation analysis are better indicators of test quality but both of them posed a number of practical obstacles to classroom use. Her proposal describes technical obstacles behind using these two approaches in automated grading. Zalia has provided novel and practical solutions to apply all-pairs testing and mutation analysis of student-written tests, especially in an automated grading context. Citation: The winner of the Vlissides award is Gustavo Soares of the Federal University of Campina Grande, Brazil. His proposed thesis is entitled “Automated Behavioral Testing of Refactoring Engines” Citation: Hari Pyla’s work is motivated by the need to leverage concurrency to achieve performance, and the challenge of avoiding deadlocks in concurrent shared memory programs. He has introduced Sammati, a new approach that transparently and deterministically detects and recovers from deadlocks, without requiring modification to source code. This approach not only avoids errors, but also allows more effective composition of lock-based code. Hari’s system also supports coarse-grained speculative parallelism, supporting difficult-to-parallelize applications and achieving significant speedups in practice. Citation: Márcio Ribeiro’s research addresses the problem of maintaining software defined using “virtual separation of concerns.” The virtual separation of concerns technique presents software with features defined using code between #ifdef and #endif (as in the C preprocessor) to the programmer in a way that hides various features that are not of immediate interest. However, when maintaining such software, it is easy to break code in hidden features. The solution approach uses a specialized dataflow analysis that takes features and allowed feature combinations into account. The results of this analysis are used to warn the programmer if there are dependencies between the changed code and any hidden features. These ideas are being implemented in a tool that will allow independent development of parallel features. Citation: Tudor Dumitras’s research identifies and addresses the leading causes of both unplanned failures and planned downtime resulting from software upgrades in distributed systems. Traditional fault-tolerance approaches concentrate almost entirely on responding to, avoiding, or tolerating unexpected faults or security violations. However, scheduled events such as software upgrades account for most system unavailability and often introduce data loss or latent errors. Tudor defines three abstract properties required for improving the dependability of software upgrades. Building on empirically derived insights on current upgrade practices and problems, Tudor’s work harnesses the opportunities provided by emerging technologies such as cloud computing to simplify large-scale upgrades, to allow upgrades to be executed efficiently online, and to improve their dependability. Citation: Ciera Jaspan’s research targets the programming difficulties associated with using software frameworks. Plug-in writers need to satisfy a variety of framework constraints, and Ciera is directly motivated by the kinds of plug-in errors that frequently arise in today’s frameworks. She has defined a new abstraction for expressing framework constraints as well as lightweight annotations and an associated static analysis to enforce this abstraction. Ciera is focused on making the right tradeoffs to ensure her solution is useful in practice.
