=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Human Planet - Wikipedia]
HumanPlanetwas originally screened in the UK on BBC One each Thursday at 8pm over eight weeks, starting from 13 January 2011. Domestic repeats have been seen on Eden, with all 8 episodes aired over one week in April 2012. [4]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_Planet

[Discovery en Español debuts Human Planet - PRODU]
DiscoveryenEspañoldebuts ground breaking seriesHumanPlanet, narrated by actor and filmmaker Gael García Bernal on Monday April 25th at 8pm.From oceans to jungles to deserts,HumanPlanetis a majestic portrait of people s incredible ability to survive and thrive in our planet s most extreme environments.The two-week, eight-part natural ...
URL: https://www.produ.com/ushispanic/noticias/discovery-en-espanol-debuts-human-planet/

[Human Planet | Discovery Channel Wiki | FandomHuman Planet - WikipediaHuman Planet (TV Series 2011-2011) — The Movie Database (TMDB)Human Planet (TV Mini Series 2011) - IMDbWatch Human Planet on The Discovery Channel - Bragging MommyHuman Planet - Wikiwand]
The series originally aired from January 13 to March 3, 2011 in the United Kingdom with narration by John Hurt, before airing on theDiscoveryChannel in the United States from April 10 to 24, 2011 with narration by Mike Rowe.See full listondiscoverychannel.fandom.comHumanPlanetwas originally screened in the UK on BBC One each Thursday at 8pm over eight weeks, starting from 13 January 2011. Domestic repeats have been seen on Eden, with all 8 episodes aired over one week in April 2012. [4]Season 1 ofHumanPlanetpremiered on January 13, 2011. A cinematic experience bringing you the most amazing human stories in the world. Humans and wildlife surviving in the most extreme environments on Earth.They then fish for the giant Greenland shark by drilling a hole through the ice. This is food that will keep their precious dogs going formonths. As winter gives way to spring the Inuit, of Canada, take advantage of an opportunity that only comes with the most extreme tides of theyear.Apr 17, 2011 ·The first episode ofHumanPlanetpremiered on theDiscoveryChannel on April 10. The next will be on tonightApril17 at 8 p.m. and again onApril24 at 8 p.m. Be sure to tune in to this beautiful, educational, and fascinating look at human life around the world.Loading article...
URL: https://discoverychannel.fandom.com/wiki/Human_Planet

[Human Planet (TV Series 2011-2011) — The Movie Database (TMDB)]
Season 1 ofHumanPlanetpremiered on January 13, 2011. A cinematic experience bringing you the most amazing human stories in the world. Humans and wildlife surviving in the most extreme environments on Earth.
URL: https://www.themoviedb.org/tv/32062-human-planet

[Human Planet (TV Mini Series 2011) - IMDbWatch Human Planet on The Discovery Channel - Bragging MommyHuman Planet - Wikiwand]
They then fish for the giant Greenland shark by drilling a hole through the ice. This is food that will keep their precious dogs going formonths. As winter gives way to spring the Inuit, of Canada, take advantage of an opportunity that only comes with the most extreme tides of theyear.Apr 17, 2011 ·The first episode ofHumanPlanetpremiered on theDiscoveryChannel on April 10. The next will be on tonightApril17 at 8 p.m. and again onApril24 at 8 p.m. Be sure to tune in to this beautiful, educational, and fascinating look at human life around the world.Loading article...
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1806234/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Human Planet - Wikipedia] ---
Human Planet is an 8-part British television documentary series. It was produced as a co-production between the BBC Natural History Unit, BBC Worldwide, BBC Cymru Wales, Discovery Channel and France Télévisions. The documentary describes the human species and its relationship with the natural world by showing the remarkable ways humans have adapted to life in every environment on Earth. The show drew attention for alleged fakery and the BBC eventually acknowledged that a number of scenes were inaccurately depicted or misleading and withdrew the series from distribution.
Human Planet was originally screened in the UK on BBC One each Thursday at 8pm over eight weeks, starting from 13 January 2011. Domestic repeats have been seen on Eden, with all 8 episodes aired over one week in April 2012. BBC Worldwide has since announced they have sold the broadcast rights to 22 international markets.


--- [Discovery en Español debuts Human Planet - PRODU] ---
Human Planet is an eight-part natural history series Discovery en Español debuts ground breaking series Human Planet, narrated by actor and filmmaker Gael García Bernal on Monday April 25th at 8pm.From oceans to jungles to deserts, Human Planet is a majestic portrait of peoples incredible ability to survive and thrive in our planets most extreme environments.The two-week, eight-part natural history blockbuster tells the story of the complex, profound and sometimes challenging relationship between humankind and nature.Human Planet is an awe inspiring production that will transport viewers to some of the most stunning locations on Earth to share in the captivating images of humans perseverance and survival. It is the story of us, told via striking visuals and accompanied by the distinct voice of celebrated Mexican actor Gael Garcia Bernal, who will take Spanish speaking audiences on a remarkable odyssey, said Bilai Joa Silar, vice president and Channel director, Discovery U.S. Hispanic.Four years in the making, the series was filmed in high definition in more than 70 locations to capture the most diverse and in some cases, never-before-seen stories of human endeavor.From the frozen Arctic to steamy rainforests, and from tiny islands in vast oceans to parched deserts, people have found remarkable ways to adapt and survive in the harshest environments possible.


--- [Human Planet | Discovery Channel Wiki | FandomHuman Planet - WikipediaHuman Planet (TV Series 2011-2011) — The Movie Database (TMDB)Human Planet (TV Mini Series 2011) - IMDbWatch Human Planet on The Discovery Channel - Bragging MommyHuman Planet - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [Human Planet (TV Series 2011-2011) — The Movie Database (TMDB)] ---
Human Planet (2011) TP Documentary User Score Score Natural born survivors. Overview A cinematic experience bringing you the most amazing human stories in the world. Humans and wildlife surviving in the most extreme environments on Earth. - Creator - Creator Series Cast Last Season Season 1 Season 1 of Human Planet premiered on January 13, 2011. Cities: Surviving the Urban Jungle (1x8, March 3, 2011) Season FinaleFacts Status Ended Network Type Miniseries Original Language English Keywords Content Score 76 Pump it up! We're close now. Top Contributors Popularity Trend Login to report an issue


--- [Human Planet (TV Mini Series 2011) - IMDbWatch Human Planet on The Discovery Channel - Bragging MommyHuman Planet - Wikiwand] ---
A cinematic experience bringing you the most amazing human stories in the world. Humans and wildlife surviving in the most extreme environments on EarthA cinematic experience bringing you the most amazing human stories in the world. Humans and wildlife surviving in the most extreme environments on EarthA cinematic experience bringing you the most amazing human stories in the world. Humans and wildlife surviving in the most extreme environments on Earth - Stars - Stars - Won 1 BAFTA Award - 2 wins & 4 nominations total Browse episodes Summary Reviewers say 'Human Planet' showcases human adaptability in various environments, highlighting survival strategies, cultural practices, and environmental interactions. It emphasizes the impact of human activities and the challenges faced by indigenous populations. The series examines the influence of modernization on traditional cultures, praised for stunning cinematography and John Hurt’s narration. Some suggest a stronger focus on sustainable practices and symbiotic relationships with nature would enhance the series. Featured reviews BBC has done it again. As the worlds leading nature film producer, BBC has given us another epic. Human Planet tells the tales of the most remarkable and intuitive humans on this planet. With beauty full landscape shots and relaxing story telling. Human Planet is certainly a pleasure to watch. But it does not only give pleasure to your eyes. It shows strange cultures and their survival, narrated by John Hurt. The big line throughout the series is a bit faint and while the episodes have their own theme. The shorts inside an episode sometimes do feel a bit random. But that won't bother you. You will be amazed by some of the bizarre or clever humans we have on this planet. Although some of the shots are really good. Overall the Human Planet does not live up to the expectations after "Planet Earth" and "Life". Although the Human Planet has a more realistic feel to it because of the use of colour. It doesn't have the WOW factor that its predecessors had, throwing over saturated in HD in your face. Although I do prefer that, the Human Planet is a really nice addition to the best nature series of today. Human Planet tells the tales of the most remarkable and intuitive humans on this planet. With beauty full landscape shots and relaxing story telling. Human Planet is certainly a pleasure to watch. But it does not only give pleasure to your eyes. It shows strange cultures and their survival, narrated by John Hurt. The big line throughout the series is a bit faint and while the episodes have their own theme. The shorts inside an episode sometimes do feel a bit random. But that won't bother you. You will be amazed by some of the bizarre or clever humans we have on this planet. Although some of the shots are really good. Overall the Human Planet does not live up to the expectations after "Planet Earth" and "Life". Although the Human Planet has a more realistic feel to it because of the use of colour. It doesn't have the WOW factor that its predecessors had, throwing over saturated in HD in your face. Although I do prefer that, the Human Planet is a really nice addition to the best nature series of today. Beyond visuals, the documentary deeply respects its subjects. Rather than portraying them as curiosities, it highlights knowledge passed down through generations and the close relationship between humans and their environment. The narration enhances the experience without overshadowing the people on screen. Emotionally powerful, educational, and visually unforgettable, Human Planet is more than a nature documentary-it's a tribute to human resilience and diversity. A truly inspiring series that leaves a lasting impression. Emotionally powerful, educational, and visually unforgettable, Human Planet is more than a nature documentary-it's a tribute to human resilience and diversity. A truly inspiring series that leaves a lasting impression. BBC did again. BBC took us on a fascinating journey. A journey that no one wants to go back. A journey to ourselves. A journey to our home. No TV, no internet, no capitalism, no monetary system, no armies, no racism...in this house everyone is the one and unique. this is just amazing...ape feeding women, people in the desert, people in the jungle, people living in the most difficult conditions, hidden tribes - they will be hidden forever ı hope- People who live with the animals. This documentary series is a culmination. and the music was amazing. thanks to everyone who worked in this documentary series This is the remember ourselves This is the remember ourselves I was looking to find some other documentaries about human life because I remembered seeing this documentary and wanted something just like it. The only reason why I was looking for this type of documentary is because this one was so amazing. I feel like 2 years after I watched this documentary it still my favorite. It's about the humans we normally never see. As a traveler it is very interesting apart from the fact that graphics are just stunning. This documentary also gives me the feeling that I want to get out there and look for these kind of groups myself. I would recommend this documentary to everyone (have been doing so the last two years). The only reason why I was looking for this type of documentary is because this one was so amazing. I feel like 2 years after I watched this documentary it still my favorite. It's about the humans we normally never see. As a traveler it is very interesting apart from the fact that graphics are just stunning. This documentary also gives me the feeling that I want to get out there and look for these kind of groups myself. I would recommend this documentary to everyone (have been doing so the last two years). As much as I hate the fact that we're ruining this planet for all the other species (but also ourselves), I must say Human Planet is probably the best of all the nature documentaries. The cinematography is excellent, the stories sublime and so very human, and John Hurt (rest in peace, War Doctor) is an amazing narrator, definitely on par with Attenborough. The "Behind the Lens" segments at the end are especially brilliant. If you haven't seen Human Planet yet, do so. You won't regret it. If you haven't seen Human Planet yet, do so. You won't regret it. Did you know - ConnectionsEdited into Terra Mater: Planet der Menschen (2012) - How many seasons does Human Planet have?Powered by Alexa Details - Runtime - 50m - Color - Aspect ratio - 16:9 HD Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content
