=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sachin Tendulkar appointed UNICEF and Cricket for Good ambassador for the ICC Women’s World Cup.]
LONDON/NEW DELHI, 8 March 2017 - On International Women's Day, The International Cricket Council (ICC) has reaffirmed its commitment to the Spirit of Cricket in bringing about a positive social change through the sport, by appointing Sachin Tendulkar as the UNICEF Cricket For Good ambassador for the Women's World Cup 2017, to be hosted in the UK in June and July. This collaboration between ...
URL: https://www.unicef.org/rosa/press-releases/sachin-tendulkar-appointed-unicef-and-cricket-good-ambassador-icc-womens-world-cup

[Sachin Tendulkar Appointed UNICEF and Cricket for Good Ambassador]
LONDON/NEW DELHI, 8 March 2017 - On International Women's Day, The International Cricket Council (ICC) has reaffirmed its commitment to the Spirit of Cricket in bringing about a positive social change through the sport, by appointing Sachin Tendulkar as the UNICEF Cricket For Good ambassador for the Women's World Cup 2017, to be hosted in the UK in June and July. This collaboration ...
URL: https://www.unicef.org.uk/press-releases/sachin-tendulkar-appointed-unicef-cricket-good-ambassador/

[Which Indian cricketer has been appointed UNICEF and Cricket For Good Ambassador for the ICC Women’s]
Notes: Indian Cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar has been officially appointed by the International Cricket Council (ICC) as the UNICEF and Cricket For Good Ambassador for the Women's World Cup 2017, which will be hosted in the United Kingdom from June. Both UNICEF and the ICC will engage the broader cricketing community to empower adolescent girls in particular, during the many ICC events over ...
URL: https://www.gktoday.in/question/which-indian-cricketer-has-been-appointed-unicef-a

[Sachin Tendulkar Named UNICEF And Cricket For Good Ambassador]
Mar 17, 2017 · Sachin’s engagement to promote the Women’s World Cup will use innovative cricket-based messages to engage with girls and their families encouraging them to be part of the sport.
URL: https://www.looktothestars.org/news/16442-sachin-tendulkar-named-unicef-and-cricket-for-good-ambassador

[Sachin Tendulkar - UNICEF and Cricket for Good Ambassador for ICC Women's World Cup 2017 | ICC]
India legend lends his support to the ICC Women's World Cup 2017 as UNICEF and Cricket for Good Ambassador on International Women's Day 2017. Published November 16, 2023
URL: https://www.icc-cricket.com/videos/sachin-tendulkar-unicef-and-cricket-for-good-ambassador-for-icc-women-s-world-cup-2017


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sachin Tendulkar appointed UNICEF and Cricket for Good ambassador for the ICC Women’s World Cup.] ---
No content


--- [Sachin Tendulkar Appointed UNICEF and Cricket for Good Ambassador] ---
Subscribe to the latest sporting updates from Unicef UK LONDON/NEW DELHI, 8 March 2017 – On International Women’s Day, The International Cricket Council (ICC) has reaffirmed its commitment to the Spirit of Cricket in bringing about a positive social change through the sport, by appointing Sachin Tendulkar as the UNICEF Cricket For Good ambassador for the Women’s World Cup 2017, to be hosted in the UK in June and July. This collaboration between UNICEF and the ICC under the aegis of Cricket for Good aims to leverage the vast reach and power of cricket and communicate the importance of sport for girls and women. This visionary partnership will support in building a discourse around gender equality and the importance of empowering girls through sports. The five-year global partnership was announced in October 2015 in New York and will be used as the ICC’s platform to advocate for children across the world and especially in countries where cricket is a popular sport. UNICEF and ICC, together will engage the broader cricketing community to empower adolescent girls in particular, during the many ICC events over the next five years, develop and implement various community outreach programs and initiatives in collaboration with coaches, cricketers and cricketing personalities. Sachin’s engagement to promote the Women’s World Cup will use innovative cricket-based messages to engage with girls and their families encouraging them to be part of the sport. During the event, there will be coaching clinics with participating teams. Sports has long been recognized as a human right by the United Nations. The Convention on the Rights of the Child (which governs UNICEF) noted in 1989 that “the education of the child shall be directed to the development of the child’s personality, talents and mental and physical abilities to their fullest potential. None of these differentiate on gender. None of these say boys only or men only. And yet, across all sports, men are much more visible than women. The ICC Women’s World Cup and other sports platforms will become catalysts in providing spaces for girls to engage meaningfully with sports. Sachin Tendulkar, UNICEF Ambassador, says “The ICC Women’s World Cup is not just a regular tournament. It is much more… It is a catalytic platform that helps promote the participation of girls and women in world class sports championships. I am proud to be the UNICEF and Cricket For Good ambassador for the ICC Women’s World Cup, and believe that this tournament will encourage millions of girls across the world to play & aspire to become tomorrow’s stars. Thereby empowering them and giving them hope. Jean Gough, UNICEF South Asia Regional Director, says “At UNICEF we are thrilled that our Ambassador Sachin Tendulkar, is going to support the ICC Women’s World Cup. Harnessing the power and reach of one of the world’s most popular sports to create positive impact in the lives of children is truly commendable. Millions of adolescent girls in South Asia can benefit tremendously by playing a sport. It can not only empower them but inspire them to become the next generation of change makers, world leaders, and sports champions. Heather Knight, England Women’s Cricket Team Captain, says “It is a huge summer for the women’s game, and we cannot wait to play in the pinnacle event for our sport in front of passionate home crowds. We have a big opportunity throughout the tournament to inspire the next generation of players, and encourage women and girls across the country to pick up a bat and ball and play the game we love. Alongside this it is brilliant news that Sachin Tendulkar will be an official UNICEF and Cricket for Good ambassador for the competition, and I am sure that with his support, we can all make this the biggest and best ICC Women’s World Cup that there has ever been. I can’t wait!” David Richardson, CEO of the International Cricket Council, says ”We are delighted that Sachin has taken on an ambassadorial role for the ICC Women’s World Cup. He is passionate about using sport, and particularly cricket, to empower young girls and having him on board will help build an even bigger audience for the women’s game and inspire more young girls to pick up a bat or ball. NOTES TO EDITORS: About Cricket For Good Cricket For Good is the International Cricket Council global community outreach programme that addresses a range of social issues and supports initiatives that strive to positively impact children and families worldwide. For more information on ICC Women’s World Cup 2017 visit www.icc-cricket.com and follow us on #WWC17 For more information please contact: Anna Kharbanda, Unicef UK, Tel: + 44 (0)20 7017 1738, [email protected] Lilly Carlisle, Unicef UK, +44 (0)207 375 6212 or [email protected] Unicef UK Media Team on +44 (0)207 375 6030 or [email protected] About Unicef: Unicef is the world’s leading organisation for children, promoting the rights and wellbeing of every child, in everything we do. Together with our partners, we work in 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere. Unicef UK raises funds to protect children in danger, transform their lives and build a safer world for tomorrow’s children. As a registered charity we raise funds through donations from individuals, organisations and companies and we lobby and campaign to keep children safe. Unicef UK also runs programmes in schools, hospitals and with local authorities in the UK. For more information please visit unicef.org.uk. Follow us on Twitter and Facebook About UNICEF UNICEF promotes the rights and wellbeing of every child, in everything we do. Together with our partners, we work in 190 countries and territories to translate that commitment into practical action, focusing special effort on reaching the most vulnerable and excluded children, to the benefit of all children, everywhere.


--- [Which Indian cricketer has been appointed UNICEF and Cricket For Good Ambassador for the ICC Women’s] ---
Q. Which Indian cricketer has been appointed UNICEF and Cricket For Good Ambassador for the ICC Women’s World Cup 2017?Answer: Sachin Tendulkar Notes: Indian Cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar has been officially appointed by the International Cricket Council (ICC) as the UNICEF and Cricket For Good Ambassador for the Women’s World Cup 2017, which will be hosted in the United Kingdom from June. Both UNICEF and the ICC will engage the broader cricketing community to empower adolescent girls in particular, during the many ICC events over the next 5 years, develop and implement various community outreach programs and initiatives in collaboration with coaches, cricketers and cricketing personalities.


--- [Sachin Tendulkar Named UNICEF And Cricket For Good Ambassador] ---
Error 503 Backend fetch failed Backend fetch failed Guru Meditation: XID: 575189347 Varnish cache server


--- [Sachin Tendulkar - UNICEF and Cricket for Good Ambassador for ICC Women's World Cup 2017 | ICC] ---
07 February - 08 March 2026 GO TO THE EVENT Home Rankings Fixtures & Results News Qualifiers ICC SuperTeam What is Cricket? Awards Videos Teams Ticketing ICC Men's T20 World Cup, 2026 ICC Women's T20 World Cup, 2026 100% Cricket Hall of Fame Criiio About ICC Media Releases Photos Commercial Opportunities Travel ICC Home ICC Men's T20 World Cup, 2026 ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup, 2026 ICC Women's T20 World Cup, 2026 ICC World Test Championship, 2025-27 ICC Women's Emerging Nations Trophy, 2025 ICC Women's Cricket World Cup, 2025 ICC Champions Trophy, 2025 ICC Women's Under-19 T20 World Cup, 2025 ICC CWC Challenge League A and B, 2024-26 ICC Cricket World Cup League 2, 2023-27 ICC Women's Championship, 2022-25 ICC Cricket World Cup, 2023 See All Events Matches Rankings News Videos Tickets Awards Travel ICC.tv Search overview Highlighted Videos Cricket world cup What is cricket? Hall of Fame
