=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mr. Mackey - Wikipedia]
Mr. Mackey Jr. is a fictional character in the adult animated television series South Park. He is voiced by series co-creator Trey Parker and debuted in the season one episode "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo". [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mr._Mackey

[Mr. Mackey | South Park Public Library | Fandom]
Mr. Mackey, Jr. is the former guidance counselor at South Park Elementary, best known for his frequent habit of saying "mm'kay" at the end of his sentences. He also serves on the City Council as head of Public Health. His first name is unknown. He first appears in the Season One episode "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" and is voiced by Trey Parker. After Ms. Choksondik's death, Mr. Mackey ...
URL: https://southpark.fandom.com/wiki/Mr._Mackey

[Mr. Mackey - South Park Wiki]
Mr. Mackey is South Park Elementary's school counselor. He's always trying to dispense helpful knowledge to the kids on a wide variety of topics -- ranging from sex education to therapy sessions.
URL: https://southpark.cc.com/w/index.php/Mr._Mackey

[Mr. Mackey - EverybodyWiki Bios & Wiki]
Search Mr. Mackey on Amazon. Mr. Mackey Jr. is a fictional character in the adult animated television series South Park. He is voiced by series co-creator Trey Parker and debuted in the season one episode "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo". [1] The school counselor at South Park Elementary, he is best known for saying "m'kay" at the end (or beginning) of most of his sentences. Mr. Mackey is based ...
URL: https://en.everybodywiki.com/Mr._Mackey

["South Park" Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo (TV Episode 1997) - IMDb]
With Mary Kay Bergman, Jennifer Howell, Jesse Brant Howell, Trey Parker. The town is forced to remove anything that either has anything to do with Christmas or is offensive in the least bit to anyone. And Kyle tries to convince everyone of the existence of "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo."
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0705945


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mr. Mackey - Wikipedia] ---
Mr. Mackey Jr. is a fictional character in the adult animated television series South Park. He is voiced by series co-creator Trey Parker and debuted in the season one episode "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo". The school counselor at South Park Elementary, he is best known for saying "m'kay" at the end (or beginning) of most of his sentences.
Mr. Mackey is based on Parker's junior high school counselor Stan Lackey.


--- [Mr. Mackey | South Park Public Library | Fandom] ---
Mr. Mackey, Jr. is the former guidance counselor at South Park Elementary, best known for his frequent habit of saying "mm'kay" at the end of his sentences. He also serves on the City Council as head of Public Health. His first name is unknown. He first appears in the Season One episode "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" and is voiced by Trey Parker. After Ms. Choksondik's death, Mr. Mackey became a temporary 4th grade teacher before selecting Mr. Garrison. In the Season Twenty-Seven episode "Got a Nut", Mackey was fired from his position as the school's counselor by PC Principal, citing a cutback on what he deemed unnecessary spending, and began working for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Background[] Singing[] Mackey is known to have a talent in singing and has sung the following songs: - In "Ike's Wee Wee", Mr. Mackey sings the Pat Benatar song, Love is a Battlefield, while staggering home drunk. - In "Mr. Hankey's Christmas Classics", Mr. Mackey sings Carol of the Bells. - In South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut, Mr. Mackey sings his own song, "It's Easy, Mmm'kay" to his students to stop them from swearing. - In "I'm a Little Bit Country", Mr. Mackey sings the episode's final song with other South Park townspeople. - In "Royal Pudding", Mr. Mackey is shown to be in charge of a play for the Kindergartners, involving helping their singing. Criminal Record[] - Attempted Murder/Kidnapping: In "Bass to Mouth", Mr. Mackey, with assistance from Principal Victoria and Mr. Adler, tries to distract the public from a possible school scandal by tying up Eric Cartman and literally throwing him in front of a bus. - Child sexual abuse (falsely accused): Mr. Mackey is one of the many adults accused of molesting children in "The Wacky Molestation Adventure". However, the kids only made this accusation to get all the adults in town arrested and have the whole city to themselves. - Giving drugs to minors: In "Ike's Wee Wee", Mr. Mackey gives a bowl of marijuana to the fourth graders for them to smell. However, he did it for educational purposes. - Threat: In "Insheeption", Mr. Mackey threatens to rape Stan "in the mouth" after the latter interferes with his trash. - Violation and obstruction of the Pure Food and Drug Act: In "Bass to Mouth", at Cartman's suggestion, Mr. Mackey, Mr. Adler, and Principal Victoria serve the students pizza tainted with laxatives as a reward for their test scores. - Hacking the US Government: In "Back to the Cold War", Mr. Mackey sends a message from his 1980s computer to a government base named Norad in Colorado Springs repeatedly typing "THE RUSSIANS ARE NUKING US". This was with the intention of stopping what he believed was going to be the second Cold War. Appearance[] Mr. Mackey wears a green long-sleeved dress shirt, blue tie, dark blue slacks, and blue leather shoes. His hair is black and is thinning. Mr. Mackey wears large, black-rimmed glasses. He is well known for his exaggeratedly large balloon head. Mr. Mackey has a pointed nose and dimples near the edges of his mouth. It has been implied in "Ike's Wee Wee" that the size of Mr. Mackey's head is caused by the tightness of his tie. Yet, in "Child Abduction is Not Funny", Mr. Mackey's parents are shown to have the same condition, and in "Proper Condom Use", his tie is removed before he and Ms. Choksondik have intercourse, and Mr. Mackey's head remains the same size. In the future timeline set in South Park: Post Covid, Mr. Mackey wears a green Hawaiian t-shirt, dark blue pants, and a light blue cap while his head is saggier. - To see images of Mr. Mackey, visit Mr. Mackey/Gallery. Personality[] Mr. Mackey is one of the few relatively sensible and level-headed adults in South Park. He has occasionally taught classes at the school and taught sex education with Ms. Choksondik. After her death, Mr. Mackey took over the fourth-grade class until Mr. Garrison returned. During a drug-education class, he passes some marijuana around the classroom, and it was stolen (apparently by one of the children, though it is later revealed that the actual thief was Mr. Garrison). For this, Mr. Mackey is fired by the school, and evicted by his landlord, and, feeling depressed, he ends up taking drugs himself. Mr. Mackey hates it when the children at the school defecate in the urinals and has used at least seven different terms for the word "crap", including "mud monkey" and "chocolate corn/hot dog". He also enjoys messing with pranksters and is a prankster himself as seen in "Summer Sucks". Mr. Mackey sides with the "Rock n' Roll" side in "I'm a Little Bit Country" but is later seen as a John McCain supporter in "About Last Night...". He is not very proficient with computers, as seen in "The Ungroundable". In "How to Eat with Your Butt", Mr. Mackey suggests to Cartman he should pursue a career writing for the show Friends, implying that he is not a fan of the show. It is revealed in "Insheeption" that Mr. Mackey is a hoarder as a result of intense psychological trauma as a child. Mr. Mackey is shown as a timid fourth grader in 1974 who is bullied by a group of children led by Billy Thompson. It is also revealed that Mr. Mackey was a fan of Woodsy Owl, who at the end of the field trip during his fourth-grade year, molested him. Mr. Mackey's "give a hoot, don't pollute" message stuck in his mind as he repressed the memory, causing Mr. Mackey's hoarding tendencies. However, over the time of the series, Mr. Mackey developed a very bad temper. In "Insheeption" he angrily states to Stan Marsh that he will rape him in the mouth if Stan throws anything that he hoarded in his office away. In "Royal Pudding", Mr. Mackey directed the kindergarten musical about tooth decay but grew evermore aggressive and verbally abusive after numerous production problems and what he considered lazy performances. Relationships[] Mr. and Mrs. Mackey Senior[] Mr. and Mrs. Mackey Senior are the parents of Mr. Mackey. In Child Abduction is Not Funny, Mr. Mackey's parents stick together to their son as they will make sure nobody hurts him. Mrs. Mackey[] In "Ike's Wee Wee", after becoming an outcast for supposedly giving drugs to the children, Mr. Mackey met up with a young female drug addict, who invited him to her house to finger-paint. Mr. Mackey accepted, and a short while later, at her place, she said, "they should get married and have their honeymoon in India". Mr. Mackey agreed, but then he was rescued by the A-Team who put him into rehab. Mr. Mackey's wife has never been seen since, as she was left in India. A goof is that in "Proper Condom Use", Mr. Mackey states that the last time he had sex was 21 years ago (which accounts for his age as he also mentions he was 19 at the time). However, Mr. Mackey clearly had sex with Mrs. Mackey. However, this is clearly backed up by the fact that he was high, so Mr. Mackey could not remember it, like in "Proper Condom Use". Liane Cartman[] Mr. Mackey is seen flirting with Liane Cartman in "Cat Orgy" at his meteor shower party. When Eric Cartman calls his mother to complain about Shelley Marsh, who is watching him, Liane appears to not hear him and provides no help. In "Something You Can Do with Your Finger", Cartman finds a tape that was recorded between his mother and Mr. Mackey, where he was her sex slave and had to drink out of a cup Liane urinated in. In "Tsst", Mr. Mackey had a parent-teacher meeting with Liane, to discuss Cartman's behavior. This led to her bursting into tears, claiming that she is unable to control him. Afterwards, Mr. Mackey suggests calling one of the nanny reality television shows. Diane Choksondik[] During her introduction in "Fourth Grade", Mr. Mackey finds Ms. Choksondik, like the other teachers, disgusting, especially her sagging breasts. However, in "Proper Condom Use" Ms. Choksondik taught the girls about sex, and Mr. Mackey taught the boys. The two start to talk personally with each other, and this ultimately led to the two of them having intercourse. Indeed, after Ms. Choksondik's corpse was studied in "The Simpsons Already Did It", Mr. Mackey's semen was found in her stomach. The news anchor explains that the semen was not what killed her, leaving the audience to presume that Ms. Choksondik took some irony to her name and died choking on Mr. Mackey's penis. Principal Victoria[] Mr. Mackey was very often seen with Principal Victoria, even outside of school, but there has never been any concrete evidence that they are in any sort of relationship, other than business, especially since her husband appeared in "About Last Night...". They do seem to have a friendly, casual relationship, though. In fact, Mr. Mackey hangs around Principal Victoria enough to look like not only the counselor, but more a vice principal, although in "PC Principal Final Justice", it was revealed that he got Principal Victoria fired due to being used and not being listened to for 18 years. Hot Tub[] In "Two Guys Naked in a Hot Tub", at his party, Mr. Mackey shows his guests his backyard hot tub and says he gets a lot of action because of it, jokingly. It was revealed in "Proper Condom Use" that Mr. Mackey had not had sex in 21 years (besides with his "wife", when he was drugged). Mr. Garrison[] Mr. Garrison is friends with Mr. Mackey. Mr. Mackey tries to tell Mr. Garrison to talk to his father, but he refused. After Ms. Choksondik's death, Mr. Mackey promoted Mr. Garrison as a new fourth grade teacher. Mr. Garrison thanked Mr. Mackey for the introduction. Mr. Mackey then wishes Mr. Garrison good luck. Heather Conduct[] Heather Conduct is a love interest of Mr. Mackey. Mr. Mackey and Ms. Conduct are very similar when they have ending sentence like "m'kay" and m'alright". Craig Tucker[] Mr. Mackey gets annoyed of Craig when he is tired seeing him at his office everyday. Mr. Mackey caught Craig flipping him off twice, although Craig tries to lie that he did not. Mr. Mackey tells Craig that until he stop flipping people off, he will just go wait outside at the waiting room. The Boys[] Unlike with Mr. Garrison, the Boys are shown to have a close with Mr. Mackey. In Rainforest Shmainforest, The Boys begs Mr. Mackey to not send them to the Rainforest with the Getting Gay With Kids. The Boys also make fun of Mr. Mackey's catchphrase "M'kay". Quotes[] - Mr. Mackey: "Why, Clyde? Why did you do it?" Clyde: "I don't know." Mr. Mackey: "You got a whole school here, Clyde! M'kay? You got over three hundred people that need to use the boys' room. Then, you decide you're gonna be a comedian, m'kay, and pinch one-off in the urinal, and leave it layin' there for everyone to have to look at! Okay, okay, you think it's funny, but nobody else does! They gotta walk in that bathroom and see your rancid dook propped up against the back of the urinal like a brown rag doll! Principal Victoria: "Mr. Mackey, Clyde's parents are here." Mr. Mackey: "M'kay, that's good! Let's see what your mom and dad have to say about your little poopscapade! Come on in, please. I'm just trying to get your son to explain why... he would drop a dook in the urinal!" ... "M'kay, m'kay." - Mr. Mackey: "Drugs are bad, m'kay?" Trivia[] - Rare among major adult characters, Mr. Mackey's first name is not revealed, though it is known he has his father's according to "Child Abduction is Not Funny". - In "Insheeption", we learn that Mr. Mackey was a "level 5 office hoarder", meaning that he had a hoarding disorder (which he was cured of at the end of the episode by his dream therapy). Also in "Insheeption", we learn that Mr. Mackey was raped (or at the very least molested) when he was in fourth grade by an anti-littering mascot called Woodsy Owl. - Mr. Mackey has a verbal tic which causes him to almost always insert the word "m'kay" into his sentences (usually at the end or after a clause). This is Mr. Mackey's most well-known character trait. He speaks fluent Spanish and inserts "m'bien", the equivalent Spanish word, into his sentences when speaking the language, as shown in "Rainforest Shmainforest". However, in newer seasons, Mr. Mackey does not seem to say "m'kay" as much as he used to. - In keeping with his nervous habits as an adult, Mr. Mackey is shown to be a very nervous child in "Insheeption". Aside from his verbal tic, Mr. Mackey is shown frequently tapping his knuckles together and behaving quite skittishly; shaking profusely and jumping when talked to. Mr. Mackey seems to have had a very traumatic time at school, referring to his bedroom as "his happy place" in the same episode. - Trey Parker stated on the commentary on the Season One DVD that this character was based on his school counselor Mr. Lackey, "[Mr. Lackey used to say], 'Trey, quit fooling around and get back to your schoolwork, m'kay' 'but, now, I'm making millions out of him'". - Mr. Mackey is one of two teachers at South Park Elementary, the other being Mr. Garrison, who have been fired from their jobs but later reinstated. - It was implied in "Ike's Wee Wee" that Mr. Mackey's head size is caused due to his tie. Yet, in "Child Abduction is Not Funny", Mr. Mackey's parents are shown to have the same condition (though this might simply be because they all tie their ties too tightly.) However, in "Proper Condom Use", his tie is removed before he and Ms. Choksondik have intercourse, and his head remains the same size. This may simply be a continuity error or goof, or perhaps Mr. Mackey's tie would have to be removed for a limited time his head to shrink. - In "Roger Ebert Should Lay off the Fatty Foods", Mr. Mackey is shown to possess a mild psychic ability; using a "mild-meld" to discover what's happening to the brainwashed children. This has not been used since then. - Mr. Mackey appears to be on good terms with all of the faculty staff - Mr. Mackey and Principal Victoria are shown spending together outside of school. - Mr. Mackey and Chef appear to interact with each other favorably, and he was invited to Mr. Mackey's meteor shower party in "Cat Orgy" and "Two Guys Naked in a Hot Tub" - Mr. Mackey frequently tries to help Mr. Garrison with his various mental health problems, going as far as to track down and visit his family to intervene and "save Mr. Garrison's life", describing himself as Mr. Garrison's therapist to his father in "World Wide Recorder Concert". - In "Child Abduction is Not Funny", Mr. Mackey's father is seen, but in "Royal Pudding", his father is said to have been dead for two years. Though the episodes aired almost a decade apart, in-universe, they could not have taken place more than nine months apart. - Mr. Mackey seems to hold a grudge against Kyle, as seen in "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo", "Tonsil Trouble", and "Royal Pudding". - In "Butterballs", it is revealed that Mr. Mackey has an internet degree. - Mr. Mackey tends to use euphemisms for various words. In "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo", he used the word "mookystinks" to describe fecal matter, and in "Clubhouses", Mr. Mackey would use the words "skylarkings" and "tomfoolery" to describe Stan Marsh's note passing. - Mr. Mackey is very obsessive about people pooping in toilets and urinals. - From Season Nineteen to Season Twenty-Three, Mr. Mackey was the only staff member from the first season that still works at the school as Chef died in the Season Ten episode "The Return of Chef", Herbert Garrison ran for presidency (and then went missing), and Principal Victoria was fired from her job. Mr. Garrison would later return to teaching in Season Twenty-Four. - In "Mystery of the Urinal Deuce", Mr. Mackey was shown to be over compulsive against people clogging up the urinal in the boys' bathroom. - The University of Colorado-Boulder, where Trey and Matt went to college and met, has a building called Macky Auditorium. Video Games[] South Park: The Stick of Truth[] Mr. Mackey first appears in "Detention Sentence" watching over kids under detention and having hallway monitors stationed around the school to catch intruders. He took particular attention on Craig, who had previously escaped from detention. Meanwhile, the New Kid is on a quest to rescue Craig out of detention, defeating the hallway monitors, which caught the attention of Mr. Mackey. Through the PA system, he inadvertently reveals the method to gain access to the keys required to unlock the detention hall. Mr. Mackey would later appear in the Park County Community Center taking part in the PTA meeting. Following the meeting, as Randy is teaching the New Kid a new fart power, Randy instructs them to use their newly learnt skill on Mr. Mackey, who was using the toilet. Mr. Mackey would remain in the community center to manage a small shop. He is also the quest giver for Wasted Cache, where Mr. Mackey requests the New Kid's help to drop off a monitor at his storage room in U-STOR-IT, while denying that he has a hoarding problem. South Park: The Fractured But Whole[] Mr. Mackey invites the New Kid for two counselling sessions in "The Talk" and "The Talk 2: The Gendering" regarding their gender issues. After the New Kid has selected their own sex/gender, Mr. Mackey will call the New Kid's parents regarding their choices. After Mitch Conner had been sworn in as mayor of South Park, the New Kid attempted to travel back in time in order to stop the inauguration, only to be brought further into the future. While in the future timeline, the New Kid, along with Toolshed, Human Kite, and Mysterion, encountered Mr. Mackey high on alcohol, who was later beheaded by the Woodland Critters. In "Therapy Wars", Mr. Mackey held a counseling session for Super Craig and Wonder Tweek on their estranged relationship, bringing out the Therapy Kids to fight the superheroes. South Park: Phone Destroyer[] Mr. Mackey is a 4-Cost Common Fighter of the Neutral class. His ability gives all kid cards an attack buff as long as they are near him. South Park: Snow Day![] During the tutorial, the New Kid comes across Mr. Mackey who is stuck behind a ice block in school. Mr. Mackey tells the New Kid to return to their online class. Prominence[] Mr. Mackey has thus far had a speaking role in multiple episodes in every season, as well as South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut, South Park: The Stick of Truth, and South Park: The Fractured But Whole. - "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" - Debut appearance; seen talks to Kyle then declares that Kyle is a "clinically depressed fecalpheliac on Prozac". - "Damien" - Talks to Damien about why no one likes him. - "Cartman's Mom is a Dirty S***" - Stan, Kyle, and Kenny go to Mr. Mackey to find out what is wrong with Cartman. - "Cartman's Mom is Still a Dirty S***" - He was considered a possible suspect who shot Dr. Mephesto. - "Ike's Wee Wee" - Fired from his job after he was accused of giving children drugs and becomes a hippie. - "Conjoined Fetus Lady" - Seen at the dinner table at the Broflovskis' house. - "The Mexican Staring Frog of Southern Sri Lanka" - Seen in the detention room. - "City on the Edge of Forever (Flashbacks)" - Parents come to him asking where their children are. - "Summer Sucks" (Heard) - Calls Mr. Garrison. - "Chef's Chocolate Salty Balls" - (Cameo) Seen in the film festival audience. - "Roger Ebert Should Lay off the Fatty Foods" - Attempts to recover Van Gelder from his hypnosis. - "Clubhouses"- Stan Marsh is called to his office after being caught passing a note. - "Cow Days" - (Cameo) - Seen at the carnival. - "Chef Aid" - (Cameo) - Seen being carried by the crowd. - "1999 New Year's Countdown" - Hosts South Park's 1999 New Year's Eve countdown. - "Rainforest Shmainforest" - Director of the Getting Gay With Kids choir. - "Spontaneous Combustion" - Makes a fart joke when he sees Stan and Kyle. - "Jakovasaurs" - States that Jakovasaurs piss him off. - "Sexual Harassment Panda" - Sues Tweek for making an unwarranted comment about the shape of his ass. - "Cat Orgy" - Seen flirting with Liane Cartman at the meteor shower party. - "Two Guys Naked in a Hot Tub" - Seen at the meteor shower party. - "Hooked on Monkey Fonics" - Seen co hosting the 15th Annual South Park Spelling Bee Finals. - "The Red Badge of Gayness" - Seen as part of Cartman's drunken army of male soldiers. - "Mr. Hankey's Christmas Classics" - Sings "Carol of the Bells". - "Are You There God? It's Me, Jesus" - "World Wide Recorder Concert" - Goes to Arkansas with Mr. Garrison and the third-grade class. He also gets into a fight with Mr. Hat, but loses. - "Cartman's Silly Hate Crime 2000" - Gives Cartman two weeks of detention for throwing a rock at Tolkien Black. - "Timmy 2000" - He and Principal Victoria ignore Timmy's disability and think he has ADD. - "The Gauntlet" - Seen in the audience watching the boys fight Russell Crowe. - "Cherokee Hair Tampons" - Advises Mr. Garrison to write a novel after he loses his job as a teacher. - "Chef Goes Nanners" - Seen shopping at the supermarket when Chef talks to him. - "Something You Can Do with Your Finger" (in-home video) - As Liane Cartman's sex slave. - "Do the Handicapped Go to Hell?" - Seen at the church where he reads his favorite psalm, psalm 46. - "Fourth Grade" - He, Principal Victoria, and Chef are disgusted by Ms. Choksondik. - "Helen Keller! The Musical" - Seen in the audience watching the Thanksgiving Extravaganza. - "Fat Camp" - Appears at a meeting discussing Cartman's weight. - "The Wacky Molestation Adventure" (Cameo) - Arrested by the police for child sexual abuse. - "A Very Crappy Christmas" - States that he is sick of Christmas. - "It Hits the Fan" - Seen on Main Street talking to Principal Victoria. - "C****** Fight" - Jimmy Valmer does an impression of him. - "Terrance and Phillip: Behind the Blow" - Tells Terrance to be quiet as he watches Terrance and Phillip: Behind the Blow. - "Proper Condom Use" - Forms a sexual relationship with Ms. Choksondik and teaches the boys of the fourth-grade sex education. - "How to Eat with Your Butt" - Seen in the counselor's office where he gives Cartman therapy. - "Kenny Dies" - Tells Stan and Kyle about Kenny's illness. - "Jared Has Aides" - Seen in the angry mob chasing Jared Fogle. - "The Simpsons Already Did It" - Mentioned by a news reporter. - "Bebe's Boobs Destroy Society" - Teaches the fourth-grade class. - "Child Abduction is Not Funny" - Teaches the fourth-grade class, but has trouble since all the students have their parents present, as well as his parents. - "The Death Camp of Tolerance" - Reintroduces Mr. Garrison to his class. - "Red Sleigh Down" - Seen in the crowd with the townspeople. - "Toilet Paper" - Calls the boys to his office. - "I'm a Little Bit Country" - Seen in on Anti-War side. - "Fat Butt and Pancake Head" - Seen listening to Cartman's speech. - "Red Man's Greed" - Seen at Three Feathers Indian Casino where he sees Premise Running Thin being cure of S.A.R.S.. - "South Park is Gay!" - Seen at the Mall taking part of the metrosexual fad. - "Grey Dawn" - Seen on the Main Street running from old people driving. - "Butt Out" - Catches the boys smoking behind the school, which causes the school to burn down. - "Good Times with Weapons" (Cameo) - Seen at the angry town meeting. - "Up the Down Steroid" - Timmy tries to tell him that Jimmy is on steroids, but Mr. Mackey fails to understand Timmy due to Timmy's limited vocabulary. - "You Got F'd in the A" Seen cheering for Butters when he wins the dance off for his team. - "Goobacks" - (Cameo) - "Douche and Turd" - Counts the up between Giant Douche and the Turd Sandwich. - "Pre-School" - (in flashback) - "Die Hippie, Die" - Seen at the City Council meeting. His role is the Public Health. - "Wing" - Seen at the Denver Convention Center watching the Miss Colorado Pageant. - "Erection Day" - Mr. Mackey is offended when the students call him gay, and he reports Jimmy Valmer's erection to his parents. - "Two Days Before the Day After Tomorrow" - Seen taking refuge in the Park County Community Center. - "Trapped in the Closet" - Seen at the Scientology church. - "The Return of Chef" (Cameo) - Seen at Chef's funeral. - "Smug Alert!" - Buys a Highbird along with everyone else in town. - "Cartoon Wars Part I" - States that he likes the idea of people burying their head in the sand. - "ManBearPig" - Welcomes Al Gore at the school assembly. - "Tsst" - Tells Liane Cartman that her son's behavior has gotten out of control. - "Mystery of the Urinal Deuce" - Tries to find the boy who defecated on the urinal. - "Miss Teacher Bangs a Boy" - He and Principal Victoria give Eric Cartman the hall monitor position. - "Go God Go" - Seen in the principal's office arguing with Mrs. Garrison about teaching evolution. - "With Apologies to Jesse Jackson" - Seen at Skeeter's Wine Bar watching Randy appear as a contestant on Wheel of Fortune. - "Cartman Sucks" - Delivers an emergency message to Eric Cartman from his mother about the photo of Butters and Cartman. - "Night of the Living Homeless" - Attends the City Council meeting to discuss on the emergence of homeless people in South Park. - "Le Petit Tourette" - His clothing appearance got modified. - "Tonsil Trouble" - Breaks up the fight between Cartman and Kyle. - "Major Boobage" - Gives students a lesson on cat urine. - "Canada on Strike" - Tells the students it's Canada appreciation day. - "Eek, A Penis!" - Tells Mr. Garrison he should not teach until he gets his emotions under control and told Eric Cartman he did a good job at teaching. - "Over Logging" - Attends Randy's speech at City Hall. - "Breast Cancer Show Ever" - Comes to break up the fight between Eric Cartman and Wendy Testaburger. - "About Last Night..." - Seen supporting John McCain along with Mr. Garrison, Principal Victoria, and many others. - "Elementary School Musical" - He is a caster for the school basketball game. - "The Ungroundable" - Teaches a computer class. - "The Coon" - Seen watching Mysterion unmask himself. - "Margaritaville" - Seen in the crowd watching Randy's speech. - "Eat, Pray, Queef" - Holds an emergency school meeting with parents. - "Fishsticks" - He gets told the fishsticks joke by Mr. Garrison. - "Pinewood Derby" - Seen at the pinewood derby race. - "The F Word" - Seen at the school assembly and later can be seen in the courtroom. - "Dances with Smurfs" - Seen at the school assembly for remembering Gordon Stoltski. He also hosts the Morning Announcements Tryouts. - "Sexual Healing " (Cameo) - Seen at Kenny's funeral. - "The Tale of Scrotie McBoogerballs" - Seen in the school hallway congratulating Butters. - "200" - Seen in Principal Victoria's office. - "201" - Seen in the crowd giving Santa in a bear costume to gingers. - "It's a Jersey Thing" - Seen preparing for battle against the Jersey people. - "Insheeption" - Revealed to have been sexually abused by Woodsy Owl in his childhood, which caused him to develop a hoarding disorder. - "Funnybot" - Seen being held hostage by the Germans along with the rest of the school. - "Royal Pudding" - Directs a kindergarten play on tooth decay. - "T.M.I." - Seen at the school meeting. - "City Sushi" - Seen in school assembly. - "Ass Burgers" - States that Stan Marsh's Asperger Syndrome is due to him receiving a flu shot a year earlier. - "Bass to Mouth" - He, along with Principal Victoria and Mr. Adler throw Eric under a bus. He later defecates his pants because Eric gave him laxative-laced cupcakes. - "1%" (cameo) - Seen at the school assembly. - "Butterballs" - He gets bullied by Bucky Bailey. - "Sarcastaball" - Seen at the PTA meeting. - "Insecurity" - Seen at the town meeting outside Park County Police Station. - "A Nightmare on Face Time" - Seen at the Monster Mash party. He dresses up as Gangnam Style. - "A Scause For Applause" - Crying because he does not know what to believe in anymore. - "Informative Murder Porn" - Seen in the school hallway. - "World War Zimmerman" - Eric Cartman and Tolkien Black are called to his office numerous times. - "Taming Strange" - Buys a new computer system that does not work right and refuses to admit that the system was a negative idea. - "Ginger Cow" - Kyle comes to his office to talk about the farting issue with Cartman. - "The Hobbit" - Calls Wendy Testaburger to his office numerous times. - "Gluten Free Ebola" -Talks about himself being gluten-free much to everyone's annoyance. - "The Cissy" - Listens to Mr. Garrison's speech about transgender people. - "The Magic Bush" - Seen at the town reception for Laura Tucker. - "#REHASH" - Calls CartmanBrah to the principal's office. - "Stunning and Brave" - Given detention by PC Principal when he states Tolkien is black. - "Where My Country Gone?" - Seen in the principal's office. - "The City Part of Town" - Seen at the Whole Foods Market with Mayor McDaniels. - "You're Not Yelping" (cameo) - Seen walking near the town at the end of the episode. - "Safe Space" - Tells Eric Cartman that he should not have put a picture of himself on the internet. - "Tweek x Craig" - Seen in the principal's office. - "Naughty Ninjas" - Seen protesting outside Park County Police Station. - "Sponsored Content" - "Truth and Advertising" - Kyle finds him in the principal's office. - "PC Principal Final Justice" - Revealed to be the one who got Principal Victoria fired from her job as principal as he was tired of being used by her for eighteen years. - "Member Berries" - Tries to help Kyle with his issue and eats Memberberries. - "S**** Hunt" - Frustrated with Scott Malkinson's constantly dramatic threats to quit Twitter, he begrudgingly prevents him from doing so. - "Fort Collins" - Seen in Cartman's flashback. - "Members Only" - Seen announcing to PC Principal the arrival of President Garrison. - "Not Funny" - Seen at church. - "Franchise Prequel" - Introduces the parents to Mark Zuckerberg at the school. - "Hummels & Heroin" - Oversees Marcus Preston's presentation in the school cafeteria. - "Moss Piglets" - Forces Heidi to judge the special education annual Science fair. - "SUPER HARD PCness" - Seen at the school council meeting. - "Splatty Tomato" - Seen at the Park County Community Center meeting. - "Dead Kids" - He stands behind PC Principal and then he runs into the hallway to try to stop an active shooter. - "A Boy And A Priest" - Seen in church. Later calls up the Denver Cathedral for help when Father Maxi goes missing. - "The Problem with a Poo" - Seen at the Christmas Concert. Later watches Mr. Hankey leave South Park. - "Tegridy Farms" - Tells Randy and Sharon about Shelley's vaping. Kyle later tries to speak to him about the vaping epidemic. - "The Scoots" - Tries, and later succeeds (with the help of Kenny), to get rid of the E-Scooters. - "Time To Get Cereal" (voice only) - Calls Cartman and Kenny to the principal's office. - "Nobody Got Cereal?" - Watches Satan dying. Later, he is seen in front of Park County Courthouse, waiting for Stan's verdict on the negotiation with ManBearPig. - "Buddha Box" - Checks that PC Principal and Strong Woman are not having inappropriate relations. - "Unfulfilled" - Seen protesting against Amazon on the customer's side. - "Bike Parade" - Tells Santa that the town got rid of Mr. Hankey. - "Mexican Joker" - Arrives at Stotch Residence to get weed seeds from Stephen. - "Band in China" - Tells Crimson Dawn that their music is too angry. - "Shots!!!" - Seen at the PTA meeting. - "Let Them Eat Goo" - Tries to help deal with the school lunch protests. - "Tegridy Farms Halloween Special" - Consults Butters about the mummy problem. - "Season Finale" - Seen at the City Hall. - "Board Girls" - Talks to Cartman, Butters, and Scott about the girls taking over their board game club. - "Turd Burglars" - Talks to Cartman, Stan, and Kenny about stealing Kyle's mom's feces and asks them to obtain the "spice". - "Basic Cable" - Introduces the new girl Sophie Gray to the class. - "Christmas Snow" - Seen singing at the beginning and loses his Christmas spirit after Santa temporarily bans alcohol. - "The Pandemic Special" - Hosts a parent-teacher Zoom conference. - "South ParQ Vaccination Special" - Tries to get vaccinated against COVID-19 unsuccessfully until vaccines from Israel are brought in. Also seen working at the school. - "Pajama Day" - Tells PC Principal why the children want to celebrate Pajama Day. - "City People" - As one of the members of the Chamber of Commerce to drive away the City People from the town. - "Back To The Cold War" - Tries to defend South Park Elementary from nuclear bombings. - "Cupid Ye" - Admires Valentine's Day, and later is heard offscreen through the school's PA, warning of a bee sighting before getting "stung" himself. - "Japanese Toilet" - Attends Stan's speech outside of City Hall. - "Deep Learning" - Reports the use of ChatGPT in school. - "DikinBaus Hot Dogs" - Seen in line at Willy's Chilly Ice Cream Parlor. - "Got a Nut" - Fired by PC Principal and picks up a job with ICE. Movies[] - South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut - Sings a song called "It's Easy, Mmm'kay". - South Park: Post Covid - Appears in the Shady Acres retirement home. - South Park: Post Covid: The Return of Covid - Attends a non-fungible token presentation by Victor Chaos. Later in the present timeline, he bumps into adult Clyde, who had just traveled back from the future. - South Park (Not Suitable For Children) - Reports to PC Principal on a teacher's activity on OnlyFans. Later accompanies the staff for a parent-teacher meeting at South Park Elementary. References[] - ↑ "South ParQ Vaccination Special" - ↑ The Post Covid specials take place 38 years in the future. - ↑ Mr. Mackey (Character). IMDb.com. | South Park Elementary staff | | |---|---| | Coach Miles | Girls' Volleyball Coach | Herbert Garrison | Mitchell | Mr. Derp | Mr. Garrett | Mr. Harris | Mr. Meryl | Mr. Thompson | Mr. Wyland | Mrs. Streibel | Ms. Bronski | PC Principal | Pearl | Recess Supervisor | Richard Adler | Strong Woman | Substitute Teacher | Unnamed Bus Driver | | | Former | | | Diane Choksondik | Jerome "Chef" McElroy | Jose Venezuela | Margaret Nelson | Miss Claridge | Mr. Conners | Mr. Mackey | Mr. Slave | Ms. Ellen | Ms. Stevenson | Nurse Gollum | Principal Victoria | Randy Marsh | Veronica Crabtree | | South Park families | | |---|---| Main characters' families Other characters' families |


--- [Mr. Mackey - South Park Wiki] ---
Mr. Mackey | Gender | Male | | Age | 48 | | Hair Color | Black | | Occupation | School Counselor | | Religion | Roman Catholic | | Voiced by | Trey Parker | | First Appearance | Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo | About Mr. Mackey is South Park Elementary's school counselor. He's always trying to dispense helpful knowledge to the kids on a wide variety of topics -- ranging from sex education to therapy sessions. He briefly experimented with drugs, which are bad, in "Ike's Wee Wee". And he had a pretty hot and heavy relationship with Diane Choksondik in "Proper Condom Use". Mkay? DNA Overview You’re sincere about your dedication to guiding others, but, man, other people just love to try your patience. Still, you know that they’d be nowhere without you. People with Mr. Mackey DNA are often the voice of reason in a world gone mad. M’kay? "Don't be such a pussy M'kay." Life Lessons - ” So just try and STAY POSITIVE, stay away from DRUGS AND ALCOHOL, and in the meantime, I’m going to put you on a HEAVY REGIMEN OF PROZAC.” - ” “QUEEF” is a vaginal expulsion of gas, mkay.” Memorable Quotes - "M'kay." - "Mmmm'kay." - "M'KAY!" - "Ummm…Drugs are bad M'kay." (Ike's Wee wee) - "Don't be such a pussy M'kay." (Ike's Wee wee) - "Jerry Bears dead, M'kay." (Ike's Wee wee) - "For a women with a dead fetus on her head you aren't being very open minded." (Roger Ebert should lay off the Fatty Foods) - ”Young man, Getting Gay with Kids is not dumb, m’kay.” (Rainforest Schmainforest) - "I want you, M'kay." (Proper Condom Use) - " "Mr. Mackey is Gay." " (Erection Day) - " BUTTERS, your dad threw you down a well?" (Informative Murder Porn) - "Mmmm'kay?" (World War Zimmerman) - "Intellilink is amazing!" (Taming Strange) - "Hello, Jelly School?" (The Hobbit) - "and I feel so FUCKIN' amazing!" (Gluten Free Ebola) - "Everybody get the Fuck Down!" (Dead Kids) Love Interest <char name="Ms. Conduct" image="http://southparkstudios.mtvnimages.com/shared/characters/adults/school-faculty-ms-conduct.png"/> Ex-Lovers Diane Choksondik Hippie Chick Alter Egos <char name="Gangnam Mackey" image="http://southparkstudios.mtvnimages.com/shared/characters/alter-egos/alter-ego-halloween-costumes-gangnam-macky.png"/> <char name="4th Grader Mackey" image="http://southparkstudios.mtvnimages.com/default/wiki_characters.jpg"/> <char name="Mr. Mackey Fireman" image="http://southparkstudios.mtvnimages.com/shared/characters/alter-egos/alter-egos-mackey-fireman.png"/> <char name="Mr. Mackey Piano Keys Tie" image="http://southparkstudios.mtvnimages.com/shared/characters/alter-egos/alter-ego-mr-mackey-piano-tie-cc.png"/> <char name="Mr. Mackey Overcoat" image="http://southparkstudios.mtvnimages.com/shared/characters/alter-egos/alter-ego-mr-mackey-trenchcoat-cc.png"/> <char name="Mr. Mackey ICE Agent" image="https://images.paramount.tech/path/mgid:file:gsp:entertainment-assets:/sps/shared/characters/alter-egos/alter-egos-mackey-ice-agent-cc.png"/> <char name="Mr. Mackey Custodian" image="https://images.paramount.tech/path/mgid:file:gsp:entertainment-assets:/sps/shared/characters/alter-egos/alter-ego-mackey-custodian-cc.png"/> <char name="Mr. Mackey Turkey Trot" image="https://images.paramount.tech/path/mgid:file:gsp:entertainment-assets:/sps/shared/characters/alter-egos/alter-ego-turkeytrot-mrMackey-cc.png"/> Featured Episodes - Damien (s01e08) - Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo (s01e10) - Carman's Mom Is a Dirty Slut (s01e13) - Cartman's Mom Is Still a Dirty Slut (s02e02) - Ike's Wee Wee (s02e04) - Conjoined Fetus Lady (s02e05) - City on the Edge of Forever (s02e07) - Roger Ebert Should Lay Off the Fatty Foods (s02e11) - Clubhouses (s02e12) - Chef Aid (s02e14) - Rainforest Shmainforest (s03e01) - Spontaneous Combustion (s03e02) - Jakovasaurs (s03e05) - Sexual Harassment Panda (s03e06) - Cat Orgy (s03e07) - Two Guys Naked in a Hot Tub (s03e08) - Mr. Hankey's Christmas Classics (s03e15) - Are You There, God? It's Me, Jesus (s03e16) - World Wide Recorder Concert (s03e17) - Cartman's Silly Hate Crime (s04e01) - Timmy 2000 (s04e04) - Chef Goes Nanners (s04e08) - Something You Can Do With Your Finger (s04e09) - Do the Handicapped Go to Hell? (s04e10) - Fourth Grade (s04e12) - Helen Keller! The Musical (s04e14) - Fat Camp (s04e15) - A Very Crappy Christmas (s04e17) - It Hits the Fan (s05e02) - Proper Condom Use (s05e07) - Kenny Dies (s05e13) - Jared Has Aides (s06e02) - Bebe's Boobs Destroy Society (s06e10) - Child Abduction is Not Funny (s06e11) - The Death Camp of Tolerance (s06e14) - I'm a Little Bit Country (s07e01) - Toilet Paper (s07e03) - Fat Butt and Pancake Head (s07e05) - Butt Out (s07e13) - Up the Down Steroid (s08e03) - Die Hippie, Die (s09e02) - Erection Day (s09e07) - Two Days Before the Day After Tomorrow (s09e08) - Trapped in the Closet (s09e12) - The Return of Chef (s10e01) cameo - Smug Alert (s10e02) - Cartoon Wars Part I (s10e03) - ManBearPig (s10e06) - Tsst! (s10e07) - Mystery of the Urinal Deuce (s10e09) - Go God Go (s10e12) - Cartman Sucks (s11e02) - Eek, A Penis! (s12e05) - The Ungroundable (s12e14) - The F Word (s13e12) - Insheeption (s14e10) - Royal Pudding (s15e03) - City Sushi (s15e06) - Bass to Mouth (s15e10) - A Nightmare on Face Time (s16e12) - World War Zimmerman (s17e03) - Taming Strange (s17e05) - The Hobbit (s17e10) - Gluten Free Ebola (s18e02) - Stunning and Brave (s19e01) - Where My Country Gone? (s19e02) - Member Berries (s20e01) - Skank Hunt (s20e02) - Members Only (s20e08) - Hummels & Heroin (s21e05) cameo - [[Moss Piglets] (s21e08) - SUPER HARD PCness (s21e09) - Dead Kids (s22e01) - A Boy and a Priest (s22e02) - Tegridy Farms (s22e04) - The Scoots (s22e05) - Buddha Box (s22e08) - Bike Parade (s22e10) Bonus Factoids In Season 19, it was revealed that Mr. Mackey got Principal Victoria fired because she never listened to him. Fans thought that he will be fired next season for what he did in Season 19. But when Season 20 premiered, Mr. Mackey remained as school counselor while Principal Victoria's current job position remains hidden. ↑ Back to top


--- [Mr. Mackey - EverybodyWiki Bios & Wiki] ---
No content


--- ["South Park" Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo (TV Episode 1997) - IMDb] ---
Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo - Episode aired Dec 17, 1997 - TV-14 - 22m The town is forced to remove anything that either has anything to do with Christmas or is offensive in the least bit to anyone. And Kyle tries to convince everyone of the existence of "Mr. H... Read allThe town is forced to remove anything that either has anything to do with Christmas or is offensive in the least bit to anyone. And Kyle tries to convince everyone of the existence of "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo."The town is forced to remove anything that either has anything to do with Christmas or is offensive in the least bit to anyone. And Kyle tries to convince everyone of the existence of "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo." - Directors - Writers - Stars - Wendy Testaburger - (voice) - (as Shannen Cassidy) - … - Bebe Stevens - (voice) - Ike Broflovski - (voice) - (as Jesse Howell) - Kyle Broflovski - (voice) - … - Chef - (voice) - Commercial Mom - (uncredited) - Directors - Writers - All cast & crew - Production, box office & more at IMDbPro Featured reviews South park of 1997 said it first Great Christmas episode! Smears of Festive Joy The highlight for me is Cartman's improvised song about Kyle's mom. It's so catchy and infectious - I had to rewind and listen to it twice while dancing along. The Mr Hankey character is so ingrained in my mind now that it's hard to remember how extremely WEIRD it actually is. So inventive and original. The way he leaves smears wherever he goes is a gloriously disgusting detail. A great running gag in the episode is the fact that he's invisible to everybody except Kyle, which makes it look like Kyle is simply playing with his bowel movements. A perfect example of the type Of gross humour the show is famous for. This episode is pure joy to watch - I can feel the Christmas spirit shining through. Crude, but very festive Christmas Special from the year 1997 Did you know - TriviaDuring filming of the live-action Mr. Hankey commercial, the baby originally held the Mr. Hankey stool (actually chocolate) and took a bite out of it. Comedy Central officials would not allow the scene in the episode and it was changed to portray the idea that the baby had already eaten the stool off-camera, which Trey Parker said he felt was actually funnier. - GoofsMrs. Broflovski complains that Kyle is playing Joseph of Arimathea in the nativity. She is thinking of the wrong Joseph. Joseph of Nazareth was married to Mary; Joseph of Arimathea was the man who gave up his tomb so that Jesus could be buried there. - Quotes Cartman: [singing] Well, Kyle's mom's a bitch she's a big fat bitch. She's the biggest bitch in the whole wide. She's a stupid bitch if there ever was a bitch. She's a bitch to all the boys and girls. Kyle: Shut up Cartman Mr. Hankey: Hideho! Kyle: Mr Hankey. Cartman: Yes Kyle's mom's a bitch she's a big fat bitch. Mr. Hankey: Golly that isn't very nice. I sure would like to teach him lesson. Cartman: Have you ever met my friend Kyle's mom she's the biggest bitch in the whole wide world she's a mean old bitch and she has stupid hair. Bitch, bitch, bitch, bitch, she's a stupid bitch. Kyle's mom's a bitch, she's a stupid dirty bitch. Kyle's mom is a bitch. - Crazy creditsInstead of the normal opening credits, there is a remix/new version related to Christmas "We wish you a merry Christmas, we wish you a merry Christmas, we wish you a merry Christmas and a happy new year!" - ConnectionsEdited into Christmas in South Park (2000) Details - Runtime - 22m - Color - Sound mix - Aspect ratio - 4:3
