=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Triaxus - StarfinderWiki]
2 days ago · Triaxus is nominally the sixth planet in the Pact Worlds system, but its highly eccentric 317 Pact Standard year -long orbit takes it inside the path of Castrovel (at its closest approach to the sun) and beyond the orbit of Bretheda at its farthest.
URL: https://starfinderwiki.com/wiki/Triaxus

[Triaxus - PathfinderWiki]
At its closest point, it rivals steamy Castrovel for how close Triaxus approaches the center of the solar system, transforming it into a world of vibrant forests, rushing rivers and fertile earth teeming with abundant life. Because of this extreme shift in seasons, Triaxus has two very distinct and very different ecologies.
URL: https://pathfinderwiki.com/wiki/Triaxus

[Systems - Archives of Nethys: Starfinder RPG Database]
Triaxus The Wanderer Source Starfinder Core Rulebook pg. 452 Location Pact Worlds Settlements Zo Diameter x1; Mass x1; Gravity x1 Atmosphere Normal Day 1 day; Year 317 years Triaxus's eccentric, mysteriously slow orbit takes it even closer to the sun than Castrovel during its summer, resulting in a tropical climate that turns harsh and frozen as the world sails back out past the gas giants ...
URL: https://www.aonsrd.com/Systems.aspx?ItemName=Triaxus

[Pact Worlds Review | Mixed Signals]
Blog 2022-10-18 | By Seth settings rpg starfinder scifi ... I've been reading through the Starfinder source book, Pact Worlds. It's a small book, but fits a lot of information into it, so I'm going to post about sections as I finish them. Triaxus is the ninth celestial body from the sun in Golarion's solar system. As I recall, it was the first planet in the Pathfinder game setting that I learned about.
URL: http://mixedsignals.ml/games/blog/blog_starfinder-pact-worlds-the-worlds-triaxus

[Starfinder (Tabletop Game) - TV Tropes]
In Golarion's place in the solar system is now the massive Absalom Station. The remaining planets of Golarion's solar system, all of which bear life, have come ...
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/TabletopGame/Starfinder


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Triaxus - StarfinderWiki] ---
Triaxus Triaxus is nominally the sixth planet in the Pact Worlds system, but its highly eccentric 317 Pact Standard year-long orbit takes it inside the path of Castrovel (at its closest approach to the sun) and beyond the orbit of Bretheda at its farthest. This results in Triaxian summers and winters that last for centuries, with most of its inhabitants living their entire lives within a single season. Much of their cultures revolves around the relationship between the native ryphorians and dragons, who had been warring since before the Gap for millennia, but have reached a truce since the founding of the Pact Worlds.1 Triaxus has recently gone through a tremendous upheaval when the shock wave caused by the destruction of Aucturn in 324 AG knocked Triaxus out of its traditional orbit to one closer to the sun (see more below).2 Geography Triaxus' perihelion is closer to the sun than Castrovel is, while its aphelion lies past Bretheda's orbit. Both winters and summers are brutal, with thousands of miles of glaciers and endlessly howling blizzards in the former and sweltering heat and frequent fires and droughts in the latter. Each rotation takes 317 Pact Standard years, resulting in whole generations living their whole lives in a single centuries-long season and indigenous lifeforms forming two nearly separate ecologies, each going dormant in spring or autumn, which last only long enough for them to do so. Currently, Triaxus is in the midst of winter.13 Continents Triaxus' two largests landmasses are the Drakelands in the western hemisphere and the Allied Territories in the eastern hemisphere, connected by an isthmus called the Skyfire Mandate. Beyond the Drakelands and Allied Territories, the next largest landmass is Ning, an island-continent located south of the Drakelands.4 Oceans & islands Triaxus has three major oceans: the Sephorian Sea between the Drakelands and Ning, the Ryphara Ocean east of the Allied Territories, and the Greatwater between the Allied Territories and the Drakelands, which borders the Skyfire Mandate to the south. Major islands include Nusova and Mechuria east of Ning, the Sephorian Archipelago south of the Allied Territories, Grenloch and Tiroch off the Allied Territories' eastern coast, the Winged Isles at the centre of the Greatwater, and Weldfall further north next to the shallow Channel of Spires.4 Volcanoes Triaxus is volcanically active and possesses diverse biomes. Most continents are mountainous except the Allied Territories, which is more ecologically diverse, with the vast Uchorae Jungle in the west and the Doraeshi Rain Forest in the east. Cold forests, river valleys and massive lakes (most prominently Dahak's Claw) pepper all continents.4 Glaciers Triaxus has two glaciers: the Expanse in the north and the Encroach in the south. In winter, the Encroach creeps up to southern Ning and creates land bridges across the Sephorian Archipelago, while the Expanse reaches Weldfall and covers the northern Drakelands and Allied Territories in snow.4 History Long before the Gap, Triaxus was dominated by conflict between the ryphorians of the Allied Territories and the dragons of the Drakelands, with dragonkin fighting on both sides. As space travel developed and territorial disputes became less important, particularly after the Gap ended and the Absalom Pact was signed, the dragons of the Drakelands saw the advantages of membership and trade, and hostilities ceased.3 Destruction of Aucturn Triaxus had reached the part of its orbit most distant from the sun when the planet Aucturn was destroyed by the birth of the Outer God known as the Newborn in 324 AG. The resulting shock wave pushed Triaxus out of its established orbit, pushing it toward the center of the Pact System, and wrecking havoc with its environment and inhabitants. Storms have begun to spread around the globe while unnatural rot grows uncontrollably, and the ice is melting at an alarming rate. The retreat of the ice is waking hibernating creatures as the inhabitants of Triaxus begin to struggle with the implications of a summer that is predicted to last for centuries.2 Inhabitants Triaxus' indigenous life had long been adapted to its seasonal cycle. As summer or winter comes to an end, that season's flora and fauna enter hibernation until the next solstice. The most prominent creatures adapted to both seasons are the ryphorians, who are born with appropriate adaptations depending on the season of their birth, even when technology has made these adaptations less important. Others, like dragonkin and dragons, simply take precautions and change their lifestyle accordingly.5 Dragons For all of recorded history, evil dragons have been the masters of the Drakelands. They employ all kinds of allies, whom they control like corporations (called dragoncorps) with themselves as CEOs, and produce all kinds of products. They nurse ancient grudges and plot against each other as much as they do offworld corporations.5 Ryphorians In the Allied Territories, numerous ryphorian nations squabble, having lost their main reason for unity since wars with the Drakelands ended. Most of them have prospered under the Pact Worlds government, with the exception of a few who refuse to modernise. Dragonkin are most common in the Drakelands and the Skyfire Mandate, living alongside ryphorians, with whom they maintain a strong connection.35 Elves A group of elves traveled to Triaxus during the Gap for reasons unknown and established colonies in the sparsely-inhabited northern Allied Territories. Visitors from Sovyrian occasionally come there to exchange knowledge on their species' history. Some of these elves have married native ryphorians, producing half-elven offspring curiously similar to half-elves of human origin.6 Golarion exiles Romanticised stories of Golarion have recently led a few members of its native species to move to Triaxus. Many of them wish to escape the crowded Absalom Station or dusty Akiton for an environment similar to where their ancestors once lived, despite the cold climate. The most populous among them are gnomes, drawn by stories of gnomes arriving on Golarion and Triaxus simultaneously after leaving the First World; what happened to the Triaxian gnomes in the intervening years is unknown.6 References - ↑ 1.0 1.1 Core Rulebook, 452–453. Paizo Inc., 2017 . - ↑ 2.0 2.1 Galaxy Guide, 7. Paizo Inc., 2025 . - ↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 Pact Worlds, 98. Paizo Inc., 2018 . - ↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 Pact Worlds, 99. Paizo Inc., 2018 . - ↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 Pact Worlds, 100. Paizo Inc., 2018 . - ↑ 6.0 6.1 Pact Worlds, 101. Paizo Inc., 2018 .


--- [Triaxus - PathfinderWiki] ---
Triaxus Triaxus, known as the Wanderer, is the seventh planet in Golarion's solar system.1 Description Triaxus is called the Wanderer because of its irregular and eccentric orbit. It is known for being two different worlds depending on its distance from the sun. At its farthest point, far past the great gas giants, Triaxus is covered by glaciers, endless snow fields and savage predators. At its closest point, it rivals steamy Castrovel for how close Triaxus approaches the center of the solar system, transforming it into a world of vibrant forests, rushing rivers and fertile earth teeming with abundant life. Because of this extreme shift in seasons, Triaxus has two very distinct and very different ecologies. Its current place in the heavens will determine which is the dormant season and which is active.12 Rune representation In scholarly works, Triaxus is sometimes represented by a rune: two vertical, parallel strokes with a horizontal bar surmounting them.3 Gazetteer Some of the most notable places on Triaxus are listed below:1 - Allied Territories, including: - The Drakelands - The Immortal Suzerainty of Ning - Sephorian Archipelago - The Skyfire Mandate, famous for its Dragon Legion - Uchorae Jungle Inhabitants The main inhabitants of Triaxus are human-like Triaxians whose physiology adapts according to the position of the planet at their birth: Summerborn Triaxians and Winterborn Triaxians look very different.14 Other creatures inhabiting the planet include: | References Paizo published major articles about Triaxus in The Frozen Stars and Distant Worlds. For additional as-yet unincorporated sources about this subject, see the Meta page. - ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 “Chapter 1: The Solar System” in Distant Worlds, 32–35. Paizo Inc., 2012 . - ↑ “Chapter 5: The World” in Campaign Setting, 239. Paizo Inc., 2008 . - ↑ “Chapter 1: The Solar System” in Distant Worlds, 32. Paizo Inc., 2012, , the rune is shaped like a Greek pi: π . - ↑ “Bestiary” in The Frozen Stars, 86. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5 5.6 “Planet of Dragons” in The Frozen Stars, 66. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ 6.0 6.1 “The Frozen Stars” in The Frozen Stars, 40. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ “The Frozen Stars” in The Frozen Stars, 49. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ 8.0 8.1 8.2 8.3 8.4 8.5 “Planet of Dragons” in The Frozen Stars, 67. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ 9.0 9.1 9.2 9.3 9.4 9.5 “Bestiary” in The Frozen Stars, 83. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ 10.0 10.1 “The Frozen Stars” in The Frozen Stars, 41. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ “The Frozen Stars” in The Frozen Stars, 31. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ “The Frozen Stars” in The Frozen Stars, 46. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ “The Frozen Stars” in The Frozen Stars, 34. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ “Chapter 3: Aliens” in Distant Worlds, 61. Paizo Inc., 2012 . - ↑ 15.0 15.1 15.2 15.3 15.4 15.5 15.6 “Planet of Dragons” in The Frozen Stars, 65. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ “The Frozen Stars” in The Frozen Stars, 18. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ 17.0 17.1 “Chapter 3: Aliens” in Distant Worlds, 57. Paizo Inc., 2012 . - ↑ 18.0 18.1 18.2 “The Dark Tapestry” in People of the Stars, 23. Paizo Inc., 2014 . - ↑ Paizo referred to xoarians as intellect devourers until the publication of Heavy is the Crown. - ↑ “Planet of Dragons” in The Frozen Stars, 74. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ “The Frozen Stars” in The Frozen Stars, 48. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ “The Frozen Stars” in The Frozen Stars, 50. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ “The Frozen Stars” in The Frozen Stars, 43. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ “Bestiary” in The Frozen Stars, 84. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ “Bestiary” in The Frozen Stars, 91. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ “Bestiary” in The Frozen Stars, 88. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ “The Frozen Stars” in The Frozen Stars, 52. Paizo Inc., 2013 . - ↑ “Bestiary” in The Frozen Stars, 90. Paizo Inc., 2013 .


--- [Systems - Archives of Nethys: Starfinder RPG Database] ---
The WandererSource Starfinder Core Rulebook pg. 452 Location Pact Worlds Settlements Zo Diameter x1; Mass x1; Gravity x1 Atmosphere Normal Day 1 day; Year 317 years Triaxus’s eccentric, mysteriously slow orbit takes it even closer to the sun than Castrovel during its summer, resulting in a tropical climate that turns harsh and frozen as the world sails back out past the gas giants in its winter. This cycle takes 317 Pact Standard years, with whole generations living and dying in a single season and plant and animal life forming two nearly separate ecologies, each going dormant during its off season. Of the creatures that adapt to both, the most prominent are the humanoid ryphorians, who manifest thick white fur and narrowed eyes to protect against snow blindness in the winter and develop smooth, dark skin in the summer. While the advent of spaceflight has made such adaptations less important for survival, ryphorian biology continues to be inexplicably tied to the planet, which is currently locked in winter. Those ryphorians born offworld generally maintain their current winterborn form, though even without knowing the exact mechanism, some have begun using magic and genetic engineering to transition early. Much of traditional Triaxian culture revolves around the fraught relationship between humanoids and dragons. For millennia, the fractious humanoid nations of the Allied Territories battled against the dragon-ruled nations of the Drakelands. The tactically crucial isthmus between the two warring continents was the Skyfire Mandate, defended on the allied side by a legion of ryphorians bonded with intelligent dragonkin mounts. With the coming of the Pact, however, the primarily evil dragons of the Drakelands saw the advantages of membership and trade with the other Pact Worlds, and active hostilities ceased. Today, while humanoids remain second-class citizens in the Drakelands, their masters have opted for more subtle power plays, with many dragons acting as shadowy investors in major corporations. The Allied Nations, meanwhile, largely lost their reason for cohesion, and today nations such as militant Kamora, where every citizen goes armed, vie for relevance with countries such as Zo, where spaceflight and its support are practically a state religion, or Preita, the Scholar’s Paradise, where technomancers duel on campuses for high-paying corporate contracts. While most of the nations have prospered under the new interplanetary arrangement, a few have refused to modernize fully and still cling to the old ways. Of these, the best known is the pugnacious walled city of Aylok, which shoots down any starship that dares enter its airspace and requires that anyone seeking to trade or meet with its ruling Imperators come in by land instead, through trap-lined plains of jagged ice and hordes of furred insectile horrors bred for defense. Such policies have deeply undercut the city’s health and economy, but so far the ruling elite claims it’s the only way to avoid complete cultural annihilation by the encroaching Pact Worlds. Even with minor outliers like Aylok, nowhere did the advent of the Pact have a greater effect than in the Skyfire Mandate. With peace—if a tense one—between dragons and humanoids, and with spaceflight replacing planetary combat in importance, the territory’s famed Dragon Legion found itself without a purpose. In response, its leaders took to the stars, and today the rebranded Skyfire Legion forms an elite and highly principled mercenary organization, selling its protection to well-meaning colonists and corporations operating beyond the solar system (and thus outside the Stewards’ protection). Now the dragonkin themselves are only occasionally ridden in atmosphere. Many starfaring dragonkin families have resorted to genetic engineering to reduce their size to better fit in the narrow corridors of space stations and starships, and thanks to their near-telepathic bond with their partners, no humanoid of the legion would dream of flying a starfighter without her dragonkin copilot. Outside of the Allied Territories, a notable exception to prevailing Triaxian culture is the continent of Ning, long cut off from the other nations by the vast Sephorian Sea. Like backward-looking Aylok, Ning has refused to acknowledge the Pact’s authority, but it has embraced modernization, making it a haven for corporations, criminals, and all others that seek to avoid Pact control. Far from being a lawless society, however, Ning is obsessed with honor and status—traits that attract a fair number of kasatha and vesk immigrants—and its upper class, led by the Immortal Suzerain, keeps its citizens safe from dangers both domestic and foreign. Culturally, Ning is best known for the ukara, or “battleflowers”: lithe, genderless warriors—often solarians—who compete in broadcasted ritual combat in exchange for system-wide celebrityAliens found at TriaxusAlural War Wolliped (Wolliped) - CR 9; Large animal Dragonkin - CR 9; Large dragon Elmeshra - CR 7; Large animal (aquatic) Gammenore - CR 8; Large magical beast (cold) Ryphorian Skyfire Pilot (Ryphorian) - CR 5; Medium humanoid (ryphorian) Ryphorian Technician (Ryphorian) - CR 1; Medium humanoid (ryphorian) Ursikka - CR 10; Huge magical beast Wolliped - CR 3; Large animal |


--- [Pact Worlds Review | Mixed Signals] ---
I've been reading through the Starfinder source book, Pact Worlds. It's a small book, but fits a lot of information into it, so I'm going to post about sections as I finish them. Triaxus is the ninth celestial body from the sun in Golarion's solar system. As I recall, it was the first planet in the Pathfinder game setting that I learned about. I wasn's exactly surprised to find that there were other planets in the setting. I knew Spelljammer enough to know that D&D was not confined to just one world, but the only function I knew for planet hopping was to change game settings. If a game started on Toril, you visit Krynn. If you start on Krynn, you visit Toril. What other reason could there possibly be to travel the stars? To discover that Triaxus existed and that there was no D&D setting associated with it was actually very intriguing to me. I'd been to other planes of existence, I'd been to Sigil, I'd been to a citadel in the Astral Plane. It just never occurred to me that you could also travel to planets (except the ones that were bound to a setting.) Because I was so intrigued by it, I was ended up being pretty familiar with Triaxus before reading this section, so it's no surprise to me that Triaxus is legitamately one of the most exciting planets in the system. Triaxus is a world of dragons, dragonkin, and a humanoid race that resemble elves and were, as I'd always understood it, known as Triaxians. Starfinder refers to Triaxians as "ryphorians," which confused me at first because I thought it was a new race. It's not, it's the same people, but it fairly recognises that dragons and dragonkin of Triaxus are also "Triaxians." I don't yet own the Alien Archive book (all my local bookstore had was Alien Archive 2, so that's my main monster manual) so I'm still not sure what a ryphorian is, but I assume it's the elf-like humanoid described in Paizo's Distant Worlds Pathfinder source book. The different nations of Triaxus used to be busy either starting wars with each other, or else making alliances with one another so a new configuration of war could be started. After space travel became common, and specifically after Drift engines were invented, opening the entire universe for exploration, warfare at home became less interesting. In the time of Starfinder, Triaxus is still divided into a few different nations, but each nation has plenty of interests offworld to keep them busy. The way this manifests, of course, are mega-corporations, many of which are run by dragons. Now I don't know what your TTRPG background is, but along with D&D I'm a big fan of Shadowrun, an urban fantasy cyberpunk game in which corporations often have a dragon as CEO. And I am more than happy to get this flavour in my science fantasy Starfinder game. Oh but wait, it gets better. There's nothing but compelling story ideas in this section. The ruler of the nation Dretchnyl is Dretchnyliax, a green dragon who's frighteningly powerful, and also very paranoid. She seems to think all the other nations are conspiring against her, and not without reason. Before the Gap, a bunch of them allied against her for fear that she was mounting a plan for world domination. This caused her to retreat into her realm, but since then she's spent time upgrading herself with cybernetics, so now she's a green cybernetic dragon with a world domination complex and a treasure hoard rumoured to contain a powerful artefact. Bora Wood is a forest where the plants have started to become aggressive. The Doraeshi Rain Forest is strictly controlled by an AI called Iota. There's no connection whatsoever between these two forests. The Meruchia and Nusova islands are home to massive hovering citadels run by a white-scaled dragonkin called Roslant. There are military outposts, volcanos, paranoid leaders, greedy corporations, dragons, magic, cyborgs, plus the winter and summer seasons each lasts for decades (due to the eccentric orbit of Triaxus.) Being a fan of Dragonlance, I really love the amount of dragons in Triaxus's lore. Not only are there dragons proper, but there are even a Paizo version of Draconians. And because this is Starfinder, it's all of that plus lasers. Maybe I'm biased because of my love of Dragonlance and Shadowrun, but Triaxus is [still] my favourite planet in the system. It was exciting in Pathfinder, and it's exciting in Starfinder. I've decided that the Starfinder worlds need shorthand descriptions, the way one might refer to Magic: The Gathering planes by theme. Innistrad is gothic horror world, Theros is Ancient Greece world, Ravnica is city world, and so on. So far, this is what I have: Next in line is Liavara, a gas giant! Header photo by Seth Kenlon, Creative Commons cc0.


--- [Starfinder (Tabletop Game) - TV Tropes] ---
Starfinder is set an unknown number of years in Pathfinder's future. Golarion, the main world of the Pathfinder setting, has gone missing, as are any memories or records of what may have happened to it, what it was like, or anything in a time period spanning several millennia. Even beings whose lives stretched into (or through) that time period have lost all memories. This millennia-long missing period of history is known as the Gap. In Golarion's place in the solar system is now the massive Absalom Station. The remaining planets of Golarion's solar system, all of which bear life, have come together in a federation known as the Pact Worlds. Other civilizations have not been idle in the unknown number of years between Pathfinder and the present, with androids, lashunta, ratfolk (now called ysoki), and kasatha from Pathfinder joining humans and two new alien races, the reptilian vesk and insectile shirren, as core races. Of course, if you want to be an elf, dwarf, half-orc, or halfling IN SPACE, it gives options for those as well. Like Pathfinder, Starfinder features a core book line, Adventure Paths, and an organized play program. Also like its Fantasy Kitchen Sink brother, this system is planned to get a Second Edition. The Playtest Rulebook for 2nd Edition released on August 1, 2024; the finalized Player Core rulebook released on July 31, 2025. These are the officially released Adventure Paths so far: - 1st Edition: - Dead Suns - Against the Aeon Throne - Signal of Screams - Dawn of Flame - Attack of the Swarm! - The Threefold Conspiracy - The Devastation Ark - Fly Free or Die - Horizons of the Vast - Drift Crashers - Drift Hackers - Scoured Stars - Mechageddon - 2nd Edition: - Guilt of the Graveworld In addition to the new Second Edition rules, on August 1, 2025, Paizo announced a Kickstarter for a brand new video game — a first for the franchise — set in the Starfinder universe, titled Starfinder: Afterlight. With the Barcelona-based fledgling indie developer Epictellers Entertainment helming the creation of the game, it continues Paizo's trend of partnering up with smaller game studios that began with Owlcat Games. Starfinder contains examples of: - Adventure-Friendly World: The Pact Worlds, and the Starfinder galaxy at large. - The Gap means that there are thousands, possibly millions, of inhabited worlds whose history stops less than 500 years in the past. Every civilized world is filled with remnants of the pre-Gap world and mysteries that arose during the Gap. Heck, entire civilizations may have risen and fallen during the Gap, and while their records may have vanished, the ruins they left behind have not. This means that adventurers will never be short on things to do. - The AI god Triune gave the entire galaxy the means to produce a Drift engine, a cheap and efficient means of faster-than-light travel, and it's now possible to travel the width of the galaxy in a matter of months. However, the Drift isn't empty. Every time a Drift engine is fired up, a portion of another plane of reality is sucked into the Drift, meaning travelers in the Drift could run into literally anything. This allows adventurers to go wherever they want, but there will always be a chance for Random Encounters. - The Starstone, the mystical power source that lies at the heart of Absalom Station, acts as one of the most powerful Drift beacons in the galaxy. This means that no matter where in the galaxy you begin your journey, you can arrive at the station in about a week. This means that adventurers can very easily retreat to civilized space if an adventure goes south. Or, if they simply want to return, flog their gear, and purchase upgrades, they never have to wait long before flying out on their next adventure. - The Alliance: The Pact Worlds works like this, with every inhabited planet in Golarion's solar system (plus notable non-planetary polities such as the Kasatha fleet and Absalom station) being a member. Since that's a LOT of developed societies, the sheer diversity and numbers they can bring to bear allows them to punch above their weight class militarily and politically, such as when they were able to hold their own against the Veskarium before the Swarm arrived to force them into an Enemy Mine. - Always Chaotic Evil: Averted, unlike in Pathfinder, with undead. In fact, Animate Dead is no longer an evil spell, and plenty of the civilian populace of Eox is Neutral. Still played straight with evil outsiders like devils and creatures such as the Swarm. - Archaic Weapon for an Advanced Age: Swords, warhammers and staves are no less common as they were in Pathfinder despite widespread use of Ray Guns. There are limits however, with very primitive weapons like clubs suffering a damage penalty if used on non-primitive armor. In addition, higher-level equipment is technologically or magically advanced, like "dimension rift" knives or laser swords. - Artistic License – Economics: Neatly dealt with by making crafting a matter of convenience than a money saver. Crafting requires materials equal to the cost of the item, but as long as you have the skill and a workshop on your ship you can make anything anywhere, which is handy if you are far, far away from any sort of store. The core rule book notes that businesses make a profit due to economy of scale. - Ascended Extra: Numerous examples in terms of species and deities: - The setting itself takes off massively from the Pathfinder Planetary Romance sourcebooks Distant Worlds and People of the Stars. - In Pathfinder, Androids were common only in Numeria, the Kellid land where a giant spaceship crash-landed ages ago, and where they started yielding scavenged high-tech items. Lashuntas and Kasathas were around, but likely only to be encountered in a campaign that went off of Golarion onto another planet in the system, and thus quite rare. Ratfolk could be found anywhere, but generally not in large numbers. All of these are now considered core races. - Notably, the only minor deity in Pathfinder that becomes a main deity in her own right in Starfinder is Besmara, thanks to her importance among the Free Captains and other space pirates. In addition, and somewhat frighteningly, the Outer God Nyarlathotep is now important enough to be a main deity. Finally, two other obscure deities, the construct goddess Brigh and the Iron Goddess Casandalee, were combined into facets of the new main god Triune. - Asteroid Thicket: Averted with the Pact Worlds' major asteroid belt, the Diaspora. There are millions of asteroids in the belt, but the only danger is the occasional cloud of dust and debris. The Diaspora is also inhabited by the sarcesians, who have adapted to living in a vacuum, and have created a number of "crèche planetoids", which have just enough atmosphere to support life and grow food. - The Diaspora also has the River Between, a magically contained column of water that wraps through almost the entire asteroid belt. - Played straight with the rings of Liavara - Born as an Adult: Androids come from their production and renewal pods fully grown. - Bizarre Alien Sexes: - Shirren have three: the male; who fertilizes the egg; the female, who provides the egg; and the host, who incubates the egg to maturity. All three need to get together to reproduce. Socially, there are several variations of coupling based on the culture the shirren comes from. For example, Keskodai, the iconic mystic, lives in an exclusive pairing with a female and a host (when he isn't off exploring) but it's not unheard of for a single host to carry eggs for several different male/female pairs. - The maraquoi of the Brethedan moon of Marata have seven sexes, all of which are necessary for reproduction. While maraquoi are still relatively undetailed, individual maraquoi have so far been referred to with singular "they." - Bantrids have no sexes, and reproduce by budding. - Vilderaros default to using she/her pronouns. That said: they're hermaphroditic, capable of parthenogenesis (although they consider it less than ideal, as it limits Genetic Memory) from an early age, and become capable of sexual reproduction (which is the preferred way of going about it) upon reaching full maturity. - The kothamas of Vesk-7 and Vesk-8 are hermaphroditic; pairs typically impregnate each other. - Captain Ersatz: The illustration for the Knight of Golarion in the corebook looks suspiciously like a Warhammer 40,000 Space Marine, while the Cult of the Devourer illustration looks like a Chaos Space Marine or cultist. - Character Customization: It is a Tabletop RPG. - Check the Starfinder Classes and Starfinder Player Races pages for more on those. - Players also get to pick a Theme for their characters, in addition to the classic Class and Level System. - Ace Pilot: From the veteran spacer or the skilled rookie, an Ace Pilot feels at home behind the controls of a ship. - Bounty Hunter: Someone who hunts people for money. May or may not have a personal moral code they follow. - Icon: A local celebrity who can use her influence and connections to find people, information, or equipment - Mercenary: Usually current or retired military and will lend their skills with weaponry to whoever will pay them. - Outlaw: Wanted by the law somewhere in the Pact Worlds. Has connections to the criminal underworld. - Priest: Gods do exist in this world, and the Priest devotes his life to serving them. May be on a Mission from God. - Scholar: An intellectual in pursuit of knowledge. Not an Omnidisciplinary Scientist, and must pick a specialty. - Spacefarer: Possessed of intense wanderlust. Thrilled by the prospect of seeing distant worlds. - Xenoseeker: There are an endless number of alien races out in the cosmos, and the xenoseeker longs to meet them all and experience their cultures for himself. - Themeless: Should none of the above options fit your character, you can make your own theme. Decidedly less powerful than the other themes, but is immensely flexible. - A wide range of new themes have been continuously released in subsequent books, both major source books & Adventure Path modules. These include but are not limited to, Athlete, Biotechnician, Corporate Agent, Gladiator, Law Officer, Noble Scion, and Street Rat. - While optional, archetypes make a return. Unlike in Pathfinder's first edition where archetypes were class specific, Starfinder's archetypes combine the concept with prestige classes and are available to most any class with some prerequisites(some can only be taken by spell casting classes, for example); they replace or offer alternatives to certain class features at certain levels. - The Character Operations Manual reintroduced & expanded the alternate racial trait system from Pathfinder, offering a selection of new racial traits & new ability score bonues for existing races, furthering the options for customization. This system was continued in the Near Space book. - City Planet: In a variation, the tidally-locked planet of Verces has one massive city spanning the ring which makes up the planet's habitable zone. - Corporate Dragon: Multiple dragons rule entire countries and corporations on the planet of Triaxus. - Credit Chip: Most people load the credits they need for daily use onto "credsticks", which also allow the PCs to continue the long-standing tradition of looting the bodies; this is ironically justified in-universe because it's less of a loss to have your credstick stolen than having full access to your bank account swiped. Plus, they can be used for black-market transactions. - Cunning Linguist: Characters with the "Xenoseeker" theme gain the "quick pidgin" ability at 6th level, which allows them to develop a rudimentary hybrid language to communicate with any group of creatures they lack a common language with after ten minutes and a DC 25 Culture check, but only that specific group. Communicating with others of the same species requires a new check but with a +2 bonus. In addition an Envoy with the Skilled Linguist talent knows a number of bonus languages equal to their ranks in Culture. - Cutting Off the Branches: - The Iron Gods Adventure Path in Pathfinder potentially ended with the PC's ally Casandalee ascending to godhood instead of the Big Bad. In Starfinder, she indeed did, and is now one of the three machine gods that make up Triune. - Like in Pathfinder, in official published material, every previously-published adventure is generally assumed to be completed successfully, though the exact details are unclear until future material needs to reference them (usually when there's a follow-up or new edition). - The Drift Crisis metaplot book presents several plausible possibilities (and less plausible rumours) for what set this event in motion (divine intervention, Triune splitting into its constituents, a virus infecting the Drift, or a secret cadre of Triunites trying to upgrade the Drift and ended up creating a series of glitches). Canonically, the official published setting (including the Drift Hackers Adventure Path, which officially resolves the Crisis) assumes that the fourth one was the true cause. - Death-Based Ghost Powers: Some of the game's ghost-type Undead have powers that reflect what killed them. - Endlings spawn whenever an entire species perishes, and they have their powers decided by what caused them to come into fruition: those hunted down become better fighters, while those whose homes were destroyed by colonization can disrupt or outright destroy technology. - Itmi Vruh lost their bodies due to Drift jumps going haywire, and they gain the ability to possess living creatures that remind them of their old life. - A mosaic soul rises when a Drift jump derails terribly, resulting in the division of mind and soul. They appear as blurry abstract shapes with spinning fragments of colour. Mosaic souls can unravel their opponents, corroding them, and also have a Swirling Colors ability that blinds enemies around them that are too close. - Singularity wraiths, also called "vorthuul" by the kasatha race, are the souls of persons whose bodies were devoured by black holes. They use their Gravity Master powers to crush foes around them, much like the black hole that killed and ate them. This garnered them respect from certain groups like the Cult of the Devourer, who views singularity wraiths as an avatar of the Devourer himself and may attempt to form an alliance with them. - Derelict shades are the ghosts of ships. They are spawned from a ship's destruction along with the crew, and their host ship's crew may have lived on to their afterlives, only for the dead spacefarers' combined terror to form a derelict shade. Taking damage from them may cause ships targeted by the derelict shade to undergo a malfunction, regardless damage dealt. Oh, and death at a derelict shade's (metaphorical) hands may create more of the starship-sized abominations. - Demoted to Extra: - Of the Pathfinder core deities, only Abadar, Desna, Iomedae, Pharasma, Sarenrae, Urgathoa and Zon-Kuthon remain as such in Starfinder. With the exceptions of Besmara and Nyarlathotep, the rest are Canon Foreigners. - Asmodeus, Calistria, and Lamashtu have been demoted to minor deity status. - Torag, head of the Dwarf pantheon, disappeared along with Golarion. His place as patron of the Dwarves has been taken by his younger brother, the minor deity Angradd. - Shelyn is notable now only as Zon-Kuthon's sister, and while she didn't disappear altogether, her fleeting and diminishing responses seem to hint that she has gone into the void, possibly to find a way to reverse what warped her brother into the Midnight Lord. - Rovagug is completely missing from the setting, which paradoxically makes him important in the story. Golarion was his prison in Pathfinder, and now that it's disappeared and been wiped from all memories, the whereabouts and status of the Omnicidal Maniac god are completely unknown. - Cayden Cailean went on a bender after the Gap, leaving his church to founder in his absence. He eventually sobered up and has started putting things back together, adding to his portfolio helping others recover from trauma without falling intro self-destructive activities like he did (or pulling them out). - The core races (outside of humans) from Pathfinder are collectively this — while they are still present (and the rules for making a player character member of them are in the Core Rulebook), their presence is considerably smaller than they were in Golarion. - Of the Pathfinder core deities, only Abadar, Desna, Iomedae, Pharasma, Sarenrae, Urgathoa and Zon-Kuthon remain as such in Starfinder. With the exceptions of Besmara and Nyarlathotep, the rest are Canon Foreigners. - Deus est Machina: Triune, the A.I. God responsible for gifting mortals the knowledge of Drift travel. - Disciplines of Magic: Being a Pathfinder game but set in the future, the disciplines of magic have changed to reflect the setting. Mystics draw their power from a "connection" to a higher power, similar to clerics but their connection can be to an impersonal cosmic field instead of a deity. Technomancers combine magic with technology. Witchwarpers replace bits of reality with counterparts from alternate universes. While Precogs are living temporal anomalies. - Disintegration Chamber: The Disintegration Chamber Trap subjects anything in the room where the trap has been set to a disintegration beam, which atomizes the room's contents. - Disintegrator Ray: The cult of the Devourer uses these, which use d20s for damage, making their damage highly variable. - Domed Hometown: The Burning Archipelago, which floats in the upper layers of the Pact Worlds' sun, is set in a series of heatproof bubbles and tied together with magic tethers. No one knows who built them. However, they were quickly colonized after their discovery, and they now have their own government and a seat at the Pact Council. - Draco in Leather Pants: Carsai, leader of Elder Mythos cults on Aucturn, is an In-Universe example. He's so commonly portrayed as a dashing and handsome Anti-Hero in media that people have turned to the cult of Nyarlathotep on pure Fanon. - Dropped a Bridge on Him: While most of the species of aliens from the Pathfinder era remain & several have even been given stats for the first time, even being promoted to playable, or otherwise simply haven't been mentioned yet, one notable exception are the ilee, the horribly mutated yet peaceful natives of Apostae, who've explicitly gone extinct. No explanation has been given though it's hinted the drow may have wiped them out when colonizing Apostae, but given that this happened during the Gap it's impossible to confirm. The Pact Worlds hints that they are Not So Extinct, and in fact evolved into the Astrozoans. - Earth-That-Was: Golarion, the Earth of the Pathfinder/Starfinder shared universe, has mysteriously disappeared, so not only can it not be the center of the universe, absolutely nothing can get there. In Golarion's place, however, is Absalom Station, which has the unique benefit of being a Drift nexus, meaning that no matter the distance you are from Absalom, travelling to Absalom takes 1-6 days. In other words, you could spend up to 30 days travelling into the Vast, at the extremes of where humanoids have traveled to, and still be back to Absalom in less than a week. In addition, the headquarters of the Starfinder Society, AbadarCorp (at least, its HQ in the physical realm), and the Stewards are all at Absalom Station, and Absalom is where the Pact was signed, linking all the planets of the solar system together as the Pact Worlds. In a meta example: the first Starfinder Adventure Path began with the adventure titled Incident at Absalom Station, which, true to form, happens entirely on Absalom Station, or in the vicinity of it. - Easily Conquered World: Justified. The Vesk landed on the Skittermander homeworld prepared to engage in a brutal and long military conflict. Much to their surprise, the Skittermanders helped them conquer their own planet as it is implied they are genetically predisposed to help ANY sentient species. Comically, many Skittermanders later became administrators for the Vesk empire because that is a job most Vesk hate, leading to a "who conquered whom?" situation. - Eldritch Location: The entire planet of Aucturn is this, and it's speculated that it is actually the egg of a Great Old One. - The Empire: The Veskarium, an expansionist militaristic force which has formed an uneasy truce with the Pact Worlds, and the Azlanti Star Empire, an advanced human empire founded by the remnants of Pathfinder's Precursors. - Enemy Mine: In the very recent history of the Pact Worlds, the Veskarium and the Pact Worlds were at war with each other until the Swarm arrived to attack both. The uneasy truce that developed between the two to fight off the Swarm currently holds, but both sides are distrustful of each other. - Expy: The Vesk are highly similar to the Trandoshans from Star Wars, both being highly warlike Lizard Folk. - Fantastic Plastic: Nearly anything (aside from necrografts) can be crafted from little grains of plastic called Universal Polymer Bases (UPBs). The Pact Worlds credit is even pegged to the UPB, with an item's purchase price being equal to the number of UPBs need to craft it. - Faster-Than-Light Travel: Via the Drift, though obsolete methods are also mentioned, such as helldrives, shadow engines, and cathedral-ships powered by prayer. - The Federation: The Pact Worlds, an alliance of planets composed mainly of the planets of Golarion's solar system. - Fold the Page, Fold the Space: Ports of Call uses a towel in a dryer as an analogy for how the Drift works and why travel takes a random amount of time. The fabric is constantly tumbling around and folding and unfolding and ships try to find the shortest paths at any given time. - Generation Ship: The kasatha arrived in pact worlds space using one called Idari, which was launched prior to the development of Drift travel. After arriving and finding they could not colonize Akiton like they had hoped, the kasatha decided to stay on the Idari and declared the ship a Pact World all its own. - Gender-Equal Ensemble: Of the core rulebook iconics; Navasi, Raia, and Obozaya are female, Quig, Altronus, and Keskodai are male, and Iseph is nonbinary. - Genius Loci: Several worlds exist that are speculated to be alive, including the Eldritch Location Aucturn and the seeming paradise world Arquand, which turns the subconscious thoughts of sentient beings into reality (with often deadly results). - God Was My Co-Pilot: Navasi suspects that the lover who sacrificed herself to let Navasi escape an angry crime syndicate was an avatar of Weydan, god of discovery and equality. - Green-Skinned Space Babe: The Lashunta, as always, though it now applies to both sexes, and both castes (the korasha are more muscular, while the damara are more lithe). - Handmade Is Better: Handmade items have better durability than mass-produced, and you can repair an item that you yourself have crafted in half the usual time. - Hit So Hard, the Calendar Felt It: The present calendar is the AG calendar, necessary because the Gap eliminated the ability to tell exactly when it is in the old calendar. - Homeworld Evacuation: The Kasatha built their Generation Ship and came to the Pact Worlds as their sun was soon to go nova. - Horde of Alien Locusts: The Swarm, a major antagonist force which was only barely repelled by the combined strength of the Pact Worlds and the Veskarium, and which still poses a real danger to travelers in the Vast. - Human Resources: One of the most lucrative industries on Eox, the undead planet, is the creation of necrografts, body augmentations created from undead organs, rather than cybernetics or biotech. They are usually made from mass-produced, artificial flesh, but there is a Black Market for off-world cadavers. - Off-world cadavers are also the only way for Eox to grow its population, since undead can't reproduce biologically(and most Elbrians are undead). There are also plenty of living people on Eox who have sold their remaining years of labor in exchange for undeath. - Humongous Mecha: Mechs are immense robots that combine armour, agility and firepower into a devastating package piloted by one or more operators. They represent powerful tools for PCs to confront far mightier foes than they could unaided. - Hyperspace Lanes: Drift lanes are introduced in Drift Crisis as a potential resolution to the titular Crisis, and made canon at the end of the Drift Hackers AP. Travel through Drift lanes always takes seven days divided by the rating of the ship's Drift engines rather than 3d6 or 5d6 days. - Hyperspace Is a Scary Place: In Starfinder, it steals a tiny bit of a random plane every time somebody fires up a hyperdrive. Aside from the cosmic implications, this also means that you're never 100% sure what you might run into during a hyperspace jump. - Industrialized Mercury: The game's analogue of Mercury, Aballon, is mostly inhospitable to organic life. However, its rich metal deposits and population of hardworking Mechanical Lifeforms have made it the the Pact Worlds' primary industrial hub. - Insectoid Aliens: The Shirren, and their antagonistic cousins the Swarm. Native to the pact worlds are the ant-like formians of Castrovel & the haans of Bretheda, who're an odd mix of bombardier beetles, spiders, and sea scorpions. Non-playable examples include the orocorans, who're likened to semi-humanoid fleas or mosquitoes. - A Starfinder Society scenario introduced the Ghibranis, which were later codified in additional resources. They were originally bipedal beetle-like aliens. They suffered a nuclear war that brought them to the brink of extinction, and the two surviving groups started going through divergent evolution, leading to two separate subspecies. - Laser Blade: The primary weapon of the Solarian class, Starfinder's analog to Star Wars' Jedi. Each Solarian is accompanied by a mote of stellar energy, which they can transform into any melee weapon they choose, or make it into a suit of energy armor instead. Plasma swords and doshkos are a more mundane counterpart, though they are very expensive. - Laser-Guided Amnesia: On a multiverse-wide level, even. There's a span of history called "The Gap" where nobody is exactly sure exactly what happened (though it's commonly thought that it has something to do with Golarion's disappearance). The actual span of The Gap varies from world-to-world, and in some cases person-to-person (for those who were alive back then). One common background is to try to find out just what happened. - Even the gods seem unaware of what happened during the Gap, and questions as to the fate of Golarian only return with, "It is safe and unharmed, along with the descendants of those who were on the planet when it disappeared, somewhere unreachable by science or magic." If they know any more than that, they aren't telling. - Lawful Stupid: Defied by the Stewards, who are allowed — even encouraged! — to follow their codes without being morons about it. - Loose Canon: Justified. The Gap, which ended three centuries before the events of the first Starfinder adventures and is implied to have begun with the Age of Lost Omens (which begun a century before the events of Pathfinder and marks the death of prophecy) is a time period during which historical records are garbled and murky. Its main role is as a plot device to ensure that while Pathfinder and Starfinder take place in the same universe, but not necessarily the same timeline, and the latter is not the One True Future of the former—people working on one game don't have to be experts on the other game's lore or limit themselves to what already happened or will not happen in the other. That said, Pathfinder narrative creative director James Jacobs has stated that continuity between the two is maintained whenever possible, which is partially the reason why Gorum (who was never mentioned in any previous Starfinder material) was chosen as the core god to die in Pathfinder's War of Immortals metaplot, but if Paizo had hypothetically decided to kill Abadar instead, his role as a core deity in Starfinder would not have been affected.note - Lovecraft Lite: While the Cthulhu Mythos had a role in Pathfinder, it is expanded more in Starfinder due to the role of Aucturn as a planet in the Pact Worlds. In pratical terms, this means more enemies for our adventurers to crush. - Magitek: Very prevalent. Most technological devices have some minor magical effects within them, and vice versa. Adding magical effects to tech-based weapons is not uncommon. - Martian Mundanity: Akiton, the Mars-equivalent, is a run-down, often lawless, desert wasteland after the planet's main industry, thasteron mining, collapsed after the advent of drift engines. - Massive Race Selection: Paizo has stated that they want to take the "Cantina Approach" to races in Starfinder, referencing the scenes in the various Star Wars movies, most notably A New Hope, where the heroes enter a bar or similar establishment & the camera focuses on dozens of different alien patrons. Paizo wanted to create scenes like that where almost any alien race seen could be playable. Less than a year after release, they'd made good progress with that; with 13 playable races in the core rulebook, 22 in the first Alien Archive, 6 in the Pact Worlds source book, and several more over the first Adventure Path as well as early society modules, with more to come. On top of that, the definition of what can be a playable race is expanded, with the selection not limited to Small- and Medium-sized humanoids. - MegaCorp: AbadarCorp, which is both a massive world-spanning corporate powerhouse, and the church of Abadar, the god of wealth and civilization. - Melting Pot Sci-Fi Setting: On Pact Worlds diverse populations are the norm rather than the exception. Though it helps that many of the founding planets (the Golarion system from Pathfinder) were Multi Cultural Alien Planets to begin with. Notable is the Horizons of the Vast Adventure Path where the PCs govern a new colony with named settlers of a couple dozen different species. - Monster Fangirl: Hilariously, Carsai the King has fangirls, due to in-universe media portraying him as a Draco in Leather Pants. - Multi-Armed and Dangerous: As in Pathfinder, Kasatha have four arms. Shirren, being insects, have two small arms in addition to their main two, but it is considered taboo to use, but not display, them in public. In addition, any character can get up to two additional cybernetic arms. - Skittermanders, a race introduced in the first Alien Archive book, up this as they have six. - A Nazi by Any Other Name: The Azlanti Empire hold a dim (read: subjugating) view of any race besides their own. - Necromedic: There is a sub-category of augmentations (body modifications that can replace or enhance body parts) called Necrografts, which surgically implants undead organs to improve an adventurer's ability. Examples include a Black Heart, which allows one to survive in an atmosphere-less environment without a suit, and Undead Adrenal Glands, which can grant you temporary immunity to various negative effects (death effects, energy drain, exhaustion, etc.). - No Communities Were Harmed: Several of the Pact Worlds are clearly inspired by the planets in our own solar system. - Aballon, based on Mercury: the closest planet to the sun; with an uninhabitable surface blasted by solar radiation - Castrovel, based on Venus: second planet from the sun; roughly the same size as Golarian, the Earth analog; with a hot, wild, and dangerous surface similar to a "Venus Is Wet" Planetary Romance conception of Venus. - Akiton, based on Mars: fourth planet from the sun; covered in red, windswept deserts; once a lush and vibrant world, but has slowly decayed for centuries; also clearly inspired by "Once-Green Mars" Planetary Romance stories. - Liavara, based on Saturn: an orange-ish gas giant with massive rings and dozens of small moons. - Bretheda, based on Jupiter as the largest planet in the system with multiple moons that are practically planets in their own right. Though the blue color is closer to Neptune. - Bretheda's moon Kalo-Mahoi is based on Europa, a water world covered by a shell of ice. - Apostae, based on Pluto: a tiny planet with a highly angled orbit, likely not a true planet. - Aucturn, based on Pluto also: more specifically, based on Yuggoth, as the residence of and gateway for... unpleasant things. - Noodle Incident: The Gap (when Golarion mysteriously disappeared). While some creatures who lived before the Gap are still alive, there seems to be a multiverse-wide amnesia about what happened. - Onesie Armor: A suit of "armor" in the game is basically an armored space suit, with full-body protection, oxygen supply, and limited radiation and hazmat protection. - Percussive Maintenance: The name of a feat that can be selected which allows a character reroll their Engineering check to fix system during ship-to-ship combat. It has a minimum strength requirement to employ. - Planetary Relocation: Pathfinder's main planet Golarion disappeared sometime during the millennia-long period known as the Gap, along with all records and memories of that time. The Gods say that Golarion and its inhabitants still exist somewhere unreachable by magic, but can't or won't elaborate. - Pocket Rocket Launcher: The multistage rifle is a rifle-sized gun firing explosive rockets with two or more disposable stages to extend its range. When one rocket is out of fuel, it drops away and the next one starts up, similar to an Apollo or Soyuz rocket. - Progressively Prettier: The korasha lashuntas (who were always male at the time) were portrayed as ugly and brutish in Pathfinder, but are considered attractive in Starfinder. Inverted by the shobhads, who were formerly human-like but are now more commonly portrayed as hideous monsters with cylinder-shaped skulls, inhuman mouths, and massive tusks that would put any orc to shame — all-in-all, looking far more like the Tharks that inspired them. - Promoted to Playable: Part of Starfinder's Massive Race Selection includes many creatures designated as monsters in Pathfinder and its forebear. The list of creatures in Pathfinder that became playable in Starfinder include contemplatives, barathus, dragonkin, formian warriors, giants, grays, shobhads, witchwyrds (who were statted as monsters in Pathfinder), ikeshtis, kalo, sarcesians and verthani (who didn't have stats in Pathfinder at all). - Rapid FTL Proliferation: Before the Gap faster than light travel was rare and prohibitively expensive for most. The ascension of Triune and her Signal transmitting the secret to Drift travel to the galaxy changed that. - Reassigned to Antarctica: Obozaya was reassigned to the frozen wastelands of Vesk-8 for shaming a well-connected squadmate in a duel. - Reincarnation: - Androids often choose to do this as a form of reproduction, allowing a new personality to form in their body while the old one is allowed to pass in the veil. Most of the time, the prior personality attempts to wipe every record of their old life away before reincarnating so the new soul doesn't feel any pressures from their prior incarnation. Most of the time. - The Reincarnate spell from Pathfinder returns as well. - Renegade Splinter Faction: When the undead-ruled planet Eox joined the Absalom Pact, part of its military broke away to form the anti-living Corpse Fleet. - Retcon: Interestingly, not for any element of continuity, but if you compare both systems' character alignment descriptions, you'll notice some differences. For instance, Lawful Evil is described in Pathfinder as one who upholds law and order, albeit at the cost of freedom and dignity, and a LE character would "like to rule [a hierarchy], but is content to serve". In Starfinder, the description insists that any such desires are pretenses and their actions are only to benefit themselves, which really sounds more like Neutral Evil. - Science Fantasy: Starfinder takes place in the same Fantasy Kitchen Sink universe as Pathfinder, many millennia into the future, which means that many of the rules and tropes that apply to a Standard Fantasy Setting also apply to this universe of spaceships and laser guns. This includes celestials and fiends equipped with powered armor and laser rifles; fey creatures that are the embodiment of nuclear radiation, asteroids, and the vacuum of space; undead creatures brought into being by the trauma of suffocating in the void or of being marooned in space with no hope of survival; and so on. - Shout-Out: Alien Archive 3 has a section on Animal Companions. One of the pictures is a cardboard container holding several young Tashtari, canine-like creatures that shoot beams from their mouths... That is to say, a box of laser puppies. - Silicon-Based Life: Dykon, one of Bretheda's moon, has an entirely silicon-based ecosystem. The resident sentient species, the Urogs, are giant slugs that hover around in electromagnetic bubbles that their bodies produce. - Single-Biome Planet: There are a few of them in the Pact Worlds. - The continents of Castrovel are almost entirely jungle. - Akiton is a rusty, sun-blasted desert planet, akin to Mars. - Eox is a toxic wasteland, fit only for the native undead elebrians. - The inhabited moons of the gas giants Liavara and Bretheda tend to have a single biome as well. - Space Elves: Quite literally. Elves have become prone to becoming isolationist and paranoid as their long lives mean most are missing memories from the Gap. The Lashunta could also be considered Space Elves, which is appropriate since they are from the same planet. - Space Is an Ocean: Generally averted, but the region of Kazmurg's Absurdity operates like this, as standard navigation methods don't work within it, requiring physical maps in order to travel between too-close star systems. Nobody's quite sure why this is, and the pocket of space it's contained within is described as "broken". - Space Isolation Horror: Getting abandoned in space with no hope of rescue can cause your body to reanimate as a Marooned One, an undead bent of causing as much anguish as possible by getting other space travelers marooned like they were. - Space Pirate: The Free Captains of the Shackles return, now based on a hidden asteroid called the Broken Rock. - Space Whale: The oma, which look like a cross between a whale and an electric eel. They can be used as starships to some degree when alive, and some groups have also figured out methods to turn their corpses into ships as well. - Sudden Name Change: To avoid simply calling alien races Planet-ians, several alien races from Pathfinder have gotten more unique names. The Aballonians have become the anacites, the Brethedans have become the barathu, the Eoxians are now the elebrians, the Vercites are the verthani, and the Triaxans are the ryphorians. - Technology Erasure Event: In the Drift Crisis (a metaplot event covered in the Drift Crisis rulebook, the Drift Crashers and Drift Hackers Adventure Paths and two standalone adventures), the Drift, the most reliable and fastest method for Faster-Than-Light Travel for the past 300 years, temporarily stops working. It quickly comes back but travel times are doubled and it's filled with rifts into other planes until the conclusion of Drift Hackers a year after. - Tidally Locked Planet: Verces, with an endless city filling the ring which is the habitable zone. - Token Evil Teammate: For the Pact Worlds, there are Eox (whose inhabitants are mostly The Undead, usually with the characteristic tendencies for evil alignments) and Aucturn (replace "undead" with "Eldritch Abominations"). - Translator Microbes: The closest thing is the mid-level spell Tongues and a Mk. III Mindlink Circlet, one of which is temporary and the other expensive. Xenoseeker Envoys are a must for first contact-heavy campaigns. - Unique Enemy: Numerous published adventures (especially Starfinder Society scenarios) feature creatures that don't have a proper write-up and aren't featured anywhere else. - Unspecified Apocalypse: Whatever made Golarion disappear is one of the setting's greatest mysteries and there are absolutely no records, or memory amongst the members of the longer-lived species, or anybody/anything gloating about it. - Vancian Magic: All spellcasting classes are spontaneous by default, but the Galactic Magic supplement provides variant rules for prepared spellcasting instead. - Virginity Flag: Ikeshti that fail to mate during their once in a lifetime rutting season transform into large, muscular, and mindless "riveners" that other Ikeshti consider kill-on-sight. - World of Masks: The embri wear masks to limit their ability to display emotion, which they find shameful. - Xenoarchaeology: Xenoarchaeologist is a playable character background in the game, giving bonuses to translate ancient writings and deal with Durable Deathtraps alien civilizations might have left behind. - Your Mind Makes It Real: Mindscapes can be harmless, in which case people simply wake up in their bodies when their avatar is killed; or harmful, where they die in real life too. In the case of the Datascape in Drift Hackers their mind is erased but their body survives as a Blank Slate.
