=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[British Sikh war veteran wins UK PM’s Points of Light award]
Jul 1, 2023 · UK Prime Minister Rishi Sunak has honoured one of the last surviving Sikh soldiers who fought in the Second World War with a Points of Light honour at a UK-India Week reception at 10 Downing Street in London this week. Rajindar Singh Dhatt, 101, was recognised on Wednesday for his service and also his work running the "Undivided Indian Ex-Servicemen's Association" to help bring together ...
URL: https://www.iglobalnews.com/newsviews/british-sikh-war-veteran-wins-uk-pms-points-of-light-award

[PM Sunak honours Sikh WW II soldier with Points of Light award]
Jun 30, 2023 · LONDON: British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak has honoured Rajindar Singh Dhatt, one of the last surviving Sikh soldiers who fought in the Second World War with a Points of Light honour at a UK-India Week reception at 10 Downing Street.
URL: https://daily-thanthi.pressreader.com/article/282145000786810

[U.K. PM Rishi Sunak Honours 101-Year-Old Sikh World War II Veteran With ...]
Jun 29, 2023 · LONDON, Jun 29: British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak has honoured Rajindar Singh Dhatt, one of the last surviving Sikh soldiers who fought in the Second World War with a Points of Light honour at a UK-India Week reception at 10 Downing Street. Mr. Dhatt, 101, was recognised on June 28 for his service and his work running the “Undivided Indian Ex-Servicemen’s Association” to help bring ...
URL: https://www.dailyexcelsior.com/u-k-pm-rishi-sunak-honours-101-year-old-sikh-world-war-ii-veteran-with-points-of-light-award/

[UK-India week 2023: Rishi Sunak honours 101-year-old Sikh ...]
Jun 29, 2023 · British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak on 28 June honoured Rajindar Singh Dhatt with a Points of Light award at a UK-India Week reception at 10 Downing Street. According to Downing Street, the Points ...
URL: https://www.livemint.com/news/india/ukindia-week-2023-rishi-sunak-honours-101-year-old-sikh-world-war-ii-veteran-with-points-of-light-award-11688026747377.html

[Rajindar Singh Dhatt Honoured by Rishi Sunak: UK PM Honours ... - LatestLY]
Jun 29, 2023 · London, June 29: British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak has honoured Rajindar Singh Dhatt, one of the last surviving Sikh soldiers who fought in the Second World War with a Points of Light honour at a UK-India Week reception at 10 Downing Street. Dhatt, 101, was recognised on Wednesday for his service and his work running the "Undivided Indian Ex-Servicemen's Association" to help bring together ...
URL: https://www.latestly.com/world/rajindar-singh-dhatt-honoured-by-rishi-sunak-uk-pm-honours-101-year-old-sikh-world-war-ii-veteran-with-points-of-light-award-5233252.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [British Sikh war veteran wins UK PM’s Points of Light award] ---
UK Prime Minister Rishi Sunak has honoured one of the last surviving Sikh soldiers who fought in the Second World War with a Points of Light honour at a UK-India Week reception at 10 Downing Street in London this week. Rajindar Singh Dhatt, 101, was recognised on Wednesday for his service and also his work running the "Undivided Indian Ex-Servicemen's Association" to help bring together British Indian war veterans. Dhatt, based in Hounslow since 1963, was born in pre-Partition India in 1921 and fought with the Allied forces during the British colonial period. Dhatt said: “It is an immense honour to receive this recognition from the Prime Minister, to whom I would like to extend my deepest appreciation for acknowledging the importance and impact of the ‘Undivided Indian Ex-Servicemen’s Association’. “The journey of establishing this organisation was driven by a deep sense of duty as an ex-serviceman and the vision of fostering unity, support, and camaraderie. This award serves as a testament to the tireless efforts of countless individuals who have contributed to the success and growth of the association over the years. Their unwavering commitment and selfless service has played a pivotal role in bringing about positive change in the lives of our ex-servicemen and their families. MORE LIKE THIS… “Thank you again, it is a momentous occasion that inspires me to continue making meaningful contributions to society, even as I near my 102nd birthday!” Dhatt joined the British Indian Army during the Second World War and excelled up the ranks, being promoted to Havildar Major (Sergeant Major) in 1943. He was later drafted to the Far East campaign to fight in Kohima in northeast India to support the Allied Forces and help break through the Japanese defences, Downing Street said. After the war, Dhatt returned to India before settling in London with his family. His association recently created an online community for veterans, sharing articles about personal stories and opportunities to connect. Dhatt also continues to speak at memorial events and work with war veteran charities including the Royal British Legion and the Taxi Charity for Military Veterans, telling stories through teaching packs and online resources. MORE LIKE THIS… Dhatt’s honour coincided with a Downing Street reception celebrating India Global Forum’s UK-India Week celebration of the bilateral relationship, where Prime Minister Sunak spoke of Dhatt as an “incredible man” and thanked him for his service as a member of the Indian diaspora “living bridge”.


--- [PM Sunak honours Sikh WW II soldier with Points of Light award] ---
No content


--- [U.K. PM Rishi Sunak Honours 101-Year-Old Sikh World War II Veteran With ...] ---
LONDON, Jun 29: British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak has honoured Rajindar Singh Dhatt, one of the last surviving Sikh soldiers who fought in the Second World War with a Points of Light honour at a UK-India Week reception at 10 Downing Street. Mr. Dhatt, 101, was recognised on June 28 for his service and his work running the “Undivided Indian Ex-Servicemen’s Association” to help bring together British Indian war veterans. Mr. Dhatt, based in Hounslow in southwest London since 1963, was born in pre-Partition India in 1921 and fought with the Allied forces during the British colonial period. “It is an immense honour to receive this recognition from the Prime Minister, to whom I would like to extend my deepest appreciation for acknowledging the importance and impact of the ‘Undivided Indian Ex-Servicemen’s Association’,” said Mr. Dhatt. “The journey of establishing this organisation was driven by a deep sense of duty as an ex-serviceman and the vision of fostering unity, support, and camaraderie. This award serves as a testament to the tireless efforts of countless individuals who have contributed to the success and growth of the association over the years,” he said. “Their unwavering commitment and selfless service has played a pivotal role in bringing about positive change in the lives of our ex-servicemen and their families,” he added. Mr. Dhatt joined the British Indian Army during the Second World War and excelled up the ranks, being promoted to Havildar Major (Sergeant Major) in 1943. He was later drafted to the Far East campaign to fight in Kohima in northeast India to support the Allied Forces and help break through the Japanese defences, Downing Street said. After the war, Mr. Dhatt returned to India before settling in London with his family. His association recently created an online community for veterans, sharing articles about personal stories and opportunities to connect. Dhatt also continues to speak at memorial events and work with war veteran charities, including the Royal British Legion and the Taxi Charity for Military Veterans, telling stories through teaching packs and online resources. Mr. Dhatt said the award is a “momentous occasion” that inspires him to continue making meaningful contributions to society, even as he nears his 102nd birthday. According to Downing Street, the Points of Light recognise outstanding people whose service is making a difference in their communities and whose stories can inspire others towards innovative solutions to social challenges in their own communities and beyond. Mr. Dhatt’s honour coincided with a Downing Street reception celebrating India Global Forum’s UK-India Week celebration of the bilateral relationship, where Prime Minister Sunak spoke of Mr. Dhatt as an “incredible man” and thanked him for his service as a member of the Indian diaspora “living bridge”. (Agencies)


--- [UK-India week 2023: Rishi Sunak honours 101-year-old Sikh ...] ---
British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak on 28 June honoured Rajindar Singh Dhatt with a Points of Light award at a UK-India Week reception at 10 Downing Street. According to Downing Street, the Points of Light award recognise outstanding people whose service is making a difference in their communities and whose stories can inspire others towards innovative solutions to social challenges in their own communities and beyond. Dhatt was one of the last surviving Sikh soldiers who fought in World War II. Dhatt aged 101 was recognised for his service and work running the 'Undivided Indian Ex-Servicemen's Association' to help bring together British Indian war veterans. He was born in pre-Partition India in 1921 and fought with the Allied forces during the British colonial period. He is based in Hounslow in southwest London since 1963. “It is an immense honour to receive this recognition from the Prime Minister, to whom I would like to extend my deepest appreciation for acknowledging the importance and impact of the 'Undivided Indian Ex-Servicemen's Association'," said Dhatt as quoted by PTI. “The journey of establishing this organisation was driven by a deep sense of duty as an ex-serviceman and the vision of fostering unity, support, and camaraderie. This award serves as a testament to the tireless efforts of countless individuals who have contributed to the success and growth of the association over the years,” he said. “Their unwavering commitment and selfless service has played a pivotal role in bringing about positive change in the lives of our ex-servicemen and their families,” he added. Dhatt had joined the British Indian Army during the Second World War and excelled up the ranks, being promoted to Havildar Major (Sergeant Major) in 1943. He was later drafted to the Far East campaign to fight in Kohima in northeast India to support the Allied Forces and help break through the Japanese defences, Downing Street said. After the war, Dhatt returned to India before settling in London with his family. His association recently created an online community for veterans and shared articles about personal stories and opportunities to connect. Dhatt also continues to speak at memorial events and work with war veteran charities, including the Royal British Legion and the Taxi Charity for Military Veterans, telling stories through teaching packs and online resources. Dhatt said the award is a "momentous occasion" that inspires him to continue making meaningful contributions to society, even as he nears his 102nd birthday. Dhatt's honour coincided with a Downing Street reception celebrating India Global Forum's UK-India Week celebration of the bilateral relationship, where Prime Minister Sunak spoke of Dhatt as an "incredible man" and thanked him for his service as a member of the Indian diaspora "living bridge". While hosting a special reception to celebrate India Global Forum’s UK-India Week 2023 in the garden of 10 Downing Street in London, Sunak said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and he agrees that there is a huge potential to step up bilateral trade ties. He also reaffirmed his commitment to a ‘truly ambitious’ free trade agreement (FTA) with India and indicated his plans to visit New Delhi for the G20 Summit in September. “Prime Minister Modiji and I agree there’s huge potential here. We’re making great progress together on the 2030 Roadmap and we want to strike a truly ambitious trade deal that benefits both our nations, bringing tremendous opportunities to businesses and consumers, both in India and here at home,” said Sunak. “It’s not just UK-India Week, but a whole Indian summer. And I don’t just mean the hot weather we’re having, I mean that over the next few weeks, the eyes of the world will be on India. There’s the G20 in New Delhi, I can’t wait to be there,” he said. The India Global Forum’s (IGF) fifth annual UK-India Week, which runs until Friday, brings together ministers, business leaders and policymakers to deliberate on the key sectors of focus within the bilateral relationship. (With inputs from agencies)


--- [Rajindar Singh Dhatt Honoured by Rishi Sunak: UK PM Honours ... - LatestLY] ---
London, June 29: British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak has honoured Rajindar Singh Dhatt, one of the last surviving Sikh soldiers who fought in the Second World War with a Points of Light honour at a UK-India Week reception at 10 Downing Street. Dhatt, 101, was recognised on Wednesday for his service and his work running the "Undivided Indian Ex-Servicemen's Association" to help bring together British Indian war veterans. Dhatt, based in Hounslow in southwest London since 1963, was born in pre-Partition India in 1921 and fought with the Allied forces during the British colonial period. UK PM Rishi Sunak’s Personal Ratings Tumble to Lowest Since Becoming Prime Minister. “It is an immense honour to receive this recognition from the Prime Minister, to whom I would like to extend my deepest appreciation for acknowledging the importance and impact of the 'Undivided Indian Ex-Servicemen's Association'," said Dhatt. “The journey of establishing this organisation was driven by a deep sense of duty as an ex-serviceman and the vision of fostering unity, support, and camaraderie. This award serves as a testament to the tireless efforts of countless individuals who have contributed to the success and growth of the association over the years,” he said. “Their unwavering commitment and selfless service has played a pivotal role in bringing about positive change in the lives of our ex-servicemen and their families,” he added. Dhatt joined the British Indian Army during the Second World War and excelled up the ranks, being promoted to Havildar Major (Sergeant Major) in 1943. He was later drafted to the Far East campaign to fight in Kohima in northeast India to support the Allied Forces and help break through the Japanese defences, Downing Street said. After the war, Dhatt returned to India before settling in London with his family. Did US President Joe Biden Fail To Recognise UK PM Rishi Sunak and Brush Him Aside? Here’s a Fact Check of the Viral Video. His association recently created an online community for veterans, sharing articles about personal stories and opportunities to connect. Dhatt also continues to speak at memorial events and work with war veteran charities, including the Royal British Legion and the Taxi Charity for Military Veterans, telling stories through teaching packs and online resources. Dhatt said the award is a "momentous occasion" that inspires him to continue making meaningful contributions to society, even as he nears his 102nd birthday. According to Downing Street, the Points of Light recognise outstanding people whose service is making a difference in their communities and whose stories can inspire others towards innovative solutions to social challenges in their own communities and beyond. Dhatt's honour coincided with a Downing Street reception celebrating India Global Forum's UK-India Week celebration of the bilateral relationship, where Prime Minister Sunak spoke of Dhatt as an "incredible man" and thanked him for his service as a member of the Indian diaspora "living bridge".
