=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[New York City 1938 ... Frida Kahlo’s First Solo Exhibition]
Frida Kahlo (1907-1954) was a seminal artist known for her bold depictions of pain and passion. In October 1938, Frida traveled to New York City for her first solo exhibition at the Julien Levy Gallery, 602 Madison Ave (at 57th St.). The show was held from November 1 - 15.
URL: https://theapi.ca/sites/default/files/API_Research/2023-01/StellaFridaFinal.pdf

[MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of MANY is consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number. How to use many in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/many

[Frida Kahlo Timeline]
The Two Fridas · Self-Portrait with Thorn Necklace & Hummingbird · Viva la Vida, Watermelons · The Wounded Deer · Self Portrait with Monkeys · Without Hope · Me and My Parrots · What the Water Gave Me · Roots · Frida and Diego Rivera
URL: https://www.fridakahlo.org/frida-kahlo-chronology.jsp

[MANY | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary]
We use the quantifiers much, many, a lot of, lots of to talk about quantities, amounts and degree. We can use them with a noun (as a determiner) or without a noun (as a pronoun). …
URL: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/many

[MANY definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary]
You use many to indicate that you are talking about a large number of people or things. I don't think many people would argue with that. Not many films are made in Finland. Do you keep many books and papers and memorabilia?
URL: https://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english/many


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [New York City 1938 ... Frida Kahlo’s First Solo Exhibition] ---
4 captures 09 Jun 2023 - 18 Aug 2025 Jul AUG Sep 18 2024 2025 2026 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Canada Domain Harvest 2025 Web archive data of a 2025 Canada (.ca) domain harvest collected by Internet Archive. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20250818001153/https://www.theapi.ca/sites/default/files/API_Research/2023-01/StellaFridaFinal.pdf


--- [MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 : consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number worked for many years the many advantages of an education 2 : being one of a large but indefinite number many a man many another student see also: plural in construction 1 : a large but indefinite number a good many of them 2 : the great majority of people the many Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [Frida Kahlo Timeline] ---
Home Masterpieces Self Portrait in a Velvet Dress, 1926 The Bus, 1929 Two Women, 1929 Frida and Diego Rivera, 1931 My Birth, 1932 Self Portrait Along the Boarder Line Between Mexico and the United States Henry Ford Hospital, 1932 My Dress Hangs There, 1933 A Few Small Nips, 1935 My Grandparents My Parents and Me, 1936 My Nurse and I, 1937 Fulang Chang and I, 1937 Four Inhabitants of Mexico, 1938 Self-portrait with Monkey, 1938 What the Water Gave Me, 1938 Two Nudes in a Forest, 1939 The Two Fridas, 1939 Self Portrait Dedicated to Dr Eloesser, 1940 Self Portrait with Monkey, 1940 The Wounded Table, 1940 Self-Portrait with Thorn Necklace and Hummingbird, 1940 Me and My Parrots, 1941 Roots, 1943 Self Portrait with Monkeys, 1943 Self Portrait as a Tehuana, 1943 The Broken Column, 1944 Without Hope, 1945 Moses, 1945 The Wounded Deer, 1946 Tree of Hope, 1946 Self Portrait with Loose Hair, 1947 Self Portrait, 1948 The Love Embrace of the Universe, 1949 Diego and I, 1949 Frida Kahlo Voice Timeline Biography Paintings Drawings Diaries Photos Quotes 10 Fun Facts The Two Fridas Self-Portrait with Thorn Necklace & Hummingbird Viva la Vida, Watermelons The Wounded Deer Self Portrait with Monkeys Without Hope Me and My Parrots What the Water Gave Me Roots Frida and Diego Rivera The Wounded Table Diego and I My Dress Hangs There My Grandparents, My Parents, and Me Self Portrait as a Tehuana Fulang Chang and I Previous Next


--- [MANY | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary] ---
many determiner, pronoun uk /ˈmen.i/ us /ˈmen.i/A1 I don't have many clothes. as many If there were as many women as there are men in parliament, the situation would be very different. as many as As many as (= the surprisingly large number of) 6,000 people may have been infected with the disease. as many again There are already twelve bottles of wine, so if I buy as many again (= another twelve bottles) we'll have enough. a good many A good many people who voted for her in the last election will not be doing so this time. a great many A great many books have been written on this subject. in as many She had five children in as many (= in the same number of) years and decided it was enough.


--- [MANY definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary] ---
Definition of 'many' COBUILD frequency band many 1. determiner A1 You use many to indicate that you are talking about a large number of people or things. Many is also a pronoun. Many is also a quantifier. 2. adverb A1 You use many in expressions such as 'not many', 'not very many', and 'too many' when replying to questions about numbers of things or people. 3. predeterminer 4. determiner A1 You use many after 'how' to ask questions about numbers or quantities. You use many after 'how' in reported clauses to talk about numbers or quantities. 7. singular noun The many means a large group of people, especially the ordinary people in society, considered as separate from a particular small group. 8. See as many as 9. 11. in so many words usage note: You only use many to talk about things that can be counted. They owned many cars. You should use much if you want to talk about things that cannot be counted. ...too much water.Collins COBUILD Advanced Learner’s Dictionary. Copyright © HarperCollins Publishers English Easy Learning GrammarDeterminersWhat is a determiner in English? When do you use 'a' and 'an' in English? When do you use 'the' in English? Which nouns are used without 'a', 'an', or ... Read more When do you use 'a' and 'an' in English? When do you use 'the' in English? Which nouns are used without 'a', 'an', or ... Read more English Easy Learning GrammarIndefinite pronounsWhat type of pronoun are the words 'someone', 'everybody', 'anything', 'nothing', etc.? What are the different types of indefinite pronoun? What determiner ... Read more What are the different types of indefinite pronoun? What determiner ... Read more English Easy Learning GrammarNoun phrases with several determinersHow do you use more than one determiner in noun phrases in English? ... Read more ... Read more British English pronunciation ! It seems that your browser is blocking this video content. To access it, add this site to the exceptions or modify your security settings, then refresh this page. American English pronunciation ! It seems that your browser is blocking this video content. To access it, add this site to the exceptions or modify your security settings, then refresh this page. You may also like COBUILD frequency band many in British English determiner 1. (sometimes preceded by a great or a good) a. a large number of many coaches many times 3. (preceded by as, too, that, etc) a. a great number of as many apples as you like too many clouds to see b. (as pronoun; functioning as plural) I have as many as you noun See also more, most4. See the many Collins English Dictionary. Copyright © HarperCollins Publishers Word origin Old English manig; related to Old Frisian manich, Middle Dutch menech, Old High German managCOBUILD frequency band many in American English adjectiveWord forms: more, mostOrigin: ME < OE manig, akin to Ger manch (OHG manag) < IE base *menegh-, many, richly > Sans maghā-, gift, OIr menicc, abundant 1. consisting of some large, indefinite number (of persons or things); numerous 2. plural noun 3. a large number (of persons or things) pronoun 4. many persons or things Idioms: ▶ USAGE: The idiom many a (or an, another) followed by a singular noun or pronoun is equivalent to many followed by the corresponding plural (e.g., “many a person has tried” means the same thing as “many people have tried”)Webster’s New World College Dictionary, 5th Digital Edition. Copyright © 2025 HarperCollins Publishers. COBUILD frequency band many in American English (ˈmeni) (adjective more, most) adjective 2. (usually fol. by a or an) noting each one of a large number For many a day it rained noun 3. a large or considerable number of persons or things A good many of the beggars were blind 4. See the many pronoun SYNONYMS 1. multifarious, multitudinous, myriad; divers, sundry, various. many, innumerable, manifold, numerous imply the presence or succession of a large number of units. many is a popular and common word for this idea: many times. numerous, a more formal word, refers to a great number or to very many units: letters too numerous to mention. innumerable denotes a number that is beyond count or, more loosely, that is extremely difficult to count: the innumerable stars in the sky. manifold implies not only that the number is large but also that there is variety or complexityANTONYMS 1. few, single.5. many persons or things Many of the beggars were blind Many were unable to attend Most material © 2005, 1997, 1991 by Penguin Random House LLC. Modified entries © 2019 by Penguin Random House LLC and HarperCollins Publishers Ltd Word origin [bef. 900; ME mani, meni, OE manig, menig; akin to OS, OHG manag, menig, Dan mange, Goth manags]Examples of 'many' in a sentence many These examples have been automatically selected and may contain sensitive content that does not reflect the opinions or policies of Collins, or its parent company HarperCollins. We welcome feedback: report an example sentence to the Collins team. Read more… Trends of many View usage for: Source: Google Books Ngram Viewer In other languages many British English: many /ˈmɛnɪ/ DETERMINER If there are many people or things, there are a lot of them. Does he have many friends? - American English: many /ˈmɛni/ - Arabic: كَثِيرً - Brazilian Portuguese: muitos - Chinese: 许多的 - Croatian: mnogi - Czech: mnoho - Danish: mange - Dutch: veel - European Spanish: muchos - Finnish: moni - French: nombreux - German: viele - Greek: πολλοί - Italian: molti - Japanese: 多くの - Korean: 많은 - Norwegian: mye - Polish: liczni - European Portuguese: muitos - Romanian: mulți - Russian: много - Latin American Spanish: muchos - Swedish: många - Thai: มากมาย - Turkish: çok - Ukrainian: багато - Vietnamese: nhiều British English: many /ˈmɛnɪ/ PRONOUN Many is used to refer to a large number of people or things. We thought about the possibilities. There weren't many. - American English: many /ˈmɛni/ - Arabic: كَثِيرٌ - Brazilian Portuguese: muitos - Chinese: 许多 - Croatian: mnogi - Czech: mnoho - Danish: mange - Dutch: veel - European Spanish: muchos - Finnish: moni - French: beaucoup - German: viele - Greek: πολλοί - Italian: molti - Japanese: 多数 - Korean: 다수 - Norwegian: mange - Polish: wiele - European Portuguese: muitos - Romanian: multe - Russian: много - Latin American Spanish: muchos - Swedish: många - Thai: คนหรือสิ่งของจำนวนมาก - Turkish: çok - Ukrainian: багато - Vietnamese: nhiều
