=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hjalmar Hvam - Wikipedia]
While celebrating his 1937 repeat victory in the Golden Rose, Hvam, like many skiers of his era, broke his leg. Hvam, who had been trained as a mechanical draftsman, had been working for years on a design that would reliably release a ski boot in a fall, but remain in place for normal skiing maneuvers. While laid up in the hospital, he had an inspiration for a new design, which became the Saf-Ski, the world's first ski safety bindings.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hjalmar_Hvam

[Hjalmar Hvam (1902-1996) - The Oregon Encyclopedia]
Skiing enthusiasts in Portland just before World War II knew the name Hjalmar Hvam as readily as most people recognize the names of professional athletes. Inducted into the National Ski Hall of Fame in 1967, Hvam was the dominant downhill and cross-country ski racer in the Pacific Northwest during the 1930s. He was also the inventor of the world’s first workable safety ski binding.
URL: https://www.oregonencyclopedia.org/articles/hvam_hjalmar_1902_1996_/

[Hjalmar Hvam - Wikiwand]
Mar 30, 1996 · Hjalmar Petterson Hvam (16 November 1902 – March 30, 1996) was a competitive Norwegian - American Nordic skier and inventor of the first safety ski binding.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Hjalmar_Hvam

[Evolution of Ski Retention Methods – RetroSki 2025-2026]
Evolution of Ski Retention Methods So who invented the first release ski binding? A Norwegian immigrant living in Oregon, Hjalmar Hvam, was recovering from a broken leg as the result of a skiing accident. It wasn't his first! Frustrated, he decided to design a binding that would help prevent broken legs, by far the most common skiing injury.
URL: https://retro-skiing.com/2020/03/evolution-of-ski-retention-methods/

[Grokipedia: Hjalmar Hvam]
Learn more about Hjalmar Hvam on Grokipedia.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Hjalmar_Hvam


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hjalmar Hvam - Wikipedia] ---
Hjalmar Petterson Hvam (16 November 1902 – March 30, 1996) was a competitive Norwegian-American Nordic skier and inventor of the first safety ski binding.


--- [Hjalmar Hvam (1902-1996) - The Oregon Encyclopedia] ---
Skiing enthusiasts in Portland just before World War II knew the name Hjalmar Hvam as readily as most people recognize the names of professional athletes. Inducted into the National Ski Hall of Fame in 1967, Hvam was the dominant downhill and cross-country ski racer in the Pacific Northwest during the 1930s. He was also the inventor of the world’s first workable safety ski binding. Born in Kongsberg, Norway, in 1902, Hvam grew up on a farm, where he took to skiing early and won prizes in local cross-country and ski-jumping meets by age twelve. He often told the story of delivering pails of milk from his family farm to neighbors on skis, flying downhill and never spilling a drop. In 1923, he immigrated to Canada with his brother, Ingvald. He relocated to Portland in 1927, where he worked for Multnomah Lumber and Box Company. Within a year, he was lured to Mount Hood and the newly formed Cascade Ski Club’s jumping hill at Multorpor, where he first established his expertise as a premier ski jumper. During the 1930s, no one in the region could match Hvam’s racing success. He also recorded what may have been the first ski descent of Mount Hood from the summit in 1931. In 1932, he won the cross-country, jumping, and Nordic combined national skiing title at Lake Tahoe. By 1934, Hvam had taken up downhill skiing and had perfected his slalom racing technique, winning his first major race at the Oregon Slalom Championships. Two years later, he won the Silver Skis downhill race on Mount Rainier, one of twelve races he won in 1936-1937, including stunning first-place finishes at the Mount Baker meet in slalom, giant slalom, cross country, and jumping events. By 1936, Hvam had become such a skiing icon in the Pacific Northwest that he decided to open a ski shop in Government Camp with his wife Vera and business partner Ole Langerud. A skiing accident in 1937, however, became the pivotal event in his life and led to his revolutionary invention. After winning the Golden Poles race at Mount Hood, Hvam broke his leg while doing some cornice jumping with friends. In the hospital, he had a dream about the mechanics and dangers of flying downhill with boots jammed into steel “beartrap” boot irons. Asking for pencil, paper, and ruler, Hvam sketched out the design concept of his safety ski binding. By 1939, and after breaking the same leg a second time, he had worked out the details for the binding, which featured a pronged, triangular pivoting toe-piece that fit into notches at the front of a skier’s boot to provide quick release whenever angular stress threatened to twist a leg. The first manufactured Saf-Ski bindings were used by the U.S. Army’s 10th Mountain Division in World War II. After World War II, Hvam opened a new ski shop in Portland in the Uptown Shopping Center on 23rd Avenue, which became popular with local ski racers. His production of Saf-Ski bindings increased exponentially, as rental shops around the country bought them up. In ski magazines, his advertisements proclaimed “Hvoom with Hvam—and have no fear!” By the 1950s, European ski manufacturers had introduced their own bindings, diminishing Hvam’s market share. Nonetheless, he continued to innovate, introducing a cable front-throw in the late 1950s. In 1952, Hvam served as a jumping coach for the U.S. Olympic team that competed in his native Norway. He continued skiing into his eighties, usually leaving his much younger companions awed by his strength and expertise. After closing his ski shop in 1961, Hvam produced his bindings out of a home shop in Beaverton. He died at home of heart failure in 1996 at age ninety-four. Related Entries - Fort Klamath to Crater Lake Ski Race, 1927-1938 In February 1927, the forty-two-mile, round-trip, cross-country ski rac… - Mount Hood Mount Hood is a stratovolcano in northwest Oregon located about fifty m… Map This on the Oregon History WayFinder The Oregon History Wayfinder is an interactive map that identifies significant places, people, and events in Oregon history. Further Reading Grauer, Jack. Mt. Hood: A Complete History, 8th ed. Vancouver, Wash.: Jack Grauer, 2010. Keil, Bill. “Ski athlete and innovator, Hvam did it all.” Oregonian, Dec. 19, 2009. www.oregonlive.com/outdoors/index.ssf/2009/12/ski_athlete_and_innovator_hvam.html.


--- [Hjalmar Hvam - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Evolution of Ski Retention Methods – RetroSki 2025-2026] ---
So who invented the first release ski binding? A Norwegian immigrant living in Oregon, Hjalmar Hvam, was recovering from a broken leg as the result of a skiing accident. It wasn’t his first! Frustrated, he decided to design a binding that would help prevent broken legs, by far the most common skiing injury. In 1939 Hvam introduced the Saf-Ski, the first release binding. He even had a catchy sales phrase “Hvoom with Hvam!” However his binding never gained widespread success. I actually don’t want to write about release bindings. I want to write about the new problem they introduced: runaway skis! As Retro-Skiers we saw an evolution of solutions to that problem. The long thong was a leather ski retention strap, a safety strap, that when the toe binding released kept you affixed to the heel unit and the ski. This could have been accomplished with a strap probably 18 inches long or even less, but why settle for 18 inches when 48 inches was available! Oh, there was another reason for this: the extra wraps of leather around the upper portion of a leather ski boot improved the forward support. However there were ramifications. So just to remind you, here’s how to wrap a long thong. Take the long end (which should be on the inside edge of your ski) and wrap it around the boot front-to-back; then pass it through the ring on the opposite side of the binding; wrap the remaining strap back around the boot front-to-back; then pass it through the ring on the original inner side of the binding. How much strap do you have left? If it’s less than a foot, fasten it with the corresponding buckle on the outside of the binding. If it’s a foot or more, wrap it around the upper boot until there is less than a foot. That took care of one ski! Also it is probably worth noting that this had to be done bare-handed even on the coldest days. Over time everyone developed their own unique wrapping approach which became a routine. If you wanted to screw up another skier, just cut 8 inches off one of their long thongs! The first wrap of the day was the easiest since the leather straps were usually dry and pliable, but during a day of skiing the straps would become iced in spots so subsequent wraps were more difficult and colder on the hands. Another special situation was Spring skiing! The warm temperatures and melting snow meant that the long thong straps became saturated with water. And what happens to leather when it gets wet? That’s right, it stretches! So now there were 2 more feet of long thong to wrap! Now don’t you miss those days! As plastic boots and releasable heel units began to proliferate, a shorter version of the long-thong, the Arlberg strap, was introduced. These still wrapped around the ski boot and then buckled. That meant you still had to bend over to put on or take off a ski so gondolas were not a popular lift choice! The simplest safety strap was just a short leather strap hooked to the binding which you clipped to your boot laces. These had a tendency to break in violent falls producing the very thing they were supposed to prevent: a runaway ski. They also generated new injuries caused by wind milling skis striking the skier during a fall. I was a victim of a wind milling ski that cut my scalp open! In 1974 Klaus Obermeyer would introduce the first two-pronged ski brake to the United States. There had been earlier single pronged brakes available, but they never caught on for several reasons. You may recall earlier this season Klaus Obermeyer celebrated his 100th birthday! Ski areas here in the United States were slow to accept ski brakes. There were concerns about the brakes’ effectiveness. There was the potential for a ski to come off while riding a lift and fall on someone below. Killington defined a policy, articulated by its marketing director Foster Chandler that you could use ski brakes at Killington, but you needed safety straps as well … huh? This policy was adopted by most U.S. ski areas. By 1978 all the major binding companies were providing two-pronged ski brakes. Europe was allowing brakes on their slopes – without the additional safety straps. Eventually the U.S. areas would modify their policies as well.


--- [Grokipedia: Hjalmar Hvam] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.
