=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Museum of Bad Art - Wikipedia]
History The Museum of Bad Art was founded by antique dealer Scott Wilson, who discovered what has become the museum's signature piece— Lucy in the Field with Flowers —protruding from between two trash cans on a Roslindale -area curb in Boston, among some garbage waiting to be collected.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Museum_of_Bad_Art

[Poor traits - Museum Of Bad Art]
The family assumed the painting was either discarded in the trash, or possibly sold. As it turned out, someone in Roslindale, MA acquired the painting, hung on to it for 5 years or so and then disposed of it in the trash. Scott Wilson, MOBA's original Esteemed Curator, spotted the painting, pulled it from the trash, and MOBA was born.
URL: https://museumofbadart.org/poor-traits/

[Museum of Bad Art Brings Worst Art to Widest Audience]
Aug 8, 2016 · Museum of Bad Art founder Scott Wilson launched the project after rescuing a painting, Lucy in the Field with Flowers, from between two garbage cans on a Roslindale sidewalk. After collecting a few other terrible pieces, in 1994 he opened the first MOBA in the basement of a West Roxbury house.
URL: https://www.bu.edu/articles/2016/museum-of-bad-art

[Museum of Bad Art: Where Artistic Failures Become Celebrated ...]
Dec 8, 2025 · In 1993, antique dealer Scott Wilson rescued a painting called Lucy in the Field with Flowers from between two trash cans in Boston. He initially wanted only the frame, but when friend Jerry Reilly saw it, he insisted on keeping both.
URL: https://whichmuseum.com/news/museum-of-bad-art-where-artistic-failures-become-celebrated-masterpieces-83

[Create a Gmail signature - Computer - Gmail Help - Google Help]
An email signature is text, like your contact information or a favorite quote, that’s automatically added at the end of Gmail messages as a footer.
URL: https://support.google.com/mail/answer/8395?hl=en&co=GENIE.Platform%3DDesktop


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Museum of Bad Art - Wikipedia] ---
The Museum of Bad Art (MOBA) is a privately owned museum whose stated aim is "to celebrate the labor of artists whose work would be displayed and appreciated in no other forum". It was originally in Dedham, Massachusetts, and is currently in Boston, Massachusetts. Its permanent collection includes over 700 pieces of "art too bad to be ignored", 25 to 35 of which are on public display at any one time.
MOBA was founded in 1993, after antique dealer Scott Wilson showed a painting he had recovered from the trash to some friends, who suggested starting a collection. Within a year, receptions held in Wilson's friends' home were so well-attended that the collection needed its own viewing space. The museum then moved to the basement of a theater in Dedham. Explaining the reasoning behind the museum's establishment, co-founder Jerry Reilly said in 1995: "While every city in the world has at least one museum dedicated to the best of art, MOBA is the only museum dedicated to collecting and exhibiting the worst." To be included in MOBA's collection, works must be original and have serious intent, but they must also have significant flaws without being boring; curators are not interested in displaying deliberate kitsch.
MOBA has been mentioned in dozens of off-the-beaten-path guides to Boston, featured in international newspapers and magazines, and has inspired several other collections throughout the world. Deborah Solomon of The New York Times Magazine noted that the attention the Museum of Bad Art receives is part of a wider trend of museums displaying "the best bad art". The museum has been criticized for being anti-art, but the founders deny this, responding that its collection is a tribute to the sincerity of the artists who persevered with their art despite something going horribly wrong in the process. According to co-founder Marie Jackson, "We are here to celebrate an artist's right to fail, gloriously." In a chat with the Sunn on how to identify bad art, MOBA's curator Michael Frank says, "Here at the Museum Of Bad Art (MOBA) we collect art that we believe was created in a serious attempt to make art but in which, either in the execution or original concept, something has gone terribly wrong. Rather than simply amateurish, the resulting image must be, for one reason or another, compelling to be considered museum-worthy. Some of the most interesting pieces in our collection are ones that show that the artist had some technical skill, but made some questionable decisions such as over-the-top imagery."


--- [Poor traits - Museum Of Bad Art] ---
Poor traits Lucy in the Field with Flowers Unknown Oil on canvas, 24" x 30" Rescued from roadside trash in Boston, MA 1993 The motion, the chair, the sway of her breast, the subtle hues of the sky, the expression on her face -- every detail combines to create this transcendent and compelling portrait, every detail cries out masterpiece. This painting was the seed that grew into MOBA. Thinking he could sell the frame in his antique shop, Scott Wilson rescued the painting from a pile of roadside trash. When he showed his treasure to friends Jerry Reilly and Marie Jackson, they convinced him that the painting was too precious to cast aside, and the idea of the Museum Of Bad Art was born. Upon seeing this painting of her grandmother in a local newspaper, Susan Lawlor contacted the Museum with detailed information about its provenance. Anna Lally Keane lived with her daughter Eileen (Ms. Lawlor's aunt) for much of her adult life. Anna Keane died in her 70's sometime around 1968. A year or two later, Ms Lawlor's mother dug out two photos of Anna Lally Keane and sent them to an artist, and commissioned a painting. The painting was to be a present to her sister Eileen. The day that the painting arrived wrapped in paper. Everyone gathered around to watch as the paper was torn off; the thirteen year old Susan bit her lip to keep from gasping. It was a wonderfully accurate likeness of her grandmother's face in an oddly postured and formed body against a bizarre, surreal background. Her mother, who commissioned the painting, was quite pleased with the result and gave it to her sister Eileen. The painting hung in Eileen's house for many years. Ms. Lawlor and her siblings have strong memories of the strange portrait hung in Eileen's living room. Before the house was put on the market, a cousin hired an estate clearance company to make the property ready for sale. Sometime later, Ms Lawlor asked her mother what ever became of the portrait -- no one seemed to know. The family assumed the painting was either discarded in the trash, or possibly sold. As it turned out, someone in Roslindale, MA acquired the painting, hung on to it for 5 years or so and then disposed of it in the trash. Scott Wilson, MOBA's original Esteemed Curator, spotted the painting, pulled it from the trash, and MOBA was born. Ms. Lawlor was obviously moved upon seeing the stunning portrait of her grandmother again and is thrilled that MOBA rescued the painting from certain destruction. enrolled as a charter Friend Of MOBA and attended MOBA's Gallery In The Woods on Aug 26, where her grandmother was proudly hung from the pine trees of Cape Cod. MOBA welcomes Ms. Lawlor to the Friends Of MOBA, and is eternally grateful for filling us in on the fascinating background of the museum's most valued paintings. Young Lucy Ethel Eglinton-Bates (1976) Oil on canvas, 30” x 24" Donated by Patrick "Jack" Bates March 2005 A young girl stands in a sparse field of wild flowers under a tranquil blue sky and in front of an empty field; portraying of the innocence of youth before the infinite possibilities of life ahead. A young girl stands in a sparse field of wild flowers under a tranquil blue sky and in front of an empty field; portraying of the innocence of youth before the infinite possibilities of life ahead. Upon receiving this painting, the MOBA Curator-in-Chief was enthralled by its relationship to Lucy in the Field with Flowers, in which serenity is depicted as an older woman relaxing in a cluttered field of wildflowers on a blustery day. The Pout Anonymous Oil on canvas board, 12" x 9" Purchased by her mother at a yard sale in Washington, DC in the 1970s and donated by Bobbie Franco April 2014 The artist made some interesting choices depicting the anatomic proportions as well as the demeanor of the young woman in this little portrait. Raven-Haired Beauty with White Flower Anonymous Oil on canvas,20" x 16" Purchased at a consignment store in Glendora, CA and donated by Joy Deyo and Brian Dishon September 2009 According to tradition in the islands of the South Pacific, the white gardenia over her right ear suggests that the young woman in this painting is unmarried. Her right arm resting comfortably on the bottom of the canvas suggests that the artist made a conscious decision to avoid the difficult challenge of painting her hand. The Dance of Family Relations Jake? (illegible), June (2003) Oil on canvas, 36" x 48" Rescued from trash in Brooklyn, NY and donated by Louis Frank June, 2009 Nine older people surround a long, coffin-like table, seemingly about to enjoy a meal. Most of them are gaze directly at the viewer, while one couple shares a private joke. Two of the figures are out of out of focus, possibly indicating that they are deceased. A negative-space silhouette feast before them lacks detail. Images of of cell division (mitosis) are interspersed with representations of Doc Edgerton's iconic strobe photos of a bullet shattering a light bulb along the top of the painting, and likenesses of his "milk drop coronet" strobe photos line the bottom. The over-the-top imagery, combined with the painting's title (written on the back of the canvas), seem to illustrate Albert Einstein's assertion that "time is relative". PINK WOMAN ASCENDING Anonymous 24" x 18", oil on canvas Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA October 2010 A monochrome pink woman inexplicably ascends from a wheat field, surrounded by irises, under a starry night sky. Welcome to the New World Anonymous Oil on canvas, 20" x 16" Purchased at a thrift store/tattoo removal center in Downey, CA and donated by Brian Dishon December 2010 An Aztec emperor (possibly Montezuma) introduces the no-look high-five to a new friend who, judging from his suntan, has only recently arrived in the tropics. It is interesting to note that, while they come from disparate cultures, both men wear their pants in the sagging style currently in fashion among young men in many urban centers. The Rose Ceremony Erinn McCusker 16” x 12”, oil on canvas board Purchased in a thrift store in Boston, MA July 2016 The bachelorette looked particularly fetching as the strap of her peignoir slipped down her particularly long left arm. No Place Like Home Anonymous Oil on canvas, 20" x 10" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA September 2010 Dorothy clicked her heels three times and realized immediately upon opening her eyes that she had returned to an unfamiliar part of Kansas. Blue Mushroom Man Matthew Johnson Acrylic on canvas, 36" x 24", Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA November 2007 According to a mycologist friend of MOBA, "Possible chanterelle in upper left corner. Likely boletus family 'shrooms in upper right corner and sprouting out of the top of his head. A flush of shaggy manes emerging from his mouth. Others are unknown, but appear to have little culinary interest." Swamp Picnic Ted Cate Jr. Oil on art board, 21" x 30" Donated by Bhavani Brown May 2014 An attractive couple enjoys a private moment at the water’s edge. The artist seems to be sharing his vision of a dystopian future in which fashion conscious hipsters, living with rising sea levels and widespread pollution, wear “his and her” hazmat suits. A Mariachi in Tiananmen Square Anonymous Oil on canvas, 8" x 10" Purchased in a thrift shop in Boston, MA January 2004 Beijing, China was rocked by unprecedented political protests as well as violent government response May and June of 1989. On June 5, as a column of tanks rumbled by Tiananmen Square, an unidentified man strode into the center of Changan Avenue. Armed only with shopping bags, he defiantly stood in front of the tanks; forcing them to stop. Associated Press photographer Jeff Widener photographed the incident. His film was was smuggled out of China, and the image published around the world. The anonymous Tank Man of Tiananmen Square instantly became a hero of the protest, and the iconic photograph of his brave act was obviously the inspiration for this painting. The anonymous artist added color and, more importantly, changed the perspective to emphasize the relative power of the man over the toy-like military machines. His mariachi costume may indicate the universality of the struggle against oppression worldwide. Watch the MOBA Curator talk about this painting. The Royal Feel Jane Doyle 24” x 18”, acrylic on canvas board Donated by Cathy Soderquist July 2013 The artist celebrates romantic love in this painting inspired by The Jewish Bride by Rembrandt. Morning Geisha Anonymous Oil on canvas board, 18" x 14" Purchased at a thrift shop in Boston MA May 2015 A young woman performs her morning ablutions, illustrating the fact that, while the result may only be skin deep, it takes work to achieve beauty. Monochrome 006 (Unfinished Etude in Blue) Jonathan FeBland (2011) (London, UK) Acrylic on canvas, 9.5" x 11.5” Donated by the artist October 2011 The MOBA Curator-in-Chief initially assumed this minimalist piece was created by a cat walking in blue paint. The artist wrote, "It was painted on a small easel while listening to the piano music of Arnold Schoenberg (which was found to be quite inspirational for this sort of painting). It is suggested that the work is revolved by 90° every three months." When the Curator played a recording of Schoenberg's piano music to better appreciate the painting, his cat walked out of the room. Southeastern Quadrant Chevron 12 David C. Commito (1993) Oil on canvas, 20" x 16" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA June 2009 A bright red, highly textured boomerang outlined in black appears next to the number 12 in the lower right corner of the canvas, which is otherwise painted a single shade of flat sky-blue. The viewer is challenged to grasp the true meaning of this minimalist painting, a task that would probably be less daunting with the knowledge of the relative position of chevrons 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, and 11. Vanishing Woman Hannah Hamilton Acrylic on canvas, 18” x 24" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA September 2011 The artist combined disparate techniques such as the "vanishing point" (a perspective device developed in the fifteenth century Renaissance) and "Pollockian drips" (a mid-twentieth century abstract paint application method) to portray a womanly apparition in a tulip field. Watch the MOBA Curator Talk about this painting. The artist combined disparate techniques such as the vanishing point, a perspective device developed in the fifteenth century Renaissance by masters such as Pietro Perugino, and Pollockian drips (a mid-twentieth century abstract paint application method explored by Jackson Pollock), to portray a womanly apparition in a tulip field. BABY ATLAS Anonymous Acrylic on canvas, 60" x 60" (9 20" x 20" paintings glued together) Found in a hallway at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and donated by Mark Troia September, 2009 "I believe that children are our future . . ." Who can disagree with Whitney Houston? The Greatest Love Of All Words by Linda Creed, Music by Michael Masser ©1977 Gold Horizon Music Corp. & Golden Torch Music Corp. À L'intérieur de L'oeuf (Inside the Egg) Illegible (Haitian) Oil on canvas, 32" x 24" Purchased in Sousa, Dominican Republic and donated by Susan Tompkins-Hunt January 2007 The French title adds to the mystique of this disturbing example of art brut. Susan Tompkins-Hunt understands the painting to have been originally sold by a Haitian street vendor (possibly the artist) to a resort owner in Sosua, Dominican Republic for the equivalent of $22.13 plus a rum and coke. It was subsequently given as a gift to the owner of a tavern in Boston, MA, where it was displayed, coveted, and after extensive negotiations, purchased by Ms. Tompkins-Hunt. Aware that most of her friends and relatives were emotionally upset seeing A L'Interieur De L'oeuf on display in her home, she realized that MOBA is the proper repository for such a powerfully vexing work. Twins in Utero Michael Gershberg (1992) Oil paint and chicken bones on canvas, 40” x 40” Donated by the artist March 2023 The artist offers a biologically inaccurate image of fraternal twins in utero. They must compete for real estate in the womb with amorphous blobs the artist intended to represent “birth, fertility, and death.” ISpewing Rubik's Cubes K. Koch oil on canvas 24"x18" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA May 2007 A fine example of Rubik's Cubism, this image of the classic 1980s toys emanating from a jester gargoyle's mouth can only be described as puzzling. From: Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco, Ten Speed Press Spewing Marshmallows Anonymous Acrylic on artboard, 20" x 16” Purchased at a flea market in Jensen Beach, FL February 2023 Tormented by a sinister demon, a jester disgorges fluffy cotton-like balls. An I For an Eye A. LivLaing Bradford (2001) Acrylic on canvas, 30" x 20” Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA March 2008 The woman/tree unquestionably is crying out for help that will never come. Her morphing, arborescent figure, faceless and in shame, is reaching upward for sustenance while a torrent of tearful eyes cascades about her, threatening to bury her in her own psychosexual drift. Guest Interpretator: Steve Herman The Scientist Anonymous 28" x 36", mixed media Left anonymously at MOBA May 2007 Latex gloves and bodily fluids add color to this piece that depicts a laboratory experiment gone horribly awry. The inspiration for this piece was an illustration from Andreas Vesalius' seminal anatomy text from 1543: De Humani Corporis Fabrica. Watch the MOBA Curator Talk about this painting. From: Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco, Ten Speed Press Retch Like an Egyptian Alia J. Gala Pastel on paper, 12" x 16" Anonymous donation June 2017 This is a disturbing image of an Egyptian doubled over in pain, throwing up colorfully. The X-ray box clearly shows the source of his discomfort, and the black smoke from the pyramid indicates that a new pharaoh has not yet been chosen. The artist made this painting while in art school, and was surprised and delighted to find it in Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks. From: Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco CREW CUT DREAMS Leonardo (1977) Oil on art board, 10" x 9" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA November 2006 A man with short hair is depicted among seals, snakes, and other creatures sharing his bright red facial features. At first glance, we expect him to be uncomfortable or threatened. But these creatures smile and cuddle. There are no nightmares here - just the happy dreams of friendly forces that make life more pleasant. From - Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco, Ten Speed Press Dissent from the Pedestal Robert MacLeod Oil on canvas, 30" x 36" Anonymous donation May 2007 Infuriated and distraught about the state of the world, the iconic Lady of the Harbor has come down from her traditional perch, bemoaning the fact that, despite global warming, her day in the sun seems to have passed. From: Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco, Ten Speed Press Sad Lady Liberty Anonymous Oil on canvas, 36" x 18" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA September 2010 Forlorn with the belief that the tired, poor, huddled masses were no longer welcome, dejected Lady Liberty joined a traveling circus to make ends meet. Liberty and Justice Anonymous Acrylic on canvas, 24” x 24” Donated by Al Rivera April 2016 Painted after the World Trade Center attack on September 11, 2001, this painting is reminiscent of Judith Clutching the head of Holofernes. teary-eyed Lady Liberty celebrates her victory over the enemy and hopes peace can return to the city. In other news, her jaundiced bald eagle has caught a large fish. Judith Clutching the Head of Holofernes Cristofano Allori (c. 1611) Uffizi Gallery, Florence, Italy Drilling for Eggs William F. Murphy Oil on canvas, 30" x 30” Purchased at a thrift store in Winston-Salem, NC and donated by Karen McHugh June 2007 Green alligator flames dominate the foreground and a bright pink sky provides the backdrop for this disquieting depiction of a color-altered future in which eggs, a renewable resource, have replaced traditional hydrocarbon fuels. The artist is saying, in no uncertain terms, that unless we learn to conserve our priceless resources, the yolk will be on us. From: Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco, Ten Speed Press Prosthetic Claw William F. Murphy 12" x 20", oil on canvas Purchased at a thrift store in Winston-Salem, NC and donated by Karen McHugh June 2007 Inspired by the film Jurassic Park, many have speculated about the possibility of using traces of fossilized dinosaur DNA to produce a living Tyrannosaurus rex. Advances in cell-engineering techniques have led others to speculate about the possibility of using stem cells to grow human tissue. One scientist, Dr. Jose Cibelli, went so far as to secretly clone his own DNA inside a cow egg. Prosthetic Claw portrays the unexpected results in this ethical boundary-stretching field of interspecies cloning. The central figure's immaculate white shoe contrasts with the grotesquely poor grooming of the hand, which is depicted in a universally understood gesture. The artist seems to be saying that these experiments will result in a giant "goose egg". The heavy-handed image is marred by a clumsily executed background of straight-from-the-tube oil paint colors that have become all too familiar to the MOBA curatorial staff. From: Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco , Ten Speed Press On Vacation in Italy Robert Muldrow (Brooklyn, 2007) 2ft x 3ft, oil on plywood Donated by the artist April 2008 Mr. Muldrow writes, "Upon coming home from a fantastic vacation in Italy, I found my houseplants in a state of decline and extreme thirst. They were in sort of plant hell. This painting represents what I inferred were their feelings of suffering, neglect, and loneliness as well as my feelings of guilt and regret." Japanese bonsai grand master Saburo Kato maintains, ". . . the most important sound is the footsteps of a bonsai trainer coming to care for his tree. This bond is very similar as the commitment between mother and child to nurture and guide the tree. The most important aspect of bonsai is the bond that exists or is created between a bonsai and its owner-trainer. We can only create true friendships if there is a gentle courtesy, respect, and justice. We can only seek peace if we are at peace with ourselves!" Everyone at MOBA feels terrible for Mr. Muldrow, who clearly was devastated in the realization that he had broken a sacred bond with his plants. He has reportedly been coming to terms with his loss, and has reportedly begun leaving his house for short visits to the grocer and the dry cleaners. There are, however, no vacation plans in his immerdiate future. The MOBA curatorial staff was drawn to this image for its emotional power as well as the straight-from-the-tube background colors almost identical to Prosthetic Claw. Germ of an Idea Anonymous Oil on canvas, 22" x 36" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA May 2008 Note the similarity to Aim 2. Invasion of the Office Zombies Jenna Cathyla Oil on canvas, 24" x 30” Purchased at thrift store in Boston, MA April 2003 This haunting scene draws us in subtle hints of capitalist morals. Note the Cleveland bill gracing the crooked floor. Does it foreshadow a new denomination that drives us all to the broken jail-cell window to throw our disembodied heads to the street? From: Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco Johnny McGrory Unknown Ceramic sculpture, 11" x 14" circumference Donated by the artist 1990s With the innocence of an extra terrestrial, his arms in a straight jacket, his flat cap a mortar board as testament to his wisdom, the little red man cannot be quieted while something has been left unsaid. All Things Must Pass M. Brown, 1995 Tempera on wood and sheet metal, approx. 8" x 30" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA December 2007 This intriguing piece of outsider folk art illustrates the history of Western Civilization. Advances in technology from traditional hand tools to machines during the Industrial Revolution led to dramatic changes in the socioeconomic and cultural life. Today, as inflated fuel prices (this is clearly a diesel powered semi-tractor trailer truck) affect the world's economy and pollution (represented by the smoky exhaust) is global, it is time to move into the Postindustrial, or Information Age. The raw speed implicit in the image of the truck reminds us that, even with a double yellow line heading into a curve on a hill, we will be passed. Love is Being Out on a Limb Together Anonymous Oil on board, 21" x 24.5" 1990s Japanese in its simplicity: American in its text, this valentine in blue is a tribute to the poster poems of the 1970s. Lulli, Fowl, and Gravestone Michael Frank (1971) 8.5" x 11", watercolor on paper Donated by the artist (MOBA Curator-in-Chief) June 2007 This work was presented to Lulli in Copenhagen and subsequently returned to the artist in New York soon after. The significance of Lulli and the objects portrayed was important to the artist at the time but was, unfortunately, erased from his memory long ago. From: Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco More Sandy Winslow 16" x 20", acrylic on canvas Donated by the artist 1990s Three eyes are better than one: all the better to see you with, my dear. Reef Garden Hassmer 36" x 36", Mixed media on masonite Acquired by Scott Wilson from the Salvation Army Store 1990s Here we are, witnessing the staging of a subaqueous musical extravaganza. On a silent cue, one pulsating incubator bursts, hurtling an anxious and curiously aged little merman upwards to the unknown world above the surface. The dancer stares, hypnotizing the viewer. We find ourselves forced to stay -- feel the music or drown. Suicide Anonymous 18" x 24", Acrylic on canvas Rescued from trash 1990s Bloody cloud bursts in an otherwise clear sky, frothing nostrils as the bovine beast dives, lemming like, and misses the phosphorescent, oily, swimming hole. Swamette's Secret Anonymous Acrylic on canvas, 30" x 20" Acquired by Patricia Deardorff and Leigh Weesner from a thrift store 1990s Calm clear shapes, multiple repeating patterns, a thickly textured aura and little red shoes come together to conceal or reveal the eternal complexity of simple truths in this exploration of the human psyche. Swamette's Secret has been featured in the phenominal "I Just Can't Stop" exhibit. Tables Have Turned Anonymous 24" x 18", acrylic on canvas Acquired from trash 1990s The anger screams from the canvas, the dysfunctional family fumes after fury's exit left. Sensitive Anonymous Marker and paper on cloth, 20" x 16" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA May 2007 From: Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco Blue God Anonymous Acrylic on canvas, 30” x 36” Purchased at a thrift shop in Ft. Lauderdale, FL and donated by Stephen Nonack March 2016 A great blue spirit watches over a tropical paradise featuring magnificent frigate birds, scarlet ibises, a red octopus, a precooked lobster, tropical fish, and sunken treasure. Board to Death Anonymous Oil on wood panel, 18" x 24” Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA September 2007 Unable to complete their game of chess because they cannot move their arms from within their sleeveless robes, Death and his adversary slouch dejectedly near a mountain precipice. By wrapping the figures in hooded robes, the artist neatly avoided the challenges of depicting the human form. The anonymous painter of this work firmly shut the door on all normative painterly decisions about composition, color, texture, symbolism, metaphor and most other preoccupations that attend the conventional modernist role of the artist as the privileged purveyor of an intuitive creativity shepherded by a genius recourse to tact and taste. Guest Interpretators: Pio and ElizabethIllusion or Confusion Steve Whitehurst (c.1967) Oil on canvas, 24” x 11” Donated by Shirley Whitehurst March 2017 The artist depicted floating aquatic daisies surrounding the reflection of the sun in a pool of rippling water. The viewer is left to ponder who is lurking in the foliage. Death is Beautiful John Kim (1991) Mixed media on canvas, 10" x 20" Purchased at an antique store in Warrensburg, NY September 2018 The artist wrote the title on the reverse side of this macabre work - proving once again that beauty is in the eye of the beholder. Hide and Go Seek Beth Acrylic on canvas, 12" x 14" Purchased at a thrift store in Corpus Christi, TX, and donated by Gerald Lopez August 2015 The young girl who is it slowly counts to ten, unaware of the surprise waiting in the forest. Rodin Rainbow Anonymous Acrylic on canvas board, 10" x 14" Purchased in a thrift store in Boston, MA June 2014 While all his friends have found love, can't help but wonder whether the rainbow is a harbinger of a change in his luck. The Kiss Aguste Rodin (1882) Musée Rodin, Paris The Thinker Aguste Rodin (1904) Musée Rodin, Paris Feast of Fools Anonymous 30” x 15”, Acrylic on canvas Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA December 2014 Lunch is served, but nobody seems to care. Blue Face – Green Pepper Naomi Palmer Oil on canvas, 18” x 18” Rescued from trash in Cambridge, MA and donated by Julia Fleet May 2009 A mystical blue figure is depicted gazing at, and perhaps conversing with, a dream-like chili pepper dragon. The shadows should be noted as a tool to determine the source(s) of light, which may provide clues to the location of the scene. Unfortunately these projections do not supply determinate answers, but the chili’s shadow does conjure a childlike joy in its giddyup seahorse, gallop-‘n-go, pony-on-a stick nature. Guest Interpretator: Julia Fleet Moon Jellies at Night Anonymous Acrylic on canvas, 24" x 18” Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA January 2021 Seven death masks litter the floor, while iridescent moon jellyfish swim around classic ruins under a colorful constellation of stars and planets. One of them wears a necklace featuring what may be the key to understanding this bewildering tableau. A scholarly fan of the museum observed that entasis (swelling of classical pillars) is well captured here (point D). Modern examples of entasis include classic Coke bottles, bowling pins, and Mrs. Robinson's leg in The Graduate. A Gathering of Scarecrows Bob "Grandpa" Roots Donated by the artist March 2017 The artist depicted himself painting en plein air in a field full of hay bales. He decided to enliven the scene with an imaginary convention of frolicking off-duty scarecrows. Crows were welcome to join the festivities. Birthday Forks Anonymous Oil, photograph, & paper on canvas, Found in sidewalk trash in Cambridge, MA and donated by Chris and Sarah Dewart May 2010 New Years Bagel Mari Newman Mixed media collage, marker on paper, 20" x 16" Donated by the artist April 2009 Smiles abound as one of MOBA's most prolific artists celebrates her favorite nosh. My Barbies MarI Newman Mixed media Donated by the artist September 2006 One of the most prolific artists represented in the MOBA collection share some toys from her personal collection: Java Barbie, Teethy Barbie, McDonalds Barbie, and Blacklight Barbie. Fast Food and Dessert Barbies MarI Newman multimedia Donated by the artist September 2006 The artist combined iconic American images that should remind us to make good gastronomic decisions as we gather with friends and relatives for the Memorial Day holiday weekend. Forty-Two Pounds of Poop MarI Newman multimedia Donated by the artist September 2006 Ms. Newman’s sense of humor and composition are evident in this photomontage, in which she set out to break “all the rules” (including the basic “5-7-5” rule of haiku). She employed a palette of bright colors similar to her Fast Food and Dessert Barbies, but chose a more sophisticated palate by adding carrots, apricots, and soybeans to the uncooked bacon in the frame around the central figures of a toy dog and half-peeled banana. The blue basset hound is understandable, while the relationship of the smiling banana to the theme of the piece remains mysterious. The Curator-in-Chief is aware of the stinging criticism of fans who suggest that MOBA is possibly “losing its way” by accepting work: 1. created by a “collected artist”, 2.that may be well conceived and 3. may show evidence of rational use of color, space, and technique. He likes this piece, believes that it rocks, and remains confident that MOBA is the proper venue to exhibit it. Celebrate July 4th Nancy Alain Collage of oil paint and paper on canvas, 18" x 24” Donated by the artist May 2020 Artist’s Statement: I was living in war torn Bujumbura, Burundi, 2000, and missing the parades and celebrations back home, while dodging bullets and rockets launched between the Hutus and the Tutsis. This is an homage to my homesickness made with what was available at that time, a few tubes of paint and an Oriental Trading Company mail order catalogue full of images of decor for sale to a proud nation on it's birthday. I added the tomatoes, because there were none any at the local marketplace. Flap Norman Wallace Oil on canvas, 16” x 20", Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA September 2009 A young boy ponders the flapping wings of a distant bird shortly after the impact of a flapjack on the side of his head. The delicacy of the bird's flight is a subtle counterpoint to the delicacy of the pat of butter still embedded in the hitherto airborne breakfast item. Guest Interpretator: Joel Srebnick Headless Lilo Gin Arte Watercolor on paper, 12" x 9" Purchased at a thrift shop in Boston, MA October 2013 The Death of Marat David Santa Fe 24" x 18", oil on canvas Purchased in Havana, Cuba November 2011 This painting was obviously inspired by Jacques-Louis David’s depiction of the death of Jean-Paul Marat, a scientist and physician who became a radical journalist and leader of the Jacobins during the French Revolution. He suffered from a painful skin disease and sought relief by spending hours soaking in his bathtub. On July 13, 1793, a young woman named Charlotte Corday requested a meeting with Monsieur Marat in his bathroom/office, and proceeded to stab him with a large kitchen knife. While Mademoiselle Corday does not appear in David’s painting, she can be seen glaring at her dying victim from behind the curtain in this painting. Rather than a messy pool of blood, his life leaves his body as steam from a tiny wound like the exhaust from a whale’s blowhole. Marat is inexplicably depicted small enough to bathe in a coconut shell; dwarfed by the fruit and machete on the tabletop. Orange Colored Sky Anonymous Acrylic on canvas, 24" x 18" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA October 2012 A nondescript everyman reaches forward, trying to touch, grasp, and become one with the expanse of orangeness around him. The artist was clearly influenced by the color field paintings of Barnett Newman, and decided to add the representational element they so sorely needed. The Milkmaid Illegible 12"x16", oil on canvas Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA March, 2011 Apparently fond of the domestic worker in Jan Johannes Vermeer's seventeenth century painting DE MELKMEID, the artist chose to brighten her austere work environment with a lovely bouquet of flowers. Too Fat People Leger Vilfort Acrylic on canvas, 29" x 39" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA, July 2008 The brightly autumnal forest of minuscule bonsai trees in the background perfectly match the hues of the couple’s casual attire. Probably influenced by Peter Paul Rubens’ “Reubenesque women” and Fernando Botero’s “inflated images”, Leger Vilfort paints a portrait of rotund lovers with impossibly tiny feet sharing a private moment in which they shyly avoid direct eye contact. MOBA is in possession of a related work by this artist. Too More Fat People Leger Vilfort Acrylic on canvas, 12" x 16" Purchased at a thrift shop in Amherst, MA and donated by Mary Glavin July 2015 This endearing portrait of corpulent lovers may be a study for a larger painting in the MOBA collection – Too Fat People. In this version, the artist used a different straight-from-the-tube autumnal color scheme, reversed the positions of the sweethearts, and portrayed them standing rather than sitting. Aim 2 Lloyd Graham (Australia, 2006) Oil on canvas, 18" x 24" Donated by the artist April 2007 MOBA #372 "[This is my] partner Lyn, losing the battle with the middle objective of her research grant proposal (something to do with cross-talk between insulin-like growth factor binding proteins and retinoid-X receptor heterodimerization, since you ask)." - Text by the artist From: Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco, Ten Speed Press. Heather Come Hither Bianka Oil on canvas, 30" x 24" Salvaged by M. Frank from curbside trash in Boston May 2006 Larger than life, she purrs with her big bedroom eyes open wide in anticipation, "Hello boys". Bianka knew, the more hair the better. From - Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco, Ten Speed Press. Hollywood Lips Anonymous Oil on cardboard, 15" x 12" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA September 2006 In Hollywood, even the palm trees have had work done. From - Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco, Ten Speed Press Jerez the Clown Higgins Acrylic on canvas Acquired from Todd Farm Flea Market 1995 A perfect depiction of pure evil in the guise of childhood's friend. This blending of big top themes with a piercing study of the dark side of human nature, elevates the well worn clown genre to a new and exhilarating level. Reclining Nude Unknown Oil on canvas Acquired from trash late 1990s The artist plays with the luminosity of skin where the sun never shines, and the grace and comfort of crossed legs in repose. We believe this may be a self-portrait, as Unknown, naked and proud, faces the fiery furnace. Red Figure with Braids Carlos Rangel 42" x 5" circumference, Painted wood sculpture Acquired from a thrift store in Boston, MA 1990s A monument to self-confidence. The delicately balanced tiny figure stands tall, leaning towards us in cardinal colors, her pocketbook held proudly at her side. Could this be the ancestor of a late night television show host? Sad Baby Anonymous Oil on canvas, 16" x 20" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA May 2006 Lost puppy? No one to play with? Nothing on TV? What sad fate has befallen this young beauty with the big red bow? Her life is so empty she must conjure an imaginary shelf on which to lean. From - Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco, Ten Speed Press Shy Glance Dawn Marie Jingagian Acrylic on canvas, 18" x 24" Rescued from trash in Boston, MA 1990s The embarrassment and longing of first love, is reflected in the cheek as shiny as an apple, the half smile hidden behind lank hair. Sunday on the Pot with George John Gedraitis Acrylic on Canvas, 22" x 37" Donated by Jim Schulman 1994 Can the swirling steam melt away the huge weight of George's corporate responsibilities? A fine example of labor intensive pointlessism, this painting is curious for the artist's meticulous attention to fine detail such as the stitching around the edge of the towel, in contrast to the almost careless disregard for the subject's feet. Chief Pontiac Pastel on paper Found among some quasi-Egyptian art, this portrait bears an uncanny resemblance to Chief Pontiac, or at least to the image of him portrayed in a 1950 Pontiac Chieftain hood ornament: Mrs. Pontiac Pastel on paper Chief Pontiac's lovely Nubian wife. Bailando Rosalyn Frederick, 1994 Oil on canvas, 20" x 16" Purchased at a thrift store, Boston, MA September 2009 Watch the MOBA Curator Talk about this painting. The artist celebrates the joy of social dancing in this delightful depiction of an embracing Mexican couple. This work is a cross-cultural homage to the important trio of paintings by French impressionist Pierre Aguste Renoir made in 1883: , , and Dance in the City (1883), Museum of Fine Arts Boston, MA Dance in the Country Musée d'Orsay Paris Dance in the City Musé d'Orsay Paris Queen of the Chocolate Chip Christian Watercolor on paper, 24" x 24" Acquired at a yard sale in Boston, MA 1994 This is a commentary on the incongruity of royalism at the close of the second millennium. The formality of the pose contrasts with the laissex faire attitude of Her Majesty, caught mid chew, as she sports a jaunty beret in preference to her emerald encrusted crown. Watch the MOBA Curator Talk about this painting. QUEEN OF THE CHOCOLATE CHIP was probably inspired by an 18th century painting by Louis de Silvestre (1675–1760) Watch the MOBA Curator Talk about this painting: https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=RHldppcdhwo From: Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco, Ten Speed Press Key Man Anonymous Oil paint, keys, and found objects on canvas board, 18" x 14" Anonymous donation June 2007 This may be a resident of Key West. Miss Lonely Heart Illegible Oil on canvas, 20" x 16" Purchased by thrift store in Boston, MA October 2010 Vaguely aware of the other patrons behind her, an attractive slim woman with very long legs sits with her glass of red wine and single rose at a table for one featuring a large bouquet of flowers, wondering when love will arrive. Mujeres y Puros Hermosos Anonymous Acrylic on canvas, 13" x 17" Purchased at a souvenir market in Havana, Cuba November 2009 The Curator-in-Chief descended from the MOBA Ivory Tower to visit Havana and purchased this painting in a souvenir market for his personal collection. He understands that this celebration of Cuba's fine cigars and beautiful women is a commercial product and, therefore, not really appropriate for the MOBA collection, but believes it is compelling enough to share with MOBA fans who have not had the opportunity to visit the island nation. Why the Long Face? Sixten Borg (2015) Acrylic on panel, 12.5" x 9" Donated by the artist November 2017 When asked about the apparent distortion of his countenance in this self-portrait, the artist provided a detailed explanation involving a mirror leaning on a bowl. He added that his life was a bit of a struggle at the time, accounting for his gloomy appearance. He assures us that “Things are better now.” Baby Dolls Dee Landerman, 2005 Oil on canvas, 20" x 16" Donated by John Rankine April 2014 This portrait was donated to the MOBA Collection by the subject, who was inexplicably relegated to the background like a watermark. The yellowing varnish on the paint surface enhances the eldritch nature of the image. Flying Forks Illegible Acrylic on canvas, 36" x 46" Rescued from trash in Brighton, MA and donated by Eliot Jackson and Stacy Sylvain February 2011 We see young man and young woman sitting face to face in a vaguely defined outdoor setting; the viewer’s prospective is ¾ behind the man. Seemingly oblivious to whatever is going on above and behind her, the woman seems concerned about the mental state of her partner, who maintains a death grip on a dismembered steering wheel. While the significance of the cross in the background is unclear, this painting seems to be visual representation of Yogi Berra’s advice, “When you’re driving an imaginary car and you see a flying fork, take it.” The Drip Anonymous Oil on canvas, 18" x 18" Purchased at a yard sale in Salisbury, MA and donated by Rick Nelson May 2012 The artist scratched the orange background paint with a sharp object to reinforce the violence of this image of an armless raven-haired woman in a white dress sitting on a barstool with blood dripping from a bullet wound between her scapulae. Somehow she remains upright. Watch the MOBA Curator Talk about this painting. Las Abuelas de Elian Gonzalez (Elian Gonzalez' Grandmothers) Gisela Keller, 1973 Oil on canvas, 18" x 24" on loan from the collection of Michael Frank, MOBA Curator-in-Chief Lush tropical foliage that dwarfs the tiny grandmothers and brilliant colors demand the viewer's attention. Painting almost 30 years before the fact, the visionary artist depicts the boy-hero's grandmothers' return from visiting him in Miami to their native Cuba, where the tropical plants are muy grande. From: Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco A Bird in the Hand Norman Wallace, 1965 Oil on canvas board, 20" x 16" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA September 2009 The artist used pleasant pastel hues in this portrait of a young girl with beautiful eyelashes concerned about an injured, or possibly deceased, songbird. Child with Chick in Hand Shirly Flax, 1990 20" x 16", oil on canvas Purchased at a consignment store in Acton, MA and donated by Sue Cooper May 2009 The title printed on the back of this painting of a doe-eyed young girl led MOBA curators to infer that the amorphous mass in her right hand is, in fact, a baby chick. The girl wears a serene smile; unaware that her soft downy pet will soon become an noisy adult chicken requiring a substantial investment of her time providing food, water, and a clean environment. Mary and Her Dog Mildred Scarcliff (1943) Oil on canvas, 20" x 16" Rescued from trash in Jackson, MS and donated by Lisa McClure-Leduc September 2015 The artist painted this sweet portrait of her daughter Mary and her dog almost 80 years ago. While hairstyles come and go, smokey eye has been a constant for generations. The Game Phyllis Beinart (1994) 35” x 46”, oil on canvas Donated by the artist November 2017 While no one said it aloud, the other players all suspected Helen’s extra finger afforded her an unfair advantage at the mahjong table. Self-Portrait with TV Phyllis Beinart Acrylic on canvas, 52" x 24" Donated by the artist December 2017 Painted before the invention of the internet, this painting reflects the artist’s frustration trying to absorb global information in the pre-digital world. Self-Portrait as a Bird Rebecca Harris Pastel crayon on paper, 25” x 22” Donated by the artist 1994 Glee sparkles from Ms Harris’ eyes in this joyful self-portrait/evolutionary essay. “I’d rather be a sparrow than ... ” El Cóndor Pasa by Daniel Alomía Robles, English lyrics by Paul Simon Self-Portrait as a Drainpipe Miranda Tempera on cardboard, 22" x 11" Found in trash in Boston, MA June 2007 Who knows what moves someone to depict oneself as a plumbing fixture? Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man Lloyd Graham (Australia) Oil on canvas, 20" x 16" Donated by the artist April 2007 Artist's statement: "This is an emotive portrait of myself as a college student in the late 70s." Only a Flesh Wound Lance D. Acrylic on canvas, 14" x 11" Donated by Aline McKenzie, Dallas TX June 2009 The unidentified subject's personality was so large his image could not be constrained by the frame around his portrait in this painting within a painting. His handle bar smile is deceiving; pain evident in the tears welling up in his baby-blues. The band-aids on his inexplicably transparent forehead do nothing to stem the bleeding from what appears to be a serious throat injury. Eileen R. Angelo Le Acrylic on canvas, 18" x 24" Rescued from trash in Boston, MA mid 1994 Remarkable in its simplicity, this passionate portrait of a girl with green eyes appeals every emotion. Which passion was uppermost in the painter's heart? Knife stroke follows brush stroke. The hint of a second signature in the top right corner suggests a struggle. An infinitely interesting and sometimes disturbing neo-primitive portrait. Although not apparent here, the painting has what appears be a knife slash in the canvas -- adding an additional element of drama an already powerful work. Eileen's Uncle Phil Anonymous 16" x 20", oil on Canvas Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA May 2007 The Exquisite Corpse Silvia 32” x 24”, oil on canvas Purchased in Havana, Cuba November 2016 The nails applied like acupuncture needles directly to her heart were probably too little too late to save this beautiful woman. The wires from her earbuds were not strong enough close her chest wound. The perfectly manicured dog gazes directly at the viewer, but offers no insight into the woman’s marshmallow hat, the fried eggs on her left and right or the little guy on her shoulder who seems very happy to be there. Annie's Downstairs Secret Professor Kendall Moore 18" x 14" acrylic on canvas panel Donated by Doug Shive August 2004 Impressed by how well they worked on her pets' and her own teeth, Annie used Crest Whitestrips to brighten her toenails. From - Museum of Bad Art: Masterworks, by Michael Frank and Louise Reilly Sacco, Ten Speed Press The Damned Guy Clarence Leroy Hinds (1970) Oil on canvas board, 24” x 14” Heirloom shared by the Weiner and Heller families and donated by Neil Weiner May 2022 This is a copy of The Damned Man, one of the hundreds of figures who realizes he has been condemned to spend eternity in Hell in Michelangelo’s fresco on the altar wall of the Sistine Chapel - The Last Judgement of Christ. The artist sought to improve upon Michelangelo’s masterpiece by clothing him in a green Speedo and adding a disembodied eyeball over his right shoulder spewing what appears to be toxic slime. The Damned Man Michelangelo (c.1540) From The Last Judgement of Christ fresco Sistine Chapel, Vatican City The Actor William E. Judge (1974) Oil on canvas, 24" diameter Anonymous donation June 2007 Highlighted hair (or very complex lighting) draws attention away from the actor's receding hairline and piercing eyes. His dejected gaze seems to reflect the realization that he is no longer suited to the leading-man roles to which he once aspired. Mourning a Lost Dog Hernale Acrylic composition board, 24” x 24” Provenance unknown 1990’s “My dog is gone and I’m blue, blue, blue” is the clear message. The burning crown of thorns takes it a bit too far - symbolic reference to Christ’s suffering should probably be confined to works illustrating concepts loftier than grieving over a lost pet. Using leftover green paint from the dog’s collar on the frame was a clever device to enhance the depth of this painting. Guest Interpretator: Jennifer Weiss El Beso del los Siames (Kiss of the Siamese Twins) Anonymous Illegible (2008) Oil on canvas, 60cm x 40cm Purchased at a market in Havana, Cuba November 2011 An unusually large well-manicured hand emerges from the foreground flowers in a tender caress in this touching portrayal of love between beautifully coiffed conjoined twins. Given the inordinate amount of time they spend together, it is auspicious they get along so well; always seeing eye to eye. Don't Wanna be a Cowboy's Sweetheart T. Abbott (1975) Tempera paint on canvas board, 14" x 11" The singing cowboy's friend questions the rationale for yodeling, while his dog howls along in this cutesy Norman Rockwellian tableau. The Music Man Norman Rockwell (1966) Private Collection Coquette Anonymous Acrylic on canvas, 24” x 18” Donated at a MOBA event in Ottawa, Canada May 2007 A young woman smiles flirtatiously while assuming what appears to be a particularly uncomfortable pose at the kitchen table. A Tree Grows in Boston Tom Eiler (2006) Acrylic on canvas, 15.5" x 17.5" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA April 2011 A young man dreams of life in the country. We know he is dreaming of it because the color of his eyes is the same color as the sky in the pastoral image. Sadly, this tree exists only in his head. The harsh demarcation between the rusty urban sky behind his head and the idyllic view of his dreams is a harsh indication that they are worlds apart. In desperation, he stretches forth his hand to touch the tree. But he will never reach it. Guest Interpretator: Sarahlynn Nichols Trapezoid Mosaic Andy Wells Acrylic on canvas (painted on the back), 30” x 15-18” Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA November 2003 Modernist? Cubist? Exorcist? Confusion reigns in this frantic facade. Note the curious contrast of the bold color in the central figure against the Easter pastels in the background. The suggestion of a second mouth to the right in place of an ear forces the yellow beyond the intended boundaries of the painting; warning us that it is perhaps best to simply listen to this piece rather than speak of it. Guest Interpretator: Brian Edward Leach Anja Anna Sea (2021) Acrylic on canvas, 24” x 18” Donated by the artist from Renkum, the Netherlands October 2023 This intriguing little portrait might have appeared more complete had the artist asked her model to move a bit to her right. Mommy Issues Michael Gershberg (1991) Acrylic on canvas, 28” x 30” Donated by the artist March 2023 This canvas is disorienting and almost begs to be cut and reassembled. It looks like a faulty vertical hold circuit malfunction on an old television. While he offered no explanation when he donated the painting to the museum, the artist seemed to be expressing some complicated Mommy Issues. Portrait of the Artist’s Mother: Arrangement in Grey and Black No. 1 James Whistler (1871) Musée d’Orsay, Paris Till I Was Blue in the Face Anonymous Acrylic on canvas, 14" x 11" Acquired through barter with Rosalie Gale June 2007 And you thought you were having a bad day! The Waltz Anonymous Acrylic on canvas, 20" x 16" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA October 2019 An elegant couple performs the traditional ladies underarm turn. Many viewers are so distracted by the woman's décolletage (front and rear) they fail to notice her unusually curved left arm. The Scientist Anonymous 28" x 36", mixed media Left anonymously at MOBA May 2007 Latex gloves and bodily fluids add color to this piece that depicts a laboratory experiment gone horribly awry. The artist was inspired by Andreas Vesalius' anatomy textbook published in 1543, De Humani Corporis Fabrica. Watch the MOBA video about this work: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oYN4S9bgFh8&list=TLPQMTgwNTIwMjQ6eEki8aadyQ&index=1&pp=gAQBiAQB Psychedelic Skeleton Liz Resch Acrylic on canvas, 36" x 36" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA August 2009 Tears of a Clown M. Hood Oil on canvas, 14” x 10” Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA June 2011 The artist's deft technique makes it abundantly clear that his funny hat and painted smile can not disguise the sadness of this young boy whose grotesquely dysmorphic ears most likely destine him to an itinerant life in traveling tent shows. Superstar Illegible Paint on pine board, 13" x 11" Rescued from trash in New York City and donated by Louis Frank June 2007 Many faces are depicted in a crazy-quit jumble. The artist's use of common pine and monochromatic hues indicate indicate his underlying democratic belief that everyone is a star. Stairway to Heaven (Gabe and Liz) Chad Hemdon Acrylic on canvas, 50" x 38" Purchased at an antique store in Warrensburg, NY September 2018 Ashen Woman Rising Anonymous Oil on canvas, 15" x 12" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA June 2007 Rising from the murky depths like Nessie, this mysterious beauty from the underworld haunts the viewer with her piercing gaze with eyes both blue and brown. Scrap Woman Anonymous Paper and cardboard, 15" x 15" Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA June 2017 This is attributed to the same artist who painted, and may be a companion piece to Ashen Woman Rising. The women in both works share a prominent forehead, thin eyebrows, and a penetrating stare at something behind the viewer’s left shoulder. Ashen Woman Rising Portrait of the Artist as a Blue Man Anonymous Acrylic on pine board, 12"x7.5” Purchased at a thrift shop in Boston, MA June 2007 James Joyce is depicted in a realistic, if slightly hydrocephalic, manner against a psychedelic background. His bow tie appears to be an afterthought. Lolita Non-Sequitur Anonymous Acrylic on canvas, 5’ x 4’ Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA May 2008 With a stylistic salute to the intricate patterns of the Art-Deco movement, the skillfully executed background evokes fabric and sponge-painted walls in this piece that captures the essence of meaninglessness. Floating inexplicably in the foreground is the dramatic isolated figure of a woman in contrapposto pose, curiously shrouded in a Bollywood belly-dancer costume. The artist cleverly avoided painting the hands and feet, and devoted more attention to the details of the background pattern than to the face. The contrasting colors, delicate blending, and perplexing placement of a curved aura all amount to a fascinating exploration of ambiguity. Guest Interpretator: Kate Hartman Koochi-Koo (Worried Baby) Anonymous Acrylic on canvas board, 10" x 8" Anonymous donation February 2005 The weight of the world rests on his little shoulders. Rebecca's Necklace Anonymous Oil on canvas, 20" x 16" Provenance unknown While viewing this painting, inspired by Picasso cubist portraits of women, the viewer is challenged to treat the subject like Mrs. Potato Head. No Eye, Ain’t Got No Body Anonymous Oil on canvas, 24” x.18" Rescued from a landfill in Carmel, NY and donated by Barry Sanel February 2010 This is a literal visualization of a man suffering from a syndrome caused by intestinal viruses of the Picornaviridae family commonly known as hand, foot, & mouth disease. It features appendages in a variety of shapes and colors. Nice Blueish Man Anonymous Illegible (2008) Oil on canvas, 27” x 29” Purchased at a yard sale in Brookline, MA June 2006 A Blueish mother gave her son a green shirt and a yellow shirt for his birthday. Later that evening they met for dinner. The son arrived smiling, wearing the green shirt. His mother took one look at him and said, “Oh, so I guess you didn’t like the yellow shirt.” Maybe Someday This Will Be Worth Something Sanford A. Winslow (1996) Acrylic on canvas panel. 28” x 22” Donated by the artist – March 1996 Deaccessioned by MOBA – November 1996 Reaccessioned by MOBA – January 2023 Donated by David Wean January 2023 Then again, maybe not. More Sanford A. Winslow (1996) Acrylic on canvas panel. 28” x 22” Donated by the artist March 1996 Or less. Mama and Babe Sarah Irani Acrylic on canvas, 24” x 18" Donated by the artist 1995 The artist places an astonishing emphasis on facial bone structure, and uses flesh tones that bring to mind the top shelf liquors of a border bistro. Blue Lady with iPod Bill Morollo 30" x 22", oil on canvas Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA June 2007 Blue Lady with iPod Bill Morollo 30" x 22", oil on canvas Purchased at a thrift store in Boston, MA June 2007 "All you need is love..." From the Mouths of Babes (Chicks) Anonymous Paint on pressboard (probably a tabletop), 20" diameter Provenance unknown A fine example of twentieth century social commentary on furniture.


--- [Museum of Bad Art Brings Worst Art to Widest Audience] ---
No content


--- [Museum of Bad Art: Where Artistic Failures Become Celebrated ...] ---
In a basement near the restrooms, a unique collection challenges everything you thought you knew about art museums and what deserves to be celebrated. Welcome to the Museum of Bad Art (MOBA), the world's only museum dedicated to showcasing "art too bad to be ignored." Since 1993, this unconventional institution has been celebrating the works of artists whose sincere creative efforts went gloriously, hilariously wrong. With over 700 pieces in its permanent collection, MOBA displays 25 to 35 works at a time, each accompanied by thoughtful, tongue-in-cheek analysis that explores what might have possessed the artist to create such compelling disasters. A Collection Born from the Trash MOBA's origin story is as unconventional as its mission. In 1993, antique dealer Scott Wilson rescued a painting called Lucy in the Field with Flowers from between two trash cans in Boston. He initially wanted only the frame, but when friend Jerry Reilly saw it, he insisted on keeping both. What started as a joke quickly gained momentum. Reilly and his wife Marie Jackson hosted basement parties to display their growing collection of magnificently flawed art. When hundreds of people started showing up to their receptions, they realized they needed proper exhibition space. The museum found its first permanent home in 1995 in the basement of the Dedham Community Theatre, appropriately located just outside the men's restroom. Masterpieces of Magnificent Failure MOBA's signature piece, Lucy in the Field with Flowers, depicts an elderly woman dancing in a field, apparently with a red chair attached to her behind. The painting's subject was later identified as Anna Lally Keane, whose granddaughter admitted the family had been horrified by the commissioned portrait for years. Sunday on the Pot with George, painted in pointillist style, shows a portly man in underwear sitting on a chamber pot. Meanwhile, Bone-Juggling Dog in Hula Skirt does exactly what the title suggests. Each piece is accompanied by detailed captions analyzing the artistic choices, or lack thereof, that led to these compelling disasters. Rigorous Standards for Badness Getting into MOBA isn't easy. Nine out of ten submitted pieces are rejected for not being bad enough. Works must demonstrate serious artistic intent, possess an "Oh my God" quality, and above all, not be boring. MOBA doesn't accept children's art, velvet paintings, or anything deliberately bad. The curators seek works where artists with genuine passion attempted something ambitious and failed spectacularly. As co-founder Marie Jackson explains, "We are here to celebrate an artist's right to fail, gloriously." The museum has even experienced art theft, with one piece stolen in 1996 and held for a $5,000 ransom (it was eventually returned with no payment). Museum of Bad Art Highlights & Tips - Lucy in the Field with Flowers MOBA's founding piece and most iconic work. The mystery of the chair, the peculiar anatomy, and the haunting facial likeness make this a must-see. - Witty Curatorial Commentary Each artwork includes tongue-in-cheek analysis exploring the artistic choices behind these disasters. The captions are often as entertaining as the art itself. - Guest Interpretator Collection Some works are so puzzling they invite public interpretation. Visitors can submit their own analysis through contests. - Current Location MOBA reopened in September 2022 at the Dorchester Brewing Company's tap room in Boston after pandemic closures. - Rotating Exhibitions With 700 pieces in the permanent collection but only 25-35 on display at once, exhibitions change regularly. Check the website for current themes. - Perfect for Groups MOBA is famous for making visitors laugh out loud. It's an ideal spot for a fun, unconventional outing that encourages discussion and debate about art. - Photography Welcome Unlike many traditional museums, MOBA embraces visitors capturing and sharing the wonderfully awful art on display. The Museum of Bad Art isn't mocking artists. It's celebrating the courage to create, even when the results miss the mark spectacularly. In a world where museum-goers often feel intimidated by high art, MOBA gives everyone permission to have an opinion, to laugh, and to question what makes art good or bad. Whether you're an art student, a curious tourist, or someone who thinks they can't appreciate art, MOBA offers a refreshingly accessible experience. Visit this one-of-a-kind institution where failure is celebrated, sincerity is honored, and every piece tells a story of artistic ambition gone wonderfully wrong.


--- [Create a Gmail signature - Computer - Gmail Help - Google Help] ---
An email signature is text, like your contact information or a favorite quote, that’s automatically added at the end of Gmail messages as a footer. Add or change a signature You can put up to 10,000 characters in your signature. - Open Gmail. - At the top right, click Settings See all settings. - In the "Signature" section, add your signature text in the box. If you want, you can format your message by adding an image or changing the text style. - Tip: Your image also counts toward the character limit. If you get an error, try to resize the image. - At the bottom of the page, click Save Changes. Manage multiple signatures You can use different signatures for your emails. For example, you can set a signature default for new emails you compose or reply to. You can also choose a different signature with each email you send. - Open Gmail. - At the top right, click Settings See all settings. - Under "General," scroll to "Signature" and click the signature you want to edit. - Use the text box to make your changes. - To change the signature name, click Edit . - At the bottom, click Save Changes. Tip: You can also choose a signature default for new emails and emails that you reply to. - Open Gmail. - At the top right, click Settings See all settings. - Under "General," scroll to "Signature." - Click the signature you want to remove. - Click Delete Delete. - At the bottom, click Save Changes. Add a signature if you're using the "Send mail as" feature If you use the "Send mail as" feature to send from different addresses in your account, you can add a different signature for each address. To select an address, use the drop-down menu above the signature text box on the Settings page. If you don’t see the drop-down menu: - Open the Accounts and Import settings page. - Check that your addresses are listed in the "Send mail as" section. Troubleshoot issues If you have problems with images in a Gmail signature, learn how to troubleshoot issues with Gmail signatures.
