=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Indira Sundaram - Wikipedia]
Indira Sundaram (née Sher-Gil), affectionately known as Indu, was born on 28 March 1914 in a mansion located in the Buda Hills of Hungary. She was the daughter of the Indian aristrocat Umrao Singh Sher-Gil and his Hungarian wife Marie Antoinette Gottesman. The youngest of two siblings, her ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indira_Sundaram

[Amrita Shergill - Jat Chiefs]
Her mother came to India as a companion of Princess Bamba Sutherland, the granddaughter of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Sher-Gill was the elder of two daughters; her younger sister was Indira Sundaram (née Sher-Gil; born in March 1914), mother of ...
URL: https://jatchiefs.com/amrita-shergill/

[Amrita Sher-Gil | Artworks Life & History | DAG]
Her father belongs to an aristocratic Sikh family of Lahore while her mother comes from a middle-class Hungarian family. Spends the first few years of her life in Hungary. ... Sister Indira is born on March 28, in Budapest.
URL: https://dagworld.com/amritasher-gil.html

[Amrita Sher-Gil | Indian Modernist Painter, Life, Career, Works, & Biography | Britannica]
Formative years Amrita Sher-Gil was born in Budapest, Hungary, to Umrao Singh Sher-Gil, a member of an aristocratic Indian family from Punjab, and Marie Antoinette Sher-Gil, a Hungarian opera singer. Amrita Sher-Gil had a younger sister, Indira. The family was stranded in Hungary during World War I but relocated to India in 1921, settling in Simla (now Shimla), in present-day Himachal Pradesh ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Amrita-Sher-Gil

[Amrita Sher-Gil: An Avant-Garde Blender of the East & West – Borderless]
Born to Umrao Singh Sher-Gil Majithia, a Sikh aristocrat and a great scholar of Sanskrit and Persian, and Marie Antoinette Gottesmann, a Jewish opera singer from Hungary, Amrita inherited a legacy that was consummate and effervescent. Amrita was the eldest of the two daughters. Her younger sister was Indira Sundaram, mother of painter Vivan Sundaram.
URL: https://borderlessjournal.com/2021/06/14/amrita-sher-gil-an-avant-garde-blender-of-the-east-west/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Indira Sundaram - Wikipedia] ---
Indira Sundaram (28 March 1914 - 1975) was the subject of several paintings completed by her sister, Amrita Sher-Gil, photographs by her father Umrao Singh Sher-Gil, and art works by her son Vivan Sundaram.


--- [Amrita Shergill - Jat Chiefs] ---
No content


--- [Amrita Sher-Gil | Artworks Life & History | DAG] ---
1913 Born in Budapest on 30 January to Sikh father Umrao Singh Sher-Gil and Hungarian mother Marie Antoinette. She is christened Dalma-Amrita upon birth. Her father belongs to an aristocratic Sikh family of Lahore while her mother comes from a middle-class Hungarian family. Spends the first few years of her life in Hungary. 1914 Sister Indira is born on March 28, in Budapest. 1916 In September, the family moves to Marie Antoinette’s family home in Dunaharaszti, a popular holiday resort on the outskirts of Budapest. Life in Hungary is frugal due to the ongoing World War I, but Sher-Gil grows up surrounded by affectionate family members—aunts, uncles, cousins—that results in deep emotional bonds. She goes on to develop a close relationship with her older cousin, Victor Egan, whom she would later marry. 1917 Is re-christened Maria Magelena by her mother fearing reprisal for the family’s part-Jewish origins. 1918 Spanish flu epidemic brings Sher-Gil very near her death in October. 1919 Is admitted to the local school at Dunaharaszti, where she draws using coloured pencils to illustrate Hungarian folk stories and fairy tales by the Grimm brothers and Hans Christian Andersen. Starts writing her own poems and stories, and records events with coloured crayons. Her talent is appreciated by the legendary actress Jászai Mari, writer Pastor Arpad, and the psychoanalyst Dr. Ujhelyi. 1920 On January 23, receives a certificate from her school in the name of Sher-Gil Maria Magdolna. In June, the family moves from Dunaharaszti, first to Marie Antoinette’s sister’s house in Budapest, and then to the famous Margaret Island Grand Hotel on the Danube. 1921 On January 2, days before her eighth birthday, the family sets sail for India aboard S.S. Malva, from Marseilles to Bombay. They stop in Paris on the way as her mother wants to give her a quick tour of the world’s art capital. The family lands in Bombay on February 2, staying in Delhi for two weeks, before proceeding to Lahore to stay with Sher-Gil’s uncle, Sunder Singh (Umrao Singh’s brother)—a powerful figure in Punjab politics—for a couple of months. The family eventually settles down in Simla. They buy a house in Summer Hill at one end of the township of Simla. The house was built for the British viceroy and is called L’Holme. The Sher-Gil sisters are schooled at home, learn English and French, and to dance and play the piano. Their father continues with his passion for photography. 1922 Continues to paint in watercolours. In her diary written this year, in English, she makes vivid observations of an Indian child bride. 1923 Paints her first responses to cinema and wins a first prize for art, a Rs. 50 cash award. She paints several impressions, mainly of women characters from films, such as Queen of Sheba, Messalina, Carmen, and from novels. Italian sculptor Giulio Cesare Pasquinelli makes busts of Amrita and Indira; Pasquinelli has arrived in India after his appointment as court sculptor by Maharaja Bhupendra Singh of Patiala. 1924 Upon their mother’s insistence, the Sher-Gil sisters are taken to Genoa, Italy, for further education. They are admitted to the Santa Annunciata Paggio Imperiaion school in Florence, which Amrita notes in her diary as an ‘enormous, elegant but hateful school’. In a diary entry dated 23 March 1924, young Amrita writes about her trip to Italy: ‘Oh, how our heart was aching [when] Apuka [father] went away from us [and] the ship started moving. And in a few hours we only saw the outlines of India, dear India where our only Apuka watched how our ship disappeared on the horizon…’ Several of her diary entries from Florence reveal that shifting to Italy was an ill-conceived project (on the part of her mother who had entered into a relationship with the Italian sculptor Giulio Cesare Pasquinelli). Sher-Gil revolts and the family eventually returns to India in June. Pasquinelli doesn’t return to the Sher-Gil house but goes on to name his daughter Carla-Amrita-Indira Pasquinelli. The sisters are admitted to Simla’s Jesus and Mary Convent school from where Amrita is expelled as she declares herself an atheist. Soon after, Sher-Gil starts taking art lessons at home from the artists Hall Beven-Petman and Whitmarsh. She continues to choose subject matters from among American romantic and German expressionist films, from her reading of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky, and from the music of Chopin, Beethoven, Tchaikovsky, and Debussy. 1926 Her uncle Ervin Baktay (Marie Antoinette’s brother), a student of Indian thought, comes to stay with the Sher-Gils in summer. A painter himself, he recognises the talent in his niece, and guides her to move away from her highly emotional early paintings to draw from reality, emphasising structure rather than naturalism. 1929 Upon the collective suggestions of Hall Beven-Petman and Ervin Baktay, and persuasion by Marie Antoinette, her father decides to send her to Paris to study art. The family leaves Simla for Bombay in February and sets sail for Europe aboard the Austrian liner, The Lloyd. The ship anchors in Venice and the family travels around Italy—Lake Como, Bellaggio, Lake Lugano and Rome—before arriving in Paris by train. Hungarian painter József Nemes, a friend of Ervin Baktay, suggests Amrita to enroll at Grande Chaumière and not the other better known art schools of Paris as she has little academic training in art. She joins under Professor Pierre Vaillant who does her portrait before she leaves the school a few months later. Along with sister, she is also admitted to the Alfred Cortot school of music, but leaves after a few months as she feels she cannot master two creative disciplines. In October, she enrolls as a part-time student under Lucien Simon at École des Beaux-Arts. 1930 In May, she sees an exhibition of Rabindranath Tagore’s works at Theatre Pigalle, Paris; this is the first public exhibition of the works by the Nobel laureate. Sher-Gil exhibits at the same venue at the same time, with the Beaux-Arts Students Circle of Women. Then seventeen-year-old Sher-Gil remarks on Tagore’s works: ‘I like his drawings better than his poetry even…’ Years later, in 1937, she would write to Karl Khandalavala: ‘I am fond of Rabindranath Tagore’s work and am of the opinion that he is the only one of the Indian artists who has anything to say.’ In June, travels to Hungary with the family. Subsequently, she spends every summer there, till 1934. Paints Portrait of a Young Man, a likeness of fellow student and one-time lover, Boris Tazlitsky. 1931 Her portrait of Boris Tazlitsky wins her a prize at an exhibition at École des Beaux-Arts. 1931-41 Makes 172 oil paintings in the last decade of her life. 1932 Paints Young Girls in June; it wins a Gold Medal at the Grand Salon the following year. Her sister Indira poses for the painting. 1933 Visits National Gallery in London in June and encounters the paintings of Paul Gauguin. Leaves École des Beaux-Arts in July and sets up studio with friend Marie-Louise Chassany, whose portrait she had earlier painted. Paints Reclining Nude, Professional Model, Sleep. Sister Indira poses for Sleep, a bold, nude rendition for a woman artist of her time. Is elected associate member of Société Nationale, its youngest member ever, and the first Asian. 1934 Meets Hungarian writers Deszö Szabo and Frigyes Karinthy in Budapest in February. Paints Study of Model (2), Study of Model (3), Self-Portrait as a Tahitian. The last is inspired by Paul Gauguin’s Tahitian nudes that she has seen the previous year at National Gallery, London. Returns to India with parents in December, stays in Amritsar with the family of uncle Sunder Singh. 1935 Paints Group of Three Girls in January. This is the first painting she does after her return to India. Paints Mother India in Simla in May-June. Meets English journalist and satirist Malcolm Muggeridge in Simla in June, paints his portraits. Rejects an award by the Simla Fine Art Society in September. Paints Hill Women in November, and Hill Men in December. Both these works show the influence of early Indian sculpture, the earliest examples of Indian art to which Sher-Gil has been exposed. 1936 Undertakes an extended tour of India. Her subsequent paintings reflect a desire to create a modern style of painting that is quintessentially Indian yet uniquely her own. Exhibits with the Ukil brothers (Sarada and Barada) at the Taj Mahal Hotel in Bombay in November. Meets Karl Khandalavala—the earliest champion and the most perceptive critic of her work during her lifetime—who introduces her to Pahari, Basholi, Rajput, and Mughal miniatures. The two form a strong, lifelong friendship. Visits Ajanta and Ellora with Barada Ukil. Her elation is palpable in the letters she writes to her sister about the visit: ‘This is a wonderful place, the most silent place I have ever experienced. One does not know what silence is, what it can be, till one has been to Ellora.’ Exhibits in Hyderabad in December; meets Sarojini Naidu, about whom she says, ‘I have met a wonderful woman at last. Sarojini Naidu.’ Visits Trivandrum (now Thiruvananthapuram), Kerala, the same month. 1937 Visits Cape Comorin (Kanyakumari) in January, where Mahatma Gandhi is addressing a meeting. In later years, her husband Victor, in media interviews, confirms his wife’s ‘ardent’ admiration for Gandhi. Paints Fruit Vendors the same month, while still on tour of south India. Also wins a Gold Medal for Group of Three Girls at the 46th annual exhibition of the Bombay Art Society, in January; visits Cochin (Kochi) and sees the seventeenth-century frescos at Mattancheri Palace, which is an important highlight of her tour. In February, meets R. C. Tandan, secretary of the Hindustani Academy in Allahabad, with whom she has been in touch through letters. He organises her solo exhibition that opens on February 2 at the Roerich Centre for Art and Culture, Allahabad University. In the same month, she exhibits at Imperial Hotel in New Delhi, and meets Jawaharlal Nehru. Returns to Simla and between April and November, paints Bride’s Toilet, Brahmacharis, Siesta, The Story Teller, South Indian Villagers Going to Market—all renowned paintings. Khandalavala describes three paintings—Bride’s Toilet, Brahmacharis and South Indian Villagers Going to Market—as Sher-Gil’s south Indian trilogy. In December, exhibits at the Faletti’s Hotel, Lahore, one of her largest and most impressive shows. 1938 Spends time in Saraya (in Gorakhpur district in present-day Uttar Pradesh) at her uncle’s estate in February-March and paints Village Scene, Elephants Bathing in a Green Pool, Red Clay Elephant, Hill Scene, and Hill Side. Spends the month of April in Simla and paints Red Verandah. In June, sets sail for Hungary from Bombay. Marries her cousin, Dr .Victor Egan, in Budapest on July 16. Declares ‘Europe belongs to Picasso, Matisse and Braque and many others. India belongs only to me.’ 1938-39 Paints Potato Peeler, Two Girls, and A Hungarian Market Scene between August 1938 and May 1939. 1939 Returns to India with husband in June. Visits Saraya. Enroute to Saraya, visits Lucknow Museum where she encounters Kushan, Mathura and Mauryan art. Settles down at her parents’ home in Simla with her husband. Paints Resting. In December, goes to the Majitha family estate in Saraya to settle there. Victor is employed as a doctor at the Saraya Sugar Factory. 1940 Meets Jawaharlal Nehru in Saraya in October. While press articles refer to the artist as ‘the face that bewitched… dazzled Jawaharlal Nehru…when he came to visit…in Sardar Nagar’, Victor clarifies that ‘she was hardly interested in politics and politicians’. Meets Karl Khandalavala in Saraya in December. 1940-41 Paints Ancient Story Teller, Woman at Bath, Woman Resting on Charpoy, The Swing, Bride, Elephants, Camels. 1941 Stays in Simla in August, gives a talk on All India Radio. Goes to Lahore in September to settle there, paints The Last Unfinished Painting (a later title to the painting she calls On The Roof while working on it). Passes away at midnight of December 5-6 in Lahore, after a brief illness. A posthumous exhibition of her paintings is held in December at Punjab Literary League Hall, Lahore. 1942 The Usha Journal of Art and Literature publishes a special report on the artist that also includes an authored piece by the artist, ‘The Evolution of my Art’. 1944 Karl Khandalavala writes a monograph on Sher-Gil. 1948 Sher-Gil’s mother commits suicide. 1949-50 Her father, Umrao Singh Sher-Gil, and brother-in-law, K. C. K. Sundaram (sister Indira’s husband) donate her paintings to the National Gallery of Modern Art; her husband Victor Egan sells forty-four paintings to the N.G.M.A. This corpus is an important highlight of the N.G.M.A. collection. 1954 Her father passes away. 1965 Lalit Kala Akademi publishes Sher-Gil, a monograph on the artist, under its Contemporary Series of Indian Art collection. 1969 Amrita Sher-Gil, a documentary on her life is produced by Government of India’s Films Division. Directed by Bhagwan Das Gupta, it wins the National Film Award for best non-feature film. 1970s Is declared one of nine National Treasure Artists of India; her works, therefore, are non-exportable. 1970 Her solo, ‘Amrita Sher-Gil’, is organised by the National Gallery of Modern Art and Lalit Kala Akademi. 1972 Nephew Vivan Sundaram organises a retrospective exhibition of Amrita Sher-Gil’s paintings. 1978 A postage stamp depicting Hill Women is released by India Post, Government of India. 1982 Ancient Story Teller (1940) is shown at Tate Gallery, London, as part of ‘Festival of India’, a six-month celebration of Indian culture and art in Britain. Co-curated by Geeta Kapur, Akbar Padamsee, and Richard Bartholomew, the festival receives attention from the international media with newspapers such as The New York Times describing the exhibition as the ‘most comprehensive collection of Indian painting and sculpture ever assembled anywhere’. 1995 She is the inspiration behind the female painter Aurora Zogoiby in Salman Rushdie’s The Moor’s Last Sigh. The author shares in the foreword of the book Amrita Sher-Gil, A Self-Portrait in Letters and Writings, by Vivan Sundaram, ‘It was only after the book was done that I permitted myself to know the real Amrita a little better, and I discovered at once that she and my Aurora had much more in common than I suspected. Indeed, in some ways—her sexual proclivities, for example—Amrita Sher-Gil was a more bohemian, less inhibited figure than the flamboyant woman I had made up.’ 2006 Haus der Kunst, Munich, organises the exhibition ‘Amrita Sher-Gil: An Indian Artist Family of the Twentieth Century’. Her painting, Village Scene, sells for ₹6.9 crore at a New Delhi auction. 2007 Tate Modern, London, hosts the exhibition, ‘Amrita’, featuring thirty of her paintings, all shown in Britain for the first time. It is the first solo exhibition of any Indian artist at Tate. 2018 The New York Times publishes a belated obituary of Amrita Sher-Gil. Her 1934 painting, The Little Girl in Blue, sells for Rs 18.68 crore at the Sotheby’s auction, ‘Boundless: India’, in Mumbai on 29 November. 2019 Tigers, plaster of paris, the artist’s work from 1940, is exhibited at Drishyakala, DAG’s collaboration with Archaeological Survey of India at Red Fort, New Delhi. The same work had been shown a year earlier in DAG’s booth at India Art Fair. 2020 Her 1935 oil, Boys with Lemons, sells for ₹15.68 crore ($2,240,000) at Saffronart’s Spring Live Auction on 5 March. 2021 On July 13, her 1938 oil painting, In The Ladies’ Enclosure, sells for ₹37.80 crore ($5,142,8567), at an auction. It is currently the third-most expensive Indian painting ever sold.


--- [Amrita Sher-Gil | Indian Modernist Painter, Life, Career, Works, & Biography | Britannica] ---
Amrita Sher-Gil Who was Amrita Sher-Gil? What was Amrita Sher-Gil’s early life like? What are some of Amrita Sher-Gil’s major works? What is Amrita Sher-Gil’s legacy in the art world? Amrita Sher-Gil (born January 30, 1913, Budapest, Hungary—died December 5, 1941, Lahore, India [now in Pakistan]) was a painter who was one of the pioneers of the Modernist movement in Indian art and whose works, frequently portraying women and their struggles, left an indelible mark on the history of art. Often called the Indian Frida Kahlo, Amrita Sher-Gil produced about 150 works during 1934–41, each reflecting her unique artistry that blends traditional Indian methods of painting with Modernist European techniques. Early life and career Formative years Amrita Sher-Gil was born in Budapest, Hungary, to Umrao Singh Sher-Gil, a member of an aristocratic Indian family from Punjab, and Marie Antoinette Sher-Gil, a Hungarian opera singer. Amrita Sher-Gil had a younger sister, Indira. The family was stranded in Hungary during World War I but relocated to India in 1921, settling in Simla (now Shimla), in present-day Himachal Pradesh. Amrita Sher-Gil had a precocious talent for painting that was noticed early, and she was encouraged in her pursuit by her uncle, Ervin Baktay, an Indologist and a former painter himself. Life in Paris The Sher-Gil family moved to Europe in 1929 so that the sisters could train in Paris. Indira Sher-Gil trained in piano there. At 16 Amrita Sher-Gil entered the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris, where she was influenced by the works of artists such as Paul Cézanne, Amedeo Modigliani, and Paul Gauguin. Early years as a painter In her early years as a painter, Sher-Gil painted in an academic style using oils and live models from her life. Her 1932 painting Young Girls earned her an associate membership in the Grand Salon exhibit. Among her other important paintings from her Europe days are Sleep (1933) and Self-Portrait as a Tahitian (1934). Return to India In 1934 the family left Europe and settled in India again. Sher-Gil was inspired by the belief that her future as a painter lay in India. In a letter (1938) to Karl Khandalavala, an Indian art connoisseur and lawyer, her spirit is evident. “Europe belongs to Picasso, Matisse, Braque, and many others. India belongs only to me.” In India, Sher-Gil’s first effort was to find a mode of delineation appropriate to her Indian subjects. Influenced in particular by the wall paintings of the Ajanta Caves in western India, she attempted to fuse their aesthetic with the European oil painting techniques she had learned in Paris. Her style was in marked contrast to that of her contemporaries—Abanindranath Tagore, Abdur Rahman Chughtai, and Nandalal Bose—who belonged to the Bengal school, which represented the first modern movement of Indian art. She considered the school retrograde and blamed it for what she called the stagnation that, in her estimation, characterized Indian painting of the time. An exceptional colorist, Sher-Gil was able to achieve special effects with colors that were unbridled and bold, in direct contrast to the pale hues in vogue among her contemporaries. Major works in India In 1937 she set out on a tour of South India, a journey that shaped and molded all her future work. Her works from that period, her “South Indian trilogy” (Brahmacharis, South Indian Villagers Going to Market, and Bride’s Toilet), are startlingly different from the realist watercolor mode of Indian painting prevalent at the time. Those paintings represented her experimentation with form and were her first attempt at assimilating the tremendous impact made on her by the cave paintings of Ajanta as well as by those of the Ellora Caves. In 1938 she returned to Hungary, where she married her cousin Victor Egan. The couple spent a year there and then moved back to India, settling in Saraya, a small village in what is today Uttar Pradesh, where an uncle of hers had an estate. Always willing to experiment, there she turned for inspiration to 17th-century Mughal miniatures, applying their sense of composition and color to the formal system she had developed from the Ajanta paintings. | life in Europe (1929–34) | return to India (1935–41) | |---|---| | Self-Portrait with Easel (1930) | Hill Women (1935) | | Male Torso (1930) | Group of Three Girls (1935) | | Girl in Mauve (1931) | Brahmacharis (1937) | | Village Scene in Hungary (c. 1931) | Bride’s Toilet (1937) | | Hungarian Gypsy Girl (1932) | South Indian Villagers Going to Market (1937) | | Self-Portrait in Green (1932) | The Story Teller (1937) | | Department Store (1933) | Siesta (1937) | | Gypsy Girl from Zebegény (1932) | Fruit Vendors (1937) | | Young Girls (1932) | Hill Scene (1938) | | Sleep (1933) | Village Girls (1941) | | Self-Portrait as a Tahitian (1934) | The Last Unfinished Painting (1941) | Sher-Gil’s death and legacy In 1941 Sher-Gil and her husband moved to Lahore. That year would have marked her first solo exhibition in Lahore, but she suddenly fell ill and died on December 5, 1941. Her last unfinished works reveal a move toward abstraction and have richer colors than her previous pieces. Sher-Gil was not only a talented painter but also a gifted wordsmith. Her artist-nephew Vivan Sundaram compiled her writings in two volumes titled Amrita Sher-Gil: A Self-Portrait in Letters and Writings. These volumes include a foreword by Salman Rushdie, a complete list of Sher-Gil’s 172 known oil paintings, and a select bibliography of writings by and on Sher-Gil. - Sher-Gil also spelled: - Shergil - Also called: - Dalma-Amrita - Died: - December 5, 1941, Lahore, India [now in Pakistan] (aged 28) Sher-Gil is one of the Navratna (Hindi: “Nine Gems”) artists of India. In 1972 her works were recognized as national art treasures under the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act along with eight other artists. The artist’s works are displayed in the National Gallery of Modern Art in New Delhi. In 1978 India Post honored her life by issuing a postage stamp featuring her influential painting Hill Women. A road in Delhi has been named Amrita Sher-Gil Marg as a tribute to her. In 2006 her work Village Scene fetched 6.9 crore rupees ($1.5 million) at a New Delhi auction, setting a record as the highest price paid for a painting in India at the time. In 2021 In the Ladies’ Enclosure (1938) was auctioned for 37.8 crore rupees (about $5 million), making it the fifth most-expensive Indian painting ever sold. In 2023 her painting The Story Teller (1937) broke the record for most expensive Indian painting ever sold (at 61.8 crore rupees, or $7.2 million).


--- [Amrita Sher-Gil: An Avant-Garde Blender of the East & West – Borderless] ---
Bhaskar Parichha explores how the life and art of Amrita Sher-Gil was an amalgam of the best of India and the West Much before the Punjabi diaspora spread its wings across continents, there was one woman who not only became a venerated name in the field of art but also gave art an altogether new identity in India. She was Amrita Sher-Gil (1913-1941). Born to Umrao Singh Sher-Gil Majithia, a Sikh aristocrat and a great scholar of Sanskrit and Persian, and Marie Antoinette Gottesmann, a Jewish opera singer from Hungary, Amrita inherited a legacy that was consummate and effervescent. Amrita was the eldest of the two daughters. Her younger sister was Indira Sundaram, mother of painter Vivan Sundaram. Amrita spent her early childhood in Dunaharaszti, Hungary. She was also the niece of the Indologist Ervin Baktay. It was Baktay who guided her — by being a critique of her works — and gave her the academic underpinning that helped Amrita flourish. Ervin also taught her to use domestic helpers as models; and the reminiscence of these models eventually motivated her to return to India. Sher-Gil’s quest for the fine art led her to Paris, with her mother, when she was barely sixteen. She studied first at the Grande Chaumiere under Pierre Vaillant and subsequently at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts, where she was taught by Lucien Simon. In her early twenties, Sher-Gil returned to India in 1921. The family began living in Shimla. She was by now an accomplished painter, equipped with some of the most essential modules that make one a great artist. She had an unquenchable thirst to be on familiar terms with the grammar and the language of painting, a virile tenacity of purpose and the single-mindedness about her role in life. In 1924, she went to Italy and joined Santa Annunciata, a Roman Catholic institution. In Santa, Amrita Sher-Gil got an exposure to the works of Italian artists. While studying in Paris, she had already been influenced by the works of European greats like Paul Cézanne and Paul Gauguin. Her later paintings would echo a strong influence of the Western artists, chiefly from the Bohemian circles of Paris of the early 1930s. In 1932, she displayed her first important work, Young Girls, which led to her appointment as an Associate of the Grand Salon in Paris in 1933, making her the youngest ever and the only Asian to have received such recognition. In 1934, while in Europe, she was haunted by what is known through her letters ‘an intense longing to return to India’ and ‘feeling in some strange way that there lay my destiny as a painter’. After her return, she began a rediscovery of the traditions of Indian art which would continue till her death. It was also during this period that she pursued an affair with Malcolm Muggeridge. In the mid-thirties, Amrita Sher-Gil’s mission for exploring further into Indian art began. It was a never-ending journey and her contributions to art was a breakthrough and uniquely superb. From Mughal miniatures to the Ajanta paintings and Southern styles, the Indian influence on her work was complete and irreversible. In 1936, at the behest of Karl Khandalavala, art collector and critic, Amrita pursued her lifelong passion for realizing her Indian roots. She found inspiration in the Pahari School of painting. Later, in 1937, she toured South India and produced the famous South Indian trilogy paintings- ‘Bride’s Toilet’, ‘Brahmachari’ and ‘The South Indian Villagers’. These paintings mirror her passionate sense of colour and an equally passionate empathy for Indian subjects. Poverty and despair constitute a major theme in Amrita Sher-Gil’s works and they find plentiful representation on her canvas. Her works also showed an engagement with the works of Hungarian painters, especially the Nagybanya School of painting in the interwar years. In 1938, Amrita married her Hungarian first cousin, Dr. Victor Egan. After this marriage, they moved to Gorakhpur (UP) and, still later, the couple shifted to Lahore where she lived till her death in 1941. Amrita Sher-Gil was one of the most gifted Indian artists belonging to the pre-colonial era. Her works reflect her deep ardour and perception for colours. Her profound understanding of the Indian subjects comes so vividly in her works that it is difficult to find parallels elsewhere. The works of Amrita Sher-Gil have been declared national art treasures by the Government and most of her paintings adorn the National Gallery of Modern Art in New Delhi. There is also a Delhi road named after the painter — Amrita Sher-Gil Marg. Amrita Sher-Gil’s legacy stands at par with those of the masters of the Bengal renaissance. She is said to be the ‘most expensive’ woman painter in India. Besides remaining an inspiration to many contemporary Indian artists, she was the muse for one of the longest running Urdu plays, Tumhari Amrita (1992), directed by Javed Siddiqi, with Shabana Azmi and Farooq Sheikh playing the lead roles. Her works are also a central force in the novel, Faking It, authored by Amrita V Chowdhury. The beauty and depth of Amrita Sher-Gil’s paintings has earned her inordinate admiration and recognition beyond her days. . Bhaskar Parichha is a journalist and author of No Strings Attached: Writings on Odisha and Biju Patnaik – A Political Biography. He lives in Bhubaneswar and writes bilingually. Besides writing for newspapers, he also reviews books on various media platforms. . PLEASE NOTE: ARTICLES CAN ONLY BE REPRODUCED IN OTHER SITES WITH DUE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT TO BORDERLESS JOURNAL
