=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lee Teng-hui - Wikipedia]
For his efforts to democratise the Taiwanese government, Lee was given the nickname "Mr. Democracy" and referred to as Taiwan's "Father of Democracy". A November 2020 phone survey of 1,076 Taiwan citizens aged 18 and above which asked the question: "Which president, after Taiwan's democratisation, ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lee_Teng-hui

[Taiwan's 'Mr. Democracy' Lee Teng-hui dies - DW.com]
The former president of Taiwan, Lee Teng-hui, who earned the nickname "Mr. Democracy" for his role in shifting the island away from authoritarian rule, died on Thursday. The 97-year-old had been hospitalized in February after choking while drinking ...
URL: https://www.dw.com/en/taiwans-mr-democracy-lee-teng-hui-dies/a-54384687

[The Legacy of Taiwan’s Lee Teng-hui - Foreign Policy Research Institute]
Lee was the first Taiwan-born president and also the first democratically elected president of the Republic of China, earning him the nickname of “Mr. Democracy.” His tenure as president saw great change and transformation in Taiwan: he ...
URL: https://www.fpri.org/article/2020/08/the-legacy-of-taiwans-lee-teng-hui/

[‘Mr Democracy’ a man for his time - Taipei Times]
Jul 31, 2020 · Lee Teng-hui (李登輝), who was born on Jan. 15, 1923, in the farming community of Sanshi Village, Taihoku Prefecture — now New Taipei City’s Sanzhi District (三芝) — during the Japanese colonial era, and rose to become mayor of Taipei and not only the Republic of China’s (ROC) first Taiwan-born president, but its first directly ...
URL: https://www.taipeitimes.com/News/front/archives/2020/07/31/2003740872

[Lee Teng-hui, Taiwan's 'father of democracy', dies aged 97 | Taiwan | The Guardian]
A statement from the office of the current president, Tsai Ing-wen, said: “President Lee’s contribution to Taiwan’s democratic journey is irreplaceable and his death is a great loss for the country.” · Taiwan thwarts Chinese 'invasion' ...
URL: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/jul/30/lee-teng-hui-taiwan-father-of-democracy-first-president-dies-aged-97


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lee Teng-hui - Wikipedia] ---
Lee Teng-hui (Chinese: 李登輝; pinyin: Lǐ Dēnghuī; 15 January 1923 – 30 July 2020) was a Taiwanese statesman, economist, and agronomist who served as the president of the Republic of China and chairman of the Kuomintang from 1988 to 2000. He was the first president to be born in Taiwan, the last to be indirectly elected, and the first to be directly elected.
Born in Taihoku Prefecture, Lee was raised under Japanese rule. He was educated at Kyoto Imperial University and served in the Imperial Japanese Army during World War II before graduating from National Taiwan University. He then studied agricultural economics in the United States, where he earned his doctorate from Cornell University in 1968, beginning a career as an economics professor. As a member of the Kuomintang (KMT), he was appointed Mayor of Taipei in 1978 and became governor of Taiwan Province in 1981 under President Chiang Ching-kuo. Lee succeeded Chiang as president after Chiang's death in 1988.
During his presidency, Lee oversaw the end of martial law in Taiwan and led reforms to democratize the Republic of China. He was an advocate of the Taiwanese localization movement, sought to establish greater international recognition of the country, and has been credited as the president who completed Taiwan's democratic transition. After leaving office, he remained active in Taiwanese politics as a major influence on the pro-independence Taiwan Solidarity Union (TSU), and recruited for the party in the past. After Lee campaigned for TSU candidates in the 2001 Taiwanese legislative election, he was expelled by the KMT. His post-presidency was also marked by efforts to maintain greater relations between Taiwan and Japan.


--- [Taiwan's 'Mr. Democracy' Lee Teng-hui dies - DW.com] ---
Taiwan's 'Mr. Democracy' Lee Teng-hui dies July 30, 2020The former president of Taiwan, Lee Teng-hui, who earned the nickname "Mr. Democracy" for his role in shifting the island away from authoritarian rule, died on Thursday. The 97-year-old had been hospitalized in February after choking while drinking a glass of milk, and he was being treated for pneumonia. He was despised by the Chinese Communist Party, whose leaders said he should be tossed into "the dustbin of history." Lee became the first democratically elected president of Taiwan in 1996 after winning a landslide victory. This followed months of intimidating military exercises by China near the Taiwanese coastline, widely viewed as part of an effort to scare voters. He was president from 1988 to 2000, having been given the role after the death of former leader Chiang Ching-kuo — son of wartime Nationalist leader Chiang Kai-shek who ruled the island for almost five decades. Lee was able to capitalize politically on his opposition to China's efforts to absorb Taiwan, saying he hoped the island could be "a country of democracy, freedom, human rights and dignity." Read more: China: Reunification 'inevitable' as Taiwan’s Tsai starts second term in office Stance on independence alienated his old party Born in northern Taiwan to a rice and tea-farming family, Lee was educated under Japanese colonial rule and he was a fluent Japanese speaker. He served for a short time in the imperial Japanese army and studied at university in Kyoto. He also studied in the United States, at the universities of Iowa State and Cornell. As the first president to be born in Taiwan, to a family of rice farmers, he took a tough line with Beijing. Lee insisted on a "special," but most crucially equal, "state-to-state" relationship with China. He also sought to sever cultural links to pursue a more distinct Taiwanese identity for the fledgling democracy. This angered some within his Nationalist Party, who still aspired to return in victory to the mainland from which many had fled in 1949 at the end of the Chinese civil war. Read more: Hong Kong: Taiwan offers help amid anti-China protests Lee's Nationalists lost the election in 2000 to the Democratic Progressive Party when former human rights lawyer Chen Shui-bian became president. Lee was accused by some on his own side of causing the defeat with his failure to back its favored candidate, which led to a splitting of the vote. He was expelled from the party in 2001 over his public support for pro-independence party candidates. Lee was indicted in 2011 on charges of corruption during his time in office, a move that his allies described as being aimed at discrediting a pro-independence party that he had supported in the run-up to the 2012 presidential election. Read more: Opinion: Xi Jinping — A modern-day tyrant in the old mold rc/msh (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)


--- [The Legacy of Taiwan’s Lee Teng-hui - Foreign Policy Research Institute] ---
A nation must think before it acts. On July 30, 2020, former President Lee Teng-hui of Taiwan passed away at the age of 97. He had served as vice president to President Chiang Ching-kuo, the son of Chiang Kai-shek, before becoming president himself. Lee was the first Taiwan-born president and also the first democratically elected president of the Republic of China, earning him the nickname of “Mr. Democracy.” His tenure as president saw great change and transformation in Taiwan: he finished Taiwan’s long path to democracy and ended the decades-long martial law. To evaluate his legacy, Thomas J. Shattuck, Managing Editor and Asia Program Research Associate at the Foreign Policy Research Institute, and Jacques deLisle, Asia Program Director at FPRI, discuss Lee’s role in making Taiwan what it is today. Jacques deLisle: There are likely to be two principal legacies, one of which seems well-settled and the other of which may be less determined as yet. He will be remembered as the father of Taiwanese democracy. To be sure, the seeds were planted earlier, in the dangwai, among exiles during Taiwan’s authoritarian era, and—farther back—in the authoritarian-era KMT regime’s tolerance for a modicum of democracy at local levels. Foundations for the transition were laid during the final years of Chiang Ching-kuo’s presidency. Taiwan’s constitutional court played a key role as well. And Lee came to the presidency initially by succession, rather than democratic election. But none of that can—or should—take anything away from the fact that Lee was the first democratically elected president of Taiwan, or from his crucial role in advocating for democracy and in shepherding Taiwan into full-fledged democracy. Taiwan’s peaceful transition, in which Lee played a defining and high-profile role, was—and remains—a remarkable accomplishment, all the more so given the consolidation and continued vibrancy of Taiwan’s democratic politics a quarter-century later. Lee will also be remembered for his impact on questions of Taiwan’s status and sovereignty. His tenure was pivotal in moving the ROC position away from the traditional and long-increasingly-untenable KMT claim that there was one China with the point of contention being whether the ROC or the PRC was the rightful government, to a position that asserted Taiwan’s separate, at-least-state-like status—without crossing Beijing’s redline of a formal declaration of independence. For now, Lee’s legacy on this front remains uncertain. Thus far, his innovation of a framework of a viable, if formally murky, functional independence for Taiwan has proved remarkably resilient. If Taiwan were someday to become a fully, formally independent state, Lee surely would be remembered as the father of Taiwanese independence as well as Taiwanese democracy. Thomas Shattuck: Jacques, you summed up Lee’s legacy pretty well. I’d just like to emphasize how critical of a role the democracy element is not just for Taiwan, but for the rest of the world. People often forget (or more realistically, don’t know) that Taiwan “fully” democratized around the same time/slightly after post-Soviet states. There were local elements of democracy in cities before 1996, but let’s face it, if the people are not voting for the national leader, then the claim to being a democracy is quite weak. Lee’s decision to finish that push by making the 1996 presidential election a direct election still is a model for countries going through democratization. He was the incumbent and still decided to let the people vote for or against him. This decision makes him more of a George Washington figure in Taiwan than Chiang Kai-shek. He led Taiwan through its first transition between political parties—from the KMT to Chen Shui-bian, a member of the Democratic Progressive Party—peacefully. I jokingly say that Taiwan is the most successful “post-Soviet state” because Taiwan’s democracy has gotten stronger since 1996, while the status of democracy in other post-Soviet countries (looking at Poland and Hungary) is no longer settled. Without Lee, Taiwan wouldn’t be where it is today. deLisle: Lee started out as something of a thorn in the side of the Clinton administration, which took significant heat from Taiwan’s friends in Congress for allowing Lee nothing more than a refueling stop in Hawaii as the first visit by an ROC president to the U.S. after the severing of diplomatic relations in 1979. Congressional pressure also led to the Clinton administration’s acquiescence in allowing Lee the visit on which he gave his famous speech at his alma mater, Cornell University—a speech that angered Beijing, which announced the missile tests that led to the Third Taiwan Strait Crisis in the run-up to Taiwan’s first fully democratic presidential election. Despite this fraught backstory, the missile crisis was a turning point in Taiwan’s favor in U.S.-Taiwan relations. The dispatch of a carrier group to the region was a striking demonstration of U.S. support. And Taiwan’s successful first-ever democratic presidential election—which Lee, of course, won—in the shadow of PRC efforts to intimidate Taiwan voters not to support Lee was a major step forward in the values-based component of the support Taiwan has enjoyed from the United States. Shattuck: The Honolulu refueling stop is the moment that things seemed to have changed for U.S.-Taiwan relations. It was an embarrassing move to make a national leader not leave his plane. Now, whenever a president of Taiwan makes a stopover visit, he or she sits down with members of Congress, or in the case of Tsai Ing-wen visits NASA, a federal building. If the COVID crisis in the United States ever ends, it is realistic to expect that Tsai’s next stopover will have something even more special occur. Then, with the missile tests that became the Third Taiwan Strait Crisis, U.S. support never wavered. The relationship has had its peaks and valleys depending on the executives, but arms sales continues to this day; a Cabinet-level official is scheduled to visit Taiwan for the first time in a few years; the U.S. patrols the Taiwan Strait regularly. The fact that China played the bully role at the same time that Taiwan was having its first democratic presidential election was a necessary combination for Clinton to finally back Taiwan’s existence. As China’s military grows stronger, U.S.-Taiwan relations cannot afford to go back to pre-1995 levels of lack of care. In effect, those critical years in Lee’s presidential term put U.S.-Taiwan relations on the path that they are today. deLisle: Lee’s characterization of cross-Strait relations as “special state-to-state relations”—which Beijing derided as a “two state” thesis—has faded from the lexicon (with even Chen Shui-bian promising not to constitutionalize Lee’s formulation). But the basic notions in Lee’s framing—which was more complex than “special state-to-state relations” and included, among other things, assertions that cross-Strait relations were neither fully international nor fully domestic—and the core of his cross-Strait policies have persisted in substance. Steering between formal declarations of independence, on one hand, and commitments to move toward unification, on the other hand, has been the basic course that his successors have charted, steering more or less (and often more) close to the dangers that lie at either side. Ideas set forth in the Lee-era Guidelines for National Unification remain important today, in that Taiwan’s policy is not to take the China-provoking move of definitively ruling out unification (although Lee’s approach of setting preconditions that Beijing would not meet has given way to a straightforward official agnosticism about ultimate, distant-future end-states). Arguably, President Tsai is closer to President Lee’s careful and nuanced navigation of the treacherous waters of cross-Strait relations than Presidents Chen or Ma were—and perhaps not surprisingly so, given her role in shaping Lee’s “state-to-state” policy. Shattuck: I’m going to focus on a different element of this question: the Chinese reaction to Lee’s death and how that plays into his cross-Strait formula. Global Times editor Hu Xijin wrote a piece on Lee after his death. The vitriol that Hu spits shows Beijing’s insecurity and disdain towards Lee. “Lee is undoubtedly a sinner in the eyes of the Chinese nation. The sharp turn he initiated in Taiwan politics has greatly increased resistance to China’s rise and brought long-term strategic risks to Taiwan. . . . His name will live in infamy in the Chinese history as he stood against the Chinese people in their goal of national reunification.” While Taiwan and democratic nations view Lee positively as “Mr. Democracy,” those on the other side of the Taiwan Strait view him as the godfather of secession/independence—which links to Lee’s “special state-to-state relations” formula. That set the groundwork for Taiwan’s current status. Beijing continues to squeeze Taipei particularly in the diplomatic realm as a way to ensure that Taiwan is never considered “special” by other countries. The situation between China and Taiwan is still unsettled, but Lee’s example points to a different vision for a country’s governance, which is important in 2020 as Xi Jinping continues to consolidate his own authority domestically. deLisle: In terms of formal affiliation, Lee traversed much of the visible spectrum of Taiwan’s politics, from being vice president in a Chiang-led KMT regime to founder of the Taiwan Solidarity Union—a “deeper green” party than the DPP. But that story likely overstates the extent of any changes his views, even publicly expressed ones. Inherent in his status as the first Taiwanese (as opposed to “mainlander”) president of the ROC, implicit in his early and sustained advocacy for democracy (which inevitably called for Taiwanese governing themselves and doing so autonomously), and reinforced in his notion of a “New Taiwanese” (including all people in Taiwan, regardless of origin and background) was a claim of democratic self-determination and sovereignty that gets fairly close to Taiwan independence. His post-presidential views were more openly status quo-challenging, but changes in role matter here: the head of a small political party and a president face different restrictions. And his support for Tsai’s candidacies—back to her unsuccessful presidential run in 2012—reflects a good many things, including an evident appreciation of politics as the art of the possible. Shattuck: Lee’s political development, or as Jacques notes, the change in his position and circumstance make him such an interesting character. Presidents of any country are often restricted in what they can say vs. what they want to say (one notable American exception). After leaving office, Lee (and really any national leader) can finally say what they want, and in Taiwan, the executive must be even more careful about the most simply statements, so Lee’s move from a KMT president to “deep-Green” makes his political life a great case study in what happens when someone is freed from the shackles of political office. The views expressed in this article are those of the author alone and do not necessarily reflect the position of the Foreign Policy Research Institute, a non-partisan organization that seeks to publish well-argued, policy-oriented articles on American foreign policy and national security priorities.


--- [‘Mr Democracy’ a man for his time - Taipei Times] ---
Lee Teng-hui (李登輝), who was born on Jan. 15, 1923, in the farming community of Sanshi Village, Taihoku Prefecture — now New Taipei City’s Sanzhi District (三芝) — during the Japanese colonial era, and rose to become mayor of Taipei and not only the Republic of China’s (ROC) first Taiwan-born president, but its first directly elected one as well. Educated in the Japanese educational system of the time, Lee, who spoke Japanese, Hoklo (also known as Taiwanese), Mandarin and English, won a scholarship to Kyoto Imperial University, but his studies were interrupted by World War II. He earned a bachelor’s degree in agricultural science from National Taiwan University (NTU) in 1948, and appeared headed for an academic or civil service career, going on to earn a master’s degree from Iowa State University in 1953 and a doctorate from Cornell University in 1968. Photo courtesy of Academia Historica He worked for the US-sponsored Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction and also taught at NTU and National Chengchi University. After joining the Chinese Nationalist Party (KMT) in 1971, the following year he gained his first government appointment, as a minister without portfolio with responsibility for agriculture. He served in that position until June 1978, when he was appointed mayor of Taipei, a post he held until December 1981, when he became governor of the then-Taiwan Provincial Government, serving until 1984, when he became vice president of the ROC. Photo courtesy of Academia Historica He succeeded president Chiang Ching-kuo (蔣經國), who died on Jan. 13, 1988, although the move was opposed by many Mainlanders within the KMT, including Chiang Kai-shek’s widow, Soong Mayling (宋美齡), who returned from the US to help other conservative Mainlanders to sideline Lee as president and block his accession to the KMT chairmanship. However, Lee was deft enough to secure enough support to stay in office. In 1991, he ended the Period of National Mobilization against Communist Rebellion and pushed for the re-election of the “1,000 year” National Assembly and the Legislative Yuan, whose members had served since 1948. Photo courtesy of Academia Historica He also oversaw a major reshuffle of the Executive Yuan. In 1995, he became the first ROC president to publicly apologize for the 228 Incident, and also made waves by returning to Cornell University to deliver a speech. The following year he became the first directly elected president after the Third Addition to the Constitution established that the nation’s president and vice president should be directly elected. Photo courtesy of Academia Historica His unparalleled contributions to democratizing the nation and his election that year earned him the nickname “Mr Democracy” from Newsweek magazine. During his time as president and as KMT leader he favored highlighting Taiwan’s sovereignty and right to self-determination, and also pushed his special state-to-state model of cross-strait relations. His relationship with the Democratic Progressive Party was highlighted by both rivalry and camaraderie, which is perhaps best exemplified by his collaboration with then-DPP chairman Hsu Hsin-liang (許信良) to freeze the Taiwan Provincial Government in 1997. He was blamed by many hardliners in the KMT for the party’s loss of the presidency in 2000 to the DPP’s Chen Shui-bian (陳水扁), which eventually led to his being expelled from the party. In 2004, Lee supported Chen’s re-election and in 2012 and 2016 stumped for Tsai Ing-wen (蔡英文) in her bids to become president. Today, members of the DPP and pro-independence advocates see Lee as a visionary on the nation’s path to democracy and its efforts to achieve self-determination. Democracy advocate Peng Ming-min (彭明敏), 96, said there were two contradictory identities in Lee — one was his status as a Taiwanese and the other was his position as KMT chairman. The last time he saw Lee was at the founding of the Formosa Alliance in Kaohsiung, Peng said. Lee made great contributions during Taiwan’s period of economic, political, cultural and social transformation, Peng said, adding that he believes Lee will always have an important position in Taiwan’s history. Additional reporting by Lee Hsin-fang and Diane Baker This story has been corrected since it was first published. CHAOS: Iranians took to the streets playing celebratory music after reports of Khamenei’s death on Saturday, while mourners also gathered in Tehran yesterday Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was killed in a major attack on Iran launched by Israel and the US, throwing the future of the Islamic republic into doubt and raising the risk of regional instability. Iranian state television and the state-run IRNA news agency announced the 86-year-old’s death early yesterday. US President Donald Trump said it gave Iranians their “greatest chance” to “take back” their country. The announcements came after a joint US and Israeli aerial bombardment that targeted Iranian military and governmental sites. Trump said the “heavy and pinpoint bombing” would continue through the week or as long TRUST: The KMT said it respected the US’ timing and considerations, and hoped it would continue to honor its commitments to helping Taiwan bolster its defenses and deterrence US President Donald Trump is delaying a multibillion-dollar arms sale to Taiwan to ensure his visit to Beijing is successful, a New York Times report said. The weapons sales package has stalled in the US Department of State, the report said, citing US officials it did not identify. The White House has told agencies not to push forward ahead of Trump’s meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping (習近平), it said. The two last month held a phone call to discuss trade and geopolitical flashpoints ahead of the summit. Xi raised the Taiwan issue and urged the US to handle arms sales to BIG SPENDERS: Foreign investors bought the most Taiwan equities since 2005, signaling confidence that an AI boom would continue to benefit chipmakers Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co’s (TSMC, 台積電) market capitalization swelled to US$2 trillion for the first time following a 4.25 percent rally in its American depositary receipts (ADR) overnight, putting the world’s biggest contract chipmaker sixth on the list of the world’s biggest companies by market capitalization, just behind Amazon.com Inc. The site CompaniesMarketcap.com ranked TSMC ahead of Saudi Aramco and Meta Platforms Inc. The Taiwanese company’s ADRs on Tuesday surged to US$385.75 on the New York Stock Exchange, as strong demand for artificial intelligence (AI) applications led to chip supply constraints and boost revenue growth to record-breaking levels. Each TSMC ADR represents State-run CPC Corp, Taiwan (CPC, 台灣中油) yesterday said that it had confirmed on Saturday night with its liquefied natural gas (LNG) and crude oil suppliers that shipments are proceeding as scheduled and that domestic supplies remain unaffected. The CPC yesterday announced the gasoline and diesel prices will rise by NT$0.2 and NT$0.4 per liter, respectively, starting Monday, citing Middle East tensions and blizzards in the eastern United States. CPC also iterated it has been reducing the proportion of crude oil imports from the Middle East and diversifying its supply sources in the past few years in response to geopolitical risks, expanding


--- [Lee Teng-hui, Taiwan's 'father of democracy', dies aged 97 | Taiwan | The Guardian] ---
Lee Teng-hui, known as Taiwan’s “father of democracy” and its first popularly elected president, has died, according to a statement from his family. Lee, who oversaw Taiwan’s transition from martial law to one of the most vibrant democracies in Asia, died of septic shock and multiple organ failure at Taipei Veterans general hospital on Thursday evening. He had been in hospital for more than five months after choking while drinking milk and later contracting pneumonia. He was 97 years old. Lee served as president between 1988 to 2000, overseeing the end of authoritarian rule under his party, the Nationalist party, which had taken over Taiwan after fleeing from mainland China in 1949 following defeat in the civil war by the Chinese Communist party. A statement from the office of the current president, Tsai Ing-wen, said: “President Lee’s contribution to Taiwan’s democratic journey is irreplaceable and his death is a great loss for the country.” The ministry of foreign affairs said in a statement: “The world will remember him as Mr Democracy, the architect of Taiwan’s modern liberal democratic system, which allows the country to stand tall on the global stage.” Born in Sanzhi, a rural outpost near Taipei, when Taiwan was under Japanese control, Lee became the country’s first native born president, taking up the post after the death of Chiang Ching-kuo in 1988. Chiang had chosen Lee as his vice-president at a time when top positions were normally reserved for those born in mainland China. In 1996 he became the first president to be elected by popular vote after months of missile tests and war games launched by Beijing in an effort to intimidate voters. Lee called for Taiwan to be treated as a sovereign state and pushed for self-determination. Attempting to bridge the divide between those born in mainland China who fled to the island in 1949 with the Nationalists and those native to Taiwan, he promoted a “new Taiwanese” common identity. While he overhauled relations with the Chinese Communist party, opening talks in the 1990s that would enable trade and economic links, Beijing labelled Lee a “secessionist” with state media describing him as the “scum of the nation”. China believes that Taiwan is an inalienable part of the country and has pledged to bring the island into the fold by force if necessary. Lee wrote in 2005: “It is an unquestionable fact that Taiwan does not belong to China.” In a post on Facebook, Tsai Ing-wen wrote: “Lee was not afraid to talk about life and death. Because he was aware of death he could think about the meaning of life … Although he has departed the world today, he left democracy and freedom to Taiwan.”
