=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kuzwayo, Ellen - Encyclopedia.com]
In 1941 Kuzwayo married Ernest Moloto, with whom she had two sons, but the marriage was an unhappy one, and Kuzwayo fled the physical abuse—and, unwillingly, her two young sons—in 1947. She found a Johannesburg-area teaching job in Pimville, which was part of the designated black township ...
URL: https://www.encyclopedia.com/education/news-wires-white-papers-and-books/kuzwayo-ellen

[Ellen Kuzwayo - Wikipedia]
She attended Adams College, Amanzimtoti, and then undertook a teacher training course at Lovedale College in Fort Hare, graduating at the age of 22 and beginning a teaching career. She married Ernest Moloto when in her late twenties, and the couple had two sons, but the marriage was not a happy ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ellen_Kuzwayo

[She gave her life to the struggle - sowetan.co.za]
Oct 11, 2011 · In her late 20s Khuzwayo married Ernest Moloto but the marriage was not a happy one. She gave birth to two boys, but Khuzwayo fled to Johannesburg because of abuse from her husband, leaving her sons behind. After her divorce, Khuzwayo threw herself into many activities on top of her teaching duties and even did volunteer work with local youth ...
URL: https://www.sowetan.co.za/news/2011-10-11-she-gave-her-life-to-the-struggle/

[Ellen Kuzwayo | The Independent | The Independent]
Nnoseng Ellen Kate Merafe, teacher, social worker and political activist: born Thaba Nchu, South Africa 29 June 1914; married 1941 Ernest Moloto (one son, and one son deceased; marriage dissolved), 1950 Godfrey Kuzwayo (died 1965; one son); ...
URL: https://www.independent.co.uk/news/obituaries/ellen-kuzwayo-6102817.html

[11 Facts About Ellen Kuzwayo - FactSnippet]
5. Ellen Kuzwayo married Ernest Moloto when in her late twenties, and the couple had two sons, but the marriage was not a happy one, and after suffering abuse from her husband she fled to Johannesburg. 6. Ellen Kuzwayo had a part as a shebeen queen, alongside Sidney Poitier in the 1951 film Cry, the Beloved Country. 7.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-ellen-kuzwayo.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kuzwayo, Ellen - Encyclopedia.com] ---
Kuzwayo, Ellen Ellen Kuzwayo 1914-2006 Writer, social activist The longtime social-justice crusader and anti-apartheid activist Ellen Kuzwayo died in South Africa in 2006 at the age of ninety-one. Often called the "Mother of Soweto," she was a teacher, social worker, and prominent figure in the struggle to end apartheid in her country for decades. Her autobiography, Call Me Woman, was published in 1985 at the height of the South African government's human-rights abuses against its majority black population and helped raise awareness of the suffering that apartheid brought to nearly every black South African household. Kuzwayo was born Nnoseng Ellen Serasengwe in 1914 in Thaba Nchu, South Africa. There, in the province called Orange Free State at the time, her maternal grandfather had a six-thousand-acre farm that was known as Tshiamelo (place of goodness) and had been in the family since the 1880s. A teacher and court interpreter, Kuzwayo's grandfather was involved in one of black South Africa's first political organizations: the South African Native National Congress. Kuzwayo's own father was a businessman with ties to Johannesburg, South Africa's largest city, and was active in the African National Congress (ANC), the successor to the South African Native National Congress. Her parents divorced when she was still young, and during her earliest years she lived among a large extended family with many aunts, all of whom were called Mma (mother). Even though the family adhered to the Anglican faith brought to South Africa by missionaries in the nineteenth century, it still retained some traditional African beliefs. In her earliest years, Kuzwayo spoke Setswana and Sesotho, both of which were languages of the Bantu group spoken by black South Africans. Trained as a Teacher Like several generations of family members before her, Kuzwayo was educated at a missionary school after the age of seven, and went on to boarding school when she was a little older. In 1931 she entered Adams College of Natal and earned a teacher training certificate. She then when on to Lovedale College, another mission school, to earn another teacher training certificate. In 1936 she began her teaching career in Natal Province, but she also became politically active. She was in attendance at the historic All-African National Convention in 1937, a gathering of representatives from thirty-nine different black organizations, and was inspired by the work of Charlotte Maxeke, the first national president of the National Council of African Women. In 1941 Kuzwayo married Ernest Moloto, with whom she had two sons, but the marriage was an unhappy one, and Kuzwayo fled the physical abuse—and, unwillingly, her two young sons—in 1947. She found a Johannesburg-area teaching job in Pimville, which was part of the designated black township of Soweto, and became involved with a newly created arm of the ANC known as the Youth League. This was a more militant faction of the ANC, and both Nelson Mandela and Walter Sisulu, two leading ANC figures, had been instrumental in its formation. For the past several decades both the British and the Afrikaners (descendants of early Dutch settlers) had fought bitter legal, economic, and political battles against each other to control South Africa and its valuable resources, which included vast gold and diamond deposits as well as a large black population that was desperate for work because it had been displaced from the land that had provided for it for generations. The more conservative National Party, which drew its support from Afrikaners, won the 1948 general elections and soon began implementing a policy it called apartheid, or "separateness" in the Afrikaans language. The Group Areas Act was passed in 1950, which imposed stringent new residency restrictions on blacks and other nonwhites, forcing many single-parent families to live in abysmal rural areas while their fathers worked in distant mines or cities; it was almost impossible to obtain official permission to move one's family because of a job. Kuzwayo quit teaching in 1952, when the Bantu Education Act was introduced. The act created a vastly inferior educational system for black South Africans, one whose publicly stated goal was to prepare students for jobs on the lowest rung of the economic ladder—not to create a generation with unrealistic aspirations. According to Donald G. McNeil Jr. of the New York Times, Kuzwayo once said, "I did not have the strength nor the courage to teach the children of my community what appeared to be very poisonous to their minds. The National Party gave them an inferior education so those children were going to remain the slaves of white people." Was a Classmate of Winnie Mandela's Turning instead to social work, Kuzwayo was trained in that field by classes at the Jan H. Hofmeyr School of Social Work in Johannesburg, the first such school for blacks in the country. One of her classmates was Winnie Madikizela, who married Nelson Mandela in 1958. Kuzwayo became a social worker, first with the Johannesburg municipal government and then with the Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA) and other privately funded organizations. She also served as the general secretary for the YWCA's Transvaal chapter for a decade. Much of her work focused on helping South African women, who bore some of the greatest indignities of the apartheid system. She worked on maternal health and educational initiatives that aimed to reduce infant mortality rates, and also developed small-business programs for women in Soweto and other townships. At a Glance … Born Nnoseng Ellen Serasengwe on June 29, 1914, in Thaba Nchu, South Africa; died of complications from diabetes, April 19, 2006, in Johannesburg, South Africa; daughter of Phillip Serasengwe Merafe and Emma Mmutsi (Makgothi) Merafe; married Ernest Moloto, 1941 (ended, 1947); married Godfrey Rossenbaum Kuzwayo, 1950 (died 1965); children: (with Moloto) Everington M. Moloto (deceased) and Bakone Moloto; (with Kuzwayo) Godfrey Kuzwayo. Politics: African National Congress. Religion: Anglican. Education: Adams College of Natal, 1931-35; Lovedale College, higher diploma teacher certificate, 1936; Jan H. Hofmeyr School of Social Work, 1952; University of the Witwatersrand, higher diploma in advanced social work practice, 1980. Career: Natal seminary and school, assistant teacher, 1936-52; City Council of Johannesburg, South Africa, social worker, after 1957; also affiliated with the South African Association of Youth Clubs and the Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA)—Dube Center; YWCA-Transvaal Region, general secretary, after 1964; affiliated with Community University of the Witwatersrand, 1975-82; volunteer community worker, beginning 1983; National Black Consumer Union, president, after 1984; member of Soweto People's Delegation to Solve the Rent Boycott, beginning 1988; Foundation for African Business and Consumer Services, first vice president, 1988; South African parliament, 1994-99. Memberships: National Black Consumer Union; Young Women's Christian Association. Awards: Central News Agency Literary Award, 1986; University of the Witwatersrand, honorary degree; Order of Meritorious Service, South Africa, 1999. In 1976 Soweto became the site of a notorious uprising. Angered over a new national law that mandated Afrikaans be taught in half of all black high school classes, students rioted and the police opened fire. Some 575 Sowetans died, many of them teenagers. The incident brought widespread international condemnation of the South African government for the use of firepower on its own children. Following the uprising, Kuzwayo became part of the newly established Committee of Ten that was formed to evaluate and recommend changes for the system of township government. Her support for a measure that would have allowed some landownership by blacks to alleviate Soweto's dire housing shortage fell into the category of "endangering the maintenance of law and order," according to South Africa's Terrorism Act. In 1977 she was taken into custody and held in a notorious Johannesburg facility for five months. She was never formally charged, because the act allowed for indefinite detention without trial. Kuzwayo was in her early sixties by then, but she returned to her activism and social work. She was also one of a handful of black students allowed to enroll in the University of the Witwatersrand, which granted her a diploma in advanced social work practice in 1980. The achievement, as well as her prison experience, spurred her to begin writing her autobiography. She secured a generous benefactor in the form of one of the most prominent—and wealthiest—whites in South Africa: Harry Oppenheimer, whose family controlled South Africa's diamond mines and whose philanthropy and opposition to apartheid was well known. Won Literary Award Call Me Woman was published in England in 1985 and soon attracted an international readership. In it, Kuzwayo recounted the details of her idyllic childhood at Tshiamelo, early involvement with the ANC, and the personal hardships she had endured over the years. She had remarried, but was widowed in the mid-1960s. Her two sons from the first marriage suffered under the brunt of apartheid: one was expelled from college for his political activism, and the other was banished to a remote black homeland. She had a third son born during her second marriage, and he was just a teenager when she was arrested in 1977. Call Me Woman also recounted her time in detention, where she would hear teenage girls who were her fellow prisoners in a nearby cell singing hymns they had learned in Sunday school to bolster their spirits. Knowing they were as young as twelve and enjoyed none of the privileges that she did as a public figure, she would listen to them discuss the beatings and interrogations and felt devastated that she was unable to come to their aid. "Some days, hour after hour, I sobbed in vain," she wrote. Kuzwayo's book was awarded the Central News Agency Literary Award in 1986, South Africa's top literary honor. She was the first black ever to win it and joined a list of prominent writers and fellow critics of apartheid such as John M. Coetzee and Nadine Gordimer. It was one of many signs that even white South Africans were tiring of a system that remained in place through force, which seemed to incite only more violence. The year 1989 marked the beginning of the end of apartheid, and five years later the nation held its first free and fair general elections. Kuzwayo was elected to South Africa's parliament on the ANC ticket in 1994 and served five years. In 1996 she spoke before the national Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which had been impaneled to hear grievances committed during the apartheid era and issue restitution orders. In her early eighties by the time she gave her testimony to the commission, Kuzwayo noted that the country had become much more violent during her lifetime thanks to the spirit- and opportunity-crushing policy of apartheid. McNeil noted in her obituary that she said that in the 1950s she could tell a group of teenage boys loitering at the train station to walk her home safely. "Believe you me, today I cannot do that, because I don't trust the very children who ought to protect me because of the handling of the government of South Africa of those days. They turned our children into animals." Kuzwayo wrote two more books: Sit Down and Listen (1990), a collection of parables about contemporary life in South Africa, and African Wisdom: A Personal Collection of Setswana Proverbs (1998). She died on April 19, 2006, in Johannesburg, of complications from diabetes. Survivors included two sons, six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. She also left a legacy on film: she appeared in the classic Sidney Poitier film about South Africa, Cry, the Beloved Country (1951), and in the documentary filmed in the 1980s about the loss of her family's lands, Tshiamelo: A Place of Goodness. She had inherited the property, but it was confiscated by the government in 1974 when the area was rezoned for whites-only. Writings Call Me Woman, Women's Press, 1985. Sit Down and Listen, Women's Press, 1990. African Wisdom: A Personal Collection of Setswana Proverbs, Kwela Books, 1998. Sources Periodicals Guardian (London), April 24, 2006, p. 37. New York Times, May 24, 1978, p. A3; May 25, 1978, p. A2; September 7, 1986; April 22, 2006. Times (London), May 2, 2006, p. 54. Online Dietche, Julie Phelps, "Voyaging toward Freedom: New Voices from South Africa," Research in African Literatures, http://www.fb10.uni-bremen.de/anglistik/kerkhoff/africanlit/AfriLitArchives10.htm (accessed May 14, 2008). —Carol Brennan More From encyclopedia.com You Might Also Like NEARBY TERMS Kuzwayo, Ellen


--- [Ellen Kuzwayo - Wikipedia] ---
Nnoseng Ellen Kate Kuzwayo (29 June 1914 – 19 April 2006) was a South African women's rights activist and politician, who was a teacher from 1938 to 1952. She was president of the African National Congress Youth League in the 1960s. In 1994, she was elected to the first post-apartheid South African Parliament. Her autobiography, Call Me Woman (1985), won the CNA Literary Award.




--- [She gave her life to the struggle - sowetan.co.za] ---
NNOSENG Ellen Kate Khuzwayo was born on June 29 1914 in Lesotho. She grew up on her grandfather's farm in Thaba Nchu and inherited the farm in 1930 but lost it soon afterwards when it was declared a "white area". She began school at the age of 7 and proceeded to St Paul's Higher Primary and to St Francis College, where she was a boarder. Khuzwayo's mother died when Khuzwayo was 16 years old. After this she threw herself into her studies. After attending Adams College for four years she spent a year at Lovedale College in Fort Hare, graduating in 1936 at age 22. She then began a career in teaching. In her late 20s Khuzwayo married Ernest Moloto but the marriage was not a happy one. She gave birth to two boys, but Khuzwayo fled to Johannesburg because of abuse from her husband, leaving her sons behind. After her divorce, Khuzwayo threw herself into many activities on top of her teaching duties and even did volunteer work with local youth groups. Khuzwayo returned to school at the age of 39 and completed a training programme at Jan Hofmeyr School of Social Work. Armed with a degree in social work, and a higher diploma in social work from Wits University, she began working with the Johannesburg city council. After this, she worked with the South African Association of Youth Clubs and for the YWCA-Dube Centre. Her career peaked when she accepted a position as general secretary of YWCA-Transvaal Region in 1964. While holding this very challenging post, Khuzwayo maintained her connections with her community, encouraging women to work together in self-help groups. After the Soweto uprising in 1976 Soweto residents chose 10 people to study the role of members of the local councils who were cooperating with the apartheid regime. Khuzwayo and nine men were selected to the committee of 10 but all 10 members of the committee were picked up by police and detained without trial. Khuzwayo was held in the Johannesburg Fort for five months. Her activities included being president of the Black Consumers' Union and serving on the executive committee of the Urban Foundation. She has published Call me Woman (1985) and Sit and Listen: Stories from South Africa (1996). In 1979 The Star newspaper named Khuzwayo Woman of the Year. The Universities of Natal, Port Elizabeth and Witwatersrand awarded her honorary doctorates in recognition of her remarkable work. In 1994 Khuzwayo was appointed an ANC member of Parliament. She died on April 19 2006 at the age of 91.


--- [Ellen Kuzwayo | The Independent | The Independent] ---
Nnoseng Ellen Kate Merafe, teacher, social worker and political activist: born Thaba Nchu, South Africa 29 June 1914; married 1941 Ernest Moloto (one son, and one son deceased; marriage dissolved), 1950 Godfrey Kuzwayo (died 1965; one son); died Soweto, South Africa 19 April 2006. A worthy link between the old South Africa and the new, Ellen Kuzwayo did not use politics or war to help bring about democracy in South Africa. Her contribution was in the upliftment of African women, who had to conduct their own campaign for freedom and progress within their own community as well as under white supremacy. Her political links were many. Her grandfather Jeremiah Makgothi was founding Secretary, in 1909, of the Native Convention, forerunner of the African National Congress (1912), she attended the historic All-African Convention in 1936, was, rather nominally perhaps, a rare woman member of the ANC Youth League in the late 1940s, a supporter of the Black Consciousness movement, and the only woman member of the innocuous, investigative Committee of Ten, set up after the Soweto rising of 1976, the cause of her seven months' imprisonment in the Johannesburg Fort. Kuzwayo's account of her political role is eclipsed, in her prize-winning memoir Call Me Woman (1986), by her membership in 1938 of the National Council of African Women, founded by two "unsung heroines" of those days, Charlotte Maxeke and Minah Soga; her social work training and diploma at the Jan Hofmeyr School of Social Work and organising of the Southern African Association of Youth Clubs in the 1950s; and her work for the World Affiliated YWCA in the 1960s. She had taught in Transvaal primary schools until 1952 but social work was her life and she did much to prepare the ground for the Urban Foundation, a white-run and business- funded attempt to make good some of the evils that had led to the Soweto rising. She courted unpopularity by serving on the Transvaal and then, from 1982, the national board, judging the organisation by its achievements, which were many. In time organisations were to form round Ellen Kuzwayo, most notably Elizabeth Wolpert's Maggie Magaga Trust for which Kuzwayo and her black women co-trustees were made solely responsible, and its offshoot, the Zamani Soweto Sisters Council. She and Betty Wolpert also made two documentary films, Awake from Mourning (1982) and Tsiamelo: a place of goodness (1983), which won much support abroad for black South African women's work. In the first democratic election in 1994 she was elected to Parliament for the ANC but did not stand again in 1999. She was the first African woman to receive an honorary degree from the Witwatersrand University. Ellen Kuzwayo's was a life of real achievement for African women but, privately, in many ways a sad one. Her girlhood in the Orange Free State was disrupted when her stepmother sent her away and this was followed by a violent first marriage that parted her from her two elder sons for many years, though they were close later. Her health was poor and increasingly marred by diabetes, and the death of her eldest son in his thirties was a heavy blow. But her spirit never failed, least of all when confronted by white supremacist tyranny. She never forgot the words of Edgar Brookes, a great South African, then Principal of Adams College in Natal where she had studied: You are going into a harsh world, students, you will meet many obstacles. My counsel to you on that long hard road is: "Make your difficulties a stepping stone to success." President Thabo Mbeki , whose mother had been Kuzwayo's friend at Adams College in the early 1930s, saluted her at her death as one of South Africa's "finest daughters". Randolph Vigne Join our commenting forum Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies Comments


--- [11 Facts About Ellen Kuzwayo - FactSnippet] ---
Nnoseng Ellen Kate Kuzwayo was a South African women's rights activist and politician, who was a teacher from 1938 to 1952. 11 Facts About Ellen Kuzwayo Ellen Kuzwayo was president of the African National Congress Youth League in the 1960s. Ellen Kuzwayo's autobiography, Call Me Woman, won the CNA Literary Award. Ellen Kuzwayo attended Adams College, Amanzimtoti, and then undertook a teacher training course at Lovedale College in Fort Hare, graduating at the age of 22 and beginning a teaching career. Ellen Kuzwayo married Ernest Moloto when in her late twenties, and the couple had two sons, but the marriage was not a happy one, and after suffering abuse from her husband she fled to Johannesburg. Ellen Kuzwayo had a part as a shebeen queen, alongside Sidney Poitier in the 1951 film Cry, the Beloved Country. Ellen Kuzwayo worked as a teacher in the Transvaal until 1952, giving up teaching on the introduction of the Bantu Education Act, 1953, which cut back opportunities for black education. Ellen Kuzwayo died in Johannesburg, aged 91, of complications from diabetes, survived by her sons, Bobo and Justice Moloto, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. In 1979, Ellen Kuzwayo was named Woman of the Year by the Johannesburg newspaper The Star, and was nominated again in 1984. Ellen Kuzwayo awarded honorary doctorates by the University of Natal and the University of Port Elizabeth. Ellen Kuzwayo was awarded the Order of Meritorious Service by Nelson Mandela in 1999.
