=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[RuPaul - Wikipedia]
RuPaulwas born in San Diego on November 17, 1960, the son of Ernestine "Toni" (née Fontenette) and Irving AndrewCharles. His parents were both from Louisiana. [10][11] He was named by his mother; "Ru" came from roux, the French term for the base of gumbo and other creole stews and soups. [12] According to DNA analysis by Finding Your Roots staff, his ancestry is 70% African and 30% European ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RuPaul

[Who is RuPaul? Was the "Queen of Drag" married before Georges LeBar?]
He attended Patrick HenryHighSchoolinSan Diego,California, and later transferred to Atlanta, where he enrolled at North AtlantaHighSchool.RuPaulgot his higher education at NorthsideSchoolof Performing Arts. But unfortunately, he did not graduate. Instead, he ventured into the entertainment industry. Top 5 facts aboutRuPaul.
URL: https://www.tuko.co.ke/facts-lifehacks/celebrity-biographies/505364-who-rupauls-wife-queen-drag-married/

[RuPaul | Biography, Movies, TV Shows, & Facts | Britannica]
Early lifeRuPaulwas born inCaliforniato parents who divorced by the time he was seven. At age 15 he moved in with one of his elder sisters in Atlanta, Georgia, and attended a performing artshighschool. Always having a flair for dress-up, he began performing in drag while on the underground movie and nightclub circuit in Atlanta.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/RuPaul

[RuPaul - Students | Britannica Kids | Homework Help]
RuPaul'scareer skyrocketed after he became popular with mainstream audiences.RuPaulAndreCharleswas born on November 17, 1960, in San Diego,California. His parents divorced by the time he was seven. At age 15 he moved in with one of his older sisters in Atlanta, Georgia. While there he attended a performing artshighschool.
URL: https://kids.britannica.com/students/article/RuPaul/631666

[16 Things You (Probably) Didn't Know About RuPaul Charles - Ranker]
According to his biography,RuPaulwas kicked out of Patrick HenryHighSchoolin11th grade due to chronic truancy. Although he would go on toattendthe NorthsideSchoolof Performing Arts near Atlanta, GA, Ru wouldn't graduate from there either.
URL: https://www.ranker.com/list/weird-rupaul-facts/brandon-michaels


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [RuPaul - Wikipedia] ---
RuPaul Andre Charles (born November 17, 1960) is an American drag queen, television host, singer, producer, writer, and actor. He produces, hosts, and judges the reality competition series RuPaul's Drag Race and has received several accolades, including 14 Primetime Emmy Awards, three GLAAD Media Awards, a Critics' Choice Television Award, two Billboard Music Awards, a Tony Award, and a Guinness World Records title. He has been dubbed the "Queen of Drag" and is considered the most commercially successful drag queen in the United States, with Fortune saying that he is "easily the world's most famous drag queen." In 2017, RuPaul was included in the annual Time 100 list of the most influential people in the world.
Born and raised in San Diego, California, RuPaul studied performing arts in Atlanta, Georgia, before relocating to New York City, where he became a popular fixture on the LGBTQ nightclub scene. He achieved international fame as a drag queen with the release of his debut single, "Supermodel (You Better Work)" (1993). RuPaul was a spokesperson for MAC Cosmetics in 1994, raising money for the Mac AIDS Fund and becoming the first drag queen to land a major cosmetics campaign.
RuPaul's Drag Race was created in 2009 and has gone on to produce eighteen seasons in the United States. The show has also seen success internationally and there are several international variants of the show, including RuPaul's Drag Race UK (2019–present) and Canada's Drag Race (2020–present). There are also several spin-offs of the main show, such as RuPaul's Drag U (2010–2012), RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars, (2012–present), and RuPaul's Secret Celebrity Drag Race (2020–2022). His other television work includes The RuPaul Show (1996–1998), Skin Wars (2014–2016), Good Work (2015), Gay for Play Game Show Starring RuPaul (2016–2017), and RuPaul (2019). In 2018, RuPaul received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his contributions to the television industry.
RuPaul has made appearances in films, including Crooklyn (1994), The Brady Bunch Movie (1995), and But I'm a Cheerleader (1999), as well as television series, including Girlboss and Broad City (both 2017). He created and starred in the Netflix original series AJ and the Queen (2020). As a recording artist, RuPaul has released fifteen studio albums. He has also published four books: Lettin' It All Hang Out (1995), Workin' It! RuPaul's Guide to Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Style (2010), GuRu (2018), and The House of Hidden Meanings (2024).




--- [Who is RuPaul? Was the "Queen of Drag" married before Georges LeBar?] ---
Who is RuPaul? Was the "Queen of Drag" married before Georges LeBar? In 2017, RuPaul revealed to the public that he was married. The revelation was a surprise because he rarely spoke openly about his relationships. Instead, his public life revolved around creating TV shows and music. But was he married before? Who is RuPaul, and who was his ex-wife? TABLE OF CONTENTS RuPaul is an American TV personality, musician, model, and actor. He is known as the drag queen and RuPaul’s Drag Race judge. His iconic drag performances have earned him the nickname Queen of Drag. His extensive experience in the entertainment industry and support for the LGBTQ+ community have earned him praise amongst his peers. RuPaul's profile summary Full name | RuPaul Andre Charles | Nickname | Queen of Drag | Gender | Male | Date of birth | 17 November 1960 | Age | 63 years old (as of 2024) | Zodiac sign | Scorpio | Place of birth | San Diego, California, United States | Current residence | Beverly Hills, California, United States | Nationality | American | Ethnicity | Black | Religion | Unreligious | Sexuality | Gay | Height | 6'3" (193 cm) | Weight | 172 lbs (78 kgs) | Hair colour | Bald | Eye colour | Black | Mother | Ernestine Charles | Father | Irving Andrew Charles | Siblings | 3 (Renetta Charles, Renae Charles, Rozy Charles) | Relatives | Cory Booker (cousin) | Marital status | Married | Partner | Georges LeBar (m. 2017) | High school | North Atlanta High School, Patrick Henry High School | College | Northside School of Performing Arts | Profession | Drag Queen, TV personality, actor, musician, model | Net worth | $60 million | TikTok | | X (Formerly Twitter) | | Who is RuPaul? RuPaul is an American drag queen, TV personality, actor, musician and model. The actor was born RuPaul Andre Charles on 17 November 1960 in San Diego, California, United States. He is the son of Ernestine Charles (mother) and Irving Andrew Charles (father). Furthermore, he has three siblings, Renetta Charles, Renae Charles, and Rozy Charles. Education Andre grew up in the Brewster Projects in San Diego. He attended Patrick Henry High School in San Diego, California, and later transferred to Atlanta, where he enrolled at North Atlanta High School. RuPaul got his higher education at Northside School of Performing Arts. But unfortunately, he did not graduate. Instead, he ventured into the entertainment industry. How did RuPaul get famous? RuPaul started his career as a musician in the early 1980s. He participated in underground cinemas and debuted on an Atlanta public-access variety show titled The American Music Show. However, he struggled as a musician throughout the 1980s. He succeeded in the 1990s when he recorded the dance/house album Supermodel of the World. He released a video called Back to My Roots, critically acclaimed and ranked top charts worldwide. In the 2000s, he continued his momentum as an actor, producer, and director. He produced RuPaul’s Drag Race in 2008, which aired in February 2009. The reality TV show became a success and has become a franchise. It has aired for 15 seasons and inspired many spin-off shows, including RuPaul's Drag U, RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars, and RuPaul's Secret Celebrity Drag Race. Furthermore, RuPaul’s Drag Race is now replicated in many countries worldwide. He has 15 studio albums, 42 music videos, and 68 singles. The personality has appeared in 30 movies, 18 short films, and 69 TV shows. Andre is also the winner of 12 Primetime Emmy Awards. In 2017, Time Magazine included him on the list of Time's 100 most influential people. According to his IMDb profile, below are some of his acting credits. Year | Film/TV show | 2023 | Trolls Band Together | 2023 | Nimona | 2023 | Ozi: Voice of the Forest | 2021-2022 | Chicago Party Aunt | 2022 | The Tiny Chef Show | 2022 | Zombies 3 | 2021-2022 | Amphibia | 2021 | Reno 911!: The Hunt for QAnon | 2018-2021 | Drag Tots | 2020 | Muppets Now | What is RuPaul’s net worth? According to Celebrity Net Worth, his net worth is alleged to be $60 million. RuPaul has made money through the entertainment industry. The drag queen has been a musician, selling millions of albums, starring in movies and TV shows, and producing many titles. Furthermore, he has made money from endorsements with beauty and fashion brands. Is RuPaul gay? RuPaul is gay. He has been openly gay for many years and advocates for LGBTQ+ rights. In his new memoir, The House of Hidden Meanings, the icon delves into his experiences as a Black gay youth in 1970s Atlanta. RuPaul reveals that he often felt a disconnect between himself and both communities. I was confused. My understanding was that every gay person had the same experience that I did. I felt that thinking outside the box had to do with being gay, but that really wasn’t the case. As I got older, I realized that there were different experiences.When I found my true tribe, what we had in common was thinking outside the box. We were bohemians who recognized that the emperor wasn’t wearing any clothes. Our creed was ‘Don’t be fooled by the superficial, get to the realness. Who is RuPaul's husband? The personality married his partner Georges LeBar in 2017. Georges is an Australian author, farmer, and business owner. He was born on 24 January 1973 in Perth, Australia. RuPaul and Georges LeBar met in 1994. Georges was a rancher in Wyoming celebrating his 21st birthday when he met Andre on the dance floor of a club called Limelight. Andre found Georges attractive because he was taller than him. Thus, he found somebody he could wrap his arms around. RuPaul and Georges dated for many years. Their relationship was unique because they split up several times before reuniting. In 2017, Andre told the public that he was married to his partner of 23 years. He later revealed that his partner was Georges LeBar. As of 2024, RuPaul and Georges LeBar are still married. In his 2024 memoir The House of Hidden Meanings, RuPaul dedicated a verse to his love Georges, which read: For the love of my life, Georges LeBar, thank you for the love, laughter, sweetness and kindness to the love of his life. You are my favorite. RuPaul's memoir delves into his life story before the fame and drag race. It covers the first 40 years of his life, focusing on his upbringing in San Diego, his early experiences in drag in Atlanta, and his rise to superstardom in New York City. He also talks more about his love life and how he met his husband. Talking to BuzzFeed News in 2015 about his longtime partner, he stated: He's so kind and funny. I remember praying, 'I want a sweet, sensitive man,' and I got an Australian who's just lovely. The reality TV star discussed his open marriage and why it works for him and his husband in a 2019 Vanity Fair video interview. I wouldn't want to put restraints on the person I love the most on this planet. Listen, if you get something that you cannot resist and that is gonna make you happy, go for it. Because the truth is, I know in my heart of hearts like I've ever known anything before, that man loves me more than anything else in this world. Georges does not prefer the showbiz life. Instead, he spends his time at his 60,000-acre ranch in Wyoming. But the two meet every three weeks whenever Andre goes to Wyoming to visit his partner. FAQs - How long has RuPaul been married? He has been married to his partner, Georges LeBar, since 2017. - Does RuPaul have kids? RuPaul does not have any biological children. - Who was RuPaul's ex-wife? Before he married Georges LeBar in 2017, Andre did not have a wife or an ex-wife. - How long has RuPaul been with his husband? RuPaul had known his husband for 23 years before marrying in 2017. - What is RuPaul’s gender? RuPaul has always referred to himself as male but is indifferent to gender-specific pronouns. - Why does RuPaul dress like a woman? RuPaul is a model who dresses in a drag style, which may sometimes involve dressing up as a woman. - Does RuPaul live with his partner? RuPaul and his partner do not live together but see each other every three weeks. - When was Georges LeBar and RuPaul's wedding? They got married on their 23rd anniversary. Who is RuPaul? He is a famous drag queen and TV personality who is married to his long-term partner, Georges LeBar. The couple met in 1994 and married in 2017. Tuko.co.ke also published an article about Brian Joseph McCook, who goes by his stage name Katya Zamolodchikova. He is a famous American drag queen, reality TV star, and comedian. The celebrity is best known for their stint on the reality show RuPaul's Drag Race. The personality is also famous for other web series and talk shows such as The Trixie & Katya Show and UNHhhh. Source: TUKO.co.ke Emmanuel Tamaro (Lifestyle writer) Emmanuel Tamaro is an editor with over 4 years of working in digital media for Tuko.co.ke, Yen.com.gh, and iWriter. He is an alumnus of the Faculty of Media and Communications at Multimedia University (2019). Tamaro mostly focuses on the entertainment and technology niches. He won the Best Writer award in 2022 (Tuko.co.ke). In 2023, Tamaro finished the AFP course on Digital Investigation Techniques. Email: ryanellismutuku@gmail.com Adrianna Simwa (Lifestyle writer) Adrianna Simwa is a content writer at Tuko.co.ke where she has worked since mid-2022. She has written for many periodicals on a variety of subjects, including news, celebrities, and lifestyle, for more than four years. She has worked for The Hoth, The Standard Group and Triple P Media. Adrianna graduated from Nairobi University with a Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA) in 2020. In 2023, Adrianna finished the AFP course on Digital Investigation Techniques. You can reach her through her email: adriannasimwa@gmail.com


--- [RuPaul | Biography, Movies, TV Shows, & Facts | Britannica] ---
RuPaul - Who is RuPaul? - What is RuPaul best known for? - What is drag, and how does RuPaul use it in his performances? - What is 'RuPaul's Drag Race' and why is it important? - How has RuPaul influenced pop culture and the LGBTQ+ community? - What other creative projects or businesses has RuPaul been involved in besides performing? RuPaul (born November 17, 1960, San Diego, California, U.S.) is an American entertainer who carved out an idiosyncratic place in popular culture as perhaps the most famous drag queen in the United States in the 1990s and early 21st century. Early life RuPaul was born in California to parents who divorced by the time he was seven. At age 15 he moved in with one of his elder sisters in Atlanta, Georgia, and attended a performing arts high school. Always having a flair for dress-up, he began performing in drag while on the underground movie and nightclub circuit in Atlanta. In 1987 he moved to New York City and began his career in go-go bars and on television on The Gong Show and MTV. Supermodel of the World and acting Standing about 6 feet 5 inches (1.96 meters) and wearing elaborate makeup and gowns, RuPaul gained much recognition on the New York club scene. In 1993 he released the dance-pop album Supermodel of the World, which featured the upbeat single “Supermodel (You Better Work).” With the help of a music video in which he strutted in a blonde wig and assorted glamorous outfits, the song became a surprise mainstream hit. Its success led to parts for RuPaul in several films, including Crooklyn (1994), Blue in the Face (1995), The Brady Bunch Movie (1995), and the drag-themed comedy To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar (1995). In addition, in 1995 he appeared in the documentary Wigstock: The Movie, published an autobiography, Lettin It All Hang Out, and signed a contract with M.A.C. Cosmetics, becoming the first drag queen to become a spokesmodel for a major cosmetics company. Later albums and RuPaul’s Drag Race RuPaul returned to the recording studio for the album Foxy Lady (1996), which he soon followed with the holiday release Ho Ho Ho (1997). Although he would not release another album until Red Hot (2004), RuPaul continued to appear in film and on television. He hosted a variety television program, The RuPaul Show (1997–98), was a frequent guest on talk shows, and took on minor acting roles. Beginning in 2009, RuPaul hosted and coproduced RuPaul’s Drag Race, a reality television show that named “America’s next drag superstar.” The popular program was credited with reviving RuPaul’s flagging career, and he won Emmy Awards (2016–23) as the show’s host. RuPaul’s Drag Race also received the Emmy for best competition show (2018–21 and 2023). His eponymous talk show and a U.K. version of Drag Race both debuted in 2019. - In full: - RuPaul Andre Charles - Born: - November 17, 1960, San Diego, California, U.S. (age 65) - On the Web: - New Georgia Encyclopedia - Television - RuPaul (Feb. 17, 2026) RuPaul’s recordings from the early 21st century, which were often featured on the show, included Glamazon (2011), Born Naked (2014), Realness (2015), Butch Queen (2016), and American (2017). RuPaul also cocreated the TV series AJ and the Queen (2020), in which he played a drag queen traveling across the United States, accompanied by a 10-year-old girl; the comedy aired on Netflix. In 2024 RuPaul released the candid memoir The House of Hidden Meanings.


--- [RuPaul - Students | Britannica Kids | Homework Help] ---
(born 1960). American entertainer RuPaul was perhaps the most famous drag queen in the United States in the 1990s and early 21st century. A drag queen is a man who dresses up as a woman to entertain people. RuPaul’s career skyrocketed after he became popular with mainstream audiences. RuPaul Andre Charles was born on November 17, 1960, in San Diego, California. His parents divorced by the time he was seven. At age 15 he moved in with one of his older sisters in Atlanta, Georgia. While there he attended a performing arts high school. RuPaul always had a flair for dress-up. He began performing in drag in the underground movie and nightclub circuit in Atlanta. In 1987 he moved to New York, New York, and began his career in go-go bars. His first television appearances were on The Gong Show and MTV. RuPaul gained much recognition on the New York club scene for both his tall stature and his elaborate makeup and gowns. In 1993 he released the dance-pop album Supermodel of the World. It featured the upbeat single “Supermodel (You Better Work),” which became a mainstream hit. In the music video he strutted in a blonde wig and assorted glamorous outfits. Its success led to parts for RuPaul in several films, including Crooklyn (1994), Blue in the Face (1995), The Brady Bunch Movie (1995), and To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar (1995). In addition, in 1995 he appeared in the documentary Wigstock: The Movie. It detailed New York City’s annual drag music festival. That same year he signed a contract with M.A.C. Cosmetics, making him the first drag queen to become a spokesmodel for a major cosmetics company. RuPaul returned to the recording studio for the album Foxy Lady (1996). In 1997 he released a holiday album titled Ho Ho Ho. Although he would not release another album until Red Hot (2004), RuPaul continued to appear in film and on television. He hosted a variety television program, The RuPaul Show (1997–98). He was also a frequent guest on talk shows and took on minor acting roles, which he would continue to do throughout his career. Beginning in 2009, RuPaul hosted and coproduced RuPaul’s Drag Race. It was a reality television show that named “America’s next drag superstar.” The popular program was credited with reviving RuPaul’s flagging career. He won five consecutive Emmy Awards as the show’s host, from 2016 to 2020. RuPaul’s Drag Race also received the Emmy for best reality competition program in 2018 and for best competition program in 2019 and 2020. RuPaul’s recordings from the early 21st century were often featured on the show. They included Glamazon (2011), Born Naked (2014), Realness (2015), Butch Queen (2016), American (2017), and You’re a Winner, Baby (2020). His short-lived talk show and a U.K. version of Drag Race both debuted in 2019. In 2020 RuPaul cocreated the Netflix comedy TV series AJ and the Queen. He played a drag queen traveling across the United States with a 10-year-old girl. However, the network canceled the show after the first season. RuPaul also kept busy with other interests. He published his autobiography, Lettin It All Hang Out, in 1994. His other books included Workin’ It!: RuPaul’s Guide to Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Style (2010) and Guru (2018). In addition, in the early 21st century, he launched a cosmetics and perfume line.


--- [16 Things You (Probably) Didn't Know About RuPaul Charles - Ranker] ---
- Photo: - RuPaul's Drag Race - Logo TV 16 Interesting Facts Most People Don't Know About About RuPaul Vote up the most interesting facts about RuPaul even superfans might not know. - 1 RuPaul Is The Queen Of Manhattan - Photo: In 1989, RuPaul was voted the “Queen of Manhattan” by the downtown club glitterati after gaining some notoriety working the club scene for years. She once told Rolling Stone that it was "a great social commentary, and people responded to me in drag like I never experienced before." Interesting fact? - 2 RuPaul Won Best Afro In Junior High - Photo: - Logo TV Ru once told the The Frisky that, back in the day at Gompers Junior High School, he won both “Best Afro” and “Best Dancer." So, RuPaul was basically young Michael Jackson if he did drag instead... Interesting fact? - Photo: - 3 RuPaul Gets His Trucker's Tongue From His Mother - Photo: - Logo TV Ru’s parents divorced in 1967, so he grew up with his mother, and she was awesome. Her name was Toni Charles, but the neighborhood kids called her “Mean Miss Charles.” She smoked Tarryton's every day, and her favorite phrase was “you p*ssy-mouthed motherf*cker." Apparently, that's where Ru gets her filthy, filthy mouth from... Interesting fact? - Photo: - 4 RuPaul Was Kicked Out Of High School - Photo: - Logo TV According to his biography, RuPaul was kicked out of Patrick Henry High School in 11th grade due to chronic truancy. Although he would go on to attend the Northside School of Performing Arts near Atlanta, GA, Ru wouldn't graduate from there either. No one ever said being fabulous is easy... Interesting fact? - Photo: - 5 RuPaul Is 6'4" And Wears A Size 13 Shoe - Photo: - Logo TV RuPaul is a slim, tall person, but as a drag queen, she towers over the other queens, coming in at 6'4" before heels. And those heels are no joke – she wears a men's size 13. Ru once told Rolling Stone: “I haven’t found a heel that’s been too high for me yet. The highest I’ve found are eight inches. Now if you have pumps that are closed, that can be painful. But if you have open-toed shoes, it’s no problem.” Just for reference, Ru would be an even 7' tall in 8" heels... Interesting fact? - Photo: - 6 RuPaul Is Married To An Australian Rancher In Wyoming - Photo: RuPaul has been with Australian-born Georges LeBar since 1994. They met at the Limelight nightclub in New York City shortly after RuPaul's career started taking off. Today, LeBar runs a 60,000-acre ranch in Wyoming. Interesting fact?
