=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

['Good Omens' Season 2 Ends With Love, Heartbreak & Moment We'd ...]
Jul 28, 2023 · First, Gabriel (Jon Hamm) gets his memories back, courtesy of Beelzebub’s (Shelley Conn) fly where he’d stored them. (It’s “bigger on the inside,” as is very familiar to Doctor Who fans.)
URL: https://www.tvinsider.com/1100252/good-omens-season-2-finale-recap-crowley-aziraphale-kiss-gabriel-beelzebub/

[Good Omens Season 2 Ending, Explained: How Did Gabriel Lose His Memory?]
Prime Video's ' Good Omens ' returns with a second season, bringing the unlikely duo of angel Aziraphale and demon Crowley to our screens. In the last season, they joined forces to stop the Anti-Christ and prevent a war between Heaven and Hell, leading to Armageddon and the destruction of the world as they know and love it.
URL: https://thecinemaholic.com/good-omens-season-2-ending-explained/

['Good Omens' Season 2 Ending Explained: What's Next ... - Collider]
Jul 29, 2023 · To complicate matters, Hell also seeks Gabriel, with Beelzebub (Shelley Conn) ordering her demons to find the Archangel. In Season 2 of Good Omens, Aziraphale and Crowley keep Gabriel...
URL: https://collider.com/good-omens-season-2-ending-explained/

[Good Omens Season 2 Ending Explained – Do Aziraphale ...]
The biggest mystery in Good Omens season 2 was what happened to Gabriel and why he couldn't remember anything. The final episode of the season saw Crowley visiting Heaven to take a look at Gabriel's records, where he, Muriel, and the audience learned what truly happened to him. During a meeting with the archangels and the Metatron, Michael explained their plans for a second Armageddon and ...
URL: https://screenrant.com/good-omens-season-2-ending-explained/

[Good Omens Season 2 ending explained - Dexerto]
Aug 10, 2023 · Beelzebub also explains that Gabriel’s memories were actually contained in the fly in the box. Turns out that Gabriel and Beelzebub were secretly romantically involved, much like Aziraphale...
URL: https://www.dexerto.com/tv-movies/good-omens-season-2-ending-explained-2229078/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- ['Good Omens' Season 2 Ends With Love, Heartbreak & Moment We'd ...] ---
‘Good Omens’ Season 2 Ends With Love, Heartbreak & Moment We’d Been Waiting For (RECAP) [Warning: The below contains MAJOR spoilers for all of Good Omens Season 2.] Good Omens delivers quite possibly TV’s most romantic episode of the year with the Season 2 finale (now on Prime Video) — and yes, angel Aziraphale (Michael Sheen) and demon Crowley’s (David Tennant) relationship is very much part of that. And as much as it ultimately hurts (a lot), where do they leave off? Tennant and Sheen are so incredible in their last (devastating) scene together that we’re not sure we’d want to trade it in for anything. First, Gabriel (Jon Hamm) gets his memories back, courtesy of Beelzebub’s (Shelley Conn) fly where he’d stored them. (It’s “bigger on the inside,” as is very familiar to Doctor Who fans.) And while Heaven and Hell debate what to do with the two of them, they decide to just go off to be together (while singing “Everyday”). Meanwhile, a series of events led Aziraphale and Crowley to spend Season 2 trying to get coffee shop owner Nina (Nina Sosanya) and record store owner Maggie (Maggie Service) together, only for the two women to turn the tables on them in the finale. No, they won’t be seeing each other quite so fast (since Nina just got out of a relationship), but they do think that the angel and demon need to finally actually talk to one another about what they’re really thinking, the two tell Crowley. That gives him something to think about while, unbeknownst to him, the Metatron (Derek Jacobi) is offering Aziraphale Gabriel’s job. And the angel is so excited about what that could mean, including the ability to restore Crowley to full angelic status so they can continue to work together, that he doesn’t realize his friend is not at all on board. Crowley points out that he refused to return to Hell. “Obviously, you said no,” Aziraphale says, “you’re the bad guys.” (Oh, that “you’re” is painful.) He’s so certain that he can make a difference in Heaven if he’s in charge. Then, Crowley shares what he’d planned to before Aziraphale interrupted with his news. “We’ve known each other a long time. We’ve been on this planet for a long time. I could always rely on you, you could always rely on me. We’re a team, a group, a group of the two of us, and we’ve spent our existence pretending that we aren’t,” he says. “And I would like to spend — I mean, if Gabriel and Beelzebub can do it, go off together, then we can. Just the two of us. We don’t need heaven, we don’t need hell, they’re toxic. We need to get away from them, just be an us, you and me. What do you say?” Again, Aziraphale tries to get him to see his vision of their future together in Heaven. “You can’t leave this bookshop,” Crowley insists, but “nothing lasts forever,” according to Aziraphale. “No, I don’t suppose it does,” Crowley accepts, putting his sunglasses back on (and hiding his eyes, himself). “Good luck,” he offers, going to leave. Aziraphale tries to stop him, again appealing to him to return to Heaven so they can “be together, angels, doing good. And I need you. I don’t think you understand what I’m offering you.” But as Crowley sees it, he understands “a whole lot better than you do.” Then, in a callback to the Season 1 finale, which ended with a nightingale actually singing in Berkeley Square as the angel and demon dined at the Ritz together, Crowley notes he doesn’t hear the bird. “You idiot, we could have been us,” Crowley exclaims … before walking over, grabbing Aziraphale, and kissing him! “I forgive you,” Aziraphale says after, but with a “don’t bother,” Crowley leaves the angel behind (and therefore doesn’t see him touch his fingers to his lips). It’s so heartbreaking for the both of them. The finale ends with Crowley, after watching Aziraphale return to Heaven with the Metatron, driving off in his Bentley. And side-by-side with that is Aziraphale, in the elevator heading up, having just been told by the Metatron that he’s the right angel to set the next step in the grand plan they’re calling the Second Coming. Uh-oh?! And so, with that, we’re left on a significantly less hopeful note than Season 1. Now, Crowley and Aziraphale are apart, rather than on their side, especially after feeling like a team more often than not in the first two seasons. Humanity probably is in trouble, but it’s hard to care much about that, given that gut-wrenching ending for our favorite angel-demon pair. To say we need Season 3 ASAP (we can’t wait another four years!) is an understatement. Good Omens, Season 2, Streaming Now, Prime Video


--- [Good Omens Season 2 Ending, Explained: How Did Gabriel Lose His Memory?] ---
Prime Video’s ‘Good Omens’ returns with a second season, bringing the unlikely duo of angel Aziraphale and demon Crowley to our screens. In the last season, they joined forces to stop the Anti-Christ and prevent a war between Heaven and Hell, leading to Armageddon and the destruction of the world as they know and love it. They succeeded at that, but their collaboration became a cause for concern, leading them both to be ousted from their homes. In the second season, we find the angel-demon duo living their best lives and doing the things they love. Their peace and calm are disturbed by the sudden and unexplained arrival of Archangel Gabriel, who has lost his memories. Despite Crowley’s inhibitions, Aziraphale decides to keep Gabriel at the bookshop. But this snowballs into a series of events that force Aziraphale and Crowley to pick sides. Here’s what the ending means for them. SPOILERS AHEAD Good Omens Season 2 Recap Gabriel arrives at Aziraphale’s bookshop with no memories and no clothes. He has a box, but it’s empty. Gabriel has forgotten everything about himself, including his name, and has no idea how and why he ended up outside the bookshop. He just knows that something terrible is about to happen but doesn’t remember what. Aziraphale is shocked and scared by this sudden turn of events. He knows that Heaven must be looking for Gabriel, but it’d be better if they don’t find him if he is in such a state. Then there is Hell. The demons would love to have an archangel in their control, which cannot be allowed to happen. When Crowley discovers Gabriel at Aziraphale’s place, he doesn’t hesitate to express how dangerous it can be for his friend. However, he knows nothing will change Aziraphale’s mind, so he decides to help his friend anyway. Together, they perform a miracle that shields Gabriel and prevents anyone from Heaven or Hell from recognizing him. This will protect Gabriel, but the key to resolving this issue is to find out what happened to Gabriel and what terrible thing he had been talking about. Good Omens Season 2 Ending: How Did Gabriel Lose His Memory? Angels and demons waited six thousand years for Armageddon, so both sides were utterly displeased when it didn’t happen. They both wanted to go to war and end things once and for all, even if it meant the destruction of Earth and the entire human race. However, things didn’t pan out the way they wanted, and Gabriel and Beelzebub ended up being the generals of highly charged-up armies who were unhappy about not being able to go to war. Following the failure of Armageddon, Gabriel, and Beelzebub met on neutral grounds to talk about what it would mean. They confessed that their armies were ready for the Second Armageddon. Instead of talking about whether or not to go to war anyway, they talked about how similar their roles were and how no one else understood what they had to go through as the leaders of their factions. This created a sense of camaraderie between them, which they fostered over subsequent meetings. Just like Aziraphale and Crowley’s paths crossed over the millennia, Beelzebub and Gabriel also met in different pubs and talked about the things they never spoke of with their people. Slowly, they fell in love with each other, but they knew it was forbidden, so they didn’t talk about it. Eventually, the other Archangels started thinking about war again, and they pushed Gabriel to give the order, but he decided not to do it. He didn’t explain his decision but clarified that there would be no second Armageddon as long as he was the leader. Michael and the other archangels grew frustrated with Gabriel, putting him on trial for refusing to do his job. As a punishment, he would be stripped of his memories and reduced to being a low-level angel. Before they could execute the sentence, Gabriel made the excuse of cleaning his desk. He removed his clothes, put his memories in the fly Beelzebub had given him inside a matchbox, and left Heaven. He planned to go to Hell to be with Beelzebub, but because he didn’t remember where he was going, he ended up outside Aziraphale’s house. What Happens to Beelzebub and Gabriel? Even though Aziraphale and Crowley hoped to keep Gabriel’s presence a secret, both Heaven and Hell deduced that the Archangel was in the bookshop. Shax attacks the bookshop with her legion of armies, and with no other option in sight, Aziraphale uses his halo to kill the demons. This is also an official move to declare war, which brings the angels and demons from Heaven and Hell into his bookshop. Gabriel’s memories are restored using the fly, and he remembers everything. He tells Beelzebub he was coming to her, and their display of affection leads both Heaven and Hell to disown them. Both sides want to get their hands on them to punish them as they see fit, but Aziraphale makes them consider what Beelzebub and Gabriel want. They just want to be with each other, no matter where it is. Heaven and Hell make it clear that there will be no coming back once they leave, and Beelzebub and Gabriel are okay with that. Crowley suggests they to got Alpha Centauri, the place he wanted to go with Aziraphale in case Armageddon happened, and the Earth was destroyed. It’s unclear whether Beelzebub and Gabriel go there or somewhere else, but wherever they go, they will be happy because they are together and in love. Does Aziraphale Become Archangel? Why Didn’t Crowley Join Him? With Gabriel gone, the seat of the Archangel and the leader of Heaven is left empty. Michael and the others want to punish Aziraphale for helping Gabriel, but Metatron shows up and saves him. He asks Aziraphale who should take Gabriel’s place in Heaven. It turns out to be a trick question because, apparently, Metatron has already made up his mind. He saw how expertly Aziraphale protected Gabriel, handled Heaven and Hell, and resolved the issue with no one getting hurt. This proves that Aziraphale has all the qualities needed to lead Heaven. Metatron tells him to consider the position and even adds a tidbit about how he can use his power to restore Crowley’s status from a demon to an angel. Aziraphale is excited to hear this. He is happy for himself and Crowley, believing they can both be angels and be by each other’s side without worrying about Heaven and Hell. He also thinks this will allow him to change things in Heaven for the better. However, when he tells Crowley about this, the demon is not pleased. Crowley expresses his disappointment over Aziraphale’s decision. He wants them to be like Gabriel and Beelzebub. He loves Aziraphale and doesn’t need Heaven or Hell. He thought Aziraphale felt the same, but it turns out he was wrong. Crowley kisses him to express his love, but this doesn’t change Aziraphale’s mind. He cannot miss this opportunity, and even though Crowley warns him that this job is not as ideal as he thinks it is, Aziraphale goes with Metatron, leaving his bookshop and Earth to go back to Heaven and become an Archangel. What is The Second Coming? How Will Aziraphale Be a Part of It? Despite Crowley refusing his offer to join him in Heaven, Aziraphale decides to leap at the opportunity to become the Supreme Archangel and make a difference in Heaven. Metatron is glad about this and mentions how Aziraphale is the perfect angel to start the next step in the Great Plan. When Aziraphale asks what it is, Metraton calls it “the second coming.” This refers to the second coming of Christ and the judgment day when everyone must answer for their actions. In other words, it is yet another way to say Armageddon. Aziraphale is taken by surprise because he had been against Armageddon and the destruction of the Earth since the beginning. Still, he follows Metatron. Why? Probably because he still thinks he can make a difference if he is an Archangel. Metatron clarifies that Heaven wants to “wrap things up,” which refers to ending life as we know it on Earth. Perhaps, Aziraphale believes he can stop that from happening if he is in charge of things. In any case, there is no going back for him now, and eventually, he might have to reconsider sides and where he wants to be. Read More: TV Shows Like Good Omens


--- ['Good Omens' Season 2 Ending Explained: What's Next ... - Collider] ---
No content


--- [Good Omens Season 2 Ending Explained – Do Aziraphale ...] ---
No content


--- [Good Omens Season 2 ending explained - Dexerto] ---
Good Omens Season 1 ended with the apocalypse – or rather, its prevention – so how does Season 2 of this supernatural romance end? Good Omens was a huge hit when it launched on Amazon in May 2019, and the delightful fantasy series has finally returned to our screens in 2023. The first season, which directly adapted the Neil Gaiman and Terry Pratchett novel of the same name, told the story of the angel Aziraphale (Michael Sheen) and the demon Crowley (David Tennant). As we stated in our review of Season 2, “Gaiman and Pratchett have always been able to keep a sort of nonchalant tone, even when dealing with large and alarming biblical concepts such as the Book of Job. It’s this atmosphere that really makes Good Omens shine, and stand out amongst its contemporaries.” Last Season ended with Armageddon, so clearly Season 2 has a hard act to follow. So how does the second season end, and does it involve romance between a certain angel and demon? Read on to find out, but first: MAJOR SPOILER WARNING! What happens with Gabriel in Good Omens season 2? Gabriel ends up running away with Beelzebub, as the two were secretly a matchmade in heaven…and hell. One main draw of Season 2’s plot was the appearance of a mind-wiped Gabriel, who showed up on Aziraphale’s doorstep with no memories, and no clothes. All he has is a box containing a fly, which quickly flies away. Aziraphale and Crowley are busy living their own lives on Earth, after escaping the wrath of the angels and demons. Aziraphale manages his bookstore, and Crowley ignores Hell’s orders with the help of another demon named Shax. However, the “ineffable husbands” must now deal with Gabriel, as he is being hunted by both heaven and hell. Related Crowley is eventually betrayed by Shax, who has determined Gabriel’s location. Hell sends an army of demons to attack Aziraphale’s bookshop, however the pair had already performed a miracle that prevented the demons from recognising Gabriel. Aziraphale also fends off the demons, but he accidentally declares war on Hell in the process. Meanwhile, Crowley travels to heaven, where it is discovered that Gabriel had actually opposed Armageddon last season, leading God to demote him and take away his memories. Beelzebub also explains that Gabriel’s memories were actually contained in the fly in the box. Turns out that Gabriel and Beelzebub were secretly romantically involved, much like Aziraphale and Crowley. Gabriel regains his memories, and he and Beelzebub head to Alpha Centauri together, escaping their respective responsibilities. Do Crowley and Aziraphale get together in Season 2’s end? Not quite. The angel and demon kiss by the end of Season 2, however Aziraphale then leaves Crowley to return to his job in heaven. Much of this season is spent deepening Aziraphale and Crowley’s relationship, often by providing more context via flashbacks. Crowley is shown to have constructed the universe, the pair meddle in the lives of some 19th century grave robbers, and later enact stage magic in the 1940s. Ultimate, none of these scenes have much bearing on the plot, but they make it all the more clear that this angel and demon are meant to be together. However, this growing chemistry turns into a crash at the end of Season 2. See, Gabriel’s absence has caused an opening in his role back up in heaven, and Aziraphale is offered the job. Aziraphale, who is eager to do good by returning to the system he once loved, accepts, and is tasked with enacting the Second Coming of Christ. Crowley, after being encouraged by Nina and Maggie – who are pretty much a human reflection of the main pair’s relationship – confesses his love for Aziraphale, kisses him, and begs him not to go back to heaven. Aziraphale similarly begs Crowley to go with him, but neither is willing to bow to the other’s demands. And thus, the couple regretfully part ways. Now, try not be disheartened by this ending. Good Omens is expected to have a third season, which may very well bring this angel and demon back together. We certainly hope so. Good Omens Seasons 1 and 2 are currently available to stream on Amazon Prime Video. Check out our other Good Omens coverage below:
