=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Peter Norvig Bio]
Google Web Search: As Director of Search at Google from 2002 to 2005 it was my responsibility to maintain and improve the quality of our core web search algorithms during a time of twenty-fold growth and increased scrutiny from webmasters, the public, and the press.
URL: https://norvig.com/bio.html

[Peter Norvig | Speaker | TED]
Peter Norvig is a computer scientist and expert in both artificial intelligence and online search. Currently the Director of Research at Google Inc., Norvig was responsible for maintaining and improving the engine's core web search algorithms from 2002 to 2005. Prior to his work at Google, Norvig was NASA's chief computer scientist.
URL: https://www.ted.com/speakers/peter_norvig

[Search Algorithms with Google Director of Research Peter Norvig / Blogs ...]
Oct 17, 2011 · As you will see in the transcript below, this discussion focused on the use of artificial intelligence algorithms in search. Peter outlines for us the approach used by Google on a number of interesting search problems, and how they view search problems in general.
URL: https://blogs.perficient.com/2011/10/17/search-algorithms-with-google-director-of-research-peter-norvig/

[Peter Norvig - Google Research]
Peter Norvig is a Director of Research at Google Inc; previously he directed Google's core search algorithms group. He is co-author of Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, the leading textbook in the field, and co-teacher of an Artificial Intelligence class that signed up 160,000 students, helping to kick off the current round of massive ...
URL: https://research.google/people/author205/

[Peter Norvig - grokipedia.com]
Norvig joined Google in 2001 as director of search quality, where he led the core search algorithms group responsible for enhancing search engine performance through machine learning and AI techniques from 2002 to 2005, before advancing to director of research.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Peter_Norvig


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Peter Norvig Bio] ---
Google Web Search: As Director of Search at Google from 2002 to 2005 it was my responsibility to maintain and improve the quality of our core web search algorithms during a time of twenty-fold growth and increased scrutiny from webmasters, the public, and the press. Google Research: As the Director of Research at Google (starting in 2005) I oversaw the birth and growth of world-leading teams in machine translation, speech recognition, and computer vision. More recently, as one of multiple research directors, I worked on education, democratization of AI, and growing the support network for start-up companies around the world. You can see a CACM article on our approach to research. Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach. With Stuart Russell, co-author of what has been the leading textbook in AI since 1995 (in four editions), with over 500,000 copies sold and over 48,000 citations. At the Open Syllabus project, it is a top-ten book in computer science. NASA: Remote Agent and Mars Exploration Rovers. My division developed the Remote Agent experiment that flew on the Deep Space 1 spacecraft. This was the first use of autonomous planning, scheduling, and fault identification onboard a spacecraft. It won the 1999 NASA Software of the Year award and was cited in two AAAI Presidential addresses (by Nils Nilsson and by Ron Brachman) as one of the top achievements in the history of AI. The Remote Agent also served as a proving ground for some of the automated planning software that my team brought to the tremendously succesful Mars Exploration Rovers, or MER (which flew after I left NASA). Junglee: Comparison ads and shopping site. I was employee #8 at Junglee, one of the first web metasearch sites for classified ads and shopping. I was responsible for maintaining the algorithms, dictionaries and grammar rules for text-based extraction. I then co-led a small team that produced a second-generation development environment (in Java instead of Perl), and built the shopping tool that became the Yahoo Shopping site, and thereafter Junglee's most important product line, prior to our acquisition by Amazon.com. Paradigms of AI Programming. This book has been called"The best book on programming ever written". That is a subjective opinion (and I for one would disagree), but there seems to be a consensus that this is one of the 3 or 4 top books on Lisp programming. Open source software. In addition to the commercial software I've helped develop at Google, Junglee, and elsewhere, I've also donated open source software that has had an impact: My Pytudes repository of Python notebooks has 18,000 stars on github and has been widely used. I oversaw the development of code to accompany the AI textbook. Many volunteers and Google Summer of Code programmers contributed. The project has over 9,000 stars on github. I developed JScheme (nee SILK), a Scheme implemented in Java, that has been used by over 1,000 students and many professionals. Tim Hickey and the late Ken Anderson took over most of the development after the initial versions.


--- [Peter Norvig | Speaker | TED] ---
Peter Norvig Why you should listen Peter Norvig is a computer scientist and expert in both artificial intelligence and online search. Currently the Director of Research at Google Inc., Norvig was responsible for maintaining and improving the engine's core web search algorithms from 2002 to 2005. Prior to his work at Google, Norvig was NASA's chief computer scientist. A fellow of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence and the author of the book Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, Norvig (along with Sebastian Thrun) taught the Stanford University class "Introduction to Artificial Intelligence," which was made available to anyone in the world. More than 160,000 students from 209 countries enrolled. Norvig is also known for penning the world's longest palindromic sentence.


--- [Search Algorithms with Google Director of Research Peter Norvig / Blogs ...] ---
Google Artificial Intelligence in Search As you will see in the transcript below, this discussion focused on the use of artificial intelligence algorithms in search. Peter outlines for us the approach used by Google on a number of interesting search problems, and how they view search problems in general. This is fascinating reading for those of you who want to get a deeper understanding of how search is evolving and the technological approaches that are driving it. The types of things that are detailed in this interview include: - The basic approach used to build Google Translate - The process Google uses to test and implement algorithm updates - How voice-driven search works - The methodology being used for image recognition - How Google views speed in search - How Google views the goals of search overall Some of the particularly interesting tidbits include: - Teaching automated translation systems vocabulary and grammar rules is not a viable approach. There are too many exceptions, and language changes and evolved rapidly. Google Translate uses a data-driven approach of finding millions of real-world translations on the web and learning from them. - Chrome will auto translate foreign language websites for you on the fly (if you want it to). - Google tests tens of thousands of algorithm changes per year, and make one to two actual changes every day - Those tests are layered, starting with a panel of users comparing current and proposed results, perhaps a spin through the usability lab at Google, and finally with a live test with a small subset of actual Google users. - Google Voice Search relies on 230 billion real-world search queries to learn all the different ways that people articulate given words. So people no longer need to train their speech recognition for their own voice, as Google has enough real-world examples to make that step unnecessary. - Google Image search allows you to drag and drop images onto the search box, and it will try to figure out what it is for you. I show a screenshot of an example of this for you below. I LOVE that feature! - Google is obsessed with speed. As Peter says “you want the answer before you’re done thinking of the question”. Expressed from a productivity perspective, if you don’t have the answer that soon your flow of thought will be interrupted. Interview Transcript Eric Enge: Can you outline at a layman’s level the basic approach that was used to allow Google engineers a translation system that handles 58 languages? Peter Norvig: Sure — Google Translate uses a data-driven, machine learning approach to do automatic translation between languages. We learn from human examples of translation. To explain what I mean by “data-driven,” first I should explain how older machine translation systems worked. Programmers of those systems tried to teach the system vocabulary and grammar rules, like “This is a noun, this is a verb, and here’s how they fit together or conjugate in these two languages.” Language is so fluid that programmers can’t keep up with the millions of words in all these languages and the billions or trillions of possible combinations, and how they change over time. But it turns out that approach didn’t really work well. There were two problems: - First, the formalisms for writing rules were absolute: this sentence is grammatical, and this other sentence is ungrammatical. But language has shades of gray, not just absolutes. - Second, it is true that languages have rules, but it turned out that the rules don’t cover enough — language is more complicated and full of exceptions than people assumed, and is changing all the time. New words like “LOL” or “pwn” or “iPad” appear. Old words combine in unique ways — you can’t know what a “debt ceiling” is just by knowing what “debt” and “ceiling” are. Even core grammatical rules are uncertain — is “they” okay to use as a gender-neutral pronoun? What is the grammatical structure of “the harder they come, the harder they fall,” and what else can you say with that structure? Language is so fluid that programmers can’t keep up with the millions of words in all these languages and the billions or trillions of possible combinations, and how they change over time. And there are too many languages to keep rewriting the rules for how each language translates into each of the other languages. So the new approach is a data-driven approach. Recognizing that we’ll need lots of examples of how to handle exceptions, we make the leap of saying: what if we could learn everything — the exceptions and the rules — from examples? We program our computers to look on the web for millions of examples of real-world translations, and crunch all that data to find patterns for which phrases translate into which other phrases. We use machine learning to look for recurring patterns — “this phrase in French always seems to translate into this phrase in English, but only when it’s near this word.” It’s analogous to the way you can look over a Chinese menu with English translations — if you see the same character keeps recurring for chicken dishes, you can guess pretty confidently that that character translates to “chicken.” The basic idea is simple, but the details are complicated. We do some deep work on statistics and machine learning algorithms to be able to make the best use of our examples, and we were able to turn this technology into a world-leading consumer product. Google Research is a great place to come work if you want to tackle these kinds of problems in artificial intelligence. If you visit a website in Thai or French or Urdu, Chrome will detect it and ask if you want to translate it into your native language. We’re really pushing to have Translate available as a layer across lots of other products. You can always just go to translate.google.com, but it’s also built into our browser, Chrome. If you visit a website in Thai or French or Urdu, Chrome will detect it and ask if you want to translate it into your native language. It’ll automatically translate the whole page, and keep translating as you click on links. So you’re basically browsing the web in this other language. It’s very Star Trek. There’s also a cool mobile app you should try — Google Translate for mobile is on Android and iPhone, and it does speech-to-text so you can speak and get translations. Eric Enge: How does Google manage the process of testing and qualifying algorithm updates? Peter Norvig: Here’s how it works. Our engineers come up with some insight or technique and implement a change to the search ranking algorithm. They hope this will improve search results, but at this point, it’s just a hypothesis. So how do we know if it’s a good change? First, we have a panel of real users spread around the world try out the change, comparing it side by side against our unchanged algorithm. This is a blind test — they don’t know which is which. They rate the results, and from that, we get a rough sense of whether the change is better than the original. If it isn’t, we go back to the drawing board. But if it looks good, we might next take it into our usability lab — a physical room where we can invite people in to try it out in person and give us more detailed feedback. Or we might run it live for a small percentage of actual Google users, and see whether the change is improving things for them. If all those experiments have positive results, we eventually roll out the change for everyone. We test tens of thousands of hypotheses each year, and make maybe one or two actual changes to the search algorithm per day. That’s a lot of ideas and a lot of changes. It means the Google you’re using this year is improved quite a bit from the Google of last year, and the Google you’re using now is radically different from anything you used ten years ago. If you define A.I. as providing a course of action in the face of uncertainty and ambiguity, based on learning from examples, that’s what our search algorithm is all about. I’d say the resulting technology — Google Search as a whole — is a form of A.I. If you define A.I. as providing a course of action in the face of uncertainty and ambiguity, based on learning from examples, that’s what our search algorithm is all about. The search engine has to understand what’s out on the web in text and other forms like images, books, videos, and rapidly changing content like news, and how it all fits together. Then it has to try to infer what the user is looking for, sometimes from no more than a keystroke or two. And then it has to weigh hundreds of factors against each other — hundreds of signals, like the links between content, the correlations among phrases, the location of the search, and so on — and provide the user information that’s relevant to their query, with some degree of confidence for each piece. And finally, it has to present that information in a coherent, useful way. And it has to be done potentially for each keystroke, since Google results update instantly now. Every time people ask a question, you need this machine to automatically and instantly provide an answer that helps them out. It’s a deep A.I. problem, and I think we’re doing a good job at it today, but we’ve got lots of room to grow too. Search is far from solved, and we have plenty of room for experts in A.I., statistics, and other fields to jump on board and help us develop the next Google, and the Google after that. Eric Enge: Voice driven search seems like a very interesting problem to me. Even if you are dealing with only one language you have a vast array of dialects, accents, pronunciations, and ways of phrasing things. This used to be addressed by having the user “train the system” to their manner of speaking. Are we are the point where we are past that now? What are the basic methods (in layman’s terms) being used to make this possible? Will this expand to automatically transcribing videos? Peter Norvig: Speech recognition is actually quite analogous to machine translation. In translation we learn from past examples of (English, Foreign) pairs how to translate a new sentence we haven’t seen before; in speech, we learn from past examples of (Soundwave, Text) pairs how to find the text in a new soundwave. So instead of relying on one person talking for a long time to train the system, we rely on lots of people saying lots of things to train the system. So in effect, our users are training the system en masse. Like you say, in old systems, you’d have to sit there and train the thing for an hour before it would recognize your words. We wanted to build something anyone could pick up and just immediately start talking to and have it understand them right away. So instead of relying on one person talking for a long time to train the system, we rely on lots of people saying lots of things to train the system. So in effect, our users are training the system en masse. I can explain a little more how it actually works. There are three parts to our speech model. First, there’s the acoustic model, which maps out all the possible ways soundwaves can form phonemes, like “ah” or “mm” or “buh.” It’s tricky because acoustics vary a lot by what kind of mic you’re using, what background noise there is, how you’re holding the device, the gender, and age of the speaker, and even what sounds come before or after the one you’re making. And like you say, there are lots of versions because accents and dialects vary so much. But with enough examples of speech, we can model what are the most likely ways of forming phonemes. Then phonemes come together in our lexical model, which is basically a dictionary of how all the words in a language are pronounced. That also takes care of a lot of differences in accents — the model knows that there are multiple ways to pronounce things, and knows which are more or less likely. “Feb-yoo-ary” and “Feb-roo-ary” will both give you “February,” because the model sees both spoken a lot. Finally, the words are strung together into a language model, which tells you which words are most likely to come after another word. There might be a soundwave that sounds like either “city” or “silly”, but if it follows the words “New York…” then the language model would tell us that “city” is more likely. We have a lot of text to train the system on — for Voice Search, where you speak your search to Google, we train this model on around 230 billion words from real-world search queries. It’s all anonymized, of course — we don’t keep any training examples that could be tied to an individual speaker; it is all combined into our big model. We do give you the choice to opt-in to have us learn from your own voice over time. You can turn this on, and the model will start to learn how your voice varies from our baseline model — say, if you have a strong accent or a really deep voice. The model works well even without having to train it yourself, but you have the option to make it even better. You can try this out on an Android phone or on the Google Search app on iPhone or Blackberry. On Android you can search, of course, but you can also compose emails by voice, or for that matter speak into any app where you’d use the keyboard — we added it into the Android keyboard so you can speak pretty much anywhere you might type. It’s also on Google on the desktop if you use Chrome. Eric Enge: How about the problem of image recognition? For example, can we train a computer to recognize an image of the Taj Majal? Peter Norvig: Yes. We do this on mobile phones and now on desktop Google Search too. You can actually use it to see where old vacation photos were taken — ones you scanned from back before digital cameras geo-tagged photos. If you took a photo of some cool-looking bridge you don’t recognize, and you can drag and drop the image onto the Google Search box, and there’s a pretty good chance it’ll recognize the bridge, tell you what it is, and give you all kinds of relevant information on it. As with speech and translation, image recognition is data-driven and relies on machine learning algorithms across lots of examples. Luckily for us, the web has lots and lots of images of things, and most of them have captions that identify them. The more popular, the more images, so the better a chance we have at our algorithms being able to recognize it. Here’s how image recognition works in a nutshell. It starts with identifying points of interest in an image — the points, lines, and patterns that provide sharp contrasts or really stick out from a bland, featureless background. It’s similar in some ways to how the human eye picks out edges and points by keying off the places where there’s sharp contrast. Then it looks at how these points are related to each other — the geometry of the whole set of points. You could picture it as looking like a constellation of stars, even though really it’s a more sophisticated mathematical model of these points of interest and how they relate. Now it compares that model to all the other models in a huge database. Those other models come from images it has already analyzed from around the web. It looks for a matching model, but it doesn’t have to be a perfect match. In fact, it’s important that it be a bit flexible, so it doesn’t matter if it’s turned around, or shrunken, or twisted a bit. The Taj Mahal still has the basic geometry of the Taj Mahal even if you photograph it from a little bit of a different angle or photograph it lower in the frame. When Google recognizes that it matches that model best, it guesses it’s probably the Taj Mahal. There’s something profound here about asking a “question” that’s actually just an image. We’ve moved beyond every query being a string of text. Now you can just present Google an image and expect relevant information. There’s something profound here about asking a “question” that’s actually just an image. We’ve moved beyond every query being a string of text. Now you can just present Google an image and expect relevant information. So it puts even more burden on the search engine to know what that’s supposed to mean. What’s the best answer to a question when the question is an image? We present some information we think is relevant today, but what exactly the interaction should be here is still ripe for research. Eric Enge: For some of these tasks we currently must rely on batch processing instead of real-time processing (e.g. the way that the Panda algorithm currently operates). How long before the processing power increases to the point where the Panda algorithm can be done in real time? Peter Norvig: I wouldn’t separate out that one update from the rest of the Search algorithm that way; it was really just one improvement among many that we’ve made in the past year or so. But the question is certainly relevant to our Search algorithm overall. Broadly speaking, you can think of the growth of the web and the growth of the computing power needed to instantly index it as a kind of arms race. Broadly speaking, you can think of the growth of the web and the growth of the computing power needed to instantly index it as a kind of arms race. The web keeps growing. There’s a misperception that the web has become established or matured, but in fact, the growth curve is a nice smooth exponential that hasn’t shown signs of slowing down yet. We’re still in the middle of the information explosion. So we keep up with it a few ways. It helps that processors and disks keep getting cheaper. Even new categories of technology, like solid-state disks, have helped. We’re also getting smarter about delineating which content needs to be updated instantly, and which can be updated more slowly — again, we learn how to do this from examples. A lot of the smarts you see in Google Instant, and the predictive input suggestions that keeps guessing what word you might type next, are about anticipating what information is most likely to be needed, and queuing that up so it’s ready to go. We’re really obsessed with speed at Google. Speed is a crucial feature of any information-intensive product. You never want your tools to slow you down or interrupt your flow of thought. There’s a cool feature we launched a little while ago called Instant Pages which takes Google Instant a step further: instead of just predicting what words you might type, and pre-loading the search results, if Google is really confident that the first result is the right one, it’ll start loading it in the background. So often by the time you click that result, it’s already loaded up — so the website appears to load instantly. It’s like a magic trick when it works well. Eric Enge: Can you expound a little bit on the types of problems that AI can work on solving in the area of search over the next 5 years? So you want the answer almost before you’re done thinking of the question. We think we can offer that now most of the time. Peter Norvig: We’ll work more on speed. It used to be that a few seconds was really fast to learn what the height of the Eiffel Tower was — that’s a heck of a lot faster than a trip to the library to look it up in a reference book in the back shelves. But now even a few seconds feels slow, because again, it interrupts your flow of thought. So you want the answer almost before you’re done thinking of the question. We think we can offer that now most of the time. But eventually, this will stop being such a back-and-forth question-and-answer routine, and start just being a steady flow of relevant information. It should be right there when you need it, presented so it’s useful without being overwhelming. It’s going to take a lot of engineering and a really fine artistic touch to make that work the way we envision it. And of course this gets to a deeper A.I. problem: not just understanding information and queries, but really understanding what the user needs and will find useful at a given moment, and serving it up in a way that’s perfectly digestible. It’s not just about human-computer interaction or information retrieval. It’s about how people learn and attain knowledge. We’re trying to move beyond just presenting information, and really focus on increasing people’s knowledge of the world. So Google needs to be “smart” in the sense of really understanding the user’s needs in order to help them build up their knowledge of the world. Eric Enge: Thanks Peter! About Peter Peter Norvig is a Fellow of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence and the Association for Computing Machinery. At Google Inc he was Director of Search Quality, responsible for the core web search algorithms from 2002-2005, and has been Director of Research from 2005 on. Previously he was the head of the Computational Sciences Division at NASA Ames Research Center, making him NASA’s senior computer scientist. He received the NASA Exceptional Achievement Award in 2001. He has served as an assistant professor at the University of Southern California and a research faculty member at the University of California at Berkeley Computer Science Department, from which he received a Ph.D. in 1986 and the distinguished alumni award in 2006. He has over fifty publications in Computer Science, concentrating on Artificial Intelligence, Natural Language Processing and Software Engineering, including the books Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach (the leading textbook in the field), Paradigms of AI Programming: Case Studies in Common Lisp, Verbmobil: A Translation System for Face-to-Face Dialog, and Intelligent Help Systems for UNIX. He is also the author of the Gettysburg Powerpoint Presentation and the world’s longest palindromic sentence. Other Recent Interviews Google’s Mayuresh Saoji, October 10, 2011 Google’s Frederick Vallaeys, September 29, 2011 Bing’s Ping Jen, September 28, 2011 Bing’s Duane Forrester, September 6, 2011 Danny Sullivan, August 8, 2011 Bruce Clay, August 1, 2011 Google’s Tiffany Oberoi, July 27, 2011 Vanessa Fox, July 12, 2011 Jim Sterne, July 5, 2011 Stephan Spencer, June 20, 2011 SEOmoz’ Rand Fishkin, May 23, 2011 Bing’s Stefan Weitz, May 16, 2011 Bing’s Mikko Ollila, June 27, 2010 Yahoo’s Shashi Seth, June 20, 2010 Google’s Carter Maslan, May 6, 2010 Google’s Frederick Vallaeys, April 27, 2010 Matt Cutts, March 14, 2010


--- [Peter Norvig - Google Research] ---
We strive to create an environment conducive to many different types of research across many different time scales and levels of risk. Our researchers drive advancements in computer science through both fundamental and applied research. We regularly open-source projects with the broader research community and apply our developments to Google products. Publishing our work allows us to share ideas and work collaboratively to advance the field of computer science. We make products, tools, and datasets available to everyone with the goal of building a more collaborative ecosystem. Supporting the next generation of researchers through a wide range of programming. Participating in the academic research community through meaningful engagement with university faculty. Connecting with the broader research community through events is essential for creating progress in every aspect of our work. We’re sorry, the page you’re looking for could not be found.


--- [Peter Norvig - grokipedia.com] ---
Peter Norvig is an American computer scientist renowned for his contributions to artificial intelligence, including co-authoring the seminal textbookArtificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach and advancing online education through massive open online courses (MOOCs) that reached hundreds of thousands of students.[1][2]Norvig earned a B.S. in Applied Mathematics from Brown University in 1978 and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of California, Berkeley in 1985.[1] After completing his doctorate, he served as an Assistant Professor at the University of Southern California from 1985 to 1986 and as Research Faculty at UC Berkeley from 1986 to 1991.[1][3]In his industry career, Norvig joined Sun Microsystems Laboratories as a Senior Scientist from 1991 to 1994, followed by roles as Chief Designer at Harlequin, Inc. (1994–1996) and Chief Scientist at Junglee Corp. (1996–1998).[1] He then moved to NASA Ames Research Center, where he headed the Computational Sciences Division from 1998 to 2001 and served as NASA's senior computer scientist, earning the NASA Exceptional Achievement Medal in 2001.[1][3] Since 2001, Norvig has been at Google, initially as one of its first 200 employees, later directing the core search algorithms group (2002–2005) and Search Quality (2002–2005), before becoming Director of Research, where he contributed to projects like Google Translate and cloud-based speech recognition.[1][2][4]At Stanford University, Norvig has been an Instructor and MediaX Distinguished Visiting Scholar (2010–2021) and currently holds the position of Distinguished Education Fellow at the Human-Centered AI Institute.[1] He co-taught a landmark online AI course with Sebastian Thrun in 2011, attracting over 160,000 students and catalyzing the MOOC movement that influenced platforms like Coursera and edX.[5][2]Norvig's notable publications include Paradigms of Artificial Intelligence Programming (1992), Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach (first edition 1995, now in its fourth edition as of 2020, co-authored with Stuart Russell), and Data Science in Context (2022, co-authored with Alfred Spector and others).[1][3] His work spans AI, natural language processing, and software engineering, with over 50 publications.[3]Among his honors, Norvig is a Fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (2001), the Association for Computing Machinery (2006), the California Academy of Sciences (2013), and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (2013).[1] He also received the AAAI/EAAI Outstanding Educator Award in 2016 and the UC Berkeley Distinguished Alumni Award in 2006.[1][4] Early life and education Early life Peter Norvig was born on December 14, 1956.[6]Norvig grew up in an academic family with Danish heritage on his father's side. His father, Torsten Norvig, was a mathematics professor who immigrated from Copenhagen, Denmark, after World War II, while his mother, Gerda Norvig, was an English professor.[7][8][9] This environment provided early exposure to both quantitative reasoning and language, blending mathematical rigor with verbal analysis in ways that later influenced his work at the intersection of computing and artificial intelligence.[7]He was raised across several states, including Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and California.[10] During high school in Newton, Massachusetts, Norvig encountered early computing technology, which was uncommon at the time. In 1974, he took a programming class where he learned BASIC, sparking his interest in computers as tools for problem-solving.[11][12] He also enrolled in a linguistics class, fostering a fascination with language modeling and natural language processing that would shape his future career path.[13] These experiences in math- and science-related coursework highlighted his aptitude for analytical challenges and laid the groundwork for his pursuit of computer science.[12]This foundation in puzzles of logic, language, and computation during his formative years transitioned into formal studies at Brown University.[11] Education Norvig earned a Bachelor of Science degree in applied mathematics from Brown University in 1978.[14] During his undergraduate years, he explored computing through shared university resources, as personal computers were not yet available, and often collaborated with peers late into the night at computer labs. He served as an undergraduate teaching assistant in computer science, which deepened his understanding of the field, and drew inspiration from faculty members including Andy van Dam in computer science and Ulf Grenander in applied mathematics.[15]He pursued graduate studies at the University of California, Berkeley, where he obtained a Ph.D. in computer science in 1986.[14] His doctoral research focused on artificial intelligence, culminating in the thesis "A Unified Theory of Inference for Text Understanding," which explored mechanisms for drawing inferences in natural language processing systems.Norvig's work at Berkeley was supervised by advisor Robert Wilensky, whose guidance shaped his foundational interests in AI, particularly in text understanding and knowledge representation. He also credited influences from faculty such as Lotfi Zadeh for broader insights into computational theories during his studies. No specific academic awards or fellowships from this period are documented in his records.[16] Professional career Academic positions Following his Ph.D. in computer science from the University of California, Berkeley in 1985, Norvig began his academic career as an assistant professor at the University of Southern California (USC) from 1985 to 1986. In this role, he contributed to the computer science department's instructional programs during the mid-1980s.[14]Norvig then returned to Berkeley as a research faculty member from 1986 to 1991, where he engaged in teaching and scholarly activities within the computer science department. This period marked his primary focus on university-based research and education before transitioning to industry positions.[14]Later in his career, Norvig took on adjunct and visiting roles at Stanford University, serving as an instructor from 2010 to 2011 and as a MediaX Distinguished Visiting Scholar from 2016 to 2021.[14] Since 2021, he has held the position of Distinguished Education Fellow at Stanford's Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence (HAI), supporting educational initiatives in AI. In 2021, Norvig scaled back his role at Google to join Stanford's HAI as Distinguished Education Fellow on a primary basis, while maintaining a researcher affiliation with Google.[14][17][18] Industry roles In 1991, Norvig joined Sun Microsystems Laboratories as a senior scientist, where he contributed to research in software systems and artificial intelligence applications.[19] From 1994 to 1996, he served as chief designer at Harlequin, Inc., focusing on advanced software development tools.[19] He then moved to Junglee Corp. as chief scientist from 1996 to 1998, working on web search and data extraction technologies.[19]From 1998 to 2001, Norvig held the position of division chief of the Computational Sciences Division at NASAAmes Research Center, serving as NASA's senior computer scientist during this period.[19][17] In this leadership role, he oversaw research in computational modeling, simulation, and intelligent systems for aerospace applications.[3]Norvig joined Google in 2001 as director of search quality, where he led the core search algorithms group responsible for enhancing search engine performance through machine learning and AI techniques from 2002 to 2005, before advancing to director of research.[19][20] He served as Director of Research at Google until 2021, after which he scaled back to a researcher role while emphasizing AI integration into search functionalities; as of 2025, his primary affiliation is with Stanford.[21][22][23]Beyond his primary positions, Norvig has undertaken advisory and board roles in industry and policy contexts, including serving as an advisor to Common Crawl for web data initiatives and as a board member for the B612 Foundation, which focuses on asteroid detection technologies.[24][25] He has also advised the JASON advisory group, providing technical expertise to U.S. government agencies on science and technology policy.[14] Research contributions Key areas in artificial intelligence Peter Norvig's research has significantly advanced symbolic artificial intelligence through the exploration of logic-based representations and rule-driven systems, particularly via Lisp-based implementations that emphasize structured problem-solving and knowledge encoding.[26] His early contributions bridged symbolic paradigms with emerging computational techniques, laying groundwork for hybrid approaches in AI.[27]In machine learning and probabilistic reasoning, Norvig shifted from rule-based methods to data-driven models, advocating for statistical inference to handle uncertainty in real-world applications.[28] This includes foundational work on inference models that integrate probability distributions for decision-making under incomplete information, influencing how AI systems model ambiguity in domains like language and planning.[29] These efforts underscore the value of probabilistic methods in overcoming limitations of purely symbolic systems, promoting scalable learning from data.[27]He applied principles of adaptive reasoning in intelligent help systems tailored for UNIX, where AI components proactively assist users by matching queries to contextual cases, improving usability through reasoned guidance rather than static documentation.[30]His influence extends to modern AI paradigms, particularly search algorithms that optimize pathfinding and optimization in complex state spaces, such as informed heuristics that guide exploration toward goals.[27] In natural language processing, Norvig's work on probabilistic models for text understanding has shaped algorithms that infer meaning from ambiguous inputs, enabling more robust parsing and generation.[29]Post-2020, Norvig has emphasized human-centered AI, focusing on designs that prioritize user values, inclusivity, and societal impact in AI deployment.[18] This includes explorations of AI ethics, such as equitable access and bias mitigation, alongside AI's integration into data science for ethical analysis of large datasets, as discussed in his 2022 co-authored book Data Science in Context and a 2023 article on algorithms' societal roles.[31][32] These themes synthesize his broader contributions, as seen in co-authorship of comprehensive AI texts.[27] Notable projects and developments One of Peter Norvig's early contributions to AI education was the development of JScheme, a Java-based implementation of the Scheme programming language designed to facilitate scripting and prototyping in AI applications. Co-created with Ken Anderson and Tim Hickey, JScheme provided a simple interface for integrating Scheme code with Java objects, making it particularly useful for teaching functional programming concepts in AI contexts. Released in 1998, it supported nearly full compliance with the R4RS standard and enabled educators to run AI algorithms without complex setup, influencing tools for dynamic language integration in Java environments.[33][34]During his tenure as head of the Computational Sciences Division at NASA Ames Research Center from 1998 to 2001, Norvig led initiatives applying AI to space exploration, including the Remote Agent experiment. This autonomous software system, developed under his division, flew on the Deep Space 1 mission in 1999, marking the first onboard use of AI for planning, scheduling, and fault diagnosis on a spacecraft without ground intervention. It successfully managed spacecraft operations during a test period, earning the NASA Software of the Year award and demonstrating AI's potential for robust autonomy in remote environments. Norvig's team also contributed to software for the Mars Exploration Rovers, incorporating Remote Agent technologies for automated planning, which enhanced scientific productivity on the Martian surface post-2003 landings. While specific involvement in planetary data systems is not detailed in primary records, his division's computational work supported data handling for planetary missions through AI-driven analysis.[35][5]At Google, where Norvig served as Director of Research and previously led the core search algorithms group starting in 2002, he advanced search relevance by integrating machine learning models into ranking processes. Under his leadership, Google transitioned from rule-based systems to statistical, experiment-driven approaches, emphasizing natural language processing and probabilistic models to better interpret user queries and rank results. This shift, exemplified in early ML applications for handling ambiguous searches, improved accuracy and scalability, laying groundwork for later innovations like RankBrain while processing billions of daily queries. Norvig emphasized data's role over purely algorithmic complexity, stating that "having more data is almost always more important than having better algorithms" in machine learning contexts.[36][5]Norvig co-authored foundational work on Verbmobil, a German-funded project for portable speech-to-speech translation in face-to-face dialogues, detailed in his 1994 book with Martin Kay and Mark Gawron. The system combined speech recognition, machine translation, and synthesis to handle spontaneous multilingual conversations, such as business negotiations, using AI techniques for context-aware interpretation. Verbmobil's prototypes demonstrated real-time translation between English and German, influencing subsequent multilingual AI systems by addressing challenges like disfluencies and domain-specific vocabulary, though limited to controlled scenarios. Its implications extended to broader natural language processing advancements in dialog management.[37][38] Publications and presentations Books Peter Norvig has authored and co-authored several influential books that have shaped the fields of artificial intelligence, programming, and data science. His most prominent work is Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, co-authored with Stuart Russell, which first appeared in 1995 and has since become the standard textbook for AI education worldwide.[5] The book provides a comprehensive overview of AI principles, including search algorithms, knowledge representation, machine learning, and natural language processing, emphasizing both theoretical foundations and practical implementations.[27] Now in its fourth edition (2020), it has been adopted by 1,556 universities across 134 countries, serving as a core resource in undergraduate and graduate courses.[39] Norvig and Russell have integrated the text into their own AI courses, such as the popular online offering on Coursera.[5]In 1991, Norvig published Paradigms of Artificial Intelligence Programming: Case Studies in Common Lisp, a seminal guide to advanced Lisp programming through the lens of AI system development.[5] The book reconstructs eight classic AI programs—ranging from simple search solvers to complex natural language parsers—using Common Lisp, demonstrating design patterns, abstraction techniques, and performance optimization strategies.[40] It highlights Lisp's flexibility for AI prototyping and has remained a key reference for programmers seeking to understand functional and symbolic programming paradigms in AI contexts.Norvig co-edited Intelligent Help Systems for UNIX in 2001 with Stephen J. Hegner, Paul McKevitt, and Robert Wilensky, compiling research on applying AI and cognitive science to user assistance in UNIX environments.[5] The volume explores techniques such as knowledge-based consulting, plan recognition, and natural language interfaces to enhance help systems, drawing from Norvig's earlier 1980s work on intelligent interfaces at UC Berkeley.[30] It addresses challenges in making complex systems accessible, influencing subsequent developments in adaptive user support tools.[41]Norvig is also listed as a co-author on Verbmobil: A Translation System for Face-to-Face Dialog, published in 1994, which details an early prototype for real-time speech-to-speech translation in multilingual dialogues.[5] The book describes the system's architecture, including speech recognition, machine translation, and synthesis components, based on the German Verbmobil project, and evaluates its performance in constrained scenarios like business negotiations. This work contributed to foundational advances in spoken language processing, paving the way for modern translation technologies.[42]More recently, in 2022, Norvig co-authored Data Science in Context: Foundations, Challenges, Opportunities with Alfred Z. Spector, Chris Wiggins, and Jeannette M. Wing, offering an interdisciplinary perspective on data science's role in addressing societal problems.[5] Published by Cambridge University Press, the book covers data collection, analysis, ethics, and deployment, emphasizing real-world applications in areas like healthcare and climate modeling while highlighting risks such as bias and privacy erosion. It advocates for contextual awareness in data practices to maximize benefits and mitigate harms.[43] Selected papers and articles Peter Norvig's essay "Teach Yourself Programming in Ten Years," published in 2001, critiques the unrealistic promises of self-help programming books that claim mastery can be achieved in mere days or weeks, such as "Teach Yourself [Programming Language] in 21 Days." Instead, Norvig advocates for a long-term approach to skill development, emphasizing deliberate practice, reading classic texts, contributing to open-source projects, and gaining real-world experience over approximately 10,000 hours to achieve expertise, drawing on research from psychologists like AndersEricsson.[44]During his time at the University of California, Berkeley in the 1980s, Norvig produced influential work on AI search and planning techniques, particularly focusing on inference mechanisms that underpin heuristic methods for problem-solving. His 1986 PhD thesis, "A Unified Theory of Inference for Text Understanding," proposed a framework integrating monotonic and nonmonotonic logics to enable efficient inference in knowledge bases, facilitating more effective search in natural language processing tasks.[45] Building on this, his 1989 paper "Marker Passing as a Weak Method for Text Inferencing," published in Cognitive Science, explored parallel marker-passing algorithms as a heuristic search strategy for activating relevant knowledge during text comprehension, demonstrating improved efficiency over exhaustive search methods in associative networks.[46]In the post-2020 era, Norvig has addressed AI ethics and human-centered design through contributions emphasizing responsible AI development, including co-authorship of the 2022 book Data Science in Context: Foundations, Challenges, Opportunities, which discusses ethical considerations in data-driven AI systems, such as bias mitigation and societal impacts, to promote human-aligned technologies. His broader scholarly output, spanning these areas and beyond, has garnered over 98,000 citations on Google Scholar, underscoring its enduring impact on AI research.[47] Notable presentations One of Peter Norvig's influential public presentations was his 2012 talk titled "The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Data," delivered at venues such as Carnegie Mellon University and the University of British Columbia, where he explored how vast datasets have propelled breakthroughs in artificial intelligence, particularly in natural language processing and machine learning.[48][49] In this presentation, Norvig emphasized that the availability of large-scale data often outperforms complex theoretical models, drawing from his co-authored paper on the topic to illustrate real-world AI successes driven by empirical approaches rather than elegant algorithms alone. The talk resonated with audiences by highlighting the shift toward data-centric AI paradigms, influencing discussions on scalable machine learning techniques.Norvig is scheduled to deliver a keynote address at the AI by the Bay conference in November 2025 titled "The Present and Future of Programming with AI," examining how generative AI tools are transforming software development and coding practices.[50] He will discuss emerging AI-assisted programming languages and tools, such as those enabling natural language-based code generation, and speculate on their implications for the software industry, including potential shifts in programmer roles and productivity.[51] This presentation underscores Norvig's ongoing interest in probabilistic reasoning applied to practical AI applications, attracting developers and researchers eager to integrate AI into everyday coding workflows.Norvig has frequently presented at major AI conferences, including an invited talk at the 2004 AAAI National Conference on "Applications of Artificial Intelligence to Web Search," where he detailed how search algorithms leverage AI techniques like probabilistic models and machine learning to handle massive web-scale data.[52] More recently, his work on human-centered AI has featured in keynotes such as the October 2024 ODSC West conference presentation on "Human-Centered AI," focusing on aligning AI systems with ethical considerations, societal impacts, and user needs to mitigate risks in deployment.[53] These talks emphasize designing AI that prioritizes human values, drawing from his research in search and reasoning to advocate for inclusive and responsible technology.At the Precision Medicine World Conference in February 2025, Norvig participated as a panelist in the session on "AI-Driven Advances in Precision Medicine," linking AI methodologies to healthcare innovations such as personalized diagnostics and treatment optimization.[54] Moderated by experts from UCSF and Stanford, the discussion highlighted AI's potential in analyzing genomic data and improving patient outcomes, with Norvig contributing insights on scalable algorithms for medical applications.[55] This appearance exemplified his efforts to bridge AI research with real-world domains like healthcare, fostering interdisciplinary dialogue on ethical and effective implementations. Teaching and mentorship University-level teaching Peter Norvig served as an assistant professor at the University of Southern California (USC) from 1985 to 1986, where he taught introductory artificial intelligence courses. At the University of California, Berkeley, he held a research faculty position from 1986 to 1991, contributing to AI education during a formative period for the field, though specific course titles from this time are not extensively documented in public records.[19] Later, as an instructor at Stanford University from 2010 to 2011, Norvig co-taught an introductory AI course that laid the groundwork for broader educational initiatives.[19] More recently, at Stanford, he has led advanced courses such as CS 139: Human-Centered AI, including in Fall 2025, emphasizing ethical and user-focused AI design, and CS 339H: Human-Computer Interaction and AI/ML, exploring intersections of machine learning and interface design.[56][57]Norvig significantly influenced AI curricula through his emphasis on Lisp and Common Lisp as foundational languages for teaching programming paradigms in artificial intelligence. His 1992 book, Paradigms of Artificial Intelligence Programming: Case Studies in Common Lisp, serves as a seminal text that integrates AI algorithm development with advanced Lisp techniques, demonstrating practical implementations of systems like search algorithms and natural language processing.[58] This work has shaped university-level instruction by promoting bottom-up programming and symbolic AI methods, impacting students across institutions and fostering a deep understanding of how language design supports intelligent systems.[40] Courses drawing from this approach, often paired briefly with his co-authored textbook Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, have trained generations in Lisp-based AI paradigms.Throughout his academic career, Norvig has mentored Ph.D. students and postdocs, guiding their research in areas like machine learning and natural language processing, though detailed public records of individual advisees are limited due to his primary focus on industry roles. Examples of his influence include former collaborators who advanced to leadership positions in AI research and development at institutions and companies.[19]Since 2021, Norvig has held the position of Distinguished Education Fellow at Stanford's Human-Centered AI Institute (HAI), where he focuses on developing AI pedagogy that prioritizes inclusivity, ethical considerations, and accessible teaching methods for university settings.[17] In this ongoing role as of 2025, he works to integrate human-centered principles into AI curricula, addressing challenges like broadening access to advanced topics in machine learning and ensuring educational materials reflect diverse perspectives.[18] Online education and outreach Peter Norvig co-taught the first massive open online course (MOOC) on artificial intelligence with Sebastian Thrun in 2011, titled "Introduction to Artificial Intelligence," which enrolled over 160,000 students from around the world and demonstrated the potential of scalable digital education.[59][60] This pioneering effort, initially hosted on a Stanford platform, laid foundational groundwork for major MOOC providers like Coursera and edX, influencing their development of AI curricula.[61][62]Building on his university-level teaching experience, Norvig has extended outreach through his personal website, norvig.com, where he freely shares educational resources including Python and Lisp code repositories for his co-authored textbook Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, Jupyter notebooks (Pytudes) for interactive AI and programming exercises, and essays such as "Teach Yourself Programming in Ten Years" to guide self-learners.[63][64][65] These materials emphasize practical, accessible learning and have been widely used by independent students and educators globally.Norvig has advocated for democratizing AI education, particularly in developing regions, through public talks highlighting how MOOCs can bridge access gaps for learners in underserved areas like Colombia and Iran, where traditional university resources are limited.[66] In his 2012 TED Talk, "The 100,000-Student Classroom," he underscored the global equity potential of online platforms, noting the diverse international participation in his course and calling for broader adoption to empower non-traditional students.[61] As Stanford's HAI Distinguished Education Fellow, he continues to promote human-centered AI curricula that enhance worldwide educational reach.[67] Recognition Awards Peter Norvig has received several prestigious awards recognizing his contributions to artificial intelligence, computational sciences, and education.[14]In 2001, Norvig was awarded the NASA Exceptional Achievement Medal for his leadership in advancing computational sciences at NASAAmes Research Center, where he served as the senior computer scientist.[68][5]The University of California, Berkeley, honored Norvig with the Distinguished Alumni Award in Computer Science in 2006, acknowledging the significant impact of his Ph.D. research and subsequent career achievements in AI.[14][69]In 2008, he received the Berkeley Engineering Innovation Award for lifetime achievement, celebrating his innovative work in AI systems and search technologies during his early tenure at Google.[14][70]Norvig shared the inaugural AAAI/EAAI Outstanding Educator Award in 2016 with co-author Stuart Russell, specifically for their seminal textbook Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, which has shaped AI education worldwide.[71][14]In 2024, Norvig was a co-recipient of the PROSE Award in the Computing and Information Sciences category for the bookData Science in Context: Foundations, Challenges, Opportunities, highlighting his ongoing contributions to human-centered approaches in data science and AI.[72][73] Fellowships and honors Peter Norvig was elected a Fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) in 2001, recognizing his significant contributions to educational materials, natural language processing techniques, web-based technology, and automated planning methods in artificial intelligence.[74][14]In 2006, Norvig was named a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) for his contributions to artificial intelligence and information retrieval, which underpin modern search technologies.[75][14]Norvig was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2013, honoring his distinguished and original contributions to the field of computer science.[2][14]That same year, he became a Fellow of the California Academy of Sciences, acknowledging his advancements in artificial intelligence and computer science.[76][14]Since 2021, Norvig has served as a Distinguished Education Fellow at Stanford University's Institute for Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence (HAI), a role that highlights his leadership in AI education and outreach efforts.[17][14]
