=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Fabulous Fattoruso Brothers]
Born in Montevideo in the 1940s, Hugo Fattoruso (1943) like his younger brother Osvaldo (1948-2012) both displayed a natural talent from an early age.
URL: https://www.latinolife.co.uk/articles/fabulous-fattoruso-brothers

[Osvaldo Fattoruso - Wikipedia]
Osvaldo Fattoruso (12 May 1948 – 29 July 2012) was a Uruguayan musician. [2] He introduced rock in Latin America with his band Los Shakers, and also created a fusion between jazz, rock and African rhythms togther with his brother Hugo Fattoruso in Opa (Uruguayan band). [3]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Osvaldo_Fattoruso

[spellwise/examples/data/american-english at master - GitHub]
A a AA AAA Aachen aah Aaliyah Aaliyah's aardvark aardvark's aardvarks Aaron AA's AB ab ABA aback abacus abacuses abacus's abaft abalone abalone's abalones abandon abandoned abandoning abandonment abandonment's abandons abase abased abasement abasement's abases abash abashed abashedly abashes abashing abashment abashment's abasing abate abated abatement abatement's abates abating abattoir ...
URL: https://github.com/chinnichaitanya/spellwise/blob/master/examples/data/american-english

[What (and When) Is V-J Day? - The National WWII Museum]
They have signed terms of unconditional surrender.” The president went on to proclaim the following day, Sunday, September 2, “to be V-J Day—the day of formal surrender by Japan.” The United States still marks each September 2 as V-J Day with ceremonies honoring the sacrifices of the men and women who served in the Pacific war.
URL: https://www.nationalww2museum.org/war/articles/what-and-when-v-j-day

[Influential Uruguayan Drummer Osvaldo Fattoruso Dies at 64 ...]
Jul 29, 2012 · Jorge Osvaldo Fattoruso was born May 12th, 1948 in Montevideo, Uruguay. He was one of the founders of rock band Los Shakers in the 1960s, which introduced rock music to Latin America.
URL: https://progressiverockcentral.com/2012/07/29/influential-uruguayan-drummer-osvaldo-fattoruso-dies-at-64/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Fabulous Fattoruso Brothers] ---
Born in Montevideo in the 1940s, Hugo Fattoruso (1943) like his younger brother Osvaldo (1948-2012) both displayed a natural talent from an early age. They were actively encouraged by their parents, also musicians, Hugo was given a piano accordion when he was barely 8 or 9 years old, teaching himself to play it in no time. He never looked back. With father Antonio, the two brothers created the ‘FATTORUSO TRIO’ and were playing professionally when they were barely into their teens. Hugo was on the piano and the accordion, he also started to play the guitar and today, at 81 years of age, ever the multi-instrumentalist and vocalist, he has shown no sign of stopping! Trailer has no English Subtitles- the screened film has subtitles- When the brothers were in their late teens, in 1964, with Hugo on lead guitar, piano and lead vocals, Osvaldo on rhythm guitar and vocals, Roberto ‘Pelín’ Capobianco on bass and bandoneon, and Carlos ‘Caio’ Vila, they created what was to become a hit band, ‘LOS SHAKERS’, unashamedly based on the Beatles. They styled their hair with the famous mop hairdo, wore suits and emulated the fab four in every way they could. As they say, imitation is the best compliment. Despite singing in English, they became enormously popular all-over Latin America, considered the realest fake Beatles ever to record. They had managed to obtain three guitars, so they vandalized one of the them, persuading a friend to alter the neck to create a bass. Los Shakers They played rock, proto- punk, garage, and psychedelic rock, largely playing covers. A key moment transpired when, offered a recording contract, it became necessary to start writing their own material. Hugo took to this like a duck to water and according to Litto Nebbia, the Argentine musician, they had a fundamental influence on the rock scene in the Cono Sur. Nebbia also pointed out that despite their huge success, they were always broke, so it was no surprise when, with Osvaldo, he examined their contract, to discovered they were only receiving 1% in royalties! Meanwhile, TV presenters were intrigued as they were considered a strange phenomenon: - “Why do you have long hair?” “Because we are not selling combs or hair spray, just records... if you look back in history, you will see that musician like Chopin, Beethoven even Bach, all had long hair!” The Shakers split up in 1969 and then Hugo veered every more towards exploring his deeper jazz interests appearing at the Hot Club Montevideo and playing with other established musicians like Ruben Rada, who was to become a lifelong friend and colleague, Bachicha, Lencina, and Ringo Thielmann. Later that year, the brothers and Thielmann decided to try their luck in New York. It was there, with their group ‘OPA’ that the Fattoruso brothers started to break all boundaries. They became the resident band at an Italian ‘Golden Chariot’ restaurant, apparently a popular venue for the New York Italian Mafiosi. There Opa, with Hugo on piano and keyboards, Osvaldo on drums and their friend Ringo Thielman on bass, they developed their new unique sound. Osvaldo Fattoruso, Hugo Fattoruso and Ringo Thielmann By now, Hugo was concentrating on great piano players like Oscar Peterson & Thelonius Monk. At the same time, the Trio found they were unable to totally disengage from their roots, and the powerful traditional soul drum beat of Candombe erupts into their music, creating a fusion of these elements unlike any other Latin fusion. It was and is essentially, Hugo Fattoruso at heart. Such talent is not always accompanied by a business sense and despite their various successes the brothers continued to live from hand to mouth. Despite their appalling recording contract as Los Shakers, their nose for business had not improved. “We didn’t see a dime and that’s the truth” “Hugo only wanted to write and follow his heart.” ( María, his Carioca wife) Then international Fame came a’knocking. Brazilian percussionist Airto Moreira and singer Flora Purim were preparing to record an album (for the Creed Taylor’s CTI label) and were looking for a backing band. Impressed by OPA, Airto enlisted the Trio. Hugo called Ruben Rada to join them from Uruguay, and took charge of the arrangements and the song writing (bar the title song ‘FINGERS’ (Dedos) by Ruben Rada). The album, with its pulsating Latin-flavoured pulsating jazz fusion was a phenomenal global hit, (particularly in Japan!). Dedos Much fame, but little fortune, as they also saw little money from that album as well. But, by now, the brothers had established themselves as unique. Despite financial disagreements, they continued to play with Airto, including Madison Square in 1973. He then offered to produce for them and this led to the first OPA album, Golden Wings (1976). Hugo had found a way to amalgamate Candombé and Jazz, creating the best Jazz-fusion band around. They were able to include Hermeto Pascoal on flute, Barry Finnerty on guitar and Flora Purim on vocals on some tracks (Arise), with Airto on Percussion. ‘Paraná’, from, the album DEODATO, “In Concert,” including Airto Moreira, Ruben Rada and David Amaro as well as Hugo Fattoruso & Hermeto Pascoal Magic Time Line- up OPA Hugo Fattoruso’s amazing performance of 'Paraná' remains the highlight of this album, and the live concert at Madison Square. Airto was then instrumental in getting OPA signed to Fantasy’s subsidiary Milestone Records, leading to further albums. By now Hugo was, apart from the piano, also using Moog, ARP and Oberheim synthesizers to wonderful effect. The album closes with a rhythmic dance piece of jazz fusion with a powerful pulsating bass line, and astounding solos from David Amaro, Pascoal and Fattoruso himself. Hugo had become the go-to guitarist of the NY Jazz scene, and in the 11 years that he lived in the USA, he played with all the top talents. He was busy non-stop day and night, recording and composing. His personal life meanwhile was varied and interesting, with children being born and life becoming more complicated. One son was born in Las Vegas as they were on tour. They also spent years in Argentina, but eventually, the family with his Carioca wife, María de Fátima Quinhões they moved to Brazil. In no time he was playing the Djavan, Milton Nascimento and Chico Buarque, all fascinated with his versatility. Chico Buarque: - “He brought new blood and a freshness to the music and to the concerts.” But Hugo was hankering to do his own thing again and was missing his life in Uruguay. Aged 47 he decided to leave his wife and return to Uruguay with one of his children, Francisco. In no time he had created a new line-up and a new group called ‘Los Pusilanimes’ (The Fainthearted) which was purely instrumental, with ‘Popo’ Romano and Carlos Quintana. Sadly in 2012, Hugo lost his brother Osvaldo to cancer. Osvaldo had been fighting it for many years & he played his drums to the end. This unique sibling relationship had been so special many talked about how they were so bonded that watching them play was always a special experience. Hugo was back home in Montevideo and where he wanted to be. Now, aside from participating in folk festivals, including the Accordion Festival where hundreds of players create a procession, he makes a point of playing concerts with his own children, now all grown up. much as he had himself done as a chikld playing with his own father, Antonio. All the children are, clearly, equally infected with the same Fattoruso musical gene! “I am eternally grateful to my parents. I feel Like a billionaire. I can sit and play the piano that is good enough. I can’t complain!” Corre Niña FATTORUSO THE Movie will be screened at the Latino Life Film Club on June 22nd- 2025 6 South Lambeth Place - London SW8 1SP Book Now at www.latinolife.co.uk/filmclub Credits: - Writer/ Director: Santiago Bednarik / Production: Andres Varela & Sebastian Bednarik / Germán Ormaechea / Art Director: Luanda Fattoruso/ Cinematographer: Ramíro González / Sound Designer: Santiago Bednarik / Editor: Santiago Bednarik OPA recordings: - OPA Golden Wings (1976) / OPA Magic Time (1977) /OPA En vivo (Live) (1988) / Back Home (1996) The Candombe Jazz Funk Vibe 1975-1977 (2003).


--- [Osvaldo Fattoruso - Wikipedia] ---
Osvaldo Fattoruso (12 May 1948 – 29 July 2012) was a Uruguayan musician.
He introduced rock in Latin America with his band Los Shakers, and also created a fusion between jazz, rock and African rhythms together with his brother Hugo Fattoruso in Opa (Uruguayan band).
After living several years in the United States, he returned to Uruguay in 1981 and performed live with Opa at the Cine Teatro Plaza, a historic performance in his country by a band that was already a cult favorite.
That same year, 1981, he formed the group Barcarola with his brother Hugo, María de Fátima (Hugo's wife at the time), Pippo Spera , Eduardo Márquez, and Susana Bosch . They performed live at the Teatro Stella and the Luis Franzini Stadium . Brazilian Geraldo Azevedo , author of some of Barcarola's songs, was a guest at the latter show.
In 1982 he settled in Buenos Aires, playing with musicians such as Miguel Abuelo, Litto Nebbia, Luis Alberto Spinetta, Alejandro Lerner, León Gieco and Fito Páez, among others, and being part of Rubén Rada's band , recording on all his albums from En familia (1982) to Pa'los uruguayos (1989).
Fattoruso died on July 29, 2012 at the age of 64 and is buried at the Cementerio del Norte, Montevideo.
He was the brother of Hugo Fattoruso and Sylvia Veronica Fattoruso.


--- [spellwise/examples/data/american-english at master - GitHub] ---
We read every piece of feedback, and take your input very seriously. To see all available qualifiers, see our documentation.


--- [What (and When) Is V-J Day? - The National WWII Museum] ---
On September 1, 1945, President Harry S. Truman addressed the nation by radio. “The thoughts and hopes of all America—indeed of all the civilized world—are centered tonight on the battleship Missouri,” Truman said. “There on that small piece of American soil anchored in Tokyo Harbor, the Japanese have just officially laid down their arms. They have signed terms of unconditional surrender.” The president went on to proclaim the following day, Sunday, September 2, “to be V-J Day—the day of formal surrender by Japan.” The United States still marks each September 2 as V-J Day with ceremonies honoring the sacrifices of the men and women who served in the Pacific war. Yet by September 2, 1945, celebrations of Japan’s surrender had already been taking place around the United States for weeks. Some of the most iconic photographs of V-J Day celebrations, if not the war itself, were actually taken on August 14, 1945, not September 2. Why can the date of V-J Day vary so widely? The answer lies in the complicated events of August to September 1945 in the Pacific theater. From Hiroshima to Tokyo In July 1945, Allied leaders met in the German city of Potsdam to discuss the strategy for ending the war against Imperial Japan. Germany had already been defeated and had accepted the Allied terms of “unconditional surrender.” Among other critical decisions, the Allied leaders—Soviet leader Joseph Stalin, US President Harry S. Truman, and British Prime Minister Clement Attlee, who replaced Winston Churchill during the conference—agreed that the Soviet Union would join the war against Japan by invading the occupied region of Manchuria. The day before the conference began, however, the United States successfully detonated the world’s first atomic bomb in the Trinity test. While the results of the test were not made public, Truman knew of its success. With both the Soviet commitment to join the war and the existence of the atomic bomb, the Allies issued the Potsdam Declaration on July 26 calling on Japan to accept terms of unconditional surrender, or face “prompt and utter destruction.” Two days later, Japanese Prime Minister Kantarō Suzuki appeared to reject the terms of the Potsdam agreement during a press conference. On July 31, Truman authorized preparations for the use of atomic weapons against Imperial Japan.1 On August 6, 1945, three American B-29 bombers, including the Enola Gay, appeared over the skies of Hiroshima, Japan. At 8:15 a.m., the Enola Gay dropped a single atomic bomb over the city. Less than a minute later, it detonated, killing at least 80,000 people instantly. Despite the destruction, the Japanese government made no official response, and a militant faction in Emperor Hirohito’s cabinet argued that the war should continue. Three days later, on August 9, another B-29 named Bockscar dropped a second atomic bomb, this time on the southern Japanese city of Nagasaki. That same day, the Soviet Union invaded Manchuria. Hirohito now stepped into the decision-making process personally. In the early hours of August 10, Tokyo time, the emperor announced to his war cabinet that he supported accepting the terms of the Potsdam Agreement. The cabinet then assembled a statement in accordance with the emperor’s decision. The agreement was transmitted to the Allies by letter through Switzerland.2 In it, the Japanese government conveyed that it was prepared to accept the terms of the Potsdam proclamation, but with Hirohito retaining his prerogatives as a sovereign ruler. News of the decision reached Washington, D.C., on the morning of August 10 local time; discussions began within Truman’s cabinet and with Allied leaders later that day. The following day, a tentative statement of agreement with these terms was sent by Washington to Tokyo with the stipulation that the authority of the emperor and the Japanese government would be subject to the Supreme Commander of the Allied powers. However, no official response was immediately received and, in the meantime, B-29 raids using conventional bombs continued against Japanese cities.3 On the night of August 13–14, American B-29s dropped leaflets on Japanese cities announcing that the emperor had transmitted possible terms of surrender to the Allies. This shocking public revelation precipitated a new crisis in the Japanese war cabinet. Hirohito reiterated his intention to end the war and recorded a message announcing his decision to the Japanese people later that night. Hours later, a rejectionist faction within the government launched an attempted military coup to destroy the emperor’s recording and prevent surrender. By the morning of August 15, however, the plot had been defeated and the conspirators committed suicide. 4 At noon Tokyo time on August 15, the emperor’s recording was broadcast over Japanese national radio. Never using the term “surrender” itself, Hirohito stated that his government would accept the terms of the Potsdam Declaration. This was the first time the emperor had ever spoken directly to the Japanese people. 5 Celebrations at Different Times News of Japan’s intention to surrender reached Washington, D.C., on the evening of August 14 due to the time zone difference with Tokyo. At 7 p.m., Truman addressed the press in the Oval Office and announced the news from Tokyo. Celebrations erupted across the country, most iconically in Times Square, New York. As a result, many of the images Americans associate with the end of the war were taken on August 14. In the United Kingdom, the following day—August 15—was formally declared as V-J Day and remains so to the present day. Japan commemorates August 15 as the end of the war as well. In his press conference, however, Truman stated explicitly that “proclamation of V-J Day must wait upon the formal signing of the surrender terms by Japan.” The formal surrender of Imperial Japan was scheduled for two weeks later, on August 31, but because of severe weather, it was delayed until September 2, 1945. The surrender took place on the deck of the USS Missouri as a Japanese delegation signed formal surrender documents with General Douglas MacArthur, the Supreme Commander of Allied forces for the occupation of Japan. Due to the time difference with Washington, Truman announced the signing of the formal surrender documents on the evening of September 1, 1945. He then proclaimed the following day as the United States’ official V-J Day. Crowds again gathered around the country to celebrate Japan’s formal surrender. Commemoration Dates Vary Due to the complexities of the events surrounding the end of the Pacific war, V-J Day has been, and is, commemorated on a variety of dates: August 15, the anniversary of Hirohito’s announcement in local time; August 14, the date of Hirohito’s announcement in the United States; and September 2, the anniversary of Japan’s formal surrender The United Kingdom, for instance, officially commemorates V-J Day on August 15 of each year. Australia recognizes August 15 as Victory in the Pacific Day (V-P Day). V-J Day is typically seen as the final end of World War II. Adding complexity, however, is another date that receives little recognition today: December 31, 1946, more than a year after Japan’s surrender. This was the date of Truman’s announcement of “a proclamation terminating the period of hostilities of World War II.” By doing so, Truman formally ended 53 “war and emergency statutes” that had been enacted to assist the war effort and, later, facilitate demobilization. With Truman’s announcement, the United States formally ended its involvement in the largest conflict in human history. Bradley W. Hart, PhD Bradley W. Hart is a World War II Military Historian at the Jenny Craig Institute for the Study of War and Democracy. Cite this article: MLA Citation: APA Citation: Chicago Style Citation:


--- [Influential Uruguayan Drummer Osvaldo Fattoruso Dies at 64 ...] ---
Legendary Uruguayan rock and jazz drummer Osvaldo Fattoruso died this morning in Montevideo of cancer. He was 64. Jorge Osvaldo Fattoruso was born May 12th, 1948 in Montevideo, Uruguay. He was one of the founders of rock band Los Shakers in the 1960s, which introduced rock music to Latin America. The band featured Osvaldo on vocals and guitar, his brother Hugo also on vocals and guitar, Roberto Capobianco on bass and Carlos Villa on drums. In 1969 Osvaldo relocated to the United States. In 1970, Osvaldo and Hugo became Airto Moreira and Flora Purim’s backing band, appearing on several of their early to mid-1970s albums. It was seminal band Opa, however, which got Osvaldo Fattoruso international recognition. Osvaldo formed Opa, together with his brother Hugo and Ringo Thielmann. Opa was a legendary fusion band that combined rock, jazz and Latin American rhythms such as Afro-Uruguayan candombe as well as Afro-Cuban and Afro-Brazilian beats. Osvaldo Fattoruso became Opa’s drummer. Opa signed to Milestone in 1976 and recorded two albums produced by Airto Moreira, Goldenwings in 1976 and Magic Time in 1977. Osvaldo Fattoruso returned to Uruguay in 1981 and moved to Buenos Aires (Argwetina) in 1982, where he worked with some of the leading rock musicians of the time, including Litto Nebbia, Luis Alberto Spinetta, Alejandro Lerner, León Gieco, Fito Páez and his fellow Uruguayan Rubén Rada. During the 1990s, Osvaldo worked with Uruguayan artist Mariana Ingold, with whom he released over a dozen albums. In 2000, Osvaldo, his bother Hugo and his nephew Francisco (Hugo’s son) formed the new Trío Fattoruso.
