=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Njongonkulu Ndungane - Wikipedia]
Njongonkulu Winston Hugh Ndungane (born 2 April 1941) is a retired South African Anglican bishop and a former prisoner on Robben Island. He was the Bishop of Kimberley and Kuruman and Archbishop of Cape Town.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Njongonkulu_Ndungane

[HIGH Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
high implies marked extension upward and is applied chiefly to things which rise from a base or foundation or are placed at a conspicuous height above a lower level.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/high

[Winston Njongonkulu Ndungane (1941 - ) | The Presidency]
The Order of the Baobab in Silver Winston Njongonkulu Ndungane (1941 - ) Awarded for: His excellent contribution to the struggle against apartheid and striving for a world free of wars, poverty and inequality. Profile of Winston Njongonkulu Ndungane Winston Njongonkulu Ndungane was born in Kokstad on 2 April 1941. He graduated from Lovedale High School, Alice, in December 1958. During March ...
URL: https://www.presidency.gov.za/winston-njongonkulu-ndungane-1941

[High - definition of high by The Free Dictionary]
Define high. high synonyms, high pronunciation, high translation, English dictionary definition of high. adj. high·er , high·est 1. a. Having a relatively great elevation; extending far upward: a high mountain; a high tower. b. Extending a specified distance...
URL: https://www.thefreedictionary.com/high

[Obituary content by year]
Later the family moved to Lichtenburg and to Pietersburg, where he completed his schooling. At Pietersburg High School, he excelled in history, English, and ...
URL: https://www.wits.ac.za/alumni/obituaries/obituary-content-by-year/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Njongonkulu Ndungane - Wikipedia] ---
Njongonkulu Winston Hugh Ndungane (born 2 April 1941) is a retired South African Anglican bishop and a former prisoner on Robben Island.  He was the Bishop of Kimberley and Kuruman and Archbishop of Cape Town.


--- [HIGH Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 a : rising or extending upward a great distance or a distance greater than others of its kind : taller than average, usual, or expected a high wall a high collar a high fly ball b : having a specified height or elevation : tall a wall six feet high —often used in combinationsky-high waist-high c : situated or passing above the normal level, surface, base of measurement, or elevation the high desert houses built on high ground d of a body of water : rising farther up the banks than usual 2 a(1) : advanced toward the acme or culmination high summer (2) : advanced toward the most active or culminating period on the Riviera during high season (3) : constituting the late, most fully developed, or most creative stage or period high Gothic (4) : advanced in complexity, development, or elaboration the higher primates including humans higher mathematics b : verging on lateness —usually used in the phrase high time It's high time he won an award. c : long past : remote high antiquity 3 : elevated in pitch (see pitch entry 4 sense 4b(1)) a high note 4 : relatively far from the equator high latitude 5 : rich in quality : luxurious high living 6 : slightly tainted or spoiled high game meat 7 a : exalted or elevated in character : noble high purposes b : very good or virtuous high quality a person of high character c : very favorable holds you in high regard/esteem has a high opinion of you started with high hopes/expectations 8 : of greater degree, amount, cost, value, or content than average, usual, or expected high prices in high demand foods high in sodium high blood pressure traveling at a high rate of speed Unemployment was high. also : near or at the top of a range temperatures in the high 80s 9 : of relatively great importance: such as a : foremost in rank, dignity, or standing high officials c : observed with the utmost solemnity high religious observances e : intellectually or artistically of the first order or best quality high culture f : marked by sublime, heroic, or stirring events or subject matter high tragedy a tale of high adventure g : very exciting or intense high adventure 11 : stressing matters of doctrine and ceremony specifically : high church 12 a : filled with or expressing great joy or excitement high spirits b : intoxicated by or as if by a drug or alcohol high on cocaine 13 : articulated or pronounced with some part of the tongue close to the palate a high vowel see also: 1 : at or to a high place, altitude, level, or degree climbed higher passions ran high 2 : well, luxuriously living pretty high these days —often used in the phrases high off the hog and high on the hog 3 : at a high price buy low and sell high 1 2 : a region where the pressure of the atmosphere is greater than normal : a region of high barometric pressure a high moving out to the east called also anticyclone 3 a : a point or level of greater amount, number, or degree than average or expected : a high point or level sales reached a new high mostly sunny with highs in the 80s the highs and lows of her career b : the transmission gear of a vehicle (such as an automobile) giving the greatest speed of travel put it into high 4 a : an excited, euphoric, or stupefied state produced by or as if by a drug produces a high that lasts several hours coming down from the high of their wedding day b : a state of elation or high spirits the high of victory Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [Winston Njongonkulu Ndungane (1941 - ) | The Presidency] ---
The Order of the Baobab in Silver Winston Njongonkulu Ndungane (1941 - ) Awarded for: His excellent contribution to the struggle against apartheid and striving for a world free of wars, poverty and inequality. Profile of Winston Njongonkulu Ndungane Winston Njongonkulu Ndungane was born in Kokstad on 2 April 1941. He graduated from Lovedale High School, Alice, in December 1958. During March 1960, he was involved in anti-pass law demonstrations while studying at the University of Cape Town. This made him interested in politics, opening his eyes to the suffering of oppressed South Africans, which resulted in his eventual arrest under apartheid laws. From August 1963 to August 1966, he served a three-year sentence on Robben Island as a political prisoner. While in prison, Ndungane decided to serve the church in the ordained ministry. He was ordained as a priest of the Anglican Church in July 1974 in the Diocese of Cape Town. He received a Bachelor of Divinity and Honours degree at King’s College, London, becoming an associate of King’s College in June 1978. In June 1979, he completed his Master of Theology degree in Christian Ethics, also at King’s College. From January 1985 to December 1986, he was principal of St. Bede’s Theological College in Umtata and in September 1981, he became the provincial liaison officer for the Church of the Province of Southern Africa (now the Anglican Church of Southern Africa). From January 1987 to June 1991, he was the provincial executive officer, and in September 1991, he was consecrated Bishop of Kimberley and Kuruman. He became Archbishop of Cape Town in September 1996. He has been awarded several honorary degrees, including a Doctorate of Divinity from Rhodes University, Grahamstown, from the Protestant Episcopal Seminary, Virginia, and from the Episcopal Divinity School. He was also conferred an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters from Worcester State College, Massachusetts, and other honorary doctorates from the universities of Cape Town, Stellenbosch and Natal. Archbishop Ndungane has written many essays and made numerous contributions to books. His own book, A World with a Human Face: A Voice From Africa, a part-autobiography and part-record of some speeches and sermons, was published in 2003. He hasalso recently written a substantial number of articles calling for the Anglican Communion to hold fast to the authentic faith of its rich heritage, found in scripture, reason and tradition, of which a considerable diversity has always been a part. The Archbishop has been deeply involved in campaigns to abolish the debt of developing countries, combat poverty, tackle HIV and Aids and promote the millennium development goals. He speaks widely on these issues as well as on rebuilding the new South Africa, and on theological questions. In 2005, he was a speaker during a series on poverty, namely What can one person do? in St. Paul’s Cathedral, London, together with Kofi Annan and Jeffrey Sachs. In 2006, he launched African Monitor, a pan-African non-profit-making body harnessing the voice of the continent’s civil society in monitoring and promoting the effective implementation of promises made by the international community, and Africa’s own governments, for the continent’s development. In the same year, the Minister of Arts and Culture, Dr Pallo Jordan, appointed Archbishop Ndungane as ”Champion” of the Historic Schools Restoration Project, an initiative aimed at transforming historically significant and under-resourced schools in South Africa into sustainable and inspirational centres of cultural and educational excellence. Njongonkulu Ndungane retired as Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town at the end of 2007 but continues his work for African Monitorand the Historic Schools Restoration Project.


--- [High - definition of high by The Free Dictionary] ---
high Also found in: Thesaurus, Medical, Legal, Financial, Acronyms, Idioms, Encyclopedia, Wikipedia. Related to high: high court, high blood pressure high (hī)adj. high·er, high·est 1. a. Having a relatively great elevation; extending far upward: a high mountain; a high tower. b. Extending a specified distance upward: a cabinet ten feet high. 2. Far or farther from a reference point: was too high in the offensive zone to take a shot. 3. a. Being at or near the peak or culminating stage: the high tourist season; high summer. b. Advanced in development or complexity: high forms of animal life; higher mathematics. c. Far removed in time; remote: high antiquity. 4. a. Slightly spoiled or tainted; gamy. Used of meat. b. Having a bad smell; malodorous. 5. a. Having a pitch corresponding to a relatively large number of sound-wave cycles per second: the high tones of a flute. b. Raised in pitch; not soft or hushed: a high voice. 6. Situated relatively far from the equator: a high latitude. 7. a. Of great importance: set a high priority on funding the housing program. b. Eminent in rank or status: a high official. c. Serious; grave: high crimes and misdemeanors. d. Constituting a climax; crucial: The chase scene is the high point of the film. e. Characterized by lofty or stirring events or themes: high adventure; high drama. 8. Lofty or exalted in quality or character: a person of high morals. 9. a. Greater than usual or expected, as in quantity, magnitude, cost, or degree: "A high price has to be paid for the happy marriage with the four healthy children" (Doris Lessing). b. Favorable: He has a high opinion of himself. 10. Of great force or violence: high winds. 11. a. Informal Excited or euphoric: high spirits. b. Slang Intoxicated by alcohol or a drug, such as cocaine or marijuana. 12. Luxurious; extravagant: high living. 13. Linguistics Of or relating to vowels produced with part of the tongue close to the palate, as in the vowel of tree. 14. Of, relating to, or being the gear configuration or setting, as in an automotive transmission, that produces the greatest vehicular speed with respect to engine speed. adv. higher, highest 1. At, in, or to a lofty position, level, or degree: saw a plane high in the sky; prices that had gone too high. 2. In an extravagant or luxurious way: made a fortune and lived high. n. Idioms: 1. A lofty place or region. 2. A high level or degree: Summer temperatures reached an all-time high. 3. The high gear configuration of a transmission. 4. A center of high atmospheric pressure; an anticyclone. 5. a. Informal An excited or euphoric condition: The team was on a high after winning in overtime. b. Slang An intoxicated or euphoric condition induced by alcohol or a drug. high and dry 1. In a position of helplessness; stranded: went off and left me high and dry. 2. Nautical Out of water. Used of a ship, for example. high and low Here and there; everywhere: searched high and low for the keys. on high 1. High in the sky. 2. In heaven. 3. In a position of authority. [Middle English, from Old English hēah.] high′ly adv. American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, Fifth Edition. Copyright © 2016 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. All rights reserved. high (haɪ)adj 1. being a relatively great distance from top to bottom; tall: a high building. 2. situated at or extending to a relatively great distance above the ground or above sea level: a high plateau. 3. a. (postpositive) being a specified distance from top to bottom: three feet high. b. (in combination): a seven-foot-high wall. 4. extending from an elevation: a high dive. 5. (in combination) coming up to a specified level: knee-high. 6. being at its peak or point of culmination: high noon. 7. of greater than average height: a high collar. 8. greater than normal in degree, intensity, or amount: high prices; a high temperature; a high wind. 9. of large or relatively large numerical value: high frequency; high voltage; high mileage. 10. (General Physics) (of sound) acute in pitch; having a high frequency 11. (Physical Geography) (of latitudes) situated relatively far north or south from the equator 12. (Cookery) (of meat) slightly decomposed or tainted, regarded as enhancing the flavour of game 13. of great eminence; very important: the high priestess. 14. exalted in style or character; elevated: high drama. 15. expressing or feeling contempt or arrogance: high words. 16. elated; cheerful: high spirits. 17. (predicative) informal overexcited: by the end of term the children are really high. 18. (Psychology) informal being in a state of altered consciousness, characterized esp by euphoria and often induced by the use of alcohol, narcotics, etc 19. luxurious or extravagant: high life. 20. advanced in complexity or development: high finance. 21. (Automotive Engineering) (of a gear) providing a relatively great forward speed for a given engine speed. Compare low121 22. (Phonetics & Phonology) phonetics of, relating to, or denoting a vowel whose articulation is produced by raising the back of the tongue towards the soft palate or the blade towards the hard palate, such as for the ee in English see or oo in English moon. Compare low120 23. (capital when part of name) formal and elaborate in style: High Mass. 24. (Anglicanism) (usually capital) of or relating to the High Church 25. remote, esp in time 26. (Card Games) cards a. having a relatively great value in a suit b. able to win a trick 27. high and dry stranded; helpless; destitute 28. high and low in all places; everywhere 29. high and mighty informal arrogant 30. high as a kite informal a. very drunk b. overexcited c. euphoric from drugs 31. high opinion a favourable opinion adv 32. at or to a height: he jumped high. 33. in a high manner 34. (Nautical Terms) nautical close to the wind with sails full n 35. a high place or level 36. (Psychology) informal a state of altered consciousness, often induced by alcohol, narcotics, etc 37. (Physical Geography) another word for anticyclone 38. (Education) short for high school 39. (Placename) (capital) (esp in Oxford) the High Street 40. (Electronics) electronics the voltage level in a logic circuit corresponding to logical one. Compare low130 41. on high a. at a height b. in heaven [Old English hēah; related to Old Norse hār, Gothic hauhs, Old High German hōh high, Lithuanian kaũkas bump, Russian kúchča heap, Sanskrit kuča bosom] Collins English Dictionary – Complete and Unabridged, 12th Edition 2014 © HarperCollins Publishers 1991, 1994, 1998, 2000, 2003, 2006, 2007, 2009, 2011, 2014 high (haɪ)adj. and adv. -er, -est, n. adj. 1. having a great or considerable height; lofty; tall: a high wall. 2. having a specified height: The tree is now 20 feet high. 3. situated above the ground or some base; elevated: a high ledge. 4. exceeding the common degree or measure; strong; intense: high speed; high color. 5. expensive; costly; dear: high prices; high rent. 6. exalted, as in rank, station, or eminence: a high official. 7. elevated in pitch: high notes. 8. extending to or from an elevation: a high dive. 9. great in quantity, as number, degree, or force: a high temperature; high cholesterol. 10. holding to High Church principles and practices. 11. of great consequence; important; grave: high crimes against humanity. 12. elated; merry or hilarious: high spirits; a high old time. 13. rich; extravagant; luxurious: to indulge in high living. 14. intoxicated or euphoric under the influence of alcohol or narcotics. 15. remote: high latitude; high antiquity. 16. extreme in opinion or doctrine, esp. in religion or politics: a high Tory. 17. of or designating highland or inland regions. 18. having considerable energy or potential power. 19. pertaining to the gear transmission ratio at which the drive shaft speed and the speed of the engine crankshaft most closely correspond: high gear. 20. (of a vowel) articulated with the upper surface of the tongue relatively close to the palate, as the vowels of eat, it, boot, and put. Compare low 1 (def. 27). 21. (esp. of game) aged until verging on decomposition; slightly tainted. 22. (of a pitched baseball) crossing the plate at a level above the batter's shoulders. 23. (of a playing card) adv. a. having greater value than other denominations or suits. b. able to take a trick; being a winning card. 24. at or to a high point, place, or level. 25. in or to a high rank or estimate: to aim high in political ambition. 26. at or to a high amount or price. 27. in or to a high degree. 28. luxuriously; richly; extravagantly: to live high. 29. Naut. as close to the wind as is possible while making headway with sails full. n. 30. high gear. 31. an atmospheric pressure system characterized by relatively high pressure at its center. 32. a high or the highest point, place, or level; peak: a record high for unemployment. 33. Idioms: a. an intoxicated or euphoric state induced by alcohol or narcotics. b. a period of sustained excitement, exhilaration, or the like. 1. high and dry, a. (of a ship) grounded so as to be entirely above water at low tide. b. deserted; stranded: to be left high and dry. 2. high and low, in every possible place; everywhere: to search high and low. 3. high on, enthusiastic about; favorably disposed toward. 4. on high, a. at or to a height; above. b. in heaven. c. having a high position, as one who makes important decisions: the powers on high. [before 900; Middle English heigh, variant of he(g)h, hey, Old English hēah, hēh, c. Old Frisian hāch, Old Saxon, Old High German hoh, Old Norse hār, Gothic hauhs; akin to Lithuanian kaũkas swelling] Random House Kernerman Webster's College Dictionary, © 2010 K Dictionaries Ltd. Copyright 2005, 1997, 1991 by Random House, Inc. All rights reserved. high – tall1. 'high' You use high to describe things which measure a larger distance than usual from the bottom to the top. For example, you talk about a high hill or a high fence. ...the high mountains of northern Japan. ...the high walls of the prison. 2. 'tall' You use tall to describe things which are higher than usual, but which are also much higher than they are wide. So, for example, you talk about a tall tree or a tall chimney. Insects buzzed in the tall grass. We saw several birds, including a tall heron standing on one leg. You always use tall when you are talking about people. Andreas was a tall handsome man. She was a young woman, fairly tall and slim. 3. another meaning of 'high' High also means 'a long way above the ground'. For example, you talk about a high window or a high shelf. It was a large room with a high ceiling. Collins COBUILD English Usage © HarperCollins Publishers 1992, 2004, 2011, 2012 ThesaurusAntonymsRelated WordsSynonymsLegend: Switch to new thesaurus | Noun | 1. | high - a lofty level or position or degree; "summer temperatures reached an all-time high" degree, level, grade - a position on a scale of intensity or amount or quality; "a moderate grade of intelligence"; "a high level of care is required"; "it is all a matter of degree" low - a low level or position or degree; "the stock market fell to a new low" | | 2. | high - an air mass of higher than normal pressure; "the east coast benefits from a Bermuda high" air mass - a large body of air with uniform characteristics horizontally anticyclone - (meteorology) winds spiraling outward from a high pressure center; circling clockwise in the northern hemisphere and counterclockwise in the southern | | | 3. | high - a state of sustained elation; "I'm on a permanent high these days" elation - an exhilarating psychological state of pride and optimism; an absence of depression low spirits - a state of mild depression | | | 4. | high - a state of altered consciousness induced by alcohol or narcotics; "they took drugs to get a high on" elation - an exhilarating psychological state of pride and optimism; an absence of depression | | | 5. | high - a high place; "they stood on high and observed the countryside"; "he doesn't like heights" place, spot, topographic point - a point located with respect to surface features of some region; "this is a nice place for a picnic"; "a bright spot on a planet" | | | 6. | high - a public secondary school usually including grades 9 through 12; "he goes to the neighborhood highschool" Gymnasium, lycee, lyceum, middle school, secondary school - a school for students intermediate between elementary school and college; usually grades 9 to 12 | | | 7. | high - a forward gear with a gear ratio that gives the greatest vehicle velocity for a given engine speed auto, automobile, car, motorcar, machine - a motor vehicle with four wheels; usually propelled by an internal combustion engine; "he needs a car to get to work" gear mechanism, gear - a mechanism for transmitting motion for some specific purpose (as the steering gear of a vehicle) overdrive - a high gear used at high speeds to maintain the driving speed with less output power | | | Adj. | 1. | high - greater than normal in degree or intensity or amount; "a high temperature"; "a high price"; "the high point of his career"; "high risks"; "has high hopes"; "the river is high"; "he has a high opinion of himself" superior - of or characteristic of high rank or importance; "a superior ruler" low - less than normal in degree or intensity or amount; "low prices"; "the reservoir is low" | | 2. | high - (literal meaning) being at or having a relatively great or specific elevation or upward extension (sometimes used in combinations like `knee-high'); "a high mountain"; "high ceilings"; "high buildings"; "a high forehead"; "a high incline"; "a foot high" tall - great in vertical dimension; high in stature; "tall people"; "tall buildings"; "tall trees"; "tall ships" top - situated at the top or highest position; "the top shelf" up - being or moving higher in position or greater in some value; being above a former position or level; "the anchor is up"; "the sun is up"; "he lay face up"; "he is up by a pawn"; "the market is up"; "the corn is up" low - literal meanings; being at or having a relatively small elevation or upward extension; "low ceilings"; "low clouds"; "low hills"; "the sun is low"; "low furniture"; "a low bow" | | | 3. | high - standing above others in quality or position; "people in high places"; "the high priest"; "eminent members of the community" superior - of or characteristic of high rank or importance; "a superior ruler" | | | 4. | high - used of sounds and voices; high in pitch or frequency low-pitched, low - used of sounds and voices; low in pitch or frequency | | | 5. | high - happy and excited and energetic elated - exultantly proud and joyful; in high spirits; "the elated winner"; "felt elated and excited" | | | 6. | high - (used of the smell of meat) smelling spoiled or tainted | | | 7. | high - slightly and pleasantly intoxicated from alcohol or a drug (especially marijuana) drunk, inebriated, intoxicated - stupefied or excited by a chemical substance (especially alcohol); "a noisy crowd of intoxicated sailors"; "helplessly inebriated" | | | Adv. | 1. | high - at a great altitude; "he climbed high on the ladder" | | 2. | high - in or to a high position, amount, or degree; "prices have gone up far too high" | | | 3. | high - in a rich manner; "he lives high" | | | 4. | high - far up toward the source; "he lives high up the river" | Based on WordNet 3.0, Farlex clipart collection. © 2003-2012 Princeton University, Farlex Inc. high adjective 1. tall, towering, soaring, steep, elevated, lofty A house with a high wall around it. tall low, short, dwarfed, stunted tall low, short, dwarfed, stunted 2. extreme, great, acute, severe, extraordinary, excessive Officials said casualties were high. extreme low, average, routine, moderate, mild, restrained, reduced extreme low, average, routine, moderate, mild, restrained, reduced 3. strong, violent, extreme, blustery, squally, sharp High winds have knocked down trees and power lines. 4. expensive, dear, steep (informal), costly, stiff, high-priced, exorbitant I think it's a good buy overall, despite the high price. 5. important, leading, ruling, chief, powerful, significant, distinguished, prominent, superior, influential, notable, big-time (informal), eminent, major league (informal), exalted, consequential Every one of them is controlled by the families of high officials. important insignificant, lowly, unimportant, low, common, average, secondary, inconsequential, menial, undistinguished, low-ranking, ignoble important insignificant, lowly, unimportant, low, common, average, secondary, inconsequential, menial, undistinguished, low-ranking, ignoble 7. notable, leading, important, famous, significant, celebrated, outstanding, distinguished, superior, renowned, eminent, exalted, noteworthy, pre-eminent She has always had a high reputation for her excellent stories. 8. high-pitched, piercing, shrill, penetrating, treble, soprano, strident, sharp, acute, piping Her high voice really irritated Maria. high-pitched low, deep, low-pitched, alto, bass, gruff high-pitched low, deep, low-pitched, alto, bass, gruff 9. cheerful, excited, merry, exhilarated, exuberant, joyful, bouncy (informal), boisterous, elated, light-hearted Her spirits were high with the hope of seeing Nick. cheerful low, sad, depressed, gloomy, melancholy, dejected cheerful low, sad, depressed, gloomy, melancholy, dejected 10. (Informal) intoxicated, stoned (slang), spaced out (slang), tripping (informal), turned on (slang), on a trip (informal), delirious, euphoric, freaked out (informal), hyped up (slang), off your face (slang), loved-up (informal), zonked (slang), inebriated He was too high on drugs and alcohol to remember them. 11. luxurious, rich, grand, lavish, extravagant, opulent, hedonistic, champagne an emphatic contrast to his Park Avenue high life adverb 1. way up, aloft, far up, to a great height on combat patrol flying high above the landing sites noun 1. peak, height, top, summit, crest, record level, apex Sales of Russian vodka have reached an all-time high. 2. (Informal) intoxication, trip (informal), euphoria, delirium, ecstasy The 'thrill' sought is said to be similar to a drug high. high and dry abandoned, stranded, helpless, forsaken, bereft, destitute, in the lurch You could be left high and dry in a strange town. high and low everywhere, all over (the place), far and wide, exhaustively, in every nook and cranny I have searched high and low for clothes to fit him. high and mighty (Informal) self-important, superior, arrogant, stuck-up (informal), conceited, imperious, overbearing, haughty, snobbish, disdainful I think you're a bit too high and mighty yourself. high up important, prominent, powerful, significant, distinguished, superior, influential, notable, big-time (informal), eminent, major league (informal), exalted, consequential His cousin is somebody quite high up in the navy. on a high ecstatic, thrilled, elated, over the moon (informal), delirious, euphoric, on cloud nine, in seventh heaven For several weeks he was on a high. Collins Thesaurus of the English Language – Complete and Unabridged 2nd Edition. 2002 © HarperCollins Publishers 1995, 2002 high adjective1. Extending to a great height: tall. 3. Long past: 5. Exceedingly dignified in form, tone, or style: 6. Abnormally increased, especially in intensity: 7. Bringing a high price: 9. Slang. Stupefied, intoxicated, or otherwise influenced by the taking of drugs: Informal: doped. The American Heritage® Roget's Thesaurus. Copyright © 2013, 2014 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. All rights reserved. Translations عالٍعالي الصوتعظيم، عالٍعلى ارتفاع عالٍقوي високвисшвърховенглавенголям altdrogat vysokovysokývznešenýhlavnípáchnoucí højthøjhøj-højestehøjtstående korkeakorkeallapilvessäkallis visokvisokoglasannadrogirannapušen elszálltfõ-magasromlásnak induló há-, hæsti-, aîal-háleiturhárhár, bjarturhár, mikill, töluverîur 高い高く 고음의높은높이 atvira jūraaukščiausiasaukščiausias vandens pakilimasaukščiausiasisaukščio augstāksaugstsaugstucēlsgalvenais visokvisoko höghögt เป็นกองสูงจำนวนมากสูง caocao cấptrên cao high [haɪ]A. ADJ (higher (compar) (highest (superl))) 1. (= tall, elevated) [building, mountain] → alto; [plateau] → elevado; [altitude] → grande a building 60 metres high → un edificio de 60 metros de alto or de altura it's 20 metres high → tiene 20 metros de alto or de altura at high altitudes → a grandes altitudes the ceilings are very high → los techos son muy altos high cheekbones → pómulos mpl salientes he has a high forehead → tiene la frente muy ancha how high is Ben Nevis/that tree? → ¿qué altura tiene el Ben Nevis/ese árbol? economic reform is high on the agenda → la reforma económica figura entre los asuntos más importantes a tratar the river is high → el río está crecido I've known her since she was so high → la conozco desde que era así (de pequeña) the sun was high in the sky → el sol daba de pleno high and dry [boat] → varado the boats lay at the river's edge, high and dry → los botes estaban en la orilla del río, varados to leave sb high and dry (= in a difficult situation) → dejar a algn en la estacada a building 60 metres high → un edificio de 60 metros de alto or de altura it's 20 metres high → tiene 20 metros de alto or de altura at high altitudes → a grandes altitudes the ceilings are very high → los techos son muy altos high cheekbones → pómulos mpl salientes he has a high forehead → tiene la frente muy ancha how high is Ben Nevis/that tree? → ¿qué altura tiene el Ben Nevis/ese árbol? economic reform is high on the agenda → la reforma económica figura entre los asuntos más importantes a tratar the river is high → el río está crecido I've known her since she was so high → la conozco desde que era así (de pequeña) the sun was high in the sky → el sol daba de pleno high and dry [boat] → varado the boats lay at the river's edge, high and dry → los botes estaban en la orilla del río, varados to leave sb high and dry (= in a difficult situation) → dejar a algn en la estacada 2. (= considerable, great) [level, risk, rent, salary, principles] → alto; [price, tax, number] → alto, elevado; [speed] → alto, gran; [quality] → alto, bueno; [colour] → subido; [complexion] (characteristically) → rojizo; (temporarily) → enrojecido; [wind] → fuerte they offered me a higher salary → me ofrecieron un sueldo más alto temperatures were in the high 80s → las temperaturas alcanzaron los ochenta y muchos, las temperaturas rondaron los 90 grados interest rates are high → los intereses están muy altos we offer education of the highest quality → ofrecemos una educación de la más alta or de la mejor calidad to have high blood pressure → tener la tensión alta, ser hipertenso his team was of the highest calibre → su equipo era del más alto nivel to have high hopes of sth I had high hopes of being elected → tenía muchas esperanzas de que me eligieran parsley is high in calcium → el perejil es rico en calcio to have a high opinion of sb (= think highly of) → tener muy buena opinión or concepto de algn; (= be fond of) → tener a algn en alta estima to pay a high price for sth (lit) → pagar mucho dinero por algo (fig) → pagar algo muy caro to have a high temperature → tener mucha fiebre, tener una fiebre muy alta to have a high old time → pasarlo en grande it's high time ... it's high time you were in bed → ya deberías estar acostado desde hace un buen rato it's high time we were on our way → ya deberíamos haber salido hace rato see also gear, priority, profile, spirit, stake, high A4 they offered me a higher salary → me ofrecieron un sueldo más alto temperatures were in the high 80s → las temperaturas alcanzaron los ochenta y muchos, las temperaturas rondaron los 90 grados interest rates are high → los intereses están muy altos we offer education of the highest quality → ofrecemos una educación de la más alta or de la mejor calidad to have high blood pressure → tener la tensión alta, ser hipertenso his team was of the highest calibre → su equipo era del más alto nivel to have high hopes of sth I had high hopes of being elected → tenía muchas esperanzas de que me eligieran parsley is high in calcium → el perejil es rico en calcio to have a high opinion of sb (= think highly of) → tener muy buena opinión or concepto de algn; (= be fond of) → tener a algn en alta estima to pay a high price for sth (lit) → pagar mucho dinero por algo (fig) → pagar algo muy caro to have a high temperature → tener mucha fiebre, tener una fiebre muy alta to have a high old time → pasarlo en grande it's high time ... it's high time you were in bed → ya deberías estar acostado desde hace un buen rato it's high time we were on our way → ya deberíamos haber salido hace rato see also gear, priority, profile, spirit, stake, high A4 3. (= important, superior) [rank, position, office] → alto high and mighty she's too high and mighty → es demasiado engreída you needn't act so high and mighty with me → no tienes por qué ponerte tan engreído conmigo she moves in the circles of the high and mighty → se mueve en círculos de los poderosos, se mueve en círculos de gente de mucho fuste (pej) high official → alto funcionario/a m/f to get (up) on one's high horse → subirse a la parra there's no need to get (up) on your high horse! → ¡no hace falta que te subas a la parra! to come down off or get off one's high horse → bajar los humos in high places to have friends in high places → tener amigos importantes or con influencias people in high places → gente influyente or importante high and mighty she's too high and mighty → es demasiado engreída you needn't act so high and mighty with me → no tienes por qué ponerte tan engreído conmigo she moves in the circles of the high and mighty → se mueve en círculos de los poderosos, se mueve en círculos de gente de mucho fuste (pej) high official → alto funcionario/a m/f to get (up) on one's high horse → subirse a la parra there's no need to get (up) on your high horse! → ¡no hace falta que te subas a la parra! to come down off or get off one's high horse → bajar los humos in high places to have friends in high places → tener amigos importantes or con influencias people in high places → gente influyente or importante 4. (= high-pitched) [sound, note] → alto; [voice] → agudo he played another higher note → tocó otra nota más alta she can still hit those high notes → todavía llega bien a los agudos in a high voice → con voz aguda on a high note he ended his career on a high note → terminó su carrera con un gran éxito he played another higher note → tocó otra nota más alta she can still hit those high notes → todavía llega bien a los agudos in a high voice → con voz aguda on a high note he ended his career on a high note → terminó su carrera con un gran éxito 5. (= intoxicated) to be high (on) [+ drink, drugs] → estar colocado (de) to get high (on) [+ drink, drugs] → colocarse (de) she was high on her latest success → estaba encantada or entusiasmada con su último éxito to be (as) high as a kite (on drugs, drink) → estar totalmente colocado; (= confident) → estar que no se cabe en sí to get high (on) [+ drink, drugs] → colocarse (de) she was high on her latest success → estaba encantada or entusiasmada con su último éxito to be (as) high as a kite (on drugs, drink) → estar totalmente colocado; (= confident) → estar que no se cabe en sí B. ADV (higher (compar) (highest (superl))) 1. (in height) [fly, rise] → a gran altura it rose high in the air → se elevó a gran altura it sailed high over the house → volaba a gran altura por encima de la casa high above an eagle circled high above → un águila circulaba en las alturas the town is perched high above the river → el pueblo está en un alto, sobre el río high above my head → muy por encima de mi cabeza to run high [sea] → estar embravecido; [river] → estar crecido feelings were running high → los ánimos estaban exaltados high up his farm was high up in the mountains → su granja estaba en lo alto de las montañas we saw three birds circling very high up → vimos tres pájaros circulando en las alturas she had put it too high up for me to reach → lo había puesto demasiado alto y no llegaba his cousin is someone high up in the navy → su primo tiene un cargo importante en la marina to hold one's head (up) high → mantener la cabeza bien alta to live high on the hog (US) → vivir como un rajá to hunt or search high and low (for sth/sb) → remover el cielo y la tierra (en busca de algo/algn) see also aim, fly A1 see also head A1 see also stand C5 it rose high in the air → se elevó a gran altura it sailed high over the house → volaba a gran altura por encima de la casa high above an eagle circled high above → un águila circulaba en las alturas the town is perched high above the river → el pueblo está en un alto, sobre el río high above my head → muy por encima de mi cabeza to run high [sea] → estar embravecido; [river] → estar crecido feelings were running high → los ánimos estaban exaltados high up his farm was high up in the mountains → su granja estaba en lo alto de las montañas we saw three birds circling very high up → vimos tres pájaros circulando en las alturas she had put it too high up for me to reach → lo había puesto demasiado alto y no llegaba his cousin is someone high up in the navy → su primo tiene un cargo importante en la marina to hold one's head (up) high → mantener la cabeza bien alta to live high on the hog (US) → vivir como un rajá to hunt or search high and low (for sth/sb) → remover el cielo y la tierra (en busca de algo/algn) see also aim, fly A1 see also head A1 see also stand C5 C. N 1. on high (= in heaven) → en el cielo, en las alturas there's been a new directive from on high (fig) → ha habido una nueva directriz de arriba there's been a new directive from on high (fig) → ha habido una nueva directriz de arriba 2. (= peak) sales have reached an all-time high → las ventas han alcanzado cifras récord to be on a high → estar a las mil maravillas to be on a high → estar a las mil maravillas 3. (Fin) → máximo m the Dow Jones index reached a high of 2503 → el índice de Dow Jones alcanzó un máximo de 2.503 the Dow Jones index reached a high of 2503 → el índice de Dow Jones alcanzó un máximo de 2.503 4. (Met) → zona f de altas presiones (esp US) → temperatura f máxima D. CPD high altar N → altar m mayor high beam N (US) (Aut) he had his lights on high beam → llevaba las luces largas or de cruce high camp N (Theat) → amaneramiento m high chair N → silla f alta (para niño), trona f (Sp) High Church N sector de la Iglesia Anglicana muy cercano a la liturgia y ritos católicos high comedy N (Theat) → comedia f de costumbres it was high comedy (fig) → era de lo más cómico high command N (Mil) → alto mando m high commission N (= international body) → alto comisionado m; (= embassy) → embajada f (que representa a uno de los países de la Commonwealth en otro) high commissioner N [of international body] → alto comisario/a m/f; (= ambassador) → embajador(ora) m/f (de un país de la Commonwealth en otro) High Court N (Jur) → Tribunal m Supremo a high court judge → un juez del Tribunal Supremo high definition N → alta definición f see also high-definition high diving N → saltos mpl de trampolín de gran altura high explosive N → explosivo m de gran potencia see also high-explosive high fidelity N → alta fidelidad f see also high-fidelity high finance N → altas finanzas fpl high flier N he's a high flier → es ambicioso, tiene talento y promete High German N → alto alemán m high ground N (fig) they believe they have or occupy the moral high ground in this conflict → creen que tienen moralmente la razón de su parte en este conflicto high hat N → sombrero m de copa, cilindro m see also high-hat high heels NPL (= heels) → tacones mpl altos; (= shoes) → zapatos mpl de tacón high jinks (o.f.) NPL → jolgorio msing, jarana f there were high jinks last night → hubo jolgorio or jarana anoche to get up to high jinks → meterse en jarana high jump N (Sport) → salto m de altura he's for the high jump (Brit) (= he'll be in trouble) → se la va a cargar, le va a caer una buena; (= he'll be sacked) → le van a largar high jumper N (Sport) → saltador(a) m/f de altura the high life N (gen) → la buena vida; (in high society) → la vida de la buena sociedad high living N → la buena vida High Mass N → misa f mayor high noon N (= midday) → mediodía m (fig) (= peak) → apogeo m; (= critical point) → momento m crucial high point N [of show, evening] → punto m culminante, clímax m inv; [of visit, holiday] → lo más destacado; [of career] → punto m culminante, cenit m high priest N → sumo sacerdote m high priestess N → suma sacerdotisa f high relief N → alto relieve m to throw or bring sth into high relief (fig) → poner algo de relieve high road N (esp Brit) → carretera f this is the high road to disaster → éste es el camino del desastre high roller N (US) (gen) → derrochón/ona m/f; (gambling) → jugador/ora m/f empedernido high school N (US, Brit) → instituto m de enseñanza secundaria → liceo m (LAm) junior high (school) (US) instituto donde se imparten los dos primeros años de bachillerato high school diploma N (US) → bachillerato m high school graduate N (US) → bachiller mf the high seas NPL → alta mar fsing on the high seas → en alta mar high season N → temporada f alta high season prices/rates → precios mpl/tarifas fpl de temporada alta high sign N → seña f (acordada) to give sb a high sign → hacer la seña a algn high society N → la alta sociedad high spot N [of show, evening] → punto m culminante, clímax m inv; [of visit, holiday] → lo más destacado; [of career] → punto m culminante, cenit m high street N → calle f mayor, calle f principal high street banks → bancos mpl principales high street shops → tiendas fpl de la calle principal high summer N → pleno verano m, pleno estío m high table N (gen) → mesa f principal, mesa f presidencial (Univ, Scol) → mesa f de los profesores high tea N (Brit) → merienda-cena f (que se toma acompañada de té) high technology N → alta tecnología f high tide N → pleamar f, marea f alta at high tide → en la pleamar, en marea alta high treason N → alta traición f high water N → pleamar f, marea f alta see also high-water mark high wire N → cuerda f floja high wire act N → número m en la cuerda floja, número m de funambulismo high beam N (US) (Aut) he had his lights on high beam → llevaba las luces largas or de cruce high camp N (Theat) → amaneramiento m high chair N → silla f alta (para niño), trona f (Sp) High Church N sector de la Iglesia Anglicana muy cercano a la liturgia y ritos católicos high comedy N (Theat) → comedia f de costumbres it was high comedy (fig) → era de lo más cómico high command N (Mil) → alto mando m high commission N (= international body) → alto comisionado m; (= embassy) → embajada f (que representa a uno de los países de la Commonwealth en otro) high commissioner N [of international body] → alto comisario/a m/f; (= ambassador) → embajador(ora) m/f (de un país de la Commonwealth en otro) High Court N (Jur) → Tribunal m Supremo a high court judge → un juez del Tribunal Supremo high definition N → alta definición f see also high-definition high diving N → saltos mpl de trampolín de gran altura high explosive N → explosivo m de gran potencia see also high-explosive high fidelity N → alta fidelidad f see also high-fidelity high finance N → altas finanzas fpl high flier N he's a high flier → es ambicioso, tiene talento y promete High German N → alto alemán m high ground N (fig) they believe they have or occupy the moral high ground in this conflict → creen que tienen moralmente la razón de su parte en este conflicto high hat N → sombrero m de copa, cilindro m see also high-hat high heels NPL (= heels) → tacones mpl altos; (= shoes) → zapatos mpl de tacón high jinks (o.f.) NPL → jolgorio msing, jarana f there were high jinks last night → hubo jolgorio or jarana anoche to get up to high jinks → meterse en jarana high jump N (Sport) → salto m de altura he's for the high jump (Brit) (= he'll be in trouble) → se la va a cargar, le va a caer una buena; (= he'll be sacked) → le van a largar high jumper N (Sport) → saltador(a) m/f de altura the high life N (gen) → la buena vida; (in high society) → la vida de la buena sociedad high living N → la buena vida High Mass N → misa f mayor high noon N (= midday) → mediodía m (fig) (= peak) → apogeo m; (= critical point) → momento m crucial high point N [of show, evening] → punto m culminante, clímax m inv; [of visit, holiday] → lo más destacado; [of career] → punto m culminante, cenit m high priest N → sumo sacerdote m high priestess N → suma sacerdotisa f high relief N → alto relieve m to throw or bring sth into high relief (fig) → poner algo de relieve high road N (esp Brit) → carretera f this is the high road to disaster → éste es el camino del desastre high roller N (US) (gen) → derrochón/ona m/f; (gambling) → jugador/ora m/f empedernido high school N (US, Brit) → instituto m de enseñanza secundaria → liceo m (LAm) junior high (school) (US) instituto donde se imparten los dos primeros años de bachillerato high school diploma N (US) → bachillerato m high school graduate N (US) → bachiller mf the high seas NPL → alta mar fsing on the high seas → en alta mar high season N → temporada f alta high season prices/rates → precios mpl/tarifas fpl de temporada alta high sign N → seña f (acordada) to give sb a high sign → hacer la seña a algn high society N → la alta sociedad high spot N [of show, evening] → punto m culminante, clímax m inv; [of visit, holiday] → lo más destacado; [of career] → punto m culminante, cenit m high street N → calle f mayor, calle f principal high street banks → bancos mpl principales high street shops → tiendas fpl de la calle principal high summer N → pleno verano m, pleno estío m high table N (gen) → mesa f principal, mesa f presidencial (Univ, Scol) → mesa f de los profesores high tea N (Brit) → merienda-cena f (que se toma acompañada de té) high technology N → alta tecnología f high tide N → pleamar f, marea f alta at high tide → en la pleamar, en marea alta high treason N → alta traición f high water N → pleamar f, marea f alta see also high-water mark high wire N → cuerda f floja high wire act N → número m en la cuerda floja, número m de funambulismo HIGH SCHOOL En Estados Unidos las high schools son los institutos donde los adolescentes de 15 a 18 años realizan la educación secundaria, que dura tres cursos (grades), desde el noveno hasta el duodécimo año de la enseñanza; al final del último curso se realiza un libro conmemorativo con fotos de los alumnos y profesores de ese año Yearbook y los alumnos reciben el diploma de high school en una ceremonia formal de graduación. Estos centros suelen ser un tema frecuente en las películas y programas de televisión estadounidenses en los que se resalta mucho el aspecto deportivo - sobre todo el fútbol americano y el baloncesto - además de algunos acontecimientos sociales como el baile de fin de curso, conocido como Senior Prom. Collins Spanish Dictionary - Complete and Unabridged 8th Edition 2005 © William Collins Sons & Co. Ltd. 1971, 1988 © HarperCollins Publishers 1992, 1993, 1996, 1997, 2000, 2003, 2005 high [ˈhaɪ] adj (= tall; far from the ground) [wall, mountain, ceiling] → haut(e) before n the high walls of the prison → les hauts murs de la prison It's too high → C'est trop haut. How high is the wall? BUT Quelle est la hauteur du mur?. twenty metres high → haut(e) de vingt mètres, de vingt mètres de haut The wall is 2 metres high → Le mur fait deux mètres de haut. a bronze horse measuring only twenty-three centimetres high BUT un cheval de bronze mesurant seulement vingt-trois centimètres de haut. to have the high ground → être au-dessus de la mêlée The President must seek to regain the high ground in the political debate → Le président doit chercher à se replacer au-dessus de la mêlée dans le débat politique. How do we recapture the intellectual high ground? → Comment pouvons-nous nous replacer intellectuellement au-dessus de la mêlée? to take the moral high ground → s'élever au-dessus de la mêlée, prendre de la hauteur the high walls of the prison → les hauts murs de la prison It's too high → C'est trop haut. How high is the wall? BUT Quelle est la hauteur du mur?. twenty metres high → haut(e) de vingt mètres, de vingt mètres de haut The wall is 2 metres high → Le mur fait deux mètres de haut. a bronze horse measuring only twenty-three centimetres high BUT un cheval de bronze mesurant seulement vingt-trois centimètres de haut. to have the high ground → être au-dessus de la mêlée The President must seek to regain the high ground in the political debate → Le président doit chercher à se replacer au-dessus de la mêlée dans le débat politique. How do we recapture the intellectual high ground? → Comment pouvons-nous nous replacer intellectuellement au-dessus de la mêlée? to take the moral high ground → s'élever au-dessus de la mêlée, prendre de la hauteur [number] → grand(e); [price, cost] → élevé(e); [salary] → élevé(e); [degree, importance] → haut(e) before n; [rate] → élevé(e); [temperature] → élevé(e), haut(e) before n; [speed] → grand(e) These pans will withstand high temperatures → Ces poêles peuvent supporter des températures élevées., Ces poêles peuvent supporter de hautes températures. Temperatures in summer can be as high as 40 degrees → En été, les températures peuvent atteindre les 40 degrés. High levels of radiation have been recorded → De hauts niveaux de radiations ont été enregistrés., Des niveaux de radiations élevés ont été enregistrés. Casualties were high → Le nombre de victimes était élevé. The cost of victory could be very high → Le prix de la victoire pourrait être très élevé. to pay a high price for sth → payer cher pour qch a high number of → un grand nombre de a high temperature → une température élevée in the high eighties The temperature was in the high eighties → Il faisait plus de trente degrés. at high speed → à grande vitesse These pans will withstand high temperatures → Ces poêles peuvent supporter des températures élevées., Ces poêles peuvent supporter de hautes températures. Temperatures in summer can be as high as 40 degrees → En été, les températures peuvent atteindre les 40 degrés. High levels of radiation have been recorded → De hauts niveaux de radiations ont été enregistrés., Des niveaux de radiations élevés ont été enregistrés. Casualties were high → Le nombre de victimes était élevé. The cost of victory could be very high → Le prix de la victoire pourrait être très élevé. to pay a high price for sth → payer cher pour qch a high number of → un grand nombre de a high temperature → une température élevée in the high eighties The temperature was in the high eighties → Il faisait plus de trente degrés. at high speed → à grande vitesse [priority] → haut(e); [risk] → haut(e); [quality] → haut(e) before n; [standard] → élevé(e); [respect] → grand(e) The standard of university education is very high → Le niveau de l'enseignement universitaire est très élevé. high moral standards → des critères moraux élevés Safety has always been our highest priority → La sécurité a toujours été notre plus haute priorité. to be high on sb's agenda (= be very important) → figurer parmi les priorités de qn Improving access to health care is high on the government's agenda → L'amélioration de l'accès aux soins figure parmi les priorités du gouvernement. Economic reform is high on our agenda → La réforme économique figure parmi nos priorités. to have a high opinion of sb/sth → avoir une haute opinion de qn/qch I have a very high opinion of him → J'ai une très haute opinion de lui. to have high expectations of sb/sth → attendre beaucoup de qn/qch to have high principles → avoir des principes élevés The standard of university education is very high → Le niveau de l'enseignement universitaire est très élevé. high moral standards → des critères moraux élevés Safety has always been our highest priority → La sécurité a toujours été notre plus haute priorité. to be high on sb's agenda (= be very important) → figurer parmi les priorités de qn Improving access to health care is high on the government's agenda → L'amélioration de l'accès aux soins figure parmi les priorités du gouvernement. Economic reform is high on our agenda → La réforme économique figure parmi nos priorités. to have a high opinion of sb/sth → avoir une haute opinion de qn/qch I have a very high opinion of him → J'ai une très haute opinion de lui. to have high expectations of sb/sth → attendre beaucoup de qn/qch to have high principles → avoir des principes élevés to be in high spirits → être d'excellente humeur high time → grand temps It's high time you learned how to do it → Il est grand temps que tu apprennes à le faire. It's high time you learned how to do it → Il est grand temps que tu apprennes à le faire. [wind] → violent(e) to be high in sth [+ fat, fibre, protein, calories] → être riche en qch foods that are high in fat → les aliments riches en graisses It's very high in fat BUT C'est très gras. → C'est très riche en graisses. foods that are high in fat → les aliments riches en graisses It's very high in fat BUT C'est très gras. → C'est très riche en graisses. (in pitch) [voice] → aigu(ë); [note] → haut(e) She's got a very high voice → Elle a la voix très aiguë. She's got a very high voice → Elle a la voix très aiguë. (in authority, influence) a high official → un haut officiel, un officiel haut placé to have friends in high places → avoir des amis haut placés see also high up to have friends in high places → avoir des amis haut placés see also high up [person] (on drugs) → défoncé(e) ; (on drink) → défoncé(e) , bourré(e) to be high on sth → être sous l'emprise de qch, être défoncé(e) à qch to get high → se défoncer to get high on crack → se défoncer au crack to be high on sth → être sous l'emprise de qch, être défoncé(e) à qch to get high → se défoncer to get high on crack → se défoncer au crack (British) [meat, game] → faisandé(e) adv [throw, fly, climb, reach up] → haut How high did you climb? BUT À quelle altitude êtes-vous monté ?. high in the air He threw the ball high in the air → Il a lancé la balle haut dans les airs. high in the sky The sun was high in the sky → Le soleil était haut dans le ciel. to aim high → viser haut high up → très haut to search high and low for sth → chercher dans tous les coins qch I have searched high and low for shoes that will fit me properly → J'ai cherché dans tous les coins des chaussures qui m'iraient. How high did you climb? BUT À quelle altitude êtes-vous monté ?. high in the air He threw the ball high in the air → Il a lancé la balle haut dans les airs. high in the sky The sun was high in the sky → Le soleil était haut dans le ciel. to aim high → viser haut high up → très haut to search high and low for sth → chercher dans tous les coins qch I have searched high and low for shoes that will fit me properly → J'ai cherché dans tous les coins des chaussures qui m'iraient. n (= highest level) to reach a new high [number, level, temperature] → atteindre de nouveaux sommets The number of refugees has reached a new high → Le nombre de réfugiés a atteint de nouveaux sommets. Exports have reached a new high → Les exportations ont atteint de nouveaux sommets. to reach an all-time high → atteindre des sommets historiques The number of refugees has reached an all-time high → Le nombre de réfugiés a atteint des sommets historiques. Sales of vodka have reached an all-time high → Les ventes de vodka ont atteint des sommets historiques. The number of refugees has reached a new high → Le nombre de réfugiés a atteint de nouveaux sommets. Exports have reached a new high → Les exportations ont atteint de nouveaux sommets. to reach an all-time high → atteindre des sommets historiques The number of refugees has reached an all-time high → Le nombre de réfugiés a atteint des sommets historiques. Sales of vodka have reached an all-time high → Les ventes de vodka ont atteint des sommets historiques. to come from on high → venir de haut The orders came from on high → Les ordres venaient de haut.high altar n The orders came from on high → Les ordres venaient de haut.high altar n (lit) [church] → maître-autel m (fig) → maître-autel mhigh and dry adj [boat] → échoué(e) to be left high and dry [person] → être laissé(e) pour comptehigh and mighty to be left high and dry [person] → être laissé(e) pour comptehigh and mighty adj (= arrogant) to be high and mighty → se donner de grands airs Collins English/French Electronic Resource. © HarperCollins Publishers 2005 high adj (+er) mountain, wall, forehead, building → hoch pred, → hohe(r, s) attr; a building 80 metres (Brit) or meters (US) high, an 80-metre (Brit) or 80-meter (US) high building → ein 80 Meter hohes Gebäude; the building is 80 metres (Brit) or meters (US) high → das Gebäude ist 80 Meter hoch; a high dive → ein Kopfsprung m → aus großer Höhe; on one of the higher floors → in einem der oberen Stockwerke; he lives on a higher floor → er wohnt weiter oben; the highest floor → die oberste Etage; at high tide or water → bei Flut or Hochwasser; the river is quite high → der Fluss führt ziemlich viel Wasser; high and dry (boat) → auf dem Trockenen; to be left high and dry → auf dem Trockenen sitzen (inf); he left her high and dry with four young children → er hat sie mit vier kleinen Kindern sitzen lassen; I knew him when he was only so high → ich kannte ihn, als er nur SO groß war or noch so klein war ? also high ground (= important, superior) → hoch pred, → hohe(r, s) attr; high office → hohes Amt; on the highest authority → von höchster Stelle; to be high and mighty → erhaben tun; to be on one’s high horse (fig) → auf dem hohen Ross sitzen; O Lord most high (Bibl) → erhabener Gott (= considerable, extreme, great) opinion, speed, temperature, fever, pressure, salary, price, rate, density, sea → hoch pred, → hohe(r, s) attr; reputation → ausgezeichnet, hervorragend; altitude → groß; wind → stark; complexion, colour → (hoch)rot; of the highest calibre (Brit) or caliber (US) /quality → von bestem Format/bester Qualität; casualties were high → es gab viele Opfer; (Mil) → es gab hohe Verluste; the temperature was in the high twenties → die Temperatur lag bei fast 30 Grad; to pay a high price for something (lit, fig) → etw teuer bezahlen; to put a high value on something → etw hoch einschätzen; the highest common factor → der größte gemeinsame Teiler; to the highest degree → im höchsten Grad or Maß; to have high expectations of somebody/something → hohe Erwartungen an jdn/etw stellen; in (very) high spirits → in Hochstimmung, in äußerst guter Laune; high in fat → fettreich; to have a high old time (inf) → sich prächtig amüsieren, mächtig Spaß haben (inf); it was high drama → es war hochdramatisch (of time) high noon → zwölf Uhr mittags; it’s high time you went home → es ist or wird höchste Zeit, dass du nach Hause gehst (inf, on drugs) → high (inf); (on drink) → blau (inf); to get high on alcohol → sich (mit Alkohol) besaufen (inf); to get high on cocaine → sich mit Kokain anturnen (sl) meat → angegangen adv (+er) → hoch; high up (position) → hoch oben; (motion) → hoch hinauf; birds circling very high up → Vögel, die ganz weit oben kreisen; higher up the hill was a small farm → etwas weiter oben am Berg lag ein kleiner Bauernhof; high (up) on the agenda → ganz oben auf der Tagesordnung; high up in the organization → weit oben in der Organisationsstruktur; one floor higher → ein Stockwerk höher; to throw something high in(to) the air → etw hoch in die Luft werfen n God on high → Gott in der Höhe or im Himmel; the orders have come from on high (hum inf) → der Befehl kommt von oben unemployment/the pound has reached a new high → die Arbeitslosenzahlen haben/das Pfund hat einen neuen Höchststand erreicht; sales have reached an all-time high → die Verkaufszahlen sind so hoch wie nie zuvor; the highs and lows of my career → die Höhen und Tiefen pl → meiner Laufbahn (Met) → Hoch nt he’s still on a high (inf: = on drugs) → er ist immer noch high (inf); I was on a high after the concert (inf: = excited) → nach dem Konzert war ich ganz high (inf) (US Aut: = top gear) in high → im höchsten Gang; he moved into high → er schaltete hoch or in den höchsten Gang (US inf: = high school) → Penne f (inf) high :high altar n → Hochaltar m highball n (US) → Highball m high beam n (Aut) → Fernlicht nt highboard n (for diving) → Turm m highbrow n → Intellektuelle(r) mf adj interests → intellektuell, hochgestochen (pej); tastes, music, author → anspruchsvoll high-calorie adj → kalorienreich highchair n → Hochstuhl m High Church n → Hochkirche f high-circulation adj newspaper → auflagenstark high-class high-coloured, (US) high-colored adj complexion, skin → rot high comedy n → Gesellschaftskomödie f high commission n → Hochkommissariat nt high commissioner n → Hochkommissar(in) m(f) high court high court judge n → Richter(in) m(f) → am obersten Gerichtshof high diving n → Turmspringen nt high-energy adj particle, food → energiereich high :high explosive high-explosive shell n → Sprenggranate f, → Brisanzgeschoss nt highfalutin, highfaluting adj (inf) language, behaviour → hochtrabend, geschwollen; scheme → großkotzig (inf); idea → hochgestochen; people → aufgeblasen, hochgestochen high farming n (Agr) → intensive Bodenbewirtschaftung high-fibre, (US) high-fiber adj diet → ballaststoffreich high fidelity n → High Fidelity f, → Tontreue f high-fidelity adj → Hi-Fi-; high sound → Hi-Fi-Sound m high-flier n (inf: = successful person) → Senkrechtstarter(in) m(f); (= ambitious person) → Ehrgeizling m (pej); he’s a high → er ist ein Erfolgstyp (inf) high-flown high-flyer n = high-flier high-flying high frequency n → Hochfrequenz f High German n → Hochdeutsch nt high-grade adj → hochwertig; ore → gediegen high ground n (fig) to regain the high → seine überlegene Position zurückerobern; to take the political/intellectual high → sich politisch/intellektuell aufs hohe Ross setzen; to lose/claim the moral high → die moralische Überlegenheit verlieren/für sich beanspruchen high-handed high hat n (US inf) → hochnäsiger Typ (inf) high-heeled adj → mit hohen Absätzen, hochhackig high heels pl → hohe Absätze pl high-income adj → einkommensstark high-interest highjack vt, n = hijack highjacker n = hijacker high jinks pl (inf) → ausgelassene Späße pl; the high over this bill → das Theater um diesen Gesetzesentwurf (inf); there wasn’t much substance behind the verbal high → hinter den Worten steckte nicht viel high jump high jumper n (Sport) → Hochspringer(in) m(f) highland adj → hochländisch; area, town also → im Hochland Highlander n → Bewohner(in) m(f) → des schottischen Hochlands or der schottischen Highlands Highland fling n schottischer Volkstanz Highland Games pl schottisches Volksfest mit traditionellen Wettkämpfen Highlands pl → schottisches Hochland, (schottische) Highlands pl; (generally) → Berg- or Hochland nt high-level highlight n vt need, issue, problem, dangers → ein Schlaglicht werfen auf (+acc); this highs the fact that … → das verdeutlicht die Tatsache, dass … text (with highlighter) → hervorheben, markieren; (on computer screen) → markieren; hair → Strähnen machen in (+acc) highlighter n high living n → flottes or (pej) → ausschweifendes Leben high :high-maintenance adj patient, baby → pflegebedürftig machine → wartungsintensiv (inf) girlfriend etc → anspruchsvoll; relationship → zeitintensiv; a high author → ein nicht gerade pflegeleichter Autor (inf) High Mass n → Hochamt nt high-minded high muck-a-muck n (sl) → arrogantes, hohes Tier (pej) high-necked adj → hochgeschlossen high :high-performance high point n → Höhepunkt m high-powered adj (= powerful) machine, engine, computer → leistungsfähig; rifle, gun → leistungsstark; car → stark(motorig); laser → stark person → hochgestellt, hochkarätig (inf); (= dynamic) → dynamisch; academic etc → äußerst fähig; job, career, course → anspruchsvoll; conversation → hochintellektuell; delegation → hochkarätig (inf) high-pressure adj (using air or liquid) → Hochdruck-; high pump → Hochdruckpumpe f; high cylinder → Hochdruckzylinder m; high air → Druckluft f; high hose → Druckleitung f (Met) high area → Hochdruckgebiet nt; a high area over the Atlantic → ein Hoch(druckgebiet) nt → über dem Atlantik, ein atlantisches Hoch (fig) sales technique → aggressiv; salesman also → aufdringlich vt (US) to high somebody into doing something → jdn so unter Druck setzen, dass er etw tut high-priced adj → teuer high priest high priestess high-principled adj → mit strengen Grundsätzen high-profile adj → profiliert high-protein adj → eiweißreich high relief n → Hochrelief nt high-resolution adj screen, graphics → hochauflösend high-rise adj high building → Hochhaus nt; high office (block) → Bürohochhaus nt; high flats (Brit) → (Wohn)hochhaus nt high-risk highroad high school n (Brit) → ˜ Oberschule f (für 11 bis 18-Jährige); (US) → ˜ Oberschule f (für 15 bis 18-Jährige) high :high-scoring adj game (Ftbl, Hockey, Handball) → torreich; (Basketball) → punktreich high season high seat n (Hunt) → Hochsitz m high-security high sign high society n → High Society f high-sounding adj → klangvoll high-speed adj → schnell; drill → mit hoher Umdrehungszahl; high car chase → wilde Verfolgungsjagd im Auto; high crash → Zusammenstoß m → bei hoher Geschwindigkeit; high train → Hochgeschwindigkeitszug m; high rail link → Hochgeschwindigkeitszugverbindung f; high printer → Schnelldrucker m; high lens → hoch lichtstarkes Objektiv, lichtstarke Linse; high film → hoch lichtempfindlicher Film, hochempfindlicher Film high-spirited adj → temperamentvoll, lebhaft high spirits high spot high street n (Brit) → Hauptstraße f; high banks → Geschäftsbanken pl; high shops → Geschäfte pl → in der Innenstadt high-strung adj (US) → nervös high summer n → Hochsommer m high table high :high tea n → (frühes) Abendessen hightech n, adj = hi-tech high technology n → Hochtechnologie f, → Spitzentechnologie f high-tension high treason n → Hochverrat m high-up adj person → hochgestellt n (inf) → hohes Tier (inf) high-velocity highway Highway Code n (Brit) → Straßenverkehrsordnung f highwayman highway robbery n → Straßenraub m; (fig inf) → Nepp m (inf) Highways Department n → Tiefbauamt nt high wire n → Drahtseil nt high-yield adj (Agr) → ertragsreich; (Fin) investment, bond → ertragsstark Collins German Dictionary – Complete and Unabridged 7th Edition 2005. © William Collins Sons & Co. Ltd. 1980 © HarperCollins Publishers 1991, 1997, 1999, 2004, 2005, 2007 high [haɪ]1. adj (-er (comp) (-est (superl))) a. (gen) → alto/a a building 60 metres high → un palazzo alto 60 metri how high is Ben Nevis? → quanto è alto il Ben Nevis? since she was so high (fam) → fin da quando era grande or alta così to leave sb high and dry (fig) → piantare in asso qn to be on one's high horse (fig) → montare or salire in cattedra to be or act high and mighty → darsi delle arie a building 60 metres high → un palazzo alto 60 metri how high is Ben Nevis? → quanto è alto il Ben Nevis? since she was so high (fam) → fin da quando era grande or alta così to leave sb high and dry (fig) → piantare in asso qn to be on one's high horse (fig) → montare or salire in cattedra to be or act high and mighty → darsi delle arie b. (frequency, pressure, temperature, salary, price) → alto/a; (speed, wind) → forte; (character, ideals) → nobile; (value, respect, number) → grande to pay a high price for sth → pagare (molto) caro/a qc his colour is very high → è molto rosso in viso to have a high old time (fam) → spassarsela it's high time you were in bed (fam) → dovresti essere già a letto da un pezzo to pay a high price for sth → pagare (molto) caro/a qc his colour is very high → è molto rosso in viso to have a high old time (fam) → spassarsela it's high time you were in bed (fam) → dovresti essere già a letto da un pezzo c. (Mus) (note) → alto/a; (sound, voice) → acuto/a d. (fam) (on drugs) → fatto/a (000) (on drink) → su di giri e. (Brit) (Culin) (meat, game) → frollato/a (000) (spoilt) → andato/a a male 2. adv (fly, aim, climb) → in alto the doves flew high in the sky → le colombe volavano alte nel cielo high up → molto in alto high above the clouds → in alto sopra le nuvole higher and higher → sempre più (in) alto the bidding went as high as £500 → le offerte sono arrivate fino a 500 sterline to hunt high and low → cercare per mare e per terra feelings were running high → c'era molta tensione the doves flew high in the sky → le colombe volavano alte nel cielo high up → molto in alto high above the clouds → in alto sopra le nuvole higher and higher → sempre più (in) alto the bidding went as high as £500 → le offerte sono arrivate fino a 500 sterline to hunt high and low → cercare per mare e per terra feelings were running high → c'era molta tensione 3. n b. exports have reached a new high → le esportazioni hanno toccato un nuovo record c. (Met) → anticiclone m, area di alta pressione Collins Italian Dictionary 1st Edition © HarperCollins Publishers 1995 high (hai) adjective1. at, from, or reaching up to, a great distance from ground-level, sea-level etc. a high mountain; a high dive; a dive from the high diving-board. 2. having a particular height. This building is about 20 metres high; My horse is fifteen hands high. 3. great; large; considerable. The car was travelling at high speed; He has a high opinion of her work; They charge high prices; high hopes; The child has a high fever/temperature. 4. most important; very important. the high altar in a church; Important criminal trials are held at the High Court; a high official. 5. noble; good. high ideals. 6. (of a wind) strong. The wind is high tonight. 7. (of sounds) at or towards the top of a (musical) range. a high note. 8. (of voices) like a child's voice (rather than like a man's). He still speaks in a high voice. 9. (of food, especially meat) beginning to go bad. 10. having great value. Aces and kings are high cards. adverb at, or to, a great distance from ground-level, sea-level etc. The plane was flying high in the sky; He'll rise high in his profession. ˈhighly adverb1. very; very much. highly delighted; highly paid; I value the book highly. 2. with approval. He thinks/speaks very highly of you. ˈhighness noun1. the state or quality of being high. 2. a title of a prince, princess etc. Your Highness; Her Highness. ˈhigh-chair noun a chair with long legs, used by a baby or young child at mealtimes. ˌhigh-ˈclass adjective of high quality. This is a high-class hotel. higher education education beyond the level of secondary school education, eg at a university. high fidelity high quality and great accuracy (in the reproduction of sound). See also hi-fi ˌhigh-ˈhanded adjective done, acting, without consultation of, or consideration for, other people. a high-handed decision; A new headmaster should try not to be too high-handed. ˌhigh-ˈhandedly adverbˌhigh-ˈhandedness noun high jump a sports contest in which people jump over a bar which is raised until no-one can jump over it. ˈhighlands noun plural a mountainous part of certain countries, especially (with capital) of Scotland. ˈhigh-level adjective involving important people. high-level talks. ˈhighlight noun the best or most memorable event, experience, part of something etc. The highlight of our holiday was a trip to a brewery. verb to draw particular attention to (a person, thing etc). ˌhighly-ˈstrung adjective very nervous; very easily upset or excited. ˌhigh-ˈminded adjective having or showing good or noble ideals, principles etc. ˌhigh-ˈmindedness nounˌhigh-ˈpitched adjective (of sounds, voices etc) high, sharp. a high-pitched, childish voice. ˌhigh-ˈpowered adjective (with an engine which is) very powerful. a high-powered motorboat/engine. ˈhigh-rise adjective with many storeys. She does not like living in a high-rise flat as the children cannot get out to play easily. ˈhighroad noun a main road. high school a secondary school. She goes to high school next year. ˌhigh-ˈspirited adjective showing high spirits. a high-spirited horse. high spirits enthusiasm, cheerfulness and energy. He's in high spirits today. high street (with capital when used as a name) the main street of a town etc, usually with shops etc. high-tech (ˌhai ˈtek) noun (also hi-tech, ~high technology) the use of advanced machines and equipment in industry. adjective (also hi-tech). high-tech industries. high tide the time when the tide is farthest up the shore. High tide today is at 15.46; They set sail at high tide. high treasontreasonhigh water the time at which the tide or other water (eg a river) is at its highest point. ˈhighway noun a road, especially a large or main road. Highway Code in Britain, (a booklet containing) a set of official rules for road users. ˈhighwayman – plural ˈhighwaymen – noun in earlier times, a man usually on horseback, who attacked and robbed people travelling in coaches etc on public roads. high wirewirehigh and dry1. (of boats) on the shore; out of the water. The boat was left high and dry of the beach. 2. in difficulties. Her husband has left her high and dry without any money. high and low everywhere. I've searched high and low for that book. high and mighty behaving as if one thinks one is very important. Don't be so high and mighty – you're just like any one of us. the high seas the open seas; far from land. it is etc high time something ought to be done or have been done etc by now. It is high time that this job was finished; It's high time someone spanked that child. see also tall. Kernerman English Multilingual Dictionary © 2006-2013 K Dictionaries Ltd. high → عَالٍ, عالٍ, مُرْتَفِع vysoko, vysoký høj, højt hoch υψηλός, ψηλά, ψηλός alto kallis, korkea, korkealla élevé, haut, puissant glasan, visok, visoko alto, in alto 高い, 高く 고음의, 높은, 높이 hoog høy, høyt wysoki, wysoko altamente, alto, elevado большой, высокий, высоко hög, högt เป็นกองสูง, จำนวนมาก, สูง fahiş, yüksek, yüksekte cao, trên cao 高度地, 高的Multilingual Translator © HarperCollins Publishers 2009 high a. alto-a, elevado-a; ___ blood pressure → presión alta; ___ -calorie diet → dieta rica en calorías; ___ cholesterol → ___ nivel de colesterol; ___ color → de color subido; ___ nuclear waste → desechos nucleares de alta radioactividad; ___ -residue diet → dieta ___ en residuos (fibras, celulosas); ___ -risk → ___ peligro o riesgo; ___ -risk behavior → conducta o actividades de ___ riesgo; adv. altamente, sumamente, excesivamente. English-Spanish Medical Dictionary © Farlex 2012 Collins Multilingual Translator © HarperCollins Publishers 2009 high adj alto; (something measured) alto, elevado; (fam, on drugs) drogado; Your cholesterol is high..Su colesterol está alto (elevado); high-dose V. dosis; high-fiber (high-protein, etc.) alto or rico en fibra (proteínas, etc.); high-pitched agudo, de alta frecuenciaEnglish-Spanish/Spanish-English Medical Dictionary Copyright © 2006 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. All rights reserved.


--- [Obituary content by year] ---
In Memoriam 2025 Douglas Roy Snaddon (1944-2025) Professor Douglas Roy Snaddon (BSc Eng 1965, PhD 1988, MBA 1971), who served for many years as head of industrial engineering at Wits and held the prestigious Barloworld Chair of Industrial Engineering, died on 18 August 2025 at the age of 81. Snaddon taught and inspired many students to love industrial engineering, which he promoted actively in South Africa and outside the country. In 2011, he left Wits to take up the position of professor and director of mechanical engineering at the Polytechnic of Namibia, where he started Industrial Engineering courses and qualifications in Namibia and encouraged the introduction of industrial engineering in Botswana. He authored numerous papers and articles, as well as two books related to industrial engineering. He was an Honorary Fellow of the Southern African Institute for Industrial Engineering (SAIIE) and served on the SAIIE Council for many years, as well as president in 1994. During his retirement, he kept regular contact with the Industrial Engineering Department at Wits, giving the occasional lecture, providing valuable advice to the faculty, and regularly speaking at student evenings and prize-giving ceremonies. He will be remembered for his incredible energy, drive, enthusiasm, wit, humour, forthrightness, and for not compromising on qualities such as excellence, kindness, generosity. He will be dearly missed by all who knew him, particularly his children: Susan (BSc Building 1997), Collin (BMus 1995) and Bruce (BCom 1998) and his grandchildren. Sources: SAIIE Margo Mwamba Kalenga (2001-2025) Margo “Maggie” Kalenga (B Audiology 2023), a pre-med student at Drake University in Des Moines, United States, died suddenly on 29 September 2025 at the age of 24. Kalenga was born on 7 May, 2001, in Congo, and graduated with a Bachelor of Audiology from Wits in 2023. She received the 2022 AB Clemons Research Award for her fourth-year research project. Her research supervisor Katijah Khoza-Shangase (BA Speech and Hearing 1997, MA Audiology 2001, PhD 2008) said Kalenga’s “voice and insight shone brightly”. Kalenga kept in touch with her former supervisor, writing: “Although I am not actively practicing audiology at the moment, I am open to participating in any research projects you are willing to allow me to participate in. I believe it would be a great way to keep my research skills polished and to continue learning.” Kalenga’s area of research focused on “language, culture, and inclusion in audiology education and practice”. She made the dean’s list throughout her time at Drake. Outside of academics, she was known for her love for others and her faith. “She forgave quickly, never held a grudge, and spoke God’s Word with grace and authority. Her love for Christ shaped every part of her life,” the obituary from IIes Funeral Homes read. She is survived by her parents, siblings, extended family, and a host of friends. Allison Kuhn (1959-2025) Allison Sheila Kuhn (BA 1980) died on 14 December 2025, 30 months after a cancer diagnosis. She was born in Port Elizabeth, but grew up in Johannesburg and matriculating from Parktown High School for Girls. After completing her degree at Wits, she was selected as an air hostess for the South African Airways, flying on most international routes. She later settled in various positions at several libraries under the then Randburg Town Council and subsequently the City of Johannesburg from 1983 until 2009. She then assumed the position of the Administrator of the Joint Building Contracts Committee for the next decade until her retirement in 2019 and relocated to George. She is survived by her partner Uwe Putlitz (Barch 1975, MSc Building 1985), her 97-year-old father, brother Anthony, Vanessa and Fiona and their respective spouses. Source: Uwe Putlitz Deon Fourie (1932-2025) Deon François Schönland Fourie (BA Hons 1967) died on 10 September 2025. He was a soldier, academic, military historian, and devoted member of the Order of St John. He combined a lifelong military career with academia, and devoted himself to public service, cultural life, and his family. He spent his early years in Sabie and his childhood was shaped by his father’s career as a mining commissioner. Later the family moved to Lichtenburg and to Pietersburg, where he completed his schooling. At Pietersburg High School, he excelled in history, English, and Afrikaans and had a passion for cadets. After matriculating, he worked briefly in the civil service in Pietersburg before pursuing studies in social science at the University of Natal, in Durban, from 1951 to 1953 and later undertook postgraduate studies at Wits. After passing the Foreign Affairs exams, he joined the South African Diplomatic Service in 1955, but found the work unfulfilling. He also tried his hand as a qualified trademark agent, at Spoor & Fisher, a law firm specialising in trademarks and patents, but again, he found the work uninspiring. Quite by chance, he accepted a position at the University of South Africa in 1968, beginning what became an academic career. He started as a lecturer in public administration and in 1973 he introduced strategic studies as an academic discipline at honours level – the first such programme in South Africa. He became a professor of strategic studies, a post he held until his retirement in 1997. He supervised generations of postgraduate students, many of whom went on to senior positions in the military, government, and academia. Even after retirement, he continued to supervise research and to lecture periodically, keeping close ties with former students. Fourie’s military career spanned more than fifty years. Over the years he served in the infantry, marines, navy, and armoured corps. He commanded the Pretoria Armour Regiment from 1975 to 1980, and even after formally leaving the regiment remained involved with the Regimental Association for his entire life. In 1987 he was appointed Director of Citizen Force Liaison on the general staff of the South African Defence Force, a post he held under four successive Chiefs of the Army. In this role he advised on citizen force policy and training, including the introduction of civic education into the armed forces. His military service earned him numerous decorations. He played an active role in South African civic and cultural life. He chaired the South African National Museum of Military History, and the Pretoria branch of the South African Institute of International Affairs. He also served on the advisory councils of the Institute for Security Studies and the University of Pretoria’s Institute for Strategic Studies. He served on the governing board of Pretoria High School for Girls and had close links with Pretoria Boys High School where we worked with the then principal in introducing cadets and setting up the pipe band. For more than 40 years, Fourie devoted voluntary service to the Order of St John in South Africa. In recognition of his decades of leadership, he was appointed a Bailiff Grand Cross of the Order of St John in 2021, one of the Order’s highest honours. In 1964 he met his wife, Felicia, and they were married in 1967 and shared a life for nearly six decades. They raised three children. He was also a proud grandfather of seven grandchildren. Source: Fourie family, further reading: Wikipedia Jack Spence, OBE (1931–2025) Professor John Edward “Jack” Spence, OBE (BA 1952, BA Hons 1953, LLD honoris causa 1997) distinguished scholar of international relations and diplomacy, passed away peacefully on 17 August 2025 in Ludlow at the age of 94. Born on 11 June 1931, Spence was the son of a County Durham miner who emigrated to work in the gold mines of Krugersdorp. He was educated at Pretoria Boys High School and completed his Bachelor of Arts and honours degree in history from Wits. His interests shifted from history to political science, and he qualified with Bachelor of Science in economics from London School of Economics (LSE) in 1955. His academic career spanned continents and more than six decades, leaving a lasting mark on the study of politics, diplomacy, and African affairs. Spence began his career at the University of Natal, followed by a Rockefeller junior research fellowship at the LSE. He later taught at University College Swansea, before serving as professor of politics and pro-vice-chancellor at the University of Leicester. In 1991 he became director of Studies at Chatham House (the Royal Institute of International Affairs). His influential works on South Africa and international diplomacy included Ending Apartheid (Routledge 2010, with David Welsh). He wrote extensively on South African foreign policy, convened expert study groups on South and Southern Africa, and fostered close collaboration with the South African Institute of International Affairs. He also edited After Mandela: The 1999 South African Elections (Royal Institute of International Affairs 1999), bringing together a distinguished group of scholars. He received honorary fellowships at several universities, and honorary doctorates, including Wits in 1997. He served as a member of the University’s London Committee “during several years of its existence” and, until he was 88, as a managing trustee of the University Appeal Fund – a UK charity acting for the benefit of Wits. He was a remarkable ambassador for Wits who would be seen in London wearing his Wits tie, using his Wits cufflinks, carrying his Wits bag, or all three at once! In 2014, King’s College London established the Jack Spence BA Prize in International Relations. He taught, wrote, and supervised students well into his later years, serving as Professor of Diplomacy in the Department of War Studies at King’s College from 1997 until his retirement in 2022 at the age of 91. Beyond his academic and policy contributions, Spence was a generous mentor. He committed time and resources to the next generation. Well into his eighties, he was pivotal to organising visiting research positions for Wits PhD students to spend time at King’s. He remained “old school”, never learning to type, relying on landlines, and avoiding email. His late wife Sue, who predeceased him in 2021, often fielded calls and messages on his behalf. He is survived by his daughter, Rachel. Sources: Kings College London, Wits archives, read tributes from two former students Alain Francois Leger (1931-2025) Serial entrepreneur, Alain Francois Leger (BSc Eng 1954), died at the age of 94 on 13 August 2025. In July 1958, at the age of 27, he founded Vesco Plastics, known as Vesconite Bearings today, and devoted his career to the business. Known as “Mr Leger”, he was a creative problem-solver, doing much with minuscule resources. He grew a small-town business into a company with global sales. He was described as “a true scientist and chemist, he meticulously recorded every experiment, idea and experience of his life.” His painstaking dedication laid the foundation for the product range the company continues to have today. He lived simply and was concerned that there should be a substantial philanthropic aspect to business success, so he funded projects that focused on early childhood development. Spiritually, he would cite Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, a French Jesuit, to his son Jean-Patrick Leger (BSc Eng 1979, PhD 1992): “We are not physical beings having a spiritual experience; we are spiritual beings having a physical experience.” He shared eight lessons for entrepreneurs with alumni relations in 2018. Source: Leger family Gordon Hartford (1933-2025) Former Emeritus Professor of English at Wits Gordon Hartford died on 30 July 2025 at the age of 92. He was born in Glasgow on 28 June 1933 and moved to South Africa at the age of nine. Educated at Grey High School in Port Elizabeth, he completed a bachelor of arts degree in honours and was a Rhodes Scholar in 1955, studying Jurisprudence and earned his master’s in 1960. As his career unfolded, he was an Advocate of the High Court, as well as an English Professor. He served as president of the English Association of South Africa in 1961-62, as well as editor of English Studies in Africa. He joined Wits as a senior lecturer of English in 1967, promoted to professor in 1973 and later, Professor Emeritus in 1993. He joined the Bar Association in Johannesburg in 1995, and the Eastern Cape Society of Advocates in the same year. Hartford was a man of profound reason, and immense intellect. His family, friends, colleagues, and former students will remember him as a true gentleman, sharp and full of wit. He had a love for literature and a passion for reciting poetry. Sources: Rhodes Trust and Dr Craig Hartford (MBBCh 1987, MSc Med 1993, PhD 2000) Maurice McGregor (1920-2025) Distinguished cardiologist and former dean in the Wits Faculty of Health Sciences between 1984-1987, Dr Maurice McGregor (MBBCh 1943, DScMed honoris causa 1974) died of complications related to Parkinson’s disease at age 105 on 4 August 2025. Over the years he played multiple roles in clinical cardiology, teaching, and research. He was a skilled administrator and leader, serving as dean of medicine at McGill University in Canada from 1966 until 1972. President of the Conseil d’évaluation des technologies de la santé du Québec and chair of the Health Technology Assessment Unit at the McGill University Health Centre, he received numerous awards, including the Order of Quebec and the Order of Canada. McGregor was born on an orange farm in Rustenburg on 24 March 1920, the second child of Frank and Ella (née Mills) McGregor. He matriculated from Michaelhouse and obtained his medical degree in 1943. Fresh out of medical school he served as a medical officer in Italy in World War II. He completed his medical internship after the war and left for England for a postdoctoral residency in cardiology, where he married his wife Margot Becklake (MBBCh 1945, DScMed honoris causa 1974). In 1957 the family emigrated to Montreal when he was recruited by McGill University. The couple shared a legacy of leadership with Becklake becoming one of the Montreal Chest Institute’s “Fab Five” and a globally renowned pioneer of respiratory medicine and epidemiology. She passed away in 2018. McGregor moved up in stature having more than 180 publications to his credit and is recognised for his novel and decisive contributions to the understanding of pulmonary hypertension and coronary ischemia. In 1984, Wits asked him to take on the role of dean of the Faculty of Medicine. He set up a committee to eliminate apartheid practices within the faculty, which met monthly until it was dissolved in July 1991. Among others, it organised a petition signed by 926 faculty members calling for the unification of health services, approaching numerous levels of government. During his tenure, the government repealed the decision that black students needed to obtain ministerial approval to attend ‘white’ universities and the percentage of black students admitted to the medical school rose from 10% to 30%. Returning McGill University in 1987 he served as dean of medicine, becoming the inaugural director of a ground-breaking provincial council that evaluated health technologies entering the healthcare market – the first such council in North America. In 2014, the Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health created the Dr Maurice McGregor Award. In 2020, in honour of his 100th birthday, McGill announced that its cardiovascular research day would now be known as the Maurice McGregor Cardiovascular Research Day. On his 101st birthday, McGregor was interviewed by the youngest student at Michaelhouse. Asked what advice he had to share, his reply was simple and concise. “You can waste life or live it,” he said. He is survived by his son James (BSc 1973) and daughter Margaret; his grandchildren, great-grandchildren and numerous nephews and nieces. Sources: McGill Health-e News, Wits archive Sydney Lipworth (1931-2025) Distinguished barrister Sir Maurice Sydney Lipworth (BCom 1952, LLB 1954, LLD honoris causa 2003), who enjoyed a wide-ranging career in law, business and the public service, died in London at age 94 on 27 June 2025. He was born in Johannesburg on 13 May 1931, the son of Isidore Lipworth (originally Lipschitz, of Lithuanian and Latvian descent) and his wife Rae. He was educated at King Edward VII School, where his classmates included Sir Donald Gordon (DEconSc honoris causa 1991) and Sir Mark Weinberg (BCom 1952, LLB 1954, DEconSc honoris causa 1990). He graduated with both business and law degrees from Wits cum laude. He was joint winner of the Alexander Aitken Medal in his commerce class and the Society of Advocates Prize for the best law graduate in his LLB graduating class. He qualified as an attorney in 1955 and was admitted to the bar in 1956, practising as an attorney for eight years. Lipworth was one of a trio of liberal-minded lawyers who left apartheid South Africa along with Sir Mark and Lord Joel Joffe (BCom 1952, LLB 1954, LLD honoris causa 2001), the latter having been a defence attorney for Nelson Mandela and other ANC leaders in their 1963-64 “Rivonia” trial on charges of sabotage. Also in their circle was Gordon who remained in South Africa to build Liberty Life but was later a property tycoon and philanthropist in the UK. Lipworth advised him at Liberty Life in the 1950s before moving to London to join Weinberg in the launch of their insurance business, Abbey Life. After Abbey Life was acquired in 1970 by the US conglomerate ITT, the trio moved on. With Weinberg as the driving entrepreneur, Lipworth as a shrewd business brain alongside him, and Joffe as the corporate conscience urging them to give profit-shares to charity, they built a new business which evolved from Hambro Life to Allied Hambro and ultimately Allied Dunbar, a constituent of the FTSE 100 index until it was taken over at a rich price by BAT Industries in 1986. Lipworth was deputy chairman of Allied Dunbar until 1988, when he took on the full-time chairmanship of the Monopolies and Mergers Commission for a five-year term. Lipworth was immune to “lobbying or political bullying”, one profile noted, and had no truck with “trimming to the fashion of the day”. That took him to the chair of the Financial Reporting Council, overseeing audit professionals and corporate governance, and he became a powerful voice on other committees and in other boardrooms. He also chaired the trustees of the Philharmonic Orchestra and gave his support to the Royal Academy, the South Bank Foundation, Sadler’s Wells and the Contemporary Dance Trust. For recreation he enjoyed tennis as a member of Queen’s Club. He was knighted in 1991 and appointed an honorary QC in 1993. In 1957 he married Rosa Liwarek, who was introduced through Arthur Chaskalson (BCom 1952, LLB 1954, LLD honoris causa 1990). She was appointed CBE in 2010 for her own charitable work and together they were significant benefactors of Wits and graciously hosted Wits alumni in their beautiful London home on many occasions. She survives him with a son; another son predeceased him. Sources: The Telegraph and Wits archives Hans Christian Benecke (1941-2025) Hans Christian Benecke (BCom 1965) died at the age of 84 in Johannesburg after a long battle with cancer. He was director of Atlas Organic Fertilizers for decades, “both through good and bad years”. As a notable rower during his time at Wits, Benecke was the president of the Wits Boat Club and did much to rebuild its depleted resources. During the Wits 1975 Henley and European tour, he hosted the entire crew at his family home on of Lake Konstance in Switzerland. His charming personality, wicked wit and fantastic memory allowed him to befriend many and catalogue and maintain an extraordinary archive of lives. He loved to reminisce on the glory days of the Club, and its wild adventures. A tribute was written by a close friend, Derrick Read (BA 1965), for his funeral which said: “Hans loved South Africa, the Orange River, the Zambezi, the Vaal. A pioneer, an explorer with a passion for nature and the beauty around its creation, and the people who lived in those spaces, and coming from a family at the forefront of development in Southern Africa, Hans grew his love for Africa from the deserts of Namibia, and the grasslands and mountains of Zimbabwe, to the diamonds on the banks of the Orange River… The people of those areas meant much to Hans, the local people, the farmers, the tribesmen, he knew them all, respected and loved them, the salt of the earth. Hans spoke Afrikaans well and admired the faith, strength, and pragmatism of the community, especially the rural farmers and their families.” He is survived by his Michele and three children, Paul, Josephine and Nicholas. Sources: Derrick and Allison Read, Wynand and Landi Dreyer and Benecke family Costa Gazidis (1936-2025) Activist and medic Costa Gazidis (MBBCh 1962) died in London on 19 March 2025 at the age of 90. He had travelled from his Cape Town home in 2018 to visit family and friends in England but fell ill and never fully recovered. The son of Greek immigrants, Gazidis was born in Krugersdorp and was initially accepted to study civil engineering but switched to medicine in 1953. At the start of his anatomy year, he was incensed on learning that black students were forbidden to dissect white cadavers. He read Karl Marx’s banned Communist Manifesto and became convinced of the possibility of an egalitarian future of racial equality and shared wealth. Once qualified, he worked at the McCord Zulu Hospital in Durban and at Baragwanath Hospital in Johannesburg. In 1964 he was convicted for being a member of the Communist Party and spent two and a half years in Pretoria Central prison, much in solitary confinement. After his release in 1966 he was subjected to a banning order. By 1968 his life in South Africa had become so untenable that he relocated with his young family to the UK. In his new home he studied for a diploma in public health before working as an assistant senior medical officer in Portsmouth, as a senior medical officer in Nottingham and then as a senior epidemiologist for the Public Health Laboratory Service in London. Until the early 1990s he occupied various positions in community medicine until he returned to South Africa after the fall of apartheid, taking up a post as a public health specialist in Umtata in the Eastern Cape and as a senior lecturer at the University of Transkei medical school, before working as a community health specialist in East London from 1996 until retirement in 2004. Soon after his return to South Africa he had begun prescribing AZT to pregnant mothers with HIV/Aids – until he was threatened with imprisonment by the ANC’s minister of health. Afterwards he funded the provision of antiretroviral drugs out of his own pocket and formed a charity, the ABBA Trust, to dispense them off hospital premises. Ultimately, his efforts, in conjunction with many others, changed government policy. Despite his rebellious streak, he was happy and optimistic, and larger-than-life. He is survived by his third wife, Janet (née Page), whom he married in 2005, and by seven children: Amanda, Ivan and his stepson Peter from his first marriage to Dorothea Constantinides, Robert and Shona from his second marriage to Janet Moir, and Rita and Djamilla from two relationships before his marriages – with Ena Arnold and Laura Hitchens respectively. Sources: The Guardian and Medical Class of 1960 archive Naomi Livni (1937-2025) Dr Naomi Livni (MBBCh 1960), who died aged 87, was a clinical pathologist, and specialist in urological histology in London. She was born in Johannesburg, the second eldest of six. She matriculated from Parktown Girls High School, excelling in sport and academics. She recalled her initial interest in nuclear physics at Wits: “I was the only person in the queue for nuclear physics – when I approached the desk the gentleman seated there said to me “we only have two places for students in nuclear physics and you aren’t going to get either one of them – so run along little girl’. This was my first [and not the last] encounter with the glass ceiling! I left the room with not much of a clue as to what to do and joined the queue for medicine and was accepted.” Halfway through her first year she met Leopold “Leon” Kahn [MBBCh 1960) and they were married two weeks after graduation. Through a serendipitous encounter, she applied for a job advertised at the South African Institute for Medical Research in cytology, which opened up a new career path in histopathology. The family moved to the UK in 1989, after she accepted a post initially as consultant and then later as head of department at St George’s Hospital in Tooting. She later took up a post as head of cytology at Hammersmith, Charing Cross and Chelsea and Westminster hospitals, a position she remained at for 16 years and in which she oversaw many changes. After her retirement in 2008, she took up a position as lead uropathologist at the Royal Marsden Hospital where she worked for the next 6 years: “This was a wonderful time working with many leaders in my field,” she shared in 2020. The last 18 months of her life were difficult as colon cancer, which had been in remission, returned. She said in 2020 that “My incredible husband and my wonderful children have been my greatest champions. My ultimate accolade is that both my sons chose to marry career women.” She is survived by her husband Leon, two sons Leonard (MBBCh 1984) and David (BSc 1983) and their families. Source: Alumni correspondence and medical class of 1960 newsletter Lynn Gamsu Freed (1945-2025) South African born author Lynn Ruth Freed (BA 1967) died of lymphoma at the age of 79 in Sonoma, California on 9 May 2025. She was the third and youngest daughter of Anne (Moshal) and Harold Derrick Freed, born on 18 July 1945. She captured in fiction and memoir her father, her fiercely ambitious mother, and their theatre company and exuberant household in Durban in the 1950s and 1960s. "The real world of my childhood," she wrote, "was a large subtropical port on the Indian Ocean, with beaches and bush and sugarcane and steaming heat, a strict Anglican girls' school, massive family gatherings on Friday nights and Jewish holidays, and then my parents' theatre world...this world did not exist, not even peripherally, in the literature available to me." She first went to the United States as a high school exchange student with the American Field Service and shortly after receiving her degree from Wits, she enrolled as a graduate student in English literature at Columbia University and earned her doctorate. She moved to San Francisco in 1970 and lived in Sonoma from 1989 till her death. She was professor emerita of English at the University of California, Davis, where she taught for 15 years. She was also a member of the core faculty of the MFA program at Bennington College and a frequent faculty member at the Bread Loaf Writers' Conference in Vermont. Her style has been described as “mordant and darkly comic”, exploring her Jewish upbringing during apartheid. She wrote seven novels Heart Change (1982), Home Ground (1986), The Bungalow (1993), The Mirror (1997), House of Women (2002), The Servants' Quarters (2009), and The Last Laugh (2019). She published a collection of stories, The Curse of the Appropriate Man, in 2004, and two volumes of essays: Reading, Writing, and Leaving Home (2005) and The Romance of Elsewhere (2017). In 2002, the American Academy of Arts and Letters awarded Freed the inaugural Katherine Anne Porter Award in fiction. She received fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts and The Guggenheim Foundation among others. She often expressed ambivalence about leaving South Africa and feeling displaced: “I saw my bifurcated life for what it was: as a failure of daring. I had not dared to remain. More than this, I had been a show-off in my leaving. And I was still showing off — leaving there, leaving here — keeping the truth for the writing itself, hiding it away like a criminal. For what is writing, after all, but a bid for the truth? And what is truth if not the life at the very heart of failure?" She is survived by her daughter, Jessica Gamsu, and her granddaughter, Georgia. Her first marriage, to Gordon Gamsu, ended in divorce. She was married to Robert Kerwin until his death in 2021. Sources: Legacy, The San Francisco Chronicle and The New York Times Jacqueline Galpin (1950-2025) Former head of school in the Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science, Professor Jacqueline Galpin (BSc Hons 1972) died on 18 May 2025. Affectionately known as Jacky, she began her career at the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) in 1973 before joining the Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science at Wits University in April 1990 as a senior lecturer. She served the department for many years, including a term as Head of School from June 2003 to December 2007. As a lecturer at Wits, she developed several courses, and her research covered both theoretical and applied areas, particularly regression, sampling, small-area estimation, and official statistics. Although she officially retired from Wits in 2008, Galpin continued to contribute to academia, first as a contract lecturer at Wits until 2017 and later as a Visiting Senior Research Associate at the University of Johannesburg in 2019. She served on the executive committee of the South African Statistical Association for 21 years, and was elected president and honoured as a fellow in 1998. She played a central role in organising, and served as managing editor, of the South African Statistical Journal from 1988 to 2005. Galpin was also a council member of the South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions and represented the South African statistical community internationally. Her passion for advancing statistical literacy, empowering women in statistics, and training educators, government officials, and official statisticians was unwavering. Jacky was known for her warmth, generosity, and tireless support of students and colleagues. Her only family member and beloved husband, Richard, passed away on 29 August 2021. Source: Wits news Ronald Byron Goldberg (1945-2025) Dr Ronald Byron Goldberg (BSc 1966, MBBCh 1969), a distinguished endocrinologist, died on 4 May 2025 in North Carolina, in the United States. Dr Goldberg emigrated to the US in 1977 and was born in Johannesburg to Zena and Monty Goldberg. After several years at the University of Chicago he joined the faculty of the University of Miami School of Medicine where he had a long and distinguished career specialising in diabetes prevention and lipid metabolism. He held numerous leadership roles, including chief of the Division of Diabetes and Metabolism, director of the DRI Kosow Diagnostic and Treatment Center, and co-director of the DRI Clinical Research Laboratory. He was also a diplomate of the American Board of Clinical Lipidology. Dr Goldberg focused his research on preventing type 2 diabetes and its complications, particularly cardiovascular disease, as well as advancing the understanding of lipid metabolism and atherosclerosis. He was a principal investigator in the NIH-funded Diabetes Prevention Program and the DPP Outcomes Study, among other NIH- and industry-sponsored studies. His collaborative work extended to major public health investigations, including research on stroke, HIV-related atherosclerosis, and the metabolic effects of environmental factors in immigrant populations. He was also committed to medical education. He directed the Southeast Florida Diabetes Center Program from 1996 to 2008 and mentored countless students, residents, and fellows. His work with the University of Miami Lipid Disorders Clinic and his role as the ADA’s representative on the ACC/AHA 2018 Cholesterol Guidelines Committee exemplified his dedication to translating science into practice. At the age of 44, he became paraplegic following complications from spine surgery. He continued to excel professionally, contributing significantly to landmark research and providing empathic and effective care for his patients well into his 70s. He was a gifted pianist and a lover of music. He is survived by his wife, Norma Jean Peck Goldberg; his three sons from his first marriage to Nathalie Rudy; and his four grandchildren. He is also survived by Norma’s three children; and by four additional grandchildren. Sources: Morrisfamilycare group.com and diabtesresearch.org Robert Pullen (1939-2025) Distinguished leader and former president of the South African Institution of Civil Engineering, Robert Pullen (BSc Eng 1961, MSc Eng 1970) died on 27 May 2025 at the age of 85. His career trajectory reflected a unique balance of technical expertise, visionary leadership, and public service. He held senior roles in planning and construction, contributing significantly to iconic national projects and policy-making, including the drafting of South Africa’s first major water policy document. In 1963 he joined the Hydrological Research Unit (HRU) at Wits to work as a research engineer under Professor Des Midgely (DSc honoris causa 1986). His research was related to the development of practical methods for addressing flooding. His master’s thesis provided a major component of the seminal “Design Flood Determination in South Africa”, which became the standard reference for flood analysis and the design of protection works in South Africa. In 1969 he joined the Department of Water Affairs and Forestry, where he held management positions in planning and construction, including that of resident engineer on the Tugela-Vaal inter-basin transfer project for augmenting the supply of water to the Witwatersrand. He made innovative contributions and was also involved in the planning and design of the Drakensberg pumped storage scheme for incorporating hydroelectric power generation. He left a promising career in public service for private consulting in the water resources field and was a director of SRK Consulting from 1982 to 1985, director of Consultburo from 1985 to 1997 and director of BKS after its merger with Consultburo from 1997 to 2002. He became Deputy CEO of BKS Group in 2002. In May 2009 he was presented with the National Science and Technology Forum Award in Category C (for activities other than research and its outputs over the last five years or less) for 2008/9 by the Minister of Science and Technology for his contribution to the regulation of the engineering professions and his contribution to civil engineering and environmental practice. In 2013 Wits awarded him a Gold Medal for his “outstanding contribution to the practice of water resources engineering and especially to the wider engineering profession in South Africa”. He will be remembered not only as a brilliant engineer and strategic thinker but as a man of great integrity, humility, and warmth. Sources: Wits archives and SAICE Jan Peter Reynders (1940-2025) Distinguished academic in the field of high voltage engineering and former dean of the Faculty of Engineering, Professor Jan Peter Reynders (BSc Eng 1965, PhD 1979), died on 16 April 2025 at the age of 84. He earned his PhD in electrical engineering in 1979 and started lecturing in his 20s under Prof Guerino Bozzoli – continuing his relationship with Wits well into his 70s. He pioneered the establishment of the Wits high-voltage laboratory in the 1980s and advanced research in gas-insulated switchgear in South Africa. As part of the Johannesburg Lightning Research Laboratory, founded in 1992, Reynders made significant contributions to addressing problems caused by lightning on power and telecommunications systems. His leadership extended to collaborations with high voltage facilities at universities, universities of technology, and industry, earning him international recognition. As chair of the organising committee, Reynders played a pivotal role in hosting the 16th International Symposium on High Voltage Engineering in South Africa in 2009, a testament to his global stature. He served as president of the South African Institute of Electrical Engineers and was actively involved with Cigré, the International Council on Large Electric Systems, shaping power systems research worldwide. After his retirement, Reynders became a fully ordained Methodist minister, offering a “non-itinerant, non-stipendiary service” – in remote congregations where he was needed most. He was a quiet man, with a gentle sense of humour. “He was never dismissive or flippant, tackling even the smallest tasks with seriousness and attention to detail,” the congregation at his memorial service was told. He integrated his faith and science effortlessly and was a specialist at fixing things with his hands – as carpenter and qualified electrician – and passed these skills on to his children and grandchildren. In his final years, Parkinson’s had a devastating impact, but his true character shone through and he became gentler and more peaceful. Reynders is survived by his wife Joan; sons David (BSc Eng 1994, MSc Eng 1999), and Stephen (BSc Eng 1996, MSc Eng 2002) and their extended families. Sources: Wits archives and memorial service Geoffrey Klass (1948-2025) Johannesburg’s extraordinary bookseller Geoffrey Klass (BSc 1972) died on 27 February 2025 after a short illness. He co-founded a bookshop, the Collectors Treasury, in 1974 with his brother Jonathan, which became an institution for the city’s bibliophiles. Klass was born in 1948 to psychiatrist father Dr Max Klass and Maisie (née Goldberg) in Johannesburg. His grandparents Solomon and Zelda Klass were immigrants to South Africa from Lithuania and they sold everything from ginger beer to baby clothes. Solomon bought property and acquired the Johannesburg Ritz Hotel and later owned a residential hotel in Berea, and for a time he was the owner of the Radium Beer Hall. Klass attributed his love of books and collecting to his father. Books were part of the family home in Doveton Road in Parktown West, while Maisie was an avid antiques collector. “We inherited a well-rounded view of cultural matters, and we were instilled with a love of objects and the history behind them. We don’t specialise, we don’t see boundaries, we see everything in a broad stream of culture,” Klass said in a 2005 interview with the Heritage Portal. He matriculated at Parktown Boys High and went on to read for a Bachelor of Science degree at Wits, graduating in 1972. His interests were broad and “the academic trajectory was too narrow for his exploding mind.” He declined the opportunity to study on a fellowship, for a PhD in Chicago. In 1991 the Klass family bought a building at 244 Commissioner Street in old Johannesburg and part of the revitalised Maboneng to house their massive collection. It was an old face-bricked, eight-storey building which originally was an old clothing factory. In addition to books, the stock extended to antique maps, old engravings and prints, printed ephemera, periodicals, newspapers and photographs. They also curated and dealt in vinyl records and 78rpm discs. The shop housed an extensive range of small antiques and collectables, with a strong emphasis on the decorative arts between 1870-1970, glassware, ceramics and porcelain. Klass was the founding member and first chairman of the South African Bookdealers Association, the official body for out-of-print bookdealers in Southern Africa. He is survived by his brother Jonathan and sister-in-law Jenny, niece and nephew Mathew and Rebecca, and by his beloved partner, Gundi Weinick. Source: Kathy Munro, Heritage Portal Andrew Dickson (1940-2025) Former head of school in the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering at Wits Professor Andrew John Dickson (BSc Eng 1962, MSc Eng 1964) died peacefully at the age of 84 in his home in Colorado, US. Dickson matriculated from St John’s College and he was awarded with both a graduate and master’s degree in mechanical engineering from Wits. He received a scholarship to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology soon after and completed another master’s in electrical engineering. On returning to South Africa, he worked as an engineer in Mokopane for several years before returning to Wits as lecturer in Engineering Design in the School of Mechanical Engineering. Teaching was his first love. He was well-liked and respected by his students and fellow academics. He always had time to help his students and never turned anyone away from his door. In the early 1980s Eskom lured him back into the profession. He went on to have an illustrious career in Eskom and was, for many years, generation engineering manager. He played a major role in the team which included John Maree (BCom 1949) and Ian McRae (BSc Eng 1954, DSc Eng honoris causa 1989), who built Eskom into being one of the finest generation companies in the world at the time. In the mid-1990s he returned to Wits to take up the Eskom Chair of Engineering in the Faculty. He remained in that role until his retirement. Soon after retiring, he and his wife Pam (BSc 1962) moved to Colorado to be closer to their daughter Susan van den Heever (BSc 1989, PDipEd 1989, BSc Hons 1991, MSc 1995), who is a distinguished professor of atmospheric science at Colorado State University. Source: Dickson family Christopher Julian Cooke (1940-2025) Emeritus Professor in the School of Architecture, Planning and Geomatics at the University of Cape Town (UCT), Christopher Julian Cooke (BArch 1963, HDipTP 1972) died on 24 February 2025. Cooke, known affectionately as Julian, started teaching at UCT in 1976 and retired formally in 2000, serving as the dean in the Faculty of Engineering and the Built Environment, as well as director of the school. He played a pivotal role in forging various programmes, as well as creating a curriculum that questioned the status quo, was politically progressive and anti-apartheid. Student projects in both planning and architecture were regularly set in the urban and rural conditions of the apartheid city of Cape Town, and small towns nearby. Architecture was understood to not only be a formal artistic or sculptural endeavour, but also a socio-political one. He was editor of the journal Architecture SA from 1982 to 1987, and was re-appointed in 2003. He won several open architectural competitions in South Africa, and received many awards, including the South African Institute of Architects Gold Medal Award for architecture in 2015. Cooke’s most significant work was the hostels upgrade programme which comprised approximately 3000 units in Nyanga, Gugulethu and Langa. He said the squalid, barrack-like hostels reminded him of Charles Dickens’ “dark, satanic mills” of the European industrial revolution 150 years ago. The transformation took 15 years to accomplish, with Cooke establishing a relationship with the community he later he regarded as family. He described moments of beauty he encountered: “The difference between the living conditions and the way places are occupied says something profound about the greatness and resourcefulness of human beings. In one room we meet a woman who is carefully braiding her daughter’s hair. The child is sitting on a bed covered with an immaculately embroidered bedspread and on the wall next to her is a large, framed picture of a curly-haired Jesus. I find the irony in the juxtaposition of such care and beauty with the crude hostel block difficult to bear.” The project won the firm, Architects Associated, of which Cooke was part, the Impumelelo Innovations Award in 2004.His lectures were described as interesting and accessible. He came up with the idea of a project called “Ten dreams for Cape Town”. This was a project that brought together many architects and urban designers, to rethink and, importantly, to show, an alternative Cape Town that was more efficient, egalitarian and sustainable. This project culminated in a series of lectures for one of UCT’s Summer School courses in 2019, with an accompanying exhibition. It was later turned into a book titled A Vision for a Future Cape Town. He had an unwavering belief in the project of architecture and continued to teach long after retirement from the school as well as creating courses for UCT’s Summer School. He will be remembered as an “exemplary architect, urban designer, teacher and human being.” Leah Simon (1927-2025) Leah, known as “Lily” Simon, (BA 1947), née Edelstein died suddenly on 17 February 2025 in Sydney, Australia. She was born to impoverished parents in Krugersdorp. Being one of the brightest pupils in her school, she matriculated at the age of 16. She won a scholarship to study at the Wits, in residence, graduating at 19. Post graduation she taught English at her alma mater school, Krugersdorp High. She married fellow Witsie Leslie Simon (BArch1950, PGDip TP 1965 in 1948 and had three sons: Alan (BA Hons 1978, MA 1979), Trevor (BCom 1983) and Clive (BSc 1982, BSc Hons 1983, PhD 1989). The family emigrated to Sydney in 1999 where she continued to teach English to international students for a few years until she retired, noting that discipline was not quite the same as back in the day. She is predeceased by Leslie (2021) and Clive (2019) and is survived by her two sons and their families. Lily had a love for Latin and English literature. She published poems, short stories and one of her proudest achievements was to publish Inyanga (Justified Press, 1993,) a story about Sarah Mashele, one of Soweto’s most famous witch doctors. She was both a serious and humorous writer as in the poem below illustrates: Streaker by Lillian Simon It all began when Mrs Plump Long established as a frump Said her life was dull and chaste And surely virtue was a waste Come full moon she began to streak Suddenly reaching a brand new peak Down the road the old bag trotted After getting nicely potted Her sagging breast and flabby belly Would never have made it on the telly Though not exactly love’s young dream She’d found a way to let off steam And even when the police stepped in To cart her off to the loony bin The latest mode of good head-shrinking Failed to rearrange her thinking In spite of being a tough nut She was glad she’d shown the world her butt Source: Simon family Senamile Masango (1987-2025) One of South Africa’s trailblazing black female nuclear scientists, Senamile Masango (PDM 2021) died aged 37, from an unknown cause, on 8 February 2025. Dubbed “the queen of science”by some, Masango was born in KwaNongoma, in KwaZulu-Natal. She demonstrated a passion for learning and her family encouraged her to read extensively from an early age. She enrolled at the University of KwaZulu-Natal atthe age of 16 to pursue a Bachelor of Science in physics and electronics, followed by an honours degree in nuclear physics from the University of the Western Cape, where she conducted research on the B(E2) value in Neon-20. She completed a postgraduate diploma in energy leadership from Wits Business School. In 2017 Masango was part of the first African-led experiment at the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN), one of the world’s largest particle physics laboratory. Her many accomplishments include being South Africa’s research leader at the BRICS Youth Energy Outlook in 2019, where her foundation led the winning team in 2020. Recognised among the 50 Global Inspirational Women of 2020 and a Women in Tech Global Awards finalist in 2021 and 2022, she received the prestigious International Women in Science Award, recognising her profound impact on the scientific community. She was the executive chairperson and founder of Mphathisithele Consulting PTY, and dedicated her career to empowering African women in STEM and advancing sustainable development goals. At the time of her death, she was completing her doctoral studies in nuclear physics and was the founder of Women in Science and Engineering (Wise). Through Wise, Masango provided leadership and role models for young women wishing to enter the fields of science and engineering. Proceeds made from her speaking engagements went towards raising money to provide science kits for disadvantaged schools. But throughout her career, Masango faced the discrimination black women face because of their race and gender. “The biggest challenge in my career is my skin colour. If you look like me, no-one believes in you; you must prove that you know your job and that you can think! There are still very few black women scientists. This means women like me have to work twice as hard to prove their worth,” she said. Mehnaaz Ally (1980-2025) Dr Mehnaaz Ally (MBBCh 2005) a dedicated paediatric palliative care practitioner, died on 6 February 2025. She was found unresponsive in her home after experiencing a massive internal brain haemorrhage. A touching “walk of honour”was held for Ally as an organ donor, as she arrived at Milpark Hospital on the morning after her death. A large crowd of people turned up to show their respects as she was wheeled through the ward. The request had been sent out to “wear bright colours” as homage to her positive and colourful personality. After completing her undergraduate degree in medicine from Wits in 2005, she pursued postgraduate studies in paediatrics, and then in paediatric palliative care. She successfully completed the post-graduate diploma in paediatric palliative medicine through the University of Cape Town in 2017, with distinction. She worked at various palliative care NGOs, including WitsPal (Wits Palliative Care at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital), the Lambano Sanctuary, a paediatric step-down unit and hospice faculty in Germiston, the Rare Diseases South Africa as well as PatchSA. According to her colleagues, her empathetic approach to care extended beyond clinical practice, she understood the importance of listening and advocacy. She was passionate about educating fellow healthcare workers about paediatric pain and had a special interest in neonatal pain and palliation. She also ran support groups and debriefing workshops for healthcare workers burdened by burnout and compassion fatigue. Sources: Rare Diseases South Africa, Lambano Sanctuary and PatchSA Harold Luntz (1937-2025) Harold Luntz (BA 1957, LLB 1959), who was Emeritus Professor at Melbourne Law School, died at the age of 87 on 29 January 2025. He was one of the world’s foremost scholars and theoreticians of torts and damages law. A much-loved colleague and lecturer, he authored numerous articles, incisive case notes, engaging book reviews, comments on the direction of the law and other publications. Luntz was born in Johannesburg, matriculating from Athlone Boys High School. After completing a Bachelor of Arts at Wits, he studied towards his LLB, serving articles of clerkship at the same time as undertaking the degree; both took three years. In 1960, he was employed for a brief period as a solicitor in a firm of solicitors in Johannesburg and then took a Bachelor of Civil Law at Lincoln College at the University of Oxford. He began publishing in academic journals in the early 1960s. He emigrated to Australia in 1965, joining the Faculty of Law as a senior lecturer. He excelled as a writer and teacher. In 1970, he was admitted as a barrister and solicitor of the Supreme Court of Victoria and in 1976 was appointed George Paton Professor of Law, a position he held until his retirement in 2002. He also served as a successful Dean at the Melbourne University Law School from 1986 to 1988. Following his retirement, he continued to teach in the postgraduate programme until 2008. Luntz took time off in 1970 to pursue his interests in comparative law as visiting associate professor at Queen’s University in Ontario, Canada. Later, in 1971, he was visiting professor at the University of California, Berkeley. But his commitment was to Melbourne and Australia. He returned as Reader in Law in July 1971. His professorial chair came in July 1976, and he served as dean over three years from 1986–88. He was twice a visiting fellow at Wolfson College, Oxford, where he was attached on each occasion to the Centre for Socio-Legal Studies. He was awarded the degree of Doctor of Laws by the University of Melbourne in 1983. In 2000 he was the inaugural recipient of the John G Fleming Memorial Award for Torts Scholarship, and in 2003 he was awarded the AILA Insurance Law Prize. From 2007, the Harold Luntz Graduate Research Thesis Prize commemorating Luntz’s achievements as a “world expert on torts law” has been awarded annually to the Melbourne Law School graduate research student judged to have presented the best thesis in the previous year, provided that the nominee meets an overall level of excellence required for the award. The prize specifically honours Luntz’s contribution on the international stage and as a former dean. Luntz was made an Officer in the general division in the Order of Australia in the Australia Day 2019 Honours List “for distinguished service to legal education, as an academic and editor, to professional development and to the community”. After Luntz’s retirement, Justice Michael Kirby wrote a tribute in the Melbourne University Law Review in 2003 titled Harold Luntz: Doyen of the Australian Law of Torts, saying Luntz was a lawyer who, unusually, “listened before he spoke”, a man with a reputation for “reading everything”; loved by his students “because he was a good storyteller”; and throughout his long, illustrious career displayed three great strengths: commonsense, practical wisdom and plain speaking. Justice Kirby noted that Luntz’s childhood and experiences in South Africa shaped his outlook on justice profoundly: “His childhood and youth in that country had a profound effect upon his view of the world and of the law. South Africa was never a lawless state. That, indeed, was the central problem. It embalmed in law rules that anyone with sensitivity (and particularly anyone who was from a minority) could see were offensive to human equality, to personal autonomy and to the effective operation of law as an instrument of justice. I venture to suggest that those early years left a mark on Harold Luntz that has stayed with him ever since. They help to explain his sense of urgency, his great energy, his pursuit of justice through law and his search for a better home to give voice to these ideals.” Sources: The University of Melbourne, Wikipedia, Melbourne University Law Review
