=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu - Wikipedia]
Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu from Cuttack side. Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu (also called Netaji Setu) is a bridge over the river Kathajodi, a distributary of the Mahanadi connecting Belleview Point near Judicial Academy in Cuttack to Trishulia. The length of the bridge is 2.88 km and is the longest bridge in Odisha.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netaji_Subhas_Chandra_Bose_Setu

[Odisha's first three-lane bridge is now a lifeline for Cuttack ...]
Apr 29, 2025 · The Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu, inaugurated on 19 July 2017, connects Cuttack and Bhubaneswar over the Kathajodi River. Named after Netaji Bose, the 2.88 km bridge is Odisha's first three-lane structure with solar LED lights, enhancing regional growth.
URL: https://odishatv.in/news/odisha/odisha-first-three-lane-bridge-is-now-a-lifeline-for-cuttack-bhubaneswar-twin-city-know-its-history-261618

[Odisha's longest road bridge "Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu" has ...]
Answer: Kathajodi river Notes: Naveen Patnaik, the Chief Minister of Odisha, has recently dedicated the state's longest road bridge “Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu” to the nation. The 2.88 km bridge is built on river Kathajodi (a tributary of Mahanadi) at an approximate cost Rs 114 crore.
URL: https://www.gktoday.in/question/odishas-longest-road-bridge-netaji-subhas-chandra

[Netaji Setu connecting Bhubaneswar and Cuttack open for public]
Jul 20, 2017 · The new bridge will put the two biggest stadiums - Barabati in Cuttack and Kalinga in Bhubaneswar - on the same axis. The Netaji Setu, built on Kathajodi river, a tributary of Mahanadi has been dedicated to the nation and Netaji who was born in Cuttack.
URL: http://www.smartcitybhubaneswar.com/NewsDescription.aspx?NewsID=6040Crnew

[Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu - Wikiwand]
Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu (also called Netaji Setu) is a bridge over the river Kathajodi, a distributary of the Mahanadi connecting Belleview Point near Judicial Academy in Cuttack to Trishulia. The length of the bridge is 2.88 km and is the longest bridge in Odisha. It was inaugurated by the Chief Minister of Odisha, Naveen Patnaik on 19 July 2017. It is the first 3 lane bridge in ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Netaji_Subhas_Chandra_Bose_Setu


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu - Wikipedia] ---
Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu (also called Netaji Setu) is a bridge over the river Kathajodi, a distributary of the Mahanadi connecting Belleview Point near Judicial Academy in Cuttack to Trishulia. The length of the bridge is 2.88 km and is the longest bridge in Odisha. It was inaugurated by the Chief Minister of Odisha, Naveen Patnaik on 19 July 2017. It is the first 3 lane bridge in Odisha and reduces the distance between Bhubaneswar and Cuttack by 12 km. The bridge was named after Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose who was born and brought up in Cuttack. It was constructed at a cost of ₹114 crore, the bridge was built to ease congestion on NH‑16 and reduce travel time between the twin cities.


--- [Odisha's first three-lane bridge is now a lifeline for Cuttack ...] ---
Inaugurated on 19 July 2017, the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu has become a pivotal infrastructure element, drastically reshaping the urban fabric between Cuttack and Bhubaneswar. Initially hailed as Odisha’s longest bridge at 2.88 km, it held this distinction until the opening of the T-Setu in Ganjam. Despite losing that title, the bridge remains unmatched in its strategic and economic impact. Named after freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, who was born in Cuttack, the bridge spans the Kathajodi River and connects Belleview Point near the Odisha Judicial Academy in Cuttack to Trisulia. Constructed over six years at a cost of nearly Rs 114 crore, it is Odisha’s first three-lane bridge and the first in the state to incorporate solar-powered LED lighting throughout its length. The illumination project, completed in 2018, added 494 LED lights and 247 posts, enhancing safety and aesthetics. Economic and spatial transformation of the Trisulia corridor Notably, the bridge has significantly altered the economic and spatial dynamics of the region. Trisulia, once a quiet and underdeveloped stretch on the city periphery, has seen exponential growth. Land prices have soared, commercial activity has spiked, and the area now hosts a growing array of residential and institutional developments. This connectivity has effectively bridged the gap between Cuttack and Bhubaneswar, turning them into a de facto continuous urban corridor. ALSO READ: The first President of Pakistan served as political agent of Odisha; know details The travel distance between the cities has been reduced by approximately 15 km, and traffic congestion on National Highway 16 has notably eased. It is also worth mentioning that the bridge completely reshaped the twin city with an exponential growth of regions like Ragunathpur, Patia, and Barang. A bridge of hope and future resilience Besides its immediate utility, Netaji Setu enhanced access to outlying districts and supported smoother traffic flows towards western Odisha. With another bridge over the Mahanadi connecting Cuttack with Dhabaleswar, the route now acts as a ring road network linking interior areas like Sambalpur and coastal Odisha more efficiently. The Netaji Setu is also future-proofed. The installation of high-mast lights at approach points and CCTV-friendly lamp posts ensures adaptability for further technological integrations, like smart surveillance. ALSO READ: Odisha fast-tracks land acquisition, allocation for industries by putting citizens first; know how More than just a bridge, Netaji Setu represents Odisha's stride towards modernity, urban cohesion and regional pride, making it not just a path between cities, but a statement of aspiration and progress.


--- [Odisha's longest road bridge "Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu" has ...] ---
Q. Odisha's longest road bridge "Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu" has built over which tributary of the Mahanadi River?Answer: Kathajodi river Notes: Naveen Patnaik, the Chief Minister of Odisha, has recently dedicated the state's longest road bridge “Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu” to the nation. The 2.88 km bridge is built on river Kathajodi (a tributary of Mahanadi) at an approximate cost Rs 114 crore. The Netaji Setu will not only lessen the distance between Bhubaneswar and Cuttack by 12 km, it will also help divert traffic and ease commute.


--- [Netaji Setu connecting Bhubaneswar and Cuttack open for public] ---
Transportation Netaji Setu connecting Bhubaneswar and Cuttack open for public Chief minister Naveen Patnaik inaugurated the second bridge named Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu connecting Bhubaneswar and Cuttack on 20th July. The 2.81 km bridge built over a period of six years with an expenditure of around Rs 114 Cr is the longest in the state. It will emerge as a milestone of Odisha’s infrastructure. This bridge will divert substantial traffic as this route will be convenient for commuters heading towards the High Court and CDA areas. Travel time to Sambalpur will also be reduced via this bridge. The new bridge will put the two biggest stadiums - Barabati in Cuttack and Kalinga in Bhubaneswar - on the same axis. The Netaji Setu, built on Kathajodi river, a tributary of Mahanadi has been dedicated to the nation and Netaji who was born in Cuttack. |


--- [Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Setu - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
