=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Prix de Rome - Wikipedia]
The Prix de Rome was initially created for painters and sculptors in 1663 in France, during the reign of Louis XIV. It was an annual bursary for promising artists having proved their talents by completing a very difficult elimination contest.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prix_de_Rome

[Prix de Rome engraving category 1805 candidates entered their ...]
The Crossword Solver found 30 answers to "Prix de Rome engraving category 1805 candidates entered their work in the engraving contest 1805 how many candidates", 7 letters crossword clue.
URL: https://www.wordplays.com/crossword-solver/Prix-de-Rome-engraving-category-1805-candidates-entered-their-work-in-the-engraving-contest-1805-how-many-candidates

[Prix de Rome | Italian Academy, painting, sculpture | Britannica]
Both artists remained resident in Rome for most of their life, but, whereas Bernini was controlled by the popes and only rarely permitted to work for foreign potentates, Canova’s principal patrons were foreigners, and he supplied sculpture to all the courts of Europe.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/art/Prix-de-Rome

[Prix de Rome engraving category 1805 how many candidates ...]
The Crossword Solver found 30 answers to "Prix de Rome engraving category 1805 how many candidates entered their work 1805 engraving contest", 7 letters crossword clue.
URL: https://www.wordplays.com/crossword-solver/Prix-de-Rome-engraving-category-1805-how-many-candidates-entered-their-work-1805-engraving-contest

[Prix de Rome engraving 1805 how many candidates entered their ...]
The Crossword Solver found 30 answers to "Prix de Rome engraving 1805 how many candidates entered their work 1805 engraving category number of candidates", 7 letters crossword clue.
URL: https://www.wordplays.com/crossword-solver/Prix-de-Rome-engraving-1805-how-many-candidates-entered-their-work-1805-engraving-category-number-of-candidates


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Prix de Rome - Wikipedia] ---
The Prix de Rome (pronounced [pʁi də ʁɔm]) or Grand Prix de Rome was a French scholarship for arts students, initially for painters and sculptors, that was established in 1663 during the reign of Louis XIV of France. Winners were awarded a bursary that allowed them to stay in Rome for three to five years at the expense of the state. The prize was extended to architecture in 1720, music in 1803 and engraving in 1804. The prestigious award was abolished in 1968 by André Malraux, then Minister of Culture, following the May 68 riots that called for cultural change.


--- [Prix de Rome engraving category 1805 candidates entered their ...] ---
Forgot Password Forget your password? Have it sent to the e-mail address on file. Just enter your user name above and click 'Send My Password'. Forgot User Name Forget your user name? Have it sent to the e-mail address on file. Just enter your email below and click 'Send My User Name'. If the email address on file is no longer valid you must register again. If you're having trouble signing in read the FAQ. |


--- [Prix de Rome | Italian Academy, painting, sculpture | Britannica] ---
Prix de Rome Prix de Rome, any of a group of scholarships awarded by the French government between 1663 and 1968 to enable young French artists to study in Rome. It was so named because the students who won the grand, or first, prize in each artistic category went to study at the Académie de France in Rome. As part of his official patronage of the arts, King Louis XIV established an art academy in Rome called the Académie de France. This move was prompted by Charles Le Brun, who had previously been instrumental in founding France’s Royal Academy of Painting and Sculpture (Académie Royale de Peinture et de Sculpture) in Paris in 1648. In 1666 French statutes decreed that the newly established Grand Prix de Rome should preferably be awarded to prizewinning pupils from the Royal Academy. The original prizes were awarded to students of painting and sculpture. Prizes for architecture were awarded regularly after about 1720. Many of the greatest French artists and architects of the 18th century went to Rome as prizewinners, including the painters Antoine Coypel, Jean-Honoré Fragonard, and Jacques-Louis David and the sculptors François Girardon, Clodion, and Jean-Antoine Houdon. During the French Revolution the Académie de France was closed from 1792 until 1801, when it reopened in the magnificent Villa Medici building. In the 19th century prizes for engravers and musicians were added; the most famous prizewinners of that century were the painter J.-A.-D. Ingres, the sculptors Pierre-Jean David d’Angers and Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux, the architect Tony Garnier, and the composers Hector Berlioz, Charles Gounod, Georges Bizet, and Claude Debussy. - In full: - Grand Prix de Rome - Related Topics: - scholarship The Prix de Rome competitions and awards diminished in prestige and importance during the 20th century and were discontinued altogether by André Malraux, the French minister of cultural affairs, following the student riots of 1968. However, various organizations and groups subsequently adopted the prize’s name for their own competitions, and by the early 21st century there were several Prix de Rome scholarships awarded around the world.


--- [Prix de Rome engraving category 1805 how many candidates ...] ---
Forgot Password Forget your password? Have it sent to the e-mail address on file. Just enter your user name above and click 'Send My Password'. Forgot User Name Forget your user name? Have it sent to the e-mail address on file. Just enter your email below and click 'Send My User Name'. If the email address on file is no longer valid you must register again. If you're having trouble signing in read the FAQ. |


--- [Prix de Rome engraving 1805 how many candidates entered their ...] ---
Forgot Password Forget your password? Have it sent to the e-mail address on file. Just enter your user name above and click 'Send My Password'. Forgot User Name Forget your user name? Have it sent to the e-mail address on file. Just enter your email below and click 'Send My User Name'. If the email address on file is no longer valid you must register again. If you're having trouble signing in read the FAQ. |
