=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Shanice - Wikipedia]
Shanice Lorraine Wilson was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on May 14, 1973. Her mother, Crystal Wilson, was a singer, while her father, Carl Black, was a guitarist. After her parents divorced in 1979, Shanice relocated to Los Angeles with her mother and her aunt Penni Wilson. At the age of nine, she appeared alongside American singer Ella Fitzgerald in a commercial for Kentucky Fried ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shanice

[Shanice Biography | Booking Info for Speaking Engagements]
They soon abandoned their aspirations of stardom, instead focusing their efforts on young Shanice; forming the management company Krystal Penny to cultivate and promote her talents. At age 9, Shanice appeared in a Kentucky Fried Chicken commercial with the legendary jazz vocalist Ella Fitzgerald.
URL: https://www.allamericanspeakers.com/celebritytalentbios/Shanice/391575

[Shanice - R&B Haven]
Shanice Shanice Lorraine Wilson-Knox was born in 1973 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. From an early age, Shanice was graced with fame, starring in a KFC commercial with Ella Fitzgerald when she was 9. At the age of 11, Shanice was discovered by A&M Records who signed her and helped her release her debut album Discovery in 1987.
URL: https://www.rnbhaven.com/artists/Shanice/97

[Shanice - Black Celebrity Birthdays]
Shanice was nine years old when she appeared in a Kentucky Fried Chicken commercial with the legendary jazz vocalist Ella Fitzgerald. In 1984, she was part of the regular cast in the first thirteen of the children's program Kids Incorporated.
URL: https://www.famousblackcelebritybirthdays.com/shanice

[12 Facts About Shanice | FactSnippet]
5. Shanice was age nine when she appeared in a Kentucky Fried Chicken commercial with jazz vocalist Ella Fitzgerald. 6. Shanice signed a deal with Motown Records in the summer of 1990, releasing Inner Child in late 1991, which included her best-known hit single "I Love Your Smile". 7.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-shanice.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Shanice - Wikipedia] ---
Shanice Lorraine Wilson-Knox (born May 14, 1973) is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, and actress. She is recognized for her coloratura soprano voice.
In 1984, Shanice appeared on Star Search at age eleven and won in the Junior Vocalist category. Her success led to being signed to A&M Records and released her debut album Discovery in 1987, at age fourteen. The album spawned the top-ten R&B hits: "(Baby Tell Me) Can You Dance" and "No 1/2 Steppin'". After a label roster shift to Motown Records, she released her second album Inner Child in 1991. The album spawned the international chart-topping song "I Love Your Smile". The song also garnered a nomination for Best Female R&B Vocal Performance at the 35th Annual Grammy Awards. Her single titled "Saving Forever for You", released on the Beverly Hills, 90210, peaked at number four on the US Billboard Hot 100. After releasing her third album, 21... Ways to Grow (1994), she went on a five-year hiatus. During her hiatus, Shanice performed background vocals for several chart-topping songs including "Un-Break My Heart" and "When You Believe". She also made her acting debut in the Broadway production of Les Misérables in 1997.
In March 1999, she released her self-titled album on LaFace Records. The album spawned the top-ten song "When I Close My Eyes". Shortly after the release of the album, Shanice went on another musical hiatus. After forming her own record label Imajah Records, she released her fifth studio album Every Woman Dreams (2006). In 2014, she starred alongside her husband Flex Alexander in the reality television series Flex & Shanice.


--- [Shanice Biography | Booking Info for Speaking Engagements] ---
No content


--- [Shanice - R&B Haven] ---
Shanice Shanice Lorraine Wilson-Knox was born in 1973 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. From an early age, Shanice was graced with fame, starring in a KFC commercial with Ella Fitzgerald when she was 9. At the age of 11, Shanice was discovered by A&M Records who signed her and helped her release her debut album Discovery in 1987. The album scored two R&B hits with '(Baby Tell Me) Can You Dance' and 'No 1/2 Steppin'' both of which reached #6 on the R&B charts. The album did well enough to score Shanice a Soul Train nomination for Best New Artist. In 1991, she signed a deal with Motown Records. The same year, she released the album Inner Child which went gold. The album featured Shanice's biggest single to date, 'I Love Your Smile' which topped the R&B charts and reached #2 on the Hot 100. The album's second single, 'Silent Prayer' reached #4 on the R&B charts. In the following years, Shanice scored several hits with tracks on soundtracks. 'Saying Forever For You' off of the Beverly Hills, 90210 soundtrack reached #4 on the Hot 100. Similarly, 'It's For You' from The Meteor Man soundtrack reached #14 on the R&B charts. Despite Shanice's inability to score a huge commercial hit following her second album, she is well-recognized as a talented vocalist and appears on many soundtracks. At around the same time Shanice was doing well with soundtrack hits, she released her third album, 21... Ways To Grow. Released when she was 21, the album did poorly on the charts and failed to have a standout single. Shanice began working with Babyface and in 1999, released her fourth album, the self-titled Shanice. The album was heavily produced by Babyface and had a solid hit with 'When I Close My Eyes' which reached #12 on the Hot 100. In 2005, a new single, 'Every Woman Dreams' was released by Shanice after a long hiatus. The album by the same name was released in early 2006 after many delays. However, the album performed poorly, selling a mere 6,000 copies in its opening week. On the personal side of things, Shanice is married to actor Flex Alexander and has two children: Imani Shekinah and Elijah Alexander.


--- [Shanice - Black Celebrity Birthdays] ---
Shanice Born: May 14, 1973 Place of Birth: Pittsburgh, PA Zodiac Sign: Taurus Shanice Lorraine Wilson-Knox (née Wilson), better known simply as Shanice, is an American singer–songwriter, actress and dancer. Wilson had the Billboard hit singles "I Love Your Smile" and "Silent Prayer" in 1991 and "Saving Forever for You" in 1993. In 1999, Wilson scored another hit song, "When I Close My Eyes", which peaked at No. 12 on Billboard's Hot 100 chart. Wilson is recognized for her coloratura soprano voice and her ability to sing in the whistle register. Shanice was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and relocated to Los Angeles, California with her mother Crystal, and her aunt Penni. Her mother and aunt went to Los Angeles in pursuit of careers in the music industry. They shifted their focus to Shanice and formed the management company Crystal Penni to cultivate and promote her talents. Shanice was nine years old when she appeared in a Kentucky Fried Chicken commercial with the legendary jazz vocalist Ella Fitzgerald. In 1984, she was part of the regular cast in the first thirteen of the children's program Kids Incorporated. Shanice competed on Star Search as an eleven-year old, and later signed with A&M Records. In 1987, at the age of 14, A&M Records released her debut album, Discovery. It produced two top-ten R&B hits, "(Baby Tell Me) Can You Dance" and "No ½ Steppin'". Wilson went on to sign a deal with Motown Records in the summer of 1990, releasing Inner Child in late 1991, which included her best-known hit single "I Love Your Smile". It reached the top ten in 22 countries, including the U.S. Billboard Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs and No. 2 on the Billboard Hot 100. The album also featured a cover of Minnie Riperton's 1974 hit "Lovin' You", a rendition that brought attention to her five-octave vocal range. After Inner Child, Wilson continued to record albums, including 1994's 21… Ways to Grow with producer Rhett Lawrence a Los Angeles session musician and Earth Wind & Fire guitarist Dick Smith. This effort was followed by a move to LaFace Records in 1997, who later released the 1999 album Shanice. While she has not achieved significant commercial success with subsequent albums, she has contributed to various film soundtracks, such as Boomerang ("Don't Wanna Love You") and The Meteor Man ("It's for You"). Wilson also achieved success with her top-ten hit "Saving Forever for You", from the Beverly Hills 90210 Soundtrack. She also recorded "If I Never Knew You", a duet with Jon Secada, for the original soundtrack of Disney's 1995 film Pocahontas. Shanice occasionally does background vocals for other artists; she can be heard on Toni Braxton's "Come on Over Here" and "Un-Break My Heart", as well as Usher's "Bedtime". In 2010 she performed vocals on the track "Behind the Mask", from Michael Jackson's posthumous album Michael. Wilson recorded the song "A Midnight Rendezvous" for the 2012 Kinect game Rhythm Party. She also performed the English theme song for the video game The Bouncer, called "Love Is the Gift". Wilson returned to recording after a five-year hiatus and released her fifth studio album Every Woman Dreams on her own label Imajah (named for her two children). The album peaked at No. 30 on the R&B Albums Chart. In 2019, Shanice returned with the new single "He Won't". In addition to singing, Wilson is also an actress, first appearing in season five of Family Matters episode "Rock Enroll". In 1997 she became the first black performer to star in the role of Eponine in the musical Les Misérables on Broadway. In 2001, Shanice made an appearance on her husband Flex's show One on One as a singer also she starred in the made-for-TV movie One Special Moment, an adaptation of Brenda Jackson's 1998 novel of the same name. In 2011, Shanice joined Niecy Nash and Frenchie Davis for the 21st Annual "Divas Simply Singing" HIV/AIDS charity event. Shanice and her husband, Flex, are starring in their own reality show Flex & Shanice, which premiered on November 1, 2014, on OWN. Source.


--- [12 Facts About Shanice | FactSnippet] ---
Shanice Lorraine Wilson-Knox is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, actress and dancer. 12 Facts About Shanice In 1999, Shanice scored another hit song with "When I Close My Eyes", which peaked at No 12 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. Shanice is recognized for her coloratura soprano voice and her ability to sing in the whistle register. Shanice Lorraine Wilson was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and she moved to Los Angeles with her mother Crystal and her aunt Penni. Shanice was age nine when she appeared in a Kentucky Fried Chicken commercial with jazz vocalist Ella Fitzgerald. Shanice signed a deal with Motown Records in the summer of 1990, releasing Inner Child in late 1991, which included her best-known hit single "I Love Your Smile". Shanice recorded the song "A Midnight Rendezvous" for the 2012 Kinect game Rhythm Party. Shanice performed "Love Is the Gift", the English theme song for the video game The Bouncer. Shanice returned to recording after a five-year hiatus and released her album Every Woman Dreams on her own label Imajah. In 1997, Shanice became the first Black performer to star in the role of Eponine in the musical Les Miserables on Broadway. In 2021, Shanice appeared as herself, performing on the Ladies First tour with Kelly Price and Chante Moore during season 2 episode 10 of the TV series First Wives Club. On February 19,2000, Shanice married actor and comedian Flex Alexander.
