=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Gloria Hollister - Wikipedia]
Gloria Hollister Anable (June 11, 1900 - February 19, 1988) was an American explorer, scientist, and conservationist. She served as research associate in the Department of Tropical Research of the New York Zoological Society (now the Wildlife Conservation Society), specializing in fish osteology, and she made record-setting dives in a ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gloria_Hollister

[Gloria Hollister Anable (1900-1988), , U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service]
Gloria Hollister Anable, accomplished scientist, explorer, and conservationist, made substantial contributions to discovering and protecting the natural world. Born and raised in New York City, Anable's (née Hollister) interests in animals and anatomy developed early, and were encouraged by her physician father.
URL: https://www.fws.gov/staff-profile/gloria-hollister-anable-1900-1988

[Looking Above the Ears | Wild View - Wildlife Conservation Society]
Hollister arrived in 1928 with a master’s in zoology and three years’ experience in cancer research at Rockefeller University. Crane, who joined in 1930 after earning her bachelor’s in zoology, had already published in the prestigious ...
URL: https://blog.wcs.org/photo/2014/09/01/looking-above-the-ears/

[Women in Science: Gloria Hollister Anable 1900-1988 - Daily Kos]
Sep 21, 2013 · Born in 1900 in New York City, she attended Connecticut College for Women, from which she graduated in 1924. She got her Masters degree in zoology at Columbia and worked for a short time on...
URL: https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2013/9/21/1237944/-Women-in-Science-Gloria-Hollister-Anable-1900-1988

[Gloria Hollister Anable, 87, Dies; An Explorer and Conservationist - The New York Times]
Born in New York City, she graduated in 1924 from Connecticut College for Women, where she was twice chosen class president, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and was selected a member of the All-America girls' hockey team.
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/1988/02/24/obituaries/gloria-hollister-anable-87-dies-an-explorer-and-conservationist.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Gloria Hollister - Wikipedia] ---
Gloria Hollister Anable (June 11, 1900 – February 19, 1988) was an American explorer, scientist, and conservationist. She served as research associate in the Department of Tropical Research of the New York Zoological Society (now the Wildlife Conservation Society), specializing in fish osteology, and she made record-setting dives in a submersible called the Bathysphere off the coast of Bermuda in the 1930s. During the 1950s, she helped to found the committee that preserved that Mianus River Gorge, which subsequently became the Nature Conservancy's first land project.




--- [Gloria Hollister Anable (1900-1988), , U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service] ---
About Gloria Hollister Anable (1900-1988) Gloria Hollister Anable, accomplished scientist, explorer, and conservationist, made substantial contributions to discovering and protecting the natural world. Born and raised in New York City, Anable’s (née Hollister) interests in animals and anatomy developed early, and were encouraged by her physician father. Anable hoped to become a physician, but her father disapproved, reflecting 1900s societal norms, and instead fostered her pursuit of natural science. Anable went on to receive a M.S. in zoology from Colombia University in 1931. Anable’s career was multifaceted and productive, beginning with cancer research and branching into oceanographic and wildlife studies. Her groundbreaking work in the 1930s included: developing new techniques for studying bottom-dwelling fish, setting the women’s deep-sea descent record to find new marine species in the Caribbean, and discovering new plants and animals during South American expeditions. In later years, Anable protected people and habitats. During WWII, she helped establish the first Red Cross blood bank. In the 1950’s, she led concerned citizens to protect old-growth forest along southwest New York’s Mianus River, which was under development threat. This effort led to the creation of the Nature Conservancy. Anable’s vision for the property included science education, and forward-looking resource management. Today the Mianus River Gorge Preserve is a platform for research, education, and recreation, and was the Department of Interior’s first Natural National Landmark. Anable lived life and pursued her work with creativity, passion, and courage, despite societal challenges of the time period. Her contributions continue to benefit and inspire new generations to this day. “Man, whether he realizes it consciously or not, has an urge to run away from what he has made for himself in order to renew his contact with the world as it was before he put his mechanical mark on it.”—Gloria Hollister Anable This plaque was created by SUTL Cohort 34. Photo Credit: Wildlife Conservation Society.


--- [Looking Above the Ears | Wild View - Wildlife Conservation Society] ---
September 1, 2014 Looking Above the Ears - as seen by - Madeleine ThompsonWhen renowned naturalist William Beebe added Gloria Hollister and Jocelyn Crane to his expedition research staff nearly a century ago, his decision to employ two female scientists was considered novel enough that it required some justification. The Wildlife Conservation Society’s founding Director of the Department of Tropical Research (DTR) went out of his way to acknowledge that he didn’t care whether they were men or women. What mattered most in a researcher, said Beebe, is “what is above the ears.” Hollister arrived in 1928 with a master’s in zoology and three years’ experience in cancer research at Rockefeller University. Crane, who joined in 1930 after earning her bachelor’s in zoology, had already published in the prestigious Journal of Mammalogy. Yet despite their qualifications — which paralleled those of their male colleagues — some media focused more on the women’s sex than their science. The same 1932 article that printed Beebe’s praise for “what is above the ears” couldn’t help noting that “both young women have sleek permanent waves above the ears, incidentally, and complete and very feminine wardrobes, including formal dresses for parties at the Governor’s House in Bermuda.” In spite of the attention to their physical appearance and the fact that the vast majority of their colleagues were men, Hollister and Crane forged significant scientific careers. Both researchers made names for themselves in the field of marine ecology and expanded their scientific work to include terrestrial settings as well. Gloria Hollister (standing), William Beebe, and Jocelyn Crane can be seen here in the field observing a partial eclipse on Bermuda’s Nonsuch Island, September 1932. Nonsuch Island, Bermuda Map It subscribe Comments Annette November 18, 2014 at 8:37 pm Your (hi)story about Beebe, Hollister, and Crane made me smile. So did the photo. I rarely “meet” the people who have been instrumental in fostering development of the zoo. I usually read about them. Your research and writing style helped me meet them. Thanks. When most people talk about a zoo, they list their favorite animal(s). I want to know about the human species behind it all, as well. You did that. I chuckled over society’s difficulty in envisioning women in the field, and how Beebe tried to cure them. What stamina each of them evidenced! Madeleine Thompson December 4, 2014 at 2:01 pm Thanks for your lovely comments, Annette. WCS has so many terrific stories, and it’s been great to have the opportunity to share some of them here. I too am inspired by Jocelyn Crane and Gloria Hollister. They worked hard to do the work they loved to do.


--- [Women in Science: Gloria Hollister Anable 1900-1988 - Daily Kos] ---
403 ERROR The request could not be satisfied. Request blocked. We can't connect to the server for this app or website at this time. There might be too much traffic or a configuration error. Try again later, or contact the app or website owner. If you provide content to customers through CloudFront, you can find steps to troubleshoot and help prevent this error by reviewing the CloudFront documentation. Generated by cloudfront (CloudFront) Request ID: CzXYDBqboZfQvBUkyigdKHbboJcZPsJ41RqhmJCWIV4gcpXDchNbvQ==


--- [Gloria Hollister Anable, 87, Dies; An Explorer and Conservationist - The New York Times] ---
Supported by Gloria Hollister Anable, 87, Dies; An Explorer and Conservationist Gloria Hollister Anable, an explorer, scientist and conservationist who set a women's world record for ocean descent in a bathysphere in 1931, died of cardiac arrest Friday at the Carolton convalescent home in Fairfield, Conn., where she had lived for three years. She was 87 years old and had previously lived in Stamford. Miss Hollister, as she was known during most of her scientific career, became a celebrity in the 1930's, a time when only a handful of women earned headlines for their feats in a man's world of discovery. Miss Hollister was a longtime associate of Dr. William Beebe, the oceanographer. She was his chief assistant on many of his voyages of exploration in the late 20's and 30's, and she served with other expeditions of the New York Zoological Society, of which she was a fellow. In 1936 she led an exploring party through the jungles of British Guiana to the Kaieteur Falls, five times the height of Niagara. On that trip, using a light plane, she discovered 43 waterfalls. Studied Fish on Sea Floor Born in New York City, she graduated in 1924 from Connecticut College for Women, where she was twice chosen class president, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and was selected a member of the All-America girls' hockey team. She earned a master's degree in zoology at Columbia and worked with Dr. Alexis Carrel on cancer research at the Rockefeller Institute. A fellow institute volunteer at the time was Charles A. Lindbergh. In 1928 she was invited to accompany Dr. Beebe as a research associate on a voyage to the waters near Bermuda, where she studied fish on the sea floor 20 feet to 40 feet down. Two years later, after another Beebe associate, Otis Barton, had built the first bathysphere, she went with them to explore deep-sea life. It was on one of these expeditions that she went down 410 feet for the women's descent record. Related Content Advertisement
