=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Murder of Yanfei Bao - Wikipedia]
On 19 July 2023, Harcourts real estate agent Yanfei Bao went missing in Christchurch 's Wigram suburb. [1] The New Zealand Police mounted a missing person's search in the Christchurch area. [2] On the 24th of July 2023, Tingjun Cao was charged with her kidnapping after attempting to flee to China on the 22nd of July 2023. [3][4] On 26 July 2023, the Police launched a homicide investigation ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murder_of_Yanfei_Bao

[Yanfei Bao told friend she was being chased by man she rejected month ...]
Oct 25, 2024 · Tingjun Cao, 53, a Chinese national, is charged with murdering Bao on 19 July 2023, the day she went missing. Bao was last seen heading to show a house to a prospective client on Trevor Street in Hornby, where the Crown alleged she was stabbed to death by Cao.
URL: https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/national/531899/yanfei-bao-told-friend-she-was-being-chased-by-man-she-rejected-month-before-she-disappeared

[Yanfei Bao: Family says their lives are changed 'irreparably']
A year ago today the lives of Yanfei Bao's family, both in New Zealand and China, changed "irreparably". On July 19, 2023, the 44-year-old mother and real estate agent was last seen in the Christchurch suburb of Wigram. A day later, police announced she was missing, and a week after that her disappearance was upgraded to a homicide investigation.
URL: https://www.1news.co.nz/2024/07/19/yanfei-bao-family-says-their-lives-are-changed-irreparably/

[Trial of man accused of murdering Chch real estate agent Yanfei Bao ...]
A High Court trial for the man accused of murdering Christchurch real estate agent Yanfei Bao started today. Bao disappeared from the suburb of Hornby on 19 July 2023 when she was going to show a house to a prospective client. Her body was found just over a year later on 31 July, buried in a shallow grave along a treeline on a Greenpark farm.
URL: https://www.odt.co.nz/star-news/star-christchurch/trial-man-accused-murdering-chch-real-estate-agent-yanfei-bao-starts

['A profound absence of humanity' - Tingjun Cao found guilty of ...]
Dec 4, 2024 · After seven weeks of a trial plagued by delays, a jury has taken an hour and a half to find Tingjun Cao guilty of the murder of Christchurch real estate agent Yanfei Bao. The 44-year-old mother vanished on the morning of July 19, 2023. Cao was arrested three days later carrying a one-way ticket to Shanghai.
URL: https://www.thepress.co.nz/nz-news/360509530/hold-jury-finds-tingjun-cao-guilty-murdering-real-estate-agent-yanfei-bao


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Murder of Yanfei Bao - Wikipedia] ---
On 19 July 2023, Harcourts real estate agent Yanfei Bao went missing in Christchurch's Wigram suburb. The New Zealand Police mounted a missing person's search in the Christchurch area. On the 24th of July 2023, Tingjun Cao was charged with her kidnapping after attempting to flee to China on the 22nd of July 2023. On 26 July 2023, the Police launched a homicide investigation into Bao's disappearance. More than a year after her disappearance, Yanfei Bao's remains were found in a shallow grave by police on rural farmland near Lincoln on 30 July 2024.
Following a seven week trial, Cao was convicted of murdering Bao in early December 2024. On 13 June, Cao was sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 17 years for Bao's murder.


--- [Yanfei Bao told friend she was being chased by man she rejected month ...] ---
Christchurch real estate agent Yanfei Bao told a friend a month before she disappeared that she was being chased by a man she rejected, a court has heard. Tingjun Cao, 53, a Chinese national, is charged with murdering Bao on 19 July 2023, the day she went missing. Bao was last seen heading to show a house to a prospective client on Trevor Street in Hornby, where the Crown alleged she was stabbed to death by Cao. On Friday the trial heard from Bao's friend Qi QI who said the pair were like "sisters" and described her personality as very outgoing and friendly. When Bao told her she planned to go door-knocking to drum up business, QI said she warned her it might be dangerous. She said Bao told her, "It's in daylight, it's quite safe, New Zealand is a safe place". QI told the court they had a lengthy phone conversation in June 2023 in which they talked about their lives. "That day I had an argument with my boyfriend so she was comforting me. I asked her if anyone was chasing after her and she had yes, somebody was chasing her. She said it was a friend of a customer," she said. QI said Bao told her she had rejected the man and told him she had a husband and family, but the man told her that he "doesn't care". "Even after she rejected him he still kind of approached her," QI said. Bao did not tell her any identifying details about the man or his nationality, she said. QI said Bao told her that her job was going well and she was happy about a sale. The court also heard from another friend of Yanfei Bao's, Jin Tian, who spoke to her on 19 July, the day she vanished. "She called me and asked if there's any way that people can transfer money from China [to New Zealand]. The amount she tells me is around $500,000 to $600,000 New Zealand dollars," Tian said. Tian said Bao did not indicate who she was asking for, but she assumed she was talking about a potential buyer. Bao sounded normal on the phone and nothing in the call gave her cause for concern, Tian said. The trial also heard from Cao's brother-in-law Shengxian Xu on Friday. Xu said Cao lived at his house when he arrived in New Zealand from China early last year, and he helped him find work. Cao came to New Zealand on his own, but he had talked about plans for his wife and children to join him, Xu said. Xu met Bao through her being the real estate agent for a property he purchased. He said Cao went to meet with Bao on his behalf to pay for the property while he was away in China. Xu did not know where the two met, or if his brother-in-law had any other contact with her after that point. Crown prosecutor Pip Currie asked Xu if he talked to Cao about the real estate agent's disappearance. "I can't remember clearly but likely the day Yanfei Bao went missing or the following night I remember he walked by the dining hall and my wife told him Yanfei Bao went missing. "I remember he said that now it is easier to track down the missing person because there is so much CCTV footage," Xu said. Yesterday, the trial heard from Harcourts real estate agents who worked with Bao. Steven Golding talked to her the day she went missing. "I had a few missed calls from Yanfei in the morning, and then I spoke to her sort of mid-morning and then also engaged text conversation with her after that, and that was the last conversation I had with her. "She was just enquiring around Trevor Street, and if it was vacant and the lock box code… she didn't say why, but it's a common thing to ask if it's vacant to let their owners know if they can go there or not," Golding said. Golding said an open home was held at the Trevor Street property four days later on 23 July. He was not aware of any cleaning inside the house before the open home, but when he visited the property beforehand he found Bao's business card in the kitchen, and said there was a set of keys missing from the lock box. The Crown case is that Cao stabbed Bao multiple times at the Trevor Street property, dragged her body through the house and put it in the boot of his car. Bao's body was found in a shallow grave on a Greenpark farm in July. Crown Prosecutor Cameron Stuart said a photo retrieved from Cao's phone had an image which the Crown said was Bao's dead body, which showed her naked from the waist down and blood on her body. Stuart said the Crown did not need to prove motive, but the photo might suggest a sexual element to the attack. Cao's defence lawyer Joshua MacLeod said the Crown's evidence was not enough to prove the murder charge, and the evidence was much muddier than they wanted it to appear. "How did they approach this case, how did it develop, and when. Who were they looking at and why, and how wide a net did they cast? What evidence can you actually rely on?" The trial began on 21 October and is expected to run for six weeks. Sign up for Ngā Pitopito Kōrero, a daily newsletter curated by our editors and delivered straight to your inbox every weekday.


--- [Yanfei Bao: Family says their lives are changed 'irreparably'] ---
A year ago today the lives of Yanfei Bao's family, both in New Zealand and China, changed "irreparably". On July 19, 2023, the 44-year-old mother and real estate agent was last seen in the Christchurch suburb of Wigram. A day later, police announced she was missing, and a week after that her disappearance was upgraded to a homicide investigation. Her body has never been found. Partner Paul Gooch, in a statement released today, said her disappearance "has changed all our lives irreparably". Her family in China have also spoken of their "immense grief" and feelings of helplessness while being so far away. Detective Inspector Nicola Reeves is leading the investigation into Bao's disappearance and sat down with 1News for the one-year anniversary. "We obviously conducted a lot of searching in those early months," she said. The search for Bao's body has been largely focused on Lake Ellesmere, the Halswell River and the Greenpark area, south of Lincoln, about 30 minutes out of Christchurch. A fresh lead saw further searches carried out about a fortnight ago. "We have gone back out to that Greenpark area ... we certainly think that that Greenpark area is the most relevant and the most important search area for us," Reeves said, unable to comment further due to operational reasons. She did say nothing new of note was found. Reeves said the investigation has been "incredibly well supported" by the people of Christchurch and New Zealand. "If anybody is still holding onto something, no matter how small, even if they think it's irrelevant, then please tell us about that. "We continue to analyse information that comes into the investigation, and we use that to shape our search activity." But she said that information must be contained within the investigation. "I'm continually impressed with the dedication and the motivation of the investigation team and the amazing results we have produced to date," Reeves said. Tingjun Cao, 53, has pleaded not guilty to Bao's kidnapping and murder and will stand trial later this year. He was arrested at Christchurch Airport just days after Bao's disappearance, and in mid-August was charged with her murder. "We are working towards a trial date in late October 2024, it is still an active investigation, there's inquiries happening in the background but we are on track for that trial date," Reeves said. She said the case still "weighs very heavily" on the minds of those investigating. "We think about it every single day ... we are very, very determined and committed ... to bringing her home to her family." Gooch said finding her body would provide some measure of "comfort and peace". " ...allowing us to bid our final farewells and begin the healing process". Statement from Yanfei Bao's partner Paul Gooch Our hearts are heavy as we reflect on the vibrant and radiant spirit of Yanfei. She will be best remembered as a larger-than-life personality, embodying unwavering diligence, hard work, and an infectious sense of humour that brightened the lives of those around her. It has been incredibly challenging for our entire family to cope with the devastating loss of Yanfei; it has changed all our lives irreparably. This has been especially heart-wrenching for her maternal relatives, who are struggling and feeling utterly shattered, especially as Yanfei's anniversary draws near. Despite facing challenging circumstances, Yanfei's daughter has displayed incredible resilience. Her family, friends, and local school have rallied around her, providing substantial love and support, to help her maintain a sense of normalcy and stability in her life. It's truly inspiring to witness her ability to still find reasons to smile and be her authentic self in the midst of such adversity — a testament to her remarkable strength and bravery. Her mother would undoubtedly be deeply proud of her. Yanfei's magnetic confidence and warm charisma effortlessly drew people towards her, and she took great joy in sharing her captivating stories and wealth of knowledge, generously welcoming guests into her home with love, grace, and delectable cuisine. Her positive influence reached far and wide, touching the lives of her family, friends, and colleagues, illustrating a remarkable devotion to her loved ones. Every decision and action she made was rooted in her deep care for others, and her memory will forever occupy a cherished place in our hearts. We are all yearning for Yanfei to be found, as this would provide us some measure of comfort and peace, allowing us to bid our final farewells and begin the healing process. Statement from Yanfei Bao's China-based family Yanfei has been away from us for a year now. As her family, we still find it difficult to accept this fact. Since the incident occurred, we have been in immense grief, feeling helpless while being far away in our home country. We can only hope that the Police will find Yanfei soon and bring peace to her soul. Thanks to the hard work and relentless efforts of the Police, significant progress has been made in the case, which brings great comfort to our family. We sincerely thank the Police for their dedication to Yanfei and their support for us.


--- [Trial of man accused of murdering Chch real estate agent Yanfei Bao ...] ---
A High Court trial for the man accused of murdering Christchurch real estate agent Yanfei Bao started today. Bao disappeared from the suburb of Hornby on 19 July 2023 when she was going to show a house to a prospective client. Her body was found just over a year later on 31 July, buried in a shallow grave along a treeline on a Greenpark farm. Chinese national Tingjun Cao, 53, was arrested at Christchurch Airport days after her disappearance. One of Bao's friends Jin Tian, who spoke to her on the morning she vanished, said Bao promised to call her back but never did. In a social media post, Tian said Bao mentioned a potential client who wanted to transfer money to New Zealand during their phone call. She believed the client may have been the last person to speak to Bao. Yanfei Bao's husband reported her missing that night and her cellphone was found in grass on the side of the southern motorway on 21 July. He was charged with Yanfei Bao's murder last September, to which he pleaded not guilty. A kidnapping charge has since been dropped. Bao lived in Christchurch with her husband, Paul Gooch, and her daughter who was aged 9 when she disappeared. In August last year, Bao's family released a statement thanking people for their support and urging anyone with information to come forward. "Their only desire is to have her returned to them, so they can find closure and begin the grieving process," the statement said. "Amid this harrowing experience, the Bao family encourages everyone to cherish their loved ones and express their feelings openly." Gooch said people should go home and tell those they held dear that "you love and cherish them". Cao's trial has been set down for six weeks.


--- ['A profound absence of humanity' - Tingjun Cao found guilty of ...] ---
No content
