=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Roy Sullivan - Wikipedia]
For this reason, he gained the nicknames "HumanLightningConductor" and "HumanLightningRod". Sullivan is recognized by Guinness World Records as the person struckbylightningmorerecordedtimesthanany otherhumanbeing.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roy_Sullivan

[The New YorkTimes- Breaking News, US News, World News and...]
Live news, investigations, opinion, photos and video by the journalists of The New YorkTimesfrommorethan150 countries around the world.
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/

[WhichAnimalKills theMostHumans?]
Readingtime7 minutes. Illustration: Chelsea Beck (Gizmodo).How we behave, even in an environment with ‘dangerousanimals’, will affect our chances of detriment. It is said that we aremorelikelytobe struckbylightningthanbe attacked by a shark.
URL: https://gizmodo.com/which-animal-kills-the-most-humans-1825464039

[Lightningkills man on Venice Beach: what are the chances? | The Week]
The chances ofgettinghitbylightningare farmorelikelythanbeing killed by a shark, which has odds at one in 3.7 million according to the Wildlife Museum.
URL: https://theweek.com/59687/what-are-the-chances-of-being-struck-by-lightning

[25 ThingsMoreLikelytoKill YouThanaShark Attack | PETA]
object in the water.Morehumanshave died from attempting dangerous TikTok challenges this yearthanfrom shark encounters. Here are some other things that aremorelikelytokill youthanashark encounter.
URL: https://www.peta.org/features/shark-attack-vs-other-causes-of-death/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Roy Sullivan - Wikipedia] ---
Roy Cleveland Sullivan (February 7, 1912 – September 28, 1983) was an American park ranger in Shenandoah National Park in Virginia. Between 1942 and 1977, Sullivan was claimed to have survived being struck by lightning seven times. For this reason, he gained the nicknames "Human Lightning Conductor" and "Human Lightning Rod". Sullivan is recognized by Guinness World Records as the person struck by lightning more recorded times than any other human.


--- [The New YorkTimes- Breaking News, US News, World News and...] ---
“We’ll see what happens with the people,” President Trump said as he appeared to be distancing himself from the longer-term consequences of the war in Iran. Friedrich Merz has called for greater European unity, but he did not publicly object to the president rebuking Spain and Britain during an Oval Office meeting. Howard Lutnick, the commerce secretary, previously misrepresented his relationship with the convicted sex offender, prompting calls for his resignation. In Springfield, Ohio, some Americans have converted their basements and spare bedrooms into shelters for immigrant families who could be targeted in raids. The homeland security secretary told senators she got her information from agents on the ground. But the heads of two agencies said it did not come from them. Attorney General Letitia James is investigating the school for its actions after the 2012 arrest of Robert Hadden, a former gynecologist convicted of sex crimes. Universities from Harvard to Hampshire have admitted significantly more students with disabilities over the last decade, as diagnoses for A.D.H.D. increase.


--- [WhichAnimalKills theMostHumans?] ---
Animals fatally maul, sting, trample, and chew about a million humans per year. Pretty nice of them, given the numbers on our side—the average of 750 million chickens we kill in the U.S. every month, for instance. In an ideal world, no one would ever get mauled by a bear, or contract rabies from a feral squirrel. But for this week’s Giz Asks, we’re asking which creatures are most desperate for our blood (or, in fairness to the animal kingdom, which are most likely to kill us by accident). We reached out to a number of animal experts to figure out exactly that: which non-parasitic, non-microbial animals kill the most humans, as well as which ones are the most potentially dangerous. Mosquitos, it turns out, don’t just ruin summers—they also kill upwards of a quarter of a million people every single year. But as we learned from our experts, they’re the outlier: Animal-on-human homicide seems to be relatively rare, at least compared to the human-on-human kind, which—as nearly all our experts pointed out—exceeds it by many magnitudes (not counting mosquitoes). That said, there are plenty of animals with blood on their paws, or their scales, or—who knew!—their hooves. Dave Barash Professor Emeritus of Psychology at the University of Washington, animal behavior researcher, and the co-author of The Mammal in the Mirror: Understanding Our Place in the Animal World and many other books One of the most lethal critters in both North and South America, according to your criteria, are cows, hands down. Forget about snakes, cougars, bears, etc. Cows are large, strong and not always amenable to whatever farmers or ranchers want to do with them. They look pacific and mostly are, but they’re one of the main sources of animal-human mortality, mostly by goring their victims (not bulls, but cows, since there are so many more of them) and sometimes kicking or trampling. Sharks and venomous snakes kill about 1 American per year, cows more than 20. Bees, however, are likely in second place, via anaphylactic shock among susceptible people. In Africa, it’s—believe it or not—hippos, which seem downright adorable but are pretty nasty and somewhat larger than poodles, and at night in particular emerge from their puddles. In Australia, it’s kangaroos—because of the auto crashes they generate. Throughout the world, however, there’s no question that the species Homo sapiens is the most lethal and dangerous, and without doubt the only one that threatens the whole fucking planet… even discounting nuclear weapons (which no one should!). Rory Wilson Professor of Aquatic Biology at Swansea University The answer might be somewhere in the category of ‘venomous snakes’, or even a specific venomous snake, such as the Many-banded krait, because figures suggest that about 320 people in Myanmar will die of snake bite today.* But as anti-venom becomes more prevalent, that is expected to decrease. This latter point exemplifies the difficulty of defining ‘most dangerous’ for a ‘moving target’. As human populations change, and move in and out of cities, then proportions of populations expose themselves to different risks, and the answer will change. And as man engages in environmental change (cutting down rainforests, for example), then suites of ‘dangerous’ animals change in their abundance. We have successfully reduced the number of top predators on the planet spectacularly so that, for example, the Oceanic white-tipped shark, the fish that was to supposed to have killed (and eaten) the most sailors during World War II, is now down to 1% of its former levels. Try floating around in the Indian Ocean now. You’re unlikely to be found by an Oceanic white-tip. And then there’s the issue of behavior. How we behave, even in an environment with ‘dangerous animals’, will affect our chances of detriment. It is said that we are more likely to be struck by lightning than be attacked by a shark. But you won’t be struck by lightning if you live close to the South Pole, where there are virtually no lightning storms. Conversely, if you scuba dive around Seal Island in False Bay, South Africa, with speared fish on your belt, your appeal to white sharks will go up enormously—like standing on top of a hill in a lightning storm hugging a lightning conductor. The shark/lightning example is perhaps overkill though, because fish blood from spearfishing victims appeals to behavioural elements of the shark itself. If you want to make the animal death option analogy more simply probabilistic, like lightning, or being hit on the head by a coconut or a falling tree, try swimming in waters with box jellyfish. They are reputed to kill 30 people per year in the Philippines alone (even accounting for the fact that people tend to avoid box jellyfish waters), and box jellyfish are definitely not out to kill people. But what about the probability of death given that some person has actually ‘stumbled upon’ the animal in question—the ‘oops, I’ve come within 5 m of a hippo/buffalo/lion effect’? I wish it was that easy. The distance plays a role. So to answer that question we need to specify the distance. Being five metres from a stonefish is a banality (treading on one—where distance = 0 m —is not) but it’s a fabulously trivial distance to be from a black rhino. Brian Todd Associate Professor, Wildlife, Fish & Conservation Biology and head of Todd Lab at UC Davis The most dangerous animal of course is the mosquito. But this is because it transmits the malaria parasite that kills millions annually. But my expertise is working with reptiles and amphibians, so the dangerous animals that come to mind are venomous snakes. We gotta be careful not to demonize snakes. They’re not really out there chasing people down. The conflict comes from the fact that many people in developing countries work and live very closely with the environment around them. In rice fields, and in a lot of agricultural areas, people just come into contact with these very venomous, high deadly snakes—and if the snakes get stepped on, their reaction is to bite. The deaths occur for a couple of reasons. The first is that the snakes tend to be quite dangerous in many of those parts of the world. The second is that it’s just really difficult to get access to healthcare to be treated for snake bites. In places like Europe, Australia or North America we have ready access to a lot of good health care and treatments to prevent anyone from dying. Australia in fact has some of the most venomous snakes in the world but they only have a handful of people a year dying. It’s mostly in these rural, relatively impoverished areas like South Asia, India and Central Africa where people are at high risk of coming into contact with venomous snakes Some of the estimates I’ve seen in places like India and Bangladesh show as many as 30 to 40 thousand people a year being killed by snakes. In the US, on the other hand, the estimates I’ve seen are that there are about 10 people a year who get killed by venomous snakes—but in some years it’s as few as none, or just one or two people. The problem in the US is that something like 2/3 of people bitten by snakes in North America are men between the ages of 18 to 35, and about half of these cases involve alcohol. And the most common places people are bitten is on their hands or their feet, and it’s usually because either they stepped on a snake by accident, or in the case of a hand, because they were messing with it. There’s a joke in emergency rooms that the last thing someone says before they get bit by a snake is “hold my beer.” The problem is testosterone poisoning more than anything. Madhusudan Katti Associate Professor in the Forestry & Environment Resources Department at NC State University whose research includes “the evolutionary ecology of vertebrate responses to human modification of habitats, and on the dynamics of coupled natural and human systems” The first species that came to mind may not be surprising: humans. I don’t know that any other species has killed as many humans as we have. If you just look at our history of conflict and warfare and violence, it probably adds up to more than any other single species or group of species might have inflicted. The thing that also strikes me as being unusual is that we’re the only species that inflicts so much violence and kill so many of our own in this way. There are other examples of intra-species violence—one example that comes to mind is species like spiders, where the females will eat the males after mating. But it’s selected in some ways for benefits—a male spider eaten by a female spider might contribute necessary nutrition. People have made adaptive arguments for human violence, but our species has come up with mechanisms of mass violence on a scale no other species has. As for non-human animals—I grew up in India, which still has a largely agrarian landscape, but there’s s a significant death toll from snakes, especially venomous snakes. In india we talk about the “big four” snakes, which continue to exact a significant toll every year—they kill more people than tigers and leopards and other animals that get more attention. Growing up in India, I was on the alert about snakes everywhere, rather than worrying about the big, charismatic carnivores. But what about sharks? James Sulikowski Professor of Marine Science and head of Sulikowski Shark and Fish Research Lab at the University of New England Sharks in no way pose an active threat of any kind to humans. In fact we humans face more direct threats from vending machines and toilet seats. Most interactions with sharks occur because the shark is curious or investigating potential food. This can lead to an accidental bite. But in most cases, the shark realizes the mistake and just swims off. Unfortunately, this often leaves the human with a some type of bite mark, and many end up with scars. But I think the big picture is that about 100 people worldwide are bitten by sharks [each year]—of those, maybe 10 are fatal. So humans’ irrational fear of sharks is really emotionally not statistically driven. Do you have a burning question for Giz Asks? Email us at [email protected]. *Correction: Rory Wilson’s quote has been restored, though statistics on this vary, including one official annual death toll from snake bites in Myanmar being 600.


--- [Lightningkills man on Venice Beach: what are the chances? | The Week] ---
What are the chances of being hit by lightning? Young boy dies after being struck by lightning in Blackpool field A free daily email with the biggest news stories of the day – and the best features from TheWeek.com You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful A nine-year-old boy has died after being struck by lightning on a playing field in Blackpool last night. He was said to be taking part in a private football coaching session when the thunderstorm hit. Clifton Rangers Junior Football Club paid tribute to their player, describing him as “an extraordinary young man” who would be “missed by everyone”, while Blackpool Council flew the town hall’s flag at half mast. Police said that inquiries were ongoing, but that it was believed the boy had been hit by lightning in “a truly devastating incident”. The Week Escape your echo chamber. Get the facts behind the news, plus analysis from multiple perspectives. Sign up for The Week's Free Newsletters From our morning news briefing to a weekly Good News Newsletter, get the best of The Week delivered directly to your inbox. From our morning news briefing to a weekly Good News Newsletter, get the best of The Week delivered directly to your inbox. How common are incidents like this? The chances of being struck by lightning are 300,000 to one, with 24,000 people hit and killed a year, says the BBC. Fatalities can come from direct hits, and indirect but dangerous events such as house fires caused by a lightning strike. According to an article published in the International Journal of Meteorology in 2017, 58 people were known to have been killed by lightning over the past 30 years in the UK - an average of two people per year. A free daily email with the biggest news stories of the day – and the best features from TheWeek.com The most at-risk groups are people in the developing world, where less time is spent indoors and there are fewer tall buildings to take the lightning hit before it can reach ground level. Last June, more than 100 people were killed in one day in India during the early stages of the country’s annual monsoon season. Around 10% of lightning strike victims die, and 70% suffer serious long-term effects, says National Geographic. According to the Met Office, there are more than 3,000,000 flashes of lightning, “one of nature’s most recurrent and common spectacles”, every day across the world. “That’s around 44 strikes every second.” BBC Weather meteorologist Simon King said about 6,000 lightning strikes had been recorded across the UK on Tuesday, when the nine-year-old boy in Blackpool died. How do the overall odds stack up against other rare occurrences? Lightning that strikes people is more common than other comparably rare phenomena. “Lightning is one of the leading weather-related causes of death and injury in the United States,” says Nat Geo. “Most people do not realise that they can be struck by lightning even when the centre of a thunderstorm is ten miles away and there are blue skies overhead.” The chances of getting hit by lightning are far more likely than being killed by a shark, which has odds at one in 3.7 million according to the Wildlife Museum. Flying might not be environmentally friendly, but it’s much safer than getting caught in a lightning storm - there is just one fatal accident for every three million flights around the world, reports The Guardian. It isn’t just dangerous phenomena that are rare - the chances of winning the EuroMillions jackpot stands at one in 139 million. What other notable deaths from lightning have occurred? Lightning strikes in the Brecon Beacons killed two people and left two others in hospital in 2015, with the two deaths occurring on separate peaks. Rescue team member Mark Jones said it was “exceptionally unusual, and for multiple people to be hit in multiple strikes on different peaks – it is very, very rare”. The previous year a 20-year-old man died and more than a dozen were hurt when lightning struck at Venice Beach in southern California. But lightning is at its most deadly when it kills indirectly. In 1963, a Pan Am flight from Baltimore to Philadelphia crashed after being struck in a storm, killing all 81 people on board. In 1994, a bolt ignited a jet-fuel depot in Dronka, Egypt, killing 469 people. What should you do when lightning strikes? The first step when lightning strikes should be to find shelter, says the Met Office. “When you hear thunder you are already within range of where the next ground flash may occur, lightning can strike as far as 10 miles away from the centre of a storm,” it says. During a thunderstorm, you should avoid using the phone as telephone lines conduct electricity. Similarly, stay away from sinks and taps, as metal pipes can also be conductors. If you can’t get inside, avoid water and find a low-lying open place that is a safe distance from trees, poles or metal objects. It you are in an exposed place such as a field, squat close to the ground, with hands on knees and with head tucked between them. Try to touch as little of the ground with your body as possible, and do not lie down on the ground. If you feel your hair stand on end, drop down to this position immediately. Stay away from metal or tall objects that can conduct or attract lightning - these include “golf clubs, golf buggies, fishing rods, umbrellas, motorbikes, bicycles, wheelchairs, mobility scooters, pushchairs, wire fencing and rails”, says the Met Office. If you are in a tent, then stay away from metal poles.


--- [25 ThingsMoreLikelytoKill YouThanaShark Attack | PETA] ---
No content
