=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Shop Whitestrips, Toothpaste & Mouthwash | Crest US]
Browse our selection of Crest dental hygiene products including toothpaste, toothbrushes, floss, teeth whitening systems, and mouthwash.
URL: https://crest.com/en-us/oral-care-products

[Whiter Teeth, Guaranteed - Crest]
Consider these options for affordable teeth whitening products that you can use at home. Learn more about Crest products and how they work at Crest.com/en-us.
URL: https://crest.com/en-us/oral-care-tips/teeth-whitening/affordable-cheap-teeth-whitening-options

[Whitening Plus Scope Toothpaste | Crest US]
Get the teeth whitening power of Crest and fresh breath with a blast of Scope, all in 1 tube. Crest Whitening Plus Scope Toothpaste helps kill millions of bad breath germs* to leave your breath feeling cool and refreshed.
URL: https://crest.com/en-us/oral-care-products/toothpaste/complete-whitening-plus-scope-toothpaste

[Shop Kids Toothpastes & Mouthwashes & Rinses | Crest US]
Crest has a fun line of kids toothpastes and mouthwashes to help ensure kids are building strong habits early. Shop now and choose your child's favorite.
URL: https://crest.com/en-us/oral-care-products/kids

[Crest 3D Whitestrips Professional White + Whitening Light Teeth...]
Made by the #1 dentist-recommended at-home teeth whitening brand*, Crest 3DWhitestrips Professional White + Whitening Light will give you a 100% noticeably whiter smile, guaranteed.
URL: https://crest.com/en-us/oral-care-products/crest-3d-whitestrips-professional-white-whitening-light-teeth-whitening-kit


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Shop Whitestrips, Toothpaste & Mouthwash | Crest US] ---
Skip to main content USA English Online Store Closed - Find Crest products at your favorite retailer! Whitening Treatments Toothpaste Mouthwash Products Learn About Us Home Oral Care Products ALL PRODUCTS Shop by Products Shop Products Sort by Featured Items 0 Items


--- [Whiter Teeth, Guaranteed - Crest] ---
TEETH-WHITENING Affordable and Cheap Teeth Whitening Options You don't have to spend a fortune for whiter, brighter teeth. Before you consider spending $500 for a teeth whitening procedure at a dentist’s office, consider several cheap teeth whitening products that you can use at home. TABLE OF CONTENTS TABLE OF CONTENTS Cheap Teeth Whitening Starts with Good Oral Hygiene The foundation of a cheap teeth whitening routine is a healthy mouth, because if you begin a teeth whitening regimen on an unhealthy mouth, it can result in problems that end up being very costly. A regular oral care routine of twice-daily tooth brushing and daily flossing is the key to maintaining a teeth whitening regimen. Crest has developed an easy-to-use and cost-effective line of teeth whitening products: The Whiten + Clean + Protect Regimen. This regimen makes it easy to incorporate teeth whitening products into your everyday oral hygiene routine. One great way to make sure your teeth are properly cared for is to always have the dental hygiene products you need close at hand. When stocking your medicine cabinet, here are the most important dental hygiene products you should always have available for healthy teeth and a beautiful white smile. Cheap Ways to Whiten Your Teeth There are a lot of whitening products on the shelves, but if you’re just starting your search for the best way to whiten teeth, you may want to start with one of the most essential products. Toothpaste Whitening toothpastes are a good choice if you have sensitive teeth or if you are allergic to any of the bleaching ingredients in teeth whitening strips. They don’t actually bleach your teeth, but instead they work by using dual-action silica to remove surface stains. Cheap teeth whitening isn’t a problem if you choose a quality whitening toothpaste: - Crest 3D White Radiant Mint toothpaste can remove up to 80 percent of surface stains in just two weeks and ranges in price from $3.25 for a 4-ounce tube to $4.25 for a 7.6-ounce tube. - Crest 3D White Glamorous White toothpaste is designed to remove up to 95% of surface stains after 14 days of use, offering a bit more cleaning power at a slightly higher cost––$3.29 for a 4.1-ounce tube. - Crest 3D White Brilliance Toothpaste has our advanced whitening technology, with an Illuminating Complex to leave your smile dazzlingly white and brilliantly clean. It whitens your teeth by removing up to 95% of surface stains in 3 days, and also freshens breath. - Crest 3D White Whitening Therapy Sensitivity Care toothpaste uses effective yet gentle whitening ingredients to give you a brilliantly white smile, while treating your sensitivity pain. As you brush, the effective whitening ingredients envelop your teeth and work to lift surface stains and sensitivity triggers, leaving you with a brilliant white smile. - The Oral-B 3D White Vivid toothbrush removes daily stains on the surface of your teeth to help keep your mouth clean and your teeth bright, and costs approximately $6. - The Oral-B 3D White Luxe Pro-Flex Manual toothbrush uses Micropulse™ bristles that vibrate and help to polish away surface stains. These bristles get into those hard to reach spaces in-between teeth that many teeth whitening products can't reach. - Crest 3D White Multi-Care Whitening Mouthwash helps whiten teeth safely and also kills the germs that cause bad breath. Using the same active ingredient as Crest 3D White Whitestrips, this rinse helps to whiten teeth, freshen breath, kill bad breath-causing bacteria, and protect against stains, all without the alcohol burn that comes with using some other mouthwashes. Other Tips for Cheap Teeth Whitening Maintain your cheap teeth whitening routine by keeping these additional tips in mind: - Replace your toothbrush (or electric brush head) every three months, or when it looks worn. - Use dental floss to help remove food particles from between your teeth that can cause plaque and tartar. Flossing also helps prevent gum disease and bad breath. - Visit a dentist regularly to head off any dental problems before they become serious. - Follow the instructions on at-home whitening products to get the best cheap teeth whitening results. TABLE OF CONTENTS TABLE OF CONTENTS WE RECOMMEND


--- [Whitening Plus Scope Toothpaste | Crest US] ---
Kids Crest Whitening Plus Scope Toothpaste Kids Crest Whitening Plus Scope Toothpaste - Gently removes surface stains for whiter teeth Product Details Get the teeth whitening power of Crest and fresh breath with a blast of Scope, all in 1 tube. Crest Whitening Plus Scope Toothpaste helps kill millions of bad breath germs* to leave your breath feeling cool and refreshed. With twice daily brushing the minty formula gently removes surface stains for whiter teeth, fights cavities, and prevents tartar buildup. - Kills millions of bad breath germs in laboratory tests - Gently removes surface stains for whiter teeth - Fights cavities and tartar with regular brushing - Leaves breath feeling minty fresh - Brush 2X per day for 2 minutes FAQS My Crest Whitening products have expired. Can I still use them? Although they are still safe to use, we do not recommend using Crest 3DWhitestrips or Crest Whitening Emulsions past their expiration date because the effectiveness of the whitening ingredient will be weakened. Is teeth whitening safe? We formulate enamel safe teeth whitening treatments. We have confirmed the safety and efficacy of Crest 3DWhitestrips and Crest Whitening Emulsions in extensive clinical and technical testing. We recommend contacting your dental professional if you have additional questions regarding whether teeth whitening is right for you. Can I use Crest Whitening Tooth Paste if I have cavities or gum disease? We do not recommend using Crest 3DWhitestrips or Crest Whitening Emulsions if you have an unfilled cavity or gum disease (periodontal disease). Check with your dentist before using any whitening products if you need dental work or treatment for periodontal disease. Will Crest Whitening Products Remove Tetracycline or Fluorisis Stains? Teeth with tetracycline stains may not whiten as well as teeth with yellow stains since most dark or blue-gray teeth stains are caused by certain medication taken during tooth development and are deep within the tooth and the enamel surface. We recommend consulting your dentist if you have tetracycline stains. Can I use Crest Whitening Toothpaste if I have sensitive teeth? Crest provides several products designed for people with sensitive teeth. If you experience regular or occasional teeth sensitivity during or after whitening, consider trying Crest Whitening Emulsions which is designed to give you 100% whiter teeth with virtually no sensitivity. We have also designed Crest 3DWhitestrips Gentle Routine or Crest 3DWhitestrips Sensitive for people who may experience teeth sensitivity while whitening. We have also designed Crest 3DWhitestrips Gentle Routine or Crest 3DWhitestrips Sensitive for people who may experience teeth sensitivity while whitening.


--- [Shop Kids Toothpastes & Mouthwashes & Rinses | Crest US] ---
The right combination of oral care products can help maximize the benefits of your toothpaste. Crest Kids Toothpaste with Fluoride, Mickey, Strawberry Flavor, 4.2oz, 3+


--- [Crest 3D Whitestrips Professional White + Whitening Light Teeth...] ---
3DWhitestrips Crest 3DWhitestrips Professional White + Whitening Light At-Home Teeth Whitening Kit 3DWhitestrips Crest 3DWhitestrips Professional White + Whitening Light At-Home Teeth Whitening Kit Want to whiten your teeth at home? Crest 3DWhitestrips Professional White + Whitening Light is designed to whiten like a professional-level teeth whitening treatment at home. The Whitening Light works to weaken stains so that the whitening ingredients inside Crest 3DWhitestrips can work more quickly to remove stains. In fact, this technology is enamel safe and works just like the teeth whitening technology dentists use. Plus, the Advanced Seal Technology’s comfortable, no-slip grip means the strips stay put until you take them off, allowing you to talk and even drink water while whitening your teeth. Made by the #1 dentist-recommended at-home teeth whitening brand*, Crest 3DWhitestrips Professional White + Whitening Light will give you a 100% noticeably whiter smile, guaranteed. Simply apply Crest 3DWhitestrips Professional White for 60 minutes a day, then Boost with the Whitening Light for faster whitening**. - 32 Levels Whiter in just 19 Days - #1 Dentist recommended at-home teeth whitening brand - With light for faster whitening** - Uses the same whitening ingredient as dentists - Enamel Safe & Effective - Satisfaction 100% Guaranteed *In a survey of over 450 dentists in April 2025 **vs. Crest 3DWhitestrips alone What’s in the Box 38 teeth whitening strips, 19 for your top teeth and 19 for your bottom teeth, and a wireless Whitening Light to be used over the course of 19 days. Our Ingredients PVP, Water, PEG-8, Hydrogen Peroxide, Acrylates Copolymer, Sodium Hydroxide, Sodium Saccharin Instructions to use Directions USE ONE TREATMENT ONCE A DAY FOR 60 MINUTES FOR 19 DAYS. 1 PEEL. Peel Whitestrips from backing liner. 2 APPLY. Apply gel side of strip to front teeth. Align straight edge of strip with gumline. Fold over teeth and press to secure. 3 BOOST. After 60 minutes, boost with Whitening Light for faster whitening results.* 4 REVEAL. After wear time is complete, remove light, peel strip from corner and pull gently across to ease removal. You may rinse or brush to remove remaining gel. *vs. Crest 3DWhitestrips alone IMPORTANT USAGE INFORMATION: Keep out of reach of young children. Not intended for use in children under the age of 12. Do not swallow plastic strip. Wash hands with soap and water after use. Avoid contact of gel with eyes. Rinse eyes thoroughly with water if gel comes in contact with them. Gel that comes into contact with the skin can cause temporary skin irritation and/or whitening. Do not use this light device if you: have oral cancer, are being treated with photodynamic therapy by your doctor, are taking light sensitive medicines like aminolevulinic acid or porphyrin containing medications, or have sensitivity to light. Do not eat, smoke, sleep, or drink (with the exception of water) during use. TOOTH SENSITIVITY & GUM DISCOMFORT: With all whitening products you may experience tooth sensitivity and/or gum discomfort. These effects are generally mild. These effects are temporary and not harmful. If significant tooth sensitivity or gum discomfort develops, try stopping usage for 2-3 days, then resume usage. If the problem persists discontinue usage. IF YOU ARE IN NEED OF DENTAL WORK, HAVE DENTAL WORK, OR HAVE STAINING FROM MEDICATION, ASK YOUR DENTIST IF WHITENING IS APPROPRIATE. Crest 3DWhitestrips are designed to hold well to teeth. Do not use on loose teeth, restorations, or braces. Crest 3DWhitestrips will only whiten natural teeth. The strips will not whiten caps, crowns, veneers, fillings or dentures. Store in cool place. Best if used by date noted on package Batteries contained in equipment. Questions? Call 1-800-395-8423 DISTRIBUTED BY PROCTER & GAMBLE CINCINNATI, OH 45204 USE ONE TREATMENT ONCE A DAY FOR 60 MINUTES FOR 19 DAYS. 1 PEEL. Peel Whitestrips from backing liner. 2 APPLY. Apply gel side of strip to front teeth. Align straight edge of strip with gumline. Fold over teeth and press to secure. 3 BOOST. After 60 minutes, boost with Whitening Light for faster whitening results.* 4 REVEAL. After wear time is complete, remove light, peel strip from corner and pull gently across to ease removal. You may rinse or brush to remove remaining gel. *vs. Crest 3DWhitestrips alone IMPORTANT USAGE INFORMATION: Keep out of reach of young children. Not intended for use in children under the age of 12. Do not swallow plastic strip. Wash hands with soap and water after use. Avoid contact of gel with eyes. Rinse eyes thoroughly with water if gel comes in contact with them. Gel that comes into contact with the skin can cause temporary skin irritation and/or whitening. Do not use this light device if you: have oral cancer, are being treated with photodynamic therapy by your doctor, are taking light sensitive medicines like aminolevulinic acid or porphyrin containing medications, or have sensitivity to light. Do not eat, smoke, sleep, or drink (with the exception of water) during use. TOOTH SENSITIVITY & GUM DISCOMFORT: With all whitening products you may experience tooth sensitivity and/or gum discomfort. These effects are generally mild. These effects are temporary and not harmful. If significant tooth sensitivity or gum discomfort develops, try stopping usage for 2-3 days, then resume usage. If the problem persists discontinue usage. IF YOU ARE IN NEED OF DENTAL WORK, HAVE DENTAL WORK, OR HAVE STAINING FROM MEDICATION, ASK YOUR DENTIST IF WHITENING IS APPROPRIATE. Crest 3DWhitestrips are designed to hold well to teeth. Do not use on loose teeth, restorations, or braces. Crest 3DWhitestrips will only whiten natural teeth. The strips will not whiten caps, crowns, veneers, fillings or dentures. Store in cool place. Best if used by date noted on package Batteries contained in equipment. Questions? Call 1-800-395-8423 DISTRIBUTED BY PROCTER & GAMBLE CINCINNATI, OH 45204 FAQs Should I brush my teeth before or after using Crest Whitening Products Crest 3DWhitestrips: you can brush your teeth gently immediately after using Crest 3DWhitestrips, but we do not recommend brushing your teeth immediately before applying Crest 3DWhitestrips, because this may irritate your gums. Make sure to allow enough time to pass if brushing your teeth prior to application to help avoid gum irritation. How Long Should I use The Crest LED Accelerator Light on my Teeth? Follow the usage instructions outlined in the package and then turn on and apply the LED Accelerator Light. The LED Accelerator Light will beep to notify you the lights have turned off in case you can't see it while in use. Can I use Crest Whitening Products if I have Sensitive Teeth? Crest provides several products designed for people with sensitive teeth. If you experience regular or occasional teeth sensitivity during or after whitening, consider trying Crest Whitening Emulsions which is designed to give you 100% whiter teeth (vs. ARC pen whitening) with virtually no sensitivity. We have also designed Crest 3DWhitestrips Gentle Routine or Crest 3DWhitestrips Sensitive for people who may experience teeth sensitivity while whitening. We have also designed Crest 3DWhitestrips Gentle Routine or Crest 3DWhitestrips Sensitive for people who may experience teeth sensitivity while whitening. What if I don't see Any Results After Using Crest 3DWhitestrips? Make sure to follow the usage instructions provided on the packaging for optimal results. If your teeth have significant discoloration, you may need to use two full boxes of Crest 3DWhitestrips to achieve the desired result. However, if you are still unsatisfied with your Whitestrips, Crest White Smile offers a 60-Day Satisfaction Guarantee and will refund your purchase within 60 days. You can call 1-800-208-0169 for more information. How To Use Simple And Easy To Use Follow these 4 easy steps to get a brighter, whiter smile. Peel APPLY BOOST REVEAL How It Works Noticeably Whiter Smile, 100% Guaranteed Reviews Don’t just take our word for it
