=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Federal Communications Commission | The United States of America]
Therequested FCC page is unavailable. Visitthemain FCC site for information on communications regulationsandservices.
URL: https://fcc.gov/page-not-found

[MyLab and Mastering login - Pearson]
Courses with custom logins A small number of our MyLab courses require youtologinviaa unique site. If your course is listed below, selecttherelevant linktosigninor register.
URL: https://www.pearson.com/en-us/higher-education/products-services/mylab-and-mastering-login.html

[Chronicle Herald | News, Headlines and Stories | PNI Atlantic ...]
Readthelatest newsandheadlines out of Nova Scotia. Keep up withthestoriesandlocal news that mattertoyou.
URL: https://www.saltwire.com/category/nova-scotia/

[Environment - The Telegraph]
Find all the latest news on theenvironmentand climate change fromthe Telegraph. Including daily emissions and pollutiondata.
URL: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/environment/

[(PDF)Identifyingsemanticroleclustersandalignmenttypesvia...]
In thispaper, we illustrate a method foridentifyingclustersof semantic roles by. cross-linguistic comparison. On the basis ofdatafrom 25 languages drawn from.Semanticroleclus-. ters can thenbeidentied by studying cross-linguisticcoexpressiontendencies, i.e.
URL: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/304460742_Identifying_semantic_role_clusters_and_alignment_types_via_microrole_coexpression_tendencies


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Federal Communications Commission | The United States of America] ---
An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.


--- [MyLab and Mastering login - Pearson] ---
Back to main menu Explore for School Back to Schools Explore Virtual Schools Explore College & Career Readiness Explore Browse by Subject Explore for College Back to College Explore Students Cart Explore Educators Explore by Subject Explore for work MyLab and Mastering login Learn about MyLab Learn about Mastering Already registered? Use your Pearson login to sign in. Sign in to your course Forgot username or password? No account yet? Register now! Student access Educator access Need help? AskPearson * Trouble signing in? Check our custom logins list below A small number of our MyLab courses require you to login via a unique site. If your course is listed below, select the relevant link to sign in or register. I need to create or copy courses I need to enroll in a course created by another instructor* *As a Section Instructor you will be required to provide a Course ID and an access code.


--- [Chronicle Herald | News, Headlines and Stories | PNI Atlantic ...] ---
Timing of cannabis raids no coincidence, says Shoulder To Shoulder Mi’kmaw rights rally speaker As several hundred people attended a rally supporting Mi’kmaw rights at the Nova Scotia legislature, cannabis raids were conducted by the RCMP at three First Nations communities. Melanie Peter-Paul, a Mi’kmaw land defender and member of the Sipekne’katik First Nation, and also a speaker at the Shoulder To Shoulder, We Are Treaty People rally, said she doesn’t believe the timing of the raids was a coincidence. “Us being here today and them doing the raids while we are doing this, is a very big statement,” said Peter-Paul on Tuesday. “It shows us where they stand on our reconciliation. “They are not interested, they didn’t want to hear, they didn’t want to see it.” Chief Michelle Glasgow of Sipekne’katik First Nation said cannabis shops in Potlotek, Paqtnkek and We’koqma’q were raided Tuesday by the RCMP. She said more raids are expected. Glasgow said checkpoints were set up at the entrances and exits of her community. “For those who want to do us harm by force in our community, you are not welcome here,” said the chief. “If you are foolish enough to come up here, you’d better be smart enough to figure out how you are getting out. Our roads are blocked. The Mi’kmaq have jurisdiction over these lands. I am tired of this government trying to push us around.” The RCMP said they conducted enforcement activities in accordance with the Nova Scotia Cannabis Control Act, which prohibits the operation of illegal cannabis storefronts. They did not provide specifics on locations, possible seizures, arrests or charges. Shoulder to Shoulder rally Organizers said the rally was planned to protest the government’s budget cuts, the premier’s claims about First Nations communities, investments in fracking, the dismantling of the wildlife division of the Department of Natural Resources. The large crowd showed up in solidarity with a coalition of more than 60 Mi’kmaw and settler groups from communities throughout the province. Over $130 million was cut as the government faces a $1.2-billion deficit. Mi’kmaw programs that received funding reductions included the cultural activities program ($50,000), history month program ($38,000) and the Indigenous and Black Mi’Kmaq program ($83,000). Outright cuts were made to health and wellness/Tajikeimik ($215,000) and education and early childhood Mi’kmaw services ($148,000). Related Fallout of cuts to over 250 budget grants will impact every Nova Scotia community Justice minister tightening Nova Scotia's Cannabis Control Act, calls illegal dispensaries 'a threat to consumers' The Office of L’nu Affairs saw cuts to treaty education lead ($100,000), the Mi’kmaw Native Friendship Centre ($30,000), Treaty Day awards ceremony ($27,000) and a reduction of $260,000 to the Mi’kmaw language revitalization strategy. “The cuts aren’t accidental, that’s a choice; the Mi’kmaw community is feeling these choices and that’s just what is visible,” said Peter-Paul. “Apparently, in this province, reconciliation is like a new year’s resolution; you can announce it proudly in January and you can talk a lot about it, but come budget season, it’s forgotten,” said Peter-Paul. “If reconciliation is real, it should survive a budget meeting. Reconciliation isn’t a Netflix subscription; you don’t get to cancel it when money is tight. You don’t get to downgrade it when it becomes inconvenient.” Peter-Paul said there is a is treaty foundation to the province, and the Tim Houston government needs to honour those obligations. “The Peace and Friendship Treaty did not include an asterisk that said terms and conditions may apply,” she said. “They are living agreements, and if the province wants to strengthen its relationship with the Mi’kmaq, honour the treaty obligations with real support, not symbolism.” She urged the government to consult before making cuts that affect their lands and communities, and protect programs that sustain their language, culture, youth and well-being. Leah Martin, minister of L’Nu affairs, said the government wanted to emphasize the investment made in Indigenous communities. “We feel these cuts, everybody feels these cuts,” said Martin. “I think it is also important to recognize that since we came into government, we have tripled the investment in the Mi’kmaw and Indigenous communities, and it is really important to keep perspective in mind as we are looking to the future. Many folks wouldn’t know that, so it is important to be clear. “We respect that people showed up today to voice these concerns; we hear them and feel them.” Houston was in Ontario, and Martin and her Progressive Conservative colleagues didn’t attend the rally. However, she said she was open to dialogue. “I haven’t been asked to go outside and speak to any protestors today,” she said. “I am open to whatever it takes to listen to them. I am an open door, and I remain open to ongoing dialogue.” Opposition Leader Claudia Chender, who attended the rally, said the budget doesn’t meet the moment. “We are in the midst of a provincial conversation right now about the failure of this budget,” said Chender. “People are rightly very concerned about these cuts. We have a budget full of cruel cuts to programs and service and it’s extremely insulting that the premier is not in the province to hear from Nova Scotians.”


--- [Environment - The Telegraph] ---
It is not Britain leading the way on energy, but the US Britain has to deal with the reality that the President’s policies are creating Britain has to deal with the reality that the President’s policies are creating Find all the latest news on the environment and climate change from the Telegraph. Including daily emissions and pollution data.


--- [(PDF)Identifyingsemanticroleclustersandalignmenttypesvia...] ---
Content uploaded by Martin Haspelmath Author content All content in this area was uploaded by Martin Haspelmath on Jan 27, 2018 Content may be subject to copyright. is is a contribution from Studies in Language 38:3 © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company is electronic le may not be altered in any way. e author(s) of this article is/are permitted to use this PDF le to generate printed copies to be used by way of oprints, for their personal use only. Permission is granted by the publishers to post this le on a closed server which is accessible only to members (students and faculty) of the author’s/s’ institute. It is not permitted to post this PDF on the internet, or to share it on sites such as Mendeley, ResearchGate, Academia.edu. Please see our rights policy on https://benjamins.com/#authors/rightspolicy For any other use of this material prior written permission should be obtained from the publishers or through the Copyright Clearance Center (for USA: www.copyright.com). Please contact rights@benjamins.nl or consult our website: www.benjamins.com John Benjamins Publishing Company Studies in Language 38:3 (2014), 463–484. doi 10.1075/sl.38.3.02har issn 0378–4177 / e-issn 1569–9978 © John Benjamins Publishing Company Identifying semantic role clusters and alignment types via microrole coexpression tendencies Iren Hartmann1, Martin Haspelmath1 and Michael Cysouw2 1Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology / 2Philipps-Universität Marburg In this paper, we illustrate a method for identifying clusters of semantic roles by cross-linguistic comparison. On the basis of data from 25 languages drawn from the ValPaL (Valency Patterns Leipzig) database, we show how one can visualize coexpression tendencies using quantitative methods (in particular, multidimen- sional scaling). Traditionally, the coexpression of semantic microroles (such as the breaker and the broken thing of the ‘break’ verb, the helper and the helpee of the ‘help’ verb, etc.) has been studied for particular languages, with general- ized macroroles such as “agent”, “actor”, and “undergoer” being compared across languages in a next step. We set up a conceptual space of 87 microroles based on their coexpression tendencies, i.e. the extent to which they are expressed identi- cally (via agging and indexing) across our languages. e individual coding means (cases, adpositions, index-sets) can then be mapped onto this conceptual space, revealing broader alignment patterns. Keywords: microrole, coexpression, semantic map, alignment type, valency 1. Introduction Semantic role notions are widely used by linguists to capture generalizations of argument coding and argument behavior across verbs within a single language. us, in German the distribution of Nominative and Accusative arguments in two- place verbs like zerbrechen ‘break’, schlagen ‘beat’, and essen ‘eat’ is not random, but follows a semantic regularity: e agent (breaker, beater, eater) is coded by the Nominative case, and the patient (broken, beaten, eaten) argument is coded by the Accusative case. However, a precise semantic characterization of roles like “agent” and “patient” is not easy, and in practice linguists have oen followed a © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved 464 Iren Hartmann, Martin Haspelmath and Michael Cysouw semasiological (form-to-function) approach, so that they have (oen unwittingly) ended up describing patients as whatever Accusative arguments share semantically. But it turns out that cross-linguistic comparison is dicult when using such semasiologically dened roles. us, in German one would exclude the non-agent arguments of helfen ‘help’, folgen ‘follow’, and dienen ‘serve’ from the “patient” role because they are expressed as Dative arguments, while in English the cor- responding roles are naturally included. German patients and English patients are therefore no longer directly comparable, and these roles cannot be used read- ily to compare languages. is situation has given rise to the well-known prob- lems in applying semantic roles (especially role hierarchies) across languages (e.g. Newmeyer 2005: 215–220). In this paper, we adopt a dierent approach to cross-linguistic comparison. Instead of starting with language-internal generalizations about roles and then moving to the cross-linguistic level, we show that one can usefully compare lan- guages at the level of the roles of individual verbs (microroles). Semantic role clus- ters can then be identied by studying cross-linguistic coexpression tendencies, i.e. the ways in which the individual microroles cluster with respect to their coding across a range of diverse languages. Like the more traditional approach sketched in the rst paragraph, our method assumes that the coexpression of roles is not ran- dom, i.e. that it is not an accident that the breaker, the beater, and the eater are cod- ed alike (= coexpressed) in German and English, and that the helpee, the followee, and the servee are coexpressed in German (by Dative case). Accidental homony- my may exist, of course, but repeated coexpression of the same notional elements across many dierent languages must indicate similarity of meaning (e.g. Haiman 1974, Wälchli 2009, Wälchli & Cysouw 2012). Our approach is thus a variant of the semantic-map method, applied to microroles of individual verbs and their coding by argument agging (= case or adpositional marking) or argument indexing (= cross-referencing and “person agreement”). is study does not take word order as a means of coding arguments into consideration, as word order is far more dicult to compare across languages and will have to be le for future research. 2. ree levels of semantic role granularity ere are at least three dierent ways in which role terminology can be used (and has been used in the literature). ese dierent approaches dene roles at three dierent levels of granularity. First, roles can be formulated at a verb-specic level. For example, verbs like ‘hit’, ‘hug’, and ‘fear’ involve dierent verb-specic role pairs, namely ‘hitter/hittee’, ‘hugger/huggee’, and ‘fearer/fearee’, respectively.1 We will refer to such roles as microroles. © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved Identifying semantic role clusters and alignment types via microrole coexpression tendencies 465 Secondly, one can dene roles such as ‘agent’, ‘patient’, or ‘experiencer’ at an intermediate level — more abstract than microroles, but still close to the seman- tic content. For example, the ‘agent’ might subsume the microroles ‘hitter’ and ‘breaker’, the patient might subsume such roles like ‘breakee’, ‘hittee’, and ‘huggee’, and the ‘experiencer’ might be represented by the ‘fearer’ in our example. We will refer to the roles at this intermediate level as mesoroles. irdly, roles can be dened at a level that is close to the level of argument real- ization itself (especially by means of agging or indexing). From this perspective a role like ‘Actor’ will subsume the agent and the experiencer from the intermediate level and the ‘Undergoer’ will subsume the patient and other roles, as for example ‘stimulus’.2 Roles at this higher level of abstraction have been called macroroles (Van Valin 2005) (or hyperroles, Kibrik 1997). e way in which microroles can be collapsed into mesoroles, and these in turn can be collapsed into macroroles is shown nicely by Van Valin (2005: 54); see Figure 1 as an illustration.3 Each of these three levels has its problems and limitations. e limitation of the verb-specic level of microroles is that it has no language-internal generality at all. At the other end of the spectrum, the problem with the argument-realization level of macroroles is that it has (too) little cross-linguistic generality. As a result, linguists have typically worked at the level of mesoroles. is level appears to al- low for generalizations within a language (allowing one, for example, to account for the similar behavior of ‘break’, ‘hit’, and so forth), but it also allows for cross- linguistic comparison. For example, it becomes possible to express many salient dierences between languages, such as the contrast between experiencer-subject constructions (e.g. I like it) and experiencer-object constructions (e.g. it pleases me). Especially for textbook accounts, mesoroles work fairly well, and they have become the best-known type of roles. Verbal meaning MICROROLES MESOROLES MACROROLES hit hitter hittee agent break breaker Actor breakee patient hug hugger huggee experiencer Undergoer fear fearer fearee stimulus Figure 1. Hierarchy of role concepts (adapted from Van Valin 2005: 54) © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved 466 Iren Hartmann, Martin Haspelmath and Michael Cysouw However, as we saw in the previous section, mesoroles are still strongly lan- guage-specic, and there are many roles that do not t well into the established categories, e.g. the roles of the boldfaced arguments in (1). (1) a. e women searched for the man. (searched-for thing) b. e women searched the woods for the missing child. (searched place) c. e boy looked at the girl. (looked-at entity) d. e old man coughed. (cougher) e. My arm hurts (me). (pain locus) f. is man is a hunter. (hunter) Verbs such as these may be in the minority, but they show that mesoroles, though commonly used, are not sucient, whether for cross-linguistic comparison or for language-particular description. Moreover, it appears that those verbs and verb- specic roles that are the most problematic for description are also the ones that dier the most across languages, i.e. while these problems are precisely those cases in which comparison would be the most important, they have so far been intrac- table. In this paper, we only use microroles to compare languages.4 While we are fully aware that our method does not make a particular contribution to the ques- tion of how best to describe individual languages, some of the problems in earlier work have stemmed from the misguided attempt to use the same notions for de- scription and for comparison. e microroles that we use here are thus intended exclusively as comparative concepts (Haspelmath 2010). Our approach allows for comparison on the basis of these very basic comparative concepts and does not rely on language-internal generalizations beyond the individual verb and its argu- ment coding. 3. From macrorole alignment to microrole coexpression e coexpression5 of dierent roles by argument-coding elements (case markers, adpositions, person indexes) has been one of the central concerns of typology since the 1970s. is goes by the name of “argument alignment” and has normally worked with prototype-based macroroles such as A, S, P, T, and R (Dixon 1979, Comrie 1981, Haspelmath 2011). e two major types of monotransitive align- ment are the accusative type, where intransitive S is coded like A (= coexpressed with A) but dierently from P, and the ergative type, where intransitive S is coded like P (= coexpressed with P) but dierently from A. is is generally represented in a semantic-map-like diagram as shown in Figure 2a. is analysis works well for prototypically transitive clauses that have an A and a P argument, but the approach © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved Identifying semantic role clusters and alignment types via microrole coexpression tendencies 467 has nothing to say with regard to other kinds of two-argument verbs. Likewise, the variation within single-argument verbs (agentive-patientive and similar systems, cf. Donohue & Wichmann 2008) is sometimes accommodated by distinguishing between Sa and Sp, but these two “sub-macroroles” are not particularly homoge- neous across languages. In order to capture a broader range of cross-linguistic dierences in argument coding, we need to extend the alignment or coexpression approach to a larger set of roles that can be clearly identied cross-linguistically. is is what we set out to do in the present paper: We study the alignment of the coding of 181 dierent microroles, which belong to 87 dierent verb meanings (intended to be repre- sentative of the entire verbal lexicon). For example, consider the three aforemen- tioned verb meanings ‘help’, ‘hit’, and ‘freeze’, which behave dierently in English and German: (2) English a. SheNOM helps meACC. b. SheNOM hits meACC. c. SheNOM is freezing. (3) German a. SieNOM hil mirDAT. ‘She helps me.’ b. SieNOM schlägt michACC. ‘She hits me.’ c. IhrDAT ist kalt. ‘She is freezing.’ e coexpression of the ve roles is rather dierent in English and German, as can be seen in Figure 2b. Some further cross-linguistic dierences of this sort can be seen in Table 1, which compares the coding sets6 of seven microroles in three other languages. We see that only the ‘hitter’ and the ‘helper’ are coexpressed in all three languages (see the grey shading). e ‘hittee’, ‘likee’, and the ‘helpee’ are co- expressed in two languages (Hoocąk and Chintang), and the ‘liker’ and the ‘helpee’ S S AP AP a. accusative ergative English ergative helper helpee freezing person freezing person hitter helpee helper hittee hitter hittee b. Figure 2. Examples of macrorole (a.) and microrole (b.) argument alignments © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved 468 Iren Hartmann, Martin Haspelmath and Michael Cysouw are only coexpressed in one language (Icelandic). Comparing such pairs of micro- roles and their coexpression or non-coexpression will be the basis for our study. It should be noted that the language-specic forms and their labels play no role in our comparisons, only identity of coding between dierent microroles. If we renamed the Icelandic Nominative and called it “Subjective”, and if we did the same with the Chintang Ergative, the two languages would not become more simi- lar. All that counts is the language-internal identity of coding of the microroles. Our approach thus exemplies the shi of typology from macro-alignment (using A, S, P etc.) to micro-alignment, i.e. to investigate how individual verbs are treated compared to other individual verbs. is is in line with what Bickel sug- gests as the characteristic feature of 21st century typology: “Linguistic diversity is captured by large sets of ne-grained variables, not by grand type notions” (Bickel 2007: 245). Our paper thus continues a line of research that was begun by Nichols (2008) for single-argument verbs, but we apply it to a broad cross-section of verbal meanings. 4. Microrole coexpression in 25 languages Our data consists of coding elements (ags and index-sets) used in a comparable sample of verbs corresponding to 87 verb meanings across 25 genealogically di- verse languages from dierent parts of the world. e data was contributed by language experts participating in the Leipzig Valency Classes Project,8 and was collected via an electronic database questionnaire, a special database created with FileMaker Pro™. e data is directly accessible in a structured way. It is also com- parable, as the verbs were elicited in response to a list of 87 pre-dened verbal meanings, and also because the valency information was recorded in a standard- ized way (to access the data, please go to www.valpal.info (Hartmann et al. 2013)). Table 1. Seven microroles with associated coding sets in three dierent languages7 microrole Icelandic Hoocąk Chintang hitter NP-nom & sbj.V act.V NP-erg & V.sbj hittee NP-acc und.V NP-abs & V.obj liker NP-dat act.V NP-erg & V.sbj likee NP-nom & sbj.V und.V NP-abs & V.obj throw goal inn um+NP-acc NP+eeja NP-abs & V.obj helper NP-nom & sbj.V act.V NP-erg & V.sbj helpee NP-dat und.V NP-abs & V.obj © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved Identifying semantic role clusters and alignment types via microrole coexpression tendencies 469 Our 87 verb meanings can be found in Appendix 1 in a manner similar to how they were presented to the data contributors. ey are presented in three columns: (i) the meaning label, (ii) the role frame, and (iii) a “typical context”.9 e data was exported from FileMaker Pro™ to be used in the statistical environment R (R Development Core Team 2012).10 e 87 dierent verb meanings include in total 189 dierent microroles, but because of missing data (i.e. roles for which we do not have information from more than 5 languages) we only use 181 microroles for the current paper. Because the verb meanings correspond closely across languages, the microroles of the verbs can be seen as equivalent across languages and we can thus compare them in terms of their overt coding properties (agging and indexing). As noted in the preced- ing section, despite the diversity of the actual coding elements, we can still ask which of the microroles are coded in the same way (i.e. coexpressed) within each single language. Basically, the number of coexpressions between two microroles, averaged over the 25 languages, provides an estimate of the similarity between the microroles. is approach yields an objective metric on microroles, motivated by the overt form of the argument coding. Finally, we can then produce a visualization of this metric, representing a semantic map of microroles across languages (cf. Cysouw 2010). In this paper, the metric on microroles was dened as follows. First, when the coding set of a microrole consists of two coding elements (a ag and an index), we separated each coding set into its elements. For example, in Icelandic, the ‘hitter’ microrole is coded by Nominative case (a ag) and Subject agreement on the verb (an index-set). e similarity between two microroles within a language was then dened as the number of coding elements (not sets) shared by the two, divided by the maximum number of elements in either of the two. Second, for each pair of microroles, the average similarity was taken from all languages for which data was available. ird, we computed the correlation between each of the language- specic metrics and the average metric over all languages (simply using a Pearson correlation between the similarities). e higher this correlation, the more a spe- cic language looks like an ‘average’ language (i.e. ‘average’ for this study). To be able to better distinguish diversity, we then computed a weighted average metric by weighting each language using the negative logarithm of the correlation coef- cient (this being a very rough approximation of the amount of information of the average inherent to each language separately). © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved 470 Iren Hartmann, Martin Haspelmath and Michael Cysouw 5. Clustering roles As a visualization of this weighted average metric on the microroles, we used a classic ‘metric’ multidimensional scaling (MDS). e rst two dimensions of the MDS are shown here in Figure 3, which represents a kind of semantic map. Not all 181 microroles are readable because of overlap, but some major role clusters are still discernible. Basically, what happens is that the average coexpression across many languages identies clusters of microroles which approximately represent the traditional notion of mesoroles (or even macroroles depending on how large one considers a cluster to be) (see Cysouw 2014 for a detailed discussion). To the le in Figure 3 there is a cluster of agent-like roles, at the bottom there is a cluster of patient-like roles, and at the top right there is a cluster of instruments. Recipients and goals are found in between patients and instruments. Figure 3 can be regarded as a more detailed version of Figure 2b above, except that the spatial closeness of the microrole labels in Figure 3 was computed on the basis of the coding sets of the 181 microroles, while the arrangement of the ve microroles in Figure 2b was done manually. us, while the intermediate position of the ‘freezing person’ in Figure 2b serves to make the gures easy to read, the fact that the ‘fear stimulus’ occurs right in the middle of Figure 3 reects the empirical Figure 3. First two dimensions of a multidimensional scaling of the weighted average met- ric on the 181 microroles, showing clear semantic separation into meso- or macroroles © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved Identifying semantic role clusters and alignment types via microrole coexpression tendencies 471 fact that this role is coded about equally as oen (i.e. agged and/or indexed) as the ‘peeler’ and ‘wiper’ (to the upper le) and as the ‘tellee’ (to the right) and the ‘hidden thing’ (at the bottom). To the extent that cross-linguistic coexpression tendencies are due to semantic similarity, we can say that Figure 3 gives us an approximate, but objective rep- resentation of the language-independent semantic similarities between the mi- croroles. No subjective judgment of semantic similarity (e.g. between the ‘hidden thing’ and the ‘killee’) in any particular language is involved. 6. Mapping languages on the microrole map In a next step, we can use the two-dimensional layout from Figure 3 as a base map for the comparison of the role marking of individual languages. As a rst example of this method, consider the structure of Zenzontepec Chatino role marking in Figure 4. To produce this graphical display, we used the following method. First, the location of the 181 microroles was taken from the multidimensional scaling as shown in Figure 3 (displayed in Figure 4 as small light grey circles). e avail- able data from Zenzontepec Chatino is then plotted on top of this, using dierent symbols for dierent language-specic coding elements. In this language, there are only three dierent argument coding elements: zero (mostly for agent-like ar- guments) and two ags (prepositions), jiʔì"/j- (for a large variety of semantically disparate arguments, glossed prep) and lóʔò (for instrument-like arguments), as illustrated in (4). (4) Zenzontepec Chatino (Campbell 2013) Nkajnyà chu kíʔyùú j-nà niʔií lóʔò lítúu. cplv.build nom.hum male.dem prep-art house with adobe ‘e man built the house with adobe.’ In Figure 4, these three coding elements are identied by squares, circles, and tri- angles, respectively. e distribution of these three symbols clearly shows clusters, with the squares being used for the agent-like microroles on the le-hand side, the circles for patient-like microroles as well as goal-like, addressee-like, and recipi- ent-like microroles, and the triangle being used for instrument-like microroles in the upper right corner. To make it easier to see this distribution, we used an R package called Krig to draw lines around the areas of highest density for each coding element. ese lines are reminiscent of the boundary lines traditionally drawn in semantic maps (cf. Haspelmath 2003) as well as the contour lines on a traditional geographical map. However, technically speaking, the lines in our gures have a dierent rationale. © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved 472 Iren Hartmann, Martin Haspelmath and Michael Cysouw Instead of drawing boundary lines precisely around all points that are coded by a particular coding element, the lines here represent probabilistic indications of the regions in which particular elements predominate. is also explains why there are various coding elements to be found within the ‘wrong’ lines, for example, some triangles in the area of patient-like coding. To be precise, the lines represent three dierent probability distributions (one for each construction) in two-dimensional space, indicating which parts of the gure are more likely to be coded by each element. To show these three probability distributions in one gure we have only drawn lines indicating the probability of 35% (with two thinner lines indicating 32% and 29%, just to visually indicate the gradient nature of these lines). For all lines to be comparable, these probabilities are kept constant throughout all gures in this paper. To infer the probabilities we made use of kriging, a geostatistical method to interpolate distributions in space.11 In our case, we interpreted the points of Figure 3 as points in space. en, each point was given a height of one when a specic coding element was present, and a height of zero when a dierent coding element was attested. Missing data for individual roles was ignored (this can be seen in the grey circles of the base map that are not accompanied by a black circle, triangle, or square). is distribution of high (one) and low (zero) points was then interpolated as ‘hills’ in space, and the lines were drawn at a height of 0.35, 0.32, and 0.29. In Appendix 2 all of the dier- ent distributions of the coding devices from all 25 languages are shown. Because lóʔó+NP zero jiʔį +NP ` Figure 4. Distribution of the three coding elements in Zenzontepec Chatino © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved Identifying semantic role clusters and alignment types via microrole coexpression tendencies 473 the plots were drawn completely automatically, using exactly the same settings for each plot, the plots are directly comparable across languages. In Figure 5, we see the distributions of the coding sets in four additional lan- guages, with distribution lines to help us recognize the clusters of coding sets. We see that Balinese is a language that lacks a dierence between overt agent and pa- tient coding, while Bora makes a clear agent-patient distinction (Nominative vs Accusative case marking).12 In Hoocąk, the patient domain is bigger, reecting its active-stative (Split-S) alignment. Finally, Jaminjung is a double-marking language with a tripartite pattern, distinguishing between transitive agents (Ergative case and Subject indexing), intransitive subjects (Absolutive case and Subject indexing), and transitive patients (Absolutive case and Object indexing). (is kind of tri- partite alignment is not generally recognized in the typological literature, because agging and indexing are considered separately. However, in our approach the full coding set of each microrole is taken into account, both the ag and the index.) Balinese zero aji+NP ke+NP uli+NP Jaminjung NP-ergsubj.V NP-abs obj.V NP-abs subj.V NP-datV=pro.dat NP-erg/instr NP-abs NP-loc/all NP-all Hoocąk act.V und.V -eeja/LOC unmarkedNP Bora zero NP-acc NP-adl NP-abl NP-instr Figure 5. Four additional languages showing dierent distributional ranges of coding sets © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved 474 Iren Hartmann, Martin Haspelmath and Michael Cysouw 7. Clustering languages: Alignment types e visualizations shown in Figures 4 and 5 not only present a method for the visual inspection of the structure of dierent languages, we can also use it to com- pare languages quantitatively. Instead of attempting to classify the 25 languages into discrete types, we quantify the pairwise similarity between all languages. In this way we are able to investigate global similarities between languages (i.e. to de- velop a language typology), without ignoring the interesting and important dier- ences between the languages. Instead of discretely classifying languages into types (i.e. making a ‘partition’), we provide a metric for languages, specifying precisely how similar each language is to each and every other language. We can then use the metric to provide a partition, or any other simplication of the actual similari- ties (e.g. a hierarchical clustering as shown in Figure 6 below). e actual comparison between two languages was performed as follows. Basically, we made language-specic metrics on all 181 microroles, using just the coding of each single language. For each pair of microroles, only the coding simi- larity from a single language was used. erefore, when two microroles used the same coding, their dierence was zero, while in the case of two completely dif- ferent coding devices, the dierence was set at one. is was performed for all 181*180/2 = 16290 pairs of microroles, and for all 25 languages. We then used a weighted Pearson correlation to establish the similarity between two language- specic lists of these 16290 pairs of microroles. We used the weighting to control for the fact that the microroles are not equally distributed across all possible func- tions. As can immediately be discerned from Figure 3, there are many more agent- like and patient-like microroles than instrument-like or goal-like roles. Any un- weighted comparison would thus strongly favor whatever dierences exist in these highly frequent kinds of roles. To counteract this overrepresentation, we weighted each pair by the inverse of the distance between the roles (i.e. the distance as visu- alized in Figure 3). is means that pairs of microroles that are far apart are given greater weight in the language comparison, and pairs of microroles that are close together are given less weight. e resulting metric on the 25 languages is visualized in the form of a hier- archical clustering in Figure 6.13 A few clusters of languages are indicated in this gure, referring to Appendix 2, where the distributions of the coding devices of all theindividual languages are provided. We essentially nd a major division between languages that do not show any coding dierentiation between overt agent and patient marking (illustrated above by Balinese), and languages that do have some such division. Within this second group, a large set of languages has an almost identical agent/patient opposition, which primarily represents an accusative align- ment pattern, with intransitive subjects classied together with transitive agents © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved Identifying semantic role clusters and alignment types via microrole coexpression tendencies 475 (illustrated above by Bora). However, the languages between these two groups are the most interesting. Four languages show a tripartite structure, separating dif- ferent marking for intransitive subjects, transitive agents, and transitive patients (illustrated in Figure 6 by Jaminjung). e other languages show dierent variants between these clear groups, for example Hoocąk (as seen above) showing a split of the intransitive subjects between agent and patient (compare the division between the agent and patient groups between Bora and Hoocąk to see this dierence). 8. Conclusion Traditionally, the comparison of languages is said to presuppose a thorough language-particular analysis (e.g. Newmeyer 1998: §6.5). But language-partic- ular analysis involving abstract notions such as mesoroles and macroroles (or even cross-linguistic grammatical relations such as subject and object) is highly problematic, as these abstract analytic notions are not really comparable across languages. In this paper, we have shown that it is possible to arrive at a role clustering and an alignment typology without presupposing any language-particular analysis beyond the level of the individual verb, and without any subjective judgment of semantic similarity. We only made use of information on argument coding (ag- ging and indexing) for each microrole of 87 verbs in 25 languages from around No agent/patient Agent/patient Yaqui Arabic Tripartite Sliammon Ainu Mapudungun Bora Italian Even Ket Icelandic Sri.Lanka.Malay Zenzontepec.Chatino Hoocąk Chintang Alaskan.Yupik Jaminjung Nen Bezhta Yoruba Mandinka Mandarin Balinese Nluu Jakarta.Indonesian Xârâcùù Figure 6. Hierarchical clustering of similarities in microrole coexpression (i.e. alignment similarities) © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved 476 Iren Hartmann, Martin Haspelmath and Michael Cysouw the world, allowing us to measure the similarities between the microroles and thus arrive at mesorole-like clusters (Figure 3), and in a next step to show the approximate distribution of coding sets over the microroles. is yields an objec- tive, quantitative alignment typology that is not based on any deeper language- particular analysis. Notes 1. e role names — like ‘hugger’ and ‘huggee’ — make liberal use of English word-formation rules and thus will not necessarily sound idiomatic. We use them to avoid clumsy expressions like ‘the participant that hugs’, ‘the participant that is hugged’. 2. Lehmann (2006) has introduced a third macrorole, the indirectus, but this has not yet become widely known. 3. Cysouw (2014) introduces yet another level of granularity of roles, viz. contextual role, which can be added even further to the le in the hierarchy or role concepts from Figure 1. e motivation for this is that even verb meanings are sometimes dicult to compare across lan- guages, and it might be favorable in some situations to look at the coding of a role in a specic context, independently of the actual verb that is being used. 4. One reviewer asked whether our approach presupposes that argument coding is only sensi- tive to the role meaning of the arguments. e answer is that our comparison only captures meaning-based similarities. Argument coding may be sensitive to other factors, such as the grammatical composition of a verb (thus, causative verbs are more likely to have causee and patient coded alike than monomorphemic verbs, cf. Malchukov 2013). Such similarities are not taken into account here, and are a possible confounding factor, though of course the great ma- jority of our verbs are monomorphemic. Argument coding is indeed also oen inuenced by the referential properties of the argument (e.g. deniteness), but such properties are ignored in our coding sets (cf. Haspelmath & Hartmann 2014+). 5. e term coexpression is used here for the relation between a linguistic form in a given lan- guage and several functions that are expressed by dierent forms in some other language. It seems that this is a terminological innovation of the present paper, but we regard it as a very nat- ural one. It was inspired by François’s (2008) term colexicalization (for lexical coexpression). e term is convenient in a cross-linguistic context because, unlike terms such as multifunctionality or polysemy, it is completely neutral as to the implications for the language-specic description. 6. By coding set we refer to the sum of coding element(s) that mark an argument, i.e. a ag (case/adposition) on the NP and/or an index-set (such as subject agreement, object indexing, etc.) on the verb. 7. e abbreviations used in Table 1 stand for the following: abs = Abolutive; acc = Accusative; act = Actor indexing; dat = Dative; erg = Ergative; obj = Object indexing; sbj = subject indexing; und = undergoer indexing. Words in italics are language-specic adpositions. © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved Identifying semantic role clusters and alignment types via microrole coexpression tendencies 477 8. e languages investigated and their respective data contributors are the following: Ainu (Anna Bugaeva), Balinese (Masayoshi Shibatani & Ketut Artawa), Central Alaskan Yupik (Osahito Miyaoka), Modern Standard Arabic (Csilla Kász), Bezhta (Zaira Khalilova & Bernard Comrie), Bora (Frank Seifart), Chintang (Robert Schikowski & Balthasar Bickel), Even (Andrej Malchukov), Hoocąk (Iren Hartmann), Icelandic (Jóhanna Barðdal), Italian (Michela Cennamo), Jakarta Indonesian (omas Conners & David Gil), Jaminjung (Eva Schultze-Berndt), Ket (Elena Krjukova & Edward Vajda), Mandarin (Guohua Zhang & Bingfu Lu), Mandinka (Denis Creissels), Mapudungun (Fernando Zúñiga), Nen (Nicholas Evans), N|uu (Martina Ernszt, Alena Witzlack-Makarevich & Tom Güldemann), Sliammon (Honore Watanabe), Sri Lanka Malay (Sebastian Nordho), Xârâcùù (Claire Moyse-Faurie), Yaqui (Zarina Estrada, Mercedes Tubino, and Jesús Francisco Villalpando), Yoruba (Joseph Atoyebi), Zenzontepec Chatino (Eric Campbell). We are very much indebted to all our data contributors. Without their expertise and data this study would not have been possible. 9. Since the English verbs used as meaning labels sometimes have dierent meanings, we have added a sentence for each verbal meaning that makes the intended meaning clear. ese sen- tences are not crucial, they are just intended to help the contributors nd a context for their counterpart. 10. We would like to express our sincere gratitude to Hans-Jörg Bibiko for all of his help in this area. 11. We used the Krig function for the library elds (Furrer et al. 2012) as provided for the statisti- cal environment R (R Development Core Team 2012). 12. Of course, this does not necessarily mean that agents and patients are more dicult to dis- tinguish by Balinese hearers, because word order is an additional coding device that we did not take into account. us, we are not necessarily claiming that agents and patients are semantically more similar in Balinese than in Bora. All we are claiming is that they are treated more similarly in terms of agging and indexing. 13. For this hierarchical clustering we used the function hclust from the base package of the statistical environment R. Specically, we used the complete method for the clustering here. References Bickel, Balthasar. 2007. Typology in the 21st century: Major current developments. Linguistic Typology 11. 239–251. DOI: 10.1515/LINGTY.2007.018 Campbell, Eric. 2013. Zenzontepec Chatino valency patterns. In Iren Hartmann, Martin Haspelmath & Bradley Taylor (eds.), Valency Patterns Leipzig. Leipzig: Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology. (http://valpal.info/languages/zenzontepec-chatino) Comrie, Bernard. 1981. Language universals and linguistic typology: Syntax and morphology. Oxford: Blackwell. Cysouw, Michael. 2010. Semantic maps as metrics on meaning. Linguistic Discovery 8(1). 70–95. Cysouw, Michael. 2014. Inducing semantic roles. In: Silvia Luraghi & Heiko Narrog (eds.), Perspectives on semantic roles, 23–68. Amsterdam: Benjamins. Dixon, R.M.W. 1979. Ergativity. Language 55. 59–138. DOI: 10.2307/412519 © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved 478 Iren Hartmann, Martin Haspelmath and Michael Cysouw Donohue, Mark & Søren Wichmann (eds.). 2008. e typology of semantic alignment. Oxford: Oxford University Press. DOI: 10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199238385.001.0001 François, Alexandre. 2008. Semantic maps and the typology of colexication: Intertwining poly- semous networks across languages. In Martine Vanhove (ed.), From polysemy to semantic change, 163–216. (Studies in Language Companion Series 106). Amsterdam: Benjamins. Furrer, Reinhard, Douglas Nychka & Stephen Sain. 2012. Fields: Tools for spatial data. R pack- age. Haiman, John. 1974. Concessives, conditionals, and verbs of volition. Foundations of Language 11(3). 341–359. Hartmann, Iren, Martin Haspelmath & Bradley Taylor (eds.). 2013. Valency Patterns Leipzig. Leipzig: Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology. (http://www.valpal.info) Haspelmath, Martin. 2003. e geometry of grammatical meaning: Semantic maps and cross-linguistic comparison. In Michael Tomasello (ed.), e new psychology of language: Cognitive and functional approaches to language structure, vol. 2, 211–242. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum. Haspelmath, Martin. 2010. Comparative concepts and descriptive categories in cross-linguistic studies. Language 86(3). 663–687. DOI: 10.1353/lan.2010.0021 Haspelmath, Martin. 2011. On S, A, P, T, and R as comparative concepts for alignment typology. Lingustic Typology 15(3). 535–567. Haspelmath, Martin & Iren Hartmann. 2014+ (to appear). Comparing verbal valency across languages. In Bernard Comrie & Andrej L. Malchukov (eds.), Valency classes: A compara- tive handbook. Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton. Kibrik, Aleksandr E. 1997. Beyond subject and object: Toward a comprehensive relational typol- ogy. Linguistic Typology 1(3). 279–346. DOI: 10.1515/lity.1997.1.3.279 Lehmann, Christian. 2006. Participant roles, thematic roles and syntactic relations. In Tasaku Tsunoda & Taro Kageyama (eds.), Voice and grammatical relations: In honor of Masayoshi Shibatani, 153–174. Amsterdam: Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/tsl.65.10leh Malchukov, Andrej L. 2013. Alignment preferences in basic and derived ditransitives. In Dik Bakker & Martin Haspelmath (eds.), Languages across boundaries: Studies in memory of Anna Siewierska, 263–289. Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton. Newmeyer, Frederick J. 2005. Possible and probable languages: A generative perspec- tive on linguistic typology. Oxford: Oxford University Press. DOI: 10.1093/acprof:o so/9780199274338.001.0001 Newmeyer, Frederick. 1998. Language form and language function. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. Nichols, Johanna. 2008. Why are stative-active languages rare in Eurasia? A typological perspec- tive on split-subject marking. In Mark Donohue & Søren Wichmann (eds.), e typology of semantic alignment, 121–140. Oxford: Oxford University Press. DOI: 10.1093/acprof:o so/9780199238385.003.0005 R Development Core Team. 2012. R: A language and environment for statistical computing. R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria. http://www.R-project.org/. Van Valin, Robert D., Jr. 2005. Exploring the syntax-semantics interface. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511610578 Wälchli, Bernhard. 2009. Motion events in parallel texts: A study in primary-data typology. Bern: University of Bern Habilitationsschri. Wälchli, Bernhard & Michael Cysouw. 2012. Lexical typology through similarity semantics: Toward a semantic map of motion verbs. Linguistics 50(3). 671–710. DOI: 10.1515/ling- 2012-0021 © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved Identifying semantic role clusters and alignment types via microrole coexpression tendencies 479 Appendix 1: e 87 verb meanings and microroles Meaning label Role frame Typical context APPEAR S appears A deer appeared (in the road). ASK FOR A asks (X) for Y e boy asked his parents for money. BE A HUNTER S is a hunter is man is a hunter. BE DRY S is dry e ground is dry. BE HUNGRY E is hungry e baby is hungry. BE ILL E is sick e little boy is sick. BE SAD E is sad e little girl was sad. BEAT A beats P (with I) e boy beat the snake with a stick. BLINK S blinks I blinked (my eyes). BOIL S boils. e water is boiling. BREAK A breaks P (with I) e boy broke the window with a stone. BRING A brings P T e girls brought the old lady owers. BUILD A builds P (out of X) e men built a house out of wood. BURN S burns e house is burning. CARRY A carries T (to X) e men carried the boxes to the market. CLIMB A climbs (up L) e men climbed (up) the tree. COOK A cooks P e woman is cooking soup. COUGH S coughs e old man coughed. COVER A covers P (with X) e woman covered the boy with a blanket. CRY S cries e baby is crying. CUT A cuts P (with I) e woman cut the bread with a sharp knife. DIE S dies e snake died. DIG A digs (for) P e women are digging for potatoes. DRESS A dresses P e mother dressed her daughter EAT A eats P e boy ate the fruit. FALL S falls e boy fell. FEAR E fears M e man feared the bear. FEEL COLD S is cold I’m cold. FEEL PAIN E feels pain in M My arm is hurting. = I’m feeling pain in my arm. FILL A lls P (with X) e girl lled the glass with water. FOLLOW A follows X e boys followed the girls. FRIGHTEN A frightens P e bear frightened the man. GIVE A gives T to R We gave the books to the children. © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved 480 Iren Hartmann, Martin Haspelmath and Michael Cysouw GO S goes somewhere (L) e woman went to the market. GRIND A grinds P (with I) e boy is grinding corn with mortar and pestle. HEAR E hears M e boy heard the bear. HELP A helps X I helped the boys. HIDE A hides T (from X) e boy hid the frog from his mother. HIT A hits P (with I) e boy hit the snake with a stick. HUG A hugs P e mother hugged her little boy. JUMP A jumps e girl jumped. KILL A kills P (with I) e man killed his enemy with a club. KNOW A knows P e girl knew the boy. LAUGH S laughs e little girl laughed. LEAVE A le L e boy le the village. LIKE E likes M e boy liked his new toy. LIVE S lives somewhere (L) e old people live in town. LOAD A loads T (onto L) e farmer loaded hay onto the truck. = e farmer loaded the truck with hay. LOOK AT A looks at P e boy looked at the girl. MAKE A makes P (out of X) e men made a house out of wood. MEET A meets X e men met the boys. NAME A name X (a) Y e parents called the baby Anna. PEEL A peels (X o) P e boy peeled the bark o the stick. PLAY S plays e child is playing. POUR A pours T somewhere (L) e man poured water into the glass. PUSH A pushes P (somewhere) e boy pushed the girl (into the water). PUT A puts T somewhere (L) I put the cup onto the table. RAIN (it) rains It rained yesterday. RECEIVE=GET R gets T (from X) e woman got a letter from an admirer. ROLL A rolls e ball is rolling. RUN A runs e horse is running. SAY A says “…”( to X) ey said “no” to me. SCREAM S screams e man screamed. SEARCH FOR A searches for X e men searched for the women. SEE E sees M e man saw the bear. SEND A sends T (to X) e girl sent owers to her grandmother. SHAVE A shaves (his beard/hair) e man shaved his beard/cut his hair SHOUT AT A shouts at X e woman shouted at the children. SHOW A shows T (to R) e girls showed pictures to the teacher. © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved Identifying semantic role clusters and alignment types via microrole coexpression tendencies 481 SING S sings e boy sang (a song). SINK S sinks e boat sank. SIT S sits somewhere (L) e children sat on the oor. SIT DOWN S sits down (somewhere (L)) e children sat down on the bench. SMELL E smells M e bear smelled the boy. STEAL A steals P (from X) e boys stole apples from their neighbor. TAKE A takes P (from X) e man took the money from his friend. TALK A talks (to X) (about Y) e girl talked to the boy about her dog. TEACH A teaches R T e teacher taught the children English. TEAR A tears P (from X) e girl tore the page from the book. TELL A tells (X) Y e girl told the boy a funny story. THINK A thinks about X e girl thought about her grandmother yes- terday. THROW A throws T somewhere (L) e boy threw the ball into the window. TIE A ties P (to L) (with I) e man tied the horse with a rope to the tree. TOUCH A touches P (with I) e boy touched the snake with a stick. WANT A wants X e bear wanted this sh. WASH A washes P e mother washed the baby. WIPE A wipes T (o L) e girl wiped crumbs o the table. Appendix 2. Distribution of all language-specic coding devices, presented in 5 groupings (1) No Agent/Patient marking zero zero fi+NP ní+NP LOC sí+NP zero ngê+NP xù+NP ti/tō+NP taa+NP zero NP+la Loc NP+ye zero ng+la nla+NP NP-dat zero aji+NP ke+NP uli+NP zero ba+NP zai+NP+loc zero Jakarta.Indonesian Mandarin Balinese XârâcúúYorubaMandinka Nluu ke+NP © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved 482 Iren Hartmann, Martin Haspelmath and Michael Cysouw zero zero fi+NP ní+NP LOC sí+NP zero ngê+NP xù+NP ti/tō+NP taa+NP zero NP+la Loc NP+ye zero ng+la nla+NP NP-dat zero aji+NP ke+NP uli+NP zero ba+NP zai+NP+loc zero Jakarta.Indonesian Mandarin Balinese XârâcúúYorubaMandinka Nluu ke+NP (2) Agent/Patient marking NP-nom V.subj NP-acc NP-loc NP-instr NP-abl NP-all NP-dat V.subj zero a+NP con+NP in/a/su+NP da+NP subj.V obj.V instr loc/all/abl dat zero NP-acc NP-loc NP-dir NP-instr V.subj NP-nom NP-acc bi+NP-gen min+NP-gen ’ilâ+NP-gen ‘an+NP-gen zero NP-ac NP-adl NP-abl NP-instr zero lóʔó+NP V.subj V.obj NP+mew zero Zenzontepec.Chatino Bora Arabic Yaqui ItalianMapudungunEven Ainu Sliammon jiʔį +NP ` V.sub obl-NP V.obj © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved Identifying semantic role clusters and alignment types via microrole coexpression tendencies 483 NP-nom V.subj NP-acc NP-loc NP-instr NP-abl NP-all NP-dat V.subj zero a+NP con+NP in/a/su+NP da+NP subj.V obj.V instr loc/all/abl dat zero NP-acc NP-loc NP-dir NP-instr V.subj NP-nom NP-acc bi+NP-gen min+NP-gen ’ilâ+NP-gen ‘an+NP-gen zero NP-ac NP-adl NP-abl NP-instr zero lóʔó+NP V.subj V.obj NP+mew zero Zenzontepec.Chatino Bora Arabic Yaqui ItalianMapudungunEven Ainu Sliammon jiʔį +NP ` V.sub obl-NP V.obj (3) Agent/Patient with larger extend of Patient NP-abs & absAgr.V NP-erg NP-lat NP-gen1 NP-sup NP-instr NP-poss act.V Bezhta Hoocąk und.V -eeja/LOC unmarked NP (4) Tripartite NP-rel V.subj NP-abs V.obj NP-abs V.subj NP-abm NP-all NP-perl NP-erg & V.subj [S] NP-abs V.obj NP-abs V.subj [S] NP-erg NP-loc NP-abs NP-abs & obj.V NP-erg & V.subj [S] NP-abs & V.subj NP-aBS NP-dat NP-dat & obj.V NP-erg sub.V NP-abs obj.V NP-abs subj.V NP-datV=pro.dat NP-erg/instr NP-abs NP-loc/all NP-all Alaskan.yupik Chintang Jaminjung Nen © 2014. John Benjamins Publishing Company All rights reserved 484 Iren Hartmann, Martin Haspelmath and Michael Cysouw NP-rel V.subj NP-abs V.obj NP-abs V.subj NP-abm NP-all NP-perl NP-erg & V.subj [S] NP-abs V.obj NP-abs V.subj [S] NP-erg NP-loc NP-abs NP-abs & obj.V NP-erg & V.subj [S] NP-abs & V.subj NP-aBS NP-dat NP-dat & obj.V NP-erg sub.V NP-abs obj.V NP-abs subj.V NP-datV=pro.dat NP-erg/instr NP-abs NP-loc/all NP-all Alaskan.yupik Chintang Jaminjung Nen (5) Slightly tripartite NP-nom & V.subj NP-acc NP-dat á+NP-acc meö+NP-dat af+NP-acc viö+NP-acc í+NP-dat um+NP-acc subj.V obj.V NP-dat NP-abl NP-inst zero zero NP-acc NP-dat NP-abl Icelandic Ket Sri.Lanka.Malay
