=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Super Titanium™ Technology - Citizen Watch]
In 1970, we launched the world's first watch using solid titanium: X-8 Chronometer. The name is a combination of X - representing the unknown - and 8, evoking the infinity symbol. It's an expression of the boundless possibilities of titanium, a relatively unknown material at the time. Citizen continued evolving our use of titanium to build our Super Titanium™ collection, producing ...
URL: https://www.citizenwatch.com/us/en/technology-super-titanium.html

[Hands On With The Citizen X8 Chronometer, The World's First Titanium Watch]
Nov 11, 2025 · For all of these reasons, titanium became a commonly used metal for watch cases only gradually, and fairly late in the history of watchmaking – the first watch with a titanium case didn’t appear until 1970, when Citizen launched the X8 Chronometer.
URL: https://www.the1916company.com/blog/hands-on-with-the-citizen-x8-chronometer-the-worlds-first-titanium-watch.html

[The World's First Titanium Watch Doesn't Get Enough Credit]
The watch industry today knows titanium well and celebrates its many beneficial properties. The watch that pioneered its use way back in 1970, however, is all but relegated to obscurity. It's so overlooked, that another watch from ten years later was long thought to hold the title of first titanium ticker.
URL: https://www.gearpatrol.com/watches/citizen-x8-chronometer-titanium-watch/

[Technologies for People | CITIZEN Technologies]
The world's first titanium watch CITIZEN released the X-8 Cosmotron Chronometer, the world's first-ever watch with a solid titanium case, in 1970, after overcoming various problems of titanium processing.
URL: https://technologies.citizen.com.hk/en/super-titanium/

[55 Years After Bringing it First to Market, Citizen is Still the Master of ...]
Oct 29, 2025 · The Citizen X-8 Chronometer, the world's first commercially available titanium watch. Back in 1970, as the first brand to ever be able to do ...Missing: solid | Show results with:solid
URL: https://monochrome-watches.com/in-depth-55-years-of-citizen-super-titanium-first-watch-in-titanium-retrospective/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Super Titanium™ Technology - Citizen Watch] ---
About CITIZEN CITIZEN is a watch company that has the capabilities of all its manufacturing in-house, from crafting individual watch components to final assembly. A truly global watch brand, CITIZEN does business in about 140 market worldwide. BETTER STARTS NOW CITIZEN's watchmaking philosophy that no matter who you are and what you do, it is always possible to make something better and now is the time to start doing it. Global Product News - 20 February 2026 PRODUCTS First-ever TSUYOSA x seconde/seconde/ collaboration model and new TSUYOSA models - 20 February 2026 PRODUCTS CITIZEN Series 8 New slim models featuring a globally trendy case size - 4 February 2026 PRODUCTS CITIZEN ATTESA The total lunar eclipse inspired “Shades of Red”, when the sun, Earth, and moon align - 31 October 2025 PRODUCTS CITIZEN continues its 43-year official sponsorship of ISU Figure Skating events Service and Support Global Network CITIZEN is a manufacture, a watch company that does all its manufacturing in-house, from crafting individual watch components to final assembly. A truly global watch brand, CITIZEN does business in over 140 countries worldwide. - EUROPE - AFRICA MIDDLE EAST - ASIA - OCEANIA AMERICAS


--- [Hands On With The Citizen X8 Chronometer, The World's First Titanium Watch] ---
Hands On With The Citizen X8 Chronometer, The World’s First Titanium Watch The first ever titanium watch stands at the crossroads of horological history. Titanium has become ubiquitous in modern watchmaking, and with good reason. It’s a nearly ideal material for watch cases; in general it has a higher strength-to-weight ratio than steel, making it more comfortable to wear (especially in larger watches) and it’s hypoallergenic, which is a big plus for anyone with a contact allergy to the nickel found in stainless steels. It’s also highly resistant to corrosion (titanium naturally forms a layer of surface oxides, which prevents any further oxidation of the bulk metal). It is, however, more difficult to machine than steel; titanium conducts heat poorly, which means temperature during machining has to be carefully controlled, and titanium also has a tendency to gall – that is, it tends to build up on the cutting edges of machine tools. It’s also very difficult to produce a consumer-ready, polished surface, and titanium is also softer than steel and unless it’s given a surface hardening treatment, it scratches much more easily than stainless steel. For all of these reasons, titanium became a commonly used metal for watch cases only gradually, and fairly late in the history of watchmaking – the first watch with a titanium case didn’t appear until 1970, when Citizen launched the X8 Chronometer. The X8 Chronometer in titanium was part of the series of X8 watches, which were originally introduced in 1966, and which used a movement that was a sort of intermediate step between mechanical and quartz watches. The X8 watches, which variously said, “Electronic Watch,” “Chrono Master,” and “Cosmotron” on the dials (later versions would drop the X8 label entirely) were all powered by electronic movements with balances impulsed by magnetic coils. This technology had been introduced for the first time by Hamilton, in 1957, in the Hamilton Electric 500, and such watches were part of the exploration which took place across the watch industry, up until the mid-1970s, of alternatives to purely mechanical timekeepers, which included tuning fork movements like the Bulova Accutron (Citizen produced its own tuning fork watches under license from Bulova, but manufactured in Japan, called the Hisonic watches) electric watches with balance wheels, and hybrid quartz-tuning fork watches as well. (The Accutron tuning fork movement was recently relaunched as the Accutron 314). The X8/Chronomaster/Cosmotron watches probably pushed the electronic watch concept as far as it could go. The movements first ran at 18,000 vph, but Citizen would eventually run them at frequencies as high as 43,200 vph, and several versions, including the titanium model, were certified as chronometers by the Japan Chronometer Inspection Institute (the last Citizen watch to be so certified). According to Citizen, the X8 titanium chronometer was made in less than 2000 examples and it was only produced from 1970 through 1971, which perhaps speaks to the expense involved in producing a titanium watch case. It was one of the more expensive watches in Citizen’s catalog, priced at JPY 45,000 (about $420 at the time; in 1970 the average US family income was $9870). The X8 name reflected the space-age identity of the watch: X for the unknown, and 8 for infinity (the symbol for infinity is ∞). Titanium was certainly the metal of the future in the 1960s and 1970s. Its lightness, strength, and resistance to corrosion made it indispensable in the aerospace industry. Titanium was also used in cutting edge military applications. The Soviet Union made attack submarines with high strength titanium hulls – the Alfa class, designed as a deep diving interceptor, could hit speeds of almost 50mph submerged, and the United States used titanium for its A12 and SR-71 reconnaissance aircraft, which still hold the record for the fastest air-breathing aircraft ever flown. In 2020, for the 50th anniversary of titanium at Citizen, the New York Times spoke to Norio Takeuchi, Citizen’s managing director for watches: “Citizen introduced what it called the world’s first titanium watch in 1970, the year after the first moon landing, although executives said the watchmaker had considered using titanium for some time. ‘We wanted a watch that everyone can wear, every day, comfortably. We were looking for the best material possible to go on their wrist,’ Mr. Takeuchi said. ‘Back then, it was during the space development with the first Apollo landing on the moon. And one of the materials used on the spacecraft was titanium.'” Titanium is expensive and difficult to refine, compared to iron and steel; the extraction process is known as the Kroll process and while it was invented by William Justice Kroll in 1932, it was not until 1940 that he had tweaked the process enough for it to become commercially viable. The cost of refining and purifying titanium, combined with the fact that it is more difficult to machine than steel, kept it from being used at scale until the 1960s, when it rapidly became the standard for airframes in commercial aviation, especially in structural components as well as engine components where high strength and light weight were essential. At the time the X8 debuted, it was not practical to produce a high gloss finish on titanium consumer products, so the X8 has a grey matte finish which is fairly close in color and texture to pure titanium sponge. Titanium sponge is the first step in titanium refining in which pure titanium results during the Kroll process. The case of the X8 was almost pure titanium – 99.6% titanium according to Citizen – and it has a texture which doesn’t feel all that far removed from titanium in its raw form. Today, Citizen’s use of titanium relies on its Duratect surface hardening technology, which can be produced in a wide range of colors and in highly polished finishes which were impossible in 1970. This process addresses the single biggest problem with titanium as a material for watch cases, which is that untreated titanium is soft and scratches easily; an image from Citizen showing a simulated ten year wear test on Duratect treated titanium vs. untreated titanium shows the dramatic difference the Duratect process makes. The Duratect process produces what Citizen calls Super Titanium, which can even be used in conjunction with platinum (Citizen has recently released the Atessa Platinum Shine collection). There is a certain almost Brutalist charm to the original X8 Chronometer, though. With its matte finish case and hybrid movement, it marks a moment in the history of horology where everything was on the table. Only a year before it debuted, the first quartz watches had been released; Accutron, which had been introduced just ten years before, had made tuning fork watches the new gold standard for wristwatch precision, albeit briefly, and the X8 itself was the first of a new wave of watch case materials which would finally break the centuries-long tradition of using gold, platinum, or steel, and make a range of new approaches to casemaking possible which would have been unimaginable just a few years before. It’s a modest enough piece to look at, perhaps, but it’s also a physical reminder of a year when the world of watches stood on the brink of transitions that would change it forever. Photographed at the Citizen exhibtion, “Super Titanium: The Beauty of Time,” open to the public at the Citizen flagship boutique in New York.


--- [The World's First Titanium Watch Doesn't Get Enough Credit] ---
Most watches are made of stainless steel. It’s a good watchmaking material, but a metal that’s both lighter and stronger is surely superior, right? The watch industry today knows titanium well and celebrates its many beneficial properties. The watch that pioneered its use way back in 1970, however, is all but relegated to obscurity. It’s so overlooked, that another watch from ten years later was long thought to hold the title of first titanium ticker. Sorry, 1980 IWC x Porsche Design Chronograph, that honor belongs to Japanese watchmaker Citizen, which produced only around 2,000 examples of its titanium X-8 Chronometer in 1970. And good luck finding a vintage one today. Why wasn’t titanium always popular? With all of titanium’s merits it seems like an obvious choice not only for military and aerospace applications, but also for wristwatches. However, some of the same things that make titanium an attractive “high-performance” material, like its impressive strength, are also what make it more expensive and difficult to work with than steel. When the watch industry refers to steel and titanium, it mostly means 316L stainless steel and Grade 5 titanium specifically, though there are variations of both with different properties. In general, however, titanium’s lightness is its primary benefit. While watch brands often cite titanium as being “stronger than steel,” it’s also softer — meaning it scratches more easily unless specially treated. Interestingly, the Citizen X-8 Chronometer’s case back proudly proclaims “scratch proof.” It’s hard to test Citizen’s claim or, if accurate, know exactly how “scratchproofness” was achieved. We do, however, know that the case, bezel, and crown of the X-8 Chronometer are said to have been produced in 99.6% pure titanium. At 45,000 JPY (~$421), it was one of the brand’s most expensive watches at the time it was introduced.


--- [Technologies for People | CITIZEN Technologies] ---
What is the ideal material for a watch? In 1970, CITIZEN unveiled the world's first titanium watch. From there, we went on to develop Super TitaniumTM. By processing solid titanium and applying Duratect, our proprietary surface-hardening technology, we created a material five times harder than stainless steel. Super TitaniumTM: light, gentle on the skin, scratch- and rust-resistant. And we won't stop now. We'll keep exploring ways to make your watch more comfortable. There's nothing sadder than scratching a watch you've only just bought. Super TitaniumTM is produced by treating solid titanium with our proprietary surface-hardening technology, Duratect, to achieve a level of hardness over five times that of stainless steel. Now you can keep your watch pristine and free from nicks and scratches. Scratch comparison test by CITIZEN WATCH CO., LTD. A watch is something you wear all day, so the lighter it is, the better. Super TitaniumTM is around half the weight of stainless steel, making it very comfortable on the wrist. Whether you're working, doing the housework or just having fun, its lightness will make life that much easier. * Super TitaniumTM is 40% lighter than stainless steel. Comparison between the same series made of stainless steel and Super TitaniumTM Solid titanium is naturally hypoallergenic and gentle on the skin. Processing, however, often undermines the metal's hypoallergenic properties. In the case of Super TitaniumTM, application of CITIZEN's surface-hardening technology Duratect solves this problem and guards against nickel and metal allergies. That's good news for people with allergies—and for people with partners or family members with allergies. Everyone can wear a Super TitaniumTM watch with total confidence. * Some models are not metal- or nickel-allergy resistant. Consult the catalogue for specific model details. Super TitaniumTM is highly resistant to corrosion from salt water. Thanks to its rust-resistance, you can keep your watch on in all sorts of situations, confident that it will keep its brilliant finish. * The pins used in the band may tarnish. CITIZEN recommends regular cleaning. Super TitaniumTM is made from solid titanium. While solid titanium has excellent hypoallergenic properties, its softness makes it particularly difficult to process. At CITIZEN, we applied our mastery of processing to develop unique technologies that overcome the challenges posed by solid titanium. Duratect is CITIZEN's proprietary technology for hardening the surfaces of watch parts. The human arm is the part of the body we move most. As such, watches are most exposed to the risk of being scratched or bumped. We want your watch to stay pristine and beautiful for as long as possible. That was the thinking behind the birth of Duratect. In the 1960s, the whole world was excited about the Apollo Program, the first manned mission to the moon. Light, strong and resistant to rust, titanium's profile rose along with the perception of it as a new metal for spacecraft applications. CITIZEN began research into titanium as a material, convinced that its properties could be leveraged to produce the perfect material for watchcases. CITIZEN released the X-8 Cosmotron Chronometer, the world's first-ever watch with a solid titanium case, in 1970, after overcoming various problems of titanium processing. The name is a combination of "X," representing the unknown, with "8," which evokes the infinity symbol. It expresses the boundless possibilities of titanium, a relatively unknown material at the time. From research, CITIZEN discovered that titanium had many merits as a material for making the watches we wear. One of those merits was the metal's hypoallergenic properties. In fact, CITIZEN was the first company to spot the benefits of titanium's hypoallergenic properties, and we teamed up with a group of dermatologists specialising in metal allergy to test how patients responded to solid titanium watches. In 1987, seventeen long years of research after the launch of the X-8 Cosmotron Chronometer, our efforts to create a watch that was gentle on the skin came to fruition with the launch of ATTESA. We had made a giant leap towards a world where everyone, with or without allergies, could safely wear a watch. Titanium diver's watch with the world's highest* water pressure resistance to the depth of 1,300 meters * At the time of release in 1982 All-titanium metal-allergy resistant watch Platinum-plated titanium watch Titanium watch treated with Duratect Titanium watch treated with Duratect DLC/MRK "Let's try to make a watch from an almost unknown material" —That was the thinking that first inspired us to research titanium. And we're still pushing the envelope today with Super TitaniumTM, a CITIZEN material derived from our titanium-processing technologies and Duratect surface-hardening technology. As our titanium-processing technology progresses, we can offer a wider range of designs; and as our surface-hardening technology, Duratect, evolves, we can develop even more scratch-resistant and hypoallergenic models. We look forward to a future where everyone can slip their watch on confident that it will feel safe and comfortable. The challenge goes on. * Some models are no longer in production or are not available in certain countries.


--- [55 Years After Bringing it First to Market, Citizen is Still the Master of ...] ---
55 Years After Bringing it First to Market, Citizen is Still the Master of Titanium 55 years ago, Citizen launched the first watch made out of titanium, and still is king when it comes to this material... Citizen… The very name of the brand is highly meaningful. “Watches made for all citizens.” Last year, when we visited the exhibition retracing 100 years of the brand, it became clear to me that the brand was doing things in a very particular way. The idea behind Citizen isn’t just to be accessible; it is to bring the best watches possible, with the best technologies possible, to as many wrists as possible. And while this might sound a bit… idealistic, there is true commitment to this motto everywhere you look at Citizen. One of the technologies we need to focus on is titanium. Something that might sound like granted now was actually a proper innovation back in the late 1960s, and we should remember that Citizen was, in 1970, the first brand to commercialise a watch in titanium. This year, the Japanese manufacturer celebrates the 55th anniversary of Super-Titanium, its proprietary take on this alloy, with yet another exhibition. Perfect moment to look back at why Citizen is still the undisputed master of titanium. The titanium revolution – 1970 For many, titanium is the ideal material for a watch. Named after the Titans of Greek mythology, titanium (used as alloys in watchmaking) offers unique properties. Titanium is lightweight, has high tensile strength, but its surface gets scratched easily. It offers excellent corrosion resistance, it is non-magnetic, non-toxic, biocompatible and hypoallergenic… There are many competitive advantages to this metal compared to steel, but titanium is not easy to use. Back in the early 1960s, not all watches were made out of steel or precious metals. This was reserved for more high-end models and, as for accessible watches made for “the people”, it wasn’t uncommon to have cases made out of chrome-plated brass, a cheaper alternative to stainless steel, which only became the norm for watch cases during the 1970s. These brass-coated cases were prone to corrosion since the plating would peel off over time. This is when Citizen embarked on a mission to find its own alternative. Inside the walls of Citizen’s Watch Technology Research Laboratory (yes, the brand did have that… all the way back in 1964), the brand started to look for alternative, more capable materials to craft watches. Citizen’s engineers turned their attention to titanium, which was recognised as rust-resistant, strong, hypoallergenic and light. However, working with titanium is a challenge. Triple Trouble… Welcome titanium and the X-8 Compared to more traditional metals and alloys such as steel, gold or even brass, all relatively easy to machine and stamp, titanium is an extremely difficult metal to process. This is what Citizen’s engineers quickly discovered by trying to process titanium using the same methods as conventional metals. And soon, titanium got nicknamed “triple trouble” within the walls of the Watch Technology Research Laboratory. Titanium could not be pressed, machined or polished. It tends to stick to the mould when it is pressed, it wears down tools when it is machined, and traditional polishing techniques do not obtain a perfectly even surface. Among the challenges it presents are low thermal conductivity, a tendency to stick to the machining edges of cutting tools, and highly combustible shavings. But Citizen’s engineers were up to the challenge and, by devising ingenious techniques to solve all these problems, they invented processing technologies that were beyond the capabilities of any other company at the time. The result: a method using a titanium first heated and then pressed. The resulting blanks had a bit of a funny look, like melted dough out of a mould. These blanks were then shaved, machined and brushed to get the desired shape and dimensions, but the brand also found the solution to polish some of the cases’ surfaces – and yes, they kept this process secret for a while. But these finishes won’t appear immediately on the market. Back in 1970, as the first brand to ever be able to do so, Citizen introduced the X-8 Chronometer. If it wasn’t the first watch made of titanium, as Omega developed several Speedmaster prototypes for NASA back in 1968/69, within the Alaska Project. However, the X-8 Chronometer was the first watch commercially available in titanium. The watch in question was still pretty rough, with no specific signs of decoration or finishing, but it remains a highly important model that led the way to further innovations. The evolution leading to Super-Titanium As said above, titanium as a raw alloy isn’t particularly resistant to wear. In fact, titanium tends to form an oxidation layer when in contact with ambient air, and that layer is extremely easy to scratch. Over the years, the brand continued to experiment with titanium, pioneering new techniques to process the metal. Thus, Citizen’s engineers sought ways to overcome one of titanium’s drawbacks, mostly to improve the rough, matte aspect of titanium and to enhance its resistance to wear. In 1987, with the launch of the Attesa collection, Citizen released titanium watches with a soft, lustrous finish. The brand’s efforts in this direction led to the invention of Duratect. This came to reality in 2000 with the introduction of the ASPEC World Time. The culmination of Citizen’s efforts to master titanium has been the creation of Super Titanium™ – a registered trademark for a material that combines the brand’s titanium-processing technologies and the Duratect surface-hardening process. Citizen’s Super Titanium™ is lightweight (about 60% lighter than steel) and is particularly comfortable on the wrist, gentle on the skin and hypoallergenic. It is scratch-resistant (approx. 1,700 – 2,300 HV) with a surface hardness about five times superior to that of stainless steel. It is rust-resistant and can be produced in a variety of colours – unlike untreated titanium. Below: the 10-year scratch comparison test… on the left, a clasp that’s been treated with Duratect, and on the right, a clasp in untreated titanium, confirming the benefit of Super Titanium over standard titanium. I later asked Yoshihisa Yajima, Chief Operating Officer of Citizen, what the future was for Citizen and Super Titanium, and he explained to me that the next step, which is now visible with the introduction of a new Duratect Amber yellow surface treatment, was to play with colours. In fact, Citizen was presenting case prototypes in an array of tones, ranging from traditional black or grey coatings, to more usual colours such as sakura pink, blue or even crystalised titanium, which is a coating with texture… Also, the brand introduced a few years ago a technology named MRK, which not only improves the resistance to scratches but also to dents. If you take the example of Duratect Amber yellow, it shows multiple advantages compared to traditional gold plating. Not only is this applied to lightweight titanium, making the watches more comfortable to wear, but also safer. Indeed, conventional gold plating often uses nickel, a common cause of allergies. In contrast, Duratect Amber yellow contains zero nickel and instead uses a niobium-titanium alloy to produce its distinctive gold colour. This gives the metal hypoallergenic properties. Being composed of multiple coatings applied to the base metal, Duratect Amber yellow provides one of the highest levels of hardness within the Duratect line-up, making it 10 to 20 times harder than conventional gold plating and providing superior resistance to scratches. The Citizen and Zenshin… The latest Super-Titanium watches The exhibition celebrating the 55th anniversary of titanium was also the occasion to discover the brand’s latest models made out of Super Titanium, with two major releases placed on both sides of the spectrum, one being a truly accessible take on the titanium sports watch, the other representing the best of what Citizen is capable of… On the higher-end side of things, Citizen used the exhibition to present a duo of watches made, of course, of Super Titanium. Created to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the “The Citizen” collection, the references AQ4106-26L and AQ4100-65M were first publicly shown during the titanium exhibition. The key takeaway here is dials made using genuine washi paper dyed in a deep shade of indigo, a great tribute to the country of origin of Citizen. Both are limited editions powered by Eco-Drive movements with an annual accuracy of ± 5 seconds. The angular cases, here produced with great attention to detail, including attractive facetted lugs, are made of Super Titanium with either a black Duratect DLC coating (AQ4106-26) or a platinum Duratect coating (AQ4100-65M), the latter giving a bright and highly reflective surface to its case and bracelet. These 38mm models also show greatly detailed dials, as in addition to the washi paper surface, these are fitted with superb hands and markers, showing wide polished bevels. These models are respectively limited to 300 and 550 pieces worldwide and priced at EUR 3,395 and EUR 3,495. On the other side of the spectrum, in a far more accessible price range, are the new Zenshin 60 Automatic watches. A collection of 4 new watches made entirely in Super Titanium, bracelet included, which we’ve introduced in this article. And yes, Citizen has such a high level of integration and experience in titanium that the brand is capable of offering these models under 500 euros. And when I asked Mr Yajima how they were capable of doing that, his answer, accompanied by the hint of a smile, was that they had to keep some industrial processes secret, but some of the reasons behind this accessibility were a combination of in-house manufacturing (including the coating process), avoid external costs, and clever solutions such as stamping the links of the bracelet and not machining them, again to reduce production costs. The result is, without a doubt, a collection of highly appealing models that deliver a lot more than what the price lets you think. And this is why Citizen is, arguably, one of the most capable brands when it comes to making watches in titanium. For more details, please visit CitizenWatch.eu or CitizenWatch-Global.com.
