=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Erdős-Rényi Prize - Wikipedia]
The Erdős-Rényi Prize of the Network Science Society is named after Paul Erdős and Alfréd Rényi. This international prize is awarded annually in a special ceremony at the International Conference on Network Science to a selected young scientist (under 40 years old on the day of the nomination deadline) for their research achievements in ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erd%C5%91s%E2%80%93R%C3%A9nyi_Prize

[Erdős-Rényi Prize - NetSci – The Network Science Society]
The Erdős-Rényi Prize will be awarded to a single scientist meeting the criteria above. The prize consists of a cash award in the amount of US $3,000, a personalized plaque and the honor of a lecture at the NetSci International School and Conference on Network Science, which is the annual flagship conference of the society.
URL: https://netscisociety.net/award-prizes/er-prize

[APPC Distinguished Research Fellow Danielle Bassett Awarded Erdős-Rényi Prize | The Annenberg Public Policy Center of the University of Pennsylvania]
Bassett is the seventh scientist and fourth American to receive the prize, which was given to her during NetSci’s International Conference on Network Science this past summer in Paris, according to the Penn bioengineering blog. In Paris she delivered a lecture on her work, which uses network science to augment our understanding of the organization of the brain in a subset of network science known as network neuroscience. “Receiving the Erdős-Rényi Prize is a clear recognition from her colleagues that Dani is a true pioneer with many significant accomplishments to date and even more ahead of her,” Penn bioengineering chair Dave Meaney said.
URL: https://www.annenbergpublicpolicycenter.org/appc-distinguished-research-fellow-danielle-bassett-awarded-erdos-renyi-prize/

[Erdős–Rényi Prize - Justapedia]
Aug 20, 2022 · Past recipients include: ... ^ ISI Foundation press release: Vittoria Colizza receives prestigious Erdős–Rényi Prize 2017 in network science ...
URL: https://justapedia.org/wiki/Erd%C5%91s%E2%80%93R%C3%A9nyi_Prize

[Indiana University hosting world’s largest conference on network science in Indianapolis: IU News]
Today, the Network Science Society honored former IU researcher Vittoria Colizza with the 2017 Erdős-Rényi Prize at the conference. The award recognizes young scientists for contributions to the field of network science.
URL: https://news.iu.edu/live/news/23861-indiana-university-hosting-worlds-largest


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Erdős-Rényi Prize - Wikipedia] ---
The Erdős–Rényi Prize of the Network Science Society is named after Paul Erdős and Alfréd Rényi. This international prize is awarded annually in a special ceremony at the International Conference on Network Science to a selected young scientist (under 40 years old on the day of the nomination deadline) for their research achievements in the area of network science, broadly construed. While the achievements can be both theoretical and experimental, the prize is aimed at emphasizing outstanding contributions relevant to the interdisciplinary progress of network science.
Past recipients are:

2012: Roger Guimera, Rovira i Virgili University, for outstanding work as a young researcher in Network Science for the technical depth and the interdisciplinary values of his scientific contributions to the analysis of network cartography and community identification.
2013: Adilson E. Motter, Northwestern University, for his groundbreaking contributions to the study of synchronization phenomena and the control of cascading failures in complex networks.
2014: Mason A. Porter, University of Oxford, for his fundamental research on the mathematics of networks and his outreach efforts to teach network science to students in schools.
2015: Chaoming Song, University of Miami, for the breadth and depth of his influential work, ranging from network applications of self-similarity and renormalization group theory to the in-depth analysis of big data on human mobility.
2016: Aaron Clauset, University of Colorado Boulder, for his contributions to the study of network structure, including Internet mapping, inference of missing links, and community structure, and for his provocative analyses of human conflicts and social stratification.
2017: Vittoria Colizza, Inserm, for contributions to fundamental and data-driven network-based modeling of epidemic processes, including seminal studies on metapopulation systems, the impact of air transportation, and the predictability of epidemic outbreaks.
2018: Danielle Bassett, University of Pennsylvania, for fundamental contributions to our understanding of the network architecture of the human brain, its evolution over learning and development, and its alteration in neurological disease.
2019: Tiago P. Peixoto, Central European University, for groundbreaking contributions to the statistical analysis and visualization of networks, including efficient and principled inference algorithms based on the stochastic block model, and compression and prediction of richly annotated or hierarchical structures.
2020: Sonia Kéfi, CNRS, for foundational and empirically grounded theoretical research that has advanced network science and its applications in ecology, with a focus on multiple types of interactions among species and the implications for global change, opening the path to new ways to study ecosystems.
2021: Dashun Wang, Northwestern University, for foundational and empirically grounded theoretical research that has advanced network science and its applications in the field of computational social sciences, with a focus on the science of science and on developing methods related to quantifying and improving human achievement and standards-of-living.
2022: Linyuan Lü, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, for groundbreaking contributions to network information filtering, including seminal works on link prediction and detection of influential nodes in networked structures, and their technological applications.
2023: Daniel B. Larremore, University of Colorado Boulder, for socially impactful contributions to network models of human-disease dynamics, with applications to malaria and the COVID-19 pandemic, and for foundational research in the theoretical and practical use of algorithms for community detection.
2024: Antoine Allard, Université Laval, for  the breadth and depth of his contributions to modeling complex systems as networks, including the geometry of networks and the role of heterogeneity and superspreading in contemporary diseases and complex contagions.


--- [Erdős-Rényi Prize - NetSci – The Network Science Society] ---
No content


--- [APPC Distinguished Research Fellow Danielle Bassett Awarded Erdős-Rényi Prize | The Annenberg Public Policy Center of the University of Pennsylvania] ---
The Annenberg Public Policy Center congratulates Danielle Bassett, an APPC distinguished research fellow, on being awarded the Erdős-Rényi Prize from the Network Science Society (NetSci). The prize honors the work of a scientist under the age of 40 for achievements in the field of network science. Danielle Bassett, Ph.D., the Eduardo D. Glandt Faculty Fellow and associate professor of bioengineering at Penn Engineering at the University of Pennsylvania, was honored by NetSci for “fundamental contributions to our understanding of the network architecture of the human brain, its evolution over learning and development, and its alteration in neurological disease.” NetSci noted that “while the achievements can be both theoretical and experimental, the prize is aimed at emphasizing outstanding contributions relevant to the interdisciplinary progress of network science.” Bassett is the seventh scientist and fourth American to receive the prize, which was given to her during NetSci’s International Conference on Network Science this past summer in Paris, according to the Penn bioengineering blog. In Paris she delivered a lecture on her work, which uses network science to augment our understanding of the organization of the brain in a subset of network science known as network neuroscience. “Receiving the Erdős-Rényi Prize is a clear recognition from her colleagues that Dani is a true pioneer with many significant accomplishments to date and even more ahead of her,” Penn bioengineering chair Dave Meaney said. “She is an amazing role model for all of us.” Bassett said, “I am thrilled and honored to receive this prestigious award. Network science is a true passion for me, and it is heartwarming to see my work, and that of my fantastic collaborators and brilliant students, acknowledged in this way.”


--- [Erdős–Rényi Prize - Justapedia] ---
No content


--- [Indiana University hosting world’s largest conference on network science in Indianapolis: IU News] ---
An institute established at Indiana University only three years ago is playing host to the world’s largest gathering of experts in the emerging field of network science. Almost 700 experts gathered at the JW Marriott in Indianapolis starting June 19 for NetSci 2017, the flagship conference of the Network Science Society. The event, which runs through June 23, is hosted by the Indiana University Network Science Institute, or IUNI. Network science is the study of the complex networks that underlie large-scale systems, including the environment, economics, technology and human health. IUNI was established in 2014 to help understand and manage the function of these complex systems, a key challenge of the 21st century. This year’s NetSci conference is the largest in history, with 680 registrations from 29 countries. The event also featured three keynote speakers, 10 plenary speakers, 22 pre-conference satellite workshops and 23 technical sessions with about 130 oral presentations and 218 posters. A third of the attendees and speakers are from outside the United States, including China, Korea, Japan, the United Kingdom and Italy. “This year’s NetSci conference is truly the largest ever,” said Olaf Sporns, IU Distinguished Professor in the IU Bloomington College of Arts and Sciences’ Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences and co-chair of NetSci 2017. “Bringing this international meeting to Indianapolis gives a major boost to IU’s vibrant and accomplished network science community of faculty and students. IUNI was instrumental in making this happen, and we will continue to work toward strengthening IU’s leadership role in this fast-growing discipline.” The conference is also the first time the state has played host to this major scientific event in over a decade. The inaugural NetSci conference was hosted at IU Bloomington in 2006. “After starting NetSci a little over 10 years ago, we’re thrilled to bring the flagship Network Science conference back to IU,” said Fil Menczer, professor in the IU School of Informatics and Computing and co-chair of the conference. “Network Science has grown since then from a niche research area to a major interdisciplinary field, and we are proud that IU with its Network Science Institute is a world leader in this exciting scientific endeavor.” Today, the Network Science Society honored former IU researcher Vittoria Colizza with the 2017 Erdős-Rényi Prize at the conference. The award recognizes young scientists for contributions to the field of network science. A rising expert on the intersection of network science and disease prevention, Colizza spent three years as a postdoctoral researcher and later a visiting professor at the IU School of Informatics and Computing. Currently, she leads the EPIcx lab at the French National Institute for Health and Medical Research in Paris, which works to characterize and model the spread of emerging infectious diseases using network science methods. Colizza also delivered the honorary lecture at NetSci 2017. Over the past three years, scientists affiliated with IUNI have advanced research in numerous high-impact areas, including: - Neuroscience research to understanding the complex function of interconnected communication networks in the brain – a field of science known as the human connectome – as well as the development of an online platform for scientists to share neuroscience research data. - The development of tools to detect fake social media accounts used to promote false and deceptive misinformation campaigns online as well as a search engine to track and understand the spread of false information across the Web. - The analysis of social networks to understand and prevent the abuse of prescription painkiller medications through the practice of “doctor shopping.” - Research on how social networks affect people’s attitudes and actions about health care, including their influence on access to treatment for mental illness. The institute’s leaders said the close connections between various scientific fields – such as informatics, computer science, neuroscience, medicine, political science and sociology – set IUNI apart globally. In addition to NetSci 2017, IUNI has hosted numerous other lectures, workshops, workgroups and other activities to foster collaboration between scientists interested in network science across disciplines. This will include the inaugural Big Data Neuroscience 2017 Workshop from Sept. 8 to 9 organized by the Advanced Neuroscience Network in collaboration with IUNI. The event is supported by a grant from the National Science Foundation to Franco Pestilli of the IU Bloomington College of Arts and Sciences’ Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences and others to establish a Neurosciences “Spoke” under the Midwest Big Data Hub. The next NetSci conference will take place June 11 to 15 in Paris, France.
