=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Eddington Medal - Wikipedia]
The Eddington Medal is awarded by the Royal Astronomical Society for investigations of outstanding merit in theoretical astrophysics. It is named after Sir Arthur Eddington. First awarded in 1953, the frequency of the prize has varied over the years, at times being every one, two or three years. Since 2013 it has been awarded annually.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eddington_Medal

[Eddington Medal - NNDB]
1953. Georges Lemaître. 1955. Hendrik C. van de Hulst. 1958. Horace W. Babcock. 1959. James Stanley Hey. 1960. Robert d'Escourt Atkinson. 1961.
URL: https://www.nndb.com/honors/020/000166519/

[Eddington Medal _ AcademiaLab]
The Eddington Medal, created after the death of Sir Arthur Eddington, is an award given by the Royal Astronomical Society every two years to those researchers who have made merit in the field of theoretical astrophysics. Awarded 1953 Georges Lemaître 1955 Hendrik C. van de Hulst 1958 Horace W. Babcock 1959 James Stanley Hey
URL: https://academia-lab.com/encyclopedia/eddington-medal/

[Eddington Medal for Bernard Schutz - aei.mpg.de]
The Eddington Medal is awarded by the Royal Astronomical Society for investigations of outstanding merit in theoretical astrophysics. It was first awarded in 1953 to the cosmologist Georges Lemaître who proposed the expansion of the Universe on theoretical grounds. Bernard Schutz is the 43rdrecipient of the Eddington Medal. The award recognizes his...
URL: https://www.aei.mpg.de/58234/eddington-medal-for-bernard-schutz

[Pioneering professor wins Eddington Medal - News - Cardiff ...]
Professor Schutz joins an illustrious body of astrophysicists including Professors Stephen Hawking and Roger Penrose (1975) in receiving the accolade, named after English astronomer and mathematician Sir Arthur Eddington who made the first empirical test of Einstein's theory. It was first awarded in 1953 to the cosmologist Georges Lemaître who proposed the expansion of the Universe on ...
URL: https://www.cardiff.ac.uk/news/view/1414452-pioneering-professor-wins-eddington-medal


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Eddington Medal - Wikipedia] ---
The Eddington Medal is awarded by the Royal Astronomical Society for investigations of outstanding merit in theoretical astrophysics. It is named after Sir Arthur Eddington. First awarded in 1953, the frequency of the prize has varied over the years, at times being every one, two or three years. Since 2013 it has been awarded annually.


--- [Eddington Medal - NNDB] ---
HONOR Named for Arthur Eddington and awarded by the Royal Astronomical Society for achievement in theoretical astrophysics. Copyright ©2026 image.horse offers fast, simple image hosting No Registration · Forever Free weather.baby — clean, at-a-glance forecasts No Ads · No Tracking · No Clutter


--- [Eddington Medal _ AcademiaLab] ---
Eddington Medal keyboard_arrow_down Contenido The Eddington Medal, created after the death of Sir Arthur Eddington, is an award given by the Royal Astronomical Society every two years to those researchers who have made merit in the field of theoretical astrophysics. Awarded - 1953 Georges Lemaître - 1955 Hendrik C. van de Hulst - 1958 Horace W. Babcock - 1959 James Stanley Hey - 1960 Robert d'Escourt Atkinson - 1961 Hans Albrecht Bethe - 1962 André Lallemand - 1963 J. A. R. Sandage, Martin Schwarzschild - 1964 Herbert Friedman, Richard Tousey - 1965 Robert Vivian Pound, Glen A. Rebka - 1966 Rupert Wildt - 1967 Robert F. Christy - 1968 Robert Hanbury Brown, Richard Q. Twiss - 1969 Antony Hewish - 1970 Chushiro Hayashi - 1971 Desmond George King-Hele - 1972 Paul Ledoux - 1975 Stephen Hawking, Roger Penrose - 1978 William A. Fowler - 1981 Philip James Edwin Peebles - 1984 Donald Lynden-Bell - 1987 Bohdan Paczynski - 1990 Icko Iben - 1993 Leon Mestel - 1996 Alan Guth - 1999 Roger Blandford - 2002 Douglas O. Gough - 2005 Rudolph Kippenhahn - 2007 Igor D. Novikov - 2009 Jim Pringle - 2011 Gilles Chabrier - 2013 James Binney - 2014 Andrew King - 2015 Rashid Sunyaev - 2016 Anthony Bell - 2017 Cathie Clarke - 2018 Claudia Maraston Contenido relacionado Capsule Cytidine 2P/Encke Más resultados...


--- [Eddington Medal for Bernard Schutz - aei.mpg.de] ---
Eddington Medal for Bernard Schutz Director emeritus at the AEI in Potsdam will be awarded this year’s Eddington Medal by the Royal Astronomical Society. Professor Dr. Dr. h.c. Bernard F. Schutz, director emeritus at and founding director of the Max Planck Institute for Gravitational Physics (Albert Einstein Institute; AEI) in Potsdam will receive the 2019 Eddington Medal. The Royal Astronomical Society recognises Schutz’ work from 1986 in which he showed how to determine distances to gravitational wave sources and to use them to measure the expansion of the Universe in a new and independent way. The award ceremony will take place in July at the National way using gravitational waves and electromagnetic observations. The award ceremony will take place in July at the National Astronomy Meeting of the Royal Astronomical Society. “I am delighted to be receiving the Eddington Medal. It is wonderful to have this recognition from my fellow astronomers and astrophysicists of the importance that work I did over 30 years ago has achieved today,” says Bernard Schutz. “This is more than a recognition of work done 30 years ago; the pleasure of getting this recognition is a reward for having dedicated much of my career to reaching the goal of opening the field of gravitational wave astronomy. And that I will receive this medal 100 years after Eddington himself provided crucial proof of the validity of Einstein’s theory makes it a special honour indeed.” The Eddington Medal The Eddington Medal is awarded by the Royal Astronomical Society for investigations of outstanding merit in theoretical astrophysics. It was first awarded in 1953 to the cosmologist Georges Lemaître who proposed the expansion of the Universe on theoretical grounds. Bernard Schutz is the 43rd recipient of the Eddington Medal. The award recognizes his 1986 work on how to determine the expansion of the Universe in a novel and independent way with gravitational-wave and electromagnetic observations. He showed that gravitational waves from collisions (mergers) of two neutron stars or black holes are “standard sirens” carrying information about their distance to Earth. For neutron stars, an optical observation of the explosion caused by the merger can provide the cosmological redshift. Combining these two observations yields the Hubble constant, a measure for the expansion of the Universe. A prediction come true after 31 years GW170817, the first gravitational-wave signal from a binary neutron star merger detected by the LIGO and Virgo detectors on 17th of August 2017, made Schutz’ prediction of a gravitational-wave based determination of the Hubble constant come true after 31 years. Many more binary neutron star merger signals are expected to be observed through gravitational waves in the next years, which can provide an increasingly precise and independent Hubble constant measurement. “The observations we have made so far are just the beginning. As detectors improve, and as we go into space with the LISA mission, we will use this tool to answer many questions about the history of the Universe,” explains Schutz. Bernard Schutz After studying physics at Clarkson University, New York, USA, Schutz obtained his PhD in 1972 at the California Institute of Technology. After 21 years at Cardiff University, Wales, UK as Lecturer and Reader and Professor for Physics and Astronomy he became one of the founding directors of the Max Planck Institute for Gravitational Physics (Albert Einstein Institute; AEI) in Potsdam in 1994. As director of the Astrophysical Relativity department he played a major role in building up the institute until his retirement in 2014. Currently he is director emeritus at the AEI, and deputy director of the of the Data Innovation Institute in Cardiff. Bernard Schutz has developed important principles for the observation of the universe with gravitational waves and plays a leading role in the development of both earth-based and space-based gravitational wave observatories. He pioneered the use of supercomputers to solve Einstein’s field equations and study black holes. He founded the world-leading open-access journal family Living Reviews and has become well known for his contributions to physics education and outreach. Schutz has been awarded the 2006 Amaldi Medal by the Italian Society of General Relativity and Gravitation (SIGRAV) for his important contributions to gravitational physics.


--- [Pioneering professor wins Eddington Medal - News - Cardiff ...] ---
Pioneering professor wins Eddington Medal 11 January 2019 A Cardiff University professor who discovered how to measure the expansion of the universe has been honoured by the Royal Astronomical Society (RAS). Bernard Schutz will receive the Eddington Medal for ‘an investigation of outstanding merit in theoretical astrophysics.’ His pioneering work paved the way for analysis pipelines that are at now at the heart of searches for gravitational waves through the Laser Interferometer Gravitational Wave Observatory (LIGO) and the VIRGO interferometer. In a 1986 paper, Professor Schutz, School of Physics and Astronomy, showed how gravitational waves can be used to measure the cosmic expansion rate. He argued that gravitational waves from collisions (mergers) of two neutron stars or black holes are “standard sirens” carrying information about their distance to Earth. Thirty years later, his theory was realised when both gravitational and electromagnetic waves were detected by LIGO. In 2017, Professor Schutz travelled to Stockholm to watch his former PhD supervisor and mentor, Kip Thorne, share a Nobel Prize for his work on LIGO. The landmark discovery was made possible thanks to the significant contribution of a team of researchers at Cardiff University’s School of Physics and Astronomy. Professor Schutz said: “I am delighted to be receiving the Eddington Medal. It is wonderful to have this recognition from my fellow astronomers and astrophysicists of the importance that work I did over 30 years ago has achieved today. Professor Schutz joins an illustrious body of astrophysicists including Professors Stephen Hawking and Roger Penrose (1975) in receiving the accolade, named after English astronomer and mathematician Sir Arthur Eddington who made the first empirical test of Einstein’s theory. It was first awarded in 1953 to the cosmologist Georges Lemaître who proposed the expansion of the Universe on theoretical grounds. “The Medal is more than a recognition of work done 30 years ago,” said Professor Schutz, who will receive the award at the National Astronomical Meeting in July. “The pleasure of achieving this recognition is a reward for having dedicated much of my career to reaching the goal of opening the field of gravitational wave astronomy. Receiving the medal 100 years after Eddington himself provided crucial proof of the validity of Einstein’s theory makes it a special honour indeed.” https://youtu.be/yJKho7HterU Born and educated in the USA, Professor Schutz earned his PhD in Physics from the California Institute of Technology in 1971. After postdoctoral work in Cambridge with Stephen Hawking and Martin Rees, and further work at Yale University, he became a lecturer at what was University College Cardiff in 1974. In 1995, by then a Professor, he moved to Germany as one of two founding directors of the Max Planck Institute for Gravitational Physics (Albert Einstein Institute). Retiring from that post in 2014, he returned to Cardiff University as a Professor in Physics and Astronomy and the first director of the University’s Data Innovation Research Institute. He serves as an Adjunct Professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology in the USA. Professor Schutz’ body of work over 40 years continues to influence the future study of astrophysics. “The observations we have made so far are just the beginning,” he added. “As detectors improve, and as we go into space with European Space Agency’s Laser Interferometer Space Antenna (LISA) mission, we will use this tool to answer many questions about the history of the Universe.” Share this story We excel in education, research and innovation and are building strong international relationships whilst demonstrating our commitment to Wales.
