=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jérôme Sabourin - Wikipedia]
Jérôme Sabourin is a Canadian cinematographer and documentary filmmaker, [1] most noted as a three-time winner of the Gémeaux Award for Best Cinematography in a Drama Series. He is the son of actor Marcel Sabourin. [2] In 2019 he announced that he was entering production on At the End of Nothing at All (Au boute du rien pantoute), a documentary film about his father, as his directorial ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J%C3%A9r%C3%B4me_Sabourin

[Marcel Sabourin - The Canadian Encyclopedia]
Sabourin was born in Montreal in 1935 and grew up in poverty. He was interested in the arts at a very young age, but his family had no money to send him to school. He began his studies at the age of 12 thanks to a cousin who paid his school fees to make up for a debt owed to Sabourin’s father. Sabourin has said that had this not happened, he likely...
URL: https://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/marcel-sabourin

[Jérôme Sabourin - Encyclopedia Information]
Jérôme Sabourin is a Canadian cinematographer and documentary filmmaker, 1 most noted as a three-time winner of the Gémeaux Award for Best Cinematography in a Drama Series. He is the son of actor Marcel Sabourin. 2 In 2019 he announced that he was entering production on At the End of Nothing at All (Au boute du rien pantoute), a documentary film about his father, as his directorial debut. 1 ...
URL: https://www.alamoana.net/info/en/?search=J%C3%A9r%C3%B4me_Sabourin

[L'imagination sans bornes de Marcel Sabourin - Le Soleil]
Mar 15, 2024 · Avec sa vaste feuille de route, Marcel Sabourin aurait pu faire l’objet d’un film biographique traditionnel. Mais ce n’est pas le chemin qu’a pris le fils de celui-ci, Jérôme Sabourin.
URL: https://www.lesoleil.com/arts/cinema/2024/03/15/limagination-sans-bornes-de-marcel-sabourin-LMXDMUFRMJANBMFVGRTEPPEEYE/

[My father touched me while he thinks I'm asleep - Reddit]
Oct 28, 2023 · My father was still asleep on the lower bunk bed, so I decided to wait until he woke up. I didn't dare to sleep on the upper bunk bed because I'm a little heavy (53kgs.) and pur bunk bed is a bit too old, so for safety reasons, I just decided to wait on the floor. Around 9-10 a.m. my father finally woke up, so I took the bed and slept like a log.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/TrueOffMyChest/comments/17i8a48/my_father_touched_me_while_he_thinks_im_asleep/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jérôme Sabourin - Wikipedia] ---
Jérôme Sabourin is a Canadian cinematographer and documentary filmmaker, most noted as a three-time winner of the Gémeaux Award for Best Cinematography in a Drama Series.
He is the son of actor Marcel Sabourin. In 2019 he announced that he was entering production on At the End of Nothing at All (Au boute du rien pantoute), a documentary film about his father, as his directorial debut. The film premiered at the 2024 Rendez-vous Québec Cinéma.


--- [Marcel Sabourin - The Canadian Encyclopedia] ---
Marcel Sabourin, OC, actor, writer, screenwriter, lyricist, producer, director, teacher (born 25 March 1935 in Montreal, QC). An important figure in Quebec cinema and television, Marcel Sabourin has performed in more Quebec films than any other actor. He first came to prominence as Professor Mandibule in the Radio-Canada children’s TV programs Les Croquignoles (1963–67) and La Ribouldingue (1967–71). He is perhaps best known for his role as Abel Gagné in Jean-Pierre Lefebvre’s acclaimed Abel trilogy. Sabourin received the Jutra-Hommage lifetime achievement award at the Jutra Awards (now Prix Iris) in 1999. He was made an Officer of the Order of Canada in 2019. Early Life and Education Sabourin was born in Montreal in 1935 and grew up in poverty. He was interested in the arts at a very young age, but his family had no money to send him to school. He began his studies at the age of 12 thanks to a cousin who paid his school fees to make up for a debt owed to Sabourin’s father. Sabourin has said that had this not happened, he likely would have started working at age 12 to help support his family. His early interest in theatre led him to begin his acting career with the touring children’s theatre La Roulotte, organized by Paul Buissonneau. It performed in Montreal city parks. Sabourin also studied at Montreal’s Collège Sainte-Marie and at the Théâtre du Nouveau Monde (TNM) in his youth. Early Career Generations of Quebec children know Marcel Sabourin from two ground-breaking children’s TV programs developed by Radio-Canada: Les Croquignoles (1963–67) and La Ribouldingue (1967–71). Sabourin played the same role in both series, that of the madcap Professor Mandibule. Already an established television actor in Quebec at age 19, Sabourin decided to complete his formal theatre training over a five-year period in Paris. He studied under Jacques Lecoq, among other veteran French actors. He also studied at The Actors Studio in New York City. At the age of 23, he began teaching at the National Theatre School in Montreal. Career Highlights After he returned to Quebec from France, Sabourin worked primarily in theatre. He began his film career in 1967 with his first turn as Abel Gagné in Il ne faut pas mourir pour ça, which he co-wrote with director Jean-Pierre Lefebvre. It would prove to be the first film in Lefebvre’s acclaimed Abel trilogy, which also included Le Vieux pays où Rimbaud est mort (1977) and Aujourd’hui ou jamais (1998). One of Quebec’s most prolific actors, Sabourin has more than 150 credits to his name in film and television, in both French and English. He has also hosted numerous television shows in Quebec throughout his career, provided his voice to various documentaries (including the French version of the acclaimed Ken Burns series, Baseball), and recorded two audio books. Sabourin has performed in many films about important historical figures, including former Quebec premier Maurice Duplessis, former US first lady Jackie Kennedy, former prime minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau, Métis leader Louis Riel, disgraced property developer Robert Campeau, and the Dionne Quintuplets. Lyricist One of Sabourin’s most important contributions outside of acting is as a lyricist. He has been fascinated with Quebec French and its unique expressions and idioms. (See also Joual.) He passed his fascination onto some of his students at the National Theatre School, including Louise Forestier and Robert Charlebois. Sabourin wrote songs for Charlebois. Through his relationship with Charlebois and Forestier, Sabourin played an important role in developing the groundbreaking musical and comedy review L’Osstidcho. It was presented at Montreal’s Théâtre de Quat’Sous and the Comédie-Canadienne in 1968, and then at Place des Arts in 1969. Family Marcel Sabourin married his wife, Françoise, in the 1960s. They have four children, including actor and screenwriter Gabriel Sabourin and Jérôme Sabourin, a director of photography. Honours and Awards Marcel Sabourin has won many awards and distinctions throughout his long career. He won a Canadian Film Award for his performance in André Melançon’s Des armes et les hommes in 1973. He was also twice nominated for best actor at both the Canadian Film Awards and the Genie Awards (now the Canadian Screen Awards); first in 1977 for Jean Beaudin’s J.A. Martin, photographe and again in 1983 for Fernand Dansereau’s Doux aveux. Sabourin was nominated for best adapted screenplay at the 1980 Genies along with co-writer Jean Beaudin for the film Cordélia. He also shared in winning the first Chalmers Award for Theatre for Young Audiences in 1982 for Pleurer pour Rire. In Quebec, Sabourin won the first Prix Gémeaux for lead actor in a dramatic series in 1987 for Marie et François. He was twice nominated for the best actor Jutra Award (now Prix Iris) and received the Jutra-Hommage lifetime achievement award in 1999. He was made an Officer of the Order of Canada in 2019.


--- [Jérôme Sabourin - Encyclopedia Information] ---
No content


--- [L'imagination sans bornes de Marcel Sabourin - Le Soleil] ---
Au bout du fil, Jérôme Sabourin le précisera rapidement : il n’était pas question de faire un documentaire qui traverse chronologiquement la vie de Marcel Sabourin. Ni même un film qui met de l’avant leur relation père-fils. «Marcel Sabourin, c’est un sujet qui est large. […] Mais je voulais faire un film qui souligne son imaginaire», explique Jérôme Sabourin, en entrevue au Soleil. Si la confiance entre les deux hommes se ressent à l’écran, le célèbre directeur photo (Minuit le soir, Les Lavigueur, Les pays d’en haut) signe toutefois le scénario du documentaire avec Angélique Richer et Sarah Lévesque. «Il y a des désavantages aussi à [réaliser un documentaire sur son père]. Beaucoup d’événements ou de détails étaient pour moi sans intérêt parce que je les connaissais trop. Je n’avais pas ce recul qui est important : on doit aussi être spectateur de nos films. […] J’avais donc besoin de distance et je trouvais intéressant que quelqu’un d’autre écrive aussi le scénario», ajoute l’artiste multidisciplinaire. Témoin de longue date de l’imagination débordante de son père, Jérôme Sabourin a réussi à capter avec sa caméra différents instants où son univers se déploie. Des scènes parfois «absurdes» qui rendent hommage à «l’espace de créativité» qu’ont créé ses parents tout au long de son enfance, dans la maison familiale. «C’est le seul aspect familial du film parce que cet espace imaginaire est directement en relation avec le personnage de Marcel Sabourin. Mais on ne sait pas qui a créé qui. […] Mes parents avaient cette volonté extraordinaire de faire du monde autour d’eux un monde d’expressions», partage l’aîné d’une famille de quatre enfants. «C’est mon métier» Le principal intéressé ne s’en cache pas : il n’était pas «très enthousiaste» lorsqu’on lui a présenté l’idée d’un documentaire sur sa vie, il y a environ huit ans. S’il qualifie le projet de son fils comme étant «extrêmement généreux», Marcel Sabourin a toutefois tenté de l’en dissuader, sûr et certain que son passé ne pouvait intéresser quiconque. Pour lui, cet imaginaire fertile mis en lumière dans Au boute du rien pantoute n’est d’ailleurs pas tout à fait extraordinaire : il s’agit de l’un de ses nombreux outils de travail. Un instrument qui l’a aidé à interpréter Mandibule dans La ribouldingue (1967-1971), à bâtir le scénario de J. A. Martin photographe (1977) ou encore à écrire plusieurs chansons pour Robert Charlebois, comme Tout écartillé ou Egg Generation. «C’est mon métier d’aiguiser [cet imaginaire]. Comme acteur, comme auteur et comme enseignant, on est obligé d’aiguiser notre rapport avec l’autre : le langage du corps qui s’appelle la pantomime, mais aussi le langage de la bouche, soit la parole, avec la poésie, le théâtre, les discours», affirme M. Sabourin. Malgré ses nombreux rôles à la télé, au cinéma et au théâtre, Marcel Sabourin insiste sur l’importance qu’ont eue ses années d’enseignement dans sa carrière. Une époque où il a eu l’occasion de donner un cours de «rien pantoute», où il inculquait «la liberté du langage» à ses étudiants. «Voir quelqu’un arriver dans la classe, tout pogné dans son soi-même, et l’observer au cours des semaines et des mois s’épanouir, il n’y a pas de plus grande joie… Sauf avoir des enfants», assure l’homme toujours aussi passionné. Le miroir d’une époque Au boute du rien pantoute propose au public de découvrir «la douce folie» de Marcel Sabourin à travers les différents chapeaux qu’il a portés au fil de sa carrière, mais aussi via quelques extraits d’archives. De L’amour des deux orphelines (1963) à La maudite galette (1972), en passant par Il ne faut pas mourir pour ça (1967). Mais Jérôme Sabourin capte également des brins de jasette entre Marcel Sabourin et d’anciens collègues et amis. Tels que les réalisateurs Denys Arcand, Fernand Dansereau et Jean-Pierre Lefebvre ou encore les musiciens Robert Charlebois et Michel Rivard. C’est tout un pan de la Révolution tranquille qui se dessine à travers leurs discussions; toute une portion de l’histoire du Québec, vue par le milieu culturel. «Il fallait absolument un miroir qui n’est pas déformant et dans lequel on pouvait se regarder en pleine face. C’est un peu ça qu’on a fait, tout le monde, à notre manière. […] On a essayé d’éclaircir un miroir.» — Marcel Sabourin «On a pris un énorme, lourd, terrible bagage qu’on avait sur les épaules et on l’a déversé dans la mer! […] Il est vrai que la génération à laquelle j’appartiens a fait ça. Mais au prix de beaucoup de maladies mentales, de suicidés, de familles gâchées, d’enfants laissés-pour-compte. «On appelle ça la Révolution tranquille, mais les révolutions font toujours des morts et des gens qui souffrent», souligne celui a connu «intimement» les signataires du Refus global. Dans le documentaire comme au bout du fil, Marcel Sabourin ne cache pas que son art a été imprégné dès le départ par une «nécessité de révolte». Notamment en ce qui a trait à la langue française telle qu’employée au Québec. Ce sont ces mots, ces expressions et ces tonalités particulières qui prennent vie à travers lui... et qui lui permettent de nourrir sa «douce folie». Au boute du rien pantoute est présenté dans certains cinémas.


--- [My father touched me while he thinks I'm asleep - Reddit] ---
My father touched me while he thinks I'm asleep Throwaway for obvious reasons Hi reddit, advanced sorry for the grammar mistakes ahead. I'm too confused about what just happened to me, and I'm trying my best not to cry rn as I'm writing this. I want to know what to do forward so any advice would be appreciated. I (21F) has always had a strained relationship with my father (50M). Let's just say he'd always scold me for little things that I do wrong, and that would always ensue fighting between the two of us. Although, there are times where he would get too touchy for my comfort (like a caress on my thigh, a backhug shere he would almost touch my chest if I weren'tblocking it with my arms, etc.). I should've seen those big red flags, and I feel so stupid for not noticing it sooner Now, my mom and one of my little sisters were away for a trip and won't be back home until tomorrow night. We are a family of six, and I have three sisters (20, 18, and 17 F). Our house only has one bedroom where me, my mom, and my little sisters sleep. My father would sleep downstairs, but when my mom went on their trip with my sister, my father decided to sleep in our room where we sleep. We didn't question it since he does sleep with us sometimes (on the floor), so we didn't mind. After all, my father sleeps downstairs on the floor, without aircon, so we figured he wanted to get some good rest while our mom was away This time, though, he slept on the bed on the lower bunk. My third youngest sister slept on the upper bunk, while my second youngest slept together with him on the lower bunk but had considerable distance between them (they were at each end of the bunk bed) and I stayed on the floor. I don't really sleep at night because of my job, which requires interacting with commissioners at night, so I slept during the day. Now, all went well that night, although both my sisters went downstairs at dawn, so I joined them and did my work there. Around 7-8 a.m., I decided to go upstairs again in our bedroom to continue my work there. My father was still asleep on the lower bunk bed, so I decided to wait until he woke up. I didn't dare to sleep on the upper bunk bed because I'm a little heavy (53kgs.) and pur bunk bed is a bit too old, so for safety reasons, I just decided to wait on the floor. Around 9-10 a.m. my father finally woke up, so I took the bed and slept like a log. I think it's known to my family that I'm a deep sleeper, and I think my father took that to his advantage. Around 2 p.m., he was waking me up to help him move some stuff around. I didn't get up, however, because I was too tired and just continued sleeping. Then, a few minutes later, I felt him touching and squeezing my thighs. I didn't mind at first because he typically did this, but then, he laid beside me. I figured he wanted to rest a little, so again, I didn't mind. He's my father, after all. Then, all went wrong when he started squeezing my chest. I wanted to wake up at that point, but I was too scared of what could happen, so I kept my eyes shut. I simply moved away with the act that I was stirring asleep, hoping that he would stop, but he didn't. He moved with me and kept on squeezing my chest, and they were he stopped. I was relieved at first, but then he put his hand on this privates (I fucking felt it because the bastard's pants were already unzipped) so I acted like I just woke up. He quickly turned away, zipped his pants, and acted like nothing happened and just told me to help him move the stuff around the house. I was still acting like I just woke up, where one would look for their phones, check time and messages before getting up because I'm scared of what would happen if he thinks that I knew what he did. After acting like I just woke up, I quickly went downstairs and he went down a few minutes later. He's acting like nothing happened, and I wanted to fucking cry. I'm scared, and my mom won't be home until tomorrow night. I'm also scared for my sisters if I left them alone with my father in our room, but I don't think I can stay in the same room with him anymore. I feel so fucking dirty right now, and I have no idea what to do. I'm scared to tell my mom because she might not believe me because there's really no evidence, and if she does, it would break their marriage and our family apart. Please, any help or advice would be appreciated Update: Thank you for everyone's support. As of now, I am currently staying in the apartment of one of the people that I can trust. My sister, the second oldest, is currently staying overnight with her friends in a condo. She will be back home tomorrow morning. My third sister is with me, and she will go back home at night and will be explaining the situation to my mom once she arrives with my youngest sister from their trip later tonight.
