=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Space Flight Award - Wikipedia]
The Space Flight Award is an award given by the American Astronautical Society most years since 1955. It is presented to "the person whose outstanding efforts and achievements have contributed most significantly to the advancement of space flight and space exploration".
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Space_Flight_Award

[Space Flight Award | American Astronautical Society]
During 30 years of missions, the Space Shuttle carried people into orbit repeatedly, launched, recovered and repaired satellites, conducted cutting-edge research and built the largest structure in space, the International Space Station.
URL: https://astronautical.org/awards/space-flight/

[American Astronautical Society | Aviation Week Network]
Jan 30, 2006 · Charles Elachi, director of the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, has received the 2005 Space Flight Award from the Springfield, Va.-based American Astronautical Society. Other AAS honors for 2005 ...
URL: https://aviationweek.com/american-astronautical-society-0

[Awards Database - NASA]
Aug 7, 2024 · Here you will be able to search for past awardees. Information such as when the award was received, presented by, and name of receipt can be found in this database. If any errors are found in the database, they can be corrected by contacting the POC at your center. Errors, such as, the date of award is incorrect or presenter is incorrect.
URL: https://www.nasa.gov/space-flight-awareness/awards-database/

[Space Flight Award - reference.org]
The Space Flight Award is an award given by the American Astronautical Society most years since 1955. It is presented to "the person whose outstanding efforts and achievements have contributed most significantly to the advancement of space flight and space exploration".
URL: https://reference.org/facts/Space_Flight_Award/DJTA3GVL


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Space Flight Award - Wikipedia] ---
The Space Flight Award is an award given by the American Astronautical Society most years since 1955. It is presented to "the person whose outstanding efforts and achievements have contributed most significantly to the advancement of space flight and space exploration". The Society refers to the Space Flight Award as its "highest award".


--- [Space Flight Award | American Astronautical Society] ---
For their extraordinary contribution to space launch capacities and transforming the launch industry in Virginia Picture courtesy of AAS For setting a new record for the longest single spaceflight in the history of American spaceflight at 370 days on orbit. Picture courtesy of NASA - 2022 – Dr. W. Michael Hawes For 44 years at both NASA and Lockheed Martin of significant technical, policy, and leadership contributions to the successes of the Space Shuttle, International Space Station (ISS), and Orion programs Picture courtesy of UMD Under Tory Bruno’s leadership, United Launch Alliance (ULA) is shaping the future of space launch by making it more affordable and accessible. Over the past 30 years, Tory has managed and initiated critical defense and space launch programs that form the backbone of modern infrastructure and provide a foundation for the expansion of future space capabilities. Picture courtesy of NASA For exceptional leadership and significant contributions to the development of U.S. human spaceflight programs Picture courtesy if SpaceNews - 2019 – No Award Given - 2018 – Ann P. Over For your extraordinary achievements and contributions to the advancement of space flight and space exploration over the course of your 35-year career. Picture courtesy of LinkedIn Throughout her record-breaking aerospace career, Dr. Peggy Whitson has inspired others to share in the exploration and utilization of space. Her legacy, both on the ground and in space, will have lasting contributions to the Nation’s space program. Picture courtesy of NASA As President of Blue Origin, Robert E. “Rob” Meyerson leads a growing team of Blue Origin engineers and manufacturing staff who have significantly advanced space launch technology and enabled a future where millions of humans live and work outside of Earth’s atmosphere Picture courtesy if AIAA - 2015 – Stamatios M. “Tom” Krimigis For his fundamental research on space and planetary environments throughout the solar system while concurrently opening a new paradigm of aerospace mission management that enabled the advancement of space exploration in an affordable paradigm. Picture courtesy of Johns Hopkins University APL - 2014 – Norman R. Augustine For outstanding leadership in space activities over more than five decades of service at Martin Marietta/Lockheed Martin, in public service and with the National Academies. Picture courtesy of the Franklin Institute - 2013 – Charles F. Bolden, Jr. In recognition of his outstanding leadership accomplishments as NASA’s Administrator for two terms, leading NASA to boldly push the boundaries of science, aeronautics, and exploration in the 21st century and ensure the long-term vibrancy of America’s space program. Picture courtesy of NASA - 2012 – Michael T. Suffredini In recognition of outstanding accomplishments and exceptional technical leadership managing one of the most complex human space flight programs in history Picture courtesy of YouTube - 2011 – Space Shuttle Program During 30 years of missions, the Space Shuttle carried people into orbit repeatedly, launched, recovered and repaired satellites, conducted cutting-edge research and built the largest structure in space, the International Space Station. As humanity’s first reusable spacecraft, it set high marks of achievement and endurance; a legacy of American ingenuity. Picture courtesy of Space Center Houston - 2010 – William H. Gerstenmaier In recognition of his outstanding accomplishments in a career dedicated to the human exploration of space and international cooperation in space. Picture courtesy of AIAA For outstanding contributions in more than 50 years of service to the space community, including as manager of the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project, a leader in the Space Shuttle program, and in several other key positions in NASA and industry. Picture courtesy of The New York Times For outstanding contributions in more than 45 years of service to the space community, including director of the Goddard Space Flight Center, President and Chief Executive Officer of Martin Marietta Corporation, and as leader of numerous studies and task forces for NASA, The National Academies and other organizations. Picture courtesy of NASA - 2007 – Charles J. Pellerin, Jr. For conceiving and overseeing the development of the “Great Observatories” program, whose Hubble Space Telescope, Compton Gamma Ray Observatory, Chandra Advanced X-ray Astrophysics Facility, and Space Infrared Telescope Facility revolutionized human knowledge of the cosmos. Picture courtesy of LinkedIn For furthering the human spaceflight program of the United States throughout a long-term career as an aerospace engineer and manager on the X-15, Dynasoar, lifting bodies, Space Shuttle and SpaceShipOne. Picture courtesy of Columbus County News For your leadership in the development of space exploration spacecraft studying the solar system, Earth and deep space, and for pioneering development of synthetic aperture radar applied to Earth and planetary remote sensing. Picture courtesy of Caltech - 2004 – Harold W. “Hal” Gehman, Jr. For outstanding contributions as the chair of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board (CAIB), during 2003, working tenaciously to determine the cause of the Columbia accident and to return the Space Shuttle to flight status Picture courtesy of Wikipedia For outstanding contributions to the nation as an astronaut, scientist and educator – and for always advancing the cause of space exploration Picture courtesy of NASA Picture courtesy of NASA Picture courtesy of NASA Picture courtesy of NASA Picture courtesy of NASA Picture courtesy of European Space Agency Picture courtesy of Wikipedia Picture courtesy if NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory Picture courtesy of NASA - 1994 – Carolyn L. Huntoon Picture courtesy of NASA Picture courtesy of NASA - 1992 – Forrest S. McCartney Picture courtesy of NASA - 1991 – No Award Given - 1990 – Aaron Cohen Picture courtesy of NASA Picture courtesy of NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory - 1988 – Robert O. Aller - 1987 – James B. Odom Picture courtesy of USAF Rotorheads Picture courtesy of Wikipedia Picture courtesy of NASA Picture courtesy of NASA - 1983 – George W. S. Abbey Picture courtesy of NASA Picture courtesy of Candace Harris Picture courtesy of National Academy of Engineers - 1980 – Robert F. Thompson Picture courtesy of Space Center Lecture Series Picture courtesy of National Academy of Engineers - 1978 – Walter C. Williams Picture courtesy of NASA Picture courtesy of National Academy of Engineers Picture courtesy of National Academy of Engineers - 1975 – Maxime A. Faget and Walker E. Giberson Picture courtesy of NASA - 1974 – William C. Schneider Picture courtesy of Texas A&M Picture courtesy of National Academy of Engineers - 1972 – Charles W. Mathews - 1971 – Joseph G. Gavin, Jr. Picture courtesy of National Academy of Engineering - 1970 – Edgar M. Cortright Picture courtesy of NASA - 1969 – Christopher C. Kraft, Jr. Picture courtesy of NASA - 1968 – George M. Low and George E. Mueller Picture courtesy of NASA Picture courtesy of Purdue College of Engineering - 1967 – Kurt H. Debus and William H. Pickering Picture courtesy of National Academy of Engineering Picture courtesy of NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory Picture courtesy of NASA - 1965 – Hugh L. Dryden (Posthumously) Picture courtesy of NASA - 1964 – No Award Given - 1963 – No Award Given - 1962 – Charles Stark Draper Picture courtesy if Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum Picture courtesy of Wikipedia Picture courtesy of NASA - 1959 – No Award Given - 1958 – James A. van Allen Picture courtesy of NASA Picture courtesy of NASA - 1956 – George W. Hoover - 1955 – Hermann Oberth Picture courtesy of Wikipedia


--- [American Astronautical Society | Aviation Week Network] ---
American Astronautical Society Charles Elachi, director of the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, has received the 2005 Space Flight Award from the Springfield, Va.-based American Astronautical Society. Other AAS honors for 2005 are: Flight Achievement Award to Michael Melvill, vice president/general manager, Scaled Composites; Carl... Subscription Required This content requires a subscription to one of the Aviation Week Intelligence Network (AWIN) bundles. Schedule a demo today to find out how you can access this content and similar content related to your area of the global aviation industry. Already an AWIN subscriber? Login Did you know? Aviation Week has won top honors multiple times in the Jesse H. Neal National Business Journalism Awards, the business-to-business media equivalent of the Pulitzer Prizes.


--- [Awards Database - NASA] ---
SFA Awards Database Use the link below to access the SFA Awards Database. Here you will be able to search for past awardees. Information such as when the award was received, presented by, and name of receipt can be found in this database. If any errors are found in the database, they can be corrected by contacting the POC at your center. Errors, such as, the date of award is incorrect or presenter is incorrect.


--- [Space Flight Award - reference.org] ---
No content
