=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Daryl Garrs | List of Deaths Wiki - Fandom]
Daryl Garrs is an antagonist who appears within series 2 of Happy Valley. He is a serial killer who mutilated his victims with broken bottles. He is portrayed by Robert Emms. Lynn Dewhurst - Strangled and bottled by Daryl Garrs off-screen, body shown in a flashback. Ana Vasalescu - Killed and...
URL: https://listofdeaths.fandom.com/wiki/Daryl_Garrs

[Why did Alison kill her son in Happy Valley? - GoodTo]
Jan 23, 2023 · As viewers get their teeth into Happy Valley season 3, some have needed a refresher on the events that came before - including how did Becky die and where we've seen returning character Alison Garrs before. Featuring prominently in the current season, some may recall Alison was a main character with a harrowing storyline in the second series - that involved the death of her son Daryl. With ...
URL: https://www.goodto.com/entertainment/why-did-alison-kill-son-happy-valley

[What Happened in 'Happy Valley' Seasons 1 & 2? Get Up to Speed Before ...]
Apr 24, 2023 · Eventually, a farmer named Daryl Garrs (Robert Emms) confesses to the crimes to Alison Garrs (Susan Lynch), his mother, who then shoots him dead to save him from a life in prison.
URL: https://www.tvinsider.com/1090397/happy-valley-seasons-1-2-recap-final-ending/

[Happy Valley plot twist leaves viewers shocked in cliff-hanger episode ...]
Mar 9, 2016 · Fans of BBC show Happy Valley took to Twitter to say they were shocked by last night's plot twist, which saw Alison Garrs (Susan Lynch) shoot her murder suspect son Daryl in the back of the head.
URL: https://www.dailymail.co.uk/lifestyle/article-3483584/Happy-Valley-plot-twist-leaves-viewers-shocked-cliff-hanger-episode-sees-mother-kill-suspect-son-telling-going-holiday.html

[Why did Alison kill her son in Happy Valley? | TV & Radio]
Jan 24, 2023 · The police officer also brushed over Alison killing her son Daryl Garrs (Robert Emms) with Richard left surprised at the blasé manner in which Catherine spoke about the murder.
URL: https://www.express.co.uk/showbiz/tv-radio/1724956/Why-did-Alison-kill-her-son-in-Happy-Valley


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Daryl Garrs | List of Deaths Wiki - Fandom] ---
“ It’s not my fault, though, is it? ” Daryl Garrs is an antagonist who appears within series 2 of Happy Valley. He is a serial killer who mutilated his victims with broken bottles. He is portrayed by Robert Emms. Victims[] Series 2[] Episode One[] - Lynn Dewhurst - Strangled and bottled by Daryl Garrs off-screen, body shown in a flashback. - Ana Vasalescu - Killed and bottled by Daryl Garrs off-screen, mentioned. - Aurelija Petrovic - Killed and bottled by Daryl Garrs off-screen, mentioned. - Total - 3 Episode Two[] - None Episode Three[] - None Episode Four[] - None Episode Five[] - Elise May Hughes - Killed and bottled by Daryl Garrs off-screen, mentioned. - Total - 1 Kill Count[] - Total - 4 - All Female Death[] - Shot in the back of the head by Alison Garrs with a rifle off-camera. (Series 2, Episode Five)


--- [Why did Alison kill her son in Happy Valley? - GoodTo] ---
Why did Alison kill her son in Happy Valley? Recapping that devastating season 2 moment Parenting advice, hot topics, best buys and family finance tips delivered straight to your inbox. You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful WARNING: This article contains information that some readers might find distressing. As viewers get their teeth into Happy Valley season 3, some have needed a refresher on the events that came before - including how did Becky die and where we've seen returning character Alison Garrs before. Featuring prominently in the current season, some may recall Alison was a main character with a harrowing storyline in the second series - that involved the death of her son Daryl. With season 2 of Happy Valley being filmed over 7 years ago, we'll forgive you for not remembering more of Alison's season 2 arc. So we've shared what exactly went down at that farm in the last series and why Alison killed her son - as viewers patiently wait till Happy Valley is next on. Why did Alison kill her son in Happy Valley? In Happy Valley season 2, Alison killed her son Daryl after he admitted to murdering three sex workers. Seen as a mercy killing - Alison shot her son in the head as she believed he wouldn't survive the ordeal of life imprisonment. The night before his murder, Daryl (played by Robert Emms) heads to his mother's bedroom in the middle of the night, wakes her and confesses to "doing bad things". "Have you hurt someone?" she says, adding "Is it to do with those women". Earlier that day Alison questioned her son about the damage to his van after learning of a hit-and-run appeal following the latest murder. Back to the present and Daryl says he doesn't know why he did it. Though Alison had her own suspicions of Daryl being linked to the spree of sex worker killings in Calder Valley, the news nevertheless comes as a shock. The two decant downstairs where they discuss his crimes further. "You'll visit me in prison," he asks her, viewing it as his only option. "I don't think you'll like prison," Alison replies, deep in thought, as she tries to rack her brain for an alternative. The next morning on the farm, Daryl arrives downstairs to a full fry up on the kitchen table. He takes a seat and starts to tuck in, whilst his mother starts the conversation. "So I've got a plan. You've always wanted to go to America haven't you?" she says. Parenting advice, hot topics, best buys and family finance tips delivered straight to your inbox. Alison goes on to explain she's got savings and passports and that the two could jet off to America and try their luck before the police catch up with them. A convinced Daryl talks of Las Vegas and seeing the desert. Alison then retreats from the kitchen to pick up the rifle, but continues talk of the dream trip, asking her son what else he'd like to see. "Florida, California," he continues. "Can we go to Disneyland?" The audience then sees Alison aim the rifle at the back of Daryl's head. The action jumps to outside the farmhouse now, and after a loud bang, we see blood splatter on the kitchen windows. A vulnerable and child-like lad who is something of an outsider - having been isolated on the farm - it's thought that Daryl's mother Alison deemed him not strong enough to deal with prison life and how he'd fare amongst other inmates. This is why she ultimately decides to end his life instead. In the season two finale, Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire) arrives at the farm. She finds Alison barely responsive at the kitchen table, having taken a concoction of pills and alcohol in an overdose attempt. Catherine rescues and later arrests the grieving mother after she confirms that it was her who shot Daryl. As the investigation unfolds, the audience learns (via Catherine) the gruesome reality of Alison and Daryl's life. It turns out Alison was raped by her father, resulting in her pregnancy with Daryl. This therefore confirms that Daryl was Alison's half brother as well as her son. Who plays Alison in Happy Valley? Alison Garrs is played by Northern-Irish actress Susan Lynch. The 51-year-old is best known for her TV roles in Apple Tree Yard, Killing Eve and Monroe, and for playing Miss Lawton in Downton Abbey. In 2003 she also picked up the British Independent Film Award for Best Supporting Actress for the 2003 film 16 Years of Alcohol. As for her personal life, Lynch was previously married to Line of Duty's Craig Parkinson - with whom they share a son. The two separated in 2019. Susan is also the younger sister of fellow actor John Lynch. Alison's role in Happy Valley season 3 Viewers saw Susan Lynch return as Alison Garrs in Happy Valley season 3. Just released from prison, Catherine catches up with her as she's moving into a new flat and trying to rebuild her life. In episode three, Catherine pops round with some clothes and other things she's donated to help get Alison on her feet. She asks Alison for a favour - to borrow her blue van for an afternoon. Catherine fills Alison in on her plan which is to use the car to follow Claire, Neil and Ryan as they travel to Sheffield prison to see Tommy. Sadly for Catherine the trip proves exactly what she was dreading - that Ryan is seeing his dad again and that all three of them lied to her about doing it. When is Happy Valley next on? Episode 5 of Happy Valley will next air on Sunday 29 January at 9pm on BBC One. Season 3 consists of 6 episodes in total, which means the next episode is the grand finale. If you need to catch up on the current season, you can find all released episodes of Happy Valley on BBC iPlayer. The streaming service also has the whole Happy Valley season one and season two boxset - if you'd like to go back and refresh your memory on what happened prior to the latest series. Video of the Week Emily Stedman is the former Features Editor for GoodTo covering all things TV, entertainment, royal, lifestyle, health and wellbeing. Boasting an encyclopaedic knowledge on all things TV, celebrity and royals, career highlights include working at HELLO! Magazine and as a royal researcher to Diana biographer Andrew Morton on his book Meghan: A Hollywood Princess. In her spare time, Emily can be found eating her way around London, swimming at her local Lido or curled up on the sofa binging the next best Netflix show.


--- [What Happened in 'Happy Valley' Seasons 1 & 2? Get Up to Speed Before ...] ---
What Happened in ‘Happy Valley’ Seasons 1 & 2? Get Up to Speed Before the Final Season After a hiatus of seven years, Happy Valley is coming back to American TV for a third and final season, premiering on BBC America on Monday, May 22, at 10/9c, with episodes streaming the same day on AMC+ and Acorn TV. The first two seasons of the British crime procedural are currently available on both of those streaming platforms, but in case you don’t have time for a full debrief on the action so far, here’s a recap of Seasons 1 and 2. (Content warning: Happy Valley includes storylines involving sexual assault and suicide.) As the series starts, viewers meet Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire), a police sergeant in a West Yorkshire community beset by drug problems. Catherine’s daughter Becky died by suicide, and Catherine blames a man named Tommy Lee Royce (James Norton) for Becky’s death, since Royce raped Becky. Now Catherine is raising Ryan (Rhys Connah), the child that resulted from that rape, and living with her sister, Clare Cartwright (Siobhan Finneran), who’s recovering from a heroin addiction. Royce is still around town, unfortunately. In fact, he gets involved in a ransom scheme soon after getting out of prison. Accountant Kevin Weatherill (Steve Pemberton) wants more money from his boss, Nevison Gallagher (George Costigan), so he teams up with the criminal Ashley Cowgill (Joe Armstrong) to kidnap Nevison’s daughter, Ann (Charlie Murphy), and demand ransom. Cowgill brings in two goons, Royce and another man named Lewis Whippey (Adam Long). Kevin has a crisis of conscience about the ransom idea, but it comes too late — the criminals have already abducted Ann. So Kevin goes to the police station and starts giving a statement to Catherine, but he leaves before detailing everything. It gets worse: Whippey later discovers that Royce raped Ann as well. Royce also murders police officer Kirsten McAskill (Sophie Rundle), Catherine’s protégé, when she pulls over his van for speeding. After spotting Royce around town, Catherine does some digging and uncovers evidence of the kidnapping. She learns about the abductee when Nevison and his wife finally tell the police about the kidnapping, defying Cowgill’s orders. Catherine visits the house of Royce’s mother’s, Lynn Dewhurst (Caroline O’Neill), and that happens to be where Royce stashed Ann after Cowgill ordered him to kill her. Catherine finds and frees Ann, but Royce attacks her, and the ensuing fight lands Catherine in the hospital. While Catherine recuperates, police arrest Kevin and Cowgill for abduction, but Cowgill snitches about a drug smuggling ring in exchange for witness protection. He never makes it into that protection, though: He’s gunned down by other smugglers before assuming his new identity. As for the other two accomplices, Royce overhears Whippey telling a friend about all the crimes Royce has committed — raping Ann, killing Kirsten, attacking Catherine — and so Royce adds Whippey to his list of murder victims. Royce, who previously let slip to Ryan that he’s his father, then abducts the boy and even threatens to kill him, but Catherine finds Ryan’s bicycle and then Ryan before it’s too late. Season 2 starts with Catherine finding Lynn’s decomposing body. Improbably, Catherine finds herself a suspect in the case — and in two similar killings — because of her animosity toward Royce. And Royce, now imprisoned, also blames Catherine for Lynn’s death. He even makes a lunge at Catherine, despite his handcuffs, at Lynn’s funeral. Viewers also find out in Season 2 that Royce has forged a connection with a woman named Frances Drummond (Shirley Henderson), who’s working under a fake name as a teaching assistant at Ryan’s school. And Frances tries to get Ryan to become closer to Royce, even buying a birthday present for the boy on Royce’s behalf. Frances eventually realizes, though, that she’s not as engaged to Royce as she thinks she is. In fact, Royce is “engaged” to many other women. Meanwhile, a detective sergeant, John Wadsworth (Kevin Doyle), is blackmailed by Vicky Fleming (Amelia Bullmore), his mistress, who tells him to either pay her a ransom each month or leave his wife and children. In an ensuing argument, John strangles and mutilates Vicky and burns down her flat to make her death look like the work of the serial killer who has been murdering sex workers in the region. Eventually, a farmer named Daryl Garrs (Robert Emms) confesses to the crimes to Alison Garrs (Susan Lynch), his mother, who then shoots him dead to save him from a life in prison. Alison then overdoses on diazepam, and Catherine arrives at the farm to find Daryl dead and Alison clinging to life. Catherine arrests Alison, who maintains that Daryl said he wasn’t involved in Vicky’s death. After hearing from Clare’s new boyfriend about Vicky’s blackmailing ways and hearing from others about John’s violent streak, Catherine realizes that John was the one who killed Vicky. She confronts her colleague on a bridge, and he confesses to the killing before jumping to his death. Season 2 ends with Royce receiving a letter in prison from Ryan. And Catherine still has no idea that her grandson is in touch with his criminal father… Happy Valley, Season 3 Premiere, Monday, May 22, 10/9c, BBC America (and streaming on AMC+ and Acorn TV)


--- [Happy Valley plot twist leaves viewers shocked in cliff-hanger episode ...] ---
Happy Valley plot twist leaves viewers shocked as cliff-hanger episode sees a mother kill her suspect son after telling him 'we're going on holiday' - Dramatic scene in episode five saw Alison Garrs shoot son Daryl dead - Alison suggests a holiday to the US, then shoots suspect Daryl in the head - Fans of the police drama said they didn't see the 'mercy' murder coming - ...and also suggested writer Sally Wainwright had borrowed the plot from American novelist John Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men - Thrilling penultimate episode sets up gripping final installment of the BBC drama about life in the West Yorkshire police force The penultimate episode of Sally Wainwright's police drama Happy Valley left viewers reeling last night after a particularly gruesome final scene which saw a mother shoot her murder-suspect son dead. The dramatic scene, which ended with the sound of a gun firing and the sight of a blood-splattered window, saw scores of viewers take to social media to comment on the violent ending, which many hadn't seen coming. In a creepy farmhouse setting, the 'jaw-dropping' final five minutes of the gritty drama saw mother Alison Garrs (Susan Lynch) reach for the shotgun and shoot her son, Daryl (Robert Emms), who'd earlier confessed in the dead of night to 'doing bad things'. Scroll down for video Anything but Happy: While talking about a winsome road trip across America Alison Garrs (Susan Lynch) reached for the shotgun in last night's gripping episode of Happy Valley Troubled murder suspect Daryl was happily eating his breakfast and discussing a trip to Vegas when his mother, fearing a life in jail for her son, shot him in the back of the head Gruesome ending: Fans were on the edge of their seats as Alison quietly approached Daryl and put the farmhouse gun to his head After gently telling him that she was going to take him on a road-trip to America, the mother and son discussed potential locations for the holiday...while Alison slowly walked to fetch the gun and seal her son's fate. While viewers might have anticipated the middle-of-the-night admission of guilt from troubled outsider Daryl over the killings of prostitutes in Calder Valley, they seemingly didn't anticipate that his mother would reach for the farm's shotgun to protect her son from a lengthy jail term. @marctsmith wrote: 'Wow!!! Happy Valley left me open mouthed!! Shocked or what! So powerful with no music at the end' @godinthis added: '#HappyValley's so violent I can't keep up with the plot but I'm too traumatised to replay it!' @ellasquelchx said: '#HappyValley has just fully traumatised me.' @2ndCityGirl wrote 'Knew it was the farm boy, but didn't expect Mum to blow his brains out with a shotgun over breakfast!' Many viewers also pointed out that Wainwright's plot twist offered more than a nod to American novelist John Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men. In the 1937 cult book, the character of George kills Lennie to save him from a more painful death at the hands of his slighted boss's son, Curley. @harrieharb wrote: 'Did Happy Valley just retell Of Mice and Men? @IAreSam added: 'This has all gone a bit Of Mice and Men! #happyvalley' while @chesterres said: '#HappyValley a bit borrowed from Of Mice and Men tonight - except Vegas instead of a windmill' @emilyyhalls noticed the homage too: 'Happy Valley just ripped off the George shooting Lennie scene I swear.' The second series of the drama, which follows the trials and tribulations of Sergeant Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire) in the West Yorkshire community of Sowerby Bridge has been as brutal - physically and emotionally - as the first with terminal illness, trafficking, alcohol abuse and rape and murder all par for the course. Add in a dash of northern wit, plenty of cups of tea and you're somewhere near. Last night's episode also saw Sgt Cawood edge ever closer to discovering who has been sending grandson Ryan (played by Rhys Connah) secret birthday presents. And the pressure mounted on murdering detective John Wadsworth (Kevin Doyle) after the discovery of a fifth body saw Sean Balmforth (Matthew Lewis), the man he had framed for the murder of his ex-lover Vicky Fleming (Amelia Bullmore) off the hook. The current murder count for the show is seven with just one edge-of-the-sofa episode left and although the BBC has faced continuous complaints about the sound quality, there has been nothing but praise for Wainwright's watertight plot. Reaction: Fans of the show were left 'open-mouthed' by the plot twist Torment: Fans were quick to point out the similarities between last night's plot and that of John Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men, where the character of George kills Lennie to save him from a worse fate Viewers said the show 'stressed them out' but most agreed on Twitter that Wainwright's script is brutal but hard to resist Daryl had told his mother in the middle of the night that he had done 'bad things' which she took to mean raping and murdering five women in Calder Valley Better than a life in jail: Convinced of her son's guilt, Alison Garrs takes matters into her own hands A blood splattered window - not quite visible in the picture above - and the sound of gun fire sealed Daryl's fate Sarah Lancashire stars as Catherine Cawood in Sally Wainwright's police drama which follows life in the force in the West Yorkshire region of Calder Valley A star cast has helped with James Norton - fresh from War and Peace and Grantchester - playing the fearsome Tommy Lee Royce, who has spent the entire series casting a spell over madly-in-love Frances (Shirley Henderson), who in turn has taken a job at the local school in Sowerby Bridge in a bid to get close to Royce's estranged son - the grandson of Cawood. The BBC has responded to the ongoing sound issues saying it had 'worked very hard to ensure everything was audible while keeping the sense of reality and the rawness of the performances'. A blinking corpse in episode three also didn't add ease the BBC's production woes.


--- [Why did Alison kill her son in Happy Valley? | TV & Radio] ---
Why did Alison kill her son in Happy Valley? Alison Garrs has made a return to Happy Valley for the third outing and viewers are curious about her past. Happy Valley: James Norton sets the scene for BBC crime show WARNING: This article contains spoilers from all seasons of Happy Valley Happy Valley season three brought back Alison Garrs (played by Susan Lynch) following her devastating and tragic story in series two. Alison recently came out of prison after doing time for murder. Police officer Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire) bumped into the former farmer and leaned on her for some help. Alison was now working as a mechanic after training while behind bars and was fixing up Catherine’s truck. In the most recent episode of Happy Valley, Catherine and her ex-husband Richard Cawood (Derek Riddell) discussed Alison as well as Tommy Lee Royce’s (James Norton) upcoming trial. Catherine urged her husband Richard to attend the court date with the pair believing Tommy was still linked to the Knežević crime family. The police officer also brushed over Alison killing her son Daryl Garrs (Robert Emms) with Richard left surprised at the blasé manner in which Catherine spoke about the murder. The slaying took place at the end of season two, which aired back in 2016 with viewers understandably rusty about what happened. READ MORE: Tony Blackburn hits back at BBC complaints 'Switch it off' Happy Valley season 3 cast in full As a familiar and unwelcomed face returns, there will be plenty of problems for the Cawood family as Happy Valley returns for a third and final series. With Sarah Lancashire returning as Sgt Catherine Cawood, find out who else joins the cast as the TV show returns. Why did Alison kill her son in Happy Valley? Alison shot her son in the back of the head after telling him they would run away. The farmer killed him after discovering her was murdering and raping women in the local area. Daryl confessed he’d been behind the spate of killings. and in order to protect her son Alison killed him. She then attempted to turn the gun on herself but Catherine reached her before tragedy struck again. The disturbing case was the focus of season two with Catherine even in the firing line after Tommy’s mother turned up dead with the violent criminal convinced it was his nemesis who did the deed. While it was never explicitly stated Daryl had developmental problems, he did appear withdrawn and on the fringes of society. Nonetheless, he confirmed there had been no voices in his head and he had committed these acts of his own volition. Therefore, she felt Daryl couldn’t survive if he was put in prison and would be killed if he was incarcerated. So, it was a heartbreaking decision to take his life before he could face prosecution, knowing he didn’t fully understand the heinous crimes he’d committed. Alison previously told Catherine about her son Daryl being the result of being raped by her father. DON'T MISS... Happy Valley fans left astounded by Sarah Lancashire throwback snap [LATEST] Happy Valley star admits 'I don't know how it ends' [WATCH] Happy Valley spoiler photos confirm Tommy Lee Royce's fate [SPOILER] Although Daryl and Alison’s story has been told, it seems to feed into the greater fabric of Happy Valley. What role Alison will have to play in the final outing remains to be seen but she has already helped Catherine and could do so again in the last two episodes. Creator Sally Wainwright is tying up all the threads of the story together now with this year confirmed to be the last outing. Viewers can expect the battle between Tommy and Catherine to come to a close once and for all after so much conflict between the pair over Ryan Cawood (Rhys Connah). Actor Norton promised fans they would have the rug pulled from under their feet in season three. He went on to say the story simply became “bigger” and more “expansive” as the trilogy came to a head. This is becoming clearer as the Kneževićs took centre-stage in the latest episode and aided Tommy’s nifty escape. Fans will have to keep watching to see where Tommy goes next and what happens with the Kneževićs. Happy Valley season 3 airs on BBC One on Sundays at 9pm
