=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Third Day - Wikipedia]
Also, later that year, while playing in Marietta, at the Strand Theatre, the owners offered the band a contract to sign with new independent record label Gray Dot Records. The band released the album Third Day, which sold 20,000 copies. Shortly after, Reunion Records bought out their Gray Dot contract and signed the band to a multi-album deal. [7]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Third_Day

[Third Day - Encyclopedia.com]
Members include Tai Anderson (born on June 11, 1976), bass; Brad Avery (born on August 20, 1971; joined group, 1995), guitar; David Carr (born on November 15, 1974), drums; Mark Lee (born on May 29, 1973), guitar; Mac Powell(born on December 25, 1972), vocals, guitar. Formed group in Marietta, GA, 1992; signed with gray dot records, released debut ...
URL: https://www.encyclopedia.com/education/news-wires-white-papers-and-books/third-day

[Third Day - Gray Dot]
Signed to gray dot records in March of 1995, gray dot's first band, Third Day, released their eponymous debut in June of the same year. Prior to the record's explosion onto the CCM scene, rumors of something big from the band had already been circulating and several major labels had offered to buy and release the record before it had even hit the shelves.
URL: http://graydot.com/support/tdx.html

[Third Day hometown, lineup, biography | Last.fm]
The management of the local decided to sign the band to a new independent record label called Gray Dot Records. That same year, the band released the album Third Day, which ended up selling 20,000 copies.
URL: https://www.last.fm/music/Third+Day/+wiki

[first和firstly以及first of all有什么区别? - 知乎]
以下是一些例句： The first step is to gather your materials. Firstly, let's discuss the budget. First of all, we need to identify the problem. 在大多数情况下，"first" 和 "firstly" 可以互换使用，但 "firstly" 通常用于强调某件事是最重要的。 "first of all" 则通常用于引出一系列要点或步骤。
URL: https://www.zhihu.com/question/626729181


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Third Day - Wikipedia] ---
Third Day is a Christian rock band formed in Marietta, Georgia in 1991. The band was founded by lead singer Mac Powell, guitarist Mark Lee (the only constant members) and Billy Wilkins. The band's name is a reference to the biblical accounts of the resurrection of Jesus on the third day following his crucifixion. The band was inducted into the Georgia Music Hall of Fame on September 19, 2009. They have sold over 7 million albums in the United States and had 28 number one Christian album chart radio hits. Their fans are known as "Gomers" after a song on their second album about Gomer. Though they dissolved in 2018 following a farewell tour, they reunited in 2025 for a limited 30th anniversary tour to take place in 2026.


--- [Third Day - Encyclopedia.com] ---
Third Day Third Day Rock group Christian rock group Third Day proved that it deserves the attention of fans and critics after sweeping the Dove Awards in 2001. The group garnered five awards, including wins for Artist of the Year and Group of the Year. The band released the praise and worship album Offerings: A Worship Album in 2000, and the same year contributed to a collaborative effort, City on a Hill: Songs of Worship and Praise. Consistently ranked among the top ten Contemporary Christian artists, Third Day combines an uncompromising evangelism with a dedication to Southern-influenced rock. The founding members of Third Day—guitarist Mark Lee and singer/guitarist Mac Powell—have been performing together since high school. The two played in a garage band called Nuclear Hoedown in their hometown of Marietta, Georgia, but Powell soon quit the band because he didn’t feel it was what God wanted him to do. Lee contacted Powell after a few weeks to convince him to help create a Christian band, and the two began writing songs that reflected their commitment to Christianity. Joined by a keyboardist, the fledgling group called themselves Third Day to honor the third day after Jesus’ death, the day of his resurrection. The group was originally acoustic and performed For the Record… Members include Tai Anderson (born on June 11, 1976), bass; Brad Avery (born on August 20, 1971; joined group, 1995), guitar; David Carr (born on November 15, 1974), drums; Mark Lee (born on May 29, 1973), guitar; Mac Powell (born on December 25, 1972), vocals, guitar. Formed group in Marietta, GA, 1992; signed with gray dot records, released debut album, Third Day;, 1995; signed with Reunion Records, re-released debut, 1996; released Conspiracy No. 5, 1991; signed with Essential Records, 1999; released Time, 1999; released Offerings: A Worship Album, 2000. Awards: Dove Awards, Artist of the Year, Group of the Year, Rock Recorded Song of the Year for “Sky Falls Down,” Praise & Worship Album of the Year for Offerings: A Worship Album, Special Event Album of the Year (with others) for City on a Hill: Songs of Worship and Praise, all 2001. Addresses: Record company —Essential Records, 741 Cool Springs Blvd., Franklin, TN 37067, website: http://www.essentialrecords.com. Booking —Creative Artists Agency, phone: (615) 383-787, fax: (615) 383-4937. Management —Creative Trust Management, phone: (615) 297-5010, fax: (615) 297-5020. Website —Third Day Official Website: http://www.thirdday.com. at Sunday schools and for youth groups. In 1992, a pastor introduced Lee and Powell to bassist Tai Anderson and drummer David Carr. The four met lead guitarist Brad Avery in 1995, and the roster was set. The five members were all in their early- to mid-twenties and dedicated to producing Christian rock. Third Day worked early on to build regional support, playing shows on the Southern live performance circuit. They became known for their high-energy performances and developed a loyal fan base. Dan Raines, head of Creative Trust, the group’s management firm, told Deborah Evans Price of Billboard, “Before they even had a deal, they had been out there working, playing every dive you can imagine, building an audience at the grass-roots level.” The early work paid off, and in 1995, the group signed with local independent label gray dot records and released its first album, titled simply Third Day. The band’s release was the first for the small label, and demand for the album quickly outstripped gray dot’s ability to supply. Third Day then signed on with Arista’s Reunion label, quickly recorded two additional songs, and re-released the debut album. The major label release of the group’s debut produced a mainstream hit,” Nothing At All,” which made the top 30 on pop charts. A video for another song from the album,” Consuming Fire,” won the Billboard Music Video Award in the Contemporary Christian category in 1996. The record also won prime touring spots for the band. They opened for groups such as the Prayer Chain, the Waiting, and Code of Ethics. The group also played at Atlanta Fest, a Christian music festival in their home state. Third Day’s sound continues to evolve, but core influences include U2 and Lynryd Skynyrd. The group’s early recording was described by Susan Hogan-Albach in the Minneapolis Star Tribune as “Southern folk rock, tinged with pop, blues, bluegrass and country offset by Powell’s throaty vocals.” The band was compared to Hootie and the Blowfish, the Gin Blossoms, and frequently to Pearl Jam. With their second album, Third Day played up grunge rock influences. Hogan-Albach noted that Conspiracy No. 5, released in 1997 by Reunion, was characterized by “metal-driven aggression … rife with chunky percussions and electric guitars.” Even as the band grew and changed its sound, Third Day remained committed to the original focus of the project: Christian evangelism. The group’s songs consistently convey a message of faith, and Third Day never gives in to the temptation to write secular lyrics in the hopes of achieving crossover success. Carr told Jim Varsallone of the Tampa Tribune, “We’ve won awards and had top songs … but that’s not our focus…. The focus is on Christ.” The group’s focus is maintained even on the road; Third Day travels with John Poitevent, a pastor who prays with the men before and after shows, leads them in Bible study, and counsels the musicians and crew while on tour. The 1999 release Time was hailed by critics as Third Day’s best album to date. This recording, too, explores new directions for the band musically. Paul Verna noted in Billboard that the band embraces “an earthier, looser sound that delves more deeply into its Southern roots.” Powell also expressed Third Day’s positive feelings about the recording, telling Jim Minge of the Omaha World Herald that the album was the best the band had yet produced, and noted,” we’re a bit better musically and lyrically, too.” The year 2000 held other milestones for the band. Third Day’s new label, Essential Records, specializes in marketing Contemporary Christian acts, and the band was invited to collaborate on a special album called City on a Hill: Songs of Worship and Praise. Third Day recorded the title track, and members of the band collaborated with other Christian rockers on several additional songs. Other leading artists on the album include Sixpence None the Richer, Caedmon’s Call, FFH, and Jars of Clay. Third Day also released their own praise and worship album in 2000 called Offerings: A Worship Album. The album marked a change in the way the band worked; it contains several songs recorded live on tour, as well as additional studio recordings. Included on the album are “Thief,” the story of the two other men crucified with Jesus, and “King of Kings,” about the impossibility of knowing God. Third Day released a “worship kit” to complement the album; containing lyrics, chords, and transparencies, the kit is intended to help youth groups and ministers use the album as part of worship. Offerings proved to be another hit with critics as well as with audiences. The album went gold after just a few months and collected not only a Dove Award for Praise & Worship Album of the Year in 2001, but also a Grammy Award nomination. Deborah Evans Price of Billboard had nothing but the highest praise for Offerings, saying that the album “teems with passion and spiritual commitment.” Price further noted that the release includes “beautiful praise and worship songs as well as tunes that stretch the boundaries of worship music in a wonderful way.” As rising stars in one of the fastest growing segments of popular music in the United States, Third Day is poised for even greater success. While playing AtlantaFest in 1996 was a breakthrough for the band, headlining the four-day festival in 2001 marked an even greater level of success for Third Day. That success, Anderson told John Blake of the Atlanta Journal and Constitution, has brought new challenges: “It’s an interesting place to be…. It’s easier to sit back and kind of pick out the problems of Christian music as an underdog. Now that we’re successful, we are Christian music, and it’s up to us to raise the bar.” Selected discography Third Day (includes “Nothing At All” and “Consuming Fire”), gray dot, 1995; reissued, Reunion, 1996. Conspiracy No. 5, Reunion/Silver, 1997. Time, Essential, 1999. (Contributor) City on a Hill Songs of Worship and Praise, Essential, 2000. Offerings: A Worship Album, Essential, 2000. Sources Periodicals Atlanta Journal and Constitution, June 22, 2001, p. 3P. Billboard, March 29, 1997, p. 9–10; September 11, 1999, p. 47; August 12, 2000, p. 40; September 30, 2000, p. 26; May 5, 2001, p. 108. Omaha World Herald, March 19, 2000, p. 3. Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN), October 11, 1997, p. 7B. Tampa Tribune, November 7, 1998, p. 6. Toronto Star, July 4, 1998, p. L10. USA Today, August 22, 2000, p. D5; April 30, 2001, p. D1. Online Dove Awards, http://www.doveawards.com (July 27, 2001). “Third Day,” All Music Guide, http://www.allmusic.com (July 10, 2001). “Third Day,” Essential Records, http://www.essentialrecords.com (July 10, 2001). “Third Day,” gray dot records, http://www.graydot.com (July 10, 2001). “Third Day,” Listen.com, http://www.listen.com (July 10, 2001). Third Day Official Website, http://www.thirdday.com (July 10, 2001). —Christine Kelley More From encyclopedia.com You Might Also Like NEARBY TERMS Third Day


--- [Third Day - Gray Dot] ---
Signed to gray dot records in March of 1995, gray dot's first band, Third Day, released their eponymous debut in June of the same year. Prior to the record's explosion onto the CCM scene, rumors of something big from the band had already been circulating and several major labels had offered to buy and release the record before it had even hit the shelves. Third Day was a hit, and landed the band in opening slots for The Prayer Chain, The Waiting, and Code of Ethics. The band played at AtlantaFest, Cornerstone, House of Blues, and Flevo Totaal Festival in Holland, as well as touring there and in Germany. The critics raved, with reviews in CCM, Billboard, hm, 7-ball, Syndicate, True Tunes News, The Atlanta Journal and Constitution, and others. The soulful singing and uncompromisingly honest yet positive song writing of Mac Powell had hit a vein in today's youth culture. By 1996, the band was on the road full-time and the record manufacturers were barely able to keep pace with the demand. Arista's Reunion Records and gray dot reached an agreement involving the direct signing of Third Day to Reunion, who immediately re-released the debut. The new version contains photos of the band by Ben Pearson, a re-tracked version of "Mama," remixes of the entire gray dot song list, and two new cuts, "Don't Say Nothin' at All," and "Praise Song." If you're able to find a gray dot version of the release, hang on to it, as it has not been sold to stores since December 31, 1995, and with different mixes, is destined to be a collector's piece. gray dot congratulates its baby band and encourages you to visit Third Day in concert as they prepare to tour in support of their sophomore release as well as check out the other new talent gray dot is developing.


--- [Third Day hometown, lineup, biography | Last.fm] ---
Biography - Years Active 1991 – 2018 (27 years) - Founded In Marietta, Cobb County, Georgia, United States - Members - Billy Wilkins (1991 – 1993) - Brad Avery (1995 – 2008) - David Carr - Mac Powell (1991 – 2018) - Mark Lee (1991 – 2018) Well-crafted southern rock with substance. Third Day's music mixes faith with the pure energy of rock n' roll to give fans a non-watered down way to express their belief. Members: Mac Powell (vocals/guitar) , Mark Lee (guitar), Tai Anderson (bass) and David Carr (drums). Early years Third Day began in 1991, when singer Mac Powell and guitarist Mark Lee finished studying at McEachern High School in Powder Springs, Georgia. They had already played together in a garage band called Nuclear Hoedown, but now wanted to form a band where they could express their faith in God. Powell and Lee added a keyboard player named Billy Wilkins, and dedicated their time to write songs and perform around the state of Georgia. In 1992, they were playing at Lee's church the same night that drummer David Carr and bassist Tai Anderson were playing with a band called Bullard Family Singers. Their youth director asked the band to perform at their church. The group took along quickly and were invited to join the band. The album that Carr produced would be released the next year under the title Long Time Forgotten. In 1993, while dealing with their studies, the band started playing more aggressively around Atlanta and saved $3,000 to record a full-length album. Also, during this time, original member, Billy Wilkins, who was working as a school teacher, ended up leaving the band. Still, Third Day continued to work on their first full-length album, recording at Furies Studios in Atlanta. The album was finally released in 1994 with 2,000 copies available. In 1995, the band started looking for a second guitarist. They had heard Brad Avery play with singer Chris Carder and asked him to play with the band. After playing "Consuming Fire" during their first rehearsal, Avery officially joined the band. As the band completed its line-up, they also started playing steadily around the South-east area. They also started playing at an Atlanta venue called the Strand Theatre. The management of the local decided to sign the band to a new independent record label called Gray Dot Records. That same year, the band released the album Third Day, which ended up selling 20,000 copies. Shortly after, Reunion Records signed the band to a multi-album deal. International Success In 1998, the band started working on their next project titled Time under the production of Monroe James. They had compiled around 30 songs to choose from during the last year, and ended up choosing only ten. The album was also nominated for a Grammy and won another Dove Award for the band. Some of the other songs the band recorded, but were left out can be found in the EP Southern Tracks. Also, during the band's live shows, the worship part was becoming more "powerful", which prompted them to release an album exclusively of worship songs, titled Offerings: A Worship Album. The album was recorded in about a week, and they followed it with a tour alongside Jennifer Knapp. They also collaborated in the project called City on a Hill: Songs of Worship and Praise. In 2001, the band played in Australia and New Zealand on the heels of the success of the Offerings album. They continued to tour in the States, and recorded one of their concerts in Atlanta to be released as their first DVD, The Offerings Experience. The concert was held at the Hi-Fi Buys Ampitheatre with an attendance of close to 15,000 people. That same year, the band won a total of five Dove Awards as well as their first Grammy. They followed that year with the release of Come Together which ended up winning two Dove Awards and one more Grammy. The album was certified gold the next year, along with Time. In 2003, they also released a follow-up to their hit Offerings titled Offerings II: All I Have to Give. The band appeared in the 2002 film "Joshua", the movie version of the Joseph Girzone novel of the same name. The Third Day song "My Hope is You" was included in the Joshua soundtrack album. Recent Years In 2004, the band released their next album, Wire, and toured the States with tobyMac and Warren Barfield. In June of the same year, the band traveled to Europe for a two-week tour. Upon returning, the band recorded a concert at Louisville which ended up as their next project, Live Wire, released later that year. During that year, they also collaborated on the soundtrack for Mel Gibson's film, The Passion of the Christ, they played at the Republican National Convention, and were featured in the show 60 Minutes. In January 2007, the band played one night each in Melbourne, Brisbane, and Sydney, Australia. Their next album, Wherever You Are, debuted on the Billboard 200 at #8. It also won the band their third Grammy. They have followed it with the holiday album, Christmas Offerings in 2006, and with a compilation of their hits titled Chronology in 2007. On February 28th, 2008, Third Day released a statement announcing Brad Avery's departure from the band after 13 years and over 1000 concerts. Their best album to date entitled Revelation was released July 29, 2008. Third Day released Miracle on November 6, 2012. The band toured Miracle on the Miracle Tour with artists Colton Dixon and Josh Wilson as their opening acts, commencing on February 21, 2013 in Fairfax, Virginia and concluding on May 19, 2014 in Orlando, Florida. Third Day released the worship album Lead Us Back: Songs of Worship on March 3, 2015. The album, produced by the duo The Sound Kids, composed of Jonny Macintosh and JT Daly, peaked at No. 20 on the Billboard 200, No. 1 on the Christian Albums chart, No. 5 on the Top Rock Albums chart and No. 13 on the Digital Albums chart. The album has had one single, "Soul on Fire", that spent 19 weeks on the Billboard charts, peaking at No. 2 on Hot Christian Songs and No. 3 on Christian Digital Songs. Artist descriptions on Last.fm are editable by everyone. Feel free to contribute! All user-contributed text on this page is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply.


--- [first和firstly以及first of all有什么区别? - 知乎] ---
No content
