=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Southeastern to Honor ABC-TV's Robin Roberts with Jersey Retirement on ...]
Jan 20, 2011 · HAMMOND – Southeastern Louisiana University will retire distinguished alumnus Robin Roberts' Lady Lion basketball jersey during pre-game ceremonies on Feb. 5 in conjunction with the university's 2010-11 Women's Basketball Alumni Day.
URL: https://lionsports.net/news/2011/1/20/WBB_0120115037

[Southeastern to honor Robin Roberts with jersey retirement]
Southeastern Louisiana University will retire distinguished alumnus Robin Roberts' Lady Lions basketball jersey during pre-game ceremonies on Feb. 5 in conjunction with the university's 2010-11 ...
URL: https://www.wafb.com/story/13881696/southeastern-to-honor-robin-roberts-with-jersey-retirement/

[Famed Lady Lion returns for ceremony - The Lion's Roar]
A national celebrity and Southeastern sports alumni alike held the spotlight on the afternoon of Feb. 5. That day, Southeastern retired the host of ABC's Good Morning America and former Lady Lion Robin Roberts' jersey. Along with the jersey retirement, Southeastern also held the 2010-11 Women's Basketball Alumni Day. The alumni ceremony was scheduled to...
URL: https://lionsroarnews.com/7955/famed-lady-lion-returns-for-ceremony/uncategorized/

[1996 Outstanding Alumnus of the Year - Southeastern Louisiana University]
1996 Outstanding Alumnus of the Year Robin Roberts Nationally recognized television personality Robin Roberts was Southeastern Louisiana University's Alumnus of the Year in 1996. Her broadcasting career started as a student at Southeastern getting her training on the campus radio station and at Hammond's radio station WFPR, while earning a degree in communication. In many interviews ...
URL: https://www.southeastern.edu/alumni/involved/annual-events/recognition/past/past_alumni/1996_rroberts/

[Robin Roberts - Mississippi Encyclopedia]
Two years later Southeastern Louisiana University named her its Alumnus of the Year and she endowed a scholarship at the school; in 2011 the school retired her jersey. In July 2008 she received the Inspiration Award from the Women’s National Basketball Association.
URL: https://mississippiencyclopedia.org/entries/robin-roberts/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Southeastern to Honor ABC-TV's Robin Roberts with Jersey Retirement on ...] ---
HAMMOND – Southeastern Louisiana University will retire distinguished alumnus Robin Roberts' Lady Lion basketball jersey during pre-game ceremonies on Feb. 5 in conjunction with the university's 2010-11 Women's Basketball Alumni Day. Anchorwoman for ABC-TV's “Good Morning America,” Roberts will see her number 21 jersey unveiled during a special ceremony prior to the Lady Lions' 3 p.m. contest versus Southland Conference rival Sam Houston State in the University Center. At halftime, Southeastern will honor her and all other returning Lady Lion alumni. “We welcome the opportunity to recognize Robin Roberts, who has served as such a great ambassador for Southeastern,” said university President John L. Crain. “Her personal and professional achievements make her a true role model for young women everywhere and an inspiration to us all. We are proud to welcome her back to Southeastern and honor her with the retirement of her Lady Lion jersey.” Roberts starred for the Lady Lions from 1979-83. She currently ranks among the program's career leaders in points (1,446, 6th), rebounds (1,034, 5th), games played (114, 4th), field goals made (507, 5th), free throws made (432, 4th) and free throw percentage (72.0, 10th). In 2006, she was named one of the NCAA's "100 Most Influential Student-athletes" in conjunction with the NCAA Centennial Celebration. A 1983 graduate of Southeastern and a member of the university's Athletics Hall of Fame, Roberts has worked in broadcasting for more than 20 years and became co-anchor of “Good Morning America” in 2005. During her tenure with GMA, the program has won three consecutive Emmy Awards for Outstanding Morning program. Roberts began her broadcasting career while at Southeastern, working at WHMD/WFPR Radio in Hammond where she was sports director. She also served as a special assignment sports reporter in 1982 for KSLU-FM, the university's public radio station. Later she held various broadcasting jobs in Atlanta, Nashville – where she won the “Nashville Scene” Sportscaster of the Year Award – Biloxi and Hattiesburg, Miss. From 1990 to 2005, Roberts was a contributor to ESPN, where her assignments included hosting "SportsCenter" and contributing to "NFL PrimeTime." At GMA, she has done extensive field reporting in the Middle East, Africa, and Mexico. Roberts played an active role in ABC News' coverage of the 2008 presidential race, interviewing candidates and a wide-range of political newsmakers and reporting live from Washington, D.C. on Inauguration Day. She was the first journalist to interview President Obama after he was sworn in as President. Roberts was diagnosed with breast cancer in June 2007. Her public battle has been recognized with awards and honors from organizations around the country, including the Susan G. Komen Foundation; the Congressional Families Cancer Prevention Program; and Gilda's Club, a non-profit organization founded by the late Joel Siegel. In 2005, Roberts found her personal and professional lives collide when Hurricane Katrina devastated the city of New Orleans and the Mississippi Gulf Coast – a part of the country she called home for most of her life. Following the storm, she traveled to the hurricane zone and reported on the devastation. She also launched "GMA Gets It Done," a year-long effort to rebuild Roberts' hometown of Pass Christian, Miss. For more information on the Southeastern Women's Basketball Alumni Day or getting tickets to the game, contact Southeastern Athletics at (985) 549-2395 or visit www.LionSports.net.


--- [Southeastern to honor Robin Roberts with jersey retirement] ---
Southeastern to honor Robin Roberts with jersey retirement HAMMOND – Southeastern Louisiana University will retire distinguished alumnus Robin Roberts' Lady Lions basketball jersey during pre-game ceremonies on Feb. 5 in conjunction with the university's 2010-11 Women's Basketball Alumni Day. Anchorwoman for ABC-TV's "Good Morning America," Roberts will see her number 21 jersey unveiled during a special ceremony prior to the Lady Lions' 3 p.m. contest versus Southland Conference rival Sam Houston State. At halftime, Southeastern will honor her and all other returning Lady Lion alumni. "We welcome the opportunity to recognize Robin Roberts, who has served as such a great ambassador for Southeastern," said university President John L. Crain. "Her personal and professional achievements make her a true role model for young women everywhere and an inspiration to us all. We are proud to welcome her back to Southeastern and honor her with the retirement of her Lady Lion jersey." Roberts starred for the Lady Lions from 1979-83. She currently ranks among the program's career leaders in points (1,446, 6th), rebounds (1,034, 5th), games played (114, 4th), field goals made (507, 5th), free throws made (432, 4th) and free throw percentage (72.0, 10th). In 2006, she was named one of the NCAA's "100 Most Influential Student-athletes" in conjunction with the NCAA Centennial Celebration. A 1983 graduate of Southeastern and a member of the university's Athletics Hall of Fame, Roberts has worked in broadcasting for more than 20 years and became co-anchor of "Good Morning America" in 2005. During her tenure with GMA, the program has won three consecutive Emmy Awards for Outstanding Morning program. Roberts began her broadcasting career while at Southeastern, working at WHMD/WFPR Radio in Hammond where she was sports director. She also served as a special assignment sports reporter in 1982 for KSLU-FM, the university's public radio station. Later she held various broadcasting jobs in Atlanta, Nashville – where she won the "Nashville Scene" Sportscaster of the Year Award – Biloxi and Hattiesburg, Miss. From 1990 to 2005, Roberts was a contributor to ESPN, where her assignments included hosting "SportsCenter" and contributing to "NFL PrimeTime." At GMA, she has done extensive field reporting in the Middle East, Africa, and Mexico. Roberts played an active role in ABC News' coverage of the 2008 presidential race, interviewing candidates and a wide-range of political newsmakers and reporting live from Washington, D.C. on Inauguration Day. She was the first journalist to interview President Obama after he was sworn in as resident. Roberts was diagnosed with breast cancer in June 2007. Her public battle has been recognized with awards and honors from organizations around the country, including the Susan G. Komen Foundation; the Congressional Families Cancer Prevention Program; and Gilda's Club, a non-profit organization founded by the late Joel Siegel. In 2005, Roberts found her personal and professional lives collide when Hurricane Katrina devastated the city of New Orleans and the Mississippi Gulf Coast – a part of the country she called home for most of her life. Following the storm, she traveled to the hurricane zone and reported on the devastation. She also launched "GMA Gets It Done," a year-long effort to rebuild Roberts' hometown of Pass Christian, Miss. For more information on the Southeastern Women's Basketball Alumni Day or getting tickets to the game, contact Southeastern Athletics at (985) 549-2395 or visit www.LionSports.net.


--- [Famed Lady Lion returns for ceremony - The Lion's Roar] ---
No content


--- [1996 Outstanding Alumnus of the Year - Southeastern Louisiana University] ---
1996 Outstanding Alumnus of the Year Explore this section 1996 Outstanding Alumnus of the Year Robin Roberts Nationally recognized television personality Robin Roberts was Southeastern Louisiana University’s Alumnus of the Year in 1996. Her broadcasting career started as a student at Southeastern getting her training on the campus radio station and at Hammond’s radio station WFPR, while earning a degree in communication. In many interviews, Roberts said she happened on Southeastern after visiting Louisiana State University as a basketball prospect. She stopped at the campus on the way back, was offered a tennis scholarship – the only women’s scholarship available at the time – but went on to excel in basketball. She became a standout performer on the women’s basketball team, ending her career as the school’s third all-time leading scorer (1,446 points) and rebounder (1,034). She is one of only four Lady Lions to score 1,000 career points and grab 1,000 career rebounds. During her senior season, she averaged a career high 15.2 points per game. Roberts was inducted into the Southeastern athletic Hall of Fame in 1991-92 and on February 5, 2011 had her jersey retired. After graduating, she began her broadcasting career in 1983 as a sports anchor and reporter for WDAM-TV in Hattiesburg, Mississippi. In 1984, she moved to WLOX-TV in Biloxi, Mississippi and in 1986 was sports anchor and reporter for WSMV-TV in Nashville, Tennessee. She was also a sports anchor and reporter at WAGA-TV in Atlanta from 1988-90 and also served as host for radio station V-103. Roberts joined ESPN as a sportscaster in February of 1990.She also began to work for ABC News, specifically as a feature reporter, for Good Morning American in 1995. In 2001, Roberts received the Mel Greenberg Media Award, presented by the Women’s Basketball Coaches Association. In 2005, she was promoted to co-anchor of Good Morning America. Honors have poured in for Roberts. she was named a Louisiana Legend by Louisiana Public Broadcasting in 2001, received the Billy Jean King Contributing Award in 2004, was named one of the NCAA’s 100 Most Influential student-athletes in 2006, gained an NCAA Silver Anniversary Award in 2008 and was inducted into the Women’s Basketball Hall of Fame in 2012. She published her first book “From the Heart: Seven Rules to Live By” in 2007 and followed with “My Story, My Song – Mother-Daughter Reflections on Life and Faith” in 2012. A native of Pass Christian, Mississippi, she graduated from Pass Christian High School as salutatorian of the 1979 class. Born to Colonel Lawrence E. Roberts and Lucimarian Roberts, she credits her parents as cultivating the “three Ds: Discipline, Determination, and “De Lord.” She is the youngest of four children with siblings, Sally-Ann, a news anchor at WWL-TV in New Orleans, Lawrence “Butch” and Dorothy. Her father was a pilot with the legendary Tuskegee Airmen.


--- [Robin Roberts - Mississippi Encyclopedia] ---
Robin Roberts Robin Roberts, a broadcast journalist famous for her work on ABC News and ESPN, was born on 23 November 1960 in Tuskegee, Alabama, the fourth and youngest child of Lawrence Roberts, one of the famed Tuskegee Airmen during World War II, and Lucimarian Tolliver Roberts. The Roberts family moved to Mississippi when Robin was eight years old, living first in Biloxi and later in Pass Christian. During her senior year at Pass Christian High School, Roberts was an all-state basketball player and was selected by her classmates as Miss Pass Christian High. After graduating as salutatorian in 1979, Roberts enrolled at Southeastern Louisiana University in Hammond, where she starred on the Lady Lions basketball team, finishing in third place on the school’s all-time scoring list. She graduated cum laude in 1983 with a bachelor’s degree in communications. After obtaining a job as weekend sports anchor at WDAM-TV in Hattiesburg, she worked her way up the broadcasting ladder, moving to more visible positions at stations in larger markets: in 1984 Biloxi’s WLOX-TV hired her as a sportscaster; in 1986 she joined the sports team at WSMV-TV in Nashville, Tennessee; in 1988 she became a sports reporter and anchor at Atlanta’s WAGA-TV. In 1990 Roberts joined cable sports network ESPN, headquartered in Bristol, Connecticut. She remained with the network for the next fifteen years, hosting its flagship program, SportsCenter; contributing to NFL Primetime; and providing reports and interviews from various sporting events. In addition, Roberts worked as a play-by-play commentator and host of the network’s Women’s National Basketball Association games and specials and covered the Winter and Summer Olympics. In 1995 she added ABC’s Good Morning America to her duties, anchoring news reports from the studio and serving as a feature reporter. In May 2005 Roberts left ESPN and became a coanchor of ABC News’s Good Morning America, not only hosting the show from New York but covering events around the world, including the devastation Hurricane Katrina caused to the Gulf Coast area where she was raised. In 2007–8 Roberts underwent surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation treatment for breast cancer, continuing to broadcast during this time. In 2012 she was diagnosed with myelodisplastic syndrome, a bone marrow disease. Her public announcement of her illness resulted in an 1,800 percent spike in the number of registered bone marrow donors. After a leave of absence from broadcasting during which she received a successful bone marrow transplant, Roberts returned to television in early 2013. In December of that year, she publicly acknowledged that she is gay. Numerous organizations have recognized Roberts’s status as a pioneer in women’s sports and broadcasting, her role as a survivor of breast cancer and bone marrow disease, and her activism on behalf of gay rights. In 1994 she was inducted as a member of the Women’s Institute on Sport and Education Foundation’s Hall of Fame. Two years later Southeastern Louisiana University named her its Alumnus of the Year and she endowed a scholarship at the school; in 2011 the school retired her jersey. In July 2008 she received the Inspiration Award from the Women’s National Basketball Association. In 2012 she was inducted into the Women’s Basketball Hall of Fame and won a Peabody Award for her work on Good Morning America. ESPN honored her with its 2013 Arthur Ashe Courage Award, and the following year she received the Walter Cronkite Award for Excellence in Journalism. And in 2015 Equality Forum named her one of its thirty-one Icons of LGBT History Month. The Women’s Basketball Coaches Association annually awards the Robin Roberts/WBCA Sports Communications Scholarship Award to a female student-athlete who is studying journalism or communications and is planning to attend graduate school. Roberts has also published four books: From the Heart: Seven Rules to Live By (2007); From the Heart: Eight Rules to Live By (2008); My Story, My Song: Mother-Daughter Reflections on Life and Faith (2012, coauthored with her mother); and Everybody’s Got Something (2014). Further Reading - Good Morning America website, http://gma.yahoo.com - “Robin Roberts’ Biography,” http://abcnews.go.com/GMA/robin-roberts-biography/story?id=128237
