=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Albertina Sisulu - Wikipedia]
After the end of apartheid, Sisulu represented the ANC in the first democratic Parliament before she retired from politics in 1999. She was also the deputy president of the ANC Women's League from 1991 to 1993 and a member of the ANC National Executive Committee from 1991 to 1994.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albertina_Sisulu

[Albertina Sisulu honoured - South African Government]
Oct 16, 2018 · Albertina Sisulu continued to work for South Africans as a member of Parliament under the new transitional government in 1994. She retired from Parliament and politics in 1999, but still continued to support many social causes.
URL: https://www.gov.za/blog/albertina-sisulu-honoured

[Albertina Sisulu, Nurse, and Activist born - African American Registry]
At first, Sisulu was not interested in politics, only attending political meetings with Walter. Still, she eventually got involved when she joined the African National Congress (ANC) Women's League in 1955 and took part in the launch of the Freedom Charter the same year. Sisulu was the only woman present at the birth of the ANC Youth League.
URL: https://aaregistry.org/story/a-conscinece-of-south-africa-albertina-sisulu/

[Albertina Sisulu Timeline 1918 - 2011 - South African History Online]
Jul 13, 2011 · They were on a fundraising trip to the USA, Ireland and the UK on behalf of Education Africa. 1999 At the end of this year, Albertina and Walter left parliament for the last time and retired from politics completely. 2002 Walter and Albertina Sisulu: In Our Lifetime, a biography by Sisulu's daughter-in-law Elinor, is launched by the Nigerian ...
URL: https://www.sahistory.org.za/article/albertina-sisulu-timeline-1918-2011

[Albertina Sisulu (née Nontsikelelo Thethiwe) - Our Constitution]
Jun 2, 2011 · In 1990 after the ANC was unbanned, Sisulu worked on a committee to re-establish the ANC Women’s League. In 1991 Sisulu was elected to serve on the ANC’s National Executive Committee (NEC). In 1994 Sisulu became a Member of Parliament (MP). In 1999 Sisulu left Parliament and retired from politics.
URL: https://ourconstitution.wethepeoplesa.org/albertina-sisulu-nee-nontsikelelo-thethiwe/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Albertina Sisulu - Wikipedia] ---
Albertina Sisulu  (née Nontsikelelo Thethiwe; 21 October 1918 – 2 June 2011) was a South African anti-apartheid activist. A member of the African National Congress (ANC), she was the founding co-president of the United Democratic Front. In South Africa, where she was affectionately known as Ma Sisulu, she is often called a mother of the nation. 
Born in rural Transkei, Sisulu moved to Johannesburg in 1940 and was a nurse by profession. She entered politics through her marriage to Walter Sisulu and became increasingly engaged in activism after his imprisonment in the Rivonia Trial. In the 1980s she emerged as a community leader in her hometown of Soweto, assuming a prominent role in the establishment of the UDF and the revival of the Federation of South African Women.  
Between 1964 and 1989, she was subject to a near-continuous string of banning orders. In addition to intermittent detention without trial, she was subject to criminal charges on three occasions: she was acquitted of violating pass laws in 1958, convicted of violating the Suppression of Communism Act in 1984, and acquitted of violating the Internal Security Act in the 1985 Pietermaritzburg Treason Trial.  
After the end of apartheid, Sisulu represented the ANC in the first democratic Parliament before she retired from politics in 1999. She was also the deputy president of the ANC Women's League from 1991 to 1993 and a member of the ANC National Executive Committee from 1991 to 1994.


--- [Albertina Sisulu honoured - South African Government] ---
By Pinky Kekana There are many remarkable men and women upon whose shoulders our nation has been built. Their powerful contributions to our struggle for freedom charted the way for a country that belongs to all South Africans. Among these revolutionary giants was stalwart Albertina Sisulu who played a formative role in the opposition to apartheid and in building a non-racial, non-sexist and democratic South Africa. This year, we celebrate the centenary anniversary of the life of Mama Sisulu – who took on the mantle of leadership during our darkest hours and remained a selfless servant of the people throughout her life. For her bold role in the fight for freedom, she suffered immensely at the hands of the apartheid regime. She was jailed several times for her political activities and constantly harassed by the apartheid’s security police. Mama Sisulu became one of the first women to be arrested under the General Laws Amendment Act that gave the security police the power to hold suspects in detention for 90 days without charging them. She was also placed in “solitary confinement incommunicado” when she refused to give information about her husband Walter Sisulu who had gone underground as part of the resistance movement activities. As a result of constant persecution from police, the Sisulu family faced many difficulties including financial struggles. Her financial woes continued throughout the 1960s as she struggled to afford her children's schooling in Swaziland. To help meet her family’s needs Mama Sisulu sewed dresses and knitted jerseys, and baby clothes to sell for extra money when she was not working as a nursing sister. She also bought items wholesale to sell them for small profit to meet her family’s needs. During these times of hardship she could easily have succumbed to the onslaught of pressure from the apartheid state but did not relent and forged ahead in the fight for the emancipation of black people. Sisulu’s life and legacy teaches us that nothing is impossible when we remain true to our ideals. While she and countless others of her generation faced overwhelming obstacles, they remained steadfast and triumphed. As a nation that is still reeling from our horrific apartheid past we would do well to allow her teachings and deeds to permeate us as we work together to build a non-sexist, non-racial and democratic country. Our ideals as a nation are reflected in our world acclaimed Constitution which reminds us that South Africa belongs to all who live in it, black and white. As our founding charter it provides the basis for genuine democracy, the rule of law and the enjoyment of fundamental rights. It explains our obligations to each other and encourages us to express our honest opinion on any issue and have vigorous debates. The same Constitution outlines the rights guaranteed in the Bill of Rights to all South Africans. Moreover, we can follow in the footsteps of Mama Sisulu by getting involved in building the country we envisioned through the Thuma Mina movement inspired by President Cyril Ramaphosa in his State of the Nation Address. It is a call for self-sacrifice, individual responsibility and the importance of personal change in mind-sets to serve the nation and influence the country’s political landscape. It is a new era where we as individuals make it our personal responsibility to confront our challenges and accelerate progress in building a prosperous society. All South Africans as individuals, groups or communities must roll up their sleeves and work towards our future. We are motivated by the legacy of Albertina Sisulu who throughout her life worked for betterment of all South Africans. She had a passion for community development, advocacy and the mobilisation of community structures. While working as a doctor’s nurse she provided much needed help to people in the poorest communities. For example at McDonald’s Farm informal settlement in Soweto where people at the time were living in abandoned cars, Mama Sisulu set up a surgery and installed 20 toilets that were shared by 150 people. She also made space for a crèche and a feeding scheme was introduced that fed approximately 80 children twice a week. Albertina Sisulu continued to work for South Africans as a member of Parliament under the new transitional government in 1994. She retired from Parliament and politics in 1999, but still continued to support many social causes. The selflessness of Mama Sisulu links directly with our National Development Plan’s (NDP) objective of “Building an Active Citizenry”. The NDP emphasises the need for South Africans to unite around a common goal, ensure citizens are active in their own development, and build a capable and developmental state. It foretells a country where through our collective efforts we have eliminated the triple challenge of poverty, inequality and unemployment and enabled all South Africans to achieve a decent standard of living. We will remain forever indebted to Mama Albertina Sisulu and her generation of freedom fighters. It is now in the hands of our generation to carry the legacy of our struggle heroes and move our country forward. Pinky Kekana is the Deputy Minister of Communications.


--- [Albertina Sisulu, Nurse, and Activist born - African American Registry] ---
Albertina Sisulu *Albertina Sisulu was born on this date in 1918. She was a Black South African activist and nurse. Born Nontsikelelo Albertina Thethiwe to Bonilizwe and Monica Thethiwe, she was born in the Tsomo district of Transkei, South Africa. She was the second of five children, and although her mother survived the Spanish Flu, she was constantly ill and very weak. As the eldest girl, it fell upon her to take on a motherly role for her younger siblings. She stayed out of school for long periods, which resulted in her being two years older than the rest of her class in her last year of primary school. Even from a young age, she showed strong maternal instincts. These leadership instincts underlined the respect she earned during the struggle when she was called the ‘Mother of the Nation.’ When she entered a competition to win a four-year high school scholarship, her age counted against her as she was disqualified from the prize even though she had come in first place. Angered by the unfair treatment (the competition rules had set no age limit on the award), her teachers wrote to the local Xhosa language newspaper, Imvo Zabantsundu, making a strong case for Thethiwe to be given the prize. The article caught the attention of the local Roman Catholic Mission priests, who then communicated with Father Bernard Huss at Mariazell. Father Huss arranged for a four-year high school scholarship for her at Mariazell College. In 1936, she left for Mariazell College in Matatiele in the Eastern Cape. Although her scholarship covered her board and lodging, she had to pay them back during the school holidays by plowing the fields and working in the laundry room. After graduating in 1939, she became a working professional to support her family. At Mariazell, she had converted to Catholicism, and she decided that she would become a nun. However, Father Huss advised Albertina against this as nuns did not earn a salary, and she would not have been able to support her family. Instead, he urged her to consider nursing, as trainee nurses were paid to study. Attracted by the practical solution, she was accepted as a trainee nurse at a Johannesburg “Non-European” hospital called Johannesburg General. She first met Walter Sisulu in 1941 while working at the hospital, when he was a young political activist. They married in 1944 at a ceremony where Nelson Mandela was the best man. The couple had five children, Max Vuyisile, Mlungisi, Zwelakhe, Lindiwe, and Nonkululeko, and adopted four others. They were married for 59 years until he died in his wife's arms in May 2003 at 90. Her husband spent 25 years in custody on Robben Island alongside Mandela, whom he had brought into the ANC, now South Africa's governing party. While he was incarcerated, Sisulu raised the couple's five children alone. She spent months in jail herself and had her movements restricted. She saved her children so that they could attend good schools outside the inferior Bantu Education System. Several of the Sisulu children have themselves become leaders in democratic South Africa. Max Sisulu is the speaker in the National Assembly; Beryl Sisulu is South Africa's ambassador to Norway; Lindiwe Sisulu is the minister of defense; Zwelakhe Sisulu is a prominent businessman; and daughter-in-law Elinor Sisulu, married to Max, is a well-known author and human rights activist. In 2000, the family publicly disclosed that their adopted son, Gerald Lockman, had died of HIV/Aids. At first, Sisulu was not interested in politics, only attending political meetings with Walter. Still, she eventually got involved when she joined the African National Congress (ANC) Women's League in 1955 and took part in the launch of the Freedom Charter the same year. Sisulu was the only woman present at the birth of the ANC Youth League. She became an executive member of the Federation of South African Women in 1954. In 1956, Albertina joined Helen Joseph and Sophia Williams-De Bruyn in a march of 20,000 women to the Union Buildings of Pretoria in protest against the Apartheid government's requirement that women carry passbooks as part of the pass laws. Sisulu was arrested after her husband skipped bail to go underground, becoming the first woman arrested under the General Laws Amendment Act of 1963. The act gave the police the power to detain suspects for 90 days without charging them. Sisulu was placed in solitary confinement for almost two months. In 1989, she obtained a passport and led a UDF delegation overseas, meeting British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and United States President George H.W. Bush. In London, she addressed a major anti-apartheid rally to protest against the visit of National Party leader FW de Klerk. In 1994, she was elected to the first democratic Parliament, which she served until retiring four years later. That year, she received an award from then-President Mandela. Also, for more than 50 years, she committed herself to The Albertina Sisulu Foundation, which works to improve the lives of small children and older adults. She recruited nurses to go to Tanzania to replace white-British nurses who left after Tanzanian independence. The South African nurses had to be "smuggled" out of SA into Botswana, and they flew to Tanzania. She became national co-president of the liberal United Democratic Front in 1983. She was honored for her commitment to the anti-apartheid struggle and social work when the World Peace Council, based in Basel, Switzerland, elected her president from 1993 to 1996. In 1997, she was called before the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, established to help South Africans confront and forgive their brutal history of Apartheid. Later, she joined the ANC Women's League and was elected deputy president, and in 1994, she became a Member of Parliament before retiring in 1998. Sisulu died suddenly in her home in Linden, Johannesburg, at age 92, on June 2, 2011, at around 8:00 while watching television with her grandchildren.


--- [Albertina Sisulu Timeline 1918 - 2011 - South African History Online] ---
No content


--- [Albertina Sisulu (née Nontsikelelo Thethiwe) - Our Constitution] ---
PIONEER Albertina Sisulu (née Nontsikelelo Thethiwe) Human rights activist | ANC Women’s League member | Politician Born: 21 October 1918 Died: 2 June 2011 “Women are the people who are going to relieve us from all this oppression and depression. The rent boycott that is happening in Soweto now [in the 1980s] is alive because of the women. It is the women who are on the street committees educating the people to stand up and protect each other.” Who is Albertina Sisulu (née Nontsikelelo Thethiwe)? Began her career as a nurse and became increasingly political, taking on leadership roles within the African National Congress Women’s League (ANCWL) and Federation of South African Women (FEDSAW). Professions and Roles Nurse, political activist and council to her husband, former Secretary-General and Deputy President of the ANC, Walter Sisulu. Best Known For Sisulu was widely referred to as the “Mother of the Nation”. She is best known for her activism against the apartheid regime. Life highlights - Sisulu and her family went to live with her maternal family in Xolobe as her mother was constantly ill after surviving the Spanish flu. - Sisulu was forced to leave school on several occasions to take care of her younger siblings because her mother was constantly ill. She fell behind by two academic years, but this did not stop her from winning a four-year high school scholarship at Mariazell College. - Sisulu moved to Johannesburg in 1940 to pursue a career in nursing at the Johannesburg General hospital. - Albertina Sisulu met her future husband Walter in 1941 and through him began attending political meetings in a supportive role. She was the only woman present at the inaugural conference of the ANC’s Youth League in 1944. - Sisulu qualified as a nurse in 1944 and married Walter. - In 1948 when the ANCWL was formed, Sisulu joined as a member and began her life as an activist. - In the 1950s, Sisulu assumed leadership roles in the ANC and in FEDSAW. She was one of the organisers of the historic anti-pass women’s march in 1956 and opposed ‘Bantu’ education. - She was jailed several times for her political activities and constantly harassed by apartheid security. - When Walter forfeited bail and went underground in 1963, Sisulu and her young son were arrested. She was the first woman to ever be arrested under the General Laws Amendment Act. She was placed in solitary confinement for almost two months while the Security Branch looked for her husband. - Sisulu was detained and put in solitary confinement again in 1981 and 1985 for her activism. She was also placed under multiple bans and under house arrest. - In 1983, Sisulu was elected co-President of the United Democratic Front. - In 1989 Sisulu was part of the United Democratic Front (UDF) delegation that met US President, George Bush, to establish relations between the two countries. - In 1990 after the ANC was unbanned, Sisulu worked on a committee to re-establish the ANC Women’s League. - In 1991 Sisulu was elected to serve on the ANC’s National Executive Committee (NEC). - In 1994 Sisulu became a Member of Parliament (MP). - In 1999 Sisulu left Parliament and retired from politics. IN THEIR OWN WORDS “We as women wouldn’t take this [Bantu education]. We organised other women against the Bantu Education and we closed the schools. We thought of forming an organisation that will put all the women together, so that at least our fight will be easy if we speak with one voice. Now we formed an organisation which was called Federation of South African Women in 1954. All these years I never had, you know, a comfortable life. Because from 1958 when I was in jail, that was the beginning of my life in and out of jail. Fifty-eight I was in jail, sixty-three I was in jail with my first son who was seventeen years then. We were arrested because of the Suppression of Communism Act, which meant ninety days without trial. So we went to jail with this boy, and when we completed the ninety days we were released, and after that he was harassed by the police. Really, we have been always optimistic that the end of this country will end up being what the people want it to be. To be a non-racial democratic South Africa. I think we are getting to that. We are working hard for this constituent assembly that is going to draft the constitution of the country. So that is why we say, at least there are those processes that are going on. That is why we are hopeful. That really we are forging ahead.” – Albertina Sisulu, 1991 IN THE WORDS OF OTHERS “She became one of the distinguished torchbearers during apartheid. […] She was a voice against injustice and a rock upon which her family and many struggle activists leaned on. […] Mama Sisulu embodied tenacity, fortitude, strength, and became a beacon of hope during the darkest period of apartheid, and she was a phenomenal leader.” – Moloto Mothapo, ANC member, ceremony marking Albertina Sisulu’s 100th birthday, 2018 “She had remarkable dignity and courage.” – Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Nobel Peace Prize laureate – Moloto Mothapo, ANC member, ceremony marking Albertina Sisulu’s 100th birthday, 2018 “She has been a very brave and powerful woman in South African politics. The first time I met her I was from prison, we met her so she could take us through what to expect, she was so motherly. She spoke to us like a politician, but she mostly spoke to us like a mother. She was a very loving person.” – Bantu Holomisa, Leader of the United Democratic Movement Sisulu had been banned for 18 years, the longest any person in South Africa had been banned.
