=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lady Tomoe | Sekiro Shadows Die Twice Wiki]
Lady Tomoe is a character in Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice. She was the partner of Takeru, the former divine heir, in an earlier time, and also mentored Genichiro Ashina. She is the one that taught Genichiro the Lightning of Tomoe. In the base game, she is referenced in dialogue or descriptions. Sekiro Lady Tomoe Information Lady Tomoe came from the Divine Realm and has a special connection with ...
URL: https://sekiroshadowsdietwice.wiki.fextralife.com/Lady+Tomoe

[r/Sekiro on Reddit: Takeru, Tomoe, the Carp and other mysteries.]
Apr 3, 2019 · He was probably Isshins Shinobi since him Isshin and Emma all bond and I'm sure they speak of drinking Sake together and other stuff like that ...Lore Question: Were Lord Takeru and Lady Tomoe in love with each other?Misconceptions About Sekiro Lore : Tomoe & Takeru - RedditMore results from www.reddit.com
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Sekiro/comments/b91e4q/takeru_tomoe_the_carp_and_other_mysteries/

[r/Sekiro on Reddit: The strangeness surrounding Takeru and Tomoe’s disappearance explained:]
In the game, we’re told that Takeru and Tomoe both died long ago, but there’s certain discrepancies that come up when we consider the nature of how they are dead.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Sekiro/comments/1c2rbki/the_strangeness_surrounding_takeru_and_tomoes/

[Lady Tomoe and Lord Takeru - Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice Lore]
Today, we uncover the story of Lady Tomoe and Lord Takeru. I will be uncovering more secrets and lore of Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice. Subscribe to my channel, if you want to join me on this quest.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D8e8ZGhktIY

[Sekiro: 10 Things About the Lore You May Not Have Known]
Jan 19, 2020 · Tomoe was the partner of Lord Takeru, the previous divine heir. She also mentored Genichiro and taught him the Lightning of Tomoe. This lightning is interesting, as it is considered heretical in Ashina. Is it possible that Tomoe hails from the Divine Realm, where lightning is so prevalent?
URL: https://www.thegamer.com/sekiro-shadows-die-twice-surprising-facts-lore/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lady Tomoe | Sekiro Shadows Die Twice Wiki] ---
No content


--- [r/Sekiro on Reddit: Takeru, Tomoe, the Carp and other mysteries.] ---
Takeru, Tomoe, the Carp and other mysteries. Let's get to it. Several times in item descriptions, for example divine grass says "One small part of Ashina is exceedingly old. The ancient soil, rocks, and water that pervaded the land are said to have attracted the attention of the Gods." This obviously seems like an important part of the game's lore. However, I wasn't 100% sure of where this old place was. The Adamantite Scrap description says "Adamantite can only be mined in the oldest parts of Ashina. Ancient rock and soil is said to attract the grace of gods, perhaps lending this metal its supple strength." This drew my attention, mainly because I found some of these in the Palace. Going on the wiki, you find this item in Mibu Village and the Palace. As further proof, you find one in the temple with the Mist Noble. Alright, now we know the Palace is the extremely old place in Ashina, attracting the attention of the gods (Gods being plural makes me wonder if there are other gods in game. Unseen Aid is something that leaps to mind.) Going back to the divine grass, it continues; "The doctor Dogen studied the plants in this ancient place, resulting in the recipe for this special medicine." This is very interesting, as it may mean he traveled to the Palace. Which also means at the same time Dogen was alive, a Divine Heir was as well. The only other Heir we know of is Takeru, which we know scarce little of. The alternative is that someone brought the plants to him, which only raises more questions. Now I'll get into the juicy stuff. Let's first discuss Tomoe. I already made a post and went over her pretty extensively. You can find it [here] (https://old.reddit.com/r/Sekiro/comments/b7dp4j/more_lore_japanese_mythology_explains_a_lot/). In short, Tomoe was an Okami warrior woman, the same ones that we can find in the Palace. There are a multitude of things that point to this. Mainly the dancing dragon mask which mentions dancing. She would dance under the Everblossom. Floating Passage art is dance-like and was brought here by a foreigner, Tomoe. She uses lightning as does the enemies in the Palace, they also use a move similar to Floating Passage. Genichiro uses both lightning and Floating passage. He was mentored by Tomoe. Isshin says she fought as if dancing. As a side note, I mentioned in the post linked above: "While researching the tomoe symbol, I found that Raijin, the kami of thunder, lightning and storms, is depicted as a "demon-looking spirit beating drums to create thunder, usually with the symbol tomoe drawn on the drums." That seems like a simple connection. Today while playing I found this: [The Tomoe symbol in the Fountainhead Palace.] (https://i.imgur.com/u5Xyntm.jpg) I'm not certain, but it seems to be on a drum. We don't know much about a previous Divine Heir, Takeru. The first thing we know is that he was born in the Divine Realm. I always assumed the Divine Realm is where we fight the Divine Dragon. However, a few bits of dialogue indicates that the Divine Realm is actually the Fountainhead Palace as a whole. Most notably Pot Noble Harunaga says you "smell like the divine realm". He also calls the Great Carp the "Great Carp of the Divine Realm". If that is true, then it would make a lot more sense for Takeru to be born there. This lead me further down the rabbit hole. Wikipedia says this: Takeru can be written using different kanji characters and can mean: 武, "warrior" 猛, "fierce" 健, "health" 尊, "noble" 岳, "mountain" In my other post, I explored this as well. I decided that I can't make any connections. Wait... Takeru was born in the Divine Realm, which I now know is the Palace. One of the meanings of the name Takeru is "Noble". Literally meaning that he was a Palace Noble? I thought that it was a stretch, but then I realized that Emma mentioned Tomoe used to dance under the Everblossom, while Takeru played the... flute. The now deformed Nobles have flutes, you can see them playing an instrument like a flute, and of course you can hear them playing. This led to examining the palace nobles closer. - You can see that they are very fish-like in appearance. - They have an extreme desire to feed on the vitality of youth. They afflict you with "enfeeble" which does several things. It reduces your health significantly. It prevents Resurrection. Wolf seems to limp, using his sword as a support/crutch. After you are enfeebled, the Noble will use a grab attack, pinning you down and proceeds to munch on your face. Interestingly, if you manage to get a deathblow, you will perform the same animation on the enemy. - After going through the cave underwater there is a building full of Nobles. They don't have their flutes. Instead, they are eating dead Okami warriors. We also learn a lot about them from the Mibu Village priest. He gives the villagers sake to become citizens of the palace. However, the sake made the villagers thirsty. They drank the water in the pond and river. However, this made them thirstier and thirstier, until becoming... whatever it is they are now. They're similar to the "zombies" in the dungeon. They have an extreme fear of fire, and are also hard to kill. The priest says that he can feel "it" dissolving, liquefying, but it's too dilute, refuses to dissolve completely. Waters of the palace, fill our cups once more. Well, you can give him what he's after, Water of the Palace. After doing so, he turns into a Noble. Killing him grants Carp scales. The water's description is "A cup filled with divine waters, a drink popular with nobles of the palace. When a wedding procession arrives at the Fountainhead palace, this is the drink they are greeted with. "The nectar of the palace nobles. Go ahead, drink to your heart's content." If this water is so divine, why does it transform people into youth-sucking fish-people? It seems something fucky is going on at Mibu village as well, after they drank the water. I really don't understand everything but I'll say what I know. Doujun carries out questionable experiments in the dungeon. He first asks for a test subject, then ask you to bring the eyes of a Sakura carp. Doing so will result in the test subject and Doujun to gain red eyes, just like the carp. That's simple enough. Now, when they die, they drop red lumps. It says "A red mass is the lingering trace of one who was unable to achieve their desires. Slightly warm to the touch. It pulsates softly." Unable to achieve their desire seems straightforward: Immortality. That was what Doujun was trying to achieve with the Rejuvenating Waters and Sakura Carp eyes. Things get more complicated when we kill the Great Carp and get it's whisker. "While the great carp is naturally immortal, if killed, its whiskers can be plucked. The sound of the whisker being removed is surely music to the ears of certain people. Some would feel relief at the sound of their mission being completed, others, the joy of having their heart's desire granted." Interesting things to note here: The carp is immortal, but can be killed with some sort of hairy, horned slug. Their mission being complete is referencing the Father who feeds the Great Carp, he states he is relived. But here we see again; Heart's desire. In this case it's one of the Pot Nobles. One will die, the other will transform in a small version of the Great Carp. With one difference: Red eyes. What's the connection with red eyes, red lumps, immortality, Pot Nobles obsession with carps, and other nobles being fish-like? Here's some screenshots of the now transformed pot noble. [Isn't he cute?] (https://imgur.com/a/XDjEImj) The "zombies" in Mibu Village, Nobles in the Palace, and Monks in the Senpou Temple all drop Lump of Fat Wax. The description says "Considered omens of disease, they are known to grow larger as the illness worsens. It's best not to to let one grow any larger after it turns brown." It only states "the illness", which I can only guess means it comes from the Water/Immortality. Grave Wax says "A long-suffered illness will see the growth turn large and blacker still. It is customary to run water over the site of an extracted growth." That doesn't seem too smart, but I really don't know much about this "illness". [Here's] (https://imgur.com/a/fjGN40a) some other miscellaneous things I've noticed. It would be great to solve some of these mysteries! (Especially the writing) There also seems to be many references to marriage in game. Emma says Kuro is bound to be the Divine Heir for eternity. What happened to Takeru and Tomoe then? We do find the Sakura Droplet at the Hirata estate... Fujioka knew Genichiro is "damn near immortal". Dragon's blood droplet; "An item that is rarely dropped by a Divine Heir of the Dragon's Heritage." We find tons of these all over Ashina. Vendors sell them. ??? The cave at the Palace is called the Sanctuary. Takeru did have the mortal blade. Unclear if he made it to the divine realm, his grave is in Ashina. The black scroll states "It is through this power that it creates life. I beseech you, make offerings for the Dragon's Blood..." It seems to me one Blade destroys life and the other creates life. What does it mean to make offerings for the Dragon's Blood? All of Kuro's family died. In the art book, Juzou is called "Shura Samurai". After Isshin retook Ashina, it was met with a "fateful crisis". Both Wolf and Kuro describe the incense and sakura branch as nostalgic. A singular sakura blossom lands on wolf in the beginning of the game, prompting him to "wake up". Wolf has memory loss to some extent. The sculptor knows about Dragonrot, and says not to worry, he's not normal and no mere Dragonrot will kill me. There was a Dragonrot epidemic in Ashina before, no cure was found (even though Dogen was alive?). There are a lot of slug/leech looking creatures in Mibu Village and in the village with the shelter stone. The "bait" items are the same creatures. Great Carp has human teeth. Skeletons of other large carp in the pond at the palace. Kuro says he was "granted" this power. The priest at senpou temple can smell your dragon blood. Several mentions of the rejuvenating waters and great carp "bewitching" and "seducing". "According to denizens of the Sunken Valley, such places are appropriate for offering oneself in marriage to the Great Serpent. If one wishes to become a bride, they must enter the belly of the Serpent in the Valley”. Another mention of marriage. When the incense is complete, Wolf says he has words burned into his mind. Kuro does not let you see him cutting himself. Well, that's all for now. Pretty tired of typing!


--- [r/Sekiro on Reddit: The strangeness surrounding Takeru and Tomoe’s disappearance explained:] ---
The strangeness surrounding Takeru and Tomoe’s disappearance explained: In the game, we’re told that Takeru and Tomoe both died long ago, but there’s certain discrepancies that come up when we consider the nature of how they are dead. First, the most popular consensus: We’re told both Takeru and Tomoe died long ago, but they both are immortal in the same way Kuro and Sekiro are. So how could they die? The most popular theory was; The Black Mortal Blade, as we know that Tomoe was unable to get the Red Mortal Blade, and as such, immortal severance was impossible. Why do most believe this is how they died? Well, Genichiro was already in possession of information regarding the blade, he knew where the blade was, Isshin knew of both the red one and the black one, as well as possessed a scroll about the Black Blade, and Isshin recorded the Empowered Mortal Draw in his Mushin arts book. How could both of these characters know of the Black mortal blade? Because Tomoe had it prior. Genichiro was her student, and he’d likely know where she may have hid it, and Isshin being her rival, would also have knowledge on it. Not only this, but a nearly identical blade, sans the actual black-colored blade, is used by Isshin in both the Intro of the game and Manga, possibly hinting he had it before. Now the discrepancies: Takeru was said to have an illness, which is strange. If someone with Dragon’s blood has an illness, shouldn’t they just siphon life from others to heal/resurrect if it kills them? Tomoe’s notes imply she was concerned with Takeru’s health, as his coughs worsened. It couldn’t be Dragonrot, as we’re told at the start of the game by Emma that those with Dragons blood cannot contract Dragonrot, so what was Takeru’s illness and could it have killed him? Next: Takeru left behind these words: “Wrapped in the aroma of the fountainhead, I return to the Divine Realm.” So… did he complete the fragrance? Did Tomoe and he return? But… it’s said they died? The Immortal severance scrap note says, “With Mortal Blade in hand, My blood may be shed. With my blood, the aroma will be complete, The divine realm will be in reach. Immortal Severance will be at hand. I must ask Tomoe to assist with the beheading...” So… maybe they did complete the fragrance with the Black Mortal Blade, as when we investigate the incense burner, it does vaguely smell of the aroma we must make… but we know they failed to achieve immortal severance, as Tomoe lacked the Red Mortal Blade to get tears from the Divine Dragon. So what truly happened then? Did Tomoe succeed in creating the fragrance but fail at retrieving the tears? And with Takeru suffering from his illness, did she kill him with the Black Mortal Blade to spare him? Perhaps this IS why the Divine Dragon bares wounds and what looks to be a wounded eye; Tomoe actually got there and failed the final step.


--- [Lady Tomoe and Lord Takeru - Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice Lore] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Sekiro: 10 Things About the Lore You May Not Have Known] ---
No content
