=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Gilles de Rais - Wikipedia]
Gilles de Rais, Baron de Rais (French: [ʒil də ʁɛ]; also spelled " Retz "; c. 1405 - 26 October 1440) was a French knight and lord from Brittany, Anjou and Poitou, a leader in the French army during the Hundred Years' War, and a companion-in-arms of Joan of Arc. He remains chiefly known for his conviction on charges of the rape and murder of several children. An important lord as heir to ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gilles_de_Rais

[Confession of Gilles de Rais - famous-trials.com]
On the subject of which crimes and offenses perpetrated by him, Gilles de Rais, the accused, humbly and tearfully implored the mercy and pardon of His Creator and most blessed Redeemer, as well as that of the parents and friends of the children so cruelly massacred, as well as that of everyone whom he could have injured in regard to whom he was ...
URL: https://famous-trials.com/trial-of-gilles-de-rais/2760-confession-of-gilles-de-rais

[Gilles de Rais: Confession and Trial 1440 | PDF | History - Scribd]
Gilles de Rais was a 15th century French nobleman and military leader who fought alongside Joan of Arc during the Hundred Years' War. After retiring from military service, he was accused of engaging in occult practices and murdering hundreds of children between 1432-1440. He confessed to the murders during his trial and was condemned to death, being hanged in 1440. Rais is believed to have ...
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/579847562/Gilles-de-Rais

[Trial of Gilles de Rais: A Chronology - famous-trials.com]
For that and is other crimes, including the murder of many children, Gilles is sentenced to be hanged the next day. October 26, 1440 Gilles de Rais, along with his valets Poitu and Henriet, are hanged in a meadow outside Nantes. Gilles remains are placed in a tomb in the church of Notre-Dame-de Carmel of Nantes.
URL: https://famous-trials.com/trial-of-gilles-de-rais/2755-trial-of-gilles-de-rais-a-chronology

[The Evilest Man in the World? : The Confession of Gilles de Rais]
Mar 2, 2019 · PDF | On Mar 2, 2019, Trevor Rhodes published The Evilest Man in the World? : The Confession of Gilles de Rais | Find, read and cite all the research you need on ResearchGate
URL: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/346024996_The_Evilest_Man_in_the_World_The_Confession_of_Gilles_de_Rais


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Gilles de Rais - Wikipedia] ---
Gilles de Rais, Baron de Rais (French: [ʒil də ʁɛ]; also spelled "Retz"; c. 1405 – 26 October 1440) was a French knight and lord from Brittany, Anjou and Poitou, a leader in the French army during the Hundred Years' War, and a companion-in-arms of Joan of Arc. He remains chiefly known for his conviction on charges of the rape and murder of several children.
An important lord as heir to several great noble lineages of western France, he rallied to the cause of King Charles VII of France and waged war against the English. In 1429, he formed an alliance with his cousin Georges de La Trémoille, the prominent Grand Chamberlain of France, and was appointed Marshal of France the same year, after the successful military campaigns alongside Joan of Arc. Little is known about his relationship with her, unlike the privileged association between the two comrades-in-arms portrayed by various works of fiction. He gradually withdrew from the war during the 1430s. 
His family accused him of squandering his patrimony by selling off his lands to pay his lavish expenses, a profligacy that led to his being placed under interdict by Charles VII in July 1435. He assaulted a high-ranking cleric in the church of Saint-Étienne-de-Mer-Morte, before seizing the local castle in May 1440, thereby violating ecclesiastical immunity and undermining the majesty of his suzerain, John V, Duke of Brittany. Arrested on 15 September 1440, he was tried in October 1440 by an ecclesiastical court assisted by the Inquisition for heresy, sodomy and the murder of "one hundred and forty or more children." At the same time, he was tried and condemned by the secular judges of the ducal court of justice to be hanged and burned at the stake for his act of force at Saint-Étienne-de-Mer-Morte, as well as for crimes committed against "several small children." On 26 October 1440, he was sent to the scaffold with two of his servants.
A popular confusion between the mythical Bluebeard and the historical Baron de Rais has been documented since the early 19th century, regardless of the uncertain hypothesis that Gilles de Rais served as an inspiration for Charles Perrault's "Bluebeard" literary fairy tale (1697). 
Furthermore, in the aftermath of the late 19th century reconceptualization of the phenomenon of serial sexual crime, the case of Gilles de Rais has often been interpreted within the criminological framework of the serial killer, although such a categorization is at times regarded as anachronistic. The vast majority of historians believe he was guilty, but some advise caution when reviewing historical trial proceedings. Medievalists Jacques Chiffoleau and Claude Gauvard note the need to study the inquisitorial procedure employed by questioning the defendants' confessions in the light of the judges' expectations and conceptions, while also examining the role of rumor in the development of Gilles de Rais's fama publica (renown), without disregarding detailed testimonies concerning the disappearance of children, or confessions describing murderous rituals unparalleled in the judicial archives of the time.




--- [Confession of Gilles de Rais - famous-trials.com] ---
Confession of Gilles de Rais Before the Ecclesiastical Court Meeting in Nantes (October 22, 1440) Source: Georges Bataille. The Trial of Gilles de Rais (Amok Books, 2004)(pp. 195-203.)(translation by Richard Robinson). In conformity with the appointed term, the prosecutor asking that the said Lords Bishop of Nantes and Friar Jean Blouyn, Vicar of the Inquisitor, interrogate the said accused to know whether he intended to say anything else against or object to what had been said in the case, the accused said and responded that he did not intend to say anything, but voluntarily and freely, with great contrition of heart and great grief, according as it appeared at first sight, and with a great effusion of tears, confessed what he had confessed out of court in his room in the presence of the Reverend Father, Lord Bishop of Saint-Brieuc, Master Pierre de L'Höpital, President of Brittany, Jean de Touscheronde, and Jean Petit. And he acknowledged that each and every one of the things contained and published in the said articles were and are true. And the accused himself adding to his other out-of-court confession without straying, wanted to repeat and recite it here, and to remedy its faults in the event that he had omitted anything, and to make more thorough declarations of the points developed summarily in the aforesaid articles; he voluntarily confessed and declared that he had committed and perpetrated iniquitously other high and enormous crimes, since the beginning of his youth, against God and His commandments, and that he had offended our Savior on account of the bad management he had received in his childhood when, unbridled, he applied himself to whatever pleased him, and pleased himself with every illicit act, and he urged those present who had children to instruct them in good doctrines and instill in them the habit of virtue during their youth and childhood. After this confession made in arraignment by the said Gilles de Rais, the accused, as has been recorded, on the subject of the content of the aforesaid articles, and once the out-of-court confession had been repeated and recited — seeing as he affirmed that, among the crimes and offenses, there figured enormous crimes, e.g., the sin against nature not as fully stated m the articles, already voluntarily acknowledged as true by him and whose secret confession he had made before the Reverend Father in God, Lord Jean Prégent, Bishop of Saint-Brieuc, and noblemen Pierre de L'Höpital, President of Brittany, and Jean Labbé, squire, and me, Jean Petit, notary public, general exammer of witnesses for the ecclesiastical court of Nantes, and Jean de Touscheronde, scribe also to the secular court of the same place — so that the said secret confession would be committed the best way possible to the memory of men, it pleased the same Gilles, the accused, not to diminish but rather to fortify and reinforce it; and he asked that the aforesaid confession be published in the vernacular language for any and all of the people present, the better part of whom did not know Latin, and that the publication and confession of perpetrated offenses be set forth for his shame, in order for him to attain more easily the forgiveness of his sins and God's grace in absolving them; he said that in his youth he had always been of a delicate nature and for his pleasure and according to his will had done whatever evil he could, and that he had put his hope and intention in the illicit and dishonest acts and things that he did; he most tenderly besought and exhorted the fathers, mothers, friends, and neighbors of every young boy and every child to raise them with good manners, by good examples and doctrines; and to instruct them in these things and chastise them lest they fall in the trap wherein he himself had fallen. By which secret confession that in the said Gilles' presence was read in trial and published, and approved by him, the said Gilles de Rais, the accused, voluntarily and publicly, before everyone, confessed that, because of his passion and sensual delight, he took and had others take so many children that he could not determine with certitude the number whom he'd killed and caused to be killed, with whom he committed the vice and sin of sodomy; and he said and confessed that he had ejaculated spermatic seed in the most culpable fashion on the bellies of the said children, as much after their deaths as during it; on which children sometimes he and sometimes some of his accomplices, notably the aforesaid Gilles de Sillé, Milord Roger de Briqueville, knight, Henriet and Poitou, Rossignol and Petit Robin, inflicted various types and manners of torment; sometimes they severed the head from the body with dirks, daggers, and knives, sometimes they struck them violently on the head with a cudgel or other blunt instruments, sometimes they suspended them with cords from a peg or small hook in his room and strangled them; and when they were languishing, he committed the sodomitic vice on them in the aforesaid manner. Which children dead, he embraced them, and he gave way to contemplating those who had the most beautiful heads and members, and he had their bodies cruelly opened up and delighted at the sight of their internal organs; and very often, when the said children were dying, he sat on their bellies and delighted in watching them die thus, and with the aforesaid Corrillaut and Henriet he laughed at them, after which he had the children burned and their cadavers turned to ashes by the said Corrillaut and Henriet. Interrogated as to where he perpetraed the said crimes, and when he began, and the number of deaths, he stated and responded: in the first place, at the Champtocé castle, in the year when Lord de La Suze, his grandfather, died, at which place he killed children and had them killed in large numbers — how many he is uncertain; and he committed with them the said sodomitic and unnatural sin; and at this time Gilles de Sillé alone knew, but then Roger de Briqueville, then Henriet, Etienne Corrillaut, also known as Poitou, Rossignol, and Robin successively became his accomplices; and he said that he had the bones of the children killed at Champtocé removed, heads as well as bodies, which had been thrown into the base of the tower; and he had them put In a coffer and transported to the castle of Machecoul, where they were burned and reduced to ashes; and that in the said place of Machecoul he had taken and killed other children, and caused them to be taken and killed large number of them, how many he did not know — and in the house named La Suze, in Nantes, which he possessed at that time, he killed, caused to be killed, burned, and turned to ashes many children, whose number he could not remember, whom he abused and defiled, committing with them the unnatural vice of sodomy, as above. Which crimes and offenses he committed solely for his evil pleasure and evil delight, to no other end or with no other intention, without anyone's counsel and only in accordance with his imagination. Moreover, the said Gilles said and confessed that a year and a half ago the said Milord Eustache Blanchet brought to the said Gilles, the accused, from Florence, in Lombardy, the said Master Francois Prelati, with the intention of practicing the Invocation of demons; and that the said Francois told him that in the country he came from he had found the means by which to conjure a spirit who promised this same Francois that he himself could conjure a certain demon who called himself Barron as many times as the same Francois wanted. Item, the said Gilles said and confessed that the said Francois performed many invocations by his order, as much in his absence as in his presence, and that he, the accused, had assisted Francois at three invocations performed by the latter: once at Tiffauges castle; again at Bourgneuf-en-Rais; he does not remember where the third one took place; he adds that the said Eustache Blanchet knew well that the said Frangois was performing the aforesaid invocations, but that he was not present at them, because neither he, the accused, nor Francois would have tolerated it, seeing as the said Eustache was a vicious gossip, fertile with idle remarks. Item, the said Gilles, the accused, stated and confessed that in order to perform the said invocations they traced signs in the form of a circle or of a cross, and of characters in the earth; and that the said Francois possessed a book that he had brought from Italy, so he said, in which there were the names of many demons and words to conjure and invoke them by, which names and which words he does not remember; which book the said Francois held and read for nearly two hours during the said conjurations and invocations; and that he, the accused, during none of these Invocations saw or perceived any devil to speak to, which greatly irritated and disappointed him. Item, the said accused stated and confessed that he was told on his return that at one invocation of the said Francois' in his absence, Francois had seen the demon named Barron and spoken with him, who said that he would not approach the accused because of his having fallen short of his promise and because he didn't fulfill it; and he, the accused, upon learning this, charged the said Francois to ask that same devil what he wanted of him and to assure him that whatever the devil wanted he would give, with the exception of his life and soul, provided that in this way, the devil conceded and gave to him what he asked for; the said accused adding that he intended to ask for knowledge, power, and riches, in order to recover the origmal state of his lordship and power; and that not long after this, the said •Francois said that he had spoken with this same devil who, among other things, demanded that Gilles de Rais give him some members of a child; whereupon the said Gilles gave the said Francois the hand, heart, and eyes of a young boy to offer to the devil on behalf of Gilles, the accused. Item, the said Gilles, the accused, said and confessed that before going to one of three Invocations that he attended, he wrote a note in his own hand, which he signed with his own name in French: "Gilles"; but he does not remember the content of the said note, which he wrote Intending to give it to the devil should he appear at the Invocation performed by the said Francois; which he had done on the advice of the said Francois, who had told him that it was Important to deliver the said note to the devil as soon as he appeared; and durmg the invocation he held the note constantly in his hand, awaiting the pacts or promises that the said Francois and the devil would formulate and their agreement as to what the said Gilles, the accused, would promise to accomplish for the devil; but the devil did not appear and did not speak with them. Item, the accused stated and confessed that one night he sent the said Etienne Corrillaut, also known as Poitou, with the said Francois to perform an Invocation; both of whom returned completely drenched and soaked, telling him that nothing had come of the aforesaid invocation. Item, the said accused stated and confessed that he wanted to be present at an invocation that the same Francois was to perform, but that the latter did not want his presence; and that on his return from the said Invocation, he assured the said Gilles that if he had been present at that invocation, he would have been in great danger, because a serpent appeared that Francois was greatly afraid of; on hearing this, the said Gilles took hold of a splinter of the Holy Rood, which he possessed, and thought of going to the said place of invocation where the said Francois said he had seen the snake; which he did not do, because the same Francois dissuaded him. Item, the same Gilles de Rais, the accused, stated and confessed that at one of the three invocations he attended, the said Francois related to the said accused how he himself had seen the demon named Barron, who had shown him a large quantity of gold, and among other things a gold Ingot; but the said accused declared that he did not see the devil or the ingot but only a sort of foil in the form of a sheet or sheets of gold, which he did not touch. Item, the accused stated and confessed that the last time he was at Josselin, in the Saint-Malo diocese, close to the Illustrious Prince and Lord Duke of Brittany, the same accused had several children killed who had been procured for him by the aforesaid Henriet; and that he committed and exercised on them the vice and sin of sodomy in the aforesaid manner. Item, the same accused stated and confessed that the said Francois, by his order and in his absence, performed many invocations of the devil at Josselin, which nothing came of or appeared at. Item, he said that before leaving for Bourges he sent the said Francois to Tiffauges, entreating him to conjure in his absence and to notify him of what he did and knew, and to write to him in guarded terms that his work was going well; which Francois wrote to him and sent a sort of unguent in a silver tube, placed in a purse and a box made of silver also, writing to him that this here was a precious thing and that he ought to guard it carefully; and he, trusting the said Francois' affirmation, hung the said purse about his neck for several days; but shortly thereafter he threw it away, discovering that it was not doing him any good. Item, the same accused stated and confessed that the said Francois once told him that the said Barron had ordered him to give a dinner to three poor people in his name on three important feasts of the year; which he, the accused, did only once, on All Saints' Day. Interrogated as to the motive that made him keep the said Francois close to him and among his family, he responded that the said Francois was exceptionally gifted and agreeable to converse with, speaking Latin eloquently and learnedly, and that he applied himself zealously to the affairs of the said Gilles, the accused. Item, the same accused stated and confessed that after last Saint John the Baptist's Day a beautiful young man who was living with a certain Rodigo, at Bourgneuf-en-Rais, where the accused himself was then staying, was brought to him one certain evening by the said Henriet and Corrillaut, and during the night he practiced the said unnatural and sodomitic vice with him in the aforesaid manner, then killed him and had him transported to Machecoul to be burned. Item, he stated and confessed that having been alerted that the men of the castle at Palluau were planning to lay hands on the captain of the castle at Saint-Etienne-de-Mermorte, and for this reason indignant with them, one morning, what day he cannot remember, he left on horseback with his men-at-arms intending to surprise the men of the castle at Palluau, make them prisoners, and punish them; and at the outset of the expedition, the said Francois, being among his company, told him that he would not find them; and in fact, the said accused did not find them and his project was frustrated. Item, the said Gilles de Rais, the accused, stated and confessed that he had killed two young pages, one of Guillaume Daussy's, and another of Pierre Jacquet's, called Princé, on whom he committed and exercised the said unnatural lust. Item, the same accused stated and confessed that when he last went to Vannes, last July, André Buchet delivered a young boy to him, at his lodgings in the house of a man named Lemoine, with whom he committed the unnatural vice, as above-noted. And having killed him, Gilles had him thrown by the said Poitou into the latrines of an inn owned by a man named Boetden, near the aforesaid Lemoine's house; the said friends of the accused lodging In Boetden's Inn or house, near the marketplace of Vannes; which Poitou descended into the latrines, in order to sink the cadaver and cover it, so that no one might discover it. Item, the aforesaid Gilles de Rais, the accused, stated and confessed likewise that before the said Francois' arrival, he had employed other conjurors, namely a trumpeter named Dumesnil, Master Jean de La Reviere, a man named Louis, Master Antoine de Palerne, and another whose name he does not remember. Which conjurors by his command performed many invocations, some of which he attended, as much at Machecoul as at other places; and, in particular, to see drawn in the soil a circle or figure in the form of a circle, which is necessary in that sort of invocation where the intention is to see the devil and to speak and make a pact with him. But the said accused said that he was never able to see the devil or speak with him, although he did everything he could, to the point that it was not his fault if he could not see the devil or speak with him. Item, the same Gilles de Rais, oft-named, stated and confessed that the aforesaid Dumesnil, conjuror, told him once that the devil, in order to do and accomplish what the said accused intended to solicit and obtain from this same devil, expected to see done and to receive from him a: note signed in the hand of the accused himself with blood from his finger, by which the latter promised to give the said devil, when he appeared at his Invocation, certain things which he did not remember; and for that reason and to that end he signed his name, Gilles, to the said note with blood from his little finger. As to what was written in the said note he did not remember, except that he promised the devil what was mentioned there, on condition that the devil give to him and procure knowledge, power, and riches. But he is absolutely certain that as he has affirmed, whatever he might have promised the devil he had always retained his soul and life, and he said that the aforesaid note was not delivered, the devil not appearing to him and not having responded to that same Invocation. Item, the said accused confessed that at an invocation by the aforesaid Master de La Rlviere, In a wood not far from the garrison or the city of Pouzauges, the said La armed himself beforehand with weapons and gear, and then entered the aforesaid wood to perform the said invocation; and that he, the accused, with his servants and especially Eustache Blanchet, Henri, and Etienne Corrillaut, also known as Poitou, upon entering the wood, discovered the said La returning, who told him that he had seen the Devil in the guise of a leopard coming toward him, which passed by him without saying a word; and he, the accused, was frightened and terrified by what he said. And the accused added to his narration that the said La Riviöre, to whom he had paid the sum of twenty gold royals, promised to return, which he did not do. Item, the same accused stated and confessed that at another Invocation of demons practiced by him and a conjuror whose name he does not remember, with Gilles de Sillé as well, in a room of the aforesaid Tiffauges castle, while he was in the said room, the said Sillé did not dare to enter the circle to perform the invocation, but retired to a window with the intention of throwing himself out of it if he perceived something fearful approaching, and he held in his arms an image of the Blessed Virgin Mary; the said accused himself was afraid in the circle, because the invoker had forbidden him to cross himself, because if he did, they would all be in great danger; but he remembered a prayer to Our Lady that begins with Alma, and at once the conjuror ordered him to leave the circle, which he immediately did while crossing himself; and he left the room promptly, leaving the invoker and locking the door behind him; then he discovered the said Gilles de Sillé, who told him that someone was beating and striking the invoker left alone in the room, which sounded as if someone were beating a featherbed; which he, the accused, did not hear, and he had the door of the room opened and at its entrance he saw the conjuror wounded in the face and m other parts of his body, and among other things, having a bump on his forehead so large he could barely stand up; and for fear that he might die in consequence of the said wounds, Gilles wanted him to be confessed and have the sacraments administered; but the coryuror did not die, and recovered from his wounds. Item, the said Gilles de Rais, the accused, stated and confessed that he sent the said Gilles de Sillé into a region farther north, to find conjurors of demons or evil spirits. Which Gilles de Sillé, having returned, told him that he had found a woman who busied herself with like invocations: which woman had said to Sillé that if Gilles de Rais did not turn his soul away from the Church and his chapel, he would never accomplish what he desired; and that Sillé had met In the same region another woman who told him that if the said accused did not abandon a work begun by him or that he intended to pursue, or have it stopped, nothing good would ever come to him. Item, that the said Gilles de Sillé had found m the same region an invoker whom he proposed sending to the said accused, which conjuror, who was preparing to join the said accused, drowned while crossing a river or stream. Item, the said Gilles, the accused, stated and confessed that the said Sillé brought him another conjuror who also died immediately. And because of these unlucky deaths and the difficulties counterpoised to his guilty intentions in the aforesaid invocations or the like he said he believed that divine clemency and the intercession of the Church, from which his heart and his belief have never strayed, had mercifully arrived and prevented him from succumbing to so many tests and perils; and for this reason he Intended to renounce his evil life, and make a pilgrimage to Jerusalem and the sepulcher of Our Lord and other places included in the Passion of his Redeemer and to do all that he could to obtain forgiveness for his sins, through the mercy of his Redeemer. And then, after the said confession in arraignment, given freely and voluntarily, he exhorted the people there, and principally the ecclesiastics, there in considerably larger numbers, to always venerate our Holy Mother Church, and to honor her greatly and never to separate from her, adding expressly that if he himself, the accused, had not directed his heart and his affection toward that same Church, he never would have escaped the devil's malice and intention; moreover, he believed that had he not, because of the enormity of his villainies and crimes the devil would have long since destroyed his body and carried off his soul; exhorting, moreover, the fathers of families to watch that their children be not too finely dressed, and to tolerate no laziness, noting and asserting that many ills are born of laziness and of the excesses of eating and drinking, and declaring more expressly still that with him laziness, an Insatiable desire for delicacies, and the frequent consumption of mulled wine, more than anything else, kept him in a state of excitement that led to the perpetration of so many sins and crimes. On the subject of which crimes and offenses perpetrated by him, Gilles de Rais, the accused, humbly and tearfully implored the mercy and pardon of His Creator and most blessed Redeemer, as well as that of the parents and friends of the children so cruelly massacred, as well as that of everyone whom he could have injured in regard to whom he was effectively guilty, whether they were present there or elsewhere, and he asked all Christ's faithful and worshipers for the assistance of their devout prayers. And this is why the aforesaid Master Guillaume Chapeillon, prosecutor, in the presence of the aforesaid Gilles de Rais, the accused, considering the voluntary confession of the said accused, and other proofs lawfully brought against him, requested instantly that a timely day and term be appointed to the accused in order to conclude — and at the same time, on the other hand, to see concluded — the sentence and definitive sentences by the said Reverend Father in God, Lord Bishop of Nantes, and Friar Jean Blouyn, Vicar of the said Inquisitor, and by each of them, or by those whom they would charge with this responsibility, sentences to be written and promulgated in the case and the cases of this order, unless the aforesaid Gilles de Rais, the accused, could give any valid reason this should not be done. Thereupon the said Lords Bishop of Nantes and Vicar of the Inquisitor assigned the following Tuesday to the prosecutor and Gilles de Rais, the accused, who did not object, in order to proceed as by law, as was necessary in the case and the cases of this order.


--- [Gilles de Rais: Confession and Trial 1440 | PDF | History - Scribd] ---
Gilles de Rais: Confession and Trial 1440 Gilles de Rais was a 15th century French nobleman and military leader who fought alongside Joan of Arc during the Hundred Years' War. After retiring from military service, he was accused of engaging in occult practices and murdering hundreds of children between 1432-1440. He confessed to the murders during his trial and was condemned to death, being hanged in 1440. Rais is believed to have inspired the folktale of "Bluebeard", a serial killer who murders his wives. Gilles de Rais: Confession and Trial 1440


--- [Trial of Gilles de Rais: A Chronology - famous-trials.com] ---
Trial of Gilles Rais: A Chronology September 10, 1404 Gilles de Rais is born in the castle at Champtoce, on the banks of the Loire. 1415 (early) Marie de Craon, Gilles’ mother, dies. September 28, 1415 Guy de Laval, Gilles’ father, dies. Gilles de Rais is raised from this time by his maternal grandfather, Jean de Craon. April 24, 1422 Gilles is marries his cousin, Catherine de Thouars. 1424 At age 20, Gilles becomes the administrator of his property, no longer needing to consult his grandfather as to its use. 1427 Gilles military career begins. He participates in the first of what will be several battles on the side of the French against the English. April 1429 Gilles de Rais, and his personal army, join Joan of Arc and 10,000 to 12,000 men on a march to Orleans to liberate the city from the English. May 7, 1429 Fighting alongside Joan of Arc, Gilles participates in the decisive Battle of Tourelles, in which the English are routed. The siege of Orleans is lifted the following day. Battle for Orleans July 17, 1429 Charles VII is consecrated as King of France at the Reims cathedral in a ceremony attended by both Joan of Arc and Gilles de Rais. Rais is made Marshal of France. September 8, 1429 Joan of Arc and Gilles de Rais lead an assault on the walls of Paris. Joan of Arc is wounded, shot through her thigh by a crossbow. 1429 (late) Gilles’ daughter, Marie, is born at Champtoce. May 30, 1431 After being captured and tried by the English, Joan of Arc is burned at the stake at Rouen. November 15, 1432 Jean de Craon, Gilles’ grandfather who raised him, dies. Gilles begins to spend even more extravagantly than before. Sometime after his grandfather’s death (exactly when is not known), Gilles begins murdering children. 1432 (late) Pat age 15, Poitu, who had been Gilles’ page, become his “child valet.” 1433 (early) Child abductions and murders have almost certainly begun. March 26, 1435 Gilles endows the Holy innocents Chapel at Machecoul. May 1435 Gilles de Rais returns to Orleans for a celebration of the city’s liberation. Gilles racks up enormous expenditures, putting on plays and providing spectators with wine and fine food. Soon afterwards, Gilles begins selling property (including castles, wagons, and horses) to cover his tremendous expenses. July 2, 1435 Worried by Gilles’ extravagant spending, Gilles’ brother and cousin obtains letters of interdict from Charles VII that prohibit Gilles from selling properties or entering into contracts. King Charles VII May 1436 Following an argument of some sort, Gilles abducts and imprisons a priest, Michel de Fontenay, who had been one of his childhood teachers. After protests from the Bishop, he frees the priest. 1437 (early) Poitu becomes Gilles’ valet. (According to Poitu’s later confession, he had been having sexual intercourse with Gilles since he entered his service.) About this time, Poitu becomes aware of Gilles’ practice of murdering children and swears to keep his secrets. He becomes one of Gilles’ main procurers of child victims. Later in the year, Henriet Griart, Gilles’ other valet, will also learn of the murders and sex and then becomes an accomplice in the crimes. October 1437 Gilles fears an attack on Machecoul castle. He asks Rene de La Suze and Robin Romulart to gather the bones of small children from a castle tower and burn them. They, however, miss two skeletons, which are discovered after Machecoul is taken and begin to arouse suspicions about Gilles. June 1438 Having sold Champtoce castle to Jean V, but before he loses possession of it, Gilles has five of his manservants go to the tower and remove some forty skeletons of children. They are removed and burned. 1438 (summer to fall) Children continue to disappear when Gilles de Rais is nearby (and become murder victims). Later testimony will relate the disappearances of the son of Jean Jenvret (age 9), the son of Jeanne Degrepie (age 12), the son of Jean Hubert (age 14), the son of Jean Fougere (age 12), the son of Peronne Loessart (age 10), the son of Jean Bernard (age 12), and the son of Eonnet Dagaye (age 10). May 14, 1439 The conjurer Francois Prelati, from Italy, arrives at Gilles’ castle at Tiffauges. 1439 (summer to fall) Under the direction of Prelati, Gilles makes ten to twelve attempts to summon the Devil/demons. He later reports he did not actually see the Devil, but believed others in his company did. 1439 Children continue to disappear, most presumably murdered by Gilles de Rais and his accomplices. November 2, 1439 Charles VII issues a historically importance ordinance aimed at ending “the excesses and pillages” of feudal life. The ordinance establishes a regular army to replace the bands of men-at-arms in service of various lords. Some go so far as to call the ordinance “the birth of the modern world.” December 1439 Persistent rumors spread that Gilles de Rais is behind the disappearance of dozens of children, and that he has likely murdered them. December 1439 Gilles prepares an offering of a child’s heart and hand in the hopes that it will attract the Devil. May 15, 1440 Gilles de Rais leads a band of about 40 armed men to the church of Saint-Etienne-de-Memorte. They rush the church and seize cleric Jean Le Ferron, the brother of the man to whom Gilles had sold his estate of Sainte-Etienne-de-Memorte. Gilles imprisons the cleric. This rash act turns influential people against Gilles and all but ensures he will be put on trial. July 29, 1440 The Bishop of Nantes and Chancellor of Brittany, Jean de Malestroit, publishes the results of his secret inquest into the disappearance of children and suspicions about the involvement of Gilles de Rais. August 15, 1440 The last child to become a victim of Gilles de Rais is murdered. He is the son of Eonnet de Villeblanche. August 24, 1440 Gilles’ castle at Tiffauges is seized at the urging of the Duke of Britanny and the prisoner held by Gilles, Jean Le Ferron, is freed. September 13, 1440 An ecclesiastical tribunal in Nantes indicts Gilles for murder, sodomy, violation of ecclesiastical immunity, and heresy. September 15, 1440 Gilles is arrested (along with Francois Prelati, Eustache Blanchet, Henriet, and Poitu) and place in prison in Nantes. September 16 or 17, 1440 Gilles appears before the secular court in Nantes to answer charges relating to the murders of multiple children and the seizure and imprisonment of cleric Jean Le Ferron. September 18, 1440 Jean de Touscheronde, presiding at the secular inquest, calls the first of many witnesses who will describe children disappearing after being seen with Gilles, his valets, his procurers, or others in his employ. Witnesses will continue to appear through October 8. September 19, 1440 The ecclesiastical trial of Gilles de Rais opens at Nantes. September 28, 1440 Ten plaintiffs, having accused Gilles de Rais of abused and massacred their sons or nephews, appear before the ecclesiastical court. October 8, 1440 The ecclesiastical trial begins in earnest with Gilles de Rais appearing before the Bishop and Vicar of the Inquisition. Gilles objects to his judges and refuses to take an oath. October 13, 1440 The prosecutor in the ecclesiastical trial reads the bill of indictments, consisting of 49 articles. The bill covers the abuse and murder of children, the violation of ecclesiastical immunity of the seized cleric Jean Le Ferron, and heresy (essentially the invocation of demons). The articles allege that Gilles and his accomplices killed and tortured 140 children. The prosecutor asks that Gilles be excommunicated and made subject to other lawful punishments. Gilles again insults and denies the authority of the judges and, as a result, is excommunicated. October 15, 1440 Gilles, in a U-turn, accepts the authority of his judges and apologizes for insulting them. He admits to having committed grievous crimes, but denies the invocation of demons. October 16, 1440 The ecclesiastical court hears testimony from Francois Prelati, alchemist and conjuror for Gilles. October 17, 1440 Gilles’ two valets, Henriet Griart and Poitu (Etienne Corillaut), as well as his priest, Eustache Blanchet, offer damning testimony in the ecclesiastical trial linking Gilles to multiple child murders and torture. October 19, 1440 In the ecclesiastical trial, 15 witnesses offer testimony concerning the charges made against Gilles. October 20, 1440 Gilles refuses to respond the charges in the indictment and is threatened with torture. October 21, 1440 On the day Gilles de Rais is scheduled to be tortured, Gilles announces that he will submit to a full interrogation out of court. This becomes his first full confession. A report of his confession is submitted by the interrogating commissioners to the judges of the ecclesiastical court. October 22, 1440 Gilles offers an emotional confession directly to the judges of the ecclesiastical court where he admits to specific murders and horrific acts such as choosing and kissing the most beautiful of the severed heads of the children he murdered. He blames his crimes on the idleness of his youth and excessive drinking. October 23, 1440 After hearing the confession of Gilles’ two valets, Poitu and Henriet, the secular court condemns both men to death. October 25, 1440 Gilles de Rais is found guilty in his ecclesiastical trial of the invocation of demons and committing sodomy on children. He is excommunicated and made subject to other lawful punishments. He asks to make a private confession and is reincorporated into the church. He is then transferred to the castle of Bouffay and put before a secular court, where he confesses to seizing and imprisoning the cleric Jean Le Ferron. For that and is other crimes, including the murder of many children, Gilles is sentenced to be hanged the next day. October 26, 1440 Gilles de Rais, along with his valets Poitu and Henriet, are hanged in a meadow outside Nantes. Gilles remains are placed in a tomb in the church of Notre-Dame-de Carmel of Nantes.


--- [The Evilest Man in the World? : The Confession of Gilles de Rais] ---
The Evilest Man in the World? : The Confession of Gilles de Rais On October 26th, 1440, Gilles de Rais, Marshal of France, was executed alongside his servants Henriet Griart and Etienne Corrillaut by hanging for his crimes of murder, sodomy, and the invocation of demons. His crimes horrified the French public – the systematic rape, torture, and murder of possibly hundreds of children, alongside his dabbling in witchcraft, are so appalling that authors and historians have named him “the world’s wickedest man,”1 “a super- criminal,”2 and “the most abject criminal of all time.”3. Every historian who has written about Gilles de Rais since has attempted to answer two questions: who was this man Gilles de Rais, and what drove him to commit these crimes? Those questions have few easy answers. His life was one of immense wealth and status: at his height in 1432 he owned land and residences covering an area the size of the state of Delaware and his annual income made him the richest man in France. He was famed for his exploits in the retinue of Joan of Arc. Yet even with these factors he admitted to atrocities that shocked the French nobility. Even more mystifying, he displayed a genuine piety and penitent attitude for his atrocities. His responses at trial suggest he had no mental illness; on the contrary, besides a well-documented temper and penchant for spending Gilles de Rais displays little that would suggest psychopathy. As historian Reginald Hyatte wrote, “The motives for these crimes have never been satisfactorily explained. It is indeed unlikely that they will ever be wholly understood.”4 That has not stopped historians from attempting to do so. As will be made evident, there is strong testimonial evidence from his own confession at trial that Gilles experienced trauma at an early age that triggered a pattern of destructive behavior that culminated with his spree of child murders. However, the trial itself has 1 Leonard Wolf, Bluebeard: The Life and Crimes of Gilles de Rais (New York, Crown Publishers, 1980), x. 2 Jean Benedetti, The Real Bluebeard (New York, Dorset Press, 1971), 23. 3 Georges Bataille, The Trial of Gilles de Rais (Monroe, Amok Books, 2010) Loc 74, Kindle. 4 Reginald Hyatte, Laughter for the Devil (Cranbury, Associated University Press, 1984), 17.
