=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Where is Tafa Balogun? - Daily Trust]
Between 2002 and 2004, the Nigeria Police arrested a total of 19,135 robbery suspects, 6,815 were killed, 12,006 fire arms and 472,020 ammunitions were recovered while 2,148 stolen vehicles were also recovered.
URL: https://dailytrust.com/where-is-tafa-balogun/

[OBITUARY: Tafa Balogun, ex-IGP who fired police officers over ...]
Aug 5, 2022 · Balogun, a fellow of the national war college, one of the earliest highest military institutions in Nigeria, would later rise to the role of assistant inspector general of police (AIG), zone one ...
URL: https://www.thecable.ng/obituary-tafa-balogun-ex-igp-who-fired-police-officers-over-corruption-yet-consumed-by-same-monster/

[Factcheck: Discrepancies In Nigeria Police's Stolen, Recovered Vehicles ...]
May 20, 2022 · The latest figures from the Nigerian government regarding the number of vehicles stolen and then recovered by law enforcement officers are hard to reconcile. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Nigeria’s apex statistical agency, had included these figures in its Social Statistics in Nigeria report of 2020, citing the police headquarters as its source. It’s the fourth time the bureau ...
URL: https://humanglemedia.com/factcheck-discrepancies-in-nigeria-polices-stolen-recovered-vehicles-data/

[Police recover 115 stolen vehicles, rescue 387 kidnap victims in one ...]
Feb 3, 2025 · The Force Public Relations Officer, ACP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said the Nigeria Police Force recovered 115 stolen vehicles and rescued 387 kidnapping victims nationwide in one month.
URL: https://guardian.ng/news/nigeria/metro/police-recover-115-stolen-vehicles-rescue-387-kidnap-victims-in-one-month/

[Police recover 115 stolen vehicles, rescue 387 kidnap victims ...]
Feb 3, 2025 · The Force Public Relations Officer, ACP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said the Nigeria Police Force recovered 115 stolen vehicles and rescued 387 kidnap victims nationwide in one month.
URL: https://www.pulse.ng/story/police-recover-115-stolen-vehicles-rescue-387-kidnap-victims-nationwide-2025020316051381267


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Where is Tafa Balogun? - Daily Trust] ---
Since he completed his jail term of six months at Kuje Prison, Abuja on February 9, 2006, Mustafa Adebayo Balogun, the former Inspector General of Police has been an elusive man. The last time he was seen at a public event was two years ago when he, alongside other ex-IGs, visited the Presidential villa on the occasion marking Nigeria’s 55th independence anniversary. Before that outing, Balogun had celebrated his wife Olufunke’s 60th birthday, three years ago at an event held at the family’s Lekki home. He was seen with top police men at that occasions. Balogun’s Travail On April 4, 2005, Tafa Balogun was arraigned at the Federal High Court, Abuja for stealing and laundering of over $100 million in his three years as Inspector General of Police from the Police treasury. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) under Nuhu Ribadu brought 70 charges against him, covering the period from 2002 to 2004 when he was the Inspector General of Police. He made a plea bargain with the court in exchange for returning much of the property and money. He was sentenced to six months in jail. Judge Binta Nyako said her sentence reflected that Balogun was a first offender and had shown remorse. He was directed by the court to pay N500, 000 on each of eight counts charges totaling N4 million. His trial was full of drama. One of such was when he collapsed on his seat on June 29, 2005, at the Abuja High Court. The former police boss, who pleaded guilty to eight of the 56 count-charges directly affecting him, was convicted and sentenced to six months in each of the charges, which is however to run concurrently. He was released on February 9, 2006 after serving his sentence, part of it at Abuja’s National Hospital. While reacting to the court judgement, the then EFFC chairman, Nuhu Ribadu said, “So, Tafa Balogun was my boss as the Inspector-General of Police, but he crossed the line. He did things that were wrong and was brought to our attention, and the law took its course.” In February 2009, the then Chairman of the House Committee on Police Affairs, Abdul Ahmed Ningi, asked Inspector General of Police Mike Okiro to provide details of the money recovered from Tafa Balogun, a request that he passed on to the then EFCC chair person, Mrs Farida Waziri. However, the EFCC stated that they did not have records of the exact properties recovered from Balogun. It was said that some of the houses had been secretly sold to certain individuals at give-away prices. In April 2009, the House of Representatives Committee on Police Affair invited Tafa Balogun, Mike Okiro and Mrs Farida Waziri to explain how the N16 billion allegedly recovered from Balogun went missing. His Career in the Police force Balogun became IGP in March 2002, replacing Musiliu Smith. He introduced proactive policing, and the eight-point crime control strategy on assumption of office. Six Deputy Inspectors General of Police were appointed to work alongside him. These are D.I.G “A”, headed by Mr. Sunday Ehindero, now a former Inspector General of Police, D.I.G ‘B’, C,D,E and F all representing the six geopolitical zones of the country. He christened the DIGs and himself the management team of the police hierarchy. His eight-point crime control were: Massive onslaught against armed robbery, gruesome murder/assassination and other crimes of violence, the methodology through which this will be achieved was christened “Operation Fire for Fire”, Fast and decisive crisis/conflict management, comprehensive training programme for qualitative policing, Anti-corruption crusade both within and outside the force, robust public relations necessary for our vision of “People’s Police”, community partnership in policing. The modern approach all over the world, inter service/agency cooperation at all levels and down the line as well as improved conditions of service and enhanced welfare package for all officers, inspectors and rank and file”. Between 2002 and 2004, the Nigeria Police arrested a total of 19,135 robbery suspects, 6,815 were killed, 12,006 fire arms and 472,020 ammunitions were recovered while 2,148 stolen vehicles were also recovered. During the period, 172 policemen were killed in operations, while 151 were injured. Apart from enhancing its operational capabilities, he also ensured that police welfare was adequately taken care of, this was through promotions welfare insurance scheme and training. In the area of promotion, over 170,000 policemen were promoted between 2002 and 2004, which is more than the promotions that had been carried out in the force from 1930 when the Nigeria Police force was founded. Also, over 721 policemen killed in operations were said to have enjoyed the welfare insurance scheme, which is meant to serve as succour for the next of kin of policemen killed in the line of duty. The insurance was said to be paid within 14 days of death. Tafa Balogun also did not take the training of officers and men of the force lightly as over 147,347 officers and men went on various courses locally between 2002 and 2004. On corruption of which himself was a victim, especially in the area of extortion, Tafa dismissed over 1,200 police officers for various acts bordering on official corruption in his three-year tenure. He introduced regular payment of salaries and allowances as well as community policing for which a number of officers went on courses abroad. Balogun attended the University of Lagos and graduated in 1972 with a B.A. in Political Science. He joined the Nigerian Police Force in May 1973. Born on August 8, 1947 at Ila-Orangun in Osun State, Tafa Balogun, was the 21st Inspector-General of Police. He was a member of cadet Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Course 3. Having worked in various Police commands throughout the federation, and earning his promotions as at when due, Tafa, was at a time, the Principal Staff Officer (PSO) to former Inspector-General of Police, Muhammadu Gambo, Deputy Commission of Police Edo State, the pioneer Commissioner of Police in Delta State. He was also CP in Rivers and Abia states. Tafa, a fellow of the premier highest military institution in Nigeria, the National War College, later became the Assistant Inspector General of Police A.I.G Zone One, Kano, from where he was named the 21st IGP of Police on March 6, 2002. Balogun focusing on private business In 2005, shortly after a court judgment was pronounced, he told newsmen that he would bounce back. However, 12 years after, Tafa Balogun has remained silent and out of public view. For now, nobody knows the whereabouts of the ex-IG, excerpt some of his loyalists and a few friends who confided to Daily Trust that Balogun now faces his private business and lives in his Lekki home in Lagos. Others said he frequents his ancestral home in Ila Orangun regularly and sometimes travel abroad. Sources in police service said they don’t believe Balogun would venture into politics. “I don’t think he would want to go into politics because of what happened to him in the past despite of his achievements while in service. He is still bitter about it. Since he left the service, he hardly attends public function. He prefers to live a low profile life,“ one of the sources said. Another close associate said even if the former Inspector General goes into politics, he will make a lot of impacts because of his experience. “He is still loved in the Nigeria Police. He commands a lot respect right now. But he is into private business and he wouldn’t want anybody to talk about politics around him because he’s still bitter about his incarceration,” he said. UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works.


--- [OBITUARY: Tafa Balogun, ex-IGP who fired police officers over ...] ---
No content


--- [Factcheck: Discrepancies In Nigeria Police's Stolen, Recovered Vehicles ...] ---
Factcheck: Discrepancies In Nigeria Police’s Stolen, Recovered Vehicles Data The National Bureau of Statistics could not satisfactorily explain the figures and directed HumAngle to the police, which has yet to react. The latest figures from the Nigerian government regarding the number of vehicles stolen and then recovered by law enforcement officers are hard to reconcile. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Nigeria’s apex statistical agency, had included these figures in its Social Statistics in Nigeria report of 2020, citing the police headquarters as its source. It’s the fourth time the bureau would be releasing this report, following similar publications in 2012, 2016, and 2017. It explains that the project is borne out of the “need for credible and timely socio-economic data in Nigeria”. Some of the information in the report is, however, puzzling. Page 237 contains a table stating the reported number of stolen vehicles, those recovered, and those not recovered across different states in the country between 2016 and 2018. But in at least eight instances, the number of vehicles recovered exceeded the number of those reported to have been stolen. For example, the police claimed that in Kano in 2016, 72 vehicles were reported stolen, but its officers recovered 81, and so concluding that the number of vehicles not recovered was ‘minus nine’. The same year, it reported that 35 vehicles were recorded as stolen in Osun State. But as many as 61 were recovered. In the following years, a similar trend was observed in figures from Delta, Enugu, Gombe, Niger, Ogun, and the FCT. In 2018, four states did not record any stolen vehicles but the law enforcement officers allegedly recovered between 13 and 187. There was also an arithmetic error recorded for Niger where 21 vehicles were reportedly stolen and eight reportedly recovered. Instead of 13, 16 vehicles were categorised as yet to be recovered in the state. The “zero” reported for stolen vehicles in the four states in 2018 should not be confused with “not available”, since “N/A” was written elsewhere in the table for Yobe State in 2016 for all three categories. This means the figure can only be interpreted to mean no vehicles were reported to have been stolen that year in those states. Also, it may be argued that there are more cases of recoveries compared to the number of stolen vehicles in some states because of yet-to-recovered vehicles carried over from the previous year. This explanation, however, does not hold up upon a closer look at the figures. In Delta, in 2018, when over a hundred vehicles were recovered and none stolen, there were only 28 vehicles from the previous year’s theft cases that had not been recovered. When 187 vehicles were said to have been recovered in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) that year and none stolen, there had only been 52 unresolved cases from the previous year. Similarly, in 2016 only four vehicles were stated as not recovered out of the 108 missing in Ogun State. But the following year, 20 more vehicles than were stolen were retrieved by the officers. There are other parts of the table that raise eyebrows as well. One, as many as 32 police commands, including that of the FCT, stated that no vehicles were stolen in 2018. Among them, 28 noted that no vehicles were recovered. The only exceptions were Abia, Edo, Niger, Oyo, and Taraba. The dearth of data for 2018 from the police headquarters is also reflected in subsequent tables showing the numbers of rape incidents and persons reported missing over the three year period. While no rape incident was recorded for that year across the country, only Abia, Niger, Oyo, and Taraba recorded figures for missing persons. Statistics for the rest of the country were noted as “not available”. It is also unusual that Lagos, Nigeria’s most populated state, had fewer cases of vehicle theft than places like Rivers between 2016 and 2017 and the majority of the states in 2018. The NBS estimated that by mid-2018, there were 11.8 million vehicles in the country. Though it did not give a state-by-state breakdown, 25 per cent of drivers’ licences issued in the second quarter of that year were produced in Lagos, followed by the FCT with 11.5 per cent, and then Oyo with 6.3 per cent. When HumAngle reached out to the statistical agency, it explained that the figures were secondary data which it had not generated itself but had only received from the police. NBS Statistical Information Officer Moses Mathew further said the discrepancies could be because some of the vehicles stolen in one year were recovered the following year. When HumAngle pointed out that some of the figures were still outrageous even when the number of unrecovered vehicles from the previous year was considered, he replied that “you must have a good time series to justify that.” However, he added, the police should be contacted for clarification. John Amadi, Acting Deputy Inspector-General at the force headquarters’ Department of Research and Planning, which is in charge of collecting and analysing statistics from various police commands, asked us to reach out instead to the spokesperson, Olumuyiwa Adejobi. But Adejobi said he had not seen a copy of the document. Days after it was shared with him, he has yet to respond to HumAngle’s enquiries despite multiple reminders. Support Our Journalism There are millions of ordinary people affected by conflict in Africa whose stories are missing in the mainstream media. HumAngle is determined to tell those challenging and under-reported stories, hoping that the people impacted by these conflicts will find the safety and security they deserve. To ensure that we continue to provide public service coverage, we have a small favour to ask you. We want you to be part of our journalistic endeavour by contributing a token to us. Your donation will further promote a robust, free, and independent media. Donate HereStay Closer To The Stories That Matter


--- [Police recover 115 stolen vehicles, rescue 387 kidnap victims in one ...] ---
Police recover 115 stolen vehicles, rescue 387 kidnap victims in one month The Force Public Relations Officer, ACP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said the Nigeria Police Force recovered 115 stolen vehicles and rescued 387 kidnapping victims nationwide in one month. Adejobi said at a news conference on Monday in Abuja that the successes were recorded during several operations nationwide in January. The police spokesman said 960 suspects were arrested by operatives of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) in the month under review. He said 244 of the suspects were arrested for armed robbery, 170 for kidnapping, 240 for murder/homicide, 53, unlawful possession of prohibited firearms, 130 for rape and 123 for cultism. Adejobi said 172 firearms and 3,134 ammunition of various calibers, including 12 rounds of 7.88 mm ammunition, two AK-47 rifles, eight fabricated AK-47 rifles and four fabricated revolver guns were recovered from the suspects. The police spokesman said other items recovered were five fabricated semi-automatic pistols, 11 AK-47 magazines and 1,121 AK-47 live ammunition. He said eight of the suspects were arrested by operatives of the IRT in Plateau over gunrunning and unlawful possession of Prohibited Firearms. Adejobi said the suspects were arrested following credible intelligence on the activities of a gun-running syndicate in Plateau. He said the only female suspect in the syndicate had confessed during police investigation that she sold 900 rounds of AK-47 live ammunition to one of the male suspects. According to him, one locally made pistol, two rounds of 7.88 mm live ammunition, eight fabricated AK-47 rifles, four fabricated revolver guns and three fabricated semi-automatic pistols were recovered from the syndicate. He said two AK-47 magazines and 1,105 AK-47 live ammunition were also recovered from the suspects. Adejobi said, building on the momentum of the operation, operatives of the IRT on Jan. 28 arrested two additional members of the syndicate. He said the operatives recovered eight fabricated AK-47 rifles, four fabricated revolver rifles, three fabricated semi-automatic pistols and two fabricated AK-47 magazines concealed in the doormat of a red Volkswagen station wagon. ]`The suspects confessed to having taken delivery of the recovered firearms from a notorious firearms fabricator, currently at large,” he said. Adejobi said efforts were being intensified to apprehend the fleeing firearms fabricator and others fabricating guns and supplying to wrong hands in the country. Get the latest news delivered straight to your inbox every day of the week. Stay informed with the Guardian’s leading coverage of Nigerian and world news, business, technology and sports.


--- [Police recover 115 stolen vehicles, rescue 387 kidnap victims ...] ---
Police recover 115 stolen vehicles, rescue 387 kidnap victims Nationwide The Force Public Relations Officer, ACP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said the Nigeria Police Force recovered 115 stolen vehicles and rescued 387 kidnap victims nationwide in one month. Adejobi said at a news conference on Monday in Abuja that the successes were recorded during several operations nationwide in January. The police spokesman said 960 suspects were arrested by operatives of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) in the month under review. He said 244 of the suspects were arrested over armed robbery, 170, for kidnapping, 240 for murder/homicide, 53, for unlawful possession of prohibited firearms, 130, rape and 123, for cultism. Adejobi said 172 firearms and 3,134 pieces of ammunition of various calibres, including 12 rounds of 7.88 mm ammunition, two AK-47 rifles, eight fabricated AK-47 rifles and four fabricated revolver guns were recovered from the suspects. The police spokesman said other items recovered were five fabricated semi-automatic pistols, 11 AK-47 magazines and 1,121 AK-47 live ammunition. He said eight of the suspects were arrested by operatives of the IRT in Plateau over gun running and unlawful possession of Prohibited Firearms. Adejobi said the suspects were arrested following credible intelligence on activities of a gun-running syndicate in Plateau. He said the only female suspect in the syndicate had confessed during a police investigation that she sold 900 rounds of AK-47 live ammunition to one of the male suspects. According to him, one locally made pistol, two rounds of 7.88 mm live ammunition, eight fabricated AK-47 rifles, four fabricated revolver guns and three fabricated semi-automatic pistols were recovered from the syndicate. He said two AK-47 magazines and 1,105 AK-47 live ammunition were also recovered from the suspects. Adejobi said building on the momentum of the operation, operatives of the IRT on Jan. 28 arrested two additional members of the syndicate. He said the operatives recovered eight fabricated AK-47 rifles, four fabricated revolver rifles, three fabricated semi-automatic pistols and two fabricated AK-47 magazines concealed in the doormat of a red Volkswagen station wagon. He said; The suspects confessed to having taken delivery of the recovered firearms from a notorious firearms fabricator, currently at large, Adejobi said efforts were being intensified to apprehend the fleeing firearms fabricator and others fabricating guns and supplying them to the wrong hands in the country.
