=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Undercover Fall 2021 Ready-to-Wear Collection | Vogue]
Mar 19, 2021 · Jun Takahashi titled his fall 2021 collection, shown on the runway at Tokyo Fashion Week, “Creep Very.” There was an obvious tie-in: Radiohead’s Thom Yorke arranged a haunting and spare ...
URL: https://www.vogue.com/fashion-shows/fall-2021-ready-to-wear/undercover

[“Creep Very”, UNDERCOVER Fall/Winter 2021 collection]
Mar 22, 2021 · On the occasion of Tokyo Fashion Week, Jun Takahashi presented UNDERCOVER ‘s Fall/Winter 2021 collection with a fashion show that gave continuity to the long series of pop culture references that have become a distinctive feature of his brand founded in 1993. Entitled “Creep Very”, a reference to the wonderful song by Radiohead “Creep” contained in “Pablo Honey” from 1993 and ...
URL: https://www.collater.al/en/undercover-fw21-collection-creep-very-style/

[Undercover Fall/Winter 2021 – Tokyo Fashion Week]
Mar 25, 2021 · With his expansive Undercover Fall/Winter 2021 collection, showed on the runway at Tokyo Fashion Week, Jun Takahashi continued his brand’s long-running history of pop culture references.
URL: https://fashionotography.com/undercover-fall-winter-2021-tokyo-fashion/

[UNDERCOVER's FW21 Show Featured Anime & Radiohead References]
Mar 20, 2021 · Takashi titled his fall 2021 collection, shown on the runway at Tokyo Fashion Week, “Creep Very," in reference to Radiohead's popular 1993 song "Creep."
URL: https://www.highsnobiety.com/p/undercover-fw21-show-tokyo-fashion-week/

[Jun Takahashi - Wikipedia]
Dress for the Undercover spring/summer 2024 collection, featured in the Sleeping Beauties: Reawakening Fashion exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art Look 27, Creep Very (Fall/Winter 2021). Collection inspired by the Neon Genesis Evangelion anime. Jun Takahashi (高橋 盾, Takahashi Jun; IPA: [takahaɕi dʑɯɴ]; born 21 September 1969) is a Japanese fashion designer who created the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jun_Takahashi


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Undercover Fall 2021 Ready-to-Wear Collection | Vogue] ---
Jun Takahashi titled his fall 2021 collection, shown on the runway at Tokyo Fashion Week, “Creep Very.” There was an obvious tie-in: Radiohead’s Thom Yorke arranged a haunting and spare version of the band’s iconic track “Creep” to accompany the show’s womenswear portion. But underlying the music was a more spiritual explanation. “The theme is of a person who is frail and weak but has a truly pure heart,” Takahashi said over email. Creeping despair, always looming right now, has colored the designer’s vision. “I was expressing the worries and anxieties that individuals carry every day and the hope of what lies ahead,” he continued. “It probably doesn’t seem to directly link to clothing design, but I wanted to put the complicated emotional state of society into a physical form. This is what I considered while designing.” Many of Undercover’s fans have already picked up on the collection’s Neon Genesis Evangelion collab on social media. The ’90s anime series about robot humanoids protecting a postapocalyptic world feels particularly apt—and the character’s rigorous armor and techno-futuristic design allowed Takahashi to flex his tailoring skills. But there’s also a sorrow there: Hulking figures to protect us—do they exist outside of cartoons? Off the runway? The Evangelion segment was sandwiched between somnambulant models in cardigan-pajama hybrids and a full women’s ready-to-wear collection. Both men and women appeared in the pajama section, shoeless and in socks, heads down, wandering aimlessly. The more straightforward womenswear came with tender and gentle expressions: ruffled ribbon bows, romantic cuffs, warm shearling, and beautiful shredded trouser suits. Models walked in platforms or pumps, crystal tears trickling down their faces. It all culminated in a series of butterfly-printed dresses that exploded into fluttering puffer jackets, high and cropped, with coordinating tights. Lepidoptera appeared in Takahashi’s fall 2021 menswear lookbook too, a partnership with the painter Markus Akesson. “This collection is from a very different perspective,” the designer said of the continuing motif. “It is much more personal and emotional.”


--- [“Creep Very”, UNDERCOVER Fall/Winter 2021 collection] ---
On the occasion of Tokyo Fashion Week, Jun Takahashi presented UNDERCOVER‘s Fall/Winter 2021 collection with a fashion show that gave continuity to the long series of pop culture references that have become a distinctive feature of his brand founded in 1993. Entitled “Creep Very”, a reference to the wonderful song by Radiohead “Creep” contained in “Pablo Honey” from 1993 and which provided the backdrop to the female part of the show in an obsessive version rearranged for the occasion by Tom York, the collection is a mirror on the emotions we feel in this period of uncertainty, also embodied by the expressions of the models who walked the runway. “The theme is of a person who is frail and weak but has a truly pure heart. I was expressing the worries and anxieties that individuals carry every day and the hope of what lies ahead. It probably doesn’t seem to directly link to clothing design, but I wanted to put the complicated emotional state of society into a physical form. This is what I considered while designing”, Takahashi stated to Vogue. This motif of fragility and weakness, but which is compensated for by purity of heart, is also expressed through collaboration with Neon Genesis Evangelion – a twenty-six-episode television anime series from 1995 produced by the Gainax studio and conceived, scripted and directed by Hideaki Anno. Despite the fact that the basic series is the classic story of young high school students who drive large humanoid robots (mecha) – called Evangelion Units or EVA – against hostile and apparently non-terrestrial beings – the Angels in the series – the anime is characterized by the presence of numerous Kabbalistic, Hebrew and biblical references, as well as by a deep psychological introspection of the characters, making it a reference point for the entire world of Japanese animation. The protagonist is Shinji Ikari, a fourteen-year-old boy, apparently weak and insecure, but thanks to his purity of spirit he will be able to pilot EVA 01 – the robot destined for him – and lead the human race to battle against enemy forces in a post-apocalyptic world. Read also: The capsule collection dedicated to Neon Genesis Evangelion The references to Anno’s anime are very evident, in the down jackets, black parkas, coats, bomber jackets and jackets featuring prints depicting the anime characters and their robotic alter-egos. Also stand out the headgear that perfectly reflects the features of the Evangelion units. In UNDERCOVER’s FW21 collection, Jun Takahashi in a way wanted to offset the most negative emotions of this period with tender and romantic details, easily recognizable in the garments of the women’s collection. Couture elements and casual pieces inspired by the dark and twisted works of Swedish artist Markus Åkesson, which inspired many of the prints in the collection. “t is the hope we have for what lies ahead of our daily worries and anxieties,” said Takahashi in a statement about the collection. “It is a worldview created for those individuals in today’s society that live each and every day with constant conflicting emotions. It’s a different perspective from that of clothing design, but it would be an honor to have you feel and understand this.”. Below are all the looks from UNDERCOVER’s Fall/Winter 2021 runway show.


--- [Undercover Fall/Winter 2021 – Tokyo Fashion Week] ---
With his expansive Undercover Fall/Winter 2021 collection, showed on the runway at Tokyo Fashion Week, Jun Takahashi continued his brand’s long-running history of pop culture references. After Akira Kurosawa’s ‘’Throne of Blood’’, Stanley Kubrick’s ‘’A Clockwork Orange’’ and Public Enemy, the Japanese brand is now joining up with ultra-popular anime franchise ‘’Evangelion’’, serving up a variety of thematic apparel indebted to the heady, psychological mecha series. Takashi titled his Fall/Winter 2021 collection ‘’Creep Very’’, in reference to Radiohead’s popular 1993 song ‘’Creep’’. But beyond soundtracking the show, the song’s reach could also be felt in the broader theme of the collection which saw brooding models trudge down the sparsely lit runway in socks and pajamas. ‘’The theme is of a person who is frail and weak but has a truly pure heart’’, Takahashi told Vogue. ‘’I was expressing the worries and anxieties that individuals carry every day and the hope of what lies ahead. It probably doesn’t seem to directly link to clothing design, but I wanted to put the complicated emotional state of society into a physical form. This is what I considered while designing’’. Fans of ‘’Evangelion’’ will find plenty of recognizable designs on display here, ranging from parkas inspired by the giant Evangelion Units and the Plugsuits worn by pilots like Shinji Ikari, Asuka Shikinami Langley and Rei Ayanami. Paneled puffer jackets brought the robotic creations to life, while several black parkas, coats, bombers and jackets featured colorful prints of the characters and their robotic counterparts. The Evangelion segment was sandwiched between somnambulant models in cardigan-pajama hybrids and a full women’s ready-to-wear collection. The more straightforward womenswear came with tender and gentle expressions. Encompassing tender details like ruffled ribbon bows, romantic cuffs, warm shearling, beautiful shredded trouser suits, and crystal tears trickling down the models’ faces. From borderline couture to comparatively casual items, the womenswear segment took a dark turn into the twisted world of artist Markus Akesson, whose paintings inspired some head-to-toe prints.


--- [UNDERCOVER's FW21 Show Featured Anime & Radiohead References] ---
Allow UNDERCOVER’s FW21 Collection to Outfit Your Creeping Despair What do Radiohead and '90s anime have in common? The UNDERCOVER Fall/Winter 21 show apparently. With this latest offering, Jun Takahashi continued his brand's long-running history of pop culture references – and used it to make an apt commentary on our bizarre times. Takashi titled his fall 2021 collection, shown on the runway at Tokyo Fashion Week, “Creep Very," in reference to Radiohead's popular 1993 song "Creep." To accompany the show's womenswear portion, frontman Thom Yorke arranged a haunting and spare version of the band’s iconic track. But beyond soundtracking the show, the song's reach could also be felt in the broader theme of the collection which saw brooding models trudge down the sparsely lit runway in socks and pajamas. "The theme is of a person who is frail and weak but has a truly pure heart," Takahashi told Vogue. "I was expressing the worries and anxieties that individuals carry every day and the hope of what lies ahead. It probably doesn’t seem to directly link to clothing design, but I wanted to put the complicated emotional state of society into a physical form. This is what I considered while designing." Meanwhile, for anime fans, the real highlight of Takahashi's showcase has to be the Neon Genesis Evangelion collaboration. The '90s anime series about robot humanoids protecting a postapocalyptic world – which feels a little too relevant, now that I think of it – came to life in the collection's tailoring, with unashamed references to the character’s rigorous armor and techno-futuristic gear. UNDERCOVER fans quickly picked up on the Evangelion references in the paneled puffer jackets that resemble robotic creations, or the black parkas, coats, bombers, and jackets featuring colorful prints of the characters and their robotic counterparts. Jun Takahashi offset the creeping despair of his pop culture references with a romantic womenswear presentation. Encompassing tender details like ruffled ribbon bows, romantic cuffs, warm shearling, beautiful shredded trouser suits, and crystal tears trickling down the models' faces. From borderline couture to comparatively casual items, the womenswear segment took a dark turn into the twisted world of artist Markus Akesson, whose paintings inspired some head-to-toe prints. However, the brooding and vulnerable collection's most unmissable reference was to the very uncertain times we're living through. "It is the hope we have for what lies ahead of our daily worries and anxieties,” said Takahashi in a statement. “It is a worldview created for those individuals in today’s society that live each and every day with constant conflicting emotions. It’s a different perspective from that of clothing design, but it would be an honor to have you feel and understand this."


--- [Jun Takahashi - Wikipedia] ---
Jun Takahashi (高橋 盾, Takahashi Jun; IPA: [takahaɕi dʑɯɴ]; born 21 September 1969) is a Japanese fashion designer who created the brand "UnderCover" (alternatively rendered as "Under Cover" or "Undercover").
