=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[1st ASEM Education Ministers' Meeting (ASEM ME1) - ASEM InfoBoard]
The 1st ASEM Conference of Ministers Responsible for Education (ASEM ME1) was held from 5-6 May 2008 in Berlin, Germany. The meeting, underlining the pivotal role of education and training for qualified human resources as a key factor for economic and social development in a globalised world, was organised by Germany and co-sponsored by China.
URL: https://aseminfoboard.org/asem_events/1st-asem-education-ministers-meeting-asem-me1/

[ASEM Education Process - ASEM InfoBoard]
The ASEM Education Process (AEP) was launched in 2008 with Germany hosting the 1st ASEM Education Ministers' Meeting (ASEMME1) in Berlin. Since then, ASEM Ministers of Education have met bi-annually to develop the ASEM Education Process (AEP) and to advance transregional educational collaboration in creating an ASEM Education Area. The AEP works at both the political level and at the ...
URL: https://aseminfoboard.org/asem-education-process/

[ASEM Ministerial Meetings - EEAS - European Union]
... Meeting was held in Hanoi, Vietnam on 14-15 May 2009. The first ASEM Education Ministerial Meeting was held in Berlin, Germany on 5-6 May 2008. Each of the ...Missing: 1st | Show results with:1st
URL: https://www.eeas.europa.eu/node/8497_en

[ASEM Education Process - ASEM Education]
The 9 th ASEM Education Ministers' Meeting (ASEMME9) was held on 25-26 January 2024 in Malta. Ministers, Deputy Ministers, Secretaries of State, Ambassadors and delegates from Asia and Europe have gathered to discuss important topics around education.
URL: https://asem-education.org/about/asem-education-process/

[The ASEM Education Process | Asem WPP]
The ASEM Education Ministers' Meeting (ASEMME) is a platform for informal dialogue and collaboration among the ASEM members at highest political level. ASEMME convenes every other year, with the initial meeting held in Berlin on 5-6 May 2008.
URL: https://www.asemwpp.org/about/asem-education-process


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [1st ASEM Education Ministers' Meeting (ASEM ME1) - ASEM InfoBoard] ---
The 1st ASEM Conference of Ministers Responsible for Education (ASEM ME1) was held from 5-6 May 2008 in Berlin, Germany. The meeting, underlining the pivotal role of education and training for qualified human resources as a key factor for economic and social development in a globalised world, was organised by Germany and co-sponsored by China. The Meeting was held under the theme “Education and Training for Tomorrow: Common Perspectives in Asia and Europe“.


--- [ASEM Education Process - ASEM InfoBoard] ---
The ASEM Education Process (AEP) The ASEM Education Process (AEP) was launched in 2008 with Germany hosting the 1st ASEM Education Ministers’ Meeting (ASEMME1) in Berlin. Since then, ASEM Ministers of Education have met bi-annually to develop the ASEM Education Process (AEP) and to advance transregional educational collaboration in creating an ASEM Education Area. The AEP works at both the political level and at the stakeholders’ level, providing a platform for education policy dialogue and concrete collaborations. Please find more about the history, structures, strategies and activities of the ASEM Education Process here. At the 2nd ASEM Ministers of Education Meeting (ASEMME2) in 2009, Ministers agreed that a rotating ASEM Education Secretariat (AES) would be established. The Secretariat supports the ASEM Education Partners and Stakeholders to coordinate the AEP initiatives and activities based on the outcomes of the ASEM Ministers of Education meetings. The ASEM Education Process (AEP) The ASEM Education Secretariat (AES) works in partnership with three other ASEM key players in the ASEM Education Area and oversees several ASEM Education Working Groups to promote and facilitate bi-regional education collaboration: - The Asia-Europe Foundation (ASEF) is ASEM’s only permanently established organisation. Led by ASEF’s Education Department, ASEF’s activities in the field of education focus on policy dialogue at the secondary, tertiary & Lifelong Learning levels, facilitate capacity building & youth and student mobility. - The ASEM Education and Research Hub for Lifelong Learning (ASEM LLL Hub), provides a platform for researchers, practitioners & policymakers to contribute to evidence-based educational reform and innovation in the field of Lifelong Learning. - The ASEM-DUO Fellowship programme (ASEM-DUO) promotes balanced exchanges of students and professors between Asia and Europe and provides scholarships. ASEM Education and Research Hub for Lifelong Learning (ASEM LLL Hub) The ASEM Education and Research Hub for Lifelong Learning (ASEM LLL Hub) is the official network for university cooperation in Lifelong Learning Research between Asia and Europe. The Hub was established in 2005 with support from the Danish Government and hosted by the Danish School of Education, Aarhus University. Following the 7th ASEM Ministers of Education Meeting (ASEM ME7) in Romania in 2019, Aarhus University handed over the Hub to the University College Cork in Ireland. Dr Séamus Ó TUAMA, Director of the Department of Adult Continuing Education, will chair the Hub for the next five years. The ASEM LLL Hub is supported by the Irish Government, through the Department of Education & Skills and the Department of Foreign Affairs & Trade. Throughout the past 15 years, the ASEM Education and Research Hub has connected hundreds of researchers from Asia and Europe in collaborative networks and Forums, jointly working on ASEM-wide research studies and policy briefs. The new Host in Ireland aims to further the discussion on Lifelong Learning, “led by scientific thinking that is oriented towards policy formation, inclusion, progression, plotting a future direction for lifelong learning, and making sure that all voices are heard”. Please read the interview by Dr Séamus Ó TUAMA, Director, Adult Continuing Education Department and Chair of the ASEM LLL Hub on the future strategies of the Hub here. The ASEM LLL Hub is a platform for six Research Networks (RN) that share a common interest in the research and policy agenda on lifelong learning in the ASEM region. These are: - RN1: eASEM (Development of ICT skills, e-learning and the culture of e-learning in Lifelong Learning) - RN2: Workplace Learning - RN3: Professionalisation of Adult Teachers and Educators in ASEM countries - RN4: National strategies for Lifelong Learning - RN5: Lifelong Learning Transitions - RN6: Learning Cities and Learning Regions Each Research Network will be developing operational plans for the next three years including a research programme & collaboration with the wider research community and with relevant stakeholders. Research Networks are led by one a Coordinator and two Joint-Coordinators from both Asia and Europe and are open to new researchers from the 51 ASEM Partner countries. Researchers interested in joining one of the networks can contact the ASEM LLL Hub Secretariat at asemlllhub@ucc.ie. From 13 – 15 October 2020, the new ASEM LLL Hub host, University College Cork in Ireland, organised the ASEM Lifelong Learning Hub Forum 2020 online. The Forum addressed “Future Directions in Lifelong Learning: Creating a vision for Lifelong Learning Research, Policy & Practice in Asia & Europe”, and 100 researchers, stakeholders and policy makers from Asia and Europe joined the discussions. The key outcome of the Forum was the development and the finalising of a “Framework for Lifelong Learning Research in the ASEM Region: 2020-2025” – exploring the thematic focus and objectives of the Research Networks, and the plans for the next five years.


--- [ASEM Ministerial Meetings - EEAS - European Union] ---
ASEM Ministerial Meetings ASEM Foreign Ministers (FMM) The Foreign Ministers' Meeting is responsible for the overall coordination of the ASEM process and is a driving force of ASEM political dialogue. - The twelfth ASEM Foreign Ministers` Meeting was held in Luxemburg on 05-06 November 2015 - The eleventh ASEM Foreign Ministers` Meeting was held in New Delhi, India on 11-12 November 2013. - The tenth ASEM Foreign Ministers` Meeting was held in Budapest, Hungary on 6-7 June 2011. (Chairman`s Statement ) - The ninth Foreign Ministers' Meeting was held in Hanoi, Vietnam on 25-26 May 2009. (Chairmen's Statement ) - The eighth Foreign Ministers' Meeting was held in Hamburg, Germany on 28-29 May 2007. (Chairmen's Statement ) - The seventh Foreign Ministers' Meeting was held in Kyoto, Japan on 6-7 May 2005. (Chairmen's Statement ) - The sixth Foreign Ministers' Meeting was held in Kildare, Ireland on 17-18 April 2004. (Chairmen's Statement ) - The fifth Foreign Ministers' Meeting was held in Bali, Indonesia on 23-24 July 2003. (Chairmen's Statement ) - The fourth Foreign Ministers' Meeting was held in Madrid, Spain on 6-7 June 2002. (Chairmen's Statement ) - The third Foreign Ministers' Meeting was held in Beijing, China on 24-25 May 2001. (Chairmen's Statement ) - The second Foreign Ministers' Meeting was held in Berlin, Germany on 29 March 1999. (Chairmen's Statement ) - The first Foreign Ministers' Meeting was held in Singapore on 14-15 February 1997. (Chairmen's Statement ) Reporting to Foreign Ministers, a Senior Officials’ Meeting (SOM) is held regularly. ASEM Finance Ministers (FinMM) - The eleventh ASEM Finance Ministers` Meeting is planned in Italy in 2014. - The tenth ASEM Finance Ministers` Meeting was held in Bangkok, Thailand on 15 October 2012. (Chairman`s Statement ) - The ninth ASEM Finance Ministers’ Meeting was held in Madrid, Spain on 17-18 April 2010 (Chairwoman's Statement ) - The eighth ASEM Finance Ministers’ Meeting was held in Jeju, South Korea on 16 June 2008. (Chairman's Statement ) - The seventh ASEM Finance Ministers’ Meeting took place in Vienna, Austria on 8-9 April 2006. (Chairman Statement ). The meeting approved the Terms of Reference of a new ASEM Contingency Dialogue Mechanism for Emergent Economic and Financial Events . - The sixth ASEM Finance Ministers’ Meeting took place in Tianjin, China, on 25-26 June 2005. (Chairman’s Statement ) Ministers issued the Tianjin Initiative on Closer ASEM Economic and Financial Cooperation . - The fifth ASEM Finance Ministers' Meeting took place in Bali, Indonesia on 5-6 July 2003. (Ministerial Statement ) - The fourth ASEM Finance Ministers' Meeting took place in Copenhagen, Denmark on 5-6 July 2002. (Chairman's Statement ) - The third Finance Ministers’ Meeting was held in Kobe, Japan on 13-14 January 2001. (Chairman’s Statement ) - The second Finance Ministers’ Meeting was held in Frankfurt, Germany on 15-16 January 1999. (Chairman's Statement ) - The first Finance Ministers’ Meeting was held in Bangkok, Thailand on 19 September 1997. (Chairman's Statement ) ASEM Economic Ministers (EMM) - The High Level Meeting within the framework of the Asia-Europe Economic Ministers’ Meeting was held in Rotterdam, Netherlands on 16-17 September 2005. - The fifth ASEM Economic Ministers' meeting was held in Dalian, China on 23-24 July 2003. (Chairman's Statement ) - The fourth ASEM Economic Ministers' meeting was held in Copenhagen, Denmark on 18-19 September 2002. (Chairman's Statement ) - The third ASEM Economic Ministers’ Meeting was held in Hanoi, Vietnam on 10-11 September 2001. (Chairman's Statement, issued under the sole responsibility of the Chair ) - The second ASEM Economic Ministers’ Meeting was held in Berlin, Germany on 9-10 October 1999. (Chairman's Statement ) - The first ASEM Economic Ministers’ Meeting was held in Makuhari, Japan on 27-28 September 1997. (Chairman's Statement ) A Senior Officials’ Meeting on Trade and Investment (SOMTI) assists with the work of Economic Ministers. The conclusions of each meeting are summarized in a Chairman’s Statement. To date, twelve such meetings have been held: - SOMTI 12 - Brussels, Belgium, 15-16 February 2011 (informal) - SOMTI 11 - Maribor, Slovenia, 15-16 April 2008 - SOMTI 10 - Qing Dao, China, 18-19 July 2005 - SOMTI 9 - Paris, 6 June 2003 - SOMTI 8 - Bali, 17 July 2002 - SOMTI 7 - Brussels, 4-5 July 2001 - SOMTI 6 - Seoul, 12-13 May 2000 - SOMTI 5 - Brussels, 7-8 July 1999 - SOMTI 4 - Singapore, 12-13 February 1999 - SOMTI 3 - Brussels, 5-6 February 1998 - SOMTI 2 - Tokyo, 6 June 1997 - SOMTI 1 - Brussels, 24-25 July 1996 ASEM Environment Ministers (ENVMM) - The fourth ASEM Environment Ministers' Meeting was held in Ulanbataar, Mongolia on 22-23 May 2012. (Chairman's Statement ) - The third ASEM Environment Ministers’ Meeting was held in Copenhagen, Denmark On 23-26 April 2007. (Chairman's Statement ) See also: Speech by Stavros Dimas, Commissioner for Environment, Climate Change & Sustainable Use of Energy 25/04/07 - The second ASEM Environment Ministers' Meeting was held in Lecce, Italy on 12-13 October 2003. (Chairman's Statement ) - The first ASEM Environment Ministers' Meeting was held in Beijing, China on 16-17 January 2002. (Chairman's Statement ) ASEM Culture Ministers (CMM) - The sixth ASEM Culture Ministers` Meeting is planned in Rotterdam, Netherlands in October 2014 - The fifth ASEM Culture Ministers` Meeting was held in Yogyakarta, Indonesia on 18-19 September 2012 - The fourth ASEM Culture Ministers` Meeting was held in Poznan, Poland on 08-10 September 2010. - The third ASEM Culture Ministers’ Meeting was held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on 21-24 April 2008. - The second ASEM Culture Ministers' Meeting was held in Paris, on 6-7 June 2005. - The first ASEM Conference of Ministers of Culture was held in Beijing, China on 3 December 2003. ASEM Labour and Employment Ministers' Conference (LEMC) - The fourth ASEM Labour and Employment Ministers` Conference was held in Hanoi, Vietnam on 24-26 October 2012. - The third ASEM Labour and Employment Minister`s Conference was held in Leiden, Netherlands on 12-14 December 2010. - The second ASEM Labour and Employment Ministers’ Conference was held in Bali, Indonesia on 13-15 October 2008. (Chairman's Conclusions ). Declaration on 'More and Better Jobs...' - The first ASEM Labour and Employment Ministers’ Conference was held in Potsdam, Germany on 03-05 September 2006. (Chairman's Conclusions ). ASEM Education Ministers (ASEMME) - The fourth ASEM Education Ministers` Meeting was held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on 12-14 May, 2013. For further details, please refer to its official website. - The third ASEM Education Ministers` Meeting was held in Copenhagen, Denmark on 9-10 May 2011. For further details, please refer to its official website. - The second ASEM Education Ministers` Meeting was held in Hanoi, Vietnam on 14-15 May 2009. - The first ASEM Education Ministerial Meeting was held in Berlin, Germany on 5-6 May 2008. Each of the ASEMME was precluded by a Senior Officials` Meetings (SOM) to ensure proper preparation and follow-up to the meetings. ASEM Transport Ministers - The second ASEM Transport Ministers` Meeting was held in Chengdu, China on 24-25 October 2011. For further details, please refer to its official website. - The first ASEM Transport Ministers' Meeting was held in Vilnius, Lithuania on 19-20 October 2009. For further details, please refer to this website. ASEM Science and Technology Ministers An ASEM Science and Technology Minister`s Meeting was held in Beijing, China on 14-15 October 1999. The conclusions of this meeting are summarized in a Chairman’s Statement and Ministerial Communique . For further details, please refer to this website. ASEM Ministerial Conference on Cooperation for the Management of Migratory Flows between Europe and Asia A Ministerial Conference was held in Lanzarote, Spain on 04-05 April 2002 (Declaration ) followed by annual meetings at the Directors-General level on Immigration and Management of Migratory Flows. ASEM ICT Ministerial Meeting An ASEM ICT Ministerial Meeting (High-level Conference on Applications of ICT in Human Resource Development and Capacity Building) was held in Hanoi, Vietnam on 30 November-1 December 2006. For further details, please refer to this website. ASEM Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) Ministerial Meeting An ASEM Small and Medium Enterprises Ministerial Meeting was held in Beijing/Qingdao, China on 29 October 2007. For further details please refer to this website.


--- [ASEM Education Process - ASEM Education] ---
- History and Milestones - Four thematic priorities and two transversal themes of the ASEM Education Process - How does the ASEM Education Process work? - Short term ambitions of the ASEM Education Process Short History and Milestones The Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM) was established in Bangkok (Thailand) during 1996 as an informal intergovernmental forum for dialogue and cooperation between Asia and Europe in the political, economic, and social, cultural and educational area. ASEM has 53 partners: 51 partner countries (21 from Asia and 30 from Europe) and two institutional partners (the European Union and the ASEAN Secretariat). The Leaders (Heads of State or Government) of ASEM partners meet for ASEM Summits, held alternately in Asia and Europe, to discuss issues of common interest. The last Summit (ASEM13) took place in Phnom Penh, Cambodia on 25 and 26 November 2021 under the theme “Strengthening Multilateralism for Shared Growth”. In addition to the Summits, Ministerial and Senior Officials’ Meetings in different political areas take place. In Berlin (Germany) in 2008, ASEM Ministers of Education met for the first time and since then have been meeting regularly (every second year) to develop the ASEM Education Process (AEP) and to create an ASEM Education Area. The ASEM Education Process is organised at two levels: the political level includes ministerial commitment with representation at ministerial meetings. At the stakeholders’ level, dialogue continues between stakeholders, policy makers and experts within different cooperation platforms, events and projects. The Asia-Europe Meeting of Ministers for Education (ASEMME) held to date took place in Berlin, Germany (ASEMME1, 2008); Hanoi, Viet Nam (ASEMME2, 2009); Copenhagen, Denmark (ASEMME3, 2011); Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (ASEMME4, 2013); Riga, Latvia (ASEMME5, 2015); Seoul, Republic of Korea (ASEM ME6, 2017); Bucharest, Romania (ASEMME7, 2019); Bangkok, Thailand (ASEMME8, 2021, virtually) and Valletta, Malta (ASEMME9, 2024). The 10th Asia-Europe Meeting of Ministers for Education (ASEMME10) will be held in November 2026 in Palawan, the Philippines. Four thematic priorities and two transversal themes of the ASEM Education Process Since the first ASEM Education Ministers’ Meeting (ASEMME1) in Berlin (2008), topics related to higher education have been the centre of interest and discussions in the ASEM Education Process. During ASEMME3 in Copenhagen (2011), Ministers agreed on four thematic priorities for the ASEM Education Process, with a focus on Higher Education. These priorities are the following: - Quality Assurance and Recognition - Engaging Business and Industry in Education - Balanced Mobility - Lifelong Learning including TVET More information on these priority themes can be found on this page. The four thematic focus areas have been maintained until today. The Chair’s Conclusions of each Ministerial Meeting include initiatives and projects related to the four priorities and proposed by ASEM partners and stakeholders. According to ASEMME5 (Riga, 2015), initiatives can be either dialogue-oriented (first pillar of AEP cooperation) or result-oriented (second pillar of AEP cooperation). The progress and the outcomes of these initiatives and projects are analysed in a bi-annual Stocktaking Report, compiled by the ASEM Education Secretariat. The last Stocktaking Report 2024 ‘From Bangkok to Valletta’ can be found here. During the ASEMME7 in 2019, the relevance of the 4 priority themes was again confirmed. However, the Ministers underlined the importance of achieving the Sustainable Development Goals with a focus on SDG4 and agreed that the ASEM Education Process can contribute to realising the SDGs. Therefore, the Ministers confirmed their commitment to contributing the implementation of the SDG4 in order to achieve inclusive and equitable quality education and lifelong learning opportunities for all. The Ministers welcomed the suggestion to link the ASEM Education Process more explicitly to the Sustainable Development Agenda 2030 by introducing “Sustainable Development” as a transversal theme within the 4 priority areas of the ASEM Education Process. Furthermore, the Ministers underlined that ‘Digitalisation’ creates opportunities to support connectivity and collaboration between Asia and Europe, but also that the ASEM Education Process should adapt itself to the opportunities and challenges of digitalisation and the 4th Industrial Revolution. Therefore, the Ministers endorsed the recommendation to include “Digitalisation” as a second transversal theme (besides Sustainable Development) within the 4 priority areas of the ASEM Education Process. During the ASEMME8 in 2021, the Ministers re-confirmed their commitment to contribute to the implementation of SDGs (with a particular focus on SDG4) in order to achieve inclusive and equitable quality education and Lifelong Learning opportunities for all. Moreover, the Ministers reiterated that ‘digitalisation’ can create opportunities to support connectivity and collaboration between Asia and Europe. The Ministers acknowledged that incorporating digital tools in education has been vital in ensuring continuity of support to learners during the COVID-19 pandemic. How does the ASEM Education Process work? The ASEM Education Process (AEP) operates at two levels: the political and the stakeholder level. At the political level, the ASEM Education Ministers’ Meeting (ASEMME) is held once every two years. It is chaired by a host country and prepared by one Intermediate Senior Officials’ Meeting (ISOM) and two Senior Officials’ Meetings (SOMs) with the help of the ASEM Education Secretariat (AES). During the Ministerial Meetings, Ministers set the political and practical AEP agenda by agreeing on the policy orientation and by monitoring and initiating the implementation of initiatives, programs and projects. Most of these initiatives, programs and projects are coordinated and implemented at stakeholder level. Between the political and the stakeholder level, there is a lively interaction. Policy makers take part in initiatives, conferences, working and expert groups while stakeholders contribute their views and expertise to the policy debates and are invited to attend policy meetings (e.g. (I)SOMs, ASEMME). More detailed information on how the ASEM Education Process works, can be read in the Stocktaking Report from Bucharest to Bangkok, 2021. The term “stakeholders” refers to all institutions, organisations, interest groups, etc. who are involved in the ASEM Education Process or have an interest in its success but are not official members (or partners) of ASEM. The most active stakeholder in the AEP is the Asia-Europe Foundation (ASEF), the only permanent institution of ASEM. Other stakeholders currently involved in the ASEM Education Process are: ASEAN University Network (AUN), ASEM LLL Hub Secretariat (University College Cork), ASEM-DUO Secretariat, European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education (ENQA), Erasmus Student Network (ESN), European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (CEDEFOP), European External Action Service (EEAS), European Students’ Union (ESU), European Training Foundation (ETF), European University Association (EUA), International Association of Universities (IAU), Southeast Asian Ministers of Education Organization Regional Centre specialising in higher education and development (SEAMEO RIHED), UNESCO, and UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning (UIL). ASEM and the AEP are informal political fora in which policy makers and stakeholders work together based on mutual trust and respect. Policy conclusions and recommendations can be made only by ASEM partners represented by their Ministers of (Higher) Education or Heads of Delegation during the Ministerial Meetings (ASEMME). The non-binding results of these Meetings are laid down, as a rule, in the respective Chair’s Conclusions. The Ministerial Meetings are prepared by the host of the meeting and the Senior Officials (high-level representatives) of the ASEM Education Ministries supported by the ASEM Education Secretariat during two preparatory Senior Officials’ Meetings (SOM1 and SOM2) and one Intermediate Senior Officials’ Meeting (ISOM) preceding the two SOMs. Short term ambitions of the ASEM Education Process The analysis of the ASEM Education Process in the publication ‘Looking Back and Looking Ahead: The ASEM Education Process – History and Vision 2008-2018′ and the Stocktaking Report ‘From Seoul to Bucharest’ provided recommendations for the future direction of the ASEM Education Process. The conclusions of the Stocktaking Report were presented and discussed during the ASEMME7 and its preparatory Senior Officials Meetings. The Ministers agreed during ASEMME7 the following steps: - Inclusion of 2 transversal themes within the 4 priority areas of the ASEM Education Process: Sustainable Development and Digitalization - Systematic exchange of information and close interaction between the ASEM Education Process and the overall ASEM Process, between the ASEM Education Process and EU’s Asia-Europe Strategy and EU programs and between ASEM Education and other multilateral cooperation programs; - Better visibility of the ASEM Education Process: both within the overall ASEM process as within the field multilateral cooperation - Developing a strategy paper on the ASEM Education Process: ‘Strategy and Vision 2030’ and to establish a Standing Working Group to support AES in this development process and monitoring of the ‘Strategy and Vision 2030’. During ASEMME8, the Ministers invited Senior Officials to use the ASEM Education Strategy 2030 and its accompanying Action Plan as a framework for the further development of ASEM projects and initiatives, as well as for monitoring their contribution to the realisation of the ASEM Education Process’ vision based on these following four Strategic Objectives identified for the next decade: - Enhancing Connectivity between Asia and Europe by Boosting Inclusive and Balanced Mobility and Exchanges - Promoting Lifelong Learning (LLL), Including Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) - Fostering the Development of Skills and Competences - Creating More Transparency and Mutual Understanding on Recognition, Validation and Quality In July 2022, Italy took over the ASEM Education Secretariat (AES) from Belgium. On 24-25 November 2022, the first post-Covid meeting in-person, namely the Intermediate Senior Officials’ Meeting (ISOM) took place in St. Julian’s, Malta. During this meeting, the new work plan 2022-2026 was discussed and approved. The existing Expert Group on Digitalisation was reconfirmed and the following new Expert Groups were established: - Expert Group 1 on SDGs and Education - Expert Group 2 on Recognition and Balanced Mobility - Expert Group 3 on Lifelong Learning and TVET The Senior Officials’ Meeting 1 (SOM1) and the Senior Officials’ Meeting 2 (SOM2) took place in Malta on 22-23 May 2023 and on 24 January 2024 respectively. The 9th ASEM Education Ministers’ Meeting (ASEMME9) was held on 25-26 January 2024 in Malta. Ministers, Deputy Ministers, Secretaries of State, Ambassadors and delegates from Asia and Europe have gathered to discuss important topics around education. They held speeches on SDGs & Education; Recognition & BalancedMobility; Lifelong Learning & TVET or Digitalisation explaining their national policies and involvement in ASEM Education initiatives. These two days of Ministerial Conference were also enriched by two inspirational keynotes on Artificial Intelligence and Innovative Learning Methods in education and a panel with stakeholders about how to leave no one behind in education. The Conference was a crucial moment for ASEM partners and stakeholders to guide the next steps of the ASEM Education Process. In preparation of ASEMME10, the Intermediate Senior Officials’ Meeting (ISOM) took place on 18-19 November 2024 in Bangkok, Thailand, the 1st Senior Officials’ Meeting (SOM1) took place on 18-19 November 2025 in Bucharest, Romania. The 2nd Senior Officials’ Meeting together with the 10th Asia-Europe Meeting of Ministers for Education (ASEMME10) will be held in late 2026 in Palawan, the Philippines.


--- [The ASEM Education Process | Asem WPP] ---
Structure The ASEM Education Process is organized at two levels: the political level includes ministerial commitment with representation at ministerial meetings. At the stakeholders’ level, dialogue continues with policy makers and experts within different cooperation platforms and events. The initiatives that are taken and activities organized under de stakeholder level, can be classified under 2 pillars: the dialogue-oriented pillar and the result-oriented pillar. The first pillar represents the dialogue-oriented cooperation, providing a platform for mutual learning and exchange of experiences strengthening mutual understanding and providing incentives for education policy and strategy developments at institutional, national and regional level. The second pillar represents the result-oriented cooperation composed of tangible activities and measures. Furthermore, the initiatives are categorized under 4 different priority themes. At political level: A conference of ministers responsible for education is held every second year. Its main role is to facilitate political commitment, set the policy agenda and steer the activities of this dialogue process. Each Ministerial Conference is prepared during two Senior Officials’ Meetings, which are chaired by the host country of the respective Ministerial Conference and supported by the ASEM Education Secretariat (AES). In the Ministerial Conferences, only the Heads of Delegation have the right to speak. Observers (e.g. international organisations) may attend the meetings on invitation of the host country. Get an overview of past Asia-Europe Meetings of Ministers for Education (ASEMMEs). At stakeholder level: A continuous dialogue takes place with policymakers, thematic experts and other stakeholders discussing education topics. Asia-Europe Foundation (ASEF), the ASEM Lifelong Learning Hub (ASEM LLL Hub), ASEAN University Network (AUN), the European Network for Quality Assurance in Higher Education (ENQA), the European Student Union (ESU), the European University Association (EUA), the European Association of Institutions in Higher Education (EURASHE), the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), UNESCO-UNEVOC International Centre for Technical and Vocational Education and Training, the Southeast Asian Ministers of Education Organization’s (SEAMEO) Regional Centre for Vocational & Technical Education & Training (VOCTECH). Experts meet regularly to share experiences, present examples of good practice, and contribute to policy discussions and the implementation of reform measures. Most initiatives for bringing these experts together are taken by different ASEM member states with the support of the AES. Valuable input is also given by ASEF’s ASEM Education Hub (AEH) through the ASEM Rectors’ Conference (ARC), Asia-Europe Education Workshops, and the ASEM Education and Research Hub for Lifelong Learning (ASEM LLL Hub). More information on the activities and events can be found here. ASEM Education Ministerial Meetings (ASEMME) Since its inception in 1996, the Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM) has continuously adjusted itself to ensure relevance and growth of the partnership between the partners amidst the global and regional changes. ASEM collaboration have been guided by 3 areas of common interest: political, economic, and socio-cultural and educational dimensions, referred to as the ASEM Three Pillars. Within the third pillar, Education Ministers from the ASEM member countries meet regularly to advance transregional educational collaboration (ASEM Education Ministers’ Meeting or ASEMME). The ASEM Education Ministers’ Meeting (ASEMME) is a platform for informal dialogue and collaboration among the ASEM members at highest political level. ASEMME convenes every other year, with the initial meeting held in Berlin on 5-6 May 2008. The Ministers mandated the Senior Officials to meet annually to discuss issues of common interest, to review the results of the implemented ASEM education activities and agree on priority areas and joint activities for the next two years. Since ASEMME4, an Intermediate Senior Officials’ Meeting (ISOM) has been organised to encourage collaboration among the ASEM members and stakeholder organisations, to oversee the implementation of the ASEM activities and to elaborate proposals for further development of the ASEM Education Process. Summary of Key Results and Objectives of each ASEMME | Meeting | Theme | Results and/or objectives | |---|---|---| | ASEMME1 5-6 May 2008 Berlin, Germany | Education and training for tomorrow: Common perspectives in Asia and Europe | | | ASEMME2 14-15 May 2009 Hanoi, Viet Nam | Sharing experience and best practices on higher education | | | ASEMME3 9-10 May 2011 Copenhagen, Denmark | Shaping an ASEM Education Area | | | ASEMME4 13-14 May 2013 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia | Strategizing ASEM Education Collaboration | | | ASEMME5 27-28 April 2015 Riga, Latvia | ASEM Education Collaboration for Results | | | ASEMME6 21-22 November 2017, Seoul, Republic of Korea | Collaboration for the Next Decade: From Common Perspectives to Effective Fulfillment | Progress of ASEM Education Initiatives 2015-2017 The Conclusions drawn by the Chair of ASEMM5 in Riga, Latvia (27-28 April 2015), highlights the strategic role of education and the importance of keeping the ASEM Education Process as multifaceted and multipurpose process. Furthermore, 27 actionable initiatives were defined within the four priority areas of ASEM Education Process (9 initiatives under pillar 1 ‘dialogue-oriented activities’ and 18 initiatives under pillar 2 ‘result-oriented cooperation). Each of the ASEM members and stakeholders are invited to launch new initiatives and/or volunteer to coordinate the endorsed initiatives. Some ASEM-affiliated organisations, such as Asia-Europe Foundation (ASEF), the ASEM Education and Research Hub for Lifelong Learning (ASEM LLL Hub) or the ASEM Duo Fellowship Programme run projects throughout the year that provide an essential contribution to the four priorities. An overview of all initiatives as well the progress of these initiatives can be found in the stocktaking report.
