=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Briana Scurry - Wikipedia]
Scurry was elected to the National Soccer Hall of Fame on August 3, 2017. She was the first woman goalkeeper and first black woman to be awarded the honor. [2][3][4] She is openly gay, and on June 1, 2018, she married Chryssa Zizos, CEO of Live Wire Strategic Communications, LLC.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Briana_Scurry

[35 Facts About Briana Scurry - FactSnippet]
5. Briana Scurry was the first woman goalkeeper and first black woman to be awarded the honor. 6. Briana Scurry is openly gay, and on June 1,2018, she married Chryssa Zizos, CEO of Live Wire Strategic Communications, LLC. 7. In 2022, Briana Scurry released her best-selling memoir, My Greatest Save. 8.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-briana-scurry.html

[Briana Scurry Wiki, Net Worth, Bio, Dating, Partner, Spouse, and Age]
Married, Partner, Spouse Talking about her own life Briana did not want to open up her relationship publicly. However, now she is married to a lesbian partner Chryssa Zizos. They were in a relationship for a very long time and got married on June 4th, 2018. They met on the surgery for medical restitution, a season-ending concussion injury.
URL: https://www.hotwags.com/sports/briana-scurry-wiki-net-worth-dating-partner-age/

[Briana Scurry - Wikiwand]
Scurry was elected to the National Soccer Hall of Fame on August 3, 2017. She was the first woman goalkeeper and first black woman to be awarded the honor. [2][3] [4] She is openly gay, and on June 1, 2018, she married Chryssa Zizos, CEO of Live Wire Strategic Communications, LLC.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Briana_Scurry

[12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com]
Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius).
URL: https://www.timeanddate.com/calendar/months/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Briana Scurry - Wikipedia] ---
Briana Collette Scurry (born September 7, 1971) is an American retired soccer goalkeeper. Scurry was the starting goalkeeper for the United States women's national soccer team at the 1995 World Cup (3rd place), 1996 Summer Olympics (gold medal), 1999 World Cup (champions), 2003 World Cup (3rd place), and the 2004 Summer Olympic Games (gold medal). She played in the semi-final and playoff for third place in the 2007 Women's World Cup (3rd place). She was a founding member of the WUSA, playing three seasons as starting goalkeeper for the Atlanta Beat (2001–2003).
Her career total of 173 international appearances is the second most among female soccer goalkeepers. It is also the fifteenth most of any American female player, and the thirty-second most among all women.
Scurry was elected to the National Soccer Hall of Fame on August 3, 2017. She was the first woman goalkeeper and first black woman to be awarded the honor. She is openly gay, and on June 1, 2018, she married Chryssa Zizos, CEO of Live Wire Strategic Communications, LLC.
In 2022, Scurry released her best-selling memoir, My Greatest Save. Scurry was also the subject of The Only, a CBS feature-length documentary chronicling her life that was released in 2022.




--- [35 Facts About Briana Scurry - FactSnippet] ---
Briana Collette Scurry was born on September 7,1971 and is an American retired soccer goalkeeper. 35 Facts About Briana Scurry Briana Scurry played in the semi-final and playoff for third place in the 2007 Women's World Cup. Briana Scurry was a founding member of the WUSA, playing three seasons as starting goalkeeper for the Atlanta Beat. Briana Scurry was elected to the National Soccer Hall of Fame on August 3,2017. Briana Scurry was the first woman goalkeeper and first black woman to be awarded the honor. Briana Scurry is openly gay, and on June 1,2018, she married Chryssa Zizos, CEO of Live Wire Strategic Communications, LLC. In 2022, Briana Scurry released her best-selling memoir, My Greatest Save. Briana Scurry was the subject of The Only, a CBS feature-length documentary chronicling her life that was released in 2022. Briana Scurry was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota to parents, Ernest and Robbie Briana Scurry. Briana Scurry is the youngest of nine children, with three brothers and five sisters. Briana Scurry played goalie for the Anoka High School Tornadoes for four years and was instrumental in their Minnesota State Championship win in 1989 which ended in a shootout victory. In high school, Briana Scurry ran track and played floor hockey and softball, but basketball was her first and deepest love. Briana Scurry was named Anoka High School's Athena Award winner as the school's top female athlete. Briana Scurry was named High School All American and Minnesota's top female athlete. In September 2011, Briana Scurry was named to the inaugural class of the Anoka High School Hall of Fame. Briana Scurry was named the National Goalkeeper of the Year in 1993 by the Missouri Athletic Club Sports Foundation and was a 1993 second-team All-American, All-Northeast Region and All-New England first-team selection. Briana Scurry was a founding player for the Atlanta Beat in the Women's United Soccer Association, the world's first women's league where the players were paid as professionals. Briana Scurry was the starting goalkeeper for the three seasons of the league. Briana Scurry helped the Beat to two WUSA Championship Games and was named the league's Goalkeeper of the Year in 2003. On March 13,2009, Briana Scurry was named to the preseason roster of the Washington Freedom, in the inaugural season of Women's Professional Soccer. Briana Scurry suffered a season-ending concussion early in the 2010 season, and announced her retirement later that year on September 8. Briana Scurry was a goalkeeper for the United States women's national soccer team for most of the years between 1994 and 2008, earning a record 173 caps for the United States. Briana Scurry was a member of the Gold Medal-winning US Women's National Team at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta where she started and played in every minute of the team's five matches conceding only three goals. Briana Scurry played every minute of the 1999 Women's World Cup allowing only three goals and recording four shutouts. Briana Scurry saved one penalty during the shootout in the final against China and the United States won. Briana Scurry started for the US in the 2003 FIFA Women's World Cup and 2004 Summer Olympic Games. Briana Scurry played two matches for the US in the 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup and was the alternate goalkeeper on the 2008 Olympic Team. Briana Scurry has since rebuilt her life and become an advocate for increased concussion awareness and research, testifying before Congress twice. Briana Scurry was appointed general manager of the WPS franchise magicJack beginning with the 2011 season. In February 2021, The Washington Post reported that Chelsea Clinton, Jenna Bush Hager, Dominique Dawes and Briana Scurry were part of an investment group investing in the Washington Spirit. Briana Scurry was part of the rotation of studio commentators for ESPN's telecasts of the 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup. Since 2021, Briana Scurry has served as a broadcast analyst for CBS soccer coverage. On December 6,2017, Briana Scurry was announced as the First Assistant Coach of the Washington Spirit and would serve as Technical Advisor for the Spirit Academy programs in Maryland and Virginia. Briana Scurry appeared as a fictionalized version of herself in the 2000 film Air Bud: World Pup. Briana Scurry was the subject of the 2022 Paramount Plus documentary The Only, which was directed by Anthony J Cortese and featured interviews with other USWNT players such as Mia Hamm, Brandi Chastain, Kristine Lilly, and Abby Wambach.


--- [Briana Scurry Wiki, Net Worth, Bio, Dating, Partner, Spouse, and Age] ---
No content


--- [Briana Scurry - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com] ---
Each month has either 28, 30, or 31 days during a common year, which has 365 days. During leap years, which occur nearly every 4 years, we add an extra (intercalary) day, Leap Day, on 29 February, making leap years 366 days long. This is to keep our current calendar aligned with the solar year and astronomical seasons marked by equinoxes and solstices. The 12 Months The Gregorian calendar consists of the following 12 months: - January (31 days) - March (31 days) - April (30 days) - May (31 days) - June (30 days) - July (31 days) - August (31 days) - September (30 days) - October (31 days) - November (30 days) - December (31 days) Tracking the Moon’s Orbit The months originated as a way to mark time and break up the year into shorter periods based on the Moon’s orbit around Earth. The word month is even derived from the word Moon. As far as we know, months were first used in Mesopotamia sometime between the years 500 BCE and 400 BCE to measure the natural period related to the lunar month, or synodic month, which is the time it takes for the Moon to go through all the Moon phases. Moon phases in your cityHow Many Have 28, 29, 30, or 31 Days? The Gregorian calendar has 4 months that are 30 days long and 7 months that are 31 days long. February is the only month that is 28 days long in common years and 29 days long in leap years. From 10 to 12 Months Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius). Calendar with holidaysThe Romans named some of the months after their position in the calendar year: September means the 7th month, October the 8th, November the 9th, and December the 10th month. However, when January and February were eventually added and the beginning of the calendar year was moved to January, the position of these months no longer corresponded with the original meaning of their names. Today, we still call the 9th month of the year September, the 7th month. The Islamic calendar, the Hebrew calendar, and the Hindu calendar also use months to divide up the year. Although the Gregorian calendar is the most commonly used calendar today, other calendars are still used in many parts of the world to calculate certain holidays and annual feasts. Old Names of Months Months in the ancient Roman calendar include:
