=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ruth Wilson Gilmore - Wikipedia]
In 2011, Gilmore was the keynote speaker at the National Women's Studies Association annual conference in Atlanta, Georgia. [13] In 2012, the American Studies Association awarded her its first Angela Y. Davis prize for Public Scholarship that "recognizes scholars who have applied or used their scholarship for the "public good." This includes work that explicitly aims to educate the public ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruth_Wilson_Gilmore

[Gilmore, Ruth Wilson | CUNY Graduate Center]
May 4, 2021 · Honors include the American Studies Association Angela Y. Davis Award for Public Scholarship (2012); the Association of American Geographers Harold Rose Award for Anti-Racist Research and Practice (2014); the SUNY-Purchase College Eugene V. Grant Distinguished Scholar Prize for Social and Environmental Justice (2015-16); the American Studies ...
URL: https://www.gc.cuny.edu/people/ruth-wilson-gilmore

[Ruth Wilson Gilmore - Antipode Online]
Jun 17, 2020 · Honors include the American Studies Association Angela Y. Davis Award for Public Scholarship (2012); the Association of American Geographers Harold Rose Award for Anti-Racist Research and Practice (2014); the SUNY-Purchase College Eugene V. Grant Distinguished Scholar Prize for Social and Environmental Justice (2015-16); the American Studies ...
URL: https://antipodeonline.org/ruth-wilson-gilmore/

[Ruth Wilson Gilmore | American Academy of Arts and Sciences]
Jan 22, 2026 · Honors include the American Studies Association Angela Y. Davis Award for Public Scholarship (2012); the Association of American Geographers Harold Rose Award for Anti-Racist Research and Practice (2014); the SUNY-Purchase College Eugene V. Grant Distinguished Scholar Prize for Social and Environmental Justice (2015-16); the American Studies ...
URL: https://www.amacad.org/person/ruth-wilson-gilmore

[Rapoport Center for Human Rights and Justice | Ruth Wilson Gilmore]
Her multiple honors include the American Studies Association Angela Y. Davis Award for Public Scholarship (2012); the Association of American Geographers' Harold Rose Award for Anti-Racist Research and Practice (2014); the SUNY-Purchase College Eugene V. Grant Distinguished Scholar Prize for Social and Environmental Justice (2015-16); and the ...
URL: https://law.utexas.edu/humanrights/directory/ruth-wilson-gilmore/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ruth Wilson Gilmore - Wikipedia] ---
Ruth Wilson Gilmore (born April 2, 1950) is a prison abolitionist and prison scholar. She is the Director of the Center for Place, Culture, and Politics and professor of geography in Earth and Environmental Sciences at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. She has made important contributions to carceral geography, the "study of the interrelationships across space, institutions and political economy that shape and define modern incarceration". She received the 2020 Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Association of Geographers.




--- [Gilmore, Ruth Wilson | CUNY Graduate Center] ---
- Director, Center for Place, Culture and Politics - Professor, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Africana Studies, American Studies Research Interests - Structural Adjustment & New Alignments: Revolution and Reform - Race, Space, and Place - Environments and Movements - Infrastructure - Prison - The Movement of Capital and Labor - Urban-Rural Continuities - The African Diaspora Education - Ph.D., Rutgers Ruth Wilson Gilmore is professor of Earth & Environmental Sciences, and American Studies, and the director of the Center for Place, Culture, and Politics. She also serves on the Executive Committee of the Institute for Research on the African Diaspora in the Americas and the Caribbean. Co-founder of many grassroots organizations including the California Prison Moratorium Project, Critical Resistance, and the Central California Environmental Justice Network, Gilmore is author of the prize-winning Golden Gulag: Prisons, Surplus, Crisis, and Opposition in Globalizing California (UC Press). Recent publications include “Beyond Bratton” (Policing the Planet, Camp and Heatherton, eds., Verso); “Abolition Geography and the Problem of Innocence” (Futures of Black Radicalism, Lubin and Johnson, eds., Verso); a foreword to Bobby M. Wilson’s Birmingham classic America’s Johannesburg (U Georgia Press); and a foreword to Cedric J. Robinson on Racial Capitalism, Black Internationalism, and Cultures of Resistance (HLT Quan, ed., Pluto). Forthcoming projects include Change Everything: Racial Capitalism and the Case for Abolition (Haymarket); Abolition Geography (Verso); plus a collection of Stuart Hall's writing on race and difference (co-edited with Paul Gilroy, Duke UP). Gilmore has lectured in Africa, Asia, Europe, and North America. In April 2019 Rachel Kushner profiled her in The New York Times Magazine. Honors include the American Studies Association Angela Y. Davis Award for Public Scholarship (2012); the Association of American Geographers Harold Rose Award for Anti-Racist Research and Practice (2014); the SUNY-Purchase College Eugene V. Grant Distinguished Scholar Prize for Social and Environmental Justice (2015-16); the American Studies Association Richard A Yarborough Mentorship Award (2017); The Association of American Geographers Lifetime Achievement Award (2020); and most recently (along with Angela Y. Davis and Mike Davis) she was named winner of 2020 Lannan Foundation Lifetime Cultural Freedom Prize.


--- [Ruth Wilson Gilmore - Antipode Online] ---
Ruth Wilson Gilmore is Professor of Earth & Environmental Sciences and Director of the Center for Place, Culture, and Politics at the City University of New York Graduate Center. Co-founder of many grassroots organizations including the California Prison Moratorium Project, Critical Resistance, and the Central California Environmental Justice Network. Gilmore is author of the prize-winning Golden Gulag: Prisons, Surplus, Crisis, and Opposition in Globalizing California (University of California Press, 2007) and Abolition Geography: Essays Towards Liberation (Verso, 2022). With Paul Gilroy she edited Stuart Hall: Selected Writings on Race and Difference (Duke University Press, 2021). Change Everything: Racial Capitalism and the Case for Abolition is forthcoming from Haymarket Books in late 2022. Gilmore has lectured in Africa, Asia, Europe, and North America. In April 2019 Rachel Kushner profiled Gilmore in the New York Times Magazine. Honors include the American Studies Association Angela Y. Davis Award for Public Scholarship (2012); the Association of American Geographers Harold Rose Award for Anti-Racist Research and Practice (2014); the SUNY-Purchase College Eugene V. Grant Distinguished Scholar Prize for Social and Environmental Justice (2015-16); the American Studies Association Richard A. Yarborough Mentorship Award (2017); the Association of American Geographers Lifetime Achievement Award (2020); and the 2020 Lannan Foundation Lifetime Cultural Freedom Prize (along with Angela Y. Davis and Mike Davis). In 2021 Gilmore was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.


--- [Ruth Wilson Gilmore | American Academy of Arts and Sciences] ---
Ruth Wilson Gilmore Ruth Wilson Gilmore is professor of Earth & Environmental Sciences, and American Studies, and director of the Center for Place, Culture, and Politics at the Graduate Center, City University of New York. She also serves on the Executive Committee of the Institute for Research on the African Diaspora in the Americas and the Caribbean. Co-founder of many grassroots organizations including the California Prison Moratorium Project, Critical Resistance, and the Central California Environmental Justice Network, Gilmore is author of the prize-winning Golden Gulag: Prisons, Surplus, Crisis, and Opposition in Globalizing California (UC Press). Recent publications include “Beyond Bratton” (Policing the Planet, Camp and Heatherton, eds., Verso); “Abolition Geography and the Problem of Innocence” (Futures of Black Radicalism, Lubin and Johnson, eds., Verso); a foreword to Bobby M. Wilson’s Birmingham classic America’s Johannesburg (U Georgia Press); and a foreword to Cedric J. Robinson on Racial Capitalism, Black Internationalism, and Cultures of Resistance (HLT Quan, ed., Pluto). Forthcoming projects include Change Everything: Racial Capitalism and the Case for Abolition (Haymarket); Abolition Geography (Verso); plus a collection of Stuart Hall's writing on race and difference (co-edited with Paul Gilroy, Duke UP). Gilmore has lectured in Africa, Asia, Europe, and North America. In April 2019 Rachel Kushner profiled her in The New York Times Magazine. Honors include the American Studies Association Angela Y. Davis Award for Public Scholarship (2012); the Association of American Geographers Harold Rose Award for Anti-Racist Research and Practice (2014); the SUNY-Purchase College Eugene V. Grant Distinguished Scholar Prize for Social and Environmental Justice (2015-16); the American Studies Association Richard A Yarborough Mentorship Award (2017); The Association of American Geographers Lifetime Achievement Award (2020); and most recently (along with Angela Y. Davis and Mike Davis) she was named winner of 2020 Lannan Foundation Lifetime Cultural Freedom Prize.


--- [Rapoport Center for Human Rights and Justice | Ruth Wilson Gilmore] ---
Ruth Wilson Gilmore A renowned activist and public scholar known for her work on prison abolition, Ruth Wilson Gilmore is professor of earth & environmental sciences and American studies, as well as director of the Center for Place, Culture, and Politics at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. In addition to her work on abolition, Professor Gilmore writes and lectures extensively on a range of subjects, including racial capitalism, organized violence, changing state structure, the aesthetics and politics of seeing, and labor and social movements. She authored the award-winning book Golden Gulag: Prisons, Surplus, Crisis, and Opposition in Globalizing California and spearheaded the development of the field of carceral geography. Her multiple honors include the American Studies Association Angela Y. Davis Award for Public Scholarship (2012); the Association of American Geographers' Harold Rose Award for Anti-Racist Research and Practice (2014); the SUNY-Purchase College Eugene V. Grant Distinguished Scholar Prize for Social and Environmental Justice (2015-16); and the American Studies Association Richard A. Yarborough Mentorship Award (2017). In addition to her scholarly work, Professor Gilmore co-founded several grassroots organizations, including the California Prison Moratorium Project, Critical Resistance, and the Central California Environmental Justice Network. She holds a Ph.D. in economic geography and social theory from Rutgers University.
