=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Why Does Evil Exist? Where Does Evil Come From? - The Story of God with Morgan Freeman 1x05 | TVmaze]
May 1, 2016 · Episode Guide for The Story of God with Morgan Freeman 1x05: Why Does Evil Exist? Where Does Evil Come From?. Episode summary, trailer and screencaps; guest stars and main cast list; and more.
URL: https://www.tvmaze.com/episodes/681090/the-story-of-god-with-morgan-freeman-1x05-why-does-evil-exist-where-does-evil-come-from

[The Story of God with Morgan Freeman Season 1 Episode 5 Why Does Evil Exist?]
No snippet
URL: https://www.teacherspayteachers.com/Product/The-Story-of-God-with-Morgan-Freeman-Season-1-Episode-5-Why-Does-Evil-Exist-8914505

["The Story of God with Morgan Freeman" Why Does Evil Exist? (TV Episode 2016) ⭐ 7.7 | Documentary, Adventure, History]
Why does evil exist? What do we mean by the apocalypse? The genesis for the series came about in the year 2000, when Freeman and producing partner Lori McCreary visited the Hagia Sophia in Istanbul.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt5623594

[10 Questions about Evil Answered by the Bible – Bellator Christi]
On Sunday, May 1st, 2016, Freeman presented the fifth episode of the series. This episode dealt with the problem of evil. I originally thought that the episode would deal with the issue that is popularly known as theodicy: that is, how can a ...
URL: https://bellatorchristi.com/2016/05/02/10-questions-about-evil-answered-by-the-bible/

['The Story Of God' And The Problem Of Evil]
That’s something Morgan Freeman discovers in “Why Does Evil Exist?”, the Sunday, May 1, episode of National Geographic Channel’s documentary series “The Story of God,” airing at 9 p.m.
URL: https://www.patheos.com/blogs/kateohare/2016/04/the-story-of-god-and-the-problem-of-evil/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Why Does Evil Exist? Where Does Evil Come From? - The Story of God with Morgan Freeman 1x05 | TVmaze] ---
If you believe God created the world, and God is good, then why does evil exist? To find out, Morgan Freeman comes face to face with a serial killer in a maximum-security penitentiary and witnesses an exorcism in India. In Egypt, he learns about the belief that souls were weighed for the afterlife, and in California he learns about Zoroastrianism, one of the planet's oldest faiths. If you believe God created the world, and God is good, then why does evil exist? To find out, Morgan Freeman comes face to face with a serial killer in a maximum-security penitentiary and witnesses an exorcism in India. In Egypt, he learns about the belief that souls were weighed for the afterlife, and in California he learns about Zoroastrianism, one of the planet's oldest faiths. Cast Appearances Episode Discussion No comments yet. Be the first!


--- [The Story of God with Morgan Freeman Season 1 Episode 5 Why Does Evil Exist?] ---
No content


--- ["The Story of God with Morgan Freeman" Why Does Evil Exist? (TV Episode 2016) ⭐ 7.7 | Documentary, Adventure, History] ---
Where does evil come from? Morgan sets out to understand the root of evil and how our ideas of it have evolved over the millennia.Where does evil come from? Morgan sets out to understand the root of evil and how our ideas of it have evolved over the millennia.Where does evil come from? Morgan sets out to understand the root of evil and how our ideas of it have evolved over the millennia. - Director - Writers - Stars Photos - Director - Writers - All cast & crew - Production, box office & more at IMDbPro User reviews Did you know - TriviaMorgan Freeman says it was just a coincidence that he played God in a movie and that was "strictly a matter of learning a script." However, the Oscar winning actor has always been fascinated by questions of God. To understand mankind's religious devotion, Freeman traveled to 20 cities in seven countries to some of the world's greatest religious sites as part of his National Geographic Channel six episode series, "The Story of God with Morgan Freeman." There are "questions that we can't answer, except with God," notes Freeman, who has said in interviews that he believes that "the highest power is the human mind." Freeman narrates "Through the Wormhole," a Science Channel series that explores the mysteries of existence through astrophysics, quantum mechanics and string theory. In "The Story of God," Freeman, a producer on the series, asks questions like: Where do we come from? Why does evil exist? What do we mean by the apocalypse? The genesis for the series came about in the year 2000, when Freeman and producing partner Lori McCreary visited the Hagia Sophia in Istanbul. The museum was originally built around 1,400 years ago as a Christian cathedral, and then in 1935 was transformed into a mosque; so some of the iconography seemed like a contradiction. McCreary said she was surprised by - to learn that Jesus was considered a prophet in the Muslim faith. "I felt a little naive. I couldn't believe that I didn't know this," MeCreary explained. "Morgan and I began discussing it. If we don't have a handle on this then who does? Perhaps talking about God from our differences might enlighten us all, so that we can reach a hand across the table." For the show, Freeman traveled to places like the Ganges River, Rome and the Joel Osteen Lakewood megachurch in Texas to learn about the origins of the world's five main religions: Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Buddhism and Hinduism. Other places Freeman visited were Jerusalem's Wailing Wall, Guatemala's Mayan temples, Egypt's pyramids, Neolithic settlements in Turkey that dates to 7500 B.C., and Bodh Gaya, the holy shrine where Siddhartha had found enlightenment at the foot of the Bodhi Tree. One of the many things Freeman found interesting during his travels was how Hindus believe in reincarnation. "They don't necessarily glory in that belief," said the actor. "Reincarnation is a task. You have to keep at until you do it right or else you won't come back as a human and don't have to worry about it. You may be at it forever." Freeman said in some places he found answers, in others more questions. "The constant through it all is that we're all looking to be part of something bigger than us," Freeman said. "If there's one thing I've learned, it is that we certainly are". Details - Runtime - 50m - Color Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content


--- [10 Questions about Evil Answered by the Bible – Bellator Christi] ---
We have been discussing over the past few weeks the documentary hosted by Morgan Freeman titled The Story of God: The Story of Us as aired on the National Geographic Channel. On Sunday, May 1st, 2016, Freeman presented the fifth episode of the series. This episode dealt with the problem of evil. I originally thought that the episode would deal with the issue that is popularly known as theodicy: that is, how can a loving and all-powerful God co-exist with a world full of evil? Rather, the episode dealt more with evil in the human sphere. How do we understand evil? Where does evil originate? This article will present 10 questions that were raised over the course of the episode. The answers to these questions are found in the pages of the Bible. - Is a person wired to do evil? We will discuss the concept of original sin and its influence on our lives (see question 2). However, we must ask, “Are some people wired to do evil?” Morgan Freeman interviewed a psychopath at a federal imprisonment facility. The psychopath had raped several women killing many of them. Let me pause and say that I have to give serious props to Freeman and the show for not publicizing the prisoner’s name and for refusing to show his face. They did not want to glorify the man or his actions. Dr. Kent Kiehl, a neuroscientist, claimed that the prisoner lacked emotions and the ability to control his impulses, something that the prisoner confessed as true. However, it is interesting that the prisoner admitted that what he did was wrong. He said that if he were released that he would probably do the same, admitting the evil of his deeds. While I admit that there are psychopathic tendencies in individuals which may stem from physical abnormalities, one still has the choice to act on one’s impulses. Later, a theologian named Kutter Calloway admitted that each of us have a little of that psychopath in us. Each of us holds the ability to do great good or great evil. The Bible gives a great point on this issue. Joshua tells the people of Israel, “choose for yourselves today whom you will serve” (Joshua 24:15).[1] Each day, we also have that decision. - What is original sin? Charles Hodge defines original sin as “The effects of Adam’s sin upon his posterity are declared in our standards to be, (1.) The guilt of his first sin. (2.) The loss of original righteousness. (3.) The corruption of our whole nature, which (i.e., which corruption), is commonly called original sin.”[2] Paul notes that “if by the transgression of the one (meaning Adam, mine), death reigned through the one, much more those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the One, Jesus Christ” (Romans 5:17). Paul notes in verse 18 that all are condemned as guilty because of the sin of Adam. A sin nature is passed from one generation unto the next. - Are humans inherently good or inherently evil? Freeman interviewed Kutter Calloway, a Baptist minister and theologian. Calloway said quite accurately that there is “something in us that bends itself towards death and evil.”[3] This is true. The Bible illustrates the dichotomy that exists in each human being. Humans are made in the image of God, or imagio dei (Genesis 1:27). Thus, humans have the potential to do good because of bearing the imprint of God’s image. However, humans have been incapacitated to do complete good due to the entrance of sin into the human equation. Goodness comes from God. So it stands to reason that ultimate good can be brought from those who have been regenerated by the grace of God. To answer the question, humans were made to do good, however bearing a sin nature, humans are swayed to do great evil. - Is the devil real? Calloway noted that the devil is a real being, but yet the devil is a metaphor for the inner demonic influences of a person’s life. So, to answer the question, the devil is a real entity. The devil tempted Adam and Eve to eat the apple in the garden (Genesis 3:4-5). The devil tested God in the instance of Job’s life (Job 1:13-22). The devil also tempted Jesus on three occasions at the beginning of Jesus’ ministry (Matthew 4:1-11). The devil is also shown to be defeated at the end of days (Revelation 20:1-15). So yes, the devil is real. - Can our ancestors influence evil behavior? Some cultures believe that a person’s ancestors can influence a person’s behavior. In a manner of speaking, this could be true to a degree. For instance, Moses understood that a person’s sin could influence several generations in the future (i.e., Numbers 15:18). In many ways, the sins of today can lead to the problems of tomorrow. Therefore, in some degree, we are influenced by the evil of previous generations, but maybe not in the way that it was presented on the show. - Can evil be purified? Yes! Evil is purified by the Messiah. See question 8. - Should we blame spiritual entities for our behavior? While we have all heard people use the excuse, “The devil made me do it.” In reality, each person must answer for their own actions. Spiritual entities can tempt and try to persuade a person to do a particular thing. However, no one can blame the entities for their decisions. For instance, the devil tempted Adam and Eve. Yet, Adam and Eve had to face the consequences of their actions. - Does the purging of evil require a Messiah? Yes! Sin stains a person thoroughly and completely. The writer of Hebrews notes that “all things are cleansed with blood, and without shedding of blood there is no forgiveness” (Hebrews 9:22). Thus, a perfect sacrifice was required to rid the world of evil. That perfect sacrifice was found in Christ. As Jesus himself noted, “As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up; so that whoever believes will in Him have eternal life” (John 3:14-15). - Can faith lead us to redemption? Absolutely! A person is made into a new creation because of the work of Christ. The old ways, attitudes, and behaviors are transformed. A person can be forgiven, learning how to forgive, and can be molded into a much better person due to the work of Christ. The resounding truth that rings through the ages is that “God so loved the world, that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him shall not perish, but have eternal life” (John 3:16). - Can people change? Some people hold the assumption that people cannot change. Such beliefs stem from an ultra-determinist ideology that would lend the ideas of law and morality as invalid. It makes little sense to have laws and ethics if people cannot choose to do good rather than evil. In the end, one must note that there are certain things that a person cannot change. Personality traits and tendencies may follow a person for a lifetime. However, behaviors and attitudes can change! Christianity is built upon the idea that people can change. That was the purpose for which Jesus came. Jesus came to set people free. Jesus came to bring forth change! As Paul notes, a person can choose not to be “conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good an acceptable and perfect” (Romans 12:2). People cannot change themselves necessarily, but God can change people. Error Alert: Did the idea of the devil originate with Zoroastrianism? The fifth episode presented what I believe to be an error. The show seemed to picture Zoroastrianism as the father of the Judeo-Christian and Islamic belief in the devil and the fight between good and evil. Zoroastrianism is pinpointed to be around 3,500 years old stemming from the teacher Zoroaster. However, it does not appear that the monotheistic religions may have adopted the concept from Zoroastrianism. Rather, Zoroastrianism may have adopted said concepts from Judaism. The book of Job may be the oldest book of the Bible. Elwell and Beitzel note that “The language of the book may also point to an early date. Certain linguistic elements indicate more archaic forms of Hebrew, as preserved in the epic material from Ugarit. It may be that Job himself lived in the 2nd millennium b.c.”[4] If it is true that Moses wrote the majority of the Torah, or Pentateuch, (and remember Genesis mentions the devil), then the latest that the earliest form of these writings would have appeared would been the 13th century BC. Many scholars, and rightly so, argue for an older date for the Exodus. If so, Genesis would have appeared in the 15th century BC. This would have been much earlier than Zoroaster. In addition, studies indicate that the writings of the Bible may be much older than previously thought. The Associated Press reports, “Israeli mathematicians and archaeologists say they have found evidence to suggest that key biblical texts may have been composed earlier than what some scholars think. Using handwriting analysis technology similar to that employed by intelligence agencies and banks to analyze signatures, a Tel Aviv University team determined that a famous hoard of ancient Hebrew inscriptions, dated to around 600 BC, were written by at least six different authors. Although the inscriptions are not from the Hebrew Bible, their discovery suggests there was widespread literacy in ancient Judah at the time that would support the composition of biblical works…The inscriptions themselves are not biblical texts. Instead, they detail troop movements and expenses for provisions, indicating that people throughout the military chain of command down to the fort's deputy quartermaster were able to write. The tone of the inscriptions, which suggest they were not written by professional scribes, combined with the fortress' remote location, indicate a wide spread of literacy at the time, according to the study. A high level of literacy would support the idea that some biblical texts had already been authored by this time. The Dead Sea Scrolls, the oldest known collection of certain biblical texts, are believed to date several centuries later.”[5] With this in mind, it is safe to assume that Zoroastrianism was probably influenced by ancient Judaism rather than the other. This is not to say that Zoroastrianism could not have influenced Judaism during the Babylonian captivity especially with the influence of apocalyptic literature. However, I do not think that Judaism, Christianity, and Islam adopted as much from Zoroastrianism as was presented in the documentary. © May 2, 2016. Brian Chilton. [1] Unless otherwise noted, all Scripture comes from the New American Standard Bible (La Habra, CA: Lockman Foundation, 1995). [2] Charles Hodge, Systematic Theology, vol. 2 (Oak Harbor, WA: Logos Research Systems, Inc., 1997), 227. [3] Kent Calloway, interviewed by Morgan Freeman, “Why Does Evil Exist?, The Story of God: The Story of Us, aired on the National Geographic Channel, Revelations Entertainment (May 1, 2016), retrieved May 1, 2016. [4] Walter A. Elwell and Barry J. Beitzel, Baker Encyclopedia of the Bible (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Book House, 1988), 1169. [5] Associated Press, “Handwriting Study Finds Clues On When Biblical Texts Written,” DailyMail (April 12, 2016), retrieved May 2, 2016, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/ap/article-3535745/Handwriting-study-finds-clues-biblical-texts-written.html.


--- ['The Story Of God' And The Problem Of Evil] ---
Among those who don’t believe in God, one compelling argument for their position is, “If there was a God that was omniscient and omnipotent, and inherently good, then why does evil exist?” It’s a simple question, but just because a question can be posed simply doesn’t mean it has a simple answer. That’s something Morgan Freeman discovers in “Why Does Evil Exist?”, the Sunday, May 1, episode of National Geographic Channel’s documentary series “The Story of God,” airing at 9 p.m. ET/PT. From Ancient Egypt to Hinduism to Christianity to a scientific discussion of the mind of a serial rapist/murderer, Freeman looks at why people do evil, and how people deal with evil done to them or those they love. One thing you learn as a Catholic is that the world is not very often an either/or proposition; it’s more of a both/and. We are both good and evil; we do both good and evil. The Catholic viewpoint is not a Manichean idea of a war between good and evil. The universe God created is good, but evil happens within it. And that is because we are free. But God is not bound by this duality that we see in humanity. God is not a thing with more than one nature, or a personality that can have two sides. God is existence itself, and since existence makes possible everything that there is, it’s good. God is good, and all that He makes is good. But things don’t always remain as they were at the time they were created. To sentient creatures — first, the angels, and then, humanity — God gave free will. We are not like the inanimate things of the world, which are bound purely by the laws of physics. Nor are we merely animals, which, by virtue of their genetic makeup, have a very specific place in the hierarchy of nature, and live out this biological destiny without confusion. They know what they are, and they know what they must do. These are two things that most humans wrestle with all their lives. We are both flesh and spirit; body and mind; both in the world, and not of it. And it’s our free will that makes us so. First, the angels, beings of pure spirit, had it, and some of them — including Lucifer or Satan — used it to rebel against God, who allowed it … since, if He didn’t, the free will would have been an illusion. Then, humans had it. The rebellious Satan, in the form of a serpent, tempted Eve — who was created good — with the notion of eating of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil, and thereby becoming like God. Having her human curiosity (a good quality which can also cause great problems), she ate, and then Adam made the choice to follow her lead. Therefore, rather than being pure, innocent creatures who walked with God in cool of the evening, they became the complex, conflicted, intelligent, altruistic, kind, cruel creatures we are today. Here’s how a Baptist preacher described this to Freeman: In the Catholic view, because of Original Sin, we are fallen creatures, with both the capacity for great good and for great evil. This freedom to choose to do what we ought, or to choose to do what we will, is what makes us uniquely human. We always, though, have that choice — unless we are not in our right minds because of some sort of serious physical or mental illness, or we are possessed by a demon (another form of fallen angel). Catholicism allows for both science and the supernatural. In modern days, with our greater knowledge of psychology and other sciences, we look first for a temporal answer to evil deeds. Freeman talks to a serial rapist and murderer of women, who demonstrates brain abnormalities particular to psychopaths. But he’s not insane. He knows what he did was wrong, and while he claims he’s powerless against his impulses, he recognizes that society would not be safe were he let loose. He’s a rational person, but he lacks empathy, and so his selfish desires become more important than anything or anyone else. He has both a brain abnormality and is responsible for his crimes. The Church also allows for the possibility of demonic possession. In the unusual occurrence where possession is believed to be happening, we have exorcism as a remedy. But barring these things, our free will is our own. And sometimes we use it to commit terrible acts. Even then, Catholics understand that knowledge and circumstances can mitigate a person’s responsibility for what they do. Also, while there is life, there is always the possibility of repentance and redemption, no matter what a person has done. However, this doesn’t lessen the pain and grief from the acts committed, which is a great challenge to faith, even among the most devout. We also sometimes interpret natural disasters or illness as evil, or as punishments. That’s not the Catholic view. Nature obeys physical laws that don’t have a moral component, and that includes diseases. We can make poor choices that impact how much we suffer from natural occurrences or illness, but in and of themselves, these are morally neutral. The good or evil comes in how we respond to them. And God allows them because that’s how the world works, and it works the same for every living creature, regardless of its relative intrinsic goodness. No one — not even Christ — is immune from suffering, and fairness seldom enters into it. Now and then, God permits miracles to strengthen our faith, but that’s the exception, not the rule. When the Biblical Job, beset by evil of every nature, questioned God, he essentially was told that there was no way he could comprehend God’s view of time and space, of how each thing fit into the whole. We have all experienced apparent blessings that turned sour; or apparent curses that were blessings in disguise; and also terrible suffering for which there never appears to be any larger purpose or justification. Humans can be both victims of supernatural evil, and agents of evil against each other. God allows it, because He allows us to be free. We must freely choose to turn away from evil and to love Him. All this sounds simple in theory, but it’s brutally hard in reality. But, like a refreshing rain after a scorching day, the darkness of the world makes the light shine brighter. Knowing the hideous things people can do, we appreciate kindness all the more. And we are asked to be kind, even in the face of the worst others choose to do — because giving good for good is easy, but good for evil is the real challenge. From Matthew, Chapter 5: 43 “You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’ 44 But I say to you, love your enemies, and pray for those who persecute you, 45 that you may be children of your heavenly Father, for he makes his sun rise on the bad and the good, and causes rain to fall on the just and the unjust. 46 For if you love those who love you, what recompense will you have? Do not the tax collectors* do the same? 47 And if you greet your brothers only, what is unusual about that? Do not the pagans do the same?“] 48 So, be perfect, just as your Heavenly Father is perfect. Images: “Story of God” screenshot Don’t miss a thing: head over to my other homes at CatholicVote and the Faith & Family Media blog, and like my Facebook page; also like the Patheos Catholic FB page to see what my colleagues have to say.
