=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[11th Streamy Awards - Wikipedia]
The 11th Annual Streamy Awards was the eleventh installment of the Streamy Awards honoring the best in American streaming television series and their creators. The ceremony was held on December 11, 2021, hosted by Larray and livestreamed exclusively to YouTube. Larray hosted the show from a party bus in Los Angeles alongside special guest Issa Twaimz. [2][3][4] The show continued the Creator ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/11th_Streamy_Awards

[Larray Tapped To Host 11th Annual Streamy Awards On December 11 - Tubefilter]
Dec 1, 2021 · Merritt will be joined in hosting duties by his best friend and fellow creator Issa Twaimz, as the duo once again takes the show on the road — following a novel format established last year due to the COVID pandemic. The 2020 show saw co-hosts Trixie Mattel and Katya cruising around Los Angeles in a decked-out party bus while announcing winners.
URL: https://www.tubefilter.com/2021/12/01/larray-tapped-to-host-eleventh-streamy-awards/

[Will Smith, 'Verzuz' & Jabbawockeez Win 2021 YouTube Streamy Awards - AllHipHop]
On December 11, MRC Live & Alternative and Tubefilter announced the winners of the 11th Annual YouTube Streamy Awards. YouTuber Larray served as master of ceremonies, along with Twaimz Channel owner Issa. Published December 13, 2021
URL: https://allhiphop.com/news/will-smith-verzuz-jabbawockeez-win-2021-youtube-streamy-awards/

[2021 Streamys Will Be Hosted by Larray: Watch Trailer to See What to Expect | cbs8.com]
In the one-minute clip, some of this year's biggest YouTubers, including Nikita Dragun, Matt Taylor and Bretman Rock, are all seen gearing up for the show's return as they share just how much the YouTube community means to them.
URL: https://www.cbs8.com/article/entertainment/entertainment-tonight/2021-streamys-will-be-hosted-by-larray-watch-trailer-to-see-what-to-expect/603-01853aa3-a1eb-49bf-bfd3-51e16a9812c6

[Streamy Awards: MrBeast Wins 2021 Creator of the Year]
The event, which streamed exclusively on YouTube, featured digital creator and comedian Larray as master of ceremonies; special guest Issa Twaimz; presenters Charli D’Amelio, Rhett & Link, Brittany Broski and Philip DeFranco; and performers including Ari Lennox, Måneskin, Dixie D’Amelio, Addison Rae, Bella Poarch and Christina “Tinx” Najjar.
URL: https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/business/digital/youtube-streamy-award-winners-2021-1235061401/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [11th Streamy Awards - Wikipedia] ---
The 11th Annual Streamy Awards was the eleventh installment of the Streamy Awards honoring the best in American streaming television series and their creators. The ceremony was held on December 11, 2021, hosted by Larray and livestreamed exclusively to YouTube. Larray hosted the show from a party bus in Los Angeles alongside special guest Issa Twaimz. The show continued the Creator Honor awards, introduced the previous year, which featured past Streamy award winners presenting the award to creators that resonated with them in 2021. It also featured sneak-peaks of YouTube videos by creators such as Dixie D'Amelio, Lexi Rivera, RDCWorld, Safiya Nygaard, and ZHC, including a preview of Markiplier's YouTube Originals interactive special In Space with Markiplier. MrBeast's Team Seas fundraising initiative to clean oceans, rivers and beaches was highlighted during a special segment of the show.




--- [Larray Tapped To Host 11th Annual Streamy Awards On December 11 - Tubefilter] ---
The 2021 Streamy Awards has found its master of ceremonies. YouTube phenom Larray, whose real name is Larri Merritt, will preside over the 2021 festivities, which are set to air exclusively on YouTube on Dec. 11 at 9 pm ET at YouTube.com/Streamys. The Streamys are produced by MRC Live & Alternative and Tubefilter. Merritt will be joined in hosting duties by his best friend and fellow creator Issa Twaimz, as the duo once again takes the show on the road — following a novel format established last year due to the COVID pandemic. The 2020 show saw co-hosts Trixie Mattel and Katya cruising around Los Angeles in a decked-out party bus while announcing winners. Subscribe for daily Tubefilter Top Stories Additional guests, presenters, and performers for the 2021 event will be announced in coming days, the Streamys said. Nominations were announced in late October, with MrBeast and Emma Chamberlain earning the most nods this year with seven and four, respectively. Merritt counts 8.4 million YouTube subscribers, 25 million TikTok followers, and is a former Streamys winner in last year’s ‘Lifestyle’ category. He’s also the proprietor of restaurant brand Larray’s Loaded Mac, which is available on delivery apps, as well as a merch line called Girlies. Merritt is also a burgenoing musician, with his viral single “Cancelled” being RIAA certified gold. You can check out a trailer for the eleventh annual Streamys right here:


--- [Will Smith, 'Verzuz' & Jabbawockeez Win 2021 YouTube Streamy Awards - AllHipHop] ---
On December 11, MRC Live & Alternative and Tubefilter announced the winners of the 11th Annual YouTube Streamy Awards. YouTuber Larray served as master of ceremonies, along with Twaimz Channel owner Issa. The YouTube Streamy Awards celebrate the year’s best online content and creators across various platforms like YouTube, Instagram, and TikTok. MrBeast won the Creator of the Year honor. Show of the Year went to Bretman Rock’s 30 Days With: Bretman Rock. Several Hip Hop-related acts and brands were among this year’s YouTube Streamy Award winners as well. Iconic musician/actor Will Smith was named the Crossover winner. He won over Bill Gates, Hailey Rhode Bieber, Nick Jonas, and Ryan Reynolds. The popular Verzuz internet series triumphed in the Live Show category. Swizz Beatz and Timbaland’s groundbreaking hits-for-hits music celebration defeated FaZe Clan’s “FaZe5 Challenge,” MrBeast’s “$300,000 Influencer Trivia Tournament!,” and David Blane’s “David Blaine Ascension.” Acclaimed Hip Hop dance crew Jabbawockeez took the prize in the Dance category. The winners of the first season of America’s Best Dance Crew beat out Cost n’ Mayor, Kelli Erdmann, Kyle Hanagami, and Matt Steffanina. TikTok star Charli D’Amelio, YouTube personality Philip DeFranco, and WWE wrestler Xavier Woods were among the presenters for the 2021 YouTube Streamy Awards. In addition, R&B vocalist Ari Lennox was one of the musical performers. To see the full list of 2021 YouTube Streamy Awards winners visit streamys.org.


--- [2021 Streamys Will Be Hosted by Larray: Watch Trailer to See What to Expect | cbs8.com] ---
The Streamy Awards are back! YouTube's annual awards show is marking its 11th year as the creator community’s biggest night, with even more awards to dole out to this year's top creators. YouTuber Larray will serve as the show's Master of Ceremonies, and promises to give viewers an event they won't soon forget. "As MC of this year's Streamys, I'm gonna give ya'll the best show you've ever seen," Larray says in a trailer for the upcoming awards show. In the one-minute clip, some of this year's biggest YouTubers, including Nikita Dragun, Matt Taylor and Bretman Rock, are all seen gearing up for the show's return as they share just how much the YouTube community means to them. Larray, who was a Breakout Creator nominee in 2019 and a winner in the Lifestyle category in 2020, will be joined by special guest Issa Twaimz, as they take the show on the road, once again in the Streamys bus, following its inaugural run in 2020. And while it's a major moment for the YouTube community to come together, it's also one that sees these creators looking to snag some of the streamer's biggest awards. Internet megastars Addison Rae, Bella Poarch, as well as both Charli and Dixie D'Amelio, are once again vying for this year's top honors, as is MrBeast, who previously took home the Creator of the Year award in 2020. Meanwhile, a number of mainstream stars are in the running in the Crossover category, celebrating traditional media celebs who have made a splash with their online content -- including Nick Jonas, Will Smith and Ryan Reynolds. The 2021 Streamy Awards will stream exclusively on YouTube Dec. 11 at 6:00 p.m. PT. Check out the full list of nominees for this year's show here. RELATED CONTENT


--- [Streamy Awards: MrBeast Wins 2021 Creator of the Year] ---
The 2021 YouTube Streamy Awards honored the best in online video Saturday night. The event, which streamed exclusively on YouTube, featured digital creator and comedian Larray as master of ceremonies; special guest Issa Twaimz; presenters Charli D’Amelio, Rhett & Link, Brittany Broski and Philip DeFranco; and performers including Ari Lennox, Måneskin, Dixie D’Amelio, Addison Rae, Bella Poarch and Christina “Tinx” Najjar. Going into the night, Jimmy Donaldson, best known as MrBeast, led the nominations with seven nods. He ended up with two awards, including creator of the year, tying for the night’s best showing with Bailey Sarian, Bretman Rock, Mark Rober and The Game Theorists, Matthew Patrick and Justin Kuiper — all who picked up two trophies each. Related Stories Bella Poarch took home the coveted breakout creator award. The 2021 YouTube Streamy Awards are produced by MRC Live & Alternative and Tubefilter. MRC is a co-owner of The Hollywood Reporter through a joint venture, called PMRC, with Penske Media Corporation. See the full list of winners below. STREAMYS CREATOR HONORS Swoop, from Bailey Sarian Amelie Zilber, from Jay Shetty Remi Cruz, from LaurDIY Jeremy Fielding, from Mark Rober OVERALL AWARDS Creator of the Year: MrBeast Show of the Year: 30 Days With Bretman Rock — Bretman Rock International: Mythpat (India) Short Form: the cheeky boyos INDIVIDUAL AWARDS Breakout Creator: Bella Poarch Collaboration: Markiplier and CrankGameplays — Unus Annus Crossover: Will Smith First Person: Yes Theory Live Streamer: Valkyrae SHOW AWARDS Indie Series: Chicken Shop Date — Amelia Dimoldenberg Live Show: Verzuz Podcast: Dark History Scripted Series: Could You Survive The Movies? — Vsauce3 Unscripted Series: 30 Days With Bretman Rock — Bretman Rock SUBJECT AWARDS Animated: Ketnipz Beauty: Bailey Sarian Comedy: LeendaDong Commentary: Drew Gooden Dance: JABBAWOCKEEZ Documentary: DON’T TRY THIS AT HOME — Jeff Wittek Fashion and Style: Wisdom Kaye Food: Nick DiGiovanni Gaming: Dream Health and Wellness: Doctor Mike Kids and Family: The LaBrant Fam Learning and Education: Veritasium Lifestyle: Addison Rae News: Channel 5 With Andrew Callaghan Science and Engineering: Mark Rober Sports: Deestroying Technology: Mrwhosetheboss CRAFT AWARDS Cinematography: Jonna Jinton — Jonna Jinton Editing: Cooking With Lynja — Lynn Davis Visual and Special Effects: Zach King — Zach King Writing: The Game Theorists — Matthew Patrick, Justin Kuiper SOCIAL GOOD AWARDS Company or Brand Activision – Call of Duty Endowment P&G – Vital Voices • NowThis NEXT State Farm – St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital • The Game Theorists Creator Emmanuel Acho — Uncomfortable Conversations With a Black Man Jay Shetty and Radhi Devlukia-Shetty — Help India Breathe Shirley Raines — Beauty2TheStreetz Nonprofit or NGO Food Pantry — Beast Philanthropy Invisible People — Invisible Stories NEXT for AUTISM — Color the Spectrum LIVE • Mark Rober and Jimmy Kimmel BRAND AWARDS Brand of the Year: Target Agency of the Year: Portal A Brand as Creator: SpongeBob SquarePants Brand Engagement: Fortnite — 100 Thieves Cash App Compound Fortnite Activation Branded Series: Let’s Target Season 3 — Target Branded Video: Building a Laser Baby — Amazon Prime Video • Michael Reeves Creator Product: Happy Dad Hard Seltzer — NELK Influencer Campaign: Tide Super Bowl 2021: It’s Dirtier Than It Looks — Tide Social Impact Campaign: Leftovers Roulette — Kroger Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Foundation • The Try Guys THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day
