=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Murder of Moriah Wilson - Wikipedia]
December 21, 2025 -On the night of May 11, 2022, professional cyclist Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson was fatally shot by Kaitlin Marie Armstrong at a friend's home in Austin, Texas. Armstrong, a yoga instructor and licensed Realtor, committed the crime out of jealousy triggered by Wilson's romantic encounter with her on-and-off boyfriend, pro cyclist Colin Strickland.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murder_of_Moriah_Wilson

[Moriah Wilson murder weapon found in Kaitlin Armstrong’s home - Canadian Cycling Magazine]
June 24, 2022 -“On the date of the murder, Armstrong owneda pistolthat the Austin Police Department seized from Armstrong’s residence in the course of their investigation,” the new statement reads.
URL: https://cyclingmagazine.ca/sections/news/moriah-wilson-murder-weapon-found-in-kaitlin-armstrongs-home/

[Gun used in murder of pro cyclist could be same one boyfriend bought for suspect, police say]
May 24, 2022 -Days after the killing, police said a9 mm handgunwas recovered in the home shared by Strickland and Armstrong and tested by investigators who say "the potential that the same firearm was involved (in the murder) is significant."
URL: https://www.today.com/news/news/gun-used-murder-cyclist-one-boyfriend-bought-suspect-police-say-rcna30242

[Kaitlin Armstrong’s new federal warrant confirms ‘Mo’ Wilson ...Gun used in murder of pro cyclist could be same one boyfriend ...Yoga Teacher Kaitlin Armstrong Found Guilty in Murder Trial'You will hear those screams': Prosecutor says damning ...Texas cyclist murder: Austin investigators link evidence to ...]
Jun 24, 2022 ·"On the date of the murder,Armstrongowned a pistol that APD (Austin police) seized from Armstrong’s residence in the course of their investigation," the new complaint reads.May 24, 2022 ·Agunrecovered after themurderof a pro cyclistMoriahWilsonhas "significant" potential to be the sameweapona boyfriend bought months earlier for the suspect,KaitlinArmstrong,...Nov 17, 2023 ·According to an affidavit, Strickland purchased two 9-mm.handgunsfor himself andArmstrongjust months before the shooting, explaining to police that he gave his girlfriend thegun— which authorities believe to be the same one used in the murder — for her protection and self-defense.Nov 1, 2023 ·Jones said that ballistics experts would match the ammunition used tokillWilsonto agunowned byArmstrong, and previewed testimony aboutArmstrongabsconding to Costa Rica — where she ultimately underwent face-changing cosmetic surgery — in the days afterWilson's death.May 25, 2022 ·Austin Police Department (APD) investigators have linked one of thegunsfound inKaitlinArmstrong’shome to the murderweaponusedtokillWilson, a fledgling cyclist, on the...
URL: https://www.foxnews.com/us/kaitlin-armstrong-federal-warrant-confirms-mo-wilson-murder-weapon-found-fugitives-texas-home

[Yoga Teacher Kaitlin Armstrong Found Guilty in Murder Trial]
Nov 17, 2023 ·According to an affidavit, Strickland purchased two 9-mm.handgunsfor himself andArmstrongjust months before the shooting, explaining to police that he gave his girlfriend thegun— which authorities believe to be the same one used in the murder — for her protection and self-defense.
URL: https://www.thecut.com/2023/11/yoga-teacher-kaitlin-armstrongs-murder-trial-what-to-know.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Murder of Moriah Wilson - Wikipedia] ---
On the night of May 11, 2022, professional cyclist Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson was fatally shot by Kaitlin Marie Armstrong at a friend's home in Austin, Texas. Armstrong, a yoga instructor and licensed Realtor, committed the crime out of jealousy triggered by Wilson's romantic encounter with her on-and-off boyfriend, pro cyclist Colin Strickland. Prior to her conviction, Armstrong had made flight attempts both as a wanted person and as a detainee: she spent 43 days at large until her capture in Costa Rica, where authorities said she had used different names and changed her appearance to set up a new life.  Over a year later, she attempted to flee from custody on the eve of her trial.




--- [Moriah Wilson murder weapon found in Kaitlin Armstrong’s home - Canadian Cycling Magazine] ---
Moriah Wilson murder weapon found in Kaitlin Armstrong’s home Feds confirm they have found more evidence in killing Fox News is reporting that a new federal warrant confirms that police have found the gun used to murder Moriah Wilson in the Austin home of fugitive Kaitlin Armstrong. This follows the news on Thursday that US Marshals that Armstrong sold her Jeep just days before fleeing Texas. Armstrong is wanted in connection to the killing. Austin cycling community holds memorial ride for Moriah Wilson The authorities said that the new warrant confirms that used shell casings at the murder scene are the same as those that police later fired from a handgun seized at the fugitive’s Texas home. Armstrong lived with with pro cyclist Colin Strickland. Lab tests verify weapon “On the date of the murder, Armstrong owned a pistol that the Austin Police Department seized from Armstrong’s residence in the course of their investigation,” the new statement reads. “Laboratory test-firing of Armstrong’s pistol confirmed that it fired the spent shell casings that APD found at the scene of the murder.” Colin Strickland denies having had ongoing affair with Moriah Wilson The warrant was filed on May 25 but only made public Thursday. Armstrong has been on the run for over a month, following a warrant for her arrest in connection with the murder of Wilson. She was seen in New Jersey days after, but since then the trail has gone cold. There was speculation that she may have fled to Canada, or a remote campground, but nothing has been confirmed. Reward increased for location of Armstrong The US Marshals originally issued a $5,000 reward for anyone who helps with her capture. However, that number has gone up to $21,000 after an anonymous donor gave another $16,000. Jason Jensen, a private investigator said that Armstrong’s quick sale of her Jeep is $4,000 less than its book value. “The quick sale manifests her intent to run,” Jensen said on Fox News. “She was ditching the car, likely knowing officials could trace to whereabouts through her plates.” If you have information about Armstrong you can call 1-800-336-0102 or use the US Marshals Tips app.


--- [Gun used in murder of pro cyclist could be same one boyfriend bought for suspect, police say] ---
A gun recovered after the murder of a professional cyclist has "significant" potential to be the same weapon a boyfriend bought months earlier for the woman accused of the killing, police said. As a nationwide manhunt continues for suspect Kaitlin Armstrong, 35, police believe jealousy from an alleged love triangle was the primary motive in the killing of cyclist Moriah Wilson, 25, on May 11 at a home in Austin, Texas. Fellow pro cyclist Colin Strickland, who told authorities he was in a three-year relationship with Armstrong, told Austin police he bought Armstrong a gun several months ago, according to an affidavit obtained by NBC affiliate KXAN. Days after the killing, police said a 9 mm handgun was recovered in the home shared by Strickland and Armstrong and tested by investigators who say "the potential that the same firearm was involved (in the murder) is significant." Strickland told police he was in a romantic relationship with Wilson for a few weeks in October 2021 while on a break from Armstrong, according to the affidavit. He said he and Wilson were recently working together professionally. Wilson had traveled from San Francisco to Austin for a race in Hico, Texas, on May 14, but was found by a friend on May 11 at a home in Austin with multiple gunshot wounds, police said. Strickland, who is not a suspect, admitted in the affidavit that he lied to Armstrong about being with Wilson on the night she was killed. He told authorities that he and Wilson went swimming and went out to dinner. Investigators say Wilson had just returned from meeting with Strickland when she was attacked. Neighbors heard someone running out of the home on the night of the murder, according to police. “My dad was in the garage when he thinks he heard the person who did it flee on their bike," Wyatt Harris, the son of a neighbor, told NBC News correspondent Morgan Chesky on TODAY Tuesday. Authorities later found Wilson's bike down the street "concealed in thick bamboo." Police said Strickland has not been accused of any wrongdoing because security footage and other evidence shows him to have been elsewhere at the time of Wilson’s murder. He did not respond to requests by NBC News for comment, but told the Austin American-Statesman in a statement that "there is no way to adequately express the regret and torture I feel about my proximity to this horrible crime" and that he "cannot make sense of this unfathomable situation.” The U.S. Marshals Service has spearheaded a nationwide search for Armstrong, who has not been seen in nearly two weeks and deleted her social media profiles days after the murder. She was initially in police custody on an unrelated warrant just days after the crime, but police told her she was free to go when the warrant was deemed invalid. She has not been seen since.


--- [Kaitlin Armstrong’s new federal warrant confirms ‘Mo’ Wilson ...Gun used in murder of pro cyclist could be same one boyfriend ...Yoga Teacher Kaitlin Armstrong Found Guilty in Murder Trial'You will hear those screams': Prosecutor says damning ...Texas cyclist murder: Austin investigators link evidence to ...] ---
A new federal warrant puts an end to speculation about whether police believe they recovered the gun used to kill Moriah "Mo" Wilson in the home of her suspected love-triangle killer Kaitlin Armstrong in Austin last month. The U.S. Marshals announced earlier Thursday that the 34-year-old Armstrong, who is already wanted on a Texas murder warrant, now faces a federal charge of unlawful flight to avoid prosecution. The new warrant confirms that spent shell casings at the murder scene match those that police later fired from a handgun seized at Armstrong’s home, which she shared with her boyfriend Colin Strickland, 35, another professional cyclist who had gone out to dinner with the 25-year-old Wilson the night of the shooting. "On the date of the murder, Armstrong owned a pistol that APD (Austin police) seized from Armstrong’s residence in the course of their investigation," the new complaint reads. "Laboratory test-firing of Armstrong’s pistol confirmed that it fired the spent shell casings that APD found at the scene of the murder." Police had previously said of the recovered weapon that "the potential that the same firearm was involved is significant." Strickland and Armstrong were living together, and according to an earlier affidavit, he bought her the gun at the start of the year. Shortly after Strickland dropped off Wilson on the night of her death, police alleged in the murder warrant, Armstrong’s Jeep SUV appeared on a neighbor’s security camera. FUGITIVE KAITLIN ARMSTRONG: TIMELINE OF AUSTIN MURDER SUSPECT'S DISAPPEARANCE "I respectfully submit that there is probably cause to believe Armstrong has fled the State of Texas in order to avoid prosecution for the crime of murder," Deputy Marshal Emir Perez wrote in an affidavit. The warrant was filed on May 25 but was unveiled Thursday. Police say Armstrong fled Texas last month and flew to New York, where a witness told Fox News Digital she visited her sister before last being seen at Newark International Airport just across the New Jersey state line. READ THE FEDERAL COMPLAINT The trail goes cold from there, according to Deputy Marshal Brandon Filla, but investigators are hoping the increased reward of $21,000 leads to more tips as they continue the manhunt. Jason Jensen, a Utah-based private investigator who has taken an interest in the case, said a vehicle history report shows the Jeep that Marshals say Armstrong sold for $12,200 before fleeing Texas was worth more than $16,000 – a striking discount in a market where vehicle prices have skyrocketed. "The quick sale manifests her intent to run," Jensen told Fox News Digital Thursday. "She was ditching the car, likely knowing officials could trace to whereabouts through her plates." CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Cash on hand would be "more useful" to someone fleeing prosecution than a vehicle police were likely looking for, he added. Armstrong sold the vehicle to an Austin CarMax dealership on May 13 – one day after she was questioned and released by Texas authorities, the Marshals revealed Thursday morning.


--- [Yoga Teacher Kaitlin Armstrong Found Guilty in Murder Trial] ---
After a lengthy international fugitive hunt and one thwarted jailbreak attempt, Texas yoga instructor Kaitlin Armstrong was found guilty on Thursday of murdering 25-year-old cycling star Anna Moriah “Mo” Wilson. On May 11, 2022, Wilson, who was visiting Texas from San Francisco for a biking competition, was shot dead at a friend’s residence in Austin. Days after her death, authorities issued an arrest warrant for 36-year-old Armstrong, whom they believed had been motivated by romantic jealousy: On the evening leading up to Wilson’s murder, the cyclist had met up with Armstrong’s boyfriend, fellow professional cyclist Colin Strickland. Per ESPN, he and Wilson had been briefly involved while Strickland and Armstrong were on a break and became friends after he reconciled with the yoga instructor. According to an affidavit, Strickland purchased two 9-mm. handguns for himself and Armstrong just months before the shooting, explaining to police that he gave his girlfriend the gun — which authorities believe to be the same one used in the murder — for her protection and self-defense. The case shook the cycling world and garnered a wave of media attention, including a New Yorker story and a controversial feature in Outside magazine written by a friend of Strickland’s. Wilson, a Dartmouth graduate who grew up in Vermont before moving to California, was widely regarded as a burgeoning star in the niche sport of gravel racing, with the cycling magazine VeloNews calling her “the winningest woman in the American off-road scene.” Fellow cyclist Amy Charity told The New Yorker that Wilson’s murder was “the most tragic and shocking thing that’s ever happened” in the cycling community. “There is no way to adequately express the regret and torture I feel about my proximity to this horrible crime,” Strickland said in a statement after the shooting, per the Austin American-Statesman. “I am sorry, and I simply cannot make sense of this unfathomable tragedy.” Prosecutors allege Armstrong used the fitness app Strava, where Wilson logged her bike rides, to track down the cyclist’s location. Per ESPN, in the days after the murder, Armstrong sold her Jeep — which had been spotted in front of Wilson’s home the night of May 11 — for cash before fleeing to Houston. While she was on the lam, prosecutors contend that the yogi flew to New York and then, using her sister’s passport, to Santa Teresa, a remote, yoga-retreat-friendly area of Costa Rica, where she assumed a false identity and altered her appearance with hair dye and plastic surgery. Costa Rican authorities eventually tracked her down to a hostel and arrested her; she was later extradited to the U.S. and charged with first-degree murder and held at the Travis County Correctional Complex in Texas on a $3.5 million bond. Armstrong, who pleaded not guilty and did not testify during her trial, compounded her troubles when, earlier this month, she tried and failed to escape from custody during a doctor’s visit. “The last thing Mo did on this Earth was scream in terror,” the prosecution told jurors in opening statements. “You’ll hear those screams.” Below is everything to know about the case. Texas authorities say Armstrong shot Wilson after the cyclist returned home from an evening out with Strickland. According to ESPN, the seeds of the ill-fated love triangle were planted in September 2021 when Wilson and Strickland met at a four-day race in Idaho. The outlet reports that Strickland and Armstrong were no longer a couple at the time but still lived together in Idaho. In October, Wilson, also recently single, traveled to Austin and struck up a romantic relationship with Strickland that “spanned a week or so,” according to a statement Strickland released after her death. After Wilson returned to San Francisco, Strickland says he and Armstrong got back together and his relationship with the cyclist became a “platonic and professional one.” “Moriah and I were both leaders in this lonely, niche sport of Cycling, and I admired her deeply and considered her a close friend,” Strickland said in his statement. Police reports obtained by ESPN detail the evening he and Wilson spent together only hours before her murder: Strickland reportedly picked up Wilson from the apartment of her friend Caitlin Cash at 5:45 p.m. and took her to Deep Eddy, a popular swimming pool in Austin. The two later ate at Pool Burger before Strickland dropped Wilson back at Cash’s around 8:30 p.m. Cash returned home around 10 p.m. and called 911 after finding Wilson bleeding and unconscious on her bathroom floor. The cyclist was pronounced dead from gunshot wounds at the scene. By the time an arrest warrant was issued, U.S. Marshals determined Armstrong had already fled to Costa Rica. Per KXAN-Austin, police took Armstrong in for questioning after discovering security footage that showed her Jeep in the neighborhood the night of the killing. The yoga instructor was taken into custody on an old misdemeanor warrant but was later released owing to a clerical error. After her release, Armstrong allegedly sold her Jeep for cash at a local CarMax and flew to Houston and then New York. Meanwhile, police received suspect tips about the yogi, including one from an anonymous caller who said Armstrong had once expressed a desire to kill Wilson after learning about the cyclist’s relationship with Strickland. Another tip came from Wilson’s friend, who informed authorities that Armstrong had repeatedly contacted the cyclist over a period of months, telling her to stay away from Strickland. Per a police affidavit, ballistic tests performed on Armstrong’s gun suggested the firearm was involved in Wilson’s killing. By the time authorities issued a formal arrest warrant for Armstrong, the yogi had already fled the state. Cameras captured her at the Newark airport on May 18, 2022. U.S. Marshals determined she had flown to Costa Rica using her sister’s passport. “That passport was a passport that was issued to someone else … that she used because she looked very similar to that individual,” Deputy U.S. Marshal Brandon Filla said in a press conference at the time, per VeloNews. “So that was a fraudulent use of it, but it wasn’t fraudulent in itself.” In Costa Rica, Armstrong surgically altered her face and assumed a false identity. Armstrong allegedly lived in a hostel in Santa Teresa, a remote beachside community, under a fake identity and attempted to teach yoga under an alias. “We knew she was gonna be associated with some type of yoga studio,” Filla said at a press conference per Bicycling magazine, adding that foreign officials uncovered a handwritten login at a Santa Teresa yoga studio under the same alias Armstrong had used to enter the country. She was reportedly arrested by local police and transferred to the Centro de Aprehensión Regional Central prison in Los Lagos. Booking photos indicate Armstrong appeared to have changed her appearance, chopping her strawberry-blonde hair short and dying it a darker color. Receipts found in her belongings from a plastic surgeon’s office indicated she had also undergone a nose job, per ESPN. Armstrong was extradited to the U.S. and attempted to escape custody ahead of her trial. From the prison in Los Lagos, Armstrong was extradited back to the U.S., where she was slapped with a first-degree murder charge as well as a federal charge of unlawful flight to avoid prosecution and charges related to the misuse of a passport. Ahead of her trial, she incurred additional charges for escape causing bodily injury after an attempted prison break, allegedly running from the corrections officers who accompanied her to an off-site medical appointment. Video footage shows her running with her hands restrained and attempting to jump a fence. A spokesperson for the local sheriff’s office says officers caught up with Armstrong and restrained her after approximately ten minutes. An arrest warrant obtained by ESPN suggests Armstrong had been plotting her escape for months. Strickland testified about his “tumultuous” relationship with Armstrong. In testimony, Cash told the court Wilson was covered in blood when she returned home the night of May 11, 2022. Per CBS News, jurors listened to a 911 recording in which Cash attempts to revive her. Strickland also appeared in court and testified to the “tumultuous” nature of his relationship with Armstrong, whom he said he met on a dating app in 2019 and had broken up with frequently: “I was highly uncertain I wanted to form a long-term partnership with her,” Strickland told the court, per the Austin American Statesman. He told jurors the yogi kept a close eye on his communications with other women, allegedly sending him a text message containing an intimate photograph a woman sent him in private; Strickland said he didn’t know how Armstrong had obtained it. He told jurors that he believed she had access to a host of his personal information, including his email, Instagram, finances, and passwords. When asked why he had purchased Armstrong a gun in 2021, Strickland told the court the yogi was experiencing paranoia over road rage incidents and rising homeless populations and was afraid of biking solo. Strickland also recounted Armstrong’s intense jealousy over his brief romantic relationship with Wilson, whom he referred to as an “immense talent.” Per CBS Austin, Strickland claimed Armstrong sent him a text reading “send my love to Mo” after he posted an Instagram video of himself and Wilson posing in a group of cyclists. He told jurors Armstrong’s behavior was erratic: “I know you better than to show up at the meteor with that girl,” Armstrong wrote him in text messages presented by the prosecution, in reference to an outing Strickland went on with Wilson at the Meteor Cafe in Austin. Another text from Strickland to Armstrong suggested she tried directly contacting Wilson: “Did you call Mo?” Strickland wrote. “What the fuck?” Even after his reconciliation with Armstrong, Strickland told jurors he saved Wilson’s name under an alias to avoid conflict. He testified that the last time he saw Armstrong was May 13, 2022, two days after Wilson’s murder. Pressed by the defense as to whether he knew Armstrong well, he replied: “No, I don’t. I thought so, yes.” A jury convicted Armstrong of Wilson’s murder. On November 16, after a two-week trial and just two hours of deliberations, the jury returned a guilty verdict. According to the New York Times, more witnesses, including Wilson’s parents and brother, testified after the verdict was read with an eye toward determining Armstrong’s sentence. It’s unclear when that decision might arrive, though court proceedings will continue on Friday. Armstrong faces up to life in prison without the possibility of parole. This post has been updated.
