=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Chris Murungaru - Wikipedia]
Chris Murungaru Christopher Ndarathi Mūrūngarū (born August 19, 1954, Nyeri, Kenya) is a former Kenyan politician, a former Member of Parliament for Kieni Constituency in Nyeri District and a former Minister of Transport.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chris_Murungaru

[Chris Murungaru - Net Worth 2026, Age, Height, Bio, Birthday, Wiki ...]
Chris Murungaru is one of the richest Politician from Kenya. According to our analysis, Wikipedia, Forbes & Business Insider, Chris Murungaru 's net worth $5 Million. (Last Update: December 11, 2023) Dr Christopher Ndarathi "Chris" Murungaru (born August 19, 1954, Nyeri, Kenya) is a Kenyan politician, a former Member of Parliament for Kieni Constituency in Nyeri District and a former ...
URL: https://celebrity-birthdays.com/people/chris-murungaru

[Christopher Murungaru: Biography & Birthdate - Scribd]
Dr Christopher Ndarathi "Chris" Murungaru (born August 19, 1954, Nyeri, Kenya) is a Kenyan politician, a former Member of Parliament for Kieni Constituency in Nyeri District and a former Minister of [Link] being appointed Minister of Transport, he had been the Minister of National Security.
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/59181746/Dr-Christopher-Ndarathi

[Chris Murungaru - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Dr Christopher Ndarathi Chris Murungaru (born August 19, 1954, Nyeri, Kenya) is a Kenyan politician, a former Member of Parliament for Kieni Constituency in Nyeri District and a former Minister of Transport. When the National Rainbow Coalition (NARC) Government took power from Kenya African Nation
URL: https://alchetron.com/Chris-Murungaru

[Chris Murungaru, Date of Birth - Born Glorious]
Dr Christopher Ndarathi "Chris" Murungaru (born August 19, 1954, Nyeri, Kenya) is a Kenyan politician, a former Member of Parliament for Kieni Constituency in Nyeri District and a former Minister of Transport.
URL: https://www.bornglorious.com/person/?pi=5107549


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Chris Murungaru - Wikipedia] ---
Christopher Ndarathi Mūrūngarū (born August 19, 1954, Nyeri, Kenya) is a former Kenyan politician, a former Member of Parliament for Kieni Constituency in Nyeri District and a former Minister of Transport.
Mūrūngarū was named Minister for Internal Security in 2003 after the National Rainbow Coalition(NARC) government took power from Kenya African National Union(KANU) upon their victory in the 2002 Kenya general elections . He was later transferred to the Ministry of Transport in a cabinet reshuffle following revelation of the Anglo-Leasing scandal, allegations he didn't expressly deny. When President Mwai Kibaki reconstituted the cabinet following a humiliating defeat in the November 21, 2005 Kenyan constitutional referendum, he was dropped from the cabinet. He was a close ally of Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki.


--- [Chris Murungaru - Net Worth 2026, Age, Height, Bio, Birthday, Wiki ...] ---
Quick Facts | Full Name | Chris Murungaru | | Occupation | Politician | | Date Of Birth | Aug 19, 1954(1954-08-19) | | Age | 72 | | Birthplace | Kenya | | Country | Kenya | | Horoscope | Leo | Chris Murungaru Biography | Name | Chris Murungaru | | Birthday | Aug 19 | | Birth Year | 1954 | | Place Of Birth | Kenya | | Birth Country | Kenya | | Birth Sign | Leo | Chris Murungaru is one of the most popular and richest Politician who was born on August 19, 1954 in Kenya, Kenya. On November 23, 2005, President Mwai Kibaki of Kenya dissolved his cabinet following a humiliating defeat on a referendum on the proposed constitution of Kenya. The president and his key allies, including Murungaru were campaigning for a Yes vote on the constitution, which they lost, forcing the president to reconstitute his cabinet. When the National Rainbow Coalition (NARC) Government took power from Kenya African National Union (KANU) in 2003, Dr Murungaru was named Minister of Internal Security. He was later transferred to the Ministry of Transport in a cabinet reshuffle, following revelations of the Anglo Leasing Scandal. When President Mwai Kibaki reconstituted the cabinet following a humiliating defeat in the November 21, 2005 constitutional Referendum, he was dropped from the cabinet. He was a close ally of Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki. Chris Murungaru Net Worth | Net Worth | $5 Million | | Source Of Income | Politician | | House | Living in own house. | Chris Murungaru is one of the richest Politician from Kenya. According to our analysis, Wikipedia, Forbes & Business Insider, Chris Murungaru 's net worth $5 Million. (Last Update: December 11, 2023) Dr Christopher Ndarathi “Chris” Murungaru (born August 19, 1954, Nyeri, Kenya) is a Kenyan politician, a former Member of Parliament for Kieni Constituency in Nyeri District and a former Minister of Transport. Height, Weight & Body Measurements Chris Murungaru height Not available right now. Auguste weight Not Known & body measurements will update soon. Who is Chris Murungaru Dating? According to our records, Chris Murungaru is possibily single & has not been previously engaged. As of December 1, 2023, Chris Murungaru’s is not dating anyone. Relationships Record : We have no records of past relationships for Chris Murungaru. You may help us to build the dating records for Chris Murungaru! On January 22, 2006, John Githongo named Murungaru as one of three top politicians (along with Kiraitu Murungi, former Justice Minister and present Energy Minister, and Finance Minister David Mwiraria) as being involved in a financial scam involving up to $600M On February 1, 2006, Finance Minister David Mwiraria announced that he was stepping down as a minister and a member of cabinet to pave way for investigation. The news were received with joy by many Kenyans, though some saw him as a scapegoat who has been sacrificed to protect a president whose support has been waning. Facts & Trivia Auguste Ranked on the list of most popular Politician. Also ranked in the elit list of famous people born in Kenya. Chris Murungaru celebrates birthday on August 19 of every year. Top Facts about Chris Murungaru - Chris Murungaru is a Kenyan politician and businessman. - He served as the Member of Parliament for Imenti Central constituency. - Murungaru was a cabinet minister in President Kibaki’s government. - He was implicated in corruption scandals during his tenure. - In 2006, he was barred from entering the United States due to corruption allegations. - Murungaru has been accused of involvement in illegal logging activities. - He is known for his close ties to former President Daniel arap Moi. - Murungaru has been linked to land grabbing controversies in Kenya. - He has faced criticism for his extravagant lifestyle and wealth accumulation. - Despite the controversies, he remains a prominent figure in Kenyan politics and business circles.


--- [Christopher Murungaru: Biography & Birthdate - Scribd] ---
Christopher Murungaru: Birth Details Dr. Christopher Murungaru is a Kenyan politician who has held several ministerial positions but has faced allegations of corruption. He was Minister of Transport and Minister of National Security before being implicated in the Anglo Leasing scandal. This led to him being removed from cabinet and investigations into his wealth by anti-corruption authorities, though he has challenged these investigations in court. Christopher Murungaru: Birth Details


--- [Chris Murungaru - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Name Chris Murungaru | Role Politician | | Similar People | Murungaru: Githongo Is To Blame For My Political Downfall Dr Christopher Ndarathi "Chris" Murungaru (born August 19, 1954, Nyeri, Kenya) is a Kenyan politician, a former Member of Parliament for Kieni Constituency in Nyeri District and a former Minister of Transport. Contents - Murungaru Githongo Is To Blame For My Political Downfall - Chris Murungaru was mentioned to have ulterior interests in Anglo leasing tender Githongo - Anglo Leasing Scandal - Fallout - Court battles - References When the National Rainbow Coalition (NARC) Government took power from Kenya African National Union (KANU) in 2003, Dr Murungaru was named Minister of Internal Security. He was later transferred to the Ministry of Transport in a cabinet reshuffle, following revelations of the Anglo Leasing Scandal. When President Mwai Kibaki reconstituted the cabinet following a humiliating defeat in the November 21, 2005 constitutional Referendum, he was dropped from the cabinet. He was a close ally of Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki. Chris Murungaru was mentioned to have ulterior interests in Anglo-leasing tender - Githongo Anglo Leasing Scandal Recently, Dr Murungaru has been embroiled in a conflict with the British Government following cancellation of his Visa to enter the United Kingdom, due to allegations of corruption in the Anglo-Leasing scandal. He has taken the British Government to court challenging the cancellation of his visa. He has hired prominent Kenyan lawyer Paul Muite and a group of British lawyers, Mr Rabinder Singh, a Queen's Counsel of Matrix Chambers, London, Mr Richard Stein, a senior partner in Leigh, Day and Company and Ms Tessa Hetherington, a junior counsel of Matrix to represent him. On November 23, 2005, President Mwai Kibaki of Kenya dissolved his cabinet following a humiliating defeat on a referendum on the proposed constitution of Kenya. The president and his key allies, including Murungaru were campaigning for a Yes vote on the constitution, which they lost, forcing the president to reconstitute his cabinet. Fallout On January 22, 2006, John Githongo named Murungaru as one of three top politicians (along with Kiraitu Murungi, former Justice Minister and present Energy Minister, and Finance Minister David Mwiraria) as being involved in a financial scam involving up to $600M On February 1, 2006, Finance Minister David Mwiraria announced that he was stepping down as a minister and a member of cabinet to pave way for investigation. The news were received with joy by many Kenyans, though some saw him as a scapegoat who has been sacrificed to protect a president whose support has been waning. On January 16, 2006, President Kibaki allowed anti-corruption chief Aaron Ringera to request Murungaru to declare and account for his wealth. Murungaru has since moved to court to prevent the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission from investigating, saying fulfilling the commission's request would amount to self-incrimination. Vice President Moody Awori announced on February 2, 2006 that he would not step down despite being adversely mentioned in the Anglo Leasing Scandal. He has insisted that he is innocent, and that nothing short of due process will make him resign his post. He has criticized by many people for defending those involved in the scandal before Parliament. Court battles On February 17, 2006, the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission (KACC) arraigned Dr. Murungaru in a Nairobi court charging him with failing to declare and account for his wealth. The Commission believed that Dr. Murungaru had become too rich too quickly and was keen to investigate the source of his wealth, especially in relation to the Anglo Leasing Scandal. He denied refusing to declare his wealth, and was released on a bond of KES 200,000. On December 1, 2006, the Kenyan High Court determined that KACC's notice to Murungaru was not carried out according to the laid down law which subsequently led to the High Court quashing KACC's case against Murungaru. The court did not however stop KACC from investigating Murungaru or anyone else for corruption but insisted that any orders issued by the Commission be done so in a legal manner. A society in Kenya under the banner of the Name and Shame Corruption Network (NASCON) held a demonstration in the streets of Nairobi to push for the resignation of more senior people in President Mwai Kibaki's administration. Key among them is civil service boss Francis Muthaura and Vice President Moody Awori. In what was considered an upset, Murungaru was defeated by a comparatively obscure candidate in the Party of National Unity's primary elections for its parliamentary candidates in November 2007.


--- [Chris Murungaru, Date of Birth - Born Glorious] ---
Dr Christopher Ndarathi "Chris" Murungaru (born August 19, 1954, Nyeri, Kenya) is a Kenyan politician, a former Member of Parliament for Kieni Constituency in Nyeri District and a former Minister of Transport. When the National Rainbow Coalition (NARC) Government took power from Kenya African National Union (KANU) in 2003, Dr Murungaru was named Minister of Internal Security. He was later transferred to the Ministry of Transport in a cabinet reshuffle, following revelations of the Anglo Leasing Scandal. When President Mwai Kibaki reconstituted the cabinet following a humiliating defeat in the November 21, 2005 constitutional Referendum, he was dropped from the cabinet. He was a close ally of Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki.
