=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[History of Kashmir - Wikipedia]
It flourished in the seven centuries of Hindu rule, continuing under the Utpala and the Lohara dynasties, ending in mid-14th century. The spread of Islam in Kashmir began during the 13th century, accelerated under Muslim rule during the 14th and 15th centuries, and led to the eventual decline of Kashmiri Shaivism in the region.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Kashmir

[Kashmir | History, People, Conflict, Map, & Facts | Britannica]
Kashmir, region of the northwestern Indian subcontinent. It is bounded by the Uygur Autonomous Region of Xinjiang to the northeast and the Tibet Autonomous Region to the east (both parts of China), by the Indian states of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab to the south, by Pakistan to the west, and by Afghanistan to the northwest. The region, with a total...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/place/Kashmir-region-Indian-subcontinent

[History of Kashmir Facts for Kids]
Around the 9th century, during the Karkota Dynasty, a special type of Shaivism (a Hindu tradition) began there. This flourished for about 700 years under Hindu kings, ending in the mid-14th century. The spread of Islam in Kashmir started in the 13th century. It grew quickly under Muslim rulers in the 14th and 15th centuries.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/History_of_Kashmir

[Monumental Chronology of Hindu rulers and dynasties of Kashmir ...]
Sep 7, 2023 · This meticulously compiled chronological Table of ancient Kashmiri Kings and dynasties (Preserved by Kashmir Rechords) is an extract from the brilliantly researched Book `The Hindu History of Kashmir’ written by H H Wilson ( 1960 edition).
URL: https://kashmir-rechords.com/monumental-chronology-of-hindu-rulers-and-dynasties-of-kashmir/

[Brief History of Kashmir - Muslim Rule, British Rule, Afghan Rule]
Hindu culture bloomed and blossomed in the valley through a succession of Hindu dynasties until 1346 when it came under Muslim rule, which lead to the Islamization of the valley which lasted nearly five centuries, ending with Kashmir being annexed to the Sikh kingdom of Punjab in 1819 and then to the Dogra kingdom in Jammu in 1846.
URL: https://www.namasteindiatrip.com/history-of-kashmir.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [History of Kashmir - Wikipedia] ---
The history of Kashmir is intertwined with the history of the broader Indian subcontinent in South Asia with influences from the surrounding regions of Central, and East Asia. Historically, Kashmir referred to only the Kashmir Valley of the western Himalayas. Today, it denotes a larger area that includes the Indian-administered union territories of Jammu and Kashmir (which consists of Jammu and the Kashmir Valley), Ladakh, the Pakistan-administered territories of Azad Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan, and the Chinese-administered regions of Aksai Chin and the Trans-Karakoram Tract.
In the first half of the 1st millennium, the Kashmir region became an important centre of Hinduism and later—under the Mauryas and Kushanas—of Buddhism. Later in the ninth century, during the rule of the Karkota Dynasty, a native tradition of Shaivism arose. It flourished in the seven centuries of Hindu rule, continuing under the Utpala and the Lohara dynasties, ending in mid-14th century.
The spread of Islam in Kashmir began during the 13th century, accelerated under Muslim rule during the 14th and 15th centuries, and led to the eventual decline of Kashmiri Shaivism in the region.
In 1339, Shah Mir became the first Muslim ruler of Kashmir, inaugurating the Shah Mir dynasty. For the next five centuries, Muslim monarchs ruled Kashmir, including the Mughal Empire, who ruled from 1586 until 1751, and the Afghan Durrani Empire, which ruled from 1747 until 1819. That year, the Sikhs, under Ranjit Singh, annexed Kashmir. In 1846, after the Sikh defeat in the First Anglo-Sikh War, the Treaty of Lahore was signed and upon the purchase of the region from the British under the Treaty of Amritsar, the Raja of Jammu, Gulab Singh, became the new ruler of Kashmir. The rule of his descendants, under the paramountcy (or tutelage) of the British Crown, lasted until 1947, when the former princely state became a disputed territory, now administered by three countries: India, Pakistan, and the People's Republic of China.




--- [Kashmir | History, People, Conflict, Map, & Facts | Britannica] ---
Kashmir News • Kashmir, region of the northwestern Indian subcontinent. It is bounded by the Uygur Autonomous Region of Xinjiang to the northeast and the Tibet Autonomous Region to the east (both parts of China), by the Indian states of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab to the south, by Pakistan to the west, and by Afghanistan to the northwest. The region, with a total area of some 85,800 square miles (222,200 square km), has been the subject of dispute between India and Pakistan since the partition of the Indian subcontinent in 1947. The northern and western portions are administered by Pakistan and comprise three areas: Azad Kashmir, Gilgit, and Baltistan, the last two being part of a single administrative unit called Gilgit-Baltistan (formerly Northern Areas). Administered by India are the southern and southeastern portions, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, which were reorganized as union territories in 2019. The Indian- and Pakistani-administered portions are divided by a “line of control” agreed to in 1972, although neither country recognizes it as an international boundary. In addition, China became active in the eastern area of Kashmir in the 1950s and has controlled the northeastern part of Ladakh (the easternmost portion of the region) since 1962. Land and people The Kashmir region is predominantly mountainous, with deep, narrow valleys and high, barren plateaus. The relatively low-lying Jammu and Poonch plains in the southwest are separated by the thickly forested Himalayan foothills and the Pir Panjal Range of the Lesser Himalayas from the larger, more fertile, and more heavily populated Vale of Kashmir to the north. The vale, situated at an elevation of about 5,300 feet (1,600 meters), constitutes the basin of the upper Jhelum River and contains the city of Srinagar. Jammu and the vale lie in Indian-administered Jammu and Kashmir, while the Poonch lowlands are largely in Pakistan-administered Kashmir. Rising northeast of the vale is the western part of the Great Himalayas, the peaks of which reach elevations of 20,000 feet (6,100 meters) or higher. Farther to the northeast is the high, mountainous plateau region of Ladakh, which is cut by the rugged valley of the northwestward-flowing Indus River. Extending roughly northwestward from the Himalayas are the lofty peaks of the Karakoram Range, including K2 (Mount Godwin Austen), which at 28,251 feet (8,611 meters) is the second highest peak in the world, after Mount Everest. The region is located along the northernmost extremity of the Indian tectonic plate. The subduction of that plate beneath the Eurasian Plate—the process that for roughly 50 million years has been creating the Himalayas—has produced heavy seismic activity in Kashmir. One especially powerful earthquake in 2005 devastated Muzaffarabad, which is the administrative center of Azad Kashmir, and adjacent areas including parts of India’s Jammu and Kashmir state (now Jammu and Kashmir union territory) and Pakistan’s North-West Frontier Province (now Khyber Pakhtunkhwa). The climate of the region ranges from subtropical in the southwestern lowlands to alpine throughout the high mountain areas. Precipitation is variable; it is heavier in areas that can be reached by the monsoonal winds west and south of the great ranges and sparse to the north and east where continental conditions prevail. The people in the Jammu area are Muslim in the west and Hindu in the east and speak Hindi, Punjabi, and Dogri. The inhabitants of the Vale of Kashmir and the Pakistani areas are mostly Muslim and speak Urdu and Kashmiri. The sparsely inhabited Ladakh region and beyond is home to Tibetan peoples who practice Buddhism and speak Balti and Ladakhi. History The region to 1947 According to legend, an ascetic named Kashyapa reclaimed the land now comprising Kashmir from a vast lake. That land came to be known as Kashyapamar and, later, Kashmir. Buddhism was introduced by the Mauryan emperor Ashoka in the 3rd century bce, and from the 9th to the 12th century ce the region appears to have achieved considerable prominence as a center of Hindu culture. A succession of Hindu dynasties ruled Kashmir until 1346, when it came under Muslim rule. The Muslim period lasted nearly five centuries, ending when Kashmir was annexed to the Sikh kingdom of the Punjab in 1819 and then to the Dogra kingdom of Jammu in 1846. Thus, the Kashmir region in its contemporary form dates from 1846, when, by the treaties of Lahore and Amritsar at the conclusion of the First Sikh War, Raja Gulab Singh, the Dogra ruler of Jammu, was created maharaja (ruling prince) of an extensive but somewhat ill-defined Himalayan kingdom “to the eastward of the River Indus and westward of the River Ravi.” The creation of this princely state helped the British safeguard their northern flank in their advance to the Indus and beyond during the latter part of the 19th century. The state thus formed part of a complex political buffer zone interposed by the British between their Indian empire and the empires of Russia and China to the north. For Gulab Singh, confirmation of title to these mountain territories marked the culmination of almost a quarter century of campaigning and diplomatic negotiation among the petty hill kingdoms along the northern borderlands of the Sikh empire of the Punjab. Some attempts were made in the 19th century to define the boundaries of the territory, but precise definition was in many cases defeated by the nature of the country and by the existence of huge tracts lacking permanent human settlement. In the far north, for example, the maharaja’s authority certainly extended to the Karakoram Range, but beyond that lay a debatable zone on the borders of the Turkistan and Xinjiang regions of Central Asia, and the boundary was never demarcated. There were similar doubts about the alignment of the frontier where this northern zone skirted the region known as Aksai Chin, to the east, and joined the better-known and more precisely delineated boundary with Tibet, which had served for centuries as the eastern border of the Ladakh region. The pattern of boundaries in the northwest became clearer in the last decade of the 19th century, when Britain, in negotiations with Afghanistan and Russia, delimited boundaries in the Pamirs region. At that time Gilgit, always understood to be part of Kashmir, was for strategic reasons constituted as a special agency in 1889 under a British agent.


--- [History of Kashmir Facts for Kids] ---
History of Kashmir facts for kids The history of Kashmir is a long story connected to the larger Indian subcontinent in South Asia. It also has influences from nearby regions like Central and East Asia. Long ago, Kashmir usually meant only the Kashmir Valley in the western Himalayas. But today, it refers to a much bigger area. This includes parts controlled by India (the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh), parts controlled by Pakistan (Azad Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan), and parts controlled by China (Aksai Chin and the Trans-Karakoram Tract). In the first half of the 1st millennium CE, Kashmir became a key place for Hinduism. Later, under the Maurya and Kushana rulers, it became important for Buddhism. Around the 9th century, during the Karkota Dynasty, a special type of Shaivism (a Hindu tradition) began there. This flourished for about 700 years under Hindu kings, ending in the mid-14th century. The spread of Islam in Kashmir started in the 13th century. It grew quickly under Muslim rulers in the 14th and 15th centuries. This led to Kashmir Shaivism becoming less popular. In 1339, Shah Mir became the first Muslim ruler of Kashmir, starting the Shah Mir dynasty. For the next five centuries, Muslim kings ruled Kashmir. This included the Mughal Empire (1586-1751) and the Afghan Durrani Empire (1747-1819). In 1819, the Sikhs, led by Ranjit Singh, took over Kashmir. After the Sikh defeat in the First Anglo-Sikh War in 1846, the Treaty of Lahore was signed. Then, the British East India Company sold the region to Gulab Singh, the Raja of Jammu, through the Treaty of Amritsar. Gulab Singh became the new ruler of Kashmir. His family ruled under British guidance until 1947. After that, the former princely state became a disputed area, now managed by India, Pakistan, and China. Contents What does "Kashmir" mean? People often say the name "Kashmir" means "dried land." This comes from the old Sanskrit words ka (water) and shimīra (desiccate). In the Rajatarangini, a history of Kashmir written around the mid-12th century by Kalhana, it says that the Kashmir Valley used to be a big lake. According to Hindu stories, a great sage named Kashyapa drained this lake. He did this by cutting a gap in the hills at Baramulla. After the lake was drained, Kashyapa asked Brahmins (Hindu priests) to live there. This story is still a local tradition. The main town in the valley was called Kashyapa-pura, which some think is the same as Kaspapyros mentioned by ancient Greek writers. How do we know about Kashmir's history? The Nilamata Purana (written around 500–600 CE) tells us about Kashmir's early history. However, it's an old religious text, so some parts might not be completely accurate. A very important book is Kalhana's Rajatarangini (meaning "River of Kings"). This book, finished by 1150 CE, tells the history of Kashmir's rulers from ancient times up to the 12th century. Kalhana used old stories, inscriptions (writings on stone), coins, and monuments to write his history. He is often called "India's first historian" because he tried to analyze events carefully. Later, during the time of Muslim kings in Kashmir, three more books were written to continue the Rajatarangini story. These books end with the Mughal emperor Akbar taking over Kashmir in 1586 CE. Other important books from the Sultanate period include Baharistan-i-Shahi and Haidar Mailk's Tarikh-i-Kashmir. Early History of Kashmir The oldest human settlements in the Kashmir Valley date back to about 3000 BCE. The most important of these is Burzahom. Here, people lived in pit dwellings (holes in the ground) and used stone tools. Later, they built houses on the ground and buried their dead, sometimes with animals. They hunted, fished, and also grew wheat, barley, and lentils. Around 326 BCE, King Porus asked Abisares, the king of Kashmir, to help him fight Alexander the Great. After Porus lost, Abhisares gave gifts to Alexander. During the rule of Ashoka (304–232 BCE), Kashmir became part of the Maurya Empire. This is when Buddhism came to Kashmir. Many stupas (Buddhist shrines) and the city of Srinagari (Srinagar) were built then. Kanishka (127–151 CE), an emperor of the Kushan dynasty, conquered Kashmir. He built a new city called Kanishkapur. Buddhist stories say Kanishka held the Fourth Buddhist council in Kashmir, where famous scholars like Ashvagosha and Nagarjuna took part. By the 4th century, Kashmir was a center for both Buddhism and Hinduism. Kashmiri Buddhist missionaries helped spread Buddhism to Tibet and China. Pilgrims from these countries started visiting Kashmir from the 5th century CE. A famous Kashmiri scholar, Kumārajīva, traveled to China and helped translate many Sanskrit books into Chinese. The Alchon Huns, led by Toramana, crossed the Hindu Kush mountains and conquered parts of western India, including Kashmir. His son, Mihirakula, tried to conquer all of North India. After being defeated, Mihirakula returned to Kashmir and took over the kingdom. He then conquered Gandhara, where he destroyed many Buddhist shrines. The Huns' power faded after Mihirakula's death. Hindu Dynasties Hindu dynasties ruled Kashmir from the 7th to the 14th centuries. During this time, Kashmiri Hinduism saw big changes. Kashmir produced many poets, thinkers, and artists who contributed to Sanskrit literature and Hindu religion. One important scholar was Vasugupta (c. 875–925 CE), who wrote the Shiva Sutras. These writings formed the basis for Kashmir Shaivism, a unique Hindu philosophy. Another great scholar, Abhinavagupta (c. 975–1025 CE), wrote many books on Kashmir Shaivism, which became popular among the people. In the 8th century, the Karkota Empire became the rulers of Kashmir. Kashmir grew into a powerful empire under them. One of their rulers, Chandrapida, was even recognized by the Chinese emperor. His successor, Lalitaditya Muktapida, led successful military campaigns against Tibetans and other kingdoms in India. He even defeated Arabs in Sindh. After Lalitaditya's death, Kashmir's influence decreased, and the dynasty ended around 855–856 CE. The Utpala dynasty, founded by Avantivarman, followed the Karkotas. His successor, Shankaravarman, had a successful military campaign in Punjab. In the 10th century, political problems made the royal bodyguards (Tantrins) very powerful. This led to chaos until they were defeated. Queen Didda, whose mother was from the Hindu Shahi family, ruled in the second half of the 10th century. She is known for building a canal called "Kutte Kol" to stop floods in Srinagar. After her death in 1003 CE, the Lohara dynasty took over. Suhadeva, the last king of the Lohara dynasty, fled Kashmir after Zulju, a Turkic–Mongol chief, attacked Kashmir. His wife, Queen Kota Rani, ruled until 1339. In the 11th century, Mahmud of Ghazni tried twice to conquer Kashmir, but he failed to capture the fortress at Lohkot. Muslim Rulers Kashmir Sultanate (1346–1580s) Historians say that high taxes, corruption, and fights among nobles during the Lohara dynasty (1003–1320 CE) made Kashmir weak. This opened the way for foreign invasions. Rinchana, a Tibetan Buddhist refugee, became ruler after Zulju. Rinchana converted to Islam, possibly for political reasons, as he needed the support of Kashmiri Muslims. His minister, Shah Mir, later took over, starting Muslim rule and the Shah Mir dynasty in Kashmir. In the 14th century, Islam slowly became the main religion in Kashmir. With this change, Sanskrit literature in Kashmir became less common. A Muslim preacher named Sheikh Nooruddin Noorani, also known as Nund Rishi, mixed ideas from Kashmir Shaivism with Sufi mysticism. Most Sultans between 1354 and 1470 CE were tolerant of other religions. However, Sultan Sikandar (1389–1413 CE) was an exception. He taxed non-Muslims, forced some conversions, and was called But–Shikan (idol-breaker) for destroying idols. Sultan Zain-ul-Abidin (c. 1420–1470 CE) was different. He invited artists and craftspeople from Central Asia and Persia to teach local artists. Under his rule, arts like wood carving, papier-mâché, and shawl and carpet weaving grew. For a short time in the 1470s, areas like Jammu and Poonch revolted against the Sultan, but they were brought back under control. By the mid-16th century, Hindu influence in the courts declined. Muslim missionaries came from Central Asia and Persia, and Persian replaced Sanskrit as the official language. Around the same time, the powerful Chaks took over from the Shah Mir dynasty. The Mughal general Mirza Muhammad Haidar Dughlat invaded Kashmir around 1540 CE for Emperor Humayun. However, he was overthrown due to persecution of different Muslim groups and encouragement from the Suri kings. Mughals (1580s–1750s) Kashmir came under direct Mughal rule when Emperor Akbar the Great took control in 1586. Later, Shah Jahan made Kashmir a separate province with its capital in Srinagar. During the Mughal rule, many beautiful gardens, mosques, and palaces were built. Religious intolerance and unfair taxes returned when Mughal emperor Aurangzeb became ruler in 1658 CE. After his death, the Mughal Empire's power weakened. In 1700 CE, a holy relic of Muhammad (the Mo-i Muqqadas) was brought to Kashmir. It was placed in the Hazratbal Shrine by Dal Lake. The invasion of India by Nadir Shah in 1738 CE further weakened Mughal control over Kashmir. Durrani Empire (1752–1819) The Afghan Durrani Empire, led by Ahmad Shah Durrani, took control of Kashmir in 1752, taking advantage of the weakening Mughal Empire. In the mid-1750s, the Afghan governor of Kashmir, Sukh Jiwan Mal, rebelled but was defeated in 1762. After this, the Durrani rulers were harsh, forcing conversions and imposing heavy taxes on everyone, regardless of religion. Afghan governors managed Kashmir for the Durrani Empire. The income from Kashmir was a big part of the Durrani Empire's money. The empire controlled Kashmir until 1819, when the Sikh Empire took it over. Sikh Rule (1820–1846) After four centuries of Muslim rule, Kashmir was conquered by the Sikhs under Ranjit Singh of Punjab in 1819, after the Battle of Shopian. At first, Kashmiris welcomed the new Sikh rulers because they had suffered under the Afghans. However, the Sikh governors were also very strict. Sikh rule was generally seen as harsh, partly because Kashmir was far from the Sikh capital in Lahore. The Sikhs made several anti-Muslim laws. For example, killing a cow could lead to a death sentence. They also closed the Jamia Masjid in Srinagar and banned the azaan (the public Muslim call to prayer). European visitors to Kashmir at this time wrote about the extreme poverty of the many Muslim farmers and the very high taxes under the Sikhs. Some reports said that high taxes had made many areas empty, with only a small part of the land being farmed. However, after a famine in 1832, the Sikhs lowered the land tax to half the produce and offered interest-free loans to farmers. Kashmir then became the second-highest source of income for the Sikh empire. During this time, Kashmiri shawls became famous worldwide. Earlier, in 1780, the kingdom of Jammu (south of the Kashmir valley) was also taken by the Sikhs. Gulab Singh, a grandnephew of the former ruler of Jammu, joined Ranjit Singh's court. He proved himself in battles and was made the Raja of Jammu in 1820. With the help of his officer, Zorawar Singh, Gulab Singh soon captured Ladakh and Baltistan for the Sikhs. Princely State of Kashmir and Jammu (Dogra Rule, 1846–1947) In 1845, the First Anglo-Sikh War began. Gulab Singh stayed neutral until the battle of Sobraon (1846), where he helped as a mediator between the Sikhs and the British. Two treaties were signed. In the first, the State of Lahore gave the British land between the Beas and Indus rivers for 10 million rupees. In the second, called the Treaty of Amritsar, the British gave Gulab Singh all the hilly land east of the Indus and west of the Ravi (which included the Vale of Kashmir) for 7.5 million rupees. This treaty freed Gulab Singh from his duties to the Sikhs and made him the Maharajah of Jammu and Kashmir. The Dogra rulers were loyal to the British during the revolt of 1857 in India. They helped the British, and in return, the British ensured that Dogra rule would continue in Kashmir. Soon after Gulab Singh's death in 1857, his son, Ranbir Singh, added the areas of Hunza, Gilgit, and Nagar to the kingdom. The Princely State of Kashmir and Jammu was formed between 1820 and 1858. It was a mix of different regions, religions, and ethnic groups. To the east, Ladakh had Tibetan people and practiced Buddhism. To the south, Jammu had a mix of Hindus, Muslims, and Sikhs. In the central Kashmir valley, most people were Sunni Muslim, but there was a small but important Hindu minority called Kashmiri pandits. To the northeast, sparsely populated Baltistan had people related to Ladakhis but who practiced Shi'a Islam. To the north, Gilgit Agency had diverse, mostly Shi'a groups. To the west, Punch was Muslim, but of a different ethnic group than the Kashmir valley. Even though Muslims were the majority, they faced harsh treatment under Hindu rule. This included high taxes, unpaid forced labor, and unfair laws. Many Kashmiri Muslims moved from the Valley to Punjab because of famine and the Dogra rulers' policies. The Muslim farmers were poor and lacked education. They were often in debt to landlords and moneylenders. They did not form political groups until the 1930s. 1947 Ranbir Singh's grandson, Hari Singh, became the ruler of Kashmir in 1925. He was the monarch in 1947 when British rule ended in India and the country was divided into Dominion of India and Dominion of Pakistan. An internal revolt started in the Poonch region against the Maharaja's high taxes. In August, the Maharaja's forces fired on people who wanted Kashmir to join Pakistan. They burned villages and killed innocent people. The Poonch rebels declared their own independent government of "Azad" Kashmir on October 24. Rulers of Princely States were encouraged to join either India or Pakistan. They were supposed to consider things like how close their state was to each country and what their people wanted. In 1947, Jammu and Kashmir's population was about 77% Muslim and 20% Hindu. To avoid making a quick decision, the Maharaja signed a standstill agreement with Pakistan. This agreement kept trade, travel, and communication going between Kashmir and Pakistan. An agreement with India was still being discussed. After big riots in Jammu, in October 1947, Pashtuns from Pakistan's North-West Frontier Province invaded Kashmir. They were recruited by the Poonch rebels and were reportedly angry about the violence against Muslims in Poonch and Jammu. The tribesmen looted and killed people along the way. Their goal was to scare Hari Singh into giving up. Instead, the Maharaja asked the Government of India for help. The Governor-General Lord Mountbatten agreed, but only if the ruler joined India. Once the Maharaja signed the Instrument of Accession, Indian soldiers entered Kashmir. They pushed the Pakistani-supported fighters out of most of the state. India accepted Kashmir's joining, saying it was temporary until the people's wishes could be known. Kashmir leader Sheikh Abdullah supported this joining, saying the people of the state would make the final decision. He was made the head of the emergency government by the Maharaja. The Pakistani government immediately said the joining was not real, claiming the Maharaja was forced and had no right to sign with India while the agreement with Pakistan was still active. After 1947 In early 1948, India asked the United Nations to help resolve the Kashmir conflict. The UN Security Council passed Resolution 47 on April 21, 1948, setting up a commission. The UN said that the people of Jammu and Kashmir must decide their future. India's Prime Minister at the time reportedly urged the UN to hold a vote in Kashmir. However, India insisted that no vote could happen until all foreign fighters were out of the state. On January 5, 1949, a UN resolution stated that Kashmir's future (joining India or Pakistan) would be decided by a free and fair vote. Both countries agreed that Pakistan would withdraw its fighters, followed by the withdrawal of Pakistani and Indian forces. Then, a vote would be held. However, they could not agree on the details of how to remove the forces, so the vote never happened. In late 1948, a ceasefire was agreed upon with the UN's help. But since the vote demanded by the UN never happened, relations between India and Pakistan worsened. This led to three more wars over Kashmir in 1965, 1971, and 1999. India controls about half of the original princely state of Jammu and Kashmir. Pakistan controls a third, governing it as Gilgit–Baltistan and Azad Kashmir. The UN Security Council passed Resolution 39 on January 20, 1948, to investigate the conflict. Later, Resolution 47 on April 21, 1948, ordered Pakistan's army to leave Jammu and Kashmir. It also said that Kashmir's joining India or Pakistan should be decided by a UN-supervised vote. However, India did not hold the vote, and no punishment was taken because the resolution was not binding. Also, the Pakistani army never left the part of Kashmir they held at the end of the 1947 war. They were required by the UN resolution to remove all armed personnel from Azad Kashmir before the vote. The eastern part of the former princely state of Kashmir also has a border dispute. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, some border agreements were signed between Great Britain, Afghanistan, and Russia about Kashmir's northern borders. But China never accepted these agreements. By the mid-1950s, the Chinese army had entered the northeast part of Ladakh. By 1956–57, they had built a military road through the Aksai Chin area. India's discovery of this road later led to border clashes and the Sino-Indian war in October 1962. China has occupied Aksai Chin since 1962. Also, Pakistan gave an area called the Trans-Karakoram Tract to China in 1965. In 1949, the Indian government asked Hari Singh to leave Jammu and Kashmir. Sheikh Abdullah, the leader of the National Conference Party, took over the government. Since then, India and Pakistan have had a strong disagreement, leading to three wars over Kashmir. The ongoing dispute and problems with democracy also led to the rise of Kashmiri nationalism and armed groups in the state. In 1986, the Anantnag riots happened after the Chief Minister ordered a mosque to be built at a Hindu temple site in Jammu. These riots were also part of bigger Hindu-Muslim riots happening in other states. After the 1987 Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Assembly election, which many felt were unfair, some unhappy Kashmiri youth joined the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front(JKLF). This group became an alternative to the ineffective democratic system. This led to a rise in popular uprising in the Kashmir Valley. In 1989, the conflict in Jammu and Kashmir became more intense as fighters from Afghanistan entered the region after the end of the Soviet–Afghan War. Pakistan provided weapons and training to both local and foreign fighters in Kashmir, making the unrest worse. In August 2019, the Government of India removed the special status given to Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 of the Indian constitution. The Parliament of India passed the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act. This law divided the state into two union territories: Jammu and Kashmir in the west and Ladakh in the east. These changes took effect on October 31, 2019. Historical Population of Kashmir In the 1901 Census of the British Indian Empire, the total population of the princely state of Kashmir was 2,905,578. Of these, 2,154,695 were Muslims, 689,073 Hindus, 25,828 Sikhs, and 35,047 Buddhists. Most Hindus lived in Jammu, where they were a little less than 50% of the population. In the Kashmir Valley, Hindus were only about 5.24% of the population. These percentages have stayed mostly the same for the last 100 years. In the 1941 Census, Muslims were 93.6% of the Kashmir Valley population, and Hindus were 4%. In 2003, Muslims in the Kashmir Valley were 95%, and Hindus were 4%. In Jammu, Hindus were 67%, and Muslims were 27% in the same year. Among the Muslims in the Kashmir province, there were four main groups: Shaikhs, Saiyids, Mughals, and Pathans. The Shaikhs were the most numerous. They were descendants of Hindus but had lost their old caste rules. They had clan names called krams, like "Tantre", "Shaikh", "Bat", "Mantu", "Ganai", "Dar", "Damar", and "Lon". The Saiyids were either religious leaders or farmers. Their kram name was 'Mir'. The Mughals were not many, with kram names like "Mir" (from "Mirza"), "Beg", "Bandi", "Bach", and "Ashaye". The Pathans were more numerous than the Mughals and lived mainly in the southwest of the valley. Some Pathan groups, like the Kuki-Khel Afridis at Dranghaihama, kept their old customs and spoke Pashtu. Other main Muslim groups in the princely state included the Butts, Dar, Lone, Jat, Gujjar, Rajput, Sudhan, and Khatri. These groups are native to the princely state and converted to Islam from Hinduism. Among the Hindus in Jammu province, the most important groups recorded in the census were Brahmans, Rajputs, Khattris, and Thakkars. Images for kids See also In Spanish: Historia de Cachemira para niños - United Nations Security Council Resolution 47 - Kashmiriyat - Sharada Peeth - Buddhism in Kashmir - Harsha of Kashmir - List of topics on the land and the people of "Jammu and Kashmir"


--- [Monumental Chronology of Hindu rulers and dynasties of Kashmir ...] ---
Monumental Chronology of Hindu rulers and dynasties of Kashmir. Jammu & Kashmir-ResearchReligionResearchSocio-cultural September 7, 2023 By Kashmir Rechords Less than 1 min. read (A necessary reference material) First Period Second & Third Period Fourth & Fifth Period This meticulously compiled chronological Table of ancient Kashmiri Kings and dynasties (Preserved by Kashmir Rechords) is an extract from the brilliantly researched Book `The Hindu History of Kashmir’ written by H H Wilson ( 1960 edition). Tags:KashmirKashmiri Pandit Latest articles The Swami Who Promised Lahore: The Mystical Grip on Maharaja Hari Singh! home2 February 19, 2026 The Spy Who Came Back Forgotten: Kashmir’s Real Dhurandhar home1 February 7, 2026 The Forgotten Exodus: How 30,000 Kashmiri Pandits Were Forced Out Between 1947 and 1954 ! Articles February 6, 2026 Farooq Abdullah Controversy: Pandits, Guns & Separatist Echoes Jammu & Kashmir-Politics January 28, 2026 Related articles The Swami Who Promised Lahore: The Mystical Grip on Maharaja Hari Singh! home2 February 19, 2026 The Spy Who Came Back Forgotten: Kashmir’s Real Dhurandhar home1 February 7, 2026 The Forgotten Exodus: How 30,000 Kashmiri Pandits Were Forced Out Between 1947 and 1954 ! Articles February 6, 2026


--- [Brief History of Kashmir - Muslim Rule, British Rule, Afghan Rule] ---
Paradise on Earth, the ancient land of ethereal beauty and salubrious climate- Kashmir has lived through a tumultuous history that is only beginning to find peace and harmony in the 21st century. History of Kashmir Is Divided Into 4 Periods Kashmiris divide their history into four periods: the early period of Hindu Kings, when Kashmir was a vibrant seat of knowledge and philosophy famously chronicled in Rajatarangini written by the Kashmiri poet Kalhan; the second period is signified with the advent of Islam known as Salatini Kashmir; the next period is that of the Mughals known as Padshahi-i-Chagatai or Shahan-i-Mughlia, and the final period is of the Pathans known as the Shahan-i-Durrani. Legend of Kashmir Kashmir has the unique distinction of being the only region in India which possesses an uninterrupted series of written records of its history. As per legend, an ascetic named Kashyapa reclaimed the land now known as Kashmir from a vast lake which came to be known as Kashyapamar and later Kashmir. The first half of the millennium Kashmir was an epicenter for Hinduism. Buddhism was introduced to the valley by the great Mauryan emperor Ashoka in the 3rd century. From 9th to 12th century. Hindu culture bloomed and blossomed in the valley through a succession of Hindu dynasties until 1346 when it came under Muslim rule, which lead to the Islamization of the valley which lasted nearly five centuries, ending with Kashmir being annexed to the Sikh kingdom of Punjab in 1819 and then to the Dogra kingdom in Jammu in 1846. The First Muslim Ruler of Kashmir Shah Mir, of Turkish origins, is regarded as the first Muslim ruler of Kashmir. He was in the courtroom of King Ranachandra working as a chief of affairs. After Kashgar ruler Anandadeva overran Rananchandra’s kingdom, he had Muslim state employees including Shah Mir removed from their positions. Shah Mir subsequently led the revolt which led to Anandadeva’s death in 1326. In 1339 Shah Mir founded his own dynasty and handed over the kingdom of his two sons Jamshed and Sher Ali. Soon, a struggle for power erupted between the two brothers and Jamshed emerged victorious and adopted the title of Alauddin. He died in 1363 and Sher Ali, his brother, assumed the throne and title of Shahbuddin. He led campaigns to the south and stood victorious over the Samma Dynasty of Sindh, bringing the ruler of Kangra under his suzerainty. Shahabuddin died in 1386 and was succeeded by the next in line Qutubuddin, who was replaced in 1396 by his son Sikander. Sikander was a controversial king referred to by the epithet ‘Butshikan’ meaning destroyer of idols. Scores of Hindu temples were destroyed during this reign and many Hindus were forced to convert under the pressure of absolute atrocities. Sikander tried to deracinate Kashmir from its Hindu roots until his death in 1416 and was succeeded by his son Amir Khan. Amir Khan was soon removed by his brother Shadi Khan in 1422 who took the title of Zain-ul-Abidin. A Secular and Development Period in Kashmir Zain-ul-Abidin was more benevolent than his predecessors and allowed Hindus and Buddhist to practice their religion and restored some temples as well. He constructed lakes, canals and was an ardent patron of art, literature and poetry. He died in 1472 and was succeeded by Haji Khan who ruled only for a year and was further succeeded by his son Hasan who ruled for a volatile 13 years and left the throne to his minor son Muhammad. Mughal Empire in Kashmir After Muhammad, Kashmir faced a time of great uncertainty for the next fifty years, a part of which was ruled by the Chak Dynasty. By the end of this 50-year period, Kashmir came under the Mughal Empire under Akbar, who founded the city of Srinagar. Until this time, Kashmir was an independent entity in itself but with the advent of the Mughals, Kashmir lost its sovereignty in 1586 and became part of the larger Mughal Empire. Although this annexation wasn’t easy and the Mughal army was defeated twice by the defiant Kashmiris. Akbar gained this territory by deceit, offering the Chak king a hand of friendship after which his Mughal commander Qasim Khan led the annexation treacherously. Kashmir, however, did accept the Mughal rule for a long time and fought invaders through guerilla warfare continuously for many years. During the rule of Aurangzeb, in the last decade of the 17th century the Mughal Empire began to decline. Due to chao ensued by the falling empire, the founder of the Durrani empire in Afghanistan began consolidating power in Kashmir. Kashmir was raided close to eight times between 1748 to 1767, during the course of which Kashmir was conquered by the Afghani ruler in 1752. Afghan Rule in Kashmir The Afghan rule lasted for about 67 years and this period was again marked by ghastly oppression, high taxation and governors at the helm of affairs who were known for their cruelty, brutality, indifference toward the local population, culture and belief system. The Afghans fought with the Sikhs several times during their rule, the Sikhs under the leadership of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. By the late 18th and early 19th century, the British East India Company also began to consolidate its power in the Indian subcontinent. Kashmir witnessed many conflicts and tussle of power among the Afghans, Sikhs and British East India company at this time. The first to be pushed out from the three warring parties were the Afghans. In 1819 Kashmir was brought under the control of Ranjit Singh’s forces, bringing an end to the harsh, oppressive Muslim rule that lasted for more than four centuries in the valley. The Sikhs were tolerant and respectful towards the now multi religious Kashmir, however some decisions irked the majority Muslim population. The Sikhs ensured that there was adequate representation of Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs in the administration. British Rule in Kashmir Ranjit Singh died in 1839 and the British came close to their long-cherished dream of annexing Punjab. The infighting within the Sikh empire, paved the way for the East India Company and soon the Company established a cantonment in Sindh and annexed Sindh in a few years, after which Punjab was also annexed in 1849. Kashmir was acquired by the British as per the Treaty of Amritsar in 1846 which made Gulab Singh the first Dogra ruler of Jammu and Kashmir after he and the British reached an understanding. The modern state of Jammu and Kashmir took shape under the Dogra rule. Gulab Singh was succeeded by Ranbir Singh in 1857 after whom Pratap Singh came to power in 1885. Hari Singh took the throne in 1925. The Dogra rule signified the resurgence of Hinduism in the valley. Key positions in state administration were held by Kashmir Pandits. Kashmiri Muslims remained engaged in agriculture, art, handicraft which flourished during this time. The Dogra rule came to end shortly after India gained independence. Jammu Kashmir was given the opportunity to either align with Pakistan, India or remain independent like other princely states. Maharaja Hari Singh signed a standstill agreement with Pakistan choosing to remain independent and not align with either of the two newly formed nation states. Pakistan and Kashmir Pakistan invaded Kashmir by sending Pashtun tribesmen from Pakistan in October 1947. Maharaja Hari Singh, having no other option, signed the Instrument of Accession with the Indian government in October 1947 by order of which the Indian troops entered Jammu and Kashmir defended it from the violence unleashed by Pakistan. Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah was appointed as the Emergency Administrator of Jammu and Kashmir by Maharaja Hari Singh. After this, India took the Kashmir conflict to the UN for resolution, Sheik Mohammad was appointed the Prime Minister of an interim government. The UN Security Council mediated a ceasefire agreement in March 1948. A referendum was also ordered by the UN Security Council, which was to be held after the Pakistani troops withdrew from the State. The referendum was never conducted as the first condition of Pakistan retreating was never met by the country. Jammu and Kashmir National Conference Maharaja Hari Singh abdicated as the head of the state and appointed his son Yuvraj Karan Singh, who issued a proclamation for elections of a Constituent Assembly in Kashmir. Elections were thereby held in September 1951 and Jammu & Kashmir National Conference won all seats in the Constituent Assembly. The Constituent Assembly was convened in October 1951. In 1953 Prime Minister Sheik Abdullah was dismissed by Karan Singh and Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad was appointed as the Prime Minister in August 1953; Sheik Abdullah was arrested and imprisoned on this day too, after which protests ensued killing close to 70 individuals. In February of 1954, the Constituent Assembly voted to ratify the state of Jammu and Kashmir. The Constitution of India was formally adopted by the Constituent Assembly in November 1956 and the Constitution entered into force on January 26th 1957. This was followed by a tumultuous period where Sheik Abdullah was arrested and released from prison several times that fueled the unrest in the valley. Pakistan Insurgency in Kashmir and the Plight of Kashmiri Pandits From 1965 to 1966 armed insurgents from Pakistan attacked government installations, government police, troops and launched a military offensive within Kashmir. The Indian forces launched a counter-offensive against Pakistan, while China intervened expressing its dubious support for the Kashmiri people. Another cease-fire was agreed upon and representatives from Pakistan and India signed a Soviet Union mediated Tashkent Declaration in January 1966. Turmoil continued in paradise on Earth and in December 1989 members of Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front launched an insurgency against the Indian government. This also marked the ghastly exodus of the few remaining Kashmiri Pandits, where they were threatened to convert or die and were forced out of the valley almost overnight. JKFL unleashed absolute terror on the Indian government, troops and locals (Kashmiri Pandits). This also marked the beginning of Pakistan sponsored militancy and terrorism in the valley which continues to this day, although has been quelled to a very large extent. Local Kashmiri youths were fueled with hatred towards Hindus and India, Pakistan encouraged a made-up struggle for self-determination which took the shape of brutal Islamic militancy. Millions of people lost their lives, homes and property during this time, which included both government troops, officials and local Kashmiris including both Hindus and Muslims. Temporary Special Status Kashmir was offered a temporary special status under Article 370 of the Indian Constitution which allowed Kashmir limited autonomy within the larger framework of federal India. Despite this privilege and complete support of successive central governments, Kashmir remained marred by continuous violence involving militants, terrorist organizations and Indian forces. The fate of Kashmir remained volatile, simmering with deep dissatisfaction and increasing Islamic supremacy until very recently. On 5th August 2019, the Government of India revoked the temporary special status so awarded under the Constitution of India. Jammu and Kashmir which earlier includes Leh and Ladakh were separated and turned into two separate Union territories- Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. The prominent state leaders, responsible for the worsened condition of the state were put under house arrest which led to deep dissatisfaction among the Kashmiri political elite but paved the way for an eerie time of peace in the valley that wasn’t experienced in centuries. Conclusion Despite the political and social turmoil that this ethereal land suffered, its enchanting beauty did not discourage people from visiting it. Kashmir remained and continues to be a shining gem in the crown of India. The recent political and administrative restructuring brings a new dawn of peace and tranquility in the valley. Instances of violence have drastically reduced and the people of Kashmir are slowly beginning to relish the rare and refreshing socio-political peace the valley is witnessing.
