=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[26 killed, 2 dozen hurt as tractor-trolley falls into pond in Kanpur | Kanpur News - Times of India]
Oct 2, 2022 · Nearly 26 people were killed and two dozen others injured after a tractor-trolley in which they were travelling fell into a pond in Ghatampur area of Kanpur late on Saturday evening.
URL: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/kanpur/26-killed-2-dozen-hurt-as-tractor-trolley-falls-into-pond-in-kanpur/articleshow/94592228.cms

[Tractor trailer carrying Hindu devotees crashes, killing dozens | News]
Oct 2, 2022 · A farm tractor trailer carrying Hindu pilgrims has overturned and fallen into a pond in Ghatampur in northern India’s Kanpur city, killing 26 people, most of them women and children, officials ...
URL: https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/10/2/dozens-killed-in-tractor-trailer-accident-in-northern-india

[Farm vehicle packed with people overturns in India; 26 dead | AP News]
2 of 9 | Victims of a farm tractor accident wail in hospital in Kanpur, 100 kilometres (62 miles) southwest of Lucknow, the state capital of Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, Sunday, Oct.1, 2022. Twenty-six people, most of them women and children, were killed when a farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overnight overturned and fell into a pond in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh ...
URL: https://apnews.com/article/india-accidents-modi-drownings-kanpur-a4157d3417a2fafedf5c811c7042e07d

[Farm vehicle packed with people overturns in India, leaving 26 people dead and 10 injured - ABC News]
A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in northern India, killing 26 people, most of them women and children, officials say. Authorities say about 40 people were in the vehicle returning from a nearby ...
URL: https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-10-02/india-tractor-overturned-26-dead-kanpur-tragedy/101495272

[26 Killed as Tractor Trolley Falls Into Pond in UP's Kanpur; PM Modi Announces Ex-gratia of Rs 2 Lakhs]
6 Killed as Tractor Trolley Falls Into Pond in UPs Kanpur; PM Modi Announces Ex-gratia of Rs 2 Lakhs ... A tractor-trolley overturned and fell into a pond near a village in Kanpur district, Saturday night, Oct. 1, 2022. At least 22 people were ...
URL: https://www.india.com/uttar-pradesh/tractor-trolley-overturns-in-kanpur-chandrika-devi-temple-devotees-26-killed-many-injured-accident-exgratia-announced-5663432/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [26 killed, 2 dozen hurt as tractor-trolley falls into pond in Kanpur | Kanpur News - Times of India] ---
KANPUR: Nearly 26 people were killed and two dozen others injured after a tractor-trolley in which they were travelling fell into a pond in Ghatampur area of Kanpur late on Saturday evening. According to police sources, the death toll may be even higher as doctors stated the condition of a few others to be critical. All the devotees, who were residents of Kortha village, were returning home after attending a 'mundan' ceremony from the Chandrika Devi temple in neighbouring Unnao district. Prime Minister Narednra Modi expressed condolence on the deaths and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the kin of the dead from the PM's relief fund. "Distressed by the tractor-trolley mishap in Kanpur. My thoughts are with all those who have lost their near and dear ones. Prayers are with the injured. The local administration is providing all possible assistance to the affected," PM Modi tweeted. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also expressed condolences to the families of the deceased. The CM announced a financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the seriously injured. He also instructed district and police officials to reach the spot with rescue measures at the earliest and to ensure proper treatment to the people injured in the accident. After the accident, CM Yogi also asked people to desist from using tractors for agricultural purposes and not as a means of conveyance. According to police, one Raju Nishad, a resident of Kortha village, had gone for the mundan ceremony of his one-year-old son on Saturday along with 35-40 people, including his family, at Chandrika Devi Temple at Buxar Ghat in Unnao. It was when Nishad along with others was returning to his native place on Saturday night that the tractor-trolley went uncontrollable, overturned and fell into a pond between Saadh and Gambhirpur villages. By 9 pm, police had retrieved 26 bodies. The search is still on for more bodies. Senior district and police officials from Kanpur have also reached the spot and are helping in the rescue and relief operations. Several district and police officials have also reached Kanpur’s Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital to make arrangements in advance for those critically injured. A dozen ambulances had reached the spot and from there the injured were sent to nearby CHCs and LLR Hospital. Kanpur Outer SP Tej Swaroop Singh said that the police personnel along with the local residents are trying to rescue those who fell into the pond. “It is difficult to tell how many people are still trapped in the pond right now,” he added.


--- [Tractor trailer carrying Hindu devotees crashes, killing dozens | News] ---
Tractor trailer carrying Hindu devotees crashes, killing dozens The trailer was carrying about 40 people, mostly women and children, in the city of Kanpur in Utter Pradesh province. A farm tractor trailer carrying Hindu pilgrims has overturned and fallen into a pond in Ghatampur in northern India’s Kanpur city, killing 26 people, most of them women and children, officials said on Sunday. Superintendent of Police Tej Swaroop Singh of Kanpur said the wagon was carrying about 40 people returning from a ceremony at a nearby Hindu temple on Saturday night. He said most of the deaths were due to drowning. Recommended Stories list of 3 items- list 1 of 3Eid holidays in Bangladesh saw record road accident deaths: Group - list 2 of 3Egypt’s new El-Sahel road leads to accident reports and confusion - list 3 of 3Bodies of 17 people recovered after Nigeria boat accident At least 10 people were injured in the accident in Kanpur, about 100km (60 miles) southwest of Uttar Pradesh state’s capital, Lucknow. The injured have been taken to hospital. The cause of the accident is still under investigation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered his condolences. “Distressed by the tractor-trolley mishap took place in Kanpur. My thoughts are with all those who have lost their near and dear ones and prayers with the injured,” Modi tweeted. It is the second incident in the last week in Uttar Pradesh – a tractor carrying people overturned on Monday, killing at least 10 people. Uttar Pradesh’s top elected official Yogi Adityanath discouraged the use of farm tractors for passenger transport. “A tractor-trolley should be used for agricultural work and to transfer goods, not to ferry people,” he said in a statement. Traffic accidents are frequent in India with more than 150,000 people killed last year, or more than 400 per day, according to official statistics which are likely an underestimate.


--- [Farm vehicle packed with people overturns in India; 26 dead | AP News] ---
Farm vehicle packed with people overturns in India; 26 dead Farm vehicle packed with people overturns in India; 26 dead A relative mourns near the body of one of victims of a road accident in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) Victims of a farm tractor accident wail in hospital in Kanpur, 100 kilometres (62 miles) southwest of Lucknow, the state capital of Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, Sunday, Oct.1, 2022. Twenty-six people, most of them women and children, were killed when a farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overnight overturned and fell into a pond in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, officials said Sunday. (AP Photo) A farm tractor is seen fallen in a pond in Ghatampur area of Kanpur, 100 kilometers (62 miles) southwest of Lucknow, the state capital of Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, Sunday, Oct.1, 2022. Twenty-six people, most of them women and children, were killed when a farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overnight overturned and fell into a pond in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, officials said Sunday. (AP Photo) An injured of a farm tractor accident is being rushed to hospital in Kanpur, 100 kilometers (62 miles) southwest of Lucknow, the state capital of Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, Sunday, Oct.1, 2022. Twenty-six people, most of them women and children, were killed when a farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overnight overturned and fell into a pond in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, officials said Sunday. (AP Photo) Injured and survivors of a farm tractor accident are being rushed to hospital in Kanpur, 100 kilometres (62 miles) southwest of Lucknow, the state capital of Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, Sunday, Oct.1, 2022. Twenty-six people, most of them women and children, were killed when a farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overnight overturned and fell into a pond in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, officials said Sunday. (AP Photo) Villagers mourn as the bodies of victims of a road accident arrive in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) Villagers carry the bodies of victims of a road accident in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) Relatives mourn as villagers gather around the bodies of victims of a road accident in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) Villagers gather around the bodies of victims of a road accident in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) A relative mourns near the body of one of victims of a road accident in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) A relative mourns near the body of one of victims of a road accident in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) Victims of a farm tractor accident wail in hospital in Kanpur, 100 kilometres (62 miles) southwest of Lucknow, the state capital of Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, Sunday, Oct.1, 2022. Twenty-six people, most of them women and children, were killed when a farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overnight overturned and fell into a pond in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, officials said Sunday. (AP Photo) Victims of a farm tractor accident wail in hospital in Kanpur, 100 kilometres (62 miles) southwest of Lucknow, the state capital of Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, Sunday, Oct.1, 2022. Twenty-six people, most of them women and children, were killed when a farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overnight overturned and fell into a pond in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, officials said Sunday. (AP Photo) A farm tractor is seen fallen in a pond in Ghatampur area of Kanpur, 100 kilometers (62 miles) southwest of Lucknow, the state capital of Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, Sunday, Oct.1, 2022. Twenty-six people, most of them women and children, were killed when a farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overnight overturned and fell into a pond in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, officials said Sunday. (AP Photo) A farm tractor is seen fallen in a pond in Ghatampur area of Kanpur, 100 kilometers (62 miles) southwest of Lucknow, the state capital of Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, Sunday, Oct.1, 2022. Twenty-six people, most of them women and children, were killed when a farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overnight overturned and fell into a pond in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, officials said Sunday. (AP Photo) An injured of a farm tractor accident is being rushed to hospital in Kanpur, 100 kilometers (62 miles) southwest of Lucknow, the state capital of Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, Sunday, Oct.1, 2022. Twenty-six people, most of them women and children, were killed when a farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overnight overturned and fell into a pond in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, officials said Sunday. (AP Photo) An injured of a farm tractor accident is being rushed to hospital in Kanpur, 100 kilometers (62 miles) southwest of Lucknow, the state capital of Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, Sunday, Oct.1, 2022. Twenty-six people, most of them women and children, were killed when a farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overnight overturned and fell into a pond in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, officials said Sunday. (AP Photo) Injured and survivors of a farm tractor accident are being rushed to hospital in Kanpur, 100 kilometres (62 miles) southwest of Lucknow, the state capital of Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, Sunday, Oct.1, 2022. Twenty-six people, most of them women and children, were killed when a farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overnight overturned and fell into a pond in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, officials said Sunday. (AP Photo) Injured and survivors of a farm tractor accident are being rushed to hospital in Kanpur, 100 kilometres (62 miles) southwest of Lucknow, the state capital of Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, Sunday, Oct.1, 2022. Twenty-six people, most of them women and children, were killed when a farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overnight overturned and fell into a pond in the north Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, officials said Sunday. (AP Photo) Villagers mourn as the bodies of victims of a road accident arrive in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) Villagers mourn as the bodies of victims of a road accident arrive in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) Villagers carry the bodies of victims of a road accident in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) Villagers carry the bodies of victims of a road accident in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) Relatives mourn as villagers gather around the bodies of victims of a road accident in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) Relatives mourn as villagers gather around the bodies of victims of a road accident in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) Villagers gather around the bodies of victims of a road accident in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) Villagers gather around the bodies of victims of a road accident in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh state, India, Sunday, Oct.2, 2022. A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area Saturday night killing 26 people, most of them women and children. (AP Photo) LUCKNOW, India (AP) — A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in northern India, killing 26 people, most of them women and children, officials said Sunday. The wagon was carrying around 40 people returning from a ceremony at a nearby local Hindu temple Saturday night, said police Superintendent Tej Swaroop Singh. He said most of the deaths were due to drowning. At least 10 people were injured in the accident in Kanpur city’s Ghatampur area, about 60 miles (100 kilometers) southwest of Uttar Pradesh state’s capital, Lucknow. The injured have been admitted to a hospital. The cause of the accident is under investigation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted condolences Saturday: “Distressed by the tractor-trolley mishap in Kanpur. My thoughts are with all those who have lost their near and dear ones. Prayers with the injured.” It is the second incident in the last three days when a tractor carrying people overturned, killing at least 12 people. Uttar Pradesh’s top elected official Yogi Adityanath discouraged the use of farm tractors for passenger transport. “A tractor-trolley should be used for agricultural work and to transfer goods, not to ferry people,” he said in a statement. India has some of the highest road death rates in the world, with hundreds of thousands of people killed and injured annually. Most crashes are blamed on reckless driving, poorly maintained roads and aging vehicles.


--- [Farm vehicle packed with people overturns in India, leaving 26 people dead and 10 injured - ABC News] ---
Farm vehicle packed with people overturns in India, leaving 26 people dead and 10 injured A farm tractor pulling a wagon loaded with people overturned and fell into a pond in northern India, killing 26 people, most of them women and children, officials say. Key points: Authorities say about 40 people were in the vehicle returning from a nearby local Hindu temple on Saturday night The incident occurred in Kanpur city's Ghatampur area, about 100 kilometres south-west of Uttar Pradesh state's capital, Lucknow - At least 10 people were injured in the accident and taken to hospital The wagon was carrying around 40 people returning from a ceremony at a nearby local Hindu temple on Saturday night, said police Superintendent Tej Swaroop Singh. He said most of the deaths were due to drowning. At least 10 people were injured in the accident in Kanpur city's Ghatampur area, about 100 kilometres south-west of Uttar Pradesh state's capital, Lucknow. The injured have been admitted to a hospital. The cause of the accident is under investigation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted condolences: "Distressed by the tractor-trolley mishap in Kanpur. My thoughts are with all those who have lost their near and dear ones. Prayers with the injured." It is the second incident in the last three days when a tractor carrying people overturned, killing at least 12 people. Uttar Pradesh's top elected official, Yogi Adityanath, discouraged the use of farm tractors for passenger transport. "A tractor-trolley should be used for agricultural work and to transfer goods, not to ferry people," he said. India has some of the highest road death rates in the world, with hundreds of thousands of people killed and injured annually. Most crashes are blamed on reckless driving, poorly maintained roads and ageing vehicles. AP


--- [26 Killed as Tractor Trolley Falls Into Pond in UP's Kanpur; PM Modi Announces Ex-gratia of Rs 2 Lakhs] ---
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts Cookies Policy. - Home - Uttar Pradesh - 26 Killed as Tractor Trolley Falls Into Pond in UPs Kanpur; PM Modi Announces Ex-gratia of Rs 2 Lakhs 26 Killed as Tractor Trolley Falls Into Pond in UP’s Kanpur; PM Modi Announces Ex-gratia of Rs 2 Lakhs Around two dozen pilgrims, all reportedly women and children, were killed in an accident in Kanpur as a tractor trolley fell into a pond. PM Modi announced an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh to the kin of the deceased. Kanpur: At least 26 people were killed and several critically injured when a tractor-trolley carrying devotees overturned and fell into a pond near a village in Kanpur district of Uttar Pradesh on Saturday night. The incident occurred in the evening near Bhadeuna village located within the Saar police station limits, a senior official said. The tractor-trolley, carrying about 50 people, was on its way to Ghatampur after the passengers attended a “mundan” ceremony at the Chandrika Devi temple in Fatehpur, the official said. While returning, the trolley overturned into a roadside pond between Sadh and Gambhirpur village. #Kanpur-: Ghatampur, a tractor-trolley full of devotees went uncontrollably and overturned in the pond, there are reports of death of 25 to 30 devotees. More than 10 people injured on the spot, villagers and police engaged in rescue!#KanpurAccident #Kanpur @DMKanpur @Uppolice pic.twitter.com/s83rs7eIGf — Prateek Pratap Singh (@PrateekPratap5) October 1, 2022 The injured were rushed to a community health centre (CHC) in Bheetergaon in ambulances arranged by police, said a report by PTI, where more than a dozen were declared dead. The District Magistrate Vishak G Ayyar said police and the district administration have been told to carry out the rescue operation and ensure all possible assistance to the victims. “An investigation is on to ascertain the reasons behind the accident,” the DM said. President Droupadi Murmu expressed anguish over the loss of lives in the accident. She shared condolences over the deaths and wished for speedy recovery of those injured. कानपुर में हुए सड़क हादसे में कई लोगों की मृत्यु के समाचार से बहुत व्यथित हूं। इस दुर्घटना में अपने प्रियजनों को खोने वाले परिवारों के प्रति मेरी गहन शोक-संवेदनाएं। मैं घायल हुए लोगों के शीघ्र स्वस्थ होने की कामना करती हूं। — President of India (@rashtrapatibhvn) October 1, 2022 Prime Minister Narendra Modi also expressed condolences over the mishap and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh from Prime Ministers National Relief Fund to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the injured. Distressed by the tractor-trolley mishap in Kanpur. My thoughts are with all those who have lost their near and dear ones. Prayers with the injured. The local administration is providing all possible assistance to the affected: PM @narendramodi — PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 1, 2022 Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath has also shared condolences. जनपद कानपुर में हुई सड़क दुर्घटना अत्यंत हृदय विदारक है। जिलाधिकारी एवं अन्य वरिष्ठ अधिकारियों को तत्काल मौके पर पहुंचकर युद्ध स्तर पर राहत व बचाव कार्य संचालित करने तथा घायलों के समुचित उपचार की व्यवस्था करने के निर्देश दिए गए हैं। घायलों के शीघ्र स्वास्थ्य लाभ की कामना है। — Yogi Adityanath (@myogiadityanath) October 1, 2022 He said that the District Magistrate and other senior officers have been directed to reach the spot immediately and conduct relief and rescue operations on a war footing and make arrangements for proper treatment of the injured. He wished speedy recovery of those injured. The Chief Minister has sent senior ministers Rakesh Sachan and Ajit Pal to the accident site to oversee the relief-and-rescue measures and is personally monitoring the operations. In a tweet, Adityanath said: “The road accident in Kanpur district is heart wrenching. The district magistrate and other senior officers have been directed to reach the spot immediately, conduct the relief-and-rescue operations on a war footing and make arrangements for the proper treatment of the injured. “The loss of lives in the accident is very sad. My condolences are with the bereaved families. Praying to Lord Ram to grant the departed souls a place at his feet and courage to the families of the deceased to bear this unfathomable loss.” Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati have also expressed grief over the loss of lives in the accident. In a tweet, Yadav said: “In Uttar Pradesh, transportation in tractor trolleys is continuously going on. The transport department is oblivious and innocent lives are being lost. The BJP government should take cognizance and carry out the rescue operation. Condolences on the deaths. The government should give a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to the relatives of the deceased, Rs 5 lakh to the injured and make arrangements for their treatment.” Mayawati conveyed her condolences to the bereaved families and asked the government to extend all possible help to the victims. The chief minister has also appealed to people to use tractor-trolleys only for purposes related to farming and transferring goods and not for carrying passengers, according to an official release issued in Lucknow. An eyewitness told reporters that he, along with others, rushed to the site after hearing the cries of men, women and children for help. The locals immediately jumped into the water and somehow managed to pull out the victims, some of whom were already dead, he said. For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest Uttar Pradesh News on India.com.
