=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Baba Payam ud Din Reshi - Wikipedia]
The place known as daan that Baba Reshi built in the village Ramboh went ablaze and caused severe damage to several buildings surrounding the shrine causing a huge economic loss to the historic place. There are accommodations for tourists and pilgrims around the shrine.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baba_Payam_ud_Din_Reshi

[Ziyarat Baba Reshi | Official website of District Baramulla | India]
The Ziarat of Baba Reshi is a popular shrine of Baramula, situated near the Alpather Lake at 13 km from Gulmarg and belongs to saint Baba payam-Din. Baba payam-Din was a well-known Muslim saint as well as a courtier of the king of Kashmir, Zain-ul-Abidin. This shrine is that very site where ...
URL: https://baramulla.nic.in/tourist-place/ziyarat-baba-reshi/

[Visiting Baba Reshi - SearchKashmir]
Visiting Baba Reshi Near Ramboh village in Baramulla District, three miles from Tangmarg, on way to Gulmarg, the shrine of Baba Reshi is situated at about 7,000 ft. The tomb (Ziarat) is of an ascetic actually named Baba Payamuddin (Pam Din) and to whom the Chak Dynasty Rulers of Kashmir paid courtesy visits during the Mughal period.
URL: https://searchkashmir.org/visiting-baba-reshi/

[Cannonsburgh Village | Murfreesboro, TN - Official Website]
Learn about the history of Cannonsburgh Village and rental rates and reservations.
URL: https://www.murfreesborotn.gov/164/Cannonsburgh-Village

[Shrine of Baba Reshi Gulmarg | How to Reach, And Timing]
Baba Reshi Dargha Overview Ziarat Baba Reshi or Dargah Baba Reshi is a revered Muslim shrine located in the town of Gulmarg in the district Baramulla of Jammu and Kashmir. The shrine is dedicated to the famous Muslim saint, Baba Payam- Uddin who died in 1480. The saint is believed to be the courtier of Kashmiri king Zain-ul-Abidin.
URL: https://www.kashmirtourbazaar.com/kashmir/gulmarg/shrine-of-baba-reshi/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Baba Payam ud Din Reshi - Wikipedia] ---
Baba Rishi c. 1411 – c. 1480; born Payam ud-Din, was a revered 15th-century Sufi saint from Kashmir. Born in 1411 CE in Chander-nau-gaon, near Ganderbal, he was the son of a nobleman serving in the court of Sultan Zain-ul-Abidin. Initially living a life of luxury, Baba Reshi experienced a spiritual awakening after observing ants diligently gathering food for the winter, prompting him to contemplate the transient nature of worldly possessions and the importance of the afterlife.
Motivated by this reflection, he renounced his wealth and status, he went to Nund Rishi for guidance and was sent to train with Baba Shukur-ud-Din Wali who told him to get water from Wular Lake to the top of Sharikot Hill for 2 years, after his training with Baba Shukur ud-Din Wali was done, he directed him to go to Sakhi Zain al-Din Wali for further training in Aishmuquam. After completing his spiritual training, Baba Reshi was directed by Sakhi Zain al-Din Wali to move to Ramboh village in Baramulla district, where he dedicated himself to prayer and meditation, attracting followers with his piety and wisdom. He spent the remainder of his life in the forested area near Tangmarg, dying in 1480 CE.
Babareshi is also the name of a village, forest area, tourist and religious place in Jammu and Kashmir, India. It is named after the Sufi saint Baba Payam ud din Reshi.
It is located a few kilometres from Tangmarg and near the hill station Gulmarg.
History


--- [Ziyarat Baba Reshi | Official website of District Baramulla | India] ---
Ziyarat Baba Reshi The Ziarat of Baba Reshi is a popular shrine of Baramula, situated near the Alpather Lake at 13 km from Gulmarg and belongs to saint Baba payam-Din. Baba payam-Din was a well-known Muslim saint as well as a courtier of the king of Kashmir, Zain-ul-Abidin. This shrine is that very site where Baba payam-Din died in 1480 after spending his days in prayer and meditation. The main feature of this shrine is the grave of Baba payam-Din, covered with a sheet of cloth decorated with unique workmanship. The shrine is popular for granting the boons to its devotees. Devotees that get their boons granted, revisit this shrine, to make grateful offering in honour to the great saint. Photo Gallery How to Reach : By Air It takes 1 hours, 8 minutes to travel from Srinagar to Baba Rishi. Approximate driving distance between Srinagar and Baba Rishi is 35.4 KM . Travel time refers to the time taken if the distance is covered by a car. By Train Nearest Raiway Station is Mazhama Railway Station. It takes 30 Minutes to reach Baba Reshi from Railway Staion. By Road To reach at this destination, buses or cabs can be hired from Srinagar from Tourist Reception centre


--- [Visiting Baba Reshi - SearchKashmir] ---
Near Ramboh village in Baramulla District, three miles from Tangmarg, on way to Gulmarg, the shrine of Baba Reshi is situated at about 7,000 ft. The tomb (Ziarat) is of an ascetic actually named Baba Payamuddin (Pam Din) and to whom the Chak Dynasty Rulers of Kashmir paid courtesy visits during the Mughal period. Born around 1411, he is said to have died around 1480. This Reshi, a highborn son of a nobleman but turned ascetic after observing hardworking ants too closely one day, was a disciple of Baba Zainuddin Rishi (born Ziya Singh or Jaya Singh, some say) of Aishmuqam who was one of the principal disciples of Sheikh Nur-ud-din (Nund Rishi) – the first of the Reshis; the disciples, his four Jewels: ‘Buma’ Baba Bamuddin Rishi, ‘Nasar’ Baba Nasruddin Rishi, ‘Zaina’ Baba Zainuddin Rishi and ‘Latif ‘ Baba Latifuddin Rishi. In his later years, on the direction of Zainuddin Rishi, Baba Payamuddin moved to village Ramboh, and like others of the order, performed miracles, helped the common people and spread the name. Baba Reshi famously built a daan, a fire place at this place. People came from far and wide to plaster this daan, to offer sacrifices. They still do. All to have their wishes granted. In the 90s, this place also faced fire. On way to Gulmarg, I had no idea we were going to make a stopover here. So it came as a pleasant surprise. After visiting the house that wasn’t there anymore, it came as a pleasant surprise from my parents. My mother couldn’t stop gushing about the place. I guess she has inherited the devotion to this place from her mother who must have been here often thanks to Nana’s job at Gulmarg. Inside the shrine, in the center of the hall, there is some wonderful woodwork around the tomb of the saint. As I walked around the tomb, circling it, appreciating the art, ‘Is it walnut wood?’, noticing something strange, I came to a sudden embarrassing halt. There was something wrong with the place where I stood. One look around and I realized that I had been circling in the outer circle and had unwittingly walked into the women section. There were women sitting all around. The right side of the hall seemed women only. Women praying, crying. Baba Reshi is famous for granting ‘child wish’. According to an old tradition of this place, the children thus born, taking a vow of celibacy is attached to the shrine for life and at any given time forty such saints (Reshis) are supposed to serve the shrine. I traced back my steps and this time started to walk the other side. My mother took up a corner and did her own bit of praying and crying. I walked into the inner circle, taking a closer look at the tomb, ‘Is it a tomb?’, again I realized something wrong. This time it was the direction. Circling, left to right, I found myself facing a teenage boy coming from the other direction. The boy, praying under his breadth, was cleaning the woodwork using his fingers, measuring the woodwork inch by inch, picking up pecks of dust. An old practice, I have seen Pandits do it at the new shrines of old saints, at Jammu. After spending some more time inside the shrine, as I started to step outside, I noticed an attendant at the door was handing out something wrapped in Newspaper to the people walking out of the shrine. Prashad? Prasadam? Something sweet? Something to eat?Tabarruk? I too streached my arm for the handout. Walking a distance outside, I opened the paper packet. Inside I found broken down stones and rocks. Others found ash, dust and soot. Later someone told me a funny little anecdote. A couple of years ago, a small group of Pandit families had come to visit the shine on the urs, death anniversary, of the saint. A group of separatists was also present. After the common prayers, the separatists raised their hands and asked the saint to grant their wish, ‘Kashmir bane Pakistan, Let Kashmir be Pakistan’. The crowd said, ‘Ameen, Amen’. The Pandits shaking their sideways, under their breath added, ‘Zah ti ne, Zah ti ne, never, never’


--- [Cannonsburgh Village | Murfreesboro, TN - Official Website] ---
- Home - Your Government - Departments - Parks & Recreation - Facilities - Cannonsburgh Village Cannonsburgh Village Historic Cannonsburgh Village represents approximately 100 years of early Tennessee life from the 1830s to the 1930s. Within the village is a gristmill, school house, a telephone operator's house, the University House, the Leeman House, a museum, a caboose, the Wedding Chapel, a doctor's office, a general store, a blacksmith's shop and the World’s Largest Cedar Bucket. Self-guided tours are free. The Visitor Center has a variety of items for sale including post cards, t-shirts, snacks, drinks and souvenirs. Please call ahead before you plan your visit as the village may be closed for a private rental. - Wed, Mar 4 - Wed, Mar 4 - Wed, Mar 4 - Wed, Mar 4 - Wed, Mar 4 - Wed, Mar 4 - Wed, Mar 4 - Wed, Mar 4 CONNECT WITH US - Mary Beth Nevills Recreation Facility Coordinator - Seth Thompson Assistant Program Coordinator - Physical Address 312 South Front Street Murfreesboro, TN 37129 Phone: 615-890-0355 Current Hours Village and Visitors' Center - Tuesday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 3 p.m. - Village will be open weather permitting - Saturday / Sunday / Monday: Closed Holiday Schedule - 2026 Jan 1 (New Year's Day) - Closed Jan 19 (MLK Day) - Closed Feb 16 (Presidents Day) - Closed April 5 (Easter) - Closed May 25 (Memorial Day) - Closed June 19 (Juneteenth) - Closed July 4 (Independence Day) - Closed Sept 7 (Labor Day) - Closed Nov 11 (Veterans Day) - Closed Nov 26 (Thanksgiving) – Closed Dec 24 (Christmas Eve) - Closed Dec 25 (Christmas Day) - Closed Dec 31 (New Year's Eve) - Close at 3 pm Jan 1, 2027 (New Year's Day) - Closed


--- [Shrine of Baba Reshi Gulmarg | How to Reach, And Timing] ---
Shrine of Baba Reshi Baba Reshi Dargha Overview Ziarat Baba Reshi or Dargah Baba Reshi is a revered Muslim shrine located in the town of Gulmarg in the district Baramulla of Jammu and Kashmir. The shrine is dedicated to the famous Muslim saint, Baba Payam- Uddin who died in 1480. The saint is believed to be the courtier of Kashmiri king Zain-ul-Abidin. The shrine was built in the 13th century during the Mughal era. Baba Reshi shrine can be reached both by Gulmarg and Tangmarg and it is situated at an altitude of 7,000 feet above sea level. The shrine is built with different architectural styles which is a combination of Islamic and traditional Kashmiri architecture. It features attractive woodwork, lattice windows, and a unique multi-tiered pagoda-like structure. The Baba Reshi shrine is situated amidst scenic surroundings with high mountains and lush green forests. The shrine is famous among Muslim devotees who flock here in large numbers, especially on Thursdays and Fridays which are considered auspicious days for visiting. Visiting Baba Reshi Shrine is not only a spiritual experience but also a way to immerse yourself in the rich cultural heritage of Jammu and Kashmir. How to reach Ziarat Baba Reshi Gulmarg From Gulmarg- if you are travelling from Gulmarg, then there is a short distance of 5 kilometres which will take you to the shrine. It is a short trip from Gulmarg and you can easily book a taxi in the main market which will cost you about Rs. 1500 to Rs. 2000. From Srinagar- if you are travelling from Srinagar, then you have to first reach Tangmarg to visit the shrine. At Tangmmarg market, you have to book a private taxi or sumo which will take you to Baba Reshi shrine. Frequently Asked Questions About Baba Reshi Where is the Baba Reshi Shrine located? The Baba Reshi Shrine is located in the town of Gulmarg in the Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, India Who was Baba Reshi? Baba Reshi was a revered Muslim saint who lived in the 15th century. He was a Sufi mystic and is believed to have been a close companion of the renowned Kashmiri saint Sheikh Noor-ud-din Noorani, also known as Nund Rishi or Sheikh-ul-Alam. What are the opening hours of the shrine? The Baba Reshi Shrine is generally open to visitors during daylight hours. However, it’s advisable to check with local authorities or the shrine management for specific opening hours and any restrictions before planning your visit. what is the real name of Baba Reshi? The real name of Baba Reshi is Baba Payam- Uddin Reshi who was the courtier of Mughal king Zain-ul-Abidin. Are there any rituals or customs associated with visiting the shrine? Devotes at Baba Reshi shrine often offer prayers, recite religious verses, and make offerings such as flowers or sweets as a sign of devotion. It’s advisable to observe and respect any customs or rituals being performed by other devotees.
