=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[At the Forks of the Grand: Volume I, 1956, p. 64: County of ...]
Of the business men who came to Paris between 1845 and i86o, Charles Whitlaw, a native of Montreal, was pre-eminent. In 1846, when only 22 years old he bought the grist mill on Grand River Street from Robert Kirkwood.
URL: https://images.ourontario.ca/brant/page.asp?ID=58332&po=84

[Charles Whitlaw (1823-1895) - Find a Grave Memorial]
Montreal, Montreal Region, Quebec, Canada Death 13 Jul 1895 (aged 71) Paris, Brant County Municipality, Ontario, Canada Burial Paris Cemetery Paris, Brant County Municipality, Ontario, Canada Show Map GPS-Latitude: 43.1869806, Longitude: -80.3900000 Memorial ID 140382586· View Source Suggest Edits Memorial Photos Flowers Memorials Region North ...
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/140382586/charles-whitlaw

[Few men have been so important in the civic life of Paris]
Feb 25, 2023 · Charles Whitlaw, flour manufacturer in Paris since 1846, and one of its most enterprising men, was born in Montreal, Lower Canada, November 11, 1823, his parents being John and Janet (White ...
URL: https://issuu.com/theparisindependent/docs/the_paris_independent_saturday_february_25_2023_/s/19789284

[The Canadian Biographical Dictionary - Access Genealogy]
Charles Whitlaw, flour manufacturer in Paris since 1846, and one of its most enterprizing men, was born in Montreal, Lower Canada, November 11, 1823, his parents being John and Janet (White) Whitlaw, both from Scotland.
URL: https://accessgenealogy.com/dataset/the-canadian-biographical-dictionary/page/22

[Charles Whitlaw - sites.rootsmagic.com]
Jul 16, 2024 · (11 Nov 1823 - 13 Jul 1895) Events
URL: https://sites.rootsmagic.com/AtwoodFamily/site/individual.php?p=71059


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [At the Forks of the Grand: Volume I, 1956, p. 64: County of ...] ---
No content


--- [Charles Whitlaw (1823-1895) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/140382586/charles-whitlaw: accessed ), memorial page for Charles Whitlaw (11 Nov 1823–13 Jul 1895), Find a Grave Memorial ID 140382586, citing Paris Cemetery, Paris, Brant County Municipality, Ontario, Canada; Maintained by Linzey Davis (contributor 48562493). Add Photos for Charles Whitlaw Fulfill Photo Request for Charles Whitlaw Photo Request Fulfilled Thank you for fulfilling this photo request. An email has been sent to the person who requested the photo informing them that you have fulfilled their request There is an open photo request for this memorial Are you adding a grave photo that will fulfill this request? Oops, some error occurred while uploading your photo(s). Oops, something didn't work. Close this window, and upload the photo(s) again. Make sure that the file is a photo. Photos larger than 8 MB will be reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. All photos uploaded successfully, click on the <b>Done button</b> to see the photos in the gallery. General photo guidelines: Photos larger than 8.0 MB will be optimized and reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. Each contributor can upload a maximum of 5 photos for a memorial. A memorial can have a maximum of 20 photos from all contributors. The sponsor of a memorial may add an additional 10 photos (for a total of 30 on the memorial). Include gps location with grave photos where possible. No animated GIFs, photos with additional graphics (borders, embellishments.) This memorial already has a grave photo. Please indicate why you think it needs another. There is no plot information for this memorial. Your photo request is more likely to be fulfilled if you contact the cemetery to get the plot information and include it with your request. You are only allowed to leave one flower per day for any given memorial. Memorial Photos This is a carousel with slides. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Use Escape keyboard button or the Close button to close the carousel. Quickly see who the memorial is for and when they lived and died and where they are buried. Show Map If the memorial includes GPS coordinates, simply click 'Show Map' to view the gravesite location within the cemetery. If no GPS coordinates are available, you can contribute by adding them if you know the precise location. Photos For memorials with more than one photo, additional photos will appear here or on the photos tab. Photos Tab All photos appear on this tab and here you can update the sort order of photos on memorials you manage. To view a photo in more detail or edit captions for photos you added, click the photo to open the photo viewer. Flowers Flowers added to the memorial appear on the bottom of the memorial or here on the Flowers tab. To add a flower, click the Leave a Flower button. Family Members Family members linked to this person will appear here. Related searches Use the links under See more… to quickly search for other people with the same last name in the same cemetery, city, county, etc. Sponsor This Memorial Remove advertising from a memorial by sponsoring it for <strong>just $10</strong>. Previously sponsored memorials or famous memorials will not have this option. Share Share this memorial using social media sites or email. Save to Save to an Ancestry Tree, a virtual cemetery, your clipboard for pasting or Print. Edit or Suggest Edit Edit a memorial you manage or suggest changes to the memorial manager. Have Feedback Thanks for using Find a Grave, if you have any feedback we would love to hear from you. This photo is larger than 20 MB. Please resize to less than 20 MB and try again. You may not upload any more photos to this memorial There was a problem uploading this image "Unsupported file type" Uploading... Waiting... Success Failed Duplicate photo Not image owner Photo status will not allow linking This photo has already been added to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial Invalid File Type Uploading 1 Photo Uploading 2 Photos 1 Photo Uploaded 2 Photos Uploaded Added by GREAT NEWS! There is 1 volunteer for this cemetery. Sorry! There are no volunteers for this cemetery. Continuing with this request will add an alert to the cemetery page and any new volunteers will have the opportunity to fulfill your request. Enter numeric value Enter memorial Id Year should not be greater than current year Invalid memorial Duplicate entry for memorial You have chosen this person to be their own family member. Reported! This relationship is not possible based on lifespan dates. 0% Complete Saved Sign in or Register Sign in to Find a Grave Sign-in to link to existing account There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. We’ve updated the security on the site. Please reset your password. Your account has been locked for 30 minutes due to too many failed sign in attempts. Please contact Find a Grave at [email protected] if you need help resetting your password. This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] Email not found Please complete the captcha to let us know you are a real person. Sign in to your existing Find a Grave account. You’ll only have to do this once—after your accounts are connected, you can sign in using your Ancestry sign in or your Find a Grave sign in. We found an existing Find a Grave account associated with your email address. Sign in below with your Find a Grave credentials to link your Ancestry account. After your accounts are connected you can sign in using either account. Please enter your email to sign in. Please enter your password to sign in. Please enter your email and password to sign in. There is a problem with your email/password. A system error has occurred. Please try again later. A password reset email has been sent to EmailID. If you don't see an email, please check your spam folder. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. Password Reset Please enter your email address and we will send you an email with a reset password code. or Registration Options Welcome to Find a Grave Create your free account by choosing an option below. or Ancestry account link To create your account, Ancestry will share your name and email address with Find a Grave. To continue choose an option below. or If you already have a Find a Grave account, please sign in to link to Ancestry®. New Member Registration Email is mandatory Email and Password are mandatory This account already exists, but the email address still needs to be confirmed. Resend Activation Email Your password is not strong enough Invalid Email You must agree to Terms and Conditions Account already exists Please check the I'm not a robot checkbox Internal Server error occurred If you want to be a Photo Volunteer you must enter a ZIP Code or select your location on the map You must select an email preference We have sent you an activation email Your new password must contain one or more uppercase and lowercase letters, and one or more numbers or special characters. We just emailed an activation code to Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account. cemeteries found in will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within miles of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within kilometers of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. Within 5 miles of your location. Within 5 kilometers of your location. 0 cemeteries found in . 0 cemeteries found. Add a cemetery to fulfill photo requests You can customize the cemeteries you volunteer for by selecting or deselecting below. Search above to list available cemeteries. Getting location… Loading... Loading... No cemeteries found Find a Grave Video Tutorials Default Language Translation on Find a Grave is an ongoing project. If you notice a problem with the translation, please send a message to [email protected] and include a link to the page and details about the problem. Thanks for your help! Preferred Language We have set your language to based on information from your browser. You can choose another language below: Welcome Back! Thanks for signing in. Your account will not be marked as inactive. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave. Your account has been reactivated. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . Sign out successful Return to the email you received and click on the link to contact us.


--- [Few men have been so important in the civic life of Paris] ---
1 minute read Few men have been so important in the civic life of Paris Charles Whitlaw, flour manufacturer in Paris since 1846, and one of its most enterprising men, was born in Montreal, Lower Canada, November 11, 1823, his parents being John and Janet (White) Whitlaw, both from Scotland. His father was a carpenter and builder and died in Montreal in 1866. Our subject was educated in the private school of Dr. Black, one of the best educators in Montreal. He was trained for the dry goods business in his native city and in 1844 he came to Hamilton, Canada West and clerked two years in the dry goods store of Archibald Kerr. He then formed a partnership with Mr. Kerr, and settled in Paris, managing a flouring mill, store and distillery, his partner remaining in Hamilton. About three years later, Mr. Whitlaw bought out the interest of his partner in the mill and was alone in the manufacture of flour from 1849 to 1878, when Andrew H. Baird became a partner in the business They were among the leading manufacturers in town, filled up with manufactories, having a second, much smaller flouring mill, three knitting factories, stone and earthenware works, metal spinning works, oil cloth works, foundry and agricultural works, a tannery, plaster mills, sheet metal and Japan works, and half a dozen other manufactories They were all introduced, except a small plaster mill and grist mill, since Mr. Whitlaw located here at the confluence of Grand River and Smith’s Creek, in 1846. Advertisement Mr Whitlaw has been a councilman, reeve and mayor, in all more than twenty years, being in the last named office, at one period, for seven or eight consecutive terms. He has also served as a school trustee. No man has taken more interest in the village of Paris or done more to place it on a solid basis. When the Buffalo and Lake Huron Railway was built, he was a director of that road and has identified himself with every movement tending to promote the growth and general welfare of his adopted home. In politics he was a Reformer; in religion a Congregationalist, being deacon of the Paris church. In 1848 he married Miss Celesta Morse, daughter of Collins Morse, a prominent citizen of Painesville, Ohio, she then being in Paris. They have four children. John is a commission merchant in Woodstock; Kate is the wife of E. L. Bond, son of Bishop Bond; Charles is a clerk in Toronto, and Maud is at home Continued on page 16


--- [The Canadian Biographical Dictionary - Access Genealogy] ---
Biography of Hon. Robert Lyon Robert Lyon, born July 6, 1829, in Richmond, Ontario, was educated locally before pursuing legal studies in Montreal and Toronto. He practiced law under his brother and notable mentors, becoming an attorney in 1851 and a barrister in 1853. Lyon served as Ottawa’s mayor in 1867 and represented Carleton in the first Parliament post-Confederation. Appointed to the Bench in 1873, he was known for his impartiality and dignity. Lyon was married to Mary Ann Foster, with whom he had five children.


--- [Charles Whitlaw - sites.rootsmagic.com] ---
Individual Details Charles Whitlaw (11 Nov 1823 - 13 Jul 1895) Events | Birth | 11 Nov 1823 | Montréal, Québec, Canada | ||| | Christen | 13 Nov 1823 | Montréal, Québec, Canada | ||| | Marriage | 1848 | Paris, Brant, Ontario, Canada West - Celestia A. Morse | ||| | Death | 13 Jul 1895 | Paris, Brant, Ontario, Canada | ||| | Burial | 16 Jul 1895 | Families | Spouse | Celestia A. Morse (1828 - 1911) |
