=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The life and times of Bessie Smith: Music’s first diva]
Feb 6, 2022 · Black Swan would regret their decision, though, as they watched Columbia reap all the monetary awards from music’s original diva. In total, Smith made 160 records for Columbia and was ballasted by some of the most lauded musicians of the day, including Louis Armstrong, Fletcher Henderson and Charlie Green.
URL: https://faroutmagazine.co.uk/life-bessie-smith-music-first-diva/

[Hearing the Americas · Bessie Smith · Hearing the Americas]
Smith gained a loyal following throughout the South, but by 1922 she had moved north to Philadelphia and turned her attention to the recording boom of the “blues.” She was initially rejected by OKeh Records and Black Swan Records, a Black-owned record company, for being “too rough” – essentially for being too Black, too unrespectable.
URL: https://hearingtheamericas.org/s/the-americas/item/235

[Bessie Smith - Wikipedia]
Bessie Smith (April 15, 1892 – September 26, 1937) was an African-American blues singer widely renowned during the Jazz Age. Nicknamed the "Empress of the Blues" and formerly Queen of the Blues, she was the most popular female blues singer of the 1930s.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bessie_Smith

[Bessie Smith Study Guide: Becoming the Empress | SparkNotes]
The Blues became a staple of these illicit speakeasies. In 1921, Smith moved to Philadelphia. While there, she auditioned for two record companies: Okeh Records and W.C. Handy's Black Swan Records. Both record labels turned Smith down because her voice was "too rough," a thinly veiled euphemism for "too black."
URL: https://www.sparknotes.com/biography/bessiesmith/section2/

[Bessie Smith | The Concert Database]
Bessie Smith was an American blues singer nicknamed The Empress of the Blues. Smith was the most popular female blues singer of the 1920s and 1930s. She was a major influence on subsequent jazz vocalists.
URL: https://theconcertdatabase.com/artists/bessie-smith


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The life and times of Bessie Smith: Music’s first diva] ---
The life and times of Bessie Smith: Music’s first diva Bessie Smith was one of the most influential singers of all time. Hitting her creative zenith during the Jazz Age, she became known as the ‘Empress of the Blues’, which says it all about her status. The most popular female blues singer of the 1920s and ’30s, Smith helped to drag music into the future by challenging social attitudes. Possessing an immense vocal talent, she was a considerable influence on the development of blues and jazz, setting the stage for figures such as Billie Holiday and Louis Armstrong in the not too distant future. Smith was born into abject poverty in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in 1894. She was only a child when both of her parents died, so she and her six siblings survived by performing on the streets. After her parents had passed on, her older sister, Viola, took it upon herself to care for the siblings. However, because they were without parents, Smith didn’t have an education. This reflects just how bleak her childhood was. Mainly, it was Bessie and her brother Andrew who earned money by performing on the streets, and it was here where she gained her true education. She sang and danced, and Andrew played the guitar, and they would regularly perform in front of the White Elephant Saloon, which was at the centre of the city’s African-American neighbourhood. She cut her teeth at a young age, and this stood her in good stead for the not too distant future. Bessie’s rise to fame would be set in motion by her eldest brother, Clarence, who left home to join a travelling troupe of musicians in 1904. “If Bessie had been old enough, she would have gone with him,” remembered Clarence’s widow, Maud. “That’s why he left without telling her, but Clarence told me she was ready, even then. Of course, she was only a child.” However, her day would come. Some eight years later, in 1912, Clarence returned home with the troupe. He arranged for Bessie to audition with the managers of the band, Lonnie and Cora Fisher. Initially, Bessie was hired only as a dancer because the company already had their money-maker, in blues legend Ma Rainey. However, to be in the presence of such a lauded vocalist helped Smith tremendously, and it is credited with her developing her artistry. In 1913, Smith started branching out and forming her act, centred at The 81 Theater in Atlanta, Georgia, and things then moved quickly. By 1920, Smith had cultivated great respect in the South and on the East Coast, and she was all primed for the major leagues. Around this same time, the track ‘Crazy Blues’ by Mamie Smith (no relation), was released by Okeh Records and pointed to the fact that there was a new market for record companies to explore. The song sold over 100,000 units, and prior to this moment, the music industry hadn’t thought about marketing to black people for racist reasons. However, now that Mamie Smith had opened up the floodgates, everyone wanted to get in on the action. The hunt was on for female blues vocalists. In 1923, Bessie Smith was snapped up amid this newfound gold rush. Soon enough, she was signed to Columbia Records by the legendary talent scout Frank Walker, the man who later discovered iconic country figure Hank Williams. Walker had seen her perform years earlier to this new boom and knew she was perfect. Smith started her career on the label’s A-series, but when the company established their incredibly cynical ‘race records’ series, her September 1923 track ‘Cemetary Blues’ was the first to be issued under that banner. During the mid-1920s as her popularity reached wondrous heights, Smith became a headliner of the Theatre Owners Booking Association (T.O.B.A.) and became its hottest attraction. This combination of popular records and a hectic touring schedule made Smith the highest-paid African-American entertainer of the day. She was so famous that she travelled the country in a 72-foot railroad car. Prior, such heights were thought impossible for a woman from such a lowly background. Columbia’s media wing gave her the moniker of ‘Queen of the Blues’, but the media thought this wasn’t enough for a performer travelling in their own rail carriage. Before long, she was awarded the title ‘Empress of the Blues’, and afterwards, her legacy was cemented in history. The themes of Smith’s works were also groundbreaking. She described female independence, fearlessness in the face of adversity and sexual freedom, arguing that working-class women shouldn’t have to change their behaviour to be respected. She challenged longstanding norms by encouraging women of her class to drink, party and have sex as a means of alleviating the burden of everyday life. For the 1920s, this was precocious in every sense of the word. The way she flipped the Conservative idea of African-American womanhood beyond the realms of conformity and domesticity was also groundbreaking. In many ways, Smith was the first iconoclastic woman in music history. Showing this, the themes she sang about wouldn’t be accepted until the ’60s. However, this also made her controversial, as many things she sang about were thought heinous by many in society, black or white. Ironically, this iconoclasm would open doors and, subsequently, close them for Smith. She once auditioned for Black Swan Records, which included eminent intellectual W. E. B. Du Bois on its board but was dismissed because of her perceived roughness, a damning indictment of the misogyny of the era. Black Swan would regret their decision, though, as they watched Columbia reap all the monetary awards from music’s original diva. In total, Smith made 160 records for Columbia and was ballasted by some of the most lauded musicians of the day, including Louis Armstrong, Fletcher Henderson and Charlie Green. Smith would also start to move from jazz and blues into swing. In 1933, John Henry Hammond, Billie Holiday‘s mentor, asked Smith to record for Okeh, a subsidiary of Columbia. However, this transition was cut short when Smith was killed in a tragic car accident in September 1937. She was only 43, but in her short time had managed to enact a change in music that would carry it through until the rock and roll revolution of the ’50s. One of the first African-American pioneers in music, Bessie Smith’s legacy lives on today. Without her, there’d be no Beyoncé, Kanye West, Amy Winehouse or any other significant artists of contemporary culture.


--- [Hearing the Americas · Bessie Smith · Hearing the Americas] ---
Bessie Smith PerformerBessie Smith was one of the most important blues artists of the 1920s. Having grown up in poverty, Smith performed as a young girl on the streets of Chattanooga, Tennessee. She was singing, dancing and telling jokes on vaudeville stages by the time she was a teenager, debuting in Atlanta’s “81” theater in 1909. Smith gained a loyal following throughout the South, but by 1922 she had moved north to Philadelphia and turned her attention to the recording boom of the “blues.” She was initially rejected by OKeh Records and Black Swan Records, a Black-owned record company, for being “too rough” – essentially for being too Black, too unrespectable. However, white talent scout Frank Walker at Columbia Records was impressed with Smith’s vocals, particularly by the “torture and torment she put into the music of her people.” Columbia signed Smith in 1923, and following her first recording, “Down Hearted Blues,” she quickly became one of the most prominent artists in the company’s new “race” category. Smith went on to record hundreds of songs, including hits like “Back-Water Blues,” “Need a Little Sugar in My Bowl,” and “Nobody Knows You When You’re Down and Out.” Dubbed the “Empress of the Blues,” she helped inject the new genre with a “down-home,” southern style. Smith’s star power was built on an unlikely combination: a powerful vocal style, gritty lyrics, and dressy glamour. She belted out relatable, often salacious songs while dressed in extravagant gowns, furs, and headdresses. Although white southerners typically preferred black performers who conformed to Mammy and Uncle Tom stereotypes, many seemed to enjoy Smith’s flashy costumes and suggestive movements as well as her use of slapstick humor derived from vaudeville. Nevertheless, working-class African Americans in the North and South constituted her primary audience. Smith’s songs spoke directly to the everyday struggles and concerns of these listeners, addressing homelessness, poverty and domestic abuse and, often, directly expressing and celebrating female sexual desire. Smith used her public performances, private life, and song lyrics to challenge racism in the U.S. and sexism within the African American community. She carried on bisexual affairs in public view, had a larger body type than most female performers, and was considered both musically and socially defiant. Her songs “I’m Wild About That Thing,” “You’ve Got to Give Me Some,” and “Kitchen Man” constructed her as an unabashedly confident and sexually aggressive woman. In all of these ways, Smith provided an alternative model of how Black women in the U.S. could look and act. Bessie Smith created a musical and performative space where sexual, racial, and gendered realities were not regulated by the state or shamed by black religious and bourgeois communities. After her death resulting from a car accident in 1937, she continued to be an icon for black women and gay and lesbian communities in the U.S. Smith’s star power was built on an unlikely combination: a powerful vocal style, gritty lyrics, and dressy glamour. She belted out relatable, often salacious songs while dressed in extravagant gowns, furs, and headdresses. Although white southerners typically preferred black performers who conformed to Mammy and Uncle Tom stereotypes, many seemed to enjoy Smith’s flashy costumes and suggestive movements as well as her use of slapstick humor derived from vaudeville. Nevertheless, working-class African Americans in the North and South constituted her primary audience. Smith’s songs spoke directly to the everyday struggles and concerns of these listeners, addressing homelessness, poverty and domestic abuse and, often, directly expressing and celebrating female sexual desire. Smith used her public performances, private life, and song lyrics to challenge racism in the U.S. and sexism within the African American community. She carried on bisexual affairs in public view, had a larger body type than most female performers, and was considered both musically and socially defiant. Her songs “I’m Wild About That Thing,” “You’ve Got to Give Me Some,” and “Kitchen Man” constructed her as an unabashedly confident and sexually aggressive woman. In all of these ways, Smith provided an alternative model of how Black women in the U.S. could look and act. Bessie Smith created a musical and performative space where sexual, racial, and gendered realities were not regulated by the state or shamed by black religious and bourgeois communities. After her death resulting from a car accident in 1937, she continued to be an icon for black women and gay and lesbian communities in the U.S.


--- [Bessie Smith - Wikipedia] ---
Bessie Smith (April 15, 1892 – September 26, 1937) was an African-American blues singer widely renowned during the Jazz Age. Nicknamed the "Empress of the Blues" and formerly Queen of the Blues, she was the most popular female blues singer of the 1930s. Inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1989, she is often regarded as one of the greatest singers of her era and was a major influence on fellow blues singers, as well as jazz vocalists.
Born in Chattanooga, Tennessee, Smith was young when her parents died, and she and her six siblings survived by performing on street corners. She began touring and performed in a group that included Ma Rainey, and then went out on her own. Her successful recording career with Columbia Records began in  1923, but her performing career was cut short by a car crash that killed her at the age of 45.




--- [Bessie Smith Study Guide: Becoming the Empress | SparkNotes] ---
The war did not affect Bessie Smith's burgeoning career, and the scope and quality of her performances continued to grow. In 1915, Smith joined Ma Rainey on tour with the Rabbit Foot Minstrels, and in 1916, Smith traveled with Pete Werley's Florida Cotton Blossoms Minstrels Show and Silas Green's Minstrel Show. Between 1918 and 1919, Smith appeared as a singer, dancer and male impersonator in her own show, the Liberty Belles Revue, in Atlanta. In the early 1920s she performed in New Jersey with the Charles Johnson Band at Paradise Gardens. Smith worked at Horan's Madhouse Club in Philadelphia from 1920 to 1923, and she appeared in the musical "How Come" at the Dunbar Theater in Philadelphia in 1923. These were formative years for Smith. Her years of touring had helped her build a huge fan base, despite the fact that she had not yet recorded a single song. If her name was on the show's billing, people would line up for hours in order to buy tickets. Around this time, Smith married a man named Earl Love, who came from a wealthy Southern family. Very little is known about Love and the circumstances of the couple's meeting and marriage. All that is known is that they married in 1920 and that Love died soon after. Smith told people that Love died in the war, but this was never confirmed. In 1920, Smith moved to Atlantic City to perform in various shows there. Around this time, Mamie Smith's "Crazy Blues" was released and became an enormous hit. It was the first blues record recorded by an African-American to hit the mainstream market. Record companies had previously believed there was little money to be made in African-American communities, but the popularity of Mamie Smith's recording sparked a mad rush by recording companies to put out blues records. Shortly after Mamie Smith's "Crazy Blues" was released, Bessie Smith met Sidney Bechet, a talented young saxophonist, during a stint in Washington, D.C. Their friendship turned to romance as they spent time together on tour, and Bechet remained an important musical collaborator for Smith for years. Prohibition went into effect in 1920, and many music clubs went underground. The Blues became a staple of these illicit speakeasies. In 1921, Smith moved to Philadelphia. While there, she auditioned for two record companies: Okeh Records and W.C. Handy's Black Swan Records. Both record labels turned Smith down because her voice was "too rough," a thinly veiled euphemism for "too black." Smith would face this kind of veiled discrimination for years, sometimes from other African-American performers. Lighter-skinned African-Americans were granted many more opportunities in show business because they more closely resembled whites, and the dark-skinned Smith was frequently passed over for jobs because she wasn't light-skinned enough. These early experiences haunted Smith for the rest of her life, and she became extremely hostile toward lighter-skinned blues singers and those African-Americans who, after moving during the Northern Migration, joined white society in their new cities. Smith had no desire to join white society in the way blues singer Ethel Waters had. Smith was also, by this time, notoriously moody and obscene, and already an alcoholic. In 1922, during a stint at Horah's Cabaret in Philadelphia, Smith met Jack Gee, a strikingly handsome night watchman. On Smith and Gee's first date, Gee got into an altercation and ended up in the hospital with a gunshot wound. Smith visited him every day for five weeks. When he was released, they moved in together and embarked on what would be the longest-lasting and most volatile relationship of her life. At this time, Smith had not yet recorded a song. After the success of Mamie Smith's "Crazy Blues," record companies saw that there was quite a bit of money to be made in what were then termed "race records" and sent scouts to Southern cities to find talent. Frank Walker, the head of Columbia's Race Records, convinced Smith to travel to New York for an audition. Jack Gee pawned his watch and his night watchman's uniform in order to buy Smith a red dress to wear to her first recording session with Columbia. She arrived at the studio with her friend and pianist Clarence Williams on February fifteen, 1923. Throughout the session, Smith was so nervous that Frank Walker had to schedule another session.


--- [Bessie Smith | The Concert Database] ---
Bessie Smith Born: 04/15/1894 City: Chattanooga Region: Tennessee Country: USA Died: 09/26/1937 Years Active: 1912-1937 Instruments: Vocals Associated Artists: _________________________________________ Bessie Smith was an American blues singer nicknamed The Empress of the Blues. Smith was the most popular female blues singer of the 1920s and 1930s. She is often regarded as one of the greatest singers of her era and, along with Louis Armstrong, a major influence on subsequent jazz vocalists. Discography | Released: 1923 | Released: 1929 | Concerts | Event | Date | Venue | City | Region | Country | |---|---|---|---|---|---| | Bessie Smith & Her Big Revue / McKinney's Cotton Pickers | 06/08/1930 | Orpheum Theatre - Reading | Reading | Pennsylvania | USA | | Bessie Smith & Her Big Revue / McKinney's Cotton Pickers | 06/09/1930 | Orpheum Theatre - Reading | Reading | Pennsylvania | USA | | Bessie Smith & Her Big Revue / McKinney's Cotton Pickers | 06/10/1930 | Orpheum Theatre - Reading | Reading | Pennsylvania | USA | | Bessie Smith & Her Big Revue / McKinney's Cotton Pickers | 06/11/1930 | Orpheum Theatre - Reading | Reading | Pennsylvania | USA |
