=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kingston Symphony Association - Wikipedia]
Kingston Symphony Association Kingston Symphony Association is a Canadian arts organization in Kingston, Ontario. The organization was formed in 1963 as a managing umbrella organization of several performing art ensembles in Kingston, including the Kingston Symphony and the Kingston Choral Society. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingston_Symphony_Association

[Home | Kingston Symphony]
The Kingston Symphony is a professional orchestra based in Kingston, Ontario. Since 1953, performing some of the greatest music ever composed from the classical canon as well as exciting new works by Canadian composers.
URL: https://www.kingstonsymphony.ca/

[Kingston Symphony Association - Quinte Arts Council]
The Kingston Symphony Association exists to produce and promote professional quality programs of instrumental and choral music for the education, enjoyment and enrichment of audiences in the Greater Kingston area. We are dedicated to the support, development and showcasing of Canadian artists and composers.
URL: https://quinteartscouncil.org/member/kingston-symphony-association/

[Kingston Symphony | The Canadian Encyclopedia]
The Kingston Symphony. Orchestra organized in 1953 as the New Symphony Association of Kingston. It succeeded several short-lived ensembles dating back to ...
URL: https://thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/kingston-symphony-emc

[Kingston Symphony - Wikipedia]
The orchestra was founded in 1953 under the name the New Symphony Association of Kingston. The first principal conductor was Graham George; he led the orchestra's debut concert of Joseph Haydn 's The Creation on 12 April 1954 at The Grand Theatre with the Kingston Choral Society and baritone James Milligan.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingston_Symphony


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kingston Symphony Association - Wikipedia] ---
Kingston Symphony Association is a Canadian arts organization in Kingston, Ontario. The organization was formed in 1963 as a managing umbrella organization of several performing art ensembles in Kingston, including the Kingston Symphony and the Kingston Choral Society. The organization currently also manages the Kingston Youth Orchestra, the Kingston Youth Strings, the Kingston Community Strings, and the Kingston Volunteer Committee.
Some of these organizations are not financially self-sustaining, so the association organizes fund-raising events.


--- [Home | Kingston Symphony] ---
What's On Concerts & Events Feel the Music There is no denying the emotional impact that live music can have, often catching us by surprise. At the Kingston Symphony, we are looking forward to sharing many incredible live musical experiences with you in 2025-2026. Classic masterpieces abound on our Masterworks Series with Bruckner’s majestic Fourth Symphony, Handel’s beloved Messiah, and Mahler’s powerful Symphony No. 5. Our Pops and Family concerts have something for everyone including Murdoch Mysteries: Live in Concert and the return of the riotously funny children’s entertainer, Al Simmons. Subscribe now and guarantee your seat for our upcoming season! Subscribe Now Online Save the following subscription form with your name, fill out the details, and email to admin@kingstonsymphony.ca Subscription Order FormPhone (613) 530-2050 or (613) 546-9729 In Person Kingston Grand Theatre Box Office at 218 Princess Street Single Tickets On sale starting Monday, August 25, 2025 News Make it Monthly: A special opportunity to double your impact We are excited to announce Make it Monthly, a new opportunity to double the impact of monthly donations to the Kingston Symphony Association! Thanks to a generous pledge from our Board of Directors, all new or upgraded monthly gifts received between February 15 and March 15, 2026 will be matched up to a maximum of $9,620. Read MoreMore News Harmon in Space Harmon's Musical Adventures Harmon the Hound is everybody's favourite canine astronaut. Exploring the universe in her spaceship, she's on a quest for musical knowledge with her witty sidekick computer, Showdan. Along the way, she will meet new friends, including musicians from the Kingston Symphony, who will teach her all about the instruments in an orchestra. Will Harmon be able to learn them all? And what instrument will she decide to play at her big audition on planet Ripieno III? Catch all the action on YouTube in our web series Harmon in Space! Learn MoreThank You The Kingston Symphony Association gratefully acknowledges the support received from our government funding agencies, corporate and foundation partners, and individual donors.


--- [Kingston Symphony Association - Quinte Arts Council] ---
Kingston Symphony Association Making music in Kingston, Ontario since 1953. The Kingston Symphony Association exists to produce and promote professional quality programs of instrumental and choral music for the education, enjoyment and enrichment of audiences in the Greater Kingston area. We are dedicated to the support, development and showcasing of Canadian artists and composers. The Kingston Symphony Association as it is known today was established by Dr. Graham George in 1953 and incorporated in 1956. Under the direction of Edouard Bartlett and Alexander Brott, the orchestra expanded to its present supplement of approximately 55 musicians. Brian Jackson was Music Director from 1982 to 1991. Glen Fast was Music Director from 1991 to 2014 and now serves as Conductor Emeritus. Evan Mitchell is currently Music Director. Mailing Address 11 Princess Street, Suite 206 , P.O. Box 1616 Kingston ON K7L 5C8


--- [Kingston Symphony | The Canadian Encyclopedia] ---
Kingston Symphony The Kingston Symphony. Orchestra organized in 1953 as the New Symphony Association of Kingston. It succeeded several short-lived ensembles dating back to the mid-19th century and an earlier Kingston Symphony Orchestra directed 1914-36 by Oscar Telgmann. The orchestra became known as the Kingston Symphony Association (KSA; also the name of its umbrella organization) in 1963. Under its first conductor, Graham George, the Kingston Symphony made its debut 12 Apr 1954 at Grant Hall in Haydn's The Creation with the Kingston Choral Society and a team of soloists that included James Milligan. The Grand Theatre later became the main venue for Kingston Symphony concerts. There were two concerts a year until 1957, but by 1990 the orchestra was presenting more than a dozen concerts each season. The Kingston Symphony was conducted by George 1954-7, William Hill 1957-9, Frédéric Pohl (one concert in 1960), Edouard Bartlett 1960-5, and Alexander Brott 1965-81. After a season of guest conductors, Brian Jackson was conductor 1982-91, when he was succeeded by Glen Fast. Under Brott the orchestra developed into an important community orchestra of 60 musicians, including a professional core of nine contract players in first-chair positions. The Vághy String Quartet held first-chair string positions 1968-88. Gisèle Dalbec-Szczesniak became concertmaster in 1989. Under Jackson the orchestra presented operas (Fidelio 1983, La Traviata 1985, La Bohème 1988), and such works as Mahler's Symphony No. 2 (1984) and Symphony No. 5 (1989) and Bartók's Concerto for Orchestra (1987). The Kingston Symphony and Kingston Choral Society have performed together annually, and in 1988 they presented the premiere of Healey Willan's Requiem Mass as completed and orchestrated by F.R.C. Clarke. Performances 1990s-Present The Kingston Symphony had to scale back operations in 1996 after granting agencies cut its budget by over 12 per cent. To counter the loss, Fast instituted cost-saving measures such as programming a Baroque series, and using local and emerging soloists. These changes did not stop the orchestra from performing big works such as Beethoven's Symphony No. 9 and Stravinsky's The Rite of Spring (both in 1997), a concert version of La Cavalleria rusticana (1999), Carmina burana (2000), and - with the Durham and Oshawa symphony orchestras - Mahler's Symphony No. 5 at the Toronto Arts Centre (2007). With growing funding in the late 1990s and early 2000s, the orchestra once again welcomed renowned soloists such as Angela Cheng, Rivka Golani, André Laplante, Richard Raymond, Lara St John, and David Stewart. Canadian Works Performed Fast continued the orchestra's championship of Canadian music, premiering Chan Ka Nin's Violin Concerto (1998); Marjan Mozetich's Piano Concerto (2000); Srul Irving Glick's last work, Isaiah (2002); John Burge's Clarinet Concerto (2004); István Anhalt's The Tents of Abraham (2005); and Peter Paul Koprowski's Tapestries of Love: Symphony for Soprano and Orchestra (2007). The Kingston Symphony has also premiered works by Brott, Clarke, Clifford Crawley, Kelsey Jones, Bruce Pennycook, and Norman Sherman. Near the end of the first decade of the 2000s, the Kingston Symphony is a professional orchestra of 55 musicians, 11 of whom are under annual contracts. They give 13 regular-season concerts divided into three series, as well as outdoor concerts at Fort Henry most summers. The orchestra normally plays in the Grand Theatre but, due to renovations, played at the Kingston Gospel Temple 2006-7. The orchestra's budget had grown from a little over $2,000 in its first year, to over $400,000 by the 1988-9 season. Member Groups of the Kingston Symphony Association The Kingston Symphony Association is an umbrella organization that in 2007 included the Kingston Symphony, the Kingston Choral Society, the Kingston Youth Orchestra, the Kingston Youth Strings, the Kingston Community Strings, and the Volunteer Committee. The 60-piece Kingston Youth Orchestra was formed in 1968 by Bartlett and was conducted 1974-9 by Crawley assisted by John Gallienne. James Coles was conductor 1979-96. He was replaced by Gordon Craig. The Kingston Youth Strings is a training orchestra for the Kingston Youth Orchestra; it was conducted by Bob Clark until 1996 and since then by Gisèle Dalbec-Szczesniak. The Kingston Community Strings is a 40-member amateur string orchestra under the direction of Kingston Symphony musicians. The Volunteer Committee (the former Women's Auxiliary) comprises about 200 paying members and organizes fundraising activities and manages financial awards for young musicians.


--- [Kingston Symphony - Wikipedia] ---
The Kingston Symphony (KS) is a Canadian orchestra based in Kingston, Ontario. Since 2014 the principal conductor of the symphony has been Evan Mitchell. The ensemble performs most of its concerts at The Grand Theatre.
