=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[PM pays touching tribute to wife on 30th wedding anniversary]
Prime Minister Christopher Luxon has paid a touching tribute to his wife, Amanda, on their 30th wedding anniversary today. Luxon made a heartfelt post on social media about the couple's "great adventure together", three decades after they made their vows.
URL: https://www.1news.co.nz/2024/01/08/pm-pays-touching-tribute-to-wife-on-30th-wedding-anniversary/

[Christopher Luxon - Wikipedia]
Christopher Mark Luxon (born 19 July 1970) is a New Zealand politician and businessman who has served as the 42nd prime minister of New Zealand since 2023. A member of the National Party, he has been member of Parliament (MP) for Botany since 2020 and previously served as leader of the Opposition from 2021 to 2023.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christopher_Luxon

[Prime Minister Christopher Luxon talks about his 30-year wedding ...]
Video / NZ Herald / AP Prime Minister Christopher Luxon is celebrating his 30th wedding anniversary with wife Amanda today by taking her out for lunch, before he starts the 2024 political year.
URL: https://www.nzherald.co.nz/nz/prime-minister-christopher-luxon-talks-about-his-30-year-wedding-anniversary-upcoming-political-year/STY55QS7GFACNGFVWSMOZRS57Q/

['What a journey it's been': PM Christopher Luxon celebrates ...]
Jan 8, 2024 · Prime Minister Christopher Luxon is celebrating his 30th wedding anniversary with wife Amanda today by taking her out for lunch, before he starts the 2024 political year. The Botany...
URL: https://www.newstalkzb.co.nz/news/national/prime-minister-christopher-luxon-talks-about-his-30-year-wedding-anniversary-upcoming-political-year/

[On the road with Amanda Luxon - RNZ]
Jan 7, 2025 · Luxon, 55, has been married to "the love of her life" Prime Minister Christopher Luxon since they met in Christchurch in 1994. Luxon, herself was born and bred in Christchurch, got her first experience of working life was in a local grocery shop, she says.
URL: https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/national/538283/on-the-road-with-amanda-luxon


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [PM pays touching tribute to wife on 30th wedding anniversary] ---
Prime Minister Christopher Luxon has paid a touching tribute to his wife, Amanda, on their 30th wedding anniversary today. Luxon made a heartfelt post on social media about the couple's "great adventure together", three decades after they made their vows. They wed in January 1994. The PM wrote: "These last 30 years have been a great adventure together and I am so grateful I get to do life with you every day. "You’re extraordinary - so smart, strong, wise, grounded, funny and graceful. Looking forward to a lifetime together. I love you. Happy Anniversary! On his 28th anniversary, he described the couple's journey: "We met when we were 15, were dating at 19, married at 23 and have been doing life together ever since". "Amanda, you are the most incredible person I know and I am so grateful I get to do this journey with you."


--- [Christopher Luxon - Wikipedia] ---
Christopher Mark Luxon (born 19 July 1970) is a New Zealand politician and businessman who has served as the 42nd prime minister of New Zealand since 2023. A member of the National Party, he has been member of Parliament (MP) for Botany since 2020 and previously served as leader of the Opposition from 2021 to 2023. Prior to entering politics, he was the chief executive officer (CEO) of Air New Zealand from 2013 to 2019.
Luxon grew up in Howick in East Auckland before studying commerce at the University of Canterbury. He joined Unilever in 1993 and held senior roles at Unilever Canada, becoming president and CEO of the subsidiary in 2008. In 2011, he left Unilever Canada and joined Air New Zealand as group general manager and became CEO in 2013. After stepping down as CEO of Air New Zealand in 2019, Luxon won the pre-selection for the safe National Party seat of Botany in East Auckland. He won the National Party leadership unopposed on 30 November 2021, eight months after giving his maiden speech, after the ousting of his predecessor. Luxon led his party to a plurality of seats at the 2023 general election. Luxon signed a coalition deal with ACT New Zealand and New Zealand First to form a majority, and was sworn in as prime minister on 27 November 2023. 
Under Luxon's premiership, the Sixth National Government of New Zealand has shrunk New Zealand's civil service and attempted to boost the economy through international tourism. The government introduced cuts to healthcare expenditure, reintroduced the three-strikes sentencing law and a pilot military-style boot camp for youth offenders, and enacted NZ$14.7 billion in tax cuts. The government replaced the Three Waters reform programme with the Local Water Done Well policy, and minimised co-governance initiatives while discouraging the use of the Māori language alongside the English language in the public service. His government has contributed to the construction of the City Rail Link metro system in Central Auckland, and agreed to support the controversial Treaty Principles Bill to its first reading. In foreign policy, his government has increased military spending and Five Eyes cooperation in a general pro-United States shift. Luxon's coalition dynamics with his deputy prime ministers Winston Peters and David Seymour have proved controversial, given they have openly challenged his authority.




--- [Prime Minister Christopher Luxon talks about his 30-year wedding ...] ---
When asked if he told Amanda on his first date that he would be Prime Minister, Luxon said he had an interest in going into politics ultimately but wanted to do other things beforehand. ”I thought going into politics with some real-world experience would be a good thing and it’s actually been very useful,” he said. “But I was focused on the wedding mostly.” Luxon said, on the day, there was a Jimmy Barnes concert going on at Hagley Park and their reception was at the George Hotel. ”I remember the big issue of the day was if Jimmy Barnes would be finished before the guests arrive for our reception.” The Prime Minister also talked about his plans for the upcoming political year. “I’m back to work this Wednesday night, and everyone else will be back to work on Monday January 15,” he said. “We’ve got our cabinet sub-committees, we’ve got a caucus off-site and we’ll just be rolling through our 100-day action plan. Luxon listed the coalition’s achievements passed under urgency at the end of last year such as repealing the Resource Management Act, getting rid of Fair Pay Agreements, bringing back 90 day trials, and scrapping the Ute Tax. “I want the cabinet ruthlessly focused on getting the 100-day action plan done, and then we’ll roll into another series of action plans as we go through the year.” Luxon said they will be kicking off the party’s gang legislation such as banning patches, anti-consorting dispersal laws, and aggravating factors in sentencing. “We’ve been getting advice for officials into how to bring that into legislation and Mark Mitchell will lead us through that in the first quarter of this year.” When asked about the progress of the new promised medical school, Luxon said he wants to have a memorandum of understanding up, and have a good business case attached to it. “There are 360 New Zealand medical students studying in Australia and the problem is not being able to expand spaces. “So we’re expanding places both in Otago and Auckland, and we’re also going to open up a third medical school which will be post-graduate. “We’re also going to orientate it towards rural New Zealand so you’re doing a year at Waikato and then out into the regions.” He wants to open the new school in 2027. The Herald also understands that former Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, 43, and her TV presenter beau Clarke Gayford, 47, will wed this month.


--- ['What a journey it's been': PM Christopher Luxon celebrates ...] ---
Prime Minister Christopher Luxon is celebrating his 30th wedding anniversary with wife Amanda today by taking her out for lunch, before he starts the 2024 political year. The Botany MP told Newstalk ZB’s Tim Dower he successfully remembered today is his anniversary. ”I remember 30 years ago, I was a 23-year-old, signing up to get married and what a journey it’s been, a really great run.” In a Facebook post, Luxon shared a heartfelt message to Amanda: “I am so grateful I get to do life with you every day. You’re extraordinary - so smart, strong, wise, grounded, funny and graceful. Looking forward to a lifetime together. I love you, Happy Anniversary!” When asked if he told Amanda on his first date that he would be Prime Minister, Luxon said he had an interest in going into politics ultimately but wanted to do other things beforehand. ”I thought going into politics with some real-world experience would be a good thing and it’s actually been very useful,” he said. “But I was focused on the wedding mostly.” Luxon said, on the day, there was a Jimmy Barnes concert going on at Hagley Park and their reception was at the George Hotel. ”I remember the big issue of the day was if Jimmy Barnes would be finished before the guests arrive for our reception.” The Prime Minister also talked about his plans for the upcoming political year. “I’m back to work this Wednesday night, and everyone else will be back to work on Monday January 15,” he said. “We’ve got our cabinet sub-committees, we’ve got a caucus off-site and we’ll just be rolling through our 100-day action plan. Luxon listed the coalition’s achievements passed under urgency at the end of last year such as repealing the Resource Management Act, getting rid of Fair Pay Agreements, bringing back 90 day trials, and scrapping the Ute Tax. “I want the cabinet ruthlessly focused on getting the 100-day action plan done, and then we’ll roll into another series of action plans as we go through the year.” Luxon said they will be kicking off the party’s gang legislation such as banning patches, anti-consorting dispersal laws, and aggravating factors in sentencing. “We’ve been getting advice for officials into how to bring that into legislation and Mark Mitchell will lead us through that in the first quarter of this year.” When asked about the progress of the new promised medical school, Luxon said he wants to have a memorandum of understanding up, and have a good business case attached to it. “There are 360 New Zealand medical students studying in Australia and the problem is not being able to expand spaces. “So we’re expanding places both in Otago and Auckland, and we’re also going to open up a third medical school which will be post-graduate. “We’re also going to orientate it towards rural New Zealand so you’re doing a year at Waikato and then out into the regions.” He wants to open the new school in 2027. The Herald also understands that former Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, 43, and her TV presenter beau Clarke Gayford, 47, will wed this month. Take your Radio, Podcasts and Music with you


--- [On the road with Amanda Luxon - RNZ] ---
Amanda Luxon has joined RNZ's Summer Times for a roadie to Waiheke Island to share her passions, what she's been reading, and pick some of her favourite tunes. Much has been made of her biceps, but what do we really know about the prime minister's wife? She's not the politician in family, Amanda Luxon told Summer Times. She leaves that "to the other person", she says. Luxon, 55, has been married to "the love of her life" Prime Minister Christopher Luxon since they met in Christchurch in 1994. Luxon, herself was born and bred in Christchurch, got her first experience of working life was in a local grocery shop, she says. "I went to the local state school, Riccarton High School. My parents worked in grocery stores, before the days down there of the big Countdowns. "I grew up delivering groceries up into the hills, cutting the ham, pumping the petrol, all of those kind of things." She went on to study education at university, her first placement was at the tiny settlement of Tinwald. "It was a beautiful little school. It had an amazing headmaster, and just a real diverse group of children that came through there." When she wasn't delivering groceries, ballet was her great passion. "I danced with the Southern Ballet Company. So, I spent a lot of my teenage years with that, I danced five days a week. "But I was never going to be a professional ballet dancer, my body was just never quite designed to do that." Dance was more regimented when she was growing up, she says. "In my day, there was tap, classical ballet, Highland and jazz, very segmented. And I love the fact that anybody can get involved with all sorts of dance today, and it's amazing. "It doesn't matter what body you are, it doesn't matter you can really enjoy that. And I think that's the great gift that modern society has brought to dance." Her husband shares her love of dance. "He is a good dancer. He and I went to ballroom dancing lessons in our dating years. And I was the ballet dancer, so I thought I had pretty good rhythm. "But our dancing instructor said, 'Christopher you have such good rhythm'. He actually is one of those people that can pick up any ball or any bat, and basically is semi-accomplished at it to start with. It's just frustrating sometimes!" The Luxon's children, Olivia and William, now in their early 20s, spent much of their childhood overseas as Christopher embarked on a corporate career, and the experience has shaped them, she says. "I think it's been really, really crucial to them in that we have moved between so many different cultures and so many environments that they don't see things in the way that people who have perhaps stayed in one place the whole time, they see the world as much more of one unit. "They don't distinguish between necessarily ethnicity or religion or things like that. They're very global children." Since Christopher became prime minister, her role has been to support his work, putting her own projects on hold, she says. "I'm basically here to do what I can do to help support Christopher, do what he does. We made that decision together, and it's a journey and a phase of our lives, so I'm here to do that." She remains involved in charitable work, however, particularly focused on fighting child trafficking. "We've travelled quite extensively into Thailand, Nepal, Uganda, a lot of those countries just working on anti-trafficking messages and with organisations that are working in that space. "I just believe if we can work against the oppression of women and raise women up and give them skills and means, then they're actually the ones that can change lives and communities." She also loves to get stuck into some DIY. "I'm a very big DIY girl, yesterday I did actually text our security guys to say, if you see me on the grass frothing at the mouth, then call 111, because I'm going to do some electrical work in the backyard. So, I fix, I paint, I plaster, I landscape, I do everything." She is on record as saying while Christopher is the extrovert, she is an introvert. And she often goes unrecognised, she says, spending a lot of her time in "running gear with a ponytail and no make-up". Once while cleaning out the PM's Wellington digs, a passer-by made her a job offer. "I was bringing all the stuff down to throw it into the back of the car, the vacuum, the mops and a woman walks past me as I keep piling stuff in. "She turned around, and came up and said 'Excuse me' - this is right across from parliament - and she said to me, 'I've got an apartment just around the road, and I was wondering if you'd like another cleaning job?' "I laughed, and I said to her, 'Thank you so much for asking, but actually, I'm kind of full at the moment'." Amanda Luxon's travelling companions Melinda Gates: "A phenomenal woman." Allie Hewson: (wife of U2 frontman Bono) "I love them because, 40 years they've been together and you listen to interviews, and you go, you just love each other, and respect each other so much after 40 years and four children." The roadie playlist 'Think I'm in love with You' - Chris Stapleton and Dua Lipa. 'Bloodstream' - Ed Sheeran 'Viva la Vida' - Coldplay "A great running song. In fact, I ran the Chicago Marathon to this one."
