=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of MANY is consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number. How to use many in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/many

[MANY | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary]
We use the quantifiers much, many, a lot of, lots of to talk about quantities, amounts and degree. We can use them with a noun (as a determiner) or without a noun (as a pronoun). …
URL: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/many

[MANY Definition & Meaning | Dictionary.com]
MANY definition: constituting or forming a large number; numerous. See examples of many used in a sentence.
URL: https://www.dictionary.com/browse/many

[MANY definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary]
You use many to indicate that you are talking about a large number of people or things. I don't think many people would argue with that. Not many films are made in Finland. Do you keep many books and papers and memorabilia?
URL: https://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english/many

[Many - definition of many by The Free Dictionary]
A large number of persons or things: "For many are called, but few are chosen" (Matthew 22:14).
URL: https://www.thefreedictionary.com/many


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 : consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number worked for many years the many advantages of an education 2 : being one of a large but indefinite number many a man many another student see also: plural in construction 1 : a large but indefinite number a good many of them 2 : the great majority of people the many Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [MANY | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary] ---
many determiner, pronoun uk /ˈmen.i/ us /ˈmen.i/A1 I don't have many clothes. as many If there were as many women as there are men in parliament, the situation would be very different. as many as As many as (= the surprisingly large number of) 6,000 people may have been infected with the disease. as many again There are already twelve bottles of wine, so if I buy as many again (= another twelve bottles) we'll have enough. a good many A good many people who voted for her in the last election will not be doing so this time. a great many A great many books have been written on this subject. in as many She had five children in as many (= in the same number of) years and decided it was enough.


--- [MANY Definition & Meaning | Dictionary.com] ---
Advertisement many [men-ee] adjective constituting or forming a large number; numerous. many people. noting each one of a large number (usually followed by a oran ). For many a day it rained. noun a large or considerable number of persons or things. A good many of the beggars were blind. the many, the greater part of humankind. pronoun many persons or things. Many of the beggars were blind. Many were unable to attend. many / ˈmɛnɪ / determiner a large number of many coaches many times ( as pronoun; functioning as plural ) many are seated already each of a considerable number of many a man a great number of as many apples as you like too many clouds to see ( as pronoun; functioning as plural ) I have as many as you noun the majority of mankind, esp the common people Compare few the many are kept in ignorance while the few prosper Other Word Forms - overmany adjective Word History and Origins Origin of many1 Word History and Origins Origin of many1 Idioms and Phrases Synonym Study Example Sentences Even without its top red zone receiver and its steadiest offensive linemen, USC’s offense didn’t show many signs of slowing down last Saturday. "For many years people have questioned whether being a content creator is a real job, and whether you can actually build a sustainable career from it," she told the BBC. The mother of a young Londonderry adult with complex needs has said the care system is failing him and many others his age. It was not an easy task and faced many obstacles on the way. "There's a lot of people who don't get here – but I have tenacity. I have resilience, which I'm very grateful for, because no matter how many times I've fallen down, I've bounced up again." Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Browse


--- [MANY definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary] ---
Definition of 'many' COBUILD frequency band many 1. determiner A1 You use many to indicate that you are talking about a large number of people or things. Many is also a pronoun. Many is also a quantifier. 2. adverb A1 You use many in expressions such as 'not many', 'not very many', and 'too many' when replying to questions about numbers of things or people. 3. predeterminer 4. determiner A1 You use many after 'how' to ask questions about numbers or quantities. You use many after 'how' in reported clauses to talk about numbers or quantities. 7. singular noun The many means a large group of people, especially the ordinary people in society, considered as separate from a particular small group. 8. See as many as 9. 11. in so many words usage note: You only use many to talk about things that can be counted. They owned many cars. You should use much if you want to talk about things that cannot be counted. ...too much water.Collins COBUILD Advanced Learner’s Dictionary. Copyright © HarperCollins Publishers English Easy Learning GrammarDeterminersWhat is a determiner in English? When do you use 'a' and 'an' in English? When do you use 'the' in English? Which nouns are used without 'a', 'an', or ... Read more When do you use 'a' and 'an' in English? When do you use 'the' in English? Which nouns are used without 'a', 'an', or ... Read more English Easy Learning GrammarIndefinite pronounsWhat type of pronoun are the words 'someone', 'everybody', 'anything', 'nothing', etc.? What are the different types of indefinite pronoun? What determiner ... Read more What are the different types of indefinite pronoun? What determiner ... Read more English Easy Learning GrammarNoun phrases with several determinersHow do you use more than one determiner in noun phrases in English? ... Read more ... Read more British English pronunciation ! It seems that your browser is blocking this video content. To access it, add this site to the exceptions or modify your security settings, then refresh this page. American English pronunciation ! It seems that your browser is blocking this video content. To access it, add this site to the exceptions or modify your security settings, then refresh this page. You may also like COBUILD frequency band many in British English determiner 1. (sometimes preceded by a great or a good) a. a large number of many coaches many times 3. (preceded by as, too, that, etc) a. a great number of as many apples as you like too many clouds to see b. (as pronoun; functioning as plural) I have as many as you noun See also more, most4. See the many Collins English Dictionary. Copyright © HarperCollins Publishers Word origin Old English manig; related to Old Frisian manich, Middle Dutch menech, Old High German managCOBUILD frequency band many in American English adjectiveWord forms: more, mostOrigin: ME < OE manig, akin to Ger manch (OHG manag) < IE base *menegh-, many, richly > Sans maghā-, gift, OIr menicc, abundant 1. consisting of some large, indefinite number (of persons or things); numerous 2. plural noun 3. a large number (of persons or things) pronoun 4. many persons or things Idioms: ▶ USAGE: The idiom many a (or an, another) followed by a singular noun or pronoun is equivalent to many followed by the corresponding plural (e.g., “many a person has tried” means the same thing as “many people have tried”)Webster’s New World College Dictionary, 5th Digital Edition. Copyright © 2025 HarperCollins Publishers. COBUILD frequency band many in American English (ˈmeni) (adjective more, most) adjective 2. (usually fol. by a or an) noting each one of a large number For many a day it rained noun 3. a large or considerable number of persons or things A good many of the beggars were blind 4. See the many pronoun SYNONYMS 1. multifarious, multitudinous, myriad; divers, sundry, various. many, innumerable, manifold, numerous imply the presence or succession of a large number of units. many is a popular and common word for this idea: many times. numerous, a more formal word, refers to a great number or to very many units: letters too numerous to mention. innumerable denotes a number that is beyond count or, more loosely, that is extremely difficult to count: the innumerable stars in the sky. manifold implies not only that the number is large but also that there is variety or complexityANTONYMS 1. few, single.5. many persons or things Many of the beggars were blind Many were unable to attend Most material © 2005, 1997, 1991 by Penguin Random House LLC. Modified entries © 2019 by Penguin Random House LLC and HarperCollins Publishers Ltd Word origin [bef. 900; ME mani, meni, OE manig, menig; akin to OS, OHG manag, menig, Dan mange, Goth manags]Examples of 'many' in a sentence many These examples have been automatically selected and may contain sensitive content that does not reflect the opinions or policies of Collins, or its parent company HarperCollins. We welcome feedback: report an example sentence to the Collins team. Read more… Trends of many View usage for: Source: Google Books Ngram Viewer In other languages many British English: many /ˈmɛnɪ/ DETERMINER If there are many people or things, there are a lot of them. Does he have many friends? - American English: many /ˈmɛni/ - Arabic: كَثِيرً - Brazilian Portuguese: muitos - Chinese: 许多的 - Croatian: mnogi - Czech: mnoho - Danish: mange - Dutch: veel - European Spanish: muchos - Finnish: moni - French: nombreux - German: viele - Greek: πολλοί - Italian: molti - Japanese: 多くの - Korean: 많은 - Norwegian: mye - Polish: liczni - European Portuguese: muitos - Romanian: mulți - Russian: много - Latin American Spanish: muchos - Swedish: många - Thai: มากมาย - Turkish: çok - Ukrainian: багато - Vietnamese: nhiều British English: many /ˈmɛnɪ/ PRONOUN Many is used to refer to a large number of people or things. We thought about the possibilities. There weren't many. - American English: many /ˈmɛni/ - Arabic: كَثِيرٌ - Brazilian Portuguese: muitos - Chinese: 许多 - Croatian: mnogi - Czech: mnoho - Danish: mange - Dutch: veel - European Spanish: muchos - Finnish: moni - French: beaucoup - German: viele - Greek: πολλοί - Italian: molti - Japanese: 多数 - Korean: 다수 - Norwegian: mange - Polish: wiele - European Portuguese: muitos - Romanian: multe - Russian: много - Latin American Spanish: muchos - Swedish: många - Thai: คนหรือสิ่งของจำนวนมาก - Turkish: çok - Ukrainian: багато - Vietnamese: nhiều


--- [Many - definition of many by The Free Dictionary] ---
many Also found in: Thesaurus, Medical, Legal, Financial, Acronyms, Idioms, Encyclopedia, Wikipedia. man·y (mĕn′ē)many (ˈmɛnɪ)man•y (ˈmɛn i)adj. more, most, n., pron. adj. Many a large number; a company; multitude of people: the many, 1688.many You use many immediately in front of the plural form of a noun to talk about a large number of people or things. In positive statements, 'many' is slightly formal, and a lot of is often used instead. In questions and negative statements, many is usually used rather than 'a lot of'. To refer to a large number of the people or things in a particular group, you use many of in front of a plural pronoun, or in front of a plural noun phrase beginning with the, these, those, or a possessive such as my or their. Many is sometimes used as a pronoun to refer to a large group of people or things. This is a fairly formal use. Be Careful! Don't use 'many' or 'many of' before an uncountable noun, to talk about a large quantity or amount of something. Use much or much of. You can use many with more to emphasize the difference in size between two groups of people or things. | Adj. | 1. | many - a quantifier that can be used with count nouns and is often preceded by `as' or `too' or `so' or `that'; amounting to a large but indefinite number; "many temptations"; "the temptations are many"; "a good many"; "a great many"; "many directions"; "take as many apples as you like"; "too many clouds to see"; "never saw so many people" more - (comparative of `many' used with count nouns) quantifier meaning greater in number; "a hall with more seats"; "we have no more bananas"; "more than one" some - quantifier; used with either mass nouns or plural count nouns to indicate an unspecified number or quantity; "have some milk"; "some roses were still blooming"; "having some friends over"; "some apples"; "some paper" few - a quantifier that can be used with count nouns and is often preceded by `a'; a small but indefinite number; "a few weeks ago"; "a few more wagons than usual"; "an invalid's pleasures are few and far between"; "few roses were still blooming"; "few women have led troops in battle" | many many adjectivemany [ˈmenɪ]many people → mucha gente, muchas personas in many cases → en muchos casos a good or a great many houses → muchas or (LAm) bastantes casas however many books you have → por muchos libros que tengas not many people → poca gente so many → tantos/as so many flies → tantas moscas ever so many people → la mar de gente, tantísimas personas many a time I've seen him act, many's the time I've seen him act → muchas veces lo he visto actuar too many → demasiados/as too many difficulties → demasiadas dificultades many of them came → muchos (de ellos) vinieron he has as many as I have → tiene tantos como yo he has three times as many as I have → tiene tres veces más que yo there were as many as 100 at the meeting → asistieron a la reunión hasta cien personas as many again → otros tantos and as many more → y otros tantos how many are there? → ¿cuántos hay? how many there are! → ¡cuántos hay! however many you have → por muchos que tengas not many → pocos not many came → vinieron pocos many [ˈmɛni]The film has many special effects → Le film a beaucoup d'effets spéciaux. BUT Le film a de nombreux effets spéciaux. Were there many people at the concert? → Est-ce qu'il y avait beaucoup de monde au concert?, Est-ce qu'il y avait beaucoup de gens au concert? He hasn't got many friends → Il n'a pas beaucoup d'amis. how many ... → combien de ... How many euros do you get for £100? → Combien d'euros a-t-on pour une livre? very many → beaucoup de I haven't got very many CDs → Je n'ai pas beaucoup de CD. a great many ... → un grand nombre de ... a problem for a great many women → un problème pour un grand nombre de femmes a good many ... → un bon nombre de ... so many ... → autant de ... I've never seen so many policemen → Je n'ai jamais vu autant de policiers. too many ... → trop de ... too many difficulties → trop de difficultés She makes too many mistakes → Elle fait trop d'erreurs. as many ... as → autant de ... que I entered as many photo competitions as I could → Je me suis inscrit à autant de concours de photos que j'ai pu. twice as many ... → deux fois plus de ... We produce ten times as many tractors as the United States → Nous produisons dix fois plus de tracteurs que les Etats-Unis. many a ... → bien des ..., plus d'un(e) ... many a time → plus d'une fois Some find jobs, but many are forced to beg → Certains trouvent du travail mais beaucoup sont obligés de mendier. not many → pas beaucoup how many? → combien? How many do you want? → Combien en veux-tu? many of → beaucoup de that's too many → c'est trop so many → autant I didn't know there would be so many → Je ne savais pas qu'il y en aurait autant. as many as (= up to) → jusqu'à as many as ten thousand people → jusqu'à dix mille personnes as many as (+ clause) → autant que as many as you want; as many as you like → autant que vous voulez as many as I could → autant que j'ai pu as many as possible → autant que possible twice as many → deux fois plus many many :many [ˈmɛnɪ] adj & pron → molti/e, tanti/etoo many difficulties → troppe difficoltà many a ... → più di un(a)..., molti/e... a great many → un gran numero (di), moltissimi/e so many books → (così) tanti libri many people → molta or tanta gente, molte persone there were as many as 100 at the meeting → alla riunione c'erano ben 100 persone many a man → più d'uno, molti many a time → più volte he has as many as I have → ne ha tanti quanti ne ho io there's one too many → ce n'è uno in più he's had one too many → ha bevuto un bicchiere di troppo as many again → altrettanti twice as many → due volte tanto a good or great many houses → moltissime case, un gran numero di case how many? → quanti/e? how many people? → quanta gente?, quante persone? there are too many of you → siete (in) troppi however many there may be → per quanti ce ne siano many of them came → molti di loro sono venuti many (ˈmeni) – comparative more (moː) : superlative most (moust) – adjectivemuch means a great amount (of): much effort ; She doesn't say much .
