=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Joanna of Castile - Wikipedia]
Joanna of Castile (also known as Joanna the Mad; Spanish: Juana la Loca; 6 November 1479 - 12 April 1555) was de jure (nominal) queen of Castile from 1504 and queen of Aragon from 1516 to her death in 1555. She was the daughter of Queen Isabella I of Castile and King Ferdinand II of Aragon. Joanna was married by arrangement to the Austrian archduke Philip the Handsome on 20 October 1496. [1 ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joanna_of_Castile

[The Tragic Story of the Mad Queen of Castile Who Slept Next to Her ...]
Out of the many mad monarchs in history, Joanna of Castile's story remains the most tragic. Born in the city of Toledo, Joanna the Mad was the third child of Ferdinand II of Aragon of the Royal House of Trastámara and Isabella I of Castile. Historians describe Joanna as a fair-skinned, blue-eyed beauty with a mix of strawberry-blonde and auburn colored hair. As an infant, Joanna was a ...
URL: https://www.esquiremag.ph/the-good-life/pursuits/joanna-of-castile-history-a00208-20180428-lfrm

[This Spanish Queen Loved Her Husband So Much She Went Mad ...]
This is the story of Joanna I of Castile, otherwise known as Joanna "the Mad." Joanna was the third daughter of the Catholic Monarchs Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon, famous for sponsoring Christopher Columbus' expeditions, unifying Spain, and expelling the moors from their territories in the south.
URL: https://culturacolectiva.com/en/history/joanne-i-of-castile-mad-queen/

[514) Joanna of Castile - The Exasperated Historian]
514: Joanna of Castile Queen of Aragon and Castile Born: 6 November 1479, Toledo, Kingdom of Castile, Spain (Present-day Toledo, Spain) Died: 11 April 1555, Tordesillas, Kingdom of Castile, Spain (Present-day Tordesillas, Spain) Joanna is also known as "Joanna the Mad" (or in Spanish Juana la Loca). She was the elder sister of Catherine who would go on to marry Henry VIII. Like Catherine ...
URL: https://theexasperatedhistorian.com/the-womens-list/514-joanna-of-castile/

[Was Joanna of Castile truly 'mad' or a pawn for the men in her family ...]
In 1496 at the age of sixteen, Joanna was betrothed to Philip "The Handsome" of Austria and disembarked in August of that year with a fleet of approximately 22,000 people to the Low Countries. After one dangerous month at sea with three ships sunk, Joanna finally docked at her new home having suffered seasickness and a terrible cold.
URL: http://www.historyisnowmagazine.com/blog/2018/10/7/was-joanna-of-castile-truly-mad-or-a-pawn-for-the-men-in-her-family


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Joanna of Castile - Wikipedia] ---
Joanna of Castile (also known as Joanna the Mad; Spanish: Juana la Loca; 6 November 1479 – 12 April 1555) was de jure (nominal) queen of Castile from 1504 and queen of Aragon from 1516 to her death in 1555. She was the daughter of Queen Isabella I of Castile and King Ferdinand II of Aragon. Joanna was married by arrangement to the Austrian archduke Philip the Handsome on 20 October 1496. Following the deaths of her elder brother John, elder sister Isabella, and nephew Miguel between 1497 and 1500, Joanna became the heir presumptive to the crowns of Castile and Aragon. When her mother died in 1504, she became queen of Castile. Her father proclaimed himself governor and administrator of Castile.
In 1506, Joanna's husband Philip became king of Castile jure uxoris as Philip I, initiating the rule of the Habsburgs in the Spanish kingdoms. Philip died that same year. Despite being the ruling queen of Castile, Joanna had little effect on national policy during her reign as she was declared insane and confined in the Royal Palace in Tordesillas under the orders of her father, who ruled as regent until his death in 1516, when she inherited his kingdom as well. Her son Charles I became king, and during his reign Joanna was nominally co-monarch but remained confined until her death. Joanna died aged 75 in 1555, at which point her son Charles, the Holy Roman Emperor, became the sole ruler of Castile and Aragon. Historians have debated the authenticity of her alleged madness, and whether or not it was used to discredit her.


--- [The Tragic Story of the Mad Queen of Castile Who Slept Next to Her ...] ---
The Tragic Story of the Mad Queen of Castile Who Slept Next to Her Husband's Corpse Out of the many mad monarchs in history, Joanna of Castile’s story remains the most tragic. Born in the city of Toledo, Joanna the Mad was the third child of Ferdinand II of Aragon of the Royal House of Trastámara and Isabella I of Castile. Historians describe Joanna as a fair-skinned, blue-eyed beauty with a mix of strawberry-blonde and auburn colored hair. As an infant, Joanna was a restless baby who cried a lot. She grew up to be a clever and intelligent child, albeit a moody one who often preferred to be alone. Her fondness for reading led to her mastery of the Castilian, Catalan, and Galaico-Portuguese languages as well as French and Latin. The young royal also excelled in dancing and playing the clavichord. But since she wasn’t expected to ascend to the throne, she was trained to be a suitable wife in a politically charged marriage. At the age of 16, Joanna married Philip the Handsome, Duke of Burgundy. The modestly titled Philip was the son of Emperor Maximilian Shortly after her marriage, the Royal House of Trastámara suffered a series of tragedies. John, the only son of Queen Isabella I of Castile and King Ferdinand II of Aragon and heir to the throne, became dangerously ill and died at the age of 18. Two months later, his wife gave birth to a stillborn girl. A year later, Joanna’s sister, the heir presumptive, died after giving birth in 1498. In 1500, her sister's son, Miguel da Paz, the Prince of Portugal died. The consecutive deaths made Joanna the heiress to the throne of Castile, León, and Aragon. She took her oath as In the same year, Joanna suffered a full mental breakdown. Philip would repeatedly desert her as punishment for her erratic and violent behavior. She would cry herself to sleep and throw herself against the wall in despair. Still, the royal couple’s turbulent marriage managed to produce four children (Eleanor of Austria, Charles V, Isabella of Austria, and Ferdinand I) during this time. After one significant quarrel, Philip rode off to return to his homeland, Flanders. Joanna desperately wanted to go after her beloved husband but her mother, Queen Isabella, forbade it and had her locked up in the Castle La Mota at Medina del Campo. She spent days pacing around while babbling incoherently, refusing to eat or sleep. Alarmed and unsure of what to do about Joanna’s state, Ferdinand II and Queen Isabella let their daughter go to Flanders. This proved to be a tremendous mistake as Philip had taken a mistress in her absence. When Joanna crossed paths with the mistress, she grabbed a pair of scissors and hacked off her rival’s hair. Unsatisfied, Joanna stabbed the woman in the face. To regain her husband's attention, she ordered her maids to mix love potions but this further drove Philip away as he considered it witchcraft. Philip the Handsome Following her mother Queen Isabella’s death, Joanna ascended the throne as Queen of Castile in 1504. Philip tried several times to usurp her power, but Joanna remained madly in love with him. Joanna’s father ultimately succeeded in partially overthrowing his daughter under the reason: "Illness is such that the said Queen Doña Joanna our Lady cannot govern." In the midst of everything, Joanna gave birth to two more daughters, Mary and Catherine of Austria. On September 25, 1506, Philip suddenly died after a five-day fever. Joanna fell into deep despair and refused to part with Philip’s embalmed body. With Joanna indisposed, her father Ferdinand II was appointed her guardian and Castile’s administrator and governor. After Joanna’s loyal supporters were dismissed, her father ordered her to be confined within Santa Clara in Tordesillas. Joanna eventually allowed her husband’s body to be buried, but only for a brief time. She had him exhumed, and when Philip's coffin was reopened, she leaped to his side and kissed his feet. From then on, Philip’s corpse went with her everywhere: From her travels and the dinner table up to her bedside. Most of the time, the coffin was closed. She would, however, occasionally open it to make sure the body was still there or talk and gaze at her beloved. Philip’s corpse was finally buried years after, but still at a comfortable distance—right outside her window. After Ferdinand II's death in 1516, Joanna’s son Charles V ascended the throne reigned over the kingdom. Joanna later was involved in a failed plot to regain the kingdom. For this, her son relegated her back in captivity where she lived out the rest of her life in solitude. Joanna wore black in mourning up until her death, 49 years after Philip passed. Historians have surmised that Joanna of Castile suffered from a range of mental problems including psychosis, schizophrenia, and manic depression.


--- [This Spanish Queen Loved Her Husband So Much She Went Mad ...] ---
Labeled as mad by those she loved and confined for most of her life in a tower to keep her away from her royal duty as Queen of one of the greatest territories in history. Her story is both heartbreaking and, for many historians, cruel and unfair. This is the story of a woman who fell madly in love with a man who didn’t love her back. A woman whose parents and children neglected her and used her as a pawn in their political strategies. This is the story of Joanna I of Castile, otherwise known as Joanna “the Mad.” Joanna was the third daughter of the Catholic Monarchs Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon, famous for sponsoring Christopher Columbus’ expeditions, unifying Spain, and expelling the moors from their territories in the south. After years of civil revolts and political scheming, their marriage finally gave Spain the tranquility they had been longing for centuries, or at least that’s what they thought. In that atmosphere, Joanna was raised to be a princess in her parents’ court. Being the third in line, she wasn’t properly educated to become a ruler. She lacked a jolly and social personality. Instead, records state she was a stubborn, temperamental, melancholic, and solitary girl focused on her education and religiousness. When she was only 16 she was betrothed to the Austrian archduke Philip “the Handsome,” son of the Austrian Emperor Maximilian I. She was sent to Flanders to meet her fiancé in a long and eventful trip that made her ill. She was received by her future sister-in-law, Margaret, but Philip proved to be not so eager to meet his royal bride. After some weeks, they finally met in a ceremony and both were immediately attracted to each other. It’s said that in the case of Joanna, it was love at first sight, while for Philip it was a matter of physical attraction. They married right away and consumed their marriage, and just as Joanne’s infatuation grew, her husband’s neglect did as well. When both her elder siblings, Juan and Isabella, died in 1497 and 1498 respectively, she became the legitimate heir to the throne of Castile. One time when Philip and Joanna went to Castile to visit the monarchs, the couple had a huge fight, so Philip returned to Flanders to be near their children without telling his wife, who found out of the news the next morning. Enraged and devastated, she begged her parents to send her back to her husband, but after looking at her anxious and unstable reaction, not to mention that she was pregnant with her fourth son, Ferdinand, they told her to stay. She gave birth in her homeland, but her mind was far from taking care of her baby, and she insisted on returning with her Philip. According to the story, she tried to escape, and once she saw the gates were closed, she spent the night lying in front of them and screaming. Her parents allowed her to return and leave her newborn baby behind. The fact that Ferdinand was raised in Spain would later be the cause of an internal conflict in the succession process, but that’s another story. From this moment on, the rumors of her mental stability were widely known throughout Europe. Some claim it was a hereditary condition, since her grandmother, Queen Isabella’s mother, was declared mad as well. When the Queen of Castile passed away, Joanna was named the rightful Queen, but more than a gift, this was the beginning of her tragic doom. Her father, wanting to remain in charge of that kingdom, claimed that his daughter wasn’t mentally fit to rule Castile. Philip, who didn’t want to be removed from his marital right to become consort King, explained that it wasn’t a matter of madness, but just jealousy combined with her passionate behavior. When the Castilian courts chose Philip and Joanne to be the legitimate rulers, he changed his strategy and claimed that his wife was really insane and that he was the only one who could rule while keeping her safe and comfortable. He managed to convince Ferdinand to give up his right and retire to Aragon, which he did, but in 1506 Philip died of a mysterious fever. Some even claim that he was poisoned by his father-in-law, but it was never proved. Philip’s death was what ended up forging the nickname of Joanne “the Mad.” It’s said that the Queen traveled from Burgos to Granada next to the coffin and, legend has it, she ordered to open it to make sure it was her husband’s body. Many paintings have been made of her standing right next to the coffin ready to open it. She even gave birth to her youngest daughter, Catherine, during the procession. King Ferdinand took the throne once again, and Joanna was confined to a tower in Tordesillas, where she remained for forty-six years until her death in 1555. But was she really mad or was it all an image created by the greed and thirst for power from her father and her husband? We’ll never be completely sure about this. What we know is that, while many were aware of her temperamental and sometimes exaggerated attitudes, she never showed signs of mental illness . She always talked with clearness and intelligence. It’s even said that she was actually the smartest of the five siblings. What is known is that the rumors of her madness started after she publicly confronted her husband for his constant infidelity and violent behavior, so, what do you think? I still remember something my history teacher once said about her: from the two Joannes born in that century, meaning Joanna of Castile and Joan of Arc, the first one was the sanest by far, and yet her image is the most damaged. *** For more history myths, take a look at these: The Concubine Who Became The Cruelest Ruler In China The Duchess Who Was Allegedly Murdered Over A Fashion Scandal *** Images from the TV series Isabel (2012-2014) and the sequel movie La corona partida (2016) ***


--- [514) Joanna of Castile - The Exasperated Historian] ---
514: Joanna of Castile Queen of Aragon and Castile Born: 6 November 1479, Toledo, Kingdom of Castile, Spain (Present-day Toledo, Spain) Died: 11 April 1555, Tordesillas, Kingdom of Castile, Spain (Present-day Tordesillas, Spain) Joanna is also known as “Joanna the Mad” (or in Spanish Juana la Loca). She was the elder sister of Catherine who would go on to marry Henry VIII. Like Catherine, Joanna was educated well, and reportedly spoke five languages. Joanna had six children with her husband (including Charles who went on to become the Holy Roman Emperor). She was never suspected to become Queen, but her two older siblings and their children all died within a few years of each other—launching her to the first place in the line of succession. Her madness included angry and jealous fits of rage along with refusing to eat or sleep for long periods of time. These symptoms first started to appear in 1504, the same year she would become Queen of Castile. Thirteen years later, in 1517, Joanna also became Queen of Aragon after her father’s death. In 1506, Joanna suffered an infamous attack after her husband’s death. She had always been angry at her husband and his numerous mistresses, but in death, she couldn’t let go. Joanna was heavily pregnant at the time yet still insisted on traveling over six hundred miles to her husband’s final resting place, where she had the coffin opened where she could kiss him goodbye. Interestingly enough, despite her being crowned queen of Aragon in 1517, by then, her son Charles had already effectively taken over the throne. He did this in 1509, and immediately retired his mother to a convent. She spent the last forty-odd years of her life there and was not allowed visitors. From the moment Joanna’s mother, Isabella, died, her father and husband used Joanna as a political pawn. Philip and Ferdinand both wanted control on Spain and fought one another for control. However, they quickly learned the safer course of action would be to have Joanna declared mentally unfit to rule. These actions were not only deeply hurtful to Joanna but would also allow for her son Charles to eventually lock her away. Today, historians’ debate what her mental illness truly was. Theories range from schizophrenia, depression, or possibly Bipolar disorder. Whatever the case, her illness allowed the men in her life to dominate and control her. Badges Earned: Find a Grave Marked Located In My Personal Library: Blood Sisters: The Women Behind the Wars of the Roses by Sarah Gristwood Sex With Kings by Eleanor Herman One Bloody Thing After Another, The World's Gruesome History by Jacob F Field Sources:


--- [Was Joanna of Castile truly 'mad' or a pawn for the men in her family ...] ---
On April 12, 1555, Joanna of Castile (1479-1555), the last surviving child of Catholic monarchs Queen Isabella I of Castile and King Ferdinand II of Aragon, died at the age of 75, well past the life expectancy of the time. She had been Queen of Castile for more than 50 years. However, over 45 of those years were spent in isolated imprisonment for her alleged mental insanity. Who was this hidden queen and what led to her demise? We explain here. CHILDHOOD Born in the city of Toledo, the capital of the Kingdom of Castile, on November 6, 1479 Joanna was the third child and second daughter of Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon of the royal House of Trastamara. Her parents’ marriage, along with the conquest of Granada in 1492, united and formed Spain as we know it today. Joanna was described as physically beautiful with a fair complexion, blue eyes, and auburn hair, like that of her mother, Isabella, and sister, Catherine. Joanna proved to be a clever and diligent student who received a substantial education for the time. Her academic education consisted of canon and civil law, genealogy and heraldry, grammar, history, languages, mathematics, philosophy, reading, spelling, and writing. In addition to French and Latin, Joanna excelled in the major Iberian Romance languages (Castilian, Catalan, and Galaico-Portuguese). Despite Joanna reputedly being the brightest of Isabella and Ferdinand’s children, she was a sullen and bashful child whose aloofness was mistaken for royal dignity. Stories also circulate over Joanna’s religious skepticism which was interpreted as an early sign of her creeping insanity. Her parents were exceptionally renowned for their faith, completing the 1492 Reconquista that ordered the conversion or exile of their Muslim and Jewish subjects and establishing the Spanish Inquisition in 1478 to maintain Catholic orthodoxy. According to the letters of the gentleman of Ferdinand’s bedchamber, Joanna was subjected to a torture method called “La cuerda,” in which she was suspended from a rope with weights attached to her feet. Queen Isabella even declared during the Spanish Inquisition that she would rather have her country be depopulated than become rampant with heresy. Isabella ensured that any rumors of her daughter’s hostility to Catholicism would be silenced. MARRIAGE As powerful and formidable monarchs, Ferdinand and Isabella would make certain all five of their surviving children would marry well and further Spanish interests. They planned marital alliances with other nations against France, the traditional rival of Aragon. Juan, Prince of Asturias (1478 – 1497), their only son, would unite Spain by inheriting the crowns of both Aragon and Castile. All four daughters would become Queens with Joanna perhaps even becoming an Empress. The eldest daughter, Isabella, would marry the king of Portugal. Their third daughter, Maria, would marry the James IV of Scotland. Their youngest and possibly most well-known Catalina would marry Arthur, Prince of Wales, and son of King Henry VII of England. Juan would marry Margaret of Habsburg, daughter of the future Holy Roman Emperor, Maximilian I, and Joanna would marry Margaret’s brother and Maximilian’s heir, Philip, Duke of Burgundy. Burgundy, whose capital at Dijon possessed splendid wealth and luxury, during this time had territories consisting of territory in modern Belgium, France, Germany, and the Netherlands. It would have been the perfect plan that would wield immense power and influence across Europe had it not been struck with disaster that sealed Joanna’s fate forever. In 1496 at the age of sixteen, Joanna was betrothed to Philip “The Handsome” of Austria and disembarked in August of that year with a fleet of approximately 22,000 people to the Low Countries. After one dangerous month at sea with three ships sunk, Joanna finally docked at her new home having suffered seasickness and a terrible cold. For various reasons, Philip did not meet his bride; his sister Margaret welcomed Joanna. However, when they finally met it was lust at first sight to the point that he insisted the Church give its blessing to the marriage immediately so it could be consummated that night. The cleric was hardly finished before the couple vanished to their bedroom. The next day a church wedding officially completed the union. It was a successful marriage with Joanna giving birth to six children between 1498 and 1507. TRAGEDY In October of 1497, Joanna’s only brother Juan died suddenly. His pregnant widow Margaret gave birth to a stillborn daughter two months later, shattering all hopes of the male Trastamara lineage being saved through Ferdinand and Isabella’s only son. His death was followed shortly by his sister - and next heiress to the Castilian throne - Isabella, after giving birth to a son in August 1498 who was named Miguel. Baby Miguel was now child heir to the thrones of Portugal, Castile, and Aragon. Miguel died on July 19, 1500, shortly before his second birthday. Had he lived he would have united the three crowns of the Iberian Peninsula. Joanna was now heir to her parents. That same year Joanna gave birth to her second child and first son named after Charles the Bold, Philip’s maternal grandfather. With the death of Miguel, not only did Joanna and Philip become Isabella’s and Ferdinand’s heirs but meant that Charles would inherit the thrones of Castile, Aragon, and the duchy of Burgundy as well as the Habsburg realms in central Europe. The marital tactics of the Catholic monarchs backfired as it was never their intention that the Habsburgs should acquire Spain into their realm nor make their daughter the new heiress in which she would traditionally be a co-ruler. The pressure on Joanna was now multiplied as she was made heiress in 1502 and given the title of Princess of Asturias. That same year, Joanna suffered a mental breakdown and Philip would repeatedly desert her as punishment for heated arguments. After one explosive quarrel, Philip rode off to his homeland of Flanders. Joanna wanted desperately to accompany him but her mother forbade it and had her locked up in the Castle La Mota at Medina del Campo. She spent days wandering and babbling, refusing sleep or food. As a married woman of her era, she would be expected to put her husband’s interests and realm first before that of her parents, even as their heir. She was already having difficulties adjusting to the cultural environment of Burgundy and the Low Countries. The Burgundians resented the Spaniards and neglected Joanna to the best of their ability. Her husband was on friendly terms with the King of France and did not involve himself with the anti-French policies of his in-laws. Perhaps the most severe and heartbreaking stress she suffered was her husband’s rampant infidelity. He indulged in feasting, drinking, and taking mistresses. In an era where women were expected to turn a blind eye to their husband’s philandering ways, Joanna instead flew into jealous rages, shocking both her husband and the court. Not being one for confrontation, Philip would punish his wife after quarrelling by avoiding her chambers for days. Joanna would then wander and sob the whole night, bumping against her bedroom walls. After discovering one of Philip’s mistresses who was “an exceedingly handsome noblewoman, with whom he was passionately in love…” Joanna confronted the woman and cut her hair short. Despite her attempts to win her husband back, which included changing her hair and clothing styles as well as utilizing love potions, their relationship grew destructive to the point where the impatient Philip ordered Joanna’s treasurer to keep a detailed diary of her actions. This was then sent to her parents which further humiliated Joanna and distressed her mother, Isabella. IMPRISONMENT However, Isabella severely disliked and distrusted Phillip and the influence he wielded over her vulnerable daughter, so she ensured that her will would allow Joanna to rule Castile with her husband, Ferdinand, as regent until her heir reached twenty years of age. Ferdinand refused to accept this, and when Isabella died in November 1504, a power struggle ensued between Philip and Ferdinand with Joanna as an in-between pawn. Both men minted coins in the name of themselves alongside Joanna as well as attempting to persuade the delicate twenty-five year old woman to hand the government to them. Her father even asked his officials to read to the Cortes notes of the Spanish treasurer in Flanders that put her instability on public display. After a brief visit to the English Court and Joanna’s sister, Catherine of Aragon, Philip and Ferdinand used a mediator to negotiate an arrangement for the government of Castile without consulting Joanna. After her furious reactions, the men schemed to have Joanna declared incompetent to rule, passing control to Philip. In September 1506, Philip fell seriously ill. A pregnant Joanna hardly left her husband’s side. Within six days, Philip the Handsome died at the age of 28. Despite the unkind treatment he gave Joanna throughout their ten-year marriage, Joanna refused to depart from her husband’s corpse for a disturbingly long time. On the way to Granada where Philip was to be buried, Joanna was rumored to have opened her husband’s casket to kiss and embrace him. She insisted they travel at night so that women would not be tempted by him. During the day they would rest in monasteries, deliberately avoiding nunneries. In January 1507, Joanna went into labor, refusing the help of midwives, and gave birth alone to a daughter, Catalina, the last remnant of her beloved Philip. With his rival for power now deceased, King Ferdinand II dismissed his daughter’s loyal supporters and ordered Joanna to be confined within the Royal Convent of Santa Clara in Tordesillas. After Ferdinand’s death, Joanna’s eldest son Charles became Charles V of Spain. After 11 years of imprisonment, with no knowledge of her father’s death or her son’s accession, Joanna was released briefly and visited by Charles after twenty years of separation. It is unknown what they discussed, but Charles refused to release her from her imprisonment and forbade her any visitors. Joanna’s youngest child Catalina remained at Tordesillas with her mother for sixteen years. Sadly, in 1525, Catalina was stolen way in the night and married off to King Juan III of Portugal. Joanna sank further into despair over the loss of her last child. Joanna survived her husband by 49 years, dying on April 12th, 1555, Good Friday, at the age of 75. Joanna was laid to rest beside her husband and across from her parents in Granada’s La Capilla Real. Was Joanna truly mad or a political pawn to the men in her family? Joanna’s maternal grandmother, Isabella of Portugal, allegedly suffered from mental illness as well and was sent to a convent. Joanna’s grandson Carlos and great-granddaughter Maria of Austria, Duchess of Jülich-Cleves-Berg, also reportedly went mad. Historians have speculated that Joanna may have suffered from a wide range of mental illness, from depression to schizophrenia to even postpartum depression. However, her increasingly erratic behavior was reported following the deaths of her siblings, nephew, mother, and her husband. Both Philip the Handsome and Charles V had a lot to gain from Joanna being declared incompetent to rule. Do you think Joanna of Castile was truly ‘mad’ - or was she a political pawn? Sources “Biography of Juana the Mad of Castile (1479-1555).” Biography of Philip V of Spain (1683-1746), madmonarchs.guusbeltman.nl/madmonarchs/juana/juana_bio.htm. Bos, Joan. “Biography of Juana the Mad of Castile (1479-1555).” Biography of Philip V of Spain (1683-1746), madmonarchs.guusbeltman.nl/madmonarchs/juana/juana_bio.htm. Chua, Paolo. “The Tragic Story of the Mad Queen of Castile Who Slept Next to Her Husband's Corpse.” Townandcountry.ph, Town&Country Philippines, 28 Apr. 2018, www.townandcountry.ph/people/heritage/joanna-of-castile-history-a00208-20180428-lfrm. Forcen, Fernando Espi. “The Tragic Story of Joanna the Mad.” Medievalists.net, 8 Dec. 2015, www.medievalists.net/2015/12/the-tragic-story-of-joanna-the-mad/. Moniek. “Queens Regnant: Joanna of Castile - The Mad Queen.” History of Royal Women, 16 Aug. 2018, www.historyofroyalwomen.com/the-royal-women/queens-regnant-joanna-of-castile2/. Morris, Tracy S. “I Am Not Making This Up: Joan the Mad of Castile's Epic Farewell Tour « Tracy S. Morris.” Tracy S Morris, 19 Dec. 2016, tracysmorris.com/2016/12/19/i-am-not-making-this-up-joan-the-mad-of-castiles-epic-farewell-tour/. Ridgway, Claire. “The Madness of Juana of Castile.” The Tudor Society, 2 Mar. 2017, www.tudorsociety.com/madness-juana-castile/.
