=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Victor A. Prather Award - Wikipedia]
The Victor A. Prather Award is an award established by the American Astronautical Society "to promote understanding of high altitude environment on humans." It is awarded to " researchers, engineers and flight crew members in the field of extravehicular protection or activity in space."
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Victor_A._Prather_Award

[Victor A. Prather Award | American Astronautical Society]
The Victor A. Prather Award was established to honor this Naval flight surgeon who contributed so much to the understanding of the effects of high altitude environment on humans.
URL: https://astronautical.org/awards/retired/prather/

[Victor A. Prather Award - Alchetron, the free social encyclopedia]
The Victor A. Prather Award is an award established by the American Astronautical Society to promote understanding of high altitude environment on humans. It is awarded to researchers, engineers and flight crew members in the field of extravehicular protection or activity in space.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Victor-A.-Prather-Award

[Harley Lewis Stutesman Jr. (1932-1995) - Find a Grave Memorial]
In 1973, Harley, along with Walter Guy, won the prestigious Victor A. Prather Award, which is an award established by the American Astronautical Society to promote understanding of high altitude environment on humans. It is awarded to to researchers, engineers and flight crew members in the field of extravehicular...
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/77034506/harley_lewis-stutesman

[Victor Prather - Wikipedia]
Lieutenant Commander Victor Alonzo Prather Jr. (June 4, 1926 - May 4, 1961) was an American flight surgeon famous for taking part in "Project RAM", a government project to develop the space suit.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Victor_Prather


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Victor A. Prather Award - Wikipedia] ---
The Victor A. Prather Award is an award established by the American Astronautical Society "to promote understanding of high altitude environment on humans." It is awarded to "researchers, engineers and flight crew members in the field of extravehicular protection or activity in space."
The award is in honor of Victor A. Prather, a Naval flight surgeon.




--- [Victor A. Prather Award | American Astronautical Society] ---
Victor A. Prather Award The Victor A. Prather Award was established to honor this Naval flight surgeon who contributed so much to the understanding of the effects of high altitude environment on humans. He was best known for his high altitude balloon flights and it was in one of these flights that he lost his life. On May 5, 1961, the day of Alan Shepard’s first flight, Prather established a new high altitude balloon record of 21 miles with Malcolm Ross. During their recovery operation off the Carrier Antietam in the Atlantic Ocean, Prather fell into the sea from the helicopter platform and was drowned. In recognition of Victor Prather’s efforts to promote understanding of high altitude environment on humans, this award honored researchers, engineers and flight crew members in the field of extravehicular protection or activity in space. Recipients 1962 – 2013: - 2013 – Felix Baumgartner and the Red Bull Stratos Team - 2012 – Jan Stepanek - 2011 – Joseph Kosmo - 2010 – STS-125 EVA Team - 2009 – Joseph A. Ruseckas - 2008 – Joseph Kittinger - 2007 – Curtis A. Stephenson - 2006 – Scott Crossfield (posthumous) and David Clark (posthumous) - 2005 – No Award Given - 2004 – No Award Given - 2003 – No Award Given - 2002 – G. Allen Flynt - 2001 – No Award Given - 2000 – Michael L. Gernhardt - 1999 – Jerry L. Ross and James H. Newman - 1998 – Guy I. Severin - 1997 – Alan M. Rochford - 1996 – Willy Z. Sadeh - 1995 – Clifford W. Hess, Scott A. Bleisath, Mark Lee - 1994 – STS-61 Extravehicular Crew: F. Story Musgrave, Thomas D. Akers, Jeffrey A. Hoffman, and Kathryn C. Thornton - 1993 – STS-49 Extravehicular Crew: Thomas D. Akers, Pierre D. Thuot, Richard J. Hieb, and Kathryn C. Thornton - 1992 – Kathryn D. Sullivan - 1990 – Jerry L. Ross - 1989 – No Award Given - 1988 – Michael Brzezinski - 1987 – Joseph J. Kosmo and Hubert C. Vykukal - 1986 – Joseph P. Allen - 1985 – James D. van Hoften, William F. Fisher, Jerry L. Ross, and Sherwood C. Spring - 1984 – Bruce McCandless II - 1983 – No Award Given - 1982 – Wilbert E. Ellis and James M. Waligora - 1981 – No Award Given - 1980 – No Award Given - 1979 – Maurice A. Carson and Frederick A. Keune - 1978 – James W. McBarron II - 1977 – No Award Given - 1976 – Larry E. Bell and Robert M. Bernarndin - 1975 – David C. Schultz and Harold J. McMann - 1974 – Bruce McCandless II and Charles E. Whitsett, Jr. - 1973 – Walter Guy and Harley Stutesman, Jr. - 1972 – Harold I. Johnson - 1971 – Robert E. Breeding and Leonard Shepard - 1970 – Robert E. Smylie and Charles Lutz - 1969 – Edward L. Hays and James V. Correale - 1968 – Fred Forbes - 1967 – No Award Given - 1966 – No Award Given - 1965 – Richard S. Johnston - 1964 – No Award Given - 1963 – Col. Chuck Yeager - 1962 – Malcom Davis Ross


--- [Victor A. Prather Award - Alchetron, the free social encyclopedia] ---
The Victor A. Prather Award is an award established by the American Astronautical Society "to promote understanding of high altitude environment on humans." It is awarded to "researchers, engineers and flight crew members in the field of extravehicular protection or activity in space." The award is in honor of Victor A. Prather, a Naval flight surgeon. Recipients References Victor A. Prather Award Wikipedia(Text) CC BY-SA


--- [Harley Lewis Stutesman Jr. (1932-1995) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
In 1973, Harley, along with Walter Guy, won the prestigious Victor A. Prather Award, which is an award established by the American Astronautical Society "to promote understanding of high altitude environment on humans." It is awarded to to "researchers, engineers and flight crew members in the field of extravehicular protection or activity in space." The award is in honor of Victor A. Prather, a Naval flight surgeon. In 1973, Harley, along with Walter Guy, won the prestigious Victor A. Prather Award, which is an award established by the American Astronautical Society "to promote understanding of high altitude environment on humans." It is awarded to to "researchers, engineers and flight crew members in the field of extravehicular protection or activity in space." The award is in honor of Victor A. Prather, a Naval flight surgeon. Fulfill Photo Request for Harley Lewis Stutesman Jr. Photo Request Fulfilled Thank you for fulfilling this photo request. An email has been sent to the person who requested the photo informing them that you have fulfilled their request There is an open photo request for this memorial Are you adding a grave photo that will fulfill this request? Oops, some error occurred while uploading your photo(s). Oops, something didn't work. Close this window, and upload the photo(s) again. Make sure that the file is a photo. Photos larger than 8 MB will be reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. All photos uploaded successfully, click on the <b>Done button</b> to see the photos in the gallery. General photo guidelines: Photos larger than 8.0 MB will be optimized and reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. Each contributor can upload a maximum of 5 photos for a memorial. A memorial can have a maximum of 20 photos from all contributors. The sponsor of a memorial may add an additional 10 photos (for a total of 30 on the memorial). Include gps location with grave photos where possible. No animated GIFs, photos with additional graphics (borders, embellishments.) This memorial already has a grave photo. Please indicate why you think it needs another. There is no plot information for this memorial. Your photo request is more likely to be fulfilled if you contact the cemetery to get the plot information and include it with your request. You are only allowed to leave one flower per day for any given memorial. Memorial Photos This is a carousel with slides. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Use Escape keyboard button or the Close button to close the carousel. Quickly see who the memorial is for and when they lived and died and where they are buried. Show Map If the memorial includes GPS coordinates, simply click 'Show Map' to view the gravesite location within the cemetery. If no GPS coordinates are available, you can contribute by adding them if you know the precise location. Photos For memorials with more than one photo, additional photos will appear here or on the photos tab. Photos Tab All photos appear on this tab and here you can update the sort order of photos on memorials you manage. To view a photo in more detail or edit captions for photos you added, click the photo to open the photo viewer. Flowers Flowers added to the memorial appear on the bottom of the memorial or here on the Flowers tab. To add a flower, click the Leave a Flower button. Family Members Family members linked to this person will appear here. Related searches Use the links under See more… to quickly search for other people with the same last name in the same cemetery, city, county, etc. Sponsor This Memorial Remove advertising from a memorial by sponsoring it for <strong>just $10</strong>. Previously sponsored memorials or famous memorials will not have this option. Share Share this memorial using social media sites or email. Save to Save to an Ancestry Tree, a virtual cemetery, your clipboard for pasting or Print. Edit or Suggest Edit Edit a memorial you manage or suggest changes to the memorial manager. Have Feedback Thanks for using Find a Grave, if you have any feedback we would love to hear from you. This photo is larger than 20 MB. Please resize to less than 20 MB and try again. You may not upload any more photos to this memorial There was a problem uploading this image "Unsupported file type" Uploading... Waiting... Success Failed Duplicate photo Not image owner Photo status will not allow linking This photo has already been added to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial Invalid File Type Uploading 1 Photo Uploading 2 Photos 1 Photo Uploaded 2 Photos Uploaded Added by GREAT NEWS! There is 1 volunteer for this cemetery. Sorry! There are no volunteers for this cemetery. Continuing with this request will add an alert to the cemetery page and any new volunteers will have the opportunity to fulfill your request. Enter numeric value Enter memorial Id Year should not be greater than current year Invalid memorial Duplicate entry for memorial You have chosen this person to be their own family member. Reported! This relationship is not possible based on lifespan dates. 0% Complete Saved Sign in or Register Sign in to Find a Grave Sign-in to link to existing account There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. We’ve updated the security on the site. Please reset your password. Your account has been locked for 30 minutes due to too many failed sign in attempts. Please contact Find a Grave at [email protected] if you need help resetting your password. This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] Email not found Please complete the captcha to let us know you are a real person. Sign in to your existing Find a Grave account. You’ll only have to do this once—after your accounts are connected, you can sign in using your Ancestry sign in or your Find a Grave sign in. We found an existing Find a Grave account associated with your email address. Sign in below with your Find a Grave credentials to link your Ancestry account. After your accounts are connected you can sign in using either account. Please enter your email to sign in. Please enter your password to sign in. Please enter your email and password to sign in. There is a problem with your email/password. A system error has occurred. Please try again later. A password reset email has been sent to EmailID. If you don't see an email, please check your spam folder. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. Password Reset Please enter your email address and we will send you an email with a reset password code. or Registration Options Welcome to Find a Grave Create your free account by choosing an option below. or Ancestry account link To create your account, Ancestry will share your name and email address with Find a Grave. To continue choose an option below. or If you already have a Find a Grave account, please sign in to link to Ancestry®. New Member Registration Email is mandatory Email and Password are mandatory This account already exists, but the email address still needs to be confirmed. Resend Activation Email Your password is not strong enough Invalid Email You must agree to Terms and Conditions Account already exists Please check the I'm not a robot checkbox Internal Server error occurred If you want to be a Photo Volunteer you must enter a ZIP Code or select your location on the map You must select an email preference We have sent you an activation email Your new password must contain one or more uppercase and lowercase letters, and one or more numbers or special characters. We just emailed an activation code to Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account. cemeteries found in will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within miles of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within kilometers of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. Within 5 miles of your location. Within 5 kilometers of your location. 0 cemeteries found in . 0 cemeteries found. Add a cemetery to fulfill photo requests You can customize the cemeteries you volunteer for by selecting or deselecting below. Search above to list available cemeteries. Getting location… Loading... Loading... No cemeteries found Find a Grave Video Tutorials Default Language Translation on Find a Grave is an ongoing project. If you notice a problem with the translation, please send a message to [email protected] and include a link to the page and details about the problem. Thanks for your help! Preferred Language We have set your language to based on information from your browser. You can choose another language below: Welcome Back! Thanks for signing in. Your account will not be marked as inactive. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave. Your account has been reactivated. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . Sign out successful Return to the email you received and click on the link to contact us.


--- [Victor Prather - Wikipedia] ---
Lieutenant Commander Victor Alonzo Prather Jr. (June 4, 1926 – May 4, 1961) was an American flight surgeon famous for taking part in "Project RAM", a government project to develop the space suit. On May 4, 1961, Prather drowned during the helicopter transfer after the landing of the Strato-Lab V balloon flight, which set an altitude record for manned balloon flight which stood until 2012.
