=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Draj Bridge for all-weather connectivity inaugurated in J&K’s ...]
Dec 10, 2019 ·It is a 72-metre-long Multi Cell Box Type Load Class 70 bridge. The bridge spans over Draj nallah and connects Draj Area with Tehsil Kotranka area underDistrict Rajouriand is constructed to bear heavy load up to 70 tons.
URL: https://www.gktoday.in/draj-bridge-for-all-weather-connectivity-inaugurated-in-jks-rajouri/

[Lt Governor dedicates 72 mtrs Draj Bridge on Rajouri-Budhal ...]
Dec 9, 2019 ·The construction of the 72mtrDrajBridgeon Rajouri-Kandi-Budhal road will provide much needed all-weather connectivity to the surrounding villages ofDraj, Samote, Budhal, Kotranka and other areas.
URL: https://kashmirlife.net/lt-governor-dedicates-72-mtrs-draj-bridge-on-rajouri-budhal-road-to-public-220280/

[MoD | J&K Lt Governor inaugurates 72-metre all weather bridge ...]
Dec 12, 2019 ·PIB News Update: Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Shri Girish Chandra Murmu dedicated the 72-metre-long Multi Cell Box Type Load Class 70 bridge to the Nation in Rajouri today. The bridge spans overDrajnallah and connected Draj Area to Tehsil Kotranka area underDistrictRajouri.
URL: https://www.indianbureaucracy.com/mod-jk-lt-governor-inaugurates-72-metre-all-weather-bridge-in-rajouri/

[LG dedicates Draj Bridge of project Sampark to nation]
Udhampur, Dec 9 Girish Chandra Murmu, Lt Governor, dedicated a 72 metre long Multi Cell Box Type load Class 70 Bridge to the Nation atDrajin Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir today.
URL: https://www.youngbites.com/newsdet.aspx?q=289063

[All Weather Bridge Inaugurated by J&K Lt Governor Girish ...]
Dec 9, 2019 ·New Delhi: Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Girish Chandra Murmu dedicated a 72-metre-long Multi Cell Box Type Load Class 70 bridge to the nation in Rajouri on December 9. The bridge spans over Draj nallah and connected Draj Area to Tehsil Kotranka area underDistrictRajouri.
URL: https://raksha-anirveda.com/all-weather-bridge-inaugurated-by-jk-lt-governor-girish-chandra-murmu/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Draj Bridge for all-weather connectivity inaugurated in J&K’s ...] ---
No content


--- [Lt Governor dedicates 72 mtrs Draj Bridge on Rajouri-Budhal ...] ---
No content


--- [MoD | J&K Lt Governor inaugurates 72-metre all weather bridge ...] ---
PIB News Update: Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Shri Girish Chandra Murmu dedicated the 72-metre-long Multi Cell Box Type Load Class 70 bridge to the Nation in Rajouri today. The bridge spans over Draj nallah and connected Draj Area to Tehsil Kotranka area under District Rajouri. Lt Governor praised Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for their dedication and nation building through infrastructure development and war preparedness through construction of roads, bridge and tunnels. Addressing the gathering, Shri Murmu said the Draj bridge is an important bridge for military as well as for socio-economic development of the Rajouri District as a whole. This bridge will facilitate all weather and speedy movement of Army troops as well as locals. On the occasion, the chief guest congratulated 110 RCC, 31TF, Project Sampark and complete BRO team for the execution of the work with utmost professionalism which will strengthen the road network in the area. Chief Engineer of Project Sampark Brig Y K Ahuja said the upgradation of the existing causeway with National Highway specifications was essential as it is on important line of communication. Now the Draj bridge will provide all weather movements without any restriction on plying of heavy traffic as it is designed for load class 70. He also appreciated the support extended by the local residents and civil administration in overcoming various challenges faced by the BRO during the construction of the bridge. The BRO is playing an important role in the field of surface transport by connecting far flung inaccessible remote areas along borders. Contribution of BRO in Nation building is being appreciated by all. General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Northern Command Lt Gen Ranbir Singh, General Officer Commanding of 16 CORPS Lt Gen Harsha Gupta and Divisional Commissioner Jammu were also present during the occasion.


--- [LG dedicates Draj Bridge of project Sampark to nation] ---
- Home - 12 LG dedicates Draj Bridge of project Sampark to nation YB WEB DESK. Dated: 12/10/2019 12:18:08 PM Udhampur, Dec 9 Girish Chandra Murmu, Lt Governor, dedicated a 72 metre long Multi Cell Box Type load Class 70 Bridge to the Nation at Draj in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir today. Lt Gen Ranbir Singh, Army Cdr, Northern Command and Lt Gen Harsha Gupta, GOC White Knight Corps were also present during the occasion. The bridge spans over Draj nallah and connects Draj Area to tehsil Kotranka area under district Rajouri. The Lieutenant Governor praised Border Roads Organization (BRO) for their dedication towards nation building through infrastructure development and war preparedness through construction of roads, bridges and tunnels. During the inauguration function, the Lt Governor addressed the gathering of local residents, Army and GREF and said that the Draj bridge is important for military as well as for socio-economic development of Rajouri District as a whole. This bridge will facilitate all weather and speedy movement of Army troops as well as locals. On the occasion, the chief guest congratulated 110 RCC, 31TF, Project Sampark and BRO team for the execution of work with utmost professionalism which will strengthen the road network in the area. He praised the relentless effort put in by the Chief Engineer, Project Sampark and his team in executing the herculean task. The Lieutenant Governor complimented the Indian Army for their unwavering dedication to duty and high standard of professionalism. He also appreciated the support extended by the local residents and civil administration in overcoming various challenges faced by the Border Roads Organization during the construction of the bridge. Speaking on the occasion Brig YK Ahuja, Chief Engineer, Project Sampark, said that the up gradation of the existing causeway with NH specifications was essential as it is on important line of communication.


--- [All Weather Bridge Inaugurated by J&K Lt Governor Girish ...] ---
New Delhi: Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Girish Chandra Murmu dedicated a 72-metre-long Multi Cell Box Type Load Class 70 bridge to the nation in Rajouri on December 9. The bridge spans over Draj nallah and connected Draj Area to Tehsil Kotranka area under District Rajouri. Lt Governor praised Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for their dedication and nation building through infrastructure development and war preparedness through construction of roads, bridge and tunnels. Addressing the gathering, Murmu said the Draj bridge is an important bridge for military as well as for socio-economic development of the Rajouri District as a whole. General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Northern Command Lt Gen Ranbir Singh, General Officer Commanding of 16 CORPS Lt Gen Harsha Gupta and Divisional Commissioner Jammu were also present during the occasion.
