=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Virtual Museum Impressions: The Morgan Library & Museum]
The Morgan Library & Museum began as the personal library of financier, collector, and cultural benefactor Pierpont Morgan who started to assemble a collection of illuminated, literary, and historical manuscripts, early printed books, and old master drawings and prints as early as 1890.
URL: https://lookingbackmovingforwardinmuseumeducation.com/2023/03/08/virtual-museum-impressions-the-morgan-library-museum/

[The Morgan Library & Museum - The Drawing Foundation]
A museum and independent research library located in the heart of New York City, the Morgan Library & Museum began as the personal library of financier, collector, and cultural benefactor Pierpont Morgan. As early as 1890 Morgan had begun to assemble a collection of illuminated, literary, and historical manuscripts, early printed books, and old master drawings and prints.
URL: https://thedrawingfoundation.org/museums/the-morgan-library-museum/

[The Origins of the Drawings Department at the Morgan]
Apr 13, 2021 · It wasn’t until 1945, when a curator was hired to explicitly oversee the collection that Drawings and Prints became its own department.
URL: https://www.themorgan.org/blog/origins-drawings-department-morgan

[Researchers' Guides to the Collections - The Morgan Library ...]
In 1910 Pierpont Morgan established the core of the Morgan's holdings when he purchased a collection of about fifteen hundred old master drawings from the English artist-collector Charles Fairfax Murray.
URL: https://www.themorgan.org/research/guides/drawings-and-prints

[The Morgan Library Names John Marciari to Head its Department of ...]
New York, NY, June 11, 2014— John Marciari, an independent curator and scholar who most recently held the position of Curator of European Art and Head of Provenance Research at the San Diego Museum of Art, has been chosen to lead the Department of Drawings and Prints at the Morgan Library & Museum. With the title of Charles W. Engelhard Curator and Department Head, Marciari will oversee a ...
URL: https://www.finebooksmagazine.com/fine-books-news/morgan-library-names-john-marciari-head-its-department-drawings-prints


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Virtual Museum Impressions: The Morgan Library & Museum] ---
March 9, 2023 I chose to explore The Morgan Library & Museum, a museum and an independent research library in New York City. The Morgan Library & Museum began as the personal library of financier, collector, and cultural benefactor Pierpont Morgan who started to assemble a collection of illuminated, literary, and historical manuscripts, early printed books, and old master drawings and prints as early as 1890. The library was built between 1902 and 1906, and the end result was the Italian Renaissance-style palazzo. In 1924, eleven years after Pierpont Morgan’s death, his son J. P. “Jack” Morgan, Jr. transformed the library into a public institution for scholars and the public to access his father’s collections. The collection currently has 6,000 years of the creative process in literature, music, drawing, photography, et. cetera. This is not the first time I have experienced The Morgan Library & Museum since a while back I attended a conference hosted by the Museum. It is the first time I experienced the Museum in the virtual realm. On their website, they have a page with various virtual options called The Morgan, Connected. There are six categories on the page to pick which virtual experience to choose from: Virtual Talks, Tours, and Concerts, Online Exhibitions, Videos, Digital Facsimiles, Collection Online, and The Morgan Blog. In the Online Exhibitions section, there are at least 79 online exhibits. The Videos section has 216 videos and Digital Facsimiles has 105 facsimiles. I decided that since there was so much to see I narrowed down the virtual experiences I had. In honor of Women’s History Month, I focused on exploring The Morgan, Connected’s women-focused virtual experiences. I visited the Belle da Costa Greene and the Women of the Morgan and the She Who Wrote: Enheduanna and Women of Mesopotamia, ca. 3400–2000 B.C. exhibit. The Bella de la Costa Greene exhibit focuses on the life of The Morgan’s first director and the work she did throughout her career as first J. Pierpont Morgan’s librarian and then the director of The Morgan Library & Museum. The She Who Wrote exhibit focuses on Mesopotamia’s fundamental developments during the late fourth and third millennia BC, which brought together a wide-ranging selection of artworks that capture deep and changing expressions of women’s lives. Both of the exhibits were in a slideshow format of images of collection items in addition to detailed information on the exhibit content and on the collection. The North Room of the Pierpont Morgan Library, [1923–ca. 1935] from the Archives of the Morgan Library & Museum Belle da Costa Greene and the Women of the Morgan discusses and shows the impact Bella da Costa Greene left on the Morgan Library and Museum. What I thought was interesting and impressive was learning about the impact Bella da Costa Greene’s work had on the Morgan. At the start of the exhibit, they pointed out her only recently cataloged professional correspondence offers new insight into how she maneuvered in a world of books and manuscripts dominated by men. The recently compiled correspondence also revealed more stories of other women who worked with Greene including Meta Harrsen, Marguerite Duprez Lahey, Dorothy Miner, Violet Napier (née Burnie), and Ada Thurston. Exhibit labels illustrate the curators’ point of each letter and object in the exhibit document the experiences of these women, who were respected and widely regarded as experts in their field. For instance, Greene hired Dorothy Miner in 1933 to help catalog the Morgan’s illuminated manuscript collection. Greene’s respect for her mentee can be seen through her recommendation of Miner for a position at the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore. Miner would stay at the Walters for thirty years, creating a legacy of her own. She maintained both a professional and personal friendship with Greene, often seeking her former boss’s advice. In 1954 Miner edited a festschrift honoring her mentor. Titled Studies in Art and Literature for Belle da Costa Greene, the book’s essays range in topics from medieval manuscripts to Dutch paintings, covering each of the Morgan’s collection focuses at the time. Under Greene, the Morgan added over seventeen thousand reference works and ten thousand printed books to its collection, presented forty-six exhibitions, issued thirty-five publications, started a lecture series, and provided scholars with access to some of the world’s most incredible cultural artifacts. I would love to see an exhibit like this in person, and since they are planning to share Greene’s story and legacy as the subject of a major exhibit in 2024 to mark The Morgan’s 100th anniversary as a public institution there would be an opportunity to see an exhibit like this online one in person. She Who Wrote: Enheduanna and Women of Mesopotamia, ca. 3400–2000 B.C. exhibit focuses on the region’s fundamental developments during the late fourth and third millennia BC which brings together a comprehensive selection of artworks that capture rich and shifting expressions of women’s lives at the time. Artworks are also evidence of women’s roles in religious contexts as goddesses, priestesses, and worshippers, as well as in social, economic, and political spheres as mothers, workers, and rulers. One of the examples of women the exhibit discusses was a woman who wielded considerable religious and political power was the high priestess and poet Enheduanna (circa 2300 BC), the first known author in world literature. While I liked both of the exhibits, I felt that I got more out of the virtual experience viewing the She Who Wrote exhibit. Throughout the exhibit, there were audio clips as well as images of the artwork and objects to help visitors engage with this virtual experience. Visitors could zoom into the images to get a closer look at the objects and artwork by clicking on the zoom button. I also appreciate that there were transcriptions of what was stated in the audio clips since it shows me, they are working on being more inclusive to people visiting the site. There are 24 various objects within the virtual exhibit that support the narrative of the overall exhibit. One of the objects in the exhibit is known as Cylinder seal with “priest-king” and altar on the back of a bull from the late Uruk–Jemdet Nasr period, ca. 3300–2900 BC in Mesopotamia, and it is made of lapis lazuli and silver. In the boat, there stands a “priest-king”, the highest-ranking ruler in the first cities, represented with a long beard and a netted skirt revealing the rounded forms of his lower body. He faces a bull supporting a two-tiered altar crowned with reed ring bundles with streamers, symbols of Inanna. Behind him is a wattled structure, possibly standing for a temple facade. Two attendants navigate the boat from the bow and stern, which are adorned with buds. This seal, with a silver knob in the form of a recumbent calf, was buried in the sacred precinct of Inanna in Uruk. Its imagery suggests a ritual honoring the goddess that was intended to ensure the well-being of the land, sustained by its two life veins, the Euphrates and Tigris Rivers. Cylinder seal with “priest-king” and altar on the back of a bull in the She Who Wrote exhibit Another example of an object in the exhibit referred to as Vessel with faces of female deities from the Early Dynastic IIIa period, ca. 2500 BC from the Mesopotamia, Sumerian area. It is made of Gypsum alabaster. In the exhibit, it is described as a single divine female figure, anthropomorphic but with bovine features, embodied in the two identical faces carved on this alabaster vessel. The wide-open eyes and full cheeks resemble those of statues of female worshippers during this period, while the delicately braided hair is reminiscent of contemporary depictions of goddesses—a sign of abundance and tamed wildness also expressed by the stylized cow horns. Each horn extends to circumscribe the rim of the vessel, linking the two faces to each other and to the object itself. This unity, together with the bright translucency of the alabaster, suggests that this vessel served as a divinized cultic object. Vessel with faces of female deities, front views Vessel with faces of female deities, back views To experience The Morgan online, check out the various virtual experiences in the link below. I also included a few links to previous museum visits both in-person and virtual. More can be found on this website. Links: Virtual Historic Site Impressions: Fountains Abbey, Yorkshire Museum Impressions and Virtual Revisit: Old Sturbridge Village Virtual Museum Impressions: Versailles


--- [The Morgan Library & Museum - The Drawing Foundation] ---
A museum and independent research library located in the heart of New York City, the Morgan Library & Museum began as the personal library of financier, collector, and cultural benefactor Pierpont Morgan. As early as 1890 Morgan had begun to assemble a collection of illuminated, literary, and historical manuscripts, early printed books, and old master drawings and prints. Address 225 Madison Ave, New York, NY 10016 / (212) 685-0008 Organization name Website Contact The Drawing Study Center The Drawing Study Center, designed by Beyer Blinder Belle and completed in 1999, is generally used for group visits and classes, and serves as an additional consultation space for the collection of drawings and prints. To make an appointment to consult material from the Department of Drawings and Prints, please complete the required Reading Room application. Upcoming Events Past Events Affiliation Groups and Organisations Wich the generous support of This partenership with Past Exhibitions ExhibitionsPast Liberty to the Imagination: Drawings from the Eveillard Gift June 7, 2024 - October 6, 2024 ExhibitionsPast Far and Away: Drawings from the Clement C. Moore Collection June 28, 2024 - September 22, 2024 ExhibitionsPast Into the Woods: French Drawings and Photographs from the Karen B. Cohen Gift June 6, 2023 - October 23, 2023 Exhibitions January 1, 12AM UTC Tour of Shadow Visionaries: French Artists Against the Current, 1840-70 225 South Street, Williamstown, MA, 01267, United States Join us for this intimate tour of the exhibition Shadow Visionaries: French Artists Against the Current, 1840-70. Led by the exhibition curator, Anne Leonard, Manton Curator of Prints, Drawings, and Photographs […] January 1, 12AM UTC Close Looking with the Curator: Brooklyn Bridge from the New York Municipal Archives 1000 Fifth Avenue, New York City, NY, 10028, United States Join us for a closer look at incredible drawings of the Brooklyn Bridge from the New York Municipal Archives! We are pleased to offer a special opportunity for The Drawing […]


--- [The Origins of the Drawings Department at the Morgan] ---
Once the Pierpont Morgan Library’s newly-completed Annex building opened to the public in 1928, the library’s activities and staff expanded. The collection of prints and drawings could be consulted by scholars in the Reading Room, and works were routinely included in presentations in the main exhibition gallery. Initially, Director Belle da Costa Greene’s expertise was predominantly in manuscripts and printed books, so the collection of drawings was stewarded by staff members from those departments as an additional responsibility during the 1930s and first half of the 1940s (Figure 1). It wasn’t until 1945, when a curator was hired to explicitly oversee the collection that Drawings and Prints became its own department. The story of how that came about is also a story about the professional opportunities for women in museums following the Depression and until the close of the Second World War, and a story of specific personalities forging careers and adjusting to circumstances during these pivotal decades. In 1934, Greene hired a talented and ambitious print specialist named Philip Hofer as part of the team responsible for printed books (Figure 2). Hofer was given responsibility for the prints, illustrated books, and drawings. He considered himself an assistant director at the end of his tenure, and referred to himself as such, given the large role he felt he played at the Morgan, though his title as listed in the library’s published reports remained curator of prints and illustrated books. Soon after Hofer started, according to an oral history he recounted fifty years later in 1984, he was at odds with Belle Greene. These two strong personalities apparently clashed, although we do not know how Greene viewed the experience. In his telling, he blamed her dislike of him on the fact that he realized—and let her know that he realized—aspects of her personal life that she had kept private. …. Belle Greene decided very quickly that she didn't want me at all, because I knew too much. Not too much about books. I knew too much about her. I got to know pretty well about her, and guessed quite a few things about her. And she wanted me out. She didn't want to be succeeded, anyway by an assistant director. He may be referring to his awareness that Greene, a Black woman born Belle Marion Greener who adopted the Portuguese-sounding middle name "da Costa," was passing as white, a facet of her life that Greene was forced to hide given the racist ideologies that underpinned the Jim Crow era. Asked what role he played at the Morgan, he responded with a laugh: I did what she told me to. I helped catalogue the drawing collection upstairs, and they had Rembrandt prints and things like that. I did what she told me to do. Sometimes she told me to go away. After three undoubtedly tense years, Hofer resigned from his position at the Morgan in 1937. His passion as a bibliophile led him to found the department of Printing and Graphics at Harvard’s Widener Library the following year. Hofer focused on the history of illustrated books and remained as curator of the printing and graphics collection, which relocated to Houghton Library in 1942, until 1968. He was a particularly savvy and voracious collector of rare books and left his collections to the Houghton Library and the Fogg Art Museum. After Hofer’s departure, there was a need for someone to take responsibility for the collection of drawings and prints. William Ivins, curator of prints at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, was made a consultant on the print collection in 1938. But drawings, stored alongside the prints on the top floor of the 1906 Library above Greene’s office, remained a collection without a curator. In 1936, shortly before Hofer’s departure, Greene had hired Helen M. Franc to assist with the medieval manuscripts collection (Figure 3), working with curator Meta Harrsen. Franc also helped oversee the Reading Room where scholars would study rare materials from the collection. Franc was a graduate of Wellesley who received her Master’s degree from New York University in 1931. She had advanced to become a PhD candidate in medieval Italian painting at the Institute of Fine Arts by the time she started at the Morgan. An excellent wordsmith, she also deployed her editing skills on the Morgan’s annual reports. Eventually, towards the end of her six year tenure, she also took on responsibility for the drawings collection, a reassignment largely due to a clash with the head of her department. Franc recalled her experience at the Morgan in an oral history taken in 1991. During her time at the Morgan, the drawings weren’t as high a priority as manuscripts, printed books, and prints and illustrated books, and therefore lacked a dedicated caretaker. The atmosphere at the Morgan during this period was characterized by strong personalities and some curious office politics: I think I made the great salary of fifty dollars a week, which was quite fair in those days. I was sort of a special assistant to Belle Greene. I did all sorts of things, like showing visitors around, and then I did some work cataloguing the illuminated manuscripts. I worked on the annual reports and the press releases. I got to curate one exhibition, The Animal Kingdom, on which I had a great time. But the atmosphere there was very strange. I think there were about nine professional people on the staff, of which there were three pairs of people who didn't speak to each other. That didn't mean six people, because some of the pairs overlapped. When I say they didn't speak, they didn't even pass the time of day. It was a very strange atmosphere. So Belle Greene at one point, sometime after I'd done that exhibition, removed me from the manuscripts because the person who was in charge of manuscripts was very jealous of me—she was many years my senior—and put me in charge of drawings, from which Philip Hofer had recently departed as curator. And I really didn't know anything about drawings, but I was just beginning on that when the war came. As the United States entered the war after the attack on Pearl Harbor in December of 1941, concern was high about the safety of the collection. It was feared that the East Coast, and New York in particular, might be bombed, especially the city with its active ports. Franc’s daily tasks soon focused almost exclusively on packing the collection to be stored offsite—the Rembrandt etchings went to Oberlin, and the drawings were sent to collector Lessing Rosenwald’s estate, Alverthorpe in Jenkintown, Pennsylvania (Figures 4, 5). Other parts of the collection were sent to Saratoga Springs and Whitemarsh Hall outside Philadelphia. Without a collection to care for, Franc lost interest and decided to leave. Well, here I was, a rather energetic young creature in my twenties, and not of a mind to sit out the war being the curator of a nonexistent collection. Franc went to work for the Office of War Information and then the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration. After the war, she ultimately followed her mentor from Wellesley, Alfred Barr, to MoMA, where she had a long and celebrated career as editor. With the departure of Franc in 1942, Mary Anne Farley was hired to assist with visitors, help with exhibitions, and lend a hand with the drawings collection (Figure 6). As significant portions of the Morgan’s holdings were sent to several secure locations, there was much logistical work to be done, as well as preparation and support for the library’s exhibitions. Farley was a native New Yorker living in Brooklyn who attended Hunter College and obtained her master’s degree from New York University. She had frequented the Morgan’s Reading Room in early 1939. Although researchers weren’t asked to note their topic at that time, she was certainly known to the staff after at least five visits. Farley’s focus, like Franc’s (and Greene’s) was medieval manuscript illumination and she had spent six months in Paris on a Fulbright scholarship before returning to New York. An essential member of Greene’s small staff, Farley’s salary was raised to $175 a month in May 1944. Her tenure ended in 1945 when she married Edward Tully, a captain in the merchant marine. Within a few years, Farley relocated with her family to Princeton, working at the Index of Christian Art and for professor Millard Meiss. Farley also served as a trusted translator for Charles de Tolnay in his writings on Michelangelo. Farley was at the Morgan as the collection returned from offsite storage in shipments from December 1943 until May 1944. Although the drawings were back onsite, following Farley’s departure they lacked a designated caretaker. At last the library decided to officially establish drawings and prints as its own department. Other museums had already hired drawings-specific curators, such as Harvard’s Fogg Museum and the Art Institute of Chicago. Now the Morgan’s Board of Trustees and Greene needed to find the right person to head the library’s department. They would choose Felice Stampfle, who began in 1945 and led the department until her retirement in 1981. Stampfle was a Midwesterner raised in Kansas City, Missouri, who earned her bachelors and master’s degrees at Washington University in St. Louis (Figure 7). Stampfle later recalled the advice she received on how to enter the curatorial field: One of the places I interviewed in Kansas City, my own city, after I had a masters, the man said...the best thing you can do is take a secretarial course and enter that way. Stampfle rejected that path and instead applied to pursue graduate work at Radcliffe. In 1943, Stampfle enrolled in Paul Sachs’s Harvard course “Museum Work and Museum Problems.” In his course, which he taught from 1921 until 1948, Sachs trained a generation of connoisseurs in a range of fields (Figure 8). During Sach’s course, she was strongly influenced by Jakob Rosenberg, curator of graphic arts at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts and a professor of art history at Harvard (Figure 9). Rosenberg was friendly and accessible, and she also preferred his calm, analytical approach to the more irascible, and emotional, Sachs. Rosenberg’s focus was largely on drawings, with a specialty in Northern artists such as Rembrandt and Rubens. Inspired, Stampfle also chose Northern Renaissance and Baroque drawings as her field of specialization. One important aspect in discussing women’s advancement in the curatorial field is the economics of graduate degrees and museum work. Stampfle arrived in Cambridge with a clear ambition but without funding to sustain her during graduate studies. In order to support herself, she quickly gained employment as a social secretary and au pair to Paul Sachs’s daughter Elisabeth, who was recently widowed. Not long after she began his course, Paul Sachs awarded her a Fogg Fellowship, which provided financial support (Figure 10). He also became her staunchest supporter, even though Stampfle had a falling out with his daughter. As she recalled, I admired Sr. Sachs tremendously. He didn't hold it against me that his daughter and I didn't get along. At the Morgan, according to Stampfle, The board of trustees informed Sachs that they were looking, this time, for a third "Miss Mongan,” meaning the talented sisters whom Sachs had trained. Agnes Mongan had been in charge of drawings at the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard since 1937 (Figure 11), and her sister Elizabeth was curator for the collector Lessing Rosenwald, and later accompanied his collection to the National Gallery where she served as curator of prints. As a 1978 Washington Post article referring to Agnes noted, “In a field ruled for years by men, many wealthy or high-born, Mongan, who is neither, nonetheless attained much in her profession. So did her equally well-known sister, Betty.” The same can be said of Stampfle. Did the Morgan’s board and director, after the experience with Hofer, see the model of the Mongan sisters—both of whom were respected leaders in their field—as the template for success at the library? Stampfle’s take on her hiring was simply, "I was there at a time when it was to the advantage of women as many men were not.. .due to war." But it wasn’t simply the dearth of men during the war that led to Stampfle being hired (Figure 12). Sachs wrote to Greene in 1944 recommending the thirty-two year old Stampfle over other students who had applied for the position: Miss Felice Stampfle is a candidate for a position at the Morgan Library. I hope it will be possible for her to secure this position for she is one of the best of our graduate students....[She] was a member of my Museum Course seminar and did excellent work...I found her to be a serious, conscientious, and a first rate student.... She was awarded one of our best fellowships for this year. I feel sure that if she should join your organization you would find her cooperative and able to do an A-l job. I can only think that in addition to her maturity and training, Stampfle’s seriousness, focus, and directness must have appealed to Greene after the sparring of egos that took place with Hofer. Stampfle would be the sole person in charge of drawings, and the first one for whom drawings were the focus of her scholarly work. The independence of the position would allow Stampfle to avoid clashing with any superiors, as Franc did with Harrsen. The Morgan had its “third Mongan sister,” (though Stampfle no doubt would have disdained that moniker) who would maintain the Morgan’s high standards for the next thirty-eight years. To further explore sources quoted in this post, see: - Philip Hofer’s oral history. - Helen Franc’s oral history. - Felice Stampfle’s recollections: Sally Anne Duncan, Paul Sachs and the Institutionalization of Museum Culture between the World Wars, Ph.D. dissertation, Tufts University, 2001. Jennifer Tonkovich Eugene and Clare Thaw Curator The Morgan Library & Museum


--- [Researchers' Guides to the Collections - The Morgan Library ...] ---
The Morgan's collection of drawings numbers about 10,000 sheets, including several thousand drawings bound in sketchbooks and albums. The collection's primary focus is European drawings executed before 1825, but the Morgan's holdings include a growing number of nineteenth- and twentieth-century works Rembrandt Harmensz. van Rijn, Woman Carrying a Child Downstairs. Acc. no. I, 191 on paper as well as drawings by American artists. The Morgan has about 13,000 prints, including the largest and most representative collection of Rembrandt etchings in this country. The Morgan also owns about two hundred art objects. Collecting History In 1910 Pierpont Morgan established the core of the Morgan's holdings when he purchased a collection of about fifteen hundred old master drawings from the English artist-collector Charles Fairfax Murray. Fairfax Murray's was the first great European drawings collection to find its way to this country, and its strengths—notably sixteenth- and eighteenth-century Italian drawings and Netherlandish drawings of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries—remain unsurpassed in the United States. Following Pierpont Morgan's death in 1913 and the founding of the Morgan by his son in 1924, the Morgan did not begin to collect drawings actively until 1947. The most important factor in the growth of the collection since that time has been the acquisition of individual works and entire collections through gift and bequest. Notable among these was the gift of the collection of Mrs. J. P. Morgan, Jr., which was presented to the Morgan by her sons Henry S. and Junius S. Morgan. The gift included more than five hundred architectural and garden designs as well as a large series of drawings by Giovanni Battista Piranesi. In 1973 the noted cellist and connoisseur Janos Scholz announced his gift of some fifteen hundred Italian drawings, thereby enriching the Morgan's already extensive holdings of sheets by Italian draftsmen of the sixteenth to eighteenth centuries. Filippino Lippi, Kneeling Saint Mary Magdalene and Standing Christ for a Noli Me Tangere Composition. Acc. no. 1951.1 In 1975 Eugene V. and Clare E. Thaw announced that their collection of drawings and watercolors, the finest in private hands in this country, would be given to the Morgan in stages during their lifetime. Over a number of years, the gift of a small but choice selection of drawings by Trustee Otto Manley enriched the holdings of various schools and added the Morgan's first sheet by Leonardo da Vinci. In 1996 and 1997, Mrs. Rudolf J. Heinemann's gift of more than a hundred sheets by Giovanni Battista and Domenico Tiepolo secured New York's position as this country's preeminent center for the study of Italian drawings. The Morgan's collection also is strong in drawings for the theater. More than sixteen hundred theatrical drawings, mostly stage designs from the seventeenth through twentieth centuries, were given to the Morgan in 1982 by Mrs. Donald M. Oenslager, the widow of collector and theater designer Donald M. Oenslager. Italian drawings comprise about 2,600 individual sheets as well as a significant number of sheets bound in albums and sketchbooks, including works by Raphael, Michelangelo, and Leonardo da Vinci. The Morgan's important collection of albums and sketchbooks includes the Codex Huygens, a well-known copy of Leonardo's lost manuscript on human proportions. French drawings comprise more than seven hundred individual sheets, and a number of albums and sketchbooks. Pierpont Morgan was influential in the heightening of American taste for French art at the turn of the nineteenth century. His collection included drawings by Claude Gellée, called Claude Lorrain; François Boucher; and Jean Antoine Watteau. Since then, works by J. A. D. Ingres, Théodore Géricault, Jean François Millet, Edgar Degas, Paul Cézanne, Paul Gauguin, and Henri Matisse have strengthened the Morgan's holdings in works by nineteenth- and twentieth-century draftsmen. British drawings comprise nearly nine hundred individual sheets as well as albums and sketchbooks. In 1903 Morgan acquired William Blake's watercolor illustrations to the Book of Job; in 1949 the Morgan acquired Blake's illustrations for Milton's poems L'Allegro and Il Penseroso. William Hogarth, Thomas Gainsborough, Henry Fuseli, Thomas Girtin, J. M. W. Turner, John Constable, J. M. W. Turner, Lucerne from the Lake. Acc. no. 1996.148 Edward Burne-Jones, and William Morris are only a few of the distinguished draftsmen represented in the collection. Netherlandish, Flemish, and Dutch drawings number about 730. The collection includes about 620 drawings by Netherlandish and Dutch artists of the fifteenth, sixteenth, and seventeenth centuries and about 110 Flemish drawings, principally from the seventeenth century. Among the works are sheets by Hendrick Goltzius, Jacob Jordaens, Rembrandt Harmensz. van Rijn, Peter Paul Rubens, and Anthony van Dyck. American drawings comprise about five hundred individual sheets and a modest number of sketchbooks. The Morgan contains the largest single collection of the drawings of Benjamin West as well as a substantial group of drawings by his son Raphael Lamar West. Other American artists represented in the collection are John James Audubon, Henry Farrer, and H. Siddons Mowbray. German drawings comprise more than one hundred fifty individual sheets, in addition to albums and sketchbooks. The collection includes eight sheets by Albrecht Dürer, one a study for Adam and Eve. Other German artists represented in the collection are Tobias Stimmer, Wenceslaus Hollar, and Caspar David Friedrich. Architectural Drawings and Views Through the gift from Mrs. J. P. Morgan, Jr., the Morgan acquired the largest single collection of drawings by Giovanni Battista Piranesi and a large number of architectural designs for English houses, including Packington Hall. From the collection of Paul Mellon, the Morgan received a Roman architectural sketchbook dated 1513 and attributed to Menicantonio, an assistant of Bramante. Sketchbooks and Albums There are about eighty sketchbooks or albums in the Morgan's collection. Two outstanding examples are a sketchbook of Paul Cézanne used mostly during the decade 1875-85, and a Roman sketchbook by Hubert Robert, the most prolific and best-known landscape painter of eighteenth-century France. Among the treasures of the Morgan's collection of botanical drawings are a group of flower portraits by Pierre-Joseph Redouté and the charming European travel sketchbooks by Jane Norton Grew (Mrs. J. P. Morgan, Jr.) Prints The extensive series of Rembrandt drawings in the Fairfax Murray collection admirably complemented the etchings by the artist already in Morgan's possession. In 1900 Morgan acquired the collection of Theodore Irwin, numbering 272 sheets; in 1905 negotiations began for the purchase of 112 etchings from the collection of George W. Vanderbilt. J. P. Morgan, Jr., continued to add to the collection; later acquisitions have brought the number of Rembrandt etchings to 489. The Peel Collection, which contains more than 3,300 political caricatures, broadsides, and portraits, is one of the outstanding collections of such material. It was assembled by Sir Robert Peel (1788-1850) and sold to Pierpont Morgan in 1900. The prints range in date from 1642 to 1830, documenting political history from Cromwell to George IV. Lithographs, engravings, woodcuts, and mezzotints, some of which are hand colored, are included in the collection. The twenty-one volumes entitled Engraved British Portraits contain nearly eight thousand prints, most of which date to the eighteenth or early nineteenth century. The collection of fashion prints consists of 391 examples from the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Most are mounted, hand-colored extracts from published albums. Thirty-two of the plates are "dressed" or decoupés, created by cutting out portions of the print and facing them from the reverse side with fabric. The collection of dressed prints is one of the finest in this country. Art Objects Stavelot Triptych. Flemish, mid-twelfth centuryThe paintings and art objects that remain in the Morgan were with a few exceptions acquired by its founder, Pierpont Morgan. After his death, most of his original collection was given away or sold by his son, J. P. Morgan, Jr. The chronological span of the remaining works is impressive, from early Mesopotamian through medieval, Renaissance, and baroque. The Stavelot Triptych, a reliquary for the True Cross, is the single most important art object in the Morgan. Other noteworthy items include the twelfth-century Malmesbury Ciborium, a sixteenth-century wooden statue of St. Elizabeth of Hungary, and Hans Memling's Portrait of a Man with a Pink. CORSAIR, the Morgan's online collection catalog, is available here.


--- [The Morgan Library Names John Marciari to Head its Department of ...] ---
The Morgan Library Names John Marciari to Head its Department of Drawings & Prints New York, NY, June 11, 2014—John Marciari, an independent curator and scholar who most recently held the position of Curator of European Art and Head of Provenance Research at the San Diego Museum of Art, has been chosen to lead the Department of Drawings and Prints at the Morgan Library & Museum. With the title of Charles W. Engelhard Curator and Department Head, Marciari will oversee a collection that is renowned throughout the world. Drawings and Prints is one of the largest of the Morgan’s curatorial departments and its approximately 25,000 works span the fourteenth century through the nineteenth century. The department is especially strong in drawings from the Italian, French, Dutch, and British schools, and the list of important artists represented is vast, ranging from Michelangelo and Raphael to Dürer, Rubens, Fragonard, David, Watteau, Gainsborough, Constable, Turner, Ingres, and Degas, among other notables. The department also has the largest and finest collection of Rembrandt etchings in America. A specialist in Italian and Spanish art of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, Marciari has organized numerous critically acclaimed exhibitions on subjects ranging from Renaissance prints to German Expressionism. He has curated both large-scale drawings shows such as Master Drawings from the Yale University Art Gallery to more focused exhibitions, such as From Rembrandt’s Studio: The Prints of Ferdinand Bol, and published widely on the drawings of such masters as Paolo Veronese, Federico Barocci, Giovanni Paolo Lomazzo, and Pier Francesco Mola. His recent exhibition Francesco Vanni: Art in Late Renaissance Siena, on view at the Yale University Art Gallery in 2013, included much new research and was named to several best-of-the-year lists. At the San Diego Museum of Art, where he served from 2008 to 2013, he was responsible for exhibitions covering a broad variety of topics and periods such as Life and Truth: French Landscapes from Corot to Monet, Picasso-Miró-Calder, and The Human Beast: German Expressionism at the San Diego Museum of Art. He also oversaw a number of major reinstallations of its permanent collections. Marciari received his Ph.D. from Yale University and is a Fellow of the American Academy in Rome. “I am delighted that John Marciari will be joining the talented team of curators in our Department of Drawings and Prints,” said William M. Griswold, Director of the Morgan Library & Museum. “John is a noted scholar and curator with an exceptional record of achievement in the areas of connoisseurship, collection-building, and public engagement. He comes to the Morgan at a time of exciting activity in the department as its exhibition program grows, its collections are being digitized for greater public access, and the two-year-old Morgan Drawing Institute is exploring new areas of research and new collaborative projects with other museums.” Prior to joining the San Diego Museum of Art, Marciari had a long association with Yale University’s art museums and libraries. He held several curatorial positions at Yale University Art Gallery from 2002 to 2008 and also served on the staffs of the Beinecke Library and the Yale Center for British Art. From 2003 to 2007, he was a lecturer in the university’s Department of the History of Art and also was a member of its dissertation and Ph.D. examination committees. Marciari’s current projects include the catalogue of Italian, Spanish, and French Paintings before 1850 at the San Diego Museum of Art, and an essay for a catalogue that will accompany the exhibition in Spain of the Education of the Virgin altarpiece at the Yale University Art Gallery. Marciari was responsible for the research that uncovered the work as a piece by Velázquez, a discovery that was major news in the world of art in 2010. “John Marciari brings a broad array of talents to our group of curatorial department heads at the Morgan,” said Peggy Fogelman, Director of Collections, who oversees activities in the Morgan’s eight curatorial areas. “The vitality of the museum’s exhibition program has been on a steady rise for several years, and John will surely continue its advancement with his creative and dynamic approach. He is able to think institutionally and will provide strong leadership for his department and the museum’s related activities. Moreover, his academic credentials are formidable, and I look forward to working with him on many new scholarly initiatives in a department whose collections are internationally renowned.” The recipient of numerous prizes, fellowships, and grants, Marciari has published more than thirty scholarly essays in art publications and exhibition catalogues. He is also a frequent lecturer on a broad range of art historical topics and serves on the prize committee of the Association of Art Museum Curators. “I’m absolutely thrilled with the opportunity to join the team at the Morgan,” said Marciari. “The drawing collection is already world-class, but it continues to grow, and I relish the chance to build the collection through further acquisitions. As we move forward with cataloging and digitizing the collection, moreover, there is much yet to be said about these works. Through exhibitions and publications, and through the programs of the Drawings Institute, I look forward to helping make the collection, and the research on it, ever more accessible to scholars and the public.”
