=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Discography - May Roosevelt]
ALBUMS · TITLE: Pearl · LABEL / DATE: Self Released / 2023 · FORMAT: DIGITAL · TITLE: Junea LABEL / DATE: Inner Ear / 2017. FORMAT: LP+CD / DIGITAL.
URL: https://mayroosevelt.com/Discography

[Stream Miniature III by MayRoosevelt | Listen online for free ...]
Music composed, performed, recorded and mixed by May Roosevelt. Stream Miniature III by MayRoosevelt on desktop and mobile. Play over 320 million tracks for free on SoundCloud.
URL: https://soundcloud.com/mayroosevelt/miniature-iii

[Miniature III - May Roosevelt]
MAY ROOSEVELT - MINIATURE III Stream Now! SPOTIFY ︎ APPLEMUSIC ︎ TIDAL ︎ YOUTUBEMUSIC ︎ DEEZER ︎︎︎...
URL: https://mayroosevelt.com/Miniature-III

[Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate]
On the Subject tab in the Certificate Properties, enter a suitable Common name for the Subject, if required In the Alternative names section, select Type: DNS and add the FQDNs for the desired SANs. Options for key usage and so on should be preconfigured on the other tabs.
URL: https://serverfault.com/questions/476413/subject-alternative-name-not-added-to-certificate

[Fans of Visiona will appreciate the elements of e...]
Fans of Visiona will appreciate the elements of electro that tinge the Pop sensibilities of Junea, the third album from Greek thereminist May Roosevelt. Opening track Air encapsulates her crisp, well-produced sound perfectly: Junea is available in all formats including vinyl, and is out now on Inner Ear Records. Album artwork is rather nice too.
URL: https://theletter.co.uk/may-roosevelt-junea


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Discography - May Roosevelt] ---
ALBUMS ︎ TITLE: Music to the Poetry of Ntinos Christianopoulos ︎ ︎ ︎ TITLE: Music to the Poetry of Ntinos Christianopoulos LABEL / DATE: Ianos Publications / 2013 FORMAT: CD/DIGITAL ︎ ︎ ︎ SINGLES COMPILATIONS ︎ ALBUM: Virus Positions (A Quarantine Music Collection) LABEL / DATE: Inner Ear / 2020 TRACK NAME: Facetoucher︎ALBUM: Virus Positions(A Quarantine Music Collection) LABEL / DATE: Inner Ear / 2020︎ ALBUM: Eternal Bliss http://relaxinfinity.com/ LABEL / DATE: Red Bull Music Academy / 2014 TRACK NAME: Hikaru︎ALBUM: Eternal Bliss http://relaxinfinity.com/ LABEL / DATE: Red Bull Music Academy / 2014︎ ALBUM: Oiseaux-Tempête Re-Works LABEL / DATE: Sub Rosa, Balades Sonores / 2014 TRACK NAME: Nuage Noir (May Roosevelt Remix)︎ALBUM: Oiseaux-TempêteRe-Works LABEL / DATE: Sub Rosa, Balades Sonores / 2014︎ ALBUM: Nirvana's Nevermind Revisited By Greek Bands LABEL / DATE: Sonik Magazine / 2011 TRACK NAME: Drain You︎ALBUM: Nirvana's Nevermind Revisited By Greek Bands LABEL / DATE: Sonik Magazine / 2011COLLABORATIONS (Selected) ︎ ARTIST / ALBUM: KidKanevil & Daisuke Tanabe /Kidsuke LABEL / DATE: Project Mooncircle / 2012 TRACK NAME: Ghostgirl︎ARTIST / ALBUM: KidKanevil & Daisuke Tanabe /KidsukeLABEL / DATE: Project Mooncircle / 2012︎ ARTIST / ALBUM: Daisuke Tanabe / LA♥JPN Volume 3 LABEL / DATE: Disques Corde / 2011 TRACK NAME: Dress Reformer︎ARTIST / ALBUM: Daisuke Tanabe / LA♥JPN Volume 3LABEL / DATE: Disques Corde / 2011 ︎ TRACK NAME: Invasion ARTIST / ALBUM: Daisuke Tanabe (V/A) /Cosmopolyphonic LABEL / DATE: Art Union / 2010 TRACK NAME: Invasion ARTIST / ALBUM: Daisuke Tanabe (V/A) /CosmopolyphonicLABEL / DATE: Art Union / 2010︎ ARTIST / ALBUM: Amenta / Sacred Places LABEL / DATE: First Word Records / 2011 TRACK NAME: Come Around︎ARTIST / ALBUM: Amenta / Sacred PlacesLABEL / DATE: First Word Records / 2011 ︎ ARTIST / ALBUM: Ion / Μαύρη Συχνότητα LABEL / DATE: Ion Musik / 2015 TRACK NAME: Andel︎ - Bay of RainbowsARTIST / ALBUM: Ion / Μαύρη Συχνότητα LABEL / DATE: Ion Musik / 2015︎ ARTIST / ALBUM: Mary & The Boy, Felizol / Timemachine TRACK NAME: Staring︎ - Mama - A Hopeless CaseARTIST / ALBUM: Mary & The Boy, Felizol / TimemachineLABEL / DATE: Inner Ear/ 2009 ︎ ARTIST / ALBUM: The Speakeasies Swing Band / Bathtub Gin LABEL / DATE: Liquid Bass Records / 2012 TRACK NAME: Black Swamp Village︎ARTIST / ALBUM: The Speakeasies Swing Band / Bathtub Gin LABEL / DATE: Liquid Bass Records / 2012 ︎ ARTIST / ALBUM: V/A / 4 LABEL / DATE: 1os Orofos / 2012


--- [Stream Miniature III by MayRoosevelt | Listen online for free ...] ---
Miniature III by MayRoosevelt published on 2022-05-25T18:21:56Z Spotify: https://tinyurl.com/3b92tbry Apple Music: https://tinyurl.com/msczmftu YouTube Music: https://tinyurl.com/vxat3u5s Tidal: https://tidal.com/browse/album/229056657 Deezer: https://tinyurl.com/yr5bs4h8 TikTok: https://vm.tiktok.com/ZMLK3tQHe/ Music composed, performed, recorded and mixed by May Roosevelt. Genre Electronic Comment by User 360323556 i love this ❤️🔥z zz zzzzzzzzzz zz 2025-12-10T06:40:39ZComment by Diego Santos it sounds like a sad Dark Souls music 2025-05-03T01:39:12ZComment by лиза я все еще люблю тебя. 2025-03-16T22:30:52ZComment by Karma Rivers I love all these songs bro 👍🏾 2024-09-25T17:54:33ZComment by yanderejjjy Я так устала 2024-01-29T16:23:39ZComment by Reismann my favourite Miniature 2023-04-15T15:00:25ZComment by ghostly Got me feeling all types of ways 2022-08-07T11:30:56ZComment by Rina почему все именно так 2022-07-23T07:59:38ZComment by Vabaira magnifique!!!!! 2022-07-11T21:22:18ZComment by MOON AND ARIES really love it! 2022-07-01T21:17:32ZComment by Ⅵi are you planning to release something like this, like "memoir" in the future? 2022-06-08T19:10:08Z


--- [Miniature III - May Roosevelt] ---
︎ MAY ROOSEVELT - MINIATURE III Stream Now! SPOTIFY︎ APPLEMUSIC︎ TIDAL︎ YOUTUBEMUSIC︎ DEEZER︎︎︎ TIKTOK︎︎︎ ABOUT DISCOGRAPHY CONTACT ︎ ︎ ︎ ︎ ︎ ︎


--- [Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate] ---
# Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate

I'm trying to issue a new certificate using the additional attribues field within the  Windows CertSrv Web-Enrollment Client.

I added the CSR, picked the template and entered this into the attributes field:

SAN:dns=HOSTNAME&dns=HOSTNAME.DOMAIN.COM&ipaddress=IPADRESS


The request is successful but when I check the signed certificate no "Alternative Names" attribute is added to it. Am I missing something? Maybe a issue with the Template? (used a default Win 2003 level webserver template copy with some custom settings).

/edit
Also I've tried to use 

certreq -submit -attrib "CertificateTemplate:MYTEMPLATE" <Cert Request.req> -attrib "SAN:dns=HOSTNAME&dns=HOSTNAME2&ipaddress=IPADDRESS"


resulting in the same problem: cert gets generated, but without any SAN attribute.

/edit2 
also I've set the CA to issue SAN certificates using

certutil -setreg policy\EditFlags +EDITF_ATTRIBUTESUBJECTALTNAME2


and restarting the CA service. Still: no SANs.

Please note: using req. files and OpenSSL to generate the CSR i'm able to generate certifcates using the CA which have some SANs included. However this option is not valid in my current situation since I'm getting the CSR from an application and i'm not able to manually generate one for the application.

/edit3
I tried using the default webserver certificate WITHOUT any changes and suddenly it worked. So now the question is: what are the template requirements to enable SAN?



--- [Fans of Visiona will appreciate the elements of e...] ---
Noted CloseFans of Visiona will appreciate the elements of electro that tinge the Pop sensibilities of Junea, the third album from Greek thereminist May Roosevelt. Opening track Air encapsulates her crisp, well-produced sound perfectly: Junea is available in all formats including vinyl, and is out now on Inner Ear Records. Album artwork is rather nice too. Feature Compy 42 Words by Blair Millen, 12 Dec 2017 An ambient selection, perfect for falling asleep to.. Words On Sound Reviews, recommendations and reminders. Like your music reviewed? Marco Bailey 'Temper' (Materia)⧉ Techno stalwart with 17-track magnum opus What is it with so many long albums recently? Maya Jane Coles, Johannes Heil, Special Request, Deepchord, Leyland Kirby, Terrence Dixon, Christopher Willits... the list goes on. Now techno stalwart Marco Bailey joins the ranks with a 17-track magnum opus called Temper. It's his fifth album yet it feels like a retrospective, a range of styles that consolidate his vast thirty years of experience as a DJ and producer presented as one fulfilling whole. Production-wise, it's immaculate; everything's crisp and zingy. While familiar techno traits can be identified everywhere there's rarely any point where boredom takes hold. In saying that, it's the tracks that veer away from the standard 4x4 template that contribute to this persistent level of captivation, like the satisfyingly catchy Klauth which could be a lost Radioactive Man treasure or the delicate melody on Ryoko that signals the descent of a pleasantly undulating album arc. Elsewhere Bailey's background in trance peaks through in places with tastefully crafted cuts like Feel It's Time and Chroma. Pace and contrast are important elements for albums of this length (if they are to be appreciated as a single listening experience at least) and this is where Bailey has excelled. Hybrid shapes of techno and trance entwine amiably while ambient streaks pattern the flow. It may be long (1hr 40mins) but there's an awful lot to like and love here. Temper is out now on his own Materia label, which was just launched last year. Z.I.P.P.O & Hiver 'The Age Of Singularity' (Fides)⧉ Something for everyone in this classy EP There’s truly something for everyone on this excellent EP from Fides label owner Z.I.P.P.O. and fellow Italian duo Hiver. We literally have four different styles to pick from: techno, IDM, electro and acid; so if you can’t find something to satisfy your hunger for quality music in there I’ll eat my high-hat. The Age Of Singularity packs a wallop with every second, i.e. no filler. Opener Cordial drops a steady but spacey beat from the off, building further with synths and percussion before the big bass drops at 3:55. It ain't groundbreaking but it works really nicely. Singularity sounds like Drexciya, dreamy melody atop an electro groove – probably the highlight for me. 7th November takes a 4x4 kick and adds ghostly synths and meanders yearningly, this is simply the finest emotive music. Oregon closes things with another slab of acid elation, reminds me of Vector Lovers. Arguably the best EP I've heard this year! Various 'Spheres' (RESEARCH)⧉ Spheres LP with These Hidden Hands, Mondkopf, SNTS, OAKE, Headless Horseman and Grebenstein Lots to sink your teeth into on this mesmerising six track compilation composed of highly polished yet visceral, semi-threatening music. Spheres is the first in a series of “documents” by new label Research (a sub-project of experimental publisher Split Music), which aims to unite a diverse selection of artists around a common theme; in this case, the carved spheres of artist and mathematician Timothy Cresswell. From the press release, we're advised that the goal is: ...transporting beat-driven music beyond the social environment of the club, using it as a mechanism for increased self-inquiry and communication between both hemispheres of the brain... Concepts behind electronic music intended for non-dancefloor environments are great when they work, and with Speheres we certainly get challenging music with thought-provoking artwork but the connection between the two is too subtle. Luckily this fact detracts only slightly from the overall aural appreciation. These Hidden Hands set the tone with Radon, six minutes of pleasantly pummelling inward techno lubricated with an industrial grind. Mondkopf delivers respite with The Runaway where growling tension melds with mournful melody. The two central tracks are pertinently placed, being both the strongest and most emotive of the bunch. Dunkelheit (translates as darkness) by SNTS maintains the tense momentum with enormous ghostly slabs of percussion; while the monumental Blemmyae from the German duo OAKE is simply superb, soaring and stabbing in all the right places. Headless Horseman holds the industrial flag aloft, with little to grumble about before Grebenstein closes out with Meet My Needs, a suitably downtempo effort Momentum (10 Years Of Token) 'Momentum (10 Years Of Token)' (Token)⧉ Nine collaborative tracks celebrating ten years of Token I love these celebratory label compilations, not only are you guaranteed quality but there's usually something extra, like an alternative version or, in the case of Momentum, an unexpected collaboration... or to be precise, nine collaborations! We can debate all day about who added what to each track but one thing we know for sure is that Inigo Kennedy brings the melody! The Token mainstay has his fingerprints all over the place, appearing on no less than a third of the compilation, each of which elevate things immeasurably. His first is Amalgam with label boss Kr!z (his first track as a producer!) where a fine balance of melody and hypnotic rhythm maintain the flow. My highlight is Minor Ascent, Kennedy's track with Sigha, with a whiff of IDM, the downbeat melody hits all the right melancholic notes. Catharsis with Oscar Mulero closes out the selection on a high note, the soaring melody provoking the hairs on the back of your neck to stand proud. With Rødhåd's new album Anxious making waves at the moment it's fitting that the opening pair of tracks bear his mark. Bloom is a collaborative effort with Sigha (whose own masterpiece Metabolism was released earlier this year) while Detonation Vertex is with Ø [Phase], and both tracks are pure quality. The former slowly builds with muffled metallic clunks and teasing tension, while the latter continues this trajectory through subtle techno motifs. Elsewhere Antigone, Ctrls and Tadeo pitch in with suitably celebratory fare. Well produced, perfectly sequenced and at just under an hour, Momentum is the ideal home listening material. Chikiss 'New Season' (Not Not Fun)⧉ Experimental pop meets ambient Evolving over a dozen releases stretching back to 2007, the musical productions of Russian songstress Galina Ozeran, aka Chikiss, has donned many guises, from post rock to folky pop to ambient, culminating in the skewed and spectral electronic pop of new album New Season. This path makes perfect sense, like a shedding of the downy feathers, Ozeran has purged her early roots and come of age. Traditional instruments like guitars and drums have been cast out in favour of synthesisers and drum machines. There's even less lyrical singing, replaced instead with manipulated and ghostly vocal sounds. Across the ten tracks, the balance of leftfield pop and instrumentals is perfectly poised, with yearning melody interspersed with downbeat ambient sounds. And while her songwriting skills are still in evidence (Baby, bye is a beautifully realised song) the experimental edge is most prevalent. Fans of Faten Kanaan will relish the whole thing. Noted Links to recent news, music and articles. Got a tip? Future Works vol.3 is a new compilation from UK label Natural Sciences, introducing us to some exciting new music makers. Free download. Tracklist - Datawave - Submersion - Jack Roland - We Could Care Less By Now - techno Thriller - Cebébre - Starving Poet - Cocaine Daze - V.L.F - Bleed Thru - Kalli - Impurity (Necromania) - Stratowerx - 2D City - Strahinja Arbutina - Dungeon Serenade - Religus Order - Mente Disorta - Shawné Michaelain Holloway - After Natalie Hinderas - La Terrasse Des Audiences Du Clair de Lune (LIVE) 15 Nov 2017⧉ The Godfather of electro returns with a scorching new EP called Omnitronic, out on Florida's Omnidisc imprint. Vinyl only unless you're prepared to pay $808! Out on 15th December 2017. 21 Nov 2017⧉ As part of their ten year celebrations, electronic Explorations commission Aleksi Perälä for a mix; and he delivers an excellent hour long selection of his own tracks. Tracklist - 01 - 00:00 - ??? - 02 - 03:09 - ??? - 03 - 07:30 - ??? - 04 - 10:30 - ??? - 05 - 13:30 - UK74R1721508 [AP Musik] (Blu Ray) - 06 - 19:36 - UK74R1721377 [AP Musik] (MD) - 07 - 24:50 - UK74R1721091 [AP Musik] (CD) - 08 - 27:52 - UK74R1721134 [AP Musik] (Cass) - 09 - 32:03 - UK74R1721194 [AP Musik] (Cass) - 10 - 37:32 - UK74R1721154 [AP Musik] (Cass) - 11 - 41:49 - UK74R1721164 [AP Musik] (Cass) - 12 - 45:28 - UK74R1721448 [AP Musik] (Blu Ray) - 13 - 50:22 - ??? - 14 - 53:26 - ??? - 15 - 58:21 - The End 24 Nov 2017⧉ Round up - Thumping mix from Anastasia Kristensen for RA - Burial's Untrue: The making of a masterpiece - interesting celebratory video - Underground Resistance clothing - The History Of Detroit Dance Part One:1981 - 1991 - Playlist: Detroit electro - New Nils Frahm album "All Melody" due in January - Real Talk: DeepChord - Rod Modell questions how harsh and uncompromising today's techno has become and if it's not so good for us - Pitchfork’s 16 Favorite Music Books of 2017 - Free ambient compilation called AAVV - Yuyake Vol. 1 on I Low You Records from Japan, 26 Nov 2017⧉ Fans of Visiona will appreciate the elements of electro that tinge the Pop sensibilities of Junea, the third album from Greek thereminist May Roosevelt. Opening track Air encapsulates her crisp, well-produced sound perfectly: Junea is available in all formats including vinyl, and is out now on Inner Ear Records. Album artwork is rather nice too. 27 Nov 2017⧉ Zanias remixed by Kobosil and Dax J It's been a year since Zanias's debut EP was released, so it's about time it received some remix love: step up Dax J, Agency and Kobosil who each apply various elements of techno magic to lead track Follow the Body, while Human adds a touch of EBM to the title track. To The Core Remixes is out today on Noiztank. 29 Nov 2017⧉ AVION joins Thomas Hessler on new EP. Following tracks from Doka, Norman Nodge,Tripeo and Thomas Hessler himself, the German producer is back once again to showcase his talent for the Berlin-based imprint Crossing. On the A-side of Crossing 010 he presents two decent tracks aimed at the floor, but it's on the flip where things get interesting: Poetry and Form Part 1, a collaboration with label boss AVION, magically transforms the setting from a dark sweaty interior to a light and airy landscape. Worth checking out. Crossing 010 is out on 30th November. 29 Nov 2017⧉ Here's a few good tunes Vol 32 with tracks from Peter Rehberg, Gamma Intel, Håkan Lidbo, Avatism, Anthony Rother, Love Letters, Achterbahn D'Amour, Borusiade, Khidja and Pita. Tracklist - Anthony Rother - Omnitronic - the Godfather of electro is back with a thumping EP. The title track is all reverberating bass and timeless melody. Vinyl only. - Avatism - Killing the Hour - Thomas Feriero back with more emotive techno, on Nonplus Records - Peter Rehberg - Boxes & Angels - the Editions Mego boss re-releases his experimental album from 2008. Boxes & Angels is a highlight - Håkan Lidbo - Sustain (Omar Santis Remix) - having been off my radar for some years, I'm happy to hear that the Swedish producer is back (and on top form too). I always liked his website - Achterbahn D'Amour - Don't Talk To Me - this b-side from new EP on Acid Test has a nice Drexciya flavour - Pita - Get Out 3 - another reissue from Peter Rehberg, this time under his Pita alias. This eleven minute monster is equal parts soothing and excoriating - Gamma Intel - Power Plant Tales - new on brokntoys, lead track from Drama in Decay EP is just the most tasteful electronic music - Love Letters - Ducue - new artist with a retrospective bent, blends Acid and electronic Pop, feels warm and reassuring - Borusiade - Silent - not sure if Khidja had a hand in this track, but the Romanian producer Borusiade demonstrates her drum machine prowess with a workout that John Bonham would be proud of 30 Nov 2017⧉ There's many standout moments on Momentum, the new compilation from Token, who celebrate 10 years in business with a series of collaborations. Minor Ascent is the highlight for me though, which sees Inigo Kennedy pair up with Sigha, to produce a fine balance of techno and IDM. 1 Dec 2017⧉ At the end of each month I compile a selection of the best tracks I heard on Spotify. Here's what grabbed my attention in November 2017, includes The Cyclist, Coldcut & On-U Sound, Högni, HNQO, Hyetal, Beastie Respond, NHK yx Koyxen, Blawan, Brainwaltzera, Circa 2000, Maya Jane Coles, Extrawelt, DJ Richard, Carmen Villain, Neil Landstrumm, Peter Rehberg, Ellen Allien and Dave Clarke. Tracklist - Coldcut & On-U Sound – Kajra Mohabbat Wala (feat. Hamsika Iyer) (OTT Remix) - The Cyclist – Antiexist - Högni – Andaðu - HNQO – Poem Feat Rai Knight - Hyetal – Youth & Power - Beastie Respond – They Mobilized Ignorance and Slack - NHK yx Koyxen – Finding - Blawan – Mayhem - Brainwaltzera – mixolydian transition 18 - Circa 2000 – Sense - Maya Jane Coles – Darkside (feat. Chelou) - Extrawelt – Oddification - DJ Richard – Path of Ruin (Pain Mix) - Carmen Villain – Red Desert )Biosphere Remix) - Neil Landstrumm – The Tomorrow People - Peter Rehberg – Boxes & Angels - Ellen Allien – Erdmond (FaltyDL Remix) - Dave Clarke – IVT? (feat. Louisahhh) 4 Dec 2017⧉ Lobster Theremin boss Jimmy Asquith has delivered an excellent mix for Crack Magazine. Tracklist - Snow Bone – Lodge Ozarks - Imre Kiss – She Moves Through Fire - Supreems – Close Your Eyes (And Feel) - Route 8 – Turning Point - Tambo’s House – Ricochet - Blair Sound Design – I’m Real About Ya (Woof Mix) - Ciel – electronic Encounters - Violet – Chachki - softcoresoft – Acid She Said - Snow Bone – Aelita - Lou Karsh – Chumba Acid - Reptant – Is It Human (Scales Deep Mix) - Tommy Holohan – Subaru Impreza - dust-e-1 – one on one Asquith also releases his debut album To Be Held In A Non Position under his Tom Hang moniker via Lobster Theremin sub-label Tidy Bedroom in the next week or so. 8 Dec 2017⧉ Round up - 10 And A Bit Years Of Fear Of Flying - pretty decent four track celebratory EP - What Exactly Is Hi-Res Audio, and Should I Care About It? - fairly technical article on the bit depth and sample rates of digital music - Toolkit is a new release from Nuel, comprised of twelve finely crafted loops - Watch the 2013 documentary We Are Modeselektor - An Optimo oral history of Optimo - The Neel podcast over at RA is superb - get onto that ASAP - Martin Wheeler aka Vector Lovers is showing signs of life recently with a new track - More 100% Silk on the way! Silk To Dry The Tears is a 31 track compilation, partly in memory of last year's terrible fire and partly in aid of Safer DIY Spaces - New Dead Fader album Jenny153 is out now 11 Dec 2017⧉ Tiny British label This Is It Forever celebrate 2017 with a small but perfectly formed collection from their releases this year, including tracks by Gavin Miller and Thomas Ragsdale. There's also a couple of interesting inclusions in there from forthcoming albums due out in the new year: the Falconetti track has appealing hints of Mogwai while the ambient guitar on the Capac track sounds so right just now (I've got Yamaneko on my mind in case you're wondering). Tracklist - Capac - Ach Bittrer Winter - Thomas Ragsdale - The Hagg - Falconetti - History Of Skyscrapers - Sunset Graves - Basic Manners - Gavin Miller - Casiotone 1 - Thomas Ragsdale - Vale Royal - Gavin Miller - Floodlit It's "name your price" so you've got nothing to complain about. 14 Dec 2017⧉ Receive an email when a new digest is published on the 15th of each month. We never share your email or send you any unsolicited messages. Last updated: Tue 16 Dec 2025, 18:06
