=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Linville Gorge and Falls – Blue Ridge National Heritage Area]
The Cherokee called it “Eeseeoh,” meaning “river of many cliffs,” a reference to the many vertical rock outcroppings that line the gorge. Located off the Blue Ridge Parkway, Linville Falls drop a total of 90 feet in a multi-level cascade and can be viewed from several overlooks along two trails that lead from the Linville Falls Visitors ...
URL: https://www.blueridgeheritage.com/destinations/linville-gorge-and-falls/

[Oconaluftee River - American Rivers]
An hour west of Asheville, NC, the Oconaluftee River flows across the Blue Ridge Parkway and through the town of Cherokee. Ela dam sits in the town of Whittier, NC, with a population of about 5,000 people. The Oconaluftee provides plenty of opportunities to enjoy river sports such as fishing, kayaking, and tubing in the summer months.
URL: https://www.americanrivers.org/river/oconaluftee-river/

[The 15 Best Waterfalls on the Blue Ridge Parkway in NC & VA]
Sep 14, 2025 · Located in the Qualla Boundary, just 5 miles from the end of the Blue Ridge Parkway (or beginning, depending on which way you choose to drive it), this is our favorite waterfall in Cherokee NC.
URL: https://blueridgemountainstravelguide.com/best-waterfalls-on-blue-ridge-parkway-in-nc-va/

[Waterfalls on the Blue Ridge Parkway | Find Hikes & Cascades]
Sep 9, 2020 · Discover the most beautiful waterfalls along the Blue Ridge Parkway. This guide features hike access, distance, and difficulty for cascades in the Highlands, Pisgah, and Great Smoky Mountains regions of North Carolina and Virginia.
URL: https://www.blueridgeparkway.org/stories/waterfalls-along-the-blue-ridge-parkway/

[Blue Ridge Parkway in Virginia & North Carolina - Legends of America]
Known by the Cherokee as "the river of many cliffs," Linville Gorge was the nation's first officially designated wilderness area. Towering hemlocks, dense stands of rhododendron, and native wildflowers grow along the trails that begin at the visitor center and encircle the falls.
URL: https://www.legendsofamerica.com/blue-ridge-parkway/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Linville Gorge and Falls – Blue Ridge National Heritage Area] ---
Linville Gorge is the deepest and perhaps most rugged gorge in the eastern United States. Nicknamed the Grand Canyon of the East, it is protected by the 12,000-acre Linville Gorge Wilderness Area, one of the first areas to be included in the National Wilderness System with the passage of the Wilderness Act in 1964. The steep walls of Linville Gorge enclose the Linville River for 12 miles. The river, which begins at Grandfather Mountain, enters the gorge at the spectacular Linville Falls then descends over 2,000 feet before breaking into the Catawba Valley on its way to Lake James. The Cherokee called it “Eeseeoh,” meaning “river of many cliffs,” a reference to the many vertical rock outcroppings that line the gorge. Located off the Blue Ridge Parkway, Linville Falls drop a total of 90 feet in a multi-level cascade and can be viewed from several overlooks along two trails that lead from the Linville Falls Visitors Center. The 0.8-mile Erwins View Trail also leads to an overlook offering a breathtaking panoramic view of the Linville Gorge. The area around Linville Falls is one of the few places in the mountains where the Rosebay, Catawba, and Carolina rhododendron grow side by side. The Linville Gorge Wilderness Area is a magnet for hikers, backpackers, and rock climbers. Spared by its rugged terrain from clear-cutting in the early 1900s, the Linville Gorge features some of the best remnant stands of uncut forest in the southern Appalachians. A trail system spanning 39 miles is composed of numerous steep trails that lead down from the east and west rims to a main connector, the Linville Gorge Trail. Shortoff Mountain and Table Rock on the east rim of the gorge are two of North Carolina’s premier climbing destinations. Linville Gorge is prime habitat for wildlife, including deer, bear, raccoon, turkey, and ruffled grouse. Hunting and fishing are allowed but permits are required. The Linville Gorge Wilderness Area is managed by the US Forest Service as part of the Pisgah National Forest. Hear the Story Listen to the Living Traditions Moment radio vignette about Linville Gorge and the Brown Mountain Lights. Admission Fees None. A free US Forest Service permit is required for overnight camping on weekends and holidays from May through October. Location The entrance road to the Linville Falls Visitor Center is located at milepost 316.4 on the Blue Ridge Parkway. A large picnic area is located nearby. The Linville Gorge is also accessible from US 221, NC 181, and NC 183. Because of the difficult terrain and sometimes dangerous conditions in the wilderness area, visitors unfamiliar with the environs are strongly urged to contact the US Forest Service for information before embarking on hikes or rock climbs. US Forest Service/National Forests in North Carolina Grandfather Ranger District 109 East Lawing Drive Nebo, NC 28761 (828) 652-4841 (located off I-40, Exit 90, Nebo/Lake James Exit) US Forest Service Information Cabin Located on NC 1238, Kistler Memorial Highway, 0.4 miles off NC 183 Open Thursday through Saturday from April to October, 8:30 am to 5 pm


--- [Oconaluftee River - American Rivers] ---
Oconaluftee River WESTERN NORTH CAROLINA’S ONCE-THRIVING RIVER FOR THE NATIVE CHEROKEE INDIANS The Oconaluftee River has been part of the culture of indigenous people in what is now called Western North Carolina for thousands of years. It is home to 11 sensitive and rare aquatic species, some of which are only found in a few streams and rivers in western North Carolina. Stemming from the Great Smoky Mountains, the Oconaluftee River flows south through the Qualla Boundary – reservation land for the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians (EBCI). The Cherokee people used to rely on the Oconaluftee as a thriving fishery and food source more than 100 years ago before the Ela dam was erected in Whittier, NC, in 1925. Approximately 18 miles long, the Oconaluftee connects to a much larger river system, feeding into the Tuckasegee, Little Tennessee, Tennessee, Ohio, and Mississippi rivers. Its name is considered sacred by the Cherokee people and was derived from the name of a Cherokee village, Egwanulti. Oconaluftee translates to “by the river” in English. Finding the Oconaluftee River An hour west of Asheville, NC, the Oconaluftee River flows across the Blue Ridge Parkway and through the town of Cherokee. Ela dam sits in the town of Whittier, NC, with a population of about 5,000 people. The Oconaluftee provides plenty of opportunities to enjoy river sports such as fishing, kayaking, and tubing in the summer months. Where is the Oconaluftee River in North Carolina? An hour west of Asheville, NC, the Oconaluftee River flows across the Blue Ridge Parkway and through the town of Cherokee Did You know? The Cherokee people have lived in the Southeastern U.S. for more than 11,000 years and populated land spanning 140,000 square miles in what today encompasses part of seven southern states. As early as 1725 it is recorded that the Cherokee Nation had treaties with the British and began assimilating into European practices and religious institutions. About the river Migratory fish species such as Sicklefin Redhorse that once spawned in the upper Oconaluftee River and its tributaries were an important fishery and food resource for the Cherokee people prior to the construction of the Ela dam. Each year, thousands of redhorse fish reach the dam but are blocked from continuing their journey to historic spawning streams. Let's stay in touch! We’re hard at work in the Southeast for rivers and clean water. Sign up to get the most important news affecting your water and rivers delivered right to your inbox. The construction of Ela dam resulted in a physical and cultural disconnection from a free-flowing Oconaluftee River and resulted in the accumulation of tons of sediment behind the dam. The reservoir, also known as Ela Lake, experiences a reduction in water quality due to the disruption of the natural flow of the river, resulting in increased temperatures, lower oxygenation, and other impacts to water quality indicators. The benefit of the dam removal to the community and the general public will be fresh, clean, free-flowing water again in the Oconaluftee River. Ela Dam Removal Project American Rivers is currently working on a massive effort to remove the Ela dam and restore the land and Oconaluftee River to its natural condition. Partnering with the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, American Rivers is part of a coalition of federal, state, public, private, and non-profit organizations that has formed to remove the Ela dam. Stolen Land and the Cherokee Nation The Cherokee people have lived in the Southeastern U.S. for more than 11,000 years and populated land spanning 140,000 square miles in what today encompasses part of seven southern states. As early as 1725 it is recorded that the Cherokee Nation had treaties with the British and began assimilating into European practices and religious institutions. By 1825, however, many of the existing treaties with the U.S. had ceded away most of the Cherokee Nation’s once vast lands. In 1838 efforts to displace Cherokees from their land were underway, and an estimated 16,000 people were forcibly relocated to land west of Arkansas. In what was called the “Trail of Tears,” Cherokees and members of other tribal nations were relocated to reservations, many of them dying along the way as they suffered from disease, starvation, exposure to harsh elements, and exhaustion. During this time of forced migration, the Cherokee tribe was allowed to purchase plots of land for individual households only if they agreed to leave the tribe and become U.S. citizens. Land purchase was otherwise restricted and only allowed for white men. One notable local who befriended and became an advocate for the Cherokee people was William Holland Thomas, who purchased land in North Carolina with his own funds to be used by the Cherokees. Much of this land is now included in the Qualla Boundary. In the late 1800’s the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians purchased the land adjacent to the Ela dam back from the U.S. government. Today, the tribe currently occupies the 56,000-acre Qualla Boundary and operates as a sovereign nation with the government headquartered in Cherokee, NC. About 9,000 of the EBCI’s 16,000 registered members live on the Boundary which is situated in Swain and Jackson counties and parts of Cherokee and Graham counties in western North Carolina. There are approximately 400,000 people in the Cherokee Nation across the country.


--- [The 15 Best Waterfalls on the Blue Ridge Parkway in NC & VA] ---
With 200+ overlooks scattered along the 469-mile Blue Ridge Parkway, you could easily drive the world-renowned scenic route and see countless jaw-dropping mountain vistas without taking more than a few steps from your car. But that would ultimately defeat the purpose of the BRP, which was conceived as part of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s New Deal in 1933, “to reveal the charm and interest of the American countryside.” Constructing a road to connect Great Smoky Mountains National Park in North Carolina with Shenandoah National Park in Virginia was a landmark act of conservation. By the early 20th century, the beauty of the Blue Ridge Mountains had been marred by decades of erosion, excessive logging, and fires. The BRP was designed to protect the region’s natural beauty and restore the land. In our experience, hiking is the best way to explore the natural beauty of the Southern Appalachian Mountains, and the Parkway offers hundreds of trails to explore. But the ones leading to waterfalls are by far our favorites! Read on for our in-depth guide to the 15 Best Waterfalls on/near the Blue Ridge Parkway in NC & VA, including info on the BRP milepost, distance, elevation gain, and what makes each of these trails so special. READ MORE: The 15 Best Blue Ridge Parkway Hotels & Cabin Rentals in NC & VA Places to Stay near Waterfalls on the BRP VIRGINIA Wintergreen Resort -5.7 mi to BRP Steeles Tavern Manor Bed and Breakfast -7 mi to BRP Peaks of Otter Lodge – on BRP Hampton Inn Galax -13.5 mi to BRP NORTH CAROLINA Hampton Inn & Suites Boone -15 mi to BRP The Pineola – 1.2 mi to BRP Switzerland Inn -minutes to BRP The NuWray Hotel & Carriage House –18.5 mi to BRP Tru by Hilton Asheville -1.1 mi to BRP Cherokee Grand Hotel -.9 mi to BRP 1. Upper Shamokin Falls (Milepost 9.6) Upper Shamokin Falls is maintained by the Nature Foundation at Wintergreen Resort as part of a 13-acre stand of hardwood forest called Shamokin Springs Nature Preserve. There are lots of hiking trails in the preserve, so there are different routes to reach Upper Shamokin Falls. Taking the Upper Shamokin Falls Trail (0.4 miles) is the shortest, and you can use the Morgan Loop (0.3 miles) to get back. To get to the trailhead via the Blue Ridge Parkway (which is a notably longer hike), use the Dripping Rock parking area and hike across Laurel Springs Drive to access the falls. This is one of the quieter waterfall trails on the BRP, making it easy to avoid crowds while seeing something remarkable! READ MORE: The 10 Best Waterfalls on/near the Blue Ridge Parkway in Virginia 2. White Rock Falls (Milepost 19) Located in the George Washington & Jefferson National Forests, the 30-foot White Rock Falls is one of the more popular waterfalls on the Blue Ridge Parkway in Virginia. The trailhead is just off the BRP at the White Rock Gap parking area, and the trail is well-marked and well-trodden. It can either be a relatively easy 3.4-mile out-and-back trip or a 4.4-mile loop. Either way, it has plenty of cool rock formations and scenic vistas to appreciate along the way. The waterfall has a ribbon-like flow down a mossy rock face, ending in a crystal-clear pool with a rocky bottom. The pool is not quite deep enough for a swim, but it’s a stunner and fantastic for cooling down on hot summer days. READ MORE: Exploring Groundhog Meadow & Groundhog Mountain Picnic Area 3. Crabtree Falls (Milepost 27) Located about 6 miles from the BRP, Virginia’s Crabtree Falls is a series of 5 cascades that fall a total of 1,200 feet. At 400 feet, one of these is the tallest vertical-drop cascading waterfall east of the Mississippi! There are 5 overlooks from which to observe Crabtree Falls, the first of which is just 700 feet from the parking area (and is wheelchair accessible). The others continue along a mile-plus, rocky and steep dirt path, with several switchbacks. At 1.7 miles in, there’s a wooden bridge that crosses over the waterfall, and the view from it is a magnificent vista of the Blue Ridge Mountains and Tye River Valley. This waterfall is named after William Crabtree, the first European who settled in the area. Crabtree Falls is located at the Crabtree Falls Day Use Area, and it costs $3 cash per car to park there. READ MORE: The 20 Best Blue Ridge Parkway Restaurants in VA & NC 4. Apple Orchard Falls (Milepost 78) The 200-foot Apple Orchard Falls is a beloved Virginia waterfall along the BRP, and a short spur off the 2,200-mile Appalachian Trail in Virginia. Accessible to most hikers, the trail from the Blue Ridge Parkway begins at the Sunset Field Overlook. It’s about 2.9 miles out-and-back, with a great snacking /viewing bench at the foot of the falls. In addition to the falls, the Apple Orchard Falls Trail provides sweeping views of mountains and valleys. It also intersects the AT, which offers access to the Cornelius Creek Trail (another route for reaching the falls). For hardy hikers, Cornelius Creek and the AOF Trail can be combined to make a 7.5-mile loop trail for viewing the waterfall, exploring a bit of the AT, and enjoying some seriously awesome scenic vistas. READ MORE: The 10 Best Hiking Trails on the Blue Ridge Parkway in Virginia 5. Fallingwater Cascades (Milepost 83) This lovely waterfall is one of many highlights of the Peaks of Otter area in Bedford VA, with access via the Fallingwater or Flat Top parking lots. Fallingwater Cascades is a series of fairly small waterfalls, but the trail itself is in a gorgeous forest and has a few magical wading pools you can cool off in along the way. The easy hike can either be 1.2-miles out-and-back, or a 1.6-mile loop trail. If you want extended hiking, the Flat Top Trail connects Fallingwater Cascades to Abbott Lake and the Peaks of Otter Lodge. This route is 4.4 miles one-way, and it has phenomenal panoramas from rocky outcrops. The forest ecology also changes over the course of the hike. READ MORE: The 20 Best Blue Ridge Parkway Overlooks in Virginia 6. Chestnut Creek Falls (Milepost 216) Chestnut Creek Falls is one of many fine attractions in the 57-mile New River Trail State Park (near the town of Galax VA), which follows right along the river. This linear park has two tunnels, three major bridges, and 30 small bridges/trestles. It traverses four counties, and has three primitive campgrounds. Chestnut Creek Falls is located just north of the Cliffview Campground and Dannelly Park, and south of Chestnut Yard. The trek between Cliffview and Chestnut Yard is 4 miles, and rates as an easy hike. To get to the Cliffview Campground from the BRP, take VA-89 N roughly 3 miles south of the Blue Ridge Music Center. From there, VA-89 takes you into the town of Galax, and it’s just a few short turns from there! READ MORE: A Detailed History of the Blue Ridge Parkway 7. Cascades (Milepost 271.9) Located at E.B. Jeffress Park in Deep Gap, the waterfall simply known as Cascades is considered one of the premier Boone NC attractions (though it’s around 15 miles northeast of the beloved Blue Ridge Mountain Town). Accessible directly from the Blue Ridge Parkway at MP 271.9, the easy Cascades Trail is barely over a mile out-and-back, taking visitors to multiple overlooks of this series of waterfalls formed by the aptly named Falls Creek. Not only is the trail short and gentle, but it’s also informative, with signs on the notable flora of the area. READ MORE: The 10 Best Mountain Towns Along the Blue Ridge Parkway to Visit 8. Hebron Falls/Boone Fork Falls (Milepost 296.4) Also known as Boone Fork Falls, Hebron Falls is located right on the Blue Ridge Parkway within the lovely Julian Price Memorial Park. This 3.2-mile out-and-back trail is perfect for those who enjoy a lingering, lounging series of pools and plunges rather than an eye-popping drop of a waterfall. The Boone Fork Trail tunnels through gorgeous rhododendron thickets and involves adventurous creek crossings while traveling beside both Boone Fork and Bee Tree Creek. It’s also near the Julian Price Lake and picnic area, which is a wonderful place to relax and enjoy the gorgeous mountain scenery, whether before or after visiting the falls. READ MORE: The 20 Best Blue Ridge Parkway Picnic Areas in NC & VA 9. Linville Falls (Milepost 316.4) Located right off the Blue Ridge Parkway, this accessible, multi-tiered wonder plunges into the Linville Gorge Wilderness Area, America’s first ever designated wilderness area. Widely regarded as one of the best North Carolina waterfalls, Linville Falls is an especially fun one because there are lots of different perspectives from which visitors can enjoy it. An observation deck offers a close-up view of Upper Linville, while the much taller Lower Linville Falls can be seen from several different observation platforms at varying altitudes. Note that Linville Falls access from the BRP is still closed due to Hurricane Helene (as of 9/13/25), but some of the trails are still open. We will update this post when we receive an official update from the National Park Service. READ MORE: The 20 Best Blue Ridge Parkway Overlooks in North Carolina 10. Crabtree Falls (Milepost 339.5) Located near Little Switzerland NC, the trail to Crabtree Falls NC remains closed as of our deadline due to Hurricane Helene damage. But no list of the best Blue Ridge Parkway waterfalls would be complete without it! This 3-mile trail involves some muddy slopes and slippery roots. But it leads to a stunningly picturesque waterfall that ripples its way down an impressive rock face, making this one of our favorite Pisgah National Forest hiking trails. The 60-foot-tall waterfall towers over a boulder-strewn landing pad that invites hikers to clamber their way across to comfortable viewing seats, making it a fantastic place for a picnic. Crabtree Falls doesn’t have a visitor’s center, but it does have an extensive campground as well as an amphitheater for ranger-led talks and demonstrations. READ MORE: The 13 Best Blue Ridge Parkway Campgrounds to Visit 11. Roaring Fork Falls (Milepost 344.1) Located about 5 miles off the Blue Ridge Parkway via NC-80 (near the town of Burnsville NC), Roaring Fork Falls offers a lovely 1.4-mile walk in the woods on a wide, relatively flat former forest service road. There’s virtually no elevation gain to speak of, and lots of NC wildflowers and creek views along the way, so it feels more like a gentle stroll than a hike. The waterfall itself is nearly 100 feet tall, with small cascades twisting and winding their way down a forest-lined rock slide into a tranquil pool at the bottom. It’s not deep enough for swimming, but it’s a fun place to cool off on hot summer days, and the big boulders all around offer lovely spots for a picnic. READ MORE: The 10 Best Blue Ridge Parkway Museums to Visit 12. Looking Glass Falls (Milepost 411.8) Located near Brevard NC, Looking Glass Falls is one of the most visited North Carolina waterfalls, and easily the most popular of the hundreds of waterfalls near Brevard. This 60-foot Transylvania County beauty is an easily accessed, literal roadside attraction on US-276, which is part of the spectacular Forest Heritage Scenic Byway. Heading south on US-276, Looking Glass Falls will be on the left-hand side in about 10 miles. You don’t even have to get out of the car to see it, but there is a wheelchair accessible ramp and stairs for those who want a closer look. If you’re taking this detour, there are several other major attractions nearby, including Moore Cove Falls, Sliding Rock, and the Cradle of Forestry in America. READ MORE: The 25 Best Blue Ridge Parkway Waterfalls in North Carolina 13. Graveyard Fields Falls (Milepost 418.8) One of the most beloved Blue Ridge Parkway overlooks, Graveyard Fields is more romantic and welcoming than its name would suggest, with fantastic waterfalls, wildflowers, and wild blueberries along the trail. Its seemingly sinister name dates back about a century. The area’s trees were knocked down by a windstorm, then the stumps got burned in a wildfire, leaving what looked like tombstones scattered across the landscape. Since then, the area has recovered to become a stunningly fertile valley. It’s located some 5,000 feet above sea level, but surrounded by 6,000-foot Blue Ridge Mountain summits. There is a short walk you can take to one of the waterfalls here, but the 3.5-mile loop (which boasts multiple waterfalls and a lovely mountain meadow) is well worth the time and energy investment. READ MORE: The 25 Best Blue Ridge Parkway Hikes for NC Day Trips 14. Soco Falls (Milepost 455.7) Located 5.7 miles from Maggie Valley and 2 miles off the BRP, Soco Falls is an absolutely stunning pair of twin waterfalls that delivers remarkable ROI for such a short hike. There’s a spacious new parking lot and trailhead that were opened in July 2025, as well as a newly rebuilt observation deck that’s perfect for viewing the falls. The Soco Falls trail– once a short, steep, slippery trek from the parking lot down to the bottom of the falls– has gone from 1/10th of a mile to nearly a half-mile round-trip, with gravel added and hand rails along the way. But the rope-assisted section to the bottom is still closed for now due to heavy erosion caused by Hurricane Helene. We’ll update this post if/when that changes. READ MORE: Why You Need to Visit the Blue Ridge Parkway Visitor Center (MP 384) 15. Mingo Falls (Milepost 469.1) Located in the Qualla Boundary, just 5 miles from the end of the Blue Ridge Parkway (or beginning, depending on which way you choose to drive it), this is our favorite waterfall in Cherokee NC. Mingo Falls is one of the tallest waterfalls in the Smoky Mountains, measuring around 120 feet and tumbling dramatically down a moss-laden rock face. While the trail to Mingo Falls is 0.4 miles, it’s considered moderately difficult due to the elevation change and 161 big steps to reach the top. The trail is currently closed for renovations, but is expected to reopen soon. Mingo Falls is just 6 miles from Great Smoky Mountains National Park, so you could easily visit the Oconaluftee Visitor Center, Mingus Mill, and Kuwohi on the same day! –by Jonathon Engels & Bret Love; lead image by Bret Love & Mary Gabbett


--- [Waterfalls on the Blue Ridge Parkway | Find Hikes & Cascades] ---
Numerous waterfalls are located throughout the Shenandoah, Great Smoky Mountains and Blue Ridge Parkway (BRP) regions. Some are visible from the road and some require a hike. The list below notes the location and ease of access for each waterfall. Warning: Waterfalls are beautiful but dangerous and slippery; each year people die while climbing waterfalls or exploring off-trail near waterfalls. Please stay on the trail, view waterfalls from a distance, and return home safely! As a reminder, it is illegal to swim in any waters within the boundaries of the Blue Ridge Parkway. Hero Image: Whitewater Falls Shenandoah National Park Region – Virginia North of Blue Ridge Parkway Milepost 0 Skyline Drive traverses Shenandoah National Park from Milepost 0 at the North end of the Park to Milepost 105.4 at Rockfish Gap at the South end of the Park. Maps and more information about Shenandoah National Park waterfalls can be found here. There is an entrance fee for Shenandoah National Park. Skyline Drive Milepost 21.1 – Overall Run Falls Access: Parking lot just south of Hogback Overlook. Distance: Approximately 6.5 miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Strenuous At 93-feet, this is the tallest falls in the Park. Best viewed before June, as it may dry up during the summer. Skyline Drive Milepost 41.7 and 42.5 – Skyland Resort Dining and lodging options at the Skyland Resort, a prime location near the waterfalls in Shenandoah National Park. Newly renovated rooms, cozy historic cabins, suites, and pet-friendly rooms are all available. Skyline Drive Milepost 42.6 – Whiteoak Canyon Falls Access: Whiteoak Canyon parking area. Distance: 4.6 miles (round-trip to the first falls) Difficulty Level: Moderate The first and largest of the six falls is 86-feet. You can continue further, but not all the falls are easily accessible from the trail. Skyline Drive Milepost 45.6 – Cedar Run Falls Access: Hawksbill Gap parking area. Distance: 3.4 miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Strenuous Cedar Run Falls (34-feet) and Whiteoak Canyon Falls can be linked into one strenuous 7.3 mile hike. Skyline Drive Milepost 49.4 – Rose River Falls Access: Across from the Fishers Gap Overlook. Distance: 2.6 miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Moderate Features up to four cascades in rainy weather. Skyline Drive Milepost 50.7 – Dark Hollow Falls Access: Dark Hollow Falls parking area. Distance: 1.4 miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Moderate Popular trail to the 70-foot falls. Some sections are steep. No pets are allowed on this trail. Skyline Drive Milepost 51 and 51.2 – Big Meadows Lodge Hike the loop trail to Lewis Falls directly from your historic main lodge room or comfortable, rustic motel-like unit when you stay at Big Meadows Lodge. Several other waterfalls are within a short drive. Skyline Drive Milepost 51.4 – Lewis Falls Access: Parking lot just south of Big Meadows next to a service road. Distance: 2.5 miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Moderate Trail is rocky and steep en route to the 81-foot falls. Best water flow is early in the season or after a good rain. Skyline Drive Milepost 62.8 – South River Falls Access: South River picnic area. Distance: 3.3 miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Moderate Third tallest waterfall in Shenandoah at 83-feet. Trail takes you to an overlook above the falls. There is also a rocky 1-mile round-trip spur trail that goes to the base of the falls. Skyline Drive Milepost 81.1 – Doyles River Falls Access: Doyles River parking area. Distance: 3.0 miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Moderate Three mile round-trip to see upper (28-feet) and lower falls (63-feet), or you can hike a 7.8 mile loop that includes Jones Run Falls. Skyline Drive Milepost 84.1 – Jones Run Falls Access: Jones Run parking area. Distance: 3.6 miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Moderate 3.6 mile round-trip to see 42-foot Jones Run Falls or make it a longer loop to include Doyles River Falls. Waynesboro, VA offers easy access to the waterfalls along the southern end of Skyline Drive and the northern end of the Blue Ridge Parkway! Ridge Region – Virginia Blue Ridge Parkway Milepost 0-106 Rockfish Gap, part of the Ridge Region, at the southern end of Shenandoah National Park marks the northern starting point of the Blue Ridge Parkway at its Milepost 0. There is no entrance fee to visit the Blue Ridge Parkway. BRP Milepost 19.9 – White Rock Falls Access: Across the Parkway from Slacks Overlook (and just a bit North toward Milepost 19.8, nondescript trailhead with roadside parking only and minimal signage). Distance: 1.8 miles (round-trip to the falls and back) Difficulty Level: Moderate Also accessible from Milepost 18.5 (White Rock Gap Trail parking) for a 3.4-mile round trip. Or make it a 4.7-mile loop by linking the White Rock Gap and Slacks Trails with the White Rock Falls Trail. See map for details. (Note: Copperhead and rattlesnake sightings are reported at the rocky overlooks along this trail as you hike downhill from the access near Milepost 19.9) Exit BRP at Milepost 27.2 – Crabtree Falls (VA) Access: 6.3 miles from Parkway via VA-56 E. Day use fee required. Towing and large vehicles not recommended on VA-56. Distance: The first overlook is wheelchair accessible via a short, easy walk along a paved trail; 3.4 Miles (round-trip) to four other overlooks with 1,070+ feet of elevation gain and loss. Difficulty Level: Moderate Five major (and several minor) cascades totaling 1,200 feet; considered the highest waterfall east of the Mississippi River. Crabtree Falls is located in the Glenwood-Pedlar Ranger District of the George Washington & Jefferson National Forests. BRP Milepost 34.4 – Wigwam Falls Access: Yankee Horse Ridge Parking Area Distance: 0.2 mile (entire loop) Difficulty Level: Moderate Reconstructed narrow-gauge railroad track forms part of the trail. Viewing bridge is located beneath the 30-foot falls. BRP Milepost 78.4 – Apple Orchard Falls Access: Sunset Fields Overlook Distance: 2.4 miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Strenuous. The hike to the falls drop 1,000+ feet on the way down. It’s all uphill on the return trip. Viewing platform directly underneath the falls. BRP Milepost 83.1 – Fallingwater Cascades Access: Fallingwater Cascades Overlook Distance: Approximately 1.6 miles (round-trip for the whole loop) Difficulty Level: Moderate Plateau Region – Virginia to NC State Line Blue Ridge Parkway Milepost 106-217 Exit the Blue Ridge Parkway and head west to access the Plateau Region and the Jefferson National Forest, the Little Stony National Recreation Trail, and the spectacular 776-acre public Pinnacle Natural Area Preserve containing interesting flora, fauna and geologic features — including Big Falls on Big Cedar Creek — in the Heart of Appalachia, where waterfalls abound. Highlands Region – North Carolina Blue Ridge Parkway Milepost 217-340 The Highlands Region of the Blue Ridge Parkway is famous for its rugged terrain and high rainfall, making it a spectacular area for waterfall viewing. This central section of the parkway in North Carolina offers incredible access to powerful cascades and picturesque streams. BRP Milepost 243.7 – Basin Creek Trail Access: Use the Bluff Mountain Trail and Grassy Gap Fire Road. Distance: 17.8 miles (round-trip) to the Caudill Cabin and back from the Bluff Mountain. Trailhead at Milepost 243.7 Difficulty Level: Easy to Moderate Basin Creek Trail, accessible only from the Grassy Gap Fire Road, winds past cascading waterfalls for 3.3 miles to the century-old Caudill Cabin. Check out the Doughton Park map for details. BRP Milepost 271.9 – Cascades Access: Cascades Overlook Distance: 1.0 mile (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Easy to Moderate (some steep stairs) Intersects the Tompkins Knob and Mountains to Sea Trails. BRP Milepost 296.4 – Boone Fork Falls (also called Hebron Falls) Access: Julian Price Park picnic area across the bridge near the restrooms. Distance: 2.8 Miles (to the falls and back hiking counterclockwise on the Boone Fork Trail) or 4.9 Miles (round-trip for the whole loop) Difficulty Level: Moderate to Strenuous (some steep stairs and ladders and multiple stream crossings that can be difficult after rain) BRP Milepost 305.2 – Otter Falls Access: Exit BRP at Milepost 305.2 Distance: 1.2 mile (round-trip) hike Difficulty Level: Moderate See Otter Falls on a moderate hike off of Skyland Drive in Seven Devils. Several loop trails offer various options for your return trek. BRP at Milepost 312 – South Mountains State Park Access: Exit BRP at Milepost 312 and travel South on NC-181 Distance: Multiple options Difficulty Level: Moderate to Strenuous Visit Burke County, Nature’s Playground, and view one of several waterfalls in South Mountains State Park. If nature’s your thing, come explore the almost 12,000 acres of Linville Gorge Wilderness Area! BRP Milepost 316.4 – Linville Falls Access: Parking lot at end of Linville Spur Road. The powerful Linville Falls is a stunning three-tiered waterfall cascading into the Linville Gorge, known as the “Grand Canyon of the East.” Located just off the Parkway, the area features multiple trails – including the wheelchair accessible Duggers Creek Trail – of varying difficulty, providing accessible views of the Upper Falls and challenging access to the Lower Falls. Linville Falls Trail (View of Upper Falls) Distance: 1.6 miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Moderate Linville Gorge Trail (View of Lower Falls) Distance: 1.0 mile (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Strenuous Duggers Creek Loop Trail (View of Duggers Falls) Distance: 0.3 mile (round-trip for the whole loop) Difficulty Level: Easy Erwins View Trail (Views of Upper Falls & Lower Falls) Distance: 1.6 miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Moderate BRP Mileposts 316 to 344 – McDowell County Access: Varies, depending on the trail Distance: 1+ miles, depending on the trail Difficulty Level: Easy to Strenuous McDowell County features the spectacular region of the Blue Ridge Parkway between Linville Falls and Crabtree Falls, Mileposts 316 to 344. And more waterfalls are located off the BRP! Exit at Milepost 317.4 for Tom’s Creek Falls, an 80-foot multi-cascade waterfall on an easy 1 mile round-trip hike just 1.2 miles from US-221. Catawba Falls is a 280-foot multi-cascade on a moderate to strenuous 4.3 mile round-trip hike off of Catawba River Road just west of Old Fort, only 30 minutes from Tom’s Creek Falls. BRP Milepost 317.4 – Cross Creek Cabins Access: Exit BRP at Milepost 317.4 Cross Creek Cabins features five fully-furnished log cabins available to rent year-round within walking distance of Linville Falls. Whether you play in town or hike all day, these cabins located on 25 scenic acres will be a respite for you and your pet during your stay. Exit BRP at Milepost 333.9 – Grassy Creek Falls Access: 0.7 miles from Parkway via High Ridge Road and Blands Knob Distance: 1.5 miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Easy Multi-level cascade located on private property requires walking partway on a gravel drive with some steep grades. Exit BRP at Milepost 333.9 – Bon Ami Waterfall See the Bon Ami Waterfall, but you can also experience North Carolina mining history at the NC Mining Museum and tour the underground Bon Ami mine. Emerald Village is home to 12 historic real mines and houses an impressive collection of old mining and historical equipment. Portions of the site are handicap accessible. BRP Milepost 339.5 – Crabtree Falls (NC) Access: Crabtree Falls Campground. If using a GPS or Google maps, please note that Crabtree Falls is accessed DIRECTLY from the Blue Ridge Parkway; it is NOT located on Crabtree Road. The closest Google maps address to use for the Crabtree Falls trailhead is 39000 Blue Ridge Parkway, Marion, NC 28752. Distance: 1.8 miles (round-trip to the falls and back) or 2.5 to 3 miles (round trip for the whole loop) depending on the route Difficulty Level: Moderate to Strenuous At the Crabtree Falls, water cascades over a 60-foot rock cliff. Pisgah Region – North Carolina BRP Milepost 340-469 The Pisgah Region covers the mountainous southern stretch of the Parkway, offering incredible biodiversity and the highest peaks east of the Mississippi. This area is home to numerous impressive waterfalls and cascades, often reached via rugged but rewarding trails that connect to the Pisgah National Forest. Exit BRP at Milepost 344.1 – Roaring Fork Falls Access: 2.6 miles from Parkway via NC-80 N., S. Toe River River Road & Busick Work Center Road (Continue on S. Toe River Road to reach Setrock Creek Falls) Distance: 1.4 miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Easy The 100-foot cascade is worth the walk. Exit BRP at Milepost 344.1 – Setrock Creek Falls Access: 5.5 Miles from Parkway via NC-80 N. and S. Toe River River Road. Park outside the Black Mountain Campground and walk in across the bridge toward the Mt. Mitchell Trail, then look for the Setrock Creek Falls trailhead past the Mt. Mitchell Trail. Distance: 1.0 Mile (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Easy 75-foot waterfall that provides an excellent show after a good rain. BRP Milepost 344.1 – Alberts Lodge Access: Exit BRP at Milepost 344.1 Stay year-round at Alberts Lodge, near Mount Mitchell. Enjoy the inn or a cottage with views of the Black Mountains and walk to Roaring Fork Falls. Located just two minutes from the Parkway! BRP Milepost 361.2 – Glassmine Falls Access: Glassmine Falls Overlook at Milepost 361.2. Falling along an 800-foot cliff across the valley, this wheelchair accessible waterfall is most visible after heavy rains and when leaves are off the trees. BRP Milepost 363.4 – Douglas Falls Access: Graybeard Mountain Overlook Distance: 8.0 miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Strenuous From the overlook, follow the Mountains to Sea Trail South for one mile to the junction with the Falls Trail, then travel three miles on the Falls Trail to the 70-foot Douglas Falls, past a series of cascades. BRP Milepost 384.7 – Hickory Nut Falls & Catawba Falls Located just 20 Miles from Parkway via US-74 ALT E, you can view 404-foot Hickory Nut Falls featured in the movie “The Last of the Mohicans,” hike the trails, and enjoy the panorama from Chimney Rock State Park (exit the BRP at Milepost 384.7). Take the stairs or the elevator; it’s an experience either way! Check the park website for details about which parking lots are open, as this will determine how long and difficult your hike is. Head east of Asheville via I-40 to Catawba Falls, a 100-foot multi-cascade on a moderate 2.1 mile round-trip hike off of Catawba River Road just West of Old Fort. BRP at Milepost 384.7 or 393.6 – Bradley Falls Access: Exit BRP at Milepost 384.7 or 393.6 and head southeast to Polk County Distance: 0.5+ miles Difficulty Levels: Easy to Moderate Enjoy Big Bradley Falls (moderate hike), Drip Falls (moderate hike), Emily Falls (a short, easy hike to 12-foot falls), Little Bradley Falls (moderate hike), Pearson’s Falls (no pets, day use fee required, moderate 0.5 mile round-trip trail to see the 90-foot falls) and Shunkawauken Falls (visible from roadside pull offs for wheelchair access) among the charming towns of Tryon, Saluda and Columbus. BRP at Milepost 388.8, 393.6, or 411.8 – DuPont State Recreational Forest Access: Exit BRP at Milepost 388.8, 393.6, or 411.8 Explore Henderson County, from Hendersonville’s historic downtown to the Flat Rock Playhouse to the waterfalls of DuPont State Recreational Forest, and then stop in for a locally-brewed beer or cider. BRP Milepost 411.8 – Transylvania County Access: Exit BRP at Milepost 411.8 Visit North Carolina’s Land of Waterfalls, Transylvania County. In addition to several waterfalls that you can hike to, including the wheelchair accessible Looking Glass Falls (9.5 Miles from the Parkway via US-276 S), Pisgah National Forest is accessible to everyone because it is visible from the roadside. Learn more about waterfalls in Transylvania County. Exit BRP at Milepost 411.8 – Upper Whitewater Falls Access: 45.2 miles from BRP via US-276 S & US-64 W; day use fee required Distance: 0.25 mile (one-way) to upper platform, lower viewing platform is an additional 0.5 mile (one-way) down a steep set of 150+ steps for a round-trip of 1.5 miles Difficulty Level: Easy to Moderate Very popular 411-foot falls borders Jackson County. These falls are pictured at the beginning of this story. The first overlook is wheelchair accessible. BRP Milepost 417 – Skinny Dip Falls Access: Across from the Looking Glass Rock Overlook. Distance: 0.9 Mile (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Moderate (rocks, roots and a very steep staircase that descends to the river) On August 17, 2021, Tropical Storm Fred caused major flooding in this area that rearranged the stream topography and washed away the bridge across the stream. According to the Friends of the Mountains-to-Sea Trail, new steps and rockwork lead to an unbridged stream crossing that is passable for hikers of average ability. While the trail has now reopened, there is no longer a deep pool to jump or swim in or recognizable falls to visit. BRP Milepost 418.8 – Graveyard Fields Falls Access: Graveyard Fields Overlook. Distance: 2.9 Miles (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Moderate Both falls are accessible on a 2.9-mile trek, starting with Lower Falls and then going on to Upper Falls. Wild blueberries grow along the route. The trail is not well marked and there are many side trails because the area sees heavy use. Lower Falls is visible from the Parkway for wheelchair access. BRP at Milepost 423.3 – Courthouse Falls Access: Exit BRP at Milepost 423.3 and head South on NC-215 for 6.7 miles Distance: 0.7 mile (round-trip) Difficulty Level: Easy Enjoy a short, easy hike to Courthouse Falls. Then rejuvenate overnight at Trout House Falls Luxury Waterfront Vacation Rentals. Listen to a rushing waterfall as you sleep, watch the stream cascade by, or fish in the French Broad River. Whether you hike and bike, relax, or reunite with family and friends, these cabins offer a perfect tranquil setting. BRP at Milepost 443.1, 455.7, or 469.1 – Jackson County Falls Access: Exit BRP at Milepost 443.1, 455.7, or 469.1 Distance: 0.5+ miles, depending on the trail Difficulty Levels: Easy to Moderate/Strenuous Head to Jackson County, where there are more waterfalls than you can shake a stick at, such as High Falls or Cullowhee Falls (1.5 mile moderate to strenuous hike; the flow varies based on how much water is released from the dam and the amount of rain) and Silver Run Falls (25-foot falls with a swimming hole on a 0.5 Mile round-trip easy trail). Another beauty, 411-foot Upper Whitewater Falls, is close to the South Carolina state line and borders Transylvania County (see Milepost 411.8 for details). Exit BRP at Milepost 455.7 – Soco Falls Access: 1.5 miles from Parkway at Soco Gap via US-19 S. Drive just 0.03 mile past the small blue sign stating “Soco Falls ½ mile ahead.” Parking can be challenging during busy times as there is just a wide shoulder on the left side of the road. Distance: short walk on a maintained trail to a viewing platform Beautiful 120-foot double waterfall (pictured above) flows into the rocky stream below. From the viewing platform, there is a steep, slippery trail to the base of the falls. Great Smoky Mountains National Park Region – North Carolina & Tennessee Southwest of BRP Milepost 469 The southern end of the Blue Ridge Parkway at Milepost 469 serves as a gateway to the spectacular Great Smoky Mountains National Park, which straddles the border of North Carolina and Tennessee. This iconic National Park features some of the Appalachian region’s most famous and powerful waterfalls, offering rewarding hikes and unparalleled natural beauty. BRP at Milepost 469.1 – Bryson City & Swain County Falls Exit BRP at Milepost 469.1 to visit the waterfalls of Bryson City & Swain County. Some of the favorites are the wheelchair accessible Tom’s Branch (via a 0.6 mile round-trip relatively flat gravel path), Indian Creek and Juney Whank Falls (see both on a 1.6 mile round-trip easy trail) in the Deep Creek area of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. In nearby Franklin, you’ll find Rufus Morgan Falls (1.0 mile moderate loop trail) and Big Laurel Falls (1.1 mile round-trip easy trail) in Nantahala National Forest and wheelchair accessible Upper & Lower Cullasaja Falls (visible from US-64). Continuing to the Highlands, you’ll discover the wheelchair accessible Dry Falls (a 75-foot falls that you can walk behind via a short trail), wheelchair accessible Bridal Veil Falls (drive under this 45-foot falls at a pull off along the road, pictured above) and Glen Falls (a triple waterfall which requires some hiking). BRP at Milepost 469.1 – Great Smoky Mountains National Park Falls Also exit BRP at Milepost 469.1 to enter the Great Smoky Mountains National Park along US-441. Many waterfalls are scattered throughout the Park, some requiring hiking and some handicap accessible (reachable via vehicle). Take a look at a map and descriptions of the falls. There is no entrance fee to visit the Great Smoky Mountains National Park.


--- [Blue Ridge Parkway in Virginia & North Carolina - Legends of America] ---
Connecting the Shenandoah and Great Smoky Mountains National Parks, the Blue Ridge Parkway is one of the most important automobile parkways in the United States and one of the nation’s most visited National Park units. The 469-mile scenic Parkway winds through the Appalachian Mountains of Virginia and North Carolina, where visitors can see historically significant examples of 19th- and 20th-century lifeways, architecture, and industry associated with the people and communities along its path. The idea for the Blue Ridge Parkway was born during the Great Depression, when President Franklin Delano Roosevelt visited the newly constructed Skyline Drive in Virginia in 1933. As part of his ambitious “New Deal” program, Roosevelt convened the governors of Virginia, North Carolina, and Tennessee and asked them to create a planning team. On November 24, 1933, Interior Secretary Harold Ickes approved this “park-to-park” highway as a public works project. Although the nation was experiencing severe economic turmoil, automobile ownership was increasing. Further, the project would create thousands of jobs in the region. Congress allocated funds for the initial construction of the Blue Ridge Parkway on June 16, 1933, under the authority of the National Industrial Recovery Act. With a budget of $16 million, Ickes hired Stanley Abbott, a New York landscape architect, to oversee the project, and Abbott’s vision of a chain of parks and recreational areas began to take shape. The Parkway was envisioned as the first elongated national park, providing automobile travelers with access to some of the most spectacular natural scenery in the United States and architectural details that added variety and charm. Its planned landscape was designed down to minor details, as landscape architects and engineers worked together for decades to complete the project. Due to land-ownership constraints, it was 30 years before the Parkway road was completed across the Pisgah Range in North Carolina. Most of the construction was done by private contractors. Still, a variety of New Deal public works programs were also employed, including the Works Progress Administration (WPA), the Emergency Relief Administration (ERA), and the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC). When World War II began, approximately 170 miles were open to travel, and another 160 miles were under construction. By the early 1950s, only half of the Blue Ridge Parkway was completed. In the mid-1950s, the National Park Service launched a ten-year development program called Mission 66 to mark the agency’s 50th anniversary. The plan included an accelerated effort to complete the construction of the Parkway by 1966. This initiative was very successful, finishing all of the Parkway’s construction except for 7.7 miles at Grandfather Mountain, North Carolina. After years of negotiating, the revolutionary Linn Cove Viaduct was constructed to protect the mountain’s terrain, and the Blue Ridge Parkway’s continuous 469-mile route was finally completed in 1987. When complete, the Parkway made its way through the central and southern Appalachian Mountains from the Shenandoah National Park, near Waynesboro, Virginia (Milepost 0) to the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, near Cherokee, North Carolina (Milepost 469). Often called “America’s Favorite Drive,” the Blue Ridge Parkway was the first national rural Parkway to be conceived, designed, and constructed for a leisurely driving experience. The pathway for recreational driving was, and remains, free of commercial traffic and stop signs. The Parkway is the highest and longest continuous motor road in the Appalachian region. It encompasses elevations from approximately 600 feet at the James River in Virginia to 6,411 feet at the Richland Balsam summit in North Carolina. Along the way, visitors enjoy the spectacular scenery of five major mountain ranges, wildlife, diverse outdoor recreational opportunities, and the history and heritage of the people and communities of the central and southern Appalachians. Along the Parkway are numerous scenic pullouts, recreation areas, historic sites, and visitor centers. The Parkway also offers several campgrounds and two lodges, typically open from late spring through fall. There are entrances and exits to and from the Parkway at all major federal and state highways. Once on the Parkway, the maximum speed limit is 45 miles per hour, often lower. There are no gas stations along the Parkway, but several are located just off the Parkway at access points. Roanoke, Virginia, and Asheville and Boone, North Carolina, are the most significant cities along the way. Though there are numerous sites to see along this scenic route, some of these include: Humpback Rocks – Milepost 5.8 – There is a scenic hardwood forest and sweeping valley vistas at the Parkway’s north end. Humpback Rocks illustrates the blend of cultural and natural features that define the rest of the Parkway. Visitors can hike to high rock outcroppings or explore the 1890s farm buildings relocated during Parkway construction. This site also includes a visitor center with a museum and a picnic area. James River – Milepost 63.7 – Travel through the James River Gorge has evolved from foot to boat to rail to today’s modern highway system. Stop at the visitor center to discover why Virginians built a canal system rather than float on the unimproved James River and why a railroad would buy an entire canal system. This area includes a visitor center, hiking trails, and a picnic area. Peaks of Otter – Milepost 85.6 – Visitors to Peaks of Otter follow a long-standing tradition of tourism. Starting in the 1800s, the surrounding community opened its homes and lodges to guests hoping to relax and rejuvenate in the mountains. Modern visitors can stay the night at the historic Peaks of Otter Lodge, explore the visitor’s center, visit Johnson Farm, hike one of the area trails, or fish in Abbott Lake. Polly Wood’s Ordinary, or early tavern, served as the area’s first lodging facility in the 1830s. Rocky Knob – Milepost 167 – Venture into one of the Parkway’s more rugged areas at Rocky Knob. Hike through forests, explore mountain ridges, or enjoy spring wildflowers. This site features a visitor center, campground, picnic area, and hiking trails. Mabry Mill – Milepost 176 – The sights and sounds of Rural Appalachia fill the air at Mabry Mill during summer and fall. Ed Mabry built the mill where he and his wife, Lizzy, ground corn, sawed lumber, and did blacksmithing for three decades. The old mill, cultural demonstrations, and a decades-long tradition of Sunday afternoon music and dancing draw visitors today. Take a break from driving with a short walk by the mill or some country fare at the restaurant. Mabry’s Mill is open seasonally, and cultural demonstrations occur Thursday-Monday from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. in summer and early fall. Free mountain music concerts are held on Sunday afternoons in the summer and fall. Matthew’s Cabin, which is not one of the original Mabry buildings but was relocated from a nearby area, adds to the area’s picturesque and historic character. Blue Ridge Music Center – Milepost 213 – Music is a natural part of the Appalachian Mountains, and nowhere is that heritage felt more strongly than at the Blue Ridge Music Center. People here have kept alive and created some of the richest folk music traditions and dances in our nation. Enjoy live music daily in the breezeway or at a weekend concert in the summer or fall. The Music Center is also at the crossroads of two music heritage routes: Virginia’s The Crooked Road and the Blue Ridge Music Trails of North Carolina. At the visitor center and museum, exhibits trace the region’s roots in the diversity of American music. Hiking trails are also available. Doughton Park – Milepost 238 – Appalachian history comes to life among the ridgetop meadows and steep mountainsides of Doughton Park. Hike some of the 30 miles of trails here or visit Brinegar Cabin, a well-preserved piece of early mountain life. The site also features a visitor center, hiking trails, a campground, and a picnic area. Moses H. Cone Memorial Park – Milepost 294 – Textile magnate Moses H. Cone built this summer retreat with his wife, Bertha, at the turn of the 20th century. In 1949, the family donated the estate, which is listed on the Register of Historic Places, to the National Park Service. Visit Flat Top Manor and estate, now known as the Moses H. Cone Memorial Park, for the perfectly curated and winding carriage trails, historic manor, and Southern Highland Craft Guild craft shop. The site also includes a visitor center, hiking trails, and the Southern Highlands Craft Guild shop. Julian Price Park (Milepost 297) is named after its former owner, insurance giant Julian Price. Price bought the 4,200 acres as a recreational retreat for his employees. After his untimely death in 1946, his heirs donated the land to the Parkway as a memorial. Now, Price Park is a popular Parkway destination, with plenty of opportunities to hike, fish, canoe, camp, and picnic. Linn Cove Viaduct – Milepost 304 – To protect the fragile habitat of Grandfather Mountain, Parkway planners designed the Linn Cove Viaduct. This award-winning complex concrete bridge is a source of pride for landscape architects and engineers for its marriage of beauty, utility, and habitat protection. Visitors here will appreciate the care taken in constructing the entire Parkway. The site also includes a visitor center and hiking trails. Linville Falls – Milepost 316 – The Linville River flows from its headwaters high on the steep slopes of Grandfather Mountain. It cascades through two falls as it begins a nearly 2,000-foot descent through this rugged and spectacularly beautiful gorge. Known by the Cherokee as “the river of many cliffs,” Linville Gorge was the nation’s first officially designated wilderness area. Towering hemlocks, dense stands of rhododendron, and native wildflowers grow along the trails that begin at the visitor center and encircle the falls. The site also includes a visitor center, hiking trails, a campground, and a picnic area. Museum of North Carolina Minerals – Milepost 331 – The museum highlights the area’s rich mineral resources and mining heritage. Discover hands-on, interactive exhibits that explore the formation of the Blue Ridge Mountains and the 3,000-year-old mining saga. Crabtree Falls – Milepost 339.5 – Whether your visit is a local day trip or part of an extended Parkway tour, the Crabtree Falls area is a welcome place to relax. Spend a night under the stars, hike to incredible Crabtree Falls, or stop by for lunch at the picnic area. Craggy Gardens – Milepost 364 – Step into a different world at Craggy Gardens, where gnarled, twisted trees, fog, and wind make this part of the Parkway like no other. Visitors flock to the area for the overabundance of rhododendron and the 360-degree views. The site also features a visitor center, hiking trails, and a picnic area. Folk Art Center – Milepost 382 – Discover Appalachian arts and crafts at the Folk Art Center near Asheville, North Carolina. In season, daily craft demonstrations give Carolina the chance to see folk art being made and to talk to the craftsmen as they work. Year-round, visitors can wander through the modern folk art gallery. Nearby are hiking trails. Mount Pisgah – Milepost 408 – Mount Pisgah has the only lodge on the Parkway in North Carolina. The site also features hiking trails, a campground, a picnic area, a restaurant, a gift shop, and a country store. The inn is typically open from April to October. Waterrock Knob – Milepost 451.2 – Located at 5,820 feet in elevation, Waterrock Knob is the Parkway’s highest visitor center. Known for its beautiful long-range views of several major Appalachian mountain chains, Waterrock Knob is uniquely suited for viewing sunrises and sunsets. The visitor center introduces the area’s rugged terrain and unforgettable scenes. The Eastern Band of the Cherokee Indians makes this section of North Carolina their home. The visitor center is open seasonally. The site also features hiking trails. More Information: Blue Ridge Parkway 199 Hemphill Knob Rd Asheville, North Carolina 28803 828-348-3400 ©Kathy Alexander/Legends of America, updated April 2025. Also See: Great Smoky Mountains National Park National Parks, Monuments & Historic Sites Scenic Byways & Historic Trails Sources:
