=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[List ofpresidentsofTunisia- Wikipedia]
ThepresidentofTunisiaisthehead of state ofTunisia, directlyelectedto a five-year term by the people. The officeholder leads the executive branch of theTunisiangovernment along with the prime minister andisthecommander-in-chief of theTunisianArmed Forces.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_presidents_of_Tunisia

[PresidentofTunisia- Wikiwand]
Indeed, within the context of the system, hewasa virtual dictator. Hewaselectedfor a term of five years, with no term limits. In 1975, five monthsafterwinning his third full term, Bourguibawasnamedpresidentfor life. From 1987 to 2002, apresidentwaslimited to three five-year terms...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/President_of_Tunisia

[Newly Sworn-inTunisiaPresidentPledges to Heal Divisions]
The poll followed the death in July of Beji Caid Essebsi,Tunisia'sfirstpresidentfreelyelectedbyuniversalsuffrage.
URL: https://english.aawsat.com/home/article/1958136/newly-sworn-tunisia-president-pledges-heal-divisions

[Béji Caïd Essebsi,PresidentWhoGuidedTunisiato Democracy, Dies...]
PresidentBéji Caïd Essebsi,Tunisia’sfirstpopularlyelectedhead of state,whosteered the country through a democratic transitionafteran uprising that set in motion the Arab Spring of2011, died Thursday morning inTunis. Hewas92.
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/25/world/africa/beji-caid-essebsi-tunisia-dead.html

[Tunisia–Presidentialelections- France in the United States...]
France welcomes the smooth conduct of theTunisianpresidentialelections. It congratulates theTunisianpeople on theelectionofthefirstpresidentof theTunisianRepublictobeelectedbyuniversalsuffrage. By taking this major step,Tunisiaaffirms its historic role.
URL: https://franceintheus.org/spip.php?article6393


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [List ofpresidentsofTunisia- Wikipedia] ---
The president of Tunisia is the head of state of Tunisia, directly elected to a five-year term by the people. The officeholder leads the executive branch of the Tunisian government along with the prime minister and is the commander-in-chief of the Tunisian Armed Forces.
Since the office was established in 1957, five men have served as president. The seventh and current president is Kais Saied since 23 October 2019. There are currently three living former presidents. The most recent former president to die was Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, on 19 September 2019.
The presidency of Mohamed Ennaceur, who assumed the office as acting president following the death of incumbent president Beji Caid Essebsi, was the shortest in Tunisian history (90 days). Habib Bourguiba, the inaugural holder, served the longest, over thirty years (1957–1987), before he was removed from office by his prime minister Ben Ali, on 7 November 1987. Since the ratification of the Tunisian Constitution in 2014, no person may be elected president more than twice.
Of those who have served as the nation's president, only one died in office of natural causes (Beji Caid Essebsi), two were removed from office (Habib Bourguiba and Zine El Abidine Ben Ali) and two assumed the office as acting presidents (Fouad Mebazaa and Mohamed Ennaceur).


--- [PresidentofTunisia- Wikiwand] ---
Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective President of Tunisia Head of state of Tunisia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Remove ads The president of Tunisia, officially the president of the Republic of Tunisia (Arabic: رئيس الجمهورية التونسية, romanized: Ra'īs al-Jumhūriyyah at-Tūnisiyyah), is the executive head of state of Tunisia. The president exercises executive power with the assistance of a government headed by the prime minister in a presidential system and is the commander-in-chief of the Tunisian Armed Forces.[2] Under the Constitution, the president is elected by direct universal suffrage for a term of five years, renewable once. The first president of the Tunisian Republic when the position was created on 25 July 1957 was Habib Bourguiba,[3] who remained in power for 30 years until he was removed through the coup of 7 November 1987,[4] by his prime minister Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, who appointed himself President of the Republic, and in turn remained in power for 23 years, until his fall in the Tunisian revolution on 14 January 2011.[5] He then appointed Fouad Mebazaa as interim president, until he handed over power on 13 December 2011 to the politician Moncef Marzouki,[6] the first democratic president in the country's history, who was elected by the Constituent Assembly.[7] Marzouki handed over power on 31 December 2014 to his successor, Beji Caid Essebsi, who won the 2014 presidential elections,[8] thus becoming the second directly democratically elected president in the history of Tunisia, until his death on 25 July 2019,[9] with Parliament Speaker Mohamed Ennaceur assuming the presidency temporarily until presidential elections were held.[10] Bourguiba and Ben Ali also headed the ruling party, called the Neo Destour, Socialist Destourian Party then the Democratic Constitutional Rally, from independence in 1956 until the Tunisian revolution in 2011, when the president of the republic must abandon his party status if he wins the presidency. The 2022 Tunisian constitutional referendum transformed Tunisia into a presidential republic, giving the president sweeping powers while largely limiting the role of the parliament. The current president of the Republic of Tunisia is Kais Saied, since 23 October 2019.[11] Remove ads History Summarize Perspective Since the promulgation of a republican constitution in June 1959, three years after gaining independence from France, Tunisia has had just four directly elected presidents. The first president was Habib Bourguiba, who became the country's first president after the proclamation of a republic in 1957; he had been the country's de facto leader as prime minister since independence in 1956. He was formally elected to the post in 1959, and was proclaimed president for life in 1975. He was removed from office in a coup d'état in 1987 by Prime Minister Zine El Abidine Ben Ali after being declared medically unfit to continue in office. Ben Ali ascended as acting president, was elected in his own right in 1989 and served until 2011, when he was forced from office during an uprising against his rule. In the country's first free presidential election, held in December 2014, Beji Caid Essebsi was elected in the second round. For most of its history as an independent state, Tunisia lacked political democracy in the Western sense, and saw widespread violations of human rights. Because of this, presidential elections in Tunisia, such as that of 2009, lacked international credibility. Elections resulted in implausibly high margins for the ruling party, the Constitutional Democratic Rally and its previous incarnations as the Neo Destour party and the Socialist Destourian Party. Prior to 1999, presidential candidates had to be endorsed by at least 30 political figures—a realistic possibility only for a candidate from a well-organized party like the RCD. Given the RCD's near-total domination of Tunisian politics, opposition candidates found it impossible to get their nomination papers signed. Even when this requirement was lifted, incumbent Ben Ali was reelected three more times by implausibly high margins; his lowest margin was 89 percent in 2009. Tunisia's original republican constitution vested the president with sweeping executive and legislative powers. Indeed, within the context of the system, he was a virtual dictator. He was elected for a term of five years, with no term limits. In 1975, five months after winning his third full term, Bourguiba was named president for life. From 1987 to 2002, a president was limited to three five-year terms, with no more than two in a row. However, this provision was removed in June 2002. The 2014 Constitution retained the presidency as the key institution, but hedged it about with numerous checks and balances to prevent a repeat of past authoritarian excesses. Most notably, a president is limited to two five-year terms, even if they are non-successive. The Constitution explicitly forbids any amendment to increase the length of a president's term or allow him to run for more than two terms. Under the current constitution, the president is primarily responsible for foreign policy, defense and national security, while the head of government (prime minister) is responsible for domestic policy.[12] Following Zine El Abidine Ben Ali's ousting in January 2011, prime minister Mohamed Ghannouchi invoked article 56 of the Constitution regarding temporary absence of the president to assume the role of acting president.[13] This move was deemed unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court hours later and President of the Chamber of Deputies Fouad Mebazaa was appointed as acting president based on article 57 of the Constitution regarding permanent absence of the president. On 12 December 2011, Moncef Marzouki was elected by the newly formed Constituent Assembly as interim president of the Republic. Remove ads Elections Summarize Perspective The president is elected by universal suffrage by majority during elections held in the last sixty days of the previous presidential term. Article 74 of the Constitution establishes that the right to presidential candidacy is open to every Tunisian national of at least 35 years of age and of Muslim faith.[14] Candidates must renounce any prior nationality upon election.[14] Voting takes place in the form of a two round election. Article 75 indicates that if no candidate receives an absolute majority of the votes cast during the first round, a second round shall be held within two weeks of the announcement of the final results of the first round.[14] The two candidates having received the most votes in the first round are both presented in the second round, with the candidate receiving the most votes between the two being declared president-elect.[14] If one of the candidates on the ballot dies, a new call for candidates is made, with new election dates set within no more than 45 days; this provision does not apply to the potential withdrawal of candidates.[14] The Constitution also specifies that one may not occupy the position of president for more than two full terms, consecutive or non-consecutive, and that in the event of resignation, the term is considered to have been completed in full.[14] Remove ads List Remove ads Latest election Remove ads See also References Wikiwand - on Seamless Wikipedia browsing. On steroids. Remove ads


--- [Newly Sworn-inTunisiaPresidentPledges to Heal Divisions] ---
Tunisia's new President Kais Saied vowed Wednesday to defend women's rights, reunite the country and restore trust in its leaders as the political outsider outlined his agenda following a surprise election victory. Saied, a conservative academic with no previous political experience who won the overwhelming support of younger voters in an October 13 runoff, was sworn in before members of the constituent assembly and other top state bodies. He thanked all Tunisians for delivering "this historic moment", after handily winning over his controversial opponent, businessman Nabil Karoui, in an election that reshaped the country's post-revolution political landscape. Tunisians, he said, "needed a new relationship based on trust with their politicians and those in power". After sweeping 72.71 percent of the vote in this month's runoff, Saied has won a clear mandate to fight corruption and promote social justice, even though his role focuses on security and diplomacy. The poll followed the death in July of Beji Caid Essebsi, Tunisia's first president freely elected by universal suffrage. 'Reuniting' all Tunisians A constitutional law professor whose rigid and austere demeanor earned him the nickname "Robocop", Saied vowed as president to "reunite" all Tunisians. Despite having spearheaded the Arab Spring revolt that ousted long-time ruler Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in 2011 and gaining unprecedented freedoms along the way, Tunisians have been bitterly divided between old political classes and Islamist forces. Saied said his countrymen were "free in their beliefs and choices" but stressed the state must be immune from "political calculations". "The people (Tunisians) have waited for so long... wanting to move from despair to hope," he added. Honing his main talking points that distinguished him in the electoral race, Saied promised to uphold the rule of law. He also reassured the chamber that "women's rights would not be diminished", which received a rousing round of applause from a packed parliament. He went on to stress that he would "strengthen the rights of the Tunisian woman, especially her socio-economic rights". Saeid has previously rejected a bid to overhaul Tunisia's inheritance law -- which remains based on Islamic law, meaning that women inherit half of their male siblings' part. 'Will of the people' An international novice with no real foreign policy experience, he emphasized Tunisia's respect for "various international agreements but also to revise them according to the interest and will of the people". The professor who up until his swearing-in Wednesday lived in a middle-class Tunis neighborhood will now be moving to the presidential palace in Carthage. Tunis, which currently chairs the Arab League, could renew diplomatic ties with Syria, severed since 2012, and play a role in the return of the war-torn country to the bloc. He has made strong statements against Israel, considering any ties with it to be "high treason.” While the security situation has significantly improved since a series of high-profile attacks on tourists in 2015, Tunisia has maintained a state of emergency for four years, with assaults against security forces persisting. On June 27, a suicide attack killed two people in the heart of the capital Tunis, reviving the specter of violence. During the campaign debate, Saied said a key to fighting terrorism was education, arguing that improving primary education would "immunize" youth against extremism.


--- [Béji Caïd Essebsi,PresidentWhoGuidedTunisiato Democracy, Dies...] ---
Supported by Béji Caïd Essebsi, President Who Guided Tunisia to Democracy, Dies at 92 President Béji Caïd Essebsi, Tunisia’s first popularly elected head of state, who steered the country through a democratic transition after an uprising that set in motion the Arab Spring of 2011, died Thursday morning in Tunis. He was 92. His death, in a military hospital, was announced by the government in a statement. No cause was given. He admitted to the hospital last month with an unspecified illness, sparking rumors that he had died. In a political career of more than 60 years, Mr. Essebsi was the only senior politician in Tunisia to hold political office in the new democracy as well as under the previous dictatorships of Habib Bourguiba, who became president after the country gained independence from France, and Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali, who was ultimately ousted. The government statement called him one of Tunisia’s “greatest men and one of those who contributed the most to building it.” Parliament met on Thursday to discuss what comes next. In the interim, the president of the Parliament, Mohamed Ennaceur, will take over the presidency, he said in an announcement. Related Content Advertisement


--- [Tunisia–Presidentialelections- France in the United States...] ---
France in the United States Welcome to the website of the Embassy of France and its consular network in the United States. All news Situation in Iran and the Middle East Joint statements, communiqués and remarks Embassy of France Defense International Policies March 3, 2026 Strengthening Franco-German cooperation in the field of deterrence Embassy of France Defense Policies March 3, 2026 France will hold the G7 presidency in 2026 Embassy of France Multilateralism Policies January 29, 2026 The Daily Press Briefing (02/27/2026) Press briefing February 27, 2026 French Representation in the United States The Embassy of France and its consular network Embassy of France in Washington, DC Consulates General of France Atlanta Boston Chicago Houston Los Angeles Miami New Orleans New York San Francisco Washington, DC Situation in Iran and the Middle East Joint statements, communiqués and remarks Embassy of France Defense International Policies March 3, 2026 Strengthening Franco-German cooperation in the field of deterrence Embassy of France Defense Policies March 3, 2026 France will hold the G7 presidency in 2026 Embassy of France Multilateralism Policies January 29, 2026
