=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Gazprom, FIFA Sign 'Partner' Deal For 2015-18]
Russia’s state-controlled natural-gas company Gazprom has signed a deal to become an official “partner” with international soccer’s governing body, FIFA. The deal runs from 2015 through 2018, the year that Russia is scheduled to host ...
URL: https://www.rferl.org/a/fifa-gazprom-deal/25106701.html

[Gazprom becomes Official Partner of FIFA and 2018 FIFA World Cup™]
The Company will be assigned the status of FIFA Partner for all competitions in the period of 2015–2018, including the 2018 FIFA World Cup™, which will take place in Russia for the very first time.
URL: https://www.gazprom.com/press/news/2013/september/article171325/

[Russia's Gazprom signs sponsorship deal with FIFA | AP News]
Sep 15, 2013 · MOSCOW (AP) — Russian state-controlled gas company Gazprom has signed a deal to sponsor FIFA from 2015 through 2018, the year Russia hosts the World Cup. President Vladimir Putin presided over the signing ceremony, which took place Saturday and was broadcast on state television.
URL: https://apnews.com/russias-gazprom-signs-sponsorship-deal-with-fifa-c16dea31801e483995ea0342ed653ffb

[Gazprom agrees Fifa sponsorship deal - SportsPro]
Sep 16, 2013 · Russia’s state-controlled gas company Gazprom has signed a deal to become a partner of world soccer’s governing body Fifa. The deal, signed at a ceremony attended by Russian president Vladimir Putin, will run from the beginning of 2015 to the end of 2018, and will include the 2018 Fifa World Cup which is to be hosted by Russia.
URL: https://www.sportspro.com/news/gazprom_agree_four_year_sponsorship_deal_with_fifa/

[Gazprom becomes Official Partner of FIFA and 2018 FIFA World Cup™]
Paid and free press release distribution services are in one place. The EIN Presswire offers the best press release service that helps you to reach your target market with minimal effort.
URL: https://www.einpresswire.com/article/167769981/gazprom-becomes-official-partner-of-fifa-and-2018-fifa-world-cup


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Gazprom, FIFA Sign 'Partner' Deal For 2015-18] ---
Russia’s state-controlled natural-gas company Gazprom has signed a deal to become an official “partner” with international soccer’s governing body, FIFA. The deal runs from 2015 through 2018, the year that Russia is scheduled to host football's premiere event, the World Cup. Russia President Vladimir Putin presided over the weekend signing ceremony with FIFA President Sepp Blatter and Gazprom chief executive Aleksei Miller. The deal was signed in Sochi, the Black Sea city that is preparing to host the Winter Olympics in February. Some 2018 World Cup games are expected to be played in Sochi. Gazprom also is a major sponsor of the Olympics. Its total expenditure on the Sochi games is about $3 billion. The deal runs from 2015 through 2018, the year that Russia is scheduled to host football's premiere event, the World Cup. Russia President Vladimir Putin presided over the weekend signing ceremony with FIFA President Sepp Blatter and Gazprom chief executive Aleksei Miller. The deal was signed in Sochi, the Black Sea city that is preparing to host the Winter Olympics in February. Some 2018 World Cup games are expected to be played in Sochi. Gazprom also is a major sponsor of the Olympics. Its total expenditure on the Sochi games is about $3 billion.


--- [Gazprom becomes Official Partner of FIFA and 2018 FIFA World Cup™] ---
Gazprom becomes Official Partner of FIFA and 2018 FIFA World Cup™ RELEASE Release Today in Sochi, in the presence of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Russian Sports Minister Vitaly Mutko, Gazprom Management Committee Chairman Alexey Miller and FIFA (Fédération Internationale de Football Association) President Joseph S. Blatter signed an agreement for Gazprom to become an Official FIFA Partner. The Company will be assigned the status of FIFA Partner for all competitions in the period of 2015–2018, including the 2018 FIFA World Cup™, which will take place in Russia for the very first time. “Gazprom is known for its special attitude to football. We have a long and successful track record of interaction with football organizations, are an official partner of the UEFA Champions League and support football clubs in Russia and Europe. The cooperation with FIFA means for us entering a new level of world-class support to football. For Gazprom it is an important step in positioning itself as a global energy company,” said Alexey Miller. Background On December 2, 2010, the FIFA Executive Committee named Russia in Zurich as the host country of the 2018 FIFA World Cup™. The competition will take place in 11 Russian cities (Moscow, St. Petersburg, Samara, Saransk, Rostov-on-Don, Sochi, Kazan, Kaliningrad, Volgograd, Nizhny Novgorod and Yekaterinburg) at 12 stadiums. Gazprom is the sponsor of the Football Club Zenit (Russia) and gives support to such football teams as Chelsea (UK), Schalke 04 (Germany) and Crvena Zvezda (Serbia). In addition, the Company is an official partner of the UEFA Champions League 2012/2015 and the UEFA Super Cup 2012/2014.


--- [Russia's Gazprom signs sponsorship deal with FIFA | AP News] ---
Russia’s Gazprom signs sponsorship deal with FIFA MOSCOW (AP) — Russian state-controlled gas company Gazprom has signed a deal to sponsor FIFA from 2015 through 2018, the year Russia hosts the World Cup. President Vladimir Putin presided over the signing ceremony, which took place Saturday and was broadcast on state television. The terms of the deal were not disclosed. The agreement was signed by FIFA President Sepp Blatter and Gazprom chief executive Alexei Miller in Sochi, the Black Sea city preparing to host the Winter Games in February. Some of the 2018 World Cup games also will be played in Sochi’s stadium. Gazprom, the world’s largest natural gas producer and a publicly traded company, also is a major sponsor of the Olympics. Its total expenditure on the Sochi games is about $3 billion.


--- [Gazprom agrees Fifa sponsorship deal - SportsPro] ---
Russia’s state-controlled gas company Gazprom has signed a deal to become a partner of world soccer’s governing body Fifa. The deal, signed at a ceremony attended by Russian president Vladimir Putin, will run from the beginning of 2015 to the end of 2018, and will include the 2018 Fifa World Cup which is to be hosted by Russia. Gazprom will become Fifa’s exclusive sponsor in the oil, gas and fuels sectors and will be permitted to use the Fifa and World Cup logos in its advertising. Whilst the precise terms of the deal were undisclosed, Gazprom chief executive Alexei Miller stated that the sum reflected the scale of the World Cup. Gazprom will join the likes of Emirates, Adidas and Sony in a small group of Fifa partners. It has been reported that these partners pay anything between US$24 million and US$44 million annually. - New Fifa sponsorship keeps Hyundai in the family - Gazprom sets sail with potential America’s Cup challenge “Of course I am not only happy, it is also a great honour for me that you are with us today as we conclude a cooperation agreement with our new partner, Gazprom,” said Sepp Blatter, Fifa president, addressing president Putin. Gazprom, which already sponsors the Uefa Champions League and Russian champions Zenit St. Petersburg, recently announced a deal that installed them as Chelsea FC’s ‘global energy partner’. 4 years Gazprom – Fifa More_than_USD50million


--- [Gazprom becomes Official Partner of FIFA and 2018 FIFA World Cup™] ---
Gazprom becomes Official Partner of FIFA and 2018 FIFA World Cup™ Today in Sochi, in the presence of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Russian Sports Minister Vitaly Mutko, Gazprom Management Committee Chairman Alexey Miller and FIFA (Fédération Internationale de Football Association) President Joseph S. Blatter signed an agreement for Gazprom to become an Official FIFA Partner. The Company will be assigned the status of FIFA Partner for all competitions in the period of 2015–2018, including the 2018 FIFA World Cup™, which will take place in Russia for the very first time. “Gazprom is known for its special attitude to football. We have a long and successful track record of interaction with football organizations, are an official partner of the UEFA Champions League and support football clubs in Russia and Europe. The cooperation with FIFA means for us entering a new level of world-class support to football. For Gazprom it is an important step in positioning itself as a global energy company,” said Alexey Miller. Background On December 2, 2010, the FIFA Executive Committee named Russia in Zurich as the host country of the 2018 FIFA World Cup™. The competition will take place in 11 Russian cities (Moscow, St. Petersburg, Samara, Saransk, Rostov-on-Don, Sochi, Kazan, Kaliningrad, Volgograd, Nizhny Novgorod and Yekaterinburg) at 12 stadiums. Gazprom is the sponsor of the Football Club Zenit (Russia) and gives support to such football teams as Chelsea (UK), Schalke 04 (Germany) and Crvena Zvezda (Serbia). In addition, the Company is an official partner of the UEFA Champions League 2012/2015 and the UEFA Super Cup 2012/2014. Legal Disclaimer: EIN Presswire provides this news content "as is" without warranty of any kind. We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article. If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the author above.
