=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Episode 5 - Mob Psycho 100 Wiki]
"OCHIMUSHA ~Psychic Power and Me~" is the fifth episode of the Mob Psycho 100 anime adaptation. Mob is challenged to a one-on-one fight with Black Vinegar Middle School's shadow leader, Teruki Hanazawa, or Teru. Mob doesn't use his powers, but Teru goes all out on him, destroying everything around him. Teru continues to unleash his incredible power when Mob suddenly remembers a tragedy that ...
URL: https://mob-psycho-100.fandom.com/wiki/Episode_5

[List of Mob Psycho 100 episodes - Wikipedia]
List of Mob Psycho 100 episodes Key visual for the series Mob Psycho 100 is a Japanese anime series based on the manga series created by One. The anime adaptation was produced by Bones and directed by Yuzuru Tachikawa. Hiroshi Seko wrote the scripts, Yoshimichi Kameda designed the characters, and Kenji Kawai composed the music. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Mob_Psycho_100_episodes

[Season 1 - Episode Guide | TVmaze]
Jul 12, 2016 · Mob is challenged to a one-on-one fight with Black Vinegar Middle School's shadow leader, Hanazawa Teruki, otherwise known as Teru. Mob doesn't use his powers but Teru goes all out on him, destroying everything around him.
URL: https://www.tvmaze.com/seasons/47685/mob-psycho-100-season-1/episodeguide

[Mob Psycho 100 (TV Series 2016–2022) - Episode list - IMDb]
During the cold open, delinquents from Salt Middle School are in a turf war with a rival school. When the rival delinquents are unable to win, they call for their leader, Teruki "Teru" Hanazawa.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt5897304/episodes/?season=1

[Mob Psycho 100 Season 1: Episode Guide & Ratings | Moviefone]
Working together, Mob and Teru head to Awakening Lab. Meanwhile, Ritsu and the other kidnapped espers plan an escape from the clutches of Claw.
URL: https://www.moviefone.com/tv-shows/mob-psycho-100/InjqUPGIV1C6JCsX3n1jz2/seasons/1/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Episode 5 - Mob Psycho 100 Wiki] ---
"OCHIMUSHA ~Psychic Power and Me~" is the fifth episode of the Mob Psycho 100 anime adaptation. Synopsis[] Mob is challenged to a one-on-one fight with Black Vinegar Middle School's shadow leader, Teruki Hanazawa, or Teru. Mob doesn't use his powers, but Teru goes all out on him, destroying everything around him. Teru continues to unleash his incredible power when Mob suddenly remembers a tragedy that happened between him and Ritsu... Summary[] Teruki is shocked to see another esper and comments that he has a lot of questions, but first needs to establish hierarchy. He attacks Mob, but his attack has no effect. Mob tries to reach out for a handshake wanting to be friends, but Teruki is on his guard and backs off. Mob tells Dimple that he won't fight as Arataka Reigen had taught him that people shouldn't use their psychic powers on others as they could hurt others, just like you shouldn't point a knife at a person. Teruki keeps his distance and eventually continues to attack Mob, slamming him to the ground. Dimple asks Teruki if he can call this a draw, as Mob has no desire to fight and continues so he will only get hurt, but Teruki refuses. Having no choice, Dimple uses the remainder of his power and turns it into his usual form, but Teruki erases him easily. Mob recalls the time he spends with Dimple, but decides he is okay with it. As Teruki keeps calling him insignificant and that he won't achieve anything, Mob recalls how Dimple was encouraging him all the time, telling him he could be great, and tells Teruki that thinking about it. Dimple was an okay guy and a better person than Teruki. Teruki decides to fight him using his full power and starts slamming Mob into the ground and the school building. He eventually pushes him to the home economics room and takes out some knives. He points them at Mob and shoots them, but Mob deflects them protecting himself. A knife flies wholly, and back shaves the top of Teruki's head. Teruki gets angry, turns his tie into a sword, and starts attacking Mob, who keeps protecting himself. Mob explains that he won't use his powers, doesn't want to hurt him, and that he figured that Teruki is a loser like him. If he doesn't use his powers, he will have nothing and be just like Mob. Teruki gets angry, stating they are different, and gets close and starts choking Mob, blaming him for taking his world from him, where he was super popular. Mob still refuses to use his powers and starts lightly punching Teruki, recalling a time he used his powers that hurt his bullies and brother. Mob eventually passes out, and Teruki decides to leave, but at that moment, Mob rises up as his emotion has reached ???%. Teruki is happy that he finally decides to fight, but Mob easily breaks Teruki's barrier. He starts laughing that Mob broke his words and used his powers, but then realizes Mob is unconscious. Seeing all the power Mob had, Teruki wonders what he had awakened as the whole school crumbles, and rubble starts flying. Teruki starts crying, saying he is sorry and won't be using his powers against other people, but all the rubble and Teruki are sent above the clouds, where he realizes he is just an average person. Mob awakens and realizes he can't change as he uses his powers against a person. His emotions of sadness reach 100%, and he reconstructs the entire school building from the rubble. Tsuyoshi Edano and the other Black Vinegar students awaken, and after seeing Teruki, they run in fear, not wanting to lose their hair too. Teruki tries to say they are nothing without powers, but the Body Improvement Club members awaken and check on Mob to see if he is okay, making Teruki realize he is completely lost. Mob spends three hours looking for Dimple, but can't find any trace of him. Going home, Ritsu gives him a towel to dry himself from the rain. Mob explains he doesn't remember it well, but apologizes for the incident in which he hurt Ritsu, but Ritsu tells him the thugs got him and it wasn't Mob. Ritsu then watches TV, seeing footage of the rubble in the sky and recalling him in that incident, Mob lost consciousness, and the thing that appeared wasn't his brother. Appearing Characters[] Notes and Trivia[] - An ochimusha is the ghost of a warrior that fled the battlefield during a conflict. [] | Season 1 | Episode 1 • Episode 2 • Episode 3 • Episode 4 • Episode 5 • Episode 6 • Episode 7 • Episode 8 • Episode 9 • Episode 10 • Episode 11 • Episode 12 | | Season 2 | Episode 13 • Episode 14 • Episode 15 • Episode 16 • Episode 17 • Episode 18 • Episode 19 • Episode 20 • Episode 21 • Episode 22 • Episode 23 • Episode 24 • Episode 25 | | Season 3 | Episode 26 • Episode 27 • Episode 28 • Episode 29 • Episode 30 • Episode 31 • Episode 32 • Episode 33 • Episode 34 • Episode 35 • Episode 36 • Episode 37 |


--- [List of Mob Psycho 100 episodes - Wikipedia] ---
Mob Psycho 100 is a Japanese anime series based on the manga series created by One. The anime adaptation was produced by Bones and directed by Yuzuru Tachikawa. Hiroshi Seko wrote the scripts, Yoshimichi Kameda designed the characters, and Kenji Kawai composed the music. The series aired between July 12 and September 27, 2016, on Tokyo MX. For season 1, the opening theme song, titled "99", was performed by Mob Choir, while the ending theme song, titled "Refrain Boy" (リフレインボーイ, Rifurein Bōi), was performed by All Off. The series was simulcast on Crunchyroll, while Funimation broadcast the show's simuldub. The English dub was produced by Bang Zoom! Entertainment. On April 18, 2019, Funimation and Crunchyroll confirmed that season 2 would simuldub on April 25.
A second season of the anime series was announced, with the staff and cast returning to reprise their roles. Mob Psycho 100 II aired from January 7 to April 1, 2019, with the series being simulcast on Crunchyroll.
A third season, titled Mob Psycho 100 III, was confirmed to be in production in October 2021. It aired from October 6 to December 22, 2022. The third season's simuldub was slated to be produced by Crunchyroll rather than Bang Zoom! with some roles recast, due to the choice to move dub production to in-person recording sessions at their Dallas based studio, rather than remote recordings, after largely relying on the latter at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. Among the planned recastings was the voice of Mob, Kyle McCarley, who stated that he would likely not be reprising the role as Crunchyroll had refused to negotiate a potential union contract for future anime dubbing productions with McCarley's union SAG-AFTRA. McCarley had offered to work non-union on season 3 under the condition that Crunchyroll have a discussion with SAG-AFTRA, but since this did not proceed, McCarley did not return. This news prompted much backlash and criticism of Crunchyroll on social media.


--- [Season 1 - Episode Guide | TVmaze] ---
Episodes Episode: 1x01 | Airdate: Jul 12, 2016 (25 min) Psychics fight with supernatural phenomena that cannot be explained by science. Reigen Arataka that runs the Spirits and Such Consultation office is one of those psychics... well, a fake one. His only hope is a super dull middle-schooler named Kageyama Shigeo, a.k.a. Mob. 27% towards Mob's explosion. Episode: 1x02 | Airdate: Jul 19, 2016 (25 min) The Telepathy Club is told that they are going to be shut down by the student council due to lack of members. It was then that one of the members, Inukawa, thought of possibly getting Mob to join. However, Mob gets a call from Reigen about taking care of an incident at Highso Girls' Academy... Episode: 1x03 | Airdate: Jul 26, 2016 (25 min) It's great that Mob joined the Body Improvement Club, but he suddenly faints as he's running along the riverside. His wish is to get stronger and to be able to get closer to his beloved Tsubomi-chan. One day, as Mob is feeling troubled, a woman with a strange mask approaches him... Progress toward Mob's explosion: 20% Episode: 1x04 | Airdate: Aug 2, 2016 (25 min) After the incident with the religious organization (LOL), the evil spirit, Dimple, keeps following Mob around. Also, because of the incident, Mezato Ichi from the school paper starts following around Mob, as well. Then one day, another student joins the Body Improvement Club. Progress Towards Mob's Explosion: 45% Episode: 1x05 | Airdate: Aug 9, 2016 (25 min) Mob is challenged to a one-on-one fight with Black Vinegar Middle School's shadow leader, Hanazawa Teruki, otherwise known as Teru. Mob doesn't use his powers but Teru goes all out on him, destroying everything around him. Teru continues to unleash his incredible power when Mob suddenly remembers a tragedy that happened between him and Ritsu... Episode: 1x06 | Airdate: Aug 16, 2016 (25 min) Peaceful days return after Mob's fight with Teru. As usual, Reigen continues to trick people as a fake psychic, and the president of the Telepathy Club, Kurata Tome, drags Mob around to find other espers. Then one day, a mysterious man talks to Mob's younger brother, Ritsu... Episode: 1x07 | Airdate: Aug 23, 2016 (25 min) Ritsu meets Dimple who teaches him how to use his new-found powers as thugs from other schools try to find and beat the one responsible for Hanazawa's defeat. Episode: 1x08 | Airdate: Aug 30, 2016 (25 min) After Ritsu stirs up trouble with his new found psychic powers, a new psychic; Koyoma, is sent by Claw to capture him. Episode: 1x09 | Airdate: Sep 6, 2016 (25 min) Mob and Teru leave to rescue the kidnapped kids from Claw as Ritsu and the others try to escape on their own. Episode: 1x10 | Airdate: Sep 13, 2016 (25 min) Mob and Teru infiltrate the Claw's 7th Division to save Ritsu. Meanwhile, Ritsu tries to escape with the other esper kids and they run into the upper echelon and leader of the 7th Division. Teru and Dimple run into trouble after a strenuous battle, and the boss from Claw finally shows himself... Episode: 1x11 | Airdate: Sep 20, 2016 (25 min) Mob, Ritsu, and Teru are trapped in a room where they can't use their powers. And then, someone rather unexpected shows up in front of them: Mob's master and self-proclaimed psychic, Reigen. Episode: 1x12 | Airdate: Sep 27, 2016 (25 min) Mob is finally pushed to his limit when he has to face Sakurai, Muraki, Matsuo and Ishiguro of the upper echelon. But then, he comes to a rather surprising decision... Specials Episode: S01 Special | Airdate: Mar 18, 2018 (60 min) A summary episode of Mob Psycho 100 which features commentary from Reigen Arataka.


--- [Mob Psycho 100 (TV Series 2016–2022) - Episode list - IMDb] ---
Tue, Aug 2, 2016 During the cold open, delinquents from Salt Middle School are in a turf war with a rival school. When the rival delinquents are unable to win, they call for their leader, Teruki "Teru" Hanazawa. In spite of being physically unimposing, Teru disposes of the Salt delinquents with ease.


--- [Mob Psycho 100 Season 1: Episode Guide & Ratings | Moviefone] ---
No content
