=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kayaking-Aventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall]
Nov 29, 2023 — BRASVELLBREEN, Norway, Nov 29 - Kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20-metre ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle - the biggest ever ...
URL: https://www.reuters.com/sports/kayaking-aventurer-completes-biggest-descent-glacial-waterfall-2023-11-29/

[Kayaking adventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall ...]
BRASVELLBREEN, Norway - Kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20m ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle - the biggest ever recorded descent of a glacial waterfall. The 32-year-old Catalan ...
URL: https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/kayaking-adventurer-completes-biggest-descent-of-glacial-waterfall

[Biggest-ever ice waterfall decent in Kayak recorded in ... - IceNews]
The biggest-ever ice waterfall decent in a Kayak has been recorded in Svalbard, Norway, descending down a 20m (65ft) glacial waterfall. The decent was made by Aniol Serrasolses, a 32-year-old man from Catalonia. The location was a 20 meter ice waterfall in Brasvellbreen, the Svalbard archipelago of Norway. Serrasolses paddled through the area's acial river, before going down the ice ...
URL: https://icenews.is/2023/12/02/biggest-ever-ice-waterfall-decent-in-kayak-recorded-in-svalbard-norway/

[Kayaker completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall [NSTTV]]
NORWAY: Kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20-metre ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle - the biggest ever recorded descent of a glacial waterfall. The 32-year-old Catalan adventurer paddled through the rapids and ice tunnels of the glacial river on the ice cap before descending the ice waterfall in Brasvellbreen, the Svalbard archipelago of Norway.
URL: https://www.nst.com.my/world/world/2023/11/984748/kayaker-completes-biggest-descent-glacial-waterfall-nsttv

[Kayaking-Adventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall]
BRASVELLBREEN — Kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20-metre ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle - the biggest ever recorded descent of a glacial waterfall.
URL: https://www.todayonline.com/world/kayaking-adventurer-completes-biggest-descent-glacial-waterfall-2316476


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kayaking-Aventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall] ---
BRASVELLBREEN, Norway, Nov 29 - Kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20-metre ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle - the biggest ever recorded descent of a glacial waterfall. The 32-year-old Catalan adventurer paddled through the rapids and ice tunnels of the glacial river on the ice cap before descending the ice waterfall in Brasvellbreen, the Svalbard archipelago of Norway. Sign up here. "The first time navigating through those rapids was absolutely incredible," Serrasolses said. "Like kayaking on another planet. It was actually crazier than I ever thought it would be... one of the roughest, most wild and virgin places I've ever seen. "That feeling of levitating above the water. You could see the bottom with those textures, with those movements, with those shapes, and you were on top of your kayak totally transparent. You could look down and see everything." To access the waterfall the crew had to climb up the ice cap using a ladder, and then walk 11 kilometres across the ice to access the glacial river, crossing streams and crevasses. As the first person to run the waterfall Serrasolses chose to name the descent "Philip's Ladder" as a tribute to the crew member who pulled the ladder for the duration of the 11km trek to allow the team to get from the boat to the waterfall. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


--- [Kayaking adventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall ...] ---
Kayaking adventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall Sign up now: Get ST's newsletters delivered to your inbox BRASVELLBREEN, Norway – Kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20m ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle - the biggest ever recorded descent of a glacial waterfall. The 32-year-old Catalan adventurer paddled through the rapids and ice tunnels of the glacial river on the ice cap before descending the ice waterfall in Brasvellbreen, the Svalbard archipelago of Norway. “The first time navigating through those rapids was absolutely incredible,” Mr Serrasolses said. “Like kayaking on another planet. It was actually crazier than I ever thought it would be… one of the roughest, most wild and virgin places I’ve ever seen,” he added. “That feeling of levitating above the water. You could see the bottom with those textures, with those movements, with those shapes, and you were on top of your kayak totally transparent. You could look down and see everything.” To access the waterfall, the crew had to climb up the ice cap using a ladder, and then walk 11km across the ice to access the glacial river, crossing streams and crevasses. As the first person to run the waterfall, Mr Serrasolses chose to name the descent “Philip’s Ladder” as a tribute to the crew member who pulled the ladder for the duration of the 11km trek to allow the team to get from the boat to the waterfall. REUTERS


--- [Biggest-ever ice waterfall decent in Kayak recorded in ... - IceNews] ---
The biggest-ever ice waterfall decent in a Kayak has been recorded in Svalbard, Norway, descending down a 20m (65ft) glacial waterfall. The decent was made by Aniol Serrasolses, a 32-year-old man from Catalonia. The location was a 20 meter ice waterfall in Brasvellbreen, the Svalbard archipelago of Norway. Serrasolses paddled through the area’s acial river, before going down the ice waterfall. Serrasolses described the experience as “like kayaking on another planet”.


--- [Kayaker completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall [NSTTV]] ---
No content


--- [Kayaking-Adventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall] ---
Kayaking-Adventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall BRASVELLBREEN — Kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20-metre ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle - the biggest ever recorded descent of a glacial waterfall. BRASVELLBREEN — Kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20-metre ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle — the biggest ever recorded descent of a glacial waterfall. The 32-year-old Catalan adventurer paddled through the rapids and ice tunnels of the glacial river on the ice cap before descending the ice waterfall in Brasvellbreen, the Svalbard archipelago of Norway. "The first time navigating through those rapids was absolutely incredible," Mr Serrasolses said. "Like kayaking on another planet. It was actually crazier than I ever thought it would be... one of the roughest, most wild and virgin places I've ever seen. "That feeling of levitating above the water. You could see the bottom with those textures, with those movements, with those shapes, and you were on top of your kayak totally transparent. You could look down and see everything." To access the waterfall the crew had to climb up the ice cap using a ladder, and then walk 11 kilometres across the ice to access the glacial river, crossing streams and crevasses. As the first person to run the waterfall Mr Serrasolses chose to name the descent "Philip's Ladder" as a tribute to the crew member who pulled the ladder for the duration of the 11km trek to allow the team to get from the boat to the waterfall. REUTERS
