=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Vocal Group Harmony Web Site]
FROM a waitress at Lorette's restaurant in Harlem, Savannah Churchill moved across the street into Smalls Paradise and her first job as a singer. That was 1937, a year after she had dropped out of New York University following her marriage to a school sweetheart, Arthur Churchill.
URL: https://vocalgroupharmony.com/ICried.htm

[Nancy Guthrie's Husband: 5 Fast Facts on Charles Guthrie]
Savannah Guthrie and her husband, Michael Feldman, named their second child after her father. Born in December 2016, he is named Charles Max Guthrie Feldman, but the couple affectionately calls him Charley.
URL: https://entertainmentnow.com/news/nancy-guthrie-family-husband-charles-guthrie/

[Everything to Know About Savannah Guthrie's Husband Michael Feldman]
5 days ago · Savannah Guthrie and her husband, Michael Feldman, have weathered life's ups and downs together for more than a decade, and RadarOnline.com can reveal all there is to know about the 57-year-old.
URL: https://radaronline.com/p/who-is-savannah-guthrie-husband-meet-michael-feldman/

[Savannah Churchill | Camden, NJ]
She was raised in Brooklyn, and started singing in 1941 to support her family after her husband David Churchill was killed in a car accident. She had a successful career as a singer of pop, jazz, and blues music in the 1940s and 1950s until she was injured in a nightclub accident in 1956.
URL: https://dvrbs.camdenhistory.com/people/savannah-churchill.html

[Visit Savannah | The Official Guide to Savannah, GA]
Historic and hip, Savannah’s neighborhoods are full of character. Tour the city and see gorgeous gardens, bustling boutiques, edgy artwork and stately Victorian-era homes.
URL: https://visitsavannah.com/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Vocal Group Harmony Web Site] ---
LADIES OF R&B... PART SEVEN SAVANNAH CHURCHILL (PART 2 OF 3) | "Too Blue To Cry" | "I Cried" | Above: Photo of Savannah Churchill. Magazine article from 1952 is provided at the bottom of this page. Above: Label for Decca 29194 released in 1954. The flip sides of both of this week's selections were included in Part One (previous Record Of The Week).Listen to this week's selections: [Audio restoration by Dave Saviet.] A) Click on an option below to listen to Savannah Churchill using Streaming Windows Media Player. Too Blue To Cry - Manor 1014 B - 1945 I Cried - Decca 29194 - 1954 "BOTH SONGS" NOT FUNCTIONAL!B) Click on an option below to listen to Savannah Churchill using Downloading Windows Media Player. Too Blue To Cry - Manor 1014 B - 1945 (file size=465KB) I Cried - Decca 29194 - 1954 (file size=341KB) SAVANNAH CHURCHILL [Magazine article from 1952] SINGER HAS URGE TO EARN AND PASSION FOR SAVING FROM a waitress at Lorette's restaurant in Harlem, Savannah Churchill moved across the street into Smalls Paradise and her first job as a singer. That was 1937, a year after she had dropped out of New York University following her marriage to a school sweetheart, Arthur Churchill. When she auditioned for owner Ed Smalls, he eyed her critically and said, "Baby, you can't sing much but you ain't bad to look at. With experience you might improve, so I'll give you a job." The job paid $18 a week, but it was the start of a professional career that has carried her into such lush spots as Ciro's in Hollywood, the Thunderbird in Las Vegas and the Barbary Coast in San Francisco. Last year she went to England and scored a triumph in London where she was featured at the Astor Colony Restaurant and also at the famed Palladium Theater. It was her first foreign engagement. "It lasted only eight weeks," she remembers, "but what an experience it was! I want to go back as soon as I can." Born in New Orleans, her parents migrated to New York and settled in Brooklyn when Savannah was three. Home is now a three-story ten-room frame house in Brooklyn which is all her own. It is where she plans to retire when she quits singing. The town means much to her. "I love Brooklyn," she says. "I was reared there and know it like I know the palm of my hand. The place has a whole lot of sentimental value for me." Savannah keeps a sharp lookout during her travels for choice parcels of real estate available at reasonable prices. She has a powerful urge to earn money and even greater passion to save it. "The money you make doesn't mean much if you don't save some of it," she says. Her life is entwined with those of her two sons, one of whom plans to enter Southern University next year. She actually looks forward to the experience of becoming a grandmother. "I'll be very happy on the day one of my boys informs me I have become a grandmother." Her first husband, an Ohio lawyer, was killed in an auto accident in 1938. Her second husband, Jessie Johnson, whom she married in May, 1952, is the head of Johnson's Chemical Company in Springfield, Ohio. They see each other at odd intervals, whenever Johnson can commute to Brooklyn. But he only does that on those rare weeks when Savannah is at home.[Above article provided by Richard Koloda.] This site is non-commercial. All information displayed is provided to further the general public's knowledge of RnB vocal group harmony.


--- [Nancy Guthrie's Husband: 5 Fast Facts on Charles Guthrie] ---
The Guthrie family has voiced their desperation to get their matriarch, Nancy Guthrie, home after her disappearance on February 1. As law enforcement work tirelessly to locate her, new details have emerged suggesting she was forcibly taken from her home in Arizona. A spotlight has been shone on the Guthrie family, and this is everything to know about Nancy’s late husband, Charles Guthrie. Charles Guthrie Was a Father of Three Charles and Nancy had three children: their famous daughter, “Today” news anchor Savannah Guthrie; a son, Camron Guthrie; and a daughter, Annie Guthrie. After Charles’ untimely passing, Nancy raised their children alone. “We lost my dad suddenly and shockingly,” Savannah said in a 2023 interview, CNN reports. “And my mom was so strong, and set aside her own grief in many ways, just to be there and make sure we could all move forward together.” Savannah continued to praise Nancy, saying, “She loves us, her family, fiercely, and her selflessness and sacrifice for us, her steadfastness and her unmovable confidence is the reason any of us grew up to do anything.” Charles Guthrie Passed Away in 1988 Charles passed away in 1988 from a heart attack, People reports. At the time of his death, Savannah was 16 and in high school. Years later, she reflected on her loss in an interview with People in February 2024. “My father died when I was 16. I think about him all the time,” she said. “He was deep and complicated, and he didn’t talk to us like little kids. He told us things that I didn’t understand at the time but later would remember, long after he died.” Charles Guthrie’s Passing Devastated the Family In an interview with People in February 2024, Savannah spoke about the impact of her father’s death on the family. “The loss of my father was shocking and devastating. It cracked open our family and crushed us,” she said. “He was our center. We just idealized him and adored him. He was larger than life, and funny, and charming, and adorable. His loss was so sudden and so shocking.” Savannah Guthrie Named Her Son After Her Late Dad Savannah Guthrie and her husband, Michael Feldman, named their second child after her father. Born in December 2016, he is named Charles Max Guthrie Feldman, but the couple affectionately calls him Charley. Charles Guthrie Was Strong & Loyal In a 2014 essay for “Today,” Savannah Guthrie shared insights into who her father was and the qualities he possessed. “My father was a seemingly unlikely mix of qualities: always strong, sometimes terrifying, loyal to the end, and disarmingly gentle and tender when it counted,” she said. “He was also tall, affectionate and funny; he had that personality that people describe as ‘lighting up the room.’ He was a 5,000-watt bulb who could turn a mundane trip to the post office into a rip-roaring tale. People adored him and gravitated towards him.”


--- [Everything to Know About Savannah Guthrie's Husband Michael Feldman] ---
Radar Reveals All to Know About Savannah Guthrie's Husband — As Michael Feldman Admits He Feels 'Unhelpful' in the Search for 'Today' Co-Host's Missing Mom Feb. 26 2026, Published 9:00 p.m. ET Savannah Guthrie and her husband, Michael Feldman, have weathered life's ups and downs together for more than a decade, and RadarOnline.com can reveal all there is to know about the 57-year-old. Michael Feldman Is a Corporate Consultant While the Today co-anchor is busy with her work in the entertainment industry, Feldman soars high as a corporate consultant. He is the North American co-chairman and a founding partner of FGS Global, an international communications and consulting firm. In 2001, he co-founded the Glover Park Group, which later formed a partnership with other consulting firms to create FGS. Feldman previously worked as a consultant for Johnny Depp's legal team during the Pirates of the Caribbean actor's defamation trial against Amber Heard in 2022. Michael Feldman Is a Former Democratic Political Aide Before stepping into his current role, Feldman worked as a Democratic political aide for eight years. He served as senior advisor and traveling chief of staff for Vice President Al Gore, as well as one of the chief liaisons to Congress for the Bill Clinton administration. Michael Feldman Met Savannah Guthrie at His 40th Birthday Party Feldman first met Guthrie at his 40th birthday party in 2008. The broadcaster attended the gathering with a mutual friend. "I met a man named Mike Feldman at a party, a political consultant who made me laugh. We fell in love," Guthrie recalled in a story for Guideposts magazine. The journalist was previously married to Mark Orchard from 2005 to 2009. Michael Feldman and Savannah Guthrie Got Engaged in 2013 After a few years of dating, Feldman popped the question to Guthrie during a trip to Turks and Caicos in 2013. But before she got the ring, she revealed she had called it quits with Feldman earlier that day. "It got to the point where no one thought we were ever going to get married — including us, especially including me," Guthrie recalled in an April 2019 episode of Today. "We were kind of at that point in life where it was like, we're either going to have to decide to get married, or we're just going to have to love each other but let each other go." She added, "I was like, 'Sweetie, I love you so much, but if we can't decide, then I think we've decided.'" Little did she know, Feldman already planned to propose to her later that evening. When he finally asked her to marry him, Guthrie said "yes" after thinking about it for "about .2 seconds." Michael Feldman and Savannah Guthrie Married in 2014 In March 2014, Feldman and Guthrie exchanged vows during an intimate wedding ceremony attended by 80 to 90 guests. Michael Feldman and Savannah Guthrie Share 2 Children After announcing their first pregnancy at the wedding ceremony, Feldman and Guthrie welcomed their first child, Vale, on August 13, 2014. "I have a purpose now. It's the most important job that I have ever had. And while I am new to this whole parenting thing, I promise that I will do whatever I can to protect you, nurture you, help you develop and grow into the best person you can be," the father-of-two wrote in a letter for his daughter, which Today published in November 2014. "It's a really daunting assignment, that's for sure. But I now understand why it is the toughest but most gratifying thing that I will ever do." Their second child, Charles "Charley" Max, was born on December 8, 2016. Michael Feldman Broke His Silence After Nancy Guthrie's Disappearance Reports about Savannah's mom Nancy Guthrie's disappearance emerged on February 1, one day after she was last seen. Speaking with Page Six, Feldman said he is "just being responsive" but feels "mostly unhelpful" amid the desperate search for his mother-in-law. He, however, acknowledged the media's "thoughtfulness" in the coverage of the circumstance.


--- [Savannah Churchill | Camden, NJ] ---
No content


--- [Visit Savannah | The Official Guide to Savannah, GA] ---
It's Green Season in Savannah A Season That Suits Us... Let’s face it, winter has overstayed its welcome and even our hospitality can only take so much. Now it's time for one of the most anticipated seasons to make its annual debut—when the city softens, color returns and Savannah stretches back into the outdoors. Spring in Savannah brings garden strolls, a festive season, coastal breezes and fresh reasons to wander. Ditch the layers for linen, chambray and lightweight denim as you browse local storefront windows displaying seas of pinks, blues and yellows. Linger in our green squares, where azaleas stretch their petals after hibernation. Plan around annual celebrations and festivals like St. Patrick’s Day and the Savannah Music Festival. In other words, there’s never been a better time to visit Savannah. We can't wait to enjoy it with you. Fresh Air, Fresh Plans Savannah Is in Season Green is Savannah’s Best Color Get ready to shamrock and roll in Savannah, where a wee bit o’ luck meets a whole lot of charm this St. Patrick’s Day. A Vibrant Season Means Irresistible Deals! Savannah is the perfect place to spend a spring getaway with unbeatable deals to match. Reasons to Visit Savannah in the Spring If you've yet to make your spring plans, ponder no longer. The answer is crystal clear: Savannah. Savannah Rooftop Bars & Restaurants Curated sips and panoramic views? A perfect combination. Savannah Music Festival 2026 Tickets are now on sale for the 2026 festival! Experience a world of music from March 25th through April 5th, 2026. Grab Brunch in Savannah Oh yeah! It's that sweet spot between morning and noon, when breakfast still rules the table. Peak Bloom Energy, Over Here 🌸 Get ready to be charmed, dear wanderers, for Savannah has been praised as one of the "world's friendliest cities." Let its grace and delight embrace you as you venture into a spring escape you won't forget. Don't wait any longer; book your visit now and witness the coastal charm firsthand. Trust us, you'll plan ahead to return for even more. Plan Your Visit Neighborhoods & Communities Historic and hip, Savannah’s neighborhoods are full of character. Tour the city and see gorgeous gardens, bustling boutiques, edgy artwork and stately Victorian-era homes. Stroll through 22 park squares and explore museums, monuments, restored 18th-century homes, boutiques and more than 100 restaurants. Admire the architecture on your own or as part of a tour in this 50-block neighborhood, known as Savannah’s first suburb, featuring Forsyth Park. Shop for vintage clothing, vinyl records and original art while treating your taste buds to several quaint and quirky cafes in this artsy area. Nature, history and the coast combine for a trifecta of experiences in Savannah's Lowcountry, just 20 minutes outside of downtown. Just over the Talmadge Bridge lies the newly expanded Savannah Convention Center, complimented by an award-winning golf course and resort. Featuring five pristine beaches, Tybee Island serves up fresh seafood and beach town favorites, just minutes from downtown Savannah. Take in a baseball game at Grayson Stadium, walk around Daffin Park, and then admire 19th and 20th-century architecture in this community. Convenient to the airport and a quick ride from downtown, the busy district offers a range of affordable hotels, restaurants and shopping. Take time to admire horticulture around this district and go shopping for kitschy souvenirs at Keller’s Flea Market just minutes from I-95. Discover Thunderbolt, Whitemarsh, Talahi and Wilmington islands while stopping for fresh seafood when your appetite demands a break. Quickly emerging as a vibrant hub of entertainment to the west of Historic Savannah lies the Canal District, featuring the Enmarket Arena. Explore the enchanting communities surrounding Savannah. Richmond Hill, Pooler, Rincon & Garden City all offer a variety of unique attractions. Whether indulging in the restaurants and rooftops or strolling along the riverfront promenade, Eastern Wharf promises an enchanting experience. Get Your Free Guide to Savannah The official Insider's Guide is your go-to reference for all things Savannah & Tybee Island! Read an online version here or click below to order one by mail. Spring Looks Good From Every Angle in Savannah You'll "reel" over what's happening in Savannah. Check out these breathtaking videos to help plan your next visit. Be inspired and share your favorites when you follow @VisitSavannah on social. Promoted Content Sign Up for Our Newsletter Be the first to hear about travel ideas, new local experiences and deals for visiting Savannah. Snapshots of Savannah It's easy to capture the beauty of Savannah! Use #VisitSavannah for a chance to be featured!
