=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[India’s First-Ever National Micro Drama Festival ‘Thespis’ is ...]
Jan 29, 2025 · India’s first-ever micro drama festival, Thespis, is all set to captivate theatre lovers with its fourth edition, on February 2, 2025, at the LTG Auditorium, Copernicus Marg, New Delhi.
URL: https://in.eventfaqs.com/2025/01/29/indias-first-ever-national-micro-drama-festival-thespis-is-back-with-its-4th-edition/

[India's first-ever micro drama festival “Thespis” has started ...]
Notes: India’s first-ever micro-drama festival “Thespis” has started at the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts in New Delhi on April 9, 2017.
URL: https://www.gktoday.in/question/indias-first-ever-micro-drama-festival-thespis-has

[India's first-ever micro-drama festival held in Delhi]
Apr 9, 2017 · Named after Thespis of Icaria, believed to be the first actor in Greek drama (6th century BC), the day-long event 'Thespis' saw screening of 28 independent plays at the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Art.
URL: https://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/india-s-first-ever-micro-drama-festival-held-in-delhi-117040900371_1.html

[Micro drama, mega messages in Delhi’s LTG Auditorium]
Jan 28, 2025 · The festival organised by Delhi-based, Vriksh the Theatre, will see over 600 theatre artistes performing in plays that evoke emotion, drama, and critical themes with creativity.
URL: https://www.newindianexpress.com/cities/delhi/2025/Jan/28/micro-drama-mega-messages-in-delhis-ltg-auditorium

[First national level micro drama festival | Best of India ...]
The country’s first ever national level micro drama festival, ‘Thespis – The National Micro Drama Festival 2017’ was successfully organised by Delhi-based theatre group Vriksh The Theatre at Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, New Delhi on April 9, 2017.
URL: https://bestofindiarecords.in/recordsdetails/first-national-level-micro-drama-festival


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [India’s First-Ever National Micro Drama Festival ‘Thespis’ is ...] ---
India’s first-ever micro drama festival, Thespis, is all set to captivate theatre lovers with its fourth edition, on February 2, 2025, at the LTG Auditorium, Copernicus Marg, New Delhi. Organized by Vriksh the Theatre, the festival has established itself as a pioneer in micro drama, showcasing short plays with a maximum duration of ten minutes. In its fourth edition, the festival will bring together 30 plays from various Indian languages in one day, continuing its tradition of celebrating linguistic diversity to witness a marathon of compelling stories, where each play packs emotion, drama, and creativity into a compact 10-minute performance. The event is anticipated to feature over 600 artists in multiple categories. Dr. Abhilash Pillai, Festival Director, Thespis said, “I have had the immense privilege of being the Festival Director for all three editions held from 2017 to 2019. Each edition was a groundbreaking success, not only introducing a new format to Indian theatre but also receiving accolades for its unique approach. We are proud to announce that the festival has already achieved two ‘Best of India’ records for its remarkable contributions to the arts. Your participation could be the next chapter in this inspiring journey.” The festival promises a delightful experience for Indian theatre lovers, with each micro-drama offering a distinctive narrative within the ten-minute limit. With each year, Thespis continues to gain prominence, drawing attention nationwide and inspiring a revival of short-format theatre.


--- [India's first-ever micro drama festival “Thespis” has started ...] ---
Q. India's first-ever micro drama festival “Thespis” has started in which city?Answer: New Delhi Notes: India’s first-ever micro-drama festival “Thespis” has started at the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts in New Delhi on April 9, 2017. The micro drama festival has presented the series of 25 micro drama tales composed with the duration of 10 minutes and is named after Thespis of Icaria, who lived in 6th century BC and was the first actor to perform solo. The plays are conceptualised in 10 different languages, including Kashmiri, Rajasthani, Urdu, Punjabi, Oriya, Tamil, Malayalam, Hindi and English. It is organized by Delhi based registered theatre group 'Vriksh'.


--- [India's first-ever micro-drama festival held in Delhi] ---
India's first-ever micro-drama festival held in Delhi With the longest play running for not more than 10 minutes to the shortest one ending in 42 seconds, India's first ever micro-drama festival was held here today. Named after Thespis of Icaria, believed to be the first actor in Greek drama (6th century BC), the day-long event 'Thespis' saw screening of 28 independent plays at the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Art. Organised by theatre group 'Vriksh', the festival marks the debut of the micro-drama concept in India. Also Read Talking about the concept, theatre director and actor Ajith G Maniyan told PTI that despite being a fresh idea, they received good response from theatre groups and individuals. "It is the first time in India and only the second time in the whole world that a micro-drama festival is happening. Despite it being a new concept, we received tremendous response as 42 scripts were submitted to us," Maniyan said. Out of the 42 entries, 25 plays in 10 different languages including Kashmiri, Rajasthani, Urdu, Punjabi among others were selected for the festival. The beauty of this form of theatre, Maniyan said, lies in the fact that the brevity of the productions allows the audience to interpret a play in their own way. "When someone is making a play for 10 minutes or shorter, they don't have time to conclude it in a traditional way. This form leaves the interpretation to the public," Maniyan said. The inaugural play 'Chamaeleonidae' by Vriksh, for instance, showed a chameleon shedding his skin after getting disgusted by the hypocritical nature of humans. The plays were also awarded in several categories including 'Best Drama', 'Best Drama (Audience Poll)', 'Best Director, Script, Actor, Actress, and Technician. The jury comprised of a panel of eminent theatre and cinema personalities including Madhavi Menon, Smita Bharti, Antony Charles, Sohaila Kapur, and Priyanandanan. Talking about the need for such plays, particularly in the current technology dominated era, Menon said at a time "when television and the Internet have occupied the larger part of a day, short dramas can help to bring people back to theatres". "I am seeing a lot of talent and moreover, enthusiasm for this new concept in the young artistes. There is definitely a future for micro-drama in our country, as the current generation does not have time to sit for a 2-3 hour long play," she said. Disclaimer: No Business Standard Journalist was involved in creation of this content More From This Section Don't miss the most important news and views of the day. Get them on our Telegram channel First Published: Apr 09 2017 | 3:57 PM IST


--- [Micro drama, mega messages in Delhi’s LTG Auditorium] ---
In notable theatre director Abhilash Pillai’s classes in Delhi’s National School of Drama and Thissur’s School of Drama and Fine Arts, University of Calicut, students are learning about micro-theatre. “I tell them to convey the story within two minutes, imagine a certain setting and give its ambience within a few seconds without using any language,” says Pillai who is also the festival director of micro-theatre festival, Thespis. The festival that had held three successful editions from 2017-19 is now returning for its fourth edition on February 2. It will showcase 30 plays of 10-minutes duration. For Pillai it’s about staying in tune with today’s micro entertainment formats that are replacing macro options. “Films have come down from two to about an hour, Instagram reels of 60-90 seconds are booming…as the art form evolves, artists need to convey it in a short format too,” says the National Award-winning director. The festival organised by Delhi-based, Vriksh the Theatre, will see over 600 theatre artistes performing in plays that evoke emotion, drama, and critical themes with creativity. From theatre charged with socio-political undercurrents touching on the turmoil in Assam in the wake of the anti-foreigner and the language movement of 1983-85 to themes inspired by adivasi communities of Gujarat, class struggles, and philosophical dilemmas, and those adapted from the writings of Satyajit Ray, and theatre personality Lalit Mohan Thapalyal, there’s quite a range. Socio-political themes The festival will draw a poignant link between past and present. The play Bin Chawal ka Bengal performed by a 15-member group from Delhi University’s (DUs) Hansraj College connects the horrors of Bengal famine of 1943 that led millions starving to death to present day food wastage. Another play, Adhu, will probe class hierarchies by showing how the effects of inflation,devotion and justice vary by socio-economic status of an individual. Performed by Kala Kadamba Art Centre of Bengaluru, it emphasises on “equity” over “equality” as theatre director Tejas Gowda K puts it. The play relates to modern urban societies as it depicts the continuing struggles of the middle and lower middle class. Subjective topics that have crossed the boundaries of time will also be presented. The musical play Kalyug will portray one such philosophical debate between an atheist and God’s believer who are stuck in a desert, seeking survival in harsh conditions. Performed by Tryambakam group from DU’s Rajdhani College, it will present two trains of thought to the audience to ponder on. “The play will showcase how religion can act as a symbol of hope and faith, but also delusion and dogmatism,” says Ojasvi Gandhi from the team. Oral traditions The play Mavli performed by the Triveni group of Vadodara, borrows from oral traditions of Dang, an adivasi district in Gujarat. Director Nisarg Rawal’s upbringing in Gujarat’s Ukai town led him to have close bonds with Dhodia and Bawcha adivasi communities and learn about their culture. “The oral narratives of adivasi communities convey simple truths. It focuses on their symbiotic relationship with nature, the forest, and agriculture. These themes, though ancient, align with contemporary global conversations on environmental conservation,” he says. But can such complex narratives be condensed into a micro play? “The blend of music, lighting, and acting can surely create magic in 10 minutes which is enough to move people, if done right,” says Muskan Yadav director of Bin Chawal ka Bengal. Catch Thespis on February 2 at LTG Auditorium, Mandi House, 9am onwards


--- [First national level micro drama festival | Best of India ...] ---
High rope multi-adventure by transfemoral amputee Entertainment First national level micro drama festival The country’s first ever national level micro drama festival, ‘Thespis – The National Micro Drama Festival 2017’ was successfully organised by Delhi-based theatre group Vriksh The Theatre at Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, New Delhi on April 9, 2017. The festival brought on stage 28 micro dramas in different languages from various parts of India and abroad. The event concluded with presentation of awards to winning artistes and teams.
