=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Squire Boone - Wikipedia]
Squire Maugridge Boone Jr. (October 5, 1744 – August 5, 1815) was an American frontiersman and the younger brother of Daniel Boone. In 1780, he founded the first colonized settlement in Shelby County, Kentucky. The tenth of eleven children, Squire Boone was born to Squire Boone Sr.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Squire_Boone

[Squire Boone: My God My Life Hath Much Befriended – Discerning History]
It is not easy to be the little brother of a famous man. Many worthy and honorable siblings of noteworthy men have faded into the mists of history. So it is with the little brother of Daniel Boone. Squire Boone was born on October 5, 1744, about ten years after his famous older brother. Squire was the tenth of the eleven children of his parents, Squire and Sarah Boone. The family was ...
URL: https://discerninghistory.com/2025/06/squire-boone-my-god-my-life-hath-much-befriended/

[Capt Squire Boone Jr. (1744-1815) - FamilySearch.org]
Brief Life History of Squire When Capt Squire Boone Jr. was born on 5 October 1744, in Exeter Township, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, British Colonial America, his father, Squire Boone, was 47 and his mother, Sarah Morgan, was 45. He married Jane Van Cleave on 8 August 1765, in Rowan, North Carolina, British Colonial America.
URL: https://ancestors.familysearch.org/en/L1SM-5D1/capt-squire-boone-jr-1744-1815

[Squire Boone, II (1744 - 1815) - Genealogy - Geni.com]
Squire Boone, Jr BIRTH 5 Oct 1744 Berks County, Pennsylvania, USA DEATH 5 Aug 1815 (aged 70) Harrison County, Indiana, USA BURIAL Squire Boone Caverns Mauckport, Harrison County, Indiana, https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/18853/squire-boone ...
URL: https://www.geni.com/people/Squire-Boone-II/6000000000965060531

[History - Painted Stone Settlers]
SQUIRE BOONE The life of the founder of The Painted Stone Station. Squire Boone, Jr. is best known for being the younger brother of Daniel Boone. But he was every bit the explorer and adventurer that his brother was. Squire was born in Oley Township, Berks County, Pennsylvania on Oct. 5, 1744 to Squire Boone, Sr. and Sarah Morgan Boone.
URL: https://paintedstonesettlers.org/history.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Squire Boone - Wikipedia] ---
Squire Maugridge Boone Jr. (October 5, 1744 – August 5, 1815) was an American frontiersman and the younger brother of Daniel Boone. In 1780, he founded the first colonized settlement in Shelby County, Kentucky. The tenth of eleven children, Squire Boone was born to Squire Boone Sr. and his wife Sarah (Morgan) Boone in Berks County, Pennsylvania, at the Daniel Boone Homestead. Although overshadowed by his famous brother, Squire Boone was well known in his day.


--- [Squire Boone: My God My Life Hath Much Befriended – Discerning History] ---
It is not easy to be the little brother of a famous man. Many worthy and honorable siblings of noteworthy men have faded into the mists of history. So it is with the little brother of Daniel Boone. Squire Boone was born on October 5, 1744, about ten years after his famous older brother. Squire was the tenth of the eleven children of his parents, Squire and Sarah Boone. The family was originally part of the Quaker community in Pennsylvania. When Squire was still a young boy, the Boone family moved down the great wagon road through the Shenandoah Valley into the valley of the Yadkin River in what is now North Carolina. At the age of 15, Squire was apprenticed to a relative back in Pennsylvania named Samuel Boone, a riflemaker, and thus it was that he learned the important craft of gunsmithing. He became a skilled gunsmith over time, and even made the famous rifle for his older brother, Daniel, a rifle that Daniel Boone named “tick-licker” claiming that he could “lick” a tick off the back of a deer with it! Like most of the Boone boys, he yearned for the wilderness, and before his apprenticeship was up, he was off again for the frontier settlements of the Yadkin valley. Squire married his sweetheart, Miss Jane Van Cleave, when he was twenty-one and she was only fifteen. Jane was young, but she was strong, smart, pretty, and brave! Above all, she feared God and loved her husband. She was willing to move into a cave with her new husband while he completed the construction of the log cabin that would be their home. Soon after his marriage to Jane, Squire accompanied his brother, Daniel, into the wilderness of Kentucky for the first time. Over the course of the next several years, Squire and Daniel made several “long hunts” over the mountains in the rich lands filled with elk, buffalo, deer, and fat bears. But Kentucky was not only rich with game, it was also jealously guarded by various native tribes that also hunted there. Of the eight men who first entered Kentucky to explore and to hunt, only two survived to return to the settlements. Those two were Daniel and Squire Boone. One of the most remarkable events in these early longhunts was the reunion of Daniel and Squire in 1770. In the spring, Squire left Daniel alone in the wilderness, and the two brothers agreed to meet in a specific clearing on July 27, 1770. Squire took the furs they had prepared back to the settlements to trade for new horses, gunpowder, and lead. On the way home, he was robbed by the Indians, but he escaped with his life. He enjoyed a few days with his wife, Jane, and his growing children. He assured his sister-in-law that all was well with Daniel. Then he set off again into the wilderness. At high noon on July 27, 1770, Daniel stepped into a clearing from one side. Squire stepped into the clearing from the other side. The two brothers had a joyous reunion and exchanged news and supplies. Many historians over the years have marveled at this reunion. With no maps or modern navigational equipment, Daniel and Squire met on the exact day and at the exact place they had agreed upon months earlier. In 1775, the Boone brothers, along with others like Simon Kenton, opened the wilderness road through the Cumberland Gap, blazing a trail into Kentucky that would be followed by thousands of feet. They came as families. As soon as possible, Daniel and Squire brought their wives and children into Kentucky, facing bravely all the dangers of the frontier. Life on the frontier was not without its hardships. Daniel lost his son James near the Cumberland Gap, tortured to death by the Shawnee. Squire himself was wounded eleven times in dozens of fights with Indians. He had his head bashed by a tomahawk outside the gates of Harrodsburg in 1775. Squire’s brother, Daniel, took two boards and wrapped them with cloth to bind the skull back together so it could heal. Squire would carry a scar on his forehead for the rest of his life. At Boonesboro, in 1778, Blackfish and over 400 of his warriors surrounded the wooden stockade where the frontiersmen lived with their families. Squire was severely wounded by a bullet in the shoulder during a parley that turned treacherous. Daniel dug the bullet out of his shoulder with his hunting knife. During his convalescence, Squire organized a little group of children to shoot “squirt guns” made out of broken rifle barrels onto the burning shingles on top of the blockhouses after the Shawnee shot burning arrows with the purpose of burning down the fort. Squire went on to settle near present day Shelbyville, Kentucky and became widely respected as an expert hunter, skilled surveyor, and honored minister of the Gospel. Always deeply reverent, Squire became a Baptist minister, performed the first wedding in Kentucky, and organized churches wherever he settled. For a few years, Squire went west to Missouri where his brother, Daniel, had settled with his family. Squire and his family also lived for a time near present day Vicksburg, Mississippi. Like Daniel, Squire loved to rove far and wide, always looking for a better situation for his wife and children. Squire finally settled down in Indiana near a cave where he had once taken refuge from pursuing Indians. He always felt that this cave was a token of God’s protection, and it was his desire to live the final days of his life near this cave. Squire wrote this poem and inscribed it in the walls of the cave, expressing his gratitude for God’s mercy extended to him over the course of life: I set and sing my soul’s salvation And bless the God of my Creation! My God my life hath much befriended I’ll praise Him till my days are ended! Squire Boone and his sons built a gristmill together. He was contented to have his family all around him. He and Jane had raised one daughter, Sarah, and four sons: Jonathan, Moses, Isaiah, and Enoch. In addition to the mill and their home, Squire and his boys built the first Baptist church in Indiana. It was called “Old Goshen Church.” Squire preached there regularly to an attentive congregation. Squire Boone died of heart failure in August of 1815 at the age of 70. His sons buried him, according to his request, in the very cave where the Lord had once spared his life. Squire’s cave in southern Indiana is now called “Squire Boone Cabins” and is open to visitors. His body was found in the cave and was positively identified by the marks of the tomahawk on the skull. Squire’s bones were placed in a new walnut coffin, and he lies today in the cave awaiting the dawn of Resurrection Day. Bibliography The Incredible Adventures of Daniel Boone’s Kid Brother, Squire by W, Fred Conway


--- [Capt Squire Boone Jr. (1744-1815) - FamilySearch.org] ---
Your web browser is not fully supported. Please update to the latest version to enjoy all that FamilySearch has to offer.


--- [Squire Boone, II (1744 - 1815) - Genealogy - Geni.com] ---
Historical records matching Squire Boone, II Immediate Family - wife - son - son - daughter - son - daughter - father - mother - brother About Squire Boone, II A Patriot of the American Revolution for VIRGINIA with the rank of CAPTAIN. DAR Ancestor # A012128 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Squire_Boone Squire Boone Jr. (October 5, 1744 – August 1815) was an American pioneer and brother of Daniel Boone. In 1780, he founded the first settlement in Shelby County, Kentucky. The tenth of eleven children, Squire Boone was born to Nathan "Squire" Boone Sr. and his wife Sarah Boone in Berks County, Pennsylvania at the Daniel Boone Homestead. Although overshadowed by his famous brother, Squire Boone was well-known in his day. Biography Early life Squire Boone Jr was born in Berks County, Pennsylvania on Oct. 5, 1744. In 1749 his family moved to Rowan County, North Carolina[1] and lived in the Yadkin Valley. At age 15, 1759, he was sent back to Pennsylvania to apprentice as a gunsmith under Samuel Boone, a cousin. After five years of apprenticeship he returned to North Carolina. On August 8, 1765, he married Jane Van Cleave, whose father was of Dutch heritage. Together the couple had five children.[2] Life in Kentucky From 1767 to 1771 he went on several long hunts with his brother Daniel into the Kentucky wilderness. In 1775, Richard Henderson, a prominent judge from North Carolina, hired Daniel Boone to blaze what became known as the Wilderness Road, which went through the Cumberland Gap and into central Kentucky. Squire Boone accompanied his brother, along with 30 others, eventually establishing Boonesborough, Kentucky. In Spring 1779, after the siege of Boonesborough, where Squire had a rifle ball cut out of his shoulder, he moved his family to the settlement at the Falls of the Ohio that would become Louisville. In 1780, he brought 13 families to "Painted Stone", tract of land in Shelby County belonging to his father-in-law and established a Station (fort) there, the first permanent settlement in the county. He was wounded in April 1781 when Indians attacked Painted Stone Station, complications of the gunshot injury would result in his right arm being an inch and a half shorter than his left. On September 13, 1781, the settlers abandoned the undermanned station and headed for nearby Linn's Station, however Squire Boone was still too weak from his injury to make the trip, staying behind at Painted Stone Station with his family and one other. The fleeing settlers from the station were attacked in what came to be known as the Long Run Massacre. In 1782, he began acting as a land locator for wealthy investors who did not want to personally risk living on the frontier. However, due to financial losses in this line of work, he lost his own property, including the station, in 1786, and was forced to settle elsewhere in the county. He served two terms in the Virginia legislature in 1789 and 1790 and was the primary sponsor of a bill to chart the city of Louisville, Kentucky.[2] Life in Indiana After attempting to establish a settlement near present-day Vicksburg, Mississippi and staying with Daniel Boone in Missouri for several years, in 1806[3][4] he eventually settled with his family in Harrison County, Indiana south of Corydon. There he settled with his four sons and the sons of Samuel Boone. The settlement is in what is now called Boone Township, and it began to flourish early on. Squire Boone personally acquired a large tract of land on the western edge of the township near the cave he and his brother had hid in many years earlier to evade Indians. Boone considered the cave to be sacred and decided that was where he wanted to be entombed. On his land Boone carved stone out of a nearby hill to build his home. He carved into the quarry wall various religious and political statements that are still there today. Boone would also build Old Goshen Church, one of the first churches in the state. Boone also became a close friend of Harvey Heth and involved in the local politics of the area as one of the leading citizens. He was Harrison County's Justice of the peace in 1808.[5] Death He died, age 71, in 1815 and was buried in a cave on his property. His remains were left undisturbed for many years but in the mid 20th century relic hunters began taking parts of his coffin and even some of his bones. His coffin was then moved deeper into the cave where it resides today, at the end of the tour of Squire Boone Caverns. Notes - 1. The Boone Society - Profile of Squire Boone - 2. a b Kleber, p. 99 - 3. in 1804 according to The Boone Society - 4. A History of Indiana By Logan Esarey, Pg 205 in 1802 according to The History of Indiana - 5. Indiana and Indianians, 1919, Pg 299 Sources - Kleber, John E., et al. (editor) (2000). The Encyclopedia of Louisville. University Press of Kentucky. ISBN 1-56898-451-0. From Ken Bastin: Squire Jr. was an ordained Baptist Minister and performed the first Marriage ceremony in what would become Kentucky (Samuel Henderson and Elizabeth Callaway). He started a Baptist Church in Louisville and the “Old Goshen Baptist Church” in 1807 – the very first Baptist Church in the Indiana. His father Squire Sr. was born a Quaker and left Pennsylvania/becoming a Baptist largely due to the intolerance of the Quakers regarding his children marrying outside of the religion. http://pharmacy.isu.edu/~cady/genealogy/PS01/PS01_369.HTM Squire Jr. Boone - Birth 5 Oct 1744, Oley Twp.,Berks Co,Penn. - Death Aug 1815, Harrison Co.,,Ind. - Burial Boone Caverns, Harrison Co.,Ky. - Father Squire Boone (1696-1765) - Mother Sarah Morgan (1700-1777) Spouse - Jane VanCleve - Birth 16 Oct 1749 - Death 10 Mar 1829, Ft.Knox,,Ky. - Marriage 8 Aug 1765, ,,N.C.,U.S.A. Children - Jonathan (1766-1837) - Moses (1769-1842) - Isaiah (1772-) - Sarah (1774-1846) - Enoch Morgan (1777-1862) Notes for Squire Jr. Boone Squire Boone Jr. was born at 5 AM in Burke Co. Penna and at the age of four went with his parents to Winchester, Va. and then on to Rowan, N.C. 8 miles from the present city of Wilkesboro. He developed a great fondness of guns and was apprenticed out to his cousin, Samuel Boone, in Philadelphia who was a gunsmith. He stayed 5 years and became an excellent gunsmith in stocking and ornamental work in Gold and Silver. In 1765, just before he became 21, he married Jane Van Cleve, daughter of Dutchman Aaron Van Cleve on 11 July,1765. Game was getting scarce and he and Daniel Boone went to Florida in 1765 looking for game but found that there was little there so in 1767 he and Daniel Boone, his brother, went to Kentucky and found abundant game and spent the winter hunting and trapping. In the spring of 1769, Daniel and five others went to Kentucky and in the fall Squire Boone and Alexander Neely went to find them. When they got to the meeting point, Daniel and one of the five others, James Stewart, were prisoners of the Indians and the other four had gone back to North Carolina. Daniel and Stewart escaped. Then Stewart went hunting and was never seen again and Neely started back to N.C. and was never heard of again so Daniel and Squire were left alone. One May 1770, Squire went back to N.C. for supplies and met Daniel on the 27th of July after a 3 month absence. The Indians were getting real bad so they moved to the Cumberland River. Daniel and Squire had great confidence in each other and he was with Daniel when he marked the wilderness trail. They built Fort Boonesborough in the Spring of 1775. Squire Boone moved his family to Kentucky in 1776 and it is on record that he, a sometime preacher of the Calvinistic Baptist Church, performed the first marriage in Kentucky. The Indians were very troublesome. In 1777 Squire Boone was shot through the left side and a rib was broken in two places. He was caught in a field with others and in the battle with the Indians. He killed one with a sword that he carried but received a cut on his forehead that he carried the rest of his life. This was called the corn crib affair. Then the Indians, 440 of them, laid siege of the fort . The siege lasted 11 days and Squire Boone was shot through the back, injuring his spine. The Indians killed all the livestock that they could get. Squire Boone preached the first sermon by any denomination in Louisville.In 1780 he moved to what was called Squire Boone's Station. Here he was ambushed by Indians and a great number of the party was wounded or killed. He was shot in the right side and right arm and was so badly wounded that they thought that he would not live but after 3 months he recovered but bone fragments worked out of his flesh for the rest of his life and his right arm was one and a half inches short and partially crippled. In 1780/81 he acted as justice and married many couples. The Indians got so bad that it was thought best to leave the station so all the families except his family and a widow left. There were not enough horses to pack out everyone. The ones who left were ambushed and scattered and killed. This left Squire Jr., badly wounded, the only man in the area.. About three days later a rescue party came and buried the dead and took Squire Boone Jr. and family and the widow and took them to Linn Station. In 1781 he was in the House of Delegates from Jefferson Co. Va,. He was honored and accepted back in Va. and was a member of the Va. State Legislature where he appealed for aid for the frontier settlers. Asked about his life he said that he had been so honored as to dine with the Governor and so poor that he had stole[n] hominy from a Negro. He loved the Kentucky area and moved back to Harrods station. He brought several families with him and found the station burned and it was the dead of winter. In 1784 he built a grist and sawmill at his station and in December of the year he was a member of the first Kentucky Convention as a delegate from Lincoln Co. He was sent, in 1786, as a delegate from Kentucky to the Va. Legislature to Ratify the Constitution of the United States. He lost all his land because of land disputes and went down the river to New Orleans and spent a year or two in New Orleans and worked his gun trade for 3 years. His property was confiscated and he walked back to Kentucky overland with little but his gun. He then found homes for his children, him and his wife and youngest son and started out with a wagon and a year's supply of provisions and went to Florida where he did well financially but bits of bone coming out [of] his back caused him to sell out and the family sailed to Philadelphia and settled in Burke Co, Penn. In 1796 he returned to Shelby Co. Kentucky to live with his son, Jonathan. When Daniel Boone moved to Missouri, Squire Boone went with him and spent a year or two. He received a Spanish grant of 700 acres and had a stone house half built when two of his sons came out and said that the family was tired of moving and persuaded him to go back to Kentucky. In 1802 he and his wife owned property. Then land sharks deprived him of all his holdings in Ky. and in 1804 he was in prison for not paying his debts. Neither he or Daniel had actually served in the Revolutionary War but congress passed a resolution giving them honor and standing of being a Revolutionary Soldier. In 1804/06 he and five of his sons and 5 other Boones moved to Indiana 25 miles northwest of Louisville, Ky. He accumulated property, built a mill, worked the gun trade and quarried stones. In 1815 he died of dropsy and had built his own coffin to be placed in a cave overlooking Buck Creek. He had his sons visit the grave the third night after he died and he would try to communicate with them. They complied but were not successful. Squire Boone was well built, 5 foot 9 inches tall. He had sandy hair, light blue eyes and was florid complected. He dressed sometimes as a British officer. He loved to hunt but not as much as Daniel. He never got over the fact that he had done so much to settle Kentucky but others got all the rewards. SQUIRE DANIEL AND JOHN FAMILIES IN DAVIE CO. N.C Owner of land in Davie Co. by Squire, Squire Jr. and Daniel Boone. "Squire and Sarah Morgan Boone to Squire Boone Jr. the 640 acre tract on Elisha and Duchman Creeks. Squire Boone Jr. sold 50 acres on the west side of Licking Creek to Henry Baker." Squire Boone Jr. sold 590 acres to Jacob Felker on the south side of Licking Creek Pg 7 Squire Boone Jr. married Jane Vancleave in 1765. He acquired 640 acres from Squire Boone Sr. and sold it in 1767. The family moved to Kentucky permanently in 1779. From SQUIRE BOONE AND HIS DESCENDANTS Pg 357 Squire, Daniel Boone's brother, wasn't quite as well known as Daniel but he was with Daniel most of the time and also was in other States doing the same thing that Daniel was doing, Pg. 473 - Squire Boone Jr. was the 10th child of Squire and Sarah Morgan Boone and a brother of the famous Daniel Boone. Squire was born along the Schuylkill River on Oct. 4 1744 in Exeter Twp. Berks Co. Pa. When he was 5 years old he went with his parents and brothers and sisters to Winchester, Va. in about 1750. Then a little later to N.C. where they lived near Boone's Ford on the east side of the South Yadkin River in Rowan Co. about 8 Miles from Wilkesboro, N.C. On Aug. 8, 1765 he married Jane VanCleve Born 18 Oct. 1749 in New Jersey. He and his brother, Daniel, hunted together, and looking for meat, they went to parts unknown to them. An older man, John Finley, came on horseback to N.C. and told them about Kentucky in about 1769. He praised Kentucky about how plentiful game and buffalo were. He told that at the falls of the Ohio, near Louisville, that the falls were so swift it carried ducks and geese over the falls killing them. All they had to do was go out by canoe below the falls and pick them up. These two young men, Squire and Daniel, began to get itchy feet to go and see for themselves this place called Kentucky. They saw all kinds of animals, buffalo herds so numerous that at the Blue Lick Salt area, they had worn 4 feet deep paths to get to the salt. There were cane brakes, so thick they could hardly walk through, for buffalo to feed on. There were all kinds of animals for their pelts and also for food. The beauty of Kentucky was breathtaking and Squire and Daniel felt the urge to explore more and so eventually come as settlers to live there. There were also Indians - lots of unfriendly Indians who did not want the white man to take their hunting grounds and their salt. In 1775 Squire and Daniel and 28 men cut what is know as a WILDERNESS TRAIL - WILDERNESS ROAD - BOONE'S TRAIL - BOONE'S TRACE from Mocksville N.C. to the area of Richmond Ky. This road was the gateway to the west, the first route across the Appalachian Mountains to Kentucky. The WILDERNESS ROAD was cut through a wilderness of trees, brushy mountain laurel, rhododendron, over creeks, rivers, thick cane and over mountains. Also in the spring of 1775 Fort Boonesborough was built on the Kentucky River in Jefferson, Ky. In the Spring of 1776 Squire Boone Jr. and Daniel led the party of settlers from N.C. on their journey to a new life and a new country - to Boonesborough, Ky. in Madison Co. On Aug. 7, 1776, Squire Boone who was an ordained Baptist minister performed the first marriage in Kentucky territory at Fort Boonesborough - that of Samuel Henderson and Elizabeth Callaway. Squire's oldest 3 sons and his daughter were born in N.C. but his youngest son Enoch Morgan Boone was borne at Fort Boonesborough out in a cane brake. he was the first white male to be born in Ky. In the next few years the Indians were very troublesome to the settlers. At one time Squire and his family were at Fort Harrod, at Harrods Borough, Ky. in 1777 and Squire was shot through the left side, breaking a rib in two places. Just before they went to Fort Harrod, he was wounded on April 24, 1777 in a raid on Fort Boonesborough and again about a month later at Fort Harrod. Again he was wounded in the so called PEACE CONFERENCE at Boonesborough in Sept. 1778. Over 440 hostile Indians lead by Captain DuQueene, a British officer , who had laid siege of the fort and offered a withdraw if the officers of the fort would sign a peace treaty. The forts officers including Squire Jr. Met the Indian delegation outside to handle treaty negotiations, The hostile group suddenly attacked the settlers. They attempted to take them as prisoners and hold them as hostages, the settlers succeeding in escaping to the fort but Squire Jr. was severely wounded by a musket ball. In 1779 Squire Jr. and family left the older settlement and went the Shelby Co. Ky. There he built a new settlement on Clear Fork of Brashear's Creek about 6 miles from the mouth of Bull Skin known as Squire Boone's Station. a few miles north of the present Shelbyville. Ky. Squire Boone's Station was also called PAINTED STONE. Here the Indians were harassing the settlers. The Indians, 20 of them, were hiding behind brush wood and Squire Boone was hit in his right arm and the second shot in his right side. He was so badly wounded that no one thought that he would live. After several months of suffering he finally recovered. His arm was so badly shattered it was an inch and a half shorted than his other arm and partly crippled. Splinters of bone would work out occasionally. It is said that Squire Boone on Nov.22 1779 preached the first sermon at the Station of the Falls. Louiseville, Ky. Squire Boone's Station was later abandoned in Sept. 1781 because of troublesome Indians, Again on Aug. 19, 1782 Squire Boone was wounded at the famous battle of Blue Licks. In 1784 Squire Boone built a grist and sawmill at his station, He was sent as a delegate from Ky. to the Va. legislature which ratified the present constitution of the United States. Squire like Daniel lost all his land claims and became very discouraged after all they both had done to open up Ky. so the settlers could move west and suffering from his many wounds which did not heal properly. Two years after Squire died, in 1813 Congress did grant him the honor of being a Revolutionary War Soldier. Squire went with Daniel and others to Missouri in 1799. His family was tired of moving so Squire came back to Shelby Ky. where his family was. He was the victim of land fraud in Ky. Squire was discouraged because he had been cheated out of his land holdings in Ky. to people who had done nothing more than come to Ky. and place their claim for land that he had fought for and endured all the hardship for, Why wouldn't he be discouraged? Being old and homeless he moved on in 1804 to Harrison Co., Ind which is on the north side of the Ohio River. There he started a new life. His wife, Jane Van Cleve Boone and his children went too, His cousin, Samuel Boone, and his family went to Harrison Co. Indiana with Squire's family. Squire had hunted and explored this area before. On a previous hunting trip he suddenly met a band of hostile Indians. Remembering a small cave nearby, the cave overlooking Buck Creek,he fled to the safety of the cave whose opening was concealed by heavy vines. He could hear the Indians tramping overhead in his pursuit. Squire remained hidden until the Indians left the vicinity. Near this small one was a much larger one with a spring that flowed into Buck Creek at the bottom of the bluff. When Squire and family came to Harrison Co, Ind. in 1804 he remembered this part of the country and decided that this part was where he wanted to live the rest of his life. They cleared the land for farming, built a large log house. They built a grist mill, the first in Harrison Co. and used the flow of the large spring from the cave to turn the water wheel. This grist mill became very successful and has been rebuilt and is in use at the famous Squire Boone Caverns owned by W, Fred Conway since 1972, a businessman from New Albany, Ind. Squire Boone was a very religious man. His children were all given Biblical names, Sarah, Jonathan, Isaiah, Enoch and Moses. Moses Boone and others built the Old Gothen Church in Boone Twp. in Harrison Co. Ind. Squire carved a lot of religious verses on many large stones. He had asked his sons to place his body when he died in a large walnut coffin which he and others had made. He asked for his coffin to be placed in the small cavern which he had used to escape the Indian war party. He wanted a large stone to be placed over the mouth of the cave. His body was there for many years but later relic hunters began carrying away pieces of the coffin and some of his bones. He died Aug. 1815. After Squire's death, his widow, Jane Van Cleve Boone, who died 10 Mar. 1829, made her home with son Enoch Morgan Boone in Meade Co. Ky. across the river from Harrison Co. Ind. Soon Enoch Morgan Boone heard about the relic hunters so he gathered up his father's remains and buried him in the Boone Cemetery in an unmarked grave on Enoch's farm Now the cemetery is in Fort Knox, Ky. Enoch Boone owned 4000 acres along the Ohio River. It began at the Otter Creek Municipal Park, owned now by the City of Louisville, Ky., where Fort Knox Ky is and on into Meade Co. Ky. Squire's widow, Jane Van Cleve Boone, Enoch Morgan Boone and wife and other Boones are buried in the Boone Cemetery in Ft. Knox, Ky. Squire and Daniel Boone and others made it possible through their spilt blood and toil to open up Kentucky to the settlers to the northwest part of America. Enough cannot be said about these brave men and their families for all the heartaches and hardships they endured to make it possible for us today in this great U.S.A. to live in a free country. The Squire Boone trail roughly parallels Interstate Highway 64. Squire Boone 2nd wrote a genealogy of his family and it is recorded and printed in THE BOONE BULLETIN Vol #1 June 1828 # 5 Some of my materials come from this source. The material below comes from this source. The rest is from assorted material from Boone Discussion Group. materials that are in my Boone files. Parts of materials credited to Joel F. Bartley who was a nephew of Squire 2d. nd. He claimed to be the only one who knew where the cave that contained Squire's body was located. he described him as a man of more than medium height, a little stooped, hair sandy, blue eyes, high cheekbones, high forehead, a raw-boned man. He always wore a smile on his face. He set mu leg when I was about four years old. The first peaches I ever saw were on his farm. He was wounded eleven times. His wife, Van Cleve, was a large woman. Before 1880 he broke his pledge of secrecy about the cave site and went there with the author and his cousin and lowered into the cave. The body had been vandalized and the skeleton and coffin scattered. Squire Boone son of Squire and Sarah, was born in Oley Twp. in Burkes Co. in Pa. in the year of our Lord 1744, and in the 5th year of age he was taken by his father into N.C.where he lived 10 years and again taken into Pa. to learn the gunsmith trade and after an apprenticeship of 5 years came back again to N.C. and in the one and twentieth year of his age was married to Jane Vancleave In the year 1775 his father with his family moved to (Cantucke ) and settled at Boone's Borough, where he lived two years and then moved to Brashear's Reef where was his place of residence for 12 years. Squire Boone 2nd has long training as a soldier fitted Squire Boone for a physician and surgeon. In time of need, a service he freely gave. A keen sense of humor and a warm humanity endeared by all. (The writer denied the truth of the saying that he had been rich enough to be entertained by the governor and poor enough to steel hominy from a negro. Squire had a great sense of humor. He joked on his deathbed about not being poor showing coins worth 1/8 of a dollar. Also he denies the fact that Squire did occasionally dress as a British Army officer and if he did it was in jest ) He said that he was the youngest child of a large family and they had run out of biblical names so named him Squire. The Revolutionary service of Squire Boone was second only to his brother Daniel. Daniel with forty men built the famous Boone Wilderness Road that ended at Fort Boonesborough. The flag never came down defending this station he received a wound so serious that death seemed inevitable. Though he ring the Revolutionary War. May 23 1775 Governor Henderson called a State convention and Squire Boone served as a delegate and served in the first legislature of the West. An old record says that a party went to hunt Indians. One wounded and Squire Boone escaped. In 1779 he organized Squire Boone's Station and became its captain. There were 23 men in his company. In defending this station he received a wound so serious that death seemed inevitable. Though he recovered the ill effects clung to him for life. He received in all 11 wounds perhaps a record for the war. In 1781 he represented Jefferson County in the Virginia Legislature He was the Justice of Peace. He also was credited as a founder of Louisville being one of the petitioners for its establishment in 1779 A patriot of the American Revolution with the rank of Captain. In 1813, in recognition of their services in border warfare during that period, Congress passed resolutions giving Daniel & Squire Boone the honor and standing of a Revolutionary Soldier. A Profile: Squire Boone (Bro. of Daniel) (Reprinted from Compass, July 2004, Vol. 8, Issue 3) (Editor’s notes: is from “Indiana History Bulletin” Dec. 1973, Volume 50, No. 12, p. 144 published by Indiana Historical Bureau. The profile is from, History of The Ohio Falls Cities and Their Counties, Vol. 1, published at Cleveland O., by L. A. Williams & Co., 1882. Notes in bold type in parenthesis are comments added by Boone Historian and Society Director Kenneth Kamper. Kamper believes the story “is mostly accurate, with a few embellishments and very few oversights and errors.) “Squire Boone was born in Oley Township, Berks County, Pennsylvania, in 1744. His father, Squire (son of George Boone, who emigrated from Exeter, England, to Pennsylvania sometime in the eighteenth century) moved with his family to the forks of the Yadkin River, in Roan County, North Carolina, about the year 1749. At the age of fifteen, young Squire was sent back to Pennsylvania to learn the gunsmith trade. After an apprenticeship of five years he returned to North Carolina and shortly afterwards was married to Miss Jane Van Cleave, by whom he had five children: Jonathan, Moses, Isaiah, Sarah, and Enoch Morgan. The latter was one of the first white children born in Kentucky, [he was born in 1777, two years after the first] Squire with his family, having joined his brother Daniel at Boonesborough in 1775. “Previous to this, however, he had made two or three trips into the state, carrying provisions and ammunition to Daniel’s camp, sharing with him, for months at a time, all the dangers and privations of pioneer life. And from the time of his settlement at Boonesborough, as long as Kentucky needed the strong arms of her sons to protect her little colonies from the savage foes, Squire Boone devoted himself to her service, taking no less active part in their defense than Daniel himself. “Nothing like justice has ever been done his memory. But he ought not to be forgotten, especially by Kentucky. He watered her soil with his blood in too many places and in too heroic a manner in those early days, when the settlers were in constant dread of the lurking savage and his scalping knife, to be overlooked in the history of those times. He received many wounds. He was shot in the left shoulder severely in the battle of Boonesborough. He was shot in the breast in defending his settlement or fort called “Boone’s Station,” in what is now Shelby County. [To separate it from Daniel’s “Boone Station” it is almost always called “Painted Rock Station.”] He was subsequently shot in the defense of the people of that settlement when they were attacked, near Long Run. [He was shot in the arm some time before the day of the attack on their way to another fort. He was in bad shape and recovering back at Painted Rock Station and not with the group of people.] His arm was badly broken there, yet he succeeded in drawing off his force, with the women and children, and making his way to Louisville, or rather the “Station of the Falls.” “While suffering with these severe wounds, he was elected to represent the “County of Kentucky” in the Virginia Legislature, and made an eloquent appeal to that body for assistance to the brave defenders of the border. His broken arm and unhealed wounds spoke more than words. In after life he often alluded to his kind reception by the Virginians and the courtesy shown him. He considered them the most polite people in the world, for they made him feel as much at home among them in his plain hunting garb and backwoods manners as if he were surrounded by his companions in the frontier settlement. “He made his home at the Falls of the Ohio for many years, during which time he had to endure trials and privations harder to bear than his contests with the Indians. The property he had accumulated – which was considerable for those times – was taken from him by the land-sharks who hunted up the title to all the lands he owned, and he found himself in his old age stripped of every vestige of property, quite insolvent and utterly destitute. “It was then that he turned his back on Kentucky – a state which owed him so much – and in 1808, [probably 1804, after he had returned to Kentucky from Missouri] with his four sons and the five sons of Samuel Boone, his cousin, he formed a settlement in Harrison County in the then new Territory of Indiana, about 25 miles west of Louisville. This settlement was called Boone Township, and soon became a flourishing and prosperous place, the home of many Kentuckians and their descendants. Corydon, in the same county, was the seat of the Territorial Government, and the Boones were among the leading citizens. One of them, John Boone (a cousin of Squire), was a prominent member of the Legislature and the convention that formed the Constitution of the state. “After reaching his new home, Squire Boone began with energy and industry to repair his shattered fortunes. He built a mill and for a long time supplied the neighborhood with meal, employing his spare time in making guns, and in cutting out stone from the neighboring hills to build himself a house. On one of these stones which he intended to place over his front door, he cut the words, “The traveler’s rest,” indicating truly his hospitable nature. Again, he carved his religious sentiments on others of these rocks: “My God my life hath much befriended, I’ll praise Him till my days are ended.” “Another displayed his political sentiments, “Liberty, property, Congress and America!” But he did not live to complete his house. He died in 1815, and at his own special request, a cave on or near the summit of a lofty peak in Boone Township became his tomb. It was agreed between him and John Boone and H. W. Heath, the civil engineer who assisted in preparing the cave, that when they died they would be entombed there together. But the strong opposition of the families of the other parties prevented the fulfillment of the contract, so far as they were concerned, and Squire Boone alone rests in that beautiful cave. His descendants are still living in Indiana and Kentucky.” (According to Ken Kamper, “Enoch stated that at some point he returned to the cave to see that animals had disturbed the site and bones were scattered around. He removed the remainder of the body and reburied it in a secret place in Kentucky, thought by some to be just across the Ohio River on his farm where Fort Knox is now, and laid to rest where Squire’s wife and Enoch’s mother were buried in the cemetery on Enoch’s farm.”) Left no descendants. Squire Jr. married Jane Van Cleave and moved with his family to Kentucky. On the walls of the clerk's office in Rowan Co., NC hang the framed marriage bond of Squire Boone and Jane Van Cleave, dated July 11, 1765 and witnessed by Squire Boone, John Johnson and Sam Tate. In those days a bond guaranteeing the support of the the wife was required. Squire died in 1815 from dropsy. He had already made his own coffin and with the help of his cousin, John Boone, and H.W. Heath, a civil engineer, had prepared a vault in the natural cave near the summit of a clifty bank on the east side of Buck Creek with commanded a beautiful view. The cave is about two or three miles north of Brandenburg, KY, but on the Indiana side of the Ohio River. He made his sons, Moses and Isaiah, promise that on the third night after his death they would visit his tomb and if it were possible for the dead to communicate with the living, he would do so . The sons did as they had promised, but received no communication form their father's spirit. Squire Boone, Jr BIRTH 5 Oct 1744 Berks County, Pennsylvania, USA DEATH 5 Aug 1815 (aged 70) Harrison County, Indiana, USA BURIAL Squire Boone Caverns Mauckport, Harrison County, Indiana, https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/18853/squire-boone Younger brother of Daniel Boone. He and his older brother, Daniel, found a cave in southern Indiana one time in 1787. One day three years later while Squire was running from Indians, he jumped for a vine and landed in the opening of the secret cave that the Indians did not know about. Since they did not find Squire, he believed the cave was holy and expressed his wish to be buried in the cave one day. Daniel and Squire were the frontiersmen who opened up what is now known as Kentucky. Of the first eight white men who dared to enter "the dark and bloody ground," as Kentucky was known in the early 1770s, only two returned alive: Daniel and Squire Boone. After his close encounter with the Indians in 1790, Squire would often return to the cave to pray, meditate and carve designs and verses of gratitude. In 1804, Squire moved his wife, Jane Van Cleve, and his daughter and four sons to the area and built a village and a gristmill. Squire spent the last 11 years of his life there - the longest he had stayed in one place. As his death neared - Squire suffered from heart failure - he built his own coffin from walnut trees growing near the cave. On his deathbed, he asked his sons to bury him in the cave where his life had been spared. On Aug. 15, 1815, Squire's four sons fulfilled their father's request. Squire was buried in his beloved cave, and a boulder sealed the entrance. More than 150 years passed while the walnut coffin decomposed in a hidden section of the cave. Squire's bones rested on the cave's floor and were gradually covered by silt. The exact whereabouts of his remains would not be known until 1973 when two guides of the cave decided to dig out the section of the cave that was filled with silt and debris and find the carvings. Instead, they found Squire himself. A new walnut coffin was crafted, and a Boone descendant knitted a shroud for the bones. Squire Boone's remains were placed in the coffin, the lid was sealed with wax and the casket was carried deep into Squire Boone Caverns. Today, the casket is on view at the end of the tour through the Squire Boone Caverns in Mauckport, Indiana and a headstone has been erected at the foot of the casket inside the cave at the end of the tour given by the cave guides. Children - Jonathan Boone 1766–1837 - Moses Boone 1769–1853 - Isaiah Boone 1773–1860 - Enoch Morgan Boone 1777–1862 - Rachael Boone Rhoads 1779–1865 - Levi Day Boone 1808–1882 - Hayden Boone 1810–1857 GEDCOM Note <p>[29819.ged]</p><p><p></p></p><p>Daniel's companion on many an adventure. He married Jane Van Cleve</p> https://www.familysearch.org/photos/artifacts/169060447?p=56232680&... In the twilight of his life he called his four sons together to leave instructions for his burial. He requested that they place his body in the small cavern which he had used in escaping an Indian war party. He had already made a large walnut coffin for his remains and when he died of dropsy in August of 1815 his sons, true to his last request, buried in in the rocky sepulchre on the bluff overlooking Buck Creek. A huge stone was placed over the entrance of the small cave. SQUIRE BOONE Jr Younger brother of Daniel Boone. He and his older brother, Daniel, found a cave in southern Indiana one time in 1787. One day three years later while Squire was running from Indians, he jumped for a vine and landed in the opening of the secret cave the Indians did not know about. Since they did not find Squire, he believed the cave was holy and expressed his wish to be buried in the cave one day. Daniel and Squire were the frontiersmen who opened up what is now known as Kentucky. Of the first eight white men who dared to enter "the dark and bloody ground," as Kentucky was known in the early 1770s, only two returned alive: Daniel and Squire Boone. After his close encounter with the Indians in 1790, Squire would often return to the cave to pray, meditate and carve designs and verses of gratitude. In 1804, Squire moved his wife, Jane Van Cleve, and his daughter and four sons, to the area and built a village and a gristmill. Squire spent the last 11 years of his life there--the longest he had stayed in one place. As his death neared, Squire suffered from heart failure, he built his own coffin from walnut trees growing near the cave. On his deathbed, he asked his sons to bury him in the cave where his life had been spared. On Aug. 15, 1815, Squire's four sons fulfilled their father's request. Squire was buried in his beloved cave, and a boulder sealed the entrance. More than 150 years passed while the walnut coffin decomposed in a hidden section of the cave. Squire's bones rested on the cave's floor and were gradually covered by silt. The exact whereabouts of his remains would not be known until 1973 when two guides of the cave decided to dig out the section of the cave that was filled with silt and debris and find the carvings. Instead, they found Squire himself. A new walnut coffin was crafted, and a Boone descendant knitted a shroud for the bones. Squire Boone's remains were placed in the coffin, the lid was sealed with wax and the casket was carried deep into Squire Boone Caverns. Today, the casket is on view at the end of the tour through the Squire Boone Caverns in Mauckport, Indiana and a headstone has been erected at the foot of the casket inside the cave at the end of the tour given by the cave guides. His DAR record: BOONE, SQUIRE (Capt.) DAR Ancestor Service: VIRGINIA Rank(s): CAPTAIN, PATRIOTIC SERVICE Birth: 10-5-1744 BUCKS CO PENNSYLVANIA Death: 8-5-1815 HARRISON CO INDIANA Service Source: COLLINS, HIST OF KY, VOL 1, P 13; VOL 2, P 337; HARDING, GEORGE ROGERS CLARK & HIS MEN, P 59 Service Description: 1) CAPT OF CO MILITIA IN CLARK'S REGT, 1780 2) MEMBER OF PROPRIETARY GOVT'S FIRST LEGISLATURE, BOONESBOROUGH, 1775 Residence 1) City: BOONES STATION - County: KENTUCKY CO - State: VIRGINIA Spouse 1) JANE VAN CLEFT Comments (Overview ) 1) EL - NO GEORGE, JANE, OR ELIZABETH IN LIST OF CHILDREN. SEE SPRAKER, 'THE BOONE FAMILY,' P 82. 2) EL - SARAH, DAU OF THIS MAN'S SON MOSES, MARR JAMES LORR, NOT WILLIAM KING. Squire Boone, II's Timeline | 1744 | October 5, 1744 | Daniel Boone Homestead, Birdsboro, Berks, Pennsylvania | | | 1766 | August 30, 1766 | Yadkin River, Rowan, North Carolina, USA | | | 1766 | VT, United States | || | 1769 | February 23, 1769 | Yadkin, Rowan County, North Carolina, United States | | | 1772 | March 13, 1772 | Yadkin, Rowan County, North Carolina, United States | | | 1774 | September 26, 1774 | Yadkin River, Rowan, North Carolina, USA | | | 1777 | October 16, 1777 | Fort Boonesborough, Lincoln, Kentucky, USA | | | 1779 | 1779 | || | 1815 | August 5, 1815 Age 70 | Buck Creek, Boone Township, Indiana Territory |


--- [History - Painted Stone Settlers] ---
The life of the founder of The Painted Stone Station. Squire Boone, Jr. is best known for being the younger brother of Daniel Boone. But he was every bit the explorer and adventurer that his brother was. Squire was born in Oley Township, Berks County, Pennsylvania on Oct. 5, 1744 to Squire Boone, Sr. and Sarah Morgan Boone. Around the time he was five years old, the family moved to the forks of the Yadkin River in North Carolina. At age 15 he was sent back to Pennsylvania to learn the gunsmith trade. After apprenticing for five years he returned to North Carolina and married Jane Van Cleave (1749-1829). They had five children. In 1775, Squire and his family joined Daniel at Fort Boonesborough. Before this move, Squire had made several trips into what would become the state of Kentucky, taking provisions and ammunition to Daniel. During the Siege of Fort Boonesborough he was severely wounded in the left shoulder. He was shot in the breast and arm while defending his own station, Painted Stone, several times from Indian attacks. Squire Boone also represented the “County of Kentucky” in the Virginia Legislature. He will forever be remembered in Shelby County, Ky as the founder of Painted Stone Station, which lies on the banks of Clear Creek. Settling the station in early 1780, it suffered continual harassment from small Indian raids throughout 1781. By late summer there was an increase in Indian sightings. The inhabitants decided to abandon the isolated station and Squire sent a request to the Beargrass Stations for a militia guard to escort the settlers to safety. They were ambushed on September 13, 1781 while trying to make it to Lynn’s Station, near present-day Eastwood, Ky. Squire had stayed behind at the fort, still revering from wounds received earlier in the year. In 1804/1808 Squire moved to Indiana with his family and five sons of Samuel Boone, his cousin. They formed a settlement in Harrison County, Boone Township. Squire built a mill, made guns in his spare time, and cut out stone from the hillside to build a house. He died in 1815 from heart failure and before this had requested that his body be buried in a nearby cave. He had carved his own casket from walnut trees. His son Enoch later removed his body and reburied his father on his farm (near Fort Knox, Ky) next to Squire’s wife, Jane. ADDRESS P. O. Box 1381 Shelbyville, KY 40066 CONTACTS Email: info@ paintedstonesettlers.org
