=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Meco Motorsports FMSCI National Rotax Karting Championship winners announced - CarWale]
He posted the most number of wins as well during the season. Nirmal Umashankar who scored 403 points and Aanjan Patodia who scored 388 points picked up the other two trophies. RESULTS Micro Max 1. Arjun Rajiv - 416 - Birel Art India 2.
URL: https://www.carwale.com/news/meco-motorsports-fmsci-national-rotax-karting-championship-winners-announced/

[Yash Aradhaya And Arjun Rajiv Take Top Honours In FMSCI National Rotax Karting Championship]
Arjun Rajiv of Birel Art India finished first with 416 points, followed by teammate Ruhaan Alva who capped 408 points. Alva, also claimed the maximum number of pole positions this season.
URL: https://www.carandbike.com/news/yash-aradhaya-and-arjun-rajiv-take-top-honours-in-meco-motorsports-fmsci-national-rotax-karting-cham-1764813

[2017 - Driver Database]
statistics pos number nation driver team points 1 YashAradhya 431 2 ChiragGhorpade 423 3 Shahan AliMohsin 405
URL: https://www.driverdb.com/championships/rotax-max-challenge-india---junior/2017

[Rotax Max Challenge - Wikipedia]
The Rotax Max Challenge (RMC) is a kart racing series owned and organized worldwide by BRP-Rotax and its distributors, approved and in compliance with CIK-FIA. Competition takes place on a club, national and international level which culminates in the Grand Finals once a year.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rotax_Max_Challenge

[2017 Rotax Max Kart Open concludes at Meco Kartopia Circuit in ...]
May 16, 2017 · Coming to the results of the event, Peregrine Racing's Arjun R won the Micro Max class followed by teammates, Saathvik Raju and Rohaan Madesh. In the Junior Max class, BPC Racing's Chirag...
URL: https://www.overdrive.in/news-cars-auto/2017-rotax-max-kart-open-concludes-at-meco-kartopia-circuit-in-bangalore/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Meco Motorsports FMSCI National Rotax Karting Championship winners announced - CarWale] ---
Bengaluru’s Yash Aradhaya and Arjun Rajiv won the Junior Max and Micro Max titles this year at the recently concluded Meco Motorsports FMSCI National Rotax Karting Championship. In the Junior Max category, Yash scored 432 points, surpassing Chirag Ghorpade who claimed the second position at 423 points. Shahan Ali Mohsin bagged the third position in Junior Max category with 405 points. The Senior Max championship was won by Mumbai’s Aaroh Ravindra who had amassed 436 points. Arjun Rajiv has won the Micro Max title with 416 points. Ruhaan Alva, who has held distinction of claiming the maximum number of pole positions during the season has claimed the second position in this category with 408 points. The third position is claimed by MR Rishon with 408 points. The fifth and final round of the championship had all the spectators, parents and teams on their feet all through the day, as all the 3 classes were intensely fought, with just a few hundredths of a second separating the top drivers. Aaroh Ravindra was in a league of his own in the Senior Max category. The Rayo Racing driver amassed 436 points for a comfortable victory. He posted the most number of wins as well during the season. Nirmal Umashankar who scored 403 points and Aanjan Patodia who scored 388 points picked up the other two trophies. RESULTS Micro Max 1. Arjun Rajiv - 416 - Birel Art India 2. Ruhaan Alva - 408 - Birel Art India 3. Rishon M R - 408 - Birel Art India Winning Team Champion - Peregrine Racing Junior Max 1. Yash Aradya - 432 - MSPORT 2. Chirag Ghorpade - 423 - BPC Racing 3. Shahan Ali Mohsin – 405 – MSPORT Winning Team Champion - MSPORT Senior Max 1. Aaroh Ravindra – 436 - Rayo Racing 2. Nirmal Umashankar – 403 - MSPORT 3. Aanjan Patodia – 388 - Rayo Racing Winning Team Champion - Rayo Racing A) Maximum Number of Pole Positions – Ruhaan Alva B) Maximum Number of Wins - Aaroh Ravinda C) Best Newcorner – Rishon M R D) Best Driver of the Year – Nirmal Uma Shankar E) Akbar Ebrahim Most Improved Karter of the Year – Rohaan Madhesh


--- [Yash Aradhaya And Arjun Rajiv Take Top Honours In FMSCI National Rotax Karting Championship] ---
Yash And Arjun Take Top Honours In National Rotax Karting Championship - Yash Aradhaya secured a 432 points in the Junior Max category - Arjun Rajiv secured 416 points in the Micro Max category - Aaroh Ravindra secured 436 points in the Senior Max category The Meco Motorsports FMSCI National Rotax Karting Championship came to a close last weekend with Bangalore boys Yash Aradhaya and Arjun Rajiv clinching the top honours. Yash won the championship in the Junior Max category while Arjun took the title in the Micro Max category. Mumbai's Aaroh Ravindra showed exemplary skill winning the prestigious Senior Max championship with a massive lead. The fifth and final round of the champipnship had teams, parents and spectators hooked on to the action in all three classes as only a few hundredths of a second separated the top drivers. In the Junior Max category, Yash of team MSport led the championship with 432 points, followed by Chirag Ghorpade of PBC Racing, who came in a close second with 423 points. 2016 National Micro Max Karting Champion, Shahan Ali Mohsin of Team MSport, finished third on the points table with a score of 405. Shahan graduated to Micro Max category to Junior Max this year. In the Micro Max category, the Bangalore boys all the three top spots on the podium. Arjun Rajiv of Birel Art India finished first with 416 points, followed by teammate Ruhaan Alva who capped 408 points. Alva, also claimed the maximum number of pole positions this season. Third place went to MR Rishon of Birel Art India with 408 points. The Senior Max category had Aaroh Ravindra taking the title with competition being a distant second. The Rayo Racing driver accumulated 436 points through the season, ahead of Nirmal Umashankar of MSport with 403 points and Aanjan Patodia of Rayo Racing, who secured 388 points. Ravindra also secured the most number of wins this season. RESULTS Micro Max 1. Arjun Rajiv - 416 - Birel Art India 2. Ruhaan Alva - 408 - Birel Art India 3. Rishon M R - 408 - Birel Art India Winning Team Champion - Peregrine Racing Junior Max 1. Yash Aradya - 432 - MSport 2. Chirag Ghorpade - 423 - BPC Racing 3. Shahan Ali Mohsin - 405 - MSport Winning Team Champion - MSPORT Senior Max 1. Aaroh Ravindra - 436 - Rayo Racing 2. Nirmal Umashankar - 403 - MSport 3. Aanjan Patodia - 388 - Rayo Racing Winning Team Champion - Rayo Racing Latest News - car&bike Team | Mar 3, 2026Ducati Desmo450 MX Teased Ahead of India LaunchThe Ducati Desmo450 MX is expected to be launched in India soon, as early as sometime later in March 2026.3 mins read - car&bike Team | Mar 3, 2026Is this the Vida VXZ Electric Motorcycle?A test mule of an almost production-ready electric motorcycle has led to speculation that it could be the upcoming Vida VXZ electric motorcycle.2 mins read - Shams Raza Naqvi | Mar 3, 2026Vinfast Unveils Two New Ultra Luxury Models, Restructures Brand LinesThe Vietnamese car company has announced that its vehicles will fall in three brand lines with Lac Hong being the luxury brand.1 min read - car&bike Team | Mar 3, 2026Raptee.HV T30 Electric Motorcycle Deliveries BeginThe Chennai-based start-up Raptee.HV has begun large-scale customer deliveries of the brand’s first electric motorcycle – the Raptee T30.1 min read - Shams Raza Naqvi | Mar 3, 2026From Vitara Brezza To Brezza: Maruti’s Subcompact SUV Completes A Decade In The MarketThe SUV has seen a major switch from being just a Diesel model to being just a Petrol in the last few years.2 mins read - car&bike Team | Mar 2, 2026Yezdi Roadster Red Wolf Launched at Rs 2.10 LakhYezdi has expanded the Roadster line-up with a new Red Wolf colourway, now the most premium shade in the range.1 min read - Bilal Firfiray | Feb 28, 2026Tata Punch EV Facelift Review: More Range, More Sense, Less MoneyThe Tata Punch EV facelift gets a bigger 40 kWh battery, faster 60 kW DC charging, improved thermal management, and better real-world range, and all of that at a lower introductory price. But does it become a more complete package now?6 mins read - Preetam Bora | Feb 24, 2026Hero Destini 110 Review: Simplicity, RefinedThe Hero Destini 110 is a no-nonsense commuter that is simple, comfortable and above all, fuel efficient. In 2026, when buyers are spoilt for choice, is it good enough to consider?1 min read - Preetam Bora | Feb 23, 2026TVS Apache RTX Road Test Review: Redefining the Entry-Level ADVAfter spending some time with the TVS Apache RTX in traffic, the daily commute, as well as on open highways, one thing becomes clear: the RTX is trying to redefine the entry-level ADV segment. But is it without fault?1 min read - Girish Karkera | Feb 20, 2026Road Test: 2025 VinFast VF7 AWD Sky InfinityFlagship all-electric SUV from the Vietnamese car maker gets most of the basics right.1 min read - Jaiveer Mehra | Feb 18, 2026New BMW X3 30 Vs Mercedes-Benz GLC 300: Midsize Luxury SUV FaceoffWith the new X3 30, BMW has a direct competitor to the petrol GLC 300, but which is the luxury SUV for you?1 min read


--- [2017 - Driver Database] ---
No content


--- [Rotax Max Challenge - Wikipedia] ---
The Rotax Max Challenge (RMC) is a kart racing series owned and organized worldwide by BRP-Rotax and its distributors, approved and in compliance with CIK-FIA. Competition takes place on a club, national and international level which culminates in the Grand Finals once a year.
Youngest Winners
The Rotax Micro MAX class, typically for drivers aged 8 to 12, has seen record-breaking performances by younger competitors:
Wiley Lee: Became the youngest driver on record to win a major Rotax Micro MAX main event race at 7 years and 4 months old during Round 3 of the 2026 Rotax RMC Winter Trophy at Speedsportz Racing Park. https://www.instagram.com/reel/DUMWcZPEhbu/?igsh=aHE1dW9lYTd5dHVx
Arshi Gupta: Won the 2025 FMSCI National Karting Championship (Micro Max) at age 9.
Shiv Tummala: Secured a win in the 2025 Meco Meritus Cup (Micro Max) at age 9.
Diego LaRoque: Noted for winning the 2016 Rotax Max Challenge Grand Finals in the Micro Max category at age 10.


--- [2017 Rotax Max Kart Open concludes at Meco Kartopia Circuit in ...] ---
2017 Rotax Max Kart Open concludes at Meco Kartopia Circuit in Bangalore The two-day 2017 Rotax Max Kart Open was held at the Meco Kartopia Circuit in Bangalore over the weekend. It held two rounds with three classes Micro Max, Junior Max and Senior Max. Each round had four races per class, which meant eight races in all. This year the organisers, Meco Motorsports, introduced two new regulations fuel control and cylinder control. Under the first one, competitors could only use pre-mixed fuel which was provided by the organisers. This rule was brought about to ensure that competitors couldn't use additives in their fuel and have the upper hand. Under the second regulation, cylinder control, competitors could buy the cylinders for their kart engines only from one specific supplier in India. Earlier, teams used to source Rotax cylinders from tuners in Europe for better performance. This not only brought in one more variation between competitors, but also increased the cost of racing. With these two regulations, the organisers aimed to bring more equality among competitors on the track. Coming to the results of the event, Peregrine Racing's Arjun R won the Micro Max class followed by teammates, Saathvik Raju and Rohaan Madesh. In the Junior Max class, BPC Racing's Chirag Ghorpade won the title while Meco Racing's Shahan Ali Mohsin and Aditya Swaminathan took second and third. Manav Sharma from BPC Racing won the Senior Max class, while Nirmal Umashankar and Kevin Pereira from Meco Racing took second and third.
