=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Châteauesque - Wikipedia]
Châteauesque (or Francis I style, [1] or in Canada, the Château Style[2]) is a revivalist architectural style based on the French Renaissance architecture of the monumental châteaux of the Loire Valley from the late fifteenth century to the early seventeenth century.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ch%C3%A2teauesque

[Château Style in Québec City - MMVQ Meeting venue - Manège militaire]
Jun 25, 2018 · “Château style” is an architectural style indelibly associated with Québec City, in large part because of the iconic Château Frontenac. But did you know that the city’s very first Château style building was none other than the Voltigeurs de Québec Armoury? Let’s take a look at the history, evolution, and main characteristics of this architectural style.
URL: https://manegemilitaire.ca/en/chateau-style-in-quebec-city/

[Château - Ville de Québec]
Château Le style Château évoque l'architecture médiévale, mais plus précisément l'architecture militaire des châteaux forts et celle des châteaux de la Loire en France. Ces derniers ont été construits ou passablement modifiés entre le 15e et 16e siècle, soit pendant la Renaissance française. Apparu à la fin du 19e siècle à Québec, le style Château prend définitivement ...
URL: https://www.ville.quebec.qc.ca/citoyens/patrimoine/bati/thesaurus.aspx?tid=411

[Chateauesque | Washington State Department of Archaeology & Historic ...]
1880-1910 Patterned after the designs of monumental French chateaus of the 16th century, the Chateauesque Style was popularized in the United States by architect Richard Morris Hunt during the 1880s. The style was grand and gaudy, and literally dripped with European taste, instantly becoming the standard for the mansions of the East Coast's upper class citizenry. The style eventually became ...
URL: https://dahp.wa.gov/historic-preservation/historic-buildings/architectural-style-guide/chateauesque

[Châteauesque - Wikiwand]
Châteauesque (or Francis I style, [1] or in Canada, the Château Style[2]) is a revivalist architectural style based on the French Renaissance architecture of the monumental châteaux of the Loire Valley from the late fifteenth century to the early seventeenth century.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Chateau_style


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Châteauesque - Wikipedia] ---
Châteauesque (or Francis I style, or in Canada, the Château Style) is a revivalist architectural style based on the French Renaissance architecture of the monumental châteaux of the Loire Valley from the late fifteenth century to the early seventeenth century.
The term châteauesque (literally, "château-like") is credited (by historian Marcus Whiffen) to American architectural historian Bainbridge Bunting, although it can be found in publications that pre-date Bunting's birth. As of 2011, the Getty Research Institute's Art & Architecture Thesaurus includes both "Château Style" and "Châteauesque", with the former being the preferred term for North America.
The style frequently features buildings heavily ornamented by the elaborate towers, spires, and steeply pitched roofs of sixteenth century châteaux, themselves influenced by late Gothic and Italian Renaissance architecture. Despite their French ornamentation, as a revival style, buildings in the châteauesque style do not attempt to completely emulate a French château. Châteauesque buildings are typically built on an asymmetrical plan, with a roof-line broken in several places and a facade composed of advancing and receding planes.




--- [Château Style in Québec City - MMVQ Meeting venue - Manège militaire] ---
25 June 2018 Château Style in Québec City “Château style” is an architectural style indelibly associated with Québec City, in large part because of the iconic Château Frontenac. But did you know that the city’s very first Château‑style building was none other than the Voltigeurs de Québec Armoury? Let’s take a look at the history, evolution, and main characteristics of this architectural style. The kings of the castle While it may look very old, château style is purely an invention of the 19th century Romantics. Architects drew their inspiration from the French Renaissance, especially the castles of the Loire, which in turn were influenced by the flamboyant Gothic architecture of the Italian Renaissance. It’s as if Leonardo da Vinci, Jacques Cartier, and Victor Hugo got together to dream up a new style. Château style is part of a movement called revivalist architecture, which imitates and combines the look of old buildings to create something new. These various sources of inspiration make for buildings that are stately yet exuberant, imposing yet fanciful. With their characteristic towers, turrets, tall pitched roofs, windows, and other ornamentations, château-style buildings bring a lot of character to their surroundings. A style is born It may have European influences, but château style was born in the USA. The reason is simple: the first person to use it on American soil was Richard Morris Hunt, an alumnus of the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris. In the mid-19th century, Hunt moved to France, attended the prestigious art school, traveled to the Loire Valley, and fell in love with the castles built there during the Renaissance. When he returned to America in 1855, the architect brought with him that European aesthetic that would manifest itself in almost all his work. Little-known fact: Hunt is the one who designed the pedestal for the Statue of Liberty, the famous gift from France to the United States! Château style flourishes in Québec City The first château‑style building in all of Canada was the Québec Armoury. Québec artist and architect Eugène‑Étienne Taché (1836–1912) was chosen to design the new building by Canada’s Department of Public Works. A former student of celebrated architect Charles Baillairgé, Taché was an avid enthusiast of culture, art, and history who was very taken with the French Aestheticism and Romanticism he discovered during his travels in Europe in the late 1860s. Over the next two decades, Taché would design many other important buildings that helped forge Québec City’s visual identity, including the Parliament Building. Eugène-Étienne Taché vers 1890. Photographie : studio J.E. Livernois. BAnQ, 03Q_P560,S2,D1,P1290. Domaine public It was an exciting time for architecture, with new designs often melding the historical and the modern. In 1874, for example, on the invitation of Governor General Lord Dufferin, architect William Henry Lynn redesigned the fortifications of Old Québec. He added turrets and crenellations to the ramparts, and gave the new Saint-Louis and Kent Gates a charming quaintness. The style that Taché was preparing to use for the Armoury was similarly Romantic. Towers and dormer windows Dessin architectural original du Manège militaire de Québec par Eugène-Étienne Taché, 1887. BAnQ, P286,D5,P29. Domaine public The plans Taché presented in the early 1880s were inspired by the architectural style under Francis I (the châteaux of Chambord and Chenonceau), but also had a touch of the château de Josselin, a castle built under Louis XII. Truth be known, the fortifications of French Renaissance castles borrowed many elements from the Middle Ages. Although for the most part they didn’t serve any real defensive purpose, their moats, round towers, faux arrowslits, and dungeons were thrillingly reminiscent of knights and chivalry. Taché drew on this rich repertoire to design the Armoury. It is certainly a fitting architectural inspiration for a military building! Construction began in 1885. The Armoury’s exterior has a lot of symmetry, reflecting the sober nature of the building. Architectural cohesion is provided by the balance between the tall copper roofs and the long masonry building made of stone from the Beauport and Deschambault quarries. Taché used many repetitive elements, such as buttresses and copper bands on the roof. Two towers with candlesnuffer roofs stand symmetrically on either side of the main entrance. Dormer windows play a distinct role in creating the repetitive effect that gives the building such an imposing presence. Last but not least, the architect designed a gorgeous ridge crest for the top of the roof, drawing on his knowledge of heraldry to create a motif representative of Québec City’s identity: a fleur‑de‑lys for France, a rose for England, a thistle for Scotland, and, of course, a maple leaf for Canada. Completed in 1887, the Voltigeurs de Québec Armoury had the distinct honour of being considered Canada’s seminal château‑style building. Other well-known examples in Québec City are the Château Frontenac, inaugurated in 1893, and Gare du Palais, finished in 1916. Many other grand railway hotels and government buildings across Canada were also built in this style. Détail de la crête faitière du Manège militaire de Québec tel que dessiné par Eugène-Étienne Taché en 1887. BAnQ, P286,D5,P34. Domaine public. Construction du Manège militaire, vers 1886. Heliotype Printing Co., Boston. Domaine public Château or Armoury? While the outside of the Armoury is undoubtedly château, the inside reflects a different architectural style that was widespread in North America in the second half of the 19th century: the drill hall or armoury. The largest space in the building is an immense training room where local militias practiced their maneuvers and where arms were stored. To maximize the space inside, Taché replaced the second floor with a mezzanine encircling the training room. The interior décor and structure borrowed from several different movements, especially Tudor style. As its military use gradually waned, the site’s exceptionally large dimensions made it a prime candidate for conversion into an event space. The Québec City Provincial Exhibition was held there for several years starting in 1887. Activities of all kinds—from official to diplomatic to social—followed in the 20th century. After a fire decimated the Armoury in 2008, it was completely rebuilt as a multifunctional space and once again began hosting some of the city’s most prestigious events. The Armoury was rebuilt using Eugène‑Étienne Taché’s chosen architectural principles in order to restore the building as close as possible to its original state and its historic place within the cityscape. The extensive effort required an entire decade of planning and construction. We’ll tell that story in a future post!


--- [Château - Ville de Québec] ---
Le style Château évoque l'architecture médiévale, mais plus précisément l’architecture militaire des châteaux forts et celle des châteaux de la Loire en France. Ces derniers ont été construits ou passablement modifiés entre le 15e et 16e siècle, soit pendant la Renaissance française. Apparu à la fin du 19e siècle à Québec, le style Château prend définitivement forme lorsque le Chemin de fer Canadien Pacifique décide d'y ériger un hôtel de luxe, le château Frontenac (1892-1993), conçu par l’architecte américain Bruce Price. La silhouette découpée du bâtiment aux allures de château forteresse est renforcée par sa localisation sur le cap Diamant; elle renvoie de ce fait aux notions de pittoresque et de romantisme en vogue durant l’ère victorienne. Bien qu’associé de près à la ville de Québec, le style Château peut être considéré comme un style national canadien. Il s’étend rapidement à travers le pays à l’aide d’un ensemble d’hôtels et de gares implanté par les compagnies ferroviaires. Il connaît par ailleurs un nouvel essor à Québec, suite à la construction de la gare du Palais (1915-1917) et de la tour centrale du château Frontenac (1920-1924). Dans les années 1920 et 1930, il est adopté par le gouvernement fédéral pour l’érection de certains édifices publics comme les bureaux de poste et les édifices administratifs. Tant au niveau formel que décoratif, le bâtiment de style Château s’inspire du vocabulaire architectural des châteaux du Moyen Âge et de la Renaissance. Il se caractérise entre autres par des volumes imposants et massifs en pierre, des toitures aux pentes abruptes, des tours et des tourelles coiffées de toits coniques, des contreforts, des meurtrières, des crénelages, des mâchicoulis, des poivrières et des échauguettes. Le tout est agencé pour créer une composition pittoresque où l'asymétrie est généralement la norme. La brique de couleur brun-rouge pour les façades et la tôle de cuivre à baguettes pour les toitures peuvent aussi être employées, ce qui dénote plutôt l’influence des châteaux néogothiques anglais ou écossais. L’ornementation associée au style Château est également reprise en architecture résidentielle. Traitée avec retenue, elle se trouve en bordure du toit. Éléments caractéristiques : - Composition issue de l’architecture militaire qui s’inspire des châteaux du Moyen Âge et de la Renaissance : avec ou sans symétrie et forme s’exprimant à travers la silhouette médiévale ou pittoresque du bâtiment; style repris en architecture résidentielle, généralement avec les ornements placés en bordure du toit. - Plan simple ou irrégulier; volumes imposants et massifs. - Fondation en béton ou en pierre visible hors sol. - Murs : revêtement de pierre ou de brique brun-rouge. - Toit à croupe, à quatre versants droits ou à quatre versants droits tronqués; pente forte (plus de 45°); revêtement de tôle traditionnelle, mais généralement de tôle de cuivre à baguettes. - Ouvertures isolées, jumelées ou groupées rectangulaires ou en arc garnies d’arcs, de clefs, d’encadrements et de linteaux; porte à panneau(x) avec ou sans vitrage surmontée d’une imposte et garnie d’un portail; fenêtres à meneaux et à croisillons de pierre, à battants et à petits ou à grands carreaux, à guillotine et à petits carreaux ou à petit-bois ou fixes avec ou sans petits-fers; présence de lucarnes. - Saillies : avant-corps, contreforts et portail; saillies coiffées de toits coniques : tours et tourelles. - Ornements : bandeaux, chaînes d’angle, créneaux, échauguettes, épis, pignons, poivrières, mâchicoulis et meurtrières. Illustration : Charles-Étienne Brochu, 2022.


--- [Chateauesque | Washington State Department of Archaeology & Historic ...] ---
Chateauesque 1880-1910 Patterned after the designs of monumental French chateaus of the 16th century, the Chateauesque Style was popularized in the United States by architect Richard Morris Hunt during the 1880s. The style was grand and gaudy, and literally dripped with European taste, instantly becoming the standard for the mansions of the East Coast’s upper class citizenry. The style eventually became popular for smaller dwellings; however, here in the Pacific Northwest it was mainly utilized on large public and commercial buildings. Buildings of this style are almost always architect-designed. They are grand places intended to impress. Despite their French origins, buildings in the style do not attempt to completely emulate a French chateau and incorporate many Gothic and Renaissance detailing. Chateauesque style buildings are easy to identify due to their imposing vertical appearance and characteristic complex roof line with abundant detailing. Always executed in masonry, Chateauesque style buildings are typically asymmetrical in plan and have a facade composed of advancing and receding planes. Buildings of this style have steeply pitched hipped (and sometimes gabled) roofs, topped by iron cresting or finials. Many are pierced by decorative gabled wall dormers. Low relief terra-cotta carving may ornament the dormer gables and window and door surrounds. Chimneys are tall and have decorative corbelled tops. Round towers topped by a conical roof, are usually present. Balconies feature Gothic inspired quatrefoil or arched tracery patterns. Large entry doors are often highlighted by round or gothic arches. After the turn of the 20th century, some elements of the Chateauesque style were incorporated into new styles of architecture. Elements such as the steeply pitched hipped roofs can be found in the French Eclectic style from the 1920s and 1930s. Round conical towers, serving as entry portals, are found in dwellings of the French Normandy style. Washington State Examples | Stadium High School, Tacoma - 1891 - 1906 | Manresa Hall, Port Townsend - 1892 | Thompson Hall - WSU, Pullman - 1895 | | Spokane County Courthouse, Spokane - 1895 | Lowman Building, Seattle - 1906 | Denny Hall - UW, Seattle - 1895 | For More Information: - Baker, John Milnes, American House Styles: A Consise Guide, W.W. Norton & Company, New York, NY. 1994. - Carley, Rachel, The Visual Dictionary of American Domestic Architecture, A Roundtable Press Book, New York, NY. 1994. - McAlester, Virgina & Lee, A Field Guide to American Houses Alfred A. Knopf, NewYork, NY, 1992. - Walker, Lester, American Homes: An Illustrated Encyclopedia of Domestic Architecture, The Overlook Press, New York, NY 1981.


--- [Châteauesque - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
