=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Eritrea to be erased from US Counterterror Non-Cooperation List]
May 29, 2019 · Members of Congress were the first to visit Eritrea in 14 years. (photo credit : US State Department) borkena May 29, 2019 The Associated Press report published on VOA News on Tuesday, May 28, says that Eritrea is now taken off the list of countries not fully cooperating with the United States of America on counter-Terrorism.
URL: https://borkena.com/2019/05/29/eritrea-to-be-erased-from-us-counterterror-non-cooperation-list/

[US removing Eritrea from counterterror non-cooperation list]
May 28, 2019 · Eritrea is one of the world’s most closed-off nations but last year it agreed to a remarkable restoration of ties with neighboring Ethiopia, two decades after a bloody border war. The diplomatic breakthrough contributed to the United Nations Security Council lifting sanctions on Eritrea late last year. A U.S. congressional delegation earlier this year visited Eritrea for the first time in 14 ...
URL: https://apnews.com/general-news-3a8cd4480d92477ca328d8da2c51535a

[US Removing Eritrea from Counterterror Non-Cooperation List]
May 28, 2019 · The diplomatic breakthrough contributed to the United Nations Security Council lifting sanctions on Eritrea late last year. A U.S. congressional delegation earlier this year visited Eritrea for ...
URL: https://www.voanews.com/a/us-removing-eritrea-from-counterterror-non-cooperation-list/4935716.html

[US removes Eritrea from Counterterror Non-Cooperation List]
Wednesday May 29, 2019 By Daniel Mumbere The United States has removed Eritrea from the list of countries that are deemed not to be cooperating fully with its counterterror efforts.
URL: https://hiiraan.com/news4/2019/May/164087/us_removes_eritrea_from_counterterror_non_cooperation_list.aspx

[US removes Eritrea from Counterterror Non-Cooperation List]
Aug 13, 2024 · The United Nations Security Council lifted sanctions that had been imposed on Eritrea for sponsoring terrorism against Somalia. This year, a U.S. congressional delegation visited Eritrea...
URL: https://www.africanews.com/2019/05/29/us-removes-eritrea-from-counterterror-non-cooperation-list/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Eritrea to be erased from US Counterterror Non-Cooperation List] ---
Eritrea will no longer be in Counterterror Non-Cooperation List borkena May 29, 2019 The Associated Press report published on VOA News on Tuesday, May 28, says that Eritrea is now taken off the list of countries not fully cooperating with the United States of America on counter-Terrorism. “The reclusive East African nation is no longer listed on the announcement that will be published in the Federal Register on Wednesday,” wrote the Associated Press. Eritrea was listed along with “non-cooperating” countries like North Korea, Syria, Iran, and Venezuela. United Nations’ section on Eritrea is also lifted. The peace agreement with Ethiopia, which happened in 2018 after Ethiopia’s ruling coalition picked Abiy Ahmed as prime minister, contributed the lifting of United Nations sanction, according to a report by The Associated Press. A United States Congressional delegation, which included Eritrean-American Joseph Neguse who was elected to United States House of Representatives in 2018, visited Eritrea in early 2019. Join the conversation. Like borkena on Facebook and get Ethiopian News updates regularly. As well, you may get Ethiopia News by following us on twitter @zborkena


--- [US removing Eritrea from counterterror non-cooperation list] ---
US removing Eritrea from counterterror non-cooperation list JOHANNESBURG (AP) — Eritrea is being removed from the United States government’s list of countries deemed not to be cooperating fully with U.S. counterterror efforts. The reclusive East African nation is no longer listed on the announcement that will be published in the Federal Register on Wednesday. Still listed on the U.S. announcement are Iran, North Korea, Syria and Venezuela. Eritrea is one of the world’s most closed-off nations but last year it agreed to a remarkable restoration of ties with neighboring Ethiopia, two decades after a bloody border war. The diplomatic breakthrough contributed to the United Nations Security Council lifting sanctions on Eritrea late last year. A U.S. congressional delegation earlier this year visited Eritrea for the first time in 14 years.


--- [US Removing Eritrea from Counterterror Non-Cooperation List] ---
Eritrea is being removed from the United States government's list of countries deemed not to be cooperating fully with U.S. counterterror efforts. The reclusive East African nation is no longer listed on the announcement that will be published in the Federal Register on Wednesday. Still listed on the U.S. announcement are Iran, North Korea, Syria and Venezuela. Eritrea is one of the world's most closed-off nations but last year it agreed to a remarkable restoration of ties with neighboring Ethiopia, two decades after a bloody border war. The diplomatic breakthrough contributed to the United Nations Security Council lifting sanctions on Eritrea late last year. A U.S. congressional delegation earlier this year visited Eritrea for the first time in 14 years. JOHANNESBURG —


--- [US removes Eritrea from Counterterror Non-Cooperation List] ---
Wednesday May 29, 2019 By Daniel Mumbere The United States has removed Eritrea from the list of countries that are deemed not to be cooperating fully with its counterterror efforts. advertisements The announcement of the diplomatic breakthrough for the Horn of Africa nation is set to be published on the Federal Register on Wednesday.Iran, North Korea, Syria and Venezuela are still listed on the list. –– ADVERTISEMENT –– The United States has previously demanded an explanation from Eritrea over past purchases of weapons from North Korea. Washington has also repeatedly asked Eritrea to release political and religious prisoners who include American citizens and U.S. embassy local staff. Eritrea’s impressive diplomatic turnaround Since the normalisation of relations between Eritrea and Ethiopia last year, Asmara has made several diplomatic strides with its neighbours in the region and the international community. The United Nations Security Council lifted sanctions that had been imposed on Eritrea for sponsoring terrorism against Somalia. This year, a U.S. congressional delegation visited Eritrea for the first time in 14 years.


--- [US removes Eritrea from Counterterror Non-Cooperation List] ---
Eritrea The United States has removed Eritrea from the list of countries that are deemed not to be cooperating fully with its counterterror efforts. The announcement of the diplomatic breakthrough for the Horn of Africa nation is set to be published on the Federal Register on Wednesday. Iran, North Korea, Syria and Venezuela are still listed. The United States has previously demanded an explanation from Eritrea over past purchases of weapons from North Korea. Washington has also repeatedly asked Eritrea to release political and religious prisoners who include American citizens and U.S. embassy local staff. Eritrea’s impressive diplomatic turnaround Since the normalisation of relations between Eritrea and Ethiopia last year, Asmara has made several diplomatic strides with its neighbours in the region and the international community. The United Nations Security Council lifted sanctions that had been imposed on Eritrea for sponsoring terrorism against Somalia. This year, a U.S. congressional delegation visited Eritrea for the first time in 14 years. READ MORE: Eritrea to patiently evaluate political, economic, security sectors
