=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dexter season 2 - Wikipedia]
Theseasonconcludes withDextertracking down Lila to Paris and killing her, avenging Doakes and getting revenge fortryingtokill him, Astor, and Cody in a fire, thus ensuring that no one alive knows his secret life as a serialkiller.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dexter_season_2

[Season Two | Dexter Wiki | Fandom]
The secondseasonofDexterpremiered 30 September 2007 and ended 16 December 2007.Dextertests his ability to accept his Dark Passenger after killing his brother, Brian Moser. He also deals with relationship issues concerning girlfriends Rita Bennett and the obsessive Lila West. Remains of his kills are discovered in the Underwater Graveyard and he is hunted, labeled as The Bay Harbor ...
URL: https://dexter.fandom.com/wiki/Season_Two

[Dexter S 02 E 09 Resistance Is Futile Recap - TV Tropes]
Dexterthinks he's in the clear... until Doakescatcheshim disposing of Jimenez's remains. The scuffle ends with Doakes imprisoned in Jimenez's hut, butDexter'sproblems having become even more complicated.
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Recap/DexterS02E09ResistanceIsFutile

["Dexter" The Dark Defender (TV Episode 2007) - Plot - IMDb]
Covered in the blood of hismother'skiller,Dexterdrags the unconscious bartender to a pool table. Tied down and helpless, the bartender tells a frenziedDexterthathismotherhadtobe killed because she was a snitch and was sleeping with Harry. Just as he is about to kill the bartender,Dexter'sphone rings. Lila asks ifDexteris okay.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1013984/plotsummary/

[Dexter: Season 2 (2007) — The Movie Database (TMDB)]
Inseasontwo, the bodies ofDexter'svictims are uncovered and an investigation is launched inDexter'sown department to find thekiller, dubbed the "Bay Harbor Butcher." Debra struggles to recover, and Rita sendsDextertoNarcotics Anonymous meetings when she suspects that he has an addiction. Sergeant James Doakes, stalksDexter, suspecting that he is connected with the "Ice TruckKiller...
URL: https://www.themoviedb.org/tv/1405-dexter/season/2/episode/5


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dexter season 2 - Wikipedia] ---
The second season of Dexter premiered on September 30, 2007, and ended on December 16, 2007. Starting with this season, the show no longer adapts the Dexter novels. The season premiere "It's Alive!" attracted 1.01 million viewers in the United States, making Dexter the first Showtime series to attract more than a million viewers with a season premiere. The season finale, "The British Invasion", attracted 1.4 million viewers, making it the program's most-watched episode until the airing of the season three finale, "Do You Take Dexter Morgan?". Including digital video recorder (DVR) usage, season two was watched by an average of 2.4 million viewers on a weekly basis through 11 full weeks, outperforming season one by 21%.
In the season, the bodies of Dexter's victims are uncovered and an investigation is launched in Dexter's own department to find the killer, dubbed the "Bay Harbor Butcher". During this time, Debra struggles to recover after surviving the Ice Truck Killer's attempt to murder her, and Rita sends Dexter to Narcotics Anonymous meetings when he tells her that he has an "addiction". Sergeant James Doakes (Erik King) stalks Dexter, suspecting that he is connected with the Ice Truck Killer murders. Three new characters are introduced: Keith Carradine appears as Special Agent Frank Lundy, an FBI agent who heads the Bay Harbor Butcher investigation; JoBeth Williams as Rita's mother Gail; and Jaime Murray as Lila Tournay, Dexter's Narcotics Anonymous sponsor.
The season was praised by critics as "one of the best shows on TV this decade" by the Chicago Sun-Times, while Variety considers Hall's portrayal of the title character as a "towering achievement, one that eclipses the show's other shortcomings and rough patches"; the aggregate site Metacritic scored the season at 85 out of 100 based on 11 reviews.


--- [Season Two | Dexter Wiki | Fandom] ---
The second season of Dexter premiered 30 September 2007 and ended 16 December 2007. Dexter tests his ability to accept his Dark Passenger after killing his brother, Brian Moser. He also deals with relationship issues concerning girlfriends Rita Bennett and the obsessive Lila West. Remains of his kills are discovered in the Underwater Graveyard and he is hunted, labeled as The Bay Harbor Butcher. A co-worker discovers his secret. For more info, see: Viewers[] The season premiere, "It's Alive," attracted 1.09 million viewers in the United States, making Dexter the first Showtime series to attract more than a million viewers with a season premiere. The season finale, "The British Invasion," attracted 1.4 million viewers, making it the program's most-watched episode until the airing of the Season Seven premiere, "Are You...?" Including digital video recorder (DVR) usage, Season Two was watched by an average of 2.4 million viewers on a weekly basis through 11 full weeks, outperforming season one by 21%. Reviews[] The second season received universal acclaim from critics, and was praised as "one of the best shows on TV this decade" by the Chicago Sun-Times, while Variety considered Hall's portrayal of the title character as a "towering achievement, one that eclipses the show's other shortcomings and rough patches." The aggregate site Metacritic scored the season at 85 out of 100 based on 11 reviews. Main Cast[] - Michael C. Hall as Dexter Morgan - Julie Benz as Rita Bennett - Jennifer Carpenter as Debra Morgan - Erik King as James Doakes - C.S. Lee as Vince Masuka - Lauren Velez as Maria LaGuerta - David Zayas as Angel Batista - James Remar as Harry Morgan Special Guest Stars[] - Keith Carradine as FBI Special Agent Frank Lundy (11 episodes) - Jaime Murray as Lila West, aka Lila Tournay (10 episodes) Recurring Cast[] - Preston Bailey as Cody Bennett (12 episodes) - Christina Robinson as Astor Bennett (12 episodes) - Geoff Pierson as Thomas Matthews (7 episodes) - Devon Graye, Dominic Janes, and Maxwell Huckabee as Young Dexter Morgan - Dave Baez as Gabriel Bosque (5 episodes) - Judith Scott as Esmée Pascal (4 episodes) - JoBeth Williams as Gail Brandon (4 episodes) - Tony Amendola as Santos Jimenez - Katherine Kirkpatrick as Laura Moser - Christian Camargo as Brian Moser - Margo Martindale as Camilla Figg - Mark Pellegrino as Paul Bennett - Tasia Sherel as Francis Guest cast[] - Matthew Willig as Little Chino - Jonathan Banks as FBI Deputy Director Max Adams - Glenn Plummer as Jimmy Sensio - Don McManus as Roger Hicks - John Marshall Jones as Curtis Barnes - Silas Weir Mitchell as Ken Olson - J.R. Starr as Old Haitian Man - Dan Wickline as Dead Denny Foster (uncredited) - Tone Rodriguez as Benjamin Alvaro (uncredited) Crew[] Series developer James Manos, Jr. left his first season role as executive producer. First season executive producers John Goldwyn, Sara Colleton, and Clyde Phillips all returned for the second season. First season co-executive producer Daniel Cerone was promoted to executive producer for the second season. First season consulting producer Melissa Rosenberg took a staff position as co-executive producer for the second season. Scott Buck joined the crew as a co-executive producer and writer. Robert Lloyd Lewis returned as the on set producer. First season Story Editor Tim Schlattmann was promoted to Executive Story Editor for the second season and continued to write episodes. Lauren Gussis was promoted from staff writer to Story Editor and continued to write for the show. Chad Tomasoski, who had not worked on the show since the pilot episode, rejoined the crew as an associate producer. Dexter's Victims[] Summary[] | Watched | Episode | Summary | |---|---|---| | | It's Alive | A suspicious James Doakes follows Dexter at all times, which makes it impossible for Dexter to kill. Thirty-eight days after his last kill, Dexter gains an opportunity, but finds himself unable to murder a blind voodoo priest called Jimmy Sensio. A member of the 29th Street Kings gang is killed by the leader Little Chino and Dexter sees an opportunity to complete a kill. An emotionally unstable Debra returns to work in the Homicide Department. She tries to resume a normal lifestyle, but finds herself under scrutiny from the public. Paul tries to convince Rita that he was framed by Dexter, but she refuses to believe him in spite of the evidence presented to her. Scuba divers discover approximately thirty hefty bags of Dexter's mutilated victims' body parts in an Underwater Graveyard. | | | Waiting to Exhale | A Miami Metro Homicide task force, led by FBI Special Agent Frank Lundy, begins the hunt for the "Bay Harbor Butcher." Both Dexter and the police are hunting for Little Chino, and Dexter is determined to kill him given a second chance. Debra and Dexter struggle to overcome memories of the encounter with Brian that led to his death. After Paul's funeral, Rita confronts Dexter about his involvement in Paul's death, and he admits to having an addiction, which Rita infers to be to drugs. LaGuerta shows surprising support for new boss, Lieutenant Esmee Pascal. | | | An Inconvenient Lie | Rita threatens to leave Dexter if he does not commit to a program to deal with his drug addiction. He starts attending Narcotics Anonymous meetings, while still trying to evade Doakes' constant surveillance. At the meeting, Dexter meets a mysterious and flirtatious woman named Lila Tournay, who volunteers to be his sponsor. Doakes tracks Dexter to the meeting, but to Dexter's relief, Doakes displays understanding of the "addiction" and lets Dexter go. Later, Dexter hunts down a new victim, Roger Hicks, a used-car salesman who murders beautiful brunettes. Lundy invites Debra to join the new task force investigating the Bay Harbor Butcher, and they soon discover a pattern to the murders. | | | See-Through | Dexter begins to question Lila's suitability as his sponsor, and Rita encourages him to find a male one. Rita's visiting mother, Gail Brandon, becomes sure that Dexter is hiding something. Cody starts having nightmares about the Bay Harbor Butcher. When Vince Masuka announces that he has found a way to identify the marina where the Bay Harbor Butcher moors his boat, Dexter destroys some of the evidence. Doakes ends up in stand-off against one of his old special ops colleagues, after he murders his own wife. Debra starts dating Gabriel Bosque, whom she met at the gym. LaGuerta returns to her job as Lieutenant following the mental collapsing of Pascal, who suspects her fiancé of cheating. It turns out that he was cheating on her with LaGuerta. | | | The Dark Defender | Dexter discovers that one of the men who murdered his mother in front of him as a boy is still alive. He dreams that a comic-book hero based on the Bay Harbor Butcher saves his mother, and is encouraged by Lila to seek closure by confronting his mother's killer, Santos Jimenez. Doakes and LaGuerta investigate a homicide in a comic-book store, and reminisce about their days as partners. Rita's mother warns Dexter to leave Rita and her children alone. Debra and Gabriel have a relationship problem. | | | Dex, Lies, and Videotape | After learning that he was filmed while cleaning his boat at the marina, Dexter manages to delete the video file before computer upgrades enable its viewing by his colleagues. A killer claims to be inspired by, the Bay Harbor Butcher, and unless the police find him, the FBI may take over the case completely. Following a conversation with Debra, Doakes becomes suspicious that Dexter isn't an addict like he previously thought, and becomes more determined to find out his secret. After learning about his mother's relationship with his adoptive father, Dexter questions Harry's motives about his own adoption. At Rita's mother's suggestion, Dexter brings Lila to dinner. Later, that evening Rita finds out that Lila accompanied Dexter on his road trip, and breaks up with him. | | | That Night, a Forest Grew | A written manifesto sent by the Bay Harbor Butcher to a local newspaper sends Lundy's special task force into chaos. Doakes almost discovers the truth about Dexter's past, which forces Dexter to devise a plan to get him suspended from the police force. During a romantic night with Dexter, Lila learns that Dexter plans to attend one of Cody's school events where he will see Rita, and becomes jealous. Rita stands up to her mother and compels her to move out of the house. Debra breaks up with Gabriel and decides to pursue a relationship with Lundy, not knowing if her feelings are reciprocated. | | | Morning Comes | A desperate Lila sets her loft on fire in an effort to sustain her relationship with Dexter, but Dexter realizes that Lila is lying when she claims it was an accident. Jimenez tries to kill Dexter, and the suspicious Doakes breaks into Dexter's apartment and finds the hidden collection of blood slides. Lundy re-examines all of the department's old cases when he suspects that the Bay Harbor Butcher has a history in law enforcement. Rita tells Dexter that he is no longer welcome to visit her house or her children. | | | Resistance Is Futile | Under constant surveillance by federal agents, Dexter is unable to dispose of his latest victim's remains. He apologizes to Rita, admitting that his affair with Lila was a mistake, but she is still hesitant to forgive him. Lila retaliates by pursuing Angel. After finding Dexter's collection of blood slides, Doakes seeks the advice of an old friend in Haiti to analyze them. The department begins to suspect Doakes' involvement in the Bay Harbor Butcher case, but cannot find him for questioning. Debra and Lundy spend the night together and contemplate making their relationship public. | | | There's Something About Harry | After their latest confrontation, Dexter imprisons Doakes in a cabin hidden in the Florida Everglades, but is unsure of what to do next. Doakes reveals information that leads Dexter to a surprising discovery about his adoptive father's death. The FBI continues the search for Doakes, while LaGuerta tries to prove his innocence. As the investigation comes to a close, Debra realizes that Lundy will leave Miami at the end of the investigation. She confronts him about the future of their relationship. Rita and Dexter reconcile and visit the beach together, while Lila plans to frame Angel for raping her. | | | Left Turn Ahead | Dexter contemplates admitting to the Bay Harbor Butcher killings. Doakes escapes from his cage but runs afoul of two drug smugglers. The FBI is displeased with the lack of progress in the Bay Harbor Butcher Case and assigns a deputy director to take over Lundy's role in the investigation. Angel is arrested for the sexual assault of Lila, who offers to drop the charges if Dexter will resume their relationship. Debra investigates Lila's past and discovers that she is an illegal immigrant. Meanwhile, using Dexter's global positioning system, Lila discovers the cabin in the Everglades, where Doakes is being held. | | | The British Invasion | Lila finds Doakes imprisoned in the cabin, and he tells her that Dexter is the Bay Harbor Butcher. She ignores his pleas for help, and kills Doakes by blowing up the cabin. Doakes is found dead, and because the evidence of the Bay Harbor Butcher killings indicates him as the criminal, the case is closed. Debra and Lundy try to resolve their relationship problems and Dexter reconciles with Rita. After Lila attempts to kill him and the children, Dexter follows her to Paris and kills her. | Gallery[] Episodes: 2007[] | | | | | |||| | | | | | |||| | | | | | Seasons[] | Seasons of Dexter | ||||||||||||||||||| | Dexter | New Blood | Original Sin | Resurrection | Trinity | ||||||||||||||| | | | | | | | | | | | Companion Series of Dexter | ||||||| | Kill Room | Final Cut | |||||| | | | |


--- [Dexter S 02 E 09 Resistance Is Futile Recap - TV Tropes] ---
"I'm sure that you've heard we have a suspect in the Bay Harbor Butcher case. [...] We now have the evidence to back it up. We need answers, now." —Captain Matthews Dexter is hauled in before Lundy and presented his blood slides. Lundy needs them analyzed: they were found in Doakes's car after the latter fled the country, allowing Lundy to seize his property and declare Sgt. James Doakes the prime suspect in the Bay Harbor Butcher case. Dexter thinks he's in the clear... until Doakes catches him disposing of Jimenez's remains. The scuffle ends with Doakes imprisoned in Jimenez's hut, but Dexter's problems having become even more complicated. Tropes in this episode: - Accidental Public Confession: Debra is at first insecure about being open about her relationship with Lundy even as her co-workers make comments that make it ambiguous that they know or suspect the truth. Then when LaGuerta and her get into an argument, Debra loudly confesses to sleeping with Lundy to everyone's surprise, showing they really didn't know. (That said, it's actually Played for Laughs, suggesting the department is mostly comfortable with it.) - Ambiguous Situation: It's implied that Lundy is not fully sold on the idea of Doakes as the Bay Harbor Butcher and is suspicious of the Sergeant's obsession with Dexter. - Bait-and-Switch: For about half the episode, it appears that The Profiler Lundy has discovered that Dexter is the Bay Harbor Butcher with him placing a detail on him while freezing out Metro including Debra who has been his Number Two and is now dating. When agents arrive at his apartment, escorting him to the station where everyone was giving him looks, and finally into the office where Capt. Matthews and Lundy were waiting with the blood slides which they have correctly guessed are trophies, it seems to be the end for him. Then comes the Bait-and-Switch Comment;Capt. Matthews: This may come as a shock to you Morgan but the Bay Harbor Butcher is someone you know very well...Sergeant James Doakes. - Black Comedy: The whole Dream Intro as Dexter is dragging the body of Santos Jimenez through the bullpen while no-one bats an eye except for Lundy telling him to "clean this mess up"... because its a safety hazard. - Call-Back: - Masuka brings up how he's the LFI (Lead Forensic Investigator) in annoyance when Lundy brings in FBI techs to examine evidence as he freezes out Metro. - Lundy brings up Doakes's father's occupation as butcher (which Doakes himself joked as taking up as a career after leaving the police), his time in Special Ops, and his previous on-the-job shootings as evidence to his psychology as the Bay Harbor Butcher. - Matthews brings up how Doakes might attack Dexter again like he did in the bullpen after he is exposed as the Bay Harbor Butcher (not aware that Dexter, the actual Butcher'', baited Doakes into attacking him to get the Sergeant suspended and ruin his credibility). - Cassandra Truth: Dexter tries to warn Angel that Lila is just using him and is dangerous, but the latter ignores his warnings as he enjoys the attention of someone like Lila, in particular wanting Sex for Solace after his Trauma Conga Line. - Cliffhanger: The episode ends with Doakes locked in a cage in the cabin with full-knowledge of Dexter as the Bay Harbor Butcher as a manhunt for him is launched believing him to be the Serial Killer... - Cowboy Cop: Viciously Deconstructed for Doakes this episode as all of his actions and not explaining himself have painted himself as the Bay Harbor Butcher. Instead of handing the blood slides over to the police or any other authorities even anonymously, he leaves them hidden in his car as he leaves the country to find a secure lab to test them after walking out of an interview with Lundy. Overall, it looks as if Doakes believed Lundy was onto him and has fled the country to avoid prosecution for mass-murder. - Dolly Zoom: When Dexter finds the blood slides missing, assuming Lundy has them, a quick dolly zoom is done on Dexter to sell the sheer Oh, Crap! moment he's having. - Dramatic Irony: The entire scene with Dexter, Lundy, and Matthews regarding the blood slides as the latter two explain how all the evidence and events of the last season has led to Doakes being named as the Bay Harbor Butcher. This includes watching as they entrust Dexter, the actual Butcher, with the slides to be analysis believing him more than any will want to see Doakes "brought to justice", which he certainly will. - Dream Intro: The episode begins with Dexter and Debra exiting the elevator as they discuss his and Lila's break-up and she was being a Toxic Friend Influence all while he's appears to be dragging something while no-one are treating what he's doing as unusual. Then Lundy yells at him for causing a safety hazard and its revealed that Dexter has been dragging the body of Santos Jimenez through the bullpen. - Foreshadowing: A quick deduction can tell you ahead of time who Lundy's Bay Harbor Butcher suspect is. When Dexter finds the blood slides missing, he assumes Lundy found them and knows he's the BHB. But the audience saw that Doakes took them in the last episode, meaning he'd be the one found with the blood slides, and therefore he'd be Lundy's logical suspect. - Friend on the Force: Deconstructed as LaGuerta is the only one who doesn't believe that Doakes is the Bay Harbor Butcher but unfortunately he refuses to share where he got the blood slides from or his suspicions, while there is little she can do to stop the task force with going to the press. - Graceful Loser: When Dexter thinks he's about to be arrested for being the Bay Harbor Butcher, he's surprisingly calm, making no attempt to resist what appears to be arrest, and almost relieved. He notes that while it's going to be painful to Debra when she finds out, it'll be nice for Dexter to not have to keep up the act anymore. - Idiot Ball: Despite Doakes being a competent and dedicated detective, he made an incredibly foolish decision to leave the country just to find another secure lab to do testing without even bringing the blood slides with him, leaving them behind in his car which the police found, sending a huge red flag that led them to believe he is the Bay Harbor Butcher instead of Dexter. - Ironic Echo: Dexter suddenly finds himself in Doakes's shoes when Lundy asks Dexter what's Doakes problem with the blood splatter analyst;Dexter: [Internally] I kill people for one thing but what was it that Doakes said? [To Lundy and Matthews] I always sense something...off about Sgt. Doakes. Like he was hiding in plain sight. I never masked my suspicions. - Jurisdiction Friction: The FBI starts to take over the entire investigation thanks to their suspect being a member of Miami Metro, with Dexter essentially being shut out of his own lab, only being asked for instructions on how his system works. Defied again by Matthews, as once Doakes is revealed as the suspect, he has Miami Metro take a major role again, Dexter even being able to tell off the FBI lab techs. This is because Miami Metro's public confidence is about implode thanks to naming one of their own officers as a suspected serial killer, so the two investigating parties need to show unity in order to try an assuage some of that PR nightmare. - Keeping Secrets Sucks: Lundy's argument to Deb for being open about their relationship is that sneaking around has never worked out in "the history of office romances". - Laser-Guided Karma: Dexter may be a Serial Killer, but he's an Affably Evil Friendly Neighborhood Serial-Killer Killer whose victims were all Asshole Victims and he was generally nice to everyone around him. While Doakes was correct in being suspicious of him, Dexter never did anything to warrant the abuse the Sergeant heaped on him while the officer was abrasive with people at best and a massive Jerkass at worst to everyone around him. Its seems almost poetic how Doakes' in deep shit as his backstory, general demeanor, and Cowboy Cop antics have painted himself as the Bay Harbor Butcher while Dexter is seen as a potential victim that needs police protection. - Oh, Crap!: Dexter has a slow burning one throughout most of the episode as he believes that Lundy and the FBI are onto him especially when he discovers the blood slides (not knowing that Doakes actually took them). Doakes has a more understandable one when LaGuerta reveals they found something in his car as he realizes how screwed he is. - Rejected Apology: Dexter apologizes to Rita for his actions involving Lila which she appreciates though she still can't forgive him for sleeping with another woman. Later though, she does call him and admits she still has feelings for him and they agree to meet the next day to talk about their relationship. - Rule of Symbolism: - Subverted as Dexter doesn't consider the Dream Intro he had to be anyway subtle about what is on his mind regarding the still dismembered body of Jimenez he's yet to dispose of. - When Dexter is being brought into the station for what he assumes is his arrest as the Bay Harbor Butcher, he he's holding his hands together in a way that looks like he's in handcuffs. - Sex for Solace: Angel has at this point, been divorced, stabbed, and seen his friend accused of being a mass murderer. Because of this, he doesn't really care what Dexter says about Lila, she's hot, and he want's a "light at the end of the tunnel". - Shout-Out: The episode title refers to the Borg Collective of the Star Trek franchise and refers to Lila refusing to let go of Dexter and their relationship, as well the seeming inevitability that the FBI will arrest Dexter. - Wham Episode: The last couple episode have seen major shakeups, but this one really takes the cake. After the whole season of the Bay Harbor Butcher investigation honing in on Dexter, the whole plotline is flipped on it's head when the FBI and Miami Metro list their prime suspect as...Sgt. James Doakes, as Doakes' actions and coincidental evidence led them to believe him to be the Butcher and launch a manhunt for him. Meanwhile Doakes learns Dexter's true identity as the Butcher but is captured and caged by the latter. Furthermore, Lila shows up at Miami Metro, making it clear her and her chaos are not going anywhere. "That's right, motherfucker! It's over!"


--- ["Dexter" The Dark Defender (TV Episode 2007) - Plot - IMDb] ---
- Dexter discovers that the man who murdered his mother in front of him as a boy is still alive and confronts the killer as part of his recovery from addiction - but he also discovers that old impulses die hard. - As Dexter Morgan (Michael C. Hall) waits in line to buy coffee, he listens with some satisfaction to customers as they discuss the Bay Harbor Butcher. Later, while drinking coffee with sister Debra Morgan (Jennifer Carpenter,) Dexter learns that the Marine Biologist hired by the department is still studying the algae found on the rocks used by the Bay Harbor Butcher to weigh down the body bags in the ocean. Before leaving for work, Deb tells Dexter that she'll be spending the night with her new boyfriend, Gabriel (Dave Baez.) At a comic book store crime scene, Dexter takes samples from superhero figurines. He analyzes the blood spatter on the walls and surmises that a snow globe was the murder weapon. A poster of the Dark Defender catches his eye. He asks the murder victim's co-worker about the poster. The co-worker explains that Denny, the murder victim, was attempting to set up a graphic novel about the Dark Defender. An angry Sgt James Doakes, (Erik King,) barks at Dexter for interrupting his questioning of a potential witness. Later, at an NA meeting, Dexter dozes off during sharing. He dreams of his mother's killers - three men with a chain saw. Suddenly, the Dark Defender appears and kills his mother's murderers. He pulls back the hood covering his face. It's Dexter as the Dark Defender. Dexter tells his mother that she's safe. While having coffee and doughuts after the meeting, Dexter's sponsor, Lila Tournay (Jaime Murray) asks where he drifted off to. Dexter explains that his mother was murdered, and confesses that he's never told anyone his secret before. Lila suspects that his past is where his addiction began. LIla tells Dexter that he needs closure. As Gabriel sleeps, Deb quietly goes through his things. Gabriel wakes up and sees her. Deb sheepishly tells him that she's trying to get to know him better. Deb confesses that she was the Ice Truck Killer's girlfriend. Gabriel tells Deb that he doesn't know who the Ice Truck Killer is. An angry Deb tries to leave, but Gabriel stops her, reminding her that he's been in El Salvador for the past year and knows nothing about what's been happening in Miami. Deb is relieved. At girlfriend Rita Bennett's (Julie Benz) house, Dexter chases a wayward armadillo out of the house with a broom. Cody Bennett(Preston Bailey) and Astor Bennett (Christina Robinson) cheer. Rita's mother, Gail (JoBeth Williams) confronts Dexter privately and tells him that she knows what he is. She waves NA literature at him. Dexter confesses that he entered the program. Gail tells Dexter that if he really cared about Rita and the kids, he'd dump Rita. At the morning briefing at the station, the results from the algae are revealed: they contain zinc and lead, narrowing down the possible harbors to only a few, Coral Cove being one of them. Special Agent Frank Lundy (Keith Carradine) and Deb take Coral Cove to investigate. Angel Batista (David Zayas) notes that Coral Cove is still affordable ona cops' salary. Dexter reviews his mother's old files. He discovers that the last murderer is still alive, and that he was an informant. Dexter listens to one of father Harry Morgan's (James Remar) old tapes. He hears his mother telling Harry about cocaine evidence against a dealer. Harry tells her to hold out. Dexter realizes that Harry knew his mother, and that she was part of his case. Doakes and Lt Maria Laguerta (Lauren Velez) stake out the marina. Maria tells Doakes that she is worried about him because he has had 2 shootings in less than 6 months. Doakes is unconcerned. Lila shows up at the station to see Dexter. Angel sees her in the lobby and takes her to Dexter. Lila tells Angel that she is Dexter's decorator. In his lab, Dexter smashes a plaster head with a snow globe. Fake blood spatters the wall, which is covered with paper. Angel delivers Lila. Dexter is clearly uncomfortable having Lila at his worksite. Angel leaves them alone. Lila asks Dexter about his mother's killers and pushes Dexter to go talk to the last one still living. Lila and Dexter plan a trip to Naples, where his mother's killer now lives. Before leaving, Lila admires the blood spatters on the walls, and takes one of the spattered papers as a souvenir. Deb and Lundy walk Coral Cove. Lundy stops, takes of his shoes and socks, and soaks his feet in the water. He offers Deb half of his sandwich. Deb, upset, suggests that the cross reference the rental logs among the harbors, but Lundy insists on stopping for lunch. Deb angrily reminds Lundy that they are supposed to be investigating and criticizes Lundy. Lundy tells Deb that Coral Cove is not kept up and that he wants to order 24 hour survellience on the marina. Deb, now satisfied, takes off her shoes and socks and soaks her feet. After work, Dexter hurriedly prepares to head to Naples. Deb catches him and tells Dexter he should move his boat. Dexter waves her off. Dexter and Lila head to Naples. Dexter tells Lila that Gail wants him to leave Rita and the kids. LIla suggests that he practice what he wants to say to his mother's killer. Dexter says that the killer stole his life, and that he's not the person he was supposed to be. At the marina, Doakes and Maria continue their stake-out. Doakes suggests that they "pass the time like we used to," but Maria shuts him down. They argue about Doakes being fine after killing 2 people in 6 months. Angrily, Doakes confronts Maria about Bertrand, Esme's fiance. Shocked, Maria confesses that she slept with Bertand to get Esme out of the way so she could get her job back. Doakes sees the suspect. He and Maria go after him. At the hotel in Naples, Dexter gets a call from Rita. Lila takes a shower. Dexter tells Rita that he's looking into someone from his past, and that Gail wasn't a fan of people in recovery. Rita tells Dexter that she will take care of her mother. Lila showers in front of Dexter, who is confused. At Gabriel's apartment, Deb goes through his email while Gabriel is in the shower. She discovers that Gabriel is a writer, and that he is shopping a book called "Ice Princess." Gabriel gets out of the shower. Deb angrily confronts him and then leaves before Gabriel can explain. Dexter walks into a bar where he immediately spots his mother's killer - the bartender (unk.) Dexter calls Lila, who is redrawing the unattractive painting over the bed in the hotel. The bartender stares at Dexter. Rita and her mother argue about Dexter. Gail tells Rita that she's making the same mistakes all over again. Rital tells her mother that Dexter isn't leaving her. Gail goes to bed. At seven minutes past last call, the bartender impatiently tells Dexter to finish his beer. Dexter surveys the empty bar and tells the bartender that he's visiting from Miami. He questions the bartender about living in Naples. The bartender asks Dexter what he wants. Dexter informs him that he's there to tell him how he feels. Confused, the bartender listens as Dexter tells him that he stole his life when he killed his mother. Upset and angry, the bartender takes a baseball bat out from behind the bar. Dexter tells him that he's made a big mistake and beats the bartender. Covered in the blood of his mother's killer, Dexter drags the unconscious bartender to a pool table. Tied down and helpless, the bartender tells a frenzied Dexter that his mother had to be killed because she was a snitch and was sleeping with Harry. Just as he is about to kill the bartender, Dexter's phone rings. Lila asks if Dexter is okay. Dexter, nearly out of control, tells Lila that he is about to "use." Lila tells Dexter that he's stronger than his addiction and begs Dexter to return to the hotel. Dexter leaves the bartender and returns to Lila, who comforts him. Back at the station, Deb reviews boat rental logs at the other two marinas. Lundy asks about Gabriel. Deb tells Lundy that they broke up. Lundy gives Deb a file on Gabriel. Deb is surpised that Lundy background checked her boyfriend. Lundy tells Deb that Gabriel is clean. Deb confesses that she went through his email and discovered that Gabriel is a writer shopping a book about her and the Ice Truck Killer. Lundy tells Deb that Gabriel writes children's books. Lundy and Deb bond. Lundy tells Deb to get Gabriel back. Dexter wakes up to discover that he slept on Lila all night. LIla tells Dexter how she got into the program. She tells Dexter about her rage and how she burned her ex-boyfriend's house to the ground - with the boyfriend still inside. The fire was blamed on the boyfriend's drug use. Dexter tells Lila she didn't do anything wrong. Dexter drops by Rita's house for breakfast. Rita tells him that he's part of the family and suggests that her mother will be leaving soon. To both Rita and Dexter's surprise, Gail joins them for breakfast and announces that she plans to stay in Miami - and live with Rita. Worried about his boat and what investigators might find, Dexter decides to do a midnight cleaning. As Dexter checks for blood traces with luminol, and scrubs with bleach, surveillance cameras capture his every move. Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content


--- [Dexter: Season 2 (2007) — The Movie Database (TMDB)] ---
Season 2 (2007) ← Back to season list Episodes 12 It's Alive! Things are really beginning to heat up for Dexter: Doakes' suspicions about him are growing, his victims are escaping, and his body dump site has been found. Meanwhile Paul is troubling Rita over the missing shoe and Debra is going through trauma over the Ice Truck killer incident. Read MoreWaiting to Exhale Dexter is finding it hard to have closure on killing his brother. There is a new FBI agent to head the "Bay Harbor Butcher" case. Debra is finding it tough to put the past behind her. Read MoreAn Inconvenient Lie Dexter's inability to deceive has him pursuing a slick liar as his next victim, while Rita believes he's concealing a drug problem and forces him into a 12-step program where he meets Lila, a seductive new woman. Read MoreSee-Through Rita's estranged mother visits and senses something is wrong with Dexter. Masuka thinks he's developed a lead in the Bay Harbor Butcher case, which has Dexter concerned. Angel's interrogation of a witness crosses a line. Read MoreThe Dark Defender Dexter discovers that the man who murdered his mother in front of him as a boy is still alive and confronts the killer as part of his recovery from addiction - but he also discovers that old impulses die hard. Read MoreDex, Lies, and Videotape A copy-cat killer follows the lead of the "Bay Harbor Butcher." Dexter must destroy an incriminating surveillance video. Read MoreThat Night, a Forest Grew Dexter manages to get Doakes off his back. He devises a plan to get the police in another direction. Lila and Dex's relationship intensifies, and he has some interaction with Rita and the kids. Read MoreMorning Comes Dexter is attacked by the man who murdered his mother. Meanwhile, Lila wants to get closer to Dex, and Debra and Lundy close in on the Bay Harbor Butcher. Read MoreResistance Is Futile Dexter realizes it won't be easy to end things completely with Lila. Dexter tries to stay ahead of the investigations as the manhunt for the Bay Harbor Butcher intensifies. An enemy of Dexter figures out his secret. Read MoreThere's Something About Harry Doakes follows Dexter to his next crime scene and shocks him with a revelation about Harry. The Bay Harbor Butcher task force feels they are zeroing in on their man. Read MoreLeft Turn Ahead Dexter must make a massive decision that will have an effect on all those he holds close. Lila meanwhile is back with a secret to blackmail Dexter. Read MoreThe British Invasion Special Agent Lundy and the FBI finally settle the case of the Bay Harbor Butcher, but the heat's not entirely off Dexter as the flames literally close in. Read More
