=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Cherry Hospital – Abandoned Southeast]
Jan 12, 2025 · A monument in memorial of the patients interred on campus was dedicated on June 3, 2004. The two known burial grounds account for those buried since 1905 but do not account for those buried between 1880 and 1905.
URL: https://abandonedsoutheast.com/2025/01/12/cherry-hospital/

[Cherry Hospital - Wikipedia]
A monument in memoriam of the patients interred on the old Cherry Hospital campus was dedicated on June 3, 2004. [5] The two known burial grounds mentioned above may account for those buried since 1905 but do not account for those buried between 1880 and 1905.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cherry_Hospital

[Cherry Hospital Explained]
A monument in memoriam of the patients interred on the old Cherry Hospital campus was dedicated on June 3, 2004. [5] The two known burial grounds mentioned above may account for those buried since 1905 but do not account for those buried between 1880 and 1905.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Cherry_Hospital/

[Cherry Hospital - classesinformation.blogspot.com]
Feb 16, 2018 · A monument in memoriam of the patients interred on the old Cherry Hospital campus was dedicated on June 3, 2004. Dorothea Dix Influence The mid-nineteenth century in North Carolina marked a time of great change in the methods of caring for the mentally ill.
URL: https://classesinformation.blogspot.com/2018/02/cherry-hospital.html

[Cherry Hospital - Asylum Projects]
Mar 16, 2020 · On April 11, 1878, one hundred seventy-one acres of land two miles west of Goldsboro were purchased. The site was described by Governor Z. B. Vance as ideal for a hospital building because of good elevation in a high state of cultivation and central location for the black population.
URL: https://www.asylumprojects.org/index.php/Cherry_Hospital


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Cherry Hospital – Abandoned Southeast] ---
About an hour outside of Raleigh, North Carolina sits Cherry Farm, sandwiched between a state penitentiary and a rehab center for paroled drug offenders. Today, the desolate farm is used to conduct sustainable agricultural research, but Cherry Farm has served a very different purpose for nearly a century. It formed the grounds of Cherry Hospital, one of the state’s most notorious mental institutions. Mental healthcare in North Carolina can be traced to Dorothea Dix’s appeals to the state legislature in 1848 and the opening of the hospital in Raleigh in 1856 that bears her name. Despite the push by other states to develop and build asylums, North Carolina continued to resist these efforts due to the high construction cost. The state was the 12th of the original 13 colonies to pass legislation allowing for the construction of a state hospital. Shortly after the asylum in Raleigh opened, it was packed beyond capacity. The governor announced his support for an expansion. Plans were discussed for a second facility in the Western region of the state, and additional discussion of an Eastern asylum for African Americans during the 1875-1876 session. In 1877, the North Carolina General Assembly appointed a committee to select a location for a mental health facility for its African American citizens. In April 1878, the state purchased approximately 171 acres from William T. Dortch two miles west of Goldsboro for a hospital to serve “exclusively for the accommodation, maintenance, care, and treatment of the colored insane of the state.” The site was selected in part because it was the center of the state’s Black population. The first patient was admitted to the then-named “Asylum for the Colored Insane” on August 1, 1880. The first superintendent, Dr. William Moore, answered to a board of nine directors. On March 5, 1881, the Eastern North Carolina Insane Asylum was incorporated, and the board of directors sought more appropriations for treatment. When it opened, the institution had a bed capacity of 76; nevertheless, by Christmas 1880, more than 100 patients were crowded into the facility. These patients were cared for through a $16,000 appropriation. For 85 years, the hospital served the Black citizens of all 100 counties. Early treatment programs were mainly custodial, while able-bodied patients worked on the farm. The farm was expanded as the population grew to over 3,000 individuals. In 1884, a battery was purchased because electricity was believed to be beneficial in treating early insanity. Although horticultural therapy is now regarded as a progressive treatment for mental illness, its actual therapeutic effects on a population that was only recently freed from slavery are unclear. For instance, picking cotton was one of the farming tasks assigned to the residents. At the turn of the 20th century ideas about mental health were almost as archaic as the attitude toward civil rights at the time. The 1884 Superintendent’s Report listed causes of insanity for the patients that seem absurd in modern times, such as masturbation and “deranged menses.” While conditions were described as crowded, the superintendent saw no need to do anything about it. A separate building was established for treating tubercular patients. In addition, a building for the criminally insane was opened in 1924. Most of the older buildings, including one designed by A. G. Bauer, were replaced in the 1930s and 1940s. The main administration and hospital building, the Woodard Building, was completed in 1939. An occupational therapist was employed in 1932, but therapy was mainly confined to the farm, laundry, kitchen, and yard work. Throughout the 1930s and 1940s, laxatives, castor oil, salts, aspirin, and sedatives were the standard medications given to patients. Hydrotherapy and electroshock therapy were both administered but were soon abandoned. Troublesome patients were placed in seclusion in 6’x9’ steel cages. This practice remained as part of the treatment program until 1956. Chapel facilities and chaplain services were not available until the early 1950s, but selected patients were allowed to visit churches in Goldsboro under the supervision of an attendant. The institution’s name was changed to the Eastern North Carolina Insane Asylum, then to the State Hospital at Goldsboro, and in 1959 to Cherry Hospital in honor of Governor R. Gregg Cherry, governor of North Carolina from 1945 to 1949 whose administration focused on expanding mental health services and increasing hospital facilities and personnel. By 1955, tranquilizing medications were widely used and helped revolutionize patient treatment. As a result of extensive use of psychotropic drugs, the rate of discharges began to increase, and the length of hospitalization decreased. While discharges increased, the admission rate also increased significantly, and the resident population remained virtually stable at approximately 3,000 patients between 1950 and 1965. The highest rate of occupancy was approximately 3,500 patients. During its first 100 years of service, more than 91,000 patients passed through the its doors. Cherry Hospital exclusively served the African American mentally ill population of North Carolina, being the sole mental health institution available to them until the mid-1960s. The facility remained segregated until 1965 when it, along with other state mental institutions, began to implement the Civil Rights Act of 1964. This action marked the start of desegregating the patient population. The hospital extended its services to individuals of all races from the 33 assigned counties in North Carolina’s eastern region. African American patients at Cherry Hospital were relocated to facilities within their respective regions, and white patients from other regions who were designated for the eastern region were admitted to Cherry Hospital. One of Cherry Hospital’s most horrifying cases came to a close in 2001 with the death of 93-year-old Junius Wilson, a deaf-mute man who had been a resident since he was 17. In 1925, Wilson was accused of attempted rape. Upon his admission to Cherry Hospital, Junius Wilson was castrated by the staff, a common occurrence for African Americans accused of rape during that time. Due to his communication through grunts and unusual hand gestures, he was presumed insane and confined to the asylum. The fabricated rape charge was eventually dismissed in the 1970s. Yet, it was not until 1991 that a social worker discovered Wilson was not mentally ill but simply deaf. He communicated using a distinct sign language historically taught to African Americans in the South, which had been mistakenly interpreted as erratic gestures of insanity. For seven decades Wilson was wrongfully accused and left to suffer among mentally unstable individuals. When Wilson’s story broke in the early 1990s it made national news. A book about his life was published in 2007, which doubled as something of an expose of the egregious conditions suffered by many other men and women at Cherry Hospital. After being freed from confinement, Wilson, who had no known living family members, was given a small cottage of his own on the hospital grounds. He had a yellow bike that he rode around the farm in his later years and was often seen fishing at the river that ran behind the fields or tending to the dogs that he kept in one of the barns. Despite the horrors of his life, apparently, he died in peace. Local rumors that Cherry Hospital is haunted may stem in part from the two cemeteries located on the old campus. One is located behind the Chase Laundry Building where patients were buried between 1905 and 1928; the other is located behind the McFarland Building where the earliest known burial is 1927. It is known that there are 3,000 people buried on the grounds, with approximately 700 graves marked with upright brass crosses bearing patient names and dates. A monument in memorial of the patients interred on campus was dedicated on June 3, 2004. The two known burial grounds account for those buried since 1905 but do not account for those buried between 1880 and 1905. It is known that there have been over 3800 people buried on the hospital grounds since 1913. These people were identified from their death certificates found online. It is possible that there are at least 5000 men, women, and children buried on the property. Cherry Hospital is believed to be the site of the largest African American burial ground in North Carolina. It is possible that, in the future, the names of all those interred there will become known to the public and to the families of the deceased. To an extent, it seems the decrepit, deplorable conditions at Cherry Hospital have extended into modern times. There have been repeated charges of patient abuse, neglect, and questionable deaths in recent years. In one case, two employees were found guilty of abuse after punching and kicking a 30-year-old patient. In 2008, U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services revoked the hospital’s certification, costing it an estimated $8 million to $10 million in federal funding as a result. Its accreditation was not reinstated until 2009. The federal agency reacted after the death of Steven Sabock, a 50-year-old patient who choked on his medication, hit his head and was left sitting in a chair for 22 hours, unattended and without food. Surveillance video showed employees playing cards and watching TV a few feet away from the dying patient. In the wake of Sabock’s death, an entire ward was shut down, numerous employees were fired or disciplined, the hospital’s director resigned, and consultants were hired to retrain staff. A zero-tolerance policy toward employees found to have abused or neglected patients was instituted. Soon, hospital employees complained the pendulum had swung too far in the other direction, leaving them dangerously exposed to violent patients and fearing dismissal if they defended themselves. In 2010, groundbreaking on a new $138 million 313-bed state-of-the-art Cherry Hospital took place a few miles from the former campus. State officials believed that having all the patients and staff under one roof would help administrators keep a closer eye on staff, others were not so sure. In 2012, the North Carolina Department of Labor fined Cherry Hospital more than $15,000 after at least eight employees were injured that year. The agency’s report cited the hospital with serious violations of federal workplace safety regulations, and said administrators failed to properly report some employee injuries to regulators. It also makes suggestions for numerous policy changes at the hospital. In some cases, workers were either outright attacked or hurt while trying to stop a patient from harming someone else, including a health care technician who was punched in the jaw by a patient described as being 6-foot-7-inches tall and weighing 350 pounds. The report recommended the state “provide adequate resources, including staffing of sufficient numbers to ensure employees have the ability to protect themselves, to control patients, and restrain patients as needed to prevent patient attacks employees or other patients.” The new Cherry Hospital was projected to be completed by the end of 2012; however, construction delays prolonged its opening until 2016. The previous hospital was composed of several buildings where patients have received care for more than 100 years. The new, single-structure, three-story building with approximately 410,000 square feet of space provides expanded services and additional capacity under one roof with a state-of-the-art laboratory, internal and external courtyards, dental and radiology departments, and a treatment mall. Despite the millions spent on a new psychiatric institution, many of the wards at the new Cherry Hospital still remain vacant in 2024 due to a staff shortage. Both campuses are government-owned and under constant police and security patrols. Thank you for reading this blog! Please share it with your friends. I appreciate your continued support. You can connect with me on Facebook, Instagram, and TikTok. Explore my collection of photography books to discover more incredible, abandoned sites throughout the Southeast. Discover more from Abandoned Southeast Subscribe to get the latest posts sent to your email.


--- [Cherry Hospital - Wikipedia] ---
Cherry Hospital is an inpatient regional referral psychiatric hospital located in Goldsboro, North Carolina, United States. As one of three psychiatric hospitals operated by the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services, it provides services to 38 counties in the eastern region of North Carolina. It is part of the Division of State Operated Healthcare Facilities within the Department of Health and Human Services, which oversees and manages 14 state-operated healthcare facilities that treat adults and children with mental illness, developmental disabilities, and substance use disorders. The Division's psychiatric hospitals provide comprehensive inpatient mental health services to people with psychiatric illness who cannot be safely treated at a lower level of care.
Cherry Hospital's treatment units include Adolescent, Adult Acute Admissions, Geriatric Admissions, Psychiatric Rehabilitation, and Psychiatric Medical to serve those with complex acute care needs, providing a level of care not available in their own communities.




--- [Cherry Hospital Explained] ---
No content


--- [Cherry Hospital - classesinformation.blogspot.com] ---
Cherry Hospital is an inpatient regional referral psychiatric hospital located in Goldsboro, North Carolina, United States. As one of three psychiatric hospitals operated by the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services, it provides services to 38 counties in the eastern region of North Carolina. It is part of the Division of State Operated Healthcare Facilities within the Department of Health and Human Services, which oversees and manages 14 state-operated healthcare facilities that treat adults and children with mental illness, developmental disabilities, and substance use disorders. The Division's psychiatric hospitals provide comprehensive inpatient mental health services to people with psychiatric illness who cannot be safely treated at a lower level of care. Cherry Hospital's treatment units include Adolescent, Adult Acute Admissions, Geriatric Admissions, Psychiatric Rehabilitation, and Psychiatric Medical to serve those with complex acute care needs, providing a level of care not available in their own communities. Video Cherry Hospital History In 1877, the North Carolina General Assembly appointed a committee to recommend the selection of a site for a facility for the black mentally ill which would serve the state. On April 11, 1878, 171 acres (69 ha) of land two miles (3 km) west of Goldsboro were purchased. The site was described by Governor Zebulon Baird Vance as ideal for a hospital building because of good elevation in a high state of cultivation and central location for the black population. On August 1, 1880, the first patient was admitted to the then named "Asylum for Colored Insane". Since that time, there have been several name changes including: The Eastern North Carolina Insane Asylum, Eastern Hospital, and State Hospital at Goldsboro. The name was changed to Cherry Hospital in 1959 in honor of Governor R. Gregg Cherry, who focused his administration on expanding mental health services and increasing hospital facilities and personnel during his tenure. The bed capacity for the hospital when established was seventy-six but over one hundred patients were crowded into the facility by Christmas of 1880. On March 5, 1881, the Eastern North Carolina Insane Asylum was incorporated and a board of nine directors appointed. A separate building was established for treating tubercular patients. In addition, a building for the criminally insane was opened in 1924. For the first eighty-five years of its history, Cherry Hospital served the entire black population for the State of North Carolina. In 1965, the hospital joined other state hospitals in implementing the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Cherry began serving patients from the thirty-three counties in the Eastern Region in 1965 by providing services for all races. Black patients at Cherry were transferred to hospitals in their appropriate region while Cherry received white patients from other hospitals in other regions. Cherry Farm From the opening of the institution, much of the cultivation was performed on the hospital grounds under the management of the steward. By 1960, Cherry Farm had 2,300 acres in cultivation, including fruit trees, an apple orchard, vegetables, and sugar cane, with livestock consisting of hogs, chickens, turkeys and cows. The farm supplied the hospital's requirement of milk, eggs, and pork (except cured bacon), 70% of the hospital's beef requirement; nothing was sold except hides. Early Treatment The early treatment program was mainly custodial, while able-bodied patients worked on the farm. In 1884, a battery was purchased as electricity was said to be beneficial to the treatment of early insanity. An occupational therapist was employed in 1932, but therapy was mainly confined to the farm, laundry, kitchen and yard work. During the 1930s and 1940s, laxatives, castor oil, salts, aspirin, and sedatives were the standard medications given to patients. Hydrotherapy was attempted, but soon abandoned. Seclusion in the form of 6'x9' steel cages was also utilized, but was completely removed from the treatment program in 1956. Chapel facilities and chaplain services were not available until the early 1950s, but selected patients were allowed to visit churches in Goldsboro under the supervision of an attendant. By 1955, tranquilizing medications were widely used and helped revolutionize patient treatment. As a result of extensive use of psychotropic drugs, the rate of discharges began to increase and the length of hospitalization decreased. While discharges increased, the admission rate also increased significantly and the resident population remained virtually stable at approximately 3,000 patients between 1950 and 1965. The highest rate of occupancy was approximately 3,500 patients. During its first 100 years of service, Cherry Hospital served 91,045 patients. From Segregation to Integration For the first 85 years of its history, Cherry Hospital served only the mentally ill African-American population for the entire state of North Carolina, and remained the only mental hospital available to those citizens until the mid-1960s. The hospital remained segregated until 1965, when, to comply with the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Cherry Hospital joined other state mental institutions in implementing the law, initiating the desegregation of the patient population. The state was divided into four (4) regions, with each region containing a mental hospital for adults. Cherry Hospital began to provide services to all races from the thirty-three designated counties in the Eastern Region of North Carolina. African-American patients at Cherry Hospital were transferred to hospitals within their appropriate region, while white patients designated for the Eastern Region were received and admitted from other hospitals in other regions. Cemeteries There are two cemeteries located on the old campus of Cherry Hospital. One is located behind the Chase Laundry Building where patients were interred between 1905 to 1928; the other is located behind the McFarland Building where the earliest known interment is 1927. It is estimated that there are over 3,000 people buried on the grounds, with approximately 700 graves marked with upright brass crosses bearing patient names and dates. A monument in memoriam of the patients interred on the old Cherry Hospital campus was dedicated on June 3, 2004. Dorothea Dix Influence The mid-nineteenth century in North Carolina marked a time of great change in the methods of caring for the mentally ill. Despite the push by other states to develop and build asylums, North Carolina continued to resist these efforts due to the high cost of construction. North Carolina was twelfth of the original 13 colonies to pass legislation allowing for the construction of a state hospital. The efforts of Dorothea Lynde Dix were of paramount importance in swaying legislators to consider the cost savings, and fundamental humanity, of treating the insane. Dix addressed the North Carolina General Assembly in 1848, petitioning the members to establish formal, humane institutional care for those suffering from mental illness. Her advocacy efforts, including those of North Carolina General Assembly Representative Kenneth Rayner, led to the beginning of construction of the first asylum in North Carolina. Only two other asylums for the mentally ill, Broughton Hospital in Morganton and Cherry Hospital in Goldsboro, were approved and built before the turn of the twentieth century in North Carolina. A Founders Gallery exhibit, located in the first floor lobby of the New Cherry Hospital, was established to pay tribute to the influence and impact of the efforts championed by Dorothea Dix to care for the mentally ill. Maps Cherry Hospital The "New" Cherry Hospital In the fall of 2016, the old Cherry Hospital facility closed and was replaced by a new psychiatric facility of the same name, located at 1401 West Ash Street, Goldsboro, North Carolina, on a site approximately one-half mile from the old hospital. The new hospital, designed by Perkins+Will, of Durham, North Carolina, is a single structure, three-story building containing approximately 410,000 square feet, including 9.4 acres of floor space, consisting of residential patient care units, therapy and medical facilities, and service and administrative support areas. The site, including buildings, parking lots, grounds and buffer zones, covers approximately 51 acres and is located on a 171-acre tract. The basic construction contract for the building, utilities, and grounds was awarded to Archer Western Contractors, LTD, of Morrisville, North Carolina. Total funding for the new construction, design, medical equipment, furniture, telecommunications, information technology, equipment and other necessities totaling $138,325,814 was derived from special indebtedness bonds approved by the North Carolina General Assembly. A Groundbreaking Ceremony was held at the new site on October 1, 2010, with then Governor Beverly Eves Perdue and North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Lanier M. Cansler in attendance. A subsequent Dedication and Official Ribbon-Cutting Ceremony was held on August 30, 2016, with then Governor Pat McCrory, North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Rick Brajer, and Deputy Secretary Dale Armstrong in attendance. The previous hospital, located at 201 Stevens Mill Road, Goldsboro, North Carolina, was composed of several buildings disseminated campus-wide. The new hospital provides expanded services and additional capacity encompassed in one building. Amenities include a modern laboratory, dental and radiology departments and equipment, internal and external courtyards, a treatment mall (known as the "Hope and Wellness Center") decorated with flexible pictures hung magnetically, gymnasium and exercise room, library equipped with computers, cosmetology and barber shops, and anti-ligature doors/hinges/hooks and tempered glass. The process of transferring patients to the new hospital was initiated in late September 2016. A press release on the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services website, dated October 5, 2016, states all patients were safely moved and now occupy the new Cherry Hospital as of Thursday, September 29, 2016. Counties Served Cherry Hospital serves patients from thirty-eight (38) Eastern North Carolina counties including: Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Camden, Carteret, Chowan, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Dare, Duplin, Edgecombe, Gates, Greene, Hertford, Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lenoir, Martin, Nash, New Hanover, Northampton, Onslow, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Pitt, Robeson, Sampson, Scotland, Tyrrell, Washington, Wayne, and Wilson. Services Provided Cherry Hospital employs licensed psychiatrists, internal and family medicine physicians, and mid-level practitioners who provide short and long term mental health care and services to adolescents, adults and geriatric patients. Comprehensive treatment includes physical and diagnostic, with utilization of an array of therapeutic approaches including group, behavior, milieu therapy, occupational, as well as recreational and creative arts therapies. Treatment units Cherry Hospital's treatment units include: - The Adolescent Unit is a specialty unit providing inpatient treatment for mentally, emotionally, and behaviorally disturbed adolescents between the ages of 12 and 17. The unit provides diagnostic evaluation that includes psychiatric, medical, nursing, individual and group therapy, family counseling, nutritional services, therapeutic activities, structured group living, vocational evaluation and rehabilitation, and interagency correlation. Adolescents are enrolled in a year-round accredited school program ("Riverbend School"), which allows patients to remain up-to date in their education while receiving the care they need. - The Adult and Acute Admissions Unit is for patients between the ages of 18 and 60. It is designed for patients who are admitted in crisis and with many types of mental illness. It is a short term unit and family and community involvement is encouraged to assist with the transition back to the community. - The Geriatric Admissions Unit provides treatment for patients 60 years and older. While most of the patients in the unit have confusion and/or disorientation associated with dementia, there are others with persistent mental illness. Although patients are usually ambulatory, many suffer from age-related physical illnesses such as diabetes, hypertension, arthritis or cardiovascular disease. Most require some assistance with their basic needs. The objective of the unit is re-motivation, reorientation, and rehabilitation of patients in an effort to return them to their community and families. - The Psychiatric Rehabilitation Unit provides treatment and rehabilitation services to adults 18 and older with severe and persistent psychiatric illness. Efforts are aimed at reducing symptoms and developing the skills needed to achieve independent functioning. Patients participate in work therapy, therapaws, and in counseling sessions. A wellness clinic is part of the patients' program in order to familiarize them with routine health checks and to encourage follow-up with physicians after discharge. - The Psychiatric Medical Unit is a unit for the treatment of psychiatric patients with physical illness who cannot be managed on a general psychiatric unit due to the nature and severity of the medical illness. Patients are admitted to this unit from other hospital units. Riverbend School Riverbend School, housed within the new Cherry Hospital facility, is an accredited school program for adolescent patients between the ages of 12 and 17. Classrooms are structured as small groups for multi-age and grade, including both regular and special education classes. Liaison teachers work with home-school personnel, parents/guardians, and staff to meet each student's individual needs. Plans for Expansion Cherry Hospital plans to expand its capacity by 116 psychiatric beds, bringing the total beds to 313. The 313-bed occupancy of the new Cherry Hospital will include admissions of 136 adults, 28 adolescents, 35 geriatric, 10 medical psychiatric, and 104 psychiatric rehabilitations. There are 12 patient care units that include 228 bedrooms with one bathroom per room, 146 private bedrooms and 82 semi-private bedrooms. To adequately staff the planned beds, additional jobs are projected to be created. Accreditations Cherry Hospital is accredited by the North Carolina Medical Society to provide Continuing Medical Education(CME) to physicians and is accredited as a provider of continuing nursing education by the American Nurses Credentialing Center's Commission on Accreditation(ANCC). The hospital provides continuing education to psychologists, social workers, and teachers by working closely with Eastern Area Health Education Center(AHEC), Southeast AHEC, Southern Regional AHEC, and North Carolina Psychological Association. - The Joint Commission, 2012 Top Performer on Key Quality Measures - North Carolina Medical Society - American Nurses Credentialing Center's Commission on Accreditation - College of American Pathologists - Member, North Carolina Hospital Association Teaching Affiliations and Internships Cherry Hospital is affiliated with thirteen (13) schools of nursing. Annually, these schools complete clinical rotations in various treatment areas. The objective of the clinical experience is to provide nursing students with learning opportunities regarding the care of individuals with mental health needs. - Appalachian University - Campbell University - Coastal Carolina Community College - East Carolina University - Edgecombe Community College - James Sprunt Community College - Johnston Community College - Lenoir Community College - Sampson Community College - University of Mount Olive - University of North Carolina at Greensboro - Wayne Community College - Wilson Tech Community College Cherry Hospital is affiliated with several colleges and universities for internship placements in the areas of social work, psychology, teaching (exceptional children), dental hygiene, pharmacy and therapeutic recreation, and has affiliations with colleges/universities in other states for occupational therapy internships. The hospital is routinely utilized as a teaching site for both the Brody School of Medicine at East Carolina University and Campbell University where psychiatry residents, fellows and medical students train with the hospital's professional staff holding clinical faculty appointments. Cherry Hospital Museum The Cherry Hospital Museum is located in the Special Services house on the old hospital campus, located at 201 Stevens Mill Road, in Goldsboro, North Carolina. Displaying written documents, photographs and other artifacts, the museum depicts the history of the psychiatric hospital opened in 1880 for the African American mentally ill from all 100 counties of North Carolina. Due to the damage sustained by the effects of the flooding of Hurricane Matthew in October 2016, the museum officially closed its doors on Friday, January 13, 2017. All artifacts housed in the museum were moved to storage with future plans to rotate these pieces and display them in exhibits in the Founders Gallery, located in the First Floor of the New Cherry Hospital. An electronic presentation of these artifacts will be featured on electronic message boards located throughout the new hospital. The Cherry Foundation, Inc. The Cherry Foundation is a not-for-profit and tax exempt organization established to provide further assistance to those affected by mental illness while admitted at Cherry Hospital. This organization is a separate entity from Cherry Hospital and was officially recognized and chartered March 31, 1997, by the State of North Carolina, and was granted federal tax-exempt status, 501(c)(3) by Internal Revenue Service guidelines. Tax deductible contributions and gifts made to the foundation are utilized directly for the therapeutic care of the patients. See also - Mental disorder - Psychiatric Hospital - NC DHHS - Division of State Operated Healthcare Facilities - Psychiatric Hospitals in North Carolina References External links - Cherry Hospital - official site - NC DHHS - Division of State Operated Healthcare Facilities - The Joint Commission - Accreditation/Quality Report for Cherry Hospital - Photos of Cherry Hospital - "Moving Forward" - The Progress of the New Cherry Hospital - Cherry Hospital Museum - The Cherry Foundation, Inc. Source of the article : Wikipedia


--- [Cherry Hospital - Asylum Projects] ---
Cherry Hospital | Cherry Hospital | | |---|---| | Established | 1877 | | Construction Began | 1878 | | Opened | 1880 | | Closed | 2016 (Old hospital) | | Current Status | Active | | Building Style | Cottage Plan | | Location | Goldsboro, NC | | Alternate Names | | History In 1877, the North Carolina General Assembly appointed a committee to recommend the selection of a site for a facility for the black mentally ill which would serve the entire state. On April 11, 1878, one hundred seventy-one acres of land two miles west of Goldsboro were purchased. The site was described by Governor Z. B. Vance as ideal for a hospital building because of good elevation in a high state of cultivation and central location for the black population. On August 1, 1880, the first patient was admitted to the then named "Asylum for Colored Insane". Since that time, there have been several name changes including: The Eastern North Carolina Insane Asylum, Eastern Hospital, and State Hospital at Goldsboro. The name was changed to Cherry Hospital in 1959 in honor of Governor Gregg Cherry. The bed capacity for the hospital when established was seventy-six but over one hundred patients were crowded into the facility by Christmas of 1880. These patients were being cared for through a $16,000 appropriation. On March 5, 1881, the Easthern North Carolina Insane Asylum was incorporated and a board of nine directors appointed. The Board of Directors sought more appropriations for treatment of the black mentally ill. A separate building was established for treating tubercular patients. In addition, a building for the criminally insane was opened in 1924. The early treatment program was mainly custodial; however, early reports indicated that thirty-four percent were "cured" and released within the first six months of hospitalization. Chapel facilities and chaplain services were not available until the early 1950's but selected patients were allowed to visit churches in Goldsboro under supervision of an attendant. An occupation therapist was employed in 1932 but therapy was mainly confined to the farm, laundry, kitchen and yard work. Today a wide range of occupational and recreational therapies are provided. Tranquilizing medications were widely used by 1955 and helped revolutionize patient treatment. As a result of extensive use of psychotropic drugs, the rate of discharges began to increase and the length of hospitalization decreased. While discharges increased, the admission rate also increased significantly and the resident population remained virtually stable at approximately 3,000 patients between 1950 and 1965. The highest rate of occupancy was approximately 3,500 patients. During its first 100 years of service, Cherry Hospital served 91,045 patients. The budget for the hospital has grown from $16,000 in 1880, to over $64 million for Fiscal Year 2001-2002. There are currently 1,243 positions providing a wide range of patient care and programs as well as administrative support. For the first eighty-five years of its history, Cherry Hospital served the entire black population for the State of North Carolina. In 1965, the hospital joined other state hospitals in implementing the Civil Rights Act. Cherry began serving patients from the thirty-three counties in the Eastern Region in 1965 by providing services for all races. Black patients at Cherry were transferred to hospitals in their appropriate region while Cherry received white patients from other hospitals in other regions. A major milestone was reached in 1973 when Cherry Hospital was accredited for the first time by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals. There have been subsequent surveys by this accrediting agency with each survey resulting in continued accreditation. As Cherry Hospital enters the Twenty-first Century, we are keenly aware that treatment of the mentally ill is not a static process. The dynamic process of effectively helping the mentally ill requires a diligent and dedicated search for appropriate modes of treatment. Cherry Hospital is totally committed to the search of excellence in serving the mentally ill as reflected in our mission statement--"The mission of Cherry Hospital is to provide quality inpatient psychiatric services for the Citizens of Eastern North Carolina."[1] In late 2016 a new hospital facility opened to replace the original outdated hospital. The new hospital provides expanded services and additional capacity encompassed in one building. Amenities include a modern laboratory, dental and radiology departments and equipment, internal and external courtyards, a treatment mall (known as the "Hope and Wellness Center") decorated with flexible pictures hung magnetically, gymnasium and exercise room, library equipped with computers, cosmetology and barber shops, and anti-ligature doors/hinges/hooks and tempered glass. Images Main Image Gallery: Cherry Hospital Museum Information The Cherry Hospital Museum is located in the Special Services house on the hospital campus. The museum depicts the history of this psychiatric hospital opened in 1880 for the African American mentally ill. Written documents, photographs, a scrapbook, artifacts, and a PowerPoint presentation are available. Admission is free and open to the public from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday-Friday. Groups are welcome and tours may be scheduled in advance. Contact the museum at 919-731-3417 Cemeteries There are reportedly at least three burial areas on the campus of the hospital. It is estimated that there are well over 3000 people buried on the grounds. Only some 700 or so graves are marked with upright brass crosses bearing patient name and dates. There is no known extant listing of all those buried here. However, an extensive listing of all those thought to have been buried on the hospital grounds since about 1913 may be found on Find a Grave. Death certificates are not available online for those who died before about 1913. (source: Suzannah McCuen, MD)
