=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lowcountry connection helped launch Billy Graham]
Feb 21, 2018 · The Lord worked in mysterious ways for Billy Graham in the South Carolina Lowcountry. The story comes with many twists, and a gumbo of ...Missing: co- Inc. Reverend
URL: https://www.islandpacket.com/opinion/opn-columns-blogs/david-lauderdale/article201295434.html

[Billy Graham Trivia: What Well-Known Publication Vowed to Support His ...]
May 26, 2021 — Luce, co-founder of Time, Inc. and creator of TIME, LIFE, Fortune and Sports Illustrated, first met the evangelist in 1950 in South Carolina.
URL: https://billygraham.org.uk/p/billy-graham-trivia-what-well-known-publication-vowed-to-support-his-ministry/

[Henry Luce - Spartacus Educational]
He also spent time in Switzerland, where he studied French. In 1913 he was sent to Hotchkiss School in Connecticut. While at the school he met Briton Hadden, ...Missing: Illustrated, Reverend
URL: https://spartacus-educational.com/USAluce.htm

[TIME Marches On… Past 100 - The Russell Kirk Center]
Aug 4, 2024 · While TIME was the Luce Empire flagship and LIFE was its biggest money maker, Fortune was Luce's dearest love among his magazines, for it ...Missing: Reverend | Show results with:Reverend
URL: https://kirkcenter.org/reviews/time-marches-on-past-100/

[Series II. Speeches and Writings: Henry R. Luce papers]
Includes a published copy of HRL's speech "Freedom and Order" and photographs of a Frank Lloyd Wright house in Bliss, Idaho. Untitled, Rotary Club of Chicago, ...Missing: co- founder Reverend
URL: https://findingaids.library.nyu.edu/nyhs/ms3014_henry_luce/contents/aspace_ref2_7gj/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lowcountry connection helped launch Billy Graham] ---
Lowcountry connection helped launch Billy Graham The Lord worked in mysterious ways for Billy Graham in the South Carolina Lowcountry. The story comes with many twists, and a gumbo of religious flavors. It centers on two lions of American culture who owned large estates near Charleston. They took notice when the dashing young evangelist roared into Columbia for this first crusade the Deep South 68 years ago this week. Their blessing helped Graham — who died Wednesday at age 99 — rise from the sawdust trail of tents and faith healers to a minister embracing the world’s most powerful people. One of the lions was Bernard Baruch, a South Carolina native who made his first million on Wall Street at age 30 and was an adviser to every president from Woodrow Wilson to John F. Kennedy. Baruch was Jewish; his wife and children were Episcopalian. Graham was neither. Baruch tipped his Lowcountry neighbor, Time magazine founder Henry R. Luce, that he should put a reporter on Graham. Luce listened, perhaps because he was the son of a Presbyterian missionaries and his wife, Clare Boothe Luce, a devout Roman Catholic. Adding to her role in this drama, she also was a playwright, Republican member of Congress, ambassador — and a paramour of Baruch. All of them knew a good show when they saw it. Graham came to Columbia hot off his first two crusades, in Los Angeles and Boston, where he was an instant hit. At the time, Baruch was staying at his sprawling Hobcaw Barony plantation near Georgetown, where his friends FDR and Winston Churchill came to relax. The State newspaper in Columbia was printing Graham’s sermons each day, and Baruch wasn’t missing a word. His fateful words to Luce, who owned Mepkin Plantation in Moncks Corner were these: “There’s a young fellow down here that’s not only preaching some good religion, but he’s giving some good common sense.” Governors Mansion Luce didn’t leave it to a reporter. He went to Columbia to see for himself. Time’s Atlanta bureau chief picked him up in Charleston and made arrangements for Luce to meet Billy and Ruth Graham. They were staying with then-Gov. Strom Thurmond at the Governors Mansion. The man who founded Time, Life, Fortune and Sports Illustrated magazines — helping set the mind of America — was so warmly welcomed by Thurmond that he had to eventually tell him he’d heard all he wanted to know about South Carolina. But for several nights, Luce and Graham stayed up late at night, talking theology alone in the mansion’s library. “I think he was trying to pull me out to see if I was genuine or honest,” Graham later told his biographer Marshall Frady. “Among other things, the encounter had an impact on Time’s coverage,” veteran Time writers Nancy Gibbs and Michael Duffy write in their book, “The Preacher and the Presidents: Billy Graham and the White House.” Prior to the Columbia crusade, Time had reported that “admirers of glib, arm-flailing Evangelist Dr. Billy Graham, 31, swear his voice can penetrate a case-hardened conscience like a jack-hammer.” Gibbs and Duffy write: “But after Luce’s visit, the tone was less mocking. Now, he was ‘hawk-nosed, handsome Evangelist Billy Graham,’ whose old-time religion he ‘spruces up with streamlined metaphors of his own. Said he of Judgment Day: ‘God is going to say “Start up the projector!” Because from the cradle to the grave God has had His television cameras on you. God has every sinful word on His recording ... Are you ready?’” Graham later told Frady for his biography, “Billy Graham: A Parable of American Righteousness”: “Through Mr. Luce, people heard about me, people at universities and in the business community and places like that, that would have never considered our work seriously if it had not been written up in a sophisticated magazine like Time.” Etched in stone Newspaper tycoon William Randolph Hearst supposedly told his editors during Graham’s first crusade in Los Angeles to “Puff Graham.” But Graham said he never met the man. And Hearst’s son said it didn’t happen, according to Patrica Cornwell’s biography of Graham’s wife: “Ruth, A Portrait: The Story of Ruth Bell Graham.” Hearst and Luce chased what drew a crowd, and what made the heart tick. For the hearts of Luce and Baruch, that included a yearning for the same lush Lowcountry that is filling every hummock with people today. “To the eastward, as the sun rose, one could see tens of thousands of ducks,” Baruch wrote of the land he bought in 1905. “At times they appeared like bees pouring out of a huge bottle.” Writer Jack London — like world political leaders — was among the luminaries to come to see it for themselves. It’s open to everyone now. Baruch willed Hobcaw Barony to his daughter, Belle, who gave the 16,000 acres to a foundation so it could be preserved for scientific research and education. It is open now to the public for limited tours and special events. Over at Mepkin, Clare Booth Luce loved the land more than her husband did. She commissioned an extensive garden. And she found solace there after her only daughter was killed in a car wreck while a student at Stanford University. During her recovery, Clare converted to Catholicism, and at about the time her powerful husband put his hand on Billy Graham, the Luces donated much of Mepkin for use as a Trappist monastery. Today, the peaceful land of Mepkin Abbey is open to the public. Both Henry and Clare Boothe Luce are buried there. On the gravestone is a large, white carving of a Lowcountry live oak. Etched into the stone are the words of Isaiah 60:19: “The sun shall be no more your light by day, Nor will the brightness of the moon shine on you, but the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your glory.” Young Graham preached the everlasting light in Columbia from Feb. 19 to March 12, 1950. He then accepted Strom Thurmond’s offer for a police escort to any college in the state that would host his dazzling evangelistic team. And he rolled on into history to become a world leader himself. David Lauderdale: 843-706-8115, @ThatsLauderdale This story was originally published February 21, 2018 at 10:32 AM.


--- [Billy Graham Trivia: What Well-Known Publication Vowed to Support His ...] ---
Q: What well-known publication vowed to support Billy Graham through its coverage early in his ministry career? A: TIME magazine, under the leadership of Henry R. Luce. On 25th October 1954, Billy Graham made his first of many appearances on the cover of TIME magazine with the publication calling him, “The best-known, most talked-about Christian leader in the world today, barring the Pope.” Henry R. Luce, co-founder of Time, Inc. and creator of TIME, LIFE, Fortune and Sports Illustrated, first met the evangelist in 1950 in South Carolina. Fresh off his first two widely-popular Crusades in Los Angeles and Boston, Mr Graham held meetings in Columbia, preaching for almost a month in the city. South Carolina newspapers were covering Graham’s Columbia Crusade daily, and Luce’s friend Bernard Baruch was following along. “There’s a young fellow down here that’s not only preaching some good religion, but he’s giving some good common sense,” Baruch wrote Luce. The publishing giant decided to head South to see for himself. After attending one of the Crusades, Luce met Graham for dinner that evening, and it’s said the two talked late into the night about theology and Graham’s beliefs. Mr. Graham later talked about Luce in his autobiography, Just As I Am: “That night Mr. Luce came, I was very tense because I had announced I was going to preach on divine judgement. I thought to myself, ‘Henry Luce will be turned off by my sermon on judgement.’ … As I preached it, I felt a tremendous sense of God’s power, and a number of people responded to the Invitation. Mr. Luce himself responded in a way. He decided that his magazines would not only carry newsworthy articles about our work, but would also support us editorially. It seemed his parents had been missionaries in China, as Ruth’s had been, and their spiritual legacy to him was evident in some of his attitudes.” For decades, Graham would be featured in TIME and LIFE magazines, drawing worldwide attention to his commitment to preaching the Gospel message. “Through Mr. Luce, people heard about me,” Billy Graham once said. “People at universities and in the business community and places like that [who] would have never considered our work seriously if it had not been written up in a sophisticated magazine like Time.”


--- [Henry Luce - Spartacus Educational] ---
Henry Luce Henry Luce, the son of Henry Winters Luce, a Presbyterian missionary, was born in Tengchow, China, on 3rd April, 1898. In 1905 the mission asked Luce to raise funds in America. While in Chicago the family met Nancy Fowler McCormick, the widow of Cyrus McCormick. She was so impressed by the seven year old Henry that she asked for permission to raise him in America. They refused the offer but she insisted that she paid for the boy's education. While in America he was taken ill. The doctors decided to take Luce's tonsils out. The anesthetic wore off too soon and Luce recovered consciousness during the operation. After this he developed a stammer. According to Isaiah Wilner: "Luce spoke in violent bursts punctuated by long, awkward silences. Often it seemed as if he was fighting to control his tongue or to keep up with his racing thoughts. At times the stammer completely defaced Luce's speech... Embarrassed by his problem. Luce began to turn inward. He developed a prickly stridency, an urge to win at all costs, and at times a rough male hostility." Luce returned to China in 1907. He attended the China Inland Mission School. He hated the school and told his parents he was desperately lonely: "It sort of seems to hang on not in spells of homesickness but a hanging torture... I well sympathize with prisoners wishing to commit suicide now." During this period he became very religious. In 1909 he wrote of God: "I seem more on the same pedestal with him, more at homw, more as one of his chosen and I feel certain that he is at my side." Luce eventually became friends with a British boy named Sydney Cecil-Smith. The two boys decided to start up their own newspaper. He wrote to his parents that "I am the Editor in Chief". Luce wrote the editorial and the lead article and the newspaper included school news, fiction and poetry. In October 1911 the political situation became difficult in China and fearing revolution, Henry Winters Luce sent his son to school in St Albans in England. He also spent time in Switzerland, where he studied French. In 1913 he was sent to Hotchkiss School in Connecticut. While at the school he met Briton Hadden, another young man who was very interested in becoming a journalist. Stephen Shadegg later recalled: "Many of Luce's schoolmates thought of him as a bookish square; to the fun lovers he was a wet blanket who seldom went to a party or dated a girl. With the athletic students he wasn't popular - he had no aptitude for sports." Soon after arriving the Hotchkiss Record , announced a new competition for sophomores. The student who showed the most "natural ability" would be taken onto the board of the newspaper. Hadden came first, beating Luce into second place. Luce wrote to his father: "I am second though quite far behind the first fellow (Hadden) and while I am not satisfied with second place, yet I think it was worthwhile." In his senior year, Hadden became editor of the Hotchkiss Record . Luce now decided to concentrate on the Hotchkiss Literary Monthly . A fellow worker on the magazine Culbreth Sudler, later recalled: "He (Luce) had a kind of terrifying egotism. Everything was up there in his head. His personality, his manner, didn't matter. Nothing mattered except the idea." When Nancy Fowler McCormick discovered that Luce wanted to become a writer, she introduced him to her friend, the successful author, Lyman Abbott. He advised Luce to write as much as he could for the student newspaper. Hadden provided him with help by appointing Luce as assistant managing editor. He also edited the Hotchkiss Literary Monthly. He shocked its readers by transforming the "offbeat little monthly into a mainstream magazines of campus life." In 1916 Luce and Briton Hadden both went to Yale University and found themselves in competition to have their work published in the Yale Daily News. This involved what was known as "heeling rituals". Between October and March, the young students (heelers) wrote articles, sold advertising in the newspaper and performed various tasks for the editorial board. The editors awarded a certain number of points for each task. At the end of the competition, the top four heelers were appointed to the staff of the newspaper. Alger Shelden, the son of a millionaire attempted to buy his way to victor. However, he could only finish second to Hadden, who won with more points than any heeler in history. Luce finished in fourth place. He wrote to his father: "I have come to Rome and succeeded in the Roman Games." Shelden invited Hadden, Luce and the fourth successful heeler, Thayer Hobson, to spend Easter at the family estate at Grosse Pointe near Detroit. Hadden wrote to his mother that he had accepted the invitation because he wanted to become better acquainted with Shelden, Hobson and Luce "whom I will have to work with more or less during the next few years". Luce told his father that he was excited by the visit as Shelden's father was a close friend of Theodore Roosevelt. While they were staying at the Shelden estate, President Woodrow Wilson declared war on Germany. When they arrived back at Yale University Hadden and Luce launched a campaign in the Yale Daily News to support the war effort by encouraging the wealthy students to purchase war bonds. They also encouraged young men to join the armed forces and by the autumn of 1917 a third of the students at Yale had left to take part in the First World War. This included John Elliot Wooley, the chairman of the newspaper. Luce and Hadden both put their name forward for the top job. Hadden was elected to the post and Luce wrote to his parents: "Briton Hadden is chairman of the News, and thus my fondest college ambition is unachieved." Hadden used his new position to call for Yale to offer more classes in subjects like semaphore signaling and drill. This campaign was successful and according to one observer, "for the rest of the war the school became a military academy in all but name". Luce was also a strong supporter of the war effort. He accused his English professor of being a pacifist and suggested that Yale should ban all student groups that could not be classified as "war industries". Hadden and Luce would often print fake letters in order to create debates about controversial subjects. This strategy increased sales of the newspaper. The following year Hadden was elected chairman of the Yale Daily News for a second time and Luce won election as the managing director. During this period the two young men became very close. Luce later commented: "Somehow, despite greatest differences in temperaments and even in interests, somehow we had to work together. At that point everything we had belonged to each other." Luce and Hadden both wanted to become members of the Skull and Bones group. Only fifteen students were allowed to join each year. They achieved the honour in 1919. Other members of this secret society include William Howard Taft, Henry L. Stimson, William Averell Harriman, Clarence Douglas Dillon, Frederick Trubee Davison, James Jesus Angleton, William F. Buckley, McGeorge Bundy, Robert A. Lovett, Potter Stewart, Lewis Lapham, George H. W. Bush and his son, George W. Bush. In 1920 Luce, while on holiday in Rome, met Lila Ross Hotz, who came from a very wealthy family in Chicago. They got on well together. Stephen Shadegg has argued: "To compensate for the stammer which still embarrassed him at time, he had learned to speak slowly, deliberately, which often seemed pontifical to others. The slim Lila was quite different. She was voluble, impulsive and extravagant. Luce, who had little time for girls in college, fell in love." The following Lila wrote to her mother: "His name is Luce - don't know his first name, or where his home is - or anything. Yet I do know what he thinks about many things! Agreed by us all to be the best looking man ever - which does count!... He was quite the most heavenly thing to talk to." Luce returned to the United States and decided to start a career in business. Nancy Fowler McCormick arranged for him to have an interview with the International Harvester Company. McCormick told the general manager of the company, Alexander Legge, to find him a good job in the organisation. Legge said to Luce: "If Mrs. McCormick wants us to do it, we'll do it. But now, Luce, do you want us to do it? If we take you on, you know, we have to fire somebody else." Given this option, Luce declined the offer of a job with a company. Luce told Mrs. McCormick he really wanted to become a journalist. She introduced him to her good friend, Victor Lawson, owned the Chicago Daily News. He arranged for him to become an assistant to his top reporter, Ben Hecht. He was not impressed with the young man's abilities and after ten days he recommended that Luce should be fired. Henry Justin Smith, who did not want to upset Lawson, moved him to the city room. He was found to be unsatisfactory in this department and in November 1921 he was sacked by Smith. The following month his friend, Briton Hadden, found him a job working on The Baltimore News-Post. They spent much of their spare-time discussing the possibility of starting their own news magazine. Hadden argued that most people in the United States were fairly ignorant of what was going on in the world. According to Hadden, the main problem was not a lack of information, but too much. He pointed out there were over 2,000 daily newspapers, 159 magazines and nearly 500 radio stations in America. The two men objected to the emphasis placed on entertainment by these various media organisations. The situation became worse when in 1919 a Chicago publisher, Joseph Medill Patterson, moved to New York City and launched his tabloid newspaper, the Daily News. Making good use of photographs, the newspaper concentrated on murder stories and celebrity scandals. Luce and Hadden intended to change this trend by producing a magazine that dealt with serious news. Luce wrote to his father: "True, we are not going out like Crusaders to propagate any great truths. But we are proposing to inform people - to inform many people who would not otherwise be informed; and to inform all people in a manner in which they have never been informed before." Over the next few months they began working on their proposed news magazine. Every day they cut-up the New York Times and separated the articles into topics. At the end of the week, they extracted the main events and rewrote the stories in their own words. Luce and Hadden showed these mock-ups to their former English professors, Henry Seidal Canby and John Milton Berdan. Canby thought the writing was "positively atrocious" and "telegraphic". Berdan was more sympathetic and accepted that the style was essential if they were to compete with movies, radio shows and billboards. Despite his criticism of the writing, Canby advised the men to continue with the project. Luce and Hadden resigned their jobs at the Baltimore News-Post and moved back to New York City where they moved in with their parents. They also recruited their friend, Culbreth Sudler, as their business manager. They drew up a prospectus that they could show prospective investors. It included the following: "Time is a weekly news magazine, aimed to serve the modern necessity of keeping people informed, created on a new principle of complete organization. Time is interested - not in how much it includes between its cover - but in how much it gets off its pages into the minds of it's readers." It added that the magazine "would entertain as well as edify" and argued that they would tell the news through the personalities who made the headlines. A friend of Luce's father introduced them to W. H. Eaton, the publisher of World's Work. He later recalled: "I spent a full afternoon with those fellows going over their first dummy, discussing their editorial philosophy. They certainly were intense about the whole thing, and Hadden seemed to be driving every minute of the time. But it didn't have a professional look to me. I told them I didn't think they'd have a Chinaman's chance." Eaton was so convinced they posed no threat to his magazine, he gave them a list of several thousand of his own subscribers. He also helped them draft a subscription letter that was mailed to a 100,000 people. Of these, over 6,000 people requested trial subscriptions. Luce and Briton Hadden also had a meeting with John Wesley Hanes, an experienced figure on Wall Street. He told them that it was foolhardy to compete with the highly successful Literary Digest. However, he was especially impressed with Hadden: "Hadden was damned convincing... Luce was there, too. They made a good team. But Luce wasn't much of a talker. He thinks faster than he can talk, you know, and sometimes it gets garbled up. But all the time, Hadden would be in there, selling, selling. He just had what he takes. He was intelligent, he was enthusiastic, he was willing to work and work hard. He was the whole ball of wax rolled into one." Culbreth Sudler agreed that Hadden was very impressive in his dealings with potential investors. He later recalled: "Hadden was interested in everybody. His mind was tireless, and he had an almost unparalleled drive coupled with a strong personal discipline." Hanes gave them important advice on how to raise money from investors while retaining control of the company. He told them to create two kinds of stock. Preferred stock would pay dividends to investors sooner, but only the common stock would carry the right to vote on company affairs. Under this plan, Hadden and Luce would each keep 2,775 shares - a total of 55.5%, giving them control of the company. Hadden and Luce used their contacts through the Skull and Bones secret society. A fellow member, Henry Pomeroy Davison, Jr., persuaded his father, Henry Pomeroy Davison, a senior partner at J. P. Morgan, the most powerful commercial bank in the United States at the time, to invest money in the magazine. Davison introduced Luce to fellow partner Dwight Morrow, who also bought stock in the company. Another member, David Ingalls, had married Louise Harkness, the daughter of William L. Harkness, a leading figure in Standard Oil. He had recently died and left $53,439,437 to his family. Louise used some of this money to invest in the magazine. By the summer of 1922 Hadden and Luce had raised $85,675 from sixty-nine friends and acquaintances. Briton Hadden, who was appointed editor of Time Magazine, now began to acquire his staff. Thomas J. C. Martyn, a former pilot in the Royal Air Force during the First World War, who had lost his leg in an aircraft accident, was given the job of Foreign News editor. He had little experience in journalism but Martyn, who was fluent in French and German, seemed to know a great deal about European politics. Another successful appointment was John Martin, who specialized in writing humorous stories for the magazine. Roy Edward Larsen, was appointed as circulation manager. He had just left Harvard University, where he was business manager of the college literary magazine, The Advocate. Luce had been impressed by the fact that he had been the first person in history to turn it into a profit-making venture. The first edition of Time Magazine was published on 3rd March, 1923. Only 9,000 copies were sold, a third of what it would take to break even in the first year of business. In an attempt to increase sales, Hadden employed young women to ask for the magazine at news-stands. Their reply was that they had never heard of it. After a few women had requested a copy of the magazine, Hadden arrived and by that time they were in the right mood to take a couple of copies. According to Isaiah Wilner, the author of The Man Time Forgot (2006): "Gradually Time gained a following among the young and modern set. College students kept the magazine on the coffee tables, circled favorite phrases or surprising facts, and quoted them to friends. A single issue would make its way through several sets of hands." After six months the magazine was selling 19,000 copies a week. By March 1925, Time Magazine had a paid circulation of 70,000 subscribers. In its second year, the magazine made a profit of $674.15. Despite an increase in revenue, Henry Luce still had trouble paying suppliers. Roy Edward Larsen was asked to come up with a way of finding more income from advertising in the magazine. Hadden suggested the idea of increasing the price of smaller adverts and offering a discount for buying in bulk. This method not only improved revenue but eventually became the industry standard for selling advertising. Larsen devised several different subscription offers. This included paying the cost of postage. The company also supplied a self-addressed and stamped postcard in their mailing. Although Time Magazine claimed it provided an objective view of the world, its editor, Hadden, always sided with the underdog. He ran several stories on the lynching of black men in the Deep South. This provoked complaints from readers who held conservative views on politics. One reader, Barlow Henderson of South Carolina, accused the magazine of a "flagrant affront to the feelings of our people". His main objection was to the policy of giving black people the respectful title of "Mr." Briton Hadden hired a team of four young women to do research. They searched through newspapers and books in search of revealing details that they would then pass onto the journalists. The women also had the job of checking the facts of the articles before they were published in the magazine. The researchers were paid half the wages of the journalists on the magazine and Hadden was therefore able to cut the size of the payroll. With the growing success of Time Magazine, the parents of Lila Ross Hotz, agreed that Luce could marry their daughter. The couple married in December 1923. Henry Winters Luce assisted at the church service. Afterwards they had a separate Skull and Bones wedding. The New York Evening Journal, described Hotz as "a member of the swagger younger set in the Windy City". Time Magazine targeted the upwardly mobile. It was particularly successful with the younger set of upper-class readers. Hadden wrote that he was not interested in obtaining those readers who read tabloid newspapers. He described them as "gum-chewers, shop girls, taxi drivers, street sheiks, and bummers". Briton Hadden, the editor of the magazine, created a new style of writing. He was a savage editor who stripped the sentence down, cut extraneous clauses, and used only active verbs. He also removed inconclusive words words like "alleged" and "reportedly". Hadden also liked using the odd obscure word. The author of The Man Time Forgot (2006) has pointed out: "By sprinkling the magazine with a few difficult words, Hadden subtly flattered his readers and invited them to play an ongoing game. Those with large vocabularies could pat themselves on the back, while the rest guffawed at Time's bright boys and looked the word up." The editor of Time Magazine was also interested in creating new words. For example, while at Hotchkiss School he described boys who had few friends as being "social light". In his magazine he began using the word "socialite" to describe someone who attempted to be prominent in fashionable society. Hadden wanted a new word for opinion makers. As they thought themselves as wise, he called them by the name of his old Yale prankster group: "pundit". Another word brought into general use was "kudos", the Greek word for magical glory. Henry Luce also developed new words. The most famous of these was "tycoon" to describe successful and powerful businessman. The word was based on "taikun", a Japanese term to describe a general who controlled the country in the name of the emperor. Briton Hadden encouraged his writers to use witty epithets to convey the character and appearance of public figures. Grigory Zinoviev was condemned as the "bomb boy of Bolshevism" and Upton Sinclair was called a "socialist-sophist". Winston Churchill was described as being "ruddy as a round full moon". Benito Mussolini was attacked on a regular basis. John Martin commented that when public figures came under attack from Hadden, it was like being "undressed in Macy's window". Articles in Time Magazine were very different from those found in other newspapers and journals. Isaiah Wilner has pointed out: "Having invented a new writing style that made each sentence entertaining and easy to grasp. Hadden and his writers began to toy with the structure of the entire story. Most newspaper writers tried to tell everything in the first one or two paragraphs. By printing the most important facts first, they destroyed the natural narrative of news. Hadden trained his writers to act as if they were novelist. He viewed the whole story, including the headline and caption, as an information package." Henry Luce's secretary, Katherine Abrams, commented: Luce is the smartest man I ever knew, but Hadden had the real editorial genius... He was warm and he was human and he had what Luce lacks, an instinct for people." Culbreth Sudler added: "Briton Hadden was Timestyle. It was Timestyle that made Time popular nationwide, and therefore it was Hadden who made Time a success." By 1927 was selling over 175,000 copies a week. Briton Hadden commented on his relationship with Luce to a friend: "It's like a race. Luce is the best competition I ever had. No matter how hard I run, Luce is always there." Luce was told about this and later he recalled: "If anyone else had said that, I might well have resented the implication that the best I could do was to keep up with him. Coming from Hadden, I regarded it, and still regard it, as the highest compliment I have ever received." Polly Groves, who worked at Time Magazine, remarked: "Everyone who knew Briton Hadden loved him. You couldn't love Henry Luce. You admired him but could not love him." Isaiah Wilner has argued: "Luce called Hadden an original and was deeply influenced by his ideas. Throughout their many battles, whether for the editorship of the school paper or for creative control of Time, it was Hadden who won. Luce, who couldn't stand to lose, had been forced to content himself with second place for more than a decade. He had worked as Hadden's deputy in both prep school and college... Luce had continued to live in Hadden's shadow ever since." In March, 1925, Briton Hadden went on a long vacation. The following month Luce discovered that Time Incorporated had lost $1,958.84 over the previous four months. He decided that he could save a considerable sum of money by relocating to Cleveland. John Penton, claimed he could save Luce $20,000 a year by printing the magazine in the city. Luce signed the contract without telling Hadden. When he arrived home from holiday Hadden had a terrible row with Luce. According to Hadden's friends, Luce's action struck a severe blow to their partnership. Time Magazine moved to Cleveland in August, 1925. The advertising staff remained behind in New York City. Most of the journalists, researchers and office staff refused to relocate. This was partly because Luce refused to pay for their moving expenses. Instead, he sacked the entire staff but offered to reappoint them if they applied for jobs in Cleveland. Thomas J. C. Martyn was furious about the way he was treated and refused to move. Luce rented a house near Shaker Heights. Luce told Lila Ross Hotz: "I think all my efforts are now centered around a vision of you and me having a good time for a mighty long time... Of course one has visions of more... One imagines oneself famous. One even imagines oneself powerful." Lila became involved in the social scene. After one successful party she told her mother: "Harry says I rose to the occasion like a cake of yeast in the oven." In December, 1925, Roy Edward Larsen organised a new subscription campaign. It was a great success and the magazine's circulation increased to 107,000. However, that year, the company lost $24,000, but this was largely due to the cost of the move to Cleveland. Luce claimed the future looked bright as the relocation had made the magazine more popular outside of New York City. Dorothy McDowell, who worked with Luce at Time Magazine, commented: "Luce was the best pencil editor I ever saw... I never saw a man who could so make something out of a disjointed, poorly organized thing... He was not as good an idea man as Briton Hadden, but he sure could operate on a manuscript." In 1926 circulation reached 111,000. Advertising revenues rose to $240,000 and the company made a profit of $10,000. The main concern was that sales from news-stands remained poor. It was decided to carry out a study into the situation. One newsdealer commented: "What you need on the cover is pretty girls, babies, or red and yellow." Several people interviewed said that the black and white magazine cover was not appealing to the potential customers. On 3rd January, 1927, the magazine appeared with a red-bordered front cover. Atwater Kent also paid $1,400 for the back-cover that carried a bold yellow advertisement for the company. At the beginning of 1927, Hadden agreed to switch jobs with Luce. Hadden now began exploring ways of increasing advertising revenue. He carried out a survey of the magazine's readership. He then published a booklet that was distributed to advertisers. It claimed that the magazine was read by people who were "wealthy, powerful, informed and energetic". He was "an informed consumer who spent his money freely and paid attention to what companies said to him." That year advertising revenues climbed to nearly $415,000. Luce also made changes as editor. Laird Goldsborough was Foreign News editor of the magazine. Goldsborough held extreme right-wing opinions but this was kept under control by Briton Hadden, who instructed his journalists to tell both sides of an event. The two men disagreed about the merits of Benito Mussolini. Hadden was a strong supporter of democracy and severely attacked the rule of Mussolini, who he described as a "tin-pot dictator". Goldsborough on the other hand praised Mussolini as a bold leader. Goldsborough found his new editor as much more sympathetic to his right-wing views. Isaiah Wilner has pointed out: "No sooner had Luce taken the editor's seat than he began to twist and distort the news. Time's emerging bias first grew evident in Foreign News. Laird Goldsborough quickly impressed Luce with his writing ability and knowledge of foreign events." George Seldes has argued that Luce "permitted an outright pro-fascist, Laird Goldsborough, to slant and pervert the news every week." In 1928 the two men argued about business matters. Henry Luce was keen to publish a second magazine that he wanted to call Fortune. Hadden was opposed to the idea of publishing a journal devoted to promoting the capitalist system. He considered the "business world to be vapid and morally bankrupt". Together, Hadden and Luce owned more than half of the voting stock and were able to retain control of the company. However, Luce was unable to publish a new magazine without the agreement of his partner. In December 1928 Briton Hadden became so ill he was unable to go into the office. Doctors diagnosed him with an infection of streptococcus. Hadden believed he had contracted the illness by picking up a wandering tomcat and taking it home to feed it. The ungrateful cat attacked and scratched Hadden. Another possibility was that he had been infected when he had a tooth removed. The following month he was taken to Brooklyn Hospital. Doctors now feared that the bacteria had spread through his blood-stream to reach his heart. Luce visited Hadden in hospital and tried to buy his shares in the company. Nurses reported that these conversations ended up in shouting matches. One nurse recalled that Hadden and Luce had yelled at each other so loudly that they could be heard from behind the closed door. Doctors believed that Hadden was wasting his precious energies in these arguments and it was partly responsible for his deteriorating condition. On 28th January, 1929, Hadden contacted his lawyer, William J. Carr and asked him to draw up a new will. In the document, Hadden left his entire estate to his mother. However, he added that he forbade her from selling the stock in Time Incorporated for forty-nine years. His main objective was to prevent Luce from gaining control of the company they had founded together. Henry Luce visited Hadden every day. He later recalled: "The last time or two that I was there, I guess I knew he was dying and maybe he did. It seemed to me that he knew and every now and again was wanting to say something, whatever it might be he wanted to say in the way of parting words or something. But he never did, so that there was never any open recognition between him and me that he was dying." Briton Hadden died of heart failure on 27th February, 1929. The following week Hadden's name was removed from Time's masthead as the joint founder of the magazine. Luce also approached Hadden's mother about buying her stock in Time Incorporated. She refused but her other son, Crowell Hadden, accepted his offer to join the board of directors. Crowell agreed to try and persuade his mother to change her mind and in September 1929, she agreed to sell her stock to a syndicate under Luce's control for just over a million dollars. This gave him a controlling interest in the company. Ralph Ingersoll was appointed as managing editor of Time Magazine in 1930. However, he grew critical of what Henry Luce was trying to do with the magazine: "Time's technique for handling news is so simple that it seems to have eluded several generations of critics and yet it is almost solely responsible for (A) Time's monumental commercial success and (B) Time's equally monumental failure in the fields of ethics, integrity, and responsibility. The problem Henry R. Luce and the late Briton Hadden tackled when they set out to invent their new kind of weekly news magazine was how to condense a week's news on all fronts: national, international, cultural, and business into a package of words that could be read cover to cover in a couple of hours." Ingersoll went onto argue: "Controversial matters, such as political news, were handled by snipping quotes from both sides. But Luce and Hadden felt that this approach had limitations both as to the quantity of news it could handle and its readability... Luce and Hadden's solution was brilliant. Instead of digesting the news, they would rewrite it into short articles, each having its own literary form: a beginning, a middle, and an end, though not of course necessarily in that sequence. Thus they wrote their own literary license for a new kind of news writing that was not news writing at all but good old-fashioned, time-tested fiction writing." Soon after Hadden's death, Luce began publishing Fortune. He also recruited Charles Douglas Jackson to help him run his growing media empire. Luce also produced The March of Time for radio (1931) and for the cinema (1935). Henry Luce met Clare Boothe, the former managing editor of Vanity Fair, at a party in 1934. After talking for a couple of hours he told her: "I want to tell you that you are the great love of my life. And someday I am going to marry you." As Luce was already married she dismissed his suggestion and went on a long holiday to Europe. Luce did not accept this rejection and met up with her in Paris. As Stephen Shadegg has pointed out: "The courtship which followed was not a particularly romantic one. Harry Luce found it difficult to express his love in the conventional words of lovers. Like Clare, he always seemed on his guard, fearful lest someone might discover the soft, eager, not-at-all-cocksure human being behind his gruff exterior. But his devotion and determination were unmistakable. Intellectually he was the most interesting man Clare had ever encountered. She fell in love with him." Wilfrid Sheed, the author of Clare Boothe Luce (1982) has argued: "The possibility that there was a powerful mutual attraction hedged with normal lunges and hesitations seemed ruled out by their importance and ambition. Yet Harry was in fact precisely her type: physically, he was close enough to other men whom I know she finds interesting (although Harry photographed grimly) to suggest that their romance wasn't just power calling to power... Nevertheless, it was important for her to make clear for the record that he pursued her, because the non-record, or myth, ran all the other way. To begin with, Harry was already married and had two sons, not to mention two edifying magazines. The Other Woman was always public enemy number one in those days, whatever the circumstances; but in this case, the circumstances were bad too. Harry looked like a pillar of rectitude (an old Presbyterian trick-his sexual rectitude was to prove just about the national average) and he also looked absentminded, as if a smart woman could steal him while he wasn't looking." Luce divorced Lila Ross Hotz in September, 1935. According to Robert E. Herzstein, the author of Henry R.Luce: A Political Portrait of the Man Who Created the American Century (1994): "Lila was devastated when Luce confronted her with his intention to divorce her. But they maintained a closeness and were in constant contact, often discussing their children's education and careers, among other things.'' On 23rd November, 1935, Henry married Clare. The following year he began publishing the picture magazine, Life. In 1936 Laird Goldsborough attempted to persuade Luce to take sides in the conflict in Spain. George Teeple Eggleston, who worked for the company at the time, has claimed that it was Goldsborough who persuaded Luce to support General Francisco Franco during the Spanish Civil War. According to Eggleston: "Time's conservative foreign news editor, Laird Goldsborough, promptly slanted all news stories in his department in favor of General Franco's rebel insurgents." This approach was criticised by Archibald MacLeish, who worked on Fortune, another magazine owned by Luce, who "promptly bombarded Luce memos denouncing Franco's coalition of landowners, the Church, and the army". Goldsborough responded by arguing: "On the side of Franco are men of property, men of God, and men of the sword. What positions do you suppose these sorts of men occupy in the minds of 700,000 readers of Time? ... They resent communists, anarchists, and political gangsters - those so-called Spanish Republicans." George Teeple Eggleston points out that Luce's wife, Clare Boothe Luce was on the side of the Republicans during the war: "Clare was violently anti-Franco and promptly contributed a thousand dollars to the pro-Communist Abraham Lincoln Brigade, which was gathering volunteers in New York City to fight against Franco in Spain." Henry Luce purchased the humour magazine, Life, in 1936 so that he could acquire the rights to its name. Luce employed Ralph Ingersoll, one of his senior editors, to work on the project. Luce based his new magazine on similar picture magazines published in Germany during the 1920s. The weekly news magazine made full use of America's leading photojournalists such as Margaret Bourke-White, Carl Mydans, Grace Robertson, Constance Larrabee, Gordon Parks and Esther Bubley. Luce predicted a circulation of 250,000. In order to cover the news-stands the first print order was for four hundred and forty-six thousands, but no one really expected to sell that many. According to Stephen Shadegg: "The public embraced Life with a passion. Some magazine stands began reserving all their favorite customers. Others just charged two or three times the published price of ten cents. At the end of three months the demand reached the one-million mark and the advertisers were getting four times the circulation they were paying for." According to her friend, Wilfrid Sheed, Clare "had not lived together connubially" after Henry Luce resumed having affairs in the late 1930s. "Harry's famous conscience made it impossible for him to conduct two affairs at once, so as soon as someone, anyone, else came along, that was that. Whoever came along, I deduce, did so after about five years. If so, it suggests that their professional partnership got stronger as the chemistry got weaker." In April 1939 Whittaker Chambers joined Time Magazine as a book and film reviewer. According to Jonathan P. Herzog, the author of The Spiritual-Industrial Complex: America's Religious Battle Against Communism in the Early Cold War (2011): "Chambers slowly climbed through the ranks of Time, Inc. and had entered the inner circle of advisers that Luce depended on for business and editorial decisions. In 1944 Luce made Chambers the head of Time's Foreign News. Predictably, Chambers moulded Time into an anti-Communist mouth-piece." Warren Hinckle has argued: "Henry Luce believed that a morally slanted press was a responsible press... Life, the flagship picture book of the Luce fleet, afforded photojournalism some of its finest moments, while the text accompanying the pictures that were worth thousands of words was slanted with an ideological warp sufficient to stir Caxton in his grave." The cartoonist, Herbert Block, was equally critical: "Luce's unique contribution to American journalism... is that he placed into the hands of the people yesterday's newspaper and today's garbage homogenized into one neat package." Marshall McLuhan was highly critical of Time Magazine: "The overwhelming fact about Time is its style. It has often been said that nobody could tell the truth in Time style. Time is a nursery book in which the reader is slapped and tickled alternately. It is full of predigested pap, spooned out with confidential nudges. The reader is never on his own for an instant, but, as though at his mother's knee, he is provided with the right emotions for everything he hears or sees as the pages turn... Totalitarianism engendered by the mass hypnosis of power, glitter, and the spectacle of regular ranks rather than insight or intelligibility is the object of all of Time's technical brilliance. Meanwhile, the editors of Time stand at mock attention in the reviewing stand, thumbing their noses at humanity." Winston Churchill became prime minister in May 1940. Churchill realised straight away that it would be vitally important to enlist the United States as Britain's ally. Randolph Churchill, on the morning of 18th May, 1940, claims that his father told him "I think I see my way through.... I mean we can beat them." When Randolph asked him how, he replied with great intensity: "I shall drag the United States in." Churchill appointed William Stephenson as the head of the British Security Coordination (BSC). As William Boyd has pointed out: "The phrase (British Security Coordination) is bland, almost defiantly ordinary, depicting perhaps some sub-committee of a minor department in a lowly Whitehall ministry. In fact BSC, as it was generally known, represented one of the largest covert operations in British spying history... With the US alongside Britain, Hitler would be defeated - eventually. Without the US (Russia was neutral at the time), the future looked unbearably bleak... polls in the US still showed that 80% of Americans were against joining the war in Europe. Anglophobia was widespread and the US Congress was violently opposed to any form of intervention." An office was opened in the Rockefeller Centre in Manhattan with the agreement of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and J. Edgar Hoover of the FBI. Jennet Conant, the author of The Irregulars: Roald Dahl and the British Spy Ring in Wartime Washington (2008) argues that Ernest Cuneo was "empowered to feed select British intelligence items about Nazi sympathizers and subversives" to friendly journalists such as Walter Winchell, Drew Pearson, Walter Lippman, Dorothy Thompson, Raymond Gram Swing, Edward Murrow, Vincent Sheean, Eric Sevareid, Edmond Taylor, Rex Stout, Edgar Ansel Mowrer and Whitelaw Reid, who "were stealth operatives in their campaign against Britain's enemies in America". Cuneo also worked closely with editors and publishers who were supporters of American intervention into the Second World War. This included Henry Luce, Arthur Hays Sulzberger (New York Times), Helen Rogers Reid (New York Herald Tribune), Paul C. Patterson (Baltimore Sun), Marshall Field III (Chicago Sun) and Ralph Ingersoll (Picture Magazine). In July, 1940, Henry Luce, Clare Boothe Luce, C. D. Jackson, Freda Kirchwey, Raymond Gram Swing, Robert Sherwood, John Gunther, Leonard Lyons, Ernest Angell and Carl Joachim Friedrich established the Council for Democracy. According to Kai Bird the organization "became an effective and highly visible counterweight to the isolation rhetoric" to America First Committee led by Charles Lindbergh and Robert E. Wood: "With financial support from Douglas and Luce, Jackson, a consummate propagandist, soon had a media operation going which was placing anti-Hitler editorials and articles in eleven hundred newspapers a week around the country." During the 1940 Presidential Election the isolationist Chicago Tribune accused the Council for Democracy of being under the control of foreigners: "The sponsors of the so-called Council for Democracy... are attempting to force this country into a military adventure on the side of England." George Seldes also attacked the organization arguing that it was being mainly financed by Henry Luce. However, according to The Secret History of British Intelligence in the Americas, 1940-45, a secret report written by leading operatives of the British Security Coordination (Roald Dahl, H. Montgomery Hyde, Giles Playfair, Gilbert Highet and Tom Hill), William Stephenson and BSC played an important role in the Council for Democracy: "William Stephenson decided to take action on his own initiative. He instructed the recently created SOE Division to declare a covert war against the mass of American groups which were organized throughout the country to spread isolationism and anti-British feeling. In the BSC office plans were drawn up and agents were instructed to put them into effect. It was agreed to seek out all existing pro-British interventionist organizations, to subsidize them where necessary and to assist them in every way possible. It was counter-propaganda in the strictest sense of the word. After many rapid conferences the agents went out into the field and began their work. Soon they were taking part in the activities of a great number of interventionist organizations, and were giving to many of them which had begun to flag and to lose interest in their purpose, new vitality and a new lease of life. The following is a list of some of the larger ones... The League of Human Rights, Freedom and Democracy... The American Labor Committee to Aid British Labor... The Ring of Freedom, an association led by the publicist Dorothy Thompson, the Council for Democracy; the American Defenders of Freedom, and other such societies were formed and supported to hold anti-isolationist meetings which branded all isolationists as Nazi-lovers." Raymond Gram Swing defended the organisation by arguing: "As first conceived, the Council for Democracy was simply to be a co-ordinating body to pull together the work being done by a number of small organizations. But as it got under way, it became clear that a central organization supplanting many of the smaller ones would be more effective, and that is what the Council became.... Europe was at war; the United States was not. The war in Europe was one of the least complicated wars to understand; it was one of both conquest and ideology, waged by fascists. Democracy in Europe was in the most dire peril, which meant that in time it might well be in dire peril in the United States, too. The need for a Council dedicated to the preservation of democracy was incontestable. It had work to do; and within its means, as I now look back on it, it did that work. There was some indifference to democracy in the United States, as I assume there always has been. There was little outright fascism, but an inclination among not a few to be tolerant of it, which was the equivalent of being indifferent to the defense of democracy." Luce was also one of the main funders with the British Security Coordination for the Fight of Freedom group. Other members included Allen W. Dulles, Joseph Alsop, Dean G. Acheson, Lewis William Douglas, and several journalists including Herbert Agar (Louisville Courier-Journal), Geoffrey Parsons (New York Herald Tribune) and Elmer Davis (CBS). Ian Fleming, working for BSC's naval intelligence section, proposed that Luce should work for William Donovan as his Coordinator of Information. His recommendation was not accepted and the post went to Robert E. Sherwood. However, as Thomas E. Mahl, the author of Desperate Deception: British Covert Operations in the United States, 1939-44 (1998) has pointed out: "The British soon found themselves in conflict with Henry Luce. His global internationalist vision of the American Century and his ability to publicize that vision were very useful when the British were trying to involve the United States in international events. But they became a threat to the British vision of the postwar world after Pearl Harbor. By early 1943, Henry Luce was on the list of enemies who endangered the British Empire." Luce was a supporter of the Republican Party. His wife, Clare Booth Luce, who shared his right-wing views, was elected to Congress in 1942 and represented Connecticut for the next four years. In her maiden speech she launched a savage attack on the internationalism of Vice President Henry A. Wallace. In February, 1945, he began a campaign for a permanent Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC). David Halberstam has pointed out in The Powers That Be (1979): "Luce's politics hardened in the postwar years and Time had become increasingly Republican in its tone. He had been stunned by Truman's defeat of Dewey in 1948. Then in the fall of 1949 China had fallen, the Democratic administration had failed to save Chiang, and that was too much; Truman, and even more Acheson, would have to pay the price. Time was now committed and politicized, an almost totally partisan instrument. The smell of blood was in the air. There was a hunger now in Luce to put a Republican back in power. It was as if Luce, between elections, stood as the leader of the opposition, a kingmaker who had failed to produce a king. The fall of China and the rise of a post-war anti-Communist mood had produced the essential issue to use against the Democrats: softness on Communism." Some left-wing figures believed they were persecuted by Time Magazine. Rockwell Kent commented: "Time is too strongly inclined to the ultra-right to be trustworthy in the forming of fair judgment in current political events. I feel itsstyle of writing to be objectionable and inclined to value smartness above truth." Howard Fast agreed: "Any reading of Time, even casual, will provide you with distortions and inaccuracies by the bushel." Henry Luce used his media empire to get Dwight D. Eisenhower elected as president. In 1953 Eisenhower appointed Clare Booth Luce ambassador to Italy; the first American woman ambassador to a major country. Claudio Accogli, a Italian historian, argues that luce was heavily involved in covert anti-communist activities with local cia personnel. Larry Hancock adds: "With no-holds barred political activism and heavy spending (including the support of the SIFAR/Italian Army Secret Service), Luce and the CIA managed to block the probable takeover of the center-left governments, an alliance between Christian Democrats (DC) and the Socialist Democratic Party (PSI)." In 1959 Eisenhower appointed her as ambassador to Brazil. The opposition to her appointment in Congress was led by Wayne Morse of Oregon. Clare commented Morse's actions were the result of him being "kicked in the head by a horse." This remark proved so controversial that Clare resigned the ambassadorship a few days later. According to Carl Bernstein, Luce's close friend Charles Douglas Jackson, the publisher of Life Magazine, was "Henry Luce's personal emissary to the CIA". He also claimed that in the 1950s Jackson had arranged for CIA employees to travel with Time-Life credentials as cover. Drew Pearson supported this view: "Life magazine is always pulling chestnuts out of the fire for the CIA; and I recall that C. D. Jackson of the Life-Time empire was the man who arranged for the CIA to finance the Freedom Balloons. C. D. Jackson, Harold Stassen and the other boys who went with me to Germany spent money like money while I paid my own way. I always was suspicious that a lot of dough was coming from unexplained quarters and didn't learn until sometime later that the CIA was footing the bill." Jonathan P. Herzog has argued that Luce was motivated by his religious faith: "While he counted anti-Communists like Mundt, Cardinal Spellman, and Chambers as allies, he viewed the Communist threat differently. In his view, it was a symptom and not a disease. Like his wife, Clare, he understood faith as a psychological imperative sought by all people. If religious faith waned, other dogmas would take its place. The success of Communism, then, was not attributable to its message but rather to the fact that it offered people the spiritual certainty they no longer found in Christianity. All the shocking anti-Communist propaganda and shopworn tributes to democracy that America could muster would fail to arrest the Marxian surge. But if Americans filled the spiritual vacuum, if they made religious faith commensurate with military and economic power, then Communism would dissipate." The novelist, Wilfrid Sheed, became a close friend of the Luce family in the 1950s. He later wrote: "Harry was not as starchy as he looked (it would have been difficult), nor as puritanical... Over dinner, Harry would bark out his latest excitements like a kid in a show-and-tell class. He had always just discovered some red-hot theologian or a new theory about the American Proposition... He could not for the life of him see what people found wrong with him." Henry Luce and Clare Booth Luce were strong opponents of Fidel Castro and his revolutionary government in Cuba. They joined forces with Hal Hendrix, Paul Bethel, William Pawley, Virginia Prewett, Dickey Chapelle, Edward Teller, Arleigh Burke, Leo Cherne, Ernest Cuneo, Sidney Hook, Hans Morgenthau and Frank Tannenbaum to form the Citizens Committee to Free Cuba (CCFC). On 25th March, 1963, the CCFC issued a statement: "The Committee is nonpartisan. It believes that Cuba is an issue that transcends party differences, and that its solution requires the kind of national unity we have always manifested at moments of great crisis. This belief is reflected in the broad and representative membership of the Committee." The Luce family also funded Alpha 66. In 1962 Alpha 66 launched several raids on Cuba. This included attacks on port installations and foreign shipping. The authors of Deadly Secrets: The CIA-Mafia War Against Castro and the Assassination of JFK (1981) argues that Clare Boothe Luce paid for one of the boats used in these raids: "The anti-communist blonde took a maternal interest in the three-man crew she adopted... She brought them to New York three times to mother them." The Luce media empire led a campaign against the presidency of John F. Kennedy. As Richard D. Mahoney has pointed out: "The cause of liberating Cuba from Castro had become the grail of the Republican right. Life Magazine editorially adopted the cause of the exiles as its own, with photo essays on the raids.... Life's full-throttle opposition to Kennedy... was a problem for the administration. Along with Time, also published by Luce, it was one of the two or three most influential magazines in the country. In April, the president had invited the publisher and his very political wife to lunch at the White House. The Kennedy charm did nothing to deter or otherwise disarm them. The Luces walked out of the lunch to protest the president's warning to cool it on Cuba." When Kennedy was assassinated, Charles Douglas Jackson purchased the Zapruder Film on behalf of Luce. David Lifton points out in The Great Zapruder Film Hoax (2004) that: "Abraham Zapruder in fact sold the film to Time-Life for the sum of $150,000 - about $900,000 dollars in today's money... Moreover, although Life had a copy of the film, it did little to maximize the return on its extraordinary investment. Specifically, it did not sell this unique property - as a film - to any broadcast media or permit it to be seen in motion, the logical way to maximize the financial return on its investment... A closer look revealed something else. The film wasn't just sold to Life - the person whose name was on the agreement was C. D. Jackson." Luce published individual frames of Zapruder's film but did not allow the film to be screened in its entirety. Soon after the assassination Charles Douglas Jackson also successfully negotiated with Marina Oswald the exclusive rights to her story. Peter Dale Scott argues in his book Deep Politics and the Death of JFK (1996) that Jackson, on the urging of Allen Dulles, employed Isaac Don Levine, a veteran CIA publicist, to ghost-write Marina's story. This story never appeared in print. Henry Luce remained active in right-wing politics and in 1964, campaigned for Barry Goldwater of Arizona, the Republican candidate for president. Later that year Henry and Clare Booth Luce retired to their home in Phoenix. He died there on on 28th February, 1967. Primary Sources (1) Wilfrid Sheed, Clare Boothe Luce (1982) The possibility that there was a powerful mutual attraction hedged with normal lunges and hesitations seemed ruled out by their importance and ambition. Yet Harry was in fact precisely her type: physically, he was close enough to other men whom I know she finds interesting (although Harry photographed grimly) to suggest that their romance wasn't just power calling to power. Mentally, he was an extension of Baruch by other means: more global, but just as American, another confirmation of Mother's home truths. And morally, he was a decent man who knew his way in the jungle, like the heroine of The Women, like America in the world, as they both saw it. Nevertheless, it was important for her to make clear for the record that he pursued her, because the non-record, or myth, ran all the other way. To begin with, Harry was already married and had two sons, not to mention two edifying magazines. The Other Woman was always public enemy number one in those days, whatever the circumstances; but in this case, the circumstances were bad too. Harry looked like a pillar of rectitude (an old Presbyterian trick-his sexual rectitude was to prove just about the national average) and he also looked absentminded, as if a smart woman could steal him while he wasn't looking. Clare for her part lived in the scandal regions: a divorcee on the way up could hardly avoid one, even if she slept under armed guard. Wallis Simpson was the prototype of the day and Wallie's desperate maneuvering showed a thin-lipped world how villainous the type really was. So the record could say what it liked; the gossip had Clare reclining on a tiger skin all the way. (2) David Halberstam, The Powers That Be (1979) Luce's politics hardened in the postwar years and Time had become increasingly Republican in its tone. He had been stunned by Truman's defeat of Dewey in 1948. Then in the fall of 1949 China had fallen, the Democratic administration had failed to save Chiang, and that was too much; Truman, and even more Acheson, would have to pay the price. Time was now committed and politicized, an almost totally partisan instrument. The smell of blood was in the air. There was a hunger now in Luce to put a Republican back in power. It was as if Luce, between elections, stood as the leader of the opposition, a kingmaker who had failed to produce a king. The fall of China and the rise of a post-war anti-Communist mood had produced the essential issue to use against the Democrats: softness on Communism. If the Democrats for almost two decades had exploited the Great Depression as their essential issue-all Republicans wore top hats and forced all laboring men into breadlinesnow Republicans, with Luce at their forefront, were fixing on foreign affairs as the Democrats' Achilles' heel. It was a brutal time; serious foreign policy issues with emotional overtones were made more emotional by Luce; his magazine encouraged a kind of political primitivism. Time tried to convince its readers that the disaster in Asia had been caused by bad and unworthy Democrats at the State Department. It also encouraged them to think that a Republican administration would deal more forthrightly and more morally with the Communists, roll them back a little. Ttime's heroes during the late forties and early fifties were men like Foster Dulles and Douglas MacArthur, who talked of bringing moral standards to foreign affairs. Of MacArthur, Time was particularly worshipful, writing in that period when he was the Consul General of Japan: "Inside the Dai Ichi building, once the heart of a Japanese insurance empire, bleary-eyed staff officers looked up from stacks of papers, whispered proudly, 'God, the man is great.' General Almond, his chief of staff, said straight out, 'he's the greatest man alive.' And reverent Air Force General George E. Stratemeyer put it as strongly as it could be put. ..'he's the greatest man in history."' Acheson was the villain, savaged by Luce in those years. Clearly Acheson was not a patch on MacArthur: "What people thought of Dean Gooderham Acheson ranged from the proposition that he was a fellow traveller, or a wool-brained sower of `seeds of jackassery,' or an abysmally uncomprehending man, or a warmonger who was taking the U.S. into a world war, to the warm if not so audible defense that he was a great Secretary of State." Clearly the lines were being drawn. Luce had once told Felix Belair that Belair did not understand what being a Republican really meant, that it was like being part of a family. (3) Jonathan P. Herzog, The Spiritual-Industrial Complex: America's Religious Battle Against Communism in the Early Cold War (2011) Two advisers significantly shaped Luce's understanding of Communism's designs and weaknesses. The first was his wife, Clare Boothe Luce, for whom Communism was an evil religion that could only be met with the fiery zeal of a Christian nation. The second was Whittaker Chambers, the Communist turned Christian warrior. Chambers slowly climbed through the ranks of Time, Inc. and had entered the inner circle of advisers that Luce depended on for business and editorial decisions. In 1944 Luce made Chambers the head of Time's Foreign News. Predictably, Chambers molded Time into an anti-Communist mouthpiece.... While he counted anti-Communists like Mundt, Cardinal Spellman, and Chambers as allies, he viewed the Communist threat differently. In his view, it was a symptom and not a disease. Like his wife, Clare, he understood faith as a psychological imperative sought by all people. If religious faith waned, other dogmas would take its place. The success of Communism, then, was not attributable to its message but rather to the fact that it offered people the spiritual certainty they no longer found in Christianity. All the shocking anti-Communist propaganda and shopworn tributes to democracy that America could muster would fail to arrest the Marxian surge. But if Americans filled the spiritual vacuum, if they made religious faith commensurate with military and economic power, then Communism would dissipate. Though his knowledge of Communism may have been underdeveloped, Luce spoke on religious matters with justified authority. Employees considered Luce's insistence upon riding alone in the elevator the thirty-six floors to his penthouse each morning a sign of elitism, but he actually took that time to pray. Luce was the son of Christian missionaries to China, and his father, a professor of theology, endowed him with a level of religious knowledge uncommon in businessmen of the age. Luce delighted in speaking before religious groups and fancied himself an amateur theologian. He was active in the Federal Council of Churches and the National Conference of Christians and Jews, and he sat on the board of directors of Union Theological Seminary. (4) Drew Pearson, Diaries 1949-1959 (1974) Life magazine is always pulling chestnuts out of the fire for the CIA; and I recall that C. D. Jackson of the Life-Time empire was the man who arranged for the CIA to finance the Freedom Balloons. C. D. Jackson, Harold Stassen and the other boys who went with me to Germany spent money like money while I paid my own way. I always was suspicious that a lot of dough was coming from unexplained quarters and didn't learn until sometime later that the CIA was footing the bill. (5) Warren Hinckle & William Turner, Deadly Secrets: The CIA-Mafia War Against Castro and the Assassination of JFK (1981) Henry Robinson Luce, Lord High Admiral of the free world's greatest fleet of publications, believed fervently in God, flag, and Time, Inc., although not necessarily in that order. His blonde wife, Clare Boothe Luce, the former ambassador to Italy, was the princess regent of the respectable right wing. As a pair, Mr. and Mrs. Luce were face cards at any party. As one, they put down their silver forks on the dessert china imprinted with the blue of the presidential seal, and walked out of the White House lunch. Their host, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, had reason to be distressed at this unceremonious departure. He had arranged this special lunch in the spring of 1963 to convince the bellicose Lucepress to tone down its coverage of the exile raids and leave Cuba to the devices of the President. The luncheon instead turned out to be the Bay of Pigs of Kennedy's press relations. (6) Gaeton Fonzi, The Last Investigation (1993) One of the first leads Schweiker asked me to check came from a source he considered impeccable: Clare Boothe Luce. One of the wealthiest women in the world, widow of the founder of the Time, Inc. publishing empire, former member of the U.S. House of Representatives, former Ambassador to Italy, successful Broadway playwright, international socialite and longtime civic activist, Clare Boothe Luce was the last person in the world Schweiker would have suspected of leading him on a wild goose chase. Yet the chase began almost immediately. Right after Schweiker announced the formation of his Kennedy assassination Subcommittee, he was visited by Vera Glaser, a syndicated Washington columnist. Glaser told him she had just interviewed Clare Boothe Luce and that Luce had given her some information relating to the assassination. Schweiker immediately called Luce and she, quite cooperatively and in detail, confirmed the story she had told Glaser. Luce said that some time after the Bay of Pigs she received a call from her "great friend" William Pawley, who lived in Miami. A man of immense wealth-he had made his millions in oil-during World War II Pawley had gained fame setting up the Flying Tigers with General Claire Chennault. Pawley had also owned major sugar interests in Cuba, as well as Havana's bus, trolley and gas systems and he was close to both pre-Castro Cuban rulers, President Carlos Prio and General Fulgencio Batista. (Pawley was one of the dispossessed American investors in Cuba who early tried to convince Eisenhower that Castro was a Communist and urged him to arm the exiles in Miami.) Luce said that Pawley had gotten the idea of putting together a fleet of speedboats-sea-going "Flying Tigers" as it were-which would be used by the exiles to dart in and out of Cuba on "intelligence gathering" missions. He asked her to sponsor one of these boats and she agreed. As a result of her sponsorship, Luce got to know the three-man crew of the boat "fairly well," as she said. She called them "my boys" and said they visited her a few times in her New York townhouse. It was one of these boat crews, Luce said, that originally brought back the news of Russian missiles in Cuba. Because Kennedy didn't react to it, she said she helped feed it to Senator Kenneth Keating, who made it public. She then wrote an article for Life magazine predicting the missile crisis. "Well, then came the nuclear showdown and the President made his deal with Khrushchev and I never saw my young Cubans again," she said. The boat operations were stopped, she said, shortly afterwards when Pawley was notified that the U.S. was invoking the Neutrality Act and would prevent any further exile missions into Cuba. Luce said she hadn't thought about her boat crew until the day that President Kennedy was killed. That evening she received a telephone call from one of the crew members. She told Schweiker his name was "something like" Julio Fernandez, and he said he was calling her from New Orleans. Julio Fernandez told her that he and the other crew members had been forced out of Miami after the Cuban missile crisis and that they had started a "Free Cuba" cell in New Orleans. Luce said that Fernandez told her that Oswald had approached his group and offered his services as a potential Castro assassin. He said his group didn't believe Oswald, suspected he was really a Communist and decided to keep tabs on him. Fernandez said they found that Oswald was, indeed, a Communist, and they eventually penetrated his "cell" and tape-recorded his talks, including his bragging that he could shoot anyone because he was "the greatest shot in the world with a telescopic lens." Fernandez said that Oswald then suddenly came into money and went to Mexico City and then Dallas. According to Luce, Fernandez also told her that his group had photographs of Oswald and copies of handbills Oswald had been distributing on the streets of New Orleans. Fernandez asked Luce what he should do with this information and material. (7) Richard D. Mahoney, Sons and Brothers: The Days of Jack and Bobby Kennedy (1999) The situation meanwhile among the anti-Castro exiles in south Florida was taking on the character of an undeclared rebellion against the official cease-and-desist policy of the Kennedy administration. On March 18, Alpha 66, with the guidance of the CIA's David Phillips, launched an attack on the island of Isabela de Sagua, wounding twelve Soviet soldiers and damaging the Russian freighter Lvov. Later that month, exiled Cuban fighters in Commandos L group blew up and sank the Russian merchantman Baku off the coast of Cuba. The Soviet Union delivered an angry protest to the United States. Washington assured Moscow it would control the raids. In a press conference, the president noted that such sorties could renew hostilities between the superpowers if they were not stopped. His exasperation was not shared by others in Washington. By this time the cause of liberating Cuba from Castro had become the grail of the Republican right. Life magazine editorially adopted the cause of the exiles as its own, with photo essays on the raids. Clare Booth Luce, the powerful wife of Life publisher Henry R Luce and, herself a former congresswoman and United States ambassador, helped finance an anti-Castro platoon - an action that years later pulled her into the investigation of the conspiracy to kill President Kennedy. Life's full-throttle opposition to Kennedy "appeasement" was a problem for the administration. Along with Time, also published by Luce, it was one of the two or three most influential magazines in the country. In April, the president had invited the publisher and his very political wife to lunch at the White House. The Kennedy charm did nothing to deter or otherwise disarm them. The Luces walked out of the lunch to protest the president's warning to cool it on Cuba. (8) Larry Hancock, Someone Would Have Talked (2006) In the spring of 1960, Phillips began work on propaganda for the new Cuban Project. His activities from 1960 through 1961 frequently took him to the Miami JM/WAVE station and he also engaged in counter intelligence work against the FPCC. He met routinely with exile groups including the CRC (The Night Watch makes no mention of Alpha 66). JM/WAVE personnel have said that Phillips continued to maintain contact with and use Cubans that he had originally met in Havana, and continued this into his next assignment after the Bay of Pigs in Mexico City. Virginia Prewett appears to have been one of Phillips' significant media contacts and certainly one of the most consistent sources of media coverage for Alpha 66 activities. The other major source was Life magazine, part of the Luce Media family managed by Claire Booth Luce's husband Henry Robinson "Harry" Luce (a member of the Citizens Committee to Free Cuba, along with Phillips' friends Hal Hendrix and Paul Bethel). Articles by Prewitt and editorials by Time-Life provided the strongest challenge to the Kennedy position on Cuba and were quite consistent with the type of embarrass and back-to-the wall agendas Veciana attributed to Maurice Bishop... David Phillips also became good friends with Paul Bethel. During his time in Cuba, Bethel was a US AID employee handling public relations. He and Phillips both participated in amateur theatricals in Cuba. Later, Bethel apparently became a key part of the media and political network that would represent one of David Phillips' major achievements in anti-Castro propaganda. Bethel's own politics were right-wing and "Red Menace" oriented. Paul Bethel had worked on a trial basis for JMWAVE from October - December, 1961 as a writer and analyst on Cuban press and press plans. He was released when JMWAVE determined that his contributions did not justify his $1,000 per month salary (after leaving USAID upon his return to Miami, Bethel was employed on a trial basis by JMWAVE from Oct-Dec of 1961). Bethel was only one of Phillips associates who seem to have held aggressively conservative political agendas-friends with whom the supposedly apolitical Phillips established strong bonds. Phillips' friends included Claire Booth Luce of the Luce magazine empire and Gordon McLendon, founder of national radio and movie chains. Claire Booth Luce, once ambassador to Italy, was not known for her restrained remarks, once remarking that Vietnamese Buddhist monks who died in flames had "made a good deal for themselves" by assuring their own sainthood. (9) Carl Bernstein, CIA and the Media, Rolling Stone Magazine (20th October, 1977) In 1953, Joseph Alsop, then one of America’s leading syndicated columnists, went to the Philippines to cover an election. He did not go because he was asked to do so by his syndicate. He did not go because he was asked to do so by the newspapers that printed his column. He went at the request of the CIA. Alsop is one of more than 400 American journalists who in the past twenty-five years have secretly carried out assignments for the Central Intelligence Agency, according to documents on file at CIA headquarters. Some of these journalists’ relationships with the Agency were tacit; some were explicit. There was cooperation, accommodation and overlap. Journalists provided a full range of clandestine services - from simple intelligence gathering to serving as go-betweens with spies in Communist countries. Reporters shared their notebooks with the CIA. Editors shared their staffs. Some of the journalists were Pulitzer Prize winners, distinguished reporters who considered themselves ambassadors-without-portfolio for their country. Most were less exalted: foreign correspondents who found that their association with the Agency helped their work; stringers and freelancers who were as interested it the derring-do of the spy business as in filing articles, and, the smallest category, full-time CIA employees masquerading as journalists abroad. In many instances, CIA documents show, journalists were engaged to perform tasks for the CIA with the consent of the managements America’s leading news organizations. The history of the CIA’s involvement with the American press continues to be shrouded by an official policy of obfuscation and deception... Among the executives who lent their cooperation to the Agency were William Paley of the Columbia Broadcasting System, Henry Luce of Time Inc., Arthur Hays Sulzberger of the New York Times, Barry Bingham Sr. of the Louisville Courier-Journal and James Copley of the Copley News Service. Other organizations which cooperated with the CIA include the American Broadcasting Company, the National Broadcasting Company, the Associated Press, United Press International, Reuters, Hearst Newspapers, Scripps-Howard, Newsweek magazine, the Mutual Broadcasting System, The Miami Herald, and the old Saturday Evening Post and New York Herald-Tribune. By far the most valuable of these associations, according to CIA officials, have been with The New York Times, CBS, and Time Inc. From the Agency’s perspective, there is nothing untoward in such relationships, and any ethical questions are a matter for the journalistic profession to resolve, not the intelligence community... Many journalists were used by the CIA to assist in this process and they had the reputation of being among the best in the business. The peculiar nature of the job of the foreign correspondent is ideal for such work; he is accorded unusual access, by his host country, permitted to travel in areas often off-limits to other Americans, spends much of his time cultivating sources in governments, academic institutions, the military establishment and the scientific communities. He has the opportunity to form long-term personal relationships with sources and -- perhaps more than any other category of American operative - is in a position to make correct judgments about the susceptibility and availability of foreign nationals for recruitment as spies. The Agency’s dealings with the press began during the earliest stages of the Cold War. Allen Dulles, who became director of the CIA in 1953, sought to establish a recruiting-and-cover capability within America’s most prestigious journalistic institutions. By operating under the guise of accredited news correspondents, Dulles believed, CIA operatives abroad would be accorded a degree of access and freedom of movement unobtainable under almost any other type of cover. American publishers, like so many other corporate and institutional leaders at the time, were willing us commit the resources of their companies to the struggle against “global Communism.” Accordingly, the traditional line separating the American press corps and government was often indistinguishable: rarely was a news agency used to provide cover for CIA operatives abroad without the knowledge and consent of either its principal owner; publisher or senior editor. Thus, contrary to the notion that the CIA era and news executives allowed themselves and their organizations to become handmaidens to the intelligence services. “Let’s not pick on some poor reporters, for God’s sake,” William Colby exclaimed at one point to the Church committee’s investigators. “Let’s go to the managements. They were witting” In all, about twenty-five news organizations (including those listed at the beginning of this article) provided cover for the Agency... Many journalists who covered World War II were close to people in the Office of Strategic Services, the wartime predecessor of the CIA; more important, they were all on the same side. When the war ended and many OSS officials went into the CIA, it was only natural that these relationships would continue. Meanwhile, the first postwar generation of journalists entered the profession; they shared the same political and professional values as their mentors. “You had a gang of people who worked together during World War II and never got over it,” said one Agency official. “They were genuinely motivated and highly susceptible to intrigue and being on the inside. Then in the Fifties and Sixties there was a national consensus about a national threat. The Vietnam War tore everything to pieces - shredded the consensus and threw it in the air.” Another Agency official observed: “Many journalists didn’t give a second thought to associating with the Agency. But there was a point when the ethical issues which most people had submerged finally surfaced. Today, a lot of these guys vehemently deny that they had any relationship with the Agency.” The CIA even ran a formal training program in the 1950s to teach its agents to be journalists. Intelligence officers were “taught to make noises like reporters,” explained a high CIA official, and were then placed in major news organizations with help from management. “These were the guys who went through the ranks and were told, “You’re going to be a journalist,” the CIA official said. Relatively few of the 400-some relationships described in Agency files followed that pattern, however; most involved persons who were already bona fide journalists when they began undertaking tasks for the Agency. The Agency’s relationships with journalists, as described in CIA files, include the following general categories: * Legitimate, accredited staff members of news organizations - usually reporters. Some were paid; some worked for the Agency on a purely voluntary basis. * Stringers and freelancers. Most were payrolled by the Agency under standard contractual terms. * Employees of so-called CIA “proprietaries.” During the past twenty-five years, the Agency has secretly bankrolled numerous foreign press services, periodicals and newspapers -- both English and foreign language -- which provided excellent cover for CIA operatives. * Columnists and commentators. There are perhaps a dozen well-known columnists and broadcast commentators whose relationships with the CIA go far beyond those normally maintained between reporters and their sources. They are referred to at the Agency as “known assets” and can be counted on to perform a variety of undercover tasks; they are considered receptive to the Agency’s point of view on various subjects. Murky details of CIA relationships with individuals and news organizations began trickling out in 1973 when it was first disclosed that the CIA had, on occasion, employed journalists. Those reports, combined with new information, serve as casebook studies of the Agency’s use of journalists for intelligence purposes. The New York Times - The Agency’s relationship with the Times was by far its most valuable among newspapers, according to CIA officials. [It was] general Times policy to provide assistance to the CIA whenever possible... CIA officials cite two reasons why the Agency’s working relationship with the Times was closer and more extensive than with any other paper: the fact that the Times maintained the largest foreign news operation in American daily journalism; and the close personal ties between the men who ran both institutions... The Columbia Broadcasting System - CBS was unquestionably the CIA’s most valuable broadcasting asset. CBS president William Paley and Allen Dulles enjoyed an easy working and social relationship. Over the years, the network provided cover for CIA employees, including at least one well-known foreign correspondent and several stringers; it supplied outtakes of newsfilm to the CIA; established a formal channel of communication between the Washington bureau chief and the Agency; gave the Agency access to the CBS newsfilm library; and allowed reports by CBS correspondents to the Washington and New York newsrooms to be routinely monitored by the CIA. Once a year during the 1950s and early 1960s, CBS correspondents joined the CIA hierarchy for private dinners and briefings... At the headquarters of CBS News in New York, Paley’s cooperation with the CIA is taken for granted by many news executives and reporters, despite the denials. Paley, 76, was not interviewed by Salant’s investigators. “It wouldn’t do any good,” said one CBS executive. “It is the single subject about which his memory has failed.” At Newsweek, Agency sources reported, the CIA engaged the services of several foreign correspondents and stringers under arrangements approved by senior editors at the magazine... “To the best of my knowledge:’ said [Harry] Kern, [Newsweek’s foreign editor from 1945 to 1956] “nobody at Newsweek worked for the CIA.... The informal relationship was there. Why have anybody sign anything? What we knew we told them [the CIA] and the State Department.... When I went to Washington, I would talk to Foster or Allen Dulles about what was going on .... We thought it was admirable at the time. We were all on the same side.” CIA officials say that Kern's dealings with the Agency were extensive... When Newsweek was purchased by the Washington Post Company, publisher Philip L. Graham was informed by Agency officials that the CIA occasionally used the magazine for cover purposes, according to CIA sources. “It was widely known that Phil Graham was somebody you could get help from,” said a former deputy director of the Agency... But Graham, who committed suicide in 1963, apparently knew little of the specifics of any cover arrangements with Newsweek, CIA sources said... Information about Agency dealings with the Washington Post newspaper is extremely sketchy. According to CIA officials, some Post stringers have been CIA employees, but these officials say they do not know if anyone in the Post management was aware of the arrangements... Other major news organizations - according to Agency officials, CIA files document additional cover arrangements with the following news gathering organizations, among others: the New York Herald Tribune, Saturday Evening Post, Scripps-Howard Newspapers, Hearst Newspapers, Associated Press, United Press International, the Mutual Broadcasting System, Reuters and The Miami Herald... “And that's just a small part of the list,” in the words of one official who served in the CIA hierarchy. Like many sources, this official said that the only way to end the uncertainties about aid furnished the Agency by journalists is to disclose the contents of the CIA files - a course opposed by almost all of the thirty-five present and former CIA officials interviewed over the course of a year. The CIA’s use of journalists continued virtually unabated until 1973 when, in response to public disclosure that the Agency had secretly employed American reporters, William Colby began scaling down the program. In his public statements, Colby conveyed the impression that the use of journalists had been minimal and of limited importance to the Agency. He then initiated a series of moves intended to convince the press, Congress and the public that the CIA had gotten out of the news business. But according to Agency officials, Colby had in fact thrown a protective net around his most valuable intelligence assets in the journalistic community... At the headquarters of CBS News in New York, Paley’s cooperation with the CIA is taken for granted by many news executives and reporters, despite the denials. Paley, 76, was not interviewed by Salant’s investigators. “It wouldn’t do any good,” said one CBS executive. “It is the single subject about which his memory has failed.” Time and Newsweek magazines. According to CIA and Senate sources, Agency files contain written agreements with former foreign correspondents and stringers for both the weekly news magazines. The same sources refused to say whether the CIA has ended all its associations with individuals who work for the two publications. Allen Dulles often interceded with his good friend, the late Henry Luce, founder of Time and Life magazines, who readily allowed certain members of his staff to work for the Agency and agreed to provide jobs and credentials for other CIA operatives who lacked journalistic experience. At Newsweek, Agency sources reported, the CIA engaged the services of several foreign correspondents and stringers under arrangements approved by senior editors at the magazine... After Colby left the Agency on January 28th, 1976, and was succeeded by George Bush, the CIA announced a new policy: “Effective immediately, the CIA will not enter into any paid or contract relationship with any full-time or part-time news correspondent accredited by any US news service, newspaper, periodical, radio or television network or station.” ... The text of the announcement noted that the CIA would continue to “welcome” the voluntary, unpaid cooperation of journalists. Thus, many relationships were permitted to remain intact. (10) Norman Solomon, Media Beat (3rd May, 1988) The nation's biggest news weekly is celebrating itself. Time magazine has put out a special "75th Anniversary Issue," paying tribute to the vision of founder Henry Luce. Readers get an inspiring - and expurgated - story. Time began as a pathbreaking newsmagazine in March 1923, the latest edition recalls, and Luce was "its undisputed leader for nearly 40 years." We're told that he wanted Time to be "a vehicle of moral and political instruction, a point of connection between the world of elite ideas and opinion and middle-class people in the `true' America hungry for knowledge." Luce died in 1967, and the magazine is now the flagship of the largest media conglomerate ever, Time Warner. But the firm still doffs its corporate hat to the Luce mythology. After more than 60 pages devoted to self-homage, Time closes its March 9 issue with an essay by managing editor Walter Isaacson that clings to the Luce mantle. While acknowledging that Luce let his "global agendas" unduly influence Time's content, Isaacson assures us that the rough edges have been smoothed: "Although our stories often have a strong point of view, we try to make sure they are informed by open-minded reporting rather than partisan biases." Yet the magazine lays claim to Luce's core values: "Above all, we continue to share his belief that journalism can be, at its best, a noble endeavor." But Time's 75th anniversary issue is a telling instance of how lofty rhetoric can easily serve as a cover story. The hero of the retrospective, Henry Luce, gets plenty of adulation and some hazy references to flaws. But it's sanitized history, omitting less pleasant facts. They aren't hard to find. As tragic events unfolded in Europe, Luce ran his thriving magazine empire with an odious tilt. "In 1934 he devoted an entire issue of Fortune to glorifying Mussolini and Fascism," wrote independent journalist George Seldes. And in Time, Luce "permitted an outright pro- fascist, Laird Goldsborough, to slant and pervert the news every week." One of many brilliant books by Seldes, "Witness to a Century," recounts a revealing incident in March 1942: "Thurman Arnold, the assistant attorney general, appearing before a Senate committee investigating war profiteering, testified that Ethyl Gasoline Corp., General Motors, Standard Oil and I.G. Farben of Germany had an agreement by which the American corporations supplied Hitler with the secret of making tetra-ethyl lead for gasoline, without which Hitler could not have operated his air force or gone to war, and also supplied him with the secrets of making synthetic rubber." The head of the committee, Sen. Harry Truman, responded by declaring "This is treason." But the big press glossed over the matter. As Seldes noted: "Henry Luce's Time, for example, ridiculed Truman on page 16 one week and published a $5,000 Standard Oil advertisement on page 89." After formation of the Central Intelligence Agency in 1947, Luce - a close friend of U.S. spymaster Allen Dulles - privately urged his correspondents to cooperate with the agency. Meanwhile, Luce debriefed with the CIA about his own travels overseas. Along with some other powerful media executives, Luce joined Dulles on the board of directors of the National Committee for a Free Europe. That private front group funneled money to neo-Nazi emigre organizations. Fifty-seven years ago, Luce proclaimed that the world was in the midst of "The American Century." His pronouncement is still echoing. Last Tuesday night, when Time spent $3 million to throw a celebrity-filled anniversary party at Radio City Music Hall in New York, one of the featured guests was Bill Clinton. "Tonight, Time magazine has paid tribute to the time it not only observed but helped to shape," the president said, "the 100 stunning years that your founder Henry Luce so unforgettably called the American Century." Time Warner bigwigs like the sound of such talk. And they see no reason for the United States to relinquish the next hundred years. "To the extent that America remains an avatar of freedom," Time's managing editor contends, "the Global Century about to dawn will be, in Luce's terminology, another American Century." No thanks. One was more than enough.


--- [TIME Marches On… Past 100 - The Russell Kirk Center] ---
By John Rodden. The Man of TIME’s Century Who was the most influential journalist in American history? Benjamin Franklin? Horace Greeley? Joseph Pulitzer? William Randolph Hearst? How about Edward R. Murrow? Walter Cronkite? Sufficient grounds exist for all of them to stake a claim. Franklin a.k.a “Richard Saunders,” the author of Poor Richard’s Almanac, founded the most successful newspaper in colonial America (The Pennsylvania Gazette) and became the most respected journalist of the eighteenth century. Greeley, publisher of the New York Tribune, was the most important journalist in mid-nineteenth-century America, in addition to founding (and naming) the Republican Party in 1854—and helping elect Abraham Lincoln president six years later. The Hungarian-born Pulitzer became a leading national figure in the Democratic Party and a self-righteous crusader against Big Business and corporate corruption who established a series of prizes in his own name, a group of awards that immediately became synonymous not only with journalistic excellence but also with accomplishment in other fields of artistic endeavor. Hearst built a press empire of newspapers and magazines while becoming the most unscrupulous practitioner of so-called “yellow” (sensationalist) journalism, influencing significant political events ranging from the Spanish-American war to pre-World War II isolationism, and serving as the model for the title character in Orson Welles’s famous film, Citizen Kane. Murrow and Cronkite became national figures in broadcasting. Murrow set the twentieth-century standard for courage and integrity in broadcast journalism, first in radio during the London Blitz as head of a CBS team of war correspondents (known as the Murrow Boys) who transmitted live reports as the bombs fell (“This is… London”) and a decade later in television as the See It Now host whose outspoken criticism of Senator Joseph McCarthy led to the latter’s censure by Congress. Cronkite, also at CBS, started out in radio as a war correspondent (a “Murrow boy”) and later in TV was celebrated as “the most trusted man in America” as the CBS-TV nightly news anchor for two decades from 1962-81 (“And that’s the way it is,” ran his signature sign-off). All these men are worthy candidates for “most influential journalist of America.” Yet an even more powerful and persuasive case can be advanced for a different press baron and empire builder, the founder and publisher of the most famous magazine ever launched in America, which boasts a remarkable history of publication that continues to this day: Henry Robinson Luce (1898-1967), co-founder (with Briton Hadden) and guiding genius and impresario of TIME. The story of TIME—the flagship of a magazine empire that included Fortune, LIFE, and Sports Illustrated—cannot be told apart from the life story of Luce himself, its main founder, business manager and publisher, and presiding visionary. Luce’s publications became fixtures in the nation’s life and changed Americans’ lives. TIME marches on—or is it staggers on?—into its second century. In March 2023, it celebrated its centennial. Its status as a venerable centenarian is a rare journalistic feat, and its longevity merits a round of congratulations. What a remarkable, unprecedented, and indeed staggeringly influential odyssey through the decades it has been! And I would argue that attention must also be paid to “The Man of TIME’s Century”: Henry Luce, the man who built TIME and Time, Inc., the first and greatest magazine empire that America has ever witnessed. Brainchild of an Odd Couple: 5,200 Weeks Ago…. and Counting…. For readers past the age of sixty, TIME—always and insistently capitalized, as if to shout out its claims on our attention—was once a fixture in our lives. You could hardly walk past a coffee table without noticing its bright red-bordered cover. It was indeed “The Weekly News Magazine,” as its cover had blazoned throughout its early years. Week after week, decade after decade, you opened TIME and encountered not just a “news digest” but a cavalcade of ideas and images collated by the magazine’s staff and circulated to an audience in the hundreds of millions throughout the globe. Multiple spinoff publications spread its style, sensibility, photos, and illustrations. (TIME had no less than nine international editions by the 1980s, headed by TIME Europe and TIME Latin America, which have since spawned TIME International in its Atlantic Edition and South Pacific Edition.) In fact, by mid-century, TIME was no longer just a “magazine.” At the height of its prominence seven decades ago, in the aftermath of World War II and throughout the early Cold War era, it was nothing less than a guidebook to breaking events, a crib sheet for social and political literacy, a compendium of “What Every Informed Person Needs to Know.” How did it all begin? The most famous weekly ever published in America—which was launched more than 5,200 weeks ago on March 3, 1923—was co-founded by two brash 24-year-old Ivy League grads: Briton Hadden and Henry Robinson Luce. The pair had met at Hotchkiss, an elite preparatory school, and then had gone to Yale together. Bright and ambitious, they hatched a plan for something entirely new in American journalism, a newsmagazine that would summarize the big (and sometimes the bizarre) stories of the week. It would not just report the news but also comment on it—and thereby shape public opinion. As Luce and Hadden envisioned it, their publication, which they originally proposed to title “Facts,” would combine the irreverence of college journalism with a strong dash of insult and injury to inflated egos, presenting both events and personalities in absorbing and amusing prose. How TIME might have fared with the name “Facts” is hard to say: both Luce and Hadden had no interest or commitment to objectivity. “Show me someone who pretends to be objective,” Luce once said, “and I’ll show you someone who has illusions.” Hadden and Luce were friendly rivals as students who decided to combine their skills and become partners. The partnership was sometimes stormy—we might today term them “frenemies.” Throughout the 1920s, Hadden was the main editor; Luce served as business manager. Despite some tensions and differences in vision and priorities, they complemented each other well. TIME prospered. As it entered its fourth year in 1927, it was firmly in the black, having doubled its circulation every year to a total of 180,000. They also evinced a nose for newsworthy stories often missed by the daily press, especially in foreign affairs, validating their aspiration to show readers that people don’t just make news: they make history. For example, just seven months after their launch, they published in November 1923 an informative feature on an obscure, rabble-rousing Austrian war vet who was jailed for attempting an amateurish putsch: Adolf Hitler. (Weeks before the Hitler feature, TIME put a foreign woman entertainer on its cover: Italian actress Eleonora Duse.) Charles Who? Sometimes the editors nosedived, as when they blindly flew into print with their May 23, 1927, cover touting the new book by André Tardieu, France’s Minister of Public Works, “a statesman able to lay bare the citizens of France and the U.S. to one another… far more deftly than Sinclair Lewis can rip the breeches off a Gantry.” Buried in a section called Business News, in the sixth paragraph of page 37 (“Aeronautics: Atlantic Events”) was a brief ten-sentence story about their generational peer, 25-year-old Charles A. Lindbergh, who was already world-famous before TIME subscribers received their copies. Apparently unembarrassed by the oversight and convinced that the hullaballoo over “Lucky Lindbergh” was much ado about nothing, TIME nonetheless continued its plummet by relegating the ongoing international uproar over the May 27 flight to Business News: Aeronautics. As the months proceeded, however, Hadden and Luce recognized their editorial gaffe. In an ingenious maneuver, they shifted gears and headed true north, transforming an editorial blunder into a stroke of branding genius: they invented a Man of the Year Award, whereby they could belatedly shower Lindbergh with kudos. For the January 3, 1928, issue, Hadden and Luce inaugurated a TIME section invented specially for the boy adventurer: HEROES. Likewise, they inaugurated an irresistible guessing game for readers, with the Man (later Person) of the Year Award becoming an annual national pastime, just as firmly entrenched in American lore as one of the Christmas season’s traditions. Little more than a year later, tragedy struck Hadden—and opportunity struck Luce. Hadden died in October 1929 at the age of 31. Luce took over full control of TIME. He soon proceeded to mold TIME in his own conservative image. During the next four decades, TIME became a prime outlet for his prejudices and causes as well as his quest for social and political influence. (Luce also proceeded in the next half-dozen years to launch a number of other ventures to which Hadden had been resistant, ranging from magazines such as Fortune and Architectural Forum to film and newsreel projects such as the March of Time.) A son of Christian missionaries to China, Luce possessed an almost missionary belief in what was best for America: admiration for capitalism, big business and its leaders, faith in America’s destiny, and a hatred of Communism. TIME would become Luce’s personal vehicle for promoting—or proselytizing (and propagandizing)—all these tenets, especially in foreign policy. For example, guided by some of his staffers, particularly Laird Goldsborough, an outspoken right-winger, Luce and TIME cultivated a flirtation with fascism in the 1930s, especially with the Italian Duce, Benito Mussolini, who received five TIME cover stories before World War II began. Luce’s biggest political infatuation—and delusion—was with Chiang Kai-shek. Luce’s infatuation with Chiang exceeded all others and knew no bounds. Luce had been born in China in a missionary compound, spent his first fifteen years there, and retained lifelong a warm spot for China and a deep concern about its future. His love affair with Chiang and China was certainly the supreme political passion of his life. It blinded him to Chiang’s limitations and, given TIME’s general influence and Luce’s connections with Republican policymakers, distorted American policy in the Far East. Chiang outdid even Mussolini, appearing on TIME’s cover six times. (Madame Chiang also merited three cover features.) During the 1940s, more than any other publication, TIME promoted the misguided notion that Chiang was a great man and that China should be granted equal status as a great power alongside with the United States, Great Britain, and the Soviet Union—seriously flawed positions that damaged American standing in Asia and denied realities that should have been calculations that were incorporated into any assessment of American interests. Presidential politics also drew Luce’s attention, and he did not hesitate to push his preferences. He was an avowed, public enemy of Franklin Roosevelt—a leftist just a few degrees away from the Chinese Communists—and backed Republican Wendell Willkie in the 1940 elections. After the war, although Luce initially preferred Senator Robert Taft for the Republican nomination in 1952, political savvy triumphed over ideological compatibility. Luce supported Eisenhower, only to discover, quite soon and simply: “I LIKE IKE!!” It was an easy choice between Ike and another hated liberal, Adlai Stevenson, both in 1952 and 1956. Luce esteemed both the president’s quiet firmness and the war hero’s distinguished record. Generally speaking, Luce tended to lionize leaders whom he could project as his ideal Big Man, straddling the globe and battling communism, safeguarding capitalist democracy, and/or defending the Free World. To Luce’s credit, he drew the line at Hitler, whom he condemned as a cruel thug and race-obsessed maniac. Likewise, Luce abhorred the Nazis’ unconscionable brutality and obsessive anti-Semitism. By contrast, General MacArthur was a Luce favorite, succeeded later by Eisenhower, who became Luce’s last and dearest American darling. Eisenhower won Luce’s heart, but it was a British statesman who captured his imagination: Winston Churchill. Luce had been a Churchill fan for decades. (Churchill had already appeared on the magazine’s fifth cover, in April 1923.) Yet Luce’s embrace of Churchill did not fully commence until the Battle of Britain in 1940, which he treated like a twentieth-century St. Crispin’s Day battle, with Churchill playing Henry V and saving the day. In 1949, Luce proudly celebrated Churchill, who had suffered electoral defeat in July 1945 and was out of office, naming him TIME’s Man of the Half Century. The Invention of TimeStyle Hadden and Luce each made distinctive and defining contributions to the magazine’s identity and success. Hadden set the tone of TIME and introduced its gimmicky penchant for creating neologisms and hyphenated characterizations (“cinemactor,” “snaggled-toothed FDR”) that became known (and satirized) by the late 1920s as Timestyle—or, more acridly, as Timese. Meanwhile, Luce’s business acumen established TIME as the top newsmagazine in the world by the 1930s. Luce also turned TIME into the foundation of a foursquare journalistic empire. In 1930, he founded a business magazine, Fortune, and in 1935 added LIFE, a photomagazine staffed with the best photojournalists in the world, among them Margaret Bourke White, Robert Capa, and Carl Mydans. Timestyle had its tics. For example, countless politicians and news columnists were described in Timese as “pundits”—a term that, though Hadden and TIME did not invent it, the magazine certainly made ubiquitous as a characterization of public voices. Quiz question: Who was the first person dubbed a “pundit” in the magazine? Surprisingly, it was the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright and novelist Thornton Wilder, who certainly would be described today in terms far more elevated. Speaking of “elevated,” it will also come as a surprise to many readers today that the aforementioned hallmark of Timestyle—its neologisms such as “hair-tousled Lindbergh”—were modeled on the classics. Specifically, Hadden’s passion for hyphenated compound noun phrases was indebted, as he made widely known, to an attribute identified with the prose style of none other than the father of Western literature, the immortal Homer, whose colorful descriptors in The Iliad include phrases such as “the wine-dark sea.” Both Hadden and Luce had received a classical education at Hotchkiss and Yale; they sought to pass on a middlebrow version of it (complete with “Homeric” locutions) to their busy readers, who after all just wanted a smattering of knowledge suitable for middlebrow chatter at the Friday night dinner party. In truth, the New Yorker and most other American publications were probably envious of the upstart young publisher, who by 1936 was also captaining Fortune (1929), the March of Time newsreels (1935), and LIFE (1936). (TIME’s circulation stood at 640,000 in late 1936 and was still climbing; Fortune boasted a healthy 130,000.) So, partly from highbrow envy of the young upstarts’ astonishing success within a dozen years, and partly from fellow middlebrow anxiety that TIME was usurping their readership and their midcult turf, not just regurgitations of TIME stories but also satires of Timestyle was another mainstay of Friday night bourgeois dinner parties. A favorite dinner party game was to parody TIME’s trademark syntax (e.g., its bullet-list, reverse-order sentence structure, with verb first, noun following, as in its January 1928 cover story on “Aviator Charles Lindbergh,” who was described in an opening paragraph: “Habits: Smokes not; drinks not.” The most famous parody was the still-quoted New Yorker dressing down of TIME’s prose. Published in November 1936 and penned by staff writer Wolcott Gibbs, the piece, titled “TIME.. FORTUNE… LIFE… LUCE,” was a running, sustained caricature of Timestyle. The sendup profiled Luce, who would now pay the price for Hadden’s infatuation with The Iliad. Gibbs’s lampoon included a photo of Luce with the caption: “Baby Tycoon Henry Robinson Luce.” If Gibbs had limited himself to Timespeak, Luce might have kept his cool. But as the New Yorker headline made clear, the piece’s “shotup”—an ingenious Gibbs neologism that mocked Time Style’s inversions in morphology and syntax—culminated in a hilarious skewering of Luce himself. Addressing Luce’s recent acquisition of a name, LIFE, for his planned photo magazine, Gibbs wrote: Behind this latest, most incomprehensible Timenterprise looms, as usual, ambitious, gimlet-eyed, Baby Tycoon Henry Robinson Luce, co-founder of Time, promulgator of Fortune, potent in associated radio & cinema ventures…. At work today, Luce is efficient, humorless, revered by colleagues; arrives always at 9:15, leaves at 6, carrying armfuls of work, talks jerkily, carefully, avoiding visitor’s eye… In an article on Bernard Baruch, the banker was described as calling President Hoover ‘old cheese-face.’ Protested Tycoon Baruch that he had said no such thing. Shotup of this was that Luce, embarrassed, printed a retraction; now often removes too-vivid phrasing from writers’ copy. Already sensitive that charismatic Playboy “Brit” had been far more popular than sober, buttoned-up Presbyterian “Harry,” Luce was annoyed by the attention that Gibbs gave to their comparative merits—at Luce’s expense, of course. Strongly contrasted from the outset of their venture were Hadden, Luce. Hadden, handsome, black-haired, eccentric, irritated his partner by playing baseball with the office boys, by making jokes, by lack of respect for autocratic business. Conformist Luce disapproved of heavy drinking, played hard, sensible game of tennis… It was all good fun, but it got under the staid Luce’s skin. On his far-flung travels for months thereafter, Luce complained that he seemed to hear incessantly and everywhere about Gibbs’s parody. Luce’s antagonism partly derived from the fact that he was paying, as it were, for the verbal exuberance and editorial excesses of his late partner, Hadden, the poète maudit of Timespeak. Although Luce had enjoyed (and encouraged) TIME contributors to be Timestylish, he now regarded its indulgence in Homerisms as a Haddenesque tic that pervaded (or perverted?) the magazine’s pages. The New Yorker spoof prompted the puritanical Luce to extend his asceticism to his writers’ prose, restraining their Hadden-inspired, Lindberghian flights. Still, though Luce lowered the temperature of select instances of overheated Timespeak, that hothouse style remained a conspicuous—and sometimes farcical—feature of the magazine’s prose for decades thereafter. Although Hadden had died of heart failure induced by a streptococcus infection at the tender age of 31, Timestyle would live on to become the most notable (or notorious) feature of the magazine. Newsgathering, Collaboration, and the Invention of Group Journalism After Hadden’s death—and after Luce the business manager judged that the magazine had become sufficiently prosperous to finance it—TIME also introduced to magazine journalism another bold innovation: a new style of research and writing: group journalism. Initially TIME rewrote stories in its unique style that appeared in newspapers and magazines around the world. By the early 1930s, it had developed a collaborative form of journalism in which “correspondents” and “commentators” (staff members were no longer termed “reporters”) jointly worked to research and write the magazine’s stories, with editors in New York overseeing (and often rewriting) the results. Group journalism, along with Timestyle and design innovations introduced in the late 1920s (such as the red border on every cover), gave TIME its distinctive brand. Whereas the opening issue of TIME in 1923 ran a mere 32 pages of newsprint and had a black-and-white drawing for its cover, the magazine’s covers by the 1930s featured the highlighted word “TIME” in a box bounded by a red border and the portrait of the celebrity of the week. Circulation grew steadily throughout the decade, topping one million in the early 1940s and more than three million two decades later. Interestingly enough, whereas the Politics, National, and International sections of TIME reflected Luce’s conservative politics, one department remained insulated and tended to tilt leftward: the Culture section. In addition, Luce implicitly acknowledged that group journalism only went so far: The Culture section remained untouched, at least insofar as book and movie reviews were concerned. (By contrast, a major feature on a cultural figure—say, the cover story on Yevgeny Yevtushenko in 1962 and on James Baldwin in 1963, respectively—would gather together the efforts of a team of reporters and contributors, including those from departments outside Culture having expertise on Soviet affairs or the civil rights movement.) Why did Culture remain immune from Luce’s heavy political hand and his penchant for group journalism (and an author’s anonymity)? Luce had sufficient respect for (or fear of) the cultural establishment—of which he was a part—not to mandate that TIME reviewers collaborate and pool their impressions of works in the creative and performing arts. He might dictate the line on, say, the 1940 election (Willkie, not FDR, he insisted), or his fantasy future for China (under the “heroic” Chiang Kai-shek), but he was not about to tell James Agee how to write movie criticism and not to lean on drama critic Louis Kronenberger to pan the featured theatrical productions of the week. Luce had only intermittent interest in literary and cultural matters. Still, he was willing to grant that personal taste partly governed artistic judgment about belles-lettres or cinema. He also had enough good sense to realize that group journalism, if applied to cultural topics, might very well lead to judicial criticism that reflected the lowest common denominator, i.e., a consensus norm. (Luce realized that such group journalism would also open him to derision for mirroring the “editorial collectives” then prevailing in most Marxist-Leninist regimes, where artists and critics were employees of the Ministry of Culture and generally hewed to M-L orthodoxies and the party line.) A few talented writers made careers as news editors at TIME. T.S. Matthews, who had edited the New Republic for a decade, stayed more than twenty years at TIME, eventually becoming managing editor and succeeding Luce as day-to-day editor-in-chief in 1949. Whittaker Chambers was not in Culture but rather ran the International News desk in the 1940s, earning the then-princely salary of $30,000. Others, such as Theodore White, John Hersey, and Dwight Macdonald did depart, either for other publications or to establish freelance literary careers. Nonetheless, they seldom spoke badly of Luce and TIME. For example, the ex-Trotskyist Macdonald, who left Fortune after six years to help edit Partisan Review and then found his own short-lived little magazine, politics (always lower-cased, as if to tweak the pretensions of TIME and LIFE), told Luce’s son that Luce Sr. was an “interesting and sympathetic” publisher who always listened even when his opinions ran counter to his literary-minded staffer. “As they invariably did,” added Macdonald. Joseph Epstein took a dimmer view of Luce’s apparent broadmindedness and tolerance of opposing philosophies, noting that news editors such as Matthews and Chambers shared Luce’s opinions. “He may have allowed the critics to have their own points of view,” wrote Epstein a few months after Luce’s death in 1967, “for the simple reason that he did not believe that the power of art could move men’s minds.” The Rise of the Luce Empire The expanding journalistic empire of Henry Luce in the 1930s became known by the corporate name of TIME, Inc.—and later, TIME-LIFE, Inc. As those names suggest, TIME remained Luce’s flagship publication. Already by the late 1920s, TIME was well on its way to becoming an American institution. The prep school boys had possessed the mettle and moxie not only to achieve their proximate aim—to launch the world’s first weekly newsmagazine—but also their longer-range goal, namely to compete with America’s other top magazines of opinion and news, such as The New Republic, the American Mercury, and The Literary Digest. Their strategy had been a simple one: to appeal to people like themselves. They set their sights on winning the burgeoning demographic of educated American youth: young, college-educated men and women, who were becoming a powerful force in American life. With a mix of arrogance and derring-do, TIME quickly overtook H.L. Mencken’s American Mercury as the middlebrow magazine favored by the would-be-well-informed classes. (Hadden in particular was a huge admirer of Mencken.) Yet one wonders if Hadden and Luce, even in their wildest boyhood fantasies, ever imagined that copies of TIME would one day be found in every doctor’s and dentist’s office, even in every college dorm and every sorority parlor room—not to mention your neighborhood barber shop and local hairdressing salon. As we have noted, although TIME ran in the red during its first three years, it was solidly profitable well before October 1929, when it not only survived the stock market crash but flourished in its wake. The magazine’s firm bottom line was assisted by Luce’s shrewd business decision in 1925 to shift the fledging magazine’s headquarters from New York to a Cleveland office near the printer and distributor. (Hadden hated Cleveland, opposed the decision, and insisted on moving the company back to New York early in 1929.) After Hadden’s passing, Luce bought out his heirs to acquire full control of the magazine. He quickly proceeded to build his publishing empire, launching ventures that Hadden might have opposed and certainly would not have proposed himself. Indeed, within a decade of Hadden’s death, Luce had established an empire of Alexandrine proportions. TIME was followed in 1930 by Fortune, which—despite (or because of?) its appearance in the middle of the Great Depression—immediately turned a handsome profit. It cost—gasp!—$1.00, a lavish price. (TIME was only 15 cents.) In 1936 came LIFE (also in caps), a glossy photo magazine, which was staffed by some of the best photojournalists of the age, such as Margaret Bourke White, Robert Capa, and Carl Mydans among others. It broke all circulation records, selling 466,000 copies in its first press run. Because Luce had underestimated its appeal and guaranteed low prices to advertisers for the first year or more, however, it ran in the red until 1939. After a gala fortieth anniversary party in March 1963 celebrating TIME’s history, which featured 284 of its cover story personalities as guests, Luce turned over the day-to-day operation of the magazine to Hedley Donovan in 1964. Luce died in February 1967 with his personal holdings in Time, Inc. valued at $109 million. For the next three decades, TIME continued to prosper. In the mid-1980s, the magazine’s circulation stood at 4.6 million and reached a worldwide audience estimated at 30 million, with annual profits reportedly above $70 million. It was telling that, on coming to power in 1985, Mikhail Gorbachev, the USSR president and head of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, gave his first Western interview to the editors of TIME. The magazine’s continued success after Luce’s death owed in large part to the effective executive team that he had put in place long before his retirement, led by Donovan and above all by Roy Larsen, who had been with TIME since its founding. They were joined by several other superb editor-journalists, such as Henry Grunwald, John McManus, Otto Fuerbringer, and Walter Isaacson. Their shrewd guidance of TIME maintained its reputation as America’s greatest newsweekly into the twenty-first century. Marching On… In the 1990s, TIME’s decline became obvious. Staff turnover, even at the senior levels, signaled the downturn. For example, the magazine went through three managing editors in less than a decade, something that never happened under Luce in the past. In hindsight, the seventy-fifth anniversary soiree, staged in Radio City Music Hall in New York City—which even managed to outdo in size and splendor Henry Luce’s fortieth anniversary bash—represented the last hurrah. Held on March 3, 1998—exactly seventy-five years to the very day of the inaugural issue—its all-star lineup included heads of state, movie icons, and supermodels. The A-list included President Bill Clinton and First Lady Hillary Clinton, former USSR head Mikhail Gorbachev, U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan, Muhammad Ali, Bill Gates, Walter Cronkite, Steven Spielberg, Claudia Schiffer, and Sophia Loren. Other TIME cover guests included Tom Hanks, Jodi Foster, Billy Graham, Tom Brokaw, John Glenn, Toni Morrison, Norman Mailer, Imelda Marcos, Louis Farrakhan. A few guests, such as Joltin’ Joe, were back for a second glitzy gala. In his 2023 memoir, The Noise of Typewriters, veteran TIME columnist and editor Lance Morrow, now in his mid-80s, devotes a chapter to (a)musings about the guest list, including conjectures regarding the interactions among Jerry Falwell, Jack Kevorkian, and the Clintons. In a more formal and fulsome report on the gala event, Amsterdam’s Volkskrant toasted TIME as “The Magazine of the American Century.” The Volksrant headline represented a salute to Luce’s most famous and influential piece of journalism, his LIFE essay, “The American Century” (February 1941), a summons to American leaders to step up to the nation’s manifest destiny to save the world for (capitalist) democracy. Ave Atque Vale! (“Hail and Farewell”) might have been a more accurate headline from the vantage point of today. Certainly, on the occasion of its centenary, TIME did warrant kudos for its pioneering achievement as a news digest that did indeed bring “informed opinion” to millions of Americans and help shape the public conversation. The magazine’s remarkable history of publication as a newsmagazine continues to this day, both in print and digital versions. Nevertheless, TIME has suffered an ever-steepening decline as the twenty-first century proceeds, and its durable and distinguished record of accomplishment should not blind us to the reality of its present condition. Some observers may rationalize that TIME is still marching on, pointing out that its editors publish several monograph-style magazines per year, charging $10-15 per copy. Or that its online monthly audience exceeds 100 million visitors. To highlight such details is, however, largely an exercise in how to mislead with statistics. The reality is that TIME’s fall is clear for all to see—and if not yet fallen, it is in free fall: just two issues per month, an anemic 50 pages, a circulation total barely over 1.3 million. That figure amounts to less than a third of its sales total twenty-five years ago: TIME no longer even makes it into America’s Top 25 in circulation figures, far down the list from its sister publication People, which is still invariably among the top three. Thus does the child born from a single TIME rib—a brief section in the middle of the magazine devoted to newsy items about personalities or celebrities of the moment—come to overshadow its aged parent in popularity and pertinence to the glitzy infotainment age. In 2007, on the eightieth anniversary of its introduction, TIME’s trademark red border on the cover was reduced, as if to symbolize the reductions everywhere else in TIME—and likewise the contracting post-Lucean empire itself. “Die Zeiten ändern sich—auch für TIME” (“The times have changed—for TIME too”) declared Germany’s Die Presse in a commemorative feature devoted to TIME last March. Amsterdam’s newspaper daily de Volkskrant agreed: “The iconic TIME is celebrating… but little remains of the glory of its past.” Indeed, “The Weekly News Magazine”, its old cover subtitle, has been reduced (since March 2020) to a biweekly. Nowadays, the magazine is living off TIME’s past. Or as the editorial director of the Dutch weekly Elsevier—which has long modeled itself on TIME, even mimicking the red border—allowed: “TIME will benefit…for a long time to come” from its “fantastic name,” a “brand” “in the category of Ford and Coca-Cola.” Like all other magazines, TIME has struggled throughout the twenty-first century with steep declines in print advertising and newsstand sales. Successively owned after the Luce family by Warner, American Online, and Meredith, the magazine was privately purchased in 2017 by Marc Benioff, owner of Salesforce, in a fire sale. The bargain basement price was $190 million. Observing these signs of TIME’s decline and from across the Atlantic, a British journalist could observe after the 2017 sale with an equal measure of both glee and justice: The Person of the Year thing is about the last attention-grabbing gimmick that TIME has left. It’s like the news nerd version of the Sports Illustrated swimsuit edition calling out, ‘Hey there, remember when we were a big deal? Remember when you couldn’t wait for Fridays, when the edition that appeared on the newsstands on Monday would finally hit your mailbox?’ The erstwhile coup de genie now seemed a tired gimmick; the onetime cynosure of national preoccupation now attracted just ho-hum attention. Aware of the decline in interest, TIME sought to compensate with its TIME 100 list of “the most influential people in the world.” Xi Jinping has made the list thirteen times, Barack Obama and Oprah Winfrey eleven each. Other spinoffs have followed, such as the 100 Next list in 2019, which “spotlights 100 rising stars” around the world, along with numerous other TIME 100 innovations. As if to mock the futility and even fatuousness of these stopgap stratagems, in February 2016 TIME floated yet another ranking survey: the TIME 100 Most-Read Female Authors in College Classes. Yet it contained a name that not even the trans community would venture to include: Evelyn Waugh (at #97). With a touch of post-colonialist satisfaction, The BBC News soberly reminded the Yankee editors: “Evelyn Waugh Is A Man.” TIME’s blooper triggered hoots of derision (“Who knew E.W. was a dude?!”). Still, objections about the retraction also arose: “TIME is sexist, heteroassumptive, and transphobic!”), and the list attracted waves of satirical barbs (“Groomshead Revisited, Anyone?”) not seen since the chattering classes chattered about Wolcott Gibbs’s critique eight decades earlier. A specter is haunting TIME. Is the fate of Newsweek, U.S. News & World Report, and lesser, now-defunct newsmagazines soon destined to be its own? TIME’s up? The coffee tables are already bare. The clock is ticking on TIME. The Man of the Century? Luce’s Legacy And what of history’s judgment of the empire builder himself? In his later years, Luce occasionally betrayed more than a touch of megalomania. Luce had once observed, according to one of his biographers, that he was “smarter than Albert Einstein” because, whereas the physicist Einstein was just a “specialist,” Henry Luce was a “generalist.” Whatever one makes of such anecdotes—Luce’s superiority to Einstein takes on a special ironic cast, given that TIME’s editors named Einstein “Man of the Century” in December 1999—it is nonetheless undeniable that Henry Luce exerted substantial influence on the American mind and temper. Even the wartime tribute of the former editorial director of Simon & Schuster, who rhapsodized in the 1940s that Luce was the “most influential editor” of the century, does not at all seem outlandish from a certain angle: Luce as an inventor-impresario of the publishing world bears comparison with some of the giants of the last two centuries in their own respective fields. For the founders of TIME single handedly invented the weekly newsmagazine, and then Luce alone transformed it again by implementing group journalism. He then invented the modern business magazine with the debut of Fortune, the modern photojournalism magazine with the launch of LIFE, and the modern sports magazine with the premiere of Sports Illustrated. While TIME was the Luce Empire flagship and LIFE was its biggest money maker, Fortune was Luce’s dearest love among his magazines, for it heralded the greatness of business in American life. (And because, unlike in the case of TIME, it was his own baby, his own newsmagazine—and he didn’t have to share credit with anyone for its creation.) People, inspired by the “People” section of TIME (and the most popular of the company’s magazine chain today) was launched long after Luce’s death in 1974. Proud of all his creations, it remains doubtful as to whether he would have cited People in his list of accomplishments. Yet Henry Luce was far more than that. From the standpoint of the twenty-first century, he stands as the single most innovative newsman of this nation’s history, creating and branding a magazine format that has never been bettered—and popularizing a concept of the “news digest” that has shaped infotainment and the presentation of news in the digital age—for better and worse. Unlike some of the other candidates for “America’s greatest journalist,” Luce did not exert great impact on national or world events: the Depression, World War II, the Cold War, civil rights, the Space race. Luce did not so much influence public policy or political developments as he reshaped media formats and practices (group journalism, “digest” reports) and the modern mindscape. No other journalist has ever presided over an empire that came to dominate so many diverse spheres of journalism, ranging from general news to business, entertainment, and sports. By the mid-1930s, he had transformed the magazine industry and recast it in his own image. Nor has any press baron ever approached his circulation totals and the international reach of his magazines, especially TIME and LIFE at their peak. As TIME “goes on,” therefore, and we commemorate its achievements, the career of Henry Robinson Luce, the “Man of TIME’s Century,” deserves recognition. In March 2023, Germany’s Sueddeutsche Zeitung pronounced Luce “the most powerful publisher of the twentieth century.” Indeed, if he was not America’s “greatest journalist,” he was greatest American publisher of his time, as his biographer Alan Brinkley made clear years ago in Publisher: Henry Luce and His American Century (2010), a judgment recently seconded in The Noise of Typewriters by Lance Morrow, who wrote no less than 150 cover stories for TIME across a half-century. For Luce did nothing less than alter our consciousness of current events and our connection to them. John Rodden has taught at the University of Virginia and the University of Texas at Austin. Support the University Bookman The Bookman is provided free of charge and without ads to all readers. Would you please consider supporting the work of the Bookman with a gift of $5? Contributions of any amount are needed and appreciated!


--- [Series II. Speeches and Writings: Henry R. Luce papers] ---
Series II. Speeches and Writings, 1916-1967 (bulk, 1930-1966) Extent Scope and Contents Note The series consists of working and final files of the speeches and writings produced by Henry R. Luce (hereafter HRL). Speech related materials make up the majority of the series. Arrangement Note The series is organized in two subseries: Subseries II.A. Working Files Subseries II.B. Final Speeches and Writings Subseries II.A. Working Files, 1920-1967 (bulk, 1930-1966) Scope and Contents Note The subseries includes correspondence inviting HRL to speak or submit an article for publication; his responses and internal memoranda discussing what actions he should take; planning and scheduling the trip to give the speech; invitations to meet individuals unrelated to the speech located in the area to be visited; background and biographical information on individuals and organizations inviting HRL, on those attending the event, those he may meet, and information on employees working in the Time Inc. regional offices; background on the venue and events where he is scheduled to speak; arrangements for where he will be staying, and detailed itineraries. In addition there are a large number of heavily marked early and later drafts of speeches and articles, as well as the final versions; handwritten notes; speech outlines; reference and research materials assembled to assist the writing process or to be incorporated into the article or speech; internal memoranda requesting the opinions of Time Inc. staff and their responses, comments and advice. The internal memoranda and correspondence involving logistical planning, fact checking, and advice given to HRL is sent to and received from his secretary, Corinne Thrasher, and a number of personal assistants and Time Inc. officers including Allen Grover, Russell Bourne, Emeline Nollen, C.D. Jackson, Albert L. Furth, Wes Bailey, Bernard Barnes, and John Jessup. There are also brochures, programs, promotional materials, press releases and other printed materials from the events where HRL made the speech or that were published by the group which invited him; and responses and reactions from attendees, Time Inc. staff and members of the public who read the speech or article. Some of the speeches were sent to prominent individuals and the files include responses from professors, clergy, deans, college presidents, businessmen, publishers and editors. In addition there are letters of gratitude; requests for copies of the speech; logistics dealing with publication and distribution of speeches; mailing lists for speech distribution; and reports of a selection of comments generated by a speech or article. The contents of any one speech file tends to vary substantially with some containing very little materials compared to others. Of note in the subseries are drafts of speeches made by HRL in late 1940-early 1941 which became the basis for his "The American Century" article in LIFE. Arrangement Note The subseries is arranged in chronological order, with a few exceptions, based on the final date of when a speech was given or the article published. Subject Index to HRL's Speeches and Writings (binder 1), 1920-1966 Scope and Contents Speeches and writings organized under the subject tab "America and the World." Subject Index to HRL's Speeches and Writings (binder 2), 1928-1967 Scope and Contents Speeches and writings organized under the subject tabs "Art & Architecture," "Education," "Far East," and "Journalism and/or Time Inc." Subject Index to HRL's Speeches and Writings (binder 3), 1928-1966 Scope and Contents Speeches and writings organized under the subject tabs "Law," "Religion," "Reminiscences," and "Reports on Trips." Chronological Index to HRL's Speeches, Writings, and Trip Reports (2 folders), 1920-1967 Scope and Contents Includes a portion of the 10 March 1967 issue of TIME with HRL on the cover showing the sources of quotes used in the article, and copies of correspondence regarding Walter Lippmann. Lists of Speeches and Writings, circa 1962-1967 Scope and Contents Note The timeframe of the speeches and writings on the lists span from the 1920s to 1967. Untitled, Advertising Men's Club, Rochester, NY, 28 March 1928, 1928 Untitled, Chicago, IL, November 1930, 1930 "The Distribution of Wealth in the U.S.," Harrisburg Chamber of Commerce, PA, 5 October 1931, 1931 Scope and Contents Note Contains a brochure advertising the speech. Untitled, Sigma Delta Chi, Des Moines, IA, 18 April 1933 (2 folders), 1933 Untitled, Scranton, PA, 19 April 1934, 1934 "Introduction to This First Issue of LIFE," LIFE, 23 November 1936, 1936 "Introduction to This Second Issue of LIFE," LIFE, 30 November 1936, 1936 "The Existing Agreement Between Editor and Advertiser," American Association of Advertising Agencies Convention, White Sulphur Springs, WV, 30 April 1937, 1937 "What Must the Press Do to Meet Its Public Responsibility?," Institute of Human Relations, Williamstown, MA, 2 September 1937, 1935-1937 Untitled, New York City Cancer Committee, NY, 27 October 1937, 1937 Untitled, Stamford Community Chest, CT, 28 October 1937, 1937 "Industry and Freedom," Group 9, Ohio Bankers Association, Cleveland, 10 November 1937, 1937 Scope and Contents Note Includes a memorandum where HRL praises Walter Lippmann. Untitled, Yale Club of Montclair, NJ, 4 December 1937, 1937 Convocation Address, Rollins College, Winter Park, FL, 21 February 1938, 1937-1938 Untitled, Stamford Women's Club, CT, 4 January 1939, 1938-1939 Untitled, Yale-LIFE Conference, New Haven, CT, 1 February 1939, 1939 "The Responsibility of the Press," Rollins Animated Magazine, Winter Park, FL, 20 February 1939, 1939 "Can Business Be Patriotic?," Detroit Economic Club, MI, 3 April 1939, 1938-1939 Untitled, Fashion Group, New York, NY, 20 April 1939, 1938-1939 Untitled, LIFE Advertising Convention, Shawnee-on-the-Delaware, PA, 27 May 1939, 1939 Untitled, Senior Group at Time Inc., New York, NY, 21 September 1939, 1939 Untitled, Radio Address Over WJZ and Blue Coast-to-Coast Network, 22 May 1940, 1940 "Now We, the American People," Radio Station WABC & Full Columbia Network, Washington, D.C., 1 June 1940, 1940 Untitled, Coca-Cola Dinner, New York, NY, 8 November 1940, 1940 "Publishing in Time of Crisis," The Quill Club, New York, NY, 19 November 1940, 1940 Scope and Contents Note Does not contain the speech. Untitled, Poor Richard Club, Philadelphia, PA, 10 December 1940, 1940 Scope and Contents Note Includes a note indicating that this was one of the four "American Century" type speeches given by HRL. "Tests for 1941," Hotchkiss Alumni News, January 1941, 1940-1941 "America As A World Power," Association of American Colleges, Pasadena, CA. 9 January 1941 (2 folders), 1941, 1960 Scope and Contents Note Includes telegrams from Douglas Fairbanks Jr. Untitled, Annual Dinner of the Mid-Continent Oil & Gas Association, Tulsa, OK, 11 January 1941 (2 folders), 1940-1941 Separated Materials Note Includes a letter from Congressman Wesley E. Disney. "The American Century," National Automobile Dealers Association, Pittsburgh, PA, 22 January 1941 (2 folders), 1941 Scope and Contents Note Speech also indicated under the title "America As A World Power" in the master list. Includes a note indicating that this speech was the basis for HRL's famous editorial on the "American Century" which appeared in LIFE on 17 February 1941. "The American Century," LIFE, 17 February 1941, 1941, 1952 Scope and Contents Note Includes an early draft with the alternative title "We Americans." Untitled, Senior Group, New York, NY, 17 April 1941, 1941 Scope and Contents Note Includes brief outlines but no speech. Untitled Radio Address over WABC and Full Network, New York, NY, 11 June 1941, 1941 Untitled, Brooks School, North Andover, MA, 12 June 1941, 1941 Untitled, Adcraft Club, Detroit, MI, 23 October 1941, 1941 Scope and Contents Note Includes unrelated memoranda from Allen Grover and D.C. Murray regarding the conflict between Time Inc. and the Chrysler Corporation. Contains only brief handwritten notes of the speech. Untitled, New England Council, Boston, MA, 14 November 1941, 1941 "The Day of Wrath," LIFE, 22 December 1941, 1941 Scope and Contents Note Includes early draft versions with the alternative names "We Want Victory" and "The Twenty Years." Untitled, Chicago Federated Advertising Clubs, IL, 22 January 1942, 1942 Untitled, The Yale Daily News Annual Dinner, New Haven, CT, 16 February 1942 (2 folders), 1942 Scope and Contents Note Includes other speech drafts titled "America" and "What Do We Win?" Untitled, Overseas Writers Dinner, Washington, D.C., 28 March 1942, 1942 Untitled, Los Angeles, CA, 8 April 1942, 1942 Scope and Contents Note Contains a memorandum describing HRL's trip and performance but does not include the speech. Untitled, Advertising & Sales Club of Toronto, Canada, 28 April 1942 (1 of 3 folders), 1942 Scope and Contents Note Also includes the untitled address made in front of the Rochester, NY Chamber of Commerce on 22 April 1942. Untitled, Advertising & Sales Club of Toronto, Canada, 28 April 1942 (2 of 3 folders), 1942 Untitled, Advertising & Sales Club of Toronto, Canada, 28 April 1942 (3 of 3 folders) - oversize, 1942 Scope and Contents Note Contains an oversize portrait chart titled "The Prime Minister's Mechanism for Running the War." "Photography and Journalist," Dinner Meeting of LIFE, New York, NY, 17 July 1942, 1942 Untitled, Senior Group Dinner, New York, NY, 19 November 1942, 1942 Untitled, Harvard Club of New Haven, CT, 25 February 1943, 1942-1943 Scope and Contents Note Does not contain the speech. Untitled, Time Inc. 20th Anniversary Dinner, New York, NY, 11 March 1943, 1943 Scope and Contents Note Includes a transcript of HRL's talk over radio from the anniversary dinner. Untitled, Ohio State University, Columbus, 11 June 1943, 1943 Scope and Contents Note First three pages of the speech are missing. Untitled, Dayton Art Institute, Dayton, Ohio, 12 June 1943, 1941-1943 Scope and Contents Note Includes photographs of Dayton Art Institute and the City of Dayton. "A New Measure of Patriotism," YMCA, New York, NY, 6 June 1944, 1944 "Present Trends in China," Institute of Pacific Relations, San Francisco, CA, 3 July 1944, 1944 Scope and Contents Note Does not contain the speech. Untitled, Time Inc. Dinner, New York, NY, 7 November 1945, 1945 Scope and Contents Note Does not contain the speech. "The Ethical Problem Facing America," Divinity School of Duke University, Durham, NC, 12 February 1946, 1946 Scope and Contents Note Includes correspondence asking HRL to stop accepting advertisements for alcoholic beverages. Untitled, 6 June 1946, 1946 Scope and Contents Note Does not contain the speech. Untitled, TIME-LIFE-FORTUNE Sales Convention, Shawnee, PA, 27 June 1946, 1946 Scope and Contents Note Includes a memorandum from Herb Bippart to HRL discussing a plan to sell Time Inc. stock to employees. Untitled, The World Mission of the Christian Church, San Francisco, CA, 10 September 1946, 1946 Scope and Contents Note Does not contain the speech. "Bread and Liberty," American Association of Advertising Agencies, New York, NY, 18 November 1946 (2 folders), 1946-1947 Scope and Contents Note Includes a letter from Senator Arthur Capper. Untitled, Church Federation of Greater Chicago, IL, 27 January 1947, 1947 Scope and Contents Note Includes a photograph of a missing missionary family. Untitled, YMCA, Philadelphia, PA, 1 May 1947, 1947 Scope and Contents Note Includes rough notes but no speech. Untitled, Friendship House, Scranton, PA, 24 June 1947, 1947 Scope and Contents Note Includes rough notes but no speech. Untitled, 9 March 1948, 1948 Scope and Contents Note Does not contain the speech. Untitled, Alumni Dinner of the Union Theological Seminary, New York, NY, 17 May 1948, 1948, 1962 Untitled, Inter-Racial Fellowship General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the USA, Seattle, WA, 30 May 1948, 1948 Scope and Contents Note Includes correspondence asking HRL to stop accepting advertisements for alcoholic beverages. University of Nanking Radio Broadcast on the Voice of America, 10 November 1948, 1948 Untitled, Washington & Lee University, Lexington, Va, 10 December 1948, 1948-1949 "Practical Idealism At Work," Kiwanis International, Atlantic City, NJ, 22 June 1949, 1949 Untitled, Producers' Council Inc., Chicago, IL, 29 September 1949, 1949 Untitled, Laymen's Movement For A Christian World, New York, NY, 30 November 1949, 1949 Scope and Contents Note Does not contain the speech. Untitled, Laymen's Movement For A Christian World, 30 December 1949, 1949 Scope and Contents Note Includes rough notes but no speech. Untitled, Janesville Chamber of Commerce, WI, 24 January 1950, 1949-1950 Scope and Contents Note Includes outline and publicity releases but no speech. "The Reformation of the World's Economies," FORTUNE, February 1950, 1950, 1964-1965 Scope and Contents Note Includes materials from 1964-1965 dealing with the changes in FORTUNE over the course of thirty-five years. Untitled, Time Inc. Dinner for the President of Chile (Gabriel González Videla), 19 April 1950, 1950 Untitled, Time Inc. Executives, New York, NY, 4 May 1950, 1950 Untitled, World Organization for Brotherhood, Paris, France, 8 June 1950, 1950 Scope and Contents Note Includes an incomplete French version of the speech. Untitled, National Association of Magazine Publishers, Spring Lake, NJ, 12 September 1950, 1950 Scope and Contents Note Includes notes but no speech. Untitled, Time Inc. News Bureau Convention, New York, NY, 16 March 1951, 1951 Scope and Contents Note Includes notes and an outline but no speech. "Holmes Was Wrong," FORTUNE, June 1951, 1951 Scope and Contents Note Article is based on speech delivered by HRL before the Southwest Regional Convention of the American Bar Association in Dallas, TX on 19 April 1951. Includes the unpublished paper "Mortality of Men and Women" by Walter G. Bowerman, a national health insurance proposal from Sol M. Linowitz and a letter from NY Supreme Court Justice Michael F. Walsh. "Freedom Is Rare," LIFE, 11 June 1951, 1951 "Freedom and Order," Buffalo Chamber of Commerce and the Greater Buffalo Advertising Club, NY, 26 June 1951, 1951 Scope and Contents Note Includes a poem and letter from Joseph Auslander. Untitled, Production Department Dinner of Time Inc., New York, NY, 16 October 1951, 1951 Scope and Contents Note Includes notes but no speech. "Canada in the World Today," The Sun Life Review, October 1951, 1951 "Rewards of American Life," Society of Industrial Realtors, Cincinnati, OH, 15 November 1951, 1951 Scope and Contents Note Includes a photograph of HRL presenting an award. Untitled, The Executives' Club of Chicago, IL, 30 November 1951, 1949-1951 "Freedom and Order," Economic Club of New York, NY, 15 January 1952 (2 folders), 1951-1952 Untitled, Time Inc. Advertising Convention, New York, NY, 23 May 1952, 1952 Scope and Contents Note Contains notes but no speech. Untitled, TIME Editorial Dinner, New York, NY, 14 November 1952, 1952 Untitled, American Friends of the Middle East, New York, NY, 30 January 1953, 1953 Scope and Contents Note Includes summary but no full speech. "Journalism & Responsibility," School of Journalism, University of Oregon at Eugene, 20 February 1953 (2 folders), 1952-1953 Scope and Contents Note Includes a memorandum from Andrew Heiskell to John Jessup and HRL on the term "egghead." "America and Asia," LIFE, 23 February 1953, 1953 "Citizenship and Statesmanship," Rotary Club of New York, NY, 5 March 1953, 1952-1953 Scope and Contents Note Includes an outline but no speech. "Our Foreign Policy," Central States Group of the Investment Bankers Association of America, Chicago, IL, 11 March 1953, 1953 "The Great Liberal Tradition," Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, 18 June 1953, 1953 Scope and Contents Note Does not contain the speech. "The American Proposition," International University of Social Studies Pro Deo, Rome Italy, 29 November 1953, 1953 Scope and Contents Note Includes an Italian version of the speech. Untitled, Printing Week Dinner, New York, NY, 18 January 1954, 1953-1954 Scope and Contents Note Includes a photograph of the Franklin Medal. Untitled, 2 February 1954, 1954, 1958 Scope and Contents Note Includes an outline and notes but no speech. "New World of Business," American Chamber of Commerce and World Brotherhood, Milan, Italy, 9 February 1954, 1953-1954 Scope and Contents Note Includes biographical and other materials in Italian. "Land of Liberty," Rye Presbyterian Men's Club, Rye, NY, 6 April 1954, 1954 Scope and Contents Note Includes notes but no speech. Untitled, American Club, Rome, Italy, 13 May 1954, 1954 Scope and Contents Note Includes notes but no speech. Untitled, Laymen's Movement For a Christian World, 29 October 1954, 1954 "The Promised Land," Fortieth Anniversary Dinner for the New Republic, Washington D.C., 17 November 1954 (2 folders), 1954-1962 Scope and Contents Note An early title of the speech was "The Liberal Tradition." Includes a condensed version titled "Pilgrim's Progress Forever," published in the January 1955 issue of the Democratic Digest and "The Great Liberal Tradition," published in the 25 March 1959 issue of the Indian newspaper The Current. Untitled, Yale Club, New York, NY, 29 January 1955, 1955 Scope and Contents Note Includes notes but no speech. "The Place of Art in American Life," American Federation of Arts, Des Moines, IA, 13 October 1955 (3 folders), 1947-1956 Scope and Contents Note Includes a published copy of HRL's speech "Freedom and Order" and photographs of a Frank Lloyd Wright house in Bliss, Idaho. Untitled, Rotary Club of Chicago, IL, 18 October 1955, 1955 Untitled, Time Inc. Company Review Dinner, 21 October 1955, 1955 Untitled, New Leader Meeting, New York, NY, 10 November 1955, 1955 Scope and Contents Note Includes an outline but no speech. "A Speculation About A.D. 1980," FORTUNE, December 1955 (4 folders), 1955 Scope and Contents Note The earlier working title for the article was "The Purpose of Human Life." Correspondents include George Romney and Louis Finkelstein. "Business Enterprise -- 20th Century U.S.A.," Drexel Institute of Technology, Philadelphia, PA, 25 May 1956 (2 folders), 1956 "The Kind of World Americans Want," National Conference of Christians and Jews, New York, NY, 6 June 1956 (folder 1 of 2), 1956 Scope and Contents Note Includes a "random list of 'who hates who'" and research materials on anti-Americanism. Also includes an anti-LIFE article from Pravda in Russian. Correspondents include Thomas J. Watson and Harvey S. Firestone Jr. "The Kind of World Americans Want," National Conference of Christians and Jews, New York, NY, 6 June 1956 (folder 2 of 2), 1956 "Peace is the Work of Justice," Connecticut State Bar Association, Hartford, 23 October 1956 (4 folders), 1956-1957 Scope and Contents Note Includes a large number of thank you letters for the reprint of the speech received from members of the clergy, academia, ambassadors, American corporations, newspapers, and American and foreign government officials and politicians. Among the prominent individuals are Lyndon B. Johnson, Barry Goldwater, Justice William J. Brennan Jr., Allen W. Dulles and Ralph Bunche. Substantive correspondents include Australian Prime Minister Robert Menzies (copies). Does not contain the speech. Untitled, Time Inc. Management Dinner, New York, NY, 15 November 1956, 1956 Scope and Contents Note Includes notes but no speech. "Good Architecture Is Good Government," American Institute of Architects, Washington, D.C., 16 May 1957 (2 folders), 1957, 1967 "The Character of the Businessman," International Committee of Scientific Management, Paris, France, 28 June 1957 (folder 1 of 2), 1956-1957 Scope and Contents Note Includes a French version of the speech. "The Character of the Businessman," International Committee of Scientific Management, Paris, France, 28 June 1957 (folder 2 of 2), 1956-1957 Untitled, National Executive Marketing Conference, San Francisco, CA, 12 September 1957, 1957 "A Big Year for the Law," Indiana State Bar Association, French Lick, IN, 20 September 1957, 1957 "The Great Future of Private Enterprise," Far East-America Council, New York, NY, 2 October 1957, 1957 Appearance on Meet the Press Television Program, 13 October 1957, 1957 Scope and Contents Note Correspondents include Lawrence E. Spivak and Samuel Goldwyn. Does not include a transcript of the episode. "America's Unfinished Business," International Industrial Development Conference, San Francisco, CA, 18 October 1957, 1957 "God in His Church," Westminster Presbyterian Church, Scranton, PA, 17 November 1957, 1957 Untitled, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 11 January 1958, 1957-1958 Scope and Contents Note Includes a memorandum regarding an atomic war. Does not contain the speech. Untitled, Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce, PA, 17 February 1958, 1957-1958 Scope and Contents Note Does not contain the speech. Untitled, Time Advertising Convention, Ponte Verde, FL, 6 May 1958, 1958 Scope and Contents Note Contains notes but no speech. Untitled, Executive Committee to Study United States Foreign Policy, Washington, D.C., 16-17 September 1958, 1958 Scope and Contents Note Includes correspondence from Senator J. W. Fulbright. Does not contain the speech. Untitled, Michigan State University-Oakland, 12 December 1958, 1958-1959 Scope and Contents Note Includes the paper "The Liberal Arts: An Inquiry," by Milton E. Muelder. Does not contain the speech. "The Dangerous Age of Abundance," The Newcomen Society, Cleveland, OH, 21 January 1959 (folder 1 of 2), 1958-1959 "The Dangerous Age of Abundance," The Newcomen Society, Cleveland, OH, 21 January 1959 (folder 2 of 2), 1958-1959 "The Way of the Law," Fellows of American Bar Foundation, Chicago, IL, 21 February 1959, 1958-1959 Untitled, Public Relations Society of Arizona, Phoenix, 19 March 1959, 1958-1959 Scope and Contents Note Does not contain the speech. Untitled, Advertising Club of Washington, D.C., 14 April 1959, 1959 Scope and Contents Note Includes notes but no speech. "Peace Through Law," International Chamber of Commerce, Washington, D.C., 20 April 1959, 1959 Untitled, Cornerstone Ceremony for the New Time & Life Building, New York, NY, 23 June 1959, 1959 "Imperfect Freedom," The Mont Pelerin Society, Oxford, England, 9 September 1959 (3 folders), 1958-1959 Scope and Contents Note Correspondents include Friedrich Hayek and John Jewkes. Untitled, Providence Chamber of Commerce, RI, 5 October 1959, 1959 Untitled, LIFE Photography Convention, New York, NY, 4 January 1960, 1960 Scope and Contents Note Contains notes but no speech. Untitled, Time Sales Convention, Lake Placid, NY, 8 June 1960, 1960 Scope and Contents Note Contains notes but no speech. Untitled, Time Inc. Staff, New York, NY, 9 June 1960, 1960 Scope and Contents Note Includes an incomplete speech of HRL on his spring 1960 round the world trip. Testimony Before the Senate Subcommittee on National Policy Machinery, Washington, D.C., 28 June 1960 (3 folders), 1957, 1959-1960 Scope and Contents Note Subcommittee is frequently referred to as the Jackson Committee. Correspondents include Senator Henry M. Jackson. Untitled, Magazine Publishers Association, New York, NY, 28 September 1960, 1960 Scope and Contents Note HRL was present at the event as a member of a panel of magazine editors that questioned Vice President Richard Nixon. Includes fragments of questions and answers from the event published in MPA Magazine News but no transcript. Dedication of Americas Plaza of the TIME & LIFE Building, New York, NY, 3 October 1960, 1960 Untitled, New York Board of Trade, NY, 6 October 1960, 1960 Scope and Contents Note Acceptance speech for receiving an award at the Fourteenth Annual Gold Awards Dinner. Interview on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) Program Closeup, 25 October 1960 (2 folders), 1960 Scope and Contents Note Original interview recorded on 20 September 1960 and aired on 25 October 1960. Presentation of the LIFE Collection of Art from World War II to the Department of Defense, Washington, D.C., 7 December 1960, 1960 "Needed: A General Theory for U.S. Action in World Affairs," The University Club, New York, NY, 28 January 1961 (2 folders), 1961 Untitled, Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, New York, NY, 26 February 1961, 1959-1961 Scope and Contents Note Does not contain the speech. Untitled, Junior Bar Section of the Bar Association of the District of Columbia, 10 March 1961, 1960-1961 Scope and Contents Note Includes notes but no speech. "Sight and Insight," University of Miami Fifth Annual Photojournalism Conference, Coral Gables, FL, 26 April 1961 (folder 1 of 2), 1937, 1960-1961 Scope and Contents Note Also includes HRL's speech "What Must the Press Do to Meet Its Public Responsibility?" delivered before the Institute of Human Relations, Williamstown, MA on 2 September 1937. "Sight and Insight," University of Miami Fifth Annual Photojournalism Conference, Coral Gables, FL, 26 April 1961 (folder 1 of 2), 1937, 1960-1961 Untitled, Time Inc. Executives Dinner, New York, NY, 15 May 1961, 1961 "The Rule of Law and the Administration of Justice," Section of Judicial Administration of the American Bar Association, St. Louis, MO, 7 August 1961, 1961 "To Ike, the Wall Rises Between Opposing Ideas of Man," LIFE, 8 September 1961, 1961 Scope and Contents Note Includes the cover of LIFE featuring the article under the title "From Gettysburg: Ike's Stand on Berlin." Untitled, LIFE Sales Meeting, Ponte Vedra, FL, 10 September 1961, 1961 "Why I As A Layman Am Supporting This Project," National Presbyterian Church & Center, Washington, D.C., 3 October 1961, 1961 Untitled, LIFE "Promise and Purpose" Luncheon, New York, NY, 23 October 1961, 1961 Untitled, University of Southern California School of Journalism, Los Angeles, 1 November 1961, 1961 Interview with Billy Graham, 22 November 1961, 1961 Scope and Contents Note Interview took place on 28 August 1961. Includes a suggested outline for the interview but does not include a transcript. Untitled, Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, New York, NY, 17 January 1962, 1962 Scope and Contents Includes notes but no speech. "The American Pilgrimage," YMCA of Metropolitan Chicago, IL, 23 January 1962, 1962 Untitled, 21 Jewel Square Club, Philadelphia, PA, 13 March 1962, 1955, 1962 Scope and Contents Includes notes but no speech. "The Title Deeds of Freedom," Westminster College, Fulton, MO, 14 March 1962, 1961-1962 "We Are Such Stuff ...," Kit-Kat Club, Columbus, OH, 15 May 1962, 1962 "The Title Deeds of Freedom," College of Wooster, OH, 19 May 1962, 1962 Scope and Contents Note The speech is different from the one given at Westminster College on 14 March 1962. "Challenges to the Church," Princeton Theological Seminary, NJ, 4 June 1962, 1962 Untitled, First Annual LIFE Managing Editor's Dinner, New York, NY, 8 June 1962, 1962 Scope and Contents Note Includes a memorandum from Emmie Nollen to HRL regarding "Great LIFE Stories." "Politics in the Age of Science," Center for Human Relations of the University of Detroit, MI, 17 September 1962 (2 folders), 1957, 1960-1963 "The Rule of Law," Canadian Club of Toronto, Canada, 21 January 1963, 1962-1963 Untitled, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA, 31 January 1963, 1958, 1962-1963 Scope and Contents Note Includes notes but no speech. Untitled, 40th Anniversary Dinner of TIME, New York, NY, 4 March 1963, 1963 "Putting Our House in Order," Economic Club of Detroit, MI, 22 April 1963 (2 folders), 1962-1963 Scope and Contents Note Includes transcripts of questions made by Benson Ford and HRL's answers following the speech. Correspondents include Governor George Romney. McKinsey Lectures at Columbia University, New York, NY, 24 April-8 May 1963 (4 of 6 folders), 1953-1965 Scope and Contents Note The lectures cover the subject of "Management in an Editorial Enterprise." Lecture 1 took place on 24 April 1963 and is titled "The Individual & The Organization." Lecture 2 took place on 1 May 1963 and is titled "Purpose & Profit." Lecture 3 took place on 8 May 1963 and is titled "The Fourth Estate." Includes transcripts of McKinsey dinner meetings which involved discussions with HRL on 26 April, 1 May and 8 May 1963, and speeches made at the Time Inc. monthly meeting on 18 April 1963 and at the Sports Illustrated Advertising Sales Meeting on 18 March 1963. In addition there are memoranda dealing with Time Inc. personnel history, experiences, and policy, as well as whether advertisers should be able to influence publishers. McKinsey Lectures at Columbia University, New York, NY, 24 April-8 May 1963 (2 of 6 folders), 1953-1965 Introduction of Guests at the 40th Anniversary Dinner of TIME, 6 May 1963, 1963 Scope and Contents Note Includes a memorandum on the guests who could not come to the anniversary dinner and their excuses. Untitled, Second Annual LIFE Managing Editor's Dinner, New York, NY, 13 June 1963, 1963 Untitled, First World Conference, World Peace Through Law, Athens, Greece, 4 July 1963, 1963 Untitled, Adelphi University, Garden City, NY, 20 October 1963, 1963 Untitled, Central Arizona Chapter, American Institute of Architects, Phoenix, 13 November 1963, 1963 Scope and Contents Note Does not contain the speech. Untitled, Time Inc. Executives Dinner, New York, NY, 2 December 1963, 1963 "The Knowledge Industry," Graphic Arts Council of Chicago, IL, 13 January 1964 (2 folders), 1963-1964 Scope and Contents Note Correspondents include David Sarnoff. Untitled, Cleveland Printing Week, OH, 15 January 1964, 1963-1964 Scope and Contents Note Does not contain the speech. The speech "The Knowledge Industry," given to the Graphic Arts Council of Chicago, IL on 13 January 1964 may have been repeated in Ohio. "Free Press & Free Enterprise," New York Chamber of Commerce, NY, 10 March 1964 (2 folders), 1963-1964 Untitled, National Conference of Christians and Jews, Tucson, AZ, 9 April 1964, 1964 Untitled, The Southwestern Legal Foundation, Dallas, TX, 30 April 1964, 1963-1964 Untitled, San Francisco Medical Center, University of California, 15 May 1964 (4 folders), 1963-1966 Scope and Contents Note HRL's speech was part of the symposium "Food & Civilization." Includes a published volume of presentations from the symposium with HRL's speech incorporated into chapter 1 under the title "The Challenge of the Future: An Overview." Untitled, Luce-Donovan Dinner, New York, NY, 25 May 1964, 1964 Scope and Contents Note Includes a booklet published to commemorate the event. Untitled, Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, Cambridge, MA, 6 June 1964 (2 folders), 1963-1964 Commencement Address of the Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, CT, 13 June 1964, 1964 Untitled, Third Annual LIFE Managing Editor's Dinner, New York, NY, 18 June 1964, 1964 "A Great Thinker's Joyful Vision: The Spiritual Perfection of Mankind," LIFE Book Review, 9 October 1964 (2 folders), 1961-1965 Scope and Contents Note Includes a review of the book "The Future of Man" by Piere Teilhard de Chardin. Correspondents include Antonio Barolini. Untitled, Illinois Manufacturers' Association, Chicago, IL, 10 December 1964, 1964 Scope and Contents Note Includes notes but no speech. Untitled, Maricopa County Bar Association, Phoenix, AZ, 18 January 1965, 1965 Interview on the ABC-TV Sunday Program Issues and Answers, 24 January 1965, 1964-1965 Untitled, Annual Churchmen's Dinner, Washington, D.C., 26 January 1965, 1965 "The First Thirty-Five Years of Fortune," FORTUNE, February 1965, 1965 Untitled, Memphis & Shelby County Bar Association, TN, 3 May 1965, 1965 Untitled, SPORTS ILLUSTRATED Sales Convention, Carefree, AZ, 11 May 1965, 1965 Introduction to the LIFE World Library Book Series on the United States, July 1965, 1965 "World Law in a New World," Washington World Conference on World Peace Through Law, Washington, D.C., 15 September 1965, 1965 Scope and Contents Note Includes a memorandum from Hugh Sidey to HRL reporting on a speech to be made by President Lyndon Johnson. Untitled, Time-Life International (T.L.I) 20th Anniversary Dinner, 20 September 1965, 1965 "Magazines and the Great Society," Magazine Publishers Association, Inc., New York, NY, 21 September 1965 (2 folders), 1963, 1965 Scope and Contents Note Includes a speech by Herbert R. Mayes mentioning HRL. "Trans-Pacific Dialogue," Commonwealth Club of California, San Francisco, 3 December 1965, 1965 "The Name Came Later," Yale Daily News Supplement "Careers in Journalism," January 1966 (2 folders), 1965-1966 Scope and Contents Note Includes memoranda discussing why careers in journalism are becoming less popular. Untitled, Phoenix Society of Internal Medicine, AZ, 8 February 1966, 1966 Scope and Contents Note Includes an incomplete speech draft. "Trans-Pacific Dialogue," St. John's College, Santa Fe, NM, 11 February 1966, 1966 Foreword for a Book on Alfred Eisenstaedt, February 1966, 1965-1966 Untitled, American Association of University Women, Phoenix, AZ, 5 March 1966, 1966 Scope and Contents Note Does not include the speech. "A Profile of Henry R. Luce," Appearance on the WNBC-TV Program Open Mind, 8 May 1966, 1966 Scope and Contents Note Correspondents include Eric F. Goldman (copies). Untitled, Time Inc. Dinner, New York, NY, 10 May 1966, 1966 Scope and Contents Note Includes notes but no speech. "The Great Society -- Without Cheers," William Penn College, Oskaloosa, IA, 30 May 1966, 1965-1967 Scope and Contents Note Includes a copy of a certificate making HRL an honorary citizen on Oskaloosa, Iowa. The original is located in series I, "awards - originals." Untitled, Yale-in-China Annual Dinner, New Haven, CT, 13 June 1966, 1966 Scope and Contents Note Includes notes but no speech. Memoir Outline, July 1966, 1966-1967 Scope and Contents Note Includes notes, outline and comments on a manuscript (not present) by John K. Jessup, Thomas Griffith, and Max Ways. Date of the outline may not be accurate. "The Pacific Community," Life Insurance Advertisers Association, New Orleans, LA, 22 September 1966 (2 folders), 1966 Introduction of Thanat Khoman, Foreign Policy Association Luncheon, New York, NY, 4 October 1966, 1966 Scope and Contents Note Includes two speeches by James A. Linen. "Journalism's Next Assignment," Syracuse University School of Journalism, NY, 13 November 1966 (2 folders), 1965-1966 "To See Life in Its Full Dimensions," FORTUNE, January 1967, 1965-1967 Scope and Contents Note Includes a photograph of Herbert R. Ketell and his son Tommy. Does not include the article. Introduction to TIME-LIFE Books' Time Capsule series, February 1967, 1967 Scope and Contents Note Contains HRL's recollections on the creation of Time in 1923. Quotes Used in Speeches, 1941-1965 Scope and Contents Note Includes various handwritten speaking notes and memoranda. Subseries II.B. Final Speeches and Writings, 1916-1967 (bulk, 1930-1966) Scope and Contents Note The subseries consists of final and advanced versions of articles and speeches of HRL, his early writings from Hotchkiss and Yale, and an unfinished memoir. In addition, there is a small amount of background materials, rough notes, outlines, press material, and memoranda. Arrangement Note The subseries is arranged in chronological order with two runs of files which were not integrated but kept together with one following the other. Although there is extensive overlap between the two runs, they are not the same. Speeches and Writings, 1916-1920, 1965 Scope and Contents Note Includes HRL's winning De Forest oration "When We Say 'America,' " poems from The Hotchkiss Literary Monthly and Yale Literary Magazine, and other early writings. Speeches and Writings (2 folders), 1928-1936, 1965 Scope and Contents Note Includes the articles "Let It Die" in The Saturday Review of Literature and "Advice to the Undergraduate Wishing to Become a Professional Newspaperman" in The Daily Princetonian. Also includes speeches "The American Tycoon," "The Press Is A Peculiar Business," "Indispensable Men," and "Education & Aristocracy." Speeches and Writings, 1937 Scope and Contents Note Includes a copy of a letter from HRL to Herbert Hoover. Speeches and Writings, 1938-1939 Scope and Contents Note Includes the speech "Education as Inheritance." Speeches and Writings, 1940 Scope and Contents Note Includes a foreword by HRL for the book by John F. Kennedy Why England Slept and LIFE articles "America and Armageddon" and "This Great Moment." Speeches and Writings, 1940-1941 February Scope and Contents Note Includes an annotated copy of the article "The American Century" in booklet form. Speeches and Writings, 1941 March-June Scope and Contents Note Includes a copy of the hard-cover book reprinted from LIFE's article "The American Century" with accompanying outsider comments and speeches made on behalf of United China Relief. Speeches and Writings, 1941 July-December Scope and Contents Note Includes the speech "The Future," introduction of Henry Wallace at a dinner of the Academy of Political Science, and other speeches made on behalf of United China Appeal. Speeches and Writings, 1942 Scope and Contents Note Includes the trip report "England Revisited" and a speech by LIFE photographer George Rodger. Speeches and Writings, 1943-1944 Scope and Contents Note Includes the speech "The Human Situation" and an obituary for Wendell Willkie. Speeches and Writings, 1945-1946 Scope and Contents Note Includes the speech made to the men on SS Yorktown. Speeches and Writings, 1947-1948 Scope and Contents Note Includes HRL's foreword to the book How the Church Grows by Roy A. Burkhart, the article "A Working Democracy," and the speech "Christian Responsibility." Speeches and Writings, 1949 Speeches and Writings (folder 1 of 2), 1950-1951 Scope and Contents Note Includes the speeches "The Guide to Peace" and "Religions in America Today" and the article "The Reformation of the World Economies." Speeches and Writings (folder 2 of 2), 1950-1951 Speeches and Writings (2 folders), 1952 Scope and Contents Note Includes the speeches "The Mind of the Church," "Free Thought," "The University As Prophet," and "Victory Through Law." Speeches and Writings, 1953 Scope and Contents Note Includes the speech "Peace In Our Time." Speeches and Writings (2 folders), 1954-1955 Scope and Contents Note Includes the speeches "The Adventure of Ideas," "Representative Men," "Providence -- A Thanksgiving Meditation," and "The Public Philosophy and the Spirit of Geneva." Also includes notes made by [Jim Pitt?] with HRL's off-the-cuff remarks about the genesis of SPORTS ILLUSTRATED and his personal feelings about sports and the new sports magazine. Speeches and Writings (folder 1 of 2), 1956-1957 Scope and Contents Note Includes the speeches "God of Our Fathers," "America's Unfinished Business," and a German version of "The Character of the Businessman" (Der Mann der Wirtschaft). Also includes the transcript for HRL's appearance on NBC-TV program Meet the Press and a discussion between HRL, A.A. Berle Jr. and others on "Economic Power and the Free Society." Speeches and Writings (folder 2 of 2), 1956-1957 Speeches and Writings, 1958-1959 Scope and Contents Includes the speech "The Meaning of the Rule of Law to American Foreign Policy" and the foreword to the book Struggle for Survival by Max Ways. Speeches and Writings (2 folders), 1960-1961 Scope and Contents Note Includes an interview of HRL by Dave Garroway in connection with LIFE's 25th anniversary and an updated foreword to the John F. Kennedy book Why England Slept. Speeches and Writings, 1962 Scope and Contents Note Includes the speech "Religion in an Age of Science." Speeches and Writings (folder 1 of 2), 1963 Scope and Contents Includes a transcript of the TIME 40th anniversary cover dinner. Speeches and Writings (folder 2 of 2), 1963 Speeches and Writings (2 folders), 1964 Scope and Contents Note Includes the speech "Two Assurances of Faith" and a memo from HRL to Time Inc. Archives describing his involvement in helping nominate Republican candidates for the Presidency of the United States. Speeches and Writings (2 folders), 1965 Speeches and Writings, 1966 January-June Scope and Contents Note Includes the speech "Providence." Speeches and Writings (2 folders), 1966, 1968, 1983 Scope and Contents Includes an unfinished memoir manuscript by HRL and a memorandum from Ralph Graves to Henry Luce III regarding its merits. Refer to the same series, subseries A, under "memoir outline" for additional information. Speeches and Writings, 1966 September-December Scope and Contents Note Includes the speech "The Pursuit of Significance." Speeches and Writings, 1967 Scope and Contents Includes the speech "The East and the West - Basic Difference" and the speech by Clare Boothe Luce "The U.N. - Services Unrendered." Speeches and Writings, 1920, 1928-1930 Speeches and Writings, 1931-1937 Speeches and Writings, 1938-1940 Speeches and Writings, 1941 January-April Speeches and Writings, 1941 May-December Speeches and Writings, 1942-1943 Speeches and Writings, 1944 Scope and Contents Includes the speech "The World's Need for the Church." Speeches and Writings, 1945-1946 Scope and Contents Includes general commentary made by HRL for an unidentified draft report sent to Robert M. Hutchins. Speeches and Writings, 1947-1948 Speeches and Writings, 1949-1950 Speeches and Writings, 1951-1952 Speeches and Writings, 1953-1954 Speeches and Writings, 1955 Speeches and Writings, 1956-1957 Speeches and Writings, 1958 Speeches and Writings, 1959 Speeches and Writings, 1960-1961 Speeches and Writings, 1962 Speeches and Writings, 1963 Speeches and Writings, 1964 Speeches and Writings, 1965 Speeches and Writings, 1966-1967 Speeches and Writings - Undated, circa 1932-1967 Scope and Contents Includes handwritten notes labeled "editorial points" and "purpose" of LIFE.
