=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Where is Kaitlyn Armstrong now? | The murder of Moriah Wilson]
Feb 1, 2024 · Armstrong was arraigned on the 21st of July 2022, and she pleaded not guilty to the murder of Moriah Wilson. She was held on $3.5 million bond in Travis County Jail. The case went to trial on the 30th of October 2023. On the 12th of October 2023, Armstrong briefly escaped from police officers who had taken her to a doctor’s appointment.
URL: https://www.thereviewgeek.com/where-is-kaitlyn-armstrong-now/

[TIMELINE: Ahead of Kaitlin Armstrong's trial, a look back at pro ...]
Oct 18, 2023 · Kaitlin Armstrong originally pleaded not guilty in July 2022. Her arrest and plea came after a 43-day fugitive hunt, where she was ultimately arrested and detained in Costa Rica before being ...
URL: https://www.kxan.com/news/local/austin/timeline-ahead-of-kaitlin-armstrongs-trial-a-look-back-at-pro-cyclist-murder-case/

[Texas love-triangle murder suspect Kaitlin Armstrong pleads ...]
Jul 20, 2022 · Kaitlin Armstrong, the Texas woman accused of killing a top cyclist in a fit of jealous rage and then fleeing to Costa Rica, pleaded not guilty in court on Wednesday.
URL: https://www.foxnews.com/us/texas-love-triangle-murder-suspect-kaitlin-armstrong-court

[Texas woman denies killing Vermont cycling star as her attorneys push ...]
Jul 21, 2022 · Kaitlin Armstrong, 34, of Austin, Texas, was arraigned on the charge Wednesday in a courtroom in Texas. She is being held in custody for lack of $3.5 million bail.
URL: https://vtdigger.org/2022/07/21/texas-woman-denies-killing-vermont-cycling-star-as-her-attorneys-push-for-quick-murder-trial/

[Kaitlin Armstrong, Texas love triangle murder suspect, pleads not guilty]
Jul 20, 2022 · Kaitlin Armstrong was arrested in Costa Rica in June after more than 40 days on the run. Armstrong faces a first-degree murder charge and in her arraignment Wednesday, Armstrong pled not guilty.
URL: https://www.fox5ny.com/news/kaitlin-armstrong-texas-love-triangle-murder-suspect-court


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Where is Kaitlyn Armstrong now? | The murder of Moriah Wilson] ---
What did Kaitlyn Armstrong do? Kaitlyn Armstrong is an American murderer who shot and killed professional cyclist Moriah Wilson at a friend’s home in Austin, Texas, on the night of the 11th of May 2022. Armstrong killed Wilson because of jealousy, which was triggered by Wilson’s brief romantic relationship with her on/off boyfriend, Colin Strickland, who was also a pro cyclist. On the 17th of May, an arrest warrant was issued for Kaitlin Armstrong. However, she fled to Costa Rica, assumed fake identities, and changed her appearance through plastic surgery. However, U.S. Marshals managed to locate Armstrong by placing an ad on Facebook pretending to look for a yoga instructor. After 43 days on the run, Armstrong was arrested in a hostel in Santa Teresa, Costa Rica on the 29th of June 2022. What happened during the trial? Armstrong was arraigned on the 21st of July 2022, and she pleaded not guilty to the murder of Moriah Wilson. She was held on $3.5 million bond in Travis County Jail. The case went to trial on the 30th of October 2023. On the 12th of October 2023, Armstrong briefly escaped from police officers who had taken her to a doctor’s appointment. She was re-apprehended after a short chase. On the 16th of November 2023, Armstrong was found guilty of first-degree murder. She was sentenced to 90 years in prison, with the possibility of parole after 30 years. Armstrong is currently appealing the conviction. Where is Kaitlyn Armstrong now? Kaitlyn Armstrong is serving her sentence in the Dr. Lane Murray Unit, a women’s prison in Gatesville. The murder of Moriah Wilson was brutal, and the lengths she went to in order to escape justice was shocking. Hopefully the prison has good security, as it wouldn’t be a surprise if Armstrong tried to escape from there as well. What do you think of Kaitlyn Armstrong’s case? Let us know your thoughts in the comments below.


--- [TIMELINE: Ahead of Kaitlin Armstrong's trial, a look back at pro ...] ---
AUSTIN (KXAN) — Nearly a year and a half after professional cyclist Anna Moriah “Mo” Wilson was shot and killed at an Austin home in May 2022, the trial of the woman accused of murdering Wilson is set to begin Oct. 30. Kaitlin Armstrong originally pleaded not guilty in July 2022. Her arrest and plea came after a 43-day fugitive hunt, where she was ultimately arrested and detained in Costa Rica before being transported back to Austin. Here’s a look back at Wilson’s death, the ongoing murder case and what’s happened since. May 11, 2022: Woman found dead in east Austin home Late May 11, 2022, Austin Police responded to a 911 call in east Austin to a residence along Maple Avenue. Police found an unconscious woman with a gunshot wound, who died from her injuries at the scene. APD launches 2nd death investigation in less than 12 hours May 12, 2022: Austin Police question Kaitlin Armstrong on shooting The Austin Police Department questioned Armstrong on May 12, 2022, Det. Richard Spitler confirmed in an APD news conference. Questions centered around Armstrong’s Jeep, which was in the area near the east Austin home around the time of Wilson’s death. According to Spitler, Armstrong “wouldn’t confirm or deny being in the area” and ended the interview. “Armstrong was mistakenly released from custody on [a] misdemeanor warrant, because her date of birth in our report management system did not match the date of birth on the warrant,” Spitler said. Details of that prior misdemeanor warrant weren’t available at the time of the press conference. May 14, 2022: East Austin shooting victim identified Three days later, police identified the woman as Anna Moriah “Mo” Wilson, a professional cyclist known for her gravel and mountain bike racing. She had been visiting Texas to compete in the Gravel Locos race 135 miles north of Austin in Hico, cycling outlet VeloNews reported. Young gravel racing star shot, killed in east Austin earlier this week May 14, 2022: Armstrong flies from Austin to New York Around 12:30 p.m. on May 14, 2022, Armstrong flew from Austin-Bergstrom International Airport to Houston Hobby Airport before connecting to New York’s LaGuardia Airport, U.S. Marshals confirmed. Surveillance footage depict her passing through AUS. KXAN asked Spitler if her prior misdemeanor warrant would have prevented her from flying. Spitler told KXAN that’s unlikely since it was a misdemeanor and not a felony. May 17, 2022: Arrest warrant issued for Armstrong APD issued a search warrant for a south Austin home owned by a woman under the same name as Armstrong. According to an arrest affidavit, Armstrong is accused of first-degree murder. Court records detail Wilson went for a swim with a friend, a fellow professional cyclist named Colin Strickland, the night of her death. Strickland told police he’d been in a relationship with Armstrong for three years, according to documents. During a break in their relationship, he met and began dating Wilson, per the affidavit. Search warrant obtained for south Austin home after deadly shooting of gravel racer Strickland and Armstrong were living together and police said Strickland lied to Armstrong about his whereabouts May 11, 2022. He told her he’d dropped flowers off for someone and his phone died. Strickland dropped Wilson off at the east Austin home around 8:35 p.m. May 11, 2022, per documents. One minute later, security camera footage showed Armstrong’s car pull up. Strickland separately confirmed the car shown in the security footage was Armstrong’s. According to the arrest affidavit, “Armstrong has deleted her social media accounts and has not been seen or heard from since last Friday, May 13.” May 20, 2022: Federal agents begin search for Armstrong On May 20, 2022, U.S. Marshals issued a wanted poster for Armstrong. The U.S. Marshals Lone Star Fugitive Task Force entered the search and was “conducting a fugitive investigation and pursuing leads on Armstrong’s whereabouts.” As federal agents search for Austin murder suspect, #RideLikeMo starts in honor of victim May 21, 2022: Wilson’s family clears up details of alleged relationship with Strickland On May 21, 2022, Wilson’s family issued a statement to KXAN clarifying details surrounding Wilson’s alleged romantic relationship with Strickland. “While we will not elaborate about the ongoing investigation, we do feel it’s important to clarify that at the time of her death, those closest to her clearly understood, directly from Moriah, that she was not in a romantic relationship with anyone,” the family wrote in the statement. Family of slain cyclist clears up details of alleged romantic relationship Investigators said based on a search of Wilson’s phone, text messages indicated she was “still in a romantic relationship with Strickland even though he was currently dating Armstrong.” The family’s statement contradicted investigators’ assessment. “We are absolutely devastated by the loss of our beautiful daughter and sister, Anna Moriah Wilson. There are no words that can express the pain and suffering we are experiencing due to this senseless, tragic loss. Moriah was a talented, kind, and caring young woman. Her life was taken from her before she had the opportunity to achieve everything she dreamed of. Our family, and all those who loved her, will forever miss her,” the family wrote. May 23, 2022: Memorial ride in Wilson’s memory announced On May 23, 2022, cyclists from across Austin announced a planned memorial ride in Wilson’s memory. The ride, scheduled for May 29, kicked off at Republic Square in downtown Austin at 5:30 p.m. Memorial ride for slain cyclist set for Sunday in Austin Event organizers encouraged participants to donate to the Wilson family’s Mo Wilson Fund, with proceeds dedicated to helping kids build up their confidence via sports. May 25, 2022: U.S. Marshals confirm Armstrong fled Austin after crime In a press conference, U.S. Marshals confirmed for the first time Armstrong had flown from Austin to New York three days after the crime. Murder suspect flew out of Austin to New York days after cyclist’s death Security footage from AUS shows Armstrong was last seen wearing a blue denim jacket, a black shirt with a pink design on her chest, white jeans, black-and-white sneakers and a black COVID-19 mask, along with a yoga mat holder over her shoulders. This update came after U.S. Marshals previously said she was still believed to be in the Austin area due to her community ties. June 6, 2022: New details about Armstrong’s Newark airport travels On this day, U.S. Marshals released information that Armstrong was dropped off at Newark Liberty International Airport on May 18, 2022, a day after Austin police got an arrest warrant for her. This was after she flew from Austin to New York. Investigators said, however, no outbound flight reservations were made in Armstrong’s name. Suspect in cyclist’s murder dropped off at New Jersey airport, US Marshals say June 23, 2022: Jeep belonging to Armstrong found U.S. Marshals announced they found the black Jeep Grand Cherokee registered to Armstrong. Authorities said Armstrong sold the vehicle on May 13 to a CarMax dealership in south Austin for $12,200. US Marshals find Jeep belonging to murder suspect Kaitlin Armstrong June 30, 2022: Armstrong captured in Costa Rica U.S. Marshals said Armstrong was arrested at a hostel on Santa Teresa Beach in Costa Rica. Authorities said she used a fraudulent passport on May 18 to board a United Airlines flight from Newark, New Jersey to San Jose, Costa Rica. Kaitlin Armstrong captured in Costa Rica, records show bail set at $3.5 million U.S. Marshals said she was found with an altered appearance. Armstrong had shoulder-length hair that had been dyed dark brown, along with bandaging on her nose and bruising under her eyes from a reported surfboarding incident. Their investigation also found she was frequenting several yoga studios and taking classes at them “to better her profession to teach a specific type of yoga.” It was a 43-day fugitive hunt. July 2, 2022: Armstrong booked in Harris County Jail Armstrong was taken back to Texas, days after she was captured in Costa Rica. It was planned she would eventually be transferred to Austin. Photos from travelers at the airport showed Armstrong back on U.S. soil. Armstrong was seen wearing a blue long-sleeve shirt, black joggers and flip flops. Kaitlin Armstrong booked in Harris County Jail after arrest in Costa Rica July 5, 2022: Armstrong in Austin Armstrong arrived in Austin after being transferred from Harris County Jail. July 12, 2022: Search warrant for alleged Armstrong email account APD filed a search warrant for an email account associated with Armstrong. Police believe Armstrong used the account as she was fleeing Austin. Court documents stated police learned Armstrong had bought a new phone and prepaid debit card at Walmart after her original phone was taken during a search of her Austin home. The card was used to pay for a trip with a ride service to the airport. That is how police found an email account they believe was used by Armstrong, court documents said. Search warrant gives new details about what Kaitlin Armstrong did after Moriah Wilson’s murder July 20, 2022: Armstrong pleads not guilty On this day, Armstrong appeared in an Austin courtroom for the first time and pleaded not guilty. Her attorneys asked for a speedy trial. The judge then set the docket call for the case for Oct. 19, with a jury trial the week after. Kaitlin Armstrong pleads not guilty; attorneys request speedy trial Aug. 19, 2022: Armstrong attorneys accuse police of violating legal rights in murder case Armstrong’s attorneys filed new documents to try and throw out evidence from being used in court, saying she wasn’t questioned correctly. In the documents, they claimed Austin Police interrogated her, obtaining evidence with an “illegal arrest warrant.” They also said detectives also didn’t read Armstrong her Miranda rights before questioning her on May 12. Kaitlin Armstrong attorneys accuse Austin police of violating legal rights in murder case Aug. 24, 2022: Armstrong trial likely to be pushed later than October A Travis County judge said in a pretrial hearing the odds of Armstrong heading to trial in October are highly unlikely. Aug. 26, 2022: Search warrant for Armstrong’s belongings KXAN obtained court documents which said a search of Armstrong’s belongings found she had her sister’s passport and a United Airlines boarding pass in her sister’s name from Newark to Costa Rica. Also found were medical cards and paperwork, including a receipt for $6,360 for plastic surgery for “Alisson Paige” on June 23 at a medical center in Costa Rica. Oct. 19 and Oct. 24, 2022: Armstrong appears in court for pre-trial hearing Armstrong appeared in court in late October 2022 as part of a pre-trial hearing before the start of her official jury trial. The procedural hearing focused on the arrest warrant for Armstrong originally filed by Spitler, who served as lead detective on Wilson’s murder case. Armstrong’s defense team filed a Frank’s Motion at her pre-trial hearing — a legal proceeding when a court is asked to determine whether a police officer or detective lied while pursuing an arrest warrant. The defense alleged Spitler had reckless disregard for the truth while filing the arrest warrant and left out critical information from related documents. May 4, 2023: Armstrong trial start date postponed Travis County court records revealed the jury trial date for Armstrong had been postponed. Armstrong had been set to appear in court June 22, but that date was later moved to Oct. 30, per court records. Armstrong faces a first-degree murder charge and remained in Travis County jail on bonds of more than $3.5 million. Oct. 11, 2023: Armstrong attempts escape ahead of Austin murder trial Armstrong attempted to escape custody of Travis County corrections officers Oct. 11. She ran from officers while leaving a medical office building shortly after 8 a.m. on Oct. 11. After a 10-minute chase, officers caught up with her and restrained her. A Travis County Sheriff’s Office spokesperson confirmed to KXAN officers never lost sight of her during the pursuit through the south Austin neighborhood. KXAN investigators obtained a subpoena filed by the state on Oct. 11 that requested Armstrong’s medical records from St. David’s South Austin Medical Center, located a few blocks away from her attempted escape. The records also noted a request for surveillance footage from late Oct. 10 into early Oct. 11 from St. David’s South Austin Medical Center. A separate request filed by the state centered on records related to Armstrong’s jail, disciplinary, mental health and medical history dating back to mid-September. Oct. 12, 2023: Armstrong faces new felony charge after attempted escape Jail records showed Armstrong faced a second-degree felony charge of escape causing bodily injury following her attempted escape Oct. 11. The Travis County Sheriff’s Office confirmed one corrections officer was injured while trying to apprehend her. Cell phone video captured by a KXAN viewer showed Armstrong running on a hill next to the medical office’s parking lot, with an officer chasing her. You can see the woman, who had restrained hands at the time, trying to jump over the fence. As to whether the added charge and escape attempt could impact Armstrong’s trial, former Travis County Prosecutor Alan Bennet said it’s ultimately up to a judge to decide whether the escape attempt is admissible in court.


--- [Texas love-triangle murder suspect Kaitlin Armstrong pleads ...] ---
Kaitlin Armstrong, the Texas woman accused of killing a top cyclist in a fit of jealous rage and then fleeing to Costa Rica, pleaded not guilty in court on Wednesday. The hearing began following a delay just after noon CT, and she entered the same plea on both counts of murder and theft of services, according to FOX 7 Austin, which had a reporter present in the courtroom. Armstrong, 34, is being held in Travis County Jail on $3.5 million bond on the murder and theft charges, for which she was arraigned Wednesday. She has been charged with first-degree murder for the shooting death of Anna Moriah Wilson, who had been staying with a friend in Austin ahead of a bike race in Hico, loved ones said. Armstrong, a yoga instructor and a licensed realtor who was raised in Livonia, Michigan, was allegedly using the alias "Ari" while she was hiding out in a Costa Rica beach town before Costa Rica police arrested her over an immigration violation on June 29. She'd been on the lam for 43 days after Austin police obtained a murder warrant. Rick Cofer, Armstrong's attorney, said after the hearing that police have put out a public narrative in the case, but there are other sides to the story not yet told. Armstrong allegedly gunned down 25-year-old Wilson, who went by "Mo," on the night of May 11, 2022, in Austin, Texas. Wilson was fatally shot multiple times in the bathroom of her friend’s home, Austin Police Department officials have said. Her friend made the horrifying discovery and called 911 shortly before 10 p.m. Wilson was found "lying on the bathroom floor covered in blood," the police affidavit states. She was pronounced dead just 14 minutes later. According to law enforcement documents, police discovered Wilson with two bullet wounds to her head and another in her chest that investigators believe she incurred "after she was already laying supine on the floor." Police investigators recovered chipped tile and a bullet underneath where she was lying. Wilson also suffered cuts under her chin and to her right hand, the documents state. Earlier in the night, Wilson had been out with Armstrong’s longtime boyfriend, Colin Strickland. Strickland, who is also a pro cyclist, and Wilson went swimming at Deep Eddy pool in Austin before eating at the Pool Burger bar and restaurant across the street, officials have said. Strickland dropped Wilson at her friend’s home, where she was staying at the time, and then left. Investigators have said evidence indicates Armstrong followed the pair for at least a portion of their outing. Home surveillance footage from a neighboring residence shows Armstrong’s black Jeep Grand Cherokee – which she later sold – driving past the home just moments after Strickland had left. TEXAS LOVE TRIANGLE MURDER SUSPECT KAITLIN ARMSTRONG WAS DATING WHILE HIDING OUT IN COSTA RICA Armstrong’s Jeep then "appears to stop next to Wilson’s friend’s residence" just minutes after Strickland had left Wilson, officials said. "Video surveillance shows Strickland leaving the area after dropping off Wilson and shows Armstrong's vehicle driving to the East Austin residence where Wilson was staying," the warrant states. Investigators executed a search warrant at Armstrong’s home, which she shares with Strickland, and ultimately confirmed that one of the guns found in Armstrong’s home was the murder weapon: a Sig-Sauer P365 9mm, APD Homicide Det. Richard Spitler previously said. Days before the murder warrant was issued, police had interviewed Strickland and located Armstrong, who was arrested for a misdemeanor warrant out of Travis County from 2018. The warrant stemmed from allegations she skipped out on a $650 Botox bill. The warrant gave police a reason to detain Armstrong, and they questioned her in connection with Wilson's death. Armstrong allegedly remained "quiet and completely still" during the majority of detectives' interview with her. "Armstrong was questioned about her vehicle being in the area as pictured on the Ring camera. However, she would not confirm or deny being in the area of the murder and quickly terminated the interview," Spitler said. But she "was then mistakenly released from custody on the misdemeanor warrant" because her date of birth in the department’s report management system did not match the date of birth on the warrant, he said. The affidavit adds: "When Armstrong was confronted with video evidence of her vehicle, she had no explanation as to why it was in the area and did not make any denials surrounding the statements presented to her." But when a detective confronted her about how Wilson was with Strickland, she "turned her head and rolled her eyes in an angry manner" before she stated that she "didn’t have any idea that he saw or even went out with this girl… as of recently," the affidavit further states. When one detective suggested that Armstrong might be "upset and just in the area," Armstrong allegedly "began to nod in agreement." Strickland and Wilson dated for "one to two weeks" in October 2021, when he and Armstrong were on a break, he told police. He said his relationship with Wilson became Platonic when he resumed his relationship with Armstrong. Strickland, who is also a professional cyclist, allegedly told police that he deleted text messages and went as far as hiding Wilson’s name in his phone to prevent Armstrong from blocking "Wilson’s number in Strickland’s phone." "Strickland advised that while he and Wilson were dating, Armstrong called Wilson on the phone, telling Wilson she was the one dating Strickland," the affidavit states. The document later describes how one anonymous tipster said Armstrong "told Wilson she was with Strickland and needed to stay away from him." A different anonymous caller allegedly told APD she was with Armstrong in January 2022, when Armstrong "had just discovered Strickland was having a romantic relationship with Wilson even though Armstrong and Strickland were still dating." "The caller advised Armstrong became so furious and was shaking in anger," the affidavit continues. "Armstrong told the caller Armstrong was so angry Armstrong wanted to kill Wilson. Armstrong then proceeded to tell the caller Armstrong had either recently purchased a firearm or was going to." Strickland allegedly told authorities he purchased the alleged murder weapon for Armstrong. On May 14, three days before she became wanted for murder, Armstrong traveled from Austin International Bergstrom Airport to New York’s LaGuardia Airport. She allegedly boarded Flight #WN2262 from AIBA to Houston Hobby Airport at 12:30 p.m. local time, and then took a connecting flight via Southwest Airlines Flight #WN30 to New York. Investigators later revealed that Armstrong "was dropped off at the Newark Liberty International Airport May 18, a day after Austin police obtained a warrant for her arrest." But her name was not linked to any of the outbound flights from Newark airport at the time, Marshals said. Last month, Fox News Digital spoke with a camper at a secluded, sweeping property known as "Camp Haven" or "Haven for Humanity" in Livingston Manor, New York. The camper confirmed not only that Armstrong’s sister, Christine, lived there, but also that agents with the Marshals Service had been there to speak with the sister. Armstrong sold her black Jeep Grand Cherokee, which was spotted near the crime scene around the time of Wilson's shooting death, on May 13 – one day after she was questioned and released by Texas authorities. She allegedly sold the SUV through a CarMax dealership in Austin and made off with a check for $12,200. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Police warrants further reveal that Armstrong had practiced shooting with her sister and had access to at least $450,000. In addition to the murder count for which she was originally wanted, Armstrong was charged federally on May 25 with unlawful flight to avoid prosecution, but the charge was ultimately dropped.


--- [Texas woman denies killing Vermont cycling star as her attorneys push ...] ---
A Texas woman who stands accused in the May 11 killing of a world-class cyclist from Vermont, and who was later captured in Costa Rica after changing her appearance, has pleaded not guilty to a charge of first-degree murder. Kaitlin Armstrong, 34, of Austin, Texas, was arraigned on the charge Wednesday in a courtroom in Texas. She is being held in custody for lack of $3.5 million bail. Armstrong had been on the run for more than 40 days before she was taken into custody at a hostel on the western coast of Costa Rica, wanted in the slaying of 25-year-old Anna Moriah Wilson of East Burke, a rising star in gravel and mountain cycling. During the short hearing Wednesday, Armstrong’s attorneys called for a speedy trial for their client, which Judge Brenda Kennedy granted and scheduled it to begin Oct. 24, according to an Associated Press report. Prosecutors questioned whether having the trial so soon was granting a “privilege” for Armstrong, contending that other defendants waited years for trials during the Covid-19 pandemic slowdown in the court system, the AP reported. “If they chose to indict without evidence, that’s the district attorney’s problem,” Armstrong’s attorney, Rick Cofer, said in court, according to the AP. After the Wednesday hearing, Cofer spoke briefly to reporters, saying that he planned to challenge the investigation conducted by the Austin Police Department leading to the charges against his client. “There is a lot more to this story that has yet been heard,” the defense attorney added. Wilson had been in Texas preparing for a cycling competition there. She was found dead on the night of May 11 from multiple gunshot wounds inside an apartment in East Austin, where she had been staying with a friend. Wilson, known as “Mo,” was a graduate of Burke Mountain Academy, a top training school for elite ski racers, and went on to Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire, where she joined the ski team. Wilson had also taken up mountain and gravel cycling and was a rising star in the sport. Austin Police alleged in an affidavit in support of the murder charge that Armstrong was fueled by jealous rage. Wilson, according to that affidavit, had a short relationship last fall with another professional cyclist, Colin Strickland. Strickland told police he and Armstrong were broken up at that time, but had since gotten back together and were living in the same residence in Texas. While in Texas for the cycling competition, Wilson went out swimming and dining with Strickland shortly before her death, according to the affidavit. Police said they believed Armstrong’s vehicle arrived at the scene of the murder within minutes of Strickland dropping Wilson off at the East Austin apartment where she had been staying. Shell casings from the scene of the shooting matched those from a test firing of a handgun that police said they later seized from Armstrong’s home. If convicted of the first-degree murder charge, Armstrong faces up to 99 years in prison.


--- [Kaitlin Armstrong, Texas love triangle murder suspect, pleads not guilty] ---
Kaitlin Armstrong, Texas love triangle murder suspect, pleads not guilty AUSTIN, Texas - The Austin woman accused of murdering cyclist Moriah "Mo" Wilson on May 11 has made her first court appearance. Kaitlin Armstrong was arrested in Costa Rica in June after more than 40 days on the run. Armstrong faces a first-degree murder charge and in her arraignment Wednesday, Armstrong pled not guilty. In addition to that, U.S. Marshals had obtained a warrant for her arrest on a charge of unlawful flight to avoid prosecution after she fled Texas in May, traveling to New York, New Jersey and then Costa Rica, where police arrested her at a hostel on Santa Teresa Beach in Provinica de Puntarenas on June 29. A federal judge recently dismissed that charge against Armstrong but it's just a formality, and she could face the charge again in the future if prosecutors deem it necessary. Her attorneys addressed the press outside the courtroom following the arraignment. Watch their statement below: Armstrong's attorneys have also filed a motion for a speedy trial. The docket call is set for October 19 and a jury trial is expected to take place the following week. An attorney representing the state says that Travis County has over 100 murder cases backlogged due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "I don't know what kind of privilege this particular defendant has to cut in front all of these people who have been waiting for trial," he said. The attorney requested Armstrong waive ineffective assistance of counsel claims if they are proceeding with the October trial, saying "I know [Armstrong's legal team] haven't seen all the evidence because we don't have all the evidence to give to them." How was Kaitlin Armstrong found? Officials say while 34-year-old Armstrong was on the run, she cut her hair shoulder-length and dyed it dark brown, as well as wore a bandage on her nose claiming she had a surfboarding accident. Recently, members of the U.S. Marshals-led Lone Star Fugitive Task Force and Homeland Security Investigations discovered that Armstrong, fraudulently using another individual's passport, had boarded United Airlines Flight 1222 from Newark International Airport at 5:09 p.m. EST on May 18 and arrived in San Jose, Costa Rica, at 8:27 p.m. EST. Armstrong was last known to have been dropped off at the New Jersey airport after she left the Austin airport on May 14. Investigators determined Armstrong was at the Austin International Bergstrom Airport on May 14 at approximately 12:30 p.m. She boarded Flight #WN2262 from ABIA to Houston Hobby Airport and then boarded a connecting Southwest Airlines Flight #WN30 to New York LaGuardia Airport. The U.S. Marshals Lone Star Fugitive Task Force had also located Armstrong’s black Jeep Grand Cherokee last week and learned that Armstrong sold the vehicle May 13 to a CarMax dealership in south Austin for $12,200. Armstrong was provided a check from the dealership a day after being questioned by Austin authorities. Armstrong's black Jeep Grand Cherokee is believed to be the same one that was seen on a security camera driving by the East Austin home Wilson was staying in the night she was murdered. PREVIOUS COVERAGE - Texas murder suspect Kaitlin Armstrong had access to $450G, practiced shooting with sister, warrants reveal - Texas murder suspect Kaitlin Armstrong escapes charge for unlawful flight to avoid prosecution - Kaitlin Armstrong charged with using someone else's passport to leave the country Who is Kaitlin Armstrong? Armstrong is the prime suspect in the death of 25-year-old cycling star Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson who was found shot dead at a friend’s apartment in East Austin on Maple Avenue near East 7th Street on May 11. Wilson, a rising cyclist star, had flown from Colorado to Texas earlier that week in preparation for the Gravel Locos race in Hico, where she was a favorite to win. A few weeks earlier, she won the Belgian Waffle Ride in California. Law enforcement had not been able to locate Armstrong since police briefly detained and mistakenly released Armstrong on an unrelated charge. Armstrong had been arrested for a misdemeanor warrant out of Travis County from 2018. "Armstrong was questioned about her vehicle being in the area as pictured on the Ring camera. However, she would not confirm or deny being in the area of the murder and quickly terminated the interview," APD Homicide Det. Richard Spitler said in a press conference on May 25. Spitler went on to say that "(Armstrong) was then mistakenly released from custody on the misdemeanor warrant" because her date of birth in the department’s report management system did not match the date of birth on the warrant. Further investigation revealed Armstrong had dated star cyclist Colin Strickland for a few years. Last year, Strickland was romantically involved with Wilson while Strickland and Armstrong were on a brief break. Investigators believe Wilson was shot and killed over a love triangle since Wilson and Strickland went out the day of the murder and Armstrong’s car was seen driving around where Wilson was killed. Strickland admitted to having "a brief romantic relationship" with Wilson while she was visiting in 2021. "She returned to her home in California and about a month later, Kaitlin Armstrong and I reconciled and resumed our relationship," Strickland said. "Since then I often saw Mo at cycling events, and always in public settings," his statement further adds. "After our brief relationship in October 2021, we were not in a romantic relationship, only a platonic and professional one." According to an affidavit, Strickland told investigators that he and Wilson had gone swimming at Deep Eddy Pool, then ate at Pool Burger before he dropped her off at her friend’s house around 8:30 p.m. the night of her death. Strickland reportedly told police that he had lied to Armstrong about his whereabouts. An anonymous tipster reportedly told investigators that when Armstrong found out the pair was together, she told the person she wanted to kill Wilson, and also said she had acquired a gun. ___ FOX News contributed to this report.
