=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kallithea - Wikipedia]
Kallithea (Greek: Καλλιθέα, meaning "beautiful view") is a suburb in Athens agglomeration and a municipality in south Athens regional unit.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kallithea

[Foivos Delivorias (Music) - TV Tropes]
He was born and raised in Kallithea, Attica. Most of his songs jump between easy-going Soft Rock and Entechna.Missing:city| Show results with:city
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Music/FoivosDelivorias

[Foivos Delivorias - Φοίβος Δεληβοριάς - TMDB]
September 29, 1973 (52 years old). Place of Birth Kallithea, Athens Prefecture, Greece ... The Incredible Adventures Of Fivos Delivorias. Creator. 2022, The ...Missing:city| Show results with:city
URL: https://www.themoviedb.org/person/2848663-foivos-delhvorias?language=en-US

[Foivos Delivorias - Hellenica World]
Foivos Delivorias (Greek: Φοίβος Δεληβοριάς), born 29 September 1973, is a popular Greek rock musician, singer, and songwriter from Kallithea, Attica.[1].
URL: https://www.hellenicaworld.com/Greece/Person/en/FoivosDelivorias.html

[Hangouts from the 19th century, still vivid - Narratologies]
Nov 11, 2021·You see, Plaka residents -Athenians, born and raised- didn't want to share the main square of their beloved neighborhood. With whom is the ...
URL: https://narratologies.com/blog/hangouts-from-the-19th-century-still-vivid/?srsltid=AfmBOoqpoJGnyV28k5UyTi4oyfhAAYAaRMtVICgiUcwD89cK_Oll9TTg


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kallithea - Wikipedia] ---
Kallithea (Greek: Καλλιθέα, meaning "beautiful view") is a suburb in Athens agglomeration and a municipality in south Athens regional unit. It is the eighth largest municipality in Greece (97,616 inhabitants, 2021 census), as well as the fourth biggest in the Athens urban area (following municipalities of Athens, Piraeus, and Peristeri). Additionally, it is the 2nd most densely populated municipality in Greece and one of the most densely populated cities in the world, with 20,240/km2 (52,400/sq mi). The municipality has an area of 4.749 km2 (1.834 sq mi).




--- [Foivos Delivorias (Music) - TV Tropes] ---
Dionysios Foivos Delivorias (born 29 September, 1973) is a Greek musician and songwriter. He was born and raised in Kallithea, Attica. Most of his songs jump between easy-going Soft Rock and Entechna. The son of a bank clerk and a history teacher, Foivos displayed a talent for songwriting early on. When he was 15, he sent a cassette of his work to known music producer, Manos Xatzidakis. One year later, his first album, The Parade, released. He has released eight albums to date: - Η παρέλασηnote (1989) - Η ζωή μονο έτσι είν' ωραίαnote (1995) - Χάλιαnote (1998) - Ο καθρέφτηςnote (2003) - Έξωnote (2007) - Ο αόρατος άνθρωποςnote (2010) - Καλλιθέαnote (2015) - ANIME (2022) His songs often contain themes of nostalgia and identity, with plenty of deconstruction over those concepts. Although, after Kallithea, he seems to have moved on from the past. For now, at least. Foivos also has scored for TV shows, like Serres and theater. Since 2017, he has expanded his scope beyond songwriting by producing and hosting Foivos' Terrace, a live variety show with a rotating cast of talents each week. He was approached by state channel ERT with the intent of filming some sort of adaptation, which evolved into The Numbers, a 70-minute musical comedy TV series about a less successful version of himself, who is granted the opportunity to set up his own variety show. He is married to actress Vaso Kavalieratou and they have a daughter, Ioli. His work provides examples of: - The '80s: As a child of this decade, he references it a lot, from Knight Rider to the Gulf War. - Adam Westing: He plays a less successful and more pretentious version of himself in The Numbers. - Ambient: All three of the interludes on Καλλιθέαnote are entirely in this genre. - Cluster F-Bomb: Η υβρεοπομπήnote is basically Foivos singing every swear he can fit. In a interview, he lamented that he had to cut some out because the song was getting too long. - Death Song: Θα Σε Ξαναδώnote was written after his childhood friend, Nikos Rallis, died from an autoimmune disease. - Lyrical Dissonance: Ο Μπάσταρδος Γιοςnote is very upbeat but it's very grim especially in the chorus.Πατέρα παίρνουν τηλέφωνοnote Λένε πως, πατέρα, είσαι νεκρόςnote- Η υβρεοπομπήnote sounds like a joyous circus musical number with militaristic percussion and very vintage woodwind flourishes that wouldn't sound out of place if it was written by Rodgers and Hammerstein and/or Kurt Weill in the 1930s despite the lyrics are pretty political and is kind of an attack against the Greek army in which he served his duty for. - New Sound Album: - Ο καθρέφτηςnote retains the Entechna pop of his first three albums but adds elements of Baroque Pop. - Έξωnote ditches the Entechna pop of his previous releases in favor of a sound leaning more into Folk Rock. - Ο αόρατος άνθρωποςnote is more sparse and minimalistic with lesser emphasis on rhythm. As a result, it does leer into slowcore territory sometimes. - Καλλιθέαnote is more modern compared to his previous releases and has a lot of songs dabbling into genres like Dream Pop, Art Pop, and Neo-Psychedelia. - ANIME is his most indie-sounding album with the sparseness of Ο αόρατος άνθρωποςnote mixed with the more maximalist approach of Καλλιθέαnote . - Nostalgia Filter: His most persistent theme, though often deconstructed. If anything, a lot of his nostalgic songs have him realise that the past is not all that great. - Protest Song: Η υβρεοπομπήnote is very anti-army (conscription is mandatory in Greece and this was written as he did his duty), mocking it by filling the lyrics with every swear word he heard in the army. - Serendipitous Symphony: His 2015 album Καλλιθέαnote have three one-minute tracks that are instrumentals based on real life field recordings like a farmers' market or a cram school. - Revisiting the Roots: Two in a row, but in different ways. - Καλλιθέαnote was partly recorded in his childhood home, and the album is about going back home and revisting old friends and places. - After that album had very complex, multi-layered tracks, ANIME is very light on post-processing and features mostly the acoustic guitar. In an interview, Foivos states that his goal was to make it easy for people to play them by themselves, like his earlier music. - Self-Deprecation: He often makes fun of himself for being a nostalgic whiner. - Tacky Tuxedo: He has an affinity for wearing these when he's hosting, be it in Foivos' Terrace or The Numbers. - The Mirror Shows Your True Self: Ο καθρέφτηςnote has an inversion of this. The Foivos the world sees is a reflection on a mirror that Foivos can't recognize as himself. - Two First Names: He was named Dionysios Foivos in what he considers a Historical In-Joke, but everyone called him Foivos.


--- [Foivos Delivorias - Φοίβος Δεληβοριάς - TMDB] ---
Personal Info Stage Name Φοίβος Δεληβοριάς Known For Sound Known Credits 10 Gender Male Birthday September 29, 1973 (52 years old) Place of Birth Kallithea, Athens Prefecture, Greece Also Known As - - Content Score 100 Yes! Looking good! Login to report an issue Biography Phoivos Delivorias (September 29, 1973) is a Greek songwriter. Phoivos Delivorias (September 29, 1973) is a Greek songwriter. Sound | ||| | ||| | ||| | Acting | ||| | ||| | ||| | ||| | ||| | Creator | Writing |


--- [Foivos Delivorias - Hellenica World] ---
. Foivos Delivorias (Greek: Φοίβος Δεληβοριάς), born 29 September 1973, is a popular Greek rock musician, singer, and songwriter from Kallithea, Attica.[1] Career In 1988, when he was only 15 years old, he took a cassette of his songs to Manos Hatzidakis resulting, one year later, in the release of his debut album "Η παρέλασι" in November 1989.[2] His second disk was released, quite a few years after the first, on July 1995 and it was titled "Η ζωή μόνο ετσι ειν' ωραία".[2] The same year he participated for the first time in a live music performance with Dionysis Savvopoulos. In 1998, his third album was released and it was titled "Χάλια".[2] In the summer of 2003, his next album is released, the title of which is "Ο καθρέφτης".[2] To date, his last album that has been released is "Οι απίθανοι περιπέτειες" which was released in 2008. Concerts Recent concerts include the Fuzz Club in Athens on 22 December 2010.[3] The Lithografio at Patras on 20 January 2011.[4] Γαία Live on 11 March 2010 in Thessaloniki.[5] Discography Foivos Delivorias has released the following albums:[2][6] 1989: Η Παρέλαση (The Parade) 1995: Η Ζωή Μόνο Έτσι Είν' Ωραία (Life's Only Good This Way) 1998: Χάλια (Mess) 2003: Ο καθρέφτης (The Mirror) 2007: Έξω (Outside) 2010: Ο Αόρατος Άνθρωπος (The Invisible Man) 2015: Καλλιθέα (Kallithea) Compilations: 2008: Οι Απίθανες Περιπέτειες του Φοίβου Δεληβοριά (The Incredible Adventures of Foivos Delivorias) Lyrics Foivos Delivorias has written the lyrics for the following songs:[7][8] Bolero Mp3 O.K Continuously Doubt If I lose This passes Once you do not love me I do not know what Record That A dog in Kolonaki I want to get over[9] References ^ Φοίβος Δεληβοριάς LiFO magazine (Greek) ^ a b c d e Φοίβος Δεληβοριάς MiC music portal (Greek) ^ Φοίβος Δεληβοριάς @ Fuzz Club(22/12/10, Αθήνα) mindradio.gr ^ Φοίβος Δεληβοριάς στην Πάτρα e-tetRadio.gr, 17 January 2011. ^ O Φοίβος Δεληβοριάς στο Γαία Live culturenow.gr, 14 February 2011. ^ Φοίβος Δεληβοριάς Discogs.com ^ Φοίβος Δεληβοριάς (Ερμηνευτής) Stixoi.info (Greek with some lyrics translated in to English and Spanish). ^ Foivos Delivorias lyrics lyricstranslate.com ^ Θέλω να σε ξεπεράσω Knossos FM 100.6 (Greek) | Ancient Greece Science, Technology , Medicine , Warfare, , Biographies , Life , Cities/Places/Maps , Arts , Literature , Philosophy ,Olympics, Mythology , History , Images Medieval Greece / Byzantine Empire Science, Technology, Arts, , Warfare , Literature, Biographies, Icons, History Modern Greece Cities, Islands, Regions, Fauna/Flora ,Biographies , History , Warfare, Science/Technology, Literature, Music , Arts , Film/Actors , Sport , Fashion --- | Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org" All text is available under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License


--- [Hangouts from the 19th century, still vivid - Narratologies] ---
Hangouts from the 19th century, still vivid Hangouts from the 19th century, still vivid Posted on November 11, 2021 Athens is a very old city. Consequently, it never leaves us bored! (Also, we‘ll never get bored repeating this first sentence.) Age leaves behind countless treasures, traces, and places to discover. Among them, the Athenian hangouts. Ok, maybe the modern city is only around 200 years old. But the history behind it is ten times older! And seems like people in this city are not much change lovers. The proof is that we have hangouts not from the ‘80s, nor the ‘70s, but from the 19th century!! Still operating, still counting. These are definitely places to visit, even only because of their age. Let us introduce you to our most favorite! Coffee shop by Loumides “Haven’t lived the ages of Brazilian, nor of Loumidis attic” says Foivos Delivorias in one of his songs. And he of course refers to the famous café séparé once operating at the coffee grinder’s. Loumidis is the most well-known Greek coffee brand. For most Greeks, it’s the way to start the day. May the old hangout of Stadiou have been transferred to Panepistimiou str., but it’s still under the same brand. In late 19th century, this place was a hangout mostly for writers, poets, editors and exceptional personalities of Greek literature. And it was known as “the attic”. Everyone knew that the usual date spot was Loumidis attic. Elytis, Sachtouris, Gkatsos were three of the shop’s habitues. Nowadays, you can go there to find delights from the Cyclades (loukoumia), or the delicious cocoa bites, the superhit of the shop. Furthermore, you can enjoy traditional Greek coffee and relax in this set coming from years far gone… Coffee shop “The beautiful Hellas” (Kafeneio Oraia Ellas) Photo: Paris Tavitian/LIFO mag One of the oldest hangouts. Plus, among the most beautiful balconies of the city center. From here you can look at the peaceful Metropoles square, with the plane trees. This place has one of the sweetest views in Athens. You know, not the wealthy one, heading to Lycabettus or the sea. The other one, full of reminiscing… Here again, traditional Greek coffee accompanied by loukoumi is the best pause of your day. But there are also snacks and small dishes, a.k.a. mezedes, that are a perfect match for ouzo and tsipouro. Many silkscreens hang on the walls, reminding of glorious moments of Greekness. Also, the Greek Tradition Center is hosted in the place. The original coffee shop under the very same name opened a few meters away. In addition, it used to be an Italian coffee shop, in Monastiraki of 1839. “Oraia Ellas” is a proud hangout, taking care of visitors since then, almost unstoppably. The ground floor of Bagkeion In this list of hangouts, Bagkeion has done the biggest twist. From a late-night bar with a bad reputation, now hosts performances and biennales! Bagkeion was a “café chantant” operating late night hours, following French prototypes. It was next to the grand hotel Bagkeion, so it got the same name. But of course, it did not share its reputation! Chanteuses used to work in the café, sing, dance, and serve. At the same time, there were séparés for private appointments and dating. Workers were mostly French, Hungarian, or from Vienna, satisfying the more European tastes of Athenians. The other section and sector of the city, faithful to tradition, definitely preferred girls from Smyrna, Armenia, Turkey -more of an odalisque… Thankfully these days are over, and now you can visit Bagkeion for a new age performance, or an art exhibition. Moreover, if you find its door open, please get in. The coffee shop is not still open, but you can see the inside of the old hotel. Its architecture will pay you back for this unusual stop! Filomousou Square Welcome to one of the oldest squares of the city! Nowadays you can enjoy peaceful moments of serenity in Filomousou Square. Back in the 19th century though, things used to be way different. You see, Plaka residents -Athenians, born and raised- didn’t want to share the main square of their beloved neighborhood. With whom is the following question. But with Anafiotes, of course! People from Anafi Island came to build the rising capital. Athens was deprived of good technicians back then -and maybe still does. So, shouting and quarrels started every now and then. These incidents often ended up in continuous fights, ‘till police intervened. Doesn’t sound that funny, eh? But now, all this is history, and everyone is welcome to spend a sunny afternoon among the elms. And how beautiful these trees do smell! What a nice note in the city! The coffee shop of the fighters As you have realized ‘till now, Athens is full of cafés, cute bistros and places to taste mezedes. This is not a new phenomenon. It seems as if the city was made to be this outgoing. In addition, its residents seem to need it! This applied to the 19th-century residents, too. The chiefs of the Greek Revolution also needed some rest after the combat! And in the new capital, they had their own café among the hangouts, named after them. “The coffee shop of the fighters” used to stand in Aiolou and Metropoles intersection, right in the city center. It was a place to have coffee, loukoumi, and hookah, but also a place to keep you up to date. In there, there was always a word about politics and politicians. Accompanied by quarrels and fights, of course. Politics and bursts go hand in hand in this country! Nowadays, newspapers and journals are occasionally sold in the place, as if one can still enter the café and join the reading along with their coffee… The funny thing is, you can still take a coffee here if you need it. Maybe this spot was meant to be a coffee shop since now it hosts the Starbucks of the city center. If it happens you pass this spot, pay some attention to a place of everyday history! Featured photo: Paris Tavitian/LIFO mag
