=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Perkin Medal - Wikipedia]
The Perkin Medal is an award given annually by the Society of Chemical Industry (American Section) to a scientist residing in The United States for an "innovation in applied chemistry resulting in outstanding commercial development." It is considered the highest honor given in the US chemical ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perkin_Medal

[Alum wins prestigious Perkin Medal | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering]
Oct 6, 2025 · Bruce DeBruin Eastman Senior Fellow Bruce DeBruin ('80 BS) was recently named the 2025 Society of Chemical Industry America (SCI) winner of The Perkin Medal. The Perkin Medal is “one of the highest honors given for outstanding work in applied chemistry” in the country, according to a news release shared by the company. The medal commemorates the discovery of the first synthetic dye by Sir ...
URL: https://cbe.osu.edu/news/2025/10/alum-wins-prestigious-perkin-medal

[SCI Perkin Medal - Science History Institute]
Ever since its foundation SCI’s principal objective has been to further the application of chemistry and related sciences for the public benefit, through our events and publication. The SCI Gordon E. Moore Medal recognizes early-career success in innovation, as reflected both in market impact and improvement to quality of life. In 1856 Perkin accidentally discovered mauvine—the first commercialized synthetic dye—and introduced a new era in the chemical industry.
URL: https://www.sciencehistory.org/about/awards-program/sci-perkin-medal/

[Frances Arnold to receive Perkin Medal - www.caltech.edu]
Apr 5, 2023 · The Society of Chemical Industry (SCI) America has announced that it is awarding its highest honor, the Perkin Medal, to Frances Arnold, Caltech's Linus Pauling Professor of Chemical Engineering, Bioengineering and Biochemistry and director of the Donna and Benjamin M. Rosen Bioengineering Center. The award honors Arnold's innovations in directed evolution, an approach she developed for ...
URL: https://www.caltech.edu/about/news/frances-arnold-to-receive-perkin-medal

[DR. A.D. LITTLE GETS PERKIN MEDAL HERE; Joint Meeting of Societies at Columbia Honors Pioneer in Industrial Chemistry. WINNER TRACES PROGRESS Declares Chemical Industries, Now Young, Will Lead Advance to Prosperity of World. - The New York Times]
DR. A.D. LITTLE GETS PERKIN MEDAL HERE; Joint Meeting of Societies at Columbia Honors Pioneer in Industrial Chemistry. WINNER TRACES PROGRESS Declares Chemical Industries, Now Young, Will Lead Advance to Prosperity of World.
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/1931/01/10/archives/dr-ad-little-gets-perkin-medal-here-joint-meeting-of-societies-at.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Perkin Medal - Wikipedia] ---
The Perkin Medal is an award given annually by the Society of Chemical Industry (American Section) to a scientist residing in The United States for an "innovation in applied chemistry resulting in outstanding commercial development." It is considered the highest honor given in the US chemical industry.
The Perkin Medal was first awarded in 1906 to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the discovery of mauveine, the world's first synthetic aniline dye, by Sir William Henry Perkin, an English chemist. The award was given to Sir William on the occasion of his visit to the United States in the year before he died. It was next given in 1908 and has been given every year since then.




--- [Alum wins prestigious Perkin Medal | Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering] ---
Alum wins prestigious Perkin Medal Eastman Senior Fellow Bruce DeBruin ('80 BS) was recently named the 2025 Society of Chemical Industry America (SCI) winner of The Perkin Medal. The Perkin Medal is “one of the highest honors given for outstanding work in applied chemistry” in the country, according to a news release shared by the company. The medal commemorates the discovery of the first synthetic dye by Sir William Henry Perkin in 1856. DeBruin was recognized for his work resulting in the commercial development of Eastman’s world-scale methanolysis plastic waste recycling process, and on Eastman's IntegRex technology transforming contaminated PET feedstock into high-purity polyester products with lower energy consumption. He was commended for having the kind of dedication that drives progress for industry and sets a benchmark for excellence. “DeBruin is the embodiment of what the Perkin Medal represents,” Anthony O’Donovan, president and CEO of Arkema and Chair of SCI America, said. “His body of work epitomizes process innovation and process improvement and creates tremendous value across the global economy.” “DeBruin is the embodiment of what the Perkin Medal represents,” Anthony O’Donovan, president and CEO of Arkema and Chair of SCI America, said in the release. “His body of work epitomizes process innovation and process improvement and creates tremendous value across the global economy.” DeBruin's innovations in applied chemistry and engineering resulted in outstanding commercial development of plastic waste recycling processes, now being used at the world's largest molecular recycling facility located at Eastman’s Kingsport, TN headquarters. Molecular recycling, also known as chemical recycling or advanced recycling, breaks down plastic waste into its fundamental molecular building blocks to create new plastic feedstocks. “Inventing something pragmatic that can actually be used by the company is both an art and a science,” DeBruin said. “I come up with different ways of doing things that have never been done before, then work with hundreds of people to turn it into a physical reality. Being recognized for that is an honor." DeBruin was born in rural southeastern Ohio into a large family of modest means. He discovered a passion for math, chemistry, and process engineering at a young age and studied chemical engineering at The Ohio State University. As a student, he supported his education by working in a welding fabrication shop building equipment that he would later use in his career. DeBruin's Ohio State experience meant a lot to him. The Perkin Medal includes funding for a graduate student scholarship of the honoree's choice. DeBruin chose the laboratory of L.-S. Fan, and Sudeshna Gun, a doctoral student whose focus is on developing sustainable energy technologies, was selected to receive the 2025 Perkin Medal scholarship. DeBruin had found Professor Fan's courses on multiphase fluid flow, specifically on moving solid bed reactors, to provide an essential foundation for his future work. "During my senior year, Dr. Fan supported my senior project where I designed and constructed a pilot scale moving bed reactor. Multiple phase flowing streams and handling of solids was the necessary background to allow the pursuit of the very complex multiphase processes," DeBruin said. After graduating in 1980, DeBruin went on to dedicate his entire career to Eastman Kodak and Eastman Chemical Company. Beginning with projects focused on the kinetics, crystallization, and solid-liquid separation of couplers and dyes for photographic film and paper, DeBruin quickly developed a reputation for efficient problem-solving and adapting new technologies to production environments. He was an early adopter of computerized analytical instruments, integrating them into manufacturing processes to improve reaction control. DeBruin moved on to a polyester chemical recycling facility, where he led process improvements that increased capacity by 50%. He then rotated from plant to plant with a mission to reduce environmental emissions and waste, address safety issues, and increase capacity. As he progressed into management, he inspired departments to develop long-term visions and spearheaded the development of an improved, safer polyester recycling reactor (methanolysis), scaling it from lab to full-scale production. DeBruin's subsequent innovations included developing recycling technologies for copolyesters, designing and launching a copolyester polymer line in Malaysia using lower-energy raw materials, and modifying continuous polyester processes to achieve zero waste during product transitions. He headed the creation of the IntegRex PET process for consumer bottles, which delivered industry-leading energy efficiency, reduced emissions and waste, and became the cornerstone of Eastman’s sale of its North American PET business to DAK Americas. DeBruin has applied for more than 100 patents, with more than 50 already granted. A few of these patents include the Process of recovering components from scrap polyester, the Process of recovering components, the Process of recovering components from polyester resins from polyester resins, and Removal of dimethylterephthalate from a methanolysis vapor stream. In the following years, DeBruin tackled numerous challenges: eliminating defects in LCD screen films, developing a continuous process for polyvinyl butyral used in windshields, identifying the environmental cause of insulating window film corrosion, and redesigning processes for tire additives and adhesive resins to improve quality, safety, and capacity. About the SCI Perkin Medal The Society of Chemical Industry America (SCI) works to further the application of chemistry and related sciences for the public benefit, sharing information among sectors as diverse as agriculture, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, environmental science, and safety. Headquartered in London, England, SCI is a registered charity with individual members in over 70 countries. The Perkin Medal was first presented in 1906, commemorating the discovery of the first synthetic dye (Perkin mauve) by Sir William Henry Perkin in 1856. This discovery was a significant step forward in organic chemistry that led to the birth of a major segment of the chemical industry.


--- [SCI Perkin Medal - Science History Institute] ---
SCI Perkin Medal The SCI Perkin Medal is recognized as one of the highest honors given for outstanding work in applied chemistry in the United States. It commemorates the discovery of the first synthetic dye (Perkin mauve) by Sir William Henry Perkin in 1856. This discovery was a significant step forward in organic chemistry that led to the birth of a major segment of the chemical industry. The Perkin Medal was first awarded to Sir William at a banquet in New York in 1906. The room was festooned with banners dyed a brilliant Perkin mauve, a piece of which is on display in our museum. Today the award is presented as part of Innovation Day, a daylong collaborative research conference cohosted by the Society of Chemical Industry and the Science History Institute. 2025 Medalist: Bruce DeBruin Bruce has dedicated his entire career to Eastman Kodak and Eastman Chemical Company. Beginning with projects focused on the kinetics, crystallization, and solid-liquid separation of couplers and dyes for photographic film and paper, Bruce quickly developed a reputation for efficient problem-solving and adapting new technologies to production environments. He was an early adopter of computerized analytical instruments, integrating them into manufacturing processes to improve reaction control. Bruce moved on to a polyester chemical recycling facility, where he led process improvements that increased capacity by 50%. He then rotated from plant to plant with a mission to reduce environmental emissions and waste, address safety issues, and increase capacity. As he progressed into management, Bruce inspired departments to develop long-term visions and spearheaded the development of an improved, safer polyester recycling reactor (methanolysis), scaling it from lab to full-scale production. His subsequent innovations included developing recycling technologies for copolyesters, designing and launching a copolyester polymer line in Malaysia using lower-energy raw materials, and modifying continuous polyester processes to achieve zero waste during product transitions. Bruce headed the creation of the IntegRex PET process for consumer bottles, which delivered industry-leading energy efficiency, reduced emissions and waste, and became the cornerstone of Eastman’s sale of its North American PET business to DAK Americas. In the following years, Bruce has tackled numerous challenges: eliminating defects in LCD screen films, developing a continuous process for polyvinyl butyral used in windshields, identifying the environmental cause of insulating window film corrosion, and redesigning processes for tire additives and adhesive resins to improve quality, safety, and capacity. Currently, he is leading efforts on Eastman’s world-scale methanolysis recycling process, transforming contaminated PET feedstock into high-purity polyester products with lower energy consumption. Bruce was born in rural southeastern Ohio into a large family of modest means. He discovered a passion for math, chemistry, and process engineering at a young age. He studied chemical engineering at The Ohio State University and supported his education by working in a welding fabrication shop, building equipment he would later use in his career. Winners of the SCI Perkin Medal The SCI Perkin Medal has been presented since 1906, when the very first award went to Sir William Henry Perkin. For a full list of winners visit SCI’s website. About the Society of Chemical Industry SCI is a unique multidisciplinary forum where science meets business on independent, impartial ground. SCI provides the opportunity for sharing information among sectors as diverse as food and agriculture, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, environmental science, and safety. Established in 1881 as the Society of Chemical Industry, SCI is today a registered charity with individual members in over 70 countries. Its headquarters are in London. Ever since its foundation SCI’s principal objective has been to further the application of chemistry and related sciences for the public benefit, through our events and publication.


--- [Frances Arnold to receive Perkin Medal - www.caltech.edu] ---
The Society of Chemical Industry (SCI) America has announced that it is awarding its highest honor, the Perkin Medal, to Frances Arnold, Caltech's Linus Pauling Professor of Chemical Engineering, Bioengineering and Biochemistry and director of the Donna and Benjamin M. Rosen Bioengineering Center. The award honors Arnold's innovations in directed evolution, an approach she developed for creating new enzymes and improving existing ones. By mutating and recombining the gene that encodes the enzyme followed by artificial selection for the desired traits, protein engineers can use her approach to "breed" biomolecules, not unlike how farmers breed crops and animals. Directed evolution is now widely used to create enzymes for making everything from fuels to medicines, chemicals, and consumer goods. Chemical synthesis using laboratory-evolved enzymes is often more efficient and greener than more traditional methods. For her work in this field, Arnold won the 2018 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. Arnold will be presented with the 2023 Perkin Medal at an award ceremony that will be held in Philadelphia in September. "Dr. Arnold has spent nearly 30 years refining directed evolution methods specifically to be useful to humankind—and these methods are today used in numerous industrial applications to develop new enzyme catalysts," said Frank Bozich, chair of SCI America in a prepared statement. "She is one of the most honored chemists in the world, and we are thrilled to celebrate her accomplishments this fall." Arnold says the award is a recognition of the importance of the field and the contributions of everyone working within it. "This award highlights the real-world impact of enzymes and using evolution as an enzyme design process—work done by the many scientists and engineers who want to make chemistry more sustainable," she says. For more information about the Perkin Medal, click here.


--- [DR. A.D. LITTLE GETS PERKIN MEDAL HERE; Joint Meeting of Societies at Columbia Honors Pioneer in Industrial Chemistry. WINNER TRACES PROGRESS Declares Chemical Industries, Now Young, Will Lead Advance to Prosperity of World. - The New York Times] ---
Supported by DR. A.D. LITTLE GETS PERKIN MEDAL HERE; Joint Meeting of Societies at Columbia Honors Pioneer in Industrial Chemistry. WINNER TRACES PROGRESS Declares Chemical Industries, Now Young, Will Lead Advance to Prosperity of World. January 10, 1931, Page 13Buy Reprints Dr. Arthur D. Little of Cambridge, Mass., a former president of the American Chemical Society, received last night the Perkin Medal, awarded annually to the American chemist who has most distinguished himself by his services to applied chemistry. The presentation took place at a collective meeting of the Society of Chemical Industry, the American Chemical Society, the Société de Chimie Industrielle and the American Electro-Chemical Society at Havemeyer Hall, Columbia University. Dr. Little responded with an address on "The Evaluation of Chemical Projects," during which he said that the chemical industries, still in their youth, with their great development still before them, would lead the advance to prosperity. The presentation was made by Professor Marston T. Bogert of Columbia. Professor Frederick G. Keyes of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology described the work of the medalist. Dr. Little is a pioneer in the application of chemistry to industry and is the inventor of processes for the manufacture of chrome tanned leather, chlorate of potash, cellulose acetate, smoke filters, newsprint from Southern woods and others dealing with the recovery of naval stores from lumbering wastes and vapor-phase cracking of petroleum. He has made a specialty of the chemistry of cellulose, fibers, papermaking, gas and petroleum. He was born in Boston sixty-seven years ago and was graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1885. Since advances in chemistry react on every industry, while, conversely, every progressive trend in other industries makes new demands on chemistry," Dr. Little said, "we may look with confidence to the chemical industries for contributions which should go far toward supplying the stimulus essential to the revival of our prosperity and which the stationary or adolescent industries can no longer furnish. "Industries age like human beings. They have the hazards and diseases of childhood, the capacity for development in vigorous youth, the stability and strength of maturity and the conservatism and atrophy of age. The railroads are old, the automobile is approaching middle age, but our chemical industries are still in their energetic and elastic youth, with their great development still before them. "They have had the vitality to withstand the present depression better than most others. While steel production has shrunk to 40 per cent of capacity, the chemical industries have brought out cellophane, new plastics, synthetic ammonia and methanol, and many other products to compensate for shrinkage in other lines. They have developed new catalysts, high-pressure processes and equipment, and have gone to new extremes in temperatures, both up and down the scale. Chemistry is a creative science, and the first chapter in its Book of Genesis is not yet written." Related Content Advertisement
