=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Yamaha DX1 Synthesizer Information, Specifications and Resources]
Feb 2, 2026 · FAQ What type of wood was the case of the Yamaha DX1 made from? The DX1 was enclosed in a handmade Brazilian rosewood case. Rosewood is a hardwood, making it appropriate for use on a large instrument which may have been transported around and subject to knocks and scrapes. What year was the Yamaha DX1 launched? This instrument was launched in 1983
URL: https://www.pianoandsynth.com/keyboard-finder/yamaha-dx1

[Synth History: DX-1 with Dom Sigalas - YamahaSynth]
The DX-1 was introduced in 1983 and only 140 were produced. Under the hood was an FM synthesis beast with the power of two DX-7s housed in an impressive chassis and remarkable user interface. It featured a remarkably expressive 73-key weighted wooden keyboard and polyphonic aftertouch housed in a metal chassis with Brazilian rosewood side panels. Everything thing about the DX-1 looks and feels ...
URL: https://yamahasynth.com/learn/synth-programming/synth-history-dx-1-with-dom-sigalas/

[MATRIXSYNTH: Yamaha Synth Space History | DX1 | Dom Sigalas]
Sep 1, 2022 · The DX1 was packed with features, including a distinct palette of new synthetic and 'authentic' sounds, six operators with thirty-two algorithms, all placed within its beautiful handmade Brazilian rosewood case. There were only 140 DX1 Synthesizers ever produced."
URL: https://www.matrixsynth.com/2022/09/yamaha-synth-space-history-dx1-dom.html

[Yamaha DX1 Synth (12T Jun 84) - mu:zines]
Individually hand made, virtually a limited edition and finished in hand rubbed rosewood. Not the average synthesiser, you might reckon, and you'd be scoring full marks from the Swedish judges, John. History has tripped us up here, as the DX1 was unveiled at roughly the same time as Yamaha's DX7. The 7 immediately went into mass production (and massive success), while the DX1 was taken back ...
URL: https://www.muzines.co.uk/articles/yamaha-dx1-synth/6549

[Yamaha DX1 Synthesizer (1983) | WOLF FASCINATIONS]
Apr 7, 2020 · Yamaha have always demanded quality in their products and the DX1 was a product to achieve nothing but the best. The DX1 packed in all the best that Yamaha had available in order to earn its hefty price tag. The Rose Wood, piano like keys and digital displays deliver both quality and technology with minimalistic styling. Is it value for money?
URL: https://taraswolf.com/yamaha-dx1-synthesizer-1983/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Yamaha DX1 Synthesizer Information, Specifications and Resources] ---
Author: Andy Merrett / Data Driven The Yamaha DX1 is a synthesizer released in 1983. It is aimed at musicians wanting to create and modify their own sounds. The DX1 has 73 synth/organ style full sized keys with touch sensitivity and aftertouch. It has 32 notes of polyphony. It has 64 on board sounds but no acoustic piano sounds. It does have other real world sounds though, and a sustain/damper pedal. The DX1 uses Yamaha's FM sound generation. Frequency Modulation is an iconic digital synthesis for metallic, bell-like, and evolving tones. It has built-in MIDI capabilities. It has no built-in learning system. It has no built-in speakers which means you will have to connect it to external amplification and speakers in order to hear it. It runs from AC power.Search our partner sites for the latest deals on the Yamaha DX1*: Amazon | ebay | Music & Arts | Reverb As the Yamaha DX1 is 43 years old, you may find used models and spare parts on ebay. What type of wood was the case of the Yamaha DX1 made from? The DX1 was enclosed in a handmade Brazilian rosewood case. Rosewood is a hardwood, making it appropriate for use on a large instrument which may have been transported around and subject to knocks and scrapes. What year was the Yamaha DX1 launched? This instrument was launched in 1983 What other models did Yamaha release in 1983? What models did other manufacturers release in 1983? What other synths were released at a similar time? Have your own question about the Yamaha DX1? Email us and we'll research it for you. No resources to show. No purchase links currently found. Added: 2026-02-02 Updated: 2026-02-11 ID: 1510 By Year Number of Keys


--- [Synth History: DX-1 with Dom Sigalas - YamahaSynth] ---
No content


--- [MATRIXSYNTH: Yamaha Synth Space History | DX1 | Dom Sigalas] ---
Thursday, September 01, 2022 Yamaha Synth Space History | DX1 | Dom Sigalas video upload by Yamaha Synths Official "In this video, Dom Sigalas explores the super rare Yamaha DX1 Synthesizer. This FM synthesizer was introduced to the market in 1983 with no expenses spared when creating this machine with 73-key with polyphonic aftertouch. The DX1 was packed with features, including a distinct palette of new synthetic and 'authentic' sounds, six operators with thirty-two algorithms, all placed within its beautiful handmade Brazilian rosewood case. There were only 140 DX1 Synthesizers ever produced." LABELS/MORE: Yamaha Check with dealers on the right for pricing and availability on new and used gear. Check with dealers on the right for pricing and availability on new and used gear. PREVIOUS PAGE NEXT PAGE HOME © Matrixsynth - All posts are presented here for informative, historical and educative purposes as applicable within fair use. MATRIXSYNTH is supported by affiliate links that use cookies to track clickthroughs and sales. See the privacy policy for details. MATRIXSYNTH - EVERYTHING SYNTH © Matrixsynth - All posts are presented here for informative, historical and educative purposes as applicable within fair use. MATRIXSYNTH is supported by affiliate links that use cookies to track clickthroughs and sales. See the privacy policy for details. MATRIXSYNTH - EVERYTHING SYNTH Subscribe to: Post Comments (Atom)


--- [Yamaha DX1 Synth (12T Jun 84) - mu:zines] ---
Individually hand made, virtually a limited edition and finished in hand rubbed rosewood. Not the average synthesiser, you might reckon, and you'd be scoring full marks from the Swedish judges, John. History has tripped us up here, as the DX1 was unveiled at roughly the same time as Yamaha's DX7. The 7 immediately went into mass production (and massive success), while the DX1 was taken back for the fine polish befitting a Rolls-Royce. For thus were the Japanese ones describing their creation. Now it's finally in the shops (well, some shops), how close are they to their boast? Electronically the DX1 is two DX7s. There are twin synths inside its case, each one containing the same algorithms and accepting the same programming information as the genuine article. It's more than happy to chew on a DX7 RAM pack and swallow its contents. This allows you to layer two sounds (each with a maximum of 16 notes), or split the keyboard. Of vital importance is the fact that the twin 7s can be detuned from each other which does much to skirt the 'clean and over clinical' criticism occasionally raised against FM synthesis. Why, then, should a DX1 cost as much as six DX7s? Apart from the sheer physical size, there are three main differences that make the 1 quite unlike the 7. First is the keyboard, a wooden, piano weighted job with 79 keys bouncing gently under the fingers. The 7 has both velocity and second touch sensitivity. The first produces dynamics, the second delivers modulation effects as you press harder on the keys. The 1 has these features too – but polyphonically. Depress any note on a 7 and the modulation or volume increase will affect every key you're holding down. On the newcomer it will influence ONLY the note you've exerted yourself on. It can mean vibrato on the top note of a violin chord or one accented 'doink' in the middle of a Fender Rhodes run without the left hand chords lurching up in volume to match. Those among you who recall Yamaha's original CS80 synth will recognise this feature. It may also bring back shuddering memories of trusses and back sprains since the mechanics of such a keyboard involve wood and weight... lots of it. The DX1, thankfully, isn't as leaden as the CS80, but it wouldn't go on the back of a scooter. Second separation is the wealth of red LED readouts, figures, graphs and markers that sit beneath the black plastic skin across the top of the front panel. Though contributing nothing to the sound they catapault the DX1 in comprehensibility. First on the left is a pyramid of 13 squares which shift to represent the selected algorithms. For those new to FM synthesis, an algorithm is a gathering of sine wave oscillators (operators). There are carriers (a man singing), and modulators (another man shaking him by the throat so his voice changes). Depending on their levels and how they are linked, different tones will be produced. The squares will light with figures from 1 to 6 showing which operators are activated, and in what positions. Linking LED strips indicate how they're connected. Perhaps one of the most puzzling areas of FM is the operation of its envelope generators. On in analogue synth this section is usually termed ADSR – attack time, decay time, sustain level and release time. The 7 and 1 are more mathematical in their approach. There are four output level points within the envelope generator curve, and four rates determining how long it takes the output to reach those peaks or troughs. Each operator has its own EG to control amplitude, or pitch. The DX7 could never fully display these areas with a single LCD screen window. The DX1's ability to show all four rates and levels at the same time, both in figures and LED bar graphs, makes the subject easier to grasp, experiment with and program. Keyboard scaling, another FM mystery that varies the strength of the operators across the keyboard, is also explained more clearly with a graph and additional LEDs. And finally there are windows to reveal keyboard velocity, modulation amount and output levels for sections not already gifted with a dedicated display. Third is the DX1's performance memory. The centre of the panel still has a two tier LCD screen that talks to you – it's longer, and it's green, but the principle's the same. Memory switches are akin to those of, say, a Prophet with integral LEDs and a positive action instead of the DX7's membrane. Those to the left of the LCD are arranged in four banks of eight for the A and B sounds. The DX1 can mix any A memory with any B memory (there are two matching RAM ports and a balance slider), but it can't combine one A with another A. The switches directly under the LCD have, as is usual with FM, a mass of multiple functions. In the first level they call up 64 pre-programmed pairs of voices, but they're also capable of superimposing new instructions concerning second touch and velocity sensitivity especially for a 'performance'. And they get you into the FM electronics providing access to the many parameters – tuning, EGs, scaling, operators etc. Some of these switches have as many as four tasks. Thankfully a list is enscribed in one corner of the front panel so you don't have to commit them to memory. "What are the 39 steps?" Let's scoot round the rest of the machine and see what Yamaha have added. Stereo outputs, but little else on the back panel bar the MIDI sockets. No computer interface for example. The pitch and modulation wheels feel smoother and classier, and within the programming section there are now parameters for 'total' sensitivity, decay rate and release rate so you can elicit quick changes without having to realign six operators. There are some heavy duty processors at the heart of the DX1 to cope with the vastly increased touch sensitivity information, but otherwise the technology of the 1 is no further forward than the 7. There WILL be another leap in FM techniques, it's doubtless already sitting on the Yamaha mainframe, but just because the DX1 has materialised a year after the DX7 doesn't mean that it's an advance in science. So how come it sounds different from the DX7? Syco Systems, who appear to be the major dealers in 1s, have tried fitting identical RAM packs to a DX7 and a DX1, and even, with just one channel selected, the latter has an indefinable extra something. Depth, perhaps... more body without losing any of the bite or percussion inherent in digital sound creation. The most noticeable, immediate improvement is in string voicings, always, to these ears, a weakness on FM, if you're after a mushy, orchestral swell. The presence of two detuned DX7s softens the digital character and helps overcome the 'standing still' feeling that can afflict sustained notes on FM. Brass also picks up some points. Flicking through the performance memories, it's apparent Yamaha have not been satisfied simply with doubling voices. Even with two violin or two piano programs stacked on top of each other, one will be slightly brighter or earthier for example. A paired electric piano shows the advantage of two differing vibrato rates. As the mod wheel is slipped forward the voices wobble gently away from each other, adding to the subtle drift. A wonderful lilting atmosphere assisted by the emotion vested in the weighted keys. This keyboard feels looser and bouncier than, say, a Prophet T8, and is expressive in a different way – a more piano like manner which is natural considering how FM works. The T8 influences its synthesiser functions. Fingers can be responsible for swelling the filter, shortening attack, altering modulation depth, etc. The DX1 gets inside the earliest stages of tone forming, shifting the operators and directly affecting the harmonics. That's much closer to the reaction of a piano string when you belt it softly or loudly. It manages all the modulation, pitch and volume effects as well. Filtering is difficult to draw any obvious parallels with because it doesn't exist in FM, as such. It's another job for harmonic management. In terms of expense it's in that keyboard and its dynamic capabilities that the DX1 has to score. Remember, but for that final, indefinable 'something' previously mentioned, the sound of two DX7's would cost you the price of two DX7s – about £3,000. Is the DX1 more than a pair of Yamaha's finest? In particular, is it £6,000 more? Unfortunately, I don't think so. It's arguable that the DX7 and DX9 took FM and made it into a sound. The DX1 takes FM and makes it into an instrument. The response it produces in you, as a player, adds an invigorating element to digital synthesis, almost as if Yamaha had added a new parameter on the front panel – 'human'. But which price tag is right? Is the DX1 true to the immense amount of research and development Yamaha sunk into FM so the DX7 could come out as a tearaway bargain, or is the 7 accurately placed in the market, and the 1 an inflated collector's item? It's fabulous, but the money frightens me. DX1 FM POLY £9195


--- [Yamaha DX1 Synthesizer (1983) | WOLF FASCINATIONS] ---
WOLF retro DESIGN REVIEW. 27th March 2020 A retro review looks at products that are at least over ten years old from a present-day WOLF design perspective. While the technology and fashion of the period influence design, and are taken into consideration, great design ideas will transcend their eras to be timeless. Interesting and factual information may be provided, but our review aims to deliver insight from the perspective of a designer’s mind and eyes. The mother-ship has landed! Introduction Product Focus As with most reviews the focus is on the design and its evolution with the synthesizer. The functioning systems and sound quality are not necessarily considered. Product description This is one review we’ve waited a long time to do – The Yamaha DX1. It was and still remains King of the DX range. Released in 1983 it was the Flagship model and was the most powerful, expensive and advanced Yamaha Synthesizer at that time. In Essence it was two DX7’s rolled into one big beautiful body with 73 weighted piano style keys. Price and Availability. With only 140 known to have been produced this synthesizer is indeed very rare. When new it sold for over $14,000 US (10,000 Pounds in the UK) which explains its limited production run and why only the most rich or famous musicians had them. Today $10,000 could possibly land you a beat up one that may not be 100% working. Mint examples do exist and with original accessories could be anywhere from $25,000 upwards. Additional information The DX1 is collectable and many of them belonged to famous artists such as Elton John, Depeche Mode and Pet Shop Boys (just to name a few). Ultimately it was too large and heavy to be practical, which was why it was shortly followed by the DX5. The DX5 was almost identical but more compact and affordable. From our research most DX1 units were made as 100V, but units made for 220V-240V regions came with a voltage selector on the rear panel. Review First impressions / Delight Two words immediately come to mind- “It’s HUGE!”. Every DX1 owner will try to express this, but you really have to see it to say it. In a time when everything was getting smaller the DX1 seems an unnecessary giant. Nevertheless, it is impressive and exudes quality throughout. While the DX5 that followed was significantly more affordable, it has never come close to being a DX1 with all its beautiful Brazilian Rose Wood panels and a space ship like control panel. The DX1 is a sight to behold and when you turn it on you really feel like you’re in a Sci-Fi movie scene. The music stand is identical to the ones that came with the DX7 & DX9. However it looks proportionately too small and out of place on the DX1 Exterior Design Review This flagship synthesizer is indeed a Beautiful Beast. With so many buttons and LED lights it looks powerful yet still retrained and intelligent. The front panel is organised into horizontal panels with several bands of buttons and displayed information. Across the very top is band of ventilation slots. These bands are then framed with the Rosewood end panels that are approx 2 cm thick! We have to remember that this is a digital instrument in a time when digital was only beginning to gain popularity over analogue. An anologue machine of this size would comfortably hold lots of knobs and sliders everywhere. The DX1 is dominated by sleek buttons which gave a more futuristic presence. It feels like a computer and perhaps less personal or user friendly than analogue synths of that era. The Rose Wood panels finish all sides precisely with strong architectural geometry. The end panels are in fact the most ornate part of the machine as all other sides are essentially large flat slabs of metal with the exception of one continuous Acrylic Band towards the top of the front for all those lovely LED numerals. The DX1 is huge, and this is immediately obvious when noticing the amount of machine located above the 73 piano style keys. The DX1 is proportionately out of balance in our opinion but as “The DX King” we can forgive this slight imbalance. As with the DX7 and DX9 we are also critical on the colour choice as all that brown feels more in keeping with the 1970s. Imagine how cool this might have been in a charcoal grey or brushed silver colour instead? That aside Yamaha chose rather cool tones of lavender and aqua for its graphics. There was even thought to the rear panel with small graphics of the foot pedals above their respective port holes. A simple geometry of horizontal lines framed by thick rosewood end panels Yamaha’s LG-200 stand was the largest from Yamaha at the time and most suitable to support the DX1. Neat, orderly and rhythmic- Ventilation holes Craftsmanship. Yamaha have always demanded quality in their products and the DX1 was a product to achieve nothing but the best. The DX1 packed in all the best that Yamaha had available in order to earn its hefty price tag. The Rose Wood, piano like keys and digital displays deliver both quality and technology with minimalistic styling. Is it value for money? Only those with more money than they know what to do with, would have considered it. It was impressive, but in our opinion not amazing enough to demand over $14,000 US (back in the early 1980s!!!). Then again, we have to remember that in its day it would have looked and felt like a computer from a space ship! Having said that it’s hard to find this level of craftsmanship nowadays and in today’s market this synth is worth every cent of its original price tag. There is quality and design attention in almost details. Even the underside has a beveled black base with perfectly cut round ventilation holes. The buttons and controllers all feel nice to press and the keys are weighted and built to emulate a grand piano. FUNCTION- Experience. The DX1 has such an exciting front panel that most musicians (even today) would find their creative juices flowing. The layout is ordered and organised to be practical and look balanced at the same time. Compared the DX7 it’s so much easier to program and understand because of the generous and clear digital displays. Although the DX7 had an innovative flat membrane panel for buttons, they don’t feel good to press in our opinion. The DX1 has more conventional style buttons that feel like proper buttons and we think it suits the masculinity of this machine. From a serviceability perspective the DX1 was made for maintenance with a front panel that lifts easily for access to all its internals. In its open position all electronics are well spaced and easy to access for adjustment or removal. The Keys are made with Yamaha grand piano specifications and many DX1 owners believe they are the best feeling keys ever. This explains why most DX1 owners have continued to use it as their master keyboard. Some units had this rare voltage selector. [Image courtesy of Volker Schmidt in Germany]. Desirability / Collectability For all Synthesizer collectors or even just a collector of vintage things in general, the DX1 is a Holy grail. Unfortunately, they are extremely hard to come by because many are still with their original owners. Not only is that testimony to their build quality but to the fact they still sound great and very usable as a master keyboard. With only 140 ever produced you will need to be patient and persistent. Spare parts are no longer available through Yamaha, so if you plan to settle for beat up example, you need to be tech savvy and handy with the tools. The mint examples that exist have mostly survived through storage in hard cases. A hard case is highly recommended if you intend to transport your DX1 as this beast is not only large but weighs in at 100kg. When a mint example does come up, you’ll need to brace yourself for the price. In our opinion an average specimen is worth over $20,000 (US) and anything less would be a bargain. Ideally it will have all its original accessories including sound cartridges, music stand and manual. In regards to optional accessories, the DX1 also had a factory case and required the Yamaha LG-200 stand to support it. The LG-200 is quite rare but the original factory case is probably rarer than the synth itself. The case has a bright red textured fiberglass casing. WORD OF THE WOLF The time to have invested in a DX1 was in the mid to late 1990s, when it might have been considered a bulky out of date piece of hardware. Since then, prices have steadily gone upwards and they have become increasingly harder to find. When they do become available they are often snapped up by extreme collectors or museums. If you own one of the 140 built, you have something quite special and probably know it by now. The DX1 is simply magnificent and a sight to behold. We’ve done our best in this review to capture all its glory but photos don’t do it justice, so see it in person if you ever get the chance. If you do happen to be one of the lucky 140 (assuming no one owns more than one DX1), we highly recommend searching for an original LG-200 stand to be true to period. An original red case to go with your DX1 could be a once in a lifetime event, so don’t miss the opportunity if it ever happens. The WOLF DX1 The synthesizer in this review was purchased in October 2003 after an exhaustive 3-year search. It came in response to an online wanted advertisement. It is a 100V unit with serial no. 1003 which implies that it was the 3rd one off the production line. We understand that it was originally owned by Japanese musician who took it to the USA. A deal was eventually made and this DX1 was transported to Melbourne where it remains a permanent part of the WOLF Collection. It is in near mint condition and is in 100% working order. Further to its immaculate condition, this DX1 is particularly nice as the wood veneer has maintained richness in colour and has expressive grain lines. It is complete with many original accessories including: - Original sound cartridges - Music stand - Instruction manuals - Schematic service manuals - Brochure - Foot pedals - Factory hard case - Yamaha LG-200 stand We are particularly pleased and proud to own the original red factory case that is even more rare than the actual synthesizer itself. The Wolf DX1 is potentially the most complete one on the planet. Does any one have the original box we could add to it? The DX1 came with 3 cartridges that are specific to this synthesizer with the labels showing “DX1”. All Manuals available for the DX1. Comparing scales between the DX1 and DX7 cases. These are the brightest colours ever seen in Synthesizer hard cases. The LG-200 was the correct stand for the DX1. It is almost identical to the smaller LG-100, but significantly more rare. The DX1 never had its own brochure. It was featured in a 13 page Catalog/Brochure titles “Yamaha DX series”, which also included the DX7 and DX9 models.. In Japan Yamaha had their LM Instruments Combo Keyboards catalog. This one from Dec 1983 featured the DX1 first as their flagship synth. This Dec 1983 LM Instruments Combo Keyboards catalog is the earliest literature we have that showcases the rare LC-1H case. This 1984 Japanese product catalog is anther one that features the Illusive red case designated as the LC-1H for sale at 120,000 Yen . This 1984 Japanese product catalog is the only publication we know of that features the Illusive red case designated as the LC-1H for sale at 120,000 Yen . This Japanese 1985 product catalog features the DX1 along side the new DX5. Still for sale according to this Japanese catalog from July 1986. WOLF DESIGN EXCELLENCE SCORE = 8.4 Links http://www.kratzer.at/DXindex.htm http://www.vintagesynth.com/yamaha/dx1.php Disclaimer The information in this review is intended for informational or educational purposes to provide readers an understanding of how something may be seen from a certain design perspective. In this case it is from the view point of WOLF DESIGNS. As design is subjective this review should only be considered as an independent opinion. Information further to being of an opinion is provided to the best of our knowledge based on our own research at the time of doing the review. We cannot be held responsible for any inaccuracies or inconsistencies and reserve the right to change or update any content as appropriate. The final responsibility of the design resides with the original manufacturer.
