=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Minisat 1 (LEGRI) - HEASARC]
The satellite was launched on April 21, 1997 from a Pegasus XL rocket (a “winged” rocket dropped from an aircraft) and the LEGRI instrument onboard was ...
URL: https://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/docs/heasarc/missions/legri.html

[LEGRI - Wikipedia]
LEGRI was successfully launched on April 21, 1997, on a Pegasus XL rocket. The instrument was activated on May 19, 1997. It was active until February 2002.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LEGRI

[Low Energy Gamma Ray Imager on Minisat-01 - NASA ADS]
MINTSAT-O1 launch is due for December 1996 by a Pegasus launcher in the Canary Islands area.
URL: https://adsabs.harvard.edu/full/1997ESASP.382..343R

[Low Energy Gamma-Ray Imager (LEGRI) - NASA/GSFC]
LEGRI was succesfully launched on April 21st, 1997, on a Pegasus XL rocket. The instrument was activated on May 19, 1997. The technical ...
URL: https://asd.gsfc.nasa.gov/archive/cai/coded_legri.html

[Orbiting Astronomical Observatories - Spider]
carries the Low Energy Gamma-Ray Imager (LEGRI). Successfully launched on April 21, 1997. Minisat image, Legri Observatory image, Legri pattern image; ...
URL: https://spider.seds.org/oaos/oaos.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Minisat 1 (LEGRI) - HEASARC] ---
Effective Area ∼6 cm2 at 30 keV ∼3 cm2 at 100 keV Field of View ∼11° (fully coded) ∼24° (partial coded) Energy Resolution 4 keV at 30 keV (FWHM) LEGRI was a coded mask array gamma ray detector. The detector plane was a mosaic of 10 × 10 with 80 HgI2 and 20 CdZnTe crystals 0.5 cm thick: the mixed detectors were intended to test differing technologies under identical conditions. The detector was passively shielded on the back and sides by the mechanical assembly and by a tantalum collimator and aluminum window in the pointing direction. The coded mask was mounted 540 mm in front of the instrument and was made of tungsten elements attached to a honeycomb plate and support structure. A start sensor allowed precise tracking of attitude of the spacecraft to permit ground-based analysis without blurring from spacecraft motion.


--- [LEGRI - Wikipedia] ---
The Low Energy Gamma-Ray Imager (LEGRI) was a payload for the first mission of the Spanish MINISAT platform, and active from 1997 to 2002. The objective of LEGRI was to demonstrate the viability of HgI2 detectors for space astronomy, providing imaging and spectroscopical capabilities in the 10-100 KeV range. 
LEGRI was successfully launched on April 21, 1997, on a Pegasus XL rocket. The instrument was activated on May 19, 1997. It was active until February 2002.
The LEGRI system included the Detector Unit, Mask Unit, Power Supply, Digital Processing Unit, Star Sensor, and Ground Support Unit.
The LEGRI consortium included:

University of Valencia
University of Southampton
University of Birmingham
Rutherford Appleton Laboratory
Centro de Investigaciones Energéticas
Medioambientales y Tecnológicas (Ciemat)
INTA


--- [Low Energy Gamma Ray Imager on Minisat-01 - NASA ADS] ---
No content


--- [Low Energy Gamma-Ray Imager (LEGRI) - NASA/GSFC] ---
This website is kept for archival purposes only and is no longer updated. Low Energy Gamma-Ray Imager (LEGRI)The latest (as of December 4, 1997)from Fernando Balllesteros, Universidad de Valencia, SpainLEGRI was succesfully launched on April 21st, 1997, on a Pegasus XL rocket. The instrument was activated on May 19, 1997. The technical evaluation as well as the scientific analysis is ongoing. One of the technical mission goals is the measurement of the particle and gamma induced background levels. These are higher than anticipated beforehand. At the moment less than a quarter of the detector array is fully operational which hampers the analysis of image data. Nevertheless, here is a preliminary deconvolved image of an observation of the Crab field, generated by Paul Connell of the University of Birmingham, UK: Background information..LEGRI was proposed in response to the Spanish Instituto Nacional de Technicas Aerospaciales (INTA) 1993 call for proposals for the first MINISAT mission (MSAT1). The aim of the proposed mission is the demonstration of the technological feasibility of the construction of new generation gamma-ray telescopes, optimized for low energy (10-100 keV) astronomy, using 80 HgI2 detectors and 20 CZT pixels. This material provides an excellent response in the 10-100 keV range, with the best presently achieved efficiency/volume ratio.The 10-100 keV region contains unique, not fully explored, astrophysical information regarding nuclear excitation processes, radioactivity, cyclotron emission and absorption processes The MURA aperture pattern employed for LEGRI (courtesy Dr. G. Skinner, B'ham). LEGRI is a prototype of a gamma-ray telescope with high resolution imaging (20 arcmins source location capability), medium resolution spectroscopy (4 keV at 30 keV), and high continuum and broad line sensitivity in the 10-100 keV spectral region. The estimated continuum sensitivity of 10 mCrab at 30 keV allows performing continuous surveys of selected areas and deep measurements of specific fields. The detector plane is a a mosaic of 10X10 HgI2 crystals and CZT elements, the crystals each 0.5 cm thick with an active area of 1 square cm. A coded aperture mask located 54 cm from the detector plane provides the high quality imaging capability. The main detector elements are shielded on the bottom and sides by a tbd box and above by a tantalum collimator and aluminium window. The data supplied by LEGRI will allow the definition of the range of application of HgI2 detectors in astrophysics, based on the HgI2 semiconductor stability, radiation damage, and survival capability under space conditions. Furthermore, they will provide a good scientific output in the very interesting low energy gamma-ray/hard X-ray spectral regions. Characteristics of LEGRI LEGRI is a collaboration between the University of Valencia (Spain), University of Alicante (Spain), Centro de Investigaciones Energeticas, Medioambientales y Technologicas (CIEMAT, Spain), Instituto Nacional de Technica Aerospacial (INTA, Spain), University of Southampton (UK) , University of Birmingham (UK) and Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (UK). The PI of LEGRI is Dr. V. Reglero (reglero@evalvx.ific.uv.es). The above info is an excerpt from the Instrument Definition Document (Version 2) (163 kB postscript), edited by V. Reglero (PI), and from a paper by Ballesteros et al., in Proceedings of a workshop on "Imaging in High_energy Astrophysics", Capri, September 1994 (preprint). Go to LEGRI home page at University of Valencia or LEGRI page at LAEFF (Spain) Go to general Coded Aperture Imaging page These pages have been compiled by Jean in 't Zand. They are intended to provide general information for those interested in coded aperture imaging. Any citations should reference original papers as noted in the bibliography, and requests for further information about any of the papers should be directed to the authors thereof. |


--- [Orbiting Astronomical Observatories - Spider] ---
Our image shows Nasa's High Energy Astronomical Observatory (HEAO) 2 satellite, which was also named Einstein A second service mission (SM-2) was flown in February, 1997 with the Shuttle flight STS-82 (Discovery), a third one (SM-3A) in December, 1999 (STS-103 Discovery), a fourth (SM-3B) in March, 2001 (STS-109 Columbia). A final service mission (SM-4) is currently scheduled for April, 2008 (STS-125 Discovery). Images: HST image (art), Hubble in orbit from Discovery STS-82 Webpages: Hubble Project Homepage (GSFC/Nasa); Hubble Space Telescope homepage (STScI); Hubble Heritage (STScI); Latest results; HST image archive at SEDS (HTML access); Messier Object observations by the HST .. the following part in process to be updated
