=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[What happened to Kirsten McAskill in Happy Valley? | TV & Radio]
Jan 17, 2023 · The police officer was killed off in the third episode of season one, which aired back in May 2014. Sergeant Catherine was explaining farm life to Kirsten over the radio as the young constable...
URL: https://www.express.co.uk/showbiz/tv-radio/1721413/What-happened-Kirsten-McAskill-Happy-Valley

[List of Happy Valley episodes - Wikipedia]
List of Happy Valley episodes Happy Valley is a British crime drama television series created by Sally Wainwright and produced by Red Production Company. The first series of six episodes started airing on BBC One in the United Kingdom on 29 April 2014. It was released on Netflix in the United States and Canada on 20 August 2014. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Happy_Valley_episodes

[Episode #1.3 - Happy Valley (1 season, 3 series - S01E03) - Kinorium]
Following Catherine's visit to the house Royce moves Ann but the van in which he and Lewis are taking her is stopped for speeding by policewoman Kirsten McAskill and so Royce, to Lewis's horror, runs Kirsten over, killing her. Reminded of her daughter's death and accused by Kirsten's partner of pushing her into action Catherine is devastated and, whilst Richard offers to accept Ryan ...
URL: https://en.kinorium.com/754331/episodes/s1e3/

[Happy Valley: Season 1, Episode 3]
Tommy brutally takes control of a situation when PC Kirsten McAskill pulls him and Lewis over; his actions devastate Catherine and the entire Yorkshire ...
URL: https://www.rottentomatoes.com/tv/happy_valley/s01/e03

[Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from...]
Jan 4, 2026 · UK passports can be renewed at GOV.UK We strongly advise dual British citizens to make sure they have a valid British passport or Certificate of Entitlement, to avoid problems like being denied boarding when travelling to the UK from 25 February 2026.
URL: https://britishexpats.com/forum/australia-54/update-passport-requirements-when-entering-uk-february-2026-a-957048/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [What happened to Kirsten McAskill in Happy Valley? | TV & Radio] ---
What happened to Kirsten McAskill in Happy Valley? The detective drama returned on Sunday with Catherine Cawood confronting Clare Cartwright. Happy Valley star has his body language read by police advisor Happy Valley is back on BBC One and the latest episode saw Catherine Cawood (played by Sarah Lancashire) present Ryan (Rhys Connah) with an ultimatum as she got closer to the truth. Halfway through the episode, viewers heard a familiar name as Kirsten McAskill (Sophie Rundle) was mentioned. Express.co.uk has all you need to know about what happened to her. What happened to Kirsten McAskill in Happy Valley? Kirsten's death was mentioned in the latest episode but it has been years since viewers last saw Kirsten. The police officer was killed off in the third episode of season one, which aired back in May 2014. Sergeant Catherine was explaining farm life to Kirsten over the radio as the young constable drove down some backroads. She was looking for kidnapper Lewis Whippey (Adam Long) but his partner in crime Tommy Lee Royce (James Norton) was there for backup. Kirsten decided to pull the van over for a background check and Tommy reversed his car straight into her. READ MORE: Coronation Street history to repeat itself as Summer Spellman dies She fell to the ground, believing she had been killed and Tommy proceeded to run over her twice more. By the time Catherine arrived, it is too late as Kirsten was already dead and the Sergeant had to pass the devastating news on to her family. The Sergeant then made it her mission to find out what was going on in the van when Kirsten pulled it over. She wondered how bad it could be to make them kill a police officer. READ MORE: Happy Valley character most likely to be killed off next exposed Catherine started experiencing post-traumatic stress disorder as she imagined the death of her daughter Becky. Later in the episode, Kirsten's boyfriend visited Catherine at the station as he felt she was to blame for her death. Back in 2014, Kirsten actress Sophie Rundle described the drama as "dark, thrilling and witty". She told Digital Spy: "It's a dark subject matter that we're dealing with and it's thrilling and dramatic, but it's witty as well. DON'T MISS... Coronation Street's Carla Connor killed by Stephen [INSIGHT] Here's a look at the cast of Happy Valley's latest episode [EXPLAINER] We look at Happy Valley star Rhys Connah's age [INSIGHT] "It does everything - it's thrilling and mysterious, but also when it needs to be, it's light-hearted and charming. "Sally [Wainwright] is just absolutely brilliant, I think what's great about this is, it's really honest writing. "She knows the characters that she's writing for, there's nothing vague about her writing. It's based in truth, it's really natural." She teased her death in the interview, saying something "quite shocking" happens to Kirsten. READ MORE: Happy Valley star Rhys Connah brands own performance 'annoying' The star added: "I think it really serves to… remind Catherine of the severity of what she's dealing with. "I think because Kirsten is so young and eager and enthusiastic about her job, it's a real shock when what happens happens - and it's quite exciting as well." Viewers have rewatched the episode and took to Twitter to share their thoughts. Ellie said: "Sally Wainwright has no right to make me bawl for the 3 millionth time watching Kirsten radio 'I think they’ve killed me' and seeing Catherine’s reaction." The official Twitter account for the series said: "Want an incredible & heartbreaking scene this was. Fantastic acting from all involved. Poor Kirsten." Happy Valley airs on BBC One on Sundays at 9pm


--- [List of Happy Valley episodes - Wikipedia] ---
Happy Valley is a British crime drama television series created by Sally Wainwright and produced by Red Production Company. The first series of six episodes started airing on BBC One in the United Kingdom on 29 April 2014.  It was released on Netflix in the United States and Canada on 20 August 2014. A second six-episode series began airing on BBC One on 9 February 2016 and was made available on Netflix in the US later that year.
The BBC announced Series 3 on 26 October 2021 with filming scheduled to begin in 2022. Series 3 started airing on BBC One on 1 January 2023.


--- [Episode #1.3 - Happy Valley (1 season, 3 series - S01E03) - Kinorium] ---
No content


--- [Happy Valley: Season 1, Episode 3] ---
More Certified fresh picks New TV Tonight - DTF St. Louis: Season 1 81% - Young Sherlock: Season 1 100% - Marshals: Season 1 45% - American Classic: Season 1 88% - Vladimir: Season 1 -- - RJ Decker: Season 1 -- - The Dinosaurs: Season 1 -- - Ted: Season 2 -- - Outlander: Season 8 -- - America's Culinary Cup: Season 1 -- Most Popular TV on RT - Paradise: Season 2 89% - A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms: Season 1 94% - Monarch: Legacy of Monsters: Season 2 79% - 56 Days: Season 1 59% - Bridgerton: Season 4 84% - DTF St. Louis: Season 1 81% - Marshals: Season 1 45% - The Night Agent: Season 3 85% - Dark Winds: Season 4 100% - How to Get to Heaven From Belfast: Season 1 94% More Certified fresh pick Columns Guides - 25 Most Popular TV Shows Right Now: What to Watch on Streaming Link to 25 Most Popular TV Shows Right Now: What to Watch on Streaming - 30 Most Popular Movies Right Now: What to Watch In Theaters and Streaming Link to 30 Most Popular Movies Right Now: What to Watch In Theaters and Streaming Hubs - Awards Tour Link to Awards Tour - What to Watch: In Theaters and On Streaming Link to What to Watch: In Theaters and On Streaming RT News - Revisiting the Oscars: How Braveheart Overtook the Biggest Frontrunners of 1996 Link to Revisiting the Oscars: How Braveheart Overtook the Biggest Frontrunners of 1996 - Hoppers First Reviews: Pixar’s Best Film in Years Link to Hoppers First Reviews: Pixar’s Best Film in Years Happy Valley – Season 1, Episode 3 Where to Watch Happy Valley — Season 1, Episode 3 Watch Happy Valley — Season 1, Episode 3 with a subscription on AMC+, or buy it on Fandango at Home. More Like This Cast & Crew Photos Happy Valley — Season 1, Episode 3 Episode Info - Director - Euros Lyn - Screenwriter - Sally Wainwright - Network - BBC - Rating - TV-MA - Genre - Crime , Drama , Mystery & Thriller - Original Language - British English - Release Date - May 13, 2014


--- [Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from...] ---
Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from February 2026 #1 Thread Starter Home and Happy Joined: Dec 2002 Posts: 94,275 From: Keep true friends and puppets close, trust no-one else... Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from February 2026 Visitors to the UK need an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA) if they do not need a visa for short stays of up to six months, or do not already have a UK immigration status. From 25 February 2026 eligible visitors without an ETA will not be able to board their transport and cannot legally travel to the UK. ..... An ETA costs £16 and permits multiple journeys to the UK for stays of up to six months at a time over two years or until the holder’s passport expires – whichever is sooner. Other application services may charge a higher fee than the UK Government. ..... Do British dual citizens need an ETA? https://homeofficemedia.blog.gov.uk/...november-2025/ ..... An ETA costs £16 and permits multiple journeys to the UK for stays of up to six months at a time over two years or until the holder’s passport expires – whichever is sooner. Other application services may charge a higher fee than the UK Government. ..... Do British dual citizens need an ETA? - Dual citizens with British or Irish citizenship are exempt from needing an ETA. - Dual British citizens must have a valid British passport or certificate of entitlement when travelling to the UK. UK passports can be renewed at GOV.UK - We strongly advise dual British citizens to make sure they have a valid British passport or Certificate of Entitlement, to avoid problems like being denied boarding when travelling to the UK from 25 February 2026. - From 25 February 2026, dual British citizens who cannot produce a valid British passport or certificate of entitlement will need to have additional identity checks and will not be able to go through UK passport control until their British nationality is verified. https://homeofficemedia.blog.gov.uk/...november-2025/ #2 Just Joined Joined: Jan 2026 Posts: 4 Re: Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from February 2026 Big new topic for dual citizens, which includes myself (UK and Australian). Some context first: I cannot find any information about what happens if you are in the UK under a different country's passport, on the date the regulations change! Does any one know? Cheers. P.S. I posted this on the a USA Thread by accident, but I assume the question is valid for anyone with UK and other country's passport. Sorry if this breaks rules of posting the same reply in two different threads (not very familiar with online forums rules). Cheers. Some context first: - I emigrated from UK to Oz 15 years ago, and become Australian Citizen about 10 years ago - I held UK and Australian passports until my UK one expired 5 years ago, and I didn't renew - I have travelled to the UK a number of times to visit family/friends in the last 5 years (short holiday visits only) and used my Australian passport to get in and out of the UK - I am travelling back to UK again and land on 20-Feb-2026, i.e. 5 days before the new regulations come into force - I will be leaving the UK on 4-Mar-2026, i.e. after the new regulations have come into force I cannot find any information about what happens if you are in the UK under a different country's passport, on the date the regulations change! Does any one know? Cheers. P.S. I posted this on the a USA Thread by accident, but I assume the question is valid for anyone with UK and other country's passport. Sorry if this breaks rules of posting the same reply in two different threads (not very familiar with online forums rules). Cheers. #3 Thread Starter Home and Happy Joined: Dec 2002 Posts: 94,275 From: Keep true friends and puppets close, trust no-one else... Re: Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from February 2026 Big new topic for dual citizens, which includes myself (UK and Australian). Some context first: I cannot find any information about what happens if you are in the UK under a different country's passport, on the date the regulations change! Does any one know? Cheers. P.S. I posted this on the a USA Thread by accident, but I assume the question is valid for anyone with UK and other country's passport. Sorry if this breaks rules of posting the same reply in two different threads (not very familiar with online forums rules). Cheers. Some context first: - I emigrated from UK to Oz 15 years ago, and become Australian Citizen about 10 years ago - I held UK and Australian passports until my UK one expired 5 years ago, and I didn't renew - I have travelled to the UK a number of times to visit family/friends in the last 5 years (short holiday visits only) and used my Australian passport to get in and out of the UK - I am travelling back to UK again and land on 20-Feb-2026, i.e. 5 days before the new regulations come into force - I will be leaving the UK on 4-Mar-2026, i.e. after the new regulations have come into force I cannot find any information about what happens if you are in the UK under a different country's passport, on the date the regulations change! Does any one know? Cheers. P.S. I posted this on the a USA Thread by accident, but I assume the question is valid for anyone with UK and other country's passport. Sorry if this breaks rules of posting the same reply in two different threads (not very familiar with online forums rules). Cheers. You are entering before the rule change, effectively as an Aus tourist, Technically you should leave on a UK passport, but that might cause questions as to why you entered on one and are leaving on another, they prefer it if you just use the same one. However you might want to consider renewing your UK passport while you're in the UK, if thats easier for you than doing it from Aus. #4 Re: Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from February 2026 Oh my goodness, its quite a torture trying to fathom this. I don't know if I'm adding 2 + 2 and getting 5. Hoping someone can clarify. Apologies if this is a stupid question! I'm a dual British/Irish citizen with Australian Permanent Residency. Do these passport entry changes mean that my Australian-born child now requires a British passport to enter the UK? Even though I have never applied for either British or Irish citizenship for her or registered her as a foreign birth etc. She has always travelled on her Australian passport previously. We're planning a trip back home in the next year. To complicate matters, my family live on both sides of the Irish border. We previously entered Ireland and Northern Ireland via Dublin and will almost certainly continue to do so. So technically we enter the UK overland via the Irish border, not a British airport. I also have a niggle about DH. Australian-born citizen with an English mother. Lived previously in the UK under right of abode. He looked into acquiring British citizenship years ago but was ineligible at that point as the rules hadn't yet changed to allow citizenship via descent from the mother. (It seems like our daughter's British citizenship by descent is more straightforward than his). As he hasn't therefore sought British citizenship, can he continue as before, travelling on his Australian passport and ETA? Apologies if I've missed the blindingly obvious (such as: Dublin lol) and TIA for any advice. I'm a dual British/Irish citizen with Australian Permanent Residency. Do these passport entry changes mean that my Australian-born child now requires a British passport to enter the UK? Even though I have never applied for either British or Irish citizenship for her or registered her as a foreign birth etc. She has always travelled on her Australian passport previously. We're planning a trip back home in the next year. To complicate matters, my family live on both sides of the Irish border. We previously entered Ireland and Northern Ireland via Dublin and will almost certainly continue to do so. So technically we enter the UK overland via the Irish border, not a British airport. I also have a niggle about DH. Australian-born citizen with an English mother. Lived previously in the UK under right of abode. He looked into acquiring British citizenship years ago but was ineligible at that point as the rules hadn't yet changed to allow citizenship via descent from the mother. (It seems like our daughter's British citizenship by descent is more straightforward than his). As he hasn't therefore sought British citizenship, can he continue as before, travelling on his Australian passport and ETA? Apologies if I've missed the blindingly obvious (such as: Dublin lol) and TIA for any advice. #5 Thread Starter Home and Happy Joined: Dec 2002 Posts: 94,275 From: Keep true friends and puppets close, trust no-one else... Re: Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from February 2026 Oh my goodness, its quite a torture trying to fathom this. I don't know if I'm adding 2 + 2 and getting 5. Hoping someone can clarify. Apologies if this is a stupid question! I'm a dual British/Irish citizen with Australian Permanent Residency. Do these passport entry changes mean that my Australian-born child now requires a British passport to enter the UK? Even though I have never applied for either British or Irish citizenship for her or registered her as a foreign birth etc. She has always travelled on her Australian passport previously. I'm a dual British/Irish citizen with Australian Permanent Residency. Do these passport entry changes mean that my Australian-born child now requires a British passport to enter the UK? Even though I have never applied for either British or Irish citizenship for her or registered her as a foreign birth etc. She has always travelled on her Australian passport previously. If she has to apply to become a citizen, before getting a passport, then she is not already a citizen and so can travel as an Australian with a ETA. We're planning a trip back home in the next year. To complicate matters, my family live on both sides of the Irish border. We previously entered Ireland and Northern Ireland via Dublin and will almost certainly continue to do so. So technically we enter the UK overland via the Irish border, not a British airport. I also have a niggle about DH. Australian-born citizen with an English mother. Lived previously in the UK under right of abode. He looked into acquiring British citizenship years ago but was ineligible at that point as the rules hadn't yet changed to allow citizenship via descent from the mother. (It seems like our daughter's British citizenship by descent is more straightforward than his). As he hasn't therefore sought British citizenship, can he continue as before, travelling on his Australian passport and ETA? Apologies if I've missed the blindingly obvious (such as: Dublin lol) and TIA for any advice. As he hasn't therefore sought British citizenship, can he continue as before, travelling on his Australian passport and ETA? Apologies if I've missed the blindingly obvious (such as: Dublin lol) and TIA for any advice. There are thousands of people across the world in that position, eligible for citizenship but have never applied for it. A large percentage of those will not even know that they are eligible (and many won't care!). I actually did some research with three separate colleagues when I was in Aus, establishing that they were actually eligible to apply, 2 of them went on to apply and eventually moved to the UK for a while to work. However if they hadn't applied they would have remained just Aussie citizens. #6 Re: Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from February 2026 If she is automatically a UK citizen, then yes she needs a UK passport. So if she could just apply for a UK passport without having to apply for citizenship first, she needs a passport. If she has to apply to become a citizen, before getting a passport, then she is not already a citizen and so can travel as an Australian with a ETA. You're still entering the UK, even if not through an airport, and could potentially be asked at the border to show your right to enter - ie passport/visas As above, with your daughter, he would need to apply for citizenship before getting a passport. Therefore if he doesn't apply for it, he isn't a citizen. There are thousands of people across the world in that position, eligible for citizenship but have never applied for it. A large percentage of those will not even know that they are eligible (and many won't care!). I actually did some research with three separate colleagues when I was in Aus, establishing that they were actually eligible to apply, 2 of them went on to apply and eventually moved to the UK for a while to work. However if they hadn't applied they would have remained just Aussie citizens. If she has to apply to become a citizen, before getting a passport, then she is not already a citizen and so can travel as an Australian with a ETA. You're still entering the UK, even if not through an airport, and could potentially be asked at the border to show your right to enter - ie passport/visas As above, with your daughter, he would need to apply for citizenship before getting a passport. Therefore if he doesn't apply for it, he isn't a citizen. There are thousands of people across the world in that position, eligible for citizenship but have never applied for it. A large percentage of those will not even know that they are eligible (and many won't care!). I actually did some research with three separate colleagues when I was in Aus, establishing that they were actually eligible to apply, 2 of them went on to apply and eventually moved to the UK for a while to work. However if they hadn't applied they would have remained just Aussie citizens. Although I grew up in both Ireland and Northern Ireland, I was born in England in the early 70s, it"s listed on my own passport and so by all my reckonings, DD is automatically British by descent. I will apply for the passport for her (with a wee tear that she won't be travelling with her kangaroo and emu). I certainly didn't want to take any risk of not having correct ID at the Irish border, and now that I know she needs a British passport, there will be no margin for error. For DH, that is good advice, if he isn't eligible in a preliminary application for citizenship, it will be a straightforward Aussie passport and ETA. I'm not sure he'd be inclined to seek British citizenship any more. But for DD, I can see the merit of having right of abode to travel or work in the UK when she's older. Likewise with Irish citizenship for EU access. Assuming we have a geopolitical status quo, in these strange times! Interesting about your colleagues' experiences. But that's exactly the best reason for taking up your entitlement to British citizenship, to benefit from the right to live, work and travel freely there. By the way, do you remember the panic here when some Australian politicians discovered they were unwitting dual citizens, and they had to withdraw from Parliament, surrender their British citizenship etc? I imagine there will dramas in the news here over next couple of months, because no doubt people will still be caught out by the passport changes. Thanks again 🤗 #7 Thread Starter Home and Happy Joined: Dec 2002 Posts: 94,275 From: Keep true friends and puppets close, trust no-one else... Re: Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from February 2026 Thank you so much as ever, Pollyanna, for this information. It definitely clarifies the situation for me. Although I grew up in both Ireland and Northern Ireland, I was born in England in the early 70s, it"s listed on my own passport and so by all my reckonings, DD is automatically British by descent. I will apply for the passport for her (with a wee tear that she won't be travelling with her kangaroo and emu). I certainly didn't want to take any risk of not having correct ID at the Irish border, and now that I know she needs a British passport, there will be no margin for error. For DH, that is good advice, if he isn't eligible in a preliminary application for citizenship, it will be a straightforward Aussie passport and ETA. I'm not sure he'd be inclined to seek British citizenship any more. But for DD, I can see the merit of having right of abode to travel or work in the UK when she's older. Likewise with Irish citizenship for EU access. Assuming we have a geopolitical status quo, in these strange times! Interesting about your colleagues' experiences. But that's exactly the best reason for taking up your entitlement to British citizenship, to benefit from the right to live, work and travel freely there. By the way, do you remember the panic here when some Australian politicians discovered they were unwitting dual citizens, and they had to withdraw from Parliament, surrender their British citizenship etc? I imagine there will dramas in the news here over next couple of months, because no doubt people will still be caught out by the passport changes. Thanks again 🤗 Although I grew up in both Ireland and Northern Ireland, I was born in England in the early 70s, it"s listed on my own passport and so by all my reckonings, DD is automatically British by descent. I will apply for the passport for her (with a wee tear that she won't be travelling with her kangaroo and emu). I certainly didn't want to take any risk of not having correct ID at the Irish border, and now that I know she needs a British passport, there will be no margin for error. For DH, that is good advice, if he isn't eligible in a preliminary application for citizenship, it will be a straightforward Aussie passport and ETA. I'm not sure he'd be inclined to seek British citizenship any more. But for DD, I can see the merit of having right of abode to travel or work in the UK when she's older. Likewise with Irish citizenship for EU access. Assuming we have a geopolitical status quo, in these strange times! Interesting about your colleagues' experiences. But that's exactly the best reason for taking up your entitlement to British citizenship, to benefit from the right to live, work and travel freely there. By the way, do you remember the panic here when some Australian politicians discovered they were unwitting dual citizens, and they had to withdraw from Parliament, surrender their British citizenship etc? I imagine there will dramas in the news here over next couple of months, because no doubt people will still be caught out by the passport changes. Thanks again 🤗 I do indeed the whole panic over the politicians! I'm still in a couple of facebook groups for Brits living in Aus, and there are multiple posts every day from people with various scenarios - most of which have already been answered but no-one searches anymore. Amazes me that so many people are complaining about the new rules, yet also complain about "uncontrolled immigration" - yet none pf them complain about Aus, Canada and the US having the same rule!! #8 Re: Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from February 2026 No problem! it will certainly give your daughter more options for the future I do indeed the whole panic over the politicians! I'm still in a couple of facebook groups for Brits living in Aus, and there are multiple posts every day from people with various scenarios - most of which have already been answered but no-one searches anymore. Amazes me that so many people are complaining about the new rules, yet also complain about "uncontrolled immigration" - yet none pf them complain about Aus, Canada and the US having the same rule!! I do indeed the whole panic over the politicians! I'm still in a couple of facebook groups for Brits living in Aus, and there are multiple posts every day from people with various scenarios - most of which have already been answered but no-one searches anymore. Amazes me that so many people are complaining about the new rules, yet also complain about "uncontrolled immigration" - yet none pf them complain about Aus, Canada and the US having the same rule!! I won't deny it's going to he a pita bureaucratically, but nothing, nothing will ever surpass the agony of the Australian PR visa application. For which I owe you and many others on BE my sanity, in helping me with countless queries at the time. I still have all my paperwork. It would fall under the 'save this in the event of fire' category LOL #9 Thread Starter Home and Happy Joined: Dec 2002 Posts: 94,275 From: Keep true friends and puppets close, trust no-one else... Re: Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from February 2026 Exactly! ETAs and mandatory entrance/exit for its citizens on that country's passport are not policies invented by the Brits. I won't deny it's going to he a pita bureaucratically, but nothing, nothing will ever surpass the agony of the Australian PR visa application. For which I owe you and many others on BE my sanity, in helping me with countless queries at the time. I still have all my paperwork. It would fall under the 'save this in the event of fire' category LOL I won't deny it's going to he a pita bureaucratically, but nothing, nothing will ever surpass the agony of the Australian PR visa application. For which I owe you and many others on BE my sanity, in helping me with countless queries at the time. I still have all my paperwork. It would fall under the 'save this in the event of fire' category LOL #10 Re: Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from February 2026 #11 Thread Starter Home and Happy Joined: Dec 2002 Posts: 94,275 From: Keep true friends and puppets close, trust no-one else... #12 #14 Just Joined Joined: Jan 2026 Posts: 4 Re: Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from February 2026 I wanted to share my recent experience in case it helps anyone else navigating the same process. I live in Australia, and my UK passport expired five years ago. When I completed the UK Government’s online passport renewal application, the system indicated that the only document I needed to send was my old British passport. I paid $40 for Australia Post International Express, and the passport arrived in the UK earlier last week. However, on Friday I received an email from the UK Passport Office requesting that I also send either my current foreign passport or a colour photocopy of it. There is absolutely no circumstance in which I would mail my current Australian passport to the UK, given the obvious risk of it being lost. And if a colour photocopy is acceptable, it’s unclear why it cannot simply be emailed. Instead, I now need to spend another $40 to send a physical colour photocopy of my Australian passport. There are a few aspects of this process that I find confusing. First, why didn’t the online application request a copy of my Australian passport from the outset? Including that requirement initially would have saved both time and unnecessary postage costs. Second, the stated reason for needing my Australian passport is to verify that the names match exactly. If the names must be identical, why not simply issue the renewed UK passport using the same name as my previous UK passport (which is what the UK Passport Office has said will happen) and advise me that it is my responsibility to ensure my Australian passport matches? Requiring a physical copy of my Australian passport seems unnecessary if the UK passport will ultimately be issued under the same name as before. Overall, the process feels poorly thought out and unnecessarily inefficient. And to make matters more frustrating, there is no phone number or email address available to contact for clarification. For anyone else in this situation, be aware that you must provide a colour photocopy of the entire Australian passport, around 40 pages in my case, even though most of those pages are blank. I live in Australia, and my UK passport expired five years ago. When I completed the UK Government’s online passport renewal application, the system indicated that the only document I needed to send was my old British passport. I paid $40 for Australia Post International Express, and the passport arrived in the UK earlier last week. However, on Friday I received an email from the UK Passport Office requesting that I also send either my current foreign passport or a colour photocopy of it. There is absolutely no circumstance in which I would mail my current Australian passport to the UK, given the obvious risk of it being lost. And if a colour photocopy is acceptable, it’s unclear why it cannot simply be emailed. Instead, I now need to spend another $40 to send a physical colour photocopy of my Australian passport. There are a few aspects of this process that I find confusing. First, why didn’t the online application request a copy of my Australian passport from the outset? Including that requirement initially would have saved both time and unnecessary postage costs. Second, the stated reason for needing my Australian passport is to verify that the names match exactly. If the names must be identical, why not simply issue the renewed UK passport using the same name as my previous UK passport (which is what the UK Passport Office has said will happen) and advise me that it is my responsibility to ensure my Australian passport matches? Requiring a physical copy of my Australian passport seems unnecessary if the UK passport will ultimately be issued under the same name as before. Overall, the process feels poorly thought out and unnecessarily inefficient. And to make matters more frustrating, there is no phone number or email address available to contact for clarification. For anyone else in this situation, be aware that you must provide a colour photocopy of the entire Australian passport, around 40 pages in my case, even though most of those pages are blank. #15 BE Enthusiast Joined: Dec 2010 Posts: 765 From: Whitby, Ontario Re: Update on Passport Requirements when entering the UK from February 2026 I wanted to share my recent experience in case it helps anyone else navigating the same process. I live in Australia, and my UK passport expired five years ago. When I completed the UK Government’s online passport renewal application, the system indicated that the only document I needed to send was my old British passport. I paid $40 for Australia Post International Express, and the passport arrived in the UK earlier last week. However, on Friday I received an email from the UK Passport Office requesting that I also send either my current foreign passport or a colour photocopy of it. There is absolutely no circumstance in which I would mail my current Australian passport to the UK, given the obvious risk of it being lost. And if a colour photocopy is acceptable, it’s unclear why it cannot simply be emailed. Instead, I now need to spend another $40 to send a physical colour photocopy of my Australian passport. There are a few aspects of this process that I find confusing. First, why didn’t the online application request a copy of my Australian passport from the outset? Including that requirement initially would have saved both time and unnecessary postage costs. Second, the stated reason for needing my Australian passport is to verify that the names match exactly. If the names must be identical, why not simply issue the renewed UK passport using the same name as my previous UK passport (which is what the UK Passport Office has said will happen) and advise me that it is my responsibility to ensure my Australian passport matches? Requiring a physical copy of my Australian passport seems unnecessary if the UK passport will ultimately be issued under the same name as before. Overall, the process feels poorly thought out and unnecessarily inefficient. And to make matters more frustrating, there is no phone number or email address available to contact for clarification. For anyone else in this situation, be aware that you must provide a colour photocopy of the entire Australian passport, around 40 pages in my case, even though most of those pages are blank. I live in Australia, and my UK passport expired five years ago. When I completed the UK Government’s online passport renewal application, the system indicated that the only document I needed to send was my old British passport. I paid $40 for Australia Post International Express, and the passport arrived in the UK earlier last week. However, on Friday I received an email from the UK Passport Office requesting that I also send either my current foreign passport or a colour photocopy of it. There is absolutely no circumstance in which I would mail my current Australian passport to the UK, given the obvious risk of it being lost. And if a colour photocopy is acceptable, it’s unclear why it cannot simply be emailed. Instead, I now need to spend another $40 to send a physical colour photocopy of my Australian passport. There are a few aspects of this process that I find confusing. First, why didn’t the online application request a copy of my Australian passport from the outset? Including that requirement initially would have saved both time and unnecessary postage costs. Second, the stated reason for needing my Australian passport is to verify that the names match exactly. If the names must be identical, why not simply issue the renewed UK passport using the same name as my previous UK passport (which is what the UK Passport Office has said will happen) and advise me that it is my responsibility to ensure my Australian passport matches? Requiring a physical copy of my Australian passport seems unnecessary if the UK passport will ultimately be issued under the same name as before. Overall, the process feels poorly thought out and unnecessarily inefficient. And to make matters more frustrating, there is no phone number or email address available to contact for clarification. For anyone else in this situation, be aware that you must provide a colour photocopy of the entire Australian passport, around 40 pages in my case, even though most of those pages are blank.
