=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi - Wikipedia]
Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi (Urdu: آفتاب غلام نبی قاضی; 6 November 1919 – 9 August 2016) SPk, SK, also known as AGN Kazi, was a Pakistani civil servant and a bureaucrat during the Cold War and during the post cold war. Kazi was born in Sindh, Bombay Presidency, in 1919 to an academic family.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aftab_Ghulam_Nabi_Kazi

[Distinguished bureaucrat AGN Kazi passes away]
Aug 10, 2016 · He is survived by daughter Dr Shahnaz Kazi, who has worked for the World Bank, and son Sohail Kazi who is a banker and lives in Luxemburg. His wife, Zakia Kazi, had passed away in 2009.
URL: https://tribune.com.pk/story/1159319/distinguished-bureaucrat-agn-kazi-passes-away

[Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
As a leading civil servant, Kazi passed through several major events in the history of Pakistan, including the removal of Bhutto and the mysterious death of General Zia-ul-Haq. In 1993, he was appointed as the chairman Privatization Commission and was again given the status of a Federal Minister as Chief Executive of the Pakistan Investment Board.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Aftab-Ghulam-Nabi-Kazi

[Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate]
On the Subject tab in the Certificate Properties, enter a suitable Common name for the Subject, if required In the Alternative names section, select Type: DNS and add the FQDNs for the desired SANs. Options for key usage and so on should be preconfigured on the other tabs.
URL: https://serverfault.com/questions/476413/subject-alternative-name-not-added-to-certificate

[The indomitable A G N Kazi, a eulogy by Dr. A Q Khan - Flickr]
The indomitable A G N Kazi Random thoughts A great patriot, genius, humble, highly capable, thorough gentleman, Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi, left us for his eternal abode recently. He was almost 97. May Allah rest his soul in Jannah - Ameen. I was very closely associated with Kazi Sahib for many years. In 1975, my wife, our two young daughters and I came to Pakistan just before Christmas on our ...
URL: https://www.flickr.com/photos/pimu/33414424781/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi - Wikipedia] ---
Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi (Urdu: آفتاب غلام نبی قاضی; 6 November 1919 – 9 August 2016) SPk, SK, also known as AGN Kazi, was a Pakistani civil servant and a bureaucrat during the Cold War and during the post cold war. Kazi was born in Sindh, Bombay Presidency, in 1919 to an academic family. He started his career in the Indian Civil Service in 1944 and served as the Deputy Commissioner of Bihar and Orissa. After the partition of India, Kazi migrated to Pakistan and joined the Provincial Government of Sindh, and held positions such as Secretary of Finance and Secretary to the Governor of Sindh.
During the early 1960s, Kazi was Economic Minister in the Pakistan Embassy to the USA. After a brief stint as Additional Chief Secretary of West Pakistan, he was appointed Chairman of the Water and Power Development Authority. In that role, he was responsible for the completion of the Mangla Dam Project. In March 1969, he was appointed Secretary for Industries and Natural Resources and then a year later he became Finance Secretary, a post he held for over three years until his elevation as secretary general.
After the power struggle triggered by General Yahya Khan's general election, Zulfikar Bhutto became the new leader of Pakistan. In 1973, Kazi became Secretary General Finance and Economic Coordination. When Ghulam Ishaq Khan became Finance Minister, Kazi was appointed Economic Advisor to the President in July 1977. In 1978, Kazi was appointed Governor of State Bank of Pakistan until 1986. The Pakistan State Bank, under Kazi, was characterised by excellent financial discipline in the banking sector coupled with good relations with the Federal Government.
Kazi was the longest-serving civil servant in the history of Pakistan. As a leading civil servant, Kazi passed through several major events in the history of Pakistan, including the removal of Bhutto and the mysterious death of General Zia-ul-Haq. In 1993, he was appointed the chairman Privatization Commission and was again given the status of a Federal Minister as Chief Executive of the Pakistan Investment Board. In 1994, Kazi retired from office, at the age of 75, and led a quiet retired life in Islamabad. He died on 9 August 2016 after a prolonged illness. At his death, he was among the last living members of the old Indian Civil Service.


--- [Distinguished bureaucrat AGN Kazi passes away] ---
Kazi had been ill for the past six months and was admitted in Kulsoom Hospital. He is survived by daughter Dr Shahnaz Kazi, who has worked for the World Bank, and son Sohail Kazi who is a banker and lives in Luxemburg. His wife, Zakia Kazi, had passed away in 2009. His funeral prayers were offered at a local mosque before being laid to rest at the H-11 graveyard. Born on November 6, 1919, Kazi belonged to a well-known family of educationists from Sindh. He received his early education in Jamshoro before attending the Cathedral and John Connon School in 1930. He completed his higher studies at the University of Bombay studying statistics, physics and mathematics. After Partition, Kazi migrated to Pakistan and joined the Sindh government. In a career spanning over 50 years, perhaps the longest for a civil servant in the history of Pakistan, he held various important positions including chairman of WAPDA, FBR and Privatisation Commission. He also served as State Bank governor from 1978 to 1986. He was also responsible for the completion of Mangla dam. He was awarded the Sitara-e-Pakistan and Sitara-e-Khidmat for his services to the country. Published in The Express Tribune, August 10th, 2016. COMMENTS Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ


--- [Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Name Aftab Nabi Role Pakistani statesman | Preceded by V.A. Jafary Education University of Mumbai Succeeded by Saeed Ahmed Quresh | | President General Zia-ul-HaqGhulam Ishaq Khan Prime Minister Muhammad Khan JunejoBenazir BhuttoGhulam Mustafa JatoiNawaz Sharif | Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi (Urdu: ﺁفتاب غلام نبى كاضى; November 6 1919 – August 9 2016) , also known as AGN Kazi, was a Pakistani civil servant and a bureaucrat during the Cold War and during the post cold war. Kazi was born in Sindh, Bombay Presidency, in 1919 to an academic family. He started his career in the Indian Civil Service in 1944 and served as the Deputy Commissioner of Bihar and Orissa. After the partition of India, Kazi migrated to Pakistan and joined the Provincial Government of Sindh, and held positions such as Secretary of Finance and Secretary to the Governor. Contents - Early life - Education and academia - Civil Service in India - Senior offices held - Retirement and death - References During the early 1960s, Kazi was Economic Minister in the Pakistan Embassy to the USA. After a brief stint as Additional Chief Secretary of West Pakistan, he was appointed Chairman of the Water and Power Development Authority. In that role, he was responsible for the completion of the Mangla Dam Project. In March 1969, he was appointed Secretary for Industries and Natural Resources and then a year later he became Finance Secretary, a post he held for over three years until his elevation as Secretary General. After the power struggle triggered by General Yahya Khan's general election, Zulfikar Bhutto became the new leader of Pakistan. In 1973, Kazi became Secretary General Finance and Economic Coordination. When Ghulam Ishaq Khan became Finance Minister, Kazi was appointed Economic Advisor to the President in July 1977. In 1978, Kazi was appointed as Governor of State Bank of Pakistan until 1986. The Pakistan State Bank, under Kazi, was characterised by excellent financial discipline in the banking sector coupled with good relations with the Federal Government. Kazi was the longest-serving civil servant in the history of Pakistan. As a leading civil servant, Kazi passed through several major events in the history of Pakistan, including the removal of Bhutto and the mysterious death of General Zia-ul-Haq. In 1993, he was appointed as the chairman Privatization Commission and was again given the status of a Federal Minister as Chief Executive of the Pakistan Investment Board. In 1994, Kazi retired from office, at the age of 75, and led a quiet retired life in Islamabad. He died on 9 August 2016 after a prolonged illness. At his death, he was among the last living members of the old Indian Civil Service. Early life Kazi was born into a Sindhi, working-class family consisting of his father Khan Bahadur Ghulam Nabi Kazi, an educationist, and his sibling Bashir Ghulam Nabi Kazi would later go on to become a senior Judge at the Sindh High Court and later the Federal Shariat Court. The family originated from Sindh, Bombay Presidency, British Indian Empire. His father was a veteran educationist of Sindh who had been awarded the MBE by the British Government for his services to humanity and social development. On the separation of Sindh from Bombay, Khan Bahadur Ghulam Nabi Kazi was appointed the first Director of Public Instructions Sindh in 1936. Kazi received his education in Jamshoro, Sindh, and went on to attend the Cathedral and John Connon School in 1930. Education and academia After graduating from school, Kazi attended the University of Bombay from 1937. He gruadted with a BS in Statistics in 1941, and later went on to gain MSc in Physics and MA in Mathematics from the University of Bombay. He competed in the Indian Civil Service examination from there in 1944. Before joining the civil service, Kazi worked in the Department of Mathematics of D. J. Science College, teaching courses in Mathematics and Statistics. In 1944, he was one of the three Muslims selected for the Indian Civil Service, the others being Agha Shahi and Mian Riazuddin Ahmed. Thus, Kazi started a career that would last for half a century making him the longest serving civil servant in the history of Pakistan. Civil Service in India The British Raj appointed Kazi as Deputy Commissioner in Bihar and Orissa where he served until 1947. He was asked by the British Government to stay in India, but he opted for Pakistan after partition in 1947. He arrived in his home town and joined the Government of Sindh, holding pivotal positions such as Secretary to Governor and Secretary Finance. Senior offices held After the amalgamation of all provinces in the western wing of the country in 1955, Kazi was appointed Finance Secretary of West Pakistan. In the early 1960s he was posted as Economic Minister in the Pakistan Embassy in Washington DC USA where he served until 1965. On his return to Pakistan, he was appointed for a brief period as Additional Chief Secretary (Planning nd Development) West Pakistan and thereafter as Chairman of Pakistan's Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA). It was during his tenure as chairman WAPDA that the Mangla Dam was inaugurated and on this occasion he was awarded the high civil award of Sitara-e-Pakistan. Previously he had also been awarded the Sitara-e-Khidmat. In 1969, he was appointed Secretary for Industries and Natural Resources and a year later as Finance Secretary of the Government of Pakistan. He held this office during the crisis of 1971. In this capacity, he was also Chairman of the Federal Board of Revenue. In 1973, Kazi was assigned the highest grade in the civil service and made Secretary General, Finance and Economic Coordination in which capacity he had to supervise the working of all the economic and planning ministries of the government. He was appointed Advisor to the President on Economic Affairs in 1977 with the rank of a full Cabinet Minister on the imposition of martial law in July 1977. Thereafter he was appointed Governor of State Bank of Pakistan in 1978. He served there for eight years and this period was characterised by excellent financial discipline in the banking sector coupled with good relations with the federal government. During his tenure as Secretary General Finance, Kazi became involved in securing Pakistan's nuclear capability, along with Agha Shahi and Ghulam Ishaq Khan; the three constituting the co-ordination board to monitor the nuclear program. In 1986, he was appointed Deputy chairman Planning Commission., in which position he remained until 1993 until his induction as the chairman Privatisation Commission. In 1993 he was again given the status of a Federal Minister as chairman/Chief Executive of the Pakistan Investment Board. Retirement and death In 1994, Kazi retired after 50 years of service. He lived in Islamabad with his wife Zakia, who died in 2009. They had two children. He died in Islamabad on 9 August 2016.


--- [Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate] ---
# Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate

I'm trying to issue a new certificate using the additional attribues field within the  Windows CertSrv Web-Enrollment Client.

I added the CSR, picked the template and entered this into the attributes field:

SAN:dns=HOSTNAME&dns=HOSTNAME.DOMAIN.COM&ipaddress=IPADRESS


The request is successful but when I check the signed certificate no "Alternative Names" attribute is added to it. Am I missing something? Maybe a issue with the Template? (used a default Win 2003 level webserver template copy with some custom settings).

/edit
Also I've tried to use 

certreq -submit -attrib "CertificateTemplate:MYTEMPLATE" <Cert Request.req> -attrib "SAN:dns=HOSTNAME&dns=HOSTNAME2&ipaddress=IPADDRESS"


resulting in the same problem: cert gets generated, but without any SAN attribute.

/edit2 
also I've set the CA to issue SAN certificates using

certutil -setreg policy\EditFlags +EDITF_ATTRIBUTESUBJECTALTNAME2


and restarting the CA service. Still: no SANs.

Please note: using req. files and OpenSSL to generate the CSR i'm able to generate certifcates using the CA which have some SANs included. However this option is not valid in my current situation since I'm getting the CSR from an application and i'm not able to manually generate one for the application.

/edit3
I tried using the default webserver certificate WITHOUT any changes and suddenly it worked. So now the question is: what are the template requirements to enable SAN?



--- [The indomitable A G N Kazi, a eulogy by Dr. A Q Khan - Flickr] ---
The indomitable A G N Kazi, a eulogy by Dr. A Q Khan The indomitable A G N Kazi Random thoughts A great patriot, genius, humble, highly capable, thorough gentleman, Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi, left us for his eternal abode recently. He was almost 97. May Allah rest his soul in Jannah – Ameen. I was very closely associated with Kazi Sahib for many years. In 1975, my wife, our two young daughters and I came to Pakistan just before Christmas on our usual annual holidays. I met Bhutto Sahib after three days, at which meeting his competent MS, Brig Imtiaz (later Ma Gen) was also present. Bhutto asked me to check on the progress of the work being done under Munir Ahmed Khan of the PAEC. I had given them some hints the year before on how to get started on enrichment. I was shocked to see the casual and lethargic way in which the work was being handled. When I informed Bhutto, he was visibly annoyed. He thought for a few seconds and then requested me not to go back but to help the country face the mortal danger from India after their nuclear test of May 18, 1974. I was shocked. I had a good job and my wife’s elderly parents were in Holland and she was the only one to look after them. Considering everything and having discussed the matter with my wife, I agreed. My wife returned to Holland alone with the girls, and had the daunting task of informing her parents (her mother was in hospital at the time) and packing up the house. She returned to Pakistan after two months with only some clothes and personal items. Meanwhile I had been appointed as adviser to the PAEC with a salary of Rs3,000 per month, which I didn’t receive for the first six months. The work couldn’t progress because of incompetence and bureaucracy. In July of that year I wrote to the PAEC chairman asking for an interview, to which I got no reply. Since I had joined he had strongly hinted that we should not work for weapons and that Bhutto was obsessed with making a bomb. When I didn’t receive a reply, I wrote a letter to Bhutto enclosing a copy of my letter to the PAEC chairman. He called me to the Governor House in Lahore immediately, where I met him together with Agha Shahi and Gen Imtiaz and explained my case. After two days Gen Imtiaz phone that there was a meeting at the Foreign Office. I drove there in my own car as neither car nor driver had been put at my disposal. There I met A G N Kazi, Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Agha Shahi, all secretaries general at the time. After hearing me out they suggested that I take over as chairman of the PAEC. I declined as I felt this would immediately expose our plans to the West. I frankly told them that if the project was not under my control it wouldn’t succeed. I was asked to return the next day, when I was informed that they had accepted my proposal and that a new organisation (Engineering Research Laboratories – ERL) would be set up. Gen Imtiaz used Shahi Sahib’s green line to inform Bhutto. I spoke to him as well and told him that I needed a free hand. The next day we had a meeting in Bhutto Sahib’s office. He formed a coordination board with A G N Kazi as chairman and Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Agha Shahi as members. The board was given the powers of a PM. Gen Zia was also there as COAS and he agreed to give me a team of civil engineers. This team was headed by a brigadier, a dashing, handsome go-getter. They never let me down. Next the problem of determining the powers I needed to rush through the programme was tackled by the brigadier and me. I made four copies of the suggestions and presented it to the board at Kazi Sahib’s office. After glancing at the very first page, G I Khan remarked that I was asking for powers only the PM had. At that Kazi Sahib said: “Ishaq, if you want another PWD, discuss it, otherwise give the powers Dr Khan is asking for. We are there to oversee everything.” With that the matter was closed. It was this approval that enabled our programme to succeed. Kazi Sahib was a thorough gentleman – soft spoken and very competent. He could instantly grasp the gist of a problem. I was allowed to see him without any prior appointment. I was ably supported by Agha Shahi, who asked his DG Administration – a very competent officer – to issue me a diplomatic passport and to take care of our foreign travel. On July 5, 1977, Gen Zia staged the coup. Ghulam Ishaq Khan was made secretary general-in-chief, the de facto prime minister, thus, due to his higher rank, automatically becoming chairman of the committee. He offered continued charge of our meetings to Kazi Sahib, but he politely refused. The late A G N Kazi had a brilliant, chequered career. After high school in Sindh he obtained a double Masters in Physics and Statistics. He was selected for the ICS (together with Agha Shahi and Mian Riazuddin) and worked as DC before Partition. After Partition he moved to Pakistan and was successively posted as secretary finance, Sindh and adviser to the governor; finance secretary of West Pakistan; economic minister in the Pakistan Embassy in Washington; additional chief secretary Planning and Development, West Pakistan; chairman Wapda (where he supervised the Mangla Dam); secretary Industries & National Resources; federal finance minister and chairman Central Board of Revenue; secretary general finance and economic coordination; adviser to the president on economic affairs; governor of the State Bank of Pakistan and, finally, secretary general finance. When ERL came into being, he was secretary general finance and what a great support he was to us – a pillar of strength and hope. After he left, Ghulam Ishaq Khan handled the programme superbly. May Allah Almighty grant a high place in Jannah to all who helped us in making Pakistan a nuclear and missile power – Ameen. Email: dr.a.quadeer.khan@gmail.com The indomitable A G N Kazi, a eulogy by Dr. A Q Khan The indomitable A G N Kazi Random thoughts A great patriot, genius, humble, highly capable, thorough gentleman, Aftab Ghulam Nabi Kazi, left us for his eternal abode recently. He was almost 97. May Allah rest his soul in Jannah – Ameen. I was very closely associated with Kazi Sahib for many years. In 1975, my wife, our two young daughters and I came to Pakistan just before Christmas on our usual annual holidays. I met Bhutto Sahib after three days, at which meeting his competent MS, Brig Imtiaz (later Ma Gen) was also present. Bhutto asked me to check on the progress of the work being done under Munir Ahmed Khan of the PAEC. I had given them some hints the year before on how to get started on enrichment. I was shocked to see the casual and lethargic way in which the work was being handled. When I informed Bhutto, he was visibly annoyed. He thought for a few seconds and then requested me not to go back but to help the country face the mortal danger from India after their nuclear test of May 18, 1974. I was shocked. I had a good job and my wife’s elderly parents were in Holland and she was the only one to look after them. Considering everything and having discussed the matter with my wife, I agreed. My wife returned to Holland alone with the girls, and had the daunting task of informing her parents (her mother was in hospital at the time) and packing up the house. She returned to Pakistan after two months with only some clothes and personal items. Meanwhile I had been appointed as adviser to the PAEC with a salary of Rs3,000 per month, which I didn’t receive for the first six months. The work couldn’t progress because of incompetence and bureaucracy. In July of that year I wrote to the PAEC chairman asking for an interview, to which I got no reply. Since I had joined he had strongly hinted that we should not work for weapons and that Bhutto was obsessed with making a bomb. When I didn’t receive a reply, I wrote a letter to Bhutto enclosing a copy of my letter to the PAEC chairman. He called me to the Governor House in Lahore immediately, where I met him together with Agha Shahi and Gen Imtiaz and explained my case. After two days Gen Imtiaz phone that there was a meeting at the Foreign Office. I drove there in my own car as neither car nor driver had been put at my disposal. There I met A G N Kazi, Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Agha Shahi, all secretaries general at the time. After hearing me out they suggested that I take over as chairman of the PAEC. I declined as I felt this would immediately expose our plans to the West. I frankly told them that if the project was not under my control it wouldn’t succeed. I was asked to return the next day, when I was informed that they had accepted my proposal and that a new organisation (Engineering Research Laboratories – ERL) would be set up. Gen Imtiaz used Shahi Sahib’s green line to inform Bhutto. I spoke to him as well and told him that I needed a free hand. The next day we had a meeting in Bhutto Sahib’s office. He formed a coordination board with A G N Kazi as chairman and Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Agha Shahi as members. The board was given the powers of a PM. Gen Zia was also there as COAS and he agreed to give me a team of civil engineers. This team was headed by a brigadier, a dashing, handsome go-getter. They never let me down. Next the problem of determining the powers I needed to rush through the programme was tackled by the brigadier and me. I made four copies of the suggestions and presented it to the board at Kazi Sahib’s office. After glancing at the very first page, G I Khan remarked that I was asking for powers only the PM had. At that Kazi Sahib said: “Ishaq, if you want another PWD, discuss it, otherwise give the powers Dr Khan is asking for. We are there to oversee everything.” With that the matter was closed. It was this approval that enabled our programme to succeed. Kazi Sahib was a thorough gentleman – soft spoken and very competent. He could instantly grasp the gist of a problem. I was allowed to see him without any prior appointment. I was ably supported by Agha Shahi, who asked his DG Administration – a very competent officer – to issue me a diplomatic passport and to take care of our foreign travel. On July 5, 1977, Gen Zia staged the coup. Ghulam Ishaq Khan was made secretary general-in-chief, the de facto prime minister, thus, due to his higher rank, automatically becoming chairman of the committee. He offered continued charge of our meetings to Kazi Sahib, but he politely refused. The late A G N Kazi had a brilliant, chequered career. After high school in Sindh he obtained a double Masters in Physics and Statistics. He was selected for the ICS (together with Agha Shahi and Mian Riazuddin) and worked as DC before Partition. After Partition he moved to Pakistan and was successively posted as secretary finance, Sindh and adviser to the governor; finance secretary of West Pakistan; economic minister in the Pakistan Embassy in Washington; additional chief secretary Planning and Development, West Pakistan; chairman Wapda (where he supervised the Mangla Dam); secretary Industries & National Resources; federal finance minister and chairman Central Board of Revenue; secretary general finance and economic coordination; adviser to the president on economic affairs; governor of the State Bank of Pakistan and, finally, secretary general finance. When ERL came into being, he was secretary general finance and what a great support he was to us – a pillar of strength and hope. After he left, Ghulam Ishaq Khan handled the programme superbly. May Allah Almighty grant a high place in Jannah to all who helped us in making Pakistan a nuclear and missile power – Ameen. Email: dr.a.quadeer.khan@gmail.com
