=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Harold Shipman - Wikipedia]
Shipman witnessed his mother's pain subside, despite her terminal condition, until her death on 21 June 1963. [7] On 5 November 1966, Shipman married Primrose May Oxtoby; the couple had four children. Shipman studied medicine at Leeds School of Medicine, University of Leeds, graduating in 1970. [8]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harold_Shipman

[Harold Frederick Shipman (1946–2004) - FamilySearch.org]
Brief Life History of Harold Frederick When Harold Frederick Shipman was born on 14 January 1946, in Nottinghamshire, England, United Kingdom, his father, Harold Frederick Shipman, was 31 and his mother, Vera Britton, was 26. He married Primrose May Oxtoby on 5 November 1966.
URL: https://ancestors.familysearch.org/en/LZN9-PG9/harold-frederick-shipman-1946-2004

[D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe - The National WWII Museum]
D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe In May 1944, the Western Allies were finally prepared to deliver their greatest blow of the war, the long-delayed, cross-channel invasion of northern France, code-named Overlord.
URL: https://www.nationalww2museum.org/war/articles/d-day-allies-invade-europe

[Harold Shipman | Doctor Death, Wife, Cause of Death, & Facts]
Jan 12, 2026 — Harold Shipman was a British doctor and serial killer who murdered about 250 of his patients, according to an official inquiry.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Harold-Shipman

[Primrose May Oxtoby (c1949) | Familypedia | Fandom]
She married Harold Frederick Shipman (1946-2004) 5 November 1966 in Register Office, Barkston Ash, North Yorkshire, England, United Kingdom. Primrose finished schooling in Wetherby...
URL: https://familypedia.fandom.com/wiki/Primrose_May_Oxtoby_(c1949)


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Harold Shipman - Wikipedia] ---
Harold Frederick Shipman (14 January 1946 – 13 January 2004) was an English doctor in general practice and serial killer. He is considered to be one of the most prolific serial killers in modern history, with an estimated 250 victims over roughly 30 years. On 31 January 2000, Shipman was convicted of murdering 15 patients under his care. He was sentenced to life imprisonment with a whole life order. On 13 January 2004, one day before his 58th birthday, Shipman hanged himself in his cell at HM Prison Wakefield, West Yorkshire.
The Shipman Inquiry, a two-year-long investigation of all deaths certified by Shipman, chaired by Dame Janet Smith, examined Shipman's crimes. It revealed Shipman targeted vulnerable elderly people who trusted him as their doctor, killing them either with a fatal dose of drugs or by prescribing an abnormal amount.
As of 2025 Shipman, who has been nicknamed "Dr. Death" and the "Angel of Death", is the only British doctor to have been convicted of murdering patients, although other doctors have been acquitted of similar crimes or convicted of lesser charges. Shipman's case has often been compared to that of doctor John Bodkin Adams; some nurses, such as Beverley Allitt, have also been convicted of murdering patients in their care.


--- [Harold Frederick Shipman (1946–2004) - FamilySearch.org] ---
Your web browser is not fully supported. Please update to the latest version to enjoy all that FamilySearch has to offer.


--- [D-Day: The Allies Invade Europe - The National WWII Museum] ---
In May 1944, the Western Allies were finally prepared to deliver their greatest blow of the war, the long-delayed, cross-channel invasion of northern France, code-named Overlord. General Dwight D. Eisenhower was supreme commander of the operation that ultimately involved the coordinated efforts of 12 nations. After much deliberation, it was decided that the landings would take place on the long, sloping beaches of Normandy. There, the Allies would have the element of surprise. The German high command expected the attack to come in the Pas de Calais region, north of the river Seine where the English Channel is narrowest. It was here that Adolf Hitler had put the bulk of his panzer divisions after being tipped off by Allied undercover agents posing as German sympathizers that the invasion would take place in the Pas de Calais. Surprise was an essential element of the Allied invasion plan. If the Germans had known where and when the Allies were coming they would have hurled them back into the sea with the 55 divisions they had in France. The invaders would have been on the offensive with a 10-to-1 manpower ratio against them. The challenges of mounting a successful landing were daunting. The English Channel was notorious for its rough seas and unpredictable weather, and the enemy had spent months constructing the Atlantic Wall, a 2,400-mile line of obstacles. This defensive wall comprised 6.5 million mines, thousands of concrete bunkers and pillboxes containing heavy and fast-firing artillery, tens of thousands of tank ditches, and other formidable beach obstacles. And the German army would be dug in on the cliffs overlooking the American landing beaches. At the Tehran Conference in August 1943, Allied leaders scheduled Overlord to take no later than May 1, 1944. In the meantime, they prepared ceaselessly for the attack. Trucks, tanks, and tens of thousands of troops poured into England. “We were getting ready for one of the biggest adventures of our lives,” an American sergeant said. “We couldn’t wait.” Meanwhile, the American and British air forces in England conducted a tremendous bombing campaign that targeted railroad bridges and roadways in northern France to prevent the Germans from bringing in reserves to stop the invasion. After General Dwight D. Eisenhower was appointed Supreme Commander, he and General Sir Bernard L. Montgomery modified the plan, expanding the size of the beachhead and the number of divisions in the initial assault. This, led Allied leaders to set June 5, 1944, as the invasion’s D-Day. But on the morning of June 4, meteorologists predicted foul weather over the English Channel on the 5th, leading Eisenhower to postpone the attack for 24 hours. The delay was unnerving for soldiers, sailors, and airmen, but when meteorologists forecast a brief window of clearer weather over the channel on June 6, Eisenhower made the decision to go. It was one of the gutsiest decisions of the war. Just after midnight on June 6, Allied airborne troops began dropping behind enemy lines. Their job was to blow up bridges, sabotage railroad lines, and take other measures to prevent the enemy from rushing reinforcements to the invasion beaches. Hours later, the largest amphibious landing force ever assembled began moving through the storm-tossed waters toward the beaches. Most of the Americans were packed into flat-bottomed Higgins boats launched from troop transports 10 miles from the French coastline. Vomit filled the bottom of the boats, and as water kept rushing in over the gunwales, the green-faced men had to bail this vile stew with their helmets. Though it was cold, the men were sweating. Planners had divided the landing zone into five separate beaches. The Americans landed at Utah and Omaha beaches. The British and Canadians landed at Gold, Juno, and Sword beaches. The fiercest fighting was on Omaha Beach where the enemy was positioned on steep cliffs that commanded the long, flat shoreline. Troops leapt from their landing boats and were pinned down for hours by murderous machine-gun fire that turned the beach into a vast killing field. “If you (stayed) there you were going to die,” Lieutenant Colonel Bill Friedman said. “We just had to . . . try to get to the bottom of the cliffs on which the Germans had mounted their defenses.” By midday, the Americans had surmounted the cliffs and taken Omaha Beach at a heavy cost: over 2,400 killed, wounded, or missing out of the total of approximately 34,000 who came ashore that day, a loss rate of more than 7 percent. By nightfall, about 160,000 Allied troops were ashore with nearly a million more men on the way that summer. The Normandy invasion was one of great turning points of twentieth-century history. An immense army was placed in Nazi-occupied Europe, never to be dislodged. Germany was threatened that same month by a tremendous Soviet invasion from the east that would reach the gates of Berlin by the following April. The way to appreciate D-Day’s importance is to contemplate what would have happened if it had failed. Another landing would not have been possible for at least a year. This would have given Hitler time to strengthen the Atlantic Wall, harass England with the newly developed V-1 flying bombs and V-2 rockets, continue to develop jet aircraft and other so-called “miracle weapons,” and finish off his killing campaign against ethnic and sexual undesirables. Cite this article: MLA Citation: APA Citation: Chicago Style Citation:


--- [Harold Shipman | Doctor Death, Wife, Cause of Death, & Facts] ---
Harold Shipman Who was Harold Shipman? How many people did Harold Shipman kill? How did Harold Shipman kill his patients? How did Harold Shipman die? Harold Shipman (born January 14, 1946, Nottingham, England—died January 13, 2004, Wakefield) was a British doctor who is one of the deadliest serial killers in history, believed to have murdered about 250 of his patients, according to an official inquiry into his crimes. In 2000 he was convicted on 15 counts of murder and sentenced to life in prison; four years later he died by suicide. Shipman’s murders raised troubling questions about the powers and responsibilities of the medical community in Britain and about the adequacy of procedures for certifying sudden death. Life and crimes Shipman was born into a working-class family in Manchester. A bright child, he became interested in medicine as he watched his mother receive morphine injections to ease the pain she suffered while dying of lung cancer. In 1966 Shipman married Primrose Oxtoby, and the couple later had four children. In 1970 Shipman received a medical degree from Leeds University, and a few years later he became a general practitioner in Todmorden in Lancashire. In 1975, after it was discovered that he had written several fraudulent prescriptions for the opiate pethedine, to which he had become addicted, he was forced out of his practice and into drug rehabilitation. In 1977 Shipman found work as a general practitioner in the town of Hyde in Greater Manchester, where eventually he gained respectability and developed a thriving practice. Over the years, several people raised concerns about the number of elderly people who died in his care. In April 1998 the police closed an investigation after searching for several months and finding insufficient evidence. Two months later one of his patients, an 81-year-old woman, was discovered dead in her home only hours after Shipman visited her. Her family was perplexed by the suddenness of her death (she had appeared to be in good health), by the fact that her will had been changed to benefit Shipman (it bequeathed her entire estate, valued at some £400,000, to him), and by Shipman’s insistence that no autopsy was necessary. The family went to the police, and an ensuing investigation uncovered 14 other suspicious deaths. It was determined that all of the deceased patients had received lethal doses of the painkiller diamorphine and that Shipman had signed a death certificate attributing the incident to natural causes. Shipman was arrested, and in 2000 he was convicted on 15 counts of murder and one count of forgery and sentenced to life in prison. Primrose Shipman had supported her husband throughout the trial and visited him almost daily. In 2004 Harold Shipman died by suicide, hanging himself in his cell. Number of victims and motive A government inquiry was ordered to determine how many more patients Shipman may have murdered; in 2005 an official report found that he had killed an estimated 250 people beginning in 1971. His motives were unclear; some speculated that Shipman may have been seeking to avenge the death of his mother, while others suggested that he thought he was practicing euthanasia, removing from the population older people who might otherwise have become a burden to the health care system. A third possibility raised was that he derived pleasure from the knowledge that, as a doctor, he had the power of life or death over his patients and that killing was the means through which he expressed this power. Despite his forgery of the will of one of his victims, financial gain appears not to have been a serious motive. - In full: - Harold Frederick Shipman - Also called: - Dr. Death and Angel of Death - Born: - January 14, 1946, Nottingham, England - Died: - January 13, 2004, Wakefield (aged 57) One key question that plagued investigators was how such a large number of deaths could have occurred without raising suspicions of foul play. This was all the more baffling because Shipman’s patients were normally healthy shortly before their encounters with him. The fact that Shipman took advantage of his patients’ trust in him as a doctor made his crimes particularly odious to the public.


--- [Primrose May Oxtoby (c1949) | Familypedia | Fandom] ---
No content
