=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kemka Ajoku | Communication Arts]
This London-based photographer combines intensive research with metaphysical spontaneity in his fashion and portraiture work. Education: Bachelors of engineering in mechanical engineering, Covenant University, Ota, Nigeria. Career path: For me, photography started off as a hobby.
URL: https://www.commarts.com/fresh/kemka-ajoku

[Photographer Spotlight: Kemka Ajoku - BOOOOOOOM]
A selection of images by fashion and portrait photographer Kemka Ajoku. Born and raised in the UK, Ajoku splits his time between London and Lagos, Nigeria, where he is in the final year of his mechanical engineering degree. A visual storyteller, he explains that his photographic practice is focused on documenting the beauty of black culture—"redefining the way they are perceived in modern ...
URL: https://www.booooooom.com/2020/09/28/photographer-spotlight-kemka-ajoku/

[Finding Common Ground | PORT Magazine]
Finding Common Ground Kemka Ajoku's new series captures migration and settlement of Black people in the UK after the Windrush era The After Party A photographer of fashion and portraiture, Kemka Ajoku - who's born and raised in London - strives to rewrite the stories of Black British culture.
URL: https://www.port-magazine.com/art-photography/finding-common-ground/

[Photographer Kemka Ajoku tells stories of Black British culture and experience]
Now, a typical day for Kemka falls nothing short of intriguing, especially as he’s only recently left the world of education – flying the nest and entering into the industry with a solid eye for his craft. When he’s on a shoot, though, everything starts with (and relies on) heavy amounts of research.
URL: https://www.itsnicethat.com/articles/kemka-ajoku-photography-300121

[DIALOGUE* WITH Kemka Ajoku]
During his degree, Kemka picked up a camera as a hobby, and never put it down. Inspired by the natural settings he was surrounded by, he used his confined space of Ogun State as a crucible to develop his creative skills, and ultimately graduated in 2020, carrying his degree and his camera back home.
URL: https://www.getunruly.com/dialogue/kemka-ajoku


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kemka Ajoku | Communication Arts] ---
Duration: Three years. Location: London, United Kingdom. Education: Bachelors of engineering in mechanical engineering, Covenant University, Ota, Nigeria. Career path: For me, photography started off as a hobby. When I was nine years old, I received my first camera as a Christmas present, and I’d go around taking pictures of everything. A few years later, I got an iPod Touch, so I started taking photos of mundane things in my surroundings—especially on school holidays—and posting them on Instagram, which was just starting to get popular. Later I ventured into other hobbies, such as music and modeling, but it wasn’t long before I returned to photography as the prodigal son, and this time, I took a more serious approach to the craft, learning more about it from technical and artistic perspectives. Now, my work centers around highlighting the life of Black people primarily through fashion and portraiture and telling the stories of our people both past and present. Artistic influences: Doing my university education in Nigeria helped shape who I am as a person. I was born and raised in the United Kingdom, so studying in Nigeria helped me learn more about myself and my family’s history. I feel like this personal development filtered into my work as well, and influences how I see and handle the world on a daily basis. I try to implement the life lessons I’ve learned into my craft and the process by which I work, researching intensively and planning meticulously while allowing metaphysical revelations to lead the way. Favorite projects: I’m currently working on a personal project titled Finding Common Ground, which highlights the life of Black people in the United Kingdom post–World War II. I’ve finished shooting the work and am in the process of curating and editing it to be exhibited later in the year. To create Finding Common Ground, I received a fine art commission by Photoworks in association with English Heritage, which have been guiding me through the creative process. I’m very proud of Finding Common Ground because it involved a lot of research into a topic that directly affects me and other Black Britons. Our history has been filtered and suppressed to the extent that it’s not taught in schools. So I’m happy that this project highlights stories of Black Britons through fashion and portraiture with various historical backgrounds coming together to learn more about each other and the country they’ve settled in. Work environment: My work environment has always been relatively mobile, especially considering the amount of traveling I’ve done in the past three years between Nigeria and England. Because of this, I always try to blur the delineation between the two locations, implementing a bit of England in Nigeria and a bit of Nigeria in England. I believe that reflects me when I’m in either space. Aspirations: The events of 2020 have taught me that the future isn’t in my hands but more so in the hands of my maker, so all my plans are merely wishes that I hope to have manifested. Having said that, I would like to use the next five years to continue developing my craft and connecting with others in the industry. I believe community is important, so I would like to create more large-scale commercial projects and editorial works for printed publications. In addition, I would like to develop more of my personal work and my own creative intuition . Once I have that solidified, I feel like everything else will fall into place. Philosophy: Lead with love. You can never go wrong with this philosophy in mind.


--- [Photographer Spotlight: Kemka Ajoku - BOOOOOOOM] ---
2025 Illustration Awards Winners Explore the work of our five winners, twenty shortlisted artists, and two hundred shortlisted images selected from thousands of entries worldwide. Learn MoreJoin our Secret Email Club Our weekly newsletter filled with interesting links, open call announcements, and a whole lot of stuff that we don’t post on Booooooom! You might like it! Sign UpRelated Articles


--- [Finding Common Ground | PORT Magazine] ---
Kemka Ajoku’s new series captures migration and settlement of Black people in the UK after the Windrush era A photographer of fashion and portraiture, Kemka Ajoku – who’s born and raised in London – strives to rewrite the stories of Black British culture. Done so through a mix of personal projects and commissions, Kemka has documented all sorts of meaningful tales from the locals of Lagos, busy in the tasks of their everyday jobs, and the beauty of brotherhood in the post-adolescent stage of life. Each picture he takes reverberates with purpose and passion; he’s a storyteller of truth, and someone who employs visual art as a tool for spreading his messages. Over the last year, which has been a difficult one for many, if not all, Kemka has managed to find a sense of fulfilment. Not only did he graduate at the end of 2020 form a degree in Mechanical Engineering, he also arrived back home and broke away from the educational system for the first time in his life. “I felt free to creatively understand more about who I am,” he tells me, “looking back at my lineage as a guide to learning more about myself, having never given myself the space or time to truly be introspective.” A period of self-awareness and contemplation, Kemka’s ventures out into the ‘real world’ arose alongside the arrival of the pandemic. Coupled with the increase in racist hate crimes and injustice the globe, he began to question his role as a photographer, “a Black British photographer for that matter.” A sense of responsibility emerged: “a need to document the life of my people both in Nigeria and the diaspora,” he says. “To me, this was more important than taking a pretty photo. And so, a paradigm shift took place within me, a shift which led to me working with more intentionality, giving more meaning to the work with the hopes of lasting the test of time.” This matured sensibility has manifested into his latest photo series, titled Finding Common Ground. Months in the making, the body of work is currently exhibiting at Wrest Park as part of the England’s New Lenses project with Photoworks, in partnership with English Heritage’s Shout Out Loud programme. In comparison to his previous series – although motivated in their own right – Kemka has never worked with such drive and ethos. “I sat down and really articulated what I wanted to achieve before picking up my camera.” A lengthy bout of research and exploration later, he came to learn more about the migration and settlement of Black people in the UK after the Windrush era, “a story that me, my parents, and their parents are part of.” The photos involved are therefore contemplative, powerful and historical. Shot in Wrest Park, Bedfordshire, the location protrudes with British heritage as it’s built atop the style of an 18th Century French Chateau. He cast a selection of his friends to sit for him, each representing a specific demographic within the Black British community. Referred to as “characters”, Kemka explains how each of his models’ personas have been developed from “watching British Blaxploitation films from the 70s and 80s; films such as Black Joy, Babylon Burning an Illusion and Pressure to name a few.” To accentuate this, Kemka worked with stylists Daniel Obaweya, Charles Ndoimu and Lingani Noah who assisted with adorning the models in Black British clothing lines from both young and more established labels. “The styling for this project was broken into two parts, highlighting two generations of Black British citizens,” adds Kemka, “from the tailored style of the late 40s and early 50s, to the more relaxed and youthful looks of the 70s and 80s. Fashion is an important part of British culture, used in a way to express identity with the community one associates themselves with. Many fashion nuances migrated from foreign land have interwoven with British styling over recent years, and this integration of style was a focal point in styling the models.” Observing the completed works and you’ll notice how the poses or gestures appear to have been caught in a freeze frame – recording not only that moment in time, but also an experience and learning exuded from the photographer who’s captured them. “The intention with this work is to artistically depict an important era in Black British history (not in a common documentary photography fashion) that will have longevity long after I’m around,” he concludes. “Thinking back to my intentions as a photographer, one thing I revert to is the legacy my work will have for other Black British creatives, looking for a reference upon which to build their creative career upon.” Credits: Photographer: Kemka Ajoku Assistant Photographer: Anu Akande Talent: Kozy, Ore Ajala, Amidu Kebbie, Chieloka Uzokwe, Tami Bolu, Feranmi Eso Hair: Shamara Roper Styling Team: Daniel Obaweya, Charles Ndiomu, Lingani Noah Special Thanks: Mahtab Hussain, Ingrid Pollard And special thanks to Photoworks and English Heritage for giving me the opportunity to create this body of work through their ‘England’s New Lenses’ project


--- [Photographer Kemka Ajoku tells stories of Black British culture and experience] ---
Photographer Kemka Ajoku tells stories of Black British culture and experience After transitioning from academia to photography, Kemka now makes work for those who feel unseen. For Kemka Ajoku, a photographer born and raised in North London, there are a few driving factors behind his work. The first is that he grew up without many role models who looked like him – particularly in his hometown of Enfield. “So I always try to represent my area whenever possible,” he tells It’s Nice That. The second, is that he recently finished a degree in Mechanical Engineering and has thus spent the most part of his life in education. This includes a five-year stint on Nigeria, “which had a huge influence on me deciding to pursue photography, as it was here where I nurtured my knowledge of the craft.” Although starting off in an academia, photography has always been at the heart of everything he does. In fact, this level of critical thinking, analysis and structure is something that can be welcomingly applied to his practice. Because with every image, Kemka manages to tell a story; achieved through an adept blending of traditional portraiture techniques and a quest to tell the narratives of Black British culture and Black experience. Kemka first picked up a camera at the age of nine – a small digital 5MP that was gifted for Christmas – and he’d spend his days experimenting and working out the technicalities of his new-found hobby. Applying his methodological outlook towards this new piece of equipment, he became enamoured with the camera’s ability to snap infinite moments at any given time. “For me,” he says, “the idea of metaphorically telling a thousand words always fascinated me, whether resurfacing 1,000 memories of a person in a frame, or leaving the viewer to ask a thousand questions.” Now, a typical day for Kemka falls nothing short of intriguing, especially as he’s only recently left the world of education – flying the nest and entering into the industry with a solid eye for his craft. When he’s on a shoot, though, everything starts with (and relies on) heavy amounts of research. It’s a process involving a deep dive into the work of great artists and of the concept of the assignment. From this, Kemka is able to draw his own personal language, which has resulted in a medley of commissions, like a Eurostar project for The Financial Times; Lydia West for Wonderland; Lady Donli for Indie Magazine; an editorial for Shakkar Shades; a series for the track Oasis by Lagos-based musician Loti and portraits of spoken-word artist and speaker Suli Breaks. On his more personal endeavours, Kemka looks towards his own personal experience for inspiration, which is something that he applies in abundance to his practice. Things like small daily occurrences, events, conservations and travelling, to which he then transforms into art. His first personal project My Brother’s Keeper is a fine example of this, which saw the photographer make his debut in applying his own personal experience into a body of work. The series convolutes around the notion and beauty of brotherhood, as well as analysing the post-adolescent stage of a man’s life – much like where the photographer finds himself currently. “And to me,” he says, “that was a perfect transfer of thought and emotion at that time, into a collection of images that tell a story.” When first starting out, Kemka would ask his friends to model for him in his pictures over the weekends. Feeling comfortable around them, this gave off a sense of calm and reassurance with the way that he approached the shoots. “I’ve learnt that over time that the best work I have made has been ones where the working environment wasn’t too tense,” he reflects, “where both myself and the models involved were at ease.” His imagery evokes a sense of intimacy, so you can instantly tell that this is something Kemka manages to maintain throughout his practice. Returning back to My Brother’s Keeper, there’s one particular shot [pictured below] that represents his ethos entirely. The “hardest image” he’s ever taken, it was shot while working on the coast of a small island in Lagos. He decided to wanted to make use of the shallow water to photograph two men in a boat, “with the hand of the rower at the back adding to the theme of the project,” he notes. To get the picture, he had to climb into the second rowing boat, balancing his camera and himself as he framed the composition. “But I wasn’t getting the result I was looking for. So the only option I had was to enter the water, which went up to my thighs once I was fully submerged.” Meanwhile, his second camera ended up soaked in saltwater, but nonetheless it was completely worth the sacrifice. We’re more than thankful that Kemka decided to take the plunge into photography, and it’s clear how determined he is to continue with his craft. “I want to make work for people like me,” he tells us, “those who feel unseen or suppressed, especially with the way the British media vilifies Black culture and buries its own history with its relationship with Black people for centuries and more. It’s history that we now have to dig up and find for ourselves.” GalleryCopyright © Kemka Ajoku, 2021 Hero Header Copyright © Kemka Ajoku, 2021 Share Article Further Info About the Author — Ayla is a London-based freelance writer, editor and consultant specialising in art, photography, design and culture. After joining It’s Nice That in 2017 as editorial assistant, she was interim online editor in 2022/2023 and continues to work with us on a freelance basis. She has written for i-D, Dazed, AnOther, WePresent, Port, Elephant and more, and she is also the managing editor of design magazine Anima.


--- [DIALOGUE* WITH Kemka Ajoku] ---
Born and raised in London, Kemka studied Mechanical Engineering in Nigeria, deciding to study abroad for a change in environment, whilst gaining a greater knowledge of his heritage. During his degree, Kemka picked up a camera as a hobby, and never put it down. Inspired by the natural settings he was surrounded by, he used his confined space of Ogun State as a crucible to develop his creative skills, and ultimately graduated in 2020, carrying his degree and his camera back home. HOW ARE YOU? I’m fine thank you. I’m alive and healthy, mentally and physically sound so I can only give thanks. Been very tired this past month but I’ve found small pockets of time to rest recently in so I’m back to 100% now. WHAT ARE YOU READING AT THE MOMENT? ‘All About Love’ by Bell Hooks, and ‘The Creative Act’ by Rick Rubin. For some reason, I can’t read one book at a time. I have two reading moods and read what fits the mood I’m currently in when I want to pick up a book. So those are the two currently on my rotation. YOUR FIRST INTRODUCTION TO PHOTOGRAPHY? Very first? Probably when I was 9, and I got a camera for my birthday. It was a cheap 5MP camera with a memory card in the megabytes. The type of cameras people are bringing back now. HOW IMPORTANT IS CULTURE TO YOUR WORK? Depends on what you mean by culture, to be honest. The meaning of culture in London is very different from the culture in Nigeria. To me, culture consists of the nuances in your upbringing and surrounding that shape who you are and what you believe in when no one is looking. For me, everything I work on, whether consciously or subconsciously, has elements of who I am - which I guess my work is influenced by culture, whatever that really means. WOULD YOU CONSIDER YOURSELF A CINEPHILE? Sadly no, but I want to be. I just struggle to sit down for a couple of hours to watch something on a daily basis. A good film to me is like a luxury, so I tend not to do it often. But I do intend on watching more. Recently got a MUBI subscription so hopefully, I use it more soon. YOUR FAVOURITE MOVIE? Shaft (1971) dir. Gordon Parks. And that’s simply because of the soundtrack by Isaac Hayes. Love it so much that I have it on vinyl, and I don’t even have a player. WHAT ARE YOU LISTENING TO AT THE MOMENT? A lot of afrobeats. Coming out of a club tour I was exposed to nothing but afrobeats on a daily basis and I fell in love with it again. The last time I really enjoyed it this much was when I was last in Lagos, so yeah I wake up and spin songs from Nigeria almost all the time now. Outside of that a lot of Japanese synth-pop, simply because I can see the colors vividly through the sound, and I find that pretty interesting. WHAT ROLE DOES MORTALITY PLAY IN YOUR PROCESS? I feel like I’m too young to think about how my limited time on earth sieves into my work. I feel like that’s something that the public can only interpret, especially once I’m no longer physically present. Once I think about my long-lasting impact, I feel like then I’ll start to think more about what others think of my work, rather than what I think of it, and I believe the latter is more important. THE MOST IMPORTANT PHOTOGRAPH YOU HAVE COME ACROSS? Earthrise (1968) by William Anders. To me, that’s the most important photograph ever taken WHAT KIND OF PEOPLE ARE THE MOST DIFFICULT TO PHOTOGRAPH? Those with the tightest budgets. HOW DO YOU KNOW WHEN AN IDEA FOR A PHOTOGRAPHY STORY IS THE ONE? I only ever know after the story has been made. Things are revealed to me after the shoot that I can never conceive of beforehand. Sure the backbone of a photo series can be conceptualized and planned around, but it’s always after the work has been made that the pieces really start to align. That’s when I finally the ideas lying in the subconscious come to life, and until that happens I’ll never be able to know.
