=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Brazil defender Marquinhos had never taken a penalty before missing his ...]
Dec 9, 2022 · Brazil crashed out of the FIFA World Cup after their quarter-final loss against Croatia as Marquinhos missed the final penalty of the shootout that sealed his nation's exit from the tournament.
URL: https://www.sportskeeda.com/football/news-brazil-defender-marquinhos-never-taken-penalty-missing-spot-kick-fifa-world-cup-qf-croatia

[Marquinhos had NEVER taken a penalty before he lost Brazil the World ...]
Dec 9, 2022 · Marquinhos is the unfortunate David Batty character at the centre of Brazil's disastrous quarter-final defeat to Croatia at World Cup 2022. A man that Jermaine Jenas claimed he was so...
URL: https://www.fourfourtwo.com/news/marquinhos-had-never-taken-a-penalty-before-he-lost-brazil-the-world-cup-quarter-final-against-croatia

[Which players are suspended for World Cup semifinals? List of yellow ...]
Dec 14, 2022 · Rules for yellow cards have changed slightly for the 2022 World Cup with FIFA keen to avoid a player missing a final because of a suspension. All suspensions will be wiped after the...
URL: https://www.sportingnews.com/us/soccer/news/world-cup-yellow-cards-suspended-semi-finals-rules/pxir6jgj1i7qoh6ukmylaamb

[Yellow, Red Cards Record in World Cup: 19 bookings, the ... - Sportstar]
Dec 10, 2022 · How many yellow, red cards have been shown by referee Antonio Mateu Lahoz in Netherlands vs Argentina FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 quarterfinal? The game between Argentina and Netherlands has seen a flurry of yellow cards.
URL: https://sportstar.thehindu.com/football/fifa-world-cup/news/argentina-vs-netherlands-yellow-cards-bookings-suspension-quarterfinal-antonio-mateu-lahoz-controversy-fifa-world-cup-qatar-2022/article66245213.ece

[FIFA - FIFA.com]
INSIDE FIFA They think its all over!
URL: https://www.fifa.com/en/watch/PxiHcFHD9kWWkzeO3cZKkw


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Brazil defender Marquinhos had never taken a penalty before missing his ...] ---
Brazil crashed out of the FIFA World Cup after their quarter-final loss against Croatia as Marquinhos missed the final penalty of the shootout that sealed his nation's exit from the tournament.The centre-back stepped up to take the fourth spot-kick for Brazil, despite never having taken a penalty before in his career. Neymar Jr. gave the Selecao the lead in injury time after the first half of extra time. It was a tremendous effort from the Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) forward as he went past an army of Croatian players with the help of Lucas Paqueta. Neymar kept his composure to get around Dominik Livakovic and find the roof of the net.Croatia, however, refused to give up. Bruno Petkovic found the equalizer for Zlatko Dalic's team in the 117th minute of the game. The ball took a wicked deflection off Marquinhos, leaving Alisson Becker stretching in despair before going into the back of the net. The game progressed to a penalty shootout, where Croatia won 4-2, converting all of their efforts. Tite was probably keeping his team's designated penalty-taker Neymar in reserve to take the fifth spot-kick. However, his side's other shooters were rather inexperienced.Rodrygo took the first penalty for Brazil, only to see it saved by Livakovic. The Real Madrid forward was taking only the fourth penalty of his career during the shootout.Casemiro was the next to step up. The Manchester United midfielder was also taking the first penalty of his career, but made no mistake, thrashing it into the bottom corner. Pedro also converted from the spot. His record from the spot was also far from impressive; out of eight penalties taken prior to the shootout, Pedro had missed three and scored five.Marquinhos stepped up to take the fourth penalty and could only hit the post. BBC Sport@BBCSportWhat a moment for Croatia! 🫶They're in their THIRD World Cup semi-final - they only qualified for the first time in 1998! 🤯#BBCFootball #BBCWorldCup65582What a moment for Croatia! 🫶They're in their THIRD World Cup semi-final - they only qualified for the first time in 1998! 🤯#BBCFootball #BBCWorldCup https://t.co/I3AD7UGJuBThe win handed Croatia a ticket to the semi-finals of the tournament for the second straight edition. They were the finalists in 2018 and were defeated by France.Brazil's FIFA World Cup drought continues after loss against CroatiaTite: Quarter Final - FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022Brazil are the record winners of the FIFA World Cup with five trophies to their name. However, their last triumph came in 2002, in the Japan &amp; Korea edition.With the tournament's return to Asia, many hoped Brazil could end their drought. It wasn't to be, however, as Croatia broke Brazilian hearts. In the wake of their elimination, Tite has left his post as the head coach of the Selecao.Fabrizio Romano@FabrizioRomanoTite leaves Brazil. He’s no longer the head coach of the Seleçao after the game lost vs Croatia. It’s over. #WorldCup2022232342754Tite leaves Brazil. He’s no longer the head coach of the Seleçao after the game lost vs Croatia. It’s over. 🚨🇧🇷 #WorldCup2022 https://t.co/9UQW63Gfy6


--- [Marquinhos had NEVER taken a penalty before he lost Brazil the World ...] ---
Marquinhos had NEVER taken a penalty before he lost Brazil the World Cup quarter-final against Croatia Marquinhos stepped up for the fourth spot-kick for Brazil against Croatia… despite never having taken one before The best features, fun and footballing quizzes, straight to your inbox every week. You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful Want to add more newsletters? Five times a week FourFourTwo Daily Fantastic football content straight to your inbox! From the latest transfer news, quizzes, videos, features and interviews with the biggest names in the game, plus lots more. Once a week ...And it’s LIVE! Sign up to our FREE live football newsletter, tracking all of the biggest games available to watch on the device of your choice. Never miss a kick-off! Join the club Get full access to premium articles, exclusive features and a growing list of member rewards. Marquinhos is the unfortunate David Batty character at the centre of Brazil's disastrous quarter-final defeat to Croatia at World Cup 2022. A man that Jermaine Jenas claimed he was so sure would deliver when he stepped up for the fourth spot-kick. Perhaps it might come as a surprise, then, to know that the Paris Saint-Germain captain and otherwise dependable rock at the centre of the Brazilian defence has never before taken a penalty in senior football. Oh, Marqy. It came as some surprise to see Marquinhos make the long, lonely walk up to the penalty area, anyway – especially before club-mate Neymar. Brazil elected to leave their glittering talisman as fifth-choice in the shootout and it came back to bite hard, with the No.10 weeping in the centre circle as Marquinhos dropped to his knees. What a moment for Croatia! 🫶They're in their THIRD World Cup semi-final - they only qualified for the first time in 1998! 🤯#BBCFootball #BBCWorldCup pic.twitter.com/I3AD7UGJuBDecember 9, 2022 First up in the shootout, Real Madrid star Rodrygo, had only taken three penalties prior in his fledgling career but had scored them all before his untimely miss against Dominic Livakovic. Then came Casemiro – who like Marquinhos, had never taken one before. Luckily for the Manchester United cruncher, he converted. Pedro of Flamengo came next with a mixed career record of scored five, missed three, over the years. Curiously, Marquinhos' former PSG team-mate and central defensive partner, Thiago Silva, has never missed from 12 yards. Admittedly, his limited history has only presented three opportunities – but nonetheless, he has a flawless record. Neymar, meanwhile – who equalled Pele's all-time scoring record against Croatia during extra-time – has scored 74 in his career and missed 15. The best features, fun and footballing quizzes, straight to your inbox every week. Mark White is the Digital Content Editor at FourFourTwo. During his time on the brand, Mark has written three cover features on Mikel Arteta, Martin Odegaard and the Invincibles, and has written pieces on subjects ranging from Sir Bobby Robson’s time at Barcelona to the career of Robinho. An encyclopedia of football trivia and collector of shirts, he first joined the team back in 2020 as a staff writer.


--- [Which players are suspended for World Cup semifinals? List of yellow ...] ---
It's the feeling that every player dreads; finding out that you're suspended for a major tournament final or semifinal. With yellow card accumulating until after the quarterfinals, a number of players have been suspended from the 2022 FIFA World Cup after picking two such cautions. The Sporting News tracks the yellow card rules and the players who will miss the semifinals in Qatar. MORE: Update World Cup bracket 2022 How do World Cup suspension rules work? Rules for yellow cards have changed slightly for the 2022 World Cup with FIFA keen to avoid a player missing a final because of a suspension. All suspensions will be wiped after the quarterfinals have finished. However, players can miss a semifinal, if they receive a second yellow card of the tournament at the quarterfinal stage, as per FIFA regulations for the 2022 tournament. Players can also be suspended for a semifinal match, if they receive a red card in a quarterfinal game. With all yellows having been wiped after the group stages, only 23 players – including, impressively, no England players – were on a knockout-stage booking going into the four quarters, and were therefore at risk. MORE: Explaining FIFA suspension rules for 2022 World Cup in full Confirmed suspensions for World Cup semifinals There were no bookings for Croatia against Brazil that meant any of their players would miss their semifinal. Marcos Acuna and Gonzalo Montiel both picked up a yellow card in Argentina's quarterfinal win over Netherlands though, meaning they missed the 3-0 semifinal win over Croatia. Morocco will be without striker Walid Cheddira, who picked up two bookings within a minute after coming on as a substitute in their shock win over Portugal. In the last quarterfinal, France edged a 2-1 win over England and came through the match without getting any players suspended for the next round. As a result of the four quarterfinals, only three players have been ruled out of the semis through suspension. - Argentina – Marcos Acuna - Argentina – Gonzalo Montiel - Morocco – Walid Cheddira


--- [Yellow, Red Cards Record in World Cup: 19 bookings, the ... - Sportstar] ---
Antonio Mateu Lahoz has been a yellow-card spree, dishing out bookings at regular intervals during the quarterfinal between Argentina and Netherlands. RELATED: Live updates from Portugal vs Morocco So far, Lahoz has booked two Argentine officials, eight Argentina players and seven Netherlands players (Dumfries has two yellow cards). The decision making from the referee prompted Messi, the Argentine captain, to have an animated discussion with the officials after the half-time whistle. After the drama in the second-half, the total yellow cards in the game reached 18, going past the number of yellow cards - 16 - handed out during Portugal vs Netherlands in the 2006 World Cup, later popularly called the ‘Battle of Nuremberg’. The players booked by Lahoz so far: - Walter Samuel (31’) - Argentina coaching staff - Jurien Timber (43’) - Marcos Acuna (43’) - Christian Romero (45’) - Wout Weghorst (45+2’) - Memphis Depay (76’) - Lisandro Martinez (76’) - Steven Berghuis (88’) - Leandro Parades (89’) - Lionel Scaloni (90’) - Argentina manager - Lionel Messi (90+10’) - Nicolas Otamendi (90+12’) - Steven Bergwijn (91’) - ET - Gonzalo Montiel (109’) - ET - German Pezzella (112’) - ET - Denzel Dumfries (128’) - PS - Denzel Dumfries (129’) - PS (2nd yellow changed to red) - Noa Lang (129’) - PS *Updated as per the records on the official FIFA website Despite being an experienced official, Lahoz is notorious for his controversial decisions. Lahoz was officiating the Barcelona vs Osasuna game where Lionel Messi paid tribute to Diego Maradona after his death. Much to the displeasure of Argentina and Barcelona fans, Lahoz booked Messi for removing his jersey. In another instance, Lahoz disallowed a Messi goal when Barcelona played against Atletico Madrid in the 2013-14 La Liga. The match ended in a 1-1 draw and Atletico went on to win the title. Lahoz later apologised to Barcelona for wrongly disallowing the goal, the team’s then assistant manager Elvio Paolorosso revealed. Similarly, Lahoz sent Pep Guardiola off for dissent during Manchester City’s UEFA Champions League quarterfinal against Liverpool in 2017/18. Published on Dec 10, 2022


--- [FIFA - FIFA.com] ---
No content
