=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Tülay Adalı - Wikipedia]
In 2008 she became a Fellow of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering "for outstanding research, mentorship, and leadership in the field of biomedical imaging and signal processing", [2] and in 2009 she became a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers "For contributions to nonlinear and complex ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/T%C3%BClay_Adal%C4%B1

[Tulay Adali: Computer Science H-index & Awards - Academic Profile | Research.com]
Tulay Adali is a researcher affiliated with the University of Maryland, Baltimore County in the United States. Their work spans multiple areas within neuroscience and signal processing, focusing primarily on cognitive neuroscience and advanced neuroimaging techniques. Their publication record includes significant contributions to understanding neural dynamics, functional brain connectivity ...
URL: https://research.com/u/tulay-adali

[Tulay Adali - Electrical and Computer Engineering]
Tülay Adali received the Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, USA, in 1992 and joined the faculty at the University of Maryland Baltimore County (UMBC), Baltimore, MD, the same year. She is currently a Distinguished University Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering at University of Maryland, Baltimore ...
URL: https://ece.ncsu.edu/honor/tulay-adali/

[Biography:Tülay Adalı - HandWiki]
In 2008 she became a Fellow of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering "for outstanding research, mentorship, and leadership in the field of biomedical imaging and signal processing", [2] and in 2009 she became a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers "For contributions to nonlinear and complex ...
URL: https://handwiki.org/wiki/Biography:T%C3%BClay_Adal%C4%B1

[Alumni Awards - Electrical and Computer Engineering]
Recognized by technical organizations at a high level (e.g. IEEE fellow). ... Tülay Adali. Inducted in 2015. Danette Allen. Inducted in 2021 ...
URL: https://ece.ncsu.edu/engagement/awards/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Tülay Adalı - Wikipedia] ---
Tülay Adalı is a Distinguished University Professor of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, whose research interests include signal processing, machine learning, and data fusion.
With Simon Haykin, she is the author of the book Adaptive Signal Processing: Next Generation Solutions (Wiley, 2010), and with Eric Moreau, she is the author of Blind Identification and Separation of Complex-valued Signals (Wiley, 2013).
In 2008 she became a Fellow of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering "for outstanding research, mentorship, and leadership in the field of biomedical imaging and signal processing", and in 2009 she became a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers "For contributions to
nonlinear and complex-valued statistical signal processing". She was an IEEE Signal Processing Society Distinguished Lecturer for 2012–2013, and has been named a Fulbright Scholar for 2015. 
She is the sister of computer scientist Sibel Adalı.




--- [Tulay Adali: Computer Science H-index & Awards - Academic Profile | Research.com] ---
Tulay Adali is a researcher affiliated with the University of Maryland, Baltimore County in the United States. Their work spans multiple areas within neuroscience and signal processing, focusing primarily on cognitive neuroscience and advanced neuroimaging techniques. Their publication record includes significant contributions to understanding neural dynamics, functional brain connectivity, and the application of tensor decomposition methods to brain data analysis. The scientist has authored papers in various peer-reviewed journals and conference venues. Some recent publications include: Their research covers a range of topics, including: Tulay Adali's primary fields of study are: The subfields they have contributed to include: Frequent publication venues for their work are: They have collaborated extensively with several coauthors, including: Tulay Adali has received recognition through awards such as: V.D. Calhoun;T. Adali;G.D. Pearlson;J.J. Pekar;J.J. Pekar Vince D. Calhoun;Vince D. Calhoun;Robyn Miller;Godfrey Pearlson;Tulay Adalı Vince D. Calhoun;Jingyu Liu;Jingyu Liu;Tülay Adalı Dana Lahat;Tulay Adali;Christian Jutten Yi Ou Li;Tülay Adali;Vince D. Calhoun V.D. Calhoun;T. Adali;G.D. Pearlson;J.J. Pekar;J.J. Pekar Erik Barry Erhardt;Srinivas Rachakonda;Edward J. Bedrick;Elena A. Allen V. D. Calhoun;T. Adali T. Adali;P. J. Schreier;L. L. Scharf Jing Sui;Tülay Adali;Qingbao Yu;Jiayu Chen Yi-Ou Li;T. Adali;Wei Wang;V.D. Calhoun V.D. Calhoun;T. Adali Vince D. Calhoun;Tülay Adali;V. B. McGinty;James J. Pekar;James J. Pekar Vince D. Calhoun;James J. Pekar;James J. Pekar;Vince B. McGinty;Tulay Adali Nicolle M Correa;Tülay Adali;Yi-Ou Li;Vince D Calhoun Vince D. Calhoun;T. Adali;N. R. Giuliani;J. J. Pekar;J. J. Pekar Taehwan Kim;Tülay Adali Jing Sui;Godfrey D. Pearlson;Arvind Caprihan;Tülay Adali Vince D. Calhoun;Tülay Adali;Lars Kai Hansen;Jan Larsen M. Novey;T. Adali;A. Roy If you think any of the details on this page are incorrect, let us know. Exploring related online degrees can open flexible and rewarding career pathways for those interested in computer science. Many students look for the fastest degree to get online to quickly enter the tech workforce. Such programs often offer accelerated curriculums and focus on in-demand skills. Artificial intelligence is one of the fastest-growing sectors. Earning ai degrees online allows professionals to develop advanced expertise while continuing to work. These degrees are becoming more affordable and accessible, making AI a top career consideration. When choosing your academic path, it’s helpful to explore the top 10 best majors for the future, many of which are rooted in STEM and technology fields. These majors usually lead to high-paying and stable job opportunities. For those seeking advanced credentials, there are also easiest masters degrees that offer flexibility and faster completion, helping you upskill without committing to years of study. University of Queensland Baylor College of Medicine University of Wisconsin–Madison Federal Office for Radiation Protection Texas A&M Health Science Center TU Wien Université Catholique de Louvain Sichuan University University of London Technical University of Darmstadt Sun Yat-sen University Peking University Bowling Green State University Bocconi University Mayo Clinic University of Kent


--- [Tulay Adali - Electrical and Computer Engineering] ---
Tülay Adali Inducted in 2015Tülay Adali received the Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, USA, in 1992 and joined the faculty at the University of Maryland Baltimore County (UMBC), Baltimore, MD, the same year. She is currently a Distinguished University Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering at University of Maryland, Baltimore County. She has been very active in conference and workshop organizations. She was the general or technical co-chair of the IEEE Machine Learning for Signal Processing (MLSP) and Neural Networks for Signal Processing Workshops 2001−2008, and helped organize a number of conferences including the IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing (ICASSP). She has served or currently serving on numerous editorial boards and technical committees of the IEEE Signal Processing Society. She was the chair of the technical committee on MLSP, 2003−2005 and 2011−2013. Prof. Adali is a Fellow of the IEEE and the AIMBE, a Fulbright Scholar, recipient of a 2010 IEEE Signal Processing Society Best Paper Award, 2013 University System of Maryland Regents’ Award for Research, and an NSF CAREER Award. She was an IEEE Signal Processing Society Distinguished Lecturer for 2012 and 2013. Her research interests are in the areas of statistical signal processing, machine learning for signal processing, and biomedical data analysis.


--- [Biography:Tülay Adalı - HandWiki] ---
Biography:Tülay Adalı Tülay Adalı | | |---|---| | Alma mater | North Carolina State University Middle East Technical University | | Scientific career | | | Fields | Electrical engineering | | Institutions | University of Maryland, Baltimore County | | Doctoral students | Vince Calhoun | Tülay Adalı is a Distinguished University Professor of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, whose research interests include signal processing, machine learning, and data fusion.[1] With Simon Haykin, she is the author of the book Adaptive Signal Processing: Next Generation Solutions (Wiley, 2010), and with Eric Moreau, she is the author of Blind Identification and Separation of Complex-valued Signals (Wiley, 2013). In 2008 she became a Fellow of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering "for outstanding research, mentorship, and leadership in the field of biomedical imaging and signal processing",[2] and in 2009 she became a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers "For contributions to nonlinear and complex-valued statistical signal processing".[3] She was an IEEE Signal Processing Society Distinguished Lecturer for 2012–2013,[4] and has been named a Fulbright Scholar for 2015.[5] She is the sister of computer scientist Sibel Adalı.[6] References - ↑ Faculty profile, UMBC, retrieved 2015-06-14. - ↑ Tulay Adali, Ph.D., AIMBE College of Fellows Class of 2008, retrieved 2015-06-15. - ↑ Society members named to Fellow grade, IEEE Communications Society, 2009, retrieved 2015-06-15. - ↑ Past Lecturers , IEEE Signal Processing Society, retrieved 2015-06-15. - ↑ Tulay Adali, Fulbright Scholar program, retrieved 2015-06-15. - ↑ Adalı, Sibel, About me, http://www.cs.rpi.edu/~sibel/www/about.html, retrieved 2019-09-13 External links - Home page - {{Google Scholar id}} template missing ID and not present in Wikidata. Original source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tülay Adalı. Read more |


--- [Alumni Awards - Electrical and Computer Engineering] ---
Alumni & Community Awards ECE recognizes outstanding alumni with the ECE Alumni Hall of Fame and the Outstanding Early Career Award, and the College of Engineering honors outstanding engineering graduates with the Distinguished Engineering Alumnus Award. We also recognize lasting service by members of the ECE community with the Distinguished Service Award. Watch the 2025 Alumni Awards Ceremony November 7, 2025 at 12:30 p.m. Recognizing our Pack With more than 16,000 ECE alumni, only a select number will be chosen as recipients of the ECE Alumni Awards, making these truly noteworthy distinctions. Nominate To nominate one of our ECE alumni for any of the ECE awards, complete the nomination form. Nominations are accepted year-round, with the cutoff for each year’s class on May 31. ECE Alumni Hall of Fame We have inducted 86 exemplary alumni into our Alumni Hall of Fame since its inception in 2015, celebrating the accomplishments of our outstanding graduates who use their education to excel in a profession, career, or service. Recipients are alumni of NC State ECE, and demonstrate professional, entrepreneurial, or service achievements in their selected industry. Examples include, but not limited to: - Recognized by technical organizations at a high level (e.g. IEEE fellow). - A significant number of influential technical publications or patents in the ECE field. - A successful faculty member at a College or University, e.g. leadership in a national or international research center, distinguished faculty title, or university leadership position. - Founder of a successful business or organization. - Served or serves at the senior management level in a corporation. - Has participated or participates at a leadership level in a nationally recognized community service organization, e.g. United Way, Red Cross, or Habitat for Humanity. - Recognized by a national community organization for their impact. Gregory L. Booth Inducted in 2016 Earl “Skip” Booth III Inducted in 2016 Greg E. Bottomley Inducted in 2015 ECE Outstanding Early Career Award The Outstanding Early Career Award is presented to one alum each year who has attained significant achievement early in their career and who shows promise of further contributions to the field. Recipients are alumni of NC State ECE, and demonstrate professional, entrepreneurial, or service achievements in their selected industry. Examples include, but not limited to: - Founder of a promising startup or business - A tenured professor at a College or University - Serving at a management level at a business or organization - Recognition from a technical organization (such as IEEE) This award is given to those that are 40 years old or younger or graduated with a degree from NC State ECE within the past 10 years. Ioannis Papapanagiotou Inducted in 2022Ioannis Papapanagiotou is a Director of Engineering of the Blockchain Platform at Gemini. He received the MSc & Ph.D. degrees in Computer Engineering and Operations Research from NC State University. As a graduate student, Ioannis received the IBM Ph.D. Fellowship and Academy of Athens Ph.D. Fellowship for his research, and best paper awards in the IEEE Globecom 2007 and the IEEE CAMAD 2010 conferences. He helped rebuild the ECE Graduate Student Association and assisted in establishing our online collaboration program with the University of North Carolina at Asheville. Ioannis has obtained a wide range of experiences in the software industry and academia. He has built organizations and systems at a large scale (10 Billions operations per day, Exabytes of data) serving hundreds of millions of users as a senior manager at Snowflake and at Netflix. He has served in the faculty ranks of Purdue University (tenure-track) and was an engineer at IBM Software Group and IBM TJ Watson Research Center. At Purdue University, he has been awarded the NetApp faculty fellowship and established an Nvidia CUDA Research Center. Ioannis has authored several patents and research publications. Ioannis loves to contribute back to the ECE department. As a proud NC State alumni, he established, along with his wife Sofia, the “Papapanagiotou Ph.D. fellowship”, he is teaching graduate courses and advises ECE students. Shubhi Asthana Inducted in 2023Shubhi Asthana works as a Senior Research Software Engineer at IBM Research. As an exemplary researcher, she has demonstrated outstanding, impactful, and sustained contributions towards research and leadership in the field of Data Engineering and Services Computing. Shubhi has successfully led projects in financial services computing and analytics with business impact. Currently, she is leading the efforts in Identifying Objectionable Personally Identifying Information (OPII) for the IBM’s premier machine learning platform watsonx.ai. Shubhi’s innovative work yielded to IEEE Senior member elevation, with 40+ publications in top-tier research conferences and meetups. Some of her work was published in patent format and filed by USPTO, with upto 20+ patents. Her patents range in topics like services research, optimization methods for handling financial and sales services data, building innovative algorithms, and performance related algorithms. She has tirelessly worked to support Women in Services. For example, she co-organized the IEEE Women in Services Computing symposia, collocated with the IEEE Services from 2021 to 2023. Through her efforts, 30+ students passionate towards higher studies in STEM received scholarships through IEEE Services. She serves as the industry liaison officer for Women in OR/MS since 2022. She has organized technical talks at INFORMS Business Analytics conference. For her work, Shubhi has been recognized with research and industry awards. Xu She Inducted in 2024Xu She is a Senior Director of Engineering at Lunar Energy. He is a widely recognized industry leader in power electronics and has made significant contributions to pioneering technologies and products in the renewable energy and energy storage sectors. He has published over 75 papers and holds more than 40 patents. In recognition of his technical contributions, he has received numerous prestigious awards, including the 2017 IEEE Industry Applications Society Andrew W. Smith Outstanding Young Member Achievement Award, the 2021 IEEE Region 1 Industry Technological Innovation Award, and the 2022 IEEE Rudolf Chope Research & Development Award. He is the industry committee chair and distinguished lecturer of the IEEE Power Electronics Society. Dr. Xu actively supports and advocates for the FREEDM Systems Center. His influence has inspired his wife and cousin to become FREEDM alumni, and he has also hired several NCSU alumni to his teams. Devesh Tiwari Inducted in 2025Professor Devesh Tiwari is a tenured faculty member and Associate Vice Provost for Research Computing in the Office of the Provost at Northeastern University. Devesh’s research group, the Goodwill Computing Lab, is recognized for pioneering research and translational contributions in the areas of HPC, quantum computing, and environmentally sustainable computing — often featuring first-of-its-kind experimental demonstrations, production deployments, large-scale open-source community datasets, and over 50 publications in all venues listed on csrankings.org. His research has been recognized with multiple awards including NSF CAREER Award on quantum computing, IEEE/IFIP Dependability Rising Star Award, IEEE TCSC MCR Excellence in Research Award, Facebook/Meta Faculty Research Award, Northeastern COE Faculty Fellow Award, US DOE ORNL’s NCCS Division Director Appreciation Award, etc. For his teaching and mentoring efforts, Devesh was awarded the Northeastern COE Martin Essigmann Outstanding Teaching Award, and Professor of the Year by the Northeastern University IEEE student chapter and has consistently received near-perfect teaching evaluation scores. His recent PhD graduates are tenure-track faculty members at top CS departments in the country (e.g., Rice University, and the University of Utah). For his community leadership and contributions, Devesh was recognized with the IEEE TCPP Outstanding Service and Contributions Award and the IEEE TPDS Editorial Excellence Award (twice) for his exceptional contributions to the TPDS journal as an editor. He serves as the steering committee co-chair of ACM HPDC, and on the SC (Supercomputing) steering committee (one of the largest annual CS conferences attended by over 10,000 researchers and practitioners) – the topmost conferences in the HPC research area. William Easter Distinguished Service Award The Distinguished Service Award, named for Professor Emeritus William Easter, recognizes and honors the lasting service and impact that members of the NC State ECE community have had on the department, its students, and mission. William Easter Inducted in 2022After a stellar high school performance, William Easter began his college education at The George Washington University in 1950. With the Korean War raging, he enlisted in the United States Air Force in July, 1951. After basic training he was assigned to radio operator school. As a part of this curriculum he received instruction in basic electronics, which led to a decision to study electrical engineering after his active service. He graduated with a B. S. degree in Electrical Engineering with high honors from North Carolina State College (University) in 1959. At this point he was awarded an NDEA fellowship for Ph.D. study in science of materials at Carnegie Institute of Technology (Carnegie Mellon University). At Carnegie Tech, he completed the coursework and qualifying exams to begin research in what we now know as solid-state materials and devices. Unfortunately (or fortunately depending on one’s perspective) his efforts did not culminate with the Ph.D., and he left CIT with a Master of Science in Electrical Engineering. In 1963, through the encouragement of Robert Lade, a colleague at CIT who had been recruited to begin a solid-state research program at N.C. State , he joined the Electrical Engineering faculty as an instructor. During the first year, he assisted Dr. Lade in designing the first fabrication laboratory and teaching the first graduate course in the solid-state curriculum. Afterward, he was assigned to teaching the senior courses in electronics and communications, which at that point still concentrated on vacuum-tube technology. In the next year, he introduced transistor technology and began to emphasize design in the laboratory experiments rather than use the analytic approach common at the time. After having served for several years on the Advisory Committee for the Engineering Operations Program, a curriculum combining basic engineering principles with business fundamentals, Easter was named director of the program in July, 1970. For the next ten years, he strengthened the E.O. curriculum and promoted the value of its graduates to industry recruiters, while continuing to teach in the in electrical courses. In 1980, with a new department head in Electrical Engineering, he moved back into the department as associate head. In this position he was responsible for the undergraduate program, managing the teaching schedule for all E.E. courses, assigning the graduate teaching assistants their duties, moving the department to a centralized advising system and representing the department on the Engineering College and University Scholarship and Course and Curriculum Committees. He was also elected to represent the Engineering College on the University Faculty Senate, serving one year as secretary. During this phase of his career, he also served for 12 years on the N.C. State Board of Examiners of Electrical Contractors, having been appointed by Governors James Martin and James Hunt. For eight of these years he was elected by the Board as chairman. During his years as associate department head, he continued to push for a greater design emphases in the undergraduate curriculum, to culminate in a required senior design project. After a proposal was made to add computer engineering as a second curriculum, he supported the effort against resistance from the more conservative faculty members and argued for its approval in the College and University Course and Curriculum Committees. In 1991, Easter resigned from his administrative position and returned to full-time teaching in the electronics circuits course he had started with. In order to give his students as near an industry experience as possible in the academic environment, he had the students participate in a semester-long design project for the laboratory portion of the course. A fitting end to his thirty-one years on the Electrical and Computer Engineering Faculty. Larry Monteith Inducted in 2023A native of Bryson City, North Carolina, Larry Monteith spent four years as an aviation electronics technician in the US Navy, and then enrolled in North Carolina State College of Agriculture and Engineering in 1956 and graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering in 1960. He eventually joined the faculty at NC State in 1968 as an associate professor in the Solid State Micro-electronics division of the Department of Electrical Engineering. Monteith was active in developing research, graduate programs, teaching and extension programs when appointed in 1974 as head of the department and then in 1978 as the dean of engineering. After a decade as a dean, Monteith accepted the position of interim and then chancellor in 1988 and 1989 before retiring in 1998 after thirty years of service when the efforts of faculty throughout the entire university improved undergraduate, graduate, research and programs that resulted in substantial growth and prominence for the institution. He was also an early champion of Centennial Campus, including putting forward the initial concept as Dean—and ensuring the funding—of the Engineering Graduate Research Center which opened in 1997. This would later be renamed as a fitting tribune to his impact on engineering education as the Monteith Research Center and is at the forefront of electrical and computer engineering research. Chancellor Monteith’s leadership in the department, college, and university were instrumental in making NC State an international leader and a powerhouse in the state. ECE Newsletter The ECE Newsletter is sent out monthly to keep alumni and friends up-to-date with the most current goings-on of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. It includes major ECE news stories, upcoming events, and information on how to support the department. There are no restrictions on who can sign up for the ECE Newsletter and you can unsubscribe at any time.
