=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Explained Books | An eminent cardiac surgeon's account of his work, and ...]
Sep 3, 2022 · As a cardiac surgeon for nearly five decades, Upendra Kaul dedicated himself to his calling, and gave hundreds if not thousands of people their heart back. His own heart, however, has lain all these years in his beloved Kashmir, the longing an ache that he has lived with forever.
URL: https://indianexpress.com/article/explained/an-eminent-cardiac-surgeons-account-of-his-work-and-of-kashmir-8127841/

[Mending hearts and fences in scarred Kashmir Valley]
Jul 31, 2022 · However, that did not deter Upendra Kaul, renowned cardiologist and a Kashmiri Pandit, from winning the hearts of Muslims in even the remotest corners of the Union Territory.
URL: https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/renowned-kashmiri-pandit-cardiologist-opens-heart-centre-for-needy-in-pulwama/article65702259.ece

[Reading Cardiologist’s Heart | Kashmir Life - Latest News ...]
Sep 1, 2022 · “Amma asked me what I was doing so seriously,” Dr Kaul, Kashmir’s first cardiologist, now a Padma Shri, narrates in his lucid, engaging, entertaining and informative memoir When the Heart Speaks.
URL: https://kashmirlife.net/reading-cardiologists-heart-vol-14-issue-24-299606/

[History of Kashmir - Wikipedia]
The history of Kashmir is intertwined with the history of the broader Indian subcontinent in South Asia with influences from the surrounding regions of Central, and East Asia. Historically, Kashmir referred to only the Kashmir Valley of the western Himalayas. [1] Today, it denotes a larger area that includes the Indian-administered union territories of Jammu and Kashmir (which consists of ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Kashmir

[Noted cardiologist Dr Upendra Kaul's book When the heart speaks released]
Oct 29, 2022 — Dr Kaul is a gold medallist in Surgery and the first qualified cardiologist of Kashmiri origin. While he loves his profession, his love for ...
URL: https://www.greaterkashmir.com/srinagar/noted-cardiologist-dr-upendra-kauls-book-when-the-heart-speaks-released/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Explained Books | An eminent cardiac surgeon's account of his work, and ...] ---
As a cardiac surgeon for nearly five decades, Upendra Kaul dedicated himself to his calling, and gave hundreds if not thousands of people their heart back. His own heart, however, has lain all these years in his beloved Kashmir, the longing an ache that he has lived with forever. These twin threads – his passion for his vocation, and for Kashmir — run through When the Heart Speaks, the memoirs of this celebrated doctor. There isn’t a Kashmiri who does not know of “Dr U Koul”. Go to Hawal (or Halle ) in Pulwama, and you will be shown the old Kaul homestead. Kaul, a Kashmiri Pandit, grew up in Delhi as his parents had moved to the capital in 1947, in the wake of the first India-Pakistan war. He was born a year later. Through the Delhi school year, he looked forward to the summer holiday when the family would go back home to Kashmir, into the warm embrace of grandparents, aunts, uncles and cousins. He recalls failing one year in school. The punishment his father meted out was for him akin to a death sentence: no summer holiday in Kashmir. The nostalgia-filled recollections of the life of a medical student in Delhi in the 1970s are an engaging read. Kaul writes unpretentiously, unselfconsciously with an evident honesty. A distinguished career took him from PGI Chandigarh to AIIMS to Batra, Fortis and Sir Gangaram. It was as an undergraduate at Maulana Azad Medical College that he learnt to speak Kashmiri properly, from two other Kashmiri, both Muslims from the Valley, in his class. They quickly became thick buddies. Following graduate studies at G B Pant hospital, he followed his heart to Kashmir to try and join SKIMS. His effort drew a blank after Sheikh Abdullah, whom he had approached with a representation to let him join the hospital, barely gave him the time of day. But through his work – while at AIIMS he was among the first in India to use ballooning to open up arteries after training abroad and other non-surgical treatments – he remained engaged with Kashmiris who came to Delhi for treatment, and remained friends with them for ever after. This is why it is a bit puzzling that his doctor-patient relationship with Yaseen Malik, the JKLF leader who is now in jail, finds zero mention. The story is not unknown. He has been at the receiving end from trolls, especially after he was critical of the Centre’s abolition of Kashmir’s special status. Within weeks of that, NIA took away his phone to check his exchanges with his patient, became unduly excited by a number that appeared in one message, only to be told it not rupees and crores but a blood value reading. His telling of how he was approached by one of the sharpest in India’s deep state to treat Malik, only to be become a suspect in the eyes of another arm of the state three decades later, told in his characteristically dry style, would have been a valuable addition to the book. Was it self-censorship in difficult times? Or did the publisher get cold feet? Kaul’s Kashmir angst is very different from that of the Kashmiri Pandit who was uprooted in the 1990s as militancy erupted in the Valley and many in the community were targeted and killed, along with Muslims who did not toe the militants’ line. He writes of those times, and how he got OPD timings extended at AIIMS to accommodate Kashmiris – Pandits and Muslims — who were flocking to consult a fellow Kashmiri doctor, and how he helped many young uprooted Pandit men find employment in the capital. They did not care for referral systems, all they knew was there was a Kashmiri doctor who spoke their language. Sometimes he footed their bills too, and let them repay in their own time. In 1997 came his first chance to go back to the Valley as a doctor, a long cherished dream. Persuaded by Mufti Mohammed Sayeed, he started visiting the Valley once a month to treat patients. That effort grew over the years and by 2020, Kaul and a group of doctors began a project called the Gauri Healthy Heart Project named after his mother, whose wish to a have a home in the Valley he could not fulfill in her lifetime. He also built a home in Srinagar that is also named after her. Last month, he opened a state of the art heart hospital in Hawal. He travels there every Thursday and returns to Delhi on Sunday. Kaul may not have intended to, and he may even disagree, but his engagement with Kashmir and with Kashmiris, offers a model for the return of Kashmiri Pandits to the Valley. Title | When The Heart Speaks Memoirs of a Cardiologist Author: Dr Upendra Kaul Publisher: Konark Publishers (2002) Pages: 224 Price: Rs 750 Explained Books appears every Saturday. It summarises the core content of an important work of non-fiction.


--- [Mending hearts and fences in scarred Kashmir Valley] ---
Relations between Kashmiri Muslims and the Pandit community may have witnessed tense moments in the past three decades, including recently, when several Hindus and Pandits were victims of targeted killings in Jammu and Kashmir, leading to widespread fear in the minority community. However, that did not deter Upendra Kaul, renowned cardiologist and a Kashmiri Pandit, from winning the hearts of Muslims in even the remotest corners of the Union Territory. On Saturday, Dr. Kaul opened the state-of-art Prasad Joo Khan Heart Centre for poor and needy patients in Pulwama’s Hawal village. Alka Mittal, Chairman and Managing Director, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, inaugurated the facility. Named after Dr. Kaul’s grandfather, the centre will cater to the needs of the people of south Kashmir. “This project means coming back home. I am trying to give back to the society I belong to by providing good heart care. I am investing in hope,” Dr. Kaul told The Hindu. Dr. Kaul, chairman and dean of academics and research at the Batra Hospital and Medical Research Centre, Delhi, will attend to patients at the centre’s outpatient department in Pulwama once in a week, and also meet them Srinagar. Hails from Pulwama He hailed from Pulwama’s Hawal area before his father shifted to Delhi. The flat sections atop the highlands of Hawal were once home to 44 Kashmiri Pandit families. However, only one Pandit family, Omkar Nath, was left behind after the rest migrated in the 1990s in the face of raging militancy. On Saturday, locals accompanied Mr. Nath to the inauguration of the project. Many Pandits from the Hawal transit camp also attended the event. “It was not possible to realise the dream project without the help of locals,” Dr. Kaul said. In fact, several Muslim villagers in Hawal launched a signature campaign and wrote to Deputy Commissioner Baseer-ul-Haq Chaudhary “for allocation of government land to the Gauri Kaul Foundation, which has set up the centre, to building a heart centre”. The villagers fear that widening of a highway may result in the dismantling of the centre. “We the residents of villages — Hawal including Migrant Colony, Gaberpora, Kutchpora, other nearby and adjoining areas of the district demand that the son of soil Padma Shri Dr. Kaul cardiologist a larger heart institute will be an ideal service for the people,” the villagers’ letter read. Telemedicine centre Dr. Kaul, who has been spending weekends in Kashmir since 2008 to see patients, also set up a successful telemedicine centre in 2020 in the remote Machil area in north Kashmir’s Kupwara, which remains cut off for more than three months due to snowfall. “Any patient who visits the telemedicine centre undergoes basic tests and the reports are sent to me immediately online. I advise the staff about the line of treatment sitting in Delhi. Around 20-25 patients are treated for heart ailments in Machil every month,” Dr. Kaul said. The specialist also has the distinction of operating on separatist leaders in the past, including Syed Ali Shah Geelani, Shabir Shah, Abdul Gani Lone, and Yasin Malik. “When Malik was brought to the AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences) in the 1990s from jail to replace his heart valve, I signed the consent form ahead of the surgery. He showed full faith in me,” Dr. Kaul recalled. On the recent targeted violence against the minority community, Dr. Kaul said, “Of course, my relatives and family are scared. I am not fearful of anything. I have engaged with a different Kashmir where patients, after recovering, invited me home in far-off places like Shopian. I was treated like a groom. People would line up to welcome me. That can only happen in Kashmir.” Published - July 30, 2022 07:33 pm IST


--- [Reading Cardiologist’s Heart | Kashmir Life - Latest News ...] ---
Kashmir’s leading cardiologist, Dr U Kaul’s book offers interesting anecdotes about the evolution of better heart care and various heart-breaking events, writes Khalid Bashir Gura After completing his MBBS, when Dr Upendra Kaul, was filling out his documents to go abroad for higher studies, he stopped midway after seeing his mother’s moist eyes. “Amma asked me what I was doing so seriously,” Dr Kaul, Kashmir’s first cardiologist, now a Padma Shri, narrates in his lucid, engaging, entertaining and informative memoir When the Heart Speaks. “I told her the truth. She remained silent for a while with moist eyes. She told me after all their hard work in making me a doctor; I too had some responsibility towards them. I got the point and immediately tore away those forms, which brought a smile to her face.”The book, published by Konark Publishers is an un-put-downable 190-page read making a reader traverse through a cardiologist’s heart. The story spools from his ancestral Hawl village in Shopian to the life he spent in Delhi and finally back home. Born on June 14, 1948, the family moved out of Kashmir when he was 18 months old. The yearning to return always persisted. He did but with the mission to heal hearts. The book displays his extraordinary memory as he recalls minute details chronologically laced with confessions, forthrightness, and his ability to recall many public events including the history of places and people. Kaul has skilfully operated his memoir not to become a work of self-indulgence by underpinning it with various characters in his life which in turn shaped his life. Plain Speak His love for Kashmir and its people runs reciprocal. He helped his people wherever, whenever. Despite the ill feeling of Kashmir Pandits (KP) toward Muslims after the 1990s, according to the author, his affection for the Kashmiri people never changed. In When the Heart Speaks, Kaul’s heart continues to beat for Kashmir and his heartbeat is palpable in his mission of Gauri Kaul Foundation. He blurs the blood-drenched boundaries between religions and communities. He pumps love, friendship and peaceful co-existence by making the heart of humanity throb through his on-ground contribution. While tracing the history cursorily of his community from the fourteenth century, which according to him is replete with oppression, death and destruction under various Muslim rulers, he also gives a brief idea to mention the plight of the downtrodden majority community also. Introduction The author introduces the book through the dissimilarity in village and city life through his parents who grew up in completely diverse environments and dissimilar upbringings. His father was born in Hawl, Shopian in a picturesque village while his mother was born in Sopore but brought up in Srinagar. Besides the beauty of his land, he vividly remembers the intricacies of his ancestral house and its architecture, which like many others is a heritage and abandoned house now. Besides introducing to grandparents, parents and the times they lived in, he sketches the societal, cultural, and economic contour of the society of his times also vividly. The Village The Muslim minority in his village worked as artisans or landless agricultural peasants or servants on Pandit’s lands. According to him, the Pandits considered themselves superior and pious to the majority of Muslims. Similarly, as his father had to travel 20 km daily to school, he was forbidden to buy bread from Muslim bakers as he belonged to high caste Brahmins. As his father went on to pursue education, he regrets his mother’s unfulfilled desire for the same as she was prevented from getting an education because of her gender. He also stands witness to his mother’s aversion to village life and the difficulties it entailed. His father who was encouraged to get educated earned a bachelor’s in law at Lucknow while as his mother had little formal education as it was not encouraged during her time. He also explains the genesis of his surname from Khans to Kauls. When the author was 18 months old he was brought to Delhi. Terming himself to be a shy child who could barely make friends, he grew up under strict parental control. He recalls getting thrashed by his father when he flunked his eighth standard because of his bunking school with a friend, which resulted in abysmal neglect of his studies. That year as a punishment he was left in the sweltering heat of Delhi much to his aversion and not allowed to visit Kashmir for which he waited every year eagerly. The school failure didn’t decide the future. As he invokes the details of each person, place, incident, and a slice of ‘collective’ and personal history, his teachers, and friends since childhood are no exception. Similarly, his experiences of growing up far away from his birthplace are filled with intricate details and his interactions with people from diverse walks of life. He always looked forward to summer vacations and visiting Kashmir and playing on the banks of river Jhelum with neighbouring children. “Those were the days when the valley didn’t start distinguishing between religions and as children, we never knew who was a Hindu or Muslim or belonged to which caste,” he writes. His cousins, the carefree atmosphere and the river with my childhood friends enticed him much more than Delhi life. In Medical School As he excelled academically, he secured admission for an MBBS. But his new busy schedule could not tether him and soon his fast friends were Kashmiris chosen for the MBBS course in his college. He soon started learning his mother tongue far away from home as he was deprived of it and began visiting home with his Kashmiri friends every year religiously. The chapter Medical College Years is replete with his experiences in medical college like any other medical student but he fills it with information and analysis once he encounters Hindu places of historic importance during his annual visits to Kashmir. His life as a junior resident doctor resident analyses the limitations, he faced in the health care set-up. A reader may be surprised when Dr Kaul confesses he had tasted charas opium and after a few months given it up. Thankfully, as it didn’t become a habit, the reader will hope no one idolizing doctor will try it. Wonder why the author didn’t self-censor it for the collective good? The 1971 War It was also the time when Bangladesh was liberated in 1971. He recalls the war build-up and mock drills and sirens in Delhi as there were apprehensions Pakistan will bomb the city. Besides, getting into the mundane details of his colleagues, he also recollects many public events of Kashmir, the first being the theft of a holy relic in December 1963. Unlike today, as he was selected in post-graduation on the basis of his MBBS merit, he reveals that flattery often worked in getting the guides, especially HODs. He expresses his inability to flatter as well as having connections like other blue-eyed candidates. He fitted in none, despite his maternal uncle being the principal secretary of Mrs Indira Gandhi as his parents underscored that one should deserve achievement based on merit. He landed up in pulmonology but the abysmal state of the lab led the doctor to explore other options for specialization and change of place. After discussing it with his colleagues, he found a vacancy in cardiology at GB Pant Hospital and he assessed its cost-benefit ratio. He landed up in an institute, which had better infrastructural facilities as the hospital had a modern coronary care unit (CCU) to manage patients with heart attacks. This was possibly the first CCU in India according to the author as the history of CCU dates back to 1964. The author, when looking back feels proud to be associated with CCU care in its early days in India. As he describes his stressful life as a junior resident, he recalls experiences encountered in this phase of life. The Marriage In July 1975, during his first year of DM training, her got married to a fellow doctor, Dr Upkar who was older than him by four years. Her parents were Sikhs from Peshawar who had migrated to Meerut. But according to the author, the love knows no logic and is much against his family’s wish he married her. Due to shortcomings in GB Panth Hospital as its cardiac surgery department was not active, the doctor had to travel to Vellore in south India. He soon registers the stark differences in culture, language and way of life in North and South and explores India’s diversity. However, his impressions of the people of the south were that they were simple, not flashy and hard working. Soon he began to travel to Kerala and Bangalore. Cold Shouldered After becoming a cardiologist, uncertainty taught the author many lessons like not to depend on guides and friends who wished him well but could not do much. He narrates his disillusioned encounter with Sheikh Abdullah, the patron of SKIMS who turned a cold shoulder to the doctor’s request to serve at SKIMS. Finally, he joined the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Institution (PGIMER) in 1979 as an assistant professor. The doctor narrates his new life at Chandigarh, his yearning to return to family and finally managing an ad hoc lecturer at GB Pant hospital in 1980. But the working culture let him down. In 1981, he joined AIIMS after not being able to make it in the first attempt as an interviewer who had a poor opinion of people who were not trained at AIIMS. However, the next time when he was appointed there were changes in rules and reforms were initiated. The author documents his experiences in the hospital and his out-of-box thinking solutions in the cardiology department. A Flight Abroad In 1983, he availed a three-month fellowship to visit Australia. As this was his first visit outside India, he recalls the thrill with the same enthusiasm. He soon realized the stark differences between the hospitals of his host country and his home country and how the medical services were far behind in India. A realization dawned on him also when he analysed how doctors and paramedics were relaxed in Australia unlike overburdened and stressed at home. This problem persists as the doctor-patient ratio continues to be a problem in the health care sector he explores in his book. Besides many clinical insights he developed, Kaul also learned about coronary angioplasty and associated patient care and how the practice of medicine can be enjoyable and gratifying. He recalls many Kashmiri acquaintances in the country excelling in other walks of life. After his brief but useful professional and social experience in a developed country, he felt contributing to his department from his new experiences. After his return from Australia, as wanted to display his newly learnt skills and he started coronary angioplasty in India. In the process, he soon got multiple invitations to visit Tokyo. The doctor traces the evolution of coronary angioplasty in India and his team’s contributions. During one of his training courses, in the USA, he recalls meeting affluent Dr Fayaz Shawl, a cardiologist originally from Kashmir. Dr Shawl, he recalls had told him that he had taken cases rejected for angioplasty because of being very complex and even some surgical procedures like percutaneous cardiopulmonary support ( PCPS) were named Shawl Kit which he helped design and was manufactured by him. The limitations of balloon angioplasty were circumvented by the use of metal meshes called stents by early 1990. As a part of pacemaker’s industry-sponsored meeting in 1993 in London, the author recalls his racist encounter in the country and the humiliations it entailed. His notion of being a fair-skinned Kashmiri was dented. The Dark Era The author in the chapter a Dark Era in Kashmir Valley traces the causes of the ‘radicalization’ of peace-loving people and their growing revulsion with Sufi Islam. In order to create context, he also writes briefly about international events stoking Kashmir’s violent upheaval. The author, meanwhile, had to bear a long separation from his homeland from 1990 to 1997 and also witness the mass migration of his community. But according to him, the first exodus was in 1986 when many families from Anantnag fled to Jammu in response to Babri Masjid Ayodha, which was opened for Hindus to worship. As things went haywire and the terror struck the community left the valley, he recalls, how he helped Kashmiris despite festering wounds. “I went out of my way to shorten their OPD appointments and get investigations done and sometimes with monetary help. By now a word had spread regarding my soft corner for Kashmiris,” he narrates. Whenever he visits his patients in Kashmir, he recalls the overwhelming generosity and hospitality unleashed even by the neighbours. Invited Home In 1995, Mufti Mohammad Sayeed who used to get the medical opinion of Dr Kaul, suggested he come to Srinagar at least once in a few months and see patients in fortified Gupkar. During one visit to the city, he found the alleys were unchanged. Even though people’s hearts were filled with love and relished the old days of harmony, they were pessimistic. They held Governor Jagmohan responsible for facilitating the exodus so that he can take ruthless action against the people. However, the author questions people’s silence at targeted killings which triggered fear in the first place. As he could not visit Kashmir due to militancy, he sought an alternative to beat summer’s heat in Himachal Pradesh. But according to him, it turned out to be a poor match for Kashmir. His visits to Pakistan and China were insightful too as he always had a keen desire to travel the neighbouring country. Besides his interactions with counterparts, his impressions were that people, culture, and food across the border share similarities. They are friendly and hospitable, he narrates through his encounters with different people. According to him, people-to-people contact should be encouraged as they are sandwiched in power politics. Regarding China, he documents the rapid alleviation of poverty in the country and the enhanced hospitals and healthcare facilities. In his book, he also mentions being blessed by Sathya Sai Baba and his philanthropic contribution to health care. However, the author’s critical mind was not at rest regarding god man’s miracles. The Exit The author also documents his painful exit from AIIMS because of varied reasons from low salary to recruitment racket. He recalls how another candidate was favoured due to political backing. Finally, due to family compulsions, he had to leave the government sector and join a private hospital. The author also narrates his experience in private hospitals and the corporatization of healthcare with integrity. He details how gullible are fleeced and the nexus of various stakeholders in the murky sector have made healthcare a money-minting business with an aim of profit over people. He also mentions the unethical medical research being done in some centres in the country and how culprits evade accountability. He also abhors the kickback or referral system and narrates his experience as he witnessed malpractice by doctors. “I know from personal experience that patients were being charged for coronary stents when no stent was implanted,” he writes in his memoir. Gauri Manzil The author finally found closure to his dreams when he got Gauri Manzil constructed as he named the house after his mother who always yearned to return back to his homeland. And it was there on one fine evening that the author along with friends decided to visit far-off villages to provide health care. Soon a project was born Gauri Healthy Heart Project was started on September 29, 2020, which coincided with World Heart Day. In the middle of the book, the author enhances the value of the story through visuals from his life with people from diverse walks of life projecting his learning and achievement trajectory. Even though the author has repeatedly narrated that he was taking care of the hearts of almost all Kashmiri separatists as a cardiologist, the book, however, does not even make a passing reference to that.


--- [History of Kashmir - Wikipedia] ---
The history of Kashmir is intertwined with the history of the broader Indian subcontinent in South Asia with influences from the surrounding regions of Central, and East Asia. Historically, Kashmir referred to only the Kashmir Valley of the western Himalayas. Today, it denotes a larger area that includes the Indian-administered union territories of Jammu and Kashmir (which consists of Jammu and the Kashmir Valley), Ladakh, the Pakistan-administered territories of Azad Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan, and the Chinese-administered regions of Aksai Chin and the Trans-Karakoram Tract.
In the first half of the 1st millennium, the Kashmir region became an important centre of Hinduism and later—under the Mauryas and Kushanas—of Buddhism. Later in the ninth century, during the rule of the Karkota Dynasty, a native tradition of Shaivism arose. It flourished in the seven centuries of Hindu rule, continuing under the Utpala and the Lohara dynasties, ending in mid-14th century.
The spread of Islam in Kashmir began during the 13th century, accelerated under Muslim rule during the 14th and 15th centuries, and led to the eventual decline of Kashmiri Shaivism in the region.
In 1339, Shah Mir became the first Muslim ruler of Kashmir, inaugurating the Shah Mir dynasty. For the next five centuries, Muslim monarchs ruled Kashmir, including the Mughal Empire, who ruled from 1586 until 1751, and the Afghan Durrani Empire, which ruled from 1747 until 1819. That year, the Sikhs, under Ranjit Singh, annexed Kashmir. In 1846, after the Sikh defeat in the First Anglo-Sikh War, the Treaty of Lahore was signed and upon the purchase of the region from the British under the Treaty of Amritsar, the Raja of Jammu, Gulab Singh, became the new ruler of Kashmir. The rule of his descendants, under the paramountcy (or tutelage) of the British Crown, lasted until 1947, when the former princely state became a disputed territory, now administered by three countries: India, Pakistan, and the People's Republic of China.


--- [Noted cardiologist Dr Upendra Kaul's book When the heart speaks released] ---
Srinagar, Oct 29: National Conference President, Dr Farooq Abdullah on Saturday released “When the heart speaks” a book by noted cardiologist and social entrepreneur, Dr Upendra Kaul here. Dr Parvaiz Ahmad Koul, Director SKIMS, Prof Amitabh Mattoo and Prof Syeda Afshana of University of Kashmir were guests of honour. The book release event was moderated by Nidhi Razdan, Consulting Editor, NDTV. Speaking at the occasion, Dr Kaul divulged that his real surname was “Khan.” “Khan became Kaul when his father went to Lucknow for College Education in early 1940s.” he said. He talked about his deep sense of belonging for the Kashmir valley in spite of spending most of his life in Delhi. “The book revolves around Kashmir, my mother Gauri and varied experiences of the last 7 decades,” he said. Kaul said that his visits to Kashmir became very frequent and he also built a house “Gauri Manzil” in memory of his late mother. “The book is a full expose of the events during this period including the dark period of the 1990s’ and my contributions for the people of Kashmir irrespective of religious and caste barriers,” Kaul said. In his book, Kaul has written about the beginning of kickbacks in the medical profession, the differences in medical institutions like AIIMS and corporate hospitals, his relations with personalities as varied as Mian Bashir of Wangat and Sathya Sai Baba. He also talks about the Covid experience and finally the formation of Gauri Kaul Foundation and its contributions for the remote areas of the UT. Dr Kaul is a gold medallist in Surgery and the first qualified cardiologist of Kashmiri origin. While he loves his profession, his love for Kashmir is paramount, which can be seen from the manner in which he devotes special attention to patients from Kashmir. The patients flock him with faith that he will tend to them, and he does so unhesitatingly, sometimes even helping them out monetarily, if they cannot afford the treatment. He also regularly conducts health camps across J&K in pursuance of his mission of ‘No More Heart Attacks by 2025’ under the banner of an NGO set up as a tribute to his late mother Gauri Kaul. In this book, Dr Kaul has also traced the history of Kashmir from the late 14th, early 15th century, and provides nuggets of information – such as that the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir was bought for a mere Rs 75 lakh. He is frank when discussing the ills of his profession. The book is eminently readable, full of brilliant anecdotes, and difficult to put down. His description of Kashmir’s beauty makes the reader want to visit the region. An interesting fact he narrates is that when he was a baby he started speaking late, which got his parents worried as his cousin, who was of his age, was speaking fluently. His parents consulted the family’s head priest who advised that a tongue made of silver be donated to the Devi at Kheer Bhawani temple, one of the most sacred places for Kashmiri Pandits in the valley. His parents followed the head priest’s advice and a few weeks later Koul uttered his first sentence. Director SKIMS, Dr Parvaiz Ahmad Koul highlighted the contributions of Kaul in the field of Cardiology in Kashmir. “I want to thank U Kaul for his contributions and spending his entire life for the service of his people. He has been actively writing in local dailies and creating awareness about preventative measures for hypertension and cardiovascular diseases in the valley. He is a noble-hearted go-to-Kashmir heart doctor,” Koul said. Dr Parvaiz also thanked Kaul for visiting Kashmir during the 1990s with an aim to provide best cardiology services to his people. Speaking on the occasion, Prof Amitabh Mattoo, Professor of International Relations at JNU, Melbourne said that the book reveals deep compassion and love for Kashmir and above all U Kaul’s great humanity. “This book depicts the journey and experiences of U Kaul. His journey from his village, college, outside Kashmir and other countries. He has visited many places in the world but his commitment towards his people is appreciable,” he said. Syeda Afshana, Prof at MERC, University of Kashmir said that U Kaul has surprised us by becoming an admirable storyteller. “The one who deals with the heart, has spoken from the heart,” Prof Afshana said. She said that this book makes us understand that success is never accidental.
