=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[George Andrews (mathematician) - Wikipedia]
In 2003 Andrews was elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences. [2] He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1997. [10] In 1998 he was an Invited Speaker at the International Congress of Mathematicians in Berlin. [11] In 2012 he became a fellow of the American Mathematical Society. [12] He was given honorary doctorates from the University of Parma in ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Andrews_(mathematician)

[DLMF: Profile George E. Andrews ‣ About the Project]
Andrews was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1997, and to the National Academy of Sciences (USA) in 2003. He was awarded an honorary professorship at Nankai University in 2008. In 2009 he became a SIAM Fellow. He holds honorary degrees from the Universities of Parma, Florida, Waterloo, Illinois, and SASTRA University (India). Andrews served as President of the AMS from ...
URL: https://dlmf.nist.gov/about/bio/GEAndrews

[George E Andrews (1938 - ) - Biography - MacTutor History of ...]
He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1997, and to the National Academy of Sciences in 2003. He has received the Allegheny Region Distinguished Teaching Award from the Mathematical Association of America and the Centennial Award from the Department of Mathematics, the University of Pennsylvania:-
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies//Andrews/

[George E. Andrews | American Academy of Arts and Sciences]
Oct 16, 2025 · Pennsylvania State University Mathematician; Educator Area Mathematical and Physical Sciences Specialty Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, and Statistics Elected
URL: https://www.amacad.org/person/george-e-andrews

[PSU Mathematics Department - Curriculum Vitae - GitHub Pages]
Member Consulting Editorial Board of the Electronic Journal of Combinatorics and Advisory Committee, Journal of Indian Academy of Mathematics. Senior Associate Editor, chapter on q-hypergeometric and related functions, NIST DIgital Library of Mathematical Functions. President, American Mathematical Society, 2009-2011. Chairman, AMS Initial Fellows Selection Committee, 2012-2013.
URL: https://georgeandrews1.github.io/vitae.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [George Andrews (mathematician) - Wikipedia] ---
George Eyre Andrews (born December 4, 1938) is an American mathematician working in special functions, number theory, analysis and combinatorics.


--- [DLMF: Profile George E. Andrews ‣ About the Project] ---
No content


--- [George E Andrews (1938 - ) - Biography - MacTutor History of ...] ---
George W Eyre Andrews Quick Info Salem, Oregon, USA Biography George E Andrews' parents were Raymond Leslie Andrews and Ravena Pearl Eyre. He grew up on a farm outside Salem. He liked detective stories when he was at junior high school and realised at that time that he enjoyed working things out. He thought that he might achieve this by entering the legal profession, but when he was at high school his ideas changed somewhat and he decided that he would study engineering. It was with this in mind that he began his undergraduate studies at Oregon State University in Corvallis in 1956. However, his mathematics lecturer soon persuaded him that he should forget his idea of taking engineering as his major subject and choose mathematics instead. Andrews said [1]:-I went into mathematics and never looked back. I was struck by the beauty and the appeal of mathematics. It just captivated me.Andrews graduated from Oregon State University with both a B.S. and an M.S. in June 1960. Later that summer, on 2 September, he married Joy Margaret Brown; they had three children Amy Beth, Katherine Yvonne, and Derek George. He then spent a year at the University of Cambridge in England on a Fulbright Scholarship. After returning to the United States in 1961, Andrews began his graduate studies at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He already knew that he wanted to undertake research in number theory but at the time he began his course it was prime numbers which fascinated him. He took a graduate course on number theory given by Hans Rademacher and there he met the notion of a partition. Andrews had come across these ideas before, since Joy, before they were married, had given him a book which contained G H Hardy's A Mathematician's Apology and in that he had encountered the partition formula that Hardy and Ramanujan had discovered in 1916 for the number of different ways an integer can be expressed as a sum of natural numbers. Andrews was fascinated and asked Rademacher if he would become his thesis advisor. The topic suggested by Rademacher was Ramanujan's mock theta functions and indeed his research led to his thesis On the Theorems of Watson and Dragonette for Ramanujan's Mock Theta Functions. Andrews had published three papers by the time he had completed his thesis work: An asymptotic expression for the number of solutions of a general class of Diophantine equations (1961); A lower bound for the volume of strictly convex bodies with many boundary lattice points (1963); and On estimates in number theory (1963). This last paper, in the American Mathematical Monthly, gave a method for finding an upper bound for the number of solutions of a Diophantine equation of the form . Andrews was awarded his doctorate in 1964 from the University of Pennsylvania and was offered the position of assistant professor at Pennsylvania State University. His list of publications continued to grow with the paper A simple proof of Jacobi's triple product identity (1965) appearing before three papers were published in the following year based on the work of his doctoral thesis on mock theta functions and partitions. In 1967 Andrews was promoted to associate professor and then to full professor in 1970. He continued his career at Pennsylvania State University, being named Evan Pugh Professor in 1981. The year 1970 saw the publication of Andrews' first book Number theory. C Ryavec writes:- This book is highly suitable for a course in elementary number theory. The material is presented clearly, and it is supplemented by a balanced selection of exercises, so that the interest of both the merely competent and of the more able undergraduate is maintained.In 1970-71 Andrews was a visiting professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, then in 1975 at the University of Erlangen in Germany. Back in the United States he went to the University of Wisconsin where he was a visiting professor during 1975-76 working mainly with Richard Askey. Having received an invitation to speak at a conference in Strasbourg, France, he went there from Wisconsin. After the conference ended Andrews visited the University of Cambridge in England before returning to Wisconsin. In Cambridge Andrews asked to be allowed to work on the papers left by G N Watson on his death, which had been donated to the University Library and continued to be housed there. What Andrews found in an old box astounded him, for it contained around 100 loose pages in what he immediately recognised as Ramanujan's handwriting. It did not take Andrews long to recognise that the formulas on the sheets concerned mock theta functions. Indeed there was little else but formulas on the sheets with hardly any connecting words. Askey has said [1]:- There were certain identities that George recognized as mock theta functions. No one else would have spotted them instantly. George has done many things, but this is what will make the history books.About the same time as Andrews was making his major discovery of what is now called 'Ramanujan's lost notebook', his second book The theory of partitions was published. Carlitz writes:- ... as the author points out, there are almost no books devoted entirely to partitions. The combinatorial and formal power series aspects of the subject have usually been treated in books on elementary number theory or combinatorial analysis. Asymptotic problems concerning partitions have been considered in books on analytic or additive number theory. Applications of partitions in various branches of mathematics and statistics, the author points out, may make use of both combinatorial and asymptotic methods. ...Andrews, on his web page, describes his research interests as follows:- The book is very well written. Despite the large amount of ground covered it is quite readable. It is an excellent introduction to a fascinating subject. My research centres on the theory of partitions and related areas. I have a long-term interest in the work of Ramanujan, the Indian genius, whose last notebook I unearthed in the Trinity College Library at Cambridge in 1976. I am collaborating with Bruce Berndt on a multi-volume study of this 'Lost Notebook.' The first volume of this study appeared in June 2005. In addition, I have written more than 250 scientific papers, and several books on number theory and the theory of partitions, as well as edited the collected papers of Percy A MacMahon.As Andrews says, the first volume of Ramanujan's lost notebook, co-authored with Bruce C Berndt, was published in 2005. It is the first of what the authors expect to be four volumes. Andrew V Sills writes:- The mathematics community owes a huge debt of gratitude to Andrews and Berndt for undertaking the monumental task of producing a coherent presentation along with complete proofs of the chaotically written mathematical thoughts of Ramanujan during the last year of his life. Some 85 years after his death, beautiful "new" and useful results of Ramanujan continue to be brought to light.Among Andrews' other books we mention Special functions written jointly with Richard Askey and Ranjan Roy and published in 1999. Bruce C Berndt, in a review of the book, points to many remarkable features. We extract a few:- The book genuinely reflects the author's vast accumulated insights. Most notably, the authors demonstrate a superb familiarity with the historical roots of their subject. ...It is impossible to give any sort of overview of the totality of Andrews' contributions given that he has, up to 2006, 275 items in his publications list. Although he has continued on the faculty at Pennsylvania State University, Andrews has spent around 12 further spells as visiting professor at universities in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Australia, France, South Africa, Austria and England. "Special functions" will certainly emerge as the chief textbook and reference on special functions for the next several years. Indeed, the historical insights and copious problems make it an excellent textbook for a beginning graduate course. This book joins F W J Oliver's 'Asymptotics and special functions', first published in 1974, as the only general books on special functions during the past three decades that belong "in the Hobbs class", to quote G H Hardy. He has served on the editorial boards of many journals: Discrete Mathematics, the Journal of Combinatorial Theory (A); The Ramanujan Journal; Integers: The Electronic Journal of Combinatorial Number Theory; the Proceedings of the Jangjeon Mathematical Society; Advanced Studies in Contemporary Mathematics; the Acharya Nagarjuna International Journal of Mathematics and Information Technology; and the International Journal of Number Theory. Andrews has received, and continues to receive, many honours for his outstanding contributions. For example he has been an invited one-hour speaker at four Joint American Mathematical Society - Mathematical Association of America meetings (1972, 1977, 1993, 1994), and he was the Mathematical Association of America's Hedrick Lecturer in 1980, and the J S Frame Lecturer in 1993. He has received honorary degrees from the University of Parma (1998), the University of Florida (2002), and the University of Waterloo (2004). He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1997, and to the National Academy of Sciences in 2003. He has received the Allegheny Region Distinguished Teaching Award from the Mathematical Association of America and the Centennial Award from the Department of Mathematics, the University of Pennsylvania:- ... in recognition of contributions to pure mathematics and [...] mathematical education ...in October 1999. As to his current (September 2006) research interests, Andrews writes:- Currently I am reviving MacMahon's "Partition Analysis", collaborating on further applications of partitions to statistical mechanics and computer science, and completing my study of the relationship between Ramanujan's enigmatic identities and quadratic forms. References (show) - R Nuzzo, Biography of George E Andrews, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 102 (13) (2005), 4663-4665. Additional Resources (show) Other websites about George E Andrews: Honours (show) Honours awarded to George E Andrews Cross-references (show) Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update November 2006 Last Update November 2006


--- [George E. Andrews | American Academy of Arts and Sciences] ---
Professor George E. Andrews Pennsylvania State University Mathematician; Educator Area Mathematical and Physical Sciences Specialty Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, and Statistics Elected 1997 Research centers on the theory of partitions and related areas. Has a long-term interest in the work of Ramanujan, the Indian genius, whose last notebook he unearthed in the Trinity College Library at Cambridge in 1976. Currently reviving MacMahon's Partition Analysis, collaborating on further applications of partitions to statistical mechanics, and completing study of the relationships between Ramanujan's enigmatic identities and quadratic forms. Last Updated


--- [PSU Mathematics Department - Curriculum Vitae - GitHub Pages] ---
CURRICULUM VITAE GEORGE E. ANDREWS Atherton Professor in Mathematics Current Addresses | Office | Department of Mathematics | | 306 McAllister Building | | | The Pennsylvania State University | | | University Park, PA 16802 | | | 814-865-6642 | | | 814-865-3735 (Fax) | | | gea1@psu.edu | | | Home | 119 Meadow Lane | | Centre Hall, PA 16828 | | | 814-364-9982 | Personal Information - Date of Birth - December 4, 1938 - Place of Birth - Salem, Oregon, USA - Citizenship - USA Education - B.S. & M.A., Oregon State University, June, 1960. Thesis advisor: Helmut Groemer - Ph.D., University of Pennsylvania, May 1964. Thesis advisor: Hans Rademacher Employment Member of the faculty, the Pennsylvania State University - 1964-67 Assistant Professor - 1967-70 Associate Professor - 1970-81 Professor - 1981- Evan Pugh Professor - 2022 - Atherton Professor Visiting Positions | Visiting Professor | Massachusetts Institute of Technology | 1970-71 | | Visiting Lecturer | University of Erlangen | 1975 | | Visiting Professor | University of Wisconsin | 1975-76 | | Visiting Lecturer | National University of Mexico | 1977 | | Visiting Professor | University of New South Wales | 1978-79 | | Visiting Lecturer | New Zealand Mathematical Society | 1979 | | Adjunct Professor | University of Waterloo | 1982-92 | | Visiting Scientist | Australian National University | 1983 | | Visiting Professor | University of Strasbourg | 1983 | | Visiting Ordway Professor | University of Minnesota | 1988 | | Visiting Scientist | T. J. Watson Research Center, IBM | 1990-91 | | Visiting Fellow | University of Melbourne | 1997-98 | | Visiting Researcher | University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg | 1998 | | Visiting Professor | Johannes Kepler University, Linz, Austria | 1998 | | Visiting Research Fellow | School of Math. Sciences, University of Sussex, Brighton, UK | 1998 | | Visiting Professor | University of Florida | 2005-present | Selected Honors and Grants - Fulbright Scholar, Cambridge University, 1960-61 - Invited one hour addresses at national American Mathematics Society-Mathematical Association of America meetings in 1972, 1977, 1993, and 1994 - Hedrick Lecturer, Mathematical Association of America, 1980 - Guggenheim Fellow, 1982-83 - CBMS Regional Conference Principal Lecturer, Arizona State University, 1985 - J.S. Frame Lecturer, 1993 - Allegheny Region Distinguished Teaching Award, Mathematical Association of America - Invited Lectures, American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1987 and 1996 - Elected Member, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1997 - Received extensive support from the National Science Foundation and the National Security Agency - Honorary Degree in Physics, University of Parma, May, 1998 - Meeting of the 42nd Séminaire Lotharingien de Combinatoire in honor of my 60th birthday, at Maratea, Italy, September 1998 - Two day celebration of my 60th birthday at Penn State (in conjunction with a regional AMS meeting), October, 1998 - Centennial Award from the Department of Mathematics, the University of Pennsylvania, "in recognition of contributions to pure mathematics and ... mathematical education," in October, 1999 - Honorary Degree, University of Florida, 2002 - Elected to National Academy of Sciences, 2003 - 65th Birthday Conference at Penn State, April 2004 - Honorary Degree, University of Waterloo, 2004 - MAA Polya Lecturer, 2007-08 and 2008-09 - Elected President of AMS 2007 - Honorary Professorship, Nankai University, PRC, 2008 - 70th Birthday Conference at Penn State, December 2008 - Selected Fellow of Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2009 - Fellow of the AMS, 2012 - Honorary Degree, SASTRA University (India), 2012 - Conference in honor of my 75th birthday, Centre for Combinatorics, Nankai University, Tianjin, China, 2013 - Honorary Doctorate, University of Illinois, 2014 - 80th Birthday Conference, Penn State University, 2018 - Elected to Sigma Xi, 2021 - Recipient of the Euler Medal 2022 - Listed by Academic Influence as one of the 36 mathematicians among "Top Influencial Mathematicians Today" Research My research centers on the theory of partitions and related areas. For a summary of my early research, please see The Work of George Andrews: A Madison Perspective by Richard Askey, paper B42b, Séminaire Lotharingien de Combinatoire (electronic journal), 1999. Also see my Selected Works (With Commentary) Imperial College Press, 2013. I have a long-term interest in the work of Ramanujan, the Indian genius, whose last notebook I unearthed in the Trinity College Library at Cambridge in 1976. I am collaborated with Bruce Berndt on a fivei-volume study of this 'Lost Notebook.' The first volume of this study appeared in June 2005; the second in January 2009, the third in 2012, and the fourth in 2013, and the last in 2018. In addition to more than 350 scientific papers, I have written books on number theory and the theory of partitions, as well as edited the collected papers of Percy A. MacMahon (see the attached bibliography). Currently I am working on q-series and on further aspects of partitions and their amazing relationship with Ramanujan's enigmatic identities. Service - Mathematics Department Chairman, 1980-1982 and 1995-1997. - Associate Head for Faculty Development, Mathematics Department, 2006-2011. Reappointed 2012. - Appointed Chairman, Mathematics Department Promotion and Tenure Committee, 2013. - Appointed Chairman, Committee to Select Evan Pugh candidates from Eberly College of Science, 2015. - Member, Mathematics Department Advisory, Undergraduate Studies, Scholarship, and MASS Advisory Committees. - Member of Editorial Boards of the Journal of Combinatorial Theory (A), The Ramanujan Journal, Integers: The Electronic Journal of Combinatorial Number Theory, Advances in Mathematics, the International Journal of Number Theory, The Mathematics Student, Research in Number Theory (new Springer Journal), and Contributions to Discrete Mathematics. Member of Editorial Advisory Board for CRC's Standard Mathematical Tables and Formulae. Joint Managing Editor, Annals of Combinatorics. Member Consulting Editorial Board of the Electronic Journal of Combinatorics and Advisory Committee, Journal of Indian Academy of Mathematics. Senior Associate Editor, chapter on q-hypergeometric and related functions, NIST DIgital Library of Mathematical Functions. - President, American Mathematical Society, 2009-2011. - Chairman, AMS Initial Fellows Selection Committee, 2012-2013. - Member, Simons Investigators in Mathematics Nominating Committee, 2012. - Invited to serve on the Selection Committee for the 2014 Polya Prize. - Invited to serve on the Scientific Advisory Committee (and be a speaker at) the 29th International Conference of the Jangjeon Mathematical Society at Pondicherry University, India, August 8-10, 2016. - Invited to serve on the Invited Addresses Committee for MathFest 2017 (MAA). - Have taught courses at Penn State from the level of calculus to advanced topics for graduate students. - Have lectured about mathematics in nearly every continent (except Antarctica).
