=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Moonology Manifestation Oracle: A 48-Card Moon Astrology Oracle Deck ...]
Oct 19, 2021 · Supercharge your manifesting with the power of the Moon with this stunning 48-card deck and guidebook—from Yasmin Boland, the bestselling author of Moonology: Working with the Magic of the Lunar Cycles, hailed as “the greatest living astrological authority on the Moon” (Jonathan Cainer, astrologer). Manifesting with the Moon has never been easier! This oracle deck is designed to help you ...
URL: https://www.amazon.com/Moonology-Manifestation-Oracle-48-Card-Guidebook/dp/1788176529

[Moonology Manifestation Oracle - Hay House]
Oct 19, 2021 · Supercharge your manifesting with the power of the Moon with this stunning 48-card deck and guidebook—from Yasmin Boland, the bestselling author of Moonology: Working with the Magic of the Lunar Cycles, hailed as “the greatest living astrological authority on the Moon” (Jonathan Cainer, astrologer extraordinare.
URL: https://www.hayhouse.com/moonology-mainfestation-oracle-card-deck

[Moonology Oracle Cards]
48 beautiful cards, created by award-winning astrologer and Sunday Times bestselling Hay House author Yasmin Boland and designed by the talented mystic artist Lori Menna, aka Cosmic Collage.
URL: https://magic.moonology.com/oracle-moonology-manifestation-cards

[Moonology Manifestation Oracle Card Deck by Yasmin Boland - 48 Cards ...]
Manifest your dreams with the Moonology Manifestation Oracle, created by astrologer Yasmin Boland. This inspiring set includes a 48-card deck and a 144-page guidebook, beautifully illustrated by Lori Menna, designed to help you harness lunar energy for manifestation and spiritual growth.
URL: https://seluvia.co.uk/products/moonology-manifestation-oracle-card-deck-by-yasmin-boland-48-cards-guidebook

[Moonology™ Manifestation Oracle: A 48-Card Deck and Guidebook ...]
Manifesting with the Moon has never been easier! Discover how to use the Moon as a cosmic timer to create the life of your dreams. Supercharge your manifesting powers and find out how to consciously create positive change in your life with this magical 48-card oracle from bestselling Moonologer Yasmin Boland.
URL: https://www.angelicroots.com/products/moonology-manifestation-oracle-a-48-card-deck-and-guidebook-yasmin-boland


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Moonology Manifestation Oracle: A 48-Card Moon Astrology Oracle Deck ...] ---
Download the free Kindle app and start reading Kindle books instantly on your smartphone, tablet, or computer - no Kindle device required. Read instantly on your browser with Kindle for Web. Using your mobile phone camera - scan the code below and download the Kindle app. Follow the author OK Moonology Manifestation Oracle: A 48-Card Moon Astrology Oracle Deck and Guidebook Cards – Day to Day Calendar, October 19, 2021 Purchase options and add-ons Manifesting with the Moon has never been easier! This oracle deck is designed to help you tap into the lunar cycle and work with the moon's phases to manifest your deepest intentions, using the Moon as a cosmic timer to attract more abundance and happiness. Featuring beautiful cosmic imagery, each moon card explains what you're bringing into your life, and how to tap into the lunar cycle and increase your manifesting powers. This captivating oracle deck will: - Deepen your knowledge of astrology and Moonology - Empower you to connect with your emotions - Harness the energy of the moon to manifest by working with the moon's phases - Strengthen your intuition - Clarify your intentions on what you truly desire - Receive guidance when you need it most - Align with the natural rhythms of the universe...and more! Within each moon phase, this manifesting oracle card deck explores the unique power of the Moon as She moves through the signs of the zodiac, and the amazing ways these energies can influence the emotions and experiences of your daily life. The Moonology Manifestation Oracle includes 44 beautifully illustrated cards, each with its own unique message and affirmation to help you align your energy with the universe. From setting intentions during the New Moon to releasing blockages during the Full Moon, this life-changing oracle deck will guide you through each phase of the lunar cycle with clarity and ease. Whether you're new to the practice of manifestation or a seasoned pro, the Moonology Manifestation Oracle is a must-have tool for anyone looking to align with the natural rhythms of the universe and manifest their dreams with ease. Look to the Moon for support and you will discover how to access the inner power you've had all along! - Print length128 pages - LanguageEnglish - PublisherHay House UK - Publication dateOctober 19, 2021 - Dimensions4 x 1.51 x 5.4 inches - ISBN-101788176529 - ISBN-13978-1788176521 Book recommendations, author interviews, editors' picks, and more. Read it now. Frequently bought together More items to explore From the Publisher Editorial Reviews About the Author Product details - Publisher : Hay House UK - Publication date : October 19, 2021 - Language : English - Print length : 128 pages - ISBN-10 : 1788176529 - ISBN-13 : 978-1788176521 - Item Weight : 2.31 pounds - Dimensions : 4 x 1.51 x 5.4 inches - Best Sellers Rank: #87,861 in Books (See Top 100 in Books) - #116 in Astrology (Books) - #275 in Tarot - #2,067 in Personal Transformation Self-Help - Customer Reviews: About the author Yasmin Boland is an award-winning astrologer (voted the UK's best loved astrologer) and Sunday Times best-selling Hay House author of books including Moonology and Astrology Made Easy, and the creator of the Moonology oracle cards. Yasmin, born in Germany to Maltese/English/Irish parents, raised in Tasmania and now based in London, teaches about the Moon, the Divine Feminine, moonology and astrology. A former journalist and TV producer, Yasmin has been working with the Moon for nearly 20 years. She's now read by millions of people each week via her site yasminboland.com, and her astrology and New Age columns appear on websites and in magazines around the world including Yahoo! Australia, Soul & Spirit, Who, Take 5, Chat It's Fate, Closer and Red magazines. Yasmin's book Moonology; working with the magic of lunar cycles has been in the top 10 Amazon astrology best-sellers UK for 6+ years (often at number 1). Yasmin is also the author of Mercury Retrograde Book. Her work has been translated into multiple languages including French, German, Turkish, Japanese, Taiwanese, Polish, Estonian and Dutch. Customer reviews Customer Reviews, including Product Star Ratings help customers to learn more about the product and decide whether it is the right product for them. To calculate the overall star rating and percentage breakdown by star, we don’t use a simple average. Instead, our system considers things like how recent a review is and if the reviewer bought the item on Amazon. It also analyzed reviews to verify trustworthiness. Learn more how customers reviews work on AmazonCustomers say Select to learn more Reviews with images Great Quality! This author never disappoints, an amazing addition to my spiritual practice! Top reviews from the United States There was a problem filtering reviews. Please reload the page. - Reviewed in the United States on October 31, 2021Format: CardsVerified PurchaseI have been following Yasmin Boland for years, and I have never been disappointed. I pre-ordered the Moonology Manifestation Oracle deck back in June when they were first available for pre-order here in the states. I loved the first deck, and when I received these, I was amazed. The artwork is stunning, and the tones used in each card represent the elemental side of each sign, earth, fire, water, air are a fantastic touch from Lori Menna, the artist. As you can see by my pictures, I am an avid crystal and essential oil user (some of my collection is shown in the last two photos and are not included with the deck). I own several tarot and oracle decks, and this is my favorite oracle deck so far! To address some of the reviews here, which left me shocked and confused, the Moonology Manifestation Oracle focuses on a different spiritual practice component versus the first deck by this author. The only thing I found to be similar is the high quality. These cards are thick, have an excellent velvety feel, and have beautiful artwork depicting the meanings behind each card. I made a side-by-side comparison of this deck with the first deck put out by Yasmin Boland (as shown in the last picture-New deck on the Left and her first Deck on the Right), and it's easy to see that the quality has only improved. I love using this deck to enhance my manifestation practice and can include my collections of essential oils and crystals in mini manifestation rituals throughout the moon cycles. As the deck's name indicates, these cards are an amazing tool for my daily manifestation practice. As some reviewers assumed incorrectly, they enhance an aspect of your spiritual practice, not replace what you already do. I also highly recommend these cards to newer users; the astrological symbol for each sign is at the top right corner of each card, and the color tones help you remember the elemental side of the sign. They are worth every penny and the five months I waited for release! 5.0 out of 5 starsI have been following Yasmin Boland for years, and I have never been disappointed.Great Quality! This author never disappoints, an amazing addition to my spiritual practice! Reviewed in the United States on October 31, 2021 I pre-ordered the Moonology Manifestation Oracle deck back in June when they were first available for pre-order here in the states. I loved the first deck, and when I received these, I was amazed. The artwork is stunning, and the tones used in each card represent the elemental side of each sign, earth, fire, water, air are a fantastic touch from Lori Menna, the artist. As you can see by my pictures, I am an avid crystal and essential oil user (some of my collection is shown in the last two photos and are not included with the deck). I own several tarot and oracle decks, and this is my favorite oracle deck so far! To address some of the reviews here, which left me shocked and confused, the Moonology Manifestation Oracle focuses on a different spiritual practice component versus the first deck by this author. The only thing I found to be similar is the high quality. These cards are thick, have an excellent velvety feel, and have beautiful artwork depicting the meanings behind each card. I made a side-by-side comparison of this deck with the first deck put out by Yasmin Boland (as shown in the last picture-New deck on the Left and her first Deck on the Right), and it's easy to see that the quality has only improved. I love using this deck to enhance my manifestation practice and can include my collections of essential oils and crystals in mini manifestation rituals throughout the moon cycles. As the deck's name indicates, these cards are an amazing tool for my daily manifestation practice. As some reviewers assumed incorrectly, they enhance an aspect of your spiritual practice, not replace what you already do. I also highly recommend these cards to newer users; the astrological symbol for each sign is at the top right corner of each card, and the color tones help you remember the elemental side of the sign. They are worth every penny and the five months I waited for release! Images in this review - Reviewed in the United States on October 20, 2021Format: CardsVerified PurchaseLove these new Moonology cards. I wish they would have kept the eclipse cards, and balsamic moon cards from the first deck. But, perhaps I will combine my decks into one master deck. I love the back of the cards showing waxing, full and waning moon. Works for using the cards in the upright or reversed positions. A peaceful back, yet still bright enough to be eye catching. The addition of people and creatures to the cards is a welcome addition. It has astrology glyphs, chakras, the name of the card, and a short phrase to tap into the meaning. While the guidebook is short and without pictures, it explains the energies, the medicine, how to shift your mindset, gives manifesting tips, and best times to work with the energies. If you know more about the moon and astrology, chakras, and elements, you can bring in a lot more interpretation. These cards are definitely prettier than the first deck, but I will reserve judgment on use for a while. The first deck is a fave of mine. - Reviewed in the United States on October 31, 2021Format: CardsVerified PurchaseThese cards are beautifully designed by Lori Menna and have gorgeous and helpful manifestation messages that are further interpreted in the enclosed guidebook. Each card has a brief but poignant message that addresses the question posed in a manner that is direct yet guiding (unlike tarot, which can be downright brutal!)—meaning that each card that is drawn reveals the heart of the matter to be addressed. For instance, are you feeling frustrated with your builder, spouse, colleague, etc.? The card you pick may show you the “Practise Gratitude” card, and the guidebook explains practical ways and even rituals that help to dispel the negative situation to great effect. Since this site is Amazon U.S., just a quick note that this lovely set is written in British English, so they are not misspelled. If you would like to learn more about moon manifesting, check out Yasmin Boland’s other works—also available on Amazon.com—*Moonology Diary 2022,* *Moonology,* *Astrology Made Easy,* and her Facebook page—Yasmin Boland—where she goes “Live” and offers an informative, calming, enjoyable and uplifting experience. ”See” you there! - Reviewed in the United States on February 9, 2026Format: CardsVerified Purchasei love yasmin an these cards are beautifully made and very concise - Reviewed in the United States on October 19, 2021Format: CardsVerified PurchaseSo for weeks now I’ve been hesitating to get this deck and I am not disappointed in getting it at all!!. I’d absolutely love love the backing of this deck, the moon looks so vibrant and that also goes for the artwork on the Front of the card where the moon phases are much more brighter. The card stock is a little bit on the ticker side but that’s fine for me. As for some of the imagery its sort of similar to the first OG MoonOlogy for some Yet! very different and different energy from the first OG MoonOlogy. Which for me was an introduction to connecting with the moon and it assisted with that task. This deck on the other hand it’s perfect for beginners n those who want to upgrade their manifestation, for those who have difficulty manifesting need assistance and those who are new to manifestation. 🌖 Like the inside of the box sides “ ATTUNE TO THE MOON MANIFEST MIRACLES!” 🌓 but like I said still Very beautiful, brighter, vibrant, Draws the eye and Energy is very smooth. And yes some of the spelling is British English so if you’re not use to that you may think it’s a misspell but ITS NOT! (SO KEEP CLAM lol) its actually British English and Not American English which is completely fine with me and I’m comfortable with it because I grew up in a British island. So with that said i’m still hype about this deck and I can’t wait work wit it!!!!😍😍🌕🌖🌗🌘🌑🌒🌓🌔…. Ps Maybe if it had like a purple or a lilac gilding to it would have been super cool too💜 4.0 out of 5 starsSo for weeks now I’ve been hesitating to get this deck and I am not disappointed in getting it at all!!. I’d absolutely love love the backing of this deck, the moon looks so vibrant and that also goes for the artwork on the Front of the card where the moon phases are much more brighter. The card stock is a little bit on the ticker side but that’s fine for me. As for some of the imagery its sort of similar to the first OG MoonOlogy for some Yet! very different and different energy from the first OG MoonOlogy. Which for me was an introduction to connecting with the moon and it assisted with that task. This deck on the other hand it’s perfect for beginners n those who want to upgrade their manifestation, for those who have difficulty manifesting need assistance and those who are new to manifestation. 🌖 Like the inside of the box sides “ ATTUNE TO THE MOON MANIFEST MIRACLES!” 🌓 but like I said still Very beautiful, brighter, vibrant, Draws the eye and Energy is very smooth. And yes some of the spelling is British English so if you’re not use to that you may think it’s a misspell but ITS NOT! (SO KEEP CLAM lol) its actually British English and Not American English which is completely fine with me and I’m comfortable with it because I grew up in a British island. So with that said i’m still hype about this deck and I can’t wait work wit it!!!!😍😍🌕🌖🌗🌘🌑🌒🌓🌔…. Ps Maybe if it had like a purple or a lilac gilding to it would have been super cool too💜Could be better but still not disappointed love it!!! Reviewed in the United States on October 19, 2021 Images in this review - Reviewed in the United States on November 1, 2025Format: CardsVerified PurchaseThese were a gift for my sister who loves moons and oracle or tarot cards. It's been a year and they are still one of her favorite decks. Top reviews from other countries - Lorraine kohReviewed in Singapore on October 29, 2023 5.0 out of 5 stars Fast delivery Format: CardsVerified PurchaseEasy to shuffle . - Aylin Ş.Reviewed in the Netherlands on October 25, 2021 5.0 out of 5 stars Very clear!! Format: CardsVerified PurchaseI really love these cards. I love every product of Yasmin Boland. She is very clear and the cards are easy to use. I recommend her books too! - Jay Jay O'BrienReviewed in Canada on December 18, 2024 5.0 out of 5 stars Moon Magic Format: CardsVerified PurchaseI love and live by the moon. As a dedicated practioner of 'Moonology' this deck accompanies my Moonology oracle deck and offera daily guidance that truly resonates. Beautiful cards, imagery, and messaging. Recommend the Moonology diary to go with! - Kindle CustomerReviewed in the United Kingdom on October 16, 2025 5.0 out of 5 stars Quality Format: CardsVerified PurchaseBeautiful cards ! - François De KockReviewed in Belgium on September 22, 2023 5.0 out of 5 stars One of the best card desks ever Format: CardsVerified PurchaseI have tons of card desks, and occasionally used many more. This one is most definitely in my top 5. Trust it.


--- [Moonology Manifestation Oracle - Hay House] ---
Moonology Manifestation Oracle - Availability: - Usually ships within 2 to 3 business days - Publication Date: - 10/19/21 - ISBN: - 9781788176521 - Number of Cards: - 48 Supercharge...See more Supercharge your manifesting with the power of the Moon with this stunning 48-card deck and guidebook—from Yasmin Boland, the bestselling author of Moonology: Working with the Magic of the Lunar Cycles, hailed as “the greatest living astrological authority on the Moon” (Jonathan Cainer, astrologer extraordinare. Manifesting with the Moon has never been easier! This oracle deck is designed to help you tap into the lunar cycle and work with the Moon's phases and signs to manifest your deepest intentions, using the Moon as a cosmic timer to attract increased abundance and happiness – or literally anything else your heart desires Featuring beautiful cosmic imagery, each moon card explains what you're bringing into your life, and how to tap into the lunar cycle and increase your manifesting powers,. This captivating oracle deck will: · Deepen your knowledge of astrology and Moonology · Empower you to connect with your emotions · Harness the energy of the moon to manifest by working with the moon's phases · Strengthen your intuition · Clarify your intentions on what you truly desire · Receive guidance when you need it most · Align with the natural rhythms of the universe...and more! Within each of the four main Moon phases, this manifesting oracle card deck explores the unique power of the Moon as She moves through the signs of the zodiac. You will discover the amazing ways these energies can influence your emotions and experiences of your daily life– and how to manifest with them. The Moonology Manifestation Oracle includes 44 beautifully illustrated cards, each with its own unique message and manifestation affirmation to help you align your energy with the universe. From setting intentions during the New Moon to releasing blockages during the Full Moon, this life-changing oracle deck will guide you through each phase of the lunar cycle with clarity and ease. Whether you're new to the practice of manifestation or a seasoned pro, the Moonology Manifestation Oracle is a must-have tool for anyone looking to align with the natural rhythms of the universe and manifest their dreams with ease. Look to the Moon for support and you will discover how to access the inner power you've had all along!


--- [Moonology Oracle Cards] ---
Q: How are these cards different? A: Quite simply, they are next level. When you ask any deck of cards a question, what do you get? You get an answer which tells you what you are currently manifesting. And these cards? Yasmin explains… Like many of my readers, I am a huge fan of manifesting. I know that when I read Oracle or tarot cards, the answers I get show me what I am currently creating in my life. With these cards, I want to go to the next level. I wanted to say "OK, so the cards tell me I'm on the right track, but what else can I do to boost my success?" Or if I get an answer I'm not particularly happy with, if I don't like the card or answer I get or I'm not convinced about the direction I'm headed in, what can I do to change that?


--- [Moonology Manifestation Oracle Card Deck by Yasmin Boland - 48 Cards ...] ---
No content


--- [Moonology™ Manifestation Oracle: A 48-Card Deck and Guidebook ...] ---
No content
