=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[West Hollywood Hosts First Q Con for LGBT Comic Book Fans]
Jun 20, 2022 · Q Con 2022 by Mike Pingel for WEHO TIMES Prism Comics & The City of West Hollywood hosted the first ever Q Con, a queer comic convention for LGBT comic book fans on Saturday, June 18, 2022 at Fiesta Hall’s Plummer Park.
URL: https://wehotimes.com/west-hollywood-hosts-first-q-con-for-lgbt-comic-book-fans/

[PRISM COMICS Cordially Invites You to Q CON in WeHo on June 18]
May 24, 2022 · Prism Comics is launching a brand-new LGBTQ+ comic convention in West Hollywood, California on June 18 th, 2022, and you are cordially invited! “Q Con – A Comic Convention Celebrating LGBTQ+ Comics and Graphic Novels” will give visitors the chance to meet creators and get autographs and sketches, mix with other comic fans, and take part ...
URL: https://www.prismcomics.org/prism-comics-cordially-invites-you-to-q-con-in-weho-on-june-18/

[WEHO TIMES: West Hollywood Hosts First Q Con for LGBT Comic Book Fans]
Photo by Paulo Murillo for WEHO TIMES Prism Comics & The City of West Hollywood hosted the first ever Q Con, a queer comic convention for LGBT comic book fans on Saturday, June 18, 2022 at Fiesta Hall's Plummer Park, reports WEHO TIMES.
URL: https://thefightmag.com/2022/06/weho-times-west-hollywood-hosts-first-q-con-for-lgbt-comic-book-fans/

[Q Con Returning To Southern California ⋆ First Comics News]
May 2, 2023 · Prism Comics, the nonprofit championing LGBTQ+ visibility, diversity and inclusion in comics, graphic novels and popular media, presents Q Con, Southern California’s newest LGBTQ+ comic con on Saturday, June 17, 2023 from 10 am to 5 pm at Fiesta Hall in Plummer Park in West Hollywood, CA.
URL: https://www.firstcomicsnews.com/q-con-returning-to-southern-california/

[Prism Comics Presents Q Con: SoCal's Newest LGBTQ+ Comic Con on June ...]
Jun 14, 2023 · Prism Comics, the nonprofit championing LGBTQ+ visibility, diversity, and inclusion in comics, graphic novels, and popular media, presents Q Con, Southern California’s newest LGBTQ+ comic con on Saturday, June 17, 2023, from 10 am to 5 pm Fiesta Hall in Plummer Park, 1166 North Vista Street, West Hollywood, CA. Last year, Prism Comics held the first annual Q Con to great success with over ...
URL: https://www.creepykingdom.com/post/q-con-june-17th


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [West Hollywood Hosts First Q Con for LGBT Comic Book Fans] ---
No content


--- [PRISM COMICS Cordially Invites You to Q CON in WeHo on June 18] ---
PRISM COMICS Cordially Invites You to Q CON in WeHo on June 18 Prism Comics is launching a brand-new LGBTQ+ comic convention in West Hollywood, California on June 18th, 2022, and you are cordially invited! “Q Con – A Comic Convention Celebrating LGBTQ+ Comics and Graphic Novels” will give visitors the chance to meet creators and get autographs and sketches, mix with other comic fans, and take part in the Q Con Costume Contest for fun and prizes! Best of all, the event is free and open to the public. Here are the details on where and where you can join Prism Comics for Q Con: WHEN: Saturday, June 18, 2022 from 10 am to 5 pm WHERE: Fiesta Hall at Plummer Park, 1166 N Vista Street, West Hollywood, CA 90046 WEBSITE: https://www.prismcomics.org/q-con ADMISSION: Free Register in advance on Eventbrite or free tickets at the door And here are the guests who are currently scheduled to appear: Marc Andreyko (Manhunter; Batwoman); Tara Madison Avery (We’re Still Here; publisher, Stacked Deck Press); Bearded Shirts; CAPS – Comic Art Professional Society; David Booher (Rain; Killer Queens); Dave Davenport (Feral and The Ghost Skater); A.C. Esguerra (Eighty Days); Richard Fairgray (Blastosaurus, Haunted Hill); Jack Foster (Gun); Sina Grace (Iceman, Rockstar And Softboy); Huntees; Ed Luce (Wuvable Oaf); Steve MacIsaac (Unpacking); Knave Murdock (Transcat); M.K. Palmer (Meraki); Mike Pingel (Channel Surfing: Charlie’s Angels; Channel Surfing: Wonder Woman); Kayden Phoenix (A La Brava, Jalisco); Prism Comics; Qweerty Gamers; Brad Rader (Bob’s Burgers, Batman: The Animated Series); David Reddish (The Passion of Sergius & Bacchus); Max Spragovsky (W.O.O.F. Galaxy); Stacked Deck Press; TOKYOPOP; William O. Tyler (Theater of Terror); Shannon Watters (Lumberjanes, Hollow); Michael Varrati (The Boulet Brothers’ Dragula, Midnight Mass with Peaches Christ & Michael Varrati); Malissa White (Nightmare); Yaoi Revolution; and others to be announced. Q Con is part of the City of West Hollywood’s WeHo Pride LGBTQ Arts Festival (May 22nd – June 30th, 2022) and is made possible by a grant from the City’s Arts Division, as well as support from Community Sponsors that include the Los Angeles Film School, Tapas, and TOKYOPOP. Will you be attending Q Con? Let us know on social media @prismcomics, and we hope to see you there!


--- [WEHO TIMES: West Hollywood Hosts First Q Con for LGBT Comic Book Fans] ---
Photo by Paulo Murillo for WEHO TIMES Prism Comics & The City of West Hollywood hosted the first ever Q Con, a queer comic convention for LGBT comic book fans on Saturday, June 18, 2022 at Fiesta Hall’s Plummer Park, reports WEHO TIMES. Prism Comics (https://www.prismcomics.org/) is a nonprofit organization championing LGBTQ+ visibility, diversity, and inclusion in comics, graphic novels, and popular media. Q Con offered a roomful of booths featuring LGBTQ artwork, accessories, and apparel. There was plenty of cosplay, meet and greets, photo ops, raffles and a cosplay contest offered gift baskets and custom made trophies. READ MORE HERE: West Hollywood Hosts First Q Con for LGBT Comic Book Fans


--- [Q Con Returning To Southern California ⋆ First Comics News] ---
Prism Comics, the nonprofit championing LGBTQ+ visibility, diversity and inclusion in comics, graphic novels and popular media, presents Q Con, Southern California’s newest LGBTQ+ comic con on Saturday, June 17, 2023 from 10 am to 5 pm at Fiesta Hall in Plummer Park in West Hollywood, CA. Last year, Prism Comics held the first annual Q Con to great success with over 900 people attending. This year’s Q con will once again celebrate the amazing diversity of LGBTQ+ comics, games, and popular media today and will be expanded with panel presentations on various comics topics. Attendees will be able to meet creators from indie comics to major publishers, get autographs and sketches, and mix with other comics fans. Attendees are encouraged to cosplay their favorite characters with a fun and festive costume contest being held at 3:30 pm. Q Con is free to the public and family friendly, providing pre-teens through adults with the opportunity to find a wide variety of comics and graphic novels affirming LGBTQ+ representation at one exciting, colorful event. Q Con is supported by a grant from the City of West Hollywood’s Arts Division as part of the City’s WeHo Pride LGBTQ Arts Festival (May 22 – June 30). More info is available at weho.org/pride.


--- [Prism Comics Presents Q Con: SoCal's Newest LGBTQ+ Comic Con on June ...] ---
Prism Comics Presents Q Con: SoCal's Newest LGBTQ+ Comic Con on June 17th in West Hollywood - Jun 14, 2023 - 3 min read Prism Comics, the nonprofit championing LGBTQ+ visibility, diversity, and inclusion in comics, graphic novels, and popular media, presents Q Con, Southern California’s newest LGBTQ+ comic con on Saturday, June 17, 2023, from 10 am to 5 pm Fiesta Hall in Plummer Park, 1166 North Vista Street, West Hollywood, CA. Last year, Prism Comics held the first annual Q Con to great success with over 900 people attending. This year’s Q Con will once again celebrate the amazing diversity of LGBTQ+ comics, games, and popular media today and will be expanded with panel presentations on various comics topics. Attendees will be able to meet creators from indie comics to major publishers, get autographs and sketches, and mix with other comics fans. Attendees are encouraged to cosplay their favorite characters with a fun and festive Costume Contest being held at 3:30 pm. Q Con is free to the public and family-friendly, providing pre-teens through adults with the opportunity to find a wide variety of comics and graphic novels affirming LGBTQ+ representation at one exciting, colorful event. Q Con is supported by a grant from the City of West Hollywood’s Arts Division as part of the City's WeHo Pride Arts Festival (May 22 - June 30). More info at wehopride.com/artsfestival @wehoarts and @wehopride. Prism Comics thanks our Community Sponsor: Los Angeles Film School - lafilm.edu SCHEDULED TO APPEAR: Aleasha Acevedo (Husk); Tara Madison Avery (We’re Still Here, Stacked Deck Press); David Booher (Rain; Killer Queens); CAPS - Cartoon Art Professional Society; ClexaCon; Dave Davenport (Feral and the Ghost Fighter); Michael Derry (Troy; Derry Products); A.C. Esguerra (Eighty Days); Richard Fairgray (Four-Color Heroes); Fanbase Press; Jack Foster (Gun); Sina Grace (Rockstar and Softboy; Iceman); Hi-De-Ho Comics; Tini Howard (Excalibur; Catwoman); Jeff Krell (Jayson; Arena Stage); Steve MacIsaac (Shirtlifter; Unpacking); Knave Murdock (TransCat); Cort Lane (The Monster And Me book series); Los Angeles Film School; Ed Luce (Wuvable Oaf); Mei (Qi-Shift); Mark A.J. Nazal (Diwata Komiks); Gladys Ochoa (Ribbons of Thought); M.K. Palmer (Meraki); Kristen Parraz (Comadres y Comics Podcast); Mike Pingel (Channel Surfing: Betty White); Prism Comics; Qweerty Gamers; Brad Rader (Bob’s Burgers, Batman: The Animated Series); Rainbow Arc of Fire; David Reddish (The Passion of Sergius & Bacchus); Sonya Saturday (The Greatest Thing You’ve Ever Seen in Your Life); Christie Shinn (HoraTora Studios); Josh Trujillo (Hulkling & Wiccan; Blue Beetle); Maximus Spragovsky (W.O.O.F. Galaxy); Stacked Deck Press; William O. Tyler (Theater of Terror); Shannon Watters (Lumberjanes: Hollow); Fernando Velez (Kraven Comics; Class6); Yaoi Revolution; Cosplayers: Adorkable Jay; Chrissy Lynn Carpenter; Dragpool; Drkarthall and Rye_n_cosplay (DR.Costumes); Jacqueline Goehner (Underground Cosmetics); Julian Jetson; MegaChromatic; PumaDoesCosplay; Rachael Sanderson (Lucky Grim Creative); Jimmy Sherfy; Joe Pryde Zuniga and Bryan Gomez; and others to be announced! WHAT: Q Con – A Comic Convention Celebrating LGBTQ+ Comics and Graphic Novels WHEN: Saturday, June 17, 2023 from 10 am to 5 pm WHERE: Fiesta Hall at Plummer Park, 1166 N Vista Street, West Hollywood, CA 90046 WEBSITE: qconprism.org ADMISSION: Free – Register for tickets in advance on qconprism.org or get free tickets at the door ABOUT PRISM COMICS: Prism Comics is celebrating its 20th Anniversary as a nonprofit championing LGBTQ+ visibility, diversity and inclusion in comic books, graphic novels and popular media. Founded in 2003, Prism Comics has become “LGBTQ+ Comics Central” at San Diego Comic-Con, WonderCon Anaheim, Los Angeles Comic Con, other conventions and online providing a safe, welcoming community for LGBTQ+ and LGBTQ+ friendly comics creators, readers, librarians, educators and families. Prism has helped foster many comics creators who have become major voices in comics and graphic novels. For more information please visit prismcomics.org and @prismcomics
