=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Pune police bagged smart policing award 2017 - Times of India]
May 27, 2017 — The Pune city police have bagged the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries' (FICCI) Smart Policing Award for the year 2017.
URL: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/pune/pune-police-bagged-smart-policing-award-2017/articleshow/58869110.cms

[Which city police have won the 2017 FICCI Smart Policing Award? - GKToday]
Answer: Pune city police Notes: The Pune city police have won the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) Smart Police Award for the year 2017 for their initiatives on women and cyber security.
URL: https://www.gktoday.in/question/which-city-police-have-won-the-2017-ficci-smart-po

[Pune city police receive FICCI Smart Policing Award 2017]
May 26, 2017 · The Pune city police have received the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) Smart Police Award for the year 2017. Pune Police Commissioner Rashmi Shukla received the award from BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi during a programme organised by FICCI and Vivekanand International Foundation on Homeland Security in Delhi on May 25.
URL: https://indianexpress.com/article/cities/pune/pune-city-police-receive-ficci-smart-policing-award-2017-4675744/

[Pune City Police Receive FICCI Smart Policing Award]
May 29, 2017 · The Pune City Police have received the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) Smart Police Award for the year 2017. Pune Police Commissioner Rashmi Shukla received the award from BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi during a Programme Organised by FICCI and Vivekananda International Foundation on Homeland security in Delhi. The program focussed on the use of modern technology for ...
URL: https://currentaffairs.freejobalert.com/pune-city-police-receive-ficci-smart-policing-award/20303/

[Current Affairs: - manabadi.co.in]
1. Pune City Police Receive FICCI Smart Policing Award. The Pune city police have bagged the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries` (FICCI) Smart Policing Award for the year 2017. Out of 133 entries from the state police forces, the `Mahila Suraksha` project of city police won the award.
URL: https://www.manabadi.co.in/articles/Latest-current-affairs/Current-affairs-Description.aspx?id=5076


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Pune police bagged smart policing award 2017 - Times of India] ---
The Pune city police have bagged the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries’ (FICCI) Smart Policing Award for the year 2017. Out of 133 entries from the state police forces, the ‘Mahila Suraksha’ project of city police won the award. Rashmi Shukla, Commissioner of Pune Police received the award at event held at Delhi recently. Cyber security initiative of the city police was also appreciated by the Jury members. According to FICCI the entry will also be featured in the compendium of best practices which will be shared with relevant ministries or departments in the center as well as in other states. Initiative 'Buddy Cop', launched by the city police for the safety of working women in IT parks at Hinjewadi and Kharadi received the award. The system was introduced in the wake of two cases of murders of software engineers — Antara Das on December 23 last year, and Rasila Raju OP on January 29 this year. In this system, a group of about 50 working women were assigned to a police personnel, who can be contacted during an emergency through phone calls, WhatsApp and e-mails. According to Cyber cell of the police, presently operational in Chandan Nagar, Hadapsar, Hinjewadi and Yerwada police station which has most of the IT companies from the city.


--- [Which city police have won the 2017 FICCI Smart Policing Award? - GKToday] ---
Q. Which city police have won the 2017 FICCI Smart Policing Award?Answer: Pune city police Notes: The Pune city police have won the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) Smart Police Award for the year 2017 for their initiatives on women and cyber security. Pune Police Commissioner Rashmi Shukla received the award from BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi during a programme organised by FICCI and Vivekanand International Foundation on Homeland Security in Delhi on May 25. The initiatives like “BuddyCop”, “Damini squad”, “Lost & Found” portal, Beat Marshal Monitoring Sapience App, etc., were launched by Pune city police to tackle security issues in the city that paved the way to win the FICCI award.


--- [Pune city police receive FICCI Smart Policing Award 2017] ---
The Pune city police have received the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) Smart Police Award for the year 2017. Pune Police Commissioner Rashmi Shukla received the award from BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi during a programme organised by FICCI and Vivekanand International Foundation on Homeland Security in Delhi on May 25. The programme focussed on the use of modern technology for countering internal security issues. As many as 133 police and security establishments in the country had taken part in the competition for the FICCI Smart Policing Award 2017. Pune city police got the award for their initiatives on women and cyber security. Rashmi Shukla said initiatives like “BuddyCop” for helping women working in IT companies, the “Damini squad” involving women police officials have played a good role in tackling women security issues in the city. The city police have also launched initiatives like “Lost & Found” portal, Beat Marshal Monitoring Sapience App, and Tenant Information System. These initiatives were considered by the jury while awarding the Pune city police. Private cyber security expert Pankaj Ghode, who helped the police in these initiatives, said jury particularly liked the “BuddyCop” initiative. Rashmi Shukla has launched the “BuddyCop” recently in the wake of two incidents of murders of IT professional women – Antara Das of Capegemini on December 23, 2016 and Rasila Raju O P of Infosys on January 29, 2017. As a part of this system, a group of about 50 working women were assigned to a police personnel, who can be contacted during an emergency through phone calls, WhatsApp and e-mails. As of now, BuddyCop is operational at Chandan Nagar, Hadapsar, Hinjewadi and Yerwada police stations, which cover most of the IT companies in Pune city. Police inspector Radhika Phadke of cyber crime cell said Hinjewadi police have formed seven BuddyCop Whatsapp groups, Hadapsar police have formed five, Yerwada police have formed three and Chandan Nagar police have formed 10 BuddyCop Whatsapp groups.


--- [Pune City Police Receive FICCI Smart Policing Award] ---
The Pune City Police have received the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) Smart Police Award for the year 2017. Pune Police Commissioner Rashmi Shukla received the award from BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi during a Programme Organised by FICCI and Vivekananda International Foundation on Homeland security in Delhi. The program focussed on the use of modern technology for countering internal security issues.


--- [Current Affairs: - manabadi.co.in] ---
1. Pune City Police Receive FICCI Smart Policing Award. The Pune city police have bagged the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries` (FICCI) Smart Policing Award for the year 2017. Out of 133 entries from the state police forces, the `Mahila Suraksha` project of city police won the award. Rashmi Shukla, Commissioner of Pune Police received the award at event held at Delhi recently. Cyber security initiative of the city police was also appreciated by the Jury members. According to FICCI the entry will also be featured in the compendium of best practices which will be shared with relevant ministries or departments in the center as well as in other states. ######
