=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[MaterialsforIndustry–DerekBirchallAward- Wikipedia]
The recipient of theawardischosen by an independent committee consisting of experts from boththeMaterialsChemistry Division andindustry.Theawardwasestablishedin 2008, in honour of work carried out by British inventor andmaterialschemistDerekBirchall(born 1930).[4].
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Materials_for_Industry_–_Derek_Birchall_Award

[International ChemistryAwardsHonor Tobin J. Marks | News & Events]
Tobin J. Marks MarkswasnamedtheMaterialsforIndustry—DerekBirchallAwardwinner for 2015 by the Royal Society of Chemistry this month for his “creativity and excellence in the application ofmaterialschemistry in industry.”
URL: https://www.mccormick.northwestern.edu/materials-science/news-events/news/articles/2015/international-chemistry-awards-honor-tobin-marks.html

[List of chemistryawards- Wikiwand]
MaterialsforIndustry-DerekBirchallAward. Exceptional contribution to the application ofmaterialschemistry in industry.The Society of Chemical Industrywasestablishedin 1881 by scientists, inventors and entrepreneurs. It offers a number ofawardsrelated to chemistry.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/List_of_chemistry_awards

[Prof Andrew Mills received the Royal Society of Chemistry’sMaterials...]
Andrew MillsisProfessor ofMaterialsChemistry at the School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Queen’s University Belfast. Previously, he has held Chairs in Chemistry at Swansea and Strathclyde University.
URL: https://www.profandrewmills.com/2019/11/prof-andrew-mills-received-the-royal-society-of-chemistrys-materials-for-industry-derek-birchall-award/

[Liquid crystal chemist wins AkzoNobel UK ScienceAward]
After nearly tenyearsin the US, he moved back to the UK to become the Thorn EMI-STC Reader in Industrial Chemistry at the University of Hull.In 2011 hewaselected a Fellow of the Royal Society and in 2013 he won the RSCMaterialsforIndustryDerekBirchallAward.
URL: https://www.yahoo.com/news/finance/news/liquid-crystal-chemist-wins-akzonobel-070201324.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [MaterialsforIndustry–DerekBirchallAward- Wikipedia] ---
The Materials for Industry – Derek Birchall Award is awarded biennially to an individual who has made an exceptional contribution to the application of materials chemistry in industry. The recipient of the award is chosen by an independent committee consisting of experts from both the Materials Chemistry Division (MCD) and industry. The award is given by the Royal Society of Chemistry and the chosen winner is rewarded with a monetary prize of £2000. The award was discontinued in 2020.


--- [International ChemistryAwardsHonor Tobin J. Marks | News & Events] ---
International Chemistry Awards Honor Tobin J. Marks Royal Society of Chemistry and Italian Chemical Society recognize work in materials science Tobin J. Marks, Vladimir N. Ipatieff Research Professor of Chemistry in the Weinberg College of Arts and Sciences and professor of materials science and engineering in the McCormick School of Engineering and Applied Science at Northwestern University, has been recognized internationally by the Royal Society of Chemistry and the Italian Chemical Society with awards honoring his work in inorganic chemistry and materials science. “This is recognition of the work I did and my students did and my collaborators did,” Marks said of his 40-member research team of students, postdoctoral fellows and Northwestern faculty, “and that’s the most important thing.” Marks was named the Materials for Industry — Derek Birchall Award winner for 2015 by the Royal Society of Chemistry this month for his “creativity and excellence in the application of materials chemistry in industry.” Award winners are evaluated for the originality and impact of their research as well as the quality of the results that can be shown in publications, patents or even software. The award also recognizes the importance of teamwork across the chemical sciences and the abilities of individuals to develop successful collaborations. Based in the U.K., The Royal Society of Chemistry is a 170-year-old community with 53,000 members. “The award is for my work in printed electronics, the printing of circuitry for a TV screen or laptop, just as you would print a newspaper,” Marks said. “The award also recognizes the company I founded, Polyera, Inc., now with more than 100 employees, that takes the technologies developed in my lab at Northwestern, along with theirs, and packages those materials for Kindles, laptop screens and more.” Marks attended a black-tie ceremony to accept the award May 11 in London. Marks will be awarded the Luigi Sacconi Medal in Camerino, Italy, just south of Florence, in September when he will give a 90-minute lecture during the Italian Chemical Society conference on making materials for solar energy and the use of catalysis to make polymers, or plastics. Marks explained how his work in the 1980s and 1990s with The Dow Chemical Company has led to the creation of an estimated 40 billion pounds of plastics, from automobile bumpers to artificial limbs. Marks said he was honored to receive the Sacconi medal, named for a legendary Italian chemist he met in the 1960s who was considered the “Who’s Who” in inorganic chemistry. The Inorganic Chemistry Division of the Italian Chemical Society and the Luigi Sacconi Foundation every year awards the Luigi Sacconi Medal to a scientist who has obtained outstanding results in inorganic chemistry, a field in which Marks has made contributions of “extraordinary relevance.”“We’re using catalysis now to turn biofeed stocks into useful chemicals by taking waste from wood pulp and paper and turning them into diesel fuel,” Marks said of his ongoing research. “We’re also turning methane into natural gas and creating more efficient solar cells. We are already using the printed electronics in smart ID cards, inside TV sets and more.” Marks is a world leader in the fields of organometallic chemistry, chemical catalysis, materials science, organic electronics, photovoltaics and nanotechnology. He has developed processes for numerous types of recyclable, environmentally friendly plastics, efficient organic displays and transistor circuitry, and organic solar energy cells.


--- [List of chemistryawards- Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Prof Andrew Mills received the Royal Society of Chemistry’sMaterials...] ---
Professor Andrew Mills recently attended a ceremony to receive the prestigious Derek Birchall Award from the Royal Society of Chemistry for his pioneering work on smart inks, pigments and extruded plastic technologies. Professor Andrew Mills recently attended a ceremony to receive the prestigious Derek Birchall Award from the Royal Society of Chemistry for his pioneering work on smart inks, pigments and extruded plastic technologies.


--- [Liquid crystal chemist wins AkzoNobel UK ScienceAward] ---
This is a paid press release. Contact the press release distributor directly with any inquiries. Liquid crystal chemist wins AkzoNobel UK Science Award GlobeNewswire March 3, 2014 A British scientist whose work helped form the basis for flat-screen TVs, computers and mobile phone displays has won AkzoNobel`s UK Science Award for 2014. Professor John Goodby, FRS, Chair of Materials Chemistry at the University of York, will officially receive the honor and a £50,000 prize during a ceremony being held at the Royal Society of Chemistry in London on March 5. Having spent almost a decade of his 40-year career at Bell Laboratories in the US - home of seven Nobel Laureates - Professor Goodby is being recognized for the outstanding contributions he has made to materials chemistry in the field of liquid crystals and soft matter. "I would like to pay tribute to all of my colleagues and students past and present, as well as my fellow academics at the University of York, who have made this scientific journey so exciting, memorable and enjoyable," he said. "The relatively short time span between the invention of commercial LCDs in the 1970s and their current market dominance has required a huge effort by scientists and engineers from many disciplines, demonstrating the critical importance of multidisciplinary research." Added AkzoNobel`s Chief Scientist, Andrew Burgess: "I am delighted that we can once again recognize the wealth of science talent in the UK through this award. Professor Goodby is a hugely worthy recipient, with his work having made a great contribution to advances in liquid crystals and display technologies that people around the world now take for granted." President of the Royal Society of Chemistry and chair of the prize selection committee, Professor Lesley Yellowlees, commented: "I`m thrilled to be celebrating Professor Goodby`s invaluable contributions to a technology that has a beneficial effect on everyday lives across the world. The field of liquid crystal chemistry is an excellent demonstration of the value of curiosity-driven research and, more than 125 years after they were first discovered by accident, it`s fantastic to be recognizing Professor Goodby`s role in what is now a billion-dollar industry." The UK`s Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills, Rt Hon Vince Cable MP, also congratulated the 2014 winner: "Professor Goodby`s achievements are testament to the fact that the UK has many of the world`s best scientists. We have led the way developing technology that has transformed the way people live across the globe." Scientists are constantly looking at how the application of liquid crystals can be expanded, with current research expected to lead to applications in sensors and the medical field. More than 100 clinical trials are in progress worldwide testing the use of liquid crystals as vectors to translate DNA across membrane walls in the human body. - - - AkzoNobel is a leading global paints and coatings company and a major producer of specialty chemicals. We supply industries and consumers worldwide with innovative products and are passionate about developing sustainable answers for our customers. Our portfolio includes well-known brands such as Dulux, Sikkens, International and Eka. Headquartered in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, we are consistently ranked as one of the leaders in the area of sustainability. With operations in more than 80 countries, our 50,000 people around the world are committed to delivering leading products and technologies to meet the growing demands of our fast-changing world. Not for publication - for more information Corporate Media Relations T +31 20 502 7833 Contact: Paul Thomas Professor John Goodby John Goodby studied for his doctorate in liquid crystals at the University of Hull before moving in 1979 to AT&T Bell Laboratories, where he became Supervisor of the Liquid Crystal Materials Group. After nearly ten years in the US, he moved back to the UK to become the Thorn EMI-STC Reader in Industrial Chemistry at the University of Hull. After two years, he became Head of the Liquid Crystals and Advanced Organic Materials Group, and subsequently Head of the School of Chemistry. He is currently Head of Materials Chemistry at the University of York where his research is focused on the control of structure formation in materials through directed self-organization and self-assembly and the application of nano and micro-phase segregation; the development of materials for liquid crystal displays; polymers and dendrimers for photonics and metamaterials; and gels and biopolymers for use in biomedical applications. In 2011 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society and in 2013 he won the RSC Materials for Industry Derek Birchall Award. AkzoNobel Science Awards The AkzoNobel Science Awards recognize outstanding scientific contributions by individuals in the fields of chemistry and materials science. First bestowed in the Netherlands in 1970 - when it was known as the Akzo Prize - the presentation of the award was extended to Sweden in 1999, when it was re-named the AkzoNobel Science Award. It was subsequently extended to China and the UK in 2010 and North America in 2013. Safe Harbor Statement This press release contains statements which address key issues such as AkzoNobel`s growth strategy, future financial results, market positions, product development, products in the pipeline and product approvals. Such statements should be carefully considered, and it should be understood that many factors could cause forecasted and actual results to differ from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, price fluctuations, currency fluctuations, developments in raw material and personnel costs, pensions, physical and environmental risks, legal issues, and legislative, fiscal, and other regulatory measures. Stated competitive positions are based on management estimates supported by information provided by specialized external agencies. For a more comprehensive discussion of the risk factors affecting our business please see our latest annual report, a copy of which can be found on our website www.akzonobel.com This announcement is distributed by NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions on behalf of NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions clients. The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of the information contained therein. Source: Akzo Nobel NV via GlobeNewswire HUG#1765315
