=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Alma S. Woolley - Wikipedia]
Alma S. Woolley (October 3, 1931, New York City - December 17, 2005, Baltimore) was an American nurse, nurse educator, nursing historian, and author. She led several schools of nursing, and authored a number of books and articles on nursing education, the history of nursing education, and nurses.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alma_S._Woolley

[Alma S. Woolley - The Pantagraph]
After moving to Wildwood, N.J., in 1969, Alma taught at Atlantic Community College and at Stockton State College, where she designed and implemented one of the first baccalaureate nursing programs ...
URL: https://pantagraph.com/news/local/obituaries/alma-s-woolley/article_81f22e71-6d10-588b-acf8-64b45f5901d1.html

[Alma S Woolley - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Oct 13, 2024 · Having moved to New Jersey with her husband and children in 1969, Woolley became an instructor at Atlantic Community College, but was soon offered the task of creating a B.S. degree program in nursing for The Richard Stockton College of New Jersey which had opened its doors in 1971.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Alma-S-Woolley

[Alma Woolley Obituary (2005) - Atlantic City, NJ - The Press of ...]
WOOLLEY, ALMA S. - of Catonsville, MD. She was born in New York City, October 3, 1931. She attended Public School 71, Hunter College High School, and Queens College of the City University of New York.
URL: https://www.legacy.com/us/obituaries/pressofatlanticcity/name/alma-woolley-obituary?id=28480811

[Baby names for boys, girls, and gender neutral | BabyCenter]
Looking for baby name ideas, advice, meanings, and popularity? You'll find everything you need below – including a list of the top 100 baby names, our helpful Baby Name Generator, inspiration lists, the most popular names, names by letter, and much more.
URL: https://www.babycenter.com/baby-names


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Alma S. Woolley - Wikipedia] ---
Alma S. Woolley (October 3, 1931, New York City – December 17, 2005, Baltimore) was an American nurse, nurse educator, nursing historian, and author. She led several schools of nursing, and authored a number of books and articles on nursing education, the history of nursing education, and nurses.


--- [Alma S. Woolley - The Pantagraph] ---
No content


--- [Alma S Woolley - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Name Alma Woolley | Died December 17, 2005 | | Alma S. Woolley (October 3, 1931, New York City – December 17, 2005, Baltimore) was an American nurse, nurse educator, nursing historian, and author. She led several schools of nursing, and authored a number of books and articles on nursing education, the history of nursing education, and nurses. Contents Early years and education Woolley grew up a child of the depression in the Bronx, New York City: Her father, hit by a truck, died on his way to a public hospital; her maternal grandmother who had worked in a sweatshop made all her clothes; her widowed mother worked as a stenographer for GM; but Woolley, who said "as a twelve year old, I admired the smart gray uniforms with the red trimming" of the Cadet Nurse Corps (during World War II), was selected to go to the elite all-girls Hunter College High School to which she commuted by public transport one hour each way. At Hunter, she won the all-city Latin Poetry Contest in 1949 and graduated second in her class, subsequently attending Queens College and then Cornell University's School of Nursing, which granted her a bachelor's degree in 1954. She subsequently joined the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, married, and worked at a number of hospitals including Mary Immaculate Hospital in Jamaica, Queens and, moving to Philadelphia, at Philadelphia General Hospital, and Jefferson Medical College. She later became a nursing instructor at the University of Pennsylvania, enrolled in their graduate program and was granted an M.S. in medical-surgical nursing in 1965, an accomplishment which led to one of her early articles in The American Journal of Nursing, "My Lamp Is Refueled," explaining how and why she kept up with her field while rearing four small children. Career Having moved to New Jersey with her husband and children in 1969, Woolley became an instructor at Atlantic Community College, but was soon offered the task of creating a B.S. degree program in nursing for The Richard Stockton College of New Jersey which had opened its doors in 1971. The original program she designed was for registered nurses, R.N.'s, without a university degree, to complete a Bachelor of Science in nursing. The transition of nursing education from that of R.N.'s trained in non-university programs, to 4-year B.S.N. programs or their equivalent was a matter of advocacy for Woolley as well as profession, and she subsequently published a number of pieces demonstrating the benefits of university-based nursing programs. In 1980, she was awarded a doctorate in nursing education by the University of Pennsylvania. In 1981, she was appointed Director of the School of Nursing at Illinois Wesleyan University and the Caroline F. Rupert Professor of Nursing, and in 1986 left Wesleyan to become Dean of Georgetown University School of Nursing and Health Studies. In 1989 she received the Distinguished Alumnus Award from the Cornell School of Nursing Alumni Association. She stepped down as dean of Georgetown's School of Nursing in 1992 and returned to teaching and writing, retiring as professor emeritus of nursing in 1996, and becoming visiting professor at both the University of Maryland School of Nursing in Baltimore, Md, and the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences. She wrote or contributed to biographies of nurses including Maude Francis Essig who served with American combat troops in World War I, and Virginia Matthews Dunbar, an early advocate of university curricula for nurses. Reflecting her view that "the history of nursing education is an important lacuna in general histories of nursing" and that "as part of public history in the United States, nursing education can cite many accomplishments in the realm of health care policy," Woolley also published histories of nursing schools, including "Nuns and Guns" and Learning, Faith and Caring. But before her death in 2005, she was working on oral histories of women who, like her, had been recently admitted as members to the once all-male Cosmos Club of Washington, D.C.


--- [Alma Woolley Obituary (2005) - Atlantic City, NJ - The Press of ...] ---
No content


--- [Baby names for boys, girls, and gender neutral | BabyCenter] ---
Photo credit: © Diane Durongpisitkul / Stocksy United Baby Names Looking for baby name ideas, advice, meanings, and popularity? You'll find everything you need below – including a list of the top 100 baby names, our helpful Baby Name Generator, inspiration lists, the most popular names, names by letter, and much more. Photo credit: © Diane Durongpisitkul / Stocksy United Baby Name Ideas & Inspiration Top baby names - Top girl names - Top boy names - Most popular names 2024 - Most popular names 2023 - Top international names - Top celebrity baby boy names - Top celebrity baby girl names - Most popular names by year - Popular names around the world - Unique baby boy names - Unique baby names - Unique baby girl names Baby names by origin - Japanese names - French names - Greek names - German names - Irish names - Mexican names - Indian names - Unique latin names - African names - British baby names - Italian names - Indigenous Mexican names - Scottish names Top baby names in 2026 As parents share their baby names with us, we share them with you. These rankings count names that are spelled differently (like Sophia and Sofia) as two separate names. Click on a name to learn the name's meaning, popularity over time, and more. Advertisement | page continues below Baby Names A-Z Looking for the perfect baby name? BabyCenter's Baby Name Shuffle learns your preferences and suggests names just for you. Get the app My baby names list Posts and polls in baby names - Baby NamesBy susielou334How common is the name Penelope? I've never met one personally before besides hearing it in tv shows, books or movies but it's in the top 100 for girl names 2 years in a row. I really like the name but also don't want a name that is too common.70 - Baby NamesBy DaphneeDeleonTrying to decide which means we like best. My children are Hispanic and white: Siblings are Mateo and Selena.4060 votes - Baby NamesBy SewSkiBakeSiblings Griffin and Vivian. They like going by Griff and Viv/Vivi about half the time. One syllable english sounding last name. Team green but kinda set on William David if it’s a boy so this is the way over thought girls list. Adrienne* (love it but can’t use Addie, cousin’s daughter) Alta ! (Fa130 Latest in Baby Names Swipe to find the perfect baby name, discover meanings, origins, and trends all in one place.
