=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[What We Do in the Shadows (TV series) - Wikipedia]
What We Do in the Shadows is an American comedy horror mockumentary fantasy television series created by Jemaine Clement, first broadcast on FX on March 27, 2019, until concluding its run with the end of its sixth season on December 16, 2024. Based on the 2014 New Zealand film written and directed by Clement and Taika Waititi, both of whom act as executive producers, the series follows four ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/What_We_Do_in_the_Shadows_(TV_series)

[Evie Russell | What We Do in the Shadows Wiki | Fandom]
Evie Russell is a powerful emotional vampire living in Staten Island. She appears in What We Do in the Shadows (TV series). Shortly after Evie began working at Colin Robinson's office, she kept pretending to fall over and told her colleagues tragic stories to make them feel sorry for her. Colin...
URL: https://whatwedointheshadows.fandom.com/wiki/Evie_Russell

[What We Do In The Shadows Cast & Character Guide - Screen Rant]
By introducing different kinds of vampires and entirely new supernatural species, the TV version of What We Do in the Shadows has expanded the world of the movie. The limited cast of the film has been replaced with a sprawling ensemble, played by both promising up-and-comers and prolific comedians.
URL: https://screenrant.com/what-we-do-shadows-cast-character-guide/

[What We Do in the Shadows (TV Series 2019–2024) ⭐ 8.5 | Comedy, Fantasy, Horror]
What We Do in the Shadows: With Kayvan Novak, Matt Berry, Natasia Demetriou, Harvey Guillén. A look into the nightly lives of four vampires who have lived together on Staten Island for over a century.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt7908628/

[What We Do in the Shadows: Season 1 (2019) - Cast & Crew — The Movie ...]
After an unexpected visit from their dark lord and leader, Baron Afanas, the vampires are reminded of what they were initially tasked with upon their arrival in Staten Island over a hundred years ago - total and complete domination of the New World. But what exactly is the best way to go about achieving said domination? Our vérité camera crew follows along as the vampires set out to answer ...
URL: https://www.themoviedb.org/tv/83631-what-we-do-in-the-shadows/season/1/cast


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [What We Do in the Shadows (TV series) - Wikipedia] ---
What We Do in the Shadows is an American comedy horror mockumentary fantasy television series created by Jemaine Clement, first broadcast on FX on March 27, 2019, until concluding its run with the end of its sixth season on December 16, 2024. Based on the 2014 New Zealand film written and directed by Clement and Taika Waititi, both of whom act as executive producers, the series follows four vampire roommates on Staten Island, and stars Kayvan Novak, Matt Berry, Natasia Demetriou, Harvey Guillén, Mark Proksch, and Kristen Schaal.
What We Do in the Shadows is the second television series in the franchise after the spin-off Wellington Paranormal (2018–2022). Both shows share the same canon as the original film, with several characters from the film making appearances, including Clement's and Waititi's. The show received critical acclaim, particularly for its cast and writing, and 35 Emmy Award nominations, including four for Outstanding Comedy Series for its second, third, fifth and sixth seasons.


--- [Evie Russell | What We Do in the Shadows Wiki | Fandom] ---
Evie Russell is a powerful emotional vampire living in Staten Island. She appears in What We Do in the Shadows (TV series). Biography[] Shortly after Evie began working at Colin Robinson’s office, she kept pretending to fall over and told her colleagues tragic stories to make them feel sorry for her. Colin was unable to feed off her energy and he correctly assumed she was an emotional vampire. Having two psychic vampires in a single office caused conflict, which came to a head when they both cornered a colleague, Biff, in a toilet cubicle and drained his energy so much that he fell into a coma. After work hours, the two vampires confronted each other and had a psychic battle in the office before collapsing to the ground. Realising they were both lonely, they decided to date each other. Colin enjoyed dating Evie as it meant life was “never dull” and the two drained the office heavily. However, after a few weeks, Evie began to demonise Colin to gain pity from the other office workers, claiming she couldn’t afford to stay at her own place and Colin was unwilling to let her stay at his. Realising the relationship was now unhealthy, Colin broke up with Evie and wished her well. She appeared to be upset with this, but was actually using her pitiful state to feed off him again.[1] Appearances[] - What We Do in the Shadows (TV series) - Season 1: "Werewolf Feud" - Season 5: "The Campaign" References[] - ↑ Lieb, Josh (writer) & Clement, Jemaine (director) (April 10, 2019). "Werewolf Feud". What We Do in the Shadows. Episode 4. FX.


--- [What We Do In The Shadows Cast & Character Guide - Screen Rant] ---
No content


--- [What We Do in the Shadows (TV Series 2019–2024) ⭐ 8.5 | Comedy, Fantasy, Horror] ---
A look into the nightly lives of four vampires who have lived together on Staten Island for over a century.A look into the nightly lives of four vampires who have lived together on Staten Island for over a century.A look into the nightly lives of four vampires who have lived together on Staten Island for over a century. - Won 1 Primetime Emmy - 28 wins & 213 nominations total Browse episodes Summary Reviewers say 'What We Do in the Shadows' is praised for its humor, unique characters, and clever writing. The mockumentary style and performances, especially Matt Berry and Natasia Demetriou, are highlighted. Comparisons to the original movie are favorable, noting expanded concepts and new characters. However, opinions on consistency and quality vary, with some noting a decline in humor and storylines. A few critics strongly disapprove of the humor and writing. Overall, it's seen as entertaining for fans of quirky comedy. Featured reviews This is the best show on tv at the moment, from the wonderfully crafted writing to the perfectly timed acting from a fantastic cast! First show in a while to make me audibly laugh. What We Do In the Shadows is one of the best new comedies to come out in years, it's actually one of the funniest comedies I've ever seen! I absolutely loved the movie so I thought this was going to be a letdown but boy was I wrong...EVERY episode is great! 10Rob1331 What We Do in the Shadows is not only one of the funniest shows on tv right now but it has become one of my favorite comedies of all-time. It reminds me a little of Seinfeld in which every character on the show is as equally as funny as the others. It's hard to pick out the best and everyone has their own favorite. It's based on the film of the same name and is created by the same people, Taika Waititi and Jermaine Clement. As funny as the movie was the show might be even better. It's one of the rare shows where every single episode is hilarious! There's nothing more I can really say except to go watch this show, I promise you'll love it! This show is hysterical. Reminds me of the British 'The Office' without the uncomfortableness. Some people said the jokes don't land but that's the point. It's supposed to be awkward. So glad I found this. Not many shows interest me. What We Do in the Shadows follows a small group of vampires who live together on Staten Island and the adventures they wind up in. The movie, which follows a different group in Wellington, New Zealand, is excellent and I highly recommend it if you haven't seen it before. If you love the movie, you will love the show! What makes the show better than the movie comes down to the episodic nature of television. The episodic format means plot-lines can begin and end more quickly than the movie, characters can be developed more and they can be thrown into a wider variety of crazy situations. The movie had great world-building but could only do so much with an 85 minute runtime, and the show furthers that simply from having more time. The show would not work if Taika Waititi and Jemaine Clement, who wrote/directed/acted in the movie, were not onboard. They ensured that the tone, production design, shooting style, and humor were all on par with the film. Thank goodness season 2 is on the way! The movie, which follows a different group in Wellington, New Zealand, is excellent and I highly recommend it if you haven't seen it before. If you love the movie, you will love the show! What makes the show better than the movie comes down to the episodic nature of television. The episodic format means plot-lines can begin and end more quickly than the movie, characters can be developed more and they can be thrown into a wider variety of crazy situations. The movie had great world-building but could only do so much with an 85 minute runtime, and the show furthers that simply from having more time. The show would not work if Taika Waititi and Jemaine Clement, who wrote/directed/acted in the movie, were not onboard. They ensured that the tone, production design, shooting style, and humor were all on par with the film. Thank goodness season 2 is on the way! "What We Do in the Shadows" Cast Convert New Vamps "What We Do in the Shadows" Cast Convert New Vamps At the SXSW Film Festival, Jemaine Clement and the "What We Do in the Shadows" cast reveal who they want to guest star on the show. Did you know - TriviaAll of the main vampire characters, save for Colin Robinson, wear custom-made vampire fangs that clip into attachments on their teeth. This was done to ensure that traditional prosthetic fangs would not hinder their speech patterns or pronunciation of words. - ConnectionsFeatured in WatchMojo: Top 10 Funniest TV Shows Airing Right Now (2019) - SoundtracksYou're Dead Written by Norma Tanega & Norma Phyllis Kutzer Performed by Norma Tanega [theme song; played during the show's opening credits] Details - Release date - Countries of origin - Official site - Language - Also known as - Chúng Ta Làm Gì Trong Bóng Tối - Filming locations - Production companies - See more company credits at IMDbPro - Runtime - 30m - Color - Sound mix - Aspect ratio - 16:9 HD Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content


--- [What We Do in the Shadows: Season 1 (2019) - Cast & Crew — The Movie ...] ---
Season 1 (2019) ← Back to season Series Cast 100 - Nandor the Relentless (10 Episodes) - Laszlo Cravensworth (10 Episodes) - Nadja (10 Episodes) - Guillermo de la Cruz (10 Episodes) - Colin Robinson (10 Episodes) - Baron Afanas (5 Episodes) - Baron's Familiar (4 Episodes) - Jenna (4 Episodes) - June (3 Episodes) - Jeff Suckler (3 Episodes) - Shanice (3 Episodes) - Sean Rinaldi (3 Episodes) - Jonathan (2 Episodes) - Wharfinger (2 Episodes) - Vasilika the Defiler (2 Episodes) - Floating Woman / The Guide (1 Episode) - Park Man (1 Episode) - Park Woman (1 Episode) - Cashier (1 Episode) - Game Master (1 Episode) - Kyle (1 Episode) - Barbara Lazarro (1 Episode) - Doug Peterson (1 Episode) - Cheyenne (1 Episode) - Larper #1 (1 Episode) - Larper #2 (1 Episode) - Ms. Oakley (1 Episode) - Evie Russell (1 Episode) - Werewolf Leader (1 Episode) - Dan (1 Episode) - Kashana (1 Episode) - Arnie (1 Episode) - Biff (1 Episode) - Preppy Werewolf (1 Episode) - Ange Werewolf (1 Episode) - Dougie Werewolf (1 Episode) - Toby Werewolf (1 Episode) - Marcus Werewolf (1 Episode) - Rhonda (1 Episode) - Waiter (1 Episode) - Staten Island Guy (1 Episode) - Love-Up Guy (1 Episode) - Paramedic #1 (1 Episode) - Paramedic #2 (1 Episode) - Colby (1 Episode) - Bridge & Tunnel Vampire (1 Episode) - - Creepy Vampire (1 Episode) - Child Vampire #1 (1 Episode) - Child Vampire #2 (1 Episode) - The Silent One (1 Episode) - Vampire DJ (1 Episode) - Karen (1 Episode) - Phil's Girlfriend (1 Episode) - Bobby (1 Episode) - Dude #1 (1 Episode) - Police Officer (1 Episode) - Horse Cop (1 Episode) - Tilda (1 Episode) - Deacon Brucke (1 Episode) - Danny (1 Episode) - Paul (1 Episode) - Wesley (1 Episode) - Garrett the Vampire (1 Episode) - Other Familiar #1 (1 Episode) - Other Familiar #2 (1 Episode) - Older Familiar (1 Episode) - Even Older Familiar (1 Episode) - The Dreaded Fayard (1 Episode) - Immigration Officer (1 Episode) - Lecturer (1 Episode) - Other Student (1 Episode) - Jocky Dude (1 Episode) - Ska Dude (1 Episode) - Man on Street (1 Episode) - Phil (1 Episode) - Jeremy (1 Episode) - 90s Blonde (1 Episode) - Constantine (1 Episode) - Flapper (1 Episode) - Dominatrix (1 Episode) - Store Employee (1 Episode) - Cater Waiter (1 Episode) - Vampire in Leather Costume (1 Episode) - Jiang Shi (1 Episode) - Sylvia (1 Episode) - Babadook (1 Episode) - Vampire #1 (1 Episode) - Vampire #2 (1 Episode) - Madelaine (1 Episode) - Priest (1 Episode) - Teen #1 (1 Episode) - Teen #2 (1 Episode) - Simon the Devious (1 Episode) - Count Rapula (1 Episode) - Vladislav the Poker (1 Episode) - Vampire Counsel Member (uncredited) (1 Episode) - Evan (1 Episode) - - Dancer (1 Episode) Series Crew 46 Art - Production Design (10 Episodes) - Production Design (1 Episode) - Set Decoration (10 Episodes) Camera - Director of Photography (1 Episode) - Director of Photography (1 Episode) Crew - Stunt Coordinator (10 Episodes) - Stunt Double (2 Episodes) Production - Casting (10 Episodes) - Co-Executive Producer (10 Episodes) - Co-Executive Producer (10 Episodes) - Co-Producer (10 Episodes) - Consulting Producer (10 Episodes) - Consulting Producer (10 Episodes) - Executive Consultant (10 Episodes) - Executive Consultant (10 Episodes) - Executive Producer (10 Episodes) - Executive Producer (10 Episodes) - Executive Producer (10 Episodes) - Executive Producer (10 Episodes) - Executive Producer (10 Episodes) - Executive Producer (10 Episodes) - Local Casting (10 Episodes) - Local Casting (10 Episodes) - Original Casting (10 Episodes) - Original Casting (10 Episodes) - Production Designer (1 Episode) Sound - Music Editor (10 Episodes) - Music Supervisor (10 Episodes) - Original Music Composer (10 Episodes) - Theme Song Performance (10 Episodes) Visual Effects - Digital Compositor (10 Episodes) Writing - Original Film Writer (10 Episodes) - Writer (1 Episode) - Writer (1 Episode) - Original Film Writer (10 Episodes), Writer (3 Episodes) - - Writer (1 Episode) - Writer (2 Episodes) - Writer (2 Episodes) - Writer (2 Episodes)
