=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lucy Weston Pickett - Wikipedia]
Mount Holyoke College Mary Lyon Hall Lucy Weston Pickett (January 19, 1904 - November 23, 1997) was a Mary Lyon Professor and Camille and Henry Dreyfus Chair in Chemistry at Mount Holyoke College. Her research on X-ray crystallography and ultraviolet absorption spectroscopy of organic molecules received numerous honors and was supported by grants from the Office of Naval Research, the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucy_Weston_Pickett

[Lucy Weston Pickett Facts for Kids]
She received honorary doctorates from Ripon College in 1958 and Mount Holyoke College in 1975. When she retired, her friends, students, and colleagues created the Lucy Pickett Lectureship. This special lecture series brings amazing scientists to Mount Holyoke College. In the 1970s, Lucy asked that the funds be used to honor women scientists.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Lucy_Weston_Pickett

[Lucy Weston Pickett, renowned for her investigations of organic molecules by X-ray crystallography and UV absorption spectroscopy - Rincón educativo]
The first of them was Robert Mulliken, Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1966, with whom Pickett had published an article in 1954 on the spectroscopy study of the benzene ion. Since 1974, the Lucy Pickett Chair created in her honor by her colleagues, students, and friends at the time of her retirement, at the honoree's request, honors women scientists.
URL: https://rinconeducativo.org/en/recursos-educativos/lucy-weston-pickett-renowned-investigations-organic-molecules/

[Emma Carr and Lucy Pickett - Alumnae Association]
Also like her predecessor Carr, Pickett was awarded the Frances P. Garvan Medal, becoming the third Mount Holyoke professor to receive this honor. In 1975, Mount Holyoke awarded her an honorary doctorate degree, which she added to her honorary degree from Ripon College. When Pickett retired ...
URL: https://alumnae.mtholyoke.edu/blog/emma-carr-and-lucy-pickett/

[Lucy Weston Pickett - Wikidata]
The Biographical Dictionary of Women in Science volume 2 1020 Goucher College 0 references Royal Institution 0 references University of Liège 0 references educated at University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign academic degree Doctor of Philosophy end time 1930 0 references Mount Holyoke College 0 references member of American Academy of Arts ...
URL: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q7236


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lucy Weston Pickett - Wikipedia] ---
Lucy Weston Pickett (January 19, 1904 – November 23, 1997) was a Mary Lyon Professor and Camille and Henry Dreyfus Chair in Chemistry at Mount Holyoke College.
Her research on X-ray crystallography and ultraviolet absorption spectroscopy of organic molecules received numerous honors and was supported by grants from the Office of Naval Research, the National Science Foundation and the Petroleum Research Fund of the American Chemical Society.


--- [Lucy Weston Pickett Facts for Kids] ---
Lucy Weston Pickett facts for kids Lucy Weston Pickett (born January 19, 1904 – died November 23, 1997) was an important American chemist. She was a professor at Mount Holyoke College. Lucy Pickett studied how molecules are built using special tools like X-ray crystallography (which uses X-rays to see molecule shapes) and ultraviolet absorption spectroscopy (which uses light to study molecules). Her amazing work earned her many awards and was supported by big organizations like the National Science Foundation. Contents Early Life and Family Lucy Pickett was born on January 19, 1904, in Beverly, Massachusetts. Her mother, Lucy Weston, was a former teacher. Her father, George Ernest Pickett, used to be a sailor. Lucy had one brother, Thomas Austin Pickett. He also became a chemist. Lucy and Thomas had similar careers and stayed close throughout their lives. Her Education Journey Lucy Pickett went to high school in Beverly. In 1921, she started college at Mount Holyoke College in South Hadley, Massachusetts. She first planned to study Latin. However, she soon discovered a love for science, especially chemistry. She decided to study both chemistry and mathematics. In 1925, Lucy graduated from Mount Holyoke with top honors. She earned her master's degree there in two years. Then, she went to the University of Illinois. At the University of Illinois, Lucy earned her Ph.D. (a high-level degree). She focused on analytical chemistry, which is about figuring out what chemicals are in something. She also studied physical chemistry and physics. Her research looked at how X-rays affect chemical reactions. She also studied the structures of organic compounds (molecules that contain carbon). A Career in Chemistry After finishing her studies, Lucy Pickett taught at the University of Illinois and Goucher College. In 1930, she returned to Mount Holyoke College. She stayed there until she retired in 1968. During her time at Mount Holyoke, Lucy took breaks to work with other famous scientists. From 1932 to 1933, she worked in London with Sir William Bragg. He was a Nobel Prize winner known for his work with X-rays. In 1939, she worked with Victor Henri in Belgium and George Kistiakowsky at Harvard. Lucy wanted to continue her X-ray research. But she returned to Mount Holyoke to join a team studying molecules. This team included Emma Perry Carr and Mary Sherrill. They used spectroscopy, a method that uses light to study molecules. Lucy worked with Robert S. Mulliken, a Nobel Prize winner, on understanding how molecules absorb light. Honors and Awards Lucy Pickett received many awards for her important work: - In 1955, she became a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. - In 1957, she received the Garvan–Olin Medal from the American Chemical Society. This award was for her research in molecular spectroscopy. - She received honorary doctorates from Ripon College in 1958 and Mount Holyoke College in 1975. When she retired, her friends, students, and colleagues created the Lucy Pickett Lectureship. This special lecture series brings amazing scientists to Mount Holyoke College. In the 1970s, Lucy asked that the funds be used to honor women scientists. The chemistry department still holds the Lucy W. Pickett annual lecture series today. See also In Spanish: Lucy Weston Pickett para niños


--- [Lucy Weston Pickett, renowned for her investigations of organic molecules by X-ray crystallography and UV absorption spectroscopy - Rincón educativo] ---
Don't miss out: January 19, 1904, Beverly, Massachusetts (United States) – November 23, 1997, Bradenton, Florida (United States) He graduated summa cum laude from the University of Mount Holyoke in South Hadley, Massachusetts, in 1925, received an M.A. in Chemistry two years later, and a Ph.D. in Analytical Chemistry from the University of Illinois in 1930, with a thesis on the study of the effects of X-rays on chemical reactions and the structures of organic compounds. He mainly devoted himself to teaching in the Chemistry Department of the university in his hometown until his retirement in 1968, except for short periods. In 1945, she got a position as Professor of Chemistry. In the early 1930s, he did a postdoc in London with the crystallographer and Nobel Prize winner William Bragg. When he returned, he tried to apply his newly acquired knowledge in X-ray crystallography, however, his university was not equipped with the necessary instrumentation, so he decided to use spectroscopy techniques instead. In 1939, he received a research grant to work with the spectroscopist Victor Henri at the University of Leija (Belgium) and with George Kistiakowsky at Harvard (United States). Between 1947 and 1948, she was a visiting professor at the University of Berkeley and collaborated with Linus Pauling. Her recognition was not only for her scientific activities but also for her work as an educator and her publications in the field of spectroscopy and education. A foundation was created in his name at Mount Holyoke to invite exceptional speakers to give seminars. The first of them was Robert Mulliken, Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1966, with whom Pickett had published an article in 1954 on the spectroscopy study of the benzene ion. Since 1974, the Lucy Pickett Chair created in her honor by her colleagues, students, and friends at the time of her retirement, at the honoree's request, honors women scientists.


--- [Emma Carr and Lucy Pickett - Alumnae Association] ---
Emma Carr and Lucy Pickett Emma Perry Carr, class of 1902 (1880-1972), was born in Ohio to Anna Mary and Edmund Cone Carr, a prominent physician who was a staunch advocate of education. She was the third of five children. Carr began her college education as one of just a few female students at Ohio State University in 1898. She transferred to Mount Holyoke for her sophomore and junior years, working as an assistant in the chemistry department for three years. After finishing her doctoral studies at Ohio State in 1910, Carr returned to Mount Holyoke and was made a full professor. After only three years, in 1913, she was made head of the Department of Chemistry. Carr established the research program at Mount Holyoke, creating an opportunity for students to get hands-on experience in the field of chemistry. This became one of the first programs that involved faculty, graduate, and undergraduate students working together. In her own research, Carr studied the ultraviolet spectra of hydrocarbons, investigated the relationship between atoms and molecules, and made use of a vacuum spectrograph. Her work still impacts the way we understand the carbon-carbon double bond. Carr was also interested in the politics of scientific discovery, warning against military use of the atom bomb and instead favoring atomic use as a source of clean energy. It was not just Mount Holyoke that recognized Carr’s prowess in the field of chemistry. In 1929 she was awarded the American Association of University Women Freeman Palmer National Scholarship, which she used to travel to the University of Zurich and study with Professor Victor Henri. The year 1937 saw her as the inaugural recipient of the American Chemical Society’s Frances P. Garvan Gold Medal, awarded to this day to a distinguished woman chemist. Carr was also awarded honorary degrees from Allegheny College, Russell Sage College, and Hood College over the course of her career. She retired from teaching in 1946. Mount Holyoke’s Carr Laboratory building was dedicated to her in 1955. “Mount Holyoke College was built by great women; one of the greatest of these was Emma Perry Carr.” George Hall, at Carr’s memorial in 1972 Lucy Weston Pickett, class of 1925 (1904-1997), was born in Beverly, Massachusetts, to former schoolteacher Lucy Weston and former seaman George Ernest Pickett. She had one brother, Thomas Austin Pickett, who also went on to work as a chemist. After graduating from Beverly High School, Pickett enrolled at Mount Holyoke in 1921. Here, she received summa cum laude honors while attaining her bachelor’s and master’s degrees in chemistry in 1925 and 1927, respectively. After leaving campus to pursue her doctorate from the University of Illinois, she taught there and at Goucher College. She returned in 1930 to teach at Mount Holyoke, where she stayed for the rest of her career. Pickett was both the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Chair in Chemistry and a Mary Lyon Professor (a distinction no longer used by the College). In 1939, Pickett worked with Nobel laureate Sir William Bragg in Ireland on the subject of X-ray crystallography. Her work on the effects of X-rays on chemical reactions and on the X-ray structures of organic compounds also earned her an Educational Foundation Fellowship, which she used to work with Professor Victor Henri in Belgium, following in the footsteps of Emma Carr, as well as forging her own path in her work with physical chemistry professor George Kistiakowsky of Harvard. Also like her predecessor Carr, Pickett was awarded the Frances P. Garvan Medal, becoming the third Mount Holyoke professor to receive this honor. In 1975, Mount Holyoke awarded her an honorary doctorate degree, which she added to her honorary degree from Ripon College. When Pickett retired in 1968, her friends and colleagues instituted the Lucy W. Pickett annual lecture series, which continues to this day. The lectureship brings outstanding women scientists to campus to talk about their achievements and advancements in their fields. (This was of Pickett’s own doing: The lecturers included notable men of science, including her former colleague and Nobel laureate Robert Mulliken, until she requested otherwise in the 1970s.) Read more about the Mount Holyoke Chemistry Department » -By Rowan Collins ’18 July 12, 2015 One response to “Emma Carr and Lucy Pickett” - My aunt Lucy Pickett was born in1904 not 1902.


--- [Lucy Weston Pickett - Wikidata] ---
Lucy Weston Pickett (Q7236) Appearance American chemist (1904-1997) - Lucy W. Pickett | Language | Label | Description | Also known as | |---|---|---|---| | default for all languages | No label defined | || | English | Lucy Weston Pickett | American chemist (1904-1997) | | Statements 19 January 1904Gregorian 1 reference 23 November 1997 0 references 1 reference 0 references Identifiers Sitelinks Wikipedia(10 entries) - arwiki لوسي ويستون بيكيت - arzwiki لوسى ويستين بيكيت - astwiki Lucy Weston Pickett - dewiki Lucy Weston Pickett - enwiki Lucy Weston Pickett - eswiki Lucy Weston Pickett - euwiki Lucy Weston Pickett - frwiki Lucy Weston Pickett - ukwiki Люсі Вестон Пікетт - viwiki Lucy Weston Pickett
