=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[In Rick and Morty S4 Episode 5, when Jerry puts a timer on for ... - Reddit]
In Rick and Morty S4 Episode 5, when Jerry puts a timer on for when the buoyancy shoes wear off, it says “Playing Beatles” which, if you put all official Beatles songs in one long playlist would take 9h and 38min. almost the exact time Jerry wants the timer for (9h and 50minutes).
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/TVDetails/comments/su87ai/in_rick_and_morty_s4_episode_5_when_jerry_puts_a/

[The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy | Rick and Morty Wiki | Fandom]
"The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy" is the fifth episode of the third season of Rick and Morty. It is the 26th episode of the series overall. It premiered on August 20, 2017. It was written by Ryan Ridley and directed by Juan Meza-León. The episode is rated TV-14-DLSV. Rick and Jerry go to a resort where dying is impossible, but a creature wants to kill Rick anyway. Summer's attempt to enlarge her ...
URL: https://rickandmorty.fandom.com/wiki/The_Whirly_Dirly_Conspiracy

[List of Rick and Morty episodes - Wikipedia]
^ The third season of Rick and Morty premiered unannounced on April 1, 2017. The remaining episodes began airing weekly on July 30, 2017.[5] ^ This episode premiered unannounced and re-ran for four hours straight with improving ratings. This is the viewership of only the first broadcast of the episode.[31] ^ An alternate title used for this episode is "Tales from the Citadel".[37] ^ This ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Rick_and_Morty_episodes

["Rick and Morty" The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy (TV Episode 2017) - IMDb]
The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy: Directed by Wesley Archer, Nathan Litz, Juan Jose Meza-Leon. With Justin Roiland, Chris Parnell, Spencer Grammer, Sarah Chalke. Rick takes Jerry on a sympathy adventure to a resort where everyone is immortal when there, and Jerry meets some old acquaintances of Rick's who want payback.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt5218310/

[Rick and Morty - Episode Guide - TVmaze]
It's around Christmas time and Jerry's parents are coming to visit so he wants everybody to have a normal holiday without technology and without Rick. Fortunately for him, Rick has other plans, involving building a molecular theme park inside of a friend of his named Ruben, and he shrinks down Morty and sends him in there to test it out.
URL: https://www.tvmaze.com/shows/216/rick-and-morty/episodeguide


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [In Rick and Morty S4 Episode 5, when Jerry puts a timer on for ... - Reddit] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy | Rick and Morty Wiki | Fandom] ---
"The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy" is the fifth episode of the third season of Rick and Morty. It is the 26th episode of the series overall. It premiered on August 20, 2017. It was written by Ryan Ridley and directed by Juan Meza-León. The episode is rated TV-14-DLSV. Synopsis[] Rick and Jerry go to a resort where dying is impossible, but a creature wants to kill Rick anyway. Summer's attempt to enlarge her breasts goes awry. Plot[] Cold open[] The episode begins with Jerry wallowing in his lonely new life. As he prepares to go to sleep, however, Rick suddenly bursts into his apartment and drags him outside naked on the promise of an intergalactic adventure, to Jerry's confusion. A plot[] On the ride through space, Jerry questions Rick's motive for inviting him, to which Rick explains he only did so at Morty's behest, worried that his father might turn to suicide. The reluctant duo arrives at an intergalactic resort on another world. When Rick and a supposed enemy (Shnoopy Bloopers) kill each other, then immediately come back to life, he explains to a shocked Jerry that the entire facility is surrounded by an immortality field, meaning that even if Jerry tried to kill himself while on their vacation, doing so would be impossible. Rick and Jerry have a drink at the bar and bond a little while alien watching. Jerry is captured while using the resort's restroom and is brought before an actual enemy of Rick named Risotto Groupon, whose people were enslaved after Rick sold weapons to their enemies. With Jerry's help, he plans to assassinate Rick on a roller-coaster called the Whirly-Dirly, at the point where the ride travels outside the protective immortality field. When Jerry politely declines, Risotto allows him to leave unharmed. Jerry continues to drink with Rick, however, during the conversation Rick admits that he was essentially the whole reason Beth broke up with him. His new view of Rick now shattered, Jerry invites Rick to join him on the Whirly-Dirly. However while on the ride Rick apologizes for breaking up the marriage. A guilty Jerry changes his mind about killing Rick, but he can't get Rick off the ride once they're rolling. Assassins in a seat behind them take a shot; Jerry is killed but quickly revives. Rick notices the assassins and fights back. In the midst of the brawl, Jerry calls out to Rick and points to the area that dips outside of the field. Once the assassin has been dealt with Rick realizes something is amiss and asks Jerry how he knew about the kill point. He's interrupted when several more hit-men in a helicopter attempt to physically pull Rick outside the immortality field. Rick releases his lab coat, which detonates a bomb hidden inside, taking out the chopper and sending the roller coaster crashing into the surrounding jungle, deactivating the resort's immortality field in the process. A suspicious Rick again asks Jerry how he knew about the Whirly-Dirly, and a dying assassin reveals that they had made a deal. Rick angrily advances on a cowering Jerry, causing him to back into a massive alien snake. Rick refuses to help as Jerry is slowly devoured. Jerry denounces Rick as a "self-righteous piece of shit" who stole his family. Infuriated, Rick volleys back by reminding Jerry that Beth was his daughter before she was his wife, and that her life was stolen when Jerry got her pregnant at prom, subsequently removing her from Rick's life. Further, Rick claims that Beth had options, but gave it all up because she felt sorry for Jerry. Risk accuses Jerry as acting like prey but really being a predator that feeds off other people's attention and pity. As Jerry is about to be digested, Rick finally kills the snake and saves him, only to then use him as bait to entice another alien creature. Just before Jerry is eaten, Rick shoots a tranquilizer into the creature and attaches wires to it, allowing him to control it and take them to an airfield with a shuttle that will get them close to the Milky Way. While traveling through a checkpoint for a spaceship heading off-world, Rick's cybernetic augmentations trip an alarm. A security guard declares him to be a terrorist and injects Rick with a synaptic dampener to block his violent tendencies, neutralizing him as a threat while leaving him free and unharmed. Rick is left functioning like a immature child. Jerry quickly takes advantage of the child-like Rick, belittling him the whole time. Risotto, unfortunately, catches up during this time and is ready to shoot Rick while he's too dumb to do anything. Risotto decides to let Jerry go, but not out of any compassion but because he feels that Jerry is a pathetic excuse of a man, and he would prefer not to waste the bullet. Jerry, determined to prove himself, attempts to fight off Risotto but fails miserably. Risotto changes his mind and decides to shoot Jerry, too. However, Jerry causes Risotto to shoot and damage an important piece of the ship's temporal shield just as the spaceship enters a wormhole. Space, time and thought all combine, causing Rick, Jerry and Risotto to merge and experience each other's souls and personalities for what feels like an eternity. When the trip through the wormhole ends they all feel changed by the experience and Risotto considers forgiving Rick. However, Rick, now free of the effects of the synaptic dampener, steals Risotto's gun using his cybernetic arm implants and shoots him dead anyway, telling Jerry that Risotto would soon change his mind again and try to kill them. Rick and Jerry return home and agree to leave out the parts of the adventure that make them look bad. Rick offers to let Jerry inside for a minute but Jerry declines, claiming that if the rest of his family saw him the state he was, they would feel sorry for him, and making people feel pity for him would no longer be his signature move. Rick bids Jerry farewell, only to promptly lock the doors and enable deadly anti-break in technology. Watching how happy his family is without him, Jerry sighs and walks home. B plot[] Meanwhile, as Beth builds a small sculpture out of horse hooves, Summer asks Beth if she is hot. Beth simply says her looks are not something she should focus on, causing Summer to describe herself as hideous and retreat to the garage. It's then revealed that Ethan has broken up with her, claiming it was because they no longer had anything in common, and began dating another girl named Tricia Lange. Summer is convinced Ethan really chose Tricia over her because Tricia had larger breasts. She then tries to enlarge her breasts using Rick's Morphizer-XE but ends up becoming a disproportionate giant trapped inside the garage. Morty and Beth turn off the Morphizer-XE, and Summer resolves as a giant with disproportionate body parts. Morty wants to call Rick, but Beth insists she can solve the problem without her father's help, to which Morty berates her for trying to be like Rick. Beth uses the Morphizer-XE on Summer, which brings her body parts back to normal proportions but leaves her a giant, larger than the house. Considering it progress, Beth rashly soldiers on and ends up turning Summer inside out. Morty insists that Beth call Rick, but instead she calls the machine's "technical support." Unfortunately, it turns out the three (tiny) tech support workers actually live inside the machine, and they trick Beth into freeing them. Finally fed up with Beth's stubbornness, Morty snatches her phone and smashes it on the ground. He proceeds to admit that he tricked Rick into taking Jerry into space so he could get a little break from Rick's arrogance and irresponsibility but Beth ruined it by being just as bad as her father. Morty then tells Beth that sucking up to Rick won't help keep him around, but it would help drive everyone else away from her. Both of them then realize that Summer has disappeared. They quickly mount the Morphizer-XE into the back of the car and go off looking for Summer, with Morty shooting at random objects in an attempt to understand how the machine works. Beth finally defends herself from Morty's criticism by asking him what he would do if his daughter asked him if she was attractive. Morty asks Beth when Summer asked her that question, and she tells him that it was right before she super-sized herself. Upon hearing this, Morty deduces that Summer has gone to Camp Flabanabba where she and Ethan were supposed to go camping before he dumped her and took Tricia instead. As they approach the camp, Beth announces that she has a plan. An inside-out giant Summer appears to Ethan and Tricia, terrifying them, and is then startled to see Beth, also large and inside-out. The two reconcile and Tricia is so touched she runs home to make peace with her own mother. Ethan tries to follow her but Morty stops him so they can have a "chat". An grim Morty tells Ethan that he made Summer cry and ruined her self-esteem. Ethan tries to explain himself, but Morty shushes him and warns him to be careful because his "s'more is burning." The scene cuts away as Morty activates the Morphizer-XE Post credits[] In a post-credits scene, a heavily-deformed Ethan is seen limping home, presumably morphed by Morty for hurting Summer and as a lesson in shallowness. The three tech support aliens spot him, but decide not to help due to their newfound freedom. Their relief turns to horror, however, when one of them is snatched and carried away in the talons an eagle, probably fated to be fed to baby birds. Cast and characters[] Main Cast Non-speaking characters Unknown voices | Starring | Deaths[] - At least 1 of the 2 Whirly Dirly assassins - Lisa - Risotto Groupon - 1 Mailman - 1 Alien bug - 1 Gibble Snake - 1 unnamed Morphizer customer service creature Locations[] - Dimension C-131 - Smith Residence - Immortality Field Resort - Camp Flabanabba Quotes[] - Risotto Groupon: Look, I'm not like Rick, so you're free to do as you please. But there comes a time in every man's life when he must choose the foundation on which his legacy will be built; one of compromise, or one of blood. - Beth: I call that progress. - Morty: SHE’S HUGE! - Beth: And normal. - Summer: I’M NOT NORMAL! - Jerry: You self-righteous piece of shit! You took my family! - Rick: I took your family? Who do you think had more taken from them when you shot 20 CCs of liquid dream-killer into my daughter? She was Rick's daughter, Jerry, she had options! - Gibble Snake: Oof! - Rick:That all ended because she felt sorry for you. You act like prey but you're a predator; you use pity to lure in your victims. It's how you survive. I survive because I know everything, that snake survives because children wander off, and you survive because people think "Oh, this poor piece of shit, he never gets a break. I can't stand the deafening silent wails of his wilting soul. I guess I'll hire him or marry him." - Morty: Don’t ‘’Morty’’ me! I tricked Rick into taking Dad on an adventure ‘cause I thought I was gonna get a break from this kind of shit! BUT NO! LIKE FATHER, LIKE GODDAMN DAUGHTER! You wanna be like Rick?! CONGRATULATIONS! YOU’RE JUST AS ARROGANT AND JUST AS IRRESPONSIBLE!’’’ - Gene: Everything okay? - Morty: Mind your own GODDAMN business, Gene! I’m having a conversation with my mother here! - Risotto Groupon: Jerry, step over there and lock yourself in the escape pod. - Jerry: You're not killing us? - Risotto Groupon: I'm killing Rick, you're free to go. You're no threat to me, or anyone. - Jerry: Now you're just being mean. - Rick: Yeah, you're mean. No offense. - Risotto Groupon: Mean would be shooting you, Jerry, this is saving a bullet. Go back to your quietly ashamed family and live the rest of your days in denial of your vagina fantasy. - Jerry: IT WAS A ONE-TIME THOUGHT THAT EVERYONE HAS! - Risotto Groupon: Congratulations, Jerry, you get to die a man! - Jerry: That's okay, I'll leave! Please don't shoot, I-I-I'm the vagina guy, remember? - Jerry: Jesus! He hadn't decided he was still going to kill us! - Rick: He was talking himself into it, I've seen it before. Cosmic apotheosis wears off faster than salvia. - Jerry: I'm starting to believe you, because I just finished merging with your essence for an endless epoch and I'm already back to thinking you're an asshole! - Rick: Fine by me, let's just go our separate ways. Sounds like you and the word 'epoch' have a lot of catching up to do. - Rick: You wanna-? - Jerry: Nah. If the family sees me like this they'll feel sorry for me, which is no longer my signature move. Episode notes[] Trivia[] - In celebration of Season 3, Pocket Mortys' weekly updates will coincide with new episodes, including new avatars for players to collect.[2] With the release of this episode came: Spiritual Leader Rick, Victorian Jerry, Risotto Groupon, Inside Out Beth, Inside Out Summer, Shnoopy Bloopers, and Victorian Rick as avatars, and Master Morty, Poorhouse Morty and Chimney Sweep Morty to catch. - The scene where Rick drags Jerry out of his bed naked is an homage and parody to the pilot episode's opening scene where Rick did this to Morty. - Rick in this scene continues his habit of breaking the fourth wall as he's done in other episodes when he says the current episode is a "Rick and Jerry adventure/episode!". - It is revealed that Rick has cybernetic implants in a majority of his body. These implants appear to be located in all of his limbs, his left eye, part of his brain, and part of a system within his chest. - This likely explains some of physical attributes for a man his age. - This could also be due to the events in "The Rickshank Rickdemption", where Rick switches minds with Quantum Rick from the former Citadel of Ricks. - Jerry lives at room 826 of his apartment block. - It appears that Summer has gained a wide amount of knowledge about Rick's garage, knowing the secret code to certain compartments and not being frightened by the abundance of extreme scientific contraptions (including a box with a trapped green entity). - The code to unlock the compartment behind Rick's billboard involves moving the only un-connected pin to the bottom-righthand corner of the blue piece of paper. - In the TV broadcast, until the last few minutes, the word "shit" is bleeped out, whereas in airings of the earlier episodes, it's been uncensored. - During a sequence when female Rick is nursing a little alien, there is a little bust of Beth and little Birdperson in the background. Series continuity[] - Following the events of "The Rickshank Rickdemption", Jerry is still separated from Beth in this episode, and still lives alone in his apartment. - Beth still tries to prove herself worthy of Rick's love as it was shown in "Pickle Rick." - Summer's relationship with Ethan from "Anatomy Park" comes to an end in this episode. - Morty references his love interest for Jessica when he states that his daughter will be hot because her mother will be Jessica. - Above Jerry's bed in his apartment, there is a picture of the Titanic, a reference to his obsession with the ship and also the film. The same picture is shown to be in the Smith family's recreation room throughout seasons 1 and 2 such as its appearance in "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind". This is a callback to the episode "Ricksy Business" where the plot revolved around his fascination with the Titanic. - During the episode, the Interdimensional Cable Box can still be seen in the background, following the episode "Rixty Minutes." - Rick's cybernetic components were first be seen in the background of his antics during the episode "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender." - The cracks around the house are still visible after the events of the episode "Ricksy Business". - The mailman who appeared in "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!" can be seen again, seemingly killed by a giant falling mailbox. - Justin Roiland confirmed him being "alive and well".[3] - Rick's nonchalant reaction to having endured a temporal lapse is further evidence of his extensive journeys across the cosmos, seeing such an existential occurrence as "trivial" rather than life-changing. - While Rick is under the effects of the "synaptic dampener" he bears a strong resemblance to Jerry. Rick remarks about his desire to eat cookies and watch a 90 minute cut of James Cameron's Avatar which is similar to Jerry's love of junk food and obsession with another James Cameron film, The Titanic. - Summer is described as having "Clive Barkered" herself; this wording in relation to body horror movies is a call back to when Rick "Cronenberged" Earth in "Rick Potion #9". - Rick taking Jerry to the Immortality Field resort might be a reference to the episode, "Mortynight Run", in which Rick notes that Jerrys typically don't fare well off-world. - Beth is seen at home instead of St. Equis Hospital, as she mentioned that the horses were given alien medicine which makes them "healthy forever", rending her job as a horse surgeon redundant in "The Rickshank Rickdemption". Cultural references[] - The title is possibly a reference to the recurring title formula for episodes of The Big Bang Theory. - The entire scene where Summer enlarges through the Morphizer-XE to the point where she destroys the garage is similar to events in Alice's Adventures In Wonderland and Akira. Her attack and journey towards Ethan and Tricia is similar to Attack of the 50 Foot Woman. - The subplot of the episode in most of the scenes that include Morty, Beth and Summer where Summer accidentally made herself into a giant is also similar to how Candace Flynn from Phineas and Ferb accidentally made herself into a giant in "Attack of the 50 Foot Sister", although in that one, Candace used a potion created by her brothers to help out Baljeet with a watermelon contest and Candace took their potion while they weren't looking and poured a drop on herself to increase her height by two inches not long after Phineas poured a drop of it on the watermelon as she watched but only grew a few inches before leaving and without realizing it hadn't taken its full effect yet and how powerful the potion really was as she didn't stay to watch the whole thing before coming back briefly to pour some on herself. - Summer enlarging herself, going on a rampage, and Beth having to become enlarged to stop her is a reference to the film Honey I Blew Up The Kid which follows the same storyline but with a baby boy instead of a teenaged girl. - Jeff Goldblum is also referenced as a joke which both Rick and Jerry agree on, where Rick says "Yo what's up, Big Chill! Don't go into that tele-pod!". This is a reference to the movie The Fly, where Jeff Goldblum's appearance becomes severely altered after fusing with a fly. This is referenced due to the ugly nature of the Protolaxians which both Rick and Jerry recognize as Jeff Goldblum's face. It is also a reference to the 1983 comedy-drama The Big Chill. - During the trip through the temporal field, a lot of cultural imagery appears, particularly in the form of archetypal images (including religious imagery - pagan, Egyptian, Christian, Hindu and occult - such as Baphomet). - This entire sequence is a reference to the 1980 film Altered States, which has similar imagery and scenes. - The start and end animation may reference Anthony Francisco Schepperd's famous 2009 animation for a song 'The Music Scene' by the musician 'Blockhead'. Link - The naked lion fight is a reference to a clip from the cafe scene of the 1968 film 'If....' by Lindsay Anderson. Link - The scene where Rick appears in recursive columns made of eyes is straight out of psychedelic artist Alex Grey's works. - Rick refers to the experience as "cosmic apotheosis" - this is a Greek concept of becoming God. It is implied that Rick has become God or merged with the cosmos (dualistic language breaks down) as he is sat cross-legged with his middle finger up. - He sits beneath a pyramid underneath a "star tetrahedron" - the main symbol of sacred geometry. Above the pyramid projects "the all seeing eye" - the eye of Horus, the main God of the Egyptian pantheon and symbol of consciousness. This symbolizes the universe/God's essence, or oneness, which Rick merges with. - The two deer-headed beings are male and female, (duality) and are possible references to Adam and Eve, and flow from the oneness which is God/Rick/Cosmos. Jerry appears to be "born" of their union. Jerry then "wakes up" and realises he is "literally Time". He is meditating in the lotus position and his chakras are all lit up. (This is his first experience of it, whereas Rick has experienced it before). - The final symbol is the triskele, a pagan symbol referring to the trinity. (The one where the three of them merge). - After they return, Rick jokes that cosmic apotheosis wears off faster than salvia, which is a potent hallucinogen, reinforcing that these images are a mash up of psychedelic and religious symbols and ideas being played for laughs. Jerry felt their "souls were united and they were one with eternity," but soon went back to thinking Rick was an asshole. - At the beginning of the sequence Jerry asks "Am I dead? Am I still alive?", to which Rick's consciousness mysteriously responds, "Those aren't the questions you should be asking". This suggests that Rick's mind has indeed transcended the confines of 'life and death', of duality, and has become God. His response thus poses it's own question: "Who, or what, is asking the question?" - Ethan's punishment of augmented bodily horror imposed by Morty may be a reference to the 1967 science-fiction short story I have no Mouth and I must Scream, written by Harlan Ellison. - The Whirly-Dirly and its destruction is possibly a reference to the time travel machine from the 1997 movie Contact. - The scenes where Summer and later Beth had themselves enlarged and then turned their skin inside-out is a reference to the design of the Colossus Titan from the manga and anime Attack On Titan. - While driving around town in search of Summer, Beth describes Summer's transformation as Summer having "Clive Barkered" herself. Clive Barker is an English novelist and movie director who wrote The Hellbound Heart and directed the body horror movies Hellraiser and Candyman. Beth's comment is an allusion to Hellraiser, specifically to the movie's villain, Frank Cotton, who appears at one point as flayed undead corpse. - The wormhole ship is a Galaxy-class ship, refencing the series, Star Trek: The Next Generation. - One of the visions Jerry during the wormhole trip shows two multi-faced Ricks might be a reference to the album cover of 10,000 Days by Tool. - The bridge behind the tech support team in the post-credits scene has a symbol referencing Bill Cipher from the animated series, Gravity Falls. Transcript[] View a full transcript of this episode here. Gallery Click here to view this page's gallery. References |


--- [List of Rick and Morty episodes - Wikipedia] ---
Rick and Morty is an American animated  science fiction sitcom created by Justin Roiland and Dan Harmon. The series follows Rick Sanchez, an alcoholic, nihilistic mad scientist, and his easily distressed grandson, Morty Smith as they travel to parallel dimensions and exotic planets with extraterrestrials. These adventures commonly cause trouble for Morty's family (Jerry, Beth, and Summer), who are often dragged along as well.
The series premiered on December 2, 2013, on Cartoon Network's late-night programming block Adult Swim. On May 10, 2018, Adult Swim announced a long-term deal with the creators, ordering 70 new episodes of Rick and Morty, through to a tenth season. At a New York Comic Con panel in 2024, it was announced that the series had been renewed for an additional two seasons, renewing the show through season 12.

The eighth season premiered on May 25, 2025. As of July 27, 2025, 81 episodes of Rick and Morty have aired, concluding the eighth season.


--- ["Rick and Morty" The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy (TV Episode 2017) - IMDb] ---
Rick takes Jerry on a sympathy adventure to a resort where everyone is immortal when there, and Jerry meets some old acquaintances of Rick's who want payback.Rick takes Jerry on a sympathy adventure to a resort where everyone is immortal when there, and Jerry meets some old acquaintances of Rick's who want payback.Rick takes Jerry on a sympathy adventure to a resort where everyone is immortal when there, and Jerry meets some old acquaintances of Rick's who want payback. Justin Roiland - Rick Sanchez - (voice) - … Chris Parnell - Jerry Smith - (voice) Spencer Grammer - Summer Smith - (voice) Sarah Chalke - Beth Smith - (voice) Daniel Benson - Ethan - (voice) - (as Dan Benson) Clancy Brown - Risotto Groupon - (voice) Echo Kellum - Triple Trunks - (voice) Tom Kenny - Shnoopy Bloopers - (voice) - … Ryan Ridley - Alien Waiter - (voice) - … Cassie Steele - Tricia Lange - (voice) Featured reviews Now THIS is the R&M I was hoping for. Clever jokes, nice references to the previous episodes, mind**** moments, excellent pacing and character developments. Both story lines were kept interesting, and small tidbits from movies like the Fifth Element or Honey I Blew Up the Kid were adding to the flavor of this one. I waited this part as a redeemer after The Rickshank Rickdemption, and it lived up for my expectations. Fingers crossed the will keep up the standard on the same level. Fantastic episode. Clever. Has the elements and layers that made the show great; Proper sci-fi, good story line, funny, adventurous, outrageous, and the characters feel like themselves (again)- also the mesmerizing (trippy) scene is brilliant and stimulating. The 1st and 5th episodes of this season are in par with previous amazing seasons (1&2). Episode 3 was below par and 4th was a disaster IMHO. Jerry is that one character in Rick and Morty where he's just there and he has nothing much to do with the episodes he's in. In this episode he was actually treated like a main character, what he needed, sort of. This episode was actually pretty good. I still don't really like Jerry, but I enjoyed how he was treated in this episode. in this season i think there are two kinds of twists one is the character facing a choice，either A or B. the other is there are 'option A' and 'option B'，but the character chooses 'WHAT THE HELL'. in the first kind of twist，'option A'was usually the conventional one，which means the character won't choose it，or it would be lame. therefore，it must be 'option B'，which makes 'option B' pretty obvious without any surprise. in episode 2,3,4, i see a lot of this kind of twist. but in this episode，the second kind of twist came back，and this kind of twist is the very definition of 'rick and morty'. yet ironically，it's a 'rick and jerry'episode. one is the character facing a choice，either A or B. the other is there are 'option A' and 'option B'，but the character chooses 'WHAT THE HELL'. in the first kind of twist，'option A'was usually the conventional one，which means the character won't choose it，or it would be lame. therefore，it must be 'option B'，which makes 'option B' pretty obvious without any surprise. in episode 2,3,4, i see a lot of this kind of twist. but in this episode，the second kind of twist came back，and this kind of twist is the very definition of 'rick and morty'. yet ironically，it's a 'rick and jerry'episode. Although I still love Rick and Morty season 3 at times feels like it's evolved into something... different. Not necessarily a negative thing but it's nice when an episode like this comes along that feels like it's ripped straight from the first season. Definitely one of my favourites of season 3 Did you know - TriviaThe first episode in the series where Rick and Morty share no audible dialogue. - GoofsAfter Jerry returns from the restroom, he asks the bartender for "another one of these", indicating Rick's drink. However, he's brought a completely different drink than Rick's. - Quotes Rick Sanchez: I want cookies and a 90-minute cut of 'Avatar.' - Crazy creditsThere is a scene after the credits featuring the 3 little characters who escaped from inside the morphizer machine. - ConnectionsFeatured in WatchMojo: Top 10 Mortiest Morty Moments in Rick and Morty (2018) - SoundtracksRick and Morty Theme Written by Ryan Elder Details - Runtime - 22m - Color - Aspect ratio - 16:9 HD Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content


--- [Rick and Morty - Episode Guide - TVmaze] ---
Pilot Episode: 1x01 | Airdate: Dec 2, 2013 Rick takes Morty to another dimension to get some seeds for him but Morty's parents are considering to put Rick in a retirement home for keeping Morty away from school to help him in his lab. Episode: 1x01 | Airdate: Dec 2, 2013 Rick takes Morty to another dimension to get some seeds for him but Morty's parents are considering to put Rick in a retirement home for keeping Morty away from school to help him in his lab. Episode: 1x02 | Airdate: Dec 9, 2013 Morty's small, white dog Snuffles gets on the nerves of the family, so Rick quickly builds a knowledge enhancing helmet for the dog. In the meantime, Rick and Morty decide to incept the dreams of Morty's math teacher, Mr. Goldenfold in order to convince him to give Morty A's in math. While the duo are sent on an epic dream world journey, Snuffles slowly gains sentience, which leads to a slew of even more problems. Episode: 1x03 | Airdate: Dec 16, 2013 It's around Christmas time and Jerry's parents are coming to visit so he wants everybody to have a normal holiday without technology and without Rick. Fortunately for him, Rick has other plans, involving building a molecular theme park inside of a friend of his named Ruben, and he shrinks down Morty and sends him in there to test it out. Episode: 1x04 | Airdate: Jan 13, 2014 Aliens send Rick, Morty and Jerry into an alternate reality, and Rick tries to get them out as oblivious Jerry pitches a marketing slogan for apples. Episode: 1x05 | Airdate: Jan 20, 2014 Morty has grown weary of Rick's shenanigans, so he leads a supposedly safer adventure. Jerry conjures weird creatures to help him with his golf game. Episode: 1x06 | Airdate: Jan 27, 2014 Rick provides Morty with a love potion to get Jessica. The serum backfires & Rick's attempt to fix things creates Cronenberg inspired monsters. Rick is okay with it but Morty feels partly responsible for creating a living nightmare. Episode: 1x07 | Airdate: Mar 10, 2014 After Morty fathers a child with a sex robot, Rick and Summer visit the robot's planet, where the kid grows into an adult within days. Episode: 1x08 | Airdate: Mar 17, 2014 When Rick hooks up the family's tv receiver with reality-tv shows from alternate dimensions, and allows them to see themselves in different versions of their lives, they begin to wonder what they have, and more importantly - what could have been. Episode: 1x09 | Airdate: Mar 24, 2014 Rick is skeptical of Summer's new job at a shop run by the devil. Jerry and Morty argue about Pluto's status as a planet and end up traveling there. Episode: 1x10 | Airdate: Apr 7, 2014 Rick's just trying to enjoy a nice breakfast, but he's kidnapped by a group of alternate Ricks and taken to stand trial for crimes against Ricks. Episode: 1x11 | Airdate: Apr 14, 2014 When Jerry and Beth go away to take part in a re-creation of the sinking of the Titanic, Rick and Summer throw a party that gets out of control. Episode: 2x01 | Airdate: Jul 26, 2015 Rick unfreezes time, but since he, Morty and Summer have been living for so long on frozen time, a parallel dimension develops. Episode: 2x02 | Airdate: Aug 2, 2015 Morty tries to save a life. Episode: 2x03 | Airdate: Aug 9, 2015 Rick becomes emotional; Beth and Jerry are hard on each other. Episode: 2x04 | Airdate: Aug 16, 2015 Meeting new friends; Morty goes ballistic. Episode: 2x05 | Airdate: Aug 23, 2015 Rick and Morty must step up and save things; a new religion starts up. Episode: 2x06 | Airdate: Aug 30, 2015 Rick forgets to check his oil, and must repair his car. Episode: 2x07 | Airdate: Sep 13, 2015 Rick joins in on hijinks, Beth and Jerry sort out relationship issues. Episode: 2x08 | Airdate: Sep 20, 2015 Jerry gets sick and Rick sparks up the TV. Episode: 2x09 | Airdate: Sep 27, 2015 Rick and Morty land on a planet where all the citizens are allowed to commit crimes -- including murder -- without punishment for one night. Episode: 2x10 | Airdate: Oct 4, 2015 When Jerry accidentally gets transported to the planet hosting Birdperson and Tammy's wedding, the whole family attends the ill-fated ceremony. Episode: 3x01 | Airdate: Apr 1, 2017 Rick, still in galactic prison, puts an intricate escape plan into action. Back on Earth, which is now under federation control, Morty and Summer have an argument about their grandpa. Episode: 3x02 | Airdate: Jul 30, 2017 With the kids dealing with their parents' divorce, Rick takes them to a Mad Max-style universe where he tries to steal a green crystal from a group of scavengers. Episode: 3x03 | Airdate: Aug 6, 2017 (24 min) Rick turns himself into a pickle while the rest of the family goes to therapy. Now Rick has to figure out how to stop being a pickle. Episode: 3x04 | Airdate: Aug 13, 2017 While ostensibly helping a group of superheroes called the Vindicators, Rick instead drunkenly sets up a "Saw"-like scenario for them to navigate. Episode: 3x05 | Airdate: Aug 20, 2017 Rick takes Jerry on a sympathy adventure to a resort where everyone is immortal when there, and Jerry meets some old acquaintances of Rick's who want payback. Episode: 3x06 | Airdate: Aug 27, 2017 After another exhausting adventure, Rick and Morty decide they need a vacation. But things go a little haywire when they try a special detox machine. Episode: 3x07 | Airdate: Sep 10, 2017 Rick and Morty encounter a visiting Rick and Morty from the Citadel of Ricks before heading off on an amazing adventure to Atlantis. Episode: 3x08 | Airdate: Sep 17, 2017 Rick shows Morty a room filled with memories Morty begged him to remove from his mind, and things go off the rails when Rick starts restoring them. Episode: 3x09 | Airdate: Sep 24, 2017 Rick and Beth sort out issues from her childhood by visiting a world called Froopyland. Morty and Summer are a little wary of Jerry's new girlfriend. Episode: 3x10 | Airdate: Oct 1, 2017 The president needs help from Rick and Morty, prompting a bit of a confrontation. Beth begins to suspect that she may be a clone. Episode: 4x01 | Airdate: Nov 10, 2019 Rick brings Morty to a planet containing crystals that show whoever is touching them all the ways they may die depending on their choices. Episode: 4x02 | Airdate: Nov 17, 2019 Jerry develops an app at the request of a persistent alien with a "Do Not Develop My App" forehead tattoo. A determined Rick tracks a mystery pooper. Episode: 4x03 | Airdate: Nov 24, 2019 Rick assembles a crew to break into a heist convention, then needs another crew to stop a heist-planning robot. And Morty writes a heist script. Episode: 4x04 | Airdate: Dec 8, 2019 Rick reluctantly gives in to Morty's wishes to get a pet dragon, then things get weird. Jerry befriends a talking cat and they go to Florida. Episode: 4x05 | Airdate: Dec 15, 2019 Rick and Morty get caught up in a full-on snake war after a space snake bites Morty. Jerry tries to prove he can hang Christmas lights without dying. Episode: 4x06 | Airdate: May 3, 2020 Rick and Morty get caught in a continuity-creating anthology device full of people telling stories about Rick. Episode: 4x07 | Airdate: May 10, 2020 Rick and Morty find themselves in a fight against face-hugging aliens who just happen to have an M&M's store. Episode: 4x08 | Airdate: May 17, 2020 Morty challenges Rick to build him the real-life equivalent of a "save game" function to live without consequence. Also, there's a giant vat of acid. Episode: 4x09 | Airdate: May 24, 2020 Jerry's plan to take the whole family on a camping trip is sidetracked when Rick gets news that he may have impregnated a planet. Episode: 4x10 | Airdate: May 31, 2020 Two Beths, a corporate-sponsored planet incinerator and some faces from the past force Rick and family to "do a Star Wars" to save Earth. Episode: 5x01 | Airdate: Jun 20, 2021 It's a busy night at the Smith house as Rick's nemesis pays a visit and Morty invites a girl over. Then some stuff happens with a portal in the garage. Episode: 5x02 | Airdate: Jun 27, 2021 Killer squids are after the Smiths, but luckily Rick created a decoy family. Or are they real? Can the decoys make decoys? Who's real? Are you real? Episode: 5x03 | Airdate: Jul 4, 2021 Morty falls head-over-heels in love with an ecological superhero, leaving Summer to join Rick on a bender of interplanetary apocalyptic hedonism. Episode: 5x04 | Airdate: Jul 11, 2021 The Smiths band together to fight an army of giant mutant sperm, and let's just say everyone would be better off if Morty stays away from Beth's work. Episode: 5x05 | Airdate: Jul 18, 2021 Beth crashes Rick and Jerry's hellish guys night out, while Morty and Summer attempt to use a spaceship to impress a cool new kid at school. Episode: 5x06 | Airdate: Jul 25, 2021 Rick turns himself into a turkey after he ruffles the President's feathers on Thanksgiving, and the situation soon spirals into total clucking carnage. Episode: 5x07 | Airdate: Aug 1, 2021 The Smiths get a lesson on the meaning of family after Rick cancels a trip to Boob World to acquire the fifth and final GoTron ferret. Episode: 5x08 | Airdate: Aug 8, 2021 With the rest of the family out of town on a cruise, Rick is left to his own devices at home and decides it's time to reconnect with an old friend. Episode: 5x09 | Airdate: Sep 5, 2021 When Rick starts using birds as sidekicks, Morty finds a new partner in a portal. Is Rick and Morty's interdimensional partnership done forever? Episode: 5x10 | Airdate: Sep 5, 2021 Rick's still doing the weird crows thing, but a middle-aged Morty hopes to reconnect with Rick, leading them down an emotional path in a familiar location. Episode: 6x01 | Airdate: Sep 4, 2022 They're back, baby! The Smiths deal with last season's fallout, and Rick and Morty are stranded in space floating in the remnants of the citadel. Episode: 6x02 | Airdate: Sep 11, 2022 Morty is trapped and Rick needs to save him, but to do so, Summer must do a Die Hard. This won't be easy because she's never seen it. Episode: 6x03 | Airdate: Sep 18, 2022 The Smiths celebrate one of their favourite holidays while Summer and Morty lock into their new ultra-realistic video game console. Episode: 6x04 | Airdate: Sep 25, 2022 The family discover Rick has been using some new technology that they want to try too. After obliging, classic Rick and Morty chaos ensues. Episode: 6x05 | Airdate: Oct 2, 2022 The Smiths dine at their favourite Chinese restaurant and read their fortune cookies aloud. Pretty normal stuff, until Jerry reads his. Episode: 6x06 | Airdate: Oct 9, 2022 Seemingly out of the blue, Earth's old rulers return. They make a great case for changing the way society does business, but Rick isn't going to put up with it. Episode: 6x07 | Airdate: Nov 20, 2022 Rick and Morty remember some of their old adventures together, which leads them to a stand-off with an old enemy. Episode: 6x08 | Airdate: Nov 27, 2022 Tired of being attacked by goofball supervillains, Rick decides to seek advice about why he's always a target, leading to a breakthrough - for Jerry. Episode: 6x09 | Airdate: Dec 4, 2022 Morty starts a war on worlds after debunking the entire existence of the Knights of the Sun and is forced to take extreme measures in order to put an end to it all. Episode: 6x10 | Airdate: Dec 11, 2022 What starts as a merry Christmas in the Smith household takes an ugly turn when Morty uncovers a betrayal thanks to a gift from a galaxy far, far away. Episode: 7x01 | Airdate: Oct 15, 2023 When Mr. Poopybutthole overstays his welcome at the Smith household, the rest of the family get Rick to deal with the problem. However what starts out as a hang out of friends quickly turns into an out of control bar crawl, especially when a special guest joins the group. Episode: 7x02 | Airdate: Oct 22, 2023 Rick and Jerry's minds are accidentally scrambled; they have to learn to set aside their differences to save their family. Episode: 7x03 | Airdate: Oct 29, 2023 Rick, along with the president and Dr. Wong, deal with a situation when an ex-lover of Rick takes over Virginia. Episode: 7x04 | Airdate: Nov 5, 2023 The Smith family is enjoying delicious spaghetti for family dinner but Morty uncovers the truth about the dish leading to a horrifying discovery and the collapse of a society. Episode: 7x05 | Airdate: Nov 12, 2023 The search for Rick Prime takes Rick and Morty to the vast reaches of the multiverse where they have to team up with an old enemy to bring him down for good. Episode: 7x06 | Airdate: Nov 19, 2023 As the mind-bending animated adventures continue, Morty gets audited. Episode: 7x07 | Airdate: Nov 26, 2023 Rick gives Summer an Attribute Slider as payment for helping clean up his messes. When Morty wants it for himself, the siblings are thrown into an adventure where the term "sibling bond" is given a whole new meaning for them. Episode: 7x08 | Airdate: Dec 3, 2023 Morty's math class takes a surprising new turn when he and his math teacher Mr. Goldenfield go on an adventure with Goldenfield's old student, Water-T to battle the Numbericons. Episode: 7x09 | Airdate: Dec 10, 2023 In an attempt to answer the age old question if there is an afterlife, Rick has Bigfoot kill him in order to enter Valhalla for a robbery. Things get pretty hectic when the pope gets involved in the situation. Episode: 7x10 | Airdate: Dec 17, 2023 When Rick and Morty enter into a mysterious new realm called the Fear Hole, the two must learn to overcome their greatest fears and know what it's like to live with themselves. Episode: 8x01 | Airdate: May 25, 2025 Rick left the kids in a matrix. Not chill, broh. Episode: 8x02 | Airdate: Jun 1, 2025 Space Beth calls her dad for a ride, broh. Episode: 8x03 | Airdate: Jun 8, 2025 Some guys wanna rebuild the citadel, broh. Seems like a bad idea, broh. Yeehaw stuff, broh. Episode: 8x04 | Airdate: Jun 15, 2025 Broh is risen. The Smiths learn the true meaning of Easter. Kind of. Broh. Episode: 8x05 | Airdate: Jun 22, 2025 Broh! Rick and Morty wanna rob a ship in cryosleep. But people are light sleepers, broh. Episode: 8x06 | Airdate: Jun 29, 2025 The brohs goes to a theme park Rick loves. Beth and Space Beth stay behind and regress or something. Episode: 8x07 | Airdate: Jul 6, 2025 Rick and Morty write the next installment of their favorite movie franchise. Pure cinema, broh. Episode: 8x08 | Airdate: Jul 13, 2025 That funemployed life, broh. Jerry makes a friend just as jobless as he is. Episode: 8x09 | Airdate: Jul 20, 2025 Summer and Rick dine OUT, broh. Fancy restaurant stuff. Morty reconnects with someone from his past. Episode: 8x10 | Airdate: Jul 27, 2025 Brohhhhh. Broh. Sometimes we try weird stuff to let go of the past, broh. Episode: S07 Special | Airdate: Apr 1, 2025 (22 min) A 22-minute anthology special featuring fan favorite Rick and Morty moments re-told through an Adult Swim lens of absurd, live-action, theater-based genres.
