=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[2022 Word of the Year is “-ussy” – American Dialect Society]
Jan 6, 2024 · Hyatt Regency Denver at Colorado Convention Center–Jan. 6—The American Dialect Society, in its 33rd annual words-of-the-year vote, selected the suffix “-ussy” as the Word of the Year for 2022.
URL: https://americandialect.org/2022-word-of-the-year-is-ussy/

[List of American Dialect Society's Words of the Year - Wikipedia]
ADS logo The American Dialect Society's Word of the Year (WotY [a]) are voted at the January American Dialect Society conference. The first year for which the word of the year was voted ("bushlips") by the ADS was 1990. [2] Sam Corbin, a words and language writer for The New York Times, comparing the ADS WOTY with the likes from prominent dictionaries, wrote that "the American Dialect Society ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_American_Dialect_Society%27s_Words_of_the_Year

['Ussy' Is the American Dialect Society's Word of the Year]
Jan 9, 2023 · Over the weekend, the American Dialect Society (ADS) announced that the prefix "ussy" is its 2022 Word of the Year. This is the organization's 33rd time choosing a Word of the Year.
URL: https://www.out.com/news/2023/1/09/ussy-american-dialect-societys-word-year

["-ussy" Named Word of 2022 by American Dialect Society]
Jan 14, 2023 · That’s right! Due to its increased popularity and widespread use across the internet, “-ussy” has become the word of the year, according to the American Dialect Society. The organization believes the use and evolution of a widely-used word is what’s important. Not the word’s origin or its ...
URL: https://nerdbot.com/2023/01/14/ussy-named-word-of-2022-by-american-dialect-society/

[What’s your word of the year? | Welcome to Literary Ashland]
Jan 31, 2023 — What words epitomized 2022? Earlier this month, the attendees at the American Dialect Society selected –ussy as the Word of the Year for 2022.
URL: https://literaryashland.org/?p=11812


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [2022 Word of the Year is “-ussy” – American Dialect Society] ---
Hyatt Regency Denver at Colorado Convention Center–Jan. 6—The American Dialect Society, in its 33rd annual words-of-the-year vote, selected the suffix “-ussy” as the Word of the Year for 2022. More than two hundred attendees took part in the deliberations and voting, joining both in person and virtually, in a hybrid event hosted in conjunction with the Linguistic Society of America’s annual meeting. Presiding at the Jan. 6 voting session was Ben Zimmer, chair of the ADS New Words Committee and language columnist for the Wall Street Journal. “The selection of the suffix -ussy highlights how creativity in new word formation has been embraced online in venues like TikTok,” Zimmer said. “The playful suffix builds off the word pussy to generate new slang terms. The process has been so productive lately on social media sites and elsewhere that it has been dubbed -ussification.” For more on the -ussy phenomenon, see the Vulture article by Bethy Squires, “We Asked Linguists Why People Are Adding -Ussy to Every Word”: “Riffing off ‘bussy’ (a portmanteau of ‘boy’ and ‘pussy’), now everything is a cat or a cavity. A calzone is a pizzussy. A wine bottle has a winussy.” See also Michael Dow’s scholarly paper, “A corpus study of phonological factors in novel English blends.” Word of the Year is interpreted in its broader sense as “vocabulary item”—not just words but also phrases, compounds, and affixes. The items do not have to be brand-new, but they have to be newly prominent or notable in the past year. This is not the first time an affix has been named Word of the Year: in 1998, the prefix e- (as in email) was selected. The vote is the longest-running such vote anywhere, the only one not tied to commercial interests, and the word-of-the-year event up to which all others lead. It is fully informed by the members’ expertise in the study of words, but it is far from a solemn occasion. Members in the 133-year-old organization include linguists, lexicographers, etymologists, grammarians, historians, researchers, writers, editors, students, and independent scholars. In conducting the vote, they act in fun and do not pretend to be officially inducting words into the English language. Instead, they are highlighting that language change is normal, ongoing, and entertaining. Read the full press release, including all winners, candidates, and vote tallies for all candidates.


--- [List of American Dialect Society's Words of the Year - Wikipedia] ---
The American Dialect Society's Word of the Year (WotY) are voted at the January American Dialect Society conference. The first year for which the word of the year was voted ("bushlips") by the ADS was 1990.
Sam Corbin, a words and language writer for The New York Times, comparing the ADS WOTY with the likes from prominent dictionaries, wrote that "the American Dialect Society celebrates linguistic variation to an almost absurd degree".
Starting with about 30 society members in early years, as of 2023 the vote drew some 300 participants. Recently the event consists of two parts: the live nominating session, which culls the nominations open to public a month in advance, and the live vote.


--- ['Ussy' Is the American Dialect Society's Word of the Year] ---
Your "ussy" is on fire! Over the weekend, the American Dialect Society (ADS) announced that the prefix "ussy" is its 2022 Word of the Year. This is the organization's 33rd time choosing a Word of the Year. The voting process to elect "ussy" as the ADS' 2022 Word of the Year took place during an event held by the organization. The ADS further explained in a release: "The selection of the suffix -ussy highlights how creativity in new word formation has been embraced online in venues like TikTok. The playful suffix builds off the word pussy to generate new slang terms. The process has been so productive lately on social media sites and elsewhere that it has been dubbed -ussification." In recent years, many celebrities have been reacting and bringing awareness to words like "bussy," making its suffix rather popular indeed. From Taron Egerton and Andrew Garfield reading tweets from people who wanted their "bussy" destroyed by them to Lil Nas X campaigning for the word to be added to official dictionaries, it's fair to say that "ussy" is all over the place. Now that "ussy" has been officially recognized by a major organization, no one can stop the girls, gays, and theys from using it! RELATED | Cade Maddox, Roman Todd, & More Celebrate Wins at GayVN Awards 2023


--- ["-ussy" Named Word of 2022 by American Dialect Society] ---
That’s right! Due to its increased popularity and widespread use across the internet, “-ussy” has become the word of the year, according to the American Dialect Society. The organization believes the use and evolution of a widely-used word is what’s important. Not the word’s origin or its raciness. Initially it started with the term “bussy,” which was popularized by social media. People attaching “-ussy” to the ends of words became more widespread, enjoying it in a comical and theoretical sense as well. From terms like “Scotussy” to “Truckussy,” for instance. Before you go rolling your eyes, you should know over 200 linguists voted on this word. Due in part to its versatility, but it was agreed “-ussy” embodied the spirit of 2022 best. The suffix received a whopping 108 votes. Ben Zimmer, chair of the ADS, says the word has “snowballed as a playful way of extending a somewhat taboo concept in all sorts of unforeseen directions — especially among the LGBTQ+ community, where this kind of racy wordplay is often prized.” Thanks to how easily trends are picked up, sites like TikTok and Twitter helped perpetuate the word even further. We, for one, find it incredibly amusing. Especially after Merriam-Webster added the words “sus” and “cringe” due to their popularity. “Gaslight” was the word of 2022.


--- [What’s your word of the year? | Welcome to Literary Ashland] ---
What words epitomized 2022? Earlier this month, the attendees at the American Dialect Society selected –ussy as the Word of the Year for 2022. It’s a word part, a suffix, that according to linguist Ben Zimmer, who emcees the Word of the Year event, “snowballed as a playful way of extending a somewhat taboo concept in all sorts of unforeseen directions — especially among the LGBTQ+ community, where this kind of racy wordplay is often prized.” It seems to have begun with the blend “bussy,” a combination of “boy” and “pussy” to refer to an orifice. The usage got extended to things like pizzussy, bairstussy, winussy, and SCOTUSSY. -ussy seemed a bit too ironic and TIKTOKy for me. I was pulling for rizz meaning “effortless attractiveness or style.” It a clipping of “charisma.” The ADS has been selecting a Word of the Year since 1990, when it was a promotional idea developed y by the late Allan Metcalf. It was a fitting complement to the Society’s long-running Among the New Words featuring in American speech and the first WOTY was bushlips, for “insincere political rhetoric.” You can find a complete list here. The ADS event is always a raucous one, with a slate of candidates in different categories—MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED, POLITICAL WORD OF THE YEAR, DIGITAL WORD OF THE YEAR, INFORMAL WORD OF THE YEAR, EUPHEMISM OF THE YEAR, and more. People speak in support or against the contenders, and offer up linguistic, cultural, or personal reasons for this or that choice. The American Dialect Society is not the only word of the year around. All the major dictionaries select one. The Oxford English Dictionary’s was decided by a public vote this year, rather than by lexicographers. Over 340,000 people voted and goblin mode won in a landslide. That’s behavior that is “unapologetically self-indulgent.” It’s an aging Twitterism that got news legs in 2022. The Merriam-Webster dictionary makes its pick based on the word that shows the biggest rise in lookups in a year. The winner gaslighting, defined as “the act or practice of grossly misleading someone especially for one’s own advantage.” It showed a 1,740% rise in searches for the term in 2022. Dictionary.com also chooses their word of the year based on look ups. The winner: woman. It’s not a new word by any stretch of the imagination, but it showed a 1,400% spike in searches. Why, you ask? Discussions of transgender rights prompted people to see what the dictionary says a woman is. You can look it up here. The venerable British Collins Dictionary selected permacrisis (“an extended period of instability and insecurity”) as it choice. From Brexit to COVID to Ukraine to the monarchy, revolving prime ministers, climate extremes, and the cost-of-living, permacrisis captures the moment and more. Collins chooses its word of the year from a short list selected by monitoring its eight billion-word Collins Corpus database of words, along with other sources. The other nine were Carolean (“Of or relating to Charles III”), Kyiv, lawfare, partygate, quiet quitting, splooting, sportswashing, vibe shift, and warm bank. Cambridge Dictionary selected homer as its word of the year. Not the Simpson patriarch but the Wordle solution on May 5th According to Cambridge, homer was looked up 75,000 times on the Cambridge Dictionary website during the first week of May, mostly from outside of North America. Lynne Murphy is an American who has been living in the English for a number of years and the author of The Prodigal Tongue. Her Separated by a Common Tongue blog picks words of the year that have travelled from the UK to the US and vice versa. The UK-to-US word was fit, a bit of UK slang meaning “sexy.” . Her US-to-UK words for 2022 was also homer. She called it “possibly the most talked-about Americanism in British social media this year.” Mignon Fogarty, a.k.a. Grammar Girl, put her word-of-the-year to a series of elimination votes on LinkedIn, asking followers to vote on the word that captured the 2022 zeitgeist. The eventual winner, inflation, beating out quiet quitting, slava Ukraini, democracy, polarized, long COVID and 58 other contenders. The list could go on and on. The National Council of Teachers of English makes a Doublespeak Award of words and phrases designed to mislead and deceive (in 2022 it was China Virus). Lake Superior State University puts out a hit list of words that should be banished and their snarkussy 2023 list is GOAT, inflection point, quiet quitting, gaslighting, moving forward, amazing, Does that make sense?, irregardless, absolutely and It is what it is. And this just in: the American Name Society has made its picks. Their Names of the Year: Ukraine. The words we choose are more than just a curiousity, as Valerie Fridland reminds us. They tell us about who we are, what we know and don’t know, and what captures our attention, event for a moment. It’s not too soon to be thinking about the word of the year for 2023. Throughout the year, I’ll try to list some contenders, but I’ll probably get them wrong. After all, I voted for rizz. My January picks: extraordinary measures, from Janet Yellen and bunny boiler from Senator John Kennedy (referring to George Santos). February: balloonacy Check back for updates.
