=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[International Photography Awards - Wikipedia]
The winners of the main categories are invited to attend the gala to compete for the main award of International Photographer of the Year, receiving a Lucie statue and a cash prize of $10,000.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Photography_Awards

[Winners | International Photography Awards]
Natasha Pszenicki, United Kingdom Family In Vitro People Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More →
URL: https://www.photoawards.com/winner/

[IPA Winners]
Alex Telfer,. Lurpak. International Photographer of the Year. View More → ; Mariano Belmar,. La Mancha 2017. Discovery of the Year. View More → ; Giles Clarke,.
URL: https://www.photoawards.com/winner/?compName=IPA+2017

[WON Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of WON is past tense and past participle of win.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/won

[International Photography Awards™ | The International ...]
Our mission is to salute the achievements of the world’s finest photographers, discover new and emerging talent, and promote the appreciation of photography. Submit today and win the most prestigious photography award!
URL: https://www.photoawards.com/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [International Photography Awards - Wikipedia] ---
The International Photography Awards are a group of awards for professional, non-professional and student photographers on a global scale which are awarded annually at the Lucie Awards gala. The winners of the main categories are invited to attend the gala to compete for the main award of International Photographer of the Year, receiving a Lucie statue and a cash prize of $10,000.




--- [Winners | International Photography Awards] ---
International Photographer of the Year Echoes of Genocide: Gaza’s Civilian Suffering International Photographer of the Year View More → Discovery of the Year Murmures de l'âme Discovery of the Year View More → Advertising Photographer Of the Year Colour Has A New Chapter Advertising Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Analog / Film Photographer Of the Year SOLID MAZE OF ALL THAT'S LEFT UNTOLD Analog / Film Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Architecture Photographer Of the Year Requiem pour pianos Architecture Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Book Photographer Of the Year Fragili Equilibri Book Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Editorial / Press Photographer Of the Year Echoes of Genocide: Gaza’s Civilian Suffering Editorial / Press Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Event Photographer Of the Year MahaKumbh - World's Largest Gathering Event Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Fine Art Photographer Of the Year Frida - A Singular Vision of Beauty & Pain Fine Art Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Nature Photographer Of the Year the beautiful of floating babies Nature Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → People Photographer Of the Year Family In Vitro People Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Special Photographer Of the Year Damselfies from Another Planets Special Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Sports Photographer Of the Year Buzkashi Sports Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More →


--- [IPA Winners] ---
International Photographer of the Year Lurpak International Photographer of the Year View More → Discovery of the Year La Mancha 2017 Discovery of the Year View More → Advertising Photographer Of the Year Lurpak Advertising Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Architecture Photographer Of the Year Lines Architecture Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Book Photographer Of the Year Generation Wealth Book Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Deeper Perspective Photographer Of the Year Yemen 2017 Deeper Perspective Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Editorial Photographer Of the Year The Silent Victims of a Forgotten War Editorial Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Event Photographer Of the Year Unity in difference Event Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Fine Art Photographer Of the Year Monna X#1 Fine Art Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Moving Images Photographer Of the Year Ke sale teng Moving Images Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Nature Photographer Of the Year Dead Sea Nature Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → People Photographer Of the Year Daddy and Papa People Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Special Photographer Of the Year Coming Into Focus Special Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More → Sports Photographer Of the Year Reliance Sports Photographer Of the Year, Professional Category Winners View More →


--- [WON Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
plural won also wons : the basic monetary unit of North Korea and South Korea see Money Table wonned; wonning Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [International Photography Awards™ | The International ...] ---
The IPA 2026 Edition is officially open for submissions! Don’t miss your chance to showcase your photography on the world stage. Regular Deadline: April 30, 2026 International Photography Awards™ The International Photography Awards™️ since 2003 conducts an annual competition for professional, amateur, and student photographers globally, creating one of the most ambitious and comprehensive competitions in the photography world today. Our mission is to salute the achievements of the world’s finest photographers, discover new and emerging talent, and promote the appreciation of photography. Submit today and win the most prestigious photography award! 22nd Annual IPA Awards and Photo Festival in Athens, Greece Congratulations to all IPA 2025 Winners! The International Photography Awards are delighted to announce the category winners and finalists in its 2025 Photography Competition for the professional and non-professional/student categories. A stellar international jury of renowned photography experts judged more than 14,000 entries from 100 countries around the world to finally select these outstanding category winners, each of whom are in the running to receive the IPA’s top two prizes—Photographer of the Year for the professional categories, and Discovery of the Year for the non-professional / student categories. Thank you to everyone who participated, we truly appreciate your work and the unique perspective that you brought to this event. The 2025 Annual IPA Book is out now! The 2025 Annual International Photography Awards book features the amazing work of all first, second, and third place winners in both the professional and non-professional categories of the 2024 IPA competition along with the names of the Honorable Mentions. Buy IPA 2025 Book Now Download IPA 2025 E-BookIPA Jury Juan Curto CAMARA OSCURA GALERIA DE ARTE Gloria Crespo MacLennan El País David Clarke TATE Wang Baoguo CHINESE PHOTOGRAPHERS MAGAZINE
