=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

["Peaky Blinders" The Shock (TV Episode 2019) - IMDb]
The Shock: Directed by Anthony Byrne. With Cillian Murphy, Helen McCrory, Paul Anderson, Sophie Rundle. As Tommy reveals his intentions for Mosley, someone close to the Shelbys is targeted.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt6229672/

[PEAKY BLINDERS: THE REDEMPTION OF THOMAS SHELBY]
PEAKY BLINDERS THE REDEMPTION OF THOMAS SHELBY Sadlers Wells Theatre. The DivineEdinburgh 2025 Show Index Archive Archive Top Shows 2024 Christmas Shows 2024 Edinburgh 2024Best of VAULT FestivalBest of The Hope TheatreBest of 2023. of Peaky Blinders is written b...
URL: https://thespyinthestalls.com/2025/08/peaky-blinders/

[List of Peaky Blinders episodes - Wikipedia]
List of Peaky Blinders episodes Peaky Blinders is a British period crime drama television series created by Steven Knight. Set in Birmingham, England, it follows the exploits of the Peaky Blinders crime gang in the direct aftermath of the First World War.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Peaky_Blinders_episodes

[The Shock | Peaky Blinders Wiki | Fandom]
"The Shock" is the fifth episode of the fifth series of Peaky Blinders and the twenty-ninth episode overall. It aired on September 15, 2019. Mosley takes advantage of shocking events to give a speech to the gathered crowd at Arrow House. Afterwards, Mosley gives Tommy his instructions. Arthur and his men arrive at Limehouse for the arranged rendezvous, but the situation has changed drastically ...
URL: https://peaky-blinders.fandom.com/wiki/The_Shock

[Peaky Blinders Season 5 Episode 3 Recap – Strategy]
Tommy and Polly arrived at St. Hilda's orphanage and made their way to the four nuns. They entered the dining hall just as the sisters finished saying grace. Tommy and Polly went to see the sisters in charge of the orphanage as the orphans had approached the Peaky Blinders regarding their mistreatment of children.
URL: https://www.screenspy.com/peaky-blinders-season-5-episode-3/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- ["Peaky Blinders" The Shock (TV Episode 2019) - IMDb] ---
The Shock - Episode aired Oct 4, 2019 - TV-MA - 55m IMDb RATING 8.5/10 8.9K YOUR RATING As Tommy reveals his intentions for Mosley, someone close to the Shelbys is targeted.As Tommy reveals his intentions for Mosley, someone close to the Shelbys is targeted.As Tommy reveals his intentions for Mosley, someone close to the Shelbys is targeted. - Director - Writer - All cast & crew - Production, box office & more at IMDbPro Featured reviews Can't wait for the season finale but also for a future peaky blinder version of the battle of Cable Street on my screen. Antifa united O Pavlos zei tsakiste tous nazi I get it... a lot of Hollywood writers were obsessed with Trump - and parody's popped up a lot (SNL, Homelander on The Boys, multiple antagonists...). So when a new character pushing fascism shows up on a series, I can see why some made the leap. But with Peaky Blinders - when there's a new character of any prominence - (especially a politician), I pause the show and do a quick internet search. The writers weave a lot of real people in with the fiction - which I find really fun. It turns out Oswald Murray was a real British politician that started the British Union of Fascists (BUF) in 1932. (Before WW2 quite a few politicians worldwide were giving fascism a chance.) His name might have been well known in Britain, but I'd never heard of the guy. Neville Chamberlain and Winston Churchill - of course I'd heard of... but a 1930's British politician and the father of Britain's fascist movement? Not so much... Might the writer or the actor playing Murray borrow some Trump traits? Who knows, maybe - but after reading up on Oswald Murray, I think the writer - and the actor playing him (Sam Claflin) - did a great job capturing Murray in both physical looks and the intensity Murray must have had as he pushed for fascism and his fascist party. Good episode and great setup for the season (series) 5 finale. But with Peaky Blinders - when there's a new character of any prominence - (especially a politician), I pause the show and do a quick internet search. The writers weave a lot of real people in with the fiction - which I find really fun. It turns out Oswald Murray was a real British politician that started the British Union of Fascists (BUF) in 1932. (Before WW2 quite a few politicians worldwide were giving fascism a chance.) His name might have been well known in Britain, but I'd never heard of the guy. Neville Chamberlain and Winston Churchill - of course I'd heard of... but a 1930's British politician and the father of Britain's fascist movement? Not so much... Might the writer or the actor playing Murray borrow some Trump traits? Who knows, maybe - but after reading up on Oswald Murray, I think the writer - and the actor playing him (Sam Claflin) - did a great job capturing Murray in both physical looks and the intensity Murray must have had as he pushed for fascism and his fascist party. Good episode and great setup for the season (series) 5 finale. This is brilliantly acted, with a wonderful set piece speech by the dangerously charismatic Moseley. To all the Americans who think it's about Trump, the world is bigger than the US of A. Oswald Moseley is an ACTUAL historical figure, go and google him. Moreover, if a parallel is being drawn, it is with the current state of the UK and the dangerously charismatic figures cheerleading Brexit. America, you're welcome to watch, but do please remember... it's not about you. After Tom Hardy left the show, Paul Anderson is giving us powerful stuff, acting with the face, the body, the feeling, he is a great actor!!!!!!!!!!! Although I've been enjoying this season it doesn't feel as cohesive as previous seasons. Episode one didn't really go anywhere with the story other than show the Wall Street crash which in the long run has done almost nothing except bring back Michael who himself has had little to do. Episode 2 was incredible and introduced us to the Billy boys in a tense and exciting way but that conflict was very quickly put on hold and without a direct conflict for our main characters the show loses its weight and sense of urgency. Episode 3 was decent but was paced... interestingly, to be polite and episode 4 like 2 was a very well made and tense episode but once again this week's episode has made last week's events obsolete. It doesn't really feel like the characters or the show have a clear goal at the moment and that really detracts from the enjoyment. It's still much more watchable than most of what's on television but ultimately lacks what made Peaky Blinders great in the first place. Did you know - TriviaThe episode contains the song "War Pigs" by Black Sabbath. The band and its founding members were from Birmingham, England, where the series is set. - Quotes Thomas Shelby: I had more complicated strategies in mind for Mr. Mosley. Then he spoke badly to my wife. - ConnectionsFeatured in Jeremy Vine: Episode #2.189 (2019) - SoundtracksWar Pigs Written by Black Sabbath Details - Runtime - 55m - Color Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content


--- [PEAKY BLINDERS: THE REDEMPTION OF THOMAS SHELBY] ---
PEAKY BLINDERS: THE REDEMPTION OF THOMAS SHELBY Sadler’s Wells Theatre ★★★★ “a mesmerising cacophony of movement” Welcome to the show! No phones. No photos. And NO. F—ING. FIGHTING. Thomas Shelby has survived the war and is free to do as he pleases. At least until he is pursued by the law, a woman and death itself. How will he fight back? This dance iteration of Peaky Blinders is written by the series’ creator Steven Knight with direction and choreography by Rambert’s Artistic Director Benoit Swan Pouffer. The story starts in Flanders, where Thomas and his brothers face the devastation of WW1 on the front lines. Pouffer’s direction is cinematic, epic and foreboding. The sound design (Moshik Kop) simultaneously pins your body to your seat and absorbs your mind into the space. A trench cracks open and soldiers drag their bodies into the light. Spotlights direct the spectator’s gaze amongst a swarm of combatting performers. Immediately you understand that the laws of physics do not apply to Rambert’s dancers. They leap and soar as if they have never been incumbered by the burden of gravity. Featuring the soundtrack from the series (musical direction by Yaron Engler), you will certainly require your red right hand to pick your jaw up from the floor. This show is grand, sexy and gives you a craving for whiskey. The lawless Shelby brothers have returned from the war and are known as the Peaky Blinders. They are bookmakers, money launderers and occasional protectors of their fellow man. Knight’s stage adaptation focuses on the relationship between Thomas, the Peaky Blinders’ leader, and Grace – the woman with a gun who could steal more than his secrets. Narrowing the focus of the story for the purpose of translating it to dance does come with its setbacks. For fans of the series, Thomas’ life is reduced to a romantic tragedy. For those who are encountering the story for the first time, there is an obvious lack of visibility of Thomas’ brothers as the show progresses. In both cases, this unfortunately makes it difficult for the audience to feel the full emotional depth of the events transpiring onstage. Despite this lapse in storytelling, Knight and Pouffer have done a brilliant job of capturing the mood and aesthetic that we associate with Peaky Blinders. The first act fully immerses us in Birmingham as it is experienced by the Shelby brothers. With Moi Tran’s set designs and Richard Gellar’s costumes, the world of the TV series is reimagined for the stage. Dancers become units in a production line of a factory. Carousel horses are paraded around the ring before they are mounted and raced by jockeys. Burlesque dancers take us to a nightclub. Tran’s design of the raised stage allows Pouffer to be expansive with his direction and the dancers to move on multiple plains. The result is a mesmerising cacophony of movement, made up of duets and solos that sporadically come together to create a snapshot of the ensemble. The first act has the tenacity of a pub brawl. The second act is the tremble of aftershock. There is a significant shift in pacing. Thomas Shelby (Conor Kerrigan) is the centrepiece of the longer dance sequences, and he is at magnificent full force. There is a satisfying similitude between Thomas’ mental state and the restlessness of his movement, but his character journey feels stagnant throughout the second act. This being said, the choreography in the second act will leave you breathless, so we’ll let it slide. Rambert Dance in Peaky Blinders: The Redemption of Thomas Shelby is a beautiful and ambitious production. The show truly captures the feeling of the TV series and will transport you to the reimagined world of Peaky Blinders. Death might be coming for Thomas Shelby, but no one can come for Rambert’s dancers – they are masters of their craft. PEAKY BLINDERS: THE REDEMPTION OF THOMAS SHELBY Sadler’s Wells Theatre Reviewed on 6th August 2025 by Lara van Huyssteen Photography by Beatrice Livet Last ten shows reviewed at Sadler’s Wells venues: SINBAD THE SAILOR | ★★★★★ | July 2025 R.O.S.E. | ★★★★★ | July 2025 QUADROPHENIA, A MOD BALLET | ★★★★★ | June 2025 INSIDE GIOVANNI’S ROOM | ★★★★★ | June 2025 ALICE | ★★★★ | May 2025 BAT OUT OF HELL THE MUSICAL | ★★★★ | May 2025 SPECKY CLARK | ★★★ | May 2025 SNOW WHITE: THE SACRIFICE | ★★★★★ | April 2025 SKATEPARK | ★★★★ | April 2025 MIDNIGHT DANCER | ★★★★ | March 2025


--- [List of Peaky Blinders episodes - Wikipedia] ---
Peaky Blinders is a British period crime drama television series created by Steven Knight. Set in Birmingham, England, it follows the exploits of the Peaky Blinders crime gang in the direct aftermath of the First World War. The fictional gang is loosely based on a real urban youth gang of the same name who were active in the city from the 1910s. It premiered on 12 September 2013, telecast on BBC Two until the fourth series, then moved to BBC One for the fifth and sixth series.
On 18 January 2021, it was announced that the sixth series would be the final series of Peaky Blinders. During the course of the programme, 36 episodes of Peaky Blinders aired over six series, between 12 September 2013 and 3 April 2022.




--- [The Shock | Peaky Blinders Wiki | Fandom] ---
"The Shock" is the fifth episode of the fifth series of Peaky Blinders and the twenty-ninth episode overall. It aired on September 15, 2019. Synopsis[] Mosley takes advantage of shocking events to give a speech to the gathered crowd at Arrow House. Afterwards, Mosley gives Tommy his instructions. Arthur and his men arrive at Limehouse for the arranged rendezvous, but the situation has changed drastically. Meanwhile, Tommy visits an old war comrade who has a very specific skill that Tommy intends to use. Plot[] Following the events of the previous episode, Linda lies on Tommy’s table struggling from the gun shot wound inflicted by Polly. Tommy removes the bullet, sending a distressed Arthur to the library for opium to relieve the pain, with Polly offering hers instead, revealing that Aberama proposed to her. When Arthur returns, he pleads that Polly should have let him take the bullet instead, and Polly reveals that Aberama would like Arthur to be his best man at the wedding. Meanwhile, Mosley thanks the dancers for the performance on the night, taking advantage of the platform to announce his new political party, attributing the unrest in England to be a result of the Wall St. crash and the panic in the United States. During his speech, Aberama looks on in disgust, spitting on the ground before leaving prematurely. Mosley asks the people to pass on the message: “Britain First”, but is wary that the newspapers will not pass on the message, but print fake news. Taking Tommy aside privately, Mosley warns that family matters such as the shooting will have to stop, but Tommy says that it has already been taken care of. Mosley says that he has been looking into the Shelby portfolio and needs the Jewish company lawyer to be fired. He also cites that he has promised some of the Shelby tracks to Jimmy McCavern, much to Tommy’s dismay. Lizzie questions why Tommy is working with Mosley, with him admitting that he is supplying the government with information, however Lizzie is not convinced with his response. Arthur, meanwhile, asks Linda to leave with him, leaving the Peaky and Shelby life behind them, however Linda tells Arthur to stay and live in his head because it would’ve been too kind to shoot and kill Arthur. With this, she leaves the Shelby estate and Arthur behind. Tommy gives the cheque signed by Mosley to Ben, revealing that it proves a link between Mosley and the leader of a criminal organisation. Ben admits that there has been resistance from his superiors and cannot pass the information on as they are all moved by Mosley’s speech from the previous night. He also reveals that due to not providing Tommy as his source for news on Mosley, his superiors are thinking of moving him to Johannesburg. Younger questions why Tommy has stopped reporting on Jessie Eden, saying that Ada has a theory, however Tommy asks Younger to ignore the theories from Ada as they are always hopeful and wrong. As Younger gets into his car to drive off, a boy kicks a football at the car, causing it to blow up, presumably from an explosive planted on the car while he was meeting with Tommy. Tommy reveals the news to Ada, who is distraught, but admits that she didn’t love Ben, but did like him. She is angry that everyone the Shelby family touch end up dead and says that he "didn’t deserve us". Tommy says that Ben's family will take care of the funeral and it will be dubbed an IRA assassination of a British Military Officer. Ada questions why he was killed, with Tommy surmising that he pushed too far and Section D — or some other government organization — pushed back. Down by the canal, Arthur, Aberama, Isiah, Charlie and Curly arrive to collect the cargo as a part of the business deal. However, they find that Chang has been shot and a shootout ensues. Chang reveals that they are Irish and claimed they were taking the opium on behalf of the king. Arthur realizes that the men are Titanics and were very capable soldiers during the war. He fires on the men, exclaiming that they “do not fuck with the Peaky fucking Blinders”. They find the opium, and Isiah reveals that one of the men that was killed is a police officer. Arthur orders that Isiah burn the body, using his gun and razor blade to force the men working the burners to burn the body. Tommy visits the local asylum to see an old friend, Barney. He reveals that he, Arthur and Jeremiah are alive while the rest are dead. It is revealed that Barney is an old comrade of Tommy’s from the war. Tommy offers Barney an opium and cyanide capsule as a way out, however Barney refuses the capsule. Tommy is confused as to why Barney does not want to die despite being locked up all day every day, but Barney replies that he has hope that one day things might change. Tommy reveals that he will break Barney out as he could use him in the Peaky Blinders, with Barney agreeing to the plan. McCavern meets with Tommy as they await the shipment, with McCavern revealing that Mosley is open to suggestions of those who can offer him support in London, with Tommy revealing that he believes Alfie Solomons to be the best candidate, however McCavern says that he knows Solomons is dead, but more importantly Jewish. Tommy questions Aberama’s location, with Arthur revealing that he got off at an earlier stop, not wanting to break the truce between the Billy Boy’s and Peaky Blinders by killing Jimmy. Arthur realises that Barney is to kill Oswald Mosley while Tommy stands right next to him, with Tommy taking over as leader of the party. Cast[] | | Soundtrack[] "Composition 7" – Anna Calvi "Climbing up the Walls" – Radiohead "Red Right Hand" – Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds "Atmosphere" – Joy Division "War Pigs" – Black Sabbath "Divide & Conquer" – Idles Trivia[] - Thomas mentions Alfie Solomons by suggesting him as an ally for Mosley in London, despite having "killed" him previously. - This marks Ben Younger's final appearance in the show alive, as he is killed as a result of Thomas' actions. Quotes[] Arthur Shelby: "To any of you still alive, you do not fuck with the Peaky fucking Blinders!" Gallery[]


--- [Peaky Blinders Season 5 Episode 3 Recap – Strategy] ---
Peaky Blinders Season 5 Episode 3 Recap – Strategy BY Ed Published 4 years ago [00:01:00] Four nuns gathered around a table for breakfast. They were saying grace while Tommy and Polly headed their way. Tommy and Polly arrived at St. Hilda’s orphanage and made their way to the four nuns. They entered the dining hall just as the sisters finished saying grace. Tommy and Polly went to see the sisters in charge of the orphanage as the orphans had approached the Peaky Blinders regarding their mistreatment of children. The sister in charge tried to defend herself and her actions by telling them that the children in the orphanage were the worst of the worst. Polly acknowledged that she shared the same temper as the sisters; however, she didn’t vent it out on smaller victims. They had heard stories of the abuse, including a half-black child who they had washed using a different soap and a black child who had hanged herself in fear of their temper. [00:03:30] The sister in charge pissed Tommy off by telling him that she didn’t see. Tommy broke her glasses and told her to put them on. Tommy threatened to kill her, so she didn’t have a choice but to put the broken glasses on. Polly told her that she could now see the broken world like how the children saw it. The sister looked at Tommy as he told her that they would withdraw the funding. Polly told them that they would take all the children to Shelby Company institutions. The sister in charge responded that she didn’t have the right to take the children, but Polly threatened to kill the sister in charge. Polly told her that if she ever decided to come for her, she would be wearing her high heels so that the sister would hear her footsteps approaching and have time to repent. [00:05:00] Tommy and Polly arrived at Charlie’s scrapyard. He invited Arthur and Michael to come with him to London. Michael declined because he needed to bring Gina to the hospital. Tommy told everyone to cancel their appointments because Bonnie Gold had died, and they needed to do everything to avenge his death. He ordered Polly to visit Aberama in the hospital to offer the family’s condolences and inform him of the strategy to avenge his son’s death. Polly asked Tommy why she needed to visit Aberama. Tommy told everyone that he was in love with her, and the smell of her perfume might ease his pain. Polly turned 45 that day, so Tommy made a toast to her. In Tommy’s words, “45 and still breaking hearts.” Everyone raised their glasses for Polly. Tommy instructed Michael to turn his car around and drive them to London. [00:07:00] Michael didn’t like how he was being treated, but as long as they doubted his loyalty, he was going to have to get used to it. Polly told him to just start the car and drive. As the three of them arrived in London, Michael asked Tommy what their strategy would be. Tommy told Michael to smile and told Arthur not to smile. He told them what Oswald’s positions were in the government. Tommy knew they had met bad men before, but he treated Oswald as the devil. Tommy received a call from his secretary and told him to send Oswald in. Oswald entered the room and immediately saw Arthur as well as Michael. He told Tommy that he’d never met with him without his family. Tommy went straight to business and asked Oswald about Jimmy McCavern. Oswald took a cigarette from Tommy’s table and asked Tommy who Jimmy was. [00:10:00] Tommy asked Oswald what his plans were because Jimmy had killed Bonnie, and he wanted to avenge his death. Oswald strayed from the conversation and asked Tommy if Arthur was his brother. Tommy confirmed that the man standing behind him was Arthur. Oswald knew who Michael was and what he had done in America. He knew everything about him, including how he had lost all their money. Oswald attacked Arthur as well. He knew that Linda had left him and how she had been seen with other men. Arthur was a ticking time bomb that Tommy needed to address. He broke the chair’s back with just his grip. Tommy spoke gypsy and told Arthur that Oswald’s time would come. Oswald took out an envelope and handed it to Tommy. He had just been invited to be the deputy leader of a new political party. [00:13:00] Arthur let his anger out on some of Tommy’s office furniture. Tommy told him not to let them get inside his head. Meanwhile, Linda visited Lizzie and told her about the meeting with a solicitor. They had accommodated her but threw her out the moment they realized she was a Shelby. Lizzie told Linda that they needed to approach a solicitor in London in order to divorce a Shelby man. Lizzie had found someone who was willing to represent her; however, she had chosen not to get a divorce. She told Linda that she had chosen this life and not the other way around. Linda had found another man, but Lizzie didn’t want her to make a final decision. The man had a daughter, and she would lose her father if Tommy or Arthur got wind of their relationship. Linda told Lizzie that nothing had happened between them, but no one would believe that story. [00:15:00] Lizzie was grateful for Tommy; she used to be a whore, and now she was living a good life. Linda couldn’t bear what she had become with Arthur. She used to be so holy, but she had been tainted with all the evilness that ran through the Shelby family. Meanwhile, Polly finally visited Aberama in the hospital while Ada convinced Gina to come with her for a checkup. Gina didn’t want to come with Ada, but Ada gave her enough reasons to finally agree. Ada left Karl with Ben as they played chess at home. Ben couldn’t believe that Karl was so good at chess. He boasted about being a chess champion at school. With school being the topic, Karl opened up about racism as he told Ben that black people and Jews were the worst kinds of people. [00:19:00] One of Karl’s teachers had called one of his classmates “the little Jew boy.” Ben told Karl that there were some stupid people that told other people some very stupid things. Ben asked Karl what he thought about the topic. Karl surprised Ben with his answer; he told Ben that he didn’t want him to be his father because his father was white and in heaven. Karl ended the game with a checkmate and left after knocking down the black King. Polly broke Aberama out of the hospital and brought him to a gypsy camp. She told Aberama to let Tommy avenge his son’s death. Aberama took a rose and gave it to Polly as his birthday gift. He told Polly that he had one more killing left to do before he called it quits. Aberama exited Polly’s car into the arms of his sister. [00:22:00] As soon as Polly left, Aberama gave the order to find their allies so that he could hunt down the Billy Boys. Arthur, Tommy, and Michael went to Ada’s house to find Ben. They went over to talk business while Ada was away. Ben requested to talk privately with Tommy, so he ordered Michael out of the room. Arthur stayed. Ben wanted him to leave as well; however, Tommy told him that Arthur would stay. Tommy gave him the letter from Oswald and wanted him to hand it over to his superiors. Ben refused at first but gave in eventually. Tommy returned home to find Johnny Dogs busy with one of his maids. [00:28:00] The maid apologized to Tommy thinking that she would be fired, but Tommy told her that the only way to get fired from his household was burning toast or talking to the police. He told his maid to go to bed while he talked to Johnny Dogs. On her way out, Tommy told her that whatever Johnny Dogs had told her was a lie. Johnny told Tommy that Aberama had left Birmingham to hunt down the Billy Boys. Aberama had left the hospital in Polly’s Bentley, which didn’t surprise Tommy. He was angry at Aberama’s decision, so he sent Johnny Dogs with Arthur to find Aberama despite Johnny’s disapproval. [00:30:00] Gina visited Polly at Michael’s request. She gave her a small gift, a figurine of Lady Liberty. Gina wanted to leave Birmingham with Michael and the baby, but she needed Polly’s help. Michael wanted Polly to leave Birmingham and join them in New York. Gina wanted the baby to be born in New York like her. Meanwhile, Tommy met with Jessie at the Garrison pub. They talked politics, and she invited Tommy to be their guest speaker at one of the rallies she was organizing. Jessie wanted Tommy to speak against fascism, but Tommy was drunk, and he couldn’t speak clearly. He ended up spilling champagne all over the table, which prompted Jessie to leave and have the talk some other time. [00:35:00] Tommy arrived at home, where Lizzie was waiting for him in bed. Frances told Tommy that Linda had come over to visit Lizzie. Lizzie was amazed at how loyal Frances was to Tommy. Tommy explained that people were loyal to those who paid their wages. Tommy knew about Lizzie’s call to a solicitor, but he still asked her about it. Lizzie confessed that she had called a solicitor, but she put the phone down even before there were talks about divorce. Lizzie told Tommy that she had decided to stay with him. She undressed before Tommy’s eyes. He reminisced about the times that he had used to pay her for sex. Tommy laughed and asked Lizzie when the last time was that she had had to worry about her pay. Lizzie pointed out that she was loyal to him because he paid her wages. [00:37:00] Lizzie asked Tommy not to sleep with anyone in their house nor to sleep with anyone before or after holding Ruby. Tommy made a counteroffer by telling Lizzie that she was his property. After sex, Tommy called Arthur regarding Linda’s location. He wanted Arthur to bring Aberama home before they set out to find Linda, but Arthur refused. He wanted to find Linda first, and he wouldn’t stop bugging Tommy until he told him what he knew. Tommy regretted calling Arthur, but he gave him the information anyways. Arthur promised Tommy that he was going to speak to Linda’s friend before going north to find Aberama. Arthur ended the call before Tommy could tell him off. Lizzie entered the office to ask who was on the phone. Tommy told her that it was Arthur and that he had told him about Linda’s friend. [00:41:00] Tommy left Lizzie, telling her that if someone married a Shelby, they stayed married. The next day, Arthur went over to the man who was supposedly hiding Linda. He told Arthur that Linda didn’t want to see him. His response pissed Arthur, and he proceeded to beat the man up. He broke a chair’s leg and used it as a weapon against the defenseless man. He asked the man again for Linda’s location, but the man wouldn’t tell him. Arthur took his cap off and sliced him. Arthur implied that he was a good man. He added that his own hands belonged to the devil. He immediately left the scene before anyone saw what he had done. [00:45:00] Arthur went to Charlie’s scrapyard to get supplies for their trip up north. Charlie kept on asking Arthur why they were going north to Scotland, but Arthur didn’t tell him anything. Curly arrived, and Charlie sarcastically told him that Arthur was going up north and needed hand grenades. Curly didn’t understand the sarcasm and asked Arthur how many grenades he needed. Charlie advised Arthur to find a way to get Linda back because he was dead without her. Meanwhile, Aberama and his men posed as road workers to intercept the Billy Boys. The Billy Boys wanted to take over their operation, but Aberama wasn’t going to surrender their equipment easily. The leader of the group approached him, and Aberama immediately slashed his face. A fight broke out, and the Billy Boys lost. [00:47:00] Aberama asked the remaining men to give Jimmy McCavern a message. He told them that he had a bullet with Jimmy’s name on it, and he intended to use it against him. Aberama poured boiling tar on one of the Billy Boys to finalize his message. Meanwhile, Tommy joined Oswell to kill a few pheasants. They discussed business and finalized their talk with a cigar. The next day, Tommy went back to the House of Commons to call Ben Younger. He told Ben about his agreement with Oswald. Tommy asked for assurance that he could continue being an informant. Tommy ended his call with Ben after the confirmation. The Billy Boys were marching on Aberama’s doorstep when Arthur woke him up. He told Aberama that the Billy Boys were coming after him. He wondered how Arthur or the Billy Boys had found his camp. [00:54:00] Arthur told Aberama that he had given his position away in order to leave him without any choice. Arthur left the engine running so that they could leave and return to Birmingham as soon as possible. Jimmy and the Billy Boys arrived at an empty camp. They searched the place for Aberama. One of the men opened the wagon, and a grenade dropped in front of him. Jimmy told everyone to take cover as the grenade exploded, taking the wagon with it. Jimmy enjoyed the sight of a burning wagon. He accepted the invitation of war from the Peaky Blinders.
