=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Verizon]
No snippet
URL: https://secure.verizon.com/signin

[Verizon: Wireless, Internet, TV and Phone Services | Official...]
Explore Verizon's smartphone deals, wireless plans, and Fios services for fast internet, TV, and phone on the largest 4G LTE network.
URL: https://www.verizon.com/

[Determine Software Version - Windows - Verizon]
Determine Software Version - Windows Here's how to determine what version of Windows your computer is running. If you need to determine the software version on your Windows ® device, view this info.
URL: https://www.verizon.com/support/knowledge-base-15634/

[Support Home]
These tools will make your network experience even better. Check network status, get network notifications, check network compatibility, view our coverage map.
URL: https://www.verizon.com/support/

[Fiber-Optic Internet | Plans Start at $35/mo - Verizon Fios]
How fast is fiber internet? Experience Verizon’s 100% fiber-optic Fios home internet service. Plans start at $35/mo. Check availability today.
URL: https://www.verizon.com/home/internet/fios-fastest-internet/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Verizon] ---
No content


--- [Verizon: Wireless, Internet, TV and Phone Services | Official...] ---
Get the newfor $0 Samsung Galaxy S26+No trade-in needed With a new line on select Unlimited plans. iPhone 17 Pro Get it on usWith select phone trade-in and Unlimited Ultimate. Any condition guaranteed. 4 new iPhone 16 on us 4 lines for $25/lineNo trade-in needed. $25/line/mo with 4 new lines on Unlimited Welcome and Auto Pay. Plus taxes and fees. Deals & discounts New Samsung Galaxy S26 Ultra on us With eligible phone trade-in and Unlimited Ultimate. Any condition guaranteed. New Google Pixel 10a for $0 Even on our lowest priced plans. With new line on myPlan. iPhone 16 Plus. Get it on us Even on our lowest priced plans. With new line on myPlan. No trade-in required. Get motorola razr FIFA World Cup 26TM Edition on us Even on our lowest priced plans. With new line on myPlan. No trade-in needed. Fios Home Internet starts as low as $20/mo With Auto Pay, Mobile + Home Discount and bonus discount for 3 years. Stay connected & save Mobile Experience nation-wide mobile coverage with plans for every budget. Home Internet Enjoy fast, consistent and reliable home internet with no annual contracts. Mobile & Home Internet Bundle your mobile & home internet and save $15/mo.


--- [Determine Software Version - Windows - Verizon] ---
| Session Status | |---| | Due to inactivity, your session will end in approximately 2 minutes. Extend your session by clicking OK below. Due to inactivity, your session has expired. Please sign in again to continue. | | Session Status | |---| | Due to inactivity, your session will end in approximately 2 minutes. Extend your session by clicking OK below. Due to inactivity, your session has expired. Please sign in again to continue. |


--- [Support Home] ---
| Session Status | |---| | Due to inactivity, your session will end in approximately 2 minutes. Extend your session by clicking OK below. Due to inactivity, your session has expired. Please sign in again to continue. | Verizon Support Find the right resources and discover more about your devices and services.


--- [Fiber-Optic Internet | Plans Start at $35/mo - Verizon Fios] ---
Get 100% fiber internet Super fast and reliable, with ultra low lag. It’s 100% or nothing. Plans start at $20/mo. With Auto Pay, Mobile + Home Discount and bonus discount. Or, call us at (877)-592-7039 to order. 99.9% network reliability Game, video chat, and stream on multiple devices at once with ultra low lag. 3-year price lock guarantee For new and existing myHome customers on all internet plans. Plus no hidden fees or equipment charges. More ways to save Save over 45% on the best entertainment with Verizon. Save $15/mo on your home Internet when you bundle mobile + home. The internet you want offers you more Check which internet service is available in your area. Switch to select plans and get your choice of our latest offers. Fios Home Internet starts as low as $20/mo With Auto Pay, Mobile + Home Discount and bonus discount for 3 years. Fios Home Internet starts as low as $20/mo When you switch. With Auto Pay, Mobile + Home Discount and bonus discount for 3 years. Features: Save up to $540 over 3 years. Samsung 43” Class Q7F QLED TV on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Samsung 43” Class Q7F QLED TV on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Experience beautiful visuals and immersive audio with our next-level smart TV featuring Quantum HDR, Pantone Validation and Samsung Vision AI1 - Q4 AI Processor Enjoy your content in stunning 4K quality, even if the original source is of lower resolution. Plus, get the most out of what you are watching with AI optimized color boosted picture and audio quality, enhanced accordingly to the type of content. Whether you're cheering for your favorite team or watching a classic from your film collection, take your entertainment to the next level.2 - 100% Color Volume with Quantum Dot Appreciate every beautiful shade of color with remarkable precision and vibrancy. With Nano-sized Quantum Dots, you can see 100% Color Volume in everything you watch, no matter how bright or dark the scene is. Admire billions of shades at any brightness level and be captivated by rich, colorful scenery.3 - Samsung Knox Security Your TV experiences are secured. Samsung Knox Security protects you from harmful attacks by automatically blocking unauthorized apps and phishing websites. It also safeguards your IoT devices connected to your TV, plus your sensitive information, including your PIN codes and passwords. With regular updates, your TV is always kept safe.4 - 1Samsung Vision AI and associated features vary by 2025 TV model (not available on Q6F, Crystal UHD and select special models). AI Upscaling utilizes AI-based formulas. - 2Utilizes AI based formulas to adjust color and sound. - 3100% color volume measured in Movie Mode and the DCI P3 color space, certified by VDE. - 4Personal data includes directly input PIN codes and passwords, and IoT device information shared through the SmartThings app. The latest software is required. Samsung Galaxy Tab S10 FE 5G on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Samsung Galaxy Tab S10 FE 5G on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Maximize your downtime, get more done in no time with immersive entertainment on the go - Expansive Visuals: Dive into your content on a vibrant 10.9" display that brings everything to life. - Intuitive Search with Circle to Search: Effortlessly find what you're looking for by simply circling anything on your screen with Circle to Search with Google. - Built for Adventure: With IP68 water and dust resistance and 5G connectivity, the Tab S10 FE 5G is ready for both home relaxation and outdoor exploration. - Unleash Creativity with S Pen: The included S Pen allows you to capture notes, sketch ideas, and doodle whenever inspiration strikes. Pick the plan you love Choose the internet plan that fits your needs Streaming, gaming or working, rely on the 100% fiber-optic network. Now with at least a 3-year price lock guaranteed. $99 professional setup charge may apply. May be waived for select plans, locations, service combinations and/or ordering method. 300 Mbps - 3-year price lock guarantee** 500 Mbps - 4-year price lock guarantee** 1 Gig - 5-year price lock guarantee** 2 Gig - 5-year price lock guarantee** - All-in pricing, no hidden taxes and fees - 99.9% network reliability - Router included 300 Mbps Up to 300 Mbps speeds Router included at no additional cost 3-year price lock guarantee** 500 Mbps Up to 500 Mbps speeds Router included at no additional cost 4-year price lock guarantee** 1 Gig Up to 940 Mbps speed Router and Whole-Home Wi-Fi included at no additional cost Whole-Home Wi-Fi — Enjoy an enhanced Wi-Fi experience with 1 Verizon Wi-Fi Extender included with your plan, providing reliable coverage where you need it most. During professional setup, the technician will test to determine if a Wi-Fi Extender is recommended and setup if needed. If you’re setting up Fios service yourself, 30 days after your service is activated, our Wi-Fi Health Check tool will automatically monitor the strength of the Wi-Fi connection between your router and connected devices, and indicate if an extender is recommended. If our analysis discovers signal issues, we will notify you via email to confirm shipment of a Verizon Wi-Fi Extender. If you wish to test your own Wi-Fi network performance, you can do so at any time via the My Verizon app or contacting Verizon customer support. Get a perk, on us Perk On Us Credit: Availability of each perk is subject to specific terms, and age requirements. Requires one paid perk on eligible Verizon mobile phone line or eligible home internet plan. Up to $10/month credit will be applied to your Verizon mobile or Internet bill as long as one paid perk remains active on either account. Perk credit canceled if paid perk removed, mobile line or home internet plan canceled, or home internet moved to ineligible plan. Perk promotional offers are not eligible for the perk discount. Credit applied in 1-2 billing cycles. 5-year price lock guarantee** 2 Gig Up to 2.3 Gbps speeds Router and Whole-Home Wi-Fi included at no additional cost Whole-Home Wi-Fi — Enjoy an enhanced Wi-Fi experience with 1 Verizon Wi-Fi Extender included with your plan, providing reliable coverage where you need it most. During professional setup, the technician will test to determine if a Wi-Fi Extender is recommended and setup if needed. If you’re setting up Fios service yourself, 30 days after your service is activated, our Wi-Fi Health Check tool will automatically monitor the strength of the Wi-Fi connection between your router and connected devices, and indicate if an extender is recommended. If our analysis discovers signal issues, we will notify you via email to confirm shipment of a Verizon Wi-Fi Extender. If you wish to test your own Wi-Fi network performance, you can do so at any time via the My Verizon app or contacting Verizon customer support. Get a perk, on us Perk On Us Credit: Availability of each perk is subject to specific terms, and age requirements. Requires one paid perk on eligible Verizon mobile phone line or eligible home internet plan. Up to $10/month credit will be applied to your Verizon mobile or Internet bill as long as one paid perk remains active on either account. Perk credit canceled if paid perk removed, mobile line or home internet plan canceled, or home internet moved to ineligible plan. Perk promotional offers are not eligible for the perk discount. Credit applied in 1-2 billing cycles. 5-year price lock guarantee** Verizon owns the equipment provided with your plan, including the router. If you choose to disconnect service, you must return equipment within 30 days or you'll incur an unreturned equipment fee(s). Get a gift on us Samsung 43” Class Q7F QLED TV on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Experience beautiful visuals and immersive audio with our next-level smart TV featuring Quantum HDR, Pantone Validation and Samsung Vision AI1 - Q4 AI Processor Enjoy your content in stunning 4K quality, even if the original source is of lower resolution. Plus, get the most out of what you are watching with AI optimized color boosted picture and audio quality, enhanced accordingly to the type of content. Whether you're cheering for your favorite team or watching a classic from your film collection, take your entertainment to the next level.2 - 100% Color Volume with Quantum Dot Appreciate every beautiful shade of color with remarkable precision and vibrancy. With Nano-sized Quantum Dots, you can see 100% Color Volume in everything you watch, no matter how bright or dark the scene is. Admire billions of shades at any brightness level and be captivated by rich, colorful scenery.3 - Samsung Knox Security Your TV experiences are secured. Samsung Knox Security protects you from harmful attacks by automatically blocking unauthorized apps and phishing websites. It also safeguards your IoT devices connected to your TV, plus your sensitive information, including your PIN codes and passwords. With regular updates, your TV is always kept safe.4 - 1Samsung Vision AI and associated features vary by 2025 TV model (not available on Q6F, Crystal UHD and select special models). AI Upscaling utilizes AI-based formulas. - 2Utilizes AI based formulas to adjust color and sound. - 3100% color volume measured in Movie Mode and the DCI P3 color space, certified by VDE. - 4Personal data includes directly input PIN codes and passwords, and IoT device information shared through the SmartThings app. The latest software is required. Apple One for 6 months. On us. Then $15/mo after. With any Fios Home Internet plan. Or your choice of: Samsung Galaxy Tab S10 FE 5G on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Maximize your downtime, get more done in no time with immersive entertainment on the go - Expansive Visuals: Dive into your content on a vibrant 10.9" display that brings everything to life. - Intuitive Search with Circle to Search: Effortlessly find what you're looking for by simply circling anything on your screen with Circle to Search with Google. - Built for Adventure: With IP68 water and dust resistance and 5G connectivity, the Tab S10 FE 5G is ready for both home relaxation and outdoor exploration. - Unleash Creativity with S Pen: The included S Pen allows you to capture notes, sketch ideas, and doodle whenever inspiration strikes. Switch to Fios internet and save $15/mo for 3 years Features: Save up to $540 over 3 years. Get a gift on us Samsung 43” Class Q7F QLED TV on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Experience beautiful visuals and immersive audio with our next-level smart TV featuring Quantum HDR, Pantone Validation and Samsung Vision AI1 - Q4 AI Processor Enjoy your content in stunning 4K quality, even if the original source is of lower resolution. Plus, get the most out of what you are watching with AI optimized color boosted picture and audio quality, enhanced accordingly to the type of content. Whether you're cheering for your favorite team or watching a classic from your film collection, take your entertainment to the next level.2 - 100% Color Volume with Quantum Dot Appreciate every beautiful shade of color with remarkable precision and vibrancy. With Nano-sized Quantum Dots, you can see 100% Color Volume in everything you watch, no matter how bright or dark the scene is. Admire billions of shades at any brightness level and be captivated by rich, colorful scenery.3 - Samsung Knox Security Your TV experiences are secured. Samsung Knox Security protects you from harmful attacks by automatically blocking unauthorized apps and phishing websites. It also safeguards your IoT devices connected to your TV, plus your sensitive information, including your PIN codes and passwords. With regular updates, your TV is always kept safe.4 - 1Samsung Vision AI and associated features vary by 2025 TV model (not available on Q6F, Crystal UHD and select special models). AI Upscaling utilizes AI-based formulas. - 2Utilizes AI based formulas to adjust color and sound. - 3100% color volume measured in Movie Mode and the DCI P3 color space, certified by VDE. - 4Personal data includes directly input PIN codes and passwords, and IoT device information shared through the SmartThings app. The latest software is required. Apple One for 6 months. On us. Then $15/mo after. With any Fios Home Internet plan. Or your choice of: Samsung Galaxy Tab S10 FE 5G on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Maximize your downtime, get more done in no time with immersive entertainment on the go - Expansive Visuals: Dive into your content on a vibrant 10.9" display that brings everything to life. - Intuitive Search with Circle to Search: Effortlessly find what you're looking for by simply circling anything on your screen with Circle to Search with Google. - Built for Adventure: With IP68 water and dust resistance and 5G connectivity, the Tab S10 FE 5G is ready for both home relaxation and outdoor exploration. - Unleash Creativity with S Pen: The included S Pen allows you to capture notes, sketch ideas, and doodle whenever inspiration strikes. Switch to Fios internet and save $15/mo for 3 years Features: Save up to $540 over 3 years. Get a gift on us Samsung 43” Class Q7F QLED TV on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Experience beautiful visuals and immersive audio with our next-level smart TV featuring Quantum HDR, Pantone Validation and Samsung Vision AI1 - Q4 AI Processor Enjoy your content in stunning 4K quality, even if the original source is of lower resolution. Plus, get the most out of what you are watching with AI optimized color boosted picture and audio quality, enhanced accordingly to the type of content. Whether you're cheering for your favorite team or watching a classic from your film collection, take your entertainment to the next level.2 - 100% Color Volume with Quantum Dot Appreciate every beautiful shade of color with remarkable precision and vibrancy. With Nano-sized Quantum Dots, you can see 100% Color Volume in everything you watch, no matter how bright or dark the scene is. Admire billions of shades at any brightness level and be captivated by rich, colorful scenery.3 - Samsung Knox Security Your TV experiences are secured. Samsung Knox Security protects you from harmful attacks by automatically blocking unauthorized apps and phishing websites. It also safeguards your IoT devices connected to your TV, plus your sensitive information, including your PIN codes and passwords. With regular updates, your TV is always kept safe.4 - 1Samsung Vision AI and associated features vary by 2025 TV model (not available on Q6F, Crystal UHD and select special models). AI Upscaling utilizes AI-based formulas. - 2Utilizes AI based formulas to adjust color and sound. - 3100% color volume measured in Movie Mode and the DCI P3 color space, certified by VDE. - 4Personal data includes directly input PIN codes and passwords, and IoT device information shared through the SmartThings app. The latest software is required. Apple One for 6 months. On us. Then $15/mo after. With any Fios Home Internet plan. Or your choice of: Samsung Galaxy Tab S10 FE 5G on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Maximize your downtime, get more done in no time with immersive entertainment on the go - Expansive Visuals: Dive into your content on a vibrant 10.9" display that brings everything to life. - Intuitive Search with Circle to Search: Effortlessly find what you're looking for by simply circling anything on your screen with Circle to Search with Google. - Built for Adventure: With IP68 water and dust resistance and 5G connectivity, the Tab S10 FE 5G is ready for both home relaxation and outdoor exploration. - Unleash Creativity with S Pen: The included S Pen allows you to capture notes, sketch ideas, and doodle whenever inspiration strikes. Switch to Fios internet and save $15/mo for 3 years Features: Save up to $540 over 3 years. Get a gift on us Samsung 43” Class Q7F QLED TV on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Experience beautiful visuals and immersive audio with our next-level smart TV featuring Quantum HDR, Pantone Validation and Samsung Vision AI1 - Q4 AI Processor Enjoy your content in stunning 4K quality, even if the original source is of lower resolution. Plus, get the most out of what you are watching with AI optimized color boosted picture and audio quality, enhanced accordingly to the type of content. Whether you're cheering for your favorite team or watching a classic from your film collection, take your entertainment to the next level.2 - 100% Color Volume with Quantum Dot Appreciate every beautiful shade of color with remarkable precision and vibrancy. With Nano-sized Quantum Dots, you can see 100% Color Volume in everything you watch, no matter how bright or dark the scene is. Admire billions of shades at any brightness level and be captivated by rich, colorful scenery.3 - Samsung Knox Security Your TV experiences are secured. Samsung Knox Security protects you from harmful attacks by automatically blocking unauthorized apps and phishing websites. It also safeguards your IoT devices connected to your TV, plus your sensitive information, including your PIN codes and passwords. With regular updates, your TV is always kept safe.4 - 1Samsung Vision AI and associated features vary by 2025 TV model (not available on Q6F, Crystal UHD and select special models). AI Upscaling utilizes AI-based formulas. - 2Utilizes AI based formulas to adjust color and sound. - 3100% color volume measured in Movie Mode and the DCI P3 color space, certified by VDE. - 4Personal data includes directly input PIN codes and passwords, and IoT device information shared through the SmartThings app. The latest software is required. Apple One for 6 months. On us. Then $15/mo after. With any Fios Home Internet plan. Or your choice of: Samsung Galaxy Tab S10 FE 5G on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Maximize your downtime, get more done in no time with immersive entertainment on the go - Expansive Visuals: Dive into your content on a vibrant 10.9" display that brings everything to life. - Intuitive Search with Circle to Search: Effortlessly find what you're looking for by simply circling anything on your screen with Circle to Search with Google. - Built for Adventure: With IP68 water and dust resistance and 5G connectivity, the Tab S10 FE 5G is ready for both home relaxation and outdoor exploration. - Unleash Creativity with S Pen: The included S Pen allows you to capture notes, sketch ideas, and doodle whenever inspiration strikes. Switch to Fios internet and save $15/mo for 3 years Features: Save up to $540 over 3 years. **For new and existing myHome customers. Applies only to the then-current base monthly rate exclusive of any other setup and additional equipment charges, discounts or promotions, plan perk and any other third-party services. Add the perks you want Save on entertainment you love like Netflix and Max, and Disney+, Hulu, and ESPN+ Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) DetailsDisney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) DetailsGet Apple One for 6 months on us. Then $15/mo after. Apple One DetailsApple Music Family DetailsYouTube Premium DetailsFOX One DetailsUnlimited Cloud Storage DetailsHome Device Support & Protection DetailsGoogle AI Pro DetailsApple One Perk 6 Months On Us: Offer valid thru 4.1.26 for new home internet customers who activate / install eligible Fios 1 Gig, Fios 2 Gig or 5G Home Ultimate plan. $15/mo perk credit for 6 months can be applied to Apple One Individual or Family perk. The perk credit ends if the perk is canceled or the account is moved to an ineligible internet plan during the 6-month promo period. After the promo period, or if the account is moved to an ineligible plan during promo period, perk auto-renews at $15/mo for Apple One Individual or $20/mo for Apple One Family (or then-current monthly pricing) unless the perk is canceled or unregistered. You must be 18 years of age or older to enroll. After enrolling in the perk, you will need to complete account registration to use Apple One services. If you have not completed account registration within 90 days of perk enrollment, the perk will be removed. You can cancel the perk anytime in My Verizon at verizon.com. One offer per eligible Verizon line. Additional Apple One perk Terms and Conditions apply. Explore our most popular plans Sit back and save with popular plans that bundle Fios Home Internet and great perks 1 Gig 1 Gig - Get a perk, on us Take your pick from options like Netflix & Max (With Ads), Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads), and more. 1 Gig 1 Gig - Get a perk, on us Take your pick from options like Netflix & Max (With Ads), Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads), and more. 1 Gig 1 Gig - Get a perk, on us Take your pick from options like Netflix & Max (With Ads), Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads), and more. Get a gift on us Samsung 43” Class Q7F QLED TV on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Experience beautiful visuals and immersive audio with our next-level smart TV featuring Quantum HDR, Pantone Validation and Samsung Vision AI1 - Q4 AI Processor Enjoy your content in stunning 4K quality, even if the original source is of lower resolution. Plus, get the most out of what you are watching with AI optimized color boosted picture and audio quality, enhanced accordingly to the type of content. Whether you're cheering for your favorite team or watching a classic from your film collection, take your entertainment to the next level.2 - 100% Color Volume with Quantum Dot Appreciate every beautiful shade of color with remarkable precision and vibrancy. With Nano-sized Quantum Dots, you can see 100% Color Volume in everything you watch, no matter how bright or dark the scene is. Admire billions of shades at any brightness level and be captivated by rich, colorful scenery.3 - Samsung Knox Security Your TV experiences are secured. Samsung Knox Security protects you from harmful attacks by automatically blocking unauthorized apps and phishing websites. It also safeguards your IoT devices connected to your TV, plus your sensitive information, including your PIN codes and passwords. With regular updates, your TV is always kept safe.4 - 1Samsung Vision AI and associated features vary by 2025 TV model (not available on Q6F, Crystal UHD and select special models). AI Upscaling utilizes AI-based formulas. - 2Utilizes AI based formulas to adjust color and sound. - 3100% color volume measured in Movie Mode and the DCI P3 color space, certified by VDE. - 4Personal data includes directly input PIN codes and passwords, and IoT device information shared through the SmartThings app. The latest software is required. Apple One for 6 months. On us. Then $15/mo after. With any Fios Home Internet plan. Or: Samsung Galaxy Tab S10 FE 5G on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Maximize your downtime, get more done in no time with immersive entertainment on the go - Expansive Visuals: Dive into your content on a vibrant 10.9" display that brings everything to life. - Intuitive Search with Circle to Search: Effortlessly find what you're looking for by simply circling anything on your screen with Circle to Search with Google. - Built for Adventure: With IP68 water and dust resistance and 5G connectivity, the Tab S10 FE 5G is ready for both home relaxation and outdoor exploration. - Unleash Creativity with S Pen: The included S Pen allows you to capture notes, sketch ideas, and doodle whenever inspiration strikes. Get a gift on us Samsung 43” Class Q7F QLED TV on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Experience beautiful visuals and immersive audio with our next-level smart TV featuring Quantum HDR, Pantone Validation and Samsung Vision AI1 - Q4 AI Processor Enjoy your content in stunning 4K quality, even if the original source is of lower resolution. Plus, get the most out of what you are watching with AI optimized color boosted picture and audio quality, enhanced accordingly to the type of content. Whether you're cheering for your favorite team or watching a classic from your film collection, take your entertainment to the next level.2 - 100% Color Volume with Quantum Dot Appreciate every beautiful shade of color with remarkable precision and vibrancy. With Nano-sized Quantum Dots, you can see 100% Color Volume in everything you watch, no matter how bright or dark the scene is. Admire billions of shades at any brightness level and be captivated by rich, colorful scenery.3 - Samsung Knox Security Your TV experiences are secured. Samsung Knox Security protects you from harmful attacks by automatically blocking unauthorized apps and phishing websites. It also safeguards your IoT devices connected to your TV, plus your sensitive information, including your PIN codes and passwords. With regular updates, your TV is always kept safe.4 - 1Samsung Vision AI and associated features vary by 2025 TV model (not available on Q6F, Crystal UHD and select special models). AI Upscaling utilizes AI-based formulas. - 2Utilizes AI based formulas to adjust color and sound. - 3100% color volume measured in Movie Mode and the DCI P3 color space, certified by VDE. - 4Personal data includes directly input PIN codes and passwords, and IoT device information shared through the SmartThings app. The latest software is required. Apple One for 6 months. On us. Then $15/mo after. With any Fios Home Internet plan. Or: Samsung Galaxy Tab S10 FE 5G on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Maximize your downtime, get more done in no time with immersive entertainment on the go - Expansive Visuals: Dive into your content on a vibrant 10.9" display that brings everything to life. - Intuitive Search with Circle to Search: Effortlessly find what you're looking for by simply circling anything on your screen with Circle to Search with Google. - Built for Adventure: With IP68 water and dust resistance and 5G connectivity, the Tab S10 FE 5G is ready for both home relaxation and outdoor exploration. - Unleash Creativity with S Pen: The included S Pen allows you to capture notes, sketch ideas, and doodle whenever inspiration strikes. Get a gift on us Samsung 43” Class Q7F QLED TV on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Experience beautiful visuals and immersive audio with our next-level smart TV featuring Quantum HDR, Pantone Validation and Samsung Vision AI1 - Q4 AI Processor Enjoy your content in stunning 4K quality, even if the original source is of lower resolution. Plus, get the most out of what you are watching with AI optimized color boosted picture and audio quality, enhanced accordingly to the type of content. Whether you're cheering for your favorite team or watching a classic from your film collection, take your entertainment to the next level.2 - 100% Color Volume with Quantum Dot Appreciate every beautiful shade of color with remarkable precision and vibrancy. With Nano-sized Quantum Dots, you can see 100% Color Volume in everything you watch, no matter how bright or dark the scene is. Admire billions of shades at any brightness level and be captivated by rich, colorful scenery.3 - Samsung Knox Security Your TV experiences are secured. Samsung Knox Security protects you from harmful attacks by automatically blocking unauthorized apps and phishing websites. It also safeguards your IoT devices connected to your TV, plus your sensitive information, including your PIN codes and passwords. With regular updates, your TV is always kept safe.4 - 1Samsung Vision AI and associated features vary by 2025 TV model (not available on Q6F, Crystal UHD and select special models). AI Upscaling utilizes AI-based formulas. - 2Utilizes AI based formulas to adjust color and sound. - 3100% color volume measured in Movie Mode and the DCI P3 color space, certified by VDE. - 4Personal data includes directly input PIN codes and passwords, and IoT device information shared through the SmartThings app. The latest software is required. Apple One for 6 months. On us. Then $15/mo after. With any Fios Home Internet plan. Or: Samsung Galaxy Tab S10 FE 5G on us With any Fios Home Internet plan. Features: Maximize your downtime, get more done in no time with immersive entertainment on the go - Expansive Visuals: Dive into your content on a vibrant 10.9" display that brings everything to life. - Intuitive Search with Circle to Search: Effortlessly find what you're looking for by simply circling anything on your screen with Circle to Search with Google. - Built for Adventure: With IP68 water and dust resistance and 5G connectivity, the Tab S10 FE 5G is ready for both home relaxation and outdoor exploration. - Unleash Creativity with S Pen: The included S Pen allows you to capture notes, sketch ideas, and doodle whenever inspiration strikes. 1 Gig popular plan Exclusive Verizon savings - 1 Gig$/mo - Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads)$10.00/mo $18.98 - Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads)$10.00/mo $19.99 - You pay$109.99/mo* - You save$18.97/mo * 1 Gig includes: Included perks: Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) includes: If you have an existing Netflix account, you can link it to your perk when you register. To stream without ads, upgrade to Netflix Standard or Netflix Premium. If you have an existing HBO Max account, you can link it to your perk when you register. To stream without ads, upgrade to HBO Max Standard or HBO Max Premium ad-free plans. Must be 18 years of age or older to enroll. After enrolling in the Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk, you will need to complete account setup separately for each service. Access content from each service separately. Netflix may be upgraded and downgraded via Netflix. HBO Max may be upgraded and downgraded via HBO Max. Live content contains ads. Sports has select games, blackouts & US territory limitations. On HBO Max Premium ad-free, download limits apply. See help.hbomax.com/plans. Enrolling in the Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk may affect existing subscriptions to Netflix and HBO Max. Managing subscriptions may be required to avoid multiple subscriptions and corresponding charges. $8.98/mo perk savings based on the current $7.99/mo for Netflix Standard with Ads and $10.99/mo for HBO Max Basic with Ads less the $10/mo perk added to myHome. Subject to Netflix Terms of Use. Subject to HBO Max Terms of Use. One offer per account. Billing begins upon enrollment. Activation of internet service required. Access to the Netflix and HBO Max streaming services begins upon registering each of the two services separately. Netflix: In order to enjoy the Netflix service as part of your Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk, you will need to register the Netflix service by completing the Netflix registration process. You will receive instructions on how to begin registering the Netflix service via text message. If you already have an existing Netflix account, you can link it to your Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk when you register Netflix as part of your Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk. You will continue to be charged separately for any existing Netflix account until you link that account to your Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk. For any queries regarding your billing with Netflix for your existing Netflix account, please contact Netflix directly. If you link an existing Netflix account to your Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk, terminating the Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk or switching between content options as part of your Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk will not automatically cancel your Netflix membership, and Netflix will automatically resume charging your existing payment method that they have on file once your Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk ends. If you wish to review the details of your Netflix membership, please visit the “Account” pages on the Netflix website. If you change your subscription from the Netflix Standard with ads tier that comes with your Verizon perk to any other Netflix subscription level, you will be charged the difference between the then-current retail plan price of Netflix Standard with ads and your selected Netflix subscription level, and billed by Verizon as the seller of the item on your Verizon bill. If and to the extent that the Netflix Terms of Use related to billing, payments and cancellations conflict with the terms of your customer contract with Verizon, the latter shall prevail with the exception of the terms regarding updates to payment methods (currently Section 3.3 of the Netflix Terms of Use). Verizon will share your mobile telephone number and/or email address with Netflix to facilitate your registration of the Netflix service included in your Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk. For further information about how Verizon handles your personal data, please visit the Privacy Notice available on verizon.com/privacy. You can view Netflix’s Privacy Statement on netflix.com/privacy. Use of the Netflix service is provided to you by Netflix and is subject to Netflix Terms of Use. HBO Max: The Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk includes HBO Max Basic with Ads. In order to enjoy the HBO Max service as part of your Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk, you will need to register the HBO Max service by completing the HBO Max registration process. You will receive instructions on how to begin registering the HBO Max service via text message. If you have an existing subscription to HBO Max that is billed directly by HBO Max, you will need to replace it with your Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk when you register HBO Max as part of your Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk. You will continue to be charged separately for any existing HBO Max account until you replace that account with your Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk. If you have an existing subscription to HBO Max that is billed by a third party, your Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk will not automatically replace that subscription and must be managed separately with that third-party provider. If you change your subscription from the HBO Max Basic with Ads plan that comes with your Verizon perk to any other HBO Max subscription level, you will be charged the difference between the then-current retail subscription price of HBO Max Basic with Ads and your selected HBO Max subscription level, and billed by Verizon as the seller of the item on your Verizon bill. If and to the extent that the HBO Max Terms of Use related to billing, payments and cancellations conflict with the terms of your customer contract with Verizon, the latter shall prevail with the exception of the terms regarding updates to payment methods (currently Section 2.4 of the HBO Max Terms of Use). Use of the HBO Max service is provided to you by WarnerMedia Direct, LLC and is subject to HBO Max Terms of Use. Verizon will share your mobile telephone number and/or email address with HBO Max to facilitate your registration of the HBO Max service included in your Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk. For further information about how Verizon handles your personal data, please visit the Privacy Notice available on verizon.com/privacy. You can cancel the Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) perk at any time through My Verizon Online or the My Verizon App. Offer may end without notice. When you register for and use the partner’s service, any information that Netflix or HBO Max collects from or about you is subject to their Terms of Service and Privacy Policy which you should review. Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) includes: If you have an existing Disney+ account, you can link it to your perk when you register. Must be 18 years of age or older to enroll. U.S. only. Access content from each service separately. To explore ad-free* and other bundle options, once registered, select "Manage" to be directed to disneyplus.com/commerce/account. Location data is required to watch certain content. Enrolling in the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) plan perk may affect existing subscriptions to a Disney bundle, Disney+, Hulu, or ESPN+. Review the Terms & Conditions for instruction. EXISTING DISNEY+, HULU OR ESPN+ SUBSCRIBERS: Offer will not automatically replace existing subscription(s). After enrolling in the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) plan perk, you will need to complete account setup separately for each service. Managing subscriptions may be required to avoid multiple subscriptions and corresponding charges. For existing Hulu subscribers, you may need to manage your subscription to complete account setup. $9.99/mo perk savings based on the current $19.99/mo that Verizon subscribers pay for Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) less the $10/mo myHome perk. Fios internet plans (except Classic Standalone) are eligible to purchase the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) perk. Subject to the Disney+, ESPN, and Hulu Subscriber Agreement. © 2026 Disney and its related entities. *Ads will be served in select live and linear content. If you are (1) a legal resident of the 50 United States and D.C. and (2) 18 years of age or older, on a Fios (except Classic Standalone) Internet plan, you are eligible to purchase the $10/mo “Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads)” plan perk, which includes access to Disney+ (With Ads), Hulu (With Ads), and ESPN+ (With Ads). One offer per account. Billing begins upon enrollment. Activation of line/internet service required. Access to Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) streaming services begins upon registration. If you already have a Disney bundle, Disney+, Hulu, or ESPN+ subscription, it may be necessary to manage your plan to avoid multiple subscriptions. It is your responsibility to manage your subscriptions. By purchasing the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) perk, you may lose any free trials, discounts, or promotional pricing associated with your current Disney bundle, Disney+, ESPN+, and/or Hulu subscriptions. If you have an existing subscription to the legacy Disney+ Premium, Hulu (With Ads) & ESPN+ (With Ads) perk with qualifying plans and do not switch to the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) plan perk, your existing subscription to Disney+ Premium, Hulu (With Ads) & ESPN+ (With Ads) perk will continue at the updated rate of $15/mo. If lines on your account remain eligible for the Disney+ 6-month offer or a Disney Bundle inclusion offer, those lines will continue to receive the offer until you switch those lines to an ineligible plan. Offers may end without notice and are subject to separate terms. If you have Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) included with your plan through an existing VHI plan and switch to an in-market VHI plan, and do not enroll in the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) plan perk, your Disney bundle will no longer be included with your plan and your Verizon account will be charged $19.99/mo or the then-current price of Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) through Verizon (plus tax where applicable). If you have an existing subscription to a Disney bundle, Disney+, and/or ESPN+ that are billed directly by Disney or ESPN+, as applicable, your existing subscription(s) will be paused after you register the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) perk with Disney+. If you cancel the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) perk through Verizon, your previous subscription(s) billed directly by Disney will resume. If you have an existing subscription to the Disney+, Hulu, and/or ESPN services billed directly by Disney, Hulu, and/or ESPN, it may be necessary to manage your plan to avoid multiple subscriptions. By purchasing the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN (With Ads) perk, you may lose any free trials, discounts, or promotional pricing associated with your current Disney bundle, Disney+, ESPN, and/or Hulu subscriptions. Where possible, your preexisting subscription(s) will be paused and billing will not resume until your Verizon subscription ends. Where your preexisting subscription(s) cannot be paused, after you enroll and complete the account setup, you will be sent an email with information about how to manage your existing subscription(s). It is your responsibility to manage your subscriptions. You will continue to be billed for any preexisting subscriptions until you manage your account. If your subscription to the Disney+, Hulu, and/or ESPN services is billed through a third party like Apple, Google, Amazon, Roku or others, the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) perk will not automatically replace or pause that subscription. After you enroll and complete account setup, you will be sent an email with information about how to manage your existing subscription. It is your responsibility to manage your subscriptions. You will continue to be billed for any preexisting subscriptions until you manage your account. You should review your terms and conditions from any previous providers regarding any obligations regarding subscription management or cancellation. In each case as applicable pursuant to these terms and conditions, you must use the same email when registering your Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) plan perk subscription that you used to purchase your existing subscription(s). You can cancel your Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) perk at any time through My Verizon Online or the My Verizon app. Offer may end without notice. Verizon will share your email address and/or mobile telephone number with Disney to facilitate your registration of the Disney+ service included in your Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) perk. For further information about how Verizon handles your personal data, please visit the Privacy Notice available on verizon.com/privacy. Use of the services are subject to the Disney+, ESPN, and Hulu Subscriber Agreement. 1 Gig popular plan Exclusive Verizon savings - 1 Gig$/mo - YouTube Premium$10.00/mo $13.99 - You pay$109.99/mo* - You save$3.99/mo * 1 Gig includes: Included perks: YouTube Premium includes: YouTube Premium’s inclusion of YouTube Music Premium allows you to listen to the world’s largest music catalog with over 100 million songs, ad-free—enjoy personalized mixes, playlists to fit every mood, chart-toppers from around the world and more. Must be 18 years of age or older to enroll. After enrolling in the YouTube Premium perk, you will need to complete the YouTube Premium account setup to use the service. To complete account setup, you need to first cancel any existing monthly subscription you have to YouTube Premium. Enrolling in YouTube Premium may affect existing subscriptions to YouTube Premium. Review the Terms & Conditions for instruction. Subject to YouTube Terms of Service & YouTube Premium and Music Premium Terms of Use. One offer per account. Billing begins upon enrollment. Activation of internet service required. Access to YouTube Premium begins upon registering with YouTube. If you have an active monthly paid subscription to YouTube Premium purchased directly through YouTube or through a third party, you will need to cancel that subscription prior to setting up YouTube Premium through Verizon. If you have an existing annual subscription to YouTube Premium that is billed directly by YouTube or through a third party, your YouTube Premium through Verizon will not automatically replace that subscription. It must be managed separately directly with YouTube or through the third party provider. Any free trials, discounts, or promotional pricing associated with existing YouTube Premium subscriptions, if any, will not carry over to the YouTube Premium subscription you set up with the Verizon YouTube Premium perk. You can cancel the YouTube Premium perk at any time through My Verizon Online or the My Verizon App. Offer may end without notice. Use of the YouTube Premium service is subject to YouTube Terms of Service & YouTube Premium and Music Premium Terms of Use. 1 Gig popular plan Exclusive Verizon savings - 1 Gig$/mo - Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads)$10.00/mo $19.99 - You pay$109.99/mo* - You save$9.99/mo * 1 Gig includes: Included perks: Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) includes: If you have an existing Disney+ account, you can link it to your perk when you register. Must be 18 years of age or older to enroll. U.S. only. Access content from each service separately. To explore ad-free* and other bundle options, once registered, select "Manage" to be directed to disneyplus.com/commerce/account. Location data is required to watch certain content. Enrolling in the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) plan perk may affect existing subscriptions to a Disney bundle, Disney+, Hulu, or ESPN+. Review the Terms & Conditions for instruction. EXISTING DISNEY+, HULU OR ESPN+ SUBSCRIBERS: Offer will not automatically replace existing subscription(s). After enrolling in the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) plan perk, you will need to complete account setup separately for each service. Managing subscriptions may be required to avoid multiple subscriptions and corresponding charges. For existing Hulu subscribers, you may need to manage your subscription to complete account setup. $9.99/mo perk savings based on the current $19.99/mo that Verizon subscribers pay for Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) less the $10/mo myHome perk. Fios internet plans (except Classic Standalone) are eligible to purchase the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) perk. Subject to the Disney+, ESPN, and Hulu Subscriber Agreement. © 2026 Disney and its related entities. *Ads will be served in select live and linear content. If you are (1) a legal resident of the 50 United States and D.C. and (2) 18 years of age or older, on a Fios (except Classic Standalone) Internet plan, you are eligible to purchase the $10/mo “Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads)” plan perk, which includes access to Disney+ (With Ads), Hulu (With Ads), and ESPN+ (With Ads). One offer per account. Billing begins upon enrollment. Activation of line/internet service required. Access to Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) streaming services begins upon registration. If you already have a Disney bundle, Disney+, Hulu, or ESPN+ subscription, it may be necessary to manage your plan to avoid multiple subscriptions. It is your responsibility to manage your subscriptions. By purchasing the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) perk, you may lose any free trials, discounts, or promotional pricing associated with your current Disney bundle, Disney+, ESPN+, and/or Hulu subscriptions. If you have an existing subscription to the legacy Disney+ Premium, Hulu (With Ads) & ESPN+ (With Ads) perk with qualifying plans and do not switch to the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) plan perk, your existing subscription to Disney+ Premium, Hulu (With Ads) & ESPN+ (With Ads) perk will continue at the updated rate of $15/mo. If lines on your account remain eligible for the Disney+ 6-month offer or a Disney Bundle inclusion offer, those lines will continue to receive the offer until you switch those lines to an ineligible plan. Offers may end without notice and are subject to separate terms. If you have Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) included with your plan through an existing VHI plan and switch to an in-market VHI plan, and do not enroll in the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) plan perk, your Disney bundle will no longer be included with your plan and your Verizon account will be charged $19.99/mo or the then-current price of Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) through Verizon (plus tax where applicable). If you have an existing subscription to a Disney bundle, Disney+, and/or ESPN+ that are billed directly by Disney or ESPN+, as applicable, your existing subscription(s) will be paused after you register the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) perk with Disney+. If you cancel the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) perk through Verizon, your previous subscription(s) billed directly by Disney will resume. If you have an existing subscription to the Disney+, Hulu, and/or ESPN services billed directly by Disney, Hulu, and/or ESPN, it may be necessary to manage your plan to avoid multiple subscriptions. By purchasing the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN (With Ads) perk, you may lose any free trials, discounts, or promotional pricing associated with your current Disney bundle, Disney+, ESPN, and/or Hulu subscriptions. Where possible, your preexisting subscription(s) will be paused and billing will not resume until your Verizon subscription ends. Where your preexisting subscription(s) cannot be paused, after you enroll and complete the account setup, you will be sent an email with information about how to manage your existing subscription(s). It is your responsibility to manage your subscriptions. You will continue to be billed for any preexisting subscriptions until you manage your account. If your subscription to the Disney+, Hulu, and/or ESPN services is billed through a third party like Apple, Google, Amazon, Roku or others, the Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) perk will not automatically replace or pause that subscription. After you enroll and complete account setup, you will be sent an email with information about how to manage your existing subscription. It is your responsibility to manage your subscriptions. You will continue to be billed for any preexisting subscriptions until you manage your account. You should review your terms and conditions from any previous providers regarding any obligations regarding subscription management or cancellation. In each case as applicable pursuant to these terms and conditions, you must use the same email when registering your Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) plan perk subscription that you used to purchase your existing subscription(s). You can cancel your Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) perk at any time through My Verizon Online or the My Verizon app. Offer may end without notice. Verizon will share your email address and/or mobile telephone number with Disney to facilitate your registration of the Disney+ service included in your Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) perk. For further information about how Verizon handles your personal data, please visit the Privacy Notice available on verizon.com/privacy. Use of the services are subject to the Disney+, ESPN, and Hulu Subscriber Agreement. More ways to save Save on YouTube TV - Get $20/mo off for 6 months Customize a Fios TV package Save $15/mo and choose entertainment on us Netflix & HBO Max (With Ads) DetailsDisney+, Hulu, ESPN+ (With Ads) DetailsGet Apple One for 6 months on us. Then $15/mo after. Apple One DetailsApple Music Family DetailsYouTube Premium DetailsUnlimited Cloud Storage DetailsHome Device Support & Protection DetailsGoogle AI Pro DetailsApple One Perk 6 Months On Us: Offer valid thru 4.1.26 for new home internet customers who activate / install eligible Fios 1 Gig, Fios 2 Gig or 5G Home Ultimate plan. $15/mo perk credit for 6 months can be applied to Apple One Individual or Family perk. The perk credit ends if the perk is canceled or the account is moved to an ineligible internet plan during the 6-month promo period. After the promo period, or if the account is moved to an ineligible plan during promo period, perk auto-renews at $15/mo for Apple One Individual or $20/mo for Apple One Family (or then-current monthly pricing) unless the perk is canceled or unregistered. You must be 18 years of age or older to enroll. After enrolling in the perk, you will need to complete account registration to use Apple One services. If you have not completed account registration within 90 days of perk enrollment, the perk will be removed. You can cancel the perk anytime in My Verizon at verizon.com. One offer per eligible Verizon line. Additional Apple One perk Terms and Conditions apply. Shopping Internet for your business? Have questions? We’ve got answers. Have questions? We’ve got answers. Is Frontier becoming Verizon? Frontier is now a Verizon company, bringing better value and more choices to millions more customers across the country. By integrating Frontier's complementary pure-play fiber network with Verizon’s industry-leading Fios and mobility assets, the company now has an expanded reach of almost 30 million fiber passings across 31 states and Washington, D.C. With the greater availability of premium home internet and mobility services, customers have exclusive access to new services, savings and value they can't get anywhere else. This expansion includes plan offerings for fiber optic home internet, fiber optic business internet, landline phones, and Fios TV. See if you're eligible for fiber home internet by checking availability. What is Verizon Fios? Verizon Fios is a 100% fiber-optic network that delivers some of the fastest internet speeds to millions of homes in the mid-Atlantic and New England. While traditional cable internet uses copper wires, Fios uses fiber-optic lines made from tiny strands of glass, which means it can transmit data over long distances quickly to provide a reliable and consistent broadband connection. With its 100% fiber-optic network, Verizon is able to offer nearly symmetrical download and upload speeds on most plans (upload speed tends to be slower than download speed in other kinds of internet connections), making your experience even better. You can use the power of the Fios network throughout your home when you sign up for Fios TV and Fios Digital Voice. You and your family can stream, game and call loved ones with ease. Why should I consider Fios? Verizon's all-in pricing means you don't have to worry about hidden fees or equipment charges—and our Best Value Guarantee means you can lock in your internet rate with no unexpected surprises. Fios Home Internet takes advantage of fiber-optic internet's impressive abilities, offering the reliable bandwidth you need to game, stream and work. With the power of Verizon Fios fiber-optic internet—plans start at speeds of 300 Mbps and top out at a lightning-fast 2 Gig—you can: - Upload and download files quickly - Download a full-length 4K or HD movie at impressive speeds - Game, video chat or stream on multiple devices at the same time - Connect up to 100 devices at once with low lag You can also opt for Fios TV and enjoy packages designed for you and your family, delivered in 4K clarity on the same fiber-optic network. Pick the plan that works for you, with no surcharges or broadcast and regional sports network fees. Fios Digital Voice is a home phone service with unlimited local and long-distance calling within the U.S. and free international calling to 98% of the world, plus more than 30 other features like caller ID, spam blocking and voicemail. Fios is one of the most awarded networks for internet speed and customer satisfaction over the past 10 years. To check Fios availability in your area, enter your address or view the coverage map. What is fiber internet? Verizon Fios uses a fiber-optic network, sending light through tiny strands of glass to carry data directly to your home. It offers an outstanding broadband experience, with fast, reliable and nearly symmetrical upload and download speeds. Fios takes advantage of fiber-optic internet's impressive abilities, offering the reliable bandwidth you need to game, stream and work: - You can download an HD movie in less time than it takes to make the popcorn. - The Gig plans offer upload speeds that are 23 times faster than cable.* - Fios has been one of the most awarded networks for internet speed over the past 10 years. - The latest tri-bound router with Wi-Fi 6E offers some of our highest bandwidth, so you can power up to 100 devices at once. *Based on comparison of Fios 1 Gig plan wired upload speeds of up to 880 Mbps to median of comparable advertised plan speeds of Xfinity, Spectrum, and Optimum as of 3.14.25. Is fiber internet better than cable? When it comes to fiber optic internet vs. cable, Verizon's 100% fiber-optic network means Fios is able to handle a range of services—like bundled internet, telephone and television—and its nearly symmetrical upload and download speeds make Fios great for gaming, streaming and data-heavy activities like virtual reality. Fios also offers the bandwidth and power to support multiple devices and users, so you and your family can all get online at the same time without a lot of lag. What's the difference in fiber internet vs. Wi-Fi? Many people use terms like "fiber" or "fiber internet" and "Wi-Fi" interchangeably, but they're not the same. When it comes to fiber internet vs. Wi-Fi, think of fiber internet as the way the information gets to your home and Wi-Fi as the way the connected devices in your home (your computers, tablets, smartphones and other devices) receive that information. The fiber-optic network delivers data via high-speed light signals to your wireless router, which converts that light into radio signals to wirelessly transmit the information to your Wi-Fi enabled device. Wired connections use cables, like an ethernet cable, to transmit data from your router or modem to your devices—which can lead to a more consistent connection, but your location is limited by the length of your cable. How fast is Verizon Fios Wi-Fi speed, and will it make my internet faster? Fiber is one of the fastest internet technologies available, and Verizon's 100% fiber-optic network offers exceptionally fast, reliable service. Your Verizon Fios speed will depend on which plan you pick: - Fios 300 Mbps: Up to 300 Mbps download and 300 Mbps upload speeds - Fios 500 Mbps: Up to 500 Mbps download and 500 Mbps upload speeds - Fios 1 Gig: Up to 940 Mbps download and up to 880 Mbps upload speeds - Fios 2 Gig: Average wired download and upload speeds of 1.5 Gbps to 2.3 Gbps How do you know which Fios internet speed you need? Fios 300 Mbps typically offers more than enough bandwidth for the average household, as it can easily handle streaming (including 4K video), gaming and video calls on multiple devices at once. A step up to a Verizon Fios speed of 500 Mbps makes it easy to download full-length movies within minutes or immerse yourself in online VR games, while gigabit speeds can provide lower latency and less lag with enough bandwidth for many types of activities and lots of connected devices. Not getting the speeds you want? Check your current internet speed and see how Verizon Fios can help you get online faster. Does fiber-optic internet have Wi-Fi for home included? All Verizon Fios internet plans include Wi-Fi router rental at no additional cost. Because your internet experience depends on your equipment, your router needs to be able to handle the highest internet speeds available. All plans include the best router for Verizon Fios, featuring the latest Wi-Fi generation, Wi-Fi 6E, with more spectrum, which allows for increased speeds, better coverage, lower latency, built-in security, parental controls and more. With this router, you can transmit and distribute digital entertainment and information to multiple devices in your home with an easy plug-and-play setup. And Verizon Whole-Home Wi-Fi, included with our fastest plans, gives you an optional Wi-Fi extender for a strong signal in every room of the house, so the kids can game in the den while you finish a video conference in your home office. How much does Verizon Fios cost per month? While the Verizon Fios plan you choose determines your cost, internet plans start at an affordable $34.99/month with Auto Pay and any Verizon mobile phone plan. A $99 setup charge may apply. All internet plans come with no annual contracts, no taxes or hidden fees and a router rental included at no extra charge. Plus, with Verizon’s Best Value Guarantee, you don't have to worry about unexpected price hikes. You may also be eligible for Verizon discounts or deals to help you save on our best home internet plans available in your area, as Verizon offers discounts for service members, teachers and first responders. You also can get a discount by bundling mobile and home or by signing up for Auto Pay. When will fiber be available in my area? Verizon Fios availability continues to expand, and new cities will be added soon. Currently, Verizon's fiber-optic network serves more than 15 million homes and businesses in the Mid-Atlantic and New England. To find out if Fios is available in your area, enter your address. To learn where Fios is offered and what other services are available at your home, explore our coverage map. What affordable Verizon Home Internet options are available? Verizon participated in ACP, the Affordable Connectivity Program, while the program was active prior to the last fully funded month of April 2024. Verizon now provides reduced-cost internet to eligible new or existing home Internet customers who have qualified for Lifeline, SNAP, WIC, and other assistance programs within 180 days of application or received a Federal Pell Grant within the past year with our Verizon Forward program. Qualifying customers receive a service discount on their Fios or 5G Home Internet plan price. Existing LTE Home Internet customers may qualify as well. Verizon knows affordable internet access is important in today's connected world. You may be eligible to save money with other Verizon discounts, like: You also can get a discount by bundling mobile and home or signing up for Auto Pay. What are Verizon Whole-Home Wi-Fi and Verizon Whole Home Wi-Fi Plus? Whole-Home Wi-Fi is included with your 5G Home Ultimate1 or LTE Home Plus2 wireless home internet plan. When you have Whole-Home Wi-Fi, you can choose to upgrade to Whole-Home Wi-Fi Plus for $5/month (plus taxes & surcharges). Verizon Whole-Home Wi-Fi3 and Verizon Whole-Home Wi-Fi Plus3 include 3 features that help improve Wi-Fi coverage in your home: - Wi-Fi Health Check in the My Verizon app to optimize your Wi-Fi network. - Wi-Fi extender(s):4 - Whole-Home Wi-Fi gives you 1 optional Wi-Fi extender for better signal strength in hard-to-reach places. - Whole-Home Wi-Fi Plus gives you a total of 3 Wi-Fi extenders per line. 2 are sent with your order. Add a 3rd if needed after setup. - Free router upgrade after 3 years. Included with the 5G Home Ultimate plan only. 1Also applies to the 5G Home Plus plan if you subscribed between 11/9/23 and 6/18/25. 2New sign-ups for LTE Home plans are no longer available. Existing LTE Home customers can switch LTE Home plans or explore other Verizon Home Internet options. 3Available in select areas. 4Verizon owns the equipment provided with your plan, including the router and Wi-Fi Extender. If your service is disconnected or you change to a plan that does not include some or all of the equipment (such as the Wi-Fi Extender), you must return equipment within 30 days or you'll incur an unreturned equipment fee(s) of up to $300 per unit of equipment (see details in Terms of Service). Learn more by visiting our 5G Home & LTE Home equipment return FAQs. 3rd party entertainment offers require an internet plan with myHome. One offer per eligible Verizon Home Internet (“VHI”) plan. Add’l terms apply. Please note, managing your current 3rd party subscriptions, for example, Disney+, Hulu, & ESPN+, or Netflix & Max, may be required to avoid multiple subscriptions and corresponding charges. Must be 18 yrs or older. Cancel anytime. Disney+, Hulu, & ESPN+: $10 Bundle incl. Disney+ (With Ads), Hulu (With Ads), and ESPN+ (With Ads). EXISTING DISNEY+, HULU OR ESPN+ subscribers: Offer will not automatically replace existing subscription(s). Terms apply. © 2026 Disney and its related entities. Netflix & Max: $10 Bundle incl. Netflix Standards with Ads & Max (with Ads) plans. Terms apply. Max and related elements are property of Home Box Office, Inc.
