=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Tina Turner Illness: Intestinal Cancer And Stroke Before Death - TODAY]
Turner suffered a stroke in October 2013, three months after her second marriage to Erwin Bach, she wrote in her memoir. "I woke up suddenly and in a panic," the iconic singer wrote. "A lightning bolt struck my head and my right leg — at least that's how it felt — and I had a funny sensation in my mouth that made it difficult for me to call out to ...
URL: https://www.today.com/health/news/tina-turner-illness-health-problems-rcna86096

[Tina Turner, Magnetic Singer of Explosive Power, Is Dead at 83]
May 24, 2023 · Her publicist Bernard Doherty announced the death in a statement but did not provide the cause. She had a stroke in recent years and was known to be struggling with a kidney disease and other...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/24/arts/music/tina-turner-dead.html

[Tina Turner death: Queen of rock 'n' roll dies at 83 - USA TODAY]
May 24, 2023 · The Rock & Roll Hall of Fame icon known for songs like "Proud Mary" and "What's Love Got to Do with It" died at her home in Switzerland at age 83.
URL: https://www.usatoday.com/story/entertainment/music/2023/05/24/tina-turner-death-queen-of-rock-n-roll-dies-at-83/70253455007/

[Tina Turner Death: Full Recap - People.com]
May 24, 2023 · Tina Turner, the iconic singer who was dubbed the "Queen of Rock'n Roll," died on Wednesday, May 24, at the age of 83. Her publicist Bernard Doherty confirmed to PEOPLE that she died in her home...
URL: https://people.com/tina-turner-death-live-updates-7503899

[12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com]
Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius).
URL: https://www.timeanddate.com/calendar/months/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Tina Turner Illness: Intestinal Cancer And Stroke Before Death - TODAY] ---
Tina Turner's cause of death was a "long illness," according to a statement from her publicist provided to NBC News. The queen of rock 'n' roll died peacefully in her home in Switzerland on Wednesday, May 24, 2023. In the years leading up to her death, the star had been open about the health problems she faced, including intestinal cancer in 2016, a kidney transplant in 2017 and a stroke in 2013. Turner had been living with high blood pressure for much of her life. "With her, the world loses a music legend and a role model," the statement from her spokesperson read. "Tina Turner was born Anna Mae Bullock on November 26, 1939, in Nutbush, Tennessee, USA. She became famous in the late 60s as the singer of the band Ike & Tina Turner Revue, but later she became successful worldwide as a solo artist." "With her music and her inexhaustible vitality, Tina Turner thrilled millions of fans and inspired many artists of subsequent generations. Global hits like 'What's Love Got To Do With it,' 'Private Dancer' and 'The Best,' more than 180 million albums sold, 12 Grammy Awards and over three decades of sold-out stadium tours around the world are just part of her unique legacy." Numerous celebrities have mourned the loss of the iconic singer, including TODAY's Al Roker, Oprah, Gloria Gaynor, Ciara, Questlove, Angela Bassett and Mariah Carey. How did Tina Turner die? Turner’s cause of death was "a long illness," according to a statement from her publicist. More specific information about her cause of death has not been confirmed. Tina Turner's illnesses Turner had been public about several health issues she faced in recent years, including intestinal cancer, a stroke, high blood pressure and kidney failure, as well as post-traumatic stress disorder from her marriage to Ike Turner. In her 2018 memoir titled "My Love Story," she wrote, "I've been on such a wild roller-coaster in the four years since my wedding that even I have difficulty keeping my medical catastrophes straight." When did Tina Turner have a stroke? Turner suffered a stroke in October 2013, three months after her second marriage to Erwin Bach, she wrote in her memoir. "I woke up suddenly and in a panic," the iconic singer wrote. "A lightning bolt struck my head and my right leg — at least that's how it felt — and I had a funny sensation in my mouth that made it difficult for me to call out to Erwin for help. I suspected it wasn't good, but it was worse than I ever imagined. I was having a stroke." Bach and her doctor took her to the hospital, where she discovered that she was unable to stand on her own. She had to drag herself to a sofa and pull her body into a sitting position. She stayed in the hospital for 10 days. Turner was able to regain her ability to walk, but "nothing about the rehabilitation process was easy," she wrote. The singer also suffered from high blood pressure Turner wrote in her memoir that she was diagnosed with high blood pressure in 1978. "I didn't think much of it — both my mother and sister had it," she wrote, adding that she starting taking a once-a-day pill for the condition in 1985. But otherwise, she'd learned to live with it and thought that her blood pressure always being in the "high" range was normal for her. Shortly after, she starting struggling to perform in the way she used to, she wrote. "I believed that my body started to react to working with high blood pressure and the medication, and that was the reason I couldn't hit my notes." Her unmanaged high blood pressure later led to kidney problems, as well as damage to her heart, she wrote. She eventually needed a kidney transplant and her heart muscle became enlarged and the vessels hardened. And experienced kidney failure and had a transplant After her stroke, Turner's doctor expressed concern that her high blood pressure was also hurting her kidneys. Shortly after, she found out that they only had 35% kidney function. It eventually dropped to 5%, and she underwent dialysis in an effort to get healthy enough to receive a kidney transplant. In April 2017, she received the surgery, and husband Erwin Bach was the donor, People reported. “I wondered if anyone would think that Erwin’s living donation was transactional in some way,” she wrote in her memoir. “Incredibly, considering how long we had been together, there were still people who wanted to believe that Erwin married me for my money and fame." Tina Turner had intestinal cancer In January 2016, Turner was diagnosed with intestinal cancer, she shared in her memoir. She'd been suffering from chronic diarrhea for months previously, she wrote. It was diagnosed at an early stage, and she had carcinoma and multiple malignant polyps. Still, it wasn't clear if the cancer could be removed. A month later, she underwent surgery to remove the cancerous part of her intestine, and doctors thought it could be cured. But doing so meant she had to delay her kidney transplant for a year. By late 2016, her kidney failure had gotten worse, so she had to undergo a colonoscopy to determine if she still had any signs of intestinal cancer. "Miraculously, (I) received a diagnosis of 'all clear,'" she wrote. This milestone kicked off the process of arranging her kidney transplant. Ronnie Turner, the singer's one biological son with ex-husband Ike Turner, also battled a similar type of cancer, colon cancer, more specifically metastatic colon carcinoma. The American Cancer Society notes that most people with colorectal cancers have a family history of the condition. Ronnie Turner died from the disease at age 63 in December 2022. As well as vertigo Shortly after suffering her stroke and learning she was in kidney failure, Turner started feeling "dizzy, breathless, sick to my stomach," she wrote in her memoir. "The sensation literally knocked me off my feet." She was experiencing vertigo, calling it an "unnerving and frightening ... extreme balance disorder." She added that she "couldn't stand, walk or focus. ... My body was spinning out of control." She was also open about her mental health struggles Turner wrote in her memoir that she had thoughts of suicide during her relationship with Ike Turner. She later attempted suicide before eventually getting out of the relationship in 1978. "I chose death, and I chose it honestly," she wrote in her memoir. "I was unhappy when I woke up. But I never tried it again because I made an important realization, one that changed the course of my life. I came out of the darkness believing I was meant to survive. I was here for a reason." Turner also shared in her 2021 documentary "Tina" that she suffered from PTSD, Reuters reported at the time. “It wasn’t a good life. The good did not balance the bad," she said in the documentary. "I had an abusive life, there’s no other way to tell the story. It’s a reality. It’s a truth. That’s what you’ve got, so you have to accept it."


--- [Tina Turner, Magnetic Singer of Explosive Power, Is Dead at 83] ---
Supported by Tina Turner, Magnetic Singer of Explosive Power, Is Dead at 83 Hailed in the 1960s for her dynamic performances with her first husband, Ike, she became a sensation as a recording artist, often echoing her personal struggles in her songs. Tina Turner, the earthshaking singer whose rasping vocals, sexual magnetism and explosive energy made her an unforgettable live performer and one of the most successful recording artists of all time, died on Wednesday at her home in Küsnacht, Switzerland, near Zurich. She was 83. Her publicist Bernard Doherty announced the death in a statement but did not provide the cause. She had a stroke in recent years and was known to be struggling with a kidney disease and other illnesses. Ms. Turner embarked on her half-century career in the late 1950s, while still attending high school, when she began singing with Ike Turner and his band, the Kings of Rhythm. At first she was only an occasional performer, but she soon became the group’s star attraction — and Mr. Turner’s wife. With her potent, bluesy voice and her frenetic dancing style, she made an instant impression. Their ensemble, soon renamed the Ike and Tina Turner Revue, became one of the premier touring soul acts in Black venues on the so-called chitlin’ circuit. After the Rolling Stones invited the group to open for them, first on a British tour in 1966 and then on an American tour in 1969, white listeners in both countries began paying attention. Ms. Turner, who insisted on adding rock songs by the Beatles and the Stones to her repertoire, reached an enormous new audience, giving the Ike and Tina Turner Revue its first Top 10 hit with her version of the Creedence Clearwater Revival song “Proud Mary” in 1971 and a Grammy Award for best R&B vocal performance by a group. Related Content Advertisement


--- [Tina Turner death: Queen of rock 'n' roll dies at 83 - USA TODAY] ---
Tina Turner, queen of rock 'n' roll, dies after long illness Tina Turner, the musical behemoth and pioneering soul-turned-rock star, has died at age 83. The Rock & Roll Hall of Fame icon died at her home in Switzerland after a long illness, according to a statement on her official social media accounts. "It is with great sadness that we announce the passing of Tina Turner ... Today we say goodbye to a dear friend who leaves us all her greatest work: her music," reads the statement. For many years, Turner has lived a reclusive life while battling ill health, including a stroke in 2013, intestinal cancer in 2016 and a kidney transplant in 2017. Throughout her career, Turner’s life was one of musical greatness and personal trauma, as she fled an abusive relationship with her musical mentor and first husband, Ike Turner, to achieve unlikely pop stardom in the ’80s with “What’s Love Got to Do With It.” A native of Nutbush, Tennessee, the woman born Anna Mae Bullock began her singing career early – singing in the choir at Nutbush’s Spring Hill Baptist Church. But it was seeing Ike Turner perform with his Kings of Rhythm band in 1957 that ignited Turner’s professional passion and unleashed her husky, seductive voice. As the Ike & Tina Turner Revue, the pair stormed the charts for 15 years with robust soul-rockers “River Deep-Mountain High,” “Nutbush City Limits” and a Grammy-winning rendition of John Fogerty’s “Proud Mary.” Turner fled from Ike in 1976, with only a gas credit card and some change to her name and spent the next several years making appearances on shows such as “The Hollywood Squares” and performing in Las Vegas cabarets. Along with her signature look of a shock of teased hair, denim miniskirts that displayed her toned legs and a fierce gaze, Turner will also always be revered for her remarkable comeback at the age of 44. A cover of Al Green’s “Let’s Stay Together” arrived in 1983, peaked at No. 26 on the Billboard Hot 100 and exploded in Europe. Her record label was reluctant to push her music and considered her a nostalgia act. But Turner proved her mettle, recording “Private Dancer” in a two-week span and with it, a triumphant return with her only No. 1 single, “What’s Love Got to Do With It.” The song earned a record of the year Grammy Award and Tuner the status of being the (then) oldest woman to appear on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. Turner’s recording career continued to thrive into the 1990s with albums “Break Every Rule,” “Foreign Affair” and “Wildest Dreams” while cultivating a younger audience with flashy videos for hits including “We Don’t Need Another Hero (Thunderdome),” “Typical Male” and “Better Be Good to Me.” Turner’s talents expanded beyond music. She also worked in films, making an appearance in the big screen version of The Who’s rock opera “Tommy” in 1975 and starring with Mel Gibson in “Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome” in 1985. Turner was renowned for her sexy, elastic dance moves on stage – notably influencing Mick Jagger – and she toured relentlessly. Her outing to support “Private Dancer” played 180 dates in 1984, while subsequent tours filled arenas and stadiums worldwide. In 2008-09, Turner took one final lap around the globe with Tina!: 50th Anniversary Tour, which was her last major public outing. During her second induction into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame in 2021 (she was inducted with Ike Turner in 1991) for her solo work, Turner received the accolade remotely. Turner’s layered life led to a series of retrospectives over the years, including her 1986 revelatory memoir, “I, Tina” (turned into the 1993 film, “What’s Love Got to Do With It”); the acclaimed jukebox musical, “Tina: The Tina Turner Musical,” which earned a Tony Award for Adrienne Warren’s portrayal of Turner and is still touring after closing on Broadway in 2022; and the 2021 documentary, “Tina.” In addition to her nine career Grammy Awards (eight as a solo artist and one with Ike), Turner was also recognized with a Kennedy Center Honor in 2005, as well as three Grammy Hall of Fame awards in 1999, 2003 and 2012, and a 2018 Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award. Contributing: Bob Mehr, Memphis Commercial Appeal, part of the USA TODAY Network Read more about Tina Turner: - Remembering Tina Turner: The rock 'n' roll icon's life and career in photos - Watch:Tina Turner HBO doc explores trauma of abuse, makes a case for her Rock Hall induction this year - Did you know? The 5 most shocking revelations in Tina Turner's new memoir, 'My Love Story' - Tina gets the Barbie treatment:Rock & Roll Hall of Famer Tina Turner joins iconic doll collection - 'The path to true happiness': Tina Turner shares her secrets to creating joy in new book


--- [Tina Turner Death: Full Recap - People.com] ---
History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com] ---
Each month has either 28, 30, or 31 days during a common year, which has 365 days. During leap years, which occur nearly every 4 years, we add an extra (intercalary) day, Leap Day, on 29 February, making leap years 366 days long. This is to keep our current calendar aligned with the solar year and astronomical seasons marked by equinoxes and solstices. The 12 Months The Gregorian calendar consists of the following 12 months: - January (31 days) - March (31 days) - April (30 days) - May (31 days) - June (30 days) - July (31 days) - August (31 days) - September (30 days) - October (31 days) - November (30 days) - December (31 days) Tracking the Moon’s Orbit The months originated as a way to mark time and break up the year into shorter periods based on the Moon’s orbit around Earth. The word month is even derived from the word Moon. As far as we know, months were first used in Mesopotamia sometime between the years 500 BCE and 400 BCE to measure the natural period related to the lunar month, or synodic month, which is the time it takes for the Moon to go through all the Moon phases. Moon phases in your cityHow Many Have 28, 29, 30, or 31 Days? The Gregorian calendar has 4 months that are 30 days long and 7 months that are 31 days long. February is the only month that is 28 days long in common years and 29 days long in leap years. From 10 to 12 Months Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius). Calendar with holidaysThe Romans named some of the months after their position in the calendar year: September means the 7th month, October the 8th, November the 9th, and December the 10th month. However, when January and February were eventually added and the beginning of the calendar year was moved to January, the position of these months no longer corresponded with the original meaning of their names. Today, we still call the 9th month of the year September, the 7th month. The Islamic calendar, the Hebrew calendar, and the Hindu calendar also use months to divide up the year. Although the Gregorian calendar is the most commonly used calendar today, other calendars are still used in many parts of the world to calculate certain holidays and annual feasts. Old Names of Months Months in the ancient Roman calendar include:
