=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Romance (Inquisition) | Dragon Age Wiki | Fandom]
For the romance in other games, see Romance (Origins), Romance (Dragon Age II), and Romance (The Veilguard). In Dragon Age: Inquisition, the Inquisitors of any gender and race can pursue a romance. Unlike in Dragon Age: Origins and Dragon Age II, where it was only possible to romance the companions, Inquisition's romantic interests can be companions as well as non-companions, namely advisors ...
URL: https://dragonage.fandom.com/wiki/Romance_(Inquisition)

[Ranking DA: Inquisitions Romances - CBR]
Some of the romances feel highly developed, providing fans with plenty of swoon-worthy cut-scenes and party banter discussing the Inquisitor's love life, while others feel like little more than filler inserted into the game. Updated on June 13, 2024 by Antonio Samson: Dragon Age has plenty of romanceable options that the player can choose from.
URL: https://www.cbr.com/every-romance-in-dragon-age-inquisition-ranked/

[Complete Romance Guide to Dragon Age: Inquisition]
The romances in Dragon Age: Inquisition are an important part of the story but can get somewhat complicated, as all the player's allies have certain preferences and quirks regarding love. The player's allies in Inquisition are complex, with values and struggles that make getting to know them through their relationships with the player character and each other so much fun and make the choices ...
URL: https://screenrant.com/complete-romance-guide-dragon-age-inquisition/

[How to Romance Josephine in "Dragon Age: Inquisition"]
Lady Josephine Montilyet Developed by BioWare, Dragon Age is arguably one of the best fantasy role-playing video game series of all time. The developer really delivered in 2014 with Dragon Age: Inquisition with endless story possibilities, character choices, warrior classes and sidequests. One of the many great features of this epic game is the ability to enter a romantic relationship with ...
URL: https://discover.hubpages.com/games-hobbies/How-to-Romance-Josephine-in-Dragon-Age-Inquisition

[All romanceable characters in Dragon Age: Inquisition]
An Antivan diplomatic ambassador, Josephine is an intelligent friend of well-known Dragon Ag e character Leliana and a romance choice for male and female Inquisitors.
URL: https://dotesports.com/dragon-age/news/all-romanceable-characters-in-dragon-age-inquisition


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Romance (Inquisition) | Dragon Age Wiki | Fandom] ---
- For the romance in other games, see Romance (Origins), Romance (Dragon Age II), and Romance (The Veilguard). In Dragon Age: Inquisition, the Inquisitors of any gender and race can pursue a romance. Unlike in Dragon Age: Origins and Dragon Age II, where it was only possible to romance the companions, Inquisition's romantic interests can be companions as well as non-companions, namely advisors. Inquisition has almost twice the romance options of Dragon Age II and exactly two times the romance options of Dragon Age: Origins. Some romances are restricted by gender and/or race.[1] A female elven Inquisitor has a total of six romance options, a female human has five, while all other gender/race combinations have four. Romantic interests[] | Male Inquisitor only | | |---|---| | Cassandra Pentaghast | Dorian Pavus | | The Hero of Orlais and one of the last loyal Seekers of Truth. | A human Altus mage of the Tevinter Imperium. | | Female Inquisitor only | | | Blackwall | Sera | | A Grey Warden of Orlais. | An elven rogue and a member of the Friends of Red Jenny. | | Male and female Inquisitors | | | Iron Bull | Josephine Montilyet | | A Qunari mercenary and Ben-Hassrath agent. | An Antivan diplomacy advisor. | | Race specific female Inquisitors only | | | Cullen Rutherford | Solas | | Former Knight-Captain of the Templar Order and the Inquisitor's military advisor. Available to human and elven female Inquisitors only. | An elven apostate expert on the Fade. Available to female elven Inquisitors only. | Involvement[] The Inquisitor can flirt with any romanceable (and sometimes non-romanceable) character they wish. A single flirt choice in dialogue does not lock the Inquisitor into a romance unless specifically prompted, so any and all available characters may be flirted with throughout the game, if desired. Blackwall is the exception, as flirting with him after moving to Skyhold softlocks his romance. This can be useful as some flirting dialogue options can result in higher approval. Once a relationship is initiated, that relationship becomes "locked" and the Inquisitor cannot pursue a relationship with another character. Flirting choices with other characters will still appear, along with prompts to begin new relationships. However, in trying to start a new relationship, the new character will reply that they believe the Inquisitor is already involved with someone. If wishing to pursue a new relationship, the Inquisitor must first end their current one. Once ended, that relationship cannot be restarted. Cullen and Sera can marry the Inquisitor in an on-screen wedding ceremony during the Trespasser DLC. Other encounters[] As well as the fully-fledged romance options, The Inquisitor can engage in brief sexual encounters and flirtations throughout the game. - Lace Harding can occasionally be flirted with when new areas are unlocked, eventually she will confront the player at Skyhold, and ask them about their intentions. The player can choose to confess feelings for Harding or say the flirting was simply playful banter, if the player confesses their feelings Harding and the Inquisitor enter a relationship together and her greetings at Skyhold will change. If the Inquisitor enters into a romance with another character, Harding and the Inquisitor's relationship will go back to being strictly professional. - The option to flirt with her unlocks after relocating to Skyhold and as new locations are unlocked. Once the Inquisitor has flirted with her, the option will continue to be available as long as a new romance has not been initiated with anyone else. - If the Inquisitor did not enter a relationship with anyone else, Vivienne acknowledges the relationship between the Inquisitor and Harding in Trespasser. - Vivienne can be flirted with though she will always turn the Inquisitor down. - Varric, Leliana, and Cole cannot be flirted with or romanced at all. - During Josephine's quest Of Somewhat Fallen Fortune the Inquisitor can engage in sexual relations with Minister Bellise in return for her re-elevating the Du Paraquette family to nobility, but only if they are not in a committed romance with anyone else. Companion romances[] Some companions may pursue relationships with NPCs or each other if not actively romanced by the Inquisitor. - If the Inquisitor does not pursue a relationship with Sera, she starts a relationship with Dagna. It carries over into the Trespasser DLC, though the Inquisitor cannot comment on it. - If the Inquisitor does not pursue a relationship with either Dorian or Iron Bull, the two will form a relationship if they banter together often enough and the Inquisitor can then ask both of them about it. The romance carries over into Trespasser if they had a romance in the main game. - If the Inquisitor does not pursue a relationship with either Josephine or Blackwall, they briefly flirt with one another, though the relationship never progresses beyond this point. The Inquisitor can ask both of them about it in Inquisition and can talk to Blackwall about the end of his "relationship" with Josephine in the Trespasser DLC. - If Cole was made more human during his personal quest, he may start a relationship with Maryden Halewell in the Trespasser DLC. Trivia[] - According to telemetry, Cassandra was the most romanced companion by a large margin and Dorian the least.[2][3] See also[] References[] - ↑ David Gaider (June 12, 2014). "Romance Discussion" (archive). The BioWare Forum. (offline). - ↑ Cian Maher (August 20, 2021). "David Gaider On The Creation Of Dragon Age: Inquisition's Dorian" The Gamer. - ↑ David Gaider (November 28, 2024). "Did you know Cassandra was THE most-romanced DAI character, by a good margin? Least, by a good margin? Dorian." . Bluesky.


--- [Ranking DA: Inquisitions Romances - CBR] ---
No content


--- [Complete Romance Guide to Dragon Age: Inquisition] ---
No content


--- [How to Romance Josephine in "Dragon Age: Inquisition"] ---
How to Romance Josephine in “Dragon Age: Inquisition” Lady Josephine Montilyet Developed by BioWare, Dragon Age is arguably one of the best fantasy role-playing video game series of all time. The developer really delivered in 2014 with Dragon Age: Inquisition with endless story possibilities, character choices, warrior classes and sidequests. One of the many great features of this epic game is the ability to enter a romantic relationship with several possible characters. Being able to romance them depends on your character's gender and race. Two of the characters in this game, however, can be romanced whether your Inquisitor is male or female, Dwarf, Qunari, Elf or human. One of these is the male Qunari Warrior, Iron Bull, and the other is your very own ambassador, Lady Josephine Montilyet. It is possible to romance Josephine no matter what race, class or gender your character is. This article is a step-by-step guide on how to enter a romantic relationship with your Inquisitor's Antivan ambassador. Meeting Josephine When Cassandra decides to reinstate the Inquisition so that you can build an army to combat the growing threat of the Breach, she introduces you to three people. These characters can be used to carry out War Table missions, thus earning power, influence and items. These characters are Cullen, an ex-Templar and military advisor ("Forces"), Leliana, your spymaster, who was a companion and potential romance option in Dragon Age: Origins ("Secrets"). That leaves Josephine, your ambassador ("Connections"). Josephine will greet you differently depending on your character's race. If you are an Elf, for example, she will greet you with an Elvish phrase. Gaining Approval Like Cullen, there is no visible Approval Rating for Josephine, but there are plenty of opportunities to gain her trust and flirt with her. After you have met Mother Giselle in Ferelden's Hinterlands, go to the Chantry and head for Josephine's room (towards the War Room, but on the left). She is in the room with the research table. You will see a short cutscene where the owner of Haven is talking to Josephine. Josephine is a diplomat, so you should choose your dialogue options based on "what would Josephine do?" - If you select "The Divine's advisors founded it." it leads to an amusing conversation. - "You handled him well." - Select "Investigate" options wherever possible for more information on Josephine. - "I'm glad you're here." Josephine will ask you to "please excuse" her but approach her again for more conversation options. - Select all the "Investigate" dialogue options. - Agree with her opinions. - When you talk to her in Haven's Chantry about securing allies, flirt by selecting the romance option "You sound too good to be true." Approval in Skyhold There aren't many more opportunities to flirt with Josephine until after you've completed the "In Your Heart Shall Burn" storyline quest. Before you complete it, make sure you have asked Josephine as much as possible about herself and her family by selecting all of the "Investigate" dialogue wheel options. After the quest, approach her again in Skyhold (she is near the War Table room). She will tell you that her family is in huge debt. Select: - "Can I help?" - "Who did it?" - "If it helps you, I'll go." This triggers the quest "Of Somewhat Fallen Fortune". Josephine's Personal Quest "Of Somewhat Fallen Fortune" Travel to Val Royeaux and meet Josephine and select "Let's go see Comte Boisvert." Because of the lack of Approval rating, it doesn't really matter what dialogue options you choose in this scene, but if you'd like to play it safe, choose the top options (or "1." if you're playing on PC.) Return to Skyhold and approach Josephine, who will apologise for dragging you into her situation. Select: - "You had no idea." or "You're safe here." - In the next option, whichever dialogue option you choose doesn't actually affect the quest. Talk to Josephine again and ask, "What's our next move?" Head for the War Table and select "Find a Sponsor for the Du Paraquettes" (in north-eastern Orlais). Only Josephine is available to do this quest. Activate it. It takes 20 minutes to complete, so go and do some more quests while you're waiting. When the quest is complete, talk to Josephine again and ask, "What's our next move?" You will be sent to see Minister Bellise in private. Select the dialogue options: - "The Du Paraquettes were noble." or "To win a favour from me." - "Connections beyond Orlais." - You can also seduce the Minister if the romance option presents itself. Travel to Val Royeaux again and meet Josephine at the dock. Select: - "I'm glad you're safe." - Select "Investigate" options whenever you can. - "You did the right thing." - "You're too soft-hearted for this." - The romance option "You don't need to." Initiating the Romance Talk to Josephine again, and she will tell you that Leliana wishes to speak with you. Approach Leliana (if you can't find her, consult your Skyhold map). Select the following options: - "I do like her." - "I'm not toying with her." - "I am." - "I'm glad you care for Josephine." Go back to Josephine, and she'll ask to speak to you privately. Select: - The romance option "I should have flirted harder." - (Any) - (Any) - "That sounds wonderful." Romance-Specific Sidequests If you have been using the "Investigate" option when talking to Josephine, the "Heraldry from a Herald" quest will be initiated. Visit the War Table and initiate the "Find the Old Montilyet Family Crest" quest. Once it is complete, purchase the crest from the merchant Barnabus in Val Royeaux. Give it to Josephine as a gift. Talk to Josephine again, and the quest "An Unexpected Engagement" will be initiated. Select: - "You can't be!" - The "Investigate" option - "I understand." Talk to her until the War Table quest "Challenge Josephine's Fiancé to a Duel" operation becomes available. Head for the War Table and send Cullen to initiate it. The quest takes 14 minutes and 15 seconds, so either go complete another quest or go and sit with a cup of tea until Cullen is ready to report in. Find the messenger in Skyhold and select "Convey my thanks". Then travel to Val Royeaux to meet with Lord Adorno Ciel Otranto of Antiva. If you are a mage, the "Investigate" option during the conversation with Lord Adorno will trigger a unique dialogue, but aside from that, you can choose either "Rapiers will do" or "If you must". If you have the "Secrets" perk "Underworld Knowledge", you can threaten Lord Adorno with the dialogue option "You're a family of backstabbers." Josephine will appear; select: - "Duelling him for you." - "Out of love!" (This will cement your relationship with Josephine.) Other scenes, such as the dance during "Wicked Eyes and Wicked Hearts" and the ending scene, are unlocked upon romancing Josephine. She can be romanced by any race, warrior class or gender. Do you love Josephine as much as we do? © 2016 Poppy Comments Poppy (author) from Enoshima, Japan on April 24, 2020: Did you actually talk to Leliana yet? Try exhausting ALL of Leliana's dilaogue wheels and seeing if the option shows up. Poppy (author) from Enoshima, Japan on December 20, 2019: You might not be far enough along in the main story. Where are you up to? You might have to finish Wicked Eyes and Wicked Hearts first. Alex on December 20, 2019: I exhausted all investigate options with josephine and finished of somewhat fallen fortune and gifted her her old family quest but the dueling her fiance quest wont start, did i do something wrong? Poppy (author) from Enoshima, Japan on July 16, 2019: Sorry to hear that, Patryk. How far along are you in the game's main story? What's the last mission you did? Have you done Wicked Eyes and Wicked Hearts yet? Patryk on July 15, 2019: I've done previous 2 of her missions, but i still can't get last one. I'm about to play last mission of the game and still didn't get the cutseen about her engagment Poppy (author) from Enoshima, Japan on April 16, 2018: Josie is cute for sure! Enjoy romancing her, and you're very welcome :D Haley from Annapolis, MD on April 16, 2018: I love Josie! I'm on my third play through, and officially romancing her this time (instead of just flirting). Thanks for the hints! Poppy (author) from Enoshima, Japan on January 25, 2018: I wonder why you're reading a guide on how to romance her if you don't like her? :) aerie on January 25, 2018: I did not like her. Poppy (author) from Enoshima, Japan on November 27, 2017: I'd suggest going and doing another side-quest in the meantime, and then trying again. Also try talking to other party members and then going back to talk to Josephine. Blockdestroyer55 on November 27, 2017: Asked her all the investigation questions before in your heart shall burn but after I got back she didn't say anything about her family in Dept? Ragnar the Red on June 15, 2017: A small correction: the "Find A Sponsor" objective on the war table is in North-Eastern Orlais, not Ferelden. Poppy (author) from Enoshima, Japan on June 06, 2017: Thanks for pointing that out, I appreciate it! Cynistrelle on June 05, 2017: I know you don't speak french but still.. it's Comte Boisvert ( Greenwood) not Bolsvert( Greenbowls) ... Starburner on January 25, 2017: I thank you for this incredible guide that allowed my Inquisitor Luke from House Travelion to find true love at last. I actually first tried to romance Cassandra, but reading just those kind words in this guide convinced me to restart the game and lose all my progress, JUST to see for myself the truly heartwarming love story blossom and grow. thank you again. Sum Futurus Inquisition. (We Are The Inquisition) Poppy (author) from Enoshima, Japan on January 04, 2017: As Nunya said, you should go and do another quest (i.e. leave Skyhold and come back) so that some 'time' can go by in the game. Finish any sidequest and then speak to her. Nunya bidness on January 03, 2017: you have to go do another side quest for someone else to activate the cut scene. Stew-Art on January 02, 2017: I finished the Heraldry from a Herald quest, I still can't access Josephine's "An Unexpected Engagement" Quest. I need help


--- [All romanceable characters in Dragon Age: Inquisition] ---
Dragon Age: Inquisition features plenty of companions and characters who will join you on your quest to stop Corypheus, though only certain people can be romanced. If you’re wondering which characters you can get loved up with, then keep reading, as we’re going to be looking at all of the main romanceable characters in Dragon Age: Inquisition. All characters that can be romanced in Dragon Age: Inquisition Blackwall: Romanceable for Female Inquisitors of any race Blackwall can be recruited in the Hinterlands, although he originally comes from the Free Marches. He tells you he’s a Grey Warden, but there’s a lot more to his story than meets the eye. Blackwall is both a companion and a romanceable character, but he can only be romanced by female Inquisitors—though it doesn’t matter what race you choose. He generally has good morals, so doing good deeds will raise his approval level. He’ll also greatly appreciate it if you can get the Grey Wardens to join the Inquisition and if you collect Grey Warden artifacts when he is in the party. Blackwall is the right choice for you if you’re into big, burly guys with impressive beards and a good moral compass. Cassandra Pentaghast: Romanceable for male Inquisitors of any race Those who have played Dragon Age II will recognize Cassandra as the Seeker of Truth who interrogates Varric the dwarf to find out more about Hawke (the DA II player character). She makes a return in Dragon Age: Inquisition, though her role is much more significant this time around. Despite her tough exterior, Cassandra is a romantic at heart who loves trashy romance novels and wants to be swept off her feet. The gifts you can give her reflect this, those being candles, flowers, and a poetry book you can then use to host a romantic evening with her. Cassandra might be a powerful warrior, but she also has a soft side that makes her a surprisingly sweet romance option. Cullen Rutherford: Romanceable for female Inquisitors who are human or Elven only Cullen has appeared in both the previous Dragon Age games, though he’s only a romance option for female human or female Elven Inquisitors in Inquisition. Cullen is undeniably handsome, although his charm comes from his awkward nature when you try to flirt with him. He isn’t a companion, but decisions you make for certain quests can still make a difference. For instance, he will either break up with you or refuse to be with you at all if you convince him to keep taking lyrium in the quest Perseverance. If you played Dragon Age: Origins, you’ll know what I mean when I say Cullen gives off Alistair vibes, which is why he’s always my go-to romance choice in Inquisition. Dorian Pavus: Romanceable for male Inquisitors of any race Dorian is an interesting character; he’s a mage from the unexplored but infamous Thedas region of Tevinter. He’s only romanceable to male Inquistors, though female Inquistors can still flirt with him for fun. Supporting mages and avoiding tyranny will gain his approval when it comes to quest decisions, though in general, he’s a fan of witty, sarcastic, and playful Inquisitors who don’t take themselves too seriously. If you plan on romancing him, make sure you don’t support the use of any kind of forbidden magic, such as blood magic, because he is incredibly wary of this and will always disapprove. Iron Bull: Romanceable for male and female Inquisitors of any race Iron Bull is a Qunari companion, and he’s a little different from the other romanceable options; the romance begins with physical intimacy rather than as friends. It doesn’t take much flirting for him to make you an offer, which he refers to as “riding the Bull.” I’m not even sorry for giving you that information. If you accept, you can either choose to break it off afterward or continue on a friends-with-benefits basis. To get Bull’s approval, do lots of fighting with him in the party. He’s particularly fond of taking down High Dragons and members of the Venatori. You have to make an effort to build an actual relationship with him, but it’s worth it for those horns. Josephine Montilyet: Romanceable for male and female Inquisitors of any race An Antivan diplomatic ambassador, Josephine is an intelligent friend of well-known Dragon Age character Leliana and a romance choice for male and female Inquisitors. Josephine comes across as logical and, as her job implies, very diplomatic. But underneath all that, she’s a very sweet and somewhat naive love interest. Her personal quest is a bit like a romance novel; Josephine’s parents arrange for her to be married, so you can challenge the suitor to a duel for her hand. It’s all very lovey-dovey, but it suits Josephine’s sweet nature perfectly. Sera: Romanceable for female Inquisitors of any race An Elf who is not a fan of anything too “Elfy,” Sera is a rogue and a member of the Friends of Red Jenny secret society, whose mission it is to help the poor and the lowborn of Thedas. Sera is a mischievous and somewhat impulsive romance choice, who tends to think she’s always in the right, so make sure you agree with her whenever you can if you are planning on romancing her. If you’re playing as a female Elven Inquisitor, especially a Dalish one, you’ll find it a little more tricky to raise her approval rating due to her aforementioned dislike of Elven customs. Solas: Romanceable for Elven female Inquisitors only Solas is the most difficult character to romance. You can only do so if you are an Elven female Inquisitor. His romance is also the most interesting in terms of the narrative of Dragon Age: Inquisition, though. Without going into spoiler territory, romancing him could potentially change how things go in the upcoming Dragon Age: Dreadwolf, so it’s definitely one of the more fleshed-out romances. Make sure you side with mages and approve of anything Elven culture and Fade-related if you want to gain his approval enough for him to become romantically interested in you.
