=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Julian Bradley (politician) - Wikipedia]
Marc Julian Bradley (born February 11, 1981) is an American businessman and Republican politician from Milwaukee County, Wisconsin. He is a member of the Wisconsin Senate, representing the 28th Senate district since 2021.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Julian_Bradley_(politician)

[Welcome Back To MARC Train! | Maryland Transit Administration]
MARC Train, along with the other modes of MDOT MTA and other local transit agencies, is on the Transit app. You can see where your train is and read any service alerts that have been issued.
URL: https://www.mta.maryland.gov/welcome-back-to-marc

[Meet Julian | Senator Julian Bradley]
Raised in Wisconsin, he graduated from La Crosse Central High School before earning a degree in political science and economics from the University of Wisconsin–La Crosse. Julian’s path has taken him across the country and through a diverse set of life experiences.
URL: https://legis.wisconsin.gov/senate/28/bradley/meet-julian/

[Julian Bradley (politician) Facts for Kids]
Nov 1, 2025 — Julian Bradley is the first Black Republican to serve in the Wisconsin Senate. ... After finishing high school in 1999, he faced a challenge.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Julian_Bradley_(politician)

[Marc's | Marc's Store & Pharmacy Fresh Savings Deals]
Marc's stores - fresh savings without sacrificing quality. For discount groceries, fresh meat & produce, pharmacy, flowers, closeouts, beauty, hot deals & more.
URL: https://www.marcs.com/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Julian Bradley (politician) - Wikipedia] ---
Marc Julian Bradley (born February 11, 1981) is an American businessman and Republican politician from Milwaukee County, Wisconsin.  He is a member of the Wisconsin Senate, representing the 28th Senate district since 2021.  He is the first black Republican to serve in the Wisconsin Senate and only the second black Republican to serve in the Wisconsin Legislature.


--- [Welcome Back To MARC Train! | Maryland Transit Administration] ---
This webpage provides information about changes to MARC Train schedules, ticketing options, and other policies that have taken place since March 2020, when many of our daily commuters transitioned to telework due to the Covid-19 pandemic. We are glad to welcome our passengers back -- we have missed you! Schedules IMPORTANT! Passengers should carefully review their schedule -- there have been changes to train times and to which trains stop at each station. At each link, you can download a PDF copy of the schedule (links are under the map) and you can view an interactive schedule by clicking the "Timetable" tab. Penn Line - The current schedule took effect on February 16, 2026. The next Penn Line schedule change will be on March 16, 2026. Brunswick Line - The current schedule took effect on August 1, 2023. There are no upcoming schedule changes for the Brunswick Line. - Eastbound trains at Silver Spring are no longer "L" stops - trains will depart at the printed time in the timetable. - IMPORTANT! Frederick TransIT continues to operate a reduced Meet The MARC shuttle service from Point of Rocks to Mt. Zion Park and Ride, Monocacy MARC, and Frederick. Review the Brunswick Line timetable - it shows which trains have connecting bus service to or from Point of Rocks. Camden Line - The current schedule took effect on June 1, 2021. There are no upcoming schedule changes for the Camden Line. - Westbound trains at Riverdale Park Town Center and eastbound trains at Dorsey are no longer "L" stops - trains will depart at the printed time in the timetable. Fares Click here for a full list of MARC fares and additional fare/ticketing information, including where to buy a ticket. NEW! MARC Student Saver fares make travel more affordable for students! Students can now save 50% on One-Way and Monthly MARC tickets. This discount applies to high school, vocational, and college/graduate students on all MARC lines. Click here for more information and to register for the program. NEW! CharmFlex fares are available exclusively through the CharmPass app and MARC passengers will pay about 15% less compared to the cost of a single-trip fare. The three- and 10-day passes (which appear in the app as six and 20 one-way fares for MARC Train customers) can be used on consecutive or non-consecutive days and are valid for up to 12 months after the date of purchase. Visit the CharmPass page here on the MDOT MTA website for full information and links to download the app. NEW! MARC - VRE cross-honoring has been restored. Passengers with a weekly, monthly, or 10-trip ticket purchased on the MARC or the Virginia Railway Express (VRE) system to Union Station can utilize that ticket to transfer to the other system (MARC to VRE or VRE to MARC) to continue their trip at no additional cost. IMPORTANT! Don't forget to re-start your SmartBenefits if you participate in this program. Click here to login to your SmartBenefits account or click here for more information on allocating your benefits. After you allocate your benefits, in order to purchase tickets: - Open the CharmPass app (click on the link for directions), - Go to Commuter Direct's website to rejoin the ticket-by-mail program , - Go to the MARC TVM registration website to use your benefits at a MARC ticket vending machine , or - Visit one of the area's Commuter Store Locations - Mobile Commuter Store schedule Bicycles and scooters NEW! Full size bicycles, e-bikes, and e-scooters are now permitted on all MARC Trains -- every train, all three lines, seven days a week! Identify which railcar to board by looking for the green “Bicycle Entrance” decal or an illuminated green light on the outside of the car. Charging of E-bikes and scooters on board MARC Train or at stations is prohibited to ensure the safety of all passengers. This includes charging using an external power source. Passengers must bring two bungee cords with them to secure their bicycles. Railcars identified by the green "Bicycle Entrance" signs (called MARC IV cars) require the use of bungees to secure bikes, as they do not have bike racks. Bikes may be secured with bungee cords in the designated areas only on these cars. Passengers are not permitted to bring their bikes on a MARC IV railcar if they do not have bungee cords. Bungee cords may not be used to secure bikes on the other railcar types, which have built in bike racks, indicated by green lights on the outside of the car. MARC train equipment assignments vary day-to-day and your train may have any type of MARC rail car, so always travel with two bungee cords. For full information and rules about bikes on MARC Train and other MDOT MTA modes, visit the Bikes on MARC webpage. There's a great video on the MTA YouTube page about brinigng your bike on MARC Train -- it illustrates many of the points hilighted above. Click here to watch it. Tracking Your Train Don't forget to sign up for or restart MARC Service Alerts for information on train delays and service modifications. NEW! MARC Train, along with the other modes of MDOT MTA and other local transit agencies, is on the Transit app. You can see where your train is and read any service alerts that have been issued. Click here for more information on Transit, including links to download. www.marctracker.com is still available for MARC Train status information. MARC Tracker was introduced in 2000 as the first GPS-based commuter rail tracking system in North America -- it received a full overhaul in 2020 for its 20th birthday! The new version is mobile device-friendly and provides improved information on train location and estimated arrival times. If You See Something, Say Something! IMPORTANT! MARC encourages all passengers to be a part of MDOT MTA’s security campaign: If You See Something, Say Something! Report any suspicious individuals or behavior to the conductor, uniformed employee, or police officer and call MDOT MTA Police at 410-454-7720. MARC Riders Guide A new MARC Riders Guide was published in February 2022, download it here on the MDOT MTA website (scroll down to the bottom of the page). Face Coverings Face coverings/masks are not required, but you are free to wear one if you wish. Other Important Things to Know and Remember - Passengers boarding at Camden and Brunswick Line stations that require the use of a crosswalk to get to the appropriate boarding platform must be on the platform prior to the arrival of the train. Passengers who cross in front of or behind the train while it is at the station will be denied boarding. This policy is in effect for your safety. - Passengers boarding at Washington Union Station must wait inside the MARC waiting area at Gates B and C or at Gate A inside the station until your train is announced for boarding. Passengers are not permitted to wait outside on the platforms per Amtrak safety and security policies. - Please help our Conductors efficiently collect and inspect tickets: - Passengers must have tickets out or the CharmPass open and tickets activated prior to conductors entering the car to inspect tickets. - If directed by the conductor, CharmPass users must tap the screen on their mobile device to demonstrate the security features of the app. - If your device is not working, including a dead battery or you refuse to tap the screen, the ticket is considered invalid and you must purchase a ticket from the conductor. - Passengers without valid tickets are subject to removal from the train, fines and/or prosecution. - Alteration or mutilation of any ticket, or obtaining a ticket deceptively for fraudulent transportation, including the attempted use of a screen shot, video, or fradulent app displaying a CharmPass ticket, will result in forfeiture of ticket, removal from the train and possible fines and/or prosecution. Fraudulent MARC tickets will be confiscated and turned over to MDOT MTA Police for investigation and prosecution. - The Quiet Commute car is available on most rush hour trains. Conversations between passengers are permitted in the Quiet Commute Car but should be kept at a low volume – we suggest a library-like atmosphere. The Quiet Commute Car is not a "silent car" and it is not the job of the conductors to enforce Quiet Commute Car policies -- the priority of train conductors and other staff is the safe transportation of all MARC passengers. If you are unable to adhere to the Quiet Commute Car policy, please move to another car. - Each passenger is entitled to one seat. Please do not put packages, bags, feet or any other objects on seats or block seats with bicycles or scooters. - Each train has at least one restroom in the last car of the train (the car furthest from the locomotive). Many trains have additional restrooms - cars with a restroom have either a 4, 5, or 9 as the third digit of the car number (examples: 8055, 7896, 7745). Also, the universal restroom symbol is on the exterior of the car next to the entrance door. Thank you - and again, welcome back! We're glad you're riding with us again. If you have any questions, please e-mail us at marc@mta.maryland.gov or send us a message through Twitter (@mtamaryland) or Facebook (www.facebook.com/mtamaryland) .


--- [Meet Julian | Senator Julian Bradley] ---
Wisconsin State Senator, District 28 Julian Bradley Senator Julian Bradley knows the American Dream is alive—because he’s lived it. Born into poverty and raised by a single mother alongside his two siblings, Julian learned the values of honesty, hard work, and perseverance early in life. Raised in Wisconsin, he graduated from La Crosse Central High School before earning a degree in political science and economics from the University of Wisconsin–La Crosse. Julian’s path has taken him across the country and through a diverse set of life experiences. He first made a name for himself as a professional wrestler, earning induction into the WXW Wrestling Hall of Fame. He later climbed the ladder in the private sector, working as a telecommunications manager for CenturyLink from 2002 to 2019, and as an operations manager for Northwestern Mutual from 2019 to 2020. A longtime grassroots activist in the Republican Party, Julian was elected to the Republican Party of Wisconsin’s executive committee and served as a county chairman. In 2020, he made history by becoming the first Black Republican elected to the Wisconsin State Senate. Julian came to Madison with a clear mission: to put conservative principles into action, solve real problems, and deliver results. During his first term, he served as chairman of the Senate Committee on Utilities, where he championed reliable energy and broadband access for Wisconsin families and businesses. As a member of the Joint Committee for the Review of Administrative Rules, he has fought to reduce burdensome regulations. He’s also authored multiple bills aimed at protecting communities from repeat and violent criminals, and co-authored two constitutional amendments to strengthen Wisconsin’s election integrity and justice system. Now in his second term, Julian serves on the powerful Joint Finance Committee, where he’s helping craft a responsible state budget. Julian is a proud resident of New Berlin and an avid sports fan, especially of football and baseball. When he’s not at games with friends and family, he enjoys giving back through volunteer work—particularly in the areas of youth literacy and career readiness. Senator Julian Bradley represents Wisconsin’s 28th Senate District, which includes portions of Racine, Walworth, and Waukesha Counties.


--- [Julian Bradley (politician) Facts for Kids] ---
Julian Bradley (politician) facts for kids Quick facts for kids Julian Bradley | | |---|---| | Member of the Wisconsin Senate from the 28th district | | | Assumed office January 4, 2021 | | | Preceded by | Dave Craig | | Personal details | | | Born | Marc Julian Bradley February 11, 1981 Baltimore, Maryland, U.S. | | Political party | Republican | | Residences | New Berlin, Wisconsin, U.S. | | Alma mater | Temple University University of Wisconsin–La Crosse (BS) | | Occupation | politician, businessman, professional wrestler | | Signature | | | Website | | Julian Bradley, born on February 11, 1981, is an American businessman and politician. He is a member of the Republican Party. Since 2021, he has served in the Wisconsin Senate. He represents the 28th Senate district. Julian Bradley is the first Black Republican to serve in the Wisconsin Senate. He is also only the second Black Republican to serve in the entire Wisconsin Legislature. Contents Julian Bradley's Early Life and Career Julian Bradley was born in Baltimore, Maryland. When he was 11 years old, in 1992, he moved to La Crosse, Wisconsin, with his mother. He was interested in politics from a young age. After finishing high school in 1999, he faced a challenge. His mother was not well, and he needed to earn money. He decided to follow another passion: professional wrestling. He went to "wrestling school" in Philadelphia. On August 28, 1999, he made his wrestling debut. He used the name Kris Krude. After a few years in Philadelphia, he went to Temple University. However, he only stayed for one year. In 2007, he stopped professional wrestling. He returned to Wisconsin to finish his college degree. He studied at the University of Wisconsin–La Crosse. While in college, he started working for a phone company called CenturyLink. He graduated in 2014 with a degree in political science and economics. By 2017, he had become a manager at CenturyLink. In 2019, he became a manager at Northwestern Mutual. This job required him to move to Franklin, Wisconsin. Julian Bradley's Political Journey In 2002, Julian Bradley decided he was a Republican. This decision came after a talk with his mother. He has often said this was a very important moment in his life. First Attempts at Public Office His first try for an elected position was in 2010. He ran for the Wisconsin State Assembly. However, he lost in the Republican primary election. Even after losing, he kept working with the Republican Party of Wisconsin. He volunteered and helped organize events. During this time, he met Bill Feehan. In 2011, Bill Feehan wanted to become the chairman of the La Crosse County Republican Party. He asked Julian Bradley to be his vice chair. Bradley agreed, and they were both elected. Less than a year later, Feehan left to run for the State Senate. Julian Bradley was then chosen to take his place. He was the chairman of the La Crosse County Republican Party from 2011 to 2014. He stepped down in 2014 to try for elected office again. In 2013, he was also chosen as the vice chair for the state Republican Party. This was for the 3rd congressional district. This role made him a member of the state party's main committee. Also in 2013, he was named "grassroots activist of the year" by Right Wisconsin. Running for Secretary of State In 2014, he ran for Secretary of State of Wisconsin. This time, he won the Republican primary election. However, he lost the main election to Doug La Follette. La Follette had been the Secretary of State for 32 years. Even though Republicans won most other statewide offices that year, Bradley did not win. Becoming a State Senator After moving to Franklin in 2019, Julian Bradley became active in politics again. In 2020, he announced he would run for State Senator. The current senator, Dave Craig, was not running again. Four other people also ran in the Republican primary for this senate seat. This district was known to be a strong Republican area. Julian Bradley stood out because he had strong support from other Republicans. Two assembly members from the district, Ken Skowronski and Chuck Wichgers, supported him. Former Republican governor Scott Walker also supported him. Bradley won the primary election with 40% of the votes. He then won the general election against Democrat Adam Murphy. He received almost 60% of the votes. In 2024, new district maps were created for Wisconsin. These new maps moved Julian Bradley's home out of the 28th Senate district. However, he has said he plans to move so he can still live in the district. This way, he can run for re-election in 2024. Julian Bradley's Family Life Julian Bradley is the youngest of three children. He lives in New Berlin, Wisconsin.


--- [Marc's | Marc's Store & Pharmacy Fresh Savings Deals] ---
Giving Back to Northeast Ohio! Socially Responsible Operating our own facility allows us to react quickly to the needs of the growers and deliver the freshest, highest quality products directly to Marc’s shoppers. Marc’s is committed to making a difference in the communities where we operate. We support and invest through local donations, employee volunteer commitment & community partnerships. Learn more
