=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Clive Derby-Lewis - Wikipedia]
Derby-Lewis joined the National Party and became a town councillor for Bedfordview (1972-1977), Deputy Mayor (1973-1974) and ultimately Mayor (1974-1975), and was made a Freeman of the Johannesburg Mini-Council. He served as the member representing Edenvale, Gauteng, on the Transvaal Provincial Council (1972-1981) where he spent several years as the National Party spokesman for ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clive_Derby-Lewis

[Clive Derby Lewis - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Derby-Lewis joined the National Party and became a town councillor for Bedfordview (1972–1977), Deputy Mayor (1973–1974) and ultimately Mayor (1974–1975), and was made a Freeman of the Johannesburg Mini-Council. Published September 26, 2024
URL: https://alchetron.com/Clive-Derby-Lewis

[Clive Derby-Lewis - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
Derby - Lewis joined the National Party and became a town councillor for Bedfordview (1972 - 1977), Deputy Mayor (1973 - 1974) and ultimately Mayor (1974 - 1975), and was made a Freeman of the Johannesburg Mini - Council.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/1641067

[Hani's killer had a long history of hatefulness - Daily News]
Nov 4, 2016 · His political career started in 1972 when he became a town councillor for Bedfordview, and the same year got elected to the Transvaal Provincial Council as the National Party member representing the Edenvale constituency. He became Bedfordview’s deputy mayor the next year, and from 1974 to 1975 served as its mayor.
URL: https://dailynews.co.za/opinion/2016-11-04-hanis-killer-had-a-long-history-of-hatefulness/

[Clive Derby-Lewis Explained]
Derby-Lewis joined the National Party and became a town councillor for Bedfordview (1972-1977), Deputy Mayor (1973-1974) and ultimately Mayor (1974-1975), and was made a Freeman of the Johannesburg Mini-Council.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Clive_Derby-Lewis/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Clive Derby-Lewis - Wikipedia] ---
Clive John Derby-Lewis (22 January 1936 – 3 November 2016) was a South African politician, who was involved first in the National Party and then, while serving as a member of parliament, in the Conservative Party. In 1993, he was convicted of conspiracy to murder South African Communist Party leader Chris Hani and sentenced to death, a sentence which was later reduced to life imprisonment. Derby-Lewis was described as a "right-wing extremist" by The Daily Telegraph; and as someone who "even by South African standards ... has acquired over the years a reputation as a rabid racist" by journalist and South Africa commentator John Carlin.
He was repeatedly denied parole after he began applying in 2010, after objections from the Hani family. After his parole was declined a number of times, his appeal was taken to court where the judge granted him medical parole on 29 May 2015. He was released from prison in June 2015 after serving 22 years, due to terminal lung cancer. He died from the disease on 3 November 2016.


--- [Clive Derby Lewis - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Leader F. W. De Klerk Role South African Politician Name Clive Derby-Lewis | || Born | || Sacp not pleased with the release of clive derby lewis Clive John Derby-Lewis (22 January 1936 – 3 November 2016) was a South African politician, who was involved first in the National Party and then, while serving as a member of parliament, in the Conservative Party. He served a life sentence for his role in the assassination of South African Communist Party leader Chris Hani. He has been described as a "right-wing extremist" by the Daily Telegraph; and as someone who "even by South African standards...has acquired over the years a reputation as a rabid racist" by journalist and South Africa commentator John Carlin. He was described in 1988 by anti-apartheid opposition leader Harry Schwarz as the "biggest racist in Parliament". Contents - Sacp not pleased with the release of clive derby lewis - Clive derby lewis to be released on medical parole - Background - Community and political history - Parliamentary history - Assassination of Chris Hani - References He was repeatedly denied parole since he began applying in 2010, most recently in January 2015, after objections from the Hani family. After multiple times being declined parole, his appeal was taken to court where the judge granted him medical parole on 29 May 2015. He was released from prison in June 2015 after serving 22 years, due to his terminal lung cancer. He died from the disease on 3 November 2016. Clive derby lewis to be released on medical parole Background Derby-Lewis, who was born in Cape Town, was an Afrikaner with German and Scots ancestry. He grew up in Kimberley and was educated at the then-Christian Brothers' College. He articled as a chartered accountant and worked for both an accounting firm and an oil company; he also became an Extraordinary minister of Holy Communion at Blessed Sacrament Church in Johannesburg before he left the Catholic Church in the early 1980s. He later joined the Afrikaanse Protestantse Kerk (English: Afrikaans Protestant Church), notable as a staunch supporter of Apartheid. He spent nineteen years as a volunteer in the South African Citizen Force and became the youngest ever commanding officer of the Witwatersrand Rifles Regiment, affiliated with the Cameronians. He was awarded the John Chard Medal for long and meritorious service. Community and political history Derby-Lewis joined the National Party and became a town councillor for Bedfordview (1972–1977), Deputy Mayor (1973–1974) and ultimately Mayor (1974–1975), and was made a Freeman of the Johannesburg Mini-Council. He served as the member representing Edenvale, Gauteng, on the Transvaal Provincial Council (1972–1981) where he spent several years as the National Party spokesman for Education and Hospital Services. He also served on the boards of numerous other bodies including hospitals, primary and high schools, and a school for physically challenged children. Through his involvement in politics, he met Gaye Derby-Lewis, a former nun originally from Australia. They married in 1986. This was his second marriage; from his first, he had three children. Parliamentary history Derby-Lewis was a founder member of the Conservative Party at the time of its split from the National Party in 1982, due to a softening of the government's apartheid policies of racial segregation. He was a member of the new party's General Council and Parliamentary Caucus until 1993. He also served on the Transvaal Party Council, in addition to the council's Information and Financial Committee. Following his unsuccessful election bid in the Krugersdorp constituency, Derby-Lewis was nominated as a member of parliament in 1987 (after the then constitution allowed for political parties to nominate members to the House of Assembly, in addition to their elected representatives). Derby-Lewis served on a number of parliamentary committees. He also represented the Conservative Party on the Standing Committees of Parliament dealing with the Provincial Affairs of Natal, as well as Trade and Commerce. When the Conservative Party became the Official Opposition he was appointed Chief Spokesman on Economic Affairs, Technology and Mineral Affairs. He was the only member of the Conservative Party Parliamentary Caucus to have served in all four levels of government in South Africa. During his tenure in Parliament, Derby-Lewis and others in the Conservative Party were staunchly opposed by the anti-apartheid Progressive Federal Party. In March 1988, Derby-Lewis was slammed by opposition leader Harry Schwarz as the "biggest racist in Parliament". Derby-Lewis lost his seat after the 1989 election, and was subsequently appointed to the State President's Council, an advisory group, where he served as a member of the Economic Affairs and the Amenities Committees. He visited London twice in an official Conservative Party of South Africa delegation, including that of June 1989, which included their leader, Dr. Andries Treurnicht and Natal party chief Carl Werth. About that time he joined the London-based Western Goals Institute as an honorary Vice-President, and was one of their delegation to the 22nd World Anti-Communist League Conference in Brussels in July 1990. Derby-Lewis has a long history of racially inflammatory remarks, a number of which were considered off-putting even by his Conservative Party colleagues who themselves favoured a racially divided South Africa. In 1989 he claimed in Parliament that "If AIDS stops Black population growth it will be like Father Christmas." Similarly, that same year he was overheard remarking "What a pity" in response to a report by a minister that an aircraft had had to brake to avoid a black man on the runway at Johannesburg's airport (he later apologised, claiming it had just "slipped out"). Commenting on this, Andries Beyers (a senior party official at the time) said: "I think sometimes he became an embarrassment to us. He was very, very hardline. He had a calling to bring English-speakers to the CP, but his personal style put them off." Assassination of Chris Hani Derby-Lewis was arrested for aiding and abetting a Polish immigrant to South Africa, Janusz Waluś, in the assassination on 10 April 1993 of Chris Hani, general secretary of the South African Communist Party and leader of the African National Congress' military wing. Derby-Lewis had loaned the gun used in the assassination to Waluś. A list of senior ANC and South African Communist Party figures had been developed allegedly by Arthur Kemp and included Nelson Mandela and Joe Slovo. Derby-Lewis was convicted of conspiracy to murder and sentenced to death for his role in the assassination. The sentence was commuted to life imprisonment when capital punishment was outlawed in 1995. Derby-Lewis confessed his role in the assassination in his application to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission for amnesty and testified that the assassination was encouraged or sanctioned by senior leaders of the Conservative Party. In his defence, Derby-Lewis said that he was acting "in defence of my people, who were threatened with a Communist take-over." He added that his Christian faith within the Afrikaanse Protestant Church was central to his decision: "As a Christian, my first duty is to the Almighty God before everything else. We were fighting against communism, and communism is the vehicle of the Antichrist." The application was denied in April 1999. In 2000, the Cape High Court dismissed an application by Derby-Lewis and Waluś to overturn the Truth and Reconciliation Commission's decision. In June 2010 Derby-Lewis applied for parole on the grounds that he was over 70, and was entitled to parole in terms of South African law for having served in excess of 15 years in prison. In November 2010, Derby-Lewis' lawyer reported that Derby-Lewis was receiving treatment for skin cancer and prostate cancer, hypertension, and for a gangrenous spot in his leg. Derby-Lewis was denied medical parole in 2011, 2013 and again in 2015. According to his representative advocate Roelof du Plessis: "The recommendation of the medical parole advisory board refers to a stage 3b cancer of the right lung with probable or inconclusive spread to the left adrenal glands, is inoperable and there is marginal response to concurrent chemo and radiotherapy with poor prognostic features,"


--- [Clive Derby-Lewis - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Clive Derby-Lewis - Clive Derby-Lewis State President's Council In office September 1989 – April 1993Leader F. W. De Klerk Member of Parliament for Krugersdorp In office 1987–1989Leader Andries Treurnicht Personal details Born 22 January 1936 Cape Town, South AfricaPolitical party Conservative Party Apartheid in South Africa Events and projects Sharpeville massacre Soweto uprising Treason Trial · Rivonia Trial Church Street bombing · CODESA St James Church massacre Cape Town peace marchOrganisations ANC · IFP · AWB · Black Sash CCB · Conservative Party · ECC · PP RP · PFP · HNP · MK · PAC · UDF · Broederbond · National Party COSATU · SADF · SAP · SACPPeople P. W. Botha · D. F. Malan Desmond Tutu · F. W. de Klerk Walter Sisulu · Helen Suzman Harry Schwarz · Andries Treurnicht H. F. Verwoerd · Sheena Duncan Nelson Mandela · Oliver Tambo B. J. Vorster · Kaiser Matanzima Jimmy Kruger · Steve Biko M. K. Gandhi · Joe Slovo Trevor Huddleston · Hector Pieterson Winnie Madikizela-Mandela Mangosuthu ButheleziPlaces Bantustan · District Six Robben Island · Sophiatown South-West Africa · Soweto Sun City · VlakplaasRelated topics Afrikaner nationalism Apartheid laws · Freedom Charter Sullivan Principles · Kairos Document Disinvestment campaign South African Police Apartheid in popular cultureClive John Derby-Lewis (born 22 January 1936) is a South African ex-politician, who was involved first in the National Party and then, while serving as a Member of Parliament, in the Conservative Party. He is serving a life sentence for his role in the assassination of South African Communist Party leader Chris Hani. He has been described as a "right-wing extremist" by the Daily Telegraph and as someone who "even by South African standards...has acquired over the years a reputation as a rabid racist" by longtime South Africa commentator John Carlin.[1][2] He has repeatedly been denied parole since he began applying in 2007, most recently in August 2011, a decision which he is currently challenging.[3] Contents Background Born in Cape Town, Derby-Lewis is an Afrikaner, with German and Scots ancestry.[4] He grew up in Kimberley and was educated at the then-Christian Brothers' College. He articled as a chartered accountant and worked for both an accounting firm and an oil company; he also became an Extraordinary minister of Holy Communion at Blessed Sacrament Church in Johannesburg before he left the Catholic Church in the early 1980s. He later joined the Afrikaanse Protestantse Kerk (English: Afrikaans Protestant Church), notably as a staunch supporter of Apartheid.[5] He spent nineteen years as a volunteer in the South African Citizen Force and became the youngest ever commanding officer of the Witwatersrand Rifles Regiment, affiliated with the Cameronians (Scottish Rifles). He was awarded the John Chard medal for long and meritorious service. Community and Political History Derby-Lewis joined the National Party and became a town councillor for Bedfordview (1972–1977), Deputy Mayor (1973–1974) and ultimately Mayor (1974–1975), and was made a Freeman of the Johannesburg Mini-Council. He served as the member representing Edenvale, Gauteng, on the Transvaal Provincial Council (1972–1981) where he spent several years as the National Party spokesman for Education and Hospital Services. He also served on the boards of numerous other bodies including hospitals, primary and high schools, and a school for physically challenged children. Derby-Lewis was host to Holocaust denier David Irving in 1986[6] and 1987.[7] Through his involvement in politics, he met Gaye Derby-Lewis, a former nun originally from Australia. They married in 1986.[8] This was his second marriage; from his first, he has two children. Parliamentary History Derby-Lewis was a founder member of the Conservative Party at the time of its split from the National Party in 1982, due to what was perceived by Derby-Lewis and others as a softening of the government's apartheid policies of racial segregation and discrimination. He was a member of the new party's General Council and Parliamentary Caucus until 1993. He also served on the Transvaal Party Council, in additiona to the council's Information and Financial Committee. Following his unsuccessful election bid in the Krugersdorp constituency, Derby-Lewis was nominated as a Member of Parliament in 1987 (after the then constitution allowed for political parties to nominate members to the House of Assembly, in addition to their elected representatives). Derby-Lewis served on a number of parliamentary committees. He also represented the Conservative Party on the Standing Committees of Parliament dealing with the Provincial Affairs of Natal, as well as Trade and Commerce. When the Conservative Party became the Official Opposition he was appointed Chief Spokesman on Economic Affairs, Technology and Mineral Affairs. He was the only member of the Conservative Party Parliamentary Caucus to have served in all four levels of government in South Africa. In September 1989 he was formally appointed to the State President's Council where he served as a member of the Economic Affairs and the Amenities Committees.[9] He visited London twice in an official Conservative Party delegation, including that of June 1989, which included their leader, Dr.Andries Treurnicht and Natal party chief Carl Werth. About that time he joined the London-based Western Goals Institute as an honorary Vice-President, and was one of their delegation to the 22nd World Anti-Communist League Conference in Brussels in July 1990. Derby-Lewis has a long history of racially-inflammatory remarks, a number of which were considered off-putting even by his Conservative Party colleagues who themselves favoured a racially-divided South Africa. In 1989 he claimed in Parliament that "If AIDS stops Black population growth it will be like Father Christmas."[10] Similarly, that same year he was overheard remarking "What a pity" in response to a report by a minister that an aircraft had had to brake to avoid a black man on the runway at Johannesburg's airport (he later apologized, claiming it had just "slipped out").[11] Commenting on this, Andries Beyers (a senior party official at the time) said: "I think sometimes he became an embarrassment to us. He was very, very hardline. He had a calling to bring English-speakers to the CP, but his personal style put them off."[12] Derby-Lewis was defeated after a reelection bid in 1989, and had been in the process of contesting a Krugersdorp by-election at the time of his arrest.[13] Assassination of Chris Hani Derby-Lewis was arrested for aiding and abetting a Polish anti-communist immigrant to South Africa, Janusz Walus, in the assassination on 10 April 1993 of Chris Hani, General Secretary of the South African Communist Party and leader of the African National Congress' military wing. Derby-Lewis had loaned the gun used in the assassination to Walus. A list of senior ANC and South African Communist Party figures had been developed allegedly by Arthur Kemp[14] and included Nelson Mandela and Joe Slovo. Kemp's role in the incident was fully investigated by the South African Police, who were monitored in their investigation by George Churchill-Coleman, the former head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad [15] and Mathews Phosa, prominent ANC lawyer. [16] Despite ANC input into the investigation of the Hani affair, Kemp was never charged and the subsequent court case found that Kemp had nothing to do with the assassination of Hani. [17] Kemp was subpoenaed to give evidence in the Derby-Lewis trial to confirm a statement given to police by the main accused. [17] The court found that the list of names which Kemp had provided to the third accused, Gaye Derby-Lewis, was not a 'hit list.' Because of this, Gaye Derby-Lewis was acquitted of all charges and released. [18] Derby-Lewis was convicted of conspiracy to murder and sentenced to death for his role in the assassination. The sentence was commuted to life imprisonment when capital punishment was outlawed in 1995. Derby-Lewis confessed his role in the assassination in his application to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission for amnesty and testified that the assassination was encouraged or sanctioned by senior leaders of the Conservative Party.[19] In his defence, Derby-Lewis said that he was acting "in defence of my people, who were threatened with a Communist take-over."[4] He added that his Christian faith within the Afrikaanse Protestant Church was central to his decision: "As a Christian, my first duty is to the Almighty God before everything else. We were fighting against communism, and communism is the vehicle of the Antichrist."[5] The application was denied in April 1999. In 2000, the Cape High Court dismissed an application by Derby-Lewis and Walus to overturn the Truth and Reconciliation Commission's decision.[20] In June 2010 Derby-Lewis applied for parole on the grounds that he was over 70, and was entitled to parole in terms of South African law for having served in excess of 15 years in prison.[21] In November 2010, Derby-Lewis' lawyer reported that Derby-Lewis was receiving treatment for skin cancer and prostate cancer, hypertension, and for a gangrenous spot in his leg. The Correctional Services department reported that a decision on his parole could be announced in early December.[22] References - ^ Russell, Alec (1997-08-12). "Apartheid's assassins appeal for amnesty". The Daily Telegraph (London). http://www.telegraph.co.uk/htmlContent.jhtml?html=/archive/1997/08/12/wsaf12.html. - ^ Hani suspect a key figure of far right: Former South African Conservative MP arrested in ANC murder inquiry is president of controversial London-based think-tank The Independent - ^ Derby-Lewis to challenge parole denial Mail Guardian - ^ a b Frontline - ^ a b National Catholic Reporter - ^ Photo of Derby-Lewis and Irving at meeting - ^ Entry on David Irving's website - ^ Court Transcript - ^ Curriculum Vitae of Derby-Lewis, Former Western Goals Institute archives, 28 May 1990 - ^ Republic of South Africa (1989) "Debates of Parliament" Cape Town: Government Printer - ^ Hani suspect a key figure of far right: Former South African Conservative MP arrested in ANC murder inquiry is president of controversial London-based think-tank The Independent - ^ heid's fanatic in a polka-dot frock: John Carlin investigates what lies behind the English-style respectability exuded by some of South Africa's far-right The Independent - ^ Court Transcript - ^ Excerpt from Chapter 19 of Victory or Violence, the Story of the AWB of South Africa by Arthur Kemp - ^ HC Deb 30 April 1993 vol 223 c593W Mill Bank Systems - ^ Today is the first day of our democracy Thought Leader - ^ a b [1] - ^ "Gaye Derby-Lewis Acquitted". Asia Africa Intelligence Wire. 18 June 2003. http://www.accessmylibrary.com/coms2/summary_0286-23589344_ITM. - ^ "Right-wing party behind S.A. killing". BBC. 1997-12-04. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/36866.stm. - ^ Kemp, Arthur. "The Death of Chris Hani: An African misadventure". Archived from the original on 2007-09-27. http://web.archive.org/web/20070927222229/http://www.arthurkemp.com/awb/chap19.htm. Retrieved 2007-04-10. - ^ "Parole board to pronounce on Derby-Lewis within 30 days Mail and Guardian 23-06-2010". http://www.mg.co.za/article/2010-06-23-parole-board-to-pronounce-on-derbylewis-within-30-days. Retrieved 2010-07-14. - ^ "Clive Derby-Lewis worse than expected". News24. 2010-11-04. http://www.news24.com/SouthAfrica/News/Clive-Derby-Lewis-worse-than-expected-20101104. Categories:- South African anti-communists - 1936 births - Living people - People from Cape Town - Afrikaner people - Anglo-African people - Apartheid in South Africa - South African assassins - South African people convicted of murder - People convicted of murder by South Africa - South African prisoners sentenced to death - Prisoners sentenced to death by South Africa - Prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment by South Africa - South African politicians convicted of crimes - National Party (South Africa) politicians - Conservative Party (South Africa) politicians Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Hani's killer had a long history of hatefulness - Daily News] ---
Clive Derby-Lewis Clive Derby-Lewis Clive Derby-Lewis has left his mark on South African history in the way that assassins of important political figures have done through the ages. Chris Hani would’ve played an enormous role in the shaping of post-apartheid society had he not been gunned down outside his Boksburg home on April 10, 1993 by Derby-Lewis’s accomplice, Janusz Walus. The tragedy threatened to ignite the volatile situation in the country at the time. Leaders appealed for calm as angry mobs went on the rampage in places and white rightwingers mustered forces. The plot to kill Hani was inspired by his charisma and his popular appeal that saw him catapulted into the position of SACP general secretary after the impression he made as an Umkhonto weSizwe commander whose criticism of corrupt superiors nearly got him executed. It was also why speculation was rife during the assassination trial, and after, that there was a deeper, more sinister conspiracy behind it all. This could never be proved. What was determined was that the assassination was inspired by profound racist and anti-communist sentiments on Derby-Lewis’s part. This came out particularly strongly when, after having had his death sentence commuted to life imprisonment when capital punishment was abolished in 1995, he applied for amnesty by trying to persuade the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) of the political nature of his actions. He argued that he acted “in defence of my people, who were threatened with a communist takeover”. Central to his action, he pleaded, was his Christian faith within the Afrikaanse Protestantse Kerk, which he joined in the late 1980s. The church was formed by members of Andries Treurnicht’s Conservative Party, which broke away from the National Party in 1982. They objected to the Dutch Reformed Church, as the dominant Afrikaans church, following the ruling party’s shift away from apartheid by finally conceding that racial segregation could not be biblically justified. He told the TRC: “As a Christian, my first duty is to the Almighty God before everything else. We were fighting against communism, and communism is the vehicle of the Antichrist.” The application by him and Walus, a Polish immigrant who harboured profound anti-communist feelings, was denied, as was their subsequent appeal to the Western Cape High Court to overturn the TRC’s decision. In 2003, Derby-Lewis applied for a presidential pardon but failed. He also failed when, on turning 65 in 2008, he applied for parole in terms of the section of the Correctional Services Act which provides that a person sentenced to life imprisonment may be placed on parole on reaching the age of 65 if he had served 15 years of such sentence. Much of Derby-Lewis’s political career was marked by his staunch support for apartheid and his right-wing activism. He proclaimed himself to be an Afrikaner of German and Scottish stock. He was born in Cape Town on January 22, 1936. He attended Christian Brothers College and became a minister at the Blessed Sacrament Church in Joburg before he left the Catholic Church in the early 1980s because of its anti-racist stance. His political career started in 1972 when he became a town councillor for Bedfordview, and the same year got elected to the Transvaal Provincial Council as the National Party member representing the Edenvale constituency. He became Bedfordview’s deputy mayor the next year, and from 1974 to 1975 served as its mayor. In the provincial council he became his party’s spokesperson on education and hospital services. He joined in establishing the Conservative Party in 1982 and became one of its leading members. He was its candidate for election to Parliament in the Krugersdorp constituency but failed. The esteem in which he was held by his party colleagues was borne out when they got him into Parliament as a nominated member and later a member of the President’s Council. He quickly got noted for his fanatical views. His crude racism came to the fore when he once told Parliament that “if Aids stops black population growth, it will be like Father Christmas”. His party decided to make him their spokesperson on less ideological matters like economic affairs, technology and mineral affairs. He was a volunteer in the South African Citizen Force, became commanding officer of the Witwatersrand Rifles Regiment, and was awarded the John Chard Medal for long and meritorious service. He joined the London-based Western Goals Institute as an honorary vice-president, and was one of their delegation to the 22nd World Anti-Communist League Conference in Brussels in 1990. The institute is described by Wikipedia as a conservative pressure group in Britain. Its stated intent was anti-communism, although the group was also known for its opposition to non-white immigration into Europe and Britain. In June 2010, Derby-Lewis again applied for parole. By then, he was reported to have fallen seriously ill with prostate cancer, high blood pressure and a gangrenous leg.


--- [Clive Derby-Lewis Explained] ---
No content
