=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Survey of London (1598): Towers and Castles - MoEML]
Othowerus, Acolinillus, Otto, and Geffrey Earle of Essex were foure of the first Constables of this Tower of London, by succession: all which held by force a portion of lande (that pertay ned to the Priorie of the holie Trinitie within Aldgate) that is to say, East Smithfield,
URL: https://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/stow_1598_towers.htm

[Survey of London (1633): Towers and Castles - MoEML]
First Con stables of the Tower ... of Land (that pertained to the Priorie of the holy Trinity within Ealdgate) that is to say, Eastsmith field a Vineyard....
URL: https://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/stow_1633_towers.htm

[East Smithfield]
Edward the Confessor, and William II (Rufus) confirmed this 'liberty' (a building-free area defined by the distance an arrow could be fired from the Tower). By 1115, in the reign of Henry I, the wider liberty, or soke, fell to the priory church of Holy Trinity within Aldgate, founded in 1107 by his wife Queen Matilda (Edith) of Scotland, with the prior sitting as an Alderman of London. (A tussle resulted when Geoffrey de Mandeville, Constable of the Tower, used its garrison to defend his vineyard on land by the Tower.)
URL: http://www.stgitehistory.org.uk/media/eastsmithfield.html

[A Survey of London: Reprinted From the Text of 1603, by John Stow et al. | The Online Books Page]
Help with reading books -- Report a bad link -- Suggest a new listing · Home -- Search -- New Listings -- Authors -- Titles -- Subjects -- Serials
URL: https://onlinebooks.library.upenn.edu/webbin/book/lookupid?key=olbp77670

[The New Constable of the Tower of London | Historic Royal Palaces]
The first constable of the Tower, a French knight called Geoffrey de Mandeville, was appointed Keeper of the Tower by William the Conqueror after distinguishing himself at the Battle of Hastings.
URL: https://www.hrp.org.uk/blog/the-new-constable-of-the-tower-of-london/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Survey of London (1598): Towers and Castles - MoEML] ---
Of Towers and Castels. THe Citie of London (saith Fitzstephens) hath in the East a very great & a most strong Palatine Tower,The Tower oThis text has been supplied. Reason: The facsimile photograph does not include the whole surface. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). (SM)f London. whose turrets and walles do rise from a deep foundation, the mor ter thereof being tempered with the blood of beastes. In the west parte are two most Tower of London, situate in the East, neere vnto the Riuer of Thames, it hath béene the common opinion: and some haThis text is the corrected text. The original is n (SM)ue written (but of none assured ground) that Iulius Cesar, the first Conqueror of the Britaines, was the originall Author, and foun der aswell thereof, as also of many other Towers, castles, and great buildings within this Realme: but (as I haue alreadie be fore noted) Cesar remayned not here so long, nor had hee in his head any such matter, barous countrey, and to procéede to greater matters. Neyther do the Romaine writers make mention of any such buildings erected by him here. And therefore leauing this, and procéeding to more grounded authoritie, I find in a fayre register booke, of the actes of the Bishops of Rochester, set downe by Edmond of Haden ham, that William the first (surnamed Conquerour) builded the Tower of London, to wit, the great white and square Tower, there, about the yeare of Christ 1078. appointing Gundulph, then Bishop of Rochester, to be principall surueyer and ouersée er1 of that worke, who was for that time lodged in the house of Edmere a Burgesse of London, the very wordes of which mine Author are these. Gundulphus Episcopus mandato Willielmi Regis magni præfuit operi magnæ Turris London. quo tem pore hospitatus est apud quendā Edmerum Burgensem Lon don. qui dedit vnum were Ecclesiæ Rofen. This was the great square Tower, which was then builded, and hath béene since, at diuers times inlarged with other buildings adioyning, as shall be shewed hereafter. This Tower was by tempest of wind sore sha ken in the yeare 1090. the fourth of William Rufus, and was a gaine by the said Rufus and Henry the first repayred. They also caused a castle to be builded vnder the said Tower, to wéete, on the South side towardes the Thames. hath in the East a very great & a most strong Palatine Tower,The Tower oThis text has been supplied. Reason: The facsimile photograph does not include the whole surface. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). (SM)f London. whose turrets and walles do rise from a deep foundation, the mor ter thereof being tempered with the blood of beastes. In the west parte are two most D3 strong 38 Towers and Castels. strong Castels &c. To beginne therefore with the most famousTower of London, situate in the East, neere vnto the Riuer of Thames, it hath béene the common opinion: and some haThis text is the corrected text. The original is n (SM)ue written (but of none assured ground) that Iulius Cesar, the first Conqueror of the Britaines, was the originall Author, and foun der aswell thereof, as also of many other Towers, castles, and great buildings within this Realme: but (as I haue alreadie be fore noted) Cesar remayned not here so long, nor had hee in his head any such matter, In my Annals. but onely to dispatch a conquest of this barbarous countrey, and to procéede to greater matters. Neyther do the Romaine writers make mention of any such buildings erected by him here. And therefore leauing this, and procéeding to more grounded authoritie, I find in a fayre register booke, of the actes of the Bishops of Rochester, set downe by Edmond of Haden ham, that William the first (surnamed Conquerour) builded the Tower of London, to wit, the great white and square Tower, there, about the yeare of Christ 1078. appointing Gundulph, then Bishop of Rochester, to be principall surueyer and ouersée er1 of that worke, who was for that time lodged in the house of Edmere a Burgesse of London, the very wordes of which mine Author are these. Gundulphus Episcopus mandato Willielmi Regis magni præfuit operi magnæ Turris London. quo tem pore hospitatus est apud quendā Edmerum Burgensem Lon don. qui dedit vnum were Ecclesiæ Rofen. This was the great square Tower, which was then builded, and hath béene since, at diuers times inlarged with other buildings adioyning, as shall be shewed hereafter. This Tower was by tempest of wind sore sha ken in the yeare 1090. the fourth of William Rufus, and was a gaine by the said Rufus and Henry the first repayred. They also caused a castle to be builded vnder the said Tower, to wéete, on the South side towardes the Thames. Othowerus, Acolinillus, Otto, and Geffrey Earle of Essex were foure of the first Constables of this Tower of London, by succession: all which held by force a portion of lande (that pertay ned to the Priorie of the holie Trinitie within Aldgate) that is to say, East Smithfield, of a Uyneyarde, and woulde not depart from it, till the seconde to the said Church. Essex, Constable of the Tower, Sheriffe of London, Essex, and Hertford shires, as appeareth by a Charter of Maud the Empresse, dated 1141. He also fortified the Tower of Lon don against King Stephen, but the King tooke him in his court at S. Albons, and would not deliuer him till hee had rendred the Tower of London, with the Castels of Walden, and Pleshey in Essex. About the yeare 1190. the second of Richard the first, William Longshampe Bishop of Elie, Chauncellor of England, for cause of dissention betwixt him and Earle Iohn the Kings bro ther, that was rebell, inclosed the Tower, with an outward wall of stone imbattailed, and also caused a déepe ditch to be cast about the same, thinking (as I haue said before) to haue enuironed it with the Riuer of Thames. By the making of this ditch3 in Eastsmithfield, the Church of the holy Trinitie in London lost halfe a marke rent by the yeare, & the Mill was re moued that belonged to the poore brethren of the Hospitall of S. Katherine, and to the Church of the Trinitie aforesaid, which was no small losse and discommoditie to eyther part, and the gar den which the King had hyred of the brethren for sixe markes the yeare, for the most part was wasted and marred by the ditch. Re compence was often promised, but neuer performed, vntill King Edward comming after, gaue to the brethren fiue markes and a half for that part which the ditch had deuoured: and the other part thereof without, he yeelded to them againe, which they hold: and of the said rent of fiue markes and a halfe they haue a déed, by ver tue whereof, they are well paid vntill this day. were foure of the first Constables of this Tower of London, by succession: all which held by force a portion of lande (that pertay ned to the Priorie of the holie Trinitie within Aldgate) that is to say, East Smithfield, Eastsmithfield a Vineyarde. néere vnto the Tower, making therea Vineyarde. of a Uyneyarde, and woulde not depart from it, till the seconde yeare Towers and Castels. 39 yeare of King Stephen , when the same was adiudged and restoredto the said Church. Ex. ChartThis text has been supplied. Reason: The text is not clear for some reason not covered by other available values. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on an external source. (SM)a. This Geffrey Magnauille was Earle ofEssex, Constable of the Tower, Sheriffe of London, Geffrey Mag na Ville, EarlThis text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). (CH)e of Essex, Con stable of the Tower and Sheriffe of London. Middlesexna Ville, EarlThis text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). (CH)e of Essex, Con stable of the Tower and Sheriffe of London. Essex, and Hertford shires, as appeareth by a Charter of Maud the Empresse, dated 1141. He also fortified the Tower of Lon don against King Stephen, but the King tooke him in his court at S. Albons, and would not deliuer him till hee had rendred the Tower of London, with the Castels of Walden, and Pleshey in Essex. About the yeare 1190. the second of Richard the first, William Longshampe Bishop of Elie, Chauncellor of England, for cause of dissention betwixt him and Earle Iohn the Kings bro ther, that was rebell, inclosed the Tower, The Tower This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). (CH)of London com passed about with a wall & a ditch.2 and castle of London,London com passed about with a wall & a ditch.2 with an outward wall of stone imbattailed, and also caused a déepe ditch to be cast about the same, thinking (as I haue said before) to haue enuironed it with the Riuer of Thames. By the making of this ditch3 in Eastsmithfield, the Church of the holy Trinitie in London lost halfe a marke rent by the yeare, & the Mill was re moued that belonged to the poore brethren of the Hospitall of S. Katherine, and to the Church of the Trinitie aforesaid, which was no small losse and discommoditie to eyther part, and the gar den which the King had hyred of the brethren for sixe markes the yeare, for the most part was wasted and marred by the ditch. Re compence was often promised, but neuer performed, vntill King Edward comming after, gaue to the brethren fiue markes and a half for that part which the ditch had deuoured: and the other part thereof without, he yeelded to them againe, which they hold: and of the said rent of fiue markes and a halfe they haue a déed, by ver tue whereof, they are well paid vntill this day. About the yeare 1239. King Henry the third caused the To wer of London to be fortified with bulwarkes, which after they were builded fell downe, and therefore he caused it to be reedified more strongly, to his cost of more then twelue thousand markes. wer of London to be fortified with bulwarkes, which after they were builded fell downe, and therefore he caused it to be reedified more strongly, to his cost of more then twelue thousand markes. In the yeare 1274. King Edward the first commaunded the Treasurer and Chamberlaine of his Exchequer, to deliuer out of his Treasorie, vnto Giles of Andwarp 200. markes, of the fines, taken of diuers Marchants, or vsurers of London, towardes the worke of the ditch about the Tower of London. Treasurer and Chamberlaine of his Exchequer, to deliuer out of his Treasorie, vnto Giles of Andwarp 200. markes, of the fines, taken of diuers Marchants, or vsurers of London, towardes the worke of the ditch about the Tower of London. And in the yeare 1532. King Henry the eight repayred the whyte Tower. crease and maintenance of this Tower. Now somewhat of acci dents in the same. whyte Tower. Tower repay This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()red by Henry This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()the eight, Thus much for the foundation and building, inThis text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()red by Henry This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()the eight, crease and maintenance of this Tower. Now somewhat of acci dents in the same. In the year 1196. seditiously mouing the common people to séeke libertie, and not to be subiect to the rich, brought before the Archbishoppe of Canterburie in the Tower, where he was by the iudges condemned, had iudgement, and was by the héeles drawne thence to the Ealmes in Smithfield, and there hanged. This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()Actions of the This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()Tower. William Fitzosbart, a cittizen of LondonThis text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()Tower. seditiously mouing the common people to séeke libertie, and not to be subiect to the rich, Iustices sate in This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()the Tower of London. and more mighty, at length was taken and This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()the Tower of London. brought before the Archbishoppe of Canterburie in the Tower, where he was by the iudges condemned, had iudgement, and was by the héeles drawne thence to the Ealmes in Smithfield, and there hanged. In the yeare 1220. all the Plées belonging to the crowne, were holden in the Tower: and likewise in the yeare 1224. &c. were holden in the Tower: and likewise in the yeare 1224. &c. In the yeare 1222. the cittizens of London hauing made a tumult against the Abbot of Westminster, Hubert of Burgh, chiefe Iustice of England, came to the Tower of London, called before him the Mayor and Aldermen, of whom he enquired for the principall authors of that sedition: amongst whome one named Constantine Fitz Aelulfe had done much lesse then he ought to haue done: Wherevpon the Iustice sent him with two other to Falks de Brent, who with ar med men, brought him to the gallowes, and there hanged him & other twaine. tumult against the Abbot of Westminster, Hubert of Burgh, chiefe Iustice of England, came to the Tower of London, called before him the Mayor and Aldermen, of whom he enquired for the principall authors of that sedition: amongst whome one named Constantine Fitz Aelulfe Constantine This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()Fitz Aelufe This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()hanged auowed, that hee was the man, andThis text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()Fitz Aelufe This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()hanged had done much lesse then he ought to haue done: Wherevpon the Iustice sent him with two other to Falks de Brent, who with ar med men, brought him to the gallowes, and there hanged him & other twaine. In the yeare 1244. Griffith of Wales, being kept prisoner in the Tower, deuised meanes of es cape, and hauing in the night made of the hangings, shéetes, &c. a long line, he put himselfe downe from the toppe of the Tower, but in the slyding, the weight of his body, (being a very bigge and a fatte man) brake the rope, and he fell and brake his necke with all. Griffith of Wales fel from This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()the Tower. the eldest sonne of Leoline, princeWales fel from This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()the Tower. of Wales, being kept prisoner in the Tower, deuised meanes of es cape, and hauing in the night made of the hangings, shéetes, &c. a long line, he put himselfe downe from the toppe of the Tower, but in the slyding, the weight of his body, (being a very bigge and a fatte man) brake the rope, and he fell and brake his necke with all. Sheriffes of This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()London priso This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()ners in the Tower. This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()London priso This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()ners in the Tower. In the yeare 1253. King Henry the thirde, imprisoned the Sheriffes of London in the Tower, more then a moneth, for the escape Sheriffes of London in the Tower, more then a moneth, for the escape K. Henry land This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()ed in the To wer, and held This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()his Parliament This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()there. of a prisoner out of Newgate. This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()ed in the To wer, and held This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()his Parliament This text has been supplied. Reason: The original page has been cut or cropped with the loss of some text. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()there. In the yeare 1260. King Henry with his Quéene (for seare of the Barons) were lodged in this Tower. The next yeare hee sent for his Lords, and held his parliament there. of the Barons) were lodged in this Tower. The next yeare hee sent for his Lords, and held his parliament there. In Towers and Castels. 41 In the yeare 1263. when the Quéene would haue remoued from the Tower by water, towards VVindsore, sundry Londo ners got them together to the bridge, vnder the which she was to passe, and not onely cryed out vpon her with reprochfull wordes, but also threw myre & stones at her, by which she was constrained to returne for the time, but in The special character yͤ (LATIN SMALL LETTER Y WITH LATIN SMALL LETTER E ABOVE) does not display on all browsers and has been replaced by its simplified form.ye year 1265. the said Citizens were faine to submit themselues to the king for it, and the Mayor, Alder men, & Sheriffes were sent to diuers prisons, & a Custos also was set ouer the Citie, to wit, Othon Constable of the Tower, &c. from the Tower by water, towards VVindsore, sundry Londo ners got them together to the bridge, vnder the which she was to passe, and not onely cryed out vpon her with reprochfull wordes, but also threw myre & stones at her, by which she was constrained to returne for the time, but in The special character yͤ (LATIN SMALL LETTER Y WITH LATIN SMALL LETTER E ABOVE) does not display on all browsers and has been replaced by its simplified form.ye year 1265. the said Citizens were faine to submit themselues to the king for it, and the Mayor, Alder men, & Sheriffes were sent to diuers prisons, & a Custos also was set ouer the Citie, to wit, Othon Constable of the Tower, &c. In the yeare 1282. Leoline Prince of VVales being taken at Blewth Castle, Roger Lestrange cut off his head, which Sir Roger Mortimer caused to be crowned with Iuie, and set it vp on the Tower. at Blewth Castle, Roger Lestrange cut off his head, which Sir Roger Mortimer caused to be crowned with Iuie, and set it vp on the Tower. In the yeare 1290. diuers Iustices aswell of the Bench, as of the assyses, were sent prisoners to the Tower, which with great sommes of money redéemed their libertie. of the assyses, were sent prisoners to the Tower, which with great sommes of money redéemed their libertie. In the yeare 1320. the Kinges Iustices sate in the To wer, for tryall of matters, wherevpon Iohn Gifors late Mayor of London, and many other fled the Citie for feare of things they had presumptuously done. wer, for tryall of matters, wherevpon Iohn Gifors late Mayor of London, and many other fled the Citie for feare of things they had presumptuously done. In the yeare 1321. the Mortimers yéelding themselues to the King, he sent them prisoners to the Tower, where they remayned long, and were adiudged to be drawne and hanged. But at length Roger Mortimer drinke, escaped out of the Tower, and his vncle Roger being still kept there died about fiue yeares after. King, he sent them prisoners to the Tower, where they remayned long, and were adiudged to be drawne and hanged. But at length Roger Mortimer Mortimer made an e scape out of the Tower. Citizēs of Lō don wrested The special character yͤ (LATIN SMALL LETTER Y WITH LATIN SMALL LETTER E ABOVE) does not display on all browsers and has been replaced by its simplified form.ye keyes of the Tower from the Constable. Mortimer drawne from the Tower to the Elmes, & hanged of Wigmore by giuing to his kéepers a sléepiemade an e scape out of the Tower. Citizēs of Lō don wrested The special character yͤ (LATIN SMALL LETTER Y WITH LATIN SMALL LETTER E ABOVE) does not display on all browsers and has been replaced by its simplified form.ye keyes of the Tower from the Constable. Mortimer drawne from the Tower to the Elmes, & hanged drinke, escaped out of the Tower, and his vncle Roger being still kept there died about fiue yeares after. In the year 1326. the Citizens of London wrested The special character yͤ (LATIN SMALL LETTER Y WITH LATIN SMALL LETTER E ABOVE) does not display on all browsers and has been replaced by its simplified form.ye keyes of The special character yͤ (LATIN SMALL LETTER Y WITH LATIN SMALL LETTER E ABOVE) does not display on all browsers and has been replaced by its simplified form.ye Tower out of the Constables hands, & deliuered all the prisoners. Tower out of the Constables hands, & deliuered all the prisoners. In the yeare 1330. Roger Mortimer Earle of March was taken and broThis text is the corrected text. The original is n (SM)ught to the Tower, from whence hee was drawne to the Elmes and there hanged. taken and broThis text is the corrected text. The original is n (SM)ught to the Tower, from whence hee was drawne to the Elmes and there hanged. In the yeare 1344. King Edward the third commaunded Flo rences of gold to be made and coyned in the Tower, that is to say, a penie péece of the value of sixe shillinges and eyght pence, the half penie piece, of the value of iij.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃. and iiij. ď. and a farthing péece worth 20. pence, Perciuall de Porte of Luke being then Maister of the coyne. And this is the first coyning of Gold in the Tower, for (that I may a little digresse by occasion hereof) I find that in times before passed, or siluer, as so many pounds or marks of siluer, or so many pounds or markes of Gold, as I could proue by many good authorities, which I ouerpasse. The smaller sommes also were paide in star lings, which were pence, so called, for other coynes they had none. The antiquitie of this starling penie vsuall in this Realme, is from the raign of Henry the second: notwithstanding, the Saxon coines before the conquest were pence of fine siluer full the weight, and somewhat better then the latter starlings, as I haue tryed by con ference of the pence of Burghrede king of Mercia, Aelfred, Ed ward, and Edelrod, kings of the West Saxons, Plegmond Arch bishop of Canterburie, and others. William the Conquerours penie also was fine siluer of the weight of the Easterling, and had on the one side stamped an armed heade, with a beardles face, (for the Normans did weare no beardes) with a scepter in his hand: the inscription in the circumference was this, Le Rei Wilā on the other side a Crosse double to the ring, betwéene foure row als of sixe pointes. rences of gold to be made and coyned in the Tower, that is to say, a penie péece of the value of sixe shillinges and eyght pence, the half penie piece, of the value of iij.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃. and iiij. ď. and a farthing péece worth 20. pence, Perciuall de Porte of Luke being then Maister of the coyne. And this is the first coyning of Gold in the Tower, whereof 42 Towers and Castels. whereof I haue read, & also the first coyning of Gold in England:for (that I may a little digresse by occasion hereof) I find that in times before passed, Argent, and Pecunia after called Estar ling. all great sommes were paid by wayght of goldPecunia after called Estar ling. or siluer, as so many pounds or marks of siluer, or so many pounds or markes of Gold, as I could proue by many good authorities, which I ouerpasse. The smaller sommes also were paide in star lings, which were pence, so called, for other coynes they had none. The antiquitie of this starling penie vsuall in this Realme, is from the raign of Henry the second: notwithstanding, the Saxon coines before the conquest were pence of fine siluer full the weight, and somewhat better then the latter starlings, as I haue tryed by con ference of the pence of Burghrede king of Mercia, Aelfred, Ed ward, and Edelrod, kings of the West Saxons, Plegmond Arch bishop of Canterburie, and others. William the Conquerours penie also was fine siluer of the weight of the Easterling, and had on the one side stamped an armed heade, with a beardles face, (for the Normans did weare no beardes) with a scepter in his hand: the inscription in the circumference was this, Le Rei Wilā on the other side a Crosse double to the ring, betwéene foure row als of sixe pointes. This Henrie in the eight year of his raigne, ordayned the peny which was round, so to bee quartered, by the crosse, that they might easily bee broken, into halfe pence and farthinges. In the first, second, thirde, fourth, and fift of king Richard the first his raigne, and afterwardes I find commonly Esterling mony menti oned, and yet oft times the same is called argent as afore, and not otherwise. which was round, so to bee quartered, by the crosse, that they might easily bee broken, into halfe pence and farthinges. In the first, second, thirde, fourth, and fift of king Richard the first his raigne, and afterwardes I find commonly Esterling mony menti oned, and yet oft times the same is called argent as afore, and not otherwise. The first great summe that I read of to be paid in Esterlinges, was in the fift of Richard the first, when Robert Earle of Ley cester being prisoner in France, proffered for his ransome a thou sand markes Esterlinges, notwithstanding the Esterling pence were long before. The weight of the Esterling pennie peare by diuers statutes, namely of weights and measures, made in the 51. of Henry the third in these words. Thirtie two graines of Wheat, drie and round, taken in the midst of the eare, should one ounce, 12. ownces a pound Troy. It followeth in the statute eight pound to make a gallon of Wine, and eight gallons a bushell of London measure; &c. Notwithstanding which Statute, I find in the eight of Edward the first, Gregorie Rokefley Mayor of London, being chiefe Maister or minister of the kinges Ex chaunge, or mintes, a new coyne being then appointed, the pound of Esterling money should contayne as afore 12. ownces, to wit, fine siluer, such as was then made into foyle, and was commonly called siluer of Guthurons lane, 11. ounces, two Estarlings, and one ferling or farthing, and the other 17. pence ob. q. to bee lay. Also the pound of money ought to weygh xx.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃.iij.ď. by accompt, so that no pound ought to be ouer xx.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃.iiij.ď.nor lesse thē xx.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃.ij. ď. by accompt, the ounce to weigh twenty pence, the penny weyght, 24. graynes (which 24. by weight then appointed, were as much as the former 32. graynes of weight) a pennie force, 25. graynes and a halfe, the pennie deble, or féeble 22. graines and a halfe &c. was in the fift of Richard the first, when Robert Earle of Ley cester being prisoner in France, proffered for his ransome a thou sand markes Esterlinges, notwithstanding the Esterling pence were long before. The weight of the Esterling pennie VVeight of starling penie 32. graines of Wheate. may apstarling penie 32. graines of Wheate. peare by diuers statutes, namely of weights and measures, made in the 51. of Henry the third in these words. Thirtie two graines of Wheat, drie and round, taken in the midst of the eare, should bee Towers and Castels. 43 be the weight of a starling penie, 20. of those pence shoulde wayeone ounce, 12. ownces a pound Troy. It followeth in the statute eight pound to make a gallon of Wine, and eight gallons a bushell of London measure; &c. Notwithstanding which Statute, I find in the eight of Edward the first, Gregorie Rokefley Mayor of London, being chiefe Maister or minister of the kinges Ex chaunge, or mintes, a new coyne being then appointed, the pound of Esterling money should contayne as afore 12. ownces, to wit, fine siluer, such as was then made into foyle, and was commonly called siluer of Guthurons lane, 11. ounces, two Estarlings, and one ferling or farthing, and the other 17. pence ob. q. to bee lay. Also the pound of money ought to weygh xx.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃.iij.ď. by accompt, so that no pound ought to be ouer xx.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃.iiij.ď.nor lesse thē xx.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃.ij. ď. by accompt, the ounce to weigh twenty pence, the penny weyght, 24. graynes (which 24. by weight then appointed, were as much as the former 32. graynes of weight) a pennie force, 25. graynes and a halfe, the pennie deble, or féeble 22. graines and a halfe &c. Now for the pennie Esterling how it tooke that name, I think good briefly to touch. the second King of the Romaines commanded money first to bee made, of whose name they were called Numi, and when Copper pence, siluer pence, and gold pence were made, because euery sil uer pennie was worth ten Copper pence, and euery Gold pennie worth ten siluer pence, the pence therefore were called in Latine Denarij, and oftentimes the pence are named of the matter and stuffe of Gold or siluer. But the money of England was called of the workers and makers thereof: as the Floren of gold is called of the Florentines, that were the workers thereof: and so the Esterling pence tooke their name of the Esterlinges, which did first make this mony in England in the raign of Henry the second. good briefly to touch. The penie E sterling how This text has been supplied. Reason: Smudging dating from the original print process. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()it tooke the name. It hath béene said that Numa Pompiliussterling how This text has been supplied. Reason: Smudging dating from the original print process. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). ()it tooke the name. the second King of the Romaines commanded money first to bee made, of whose name they were called Numi, and when Copper pence, siluer pence, and gold pence were made, because euery sil uer pennie was worth ten Copper pence, and euery Gold pennie worth ten siluer pence, the pence therefore were called in Latine Denarij, and oftentimes the pence are named of the matter and stuffe of Gold or siluer. But the money of England was called of the workers and makers thereof: as the Floren of gold is called of the Florentines, that were the workers thereof: and so the Esterling pence tooke their name of the Esterlinges, which did first make this mony in England in the raign of Henry the second. Thus haue I set downe according to my small reading in anti quitie: these money matters, omitting the imaginations writers, of whom some haue saide Esterling money to take that name of a starre, stamped in the border, or ring of the pennie: o ther some of a birde called a Stare or starling stamped in the cir cumference: and other (more vnlikely) of being coyned at Siri quitie: these money matters, omitting the imaginations Starling mo ney when it tooke begin ning in this land, of lateney when it tooke begin ning in this land, writers, of whom some haue saide Esterling money to take that name of a starre, stamped in the border, or ring of the pennie: o ther some of a birde called a Stare or starling stamped in the cir cumference: and other (more vnlikely) of being coyned at Siri uelin. 44 Towers and Castles. uelin or Starling, a towne in Scotland. &c.Now concerning halfe pence, and Farthinges, which is more subtiller then the pence, I neede not speake of them more, then that they were onely made in the Exchange at Lon don, and no where else. The kinges Exchaunge at London, was neare vnto the Cathedrall Church of S. Paule, and is to this day commonly called the old Chaunge, but in Euidences the old Exchange. Of halfepence ond farthings. the account ofond farthings. which is more subtiller then the pence, I neede not speake of them more, then that they were onely made in the Exchange at Lon don, and no where else. The kinges Exchaunge at London, was neare vnto the Cathedrall Church of S. Paule, and is to this day commonly called the old Chaunge, but in Euidences the old Exchange. The kings Exchaunger, in this place, was to deliuer out to e uery other Exchaunger, throughout England, or other the kinges Dominions, their Coyning irons, that is to say, one Standerde, or Staple, and two Trussels, or Punchons: and when the same were spent and woorne, to receiue them with an accounte, what summe had to deliuer other Irons new grauen, &c. I finde that in the 9. of king Iohn, at Winchester, Excester, Chicester, Canterbury, Rochester, Ipswitch, Norwitch, Lenn, Lincolne, Yorke, Carlell, North hampton, Oxforde, S. Edmondsbury, and Durham. The Ex changer, Examiner, and Tryer, buyeth the siluer, for Coynage: aunswering for euery 100.£. of siluer, bought in Bolion, or otherwise, 98. l. 15. SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃. for he taketh 25.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃. for coynage. uery other Exchaunger, throughout England, or other the kinges Dominions, their Coyning irons, that is to say, one Standerde, or Staple, and two Trussels, or Punchons: and when the same were spent and woorne, to receiue them with an accounte, what summe had Mints in Eng land. beene coyned, and also their Pix, or Boxe of assay andland. to deliuer other Irons new grauen, &c. I finde that in the 9. of king Iohn, patent 9. Iohn there was besides the Mint at London, other Mints,at Winchester, Excester, Chicester, Canterbury, Rochester, Ipswitch, Norwitch, Lenn, Lincolne, Yorke, Carlell, North hampton, Oxforde, S. Edmondsbury, and Durham. The Ex changer, Examiner, and Tryer, buyeth the siluer, for Coynage: aunswering for euery 100.£. of siluer, bought in Bolion, or otherwise, 98. l. 15. SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃. for he taketh 25.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃. for coynage. Deminishing. of Coine. of Coine. In the yeare 1351. William Edington Bishop of Winche ster, and Treasurer of Englande, a wise man, but louing the kinges commodity, more then the wealth of the whole Realme, & common people, (saith mine Author) caused a new coine, called a groate, and a halfe groate, to be coyned and stamped, the groate to be taken for iiij.ď. and the halfe groate for ij.ď. not conteyning in weight according to the pence called Easterlinges, but much lesse, to wit by v.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃. in the pounde: by reason whereof, victuailes, and marchandizes became the dearer, through the whole Realme. Aboute the same time also, the olde coine of golde, was changed in to a new, but the old noble (then so called) was worth much aboue the taxed rate of the new, and therefore vp the olde, and conueyed them out of the Realme to the greate losse of the kingdome. Wherefore a remedy was prouided by chaunging of the stampe. ster, and Treasurer of Englande, a wise man, but louing the kinges commodity, more then the wealth of the whole Realme, & common people, (saith mine Author) caused a new coine, called a groate, and a halfe groate, to be coyned and stamped, the groate to be taken for iiij.ď. and the halfe groate for ij.ď. not conteyning in weight according to the pence called Easterlinges, but much lesse, to wit by v.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃. in the pounde: by reason whereof, victuailes, and marchandizes became the dearer, through the whole Realme. Aboute the same time also, the olde coine of golde, was changed in to a new, but the old noble (then so called) was worth much aboue the taxed rate of the new, and therefore Coines of gold enhaunced. the Marchantes iThis text is the corrected text. The original is u (SM)ngrossedenhaunced. vp the olde, and conueyed them out of the Realme to the greate losse of the kingdome. Wherefore a remedy was prouided by chaunging of the stampe. In Towers and Castles. 45 In the yeare 1464. king Edwarde the 4. caused a new Coineboth of golde and siluer to bee made, whereby he gained much: For he made of an olde Noble a Royal, Coines of golde⎜allayed and also raised in valew, Rose, Noble. which he commanded togolde⎜allayed and also raised in valew, Rose, Noble. go for x.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃. Neuerthelesse to the same Royal was put 8.ď. of Alay, and so weighed the more, being smitten, with a new stamp, to wit a Rose. He likewise made halfe Angels of 5.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃. and Farthings, of 2.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃ . 6.ď. Angelets of 6. SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃ .8.ď. and halfe Angels 3.SMALL LATIN LETTER S WITH TILDE ABOVE; ABBREVIATION FOR SHILLINGss̃. 4.ď. He made siluer monies of 3.ď. a groate, and so of other Coynes after that rate, to the greate harme of the commons. William Lorde Ha stinges being Maister of the kinges Mintes. Thus much for Mint and coynage in and by occasion of this Tower, where the chiefe coining hath long continued, vnder cor rection of other more skilful may suffice : and now to other acci dents here. Tower, where the chiefe coining hath long continued, vnder cor rection of other more skilful may suffice : and now to other acci dents here. In the yeare 1360. the Peace betweene England and France, being confirmed, King Edwarde came ouer into England, and straight to the Tower, to see the French king then prisoner there, whose ransome hee assessed at three millions of Florences, and so deliuered him from Prison, and brought him with honor to the Sea. being confirmed, King Edwarde came ouer into England, and straight to the Tower, to see the French king then prisoner there, whose ransome hee assessed at three millions of Florences, and so deliuered him from Prison, and brought him with honor to the Sea. In the yere 1381. the Rebels of Kent, drew out of the Tow er (where the king was then loged,) Simon Sudbery, Archbishop of Canterbury, Lorde Chauncelor: Robart Hales Prior of S. Iohns, and Treasurer of Englande: William Appleton Frier, the kinges confessor, and Iohn Legge a Sargiant of the kinges, and beheaded them on the Tower hill. &c. er (where the king was then loged,) Simon Sudbery, Archbishop of Canterbury, Lorde Chauncelor: Robart Hales Prior of S. Iohns, and Treasurer of Englande: William Appleton Frier, the kinges confessor, and Iohn Legge a Sargiant of the kinges, and beheaded them on the Tower hill. &c. In the yeare 1387. king Richard held his feast of Christmas in the Tower. And in the yeare 1399. the same king was sent prisoner to the Tower. in the Tower. And in the yeare 1399. the same king was sent prisoner to the Tower. In the yeare 1414. Sir Iohn Oldecastle brake out of the Tower. And the same yeare a Parliament being holden at Lei cester, a Porter of the Tower was drawn, hanged and headed, whose heade was sent vp, and set ouer the Tower gate, for con senting to one Whitlooke, that brake out of the Towre. Tower. And the same yeare a Parliament being holden at Lei cester, a Porter of the Tower was drawn, hanged and headed, whose heade was sent vp, and set ouer the Tower gate, for con senting to one Whitlooke, that brake out of the Towre. In the yeare 1419. Fryer Randulph was sent to the Tow er, and was there slaine by the Parson of S. Peters in the Tower. er, and was there slaine by the Parson of S. Peters in the Tower. In the yeare 1465. king Henry the 6. was brought priso the Tower was yeelded to the Maior of London, and his Brethren the Aldermen, who forthwith entered the same, and deliuered king Henry, but the next yeare hee was againe sent thether, and there murthered. ner 46 Towers and Castles. ner to the Tower, where he remained long. In the yeare, 1470.the Tower was yeelded to the Maior of London, and his Brethren the Aldermen, who forthwith entered the same, and deliuered king Henry, but the next yeare hee was againe sent thether, and there murthered. In the yeare, 1478. George Duke of Clarence was drow ned in the Tower: and within 5. yeares after king Edwarde the 5. with his brother were murdered in the Tower. In the yere, 1502. Queene Elizabeth wife of Henry, the 7. died of childebirth in the Tower. In the yeare 1512. the Chappell in the high white Tower was burned. In the yeare 1536. Queene Anne Bullen was beheaded in the Tower. In the yeare 1541. Lady Katheren Howarde wife to king Henry the 8. was also beheaded there. ned in the Tower: and within 5. yeares after king Edwarde the 5. with his brother were murdered in the Tower. In the yere, 1502. Queene Elizabeth wife of Henry, the 7. died of childebirth in the Tower. In the yeare 1512. the Chappell in the high white Tower was burned. In the yeare 1536. Queene Anne Bullen was beheaded in the Tower. In the yeare 1541. Lady Katheren Howarde wife to king Henry the 8. was also beheaded there. Thus much for these accidentes: and now to conclude thereof in summarie. This Tower is a citadell, to defend or commande the Citie: A royall palace for assemblies, and treaties. A prison of Estate, for the most daungerous offendors: The onely place of coinage for all Englande at this present. The Armorie for war like prouision. The Treasurie of the ornamentes and Iewels, of the Crowne, and generall conseruer of the most auncient Re cordes of the kinges Courtes of iustice at Westminster. in summarie. This Tower is a citadell, to defend or commande the Citie: A royall palace for assemblies, and treaties. A prison of Estate, for the most daungerous offendors: The onely place of coinage for all Englande at this present. The Armorie for war like prouision. The Treasurie of the ornamentes and Iewels, of the Crowne, and generall conseruer of the most auncient Re cordes of the kinges Courtes of iustice at Westminster. The next Tower on the riuer of Thames, is on London bridge at the North ende of the draw bridge. new begun to be builded in the yeare, 1426. Iohn Reynwell Maior of London, laide one of the first corner stones, in the foun dation of this worke, the other three were laide by the Shiriffes, and Bridgemaisters, vpon euery of these foure stones was engra uen in fayre Romaine letters, the name of Ihesus. And these stones, I haue seene laide in the Bridge store house, since they were taken vp, when that Tower was of late newly made of timber. This gate and Tower was at the first stronglie builded vp of stone, and so continued vntill the yere 1577. in the Moneth of Aprill , when the same stone Arched gate, and Tower being de cayed was begunne to bee taken downe, and then were the heads of the Traytors remoued thence, and set on the Tower ouer the gate at the bridge foote, towardes Southwarke. This saide Tow Iohn Langley Lord Maior layed the first stone in the presence of the Shiriffes, and Bridge maisters, on the 28. of Auguſt , and in the Moneth of September, the yeare 1579. the same Tow er was finished a beutiful and chargeable peece of worke, all aboue the bridge being of timber. at the North ende of the draw bridge. Tower at the north end of the draw bridg This Tower wasnorth end of the draw bridg new begun to be builded in the yeare, 1426. Iohn Reynwell Maior of London, laide one of the first corner stones, in the foun dation of this worke, the other three were laide by the Shiriffes, and Bridgemaisters, vpon euery of these foure stones was engra uen in fayre Romaine letters, the name of Ihesus. And these stones, I haue seene laide in the Bridge store house, since they were taken vp, when that Tower was of late newly made of timber. This gate and Tower was at the first stronglie builded vp of stone, and so continued vntill the yere 1577. in the Moneth of Aprill , when the same stone Arched gate, and Tower being de cayed was begunne to bee taken downe, and then were the heads of the Traytors remoued thence, and set on the Tower ouer the gate at the bridge foote, towardes Southwarke. This saide Tow er Towers and Castles. 47 being taken downe a new foundation was drawne : and SirIohn Langley Lord Maior layed the first stone in the presence of the Shiriffes, and Bridge maisters, on the 28. of Auguſt , and in the Moneth of September, the yeare 1579. the same Tow er was finished a beutiful and chargeable peece of worke, all aboue the bridge being of timber. An other Towre there is on London bridge, to wit, ouer the gate at the South ende of the same bridge warke. This gate with the Tower thereupon, and two Arches of the Bridge fell downe, and no man perished by the fall thereof in the yere, 1436. ritable Citizens gaue large summes of money: which gate being then again new builded, was in the yere 1471. burned by the Mar riners and Saylors of Kent, Bastarde Fauconbridge, being theyr Captaine. the gate at the South ende of the same bridge Tower at the south ende of the bridge. towardes Southsouth ende of the bridge. warke. This gate with the Tower thereupon, and two Arches of the Bridge fell downe, and no man perished by the fall thereof in the yere, 1436. The south gate on London bridge burnedThis text has been supplied. Reason: Type not (sufficiently) inked. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). (CH). Towards the new building whereof, diuers, chaon London bridge burnedThis text has been supplied. Reason: Type not (sufficiently) inked. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). (CH). ritable Citizens gaue large summes of money: which gate being then again new builded, was in the yere 1471. burned by the Mar riners and Saylors of Kent, Bastarde Fauconbridge, being theyr Captaine. In the west part of this citie, (saith Fitzstephen) are two most strong castels &c. Also Garuasius Tilbery, in the raigne of Hen ry the second, writing of these castles, hath to this effect. Two Castles (saith hee, are built with walles and rampires, wher of one, is in right of succession, Baynardes: the other the Ba rons of Mountfitchet: the first of these castles bankying on the riuer Thames, was called Baynardes Castle, of Baynarde, a noble man that came in with the Conqueror, and then builded it and deceased in the yeare of the raigne of William Rufus:4 after whose decease Geffery Baynarde succeeded, and then William Baynarde, in the yeare 1111. who by forfeyture for felony, lost his Barony, of little Dunmow and king Henry gaue it wholy to Robart Fitz Richard5 the Sonne of Gilbarte Earle of Clare, and to his heires together with the honor of Baynardes castell. This Robart married Maude de Sent Licio, Lady of Bradham and deceased 1134. was buried at S. Nedes, by Richarde Earle of Clare, his Father. VValter, his sonne succeeded him, hee tooke to wife Matilde de Becham, and after her decease Matilde de Lucy, on whome he begat Robarte and other, hee deceased in the yeare 1198. and was buried at Dunmow after whome succeeded Robart Fitzwater a valiant knight. strong castels &c. Also Garuasius Tilbery, in the raigne of Hen ry the second, writing of these castles, hath to this effect. Two Castles (saith hee, are built with walles and rampires, wher of one, is in right of succession, Baynardes: the other the Ba rons of Mountfitchet: the first of these castles bankying on the riuer Thames, was called Baynardes Castle, of Baynarde, a noble man that came in with the Conqueror, and then builded it and deceased in the yeare of the raigne of William Rufus:4 after whose decease Geffery Baynarde succeeded, and then William Baynarde, in the yeare 1111. who by forfeyture for felony, lost his Barony, of little Dunmow and king Henry gaue it wholy to Robart Fitz Richard5 the Sonne of Gilbarte Earle of Clare, and to his heires together with the honor of Baynardes castell. This Robart married Maude de Sent Licio, Lady of Bradham and deceased 1134. was buried at S. Nedes, by Richarde Earle of Clare, his Father. VValter, his sonne succeeded him, hee tooke to wife Matilde de Becham, and after her decease Matilde de Lucy, on whome he begat Robarte and other, hee deceased in the yeare 1198. and was buried at Dunmow after whome succeeded Robart Fitzwater a valiant knight. Aboute the yeare 1213. there arose a greate discorde be twixt king Iohn, and his Barons, because of Matilde, the king vnlawfully loued, but could not obtayne her, nor her fa ther woulde consent thereunto, whereupon (and for other like cau ses) ensued warre throughout the whole Realme. The Barons were receiued into London, where they greatly indamaged the king, but in the end the king did not onely, (therefore) bannish the said Fitzwater sed his Castle called Baynarde, and other his houses to be spoiled, which thing being done Matilde, the fayre, a Messenger being sent vnto her, consent, was poisoned. Robert Fitzwater, and some other being then passed into France, and some other into Scotland. &c. twixt king Iohn, and his Barons, because of Matilde, Liber DunmThis text has been supplied. Reason: The text is not clear for some reason not covered by other available values. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on guesswork. (SM)ow. surnamed 48 Towers and Castles. med the fayre daughter, to the sayde Roberte Fitzwater, whomethe king vnlawfully loued, but could not obtayne her, nor her fa ther woulde consent thereunto, whereupon (and for other like cau ses) ensued warre throughout the whole Realme. The Barons were receiued into London, where they greatly indamaged the king, but in the end the king did not onely, (therefore) bannish the said Fitzwater Robert Fitzwa ter banished. (amongst other), out of the Realme: but also cauter banished. sed his Castle called Baynarde, and other his houses to be spoiled, which thing being done Matilde, the fayre, a Messenger being sent vnto her, Virginity de fended with the losse of worldly goods and life of the bodie, for life of the soule aboute the kinges suite, whereunto shee would notfended with the losse of worldly goods and life of the bodie, for life of the soule consent, was poisoned. Robert Fitzwater, and some other being then passed into France, and some other into Scotland. &c. It happened in the yere 1214. king Iohn being then in France with a greate Armie, that a truce was taken beewixt the two kinges of England and France, for the terme of 5. yeares, and a riuer or arme of the sea being then betwixt eyther Host. There was a knight in the English host, that cried to them of the other side, willing some one of their knightes to come and iust a course or twaine with him, whereupon without stay Robert Fitzwater being on the French parte, made himselfe readie, ferried ouer, and got on horsebacke, without any man to helpe him, and shewed himselfe ready to the face of his challenger, whome at the first course, he stroake so harde with his greate Speare, that horse and man fell to the grounde, and when his speare was broken, hee went backe againe to the king of France, which when the king were a king indeede, that had such a knight: the frendes of Robert hearing these words, kneeled downe and saide: O King hee is your knight: it is Robert Fitzwater, and thereupon the next day he was sent for, and restored to the kinges fauour : by which meanes peace was concluded, and he receiued his liuinges, and had licence to repayre his Castle of Baynarde and other Castles. with a greate Armie, that a truce was taken beewixt the two kinges of England and France, for the terme of 5. yeares, and a riuer or arme of the sea being then betwixt eyther Host. There was a knight in the English host, that cried to them of the other side, willing some one of their knightes to come and iust a course or twaine with him, whereupon without stay Robert Fitzwater being on the French parte, made himselfe readie, ferried ouer, and got on horsebacke, without any man to helpe him, and shewed himselfe ready to the face of his challenger, whome at the first course, he stroake so harde with his greate Speare, that horse and man fell to the grounde, and when his speare was broken, hee went backe againe to the king of France, which when the king King Iohns oath. had seene, by Gods tooth (quoth hee) after his vsuall oath, heeoath. were a king indeede, that had such a knight: the frendes of Robert hearing these words, kneeled downe and saide: O King hee is your knight: it is Robert Fitzwater, and thereupon the next day he was sent for, and restored to the kinges fauour : by which meanes peace was concluded, and he receiued his liuinges, and had licence to repayre his Castle of Baynarde and other Castles. This Robert deceased in the yeare 1234.6 and was buried at Dunmow, and VValter his sonne that succeeded him 1258. his Barony of Baynarde, was in the the nonage of Robert Fitzwater. This Robert tooke to his second wife Alienor, daughter to the Earle of Ferrars,7 in the of London, hee acknowledged his seruice to the same Citie for his Castle Baynarde, hee deceased in the yere 1305. and leauing issue Walter FitzRobert, who had issue Robert Fitzwater9 who deceased in the yere 1325. vnto whom succeeded Robert Fitz Ro bert Fitzwater,10 &c. More of the Lord Fitzwaters may ye read in my summary and Annales in the 51. of Edward the 3.. But now how this honor of Baynardes Castle with the appurtenances fell from the possession of the Lords Fitzwaters, I haue not read, onely I finde that Humphrey Duke of Glocester, by whose death in the yeare of Christ, 1446. it came to the hands of king Henry the sixt, and from him to Richarde Duke of Yorke, of whome we reade, that in the yeare 1457 hee lodged there, as in his own house: and true it is, that his sonne king Ed warde the fourth being dead, and leauing his eldest sonne Edward and his second sonne Richarde, both infantes: there Richarde Duke of Glocester, then Protector, practised for the Crowne, and as it were by election of the Commons, made in the Guild hall of London, tooke vpon him there the title of the Realme, as offered and imposed vpon him: as yee may reade set downe and penned, by Sir Thomas Moore. King Henry the 7. aboute the yeare 1501. the 3. of his raigne,11 repayred or rather new builded this house not so imbattelled, or so strongly fortified castlelike, but far more beutifull and commodious, for the entertainment of any Prince or greate estate. In the 7. of his raigne hee with his Queene were lodged there, and came from thence to Paules, where they made their offering: dined in the Bishops Palace, and so returned. The eighttenth of his raigne hee was lodged there, and the Ambassadors from the king of Romaines were thi ther broThis text is the corrected text. The original is n (SM)ught. to his presence, and from thence the King came to Pawles and was ther sworne vnto the king of Romaines, as the king had sworne vnto him. This Castle now belongeth to the Earle of Pembrooke. The next Tower, or Castle bankyng also on the Riuer of Thames, was, as is afore shewed, called Mountfiquites Castle, of a noble man, Baron of Mountfitchet the first builder thereof who came in with VVilliam the Con queror and was surnamed Le Sir Mountfiquit. This Castle hee West. The same William Mountfiquit liued in the Raigne of Henry the 1. and was witnes to a Charter, then granted to the citie for the Shiriffes of London. Richard Montfiquit liued in king Iohns time: and in the yere 1213. was by the same king ba nished the Realme into France, when peraduenture king Iohn caused his Castle of Montfiquit, amongst other Castles of the Barons to bee ouerthrowne: the which after his returne , might be by him againe reedified, for the totall destruction thereof was aboute the yeare 1276. when Robert Kiliwarble, Arch bishop of Canterbury beganne the foundation of the house of the Friars Preachers church there, commonly called the Black Friers as appeareth by a Charter, the 10. of Iune, the 4, of Edwarde the 1. remayning of Recorde in the Tower, wherein is declared that Gregory de Rocksley Maior of London, and the Barons Robert two lanes or waies next the streete of Baynardes castle and the Tower of Montfiquit, to be applied for the enlargement of the saide Church and place. Dunmow, and VValter his sonne that succeeded him 1258. his Barony of Baynarde, was in the Baynardes castle againe builded. warde of king Henry incastle againe builded. the nonage of Robert Fitzwater. This Robert tooke to his second wife Alienor, daughter to the Earle of Ferrars,7 in the yeare, Towers and Castles. 49 yeare, 1289. And in the yeare 1303. before Iohn Blund Maiorof London, hee acknowledged his seruice to the same Citie for his Castle Baynarde, hee deceased in the yere 1305. and leauing issue Walter FitzRobert, who had issue Robert Fitzwater9 who deceased in the yere 1325. vnto whom succeeded Robert Fitz Ro bert Fitzwater,10 &c. More of the Lord Fitzwaters may ye read in my summary and Annales in the 51. of Edward the 3.. But now how this honor of Baynardes Castle with the appurtenances fell from the possession of the Lords Fitzwaters, I haue not read, onely I finde that Humphrey Duke of Glocester, Humphrey Duke of Glo cester new builded Bay nardes Castle. Richard Duke of Yorke, ho nor of Bay nardes Castle. Richarde of Glocester in Baynardes Ca stle tooke on him the Crowne. builded it of new,Duke of Glo cester new builded Bay nardes Castle. Richard Duke of Yorke, ho nor of Bay nardes Castle. Richarde of Glocester in Baynardes Ca stle tooke on him the Crowne. by whose death in the yeare of Christ, 1446. it came to the hands of king Henry the sixt, and from him to Richarde Duke of Yorke, of whome we reade, that in the yeare 1457 hee lodged there, as in his own house: and true it is, that his sonne king Ed warde the fourth being dead, and leauing his eldest sonne Edward and his second sonne Richarde, both infantes: there Richarde Duke of Glocester, then Protector, practised for the Crowne, and as it were by election of the Commons, made in the Guild hall of London, tooke vpon him there the title of the Realme, as offered and imposed vpon him: as yee may reade set downe and penned, by Sir Thomas Moore. King Henry the 7. aboute the yeare 1501. the 3. of his raigne,11 repayred or rather new builded this house not so imbattelled, or so strongly fortified castlelike, but far more beutifull and commodious, for the entertainment of any Prince or greate estate. In the 7. of his raigne hee with his Queene were lodged there, and came from thence to Paules, where they made their offering: dined in the Bishops Palace, and so returned. The eighttenth of his raigne hee was lodged there, and the Ambassadors from the king of Romaines were thi ther broThis text is the corrected text. The original is n (SM)ught. to his presence, and from thence the King came to Pawles and was ther sworne vnto the king of Romaines, as the king had sworne vnto him. This Castle now belongeth to the Earle of Pembrooke. The next Tower, or Castle bankyng also on the Riuer of Thames, was, as is afore shewed, called Mountfiquites Castle, of a noble man, Baron of Mountfitchet the first builder thereof who came in with VVilliam the Con queror and was surnamed Le Sir Mountfiquit. This Castle hee E builded 50 Towers and Castles. builded in a place not far distant from Baynardes, towardes theWest. The same William Mountfiquit liued in the Raigne of Henry the 1. and was witnes to a Charter, then granted to the citie for the Shiriffes of London. Richard Montfiquit liued in king Iohns time: and in the yere 1213. was by the same king ba nished the Realme into France, when peraduenture king Iohn caused his Castle of Montfiquit, amongst other Castles of the Barons to bee ouerthrowne: the which after his returne , might be by him againe reedified, for the totall destruction thereof was aboute the yeare 1276. when Robert Kiliwarble, Arch bishop of Canterbury beganne the foundation of the house of the Friars Preachers church there, commonly called the Black Friers as appeareth by a Charter, the 10. of Iune, the 4, of Edwarde the 1. remayning of Recorde in the Tower, wherein is declared that Gregory de Rocksley Maior of London, and the Barons Barons of London. of the same Citie granted, and gaue vnto the saide ArchbishoppeLondon. Robert two lanes or waies next the streete of Baynardes castle and the Tower of Montfiquit, to be applied for the enlargement of the saide Church and place. A third Tower there was also situate on the riuer of Thames thereof, builded at the Citizens charges, but by licence and com mandement of Edwarde the 1. and of Edwarde the 2. as appea reth by their grantes : which Tower was then finished and so stoode for the space of 300. yeares, and was at the last taken downe by the commandement of Iohn Sha Maior of London in the yeare 1502. Tower in the Thames. neare vnto the saide Blacke Friers Church, on the west parteThames. thereof, builded at the Citizens charges, but by licence and com mandement of Edwarde the 1. and of Edwarde the 2. as appea reth by their grantes : which Tower was then finished and so stoode for the space of 300. yeares, and was at the last taken downe by the commandement of Iohn Sha Maior of London in the yeare 1502. An other Tower or Castle also was there in the west parte of the Citie, perteyning to the king: For I reade that in the yere 1087. the 20. of VVilliam the first, 13 the Citie of London with the Church of S. Paule. being burned, Mauritius then Bishop of London afterwarde began the foundation of a new Church, whereunto king VVilliam (saith mine Author) gaue the choice stones of this Castle standing neare to the banke of the riuer of Thames, at the west ende of the Citie. After this Mauritius, Ri charde his successor, purchased the compassing the same with a wall of stone, and gates. King Hen of the Castle, on the Thames side to the south, as shoulde be néed full to make the said wall of the Churchyarde, and so much more as should suffice to make a way without the wal on the North side &c. This Tower (or Castle) thus destroyed stoode as it may seeme, in place where now standeth the house called Bridewel. For not withstanding the destruction of the saide Castle or Tower, the house remayned large, so that the kings of this Realme long after were lodged there, and kept their Courtes: for in the 9. yeare of Henry the thirde the Courte of law and iustice, were kept in the kinges house, wheresoeuer he was lodged, and not else where. And that the kings haue beene lodged and kept their Law courtes in this place, I could shew you many authorities of Recorde, but for plaine proofe this one may suffice. Hæc est finalis concordia, faƈta in Curia Domini regis apud Sanƈt. Brigid. London a die Sanƈti Michelis in 15. dies, Anno regni regis Iohannis 7. co rā G. Fil. Petri. Eustacio de Faucōberg, Iohanne de Gestlinge Osbart filio Heruey, VValter, de Crisping, Iusticiar. & aliis Baronibus Domini regis . More (as Mathew Paris the yeare 1210. king Iohn in the 12. of his raigne summoned a Parliament at S. Brides in London, where hee exacted of the Clergie and religious persons the summe of 100000. poundes, & besides all this, the white Monkes were compelled to cancell their Priuiledges, and to pay 40000. poundes to the king, &c. This house of S. Brides of latter time being left, and not vsed by the kinges: fell to ruine, insomuch that the verie platforme thereof remayned for greate parte wast, and as it were, but a laystall of filth and rubbish: onely a fayre well remained there: a greate part whereof, namely on the west, (as hath beene said) was giuen to the Bishop of SalisbThis text is the corrected text. The original is n (SM)ury, the other parte towardes the East re mayning wast, vntill that king Henry the 8. builded a stately and beutifull house thereupon, giuing it to name Bridewell, of the parish and well there: this house he purposely builded for the en tertainement of the Emperor Charles the 5. who in the yeare, 1522. came into this Citie, as I haue shewed in my summary annales, and large chronicles. of the Citie, perteyning to the king: For I reade that in the yere 1087. the 20. of VVilliam the first, 13 the Citie of London with the Church of S. Paule. being burned, Mauritius then Bishop of London afterwarde began the foundation of a new Church, whereunto king VVilliam (saith mine Author) gaue the choice stones of this Castle standing neare to the banke of the riuer of Thames, at the west ende of the Citie. After this Mauritius, Ri charde his successor, purchased the This text has been supplied. Reason: The text is not clear for some reason not covered by other available values. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on guesswork. (SM)Vita Arkenwald streetes aboue Paules churchcompassing the same with a wall of stone, and gates. King Hen ry Towers and Castles. 51 ry the first gaue to this Richarde so much of the Moate (or wall)of the Castle, on the Thames side to the south, as shoulde be néed full to make the said wall of the Churchyarde, and so much more as should suffice to make a way without the wal on the North side &c. This Tower (or Castle) thus destroyed stoode as it may seeme, in place where now standeth the house called Bridewel. For not withstanding the destruction of the saide Castle or Tower, the house remayned large, so that the kings of this Realme long after were lodged there, and kept their Courtes: for in the 9. yeare of Henry the thirde the Courte of law and iustice, were kept in the kinges house, wheresoeuer he was lodged, and not else where. And that the kings haue beene lodged and kept their Law courtes in this place, I could shew you many authorities of Recorde, but for plaine proofe this one may suffice. Hæc est finalis concordia, faƈta in Curia Domini regis apud Sanƈt. Brigid. London a die Sanƈti Michelis in 15. dies, Anno regni regis Iohannis 7. co rā G. Fil. Petri. Eustacio de Faucōberg, Iohanne de Gestlinge Osbart filio Heruey, VValter, de Crisping, Iusticiar. & aliis Baronibus Domini regis . More (as Mathew Paris Mathew Paris manuscriptThis text has been supplied. Reason: The text is not clear for some reason not covered by other available values. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). (SM)a. Parliament at S. Brides. hath) aboutmanuscriptThis text has been supplied. Reason: The text is not clear for some reason not covered by other available values. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). (SM)a. Parliament at S. Brides. the yeare 1210. king Iohn in the 12. of his raigne summoned a Parliament at S. Brides in London, where hee exacted of the Clergie and religious persons the summe of 100000. poundes, & besides all this, the white Monkes were compelled to cancell their Priuiledges, and to pay 40000. poundes to the king, &c. This house of S. Brides of latter time being left, and not vsed by the kinges: fell to ruine, insomuch that the verie platforme thereof remayned for greate parte wast, and as it were, but a laystall of filth and rubbish: onely a fayre well remained there: a greate part whereof, namely on the west, (as hath beene said) was giuen to the Bishop of SalisbThis text is the corrected text. The original is n (SM)ury, the other parte towardes the East re mayning wast, vntill that king Henry the 8. builded a stately and beutifull house thereupon, giuing it to name Bridewell, of the parish and well there: this house he purposely builded for the en tertainement of the Emperor Charles the 5. who in the yeare, 1522. came into this Citie, as I haue shewed in my summary annales, and large chronicles. On the northwest side of this Citie, neare vnto Redcrosse kenning, for that the same being placed on a high ground, and also builded of some good height, was in the olde time vsed as a Watch Tower, for the Citie, from whence a man might behold and view the whole Citie towards the South, as also sée into Kent, Sussex, and Surrey, and likewise euery other way east, north, or west. E2 sterete 52 Towers and Castles. streete there was a Tower commonlie called Barbican, or Burhkenning, for that the same being placed on a high ground, and also builded of some good height, was in the olde time vsed as a Watch Tower, for the Citie, from whence a man might behold and view the whole Citie towards the South, as also sée into Kent, Sussex, and Surrey, and likewise euery other way east, north, or west. Some other Burhkennings or (Watch Towers) there were of olde time in and aboute the citie, all which were repayred, yea and others new builded, by Gilbart de Clare earle of Glocester, in the raigne of king Henry, the third, when the Barons were in Armes, and held the citie against the kThis text has been supplied. Reason: Omitted from the original text due to a printing or typesetting error. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). (SM)ing: but the Barons being reconciled to his fauour in the yeare 1267. hee caused all their Burhkenninges, watch towers, and Bulwarkes made and re pared by the said Earle, to be plucked downe, and the ditches to be filled vp:so that nought of them might be séene to remaine and then was this Burhkenning amongst the rest ouerthrowne and destroyed: and although the ditch neare thereunto, called Hounds ditch was stopped vp, yet the streete of long time after was called Houndes ditch, and of late time more commonly called Barbican. The plot or seate of this Burhkenning or watch tower, king Ed warde the thirde in the yeare 1336. and the 10. of his raigne, gaue vnto Robert Efforde Earle of Suffolke, by the name of his Mannor of Base courte, in the parish of S. Giles without Cripple gate of London, commonly called the Barbican. of olde time in and aboute the citie, all which were repayred, yea and others new builded, by Gilbart de Clare earle of Glocester, in the raigne of king Henry, the third, when the Barons were in Armes, and held the citie against the kThis text has been supplied. Reason: Omitted from the original text due to a printing or typesetting error. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on evidence internal to this text (context, etc.). (SM)ing: but the Barons being reconciled to his fauour in the yeare 1267. hee caused all their Burhkenninges, watch towers, and Bulwarkes made and re pared by the said Earle, to be plucked downe, and the ditches to be filled vp:so that nought of them might be séene to remaine and then was this Burhkenning amongst the rest ouerthrowne and destroyed: and although the ditch neare thereunto, called Hounds ditch was stopped vp, yet the streete of long time after was called Houndes ditch, and of late time more commonly called Barbican. The plot or seate of this Burhkenning or watch tower, king Ed warde the thirde in the yeare 1336. and the 10. of his raigne, gaue vnto Robert Efforde Earle of Suffolke, by the name of his Mannor of Base courte, in the parish of S. Giles without Cripple gate of London, commonly called the Barbican. Tower Royall was of old time the kinges house, but sithence called the Queenes Wardrobe: the Princesse, mother to King Richard the 2. in the 4. of his raigne was lodged there being for ced to flie from the tower of London, when the Rebels possessed it: But on the 15. of Iune (saith Frosarde) VVat Tylar being slaine, the king went to this Lady Princesse his mother, then lod ged in the Tower Royall, called the Queenes Wardrobe, where she had tarried 2. dayes and 2. nightes: which Tower (sayeth the Recorde of Edwarde the 3. the 36. yeare) was in the Parish of S. Michaell de Pater noster, &c. In the yeare 1386. king Richarde with Queene Anne his wife, kept their Christmas at Eltham, whether came to him Lion king of Ermony vnder pretence to reforme Peace, betwixt the kinges of Englande and besides innumerable giftes, that he receiued of the king, and of the Nobles, the king lying then in this Royall at the Queenes War drobe, in London, granted to him a Charter of a thousand pounds by yeare, during his life. Hee was (as hee affirmed) chased out of his kingdome by the Tartarians. The rest concerning this Tower shall you reade when you come to the Vintry warde in which it standeth. called the Queenes Wardrobe: the Princesse, mother to King Richard the 2. in the 4. of his raigne was lodged there being for ced to flie from the tower of London, when the Rebels possessed it: But on the 15. of Iune (saith Frosarde) VVat Tylar being slaine, the king went to this Lady Princesse his mother, then lod ged in the Tower Royall, called the Queenes Wardrobe, where she had tarried 2. dayes and 2. nightes: which Tower (sayeth the Recorde of Edwarde the 3. the 36. yeare) was in the Parish of S. Michaell de Pater noster, &c. In the yeare 1386. king Richarde with Queene Anne his wife, kept their Christmas at Eltham, whether came to him Lion king of Ermony vnder pretence to reforme Peace, betwixt the kinges of Englande and France Of Schooles and houses of Learning. 53 France, but what his comming profited he onely vnderstoode: forbesides innumerable giftes, that he receiued of the king, and of the Nobles, the king lying then in this Royall at the Queenes War drobe, in London, granted to him a Charter of a thousand pounds by yeare, during his life. Hee was (as hee affirmed) chased out of his kingdome by the Tartarians. The rest concerning this Tower shall you reade when you come to the Vintry warde in which it standeth. Notes - I.e., ouerseer. (SM)↑ - I.e., Tower Ditch. (MR)↑ - I.e., Tower Ditch. (MR)↑ - In the 1598 text, Stow does not specify a year. In the 1603 text, Stow removes the phrase the year of. (KL)↑ Robart Fitz Richard is correctly changed toRobert the sonne of Richard in later editions of Stow’s Survey. (JZ)↑- Robert Fitzwalter actually died in 1235 (See ODNB entry for Robert Fitzwalter). (JZ)↑ - I.e., Robert de Ferrers. (JZ)↑ - Stow here means Robert Fitzwalter. This error is corrected in later editions of Stow’s Survey (JZ)↑ - Stow appears to be mistaken here. According to ODNB, Lord Robert Fitzwalter’s son, Walter, predeceased him, making his other son, Sir Robert Fitzwalter, his heir (ODNB Fitzwalter family). This Robert may be the one here mentioned by Stow who died in 1325 (Sir Robert Fitwalter’s actual death occurred in 1328). (JZ)↑ - Stow appears to be mistaken here. The son of Sir Robert Fitzwalter was Lord John Fitzwalter, the second Lord Fitzwalter. Lord John Fitzwalter’s son and heir was named Walter Fitzwalter. It is uncertain who Stow here means by Robert Fitz Robert Fitzwater. (JZ)↑ - Stow’s two dating methods do not correspond here; 1501 is the 16th/17th year of Henry VII’s reign. Given the context, it is likely that the third year of Henry VII’s reign (1487-1488) is the correct date. (SM)↑ - I.e., King Henry VII. (SM)↑ - Stow’s two dating methods do not correspond here; 1087 was in the 21st and final year of William I’s reign. (SM)↑ References - Citation Stow, John. A Survey of London. Reprinted from the Text of 1603. Ed. Charles Lethbridge Kingsford. 2 vols. Oxford: Clarendon, 1908. See also the digital transcription of this edition at British History Online.This item is cited in the following documents: Cite this page MLA citation Survey of London (1598): Towers and Castles.The Map of Early Modern London, Edition 7.0, edited by , U of Victoria, 05 May 2022, mapoflondon.uvic.ca/edition/7.0/stow_1598_towers.htm. Chicago citation Survey of London (1598): Towers and Castles.The Map of Early Modern London, Edition 7.0. Ed. . Victoria: University of Victoria. Accessed May 05, 2022. mapoflondon.uvic.ca/edition/7.0/stow_1598_towers.htm. APA citation The Map of Early Modern London (Edition 7.0). Victoria: University of Victoria. Retrieved from https://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/editions/7.0/stow_1598_towers.htm. , & 2022. Survey of London (1598): Towers and Castles. In (Ed), RIS file (for RefMan, RefWorks, EndNote etc.) Provider: University of Victoria Database: The Map of Early Modern London Content: text/plain; charset="utf-8" TY - ELEC A1 - Stow, John A1 - fitz-Stephen, William ED - Jenstad, Janelle T1 - Survey of London (1598): Towers and Castles T2 - The Map of Early Modern London ET - 7.0 PY - 2022 DA - 2022/05/05 CY - Victoria PB - University of Victoria LA - English UR - https://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/edition/7.0/stow_1598_towers.htm UR - https://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/edition/7.0/xml/standalone/stow_1598_towers.xml ER - TEI citation <bibl type="mla"><author><name ref="#STOW6"><surname>Stow</surname>, <forename>John</forename></name></author>, and <author><name ref="#FITZ1"><forename>William</forename> <surname>fitz-Stephen</surname></name></author>. <title level="a">Survey of London (1598): Towers and Castles</title>. <title level="m">The Map of Early Modern London</title>, Edition <edition>7.0</edition>, edited by <editor><name ref="#JENS1"><forename>Janelle</forename> <surname>Jenstad</surname></name></editor>, <publisher>U of Victoria</publisher>, <date when="2022-05-05">05 May 2022</date>, <ref target="https://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/edition/7.0/stow_1598_towers.htm">mapoflondon.uvic.ca/edition/7.0/stow_1598_towers.htm</ref>.</bibl> Personography - Molly Rothwell MR Project Manager, 2022-present. Research Assistant, 2020-2022. Molly Rothwell was an undergraduate student at the University of Victoria, with a double major in English and History. During her time at MoEML, Molly primarily worked on encoding and transcribing the 1598 and 1633 editions of Stow’s Survey, adding toponyms to MoEML’s Gazetteer, researching England’s early-modern court system, and standardizing MoEML’s Mapography.Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - CSS Editor - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Markup Editor - Proofreader - Researcher - Transcription Proofreader Contributions by this author Molly Rothwell is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Molly Rothwell is mentioned in the following documents: - - Jamie Zabel JZ Research Assistant, 2020-2021. Managing Encoder, 2020-2021. Jamie Zabel was an MA student at the University of Victoria in the Department of English. She completed her BA in English at the University of British Columbia in 2017. She published a paper in University College London’s graduate publication Moveable Type (2020) and presented at the University of Victoria’s 2021 Digital Humanities Summer Institute. During her time at MoEML, she made significant contributions to the 1598 and 1633 editions of Stow’s Survey as proofreader, editor, and encoder, coordinated the encoding of the 1633 edition, and researched and authored a number of encyclopedia articles and geo-coordinates to supplement both editions. She also played a key role in managing the correction process of MoEML’s Gazetteer.Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - CSS Editor - Copy Editor - Data Manager - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Markup Editor - Primary Encoder - Proofreader - Researcher - Transcription Proofreader Contributions by this author Jamie Zabel is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Jamie Zabel is mentioned in the following documents: - - Lucas Simpson LS Research Assistant, 2018-2021. Lucas Simpson was a student at the University of Victoria.Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - Compiler - Data Manager - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Markup Editor - Proofreader - Researcher - Transcriber - Transcription Proofreader Contributions by this author Lucas Simpson is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Lucas Simpson is mentioned in the following documents: - - Chris Horne CH Research Assistant, 2018-2020. Chris Horne was an honours student in the Department of English at the University of Victoria. His primary research interests included American modernism, affect studies, cultural studies, and digital humanities.Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - CSS Editor - Compiler - Copy Editor - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Markup Editor - Proofreader - Researcher - Transcription Proofreader Contributions by this author Chris Horne is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Chris Horne is mentioned in the following documents: - - Kate LeBere KL Project Manager, 2020-2021. Assistant Project Manager, 2019-2020. Research Assistant, 2018-2020. Kate LeBere completed her BA (Hons.) in History and English at the University of Victoria in 2020. She published papers in The Corvette (2018), The Albatross (2019), and PLVS VLTRA (2020) and presented at the English Undergraduate Conference (2019), Qualicum History Conference (2020), and the Digital Humanities Summer Institute’s Project Management in the Humanities Conference (2021). While her primary research focus was sixteenth and seventeenth century England, she completed her honours thesis on Soviet ballet during the Russian Cultural Revolution. During her time at MoEML, Kate made significant contributions to the 1598 and 1633 editions of Stow’s Survey of London, old-spelling anthology of mayoral shows, and old-spelling library texts. She authored the MoEML’s first Project Management Manual andquickstart guidelines for new employees and helped standardize the Personography and Bibliography. She is currently a student at the University of British Columbia’s iSchool, working on her masters in library and information science.Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - CSS Editor - Compiler - Conceptor - Copy Editor - Data Manager - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Markup Editor - Proofreader - Researcher - Toponymist - Transcriber - Transcription Proofreader Contributions by this author Kate LeBere is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Kate LeBere is mentioned in the following documents: - - Tracey El Hajj TEH Junior Programmer 2018-2020. Research Associate 2020-2021. Tracey received her PhD from the Department of English at the University of Victoria in the field of Science and Technology Studies. Her research focuses on the algorhythmics of networked communications. She was a 2019-20 President’s Fellow in Research-Enriched Teaching at UVic, where she taught an advanced course onArtificial Intelligence and Everyday Life. Tracey was also a member of the Linked Early Modern Drama Online team, between 2019 and 2021. Between 2020 and 2021, she was a fellow in residence at the Praxis Studio for Comparative Media Studies, where she investigated the relationships between artificial intelligence, creativity, health, and justice. As of July 2021, Tracey has moved into the alt-ac world for a term position, while also teaching in the English Department at the University of Victoria.Roles played in the project - Author - CSS Editor - Editor - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Junior Programmer Contributions by this author Tracey El Hajj is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Tracey El Hajj is mentioned in the following documents: - - Joey Takeda JT Programmer, 2018-present. Junior Programmer, 2015-2017. Research Assistant, 2014-2017. Joey Takeda was a graduate student at the University of British Columbia in the Department of English (Science and Technology research stream). He completed his BA honours in English (with a minor in Women’s Studies) at the University of Victoria in 2016. His primary research interests included diasporic and indigenous Canadian and American literature, critical theory, cultural studies, and the digital humanities.Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - CSS Editor - Compiler - Conceptor - Copy Editor - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Junior Programmer - Markup Editor - Post-Conversion Editor - Programmer - Proofreader - Researcher - Toponymist - Transcriber - Transcription Proofreader Contributions by this author Joey Takeda is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Joey Takeda is mentioned in the following documents: Joey Takeda authored or edited the following items in MoEML’s bibliography: - Jenstad, Janelle and Joseph Takeda. Making the RA Matter: Pedagogy, Interface, and Practices. Making Things and Drawing Boundaries: Experiments in the Digital Humanities. Ed. Jentery Sayers. Minnesota: University of Minnesota Press, 2018. Print. - - Katie Tanigawa KT Project Manager, 2015-2019. Katie Tanigawa was a doctoral candidate at the University of Victoria. Her dissertation focused on representations of poverty in Irish modernist literature. Her additional research interests included geospatial analyses of modernist texts and digital humanities approaches to teaching and analyzing literature.Roles played in the project - Author - Conceptor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Managing Editor - Markup Editor - Project Manager - Proofreader - Transcription Proofreader Contributions by this author Katie Tanigawa is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Katie Tanigawa is mentioned in the following documents: - - Catriona Duncan CD Research Assistant, 2014-2016. Catriona was an MA student at the University of Victoria. Her primary research interests included medieval and early modern Literature with a focus on book history, spatial humanities, and technology.Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - Conceptor - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Proofreader - Researcher - Toponymist - Transcription Proofer Contributions by this author Catriona Duncan is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Catriona Duncan is mentioned in the following documents: - - Tye Landels-Gruenewald TLG Data Manager, 2015-2016. Research Assistant, 2013-2015. Tye completed his undergraduate honours degree in English at the University of Victoria in 2015.Roles played in the project - Author - CSS Editor - Compiler - Conceptor - Copy Editor - Data Manager - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Markup Editor - Metadata Architect - Proofreader - Researcher - Toponymist - Transcriber - Transcription Proofreader Contributions by this author Tye Landels-Gruenewald is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Tye Landels-Gruenewald is mentioned in the following documents: - - Nathan Phillips NAP Research Assistant, 2012-2014. Nathan Phillips completed his MA at the University of Victoria specializing in medieval and early modern studies in April 2014. His research focused on seventeenth-century non-dramatic literature, intellectual history, and the intersection of religion and politics. Additionally, Nathan was interested in textual studies, early-Tudor drama, and the editorial questions one can ask of all sixteenth- and seventeenth-century texts in the twisted mire of 400 years of editorial practice. Nathan is currently a Ph.D. student in the Department of English at Brown University.Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - Editor - Encoder - Researcher - Toponymist - Transcriber - Transcription Proofreader Contributions by this author Nathan Phillips is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Nathan Phillips is mentioned in the following documents: - - Sarah Milligan SM Research Assistant, 2012-2014. MoEML Research Affiliate. Sarah Milligan completed her MA at the University of Victoria in 2012 on the invalid persona in Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s Sonnets from the Portuguese. She has also worked with the Internet Shakespeare Editions and with Dr. Alison Chapman on the Victorian Poetry Network, compiling an index of Victorian periodical poetry.Roles played in the project - Author - Compiler - Copy Editor - Editor - Encoder - Markup Editor - Researcher - Toponymist - Transcriber Contributions by this author Sarah Milligan is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Sarah Milligan is mentioned in the following documents: - - Kim McLean-Fiander KMF Director of Pedagogy and Outreach, 2015–2020. Associate Project Director, 2015. Assistant Project Director, 2013-2014. MoEML Research Fellow, 2013. Kim McLean-Fiander comes to The Map of Early Modern London from the Cultures of Knowledge digital humanities project at the University of Oxford, where she was the editor of Early Modern Letters Online, an open-access union catalogue and editorial interface for correspondence from the sixteenth to eighteenth centuries. She is currently Co-Director of a sister project to EMLO called Women’s Early Modern Letters Online (WEMLO). In the past, she held an internship with the curator of manuscripts at the Folger Shakespeare Library, completed a doctorate at Oxford on paratext and early modern women writers, and worked a number of years for the Bodleian Libraries and as a freelance editor. She has a passion for rare books and manuscripts as social and material artifacts, and is interested in the development of digital resources that will improve access to these materials while ensuring their ongoing preservation and conservation. An avid traveler, Kim has always loved both London and maps, and so is particularly delighted to be able to bring her early modern scholarly expertise to bear on the MoEML project.Roles played in the project - Associate Project Director - Author - CSS Editor - Compiler - Conceptor - Copy Editor - Data Manager - Director of Pedagogy and Outreach - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Managing Editor - Markup Editor - Metadata Architect - Research Fellow - Toponymist - Transcriber - Transcription Proofreader - Vetter Contributions by this author Kim McLean-Fiander is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Kim McLean-Fiander is mentioned in the following documents: - - Janelle Jenstad JJ Janelle Jenstad is Associate Professor of English at the University of Victoria, Director of The Map of Early Modern London, and PI of Linked Early Modern Drama Online. She has taught at Queen’s University, the Summer Academy at the Stratford Festival, the University of Windsor, and the University of Victoria. With Jennifer Roberts-Smith and Mark Kaethler, she co-edited Shakespeare’s Language in Digital Media (Routledge). She has prepared a documentary edition of John Stow’s A Survey of London (1598 text) for MoEML and is currently editing The Merchant of Venice (with Stephen Wittek) and Heywood’s 2 If You Know Not Me You Know Nobody for DRE. Her articles have appeared in Digital Humanities Quarterly, Renaissance and Reformation,Journal of Medieval and Early Modern Studies, Early Modern Literary Studies, Elizabethan Theatre, Shakespeare Bulletin: A Journal of Performance Criticism, and The Silver Society Journal. Her book chapters have appeared (or will appear) in Institutional Culture in Early Modern Society (Brill, 2004), Shakespeare, Language and the Stage, The Fifth Wall: Approaches to Shakespeare from Criticism, Performance and Theatre Studies (Arden/Thomson Learning, 2005), Approaches to Teaching Othello (Modern Language Association, 2005), Performing Maternity in Early Modern England (Ashgate, 2007), New Directions in the Geohumanities: Art, Text, and History at the Edge of Place (Routledge, 2011), Early Modern Studies and the Digital Turn (Iter, 2016), Teaching Early Modern English Literature from the Archives (MLA, 2015), Placing Names: Enriching and Integrating Gazetteers (Indiana, 2016), Making Things and Drawing Boundaries (Minnesota, 2017), and Rethinking Shakespeare’s Source Study: Audiences, Authors, and Digital Technologies (Routledge, 2018).Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - Author (Preface) - Author of Preface - Compiler - Conceptor - Copy Editor - Course Instructor - Course Supervisor - Data Manager - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Markup Editor - Peer Reviewer - Project Director - Proofreader - Researcher - Toponymist - Transcriber - Transcription Proofreader - Vetter Contributions by this author Janelle Jenstad is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Janelle Jenstad is mentioned in the following documents: Janelle Jenstad authored or edited the following items in MoEML’s bibliography: - Jenstad, Janelle and Joseph Takeda. Making the RA Matter: Pedagogy, Interface, and Practices. Making Things and Drawing Boundaries: Experiments in the Digital Humanities. Ed. Jentery Sayers. Minnesota: University of Minnesota Press, 2018. Print. - Jenstad, Janelle. Building a Gazetteer for Early Modern London, 1550-1650. Placing Names. Ed. Merrick Lex Berman, Ruth Mostern, and Humphrey Southall. Bloomington and Indianapolis: Indiana UP, 2016. 129-145. - Jenstad, Janelle. The Burse and the Merchant’s Purse: Coin, Credit, and the Nation in Heywood’s 2 If You Know Not Me You Know Nobody. The Elizabethan Theatre XV. Ed. C.E. McGee and A.L. Magnusson. Toronto: P.D. Meany, 2002. 181–202. Print. - Jenstad, Janelle. Early Modern Literary Studies 8.2 (2002): 5.1–26..The City Cannot Hold You : Social Conversion in the Goldsmith’s Shop. - Jenstad, Janelle. The Silver Society Journal 10 (1998): 40–43.The Gouldesmythes Storehowse : Early Evidence for Specialisation. - Jenstad, Janelle. Lying-in Like a Countess: The Lisle Letters, the Cecil Family, and A Chaste Maid in Cheapside. Journal of Medieval and Early Modern Studies 34 (2004): 373–403. doi:10.1215/10829636–34–2–373. - Jenstad, Janelle. Public Glory, Private Gilt: The Goldsmiths’ Company and the Spectacle of Punishment. Institutional Culture in Early Modern Society. Ed. Anne Goldgar and Robert Frost. Leiden: Brill, 2004. 191–217. Print. - Jenstad, Janelle. Smock Secrets: Birth and Women’s Mysteries on the Early Modern Stage. Performing Maternity in Early Modern England. Ed. Katherine Moncrief and Kathryn McPherson. Aldershot: Ashgate, 2007. 87–99. Print. - Jenstad, Janelle. Using Early Modern Maps in Literary Studies: Views and Caveats from London. GeoHumanities: Art, History, Text at the Edge of Place. Ed. Michael Dear, James Ketchum, Sarah Luria, and Doug Richardson. London: Routledge, 2011. Print. - Jenstad, Janelle. Versioning John Stow’s A Survey of London, or, What’s New in 1618 and 1633?. Janelle Jenstad Blog. https://janellejenstad.com/2013/03/20/versioning-john-stows-a-survey-of-london-or-whats-new-in-1618-and-1633/. - Shakespeare, William. The Merchant of Venice. Ed. Janelle Jenstad. Internet Shakespeare Editions. U of Victoria. http://internetshakespeare.uvic.ca/Library/Texts/MV/. - Stow, John. A SVRVAY OF LONDON. Contayning the Originall, Antiquity, Increase, Moderne estate, and description of that Citie, written in the yeare 1598. by Iohn Stow Citizen of London. Also an Apologie (or defence) against the opinion of some men, concerning that Citie, the greatnesse thereof. With an Appendix, containing in Latine, Libellum de situ & nobilitate Londini: written by William Fitzstephen, in the raigne of Henry the second. Ed. Janelle Jenstad and the MoEML Team. MoEML. Transcribed. - - Paul Schaffner PS E-text and TCP production manager at the University of Michigan Digital Library Production Service (DLPS), Paul manages the production of full-text transcriptions for EEBO-TCP.Roles played in the project - Editor of Original EEBO-TCP Encoding - - Sebastian Rahtz SR Chief data architect at University of Oxford IT Services, Sebastian was well known for his contributions to the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI), OxGarage, and the Text Creation Partnership (TCP).Roles played in the project - Creator of TEI Stylesheets for Conversion of EEBO-TCP Encoding to TEI-P5 - - Martin D. Holmes MDH Programmer at the University of Victoria Humanities Computing and Media Centre (HCMC). Martin ported the MOL project from its original PHP incarnation to a pure eXist database implementation in the fall of 2011. Since then, he has been lead programmer on the project and has also been responsible for maintaining the project schemas. He was a co-applicant on MoEML’s 2012 SSHRC Insight Grant.Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - Conceptor - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Markup Editor - Post-Conversion Editor - Programmer - Proofreader - Researcher Contributions by this author Martin D. Holmes is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Martin D. Holmes is mentioned in the following documents: - - Alfred the Great Alfred the Great King of Wessex King of the Anglo-Saxons (b. between 848 and 849, d. 899)King of Wessex 871-886. King of the Anglo-Saxons 886-899. Father of Ethelfled. Father-in-law of Æthelred and Adhered.Alfred the Great is mentioned in the following documents: - Anne Boleyn is mentioned in the following documents: - Ralph Baynard is mentioned in the following documents: - William Baynard is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard de Belmeis I Richard de Belmeis This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 1I Bishop of London (d. 1127)Richard de Belmeis I is mentioned in the following documents: - John Bever is mentioned in the following documents: - Charles V Charles This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 5V Holy Roman Emperor King of Germany King of Italy King of Spain (b. 1500, d. 1558)Holy Roman Emperor 1519-1556. King of Germany 1519-1556. King of Italy 1530-1556. King of Spain 1516-1556.Charles V is mentioned in the following documents: - George Plantagenet (b. 1449, d. 1478)First Duke of Clarence. Drowned in a vessel filled with malmsey (a fortified wine).George Plantagenet is mentioned in the following documents: - Edward I Edward This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 1I King of England Longshanks Hammer of the Scots (b. between 17 June 1239 and 18 June 1239, d. in or before 27 October 1307)Edward I is mentioned in the following documents: - Edward III Edward This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 3III King of England (b. 12 November 1312, d. 21 June 1377)Edward III is mentioned in the following documents: - Edward IV Edward This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 4IV King of England (b. 28 April 1442, d. 9 April 1483)Edward IV is mentioned in the following documents: - Elizabeth of York Elizabeth Queen consort of England (b. 1466, d. 1503)Queen consort of England 1486-1503. Wife of Henry VII. Mother of Henry VIII. Buried at Henry VII’s Chapel.Elizabeth of York is mentioned in the following documents: - William fitz-Stephen is mentioned in the following documents: - Henry VIII Henry This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 8VIII King of England King of Ireland (b. 28 June 1491, d. 28 January 1547)King of England and Ireland 1509-1547.Henry VIII is mentioned in the following documents: - Henry VI Henry This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 6VI King of England (b. 6 December 1421, d. 21 May 1471)Henry VI is mentioned in the following documents: - Henry VII Henry This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 7VII King of England (b. 1457, d. 1509)Henry VII is mentioned in the following documents: - Henry III Henry This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 3III King of England (b. 1 October 1207, d. 16 November 1272)Henry III is mentioned in the following documents: - Roger of Hoveden is mentioned in the following documents: - Humphrey of Lancaster Humphrey (b. 1390, d. 1447)First Duke of Gloucester. Prince, soldier, and literary patron. Rebuit Baynard’s Castle after it was destroyed by fire in 1428. Husband of Eleanor de Cobham. Son of Henry IV and Mary de Bohun.Humphrey of Lancaster is mentioned in the following documents: - William de Longchamp William de Longchamp Bishop of Ely (d. 1197)Bishop of Ely 1189–1197. Chancellor of England.William de Longchamp is mentioned in the following documents: - Maurice is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Thomas More is mentioned in the following documents: Sir Thomas More authored or edited the following items in MoEML’s bibliography: - More, Thomas. The co[n]futacyon of Tyndales answere made by syr Thomas More knyght lorde chau[n]cellour of Englonde. London, 1532. STC 18079. - Richard II Richard This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 2II King of England (b. 6 January 1367, d. 1400)Richard II is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard III Richard This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 3III King of England (b. 1452, d. 1485)King of England and Lord of Ireland 1483-1485.Richard III is mentioned in the following documents: - John Stow (b. between 1524 and 1525, d. 1605)Historian and author of A Survey of London. Husband of Elizabeth Stow.John Stow is mentioned in the following documents: John Stow authored or edited the following items in MoEML’s bibliography: - Blome, Richard. Aldersgate Ward and St. Martins le Grand Liberty Taken from the Last Survey, with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. M3r and sig. M4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Aldgate Ward with its Division into Parishes. Taken from the Last Survey, with Corrections & Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. H3r and sig. H4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Billingsgate Ward and Bridge Ward Within with it’s Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. Y2r and sig. Y3v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Bishopsgate-street Ward. Taken from the Last Survey and Corrected. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. N1r and sig. N2v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Bread Street Ward and Cardwainter Ward with its Division into Parishes Taken from the Last Survey. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. B3r and sig. B4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Broad Street Ward with its Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey with Corrections and Additions, & Cornhill Ward with its Divisions into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey, &c. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. P2r and sig. P3v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Cheape Ward with its Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey, with Corrections and Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig.D1r and sig. D2v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Coleman Street Ward and Bashishaw Ward Taken from the Last Survey with Corrections and Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. G2r and sig. G3v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Cow Cross being St Sepulchers Parish Without and the Charterhouse. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. H2v and sig. H3r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Creplegate Ward with its Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey, with Additions, and Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. I3r and sig. I4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Farrington Ward Without, with its Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey with Corrections & Amendments. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. 2F3r and sig. 2F4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Lambeth and Christ Church Parish Southwark. Taken from ye last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. Z1r and sig. Z2r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Langborne Ward with its Division into Parishes. Corrected from the Last Survey. & Candlewick Ward with its Division into Parishes. Corrected from the Last Survey. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. U3r and sig. U4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Map of St. Gilles’s Cripple Gate. Without. With Large Additions and Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. H2v and sig. H3r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Map of the Parish of St. Dunstans Stepney, als. Stebunheath Divided into Hamlets. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. F3r and sig. F4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Map of the Parish of St Mary White Chappel and a Map of the Parish of St Katherines by the Tower. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. F2r and sig. F3v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of Lime Street Ward. Taken from ye Last Surveys & Corrected. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. M1r and sig. M2v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of St. Andrews Holborn Parish as well Within the Liberty as Without. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. 2I1r and sig. 2I2v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of the Parishes of St. Clements Danes, St. Mary Savoy; with the Rolls Liberty and Lincolns Inn, Taken from the Last Survey with Corrections and Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig.O4v and sig. O1r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of the Parish of St. Anns. Taken from the last Survey, with Correction, and Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. L2v and sig. L3r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of the Parish of St. Giles’s in the Fields Taken from the Last Servey, with Corrections and Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. K1v and sig. K2r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of the Parish of St Margarets Westminster Taken from the Last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig.H3v and sig. H4r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of the Parish of St Martins in the Fields Taken from ye Last Survey with Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. I1v and sig. I2r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of the Parish of St Pauls Covent Garden Taken from the Last Survey. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. L3v and sig. L4r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of the Parish of St Saviours Southwark and St Georges taken from ye last Survey. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. D1r and sig.D2v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. The Parish of St. James Clerkenwell taken from ye last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. H3v and sig. H4r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. The Parish of St. James’s, Westminster Taken from the Last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. K4v and sig. L1r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. The Parish of St Johns Wapping. The Parish of St Paul Shadwell. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. E2r and sig. E3v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Portsoken Ward being Part of the Parish of St. Buttolphs Aldgate, taken from the Last Survey, with Corrections and Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. B1v and sig. B2r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Queen Hith Ward and Vintry Ward with their Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. 2C4r and sig. 2D1v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Shoreditch Norton Folgate, and Crepplegate Without Taken from ye Last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. G1r and sig. G2v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Spittle Fields and Places Adjacent Taken from ye Last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. F4r and sig. G1v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. St. Olave and St. Mary Magdalens Bermondsey Southwark Taken from ye last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. C2r and sig.C3v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Tower Street Ward with its Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey, with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. E2r and sig. E3v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Walbrook Ward and Dowgate Ward with its Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Surveys. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. 2B3r and sig. 2B4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. The Wards of Farington Within and Baynards Castle with its Divisions into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey, with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. Q2r and sig. Q3v. [See more information about this map.] - The City of London as in Q. Elizabeth’s Time. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Frontispiece. - A Map of the Tower Liberty. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. H4v and sig. I1r. [See more information about this map.] - A New Plan of the City of London, Westminster and Southwark. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Frontispiece. - Pearl, Valerie. Introduction. A Survey of London. By John Stow. Ed. H.B. Wheatley. London: Everyman’s Library, 1987. v–xii. Print. - Pullen, John. A Map of the Parish of St Mary Rotherhith. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. Z3r and sig. Z4r. [See more information about this map.] - Stow, John. The abridgement of the English Chronicle, first collected by M. Iohn Stow, and after him augmented with very many memorable antiquities, and continued with matters forreine and domesticall, vnto the beginning of the yeare, 1618. by E.H. Gentleman. London, Edward Allde and Nicholas Okes, 1618. STC 23332. - Stow, John. The annales of England Faithfully collected out of the most autenticall authors, records, and other monuments of antiquitie, lately collected, since encreased, and continued, from the first habitation vntill this present yeare 1605. London: Peter Short, Felix Kingston, and George Eld, 1605. STC 23337. - Stow, John, Anthony Munday, and Henry Holland. THE SVRVAY of LONDON: Containing, The Originall, Antiquitie, Encrease, and more Moderne Estate of the sayd Famous Citie. As also, the Rule and Gouernment thereof (both Ecclesiasticall and Temporall) from time to time. With a briefe Relation of all the memorable Monuments, and other especiall Obseruations, both in and about the same CITIE. Written in the yeere 1598. by Iohn Stow, Citizen of London. Since then, continued, corrected and much enlarged, with many rare and worthy Notes, both of Venerable Antiquity, and later memorie; such, as were neuer published before this present yeere 1618. London: George Purslowe, 1618. STC 23344. Yale University Library copy. - Stow, John, Anthony Munday, and Humphrey Dyson. THE SURVEY OF LONDON: CONTAINING The Original, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of that City, Methodically set down. With a Memorial of those famouser Acts of Charity, which for publick and Pious Vses have been bestowed by many Worshipfull Citizens and Benefactors. As also all the Ancient and Modern Monuments erected in the Churches, not only of those two famous Cities, LONDON and WESTMINSTER, but (now newly added) Four miles compass. Begun first by the pains and industry of John Stow, in the year 1598. Afterwards inlarged by the care and diligence of A.M. in the year 1618. And now compleatly finished by the study &labour of A.M., H.D. and others, this present year 1633. Whereunto, besides many Additions (as appears by the Contents) are annexed divers Alphabetical Tables, especially two, The first, an index of Things. The second, a Concordance of Names. London: Printed for Nicholas Bourne, 1633. STC 23345.5. - Stow, John. The chronicles of England from Brute vnto this present yeare of Christ. 1580. Collected by Iohn Stow citizen of London. London, 1580. - Stow, John. A Summarie of the Chronicles of England. Diligently Collected, Abridged, & Continued vnto this Present Yeere of Christ, 1598. London: Imprinted by Richard Bradocke, 1598. - Stow, John. A suruay of London· Conteyning the originall, antiquity, increase, moderne estate, and description of that city, written in the yeare 1598. by Iohn Stow citizen of London. Since by the same author increased, with diuers rare notes of antiquity, and published in the yeare, 1603. Also an apologie (or defence) against the opinion of some men, concerning that citie, the greatnesse thereof. VVith an appendix, contayning in Latine Libellum de situ & nobilitate Londini: written by William Fitzstephen, in the raigne of Henry the second. London: John Windet, 1603. STC 23343. U of Illinois (Urbana-Champaign Campus) copy. - Stow, John, The survey of London contayning the originall, increase, moderne estate, and government of that city, methodically set downe. With a memoriall of those famouser acts of charity, which for publicke and pious vses have beene bestowed by many worshipfull citizens and benefactors. As also all the ancient and moderne monuments erected in the churches, not onely of those two famous cities, London and Westminster, but (now newly added) foure miles compasse. Begunne first by the paines and industry of Iohn Stovv, in the yeere 1598. Afterwards inlarged by the care and diligence of A.M. in the yeere 1618. And now completely finished by the study and labour of A.M. H.D. and others, this present yeere 1633. Whereunto, besides many additions (as appeares by the contents) are annexed divers alphabeticall tables; especially two: the first, an index of things. The second, a concordance of names. London: Printed by Elizabeth Purslovv for Nicholas Bourne, 1633. STC 23345. U of Victoria copy. - Stow, John, The survey of London contayning the originall, increase, moderne estate, and government of that city, methodically set downe. With a memoriall of those famouser acts of charity, which for publicke and pious vses have beene bestowed by many worshipfull citizens and benefactors. As also all the ancient and moderne monuments erected in the churches, not onely of those two famous cities, London and Westminster, but (now newly added) foure miles compasse. Begunne first by the paines and industry of Iohn Stovv, in the yeere 1598. Afterwards inlarged by the care and diligence of A.M. in the yeere 1618. And now completely finished by the study and labour of A.M. H.D. and others, this present yeere 1633. Whereunto, besides many additions (as appeares by the contents) are annexed divers alphabeticall tables; especially two: the first, an index of things. The second, a concordance of names. London: Printed by Elizabeth Purslovv [i.e., Purslow] for Nicholas Bourne, 1633. STC 23345. - Stow, John. A Survey of London. Reprinted from the Text of 1603. Ed. Charles Lethbridge Kingsford. 2 vols. Oxford: Clarendon, 1908. Remediated by British History Online. [Kingsford edition, courtesy of The Centre for Metropolitan History. Articles written after 2011 cite from this searchable transcription.] - Stow, John. A Survey of London. Reprinted from the Text of 1603. Ed. Charles Lethbridge Kingsford. 2 vols. Oxford: Clarendon, 1908. See also the digital transcription of this edition at British History Online. - Stow, John. A SVRVAY OF LONDON. Contayning the Originall, Antiquity, Increase, Moderne estate, and description of that Citie, written in the yeare 1598. by Iohn Stow Citizen of London. Also an Apologie (or defence) against the opinion of some men, concerning that Citie, the greatnesse thereof. With an Appendix, containing in Latine, Libellum de situ &nobilitate Londini: written by William Fitzstephen, in the raigne of Henry the second. 23341. Transcribed by EEBO-TCP. - Stow, John. A SVRVAY OF LONDON. Contayning the Originall, Antiquity, Increase, Moderne estate, and description of that Citie, written in the yeare 1598. by Iohn Stow Citizen of London. Also an Apologie (or defence) against the opinion of some men, concerning that Citie, the greatnesse thereof. With an Appendix, containing in Latine, Libellum de situ & nobilitate Londini: written by William Fitzstephen, in the raigne of Henry the second. Ed. Janelle Jenstad and the MoEML Team. MoEML. Transcribed. - Stow, John. A SVRVAY OF LONDON. Contayning the Originall, Antiquity, Increase, Moderne estate, and description of that Citie, written in the yeare 1598. by Iohn Stow Citizen of London. Also an Apologie (or defence) against the opinion of some men, concerning that Citie, the greatnesse thereof. With an Appendix, containing in Latine, Libellum de situ &nobilitate Londini: written by William Fitzstephen, in the raigne of Henry the second. Folger Shakespeare Library. - Stow, John. A SVRVAY OF LONDON. Contayning the Originall, Antiquity, Increase, Moderne estate, and description of that Citie, written in the yeare 1598. by Iohn Stow Citizen of London. Also an Apologie (or defence) against the opinion of some men, concerning that Citie, the greatnesse thereof. With an Appendix, containing in Latine, Libellum de situ &nobilitate Londini: written by William Fitzstephen, in the raigne of Henry the second. London: John Windet for John Wolfe, 1598. STC 23341. - Stow, John. A SVRVAY OF LONDON. Coteyning the Originall, Antiquity, Increaſe, Moderne eſtate, and deſcription of that City, written in the yeare 1598, by Iohn Stow Citizen of London. Since by the ſame Author increaſed with diuers rare notes of Antiquity, and publiſhed in the yeare, 1603. Alſo an Apologie (or defence) againſt the opinion of ſome men, concerning that Citie, the greatneſſe thereof. With an Appendix, contayning in Latine Libellum de ſitu & nobilitae Londini: Writen by William Fitzſtephen, in the raigne of Henry the ſecond. London: John Windet, 1603. U of Victoria copy. Print. - Strype, John, John Stow, Anthony Munday, and Humphrey Dyson. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster. Vol. 2. London, 1720. Remediated by The Making of the Modern World. - Strype, John, John Stow. A SURVEY OF THE CITIES OF LONDON and WESTMINSTER, And the Borough of SOUTHWARK. CONTAINING The Original, Antiquity, Increase, present State and Government of those CITIES. Written at first in the Year 1698, By John Stow, Citizen and Native of London. Corrected, Improved, and very much Enlarged, in the Year 1720, By JOHN STRYPE, M.A. A NATIVE ALSO OF THE SAID CITY. The Survey and History brought down to the present Time BY CAREFUL HANDS. Illustrated with exact Maps of the City and Suburbs, and of all the Wards; and, likewise, of the Out-Parishes of London and Westminster, and the Country ten Miles round London. Together with many fair Draughts of the most Eminent Buildings. The Life of the Author, written by Mr. Strype, is prefixed; And, at the End is added, an APPENDIX Of certain Tracts, Discourses, and Remarks on the State of the City of London. 6th ed. 2 vols. London: Printed for W. Innys and J. Richardson, J. and P. Knapton, and S. Birt, R. Ware, T. and T. Longman, and seven others, 1754–1755. ESTC T150145. - Strype, John, John Stow. A survey of the cities of London and Westminster: containing the original, antiquity, increase, modern estate and government of those cities. Written at first in the year MDXCVIII. By John Stow, citizen and native of London. Since reprinted and augmented by A.M. H.D. and other. Now lastly, corrected, improved, and very much enlarged: and the survey and history brought down from the year 1633, (being near fourscore years since it was last printed) to the present time; by John Strype, M.A. a native also of the said city. Illustrated with exact maps of the city and suburbs, and of all the wards; and likewise of the out-parishes of London and Westminster: together with many other fair draughts of the more eminent and publick edifices and monuments. In six books. To which is prefixed, the life of the author, writ by the editor. At the end is added, an appendiz of certain tracts, discourses and remarks, concerning the state of the city of London. Together with a perambulation, or circuit-walk four or five miles round about London, to the parish churches: describing the monuments of the dead there interred: with other antiquities observable in those places. And concluding with a second appendix, as a supply and review: and a large index of the whole work. 2 vols. London : Printed for A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. ESTC T48975. - The Tower and St. Catherins Taken from the Last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. H4v and sig. I1r. [See more information about this map.] - Wheatley, Henry Benjamin. Introduction. A Survey of London. 1603. By John Stow. London: J.M. Dent and Sons, 1912. Print. - William I William This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 1I King of England the Conqueror (b. between 1027 and 1028, d. 1087)William I is mentioned in the following documents: - William II William King of England Rufus This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 2II (b. 1060, d. 1100)King of England 1087-1100.William II is mentioned in the following documents: - John Windet is mentioned in the following documents: - John Wolfe is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard of York is mentioned in the following documents: - Acliuillus Constable of the Tower of London.Acliuillus is mentioned in the following documents: - Anne of Bohemia Anne Queen consort of England (b. 1366, d. 1394)Queen consort of England 1382-1394. Wife of Richard II. Daughter of Charles IV of Bohemia. Sister of Wenceslaus IV of Bohemia. Buried at Westminster Abbey.Anne of Bohemia is mentioned in the following documents: - Julius Caesar is mentioned in the following documents: - Eustace de Fauconberg is mentioned in the following documents: - Hugh fitz-Otho Constable of the Tower of London. Possibly the same person as Hugh fitz-Otho.Hugh fitz-Otho is mentioned in the following documents: - Othowerus Constable of the Tower of London.Othowerus is mentioned in the following documents: - John Reynwell John Reynwell Sheriff Mayor Sheriff of London 1411-1412. Mayor 1426-1427. Member of the Stock Fishmongers’ Company. Son of William Reynwell. Buried at St. Botolph, Billingsgate.John Reynwell is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John Shaa Sir John Shaa Sheriff Mayor (d. 1503)Sheriff of London 1496-1497. Mayor 1501-1502. Member of the Goldsmiths’ Company. Son of Sir Edmund Shaw.Sir John Shaa is mentioned in the following documents: - Thomas Walsingham (d. 1457)Member of the Vintners’ Company. Member of Parliament. Buried at St. Katherine’s Hospital.Thomas Walsingham is mentioned in the following documents: - Wat Tyler is mentioned in the following documents: - William Hastings is mentioned in the following documents: - Matthew Paris is mentioned in the following documents: - Hubert de Burgh (b. 1170, d. May 1243)First Earl of Kent. Justiciar for Henry II. Buried at Blackfriars Monastery.Hubert de Burgh is mentioned in the following documents: - William of Malmesbury is mentioned in the following documents: - Æthelred Æthelred Lord of the Mercians (d. 911)Lord of the Mercians 881-911. Son-in-law of Alfred the Great.Æthelred is mentioned in the following documents: - Roger of Wendover is mentioned in the following documents: - Geoffrey de Mandeville Geoffrey de Mandeville Sheriff (d. 26 September 1144)First Earl of Essex. Portgrave of London during the reign of Stephen I. Husband of Athelaise de Mandeville. Son of William de Mandeville. Buried at Westminster Abbey.Geoffrey de Mandeville is mentioned in the following documents: - Edmund of Hadenham is mentioned in the following documents: - Gundulf of Rochester Gundulf Bishop of Rochester (b. between 1023 and 1024, d. 1108)Norman monk.Bishop of Rochester 1075-1108.Gundulf of Rochester is mentioned in the following documents: - William fitz-Osbert is mentioned in the following documents: - Giles of Andwarp Giles Received 200 markes from Edward I’s treasury for the purpose of rebuilding Tower Ditch.Giles of Andwarp is mentioned in the following documents: - Constantine fitz-Aelulfe is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Falkes de Breauté is mentioned in the following documents: - Griffith of Wales is mentioned in the following documents: - Llywelyn ap Gruffydd is mentioned in the following documents: - Mr. Othon is mentioned in the following documents: - Roger Lestrange Beheaded Llywelyn ap Gruffydd in 1282.Roger Lestrange is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Roger Mortimer is mentioned in the following documents: - Roger Mortimer de Chirk Soldier and nobleman. Uncle of Sir Roger Mortimer.Roger Mortimer de Chirk is mentioned in the following documents: - Percivall de Porte Master of the coin under Edward III.Percivall de Porte is mentioned in the following documents: - Burgred of Mercia is mentioned in the following documents: - Edward the Elder is mentioned in the following documents: - Plegmond is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert de Beaumont is mentioned in the following documents: - Numa Pompilius is mentioned in the following documents: - William Edington William Edington Bishop of Winchester Archbishop-elect of Canterbury Lord High Treasurer 1344-1356. Lord Chancellor of England 1356–1363. Bishop of Winchester 1345–1366. Archbishop-elect of Canterbury 1366.William Edington is mentioned in the following documents: - Simon Sudbery Simon Sudbery Tibald Bishop of London Archbishop of Canterbury Lord Chancellor of England 1380–1381. Bishop of London 1361–1375. Archbishop of Canterbury 1375–1381. Executed on Tower Hill by the rebels of Kent. Son of Nicholas Tibald.Simon Sudbery is mentioned in the following documents: - Robart Hales Prior of St. John’s of Jerusalem. Lord High Treasurer 1381. Executed on Tower Hill by the rebels of Kent.Robart Hales is mentioned in the following documents: - William Appleton Knight. Friar and Confessor of Richard II. Beheaded on Tower Hill by the rebels of Kent. Buried at Christ Church.William Appleton is mentioned in the following documents: - John Legge King’s Sergeant for Richard II. Beheaded on Tower Hill by the rebels of Kent.John Legge is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John Oldcastle Sir John Oldecastle (d. 1417)Baron Cobham. After being convicted of heresy and imprisoned for his Lollard support, Oldcastle escaped from the Tower of London and led a Lollard rebellion. After spending three years as an outlaw, he was captured, charged with treason, and executed. As the basis of Shakespeare’s popular Falstaff character, Sir John Oldcastle and his legacy are of particular interest to Shakespeare scholars.Sir John Oldcastle is mentioned in the following documents: - Mr. Whitlooke is mentioned in the following documents: - Mr. Randulph is mentioned in the following documents: - Catherine Howard is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John Langley Sir John Langely Sheriff Mayor Sheriff of London 1566-1567. Mayor 1576-1577. Member of the Goldsmiths’ Company. Buried at Chapel of St. Mary Magdalen, Guildhall.Sir John Langley is mentioned in the following documents: - Thomas Neville Thomas Neville the Bastard Bastard of Fauconberg (b. 1429, d. 22 September 1471)Naval commander. Rebel. Received freedom from the City of London in 1454 to eliminate pirates from the Channel and North Sea. Not to be confused with Thomas Neville or Thomas Neville.Thomas Neville is mentioned in the following documents: - Gervase of Tilbury is mentioned in the following documents: - Lord Robert Fitzwalter (b. 1247, d. 18 January 1326)First Lord Fitzwalter. Husband of Lady Eleanor Fitzwalter. Son of Sir Walter Fitzwalter. Father of Walter Fitzwalter and Sir Robert Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for the Fitzwalter family.Lord Robert Fitzwalter is mentioned in the following documents: - Geoffrey Baynard is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert fitz Richard (d. 1134)Inherited Baynard’s Castle from Henry I. Husband of Maude de Senlis. Son of Richard de Clare. Father of Walter fitz Robert. See related ODNB entry for Robert Fitzwalter.Robert fitz Richard is mentioned in the following documents: - Gilbert de Clare Count of Brionne and Eu. Father of Richard de Clare.Gilbert de Clare is mentioned in the following documents: - Maud de Senlis is mentioned in the following documents: - Walter fitz Robert Husband of Matilda de Bocham and Matilda fitz Robert. Son of Robert fitz Richard. Father of Robert Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for Robert Fitzwalter.Walter fitz Robert is mentioned in the following documents: - Matilde fitz Robert (née de Lucy) Matilda fitz Robert Wife of Walter fitz Robert. Daughter of Richard de Lucy. Mother of Robert Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for Robert Fitzwalter.Matilde fitz Robert (née de Lucy) is mentioned in the following documents: - Matilda de Mandeville (née Fitzwalter) Matilda de Mandeville the Faire Wife of Geoffrey de Mandeville. Daughter of Robert Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for Robert Fitzwalter and Wikipedia entry for Geoffrey de Mandeville.Matilda de Mandeville (née Fitzwalter) is mentioned in the following documents: - Walter Fitzwalter (d. in or before 1326)Son of Lord Robert Fitzwalter and his first wife (not mentioned in Stow). Brother of Sir Robert Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for the Fitzwalter family.Walter Fitzwalter is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Walter Fitzwalter Sir Walter Fitzwalter fitz Robert (d. 1258)Son of Robert Fitzwalter. Father of Lord Robert Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for the Fitzwalter family.Sir Walter Fitzwalter is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Robert Fitzwalter (b. 1297, d. 1328)Son and heir of Lord Robert Fitzwalter and Lady Eleanor Fitzwalter. Father of Lord John Fitzwalter. Brother of Walter Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for the Fitzwalter family.Sir Robert Fitzwalter is mentioned in the following documents: - Lord John Fitzwalter Second Lord Fitzwalter. Son of Sir Robert Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for the Fitzwalter family.Lord John Fitzwalter is mentioned in the following documents: - Lady Eleanor Fitzwalter (née de Ferrers) Lady Eleanor Fitzwalter Lady Eleanor Fitzwalter (née de Ferrers) is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John le Blund is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard of Shrewsbury Richard Duke of York. Son of Edward IV. Brother of Edward V. Mysteriously disappeared shortly after Richard III seized the throne in 1483.Richard of Shrewsbury is mentioned in the following documents: - William Mountfiquit Baron of Mountfitchet. First builder of Montfichet’s Tower.William Mountfiquit is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard Montfiquit Resident of Montfichet’s Tower. Exiled by John I.Richard Montfiquit is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert Kilwardby Robert Kilwardby Archbishop of Canterbury Archbishop of Canterbury 1273–1278. Began the foundations for the Blackfriars Monastery.Robert Kilwardby is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Michael is mentioned in the following documents: - Gilbert de Clare (b. 1243, d. 1295)Sixth Earl of Hertford, Seventh Earl of Gloucester, Ninth Lord of Glamorgan, and Ninth Lord of ClareNoble.Gilbert de Clare is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert Efforde Earl of Suffolke.Robert Efforde is mentioned in the following documents: - Jean Froissart is mentioned in the following documents: - Walter Fitzwalter (b. 1345, d. 1386)Third Baron Fitzwalter. Persuaded citizens of London to free John Prendergast. Husband of Philippa de Mohun. Son of Lord John Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for the Fitzwalter family.Walter Fitzwalter is mentioned in the following documents: - Gregory de Rokesley Gregory de Rokesley Sheriff Mayor (fl. 1274-84d. 1291)Sheriff of London 1263-1264 and 1270-1271. Mayor 1274-1281 and 1284-1285. Possible member of the Goldsmiths’ Company. Lord Chief Justice of the Court of the King’s Bench. Financier of Greyfriars. Buried at Christ Church.Gregory de Rokesley is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert Fitzwalter (d. 9 December 1235)One of the leaders of the opposition to John I during the First Baron’s War. An owner of Baynard’s Castle. Son of Walter fitz Robert and Matilda fitz Robert. Father of Sir Walter Fitzwalter and Matilda de Mandeville.Robert Fitzwalter is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John de Gisors is mentioned in the following documents: - Mr. Edmere Edmere Mr. Edmere is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard de Clare Richard de Clare fitz Gilbert (b. in or after 1030, d. in or before 1090)Founder of the baronial family of Clare. Son of Gilbert de Clare. Father of Robert fitz Richard.Richard de Clare is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert de Ferrers Earl of Derby. Father of Lady Eleanor Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for the Fitzwalter family for relationship to Lady Eleanor Fitzwalter.Robert de Ferrers is mentioned in the following documents: - Matilde de Bocham Wife of Walter fitz Robert.Matilde de Bocham is mentioned in the following documents: Locations - London is mentioned in the following documents: - Tower of London is mentioned in the following documents: - The Thames Perhaps more than any other geophysical feature, the Thames river has directly affected London’s growth and rise to prominence; historically, the city’s economic, political, and military importance was dependent on its riverine location. As a tidal river, connected to the North Sea, the Thames allowed for transportation to and from the outside world; and, as the longest river in England, bordering on nine counties, it linked London to the country’s interior. Indeed, without the Thames, London would not exist as one of Europe’s most influential cities. The Thames, however, is notable for its dichotomous nature: it is both a natural phenomenon and a cultural construct; it lives in geological time but has been the measure of human history; and the city was built around the river, but the river has been reshaped by the city and its inhabitants.The Thames is mentioned in the following documents: - White Tower is mentioned in the following documents: - Holy Trinity Priory Holy Trinity Priory, located west of Aldgate and north of Leadenhall Street, was an Augustinian Priory. Stow notes that Queen Matilda established the Priory in 1108in the parishes of Saint Marie Magdalen, S. Michael, S. Katherine, and the blessed Trinitie, which now was made but one Parish of the holy Trinitie (Stow). Before Matilda united these parishes under the name Holy Trinity Priory, they were collectively known as the Holy Cross or Holy Roode parish (Stow; Harben).Holy Trinity Priory is mentioned in the following documents: - Aldgate Aldgate was the easternmost gate into the walled city. The nameAldgate is thought to come from one of four sources: Æst geat meaningEastern gate (Ekwall 36), Alegate from the Old English ealu meaningale, Aelgate from the Saxon meaningpublic gate oropen to all, or Aeldgate meaningold gate (Bebbington 20–21).Aldgate is mentioned in the following documents: - East Smithfield East Smithfield is a district located east of the City of London and northeast of the Tower of London. Its name derives fromsmoothfield , with the prefixeast helping to differentiate it from the Smithfield northwest of Cripplegate (Harben). As time progressed, it transformed from what Stow describes as aplot of ground with very few houses into a densely populated area by the mid-seventeenth century (Stow; Harben).East Smithfield is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Alban (Wood Street) is mentioned in the following documents: - Tower Ditch The Tower Ditch, or Tower Moat, was part of the Tower of London’s medieval defences. It was built by the Bishop of Ely William de Longchamp while Richard I was crusading in the Holy Land (1187-1192) (Harben). The ditch was used as a dumping ground for plague victim corpses, human waste from the Tower, and meat carcasses from East Smithfield market.Tower Ditch is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Katherine’s Hospital St. Katherine’s Hospital was a religious hospital founded in 1148. According to Stow, the hospital was founded by Queen Matilda. The hospital, the grounds of which contained a church, gardens, orchards, and residences, was at the southern end of St. Katherine’s Lane and north of the St. Katherine Steps, all of which is east of the Tower of London. Stow praised the choir of the hospital, noting how itwas not much inferior to that of [St.] Paules [Cathedral] (Stow).St. Katherine’s Hospital is mentioned in the following documents: - The Elms (Smithfield) Located between Horsepool and the Fleet River, the Elms, as Stow notes, was a place of execution named after the once flourishing number of elm trees on site. Stow refers to the area asLe elmes orle two elmys. By Stow’s lifetime the expansion of London meant the namesake trees had been cut down.The Elms (Smithfield) is mentioned in the following documents: - Westminster Abbey Westminster Abbey was and continues to be a historically significant church. One of its many notable features isPoets’ Corner. Located in the south transept of the church, it is the final resting place of Geoffrey Chaucer, Ben Jonson, Francis Beaumont, and many other notable authors; in 1740, a monument for William Shakespeare was erected in Westminster Abbey (ShaLT). The church is located on the bottom-left corner of the Agas map.Westminster Abbey is mentioned in the following documents: - Newgate The gaol at Newgate, a western gate in the Roman Wall of London, was constructed in the twelfth century specifically to detainfellons and trespassors awaiting trial by royal judges (Durston 470; O’Donnell 25; Stow 1598, sig. C8r). The gradual centralisation of the English criminal justice system meant that by the reign of Elizabeth I, Newgate had become London’s most populated gaol. In the early modern period, incarceration was rarely conceived of as a punishment in itself; rather, gaols like Newgate were more like holding cells, where inmates spent time until their trials or punishments were effected, or their debts were paid off.Newgate is mentioned in the following documents: - Gutter Lane Gutter Lane ran north-south from Cheapside to Maiden Lane (Wood Street). It is to the west of Wood Street and to the east of Foster Lane, lying within the north-eastern most area of Farringdon Ward Within and serving as a boundary to Aldersgate ward. It is labelled asGoutter Lane on the Agas map.Gutter Lane is mentioned in the following documents: - King’s Exchange is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Paul’s Cathedral St. Paul’s Cathedral was—and remains—an important church in London. In 962, while London was occupied by the Danes, St. Paul’s monastery was burnt and raised anew. The church survived the Norman conquest of 1066, but in 1087 it was burnt again. An ambitious Bishop named Maurice took the opportunity to build a new St. Paul’s, even petitioning the king to offer a piece of land belonging to one of his castles (Times 115). The building Maurice initiated would become the cathedral of St. Paul’s which survived until the Great Fire of London.St. Paul’s Cathedral is mentioned in the following documents: - St. John’s of Jerusalem St. John’s of Jerusalem provided housing and care for pilgrims and crusading knights. It was held by the Knights Hospitallers and dissolved in the reign of Henry VIII (Stow 1598, sig. 2D7r).St. John’s of Jerusalem is mentioned in the following documents: - Tower Hill Tower Hill was a large area of open ground north and west of the Tower of London. It is most famous as a place of execution; there was a permanent scaffold and gallows on the hillfor the execution of such Traytors or Transgressors, as are deliuered out of the Tower, or otherwise to the Shiriffes of London (Stow).Tower Hill is mentioned in the following documents: - Westminster Hall Westminster Hall isthe only surviving part of the original Palace of Westminster (Weinreb and Hibbert 1011) and is located on the west side of the Thames. It is located on the bottom left-hand corner of the Agas map, and is labelled asWeſtmynſter hall. Originally built as an extension to Edward the Confessor’s palace in 1097, the hall served as the setting for banquets through the reigns of many kings.Westminster Hall is mentioned in the following documents: - London Bridge As the only bridge in London crossing the Thames until 1729, London Bridge was a focal point of the city. After its conversion from wood to stone, completed in 1209, the bridge housed a variety of structures, including a chapel and a growing number of shops. The bridge was famous for the cityʼs grisly practice of displaying traitorsʼ heads on poles above its gatehouses. Despite burning down multiple times, London Bridge was one of the few structures not entirely destroyed by the Great Fire of London in 1666.London Bridge is mentioned in the following documents: - Southwark is mentioned in the following documents: - Baynard’s Castle Located on the banks of the Thames, Baynard’s Castle was built sometime in the late eleventh centuryby Baynard, a Norman who came over with William the Conqueror (Weinreb and Hibbert 129). The castle passed to Baynard’s heirs until one William Baynard,who by forfeyture for fellonie, lost his Baronie of little Dunmow (Stow 1:61). From the time it was built, Baynard’s Castle wasthe headquarters of London’s army until the reign of Edward I when it washanded over to the Dominican Friars, the Blackfriars whose name is still commemorated along that part of the waterfront (Hibbert 10).Baynard’s Castle is mentioned in the following documents: - PLACEHOLDER LOCATION PLACEHOLDER LOCATION ITEM. The purpose of this item is to allow encoders to link to a location item when they cannot add a new location file for some reason. MoEML may still be seeking information regarding this entry. If you have information to contribute, please contact the MoEML team.PLACEHOLDER LOCATION is mentioned in the following documents: - Guildhall is mentioned in the following documents: - Bishop’s Palace Bishop’s Palace was located on the north-west side of St. Paul’s Church. It was bordered on the north by Paternoster Row and on the west by Ave Maria Lane. Agas coordinates are based on coordinates provided by Harben and supplemented by Stow.Bishop’s Palace is mentioned in the following documents: - Montfichet’s Tower is mentioned in the following documents: - Blackfriars Monastery is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Bride is mentioned in the following documents: - Bridewell Bridewell was a prison and hospital. The site was originally a royal palace (Bridewell Palace) but was transferred to the City of London in 1553, when it was converted to function as an orphanage and house of correction. Bridewell is located on the Agas map at the corner of the Thames and Fleet Ditch, labelled asBride Well. Bridewell is mentioned in the following documents: - Fleet Street Fleet Street runs east-west from Temple Bar to Fleet Hill or Ludgate Hill, and is named for the Fleet River. The road has existed since at least the twelfth century (Sugden 195) and known since the fourteenth century as Fleet Street (Beresford 26). It was the location of numerous taverns including the Mitre and the Star and the Ram.Fleet Street is mentioned in the following documents: - Redcross Street is mentioned in the following documents: - Barbican Tower Barbican Tower was a watchtower or barbican to the northeast of the London Wall. According to Stow, Henry III ordered the tower’s demolition in 1267 in response to the Second Barons’ War (Stow 1598, sig. E2v), though Harben suggests that the tower was later rebuilt (Harben). The site was granted to Robert Efforde in 1336 and became Barbican Manor (Stow 1598, sig. E2v).Barbican Tower is mentioned in the following documents: - City Ditch The city ditch was part of London’s medieval defence system that ran along the outside of the wall from the Tower to Fleet River. According to Stow, the ditch was referred to as Houndsditch becausemuch filth (conveyed forth of the Citie) especially dead dogs, were there laid or cast (Stow 1633, sig. M1v). The ditch was filled in and covered with garden plots by the time of Stow’s 1598 Survey.City Ditch is mentioned in the following documents: - Barbican Barbican was a historically significant street that ran east-west, connecting Aldersgate Street in the west with Redcross Street and Golden Lane in the east. Barbican wasmore then halfe contained by Cripplegate Ward, with the rest lying within Aldersgate Ward (Stow 1:291). The street is labeled on the Agas map asBarbican. Barbican is mentioned in the following documents: - Parish of St. Giles (Cripplegate) is mentioned in the following documents: - Tower Royal is mentioned in the following documents: - Parish of St. Michael Paternoster Royal is mentioned in the following documents: - Vintry Ward Vintry Ward is west of Dowgate Ward. The ward is named after the Vintners’ Company and the Vintry,a part of the banks of the Riuer of Thames within Vintry Ward used by the merchants of Bordeaux for the transporting and selling of their wines (Stow 1603).Vintry Ward is mentioned in the following documents: Organizations - Court of Aldermen The Court of Aldermen was composed of senior officials known asaldermen, who were each elected to represent one ward of London. The Mayor of London oversaw the Court of Aldermen and was himself an alderman. Historically, the Court of Aldermen was the primary administrative body for the Corporation of London; however, by the early modern period, many of its responsibilities had been transferred to the Court of Common Council. The Court of Aldermen exists today in a somewhat modified form.This organization is mentioned in the following documents: - Court of King’s Bench The Court of King’s Bench was the senior court of English common law. Originally, it travelled with the King. From 1318 to 1882, it met at the south end of Westminster Hall (Baker 42). For an accessible overview, see Wikipedia. The records surviving from King’s Bench cases are held at the National Archives.This organization is mentioned in the following documents: - Roles played in the project - First Encoders - Transcriber This organization is mentioned in the following documents: - - The MoEML Team These are all MoEML team members since 1999 to present. To see the current members and structure of our team, seeTeam. - Former Student Contributors We’d also like to acknowledge students who contributed to MoEML’s intranet predecessor at the University of Windsor between 1999 and 2003. When we redeveloped MoEML for the Internet in 2006, we were not able to include all of the student projects that had been written for courses in Shakespeare, Renaissance Drama, and/or Writing Hypertext. Nonetheless, these students contributed materially to the conceptual development of the project. Roles played in the project - Author - Data Manager - Researcher Contributions by this author This organization is mentioned in the following documents: - University of Victoria The University of Victoria, writ large. Located in Victoria, BC, Canada. Website.This organization is mentioned in the following documents:


--- [Survey of London (1633): Towers and Castles - MoEML] ---
Survey of London (1633): Towers and Castles This document is currently in draft. When it has been reviewed and proofed, it will be published on the site. Please note that it is not of publishable quality yet. Of Towers and Castles. THE Citie of London (saith Fitzstephen) hath in the East, ry great, and a most strong Palatine Tow er, whose Turrets and Wals doe rise from a deepe foundation, the mortar thereof being tempred with the blood of beasts. In the West part are two most strong Castles, &c. (saith Fitzstephen) hath in the East, The Tow er of Lon don. a veer of Lon don. ry great, and a most strong Palatine Tow er, whose Turrets and Wals doe rise from a deepe foundation, the mortar thereof being tempred with the blood of beasts. In the West part are two most strong Castles, &c. To begin therefore with the most fa mous Tower of London, situate in the East, neere unto the River of Thames; it hath beene the common opinion, and some have written, (but of none assured ground) that Iulius Cæsar, the first Con querour of the Britaines, was the origi nall Author and Founder, aswell there of, as also of many other Towers, Ca stles, Realme. But (as I have already before noted) Cæsar remained not here so long, nor had he in his head any such matter; but onely to dispatch a conquest of this barbarous Countrey, and to proceed to greater matters. Neither doe the Ro mane Writers make mention of any such buildings erected by him here. mous Tower of London, situate in the East, neere unto the River of Thames; it hath beene the common opinion, and some have written, (but of none assured ground) that Iulius Cæsar, the first Con querour of the Britaines, was the origi nall Author and Founder, aswell there of, as also of many other Towers, Ca stles, In my An nales. and great buildings within this nales. Realme. But (as I have already before noted) Cæsar remained not here so long, nor had he in his head any such matter; but onely to dispatch a conquest of this barbarous Countrey, and to proceed to greater matters. Neither doe the Ro mane Writers make mention of any such buildings erected by him here. And therefore leaving this, and pro ceeding to more grounded authority, I finde in a faire Register Booke, con taining the acts of the Bishops of Roche ster, set downe by Edmund de Hadenham: that William the first, surnamed Conque rour, builded the Tower of London; wit, the great white and square Tower there, about the yeere of Christ, 1078. appoin ting Gundulph then Bishop of Rochester to be principall Surveyor and Overseer of that worke; who was (for that time) lodged in the house of Edmere, a Burgesse of Lon don. The very words of which mine Author are these in Latine: ceeding to more grounded authority, I finde in a faire Register Booke, con taining the acts of the Bishops of Roche ster, set downe by Edmund de Hadenham: that William the first, surnamed Conque rour, builded the Tower of London; Tower of London built by W. Cōquerour, namely the white Tower. to wit, the great white and square Tower there, about the yeere of Christ, 1078. appoin ting Gundulph then Bishop of Rochester to be principall Surveyor and Overseer of that worke; who was (for that time) lodged in the house of Edmere, a Burgesse of Lon don. The very words of which mine Author are these in Latine: Gundulphus Episcopus, mandato Wil lielmi Regis magni præfuit operi magnæ Turris London, quo tempore hospitatus est apud quendā Edmerum, Burgensem Lon don, qui dedit unum Were Ecclesiæ Rof fen. lielmi Regis magni præfuit operi magnæ Turris London, quo tempore hospitatus est apud quendā Edmerum, Burgensem Lon don, qui dedit unum Were Ecclesiæ Rof fen. Ye have before heard, that the wall of this Citie was all round about furni shed with Towers and Bulwarkes, in due distance every one from other, and also that the River of Thames, with her ebbing and flowing, on the South-side, had subverted the said Wall, and Tow ers there. Wherefore King William, for defence of this Citie, in place most dan gerous, and open to the enemy, having taken downe the second Bulwarke in the East part of the Wall, from the Thames, builded this Tower, which was the great square Tower, now called the white Tower; and hath beene since (at divers times) enlarged with other buil dings adjoyning, as shall bee shewed. This Tower was by tempest of wind sore shaken, in the yeere 1092. the 4. of Wil. Rufus, and was againe, by the said Rufus and Henry the first repaired. They al so caused a Castle to be built under the said Tower; toward the Thames, and also incastella ted the same round about. of this Citie was all round about furni shed with Towers and Bulwarkes, in due distance every one from other, and also that the River of Thames, with her ebbing and flowing, on the South-side, had subverted the said Wall, and Tow ers there. Wherefore King William, for defence of this Citie, in place most dan gerous, and open to the enemy, having taken downe the second Bulwarke in the East part of the Wall, from the Thames, builded this Tower, which was the great square Tower, now called the white Tower; and hath beene since (at divers times) enlarged with other buil dings adjoyning, as shall bee shewed. This Tower was by tempest of wind sore shaken, in the yeere 1092. the 4. of Wil. Rufus, and was againe, by the said Rufus and Henry the first repaired. They al so caused a Castle to be built under the said Tower; Castle by the Tower builded. namely, on the South-side toward the Thames, and also incastella ted the same round about. Henry Huntington, libro sexto, hath these words: William Rufus challenged the investure of Prebates, he pilled and sha ved the people with Tribute, especially to spend about the Tower of London, and the great Hall at Westminster. these words: William Rufus challenged the investure of Prebates, he pilled and sha ved the people with Tribute, especially to spend Towers and Castles. spend about the Tower of London, and the great Hall at Westminster. Othowerus, Acolinillus, Otto; and Gef frey Magnaville Earle of Essex, were 4. the first Constables of this Tower of London by succession: all which held by force, a portion of Land (that pertained to the Priorie of the holy Trinity within Ealdgate) that is to say, neere unto the Tower, making thereof a Vineyard, and would not depart from it, when the same was adiudged and resto red to the Church. frey Magnaville Earle of Essex, were 4. the first Constables of this Tower of London by succession: all which held by force, a portion of Land (that pertained to the Priorie of the holy Trinity within Ealdgate) that is to say, Eastsmith field a Vineyard. Eastsmithfield, field a Vineyard. neere unto the Tower, making thereof a Vineyard, and would not depart from it, Ex Charta. till the second yeere of King Stephen, when the same was adiudged and resto red to the Church. This Geffrey Magnaville was Earle of Essex, Constable of the Tower, Shiriffe of London, Middlesex, Essex, and Hert fordshire, as appeareth by a Charter of Maude the Empresse, 1141. Hee also fortified the Tower of London against King Stephen; but the King tooke him in his Court at S. Albanes, and would not deliver him, till he had rendred the Tower of London, with the Castles of Walden and Plashey in Essex. Essex, Constable of the Tower, Shiriffe of London, Middlesex, Essex, and Hert fordshire, as appeareth by a Charter of Maude the Empresse, 1141. Hee also fortified the Tower of London against King Stephen; but the King tooke him in his Court at S. Albanes, and would not deliver him, till he had rendred the Tower of London, with the Castles of Walden and Plashey in Essex. In the yeere 1153. the Tower of Lon don and the Castle of Windsore were by the King delivered to Richard de Lucie, to be safely kept. don and the Castle of Windsore were by the King delivered to Richard de Lucie, to be safely kept. In the yeere 1155. Thomas Becket, be ing Chancellour to Henry the second, caused the Flemmings to be banished out of England, their Castles lately builded, to be pulled downe, and the Tower of London to be repaired. ing Chancellour to Henry the second, caused the Flemmings to be banished out of England, their Castles lately builded, to be pulled downe, and the Tower of London to be repaired. About the yeere 1190. the second of Richard the first, William Longshampe, Bi shop of Ely, Chancelour of England, for cause of dissention betwixt him and the Earle Iohn, the Kings Brother, that was Rebell; inclosed the Tower and Castle of London with an outward wall of stone embattailed; and also caused a deepe Ditch1 to be cast about the same, thin king (as I have said before) to have en vironed it with the River of Thames. By making of this inclosure and ditch in Eastsmithfield, the Church of the holy Trinity in London, lost halfe a mark rent by the yeere; and the Mill was remo ved, that belonged to the poore bre thren of the Hospitall of S. Katherine, and to the Church of the holy Trinitie aforesaid; which was no small losse and discommodity to either part. And the Garden, which the King had hyred of the brethren for sixe markes the yeere, for the most part was wasted and mar red by the ditch. Recompence was of ten promised, but never performed, till King Edward comming after, gave to the Brethren five Markes and an halfe, for that part which the ditch had de voured: and the other part thereof without he yeelded them againe, which they hold; and of the said rent of five Markes and an halfe, they have a Deed, by vertue whereof they are well paid to this day. Richard the first, William Longshampe, Bi shop of Ely, Chancelour of England, for cause of dissention betwixt him and the Earle Iohn, the Kings Brother, that was Rebell; inclosed the Tower and Castle of London with an outward wall of stone embattailed; and also caused a deepe Ditch1 to be cast about the same, thin king (as I have said before) to have en vironed it with the River of Thames. By making of this inclosure and ditch in Eastsmithfield, the Church of the holy Trinity in London, lost halfe a mark rent by the yeere; and the Mill was remo ved, that belonged to the poore bre thren of the Hospitall of S. Katherine, and to the Church of the holy Trinitie aforesaid; which was no small losse and discommodity to either part. And the Garden, which the King had hyred of the brethren for sixe markes the yeere, for the most part was wasted and mar red by the ditch. Recompence was of ten promised, but never performed, till King Edward comming after, gave to the Brethren five Markes and an halfe, for that part which the ditch had de voured: and the other part thereof without he yeelded them againe, which they hold; and of the said rent of five Markes and an halfe, they have a Deed, by vertue whereof they are well paid to this day. It is also to be noted, and cannot bee denyed, but that the said inclosure and ditch, tooke the like or greater quanti ty of ground from the Citie within the VVall; namely, on that part called the Tower Hill, besides breaking downe of the Citie VVall, from the white Tower to the first Gate of the Citie, called the Posterne. Yet have I not read of any quarrell made by the Citizens, or re compence demanded by them for that matter; because all was done for good of the Cities defence thereby, and to their good likings. denyed, but that the said inclosure and ditch, tooke the like or greater quanti ty of ground from the Citie within the VVall; namely, on that part called the Tower Hill, besides breaking downe of the Citie VVall, from the white Tower to the first Gate of the Citie, called the Posterne. Yet have I not read of any quarrell made by the Citizens, or re compence demanded by them for that matter; because all was done for good of the Cities defence thereby, and to their good likings. But Matthew Paris writeth, that in the yeere 1239. King Henry the third fortified the Tower of London to another end; that was done to their detriment, complai ned, and the King answered: That hee had not done it to their hurt; But (saith he) I will from henceforth doe as my brother doth, in building and fortifying Castles, who bea reth the name to be wiser than I am. the yeere 1239. King Henry the third fortified the Tower of London to another end; Bulwarkes of the Tower builded. wherefore the Citizens fearing, lest that was done to their detriment, complai ned, and the King answered: That hee had not done it to their hurt; But (saith he) I will from henceforth doe as my brother doth, in building and fortifying Castles, who bea reth the name to be wiser than I am. It followed in the next yeere, (saith mine Author) the said Noble buildings of the stone Gate and Bulwarke, which the King had caused to be made by the Tower of London, on the West side thereof, was sha ken as it had beene with an Earthquake, and fell downe; which the King againe comman ded to be built in better sort than before, which was done. mine Author) the said Noble buildings of the stone Gate and Bulwarke, which the King had caused to be made by the Tower of London, on the West side thereof, was sha ken as it had beene with an Earthquake, and fell downe; which the King againe comman ded to be built in better sort than before, which was done. And yet againe, in the yeere 1241. the said Wall and Bulwarkes that were newly builded, more than twelve thousand Markes, were unrecoverably quite throwne downe, as a fore: for the which chance, the Citizens of London were nothing sorry: for they were threatned, that the said wall and Bulwarkes were builded, to the end, that if any of them would contend for the liberties of the Citie, they might be imprisoned: And that many might be laid in divers prisons, many lod gings were made, that no one should speake with another. said Wall and Bulwarkes that were newly builded, Wall and Bulwarkes againe fall downe, and new builded. wherein the King had bestowed more than twelve thousand Markes, were unrecoverably quite throwne downe, as a fore: for the which chance, the Citizens of London were nothing sorry: for they were threatned, that the said wall and Bulwarkes were builded, to the end, that if any of them would contend for the liberties of the Citie, E3 they Towers and Castles. they might be imprisoned: And that many might be laid in divers prisons, many lod gings were made, that no one should speake with another. Thus much Matthew Paris avoucheth for this building. for this building. More of Henry the third his dealings against the Citizens of London, we may read in the said Author, in 1245. 1248. 1249. 1253. 1255. 1256. &c. But con cerning the said Wall and Bulwarke, the same was finished, though not in his time. For I read, That Edward the first, in the second of his reigne, commanded the Treasurer and Chamberlaine of the Ex chequer, to deliver out of his Treasurie, un to Miles of Andwarp, 200. Markes, of the fines taken of divers Merchants, surers of London (for so be the words of the Record) toward the worke of the ditch,2 then new made about the said Bulwarke;3 now called the Lion Tower. against the Citizens of London, we may read in the said Author, in 1245. 1248. 1249. 1253. 1255. 1256. &c. But con cerning the said Wall and Bulwarke, the same was finished, though not in his time. For I read, That Edward the first, in the second of his reigne, commanded the Treasurer and Chamberlaine of the Ex chequer, to deliver out of his Treasurie, un to Miles of Andwarp, 200. Markes, of the fines taken of divers Merchants, Ditch made a bout the Bulwarke, without the West gate of the Tower. or Vbout the Bulwarke, without the West gate of the Tower. surers of London (for so be the words of the Record) toward the worke of the ditch,2 then new made about the said Bulwarke;3 now called the Lion Tower. I find also recorded, that Henry the third, in the 46. of his reigne, wrote to Edward of Westminster, commanding him, That hee should buy certaine Perie Plants, and set the same in the place without his Tower of London, the ninth of Edward the second. third, in the 46. of his reigne, wrote to Edward of Westminster, commanding him, That hee should buy certaine Perie Plants, and set the same in the place without his Tower of London, the ninth of Edward the second. Edward the fourth in place whereof builded a wall of Bricke. But now for the Lion-Tower, and Lions in England, the originall, as I have read, was thus: builded a wall of Bricke. But now for the Lion-Tower, and Lions in England, the originall, as I have read, was thus: Henry the first builded the Mannor of Woodstocke, walled about with stone, seven miles in compasse, destroying for the same, di vers Villages, Churches and Chappels, and this was the first Parke in England; the words of the Record are these fol lowing: He appointed therein (beside great store of Decre) divers strange beasts, to be kept and nourished, such as were brought to him from far Countries; as Lions, Leo pards, Linxes, Porpentines, and such other: For such was his estimation among outlan dish Princes, that few would willingly of This text is the corrected text. The original is s (JZ)fend him. of Woodstocke, First Parke in England. with a Parke which hee walled about with stone, seven miles in compasse, destroying for the same, di vers Villages, Churches and Chappels, and this was the first Parke in England; the words of the Record are these fol lowing: He appointed therein (beside great store of Decre) divers strange beasts, to be kept and nourished, such as were brought to him from far Countries; as Lions, Leo pards, Linxes, Porpentines, and such other: For such was his estimation among outlan dish Princes, that few would willingly of This text is the corrected text. The original is s (JZ)fend him. Lions in Woodstocke Parke. More I read, that in the yeere 1235. Fredericke the Emperour sent to Henry the third, three Leopards, in token of his regall Shield of Armes, wherein three Leopards were pictured: since which time, those Lions, and others, have beene kept in a part of this Bul warke, now called the Lion Tower, and their keeper there lodged. King Edward the second, in the twelfth yeere of his reigne, commanded the Sheriffes of London, to pay the keeper of the Kings Leopards in the Tower of London, 6. d the day, for the sustenance of the Leo pards; and three halfe-pence a day, for dyet of the said keeper, out of the fee-farme of the said Citie. Fredericke the Emperour sent to Henry the third, three Leopards, in token of his regall Shield of Armes, wherein three Leopards were pictured: since which time, those Lions, and others, have beene kept in a part of this Bul warke, now called the Lion Tower, and their keeper there lodged. King Edward the second, in the twelfth yeere of his reigne, commanded the Sheriffes of London, to pay the keeper of the Kings Leopards in the Tower of London, 6. d the day, for the sustenance of the Leo pards; and three halfe-pence a day, for dyet of the said keeper, out of the fee-farme of the said Citie. More, the 16. of Edward the third, one Lion, one Lionesse, one Leopard, and two Cattes Lions, in the said Tow er, were committed to the custody of Robert, the sonne of Iohn Bowre. one Lion, one Lionesse, one Leopard, and two Cattes Lions, in the said Tow er, were committed to the custody of Robert, the sonne of Iohn Bowre. Edward the fourth fortified the Tow er of London, (as is aforesaid) a certaine piece of ground, taken out of the Tower hill, west from the Lion Tower, now called the Bulwarke. His Officers also, in the fifth of his reigne, set upon the said Hill both Scaffold and Gallowes, for the ex ecution of offenders; whereupon the Maior & his brethren cōplained to the King, and were answered, that the same was not done in derogation of the Ci ties Liberties; and therefore caused proclamation to be made, &c. as shall be shewed in Towerstreet. er of London, Edw. the 4. builded bulwarks without the Tower and inclosed with Bricke (as is aforesaid) a certaine piece of ground, taken out of the Tower hill, west from the Lion Tower, now called the Bulwarke. His Officers also, in the fifth of his reigne, set upon the said Hill both Scaffold and Gallowes, for the ex ecution of offenders; whereupon the Maior & his brethren cōplained to the King, and were answered, that the same was not done in derogation of the Ci ties Liberties; and therefore caused proclamation to be made, &c. as shall be shewed in Towerstreet. In the yeere 1548. the second of Ed ward the sixth, on the 22. of November, in the night, a Frenchman lodged in the round Bulwarke, betwixt the West Gate and the Posterne, or draw bridge, called the Warders Gate, by setting fire on a barrell of Gunpowder, said Bulwarke, burnt himselfe, and no moe persons. This Bulwarke was again forthwith new builded. ward the sixth, on the 22. of November, in the night, a Frenchman lodged in the round Bulwarke, betwixt the West Gate and the Posterne, or draw bridge, called the Warders Gate, by setting fire on a barrell of Gunpowder, A bulwark of the To wer blown up. blew up the wer blown up. said Bulwarke, burnt himselfe, and no moe persons. This Bulwarke was again forthwith new builded. And here, because I have (by occasi on) spoken of the west gate of this Tow er; the same (as the most principall) is used for the receipt and delivery of all kindes of carriages; Gate, be divers Bulwarkes and Gates, turning towards the North, &c. Then neere within this West gate, opening to the South, is a strong Posterne for passengers, by the Ward-house, over a draw-bridge, let downe for that pur pose. Next, on the same South side, to ward the East, is a large water-gate, for receipt of Boats and small vessels, partly under a stone bridge, from the River of Thames. Beyond it is a small Posterne, with a draw-bridge, seldome let down, but for the receipt of some great per sons, prisoners. Then towards the East is a great and strong Gate, commonly called the Iron gate, but not usually o pened. And thus much for the founda tion, building, and repairing of this Tower, with the Gates and Posternes, may suffice. And now somewhat of ac cidents in the same, shall be shewed. on) spoken of the west gate of this Tow er; the same (as the most principall) is used for the receipt and delivery of all kindes of carriages; Gates and Posternes of the Tower. without the which Gate, be divers Bulwarkes and Gates, turning towards the North, &c. Then neere within this West gate, opening to the South, is a strong Posterne for passengers, by the Ward-house, over a draw-bridge, let downe for that pur pose. Next, on the same South side, to ward the East, is a large water-gate, for receipt Towers and Castles. receipt of Boats and small vessels, partly under a stone bridge, from the River of Thames. Beyond it is a small Posterne, with a draw-bridge, seldome let down, but for the receipt of some great per sons, prisoners. Then towards the East is a great and strong Gate, commonly called the Iron gate, but not usually o pened. And thus much for the founda tion, building, and repairing of this Tower, with the Gates and Posternes, may suffice. And now somewhat of ac cidents in the same, shall be shewed. In the yeere 1196. a Citizen of London, seditiously moving the common people to seeke liberty, and not to be subject to the rich and more mighty; at length was taken, and brought before the Archbishop of Can terbury in the Tower, the Judges condemned, and by the heeles drawne thence to the Elmes in Smithfield, and there hanged. Actions of the Tower William Fitzosbert, a Citizen of London, seditiously moving the common people to seeke liberty, and not to be subject to the rich and more mighty; at length was taken, and brought before the Archbishop of Can terbury in the Tower, Iustices sate in the Tower. where he was by the Judges condemned, and by the heeles drawne thence to the Elmes in Smithfield, and there hanged. 1214. King Iohn wrote unto Geffrey Magnaville, London, with the Prisoners, Armour, and all other things sound therein, be longing to the King; to William, Arch deacon of Huntington. Magnaville, Patent the 15. of King Iohn. to deliver the Tower of London, with the Prisoners, Armour, and all other things sound therein, be longing to the King; to William, Arch deacon of Huntington. The yeere 1216. the first of Henry the third, the said Tower was delivered to Lewes of France, and the Barons of England. the third, the said Tower was delivered to Lewes of France, and the Barons of England. In the yeere 1206. Plees of the Crown were pleaded in the Tower: the yeere 1220. and likewise in the yeere 1224. and againe in the yeere 1243. before William of Yorke, Richard Passelew,4 Henry Brahe,5 Ierome of Saxton, Justicers. were pleaded in the Tower: Plees of the crown pleaded in the Tower likewise in the yeere 1220. and likewise in the yeere 1224. and againe in the yeere 1243. before William of Yorke, Richard Passelew,4 Henry Brahe,5 Ierome of Saxton, Justicers. In the yeere 1222. the Citizens of London having made a tumult against the Abbot of Westminster; Hubert of Burgh, chiefe Justice of England, came to the Tower of London, and called be fore him the Maior and Aldermen, of whom hee inquired for the principall Authors of that sedition: Amongst whom, ulfe avowed, that he was the man, and had done much lesse than he thought to have done. Whereupon, the Justice sent him (with two other) to Falks de Brent, who with armed men brought them to the Gallowes, where they were hanged. London having made a tumult against the Abbot of Westminster; Hubert of Burgh, chiefe Justice of England, came to the Tower of London, and called be fore him the Maior and Aldermen, of whom hee inquired for the principall Authors of that sedition: Amongst whom, Constantine Fitz Ael ulfe hang’d one named Constantine Fitz Aelulfe hang’d ulfe avowed, that he was the man, and had done much lesse than he thought to have done. Whereupon, the Justice sent him (with two other) to Falks de Brent, who with armed men brought them to the Gallowes, where they were hanged. In the yeere 1244. sonne of Leoline, Prince of Wales, being kept prisoner in the Tower, devised meanes of escape; and having (in the night) made of the hangings, sheets, &c. a long line, he put himselfe downe from the top of the Tower. But in the sliding, the weight of his body, being a very bigge and a fat man, brake the Rope, and he fell on his necke, and brake his necke withall: whose miserable carkas, being found in the morning by the Tower wall, was a most pitifull sight to the beholders: for his head and necke were driven into his brest, between both the shoulders. The King hearing there of, punished the watch-men, and cau sed Griffiths sonne, that was imprisoned with his Father, to bee more straitly kept. Griffith of Wales fell from the Tower. Griffith the eldest sonne of Leoline, Prince of Wales, being kept prisoner in the Tower, devised meanes of escape; and having (in the night) made of the hangings, sheets, &c. a long line, he put himselfe downe from the top of the Tower. But in the sliding, the weight of his body, being a very bigge and a fat man, brake the Rope, and he fell on his necke, and brake his necke withall: whose miserable carkas, being found in the morning by the Tower wall, was a most pitifull sight to the beholders: for his head and necke were driven into his brest, between both the shoulders. The King hearing there of, punished the watch-men, and cau sed Griffiths sonne, that was imprisoned with his Father, to bee more straitly kept. In the yeere 1253. King Henry the third imprisoned the Sheriffes of Lon don in the Tower more than a moneth, for the escape of a prisoner out of New gate, as ye may read in the Chapter of Gates. third imprisoned the Sheriffes of Lon don in the Tower more than a moneth, for the escape of a prisoner out of New gate, as ye may read in the Chapter of Gates. In the yeere 1260. King Henry, with his Queene6 (for feare of the Barons) were lodged in the Tower. The next yeere he sent for his Lords, and held his Parliament there. his Queene6 (for feare of the Barons) were lodged in the Tower. The next yeere he sent for his Lords, and held his Parliament there. In the yeere 1263. when the Queene would have removed from the Tower by water, towards Windsore, sundry Lon doners got them together to the Bridge,7 under the which she was to passe, and not onely cryed out upon her with re prochfull words, but also threw mire and stones at her, by which she was con strained to returne for the time. But in the yeere 1265. the said Citizens were faine to submit themselves to the King for it, and the Maior, Aldermen, and Sheriffes were sent to divers prisons, and a Custos also was set over the Ci tie; to wit, Othon, Constable of the Tower, &c. would have removed from the Tower by water, towards Windsore, sundry Lon doners got them together to the Bridge,7 under the which she was to passe, and not onely cryed out upon her with re prochfull words, but also threw mire and stones at her, by which she was con strained to returne for the time. But in the yeere 1265. the said Citizens were faine to submit themselves to the King for it, and the Maior, Aldermen, and Sheriffes were sent to divers prisons, and a Custos also was set over the Ci tie; to wit, Othon, Constable of the Tower, &c. Leoline Prince of Wales, came downe from the Mountaine of Snowdon, to Mountgomery, and was taken at Bluith Castle: where using reprochfull words against the Englishmen, Roger le Strange ran in upon him, and with the Sword wherewith he was girt, cut off his head, leaving his dead bodie on the ground. Sir Roger Mortimer caused the head of this Leoline to be set upon the Tower of London, crowned with a wreath of I vie. Such was the end of Leoline, be trayed by the men of Bluith: And this was the last Prince of the Britaines blood, that bare rule and dominion in Wales. from the Mountaine of Snowdon, to Mountgomery, and was taken at Bluith Castle: where using reprochfull words against the Englishmen, Roger le Strange ran in upon him, and with the Sword wherewith he was girt, cut off his head, leaving his dead bodie on the ground. Sir Roger Mortimer caused the head of this Towers and Castles. this Leoline to be set upon the Tower of London, crowned with a wreath of I vie. Such was the end of Leoline, be trayed by the men of Bluith: And this was the last Prince of the Britaines blood, that bare rule and dominion in Wales. In the yeere 1290. divers Justices, as well of the Bench, as of the Assises, were sent prisoners to the Tower, which with great summes of money redeemed their liberty. well of the Bench, as of the Assises, were sent prisoners to the Tower, which with great summes of money redeemed their liberty. Sir Thomas Weyland had all his goods, both moveable and unmoveable, confis cated, and himselfe banished. Sir Rafe Hengham, chiefe Justice of the higher Bench, offered seven thousand Markes: Sir Iohn Lovelet, Justice of the lower Bench, three thousand Markes. Sir Wil liam Bromtone, Justice, sixe thousand Markes. Of their Clarkes, for their re demption; of Robert Littlebury, 1000. Markes; and of Roger Leicester, 1000. Markes: And of a certaine Clarke of the Courts, called Adam de Straton, 32000. Markes, of old money and new; beside Jewels (without number) and precious vessels of Silver, which were found in his house, and a Kings Crown, which some men said was King Iohns. Moreover, the King constrained the Ju stices to sweare, that (from thenceforth) they should take no pension, fee or gift of any man, except onely a breakfast or such like present. Adam Meri. chro. Dun. Rad. Bald. Sca. Chro. Io. Rouse. both moveable and unmoveable, confis cated, and himselfe banished. Sir Rafe Hengham, chiefe Justice of the higher Bench, offered seven thousand Markes: Sir Iohn Lovelet, Justice of the lower Bench, three thousand Markes. Sir Wil liam Bromtone, Justice, sixe thousand Markes. Of their Clarkes, for their re demption; of Robert Littlebury, 1000. Markes; and of Roger Leicester, 1000. Markes: And of a certaine Clarke of the Courts, called Adam de Straton, 32000. Markes, of old money and new; beside Jewels (without number) and precious vessels of Silver, which were found in his house, and a Kings Crown, which some men said was King Iohns. Moreover, the King constrained the Ju stices to sweare, that (from thenceforth) they should take no pension, fee or gift of any man, except onely a breakfast or such like present. Edward 2. the 14. of his reigne, ap pointed for prisoners in the Tower, a Knight, 2. d. the day, an Esquire, 1. d. the day, to serve for their dyet. pointed for prisoners in the Tower, a Knight, 2. d. the day, an Esquire, 1. d. the day, to serve for their dyet. In the yeere 1320. the Kings Justices sate in the Tower, for tryall of matters: whereupon, Iohn Gissors, late Maior of London, and many other, fled the City, for feare to be charged of things which they had presumptuously done. sate in the Tower, for tryall of matters: whereupon, Iohn Gissors, late Maior of London, and many other, fled the City, for feare to be charged of things which they had presumptuously done. In the yeere 1321. the Mortimers yeelding themselves to the King, hee sent them prisoners to the Tower, where they remained long, and were judged to be drawne and hanged. yeelding themselves to the King, hee sent them prisoners to the Tower, where they remained long, and were judged to be drawne and hanged. But at length, Roger Mortimer of Wig more, by giving his Keepers a sleepy drinke, escaped out of the Tower, and his Vnckle Roger being still kept, there dyed about five yeeres after. more, by giving his Keepers a sleepy drinke, escaped out of the Tower, and his Vnckle Roger being still kept, there dyed about five yeeres after. In the yeere 1326. the Citizens of London wanne the Tower, wresting the keyes out of the Constables hands, deli vered all the prisoners, and kept both the Citie and Tower to the use of Isabel. the Queene, and Edward her sonne. London wanne the Tower, wresting the keyes out of the Constables hands, deli vered all the prisoners, and kept both the Citie and Tower to the use of Isabel. the Queene, and Edward her sonne. In the yeere 1330. Roger Mortimer, Earle of March, was taken and brought to the Tower, from whence hee was drawne to the Elmes, and there hanged on the common Gallowes, where hee hung two dayes and two nights by the Kings commandement, and then was buried in the Gray Fryers Church. Hee was condemned by his Peeres, and yet never was brought to answer before them. For it was not then the custome, after the death of the Earles of Lanca ster, Winchester, Glocester, & Kent: wher fore this Earle had that law himselfe, which before hee had appointed for o thers. Earle of March, was taken and brought to the Tower, from whence hee was drawne to the Elmes, and there hanged on the common Gallowes, where hee hung two dayes and two nights by the Kings commandement, and then was buried in the Gray Fryers Church. Hee was condemned by his Peeres, and yet never was brought to answer before them. For it was not then the custome, after the death of the Earles of Lanca ster, Winchester, Glocester, & Kent: wher fore this Earle had that law himselfe, which before hee had appointed for o thers. In the yeere 1344. King Edward the third, in the 18. yeere of his reigne, commanded Florences of Gold to bee made, and coyned in the Tower; that is to say, a penny a peece, of the value of 6. shillings and eight pence; the halfe penny peece, of the value of 3. shillings and foure pence; and a farthing peece, worth 20. pence. Percevall de Port of Lake, being then Master of the coine. And this is the first coyning of Gold in the Tower, whereof I read, and also the first coynage of Gold in England. third, in the 18. yeere of his reigne, A Mint in the Tow er, Floren ces of gold coyned there. er, Floren ces of gold coyned there. commanded Florences of Gold to bee made, and coyned in the Tower; that is to say, a penny a peece, of the value of 6. shillings and eight pence; the halfe penny peece, of the value of 3. shillings and foure pence; and a farthing peece, worth 20. pence. Percevall de Port of Lake, being then Master of the coine. And this is the first coyning of Gold in the Tower, whereof I read, and also the first coynage of Gold in England. I finde also recorded, that the said King, Exchange of money to be kept in Sernes Tower, a part of the Kings house in Buckles Bury. And here, to digresse a little (by occasion offered) I finde, that in times before passed, all great summes were paid by weight of gold or silver, as so many pounds, so many pounds or markes of gold, cut into blankes, and not stamped, as I could prove by many good authorities, which I overpasse. The smaller summes also were paid in starlings, which were pence so called: for other coynes they had none. King, The Kings exchange in Buckles bury. in the ſame yeere, ordained his Exchange of money to be kept in Sernes Tower, a part of the Kings house in Buckles Bury. And here, to digresse a little (by occasion offered) I finde, that in times before passed, all great summes were paid by weight of gold or silver, as so many pounds, Round plates, cal led blanks, delivered by weight, Argent. and Pecunia, af ter called Easterling. or markes of silver, or led blanks, delivered by weight, Argent. and Pecunia, af ter called Easterling. so many pounds or markes of gold, cut into blankes, and not stamped, as I could prove by many good authorities, which I overpasse. The smaller summes also were paid in starlings, which were pence so called: for other coynes they had none. The antiquity of this starling penny usually in this Realme, is from the reigne of Henry the second: notwithstanding the Saxon coynes (before the Conquest) were pence of fine silver, the full weight and somewhat better than the latter starlings, as I have tryed by conference of the pence of Burghrede King of Mer cia, Ælfred, Edward, and Edelred, Kings of the West Saxons, Plegmond Archbi shop of Canterbury, and others. usually in this Realme, is from the reigne of Henry the second: notwithstanding the Saxon coynes (before the Conquest) were pence of fine silver, the full weight and somewhat better than the latter starlings, Towers and Castles. starlings, as I have tryed by conference of the pence of Burghrede King of Mer cia, Ælfred, Edward, and Edelred, Kings of the West Saxons, Plegmond Archbi shop of Canterbury, and others. William the Conquerours penny also was fine silver, of the weight of the Ea sterling, and had on the one side stam ped, face, (for the Normans ware no beards) with a Scepter in his hand. The Inscri ption in the circumference, was this, Le Rei Wilam. On the side, a crosse double to the Ring, betweene 4. rowels of six points. was fine silver, of the weight of the Ea sterling, and had on the one side stam ped, W. Conque rour did weare no beard. an armed head, with a beardlesse rour did weare no beard. face, (for the Normans ware no beards) with a Scepter in his hand. The Inscri ption in the circumference, was this, Le Rei Wilam. On the side, a crosse double to the Ring, betweene 4. rowels of six points. This Henry, in the eighth yeere of his reigne, ordained the penny which was round, so to be quartered by the crosse, that they might easily bee broken into halfe pence and farthings. reigne, ordained the penny which was round, so to be quartered by the crosse, that they might easily bee broken into halfe pence and farthings. In the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth of King Richard the first his reigne, and afterwards, I finde commonly Ea sterling money mentioned, and yet oft times the same is called Argent, as afore, and not otherwise. fifth of King Richard the first his reigne, and afterwards, I finde commonly Ea sterling money mentioned, and yet oft times the same is called Argent, as afore, and not otherwise. The first great sum that I read of to be paid in Easterlings, was in the fifth of Richard the first, when Robert Earle of Leicester, being prisoner in France, prof fered for his ransome a thousand marks Easterlings; notwithstanding, the Ea sterling pence were long before. be paid in Easterlings, was in the fifth of Richard the first, when Robert Earle of Leicester, being prisoner in France, prof fered for his ransome a thousand marks Easterlings; notwithstanding, the Ea sterling pence were long before. The weight of the Easterling penny may appeare by divers Statutes, name ly, of weights and measures, made in the 51. yeere of Henry the third, in these words: and round, taken in the middest of the eare, should be the weight of a starling penny; twenty of those pence should weigh one ounce, twelve ounces a pound Troy. It followeth in the Statute, Eight pound to make a gal lon of Wine, and eight gallons, a bushell of London measure, &c. Notwithstanding which Statute, I finde in the eighth of Edward the first, Gregorie Rokesley, Mai or of London, being chiefe Master or Mi nister of the Kings Exchange or Mints, a new coyne being then appointed, the pound of Easterling money should con taine (as afore) 12. ounces, to wit, fine silver, such as was then made into foyle, and was commonly called silver of Gu thurons lane; 11. ounces, two Easter lings, and one ferling or farthing, and the other 17. pence halfepenny farthing to be lay. Also the pound of money ought to weigh 20. shillings 3. pence by account; so that no pound ought to be over 20. shillings 4. pence, nor lesse than 20. shillings 2. pence by account; the ounce to weigh 20. pence, the pen ny weight 24. graines. Which 24. by weight then appointed, were as much as the former 32. graines of Wheat: a penny force, 25. graines and an halfe; the penny deble or feeble, 22. graines and an halfe, &c. may appeare by divers Statutes, name ly, of weights and measures, made in the 51. yeere of Henry the third, in these words: Weight of starling pence 32. graines of wheat. Thirty two graines of Wheat, dry and round, taken in the middest of the eare, should be the weight of a starling penny; twenty of those pence should weigh one ounce, twelve ounces a pound Troy. It followeth in the Statute, Eight pound to make a gal lon of Wine, and eight gallons, a bushell of London measure, &c. Notwithstanding which Statute, I finde in the eighth of Edward the first, Gregorie Rokesley, Mai or of London, being chiefe Master or Mi nister of the Kings Exchange or Mints, a new coyne being then appointed, the pound of Easterling money should con taine (as afore) 12. ounces, to wit, fine silver, such as was then made into foyle, and was commonly called silver of Gu thurons lane; 11. ounces, two Easter lings, and one ferling or farthing, and the other 17. pence halfepenny farthing to be lay. Also the pound of money ought to weigh 20. shillings 3. pence by account; so that no pound ought to be over 20. shillings 4. pence, nor lesse than 20. shillings 2. pence by account; the ounce to weigh 20. pence, the pen ny weight 24. graines. Which 24. by weight then appointed, were as much as the former 32. graines of Wheat: a penny force, 25. graines and an halfe; the penny deble or feeble, 22. graines and an halfe, &c. Now for the penny Easterling, it tooke that name, I think good briefe ly to touch. It hath beene said, that Nu ma Pompilius, the second King of the Romanes, commanded monies first to be made, of whose name they were called Numi; and when copper pence, silver pence, and gold pence were made, (be cause every silver penny was worth ten copper pence, and every gold penny worth ten silver pence) the pence were therefore called in Latine, Denarij; and oftentimes, the pence are named of the matter or stuffe of gold or silver. But the Money of England was called of the workers and makers thereof: as the Flo ren of gold is called of the Florentines, that were the workers thereof; and so the Easterling pence tooke their name of the Easterlings, which did first make this money in England, in the reigne of Henry the second. The pen ny Easter ling how it tooke the name. how ny Easter ling how it tooke the name. it tooke that name, I think good briefe ly to touch. It hath beene said, that Nu ma Pompilius, the second King of the Romanes, commanded monies first to be made, of whose name they were called Numi; and when copper pence, silver pence, and gold pence were made, (be cause every silver penny was worth ten copper pence, and every gold penny worth ten silver pence) the pence were therefore called in Latine, Denarij; and oftentimes, the pence are named of the matter or stuffe of gold or silver. But the Money of England was called of the workers and makers thereof: as the Flo ren of gold is called of the Florentines, H. 2. made a new coyne in the third of his reigne. that were the workers thereof; and so the Easterling pence tooke their name of the Easterlings, which did first make this money in England, in the reigne of Henry the second. Thus have I set downe, according to my reading in Antiquity, of money matters; late Writers; of whom some have said, Easterling money to take that name of a starre stamped in the border or ring of the penny: othersome, of a bird, called a Stare or Starling, stamped in the cir cumference: and other (more unlikely) of being coyned at Strivelin or Starling, a Towne in Scotland. &c. my reading in Antiquity, of money matters; Starling money, when it tooke be ginning in this Land. omitting the imaginations of ginning in this Land. late Writers; of whom some have said, Easterling money to take that name of a starre stamped in the border or ring of the penny: othersome, of a bird, called a Stare or Starling, stamped in the cir cumference: and other (more unlikely) of being coyned at Strivelin or Starling, a Towne in Scotland. &c. Now concerning halfepence and far things, subtiler than the pence, I need not speak of them more, than that they were only made in the Exchange at London, and no where else: First, pointed to be made by Edward the first, in the eighth of his reigne: and also at the same time, the said Kings coine was some few groats of silver, but they were not usuall. The Kings Exchange at London was neere unto the Cathedrall Church of S. Paul, and is to this day commonly called, the Old Change; Exchange. things, Of halfe pence and farthings. the accompt of which is more subtiler than the pence, I need not speak of them more, than that they were only made in the Exchange at London, and no where else: First, pointed to be made by Edward the first, in the eighth of his reigne: Towers and Castles. reigne: and also at the same time, the said Kings coine was some few groats of silver, but they were not usuall. The Kings Exchange at London was neere unto the Cathedrall Church of S. Paul, and is to this day commonly called, the Old Change; The Old Change. but in Evidences, the Old Exchange. The Kings Exchanger in this place, was to deliver out to every other Ex changer throughout England, or other the Kings Dominions, their Coyning Irons, that is to say, one Standard or Staple, and two trussels, or Punchions: and when the same were spent and worn, to receive them with an account, what summe had been coyned, and al so their Pix, or Box of assay, and to de liver other Irons new graven, &c. I finde that in the 9. of King Iohn, there was, besides the Mint at London, other Mints, at Winchester, Excester, Chichester. Canterbury, Rochester, Ipswich, Norwich, Linne, Lincolne, Yorke, Carleil, Northam pton, Oxford, S. Edmondsbury, and Dur ham. The Exchanger, Examiner and Tryer, answering for every hundred pound of silver, bought in Bolion, or otherwise 98. l’. 15. s. for hee taketh 25. s. for coynage. was to deliver out to every other Ex changer throughout England, or other the Kings Dominions, their Coyning Irons, that is to say, one Standard or Staple, and two trussels, or Punchions: and when the same were spent and worn, to receive them with an account, what summe had been coyned, and al so their Pix, or Box of assay, and to de liver other Irons new graven, &c. I finde that in the 9. of King Iohn, there was, besides the Mint at London, other Mints, at Winchester, Excester, Chichester. Canterbury, Rochester, Ipswich, Norwich, Linne, Lincolne, Yorke, Carleil, Northam pton, Oxford, S. Edmondsbury, and Dur ham. The Exchanger, Examiner and Tryer, Dimini shing of coyne. buyeth the silver for coynage: shing of coyne. answering for every hundred pound of silver, bought in Bolion, or otherwise 98. l’. 15. s. for hee taketh 25. s. for coynage. King Edward the first, in the 27. of his reigne, heth, in the house of Henry Waleis, Maior of London, wherein amongst other things there handled, the transporting of starling money was forbidden. his reigne, Starling mony for bidden to be tran sported. held a Parliament at Stebunbidden to be tran sported. heth, in the house of Henry Waleis, Maior of London, wherein amongst other things there handled, the transporting of starling money was forbidden. In the yeere 1351. William Edington, Bishop of Winchester, and Treasurer of England, a wise man, but loving the Kings commodity more, than the wealth of the whole Realme and common peo ple (saith mine Author) Caused a new coyne, coyned and stamped, the Groat to bee taken for 4. d. and the halfe Groat for 2. d. not conteyning in weight according to the pence called Easterlings, but much lesse, to wit, by 5. s. in the pound: by reason whereof, victuals and merchandizes became the dea rer through the whole Realme. Bishop of Winchester, and Treasurer of England, a wise man, but loving the Kings commodity more, than the wealth of the whole Realme and common peo ple (saith mine Author) Caused a new coyne, First groats and halfe coyned. called a Groat and halfe a Groat to be coyned and stamped, the Groat to bee taken for 4. d. and the halfe Groat for 2. d. not conteyning in weight according to the pence called Easterlings, but much lesse, to wit, by 5. s. in the pound: by reason whereof, victuals and merchandizes became the dea rer through the whole Realme. About the same time also, the old coyne of gold was changed into a new; but the old Floren or Noble, then so called, was worth much above the tax ed rate of the new. And therefore the Merchants ingrossed up the old, and conveied them out of the Realme, to the great losse of the Kingdome. fore a remedy was provided, by chan ging of the stampe. coyne of gold was changed into a new; but the old Floren or Noble, then so called, was worth much above the tax ed rate of the new. And therefore the Merchants ingrossed up the old, and conveied them out of the Realme, to the great losse of the Kingdome. Coyns of gold en haunced. Wherehaunced. fore a remedy was provided, by chan ging of the stampe. In the yeere 1411. King Henry the fourth caused a new coyne of Nobles to be made, of lesse value than the old, by 4. d. in the Noble, so that fifty Nobles should be a pound, Troy weight. fourth caused a new coyne of Nobles to be made, of lesse value than the old, by 4. d. in the Noble, so that fifty Nobles should be a pound, Troy weight. In the yeere 1421. was granted to Henry the fifth a fifteene to be paid at Candlemas, and at Martinmasse, of such money as was then currant gold, or silver, not overmuch clipped or wa shed, to wit, That if the Noble were worth 5. s. 8. d. then the King should take it for a full Noble, of 6. s. 8. d. And if it were lesse of value, than 5. s. 8. d. then the person that gold, to make it good to the value of 5. s. 8. d. the King alway receiving it for an whole Noble of six shillings 8. d. And if the Noble so payed were better than 5. s. 8. d. the King to pay againe the surplus age, that it was better than 5. s. 8. d. Also this yeere was such scarcity of white mony, so good of gold, and weight, as six shil lings eight pence; men could get no white money fro them. Henry the fifth a fifteene to be paid at Candlemas, and at Martinmasse, of such money as was then currant gold, or silver, not overmuch clipped or wa shed, to wit, That if the Noble were worth 5. s. 8. d. then the King should take it for a full Noble, of 6. s. 8. d. And if it were lesse of value, than 5. s. 8. d. then the person that gold, to make it good to the value of 5. s. 8. d. the King alway receiving it for an whole Noble of six shillings 8. d. And if the Noble so payed were better than 5. s. 8. d. the King to pay againe the surplus age, that it was better than 5. s. 8. d. Also this yeere was such scarcity of white mony, More plē ty of coyn in gold than in sil ver. that though a Noble were ty of coyn in gold than in sil ver. so good of gold, and weight, as six shil lings eight pence; men could get no white money fro them. In the yeere 1465. King Edward the fourth caused a new coyne, both of gold and silver to be made, ned much, for he made of an old Noble, a Royall: which he commanded to goe for ten s. Neverthelesse to the same Royall was put 8. d. of allay, and so weyed the more, new stampe, to wit, a Rose. Hee like wise made halfe Angels of 5. s. And far things of 5. s. 6. d. Angelets of 6. s. 8. d. And halfe Angels 3. s. 4. d. Hee made silver money of three pence, a groat, and so of other coynes after that rate, to the great harme of the Com mons. fourth caused a new coyne, both of gold and silver to be made, Coines of gold allay ed, and al so raised in value. whereby he gaied, and al so raised in value. ned much, for he made of an old Noble, a Royall: which he commanded to goe for ten s. Neverthelesse to the same Royall was put 8. d. of allay, and so weyed the more, Rose No bles. being smitten with a bles. new stampe, to wit, a Rose. Hee like wise made halfe Angels of 5. s. And far things of 5. s. 6. d. Angelets of 6. s. 8. d. And halfe Angels 3. s. 4. d. Hee made silver money of three pence, a groat, and so of other coynes after that rate, to the great harme of the Com mons. W.8 Lord Hastings the Kings Cham berlaine, being Master of the Kings Mints, saith the Record, undertooke to make the monies under forme following: to wit, of gold a peece of 8. s. 4. d. starling, which should be called a Noble of gold, of the which there should be fifty such peeces in the pound weight of the Tower. Another piece of gold, 4. s. 2. d. of starlings, and to be of them an hundred such pieces in the pound. And a third piece of gold, 2. s. 1. d. starling, two hundred such pieces in the pound, every pound weight of the Tower to be worth 20. l’. 16. s. 8. d. of starlings, the which should be 23. Carits, 3. graines, and halfe 5. &c. and for silver, 37. s. 6. d. of starlings, the piece of 4. pence, to be 112. Groats, and 2. pence in the pound weight. berlaine, being Master of the Kings Mints, saith the Record, undertooke to make the monies under forme following: to wit, of gold a peece of 8. s. 4. d. starling, which should be called a Noble of gold, of the which there should be fifty such peeces in the pound weight of the Tower. Another piece of gold, 4. s. 2. d. of starlings, and to be of them an hundred Towers and Castles. hundred such pieces in the pound. And a third piece of gold, 2. s. 1. d. starling, two hundred such pieces in the pound, every pound weight of the Tower to be worth 20. l’. 16. s. 8. d. of starlings, the which should be 23. Carits, 3. graines, and halfe 5. &c. and for silver, 37. s. 6. d. of starlings, the piece of 4. pence, to be 112. Groats, and 2. pence in the pound weight. In the yeere 1504. King Henry the seventh appointed a new coyne; a Groat, and halfe a Groat, which bare but halfe faces. The same time also was coyned a Groat, which was in value 12. d. but of those but a few, after the rate of forty pence the ounce. seventh appointed a new coyne; Halfe fa ced groats. to wit, ced groats. a Groat, and halfe a Groat, which bare but halfe faces. The same time also was coyned a Groat, which was in value 12. d. but of those but a few, after the rate of forty pence the ounce. In the yeere 1526. the 18. of Hen. the eight, the Angell Noble, being then the sixt part of an ounce Troy, so that six Angels were just an ounce, which was 40. shillings starling, and the Angell was also worth two ounces of silver; so that six Angels were worth 12. ounces of silver, mation was made on the 6. of Septem ber, that the Angell should goe for 7. s. 4. d. the Royall for 11. s. and the Crowne for 4. s. 4. d. And on the 5. of November following, againe by Pro clamation, the Angell was enhaunced to 7. s. 6. d. and so every ounce a gold to be 45. s. and the ounce of silver at 3. 9. d. in value. eight, the Angell Noble, being then the sixt part of an ounce Troy, so that six Angels were just an ounce, which was 40. shillings starling, and the Angell was also worth two ounces of silver; so that six Angels were worth 12. ounces of silver, Gold and silver en haunced. which was 40. s. A Proclahaunced. mation was made on the 6. of Septem ber, that the Angell should goe for 7. s. 4. d. the Royall for 11. s. and the Crowne for 4. s. 4. d. And on the 5. of November following, againe by Pro clamation, the Angell was enhaunced to 7. s. 6. d. and so every ounce a gold to be 45. s. and the ounce of silver at 3. 9. d. in value. In the yeere 1544. the 35. of Henry the 8. on the 16. of May, Proclamation was made, for the enhauncing of gold to 48. shillings, and silver to 4. shillings the ounce. Also the King caused to bee coyned base monies, to wit, pieces of 12. d. 6. d. 4. d. & 1. d. in weight as the late starling, in shew good silver, but inwardly Copper. These pieces had whole or broad faces, and continu ed currant after that rate, till the 5. of Edward the 6. when they were on the 9. of Iuly9 called downe, the shilling to 9. d. the Groat to 3. d. &c. and on the 17. of Auguſt10 from 9. d. to 6. d. &c. And on the 30. of October,11 was published new coynes of silver and gold to bee made, piece 2. s. 6. d. of 12. d. of 6. d. a pen ny with a double Rose, a halfe penny a single Rose, and a farthing with a Port close. Coyns of fine Gold, a whole So veraigne of 30. s. an Angell of 10. s. an Angeler of 5. s. Of Crowne gold, a Soveraigne 20. s. halfe Soveraigne 10. s. 5. s. 2. s. 6. d. and base monies to passe as afore, which continued till the 2. of Queene Elizabeth then called to a lower rate, taken to the Mint, and refi ned, the silver whereof being coyned with a new stampe of her Majesty, the drosse was carried to foule high waies, to heighten them. This base mo nies (for the time) caused the old star ling monies to be hoorded up, have seene 21. s. currant, given for one old Angell to gild withall. Also rents of lands and tenements, with prices of victuals, were raised farre beyond the former rates, hardly since to be brought downe. Thus much for base monies, coyned and currant in England have I knowne: But for Leather monies, as many people have fondly talked, I find no such matter. I read that King Iohn of France, being taken prisoner, by Ed ward the blacke Prince, at the Battell of Poytiers, payed a ransome of 3. Milli ons of Florences, whereby, he brought the Realme of France into such poverty, that many yeeres after they used Lea ther money, with a little stud or nayle of silver in the midst thereof. Thus much for Mint, and coynage, by occa sion of this Tower (under correction of other more skilfull) may suffice. And now to other accidents there. the 8. on the 16. of May, Proclamation was made, for the enhauncing of gold to 48. shillings, and silver to 4. shillings the ounce. Also the King caused to bee coyned base monies, to wit, pieces of 12. d. 6. d. 4. d. & 1. d. in weight as the late starling, in shew good silver, but inwardly Copper. These pieces had whole or broad faces, and continu ed currant after that rate, till the 5. of Edward the 6. when they were on the 9. of Iuly9 called downe, the shilling to 9. d. the Groat to 3. d. &c. and on the 17. of Auguſt10 from 9. d. to 6. d. &c. And on the 30. of October,11 was published new coynes of silver and gold to bee made, Crownes and halfe Crownes of silver coyned. a piece of silver 5. s. starling, a piece 2. s. 6. d. of 12. d. of 6. d. a pen ny with a double Rose, a halfe penny a single Rose, and a farthing with a Port close. Coyns of fine Gold, a whole So veraigne of 30. s. an Angell of 10. s. an Angeler of 5. s. Of Crowne gold, a Soveraigne 20. s. halfe Soveraigne 10. s. 5. s. 2. s. 6. d. and base monies to passe as afore, which continued till the 2. of Queene Elizabeth then called to a lower rate, taken to the Mint, and refi ned, the silver whereof being coyned with a new stampe of her Majesty, the drosse was carried to foule high waies, to heighten them. This base mo nies (for the time) caused the old star ling monies to be hoorded up, Starling monies hoorded up, 21. s. currant, given for an Angell of gold. so that I have seene 21. s. currant, given for one old Angell to gild withall. Also rents of lands and tenements, with prices of victuals, were raised farre beyond the former rates, hardly since to be brought downe. Thus much for base monies, coyned and currant in England have I knowne: But for Leather monies, as many people have fondly talked, I find no such matter. I read that King Iohn of France, being taken prisoner, by Ed ward the blacke Prince, at the Battell of Poytiers, payed a ransome of 3. Milli ons of Florences, whereby, he brought the Realme of France into such poverty, Leather mony in France. that many yeeres after they used Lea ther money, with a little stud or nayle of silver in the midst thereof. Thus much for Mint, and coynage, by occa sion of this Tower (under correction of other more skilfull) may suffice. And now to other accidents there. In the yeere 1360. the peace be tweene England and France being confir med, King Edward came over into Eng land, and straight to the Tower, to see the French King then prisoner there, whose ransome hee assessed at 3. Milli ons of Florences, and so delivered him from prison, and brought him with ho nour to the Sea. tweene England and France being confir med, King Edward came over into Eng land, and straight to the Tower, to see the French King then prisoner there, whose ransome hee assessed at 3. Milli ons of Florences, and so delivered him from prison, and brought him with ho nour to the Sea. In the yeere 1381. and the fourth yeere of the reigne of King Richard the second, was granted to the King a grie vous tax and tallage of his subjects, both spirituall and temporall: through the which was raised in England a ship wracke of great troubles. For divers Courtiers, desirous to enrich them selves with other mens goods, enformed the King and his Court, that the tallage was not gathered up faithfully to the Kings use by the Collection. Where upon, they offered to the King, that they would pay a great summe of mo ney for the farme of that, which they would gather over and above that which had beene paid, if they might be by the King thereunto authorized. yeere of the reigne of King Richard the second, was granted to the King a grie vous tax and tallage of his subjects, both spirituall and temporall: through the which was raised in England a ship wracke of great troubles. For divers Courtiers, desirous to enrich them selves with other mens goods, enformed the King and his Court, that the tallage was not gathered up faithfully to the Kings use by the Collection. Where upon, they offered to the King, that they Towers and Castles. they would pay a great summe of mo ney for the farme of that, which they would gather over and above that which had beene paid, if they might be by the King thereunto authorized. Some of them getting the Kings Let ters and Authority, of Essex and Kent, and handled the peo ple sore and uncourteously, almost not to be spoken, for the levying of the said summe of money: which some of the people taking in evill part; they secret ly tooke counsell together, gathered as sistants, and resisted the exactors, rising against them, of whom, some they slew, some they wounded, and the rest fled. ters and Authority, The peo ple misu sed in ve ry base manner. sate in divers places ple misu sed in ve ry base manner. of Essex and Kent, and handled the peo ple sore and uncourteously, almost not to be spoken, for the levying of the said summe of money: which some of the people taking in evill part; they secret ly tooke counsell together, gathered as sistants, and resisted the exactors, rising against them, of whom, some they slew, some they wounded, and the rest fled. This tumult beganne principally in Kent, the same set downe in a Chronicle of S. Albans: One of the Collectors of the Groats, or pole money, comming to the house of Iohn (others say Watt) Tylar, in the Towne of Dartford in Kent, deman ded of the Tylars wife, for her Husband, for her selfe, for her servants, and for their daughter (a young maiden) every one of them a Groat; wife denyed not to pay, saving for her daughter; who (she said) was a childe, and not to bee accounted as a woman. That will I soone wete (answered the Collector) and taking the yong maiden dishonestly turned her up to search whether shee were under-growne with haire, or not; for in many places they had made the like shamefull tryall. Whereupon, which caused neighbours to come in, and her husband (being at worke in the same Towne, tyling of an house) when he heard thereof, caught his Lathing staffe in his hand, and ran presently home: where reasoning with the Col lector; who made him to be so bold? The Collector answered with stout words, & strake at the Tylar. But the Tylar avoy ding the blow, smote the Collector with his Lathing-staffe, that the braines flew out of his head: where-through great noyse arose in the streets, and the poore people being glad, every one prepared to support the said Iohn Tylar. Kent, The Ken tish men a rise in a tumult, for there the mischiefe began. and after this manner, as I finde tish men a rise in a tumult, for there the mischiefe began. the same set downe in a Chronicle of S. Albans: One of the Collectors of the Groats, or pole money, comming to the house of Iohn (others say Watt) Tylar, in the Towne of Dartford in Kent, deman ded of the Tylars wife, for her Husband, for her selfe, for her servants, and for their daughter (a young maiden) every one of them a Groat; The pole groat cal led (by some) the groape groat. which the Tylars led (by some) the groape groat. wife denyed not to pay, saving for her daughter; who (she said) was a childe, and not to bee accounted as a woman. That will I soone wete (answered the Collector) and taking the yong maiden dishonestly turned her up to search whether shee were under-growne with haire, or not; for in many places they had made the like shamefull tryall. Whereupon, The hus band com meth home ha stily from his worke. her mother cryed out, band com meth home ha stily from his worke. which caused neighbours to come in, and her husband (being at worke in the same Towne, tyling of an house) when he heard thereof, caught his Lathing staffe in his hand, and ran presently home: where reasoning with the Col lector; who made him to be so bold? The Collector answered with stout words, & strake at the Tylar. But the Tylar avoy ding the blow, smote the Collector with his Lathing-staffe, that the braines flew out of his head: where-through great noyse arose in the streets, and the poore people being glad, every one prepared to support the said Iohn Tylar. Thus the Commons being drawne together, went to Maidstone, and from thence backe againe to Black-heath, and so (in short time) they stirred all the Country (in a manner) to the like com motion. Then, besetting the waies that led to Canterbury, arrested all passengers, compelling them to sweare: they should keepe allegeance to King Ri chard, and to the Commons: And that they should accept no King that was named Iohn: in envy they bare unto Iohn Duke of Lancaster, who named himselfe King of Castile: And that they should bee ready whensoever they were called, and that they should agree to no taxe, to be levied (from thenceforth) in the Kingdome, nor consent to any, except it were a fifteene. together, went to Maidstone, and from thence backe againe to Black-heath, and so (in short time) they stirred all the Country (in a manner) to the like com motion. Then, besetting the waies that led to Canterbury, arrested all passengers, compelling them to sweare: An oath exacted by the Rebels on all pas sengers. First, that sengers. they should keepe allegeance to King Ri chard, and to the Commons: And that they should accept no King that was named Iohn: in envy they bare unto Iohn Duke of Lancaster, who named himselfe King of Castile: And that they should bee ready whensoever they were called, and that they should agree to no taxe, to be levied (from thenceforth) in the Kingdome, nor consent to any, except it were a fifteene. The Fame of these doings spread in to Sussex, bridgeshires, Norfolke, Suffolke, &c. And when such assembling of the common people daily tooke encrease, and that their number was now made almost in finite, so that they feared no man to re sist them: they began to shew some such desperate Acts, as they had rashly con sidered on in their minds: And tooke in hand to behead all men of Law, Apprentices, as utter-Baristers, and old Justices, with all the Jurors of the coun try, whom they might get into their hands. They spared none whom they thought to be learned, especially, if they found any to have a Pen and Inke-horne about him: they pulled off his Hood, and all with one voyce crying, Hale him out, and cut off his head. and other of Essex, being joyned with them of Kent on Black-heath, there came Knights to them from the King, to en quire the cause of their assembly: to whom they made answer, That for cer taine causes, they were come together, to have talke with the King: And ther fore willed the Knights to tell him, that he must needs come unto them, that he might understand the desire of their hearts. to Sussex, Evill news do alwaies quickly spread them selves. Hertford, Essex, and Camselves. bridgeshires, Norfolke, Suffolke, &c. And when such assembling of the common people daily tooke encrease, and that their number was now made almost in finite, so that they feared no man to re sist them: they began to shew some such desperate Acts, as they had rashly con sidered on in their minds: And tooke in hand to behead all men of Law, Iustice, Lawyers, and Iurors beheaded. as well Apprentices, as utter-Baristers, and old Justices, with all the Jurors of the coun try, whom they might get into their hands. They spared none whom they thought to be learned, especially, if they found any to have a Pen and Inke-horne about him: they pulled off his Hood, and all with one voyce crying, Hale him out, and cut off his head. Bondmen of Essex joyne with them of Kent. The bondmen and other of Essex, being joyned with them of Kent on Black-heath, there came Knights to them from the King, to en quire the cause of their assembly: to whom they made answer, That for cer taine causes, they were come together, to have talke with the King: And ther fore willed the Knights to tell him, that he must needs come unto them, that he might understand the desire of their hearts. The King was counselled by some, to make haste unto them: bury, Archbishop of Canterbury, Lord Chancelor, and Robert Hales of Saint Iohns, Treasurer, affirmed: that it was not meet for the King to goe to such a rude company, but rather some order to be taken for their suppression. when the Commons heard, being mo ved to a furious rage, they swore, that they would goe seeke the Kings Tray tors, to take off their heads. Forthwith they took their journey towards London, and came to Southwarke, where they fel led all the places of that Borough, and in the Countrey about. They spoiled the Archbishops Palace at Lambeth, for de spight they bare him. The Lord Maior of London and Aldermen (fearing the Cities spoyle) decreed to shut up the Gates: But the Commons of the City, especially the poorer people, favouring the Commons of the Country; would not suffer the Maior to shut them out, but threatned death to them that went about it. make haste unto them: Ex Chron. Dun. but Simon Sudbury, Archbishop of Canterbury, Lord Chancelor, and Robert Hales of Saint Iohns, Treasurer, affirmed: that it was not meet for the King to goe to such a rude company, but rather some order to be taken for their suppression. Insolent fury is ea sily mo ved. Which sily mo ved. when the Commons heard, being mo ved to a furious rage, they swore, that they would goe seeke the Kings Tray tors, Towers and Castles. tors, to take off their heads. Forthwith they took their journey towards London, and came to Southwarke, where they fel led all the places of that Borough, and in the Countrey about. They spoiled the Archbishops Palace at Lambeth, for de spight they bare him. The Lord Maior of London and Aldermen (fearing the Cities spoyle) decreed to shut up the Gates: But the Commons of the City, especially the poorer people, favouring the Commons of the Country; would not suffer the Maior to shut them out, but threatned death to them that went about it. All the night following, to wit, Cor pus Christi Even,12 free ingate and outgate, and encouraged the Commons of London, as also of all the Realme, to favour their cause. For, said they, their purpose was but to search out the Traytors of the Land, and so to cease. The more credit was given to speeches, because they tooke nothing from any man, but at a just price: and if they found any man with theft, they be headed him. The morrow after, to wit, on Corpus Christi day,13 comming into the Citie, talking with the Commons of procuring liberty to them, and appre hending of Traytors (as they tearmed them) especially the Duke of Lancaster: they shortly got all the poorer Citizens to conspire with them. And the same day after it was waxen somewhat warm, and that they had tasted divers Wines (for the Citizens did set open their Cellers for them, to enter at their plea sure) they exhorted each other, that go ing to the Savoy, the Duke of Lancasters house (to the which there was none in the whole Realme to be compared, for beauty and statelinesse) they might set it on fire, and burne it downe to the ground. pus Christi Even,12 The Com mons of London hartned on by the Rebels. the Rebels enjoyed mons of London hartned on by the Rebels. free ingate and outgate, and encouraged the Commons of London, as also of all the Realme, to favour their cause. For, said they, their purpose was but to search out the Traytors of the Land, and so to cease. The more credit was given to speeches, because they tooke nothing from any man, but at a just price: and if they found any man with theft, they be headed him. The morrow after, to wit, on Corpus Christi day,13 comming into the Citie, talking with the Commons of procuring liberty to them, and appre hending of Traytors (as they tearmed them) especially the Duke of Lancaster: they shortly got all the poorer Citizens to conspire with them. And the same day after it was waxen somewhat warm, and that they had tasted divers Wines (for the Citizens did set open their Cellers for them, to enter at their plea sure) they exhorted each other, that go ing to the Savoy, the Duke of Lancasters house (to the which there was none in the whole Realme to be compared, for beauty and statelinesse) they might set it on fire, and burne it downe to the ground. Straightway they ran thither, and set ting fire on it round about, applied their travell to destroy it. And that it might appeare to the Communalty, that they did not any thing for avarice: they cau sed to be proclaimed, that none (upon paine of losing his head) should pre sume to convert to his owne use, thing that was there; but that they should breake such Plate, and vessels of Gold and Silver (as was there in great plenty) into small pieces, and then to throw the same into the Thames, and so all (whatsover) was destroyed. But one of the Rebels (saith Henry Kniton) contrary to the Proclamation, goodly silver piece, and hid it in his bo some: but another that espied him, told his fellowes, who (forthwith) hurled him and the piece of Plate into the fire, saying, We be zealous of Truth and Iustice, and not theeves or robbers. Also, two and thirty of those Rebels entred a Celler of the Savoy, of sweet Wines, that they were not able to come out againe in time: but were shut in with wood and stones, that mu red up the doore, where they were heard crying and calling seven dayes after, but none came to helpe them out, till they were all dead. ting fire on it round about, applied their travell to destroy it. And that it might appeare to the Communalty, that they did not any thing for avarice: they cau sed to be proclaimed, that none (upon paine of losing his head) should pre sume to convert to his owne use, The Re bels would have no thing to a ny private mans use. any bels would have no thing to a ny private mans use. thing that was there; but that they should breake such Plate, and vessels of Gold and Silver (as was there in great plenty) into small pieces, and then to throw the same into the Thames, and so all (whatsover) was destroyed. But one of the Rebels (saith Henry Kniton) contrary to the Proclamation, Ex Hen. Kniton. tooke a goodly silver piece, and hid it in his bo some: but another that espied him, told his fellowes, who (forthwith) hurled him and the piece of Plate into the fire, The Re bels burne one of these fel lowes. bels burne one of these fel lowes. saying, We be zealous of Truth and Iustice, and not theeves or robbers. Also, two and thirty of those Rebels entred a Celler of the Savoy, Two and thirty Re bels mu red up in a Celler. where they dranke so much bels mu red up in a Celler. of sweet Wines, that they were not able to come out againe in time: but were shut in with wood and stones, that mu red up the doore, where they were heard crying and calling seven dayes after, but none came to helpe them out, till they were all dead. These things being done, they brake downe the place called the new Tem ple at the Barre, in which place, Ap prentices at the Law were lodged: for anger which they had conceived against Sir Robert Hales, Master of Saint Iohns Hospitall, unto which Hospitall of St. Iohns the Temple belonged, where ma ny Monuments, which the Lawyers had in their custody, were consumed with fire. After a number of them had sac ked this Temple: what with wearinesse of labour, and what with Wine, being overcome, wals and housing, and were slaine like Swine; one of them killing another for old grudges, and other also made quick dispatch of them. downe the place called the new Tem ple at the Barre, in which place, Ap prentices at the Law were lodged: for anger which they had conceived against Sir Robert Hales, Master of Saint Iohns Hospitall, unto which Hospitall of St. Iohns the Temple belonged, where ma ny Monuments, which the Lawyers had in their custody, were consumed with fire. After a number of them had sac ked this Temple: what with wearinesse of labour, and what with Wine, being overcome, The Re bels mur ther one another. they lay downe under the bels mur ther one another. wals and housing, and were slaine like Swine; one of them killing another for old grudges, and other also made quick dispatch of them. Another troope (in the meane time) set fire on the noble house of Saint Iohn at Clarkenwell, causing it to burne by the space of seven dayes together, not suffe ring any to quench it. On Friday, they burned the Manor of Highburie, whole number of the Common people (being at that time) divided into three parts. Of the which division, was attending to destroy the Manor of Highbury, and other places belonging to the Priory of Saint Iohn. Another com pany lay at the Miles-end, East of the City. The third kept at the Tower-hill, There to spoile the King of such victu als, as were brought toward him. The company that were assembled on the Miles-end, sent to command the King, that hee should come to them without delay, unarmed, or without any force: which if he refused to doe, they would pull downe the Tower, neither should he escape alive. The King taking coun sell, with a few unarmed, went toward them in great feare on Horseback: and so the Gates of the Tower being set o pen, a great multitude of them entred into it. set fire on the noble house of Saint Iohn at Clarkenwell, causing it to burne by the space of seven dayes together, not suffe ring any to quench it. On Friday, they burned the Manor of Highburie, The Ma nor of Highbury burnt. the nor of Highbury burnt. whole number of the Common people (being at that time) divided into three parts. Of the which division, The Re bels divi ded into 3. bands. one part bels divi ded into 3. bands. was attending to destroy the Manor of Highbury, and other places belonging to the Priory of Saint Iohn. Another com pany lay at the Miles-end, East of the City. The third kept at the Tower-hill, There to spoile the King of such victu als, as were brought toward him. The company that were assembled on the Miles-end, sent to command the King, F that Towers and Castles. that hee should come to them without delay, unarmed, or without any force: which if he refused to doe, they would pull downe the Tower, neither should he escape alive. The King taking coun sell, with a few unarmed, went toward them in great feare on Horseback: and so the Gates of the Tower being set o pen, a great multitude of them entred into it. There was (at the same time) within the Tower 600. Armed valiant persons, and expert in Armes, and sixe hundred Archers: all which did quaile in sto macke, and stood as men amazed. For the basest of the Rusticks (not many to gether, but every one by himselfe) durst presume to enter the Kings Chamber, and his Mothers, with their weapons, to put in feare each of the men of War, Knights and other. Many of them went into the Kings Privie-Chamber, and played the wantons, in sitting, lying and sporting them on the Kings Bed. And that which is much more sawcily, invited the Kings Mother, to kisse with them: yet durst none of those men of Warre (strange to bee said) once with stand them: they went in and out like Masters, that were but base slaves, and of most vile condition. the Tower 600. Armed valiant persons, and expert in Armes, and sixe hundred Archers: all which did quaile in sto macke, and stood as men amazed. For the basest of the Rusticks (not many to gether, but every one by himselfe) durst presume to enter the Kings Chamber, and his Mothers, with their weapons, to put in feare each of the men of War, Knights and other. Many of them went into the Kings Privie-Chamber, and played the wantons, in sitting, lying and sporting them on the Kings Bed. And that which is much more sawcily, Their bold insolence to the Kings Mo ther. ther. invited the Kings Mother, to kisse with them: yet durst none of those men of Warre (strange to bee said) once with stand them: they went in and out like Masters, that were but base slaves, and of most vile condition. While these rude wretches sought for the Archbishop, downe with terrible noyse and fury: at length, finding one of his servants, they charged him to bring them where his Master was, whom they named Tray tor. The servant not daring to displease them, brought them to the Chappell: where, after Masse had been said, and having received the Communion, the Arch-bishop was busie in his prayers: for, and purpose, he had passed the last night in confessing of his sinnes, and in devout prayers. When therefore he heard that they were come, with great constancy, he said to his men: Let us now goe, surely it is best to dye, when it is no pleasure to live. And with that, the tormentors en tring, cryed, Where is the Traytor? The Archbishop answered: Behold, I am the Archbishop, whom you seeke, not a Traytor. They therfore laid hands on him, and dragging him out of the Chappell, they drew him forth of the Tower gate, to the Tower-hill, where being compassed about with many thousands, and seeing swords about his head drawn in excessive manner, threat ning death to him, he spake unto them in these words. for the Archbishop, The Re bels sought for the Archbi shop of Canturbury. running up and bels sought for the Archbi shop of Canturbury. downe with terrible noyse and fury: at length, finding one of his servants, they charged him to bring them where his Master was, whom they named Tray tor. The servant not daring to displease them, brought them to the Chappell: where, after Masse had been said, and having received the Communion, the Arch-bishop was busie in his prayers: for, The Arch bishop dreadlesse of the Re bels cruel ty, and his speeches with them. not unknowing of their comming bishop dreadlesse of the Re bels cruel ty, and his speeches with them. and purpose, he had passed the last night in confessing of his sinnes, and in devout prayers. When therefore he heard that they were come, with great constancy, he said to his men: Let us now goe, surely it is best to dye, when it is no pleasure to live. And with that, the tormentors en tring, cryed, Where is the Traytor? The Archbishop answered: Behold, I am the Archbishop, whom you seeke, not a Traytor. They therfore laid hands on him, and dragging him out of the Chappell, they drew him forth of the Tower gate, to the Tower-hill, where being compassed about with many thousands, and seeing swords about his head drawn in excessive manner, threat ning death to him, he spake unto them in these words. What is it (deare brethren) you purpose to doe? What is mine offence committed a gainst you, for which you will kill me? You were best to take heed, that if I be killed, who am your Pastor, there come not on you the indignation of the iust Revenger, or (at the least) for such a fact, all England be not put under interdiction. Vnneath could hee pronounce these words, before they cry ed out with an horrible noise: That they neither feared the interdiction, nor al lowed the Pope to be above them. The Archbishop seeing death at hand, with comfortable words (as hee was an eloquent man, and wise, beyond all the wise men of the Realme) spake fairely to them. ted to the executioner, that should be head him, kneeling down, he offered his necke to him that should smite off his head. Being stricken in the necke, but not deadly, hee putting his necke, said, Aha, it is the hand of God. He had not removed his hand from the place where the paine was, but that being suddenly stricken againe, his fingers ends being cut off, and part of the Arteries, he fell downe, but yet he dyed not, till being mangled with 8. severall strokes in the necke and head, he fulfilled most wor thy Martyrdome. unburied all that Friday, and the mor row till afternoone, none daring to deli ver his body to Sepulture. His head those wicked villaines tooke, and nay ling thereon his Hood, they fixed it on a pole, and set it on London Bridge, in place where before stood the head of Sir Iohn Minstarworth. to doe? What is mine offence committed a gainst you, for which you will kill me? You were best to take heed, that if I be killed, who am your Pastor, there come not on you the indignation of the iust Revenger, or (at the least) for such a fact, all England be not put under interdiction. Vnneath could hee pronounce these words, before they cry ed out with an horrible noise: That they neither feared the interdiction, nor al lowed the Pope to be above them. The Archbishop seeing death at hand, with comfortable words (as hee was an eloquent man, and wise, beyond all the wise men of the Realme) spake fairely to them. The Arch bishop of Canturbury most cru elly behea ded by the Rebels. Lastly, after forgivenesse granbishop of Canturbury most cru elly behea ded by the Rebels. ted to the executioner, that should be head him, kneeling down, he offered his necke to him that should smite off his head. Being stricken in the necke, but not deadly, hee putting his necke, said, Aha, it is the hand of God. He had not removed his hand from the place where the paine was, but that being suddenly stricken againe, his fingers ends being cut off, and part of the Arteries, he fell downe, but yet he dyed not, till being mangled with 8. severall strokes in the necke and head, he fulfilled most wor thy Martyrdome. The inhu manity to his body after hee was dead There lay his body manity to his body after hee was dead unburied all that Friday, and the mor row till afternoone, none daring to deli ver his body to Sepulture. His head those wicked villaines tooke, and nay ling thereon his Hood, they fixed it on a pole, and set it on London Bridge, in place where before stood the head of Sir Iohn Minstarworth. This Archbishop, Simon Tibald, alias Sudbury, tleman, borne in the Towne of Sudbury in Suffolke, Doctor of both Lawes, was eighteene yeeres Bishop of London, in the which time, hee builded a goodly Colledge, in place where his Fathers house stood, and endued it with great possessions: furnishing the same with secular Clarks, and other Ministers, being valued at the suppression, at 122. builded the upper end of St. Gregories Church at Sudbury. Afterward, being translated to the Archbishopricke of Canturbury, the Wals of that City, from the West gate (which he builded) to the North gate: which had been destroyed by the Danes, before the Conquest of King Wil liam the Bastard. Sudbury, A further relation concer ning this worthy Archbi shop, and his religi ous acti ons. Son to Nicholas Tibald, Genning this worthy Archbi shop, and his religi ous acti ons. tleman, borne in the Towne of Sudbury in Suffolke, Doctor of both Lawes, was eighteene yeeres Bishop of London, in the which time, hee builded a goodly Colledge, in place where his Fathers house stood, and endued it with great possessions: furnishing the same with secular Clarks, and other Ministers, being valued at the suppression, at 122. l. 16. s Towers and Castles. l. 16. s. in Lands by the yeere. Hee builded the upper end of St. Gregories Church at Sudbury. Afterward, being translated to the Archbishopricke of Canturbury, The Wals of Cantur bury re-e dified by this Arch bishop. in An. 1375. he re-edified bury re-e dified by this Arch bishop. the Wals of that City, from the West gate (which he builded) to the North gate: which had been destroyed by the Danes, before the Conquest of King Wil liam the Bastard. Hee was slaine, as you have heard, and afterward buried in the Cathedrall Church of Canturbury. There died with him Sir Robert Hales, a most valiant Knight, Lord of Saint Iohns, and Trea surer of England, and Iohn Degge, one of the Kings Serjeants at Armes, and a Franciscane Fryer, named W. Apledore, the Kings Confessor. Richard Lyons also, a famous Lapidary and Goldsmith, late one of the Sheriffs of London, was drawn out of his house, Many that day were beheaded, as well Flemmings, as Englishmen, for no cause; but only to fulfill the cruelty of the rude Commons. For it was a solemne pa stime to them, if they could take any that was not sworne to them, to take from such a one his Hood, with their accustomed clamours, and forthwith to behead him. Neither did they shew a ny reverence to sacred places; for in the very Churches they did kill any whom they had in hatred. They fetched 13. Flemmings out of the Augustines Fryers Church in London, and 17. out of ano ther Church, and 32. in the Vintry, and so in other places of the Citie, as also in Southwarke, all which they beheaded: except they could plainely pronounce Bread and Cheese. sounded any thing on Brot or Cawse, off went their heads, as a sure marke that they were Flemmings. and afterward buried in the Cathedrall Church of Canturbury. There died with him Sir Robert Hales, a most valiant Knight, Lord of Saint Iohns, and Trea surer of England, and Iohn Degge, one of the Kings Serjeants at Armes, and a Franciscane Fryer, named W. Apledore, the Kings Confessor. Richard Lyons also, a famous Lapidary and Goldsmith, late one of the Sheriffs of London, was drawn out of his house, Many be headed both Flem mings and English to fulfill the head strong cru elty of the commons. and beheaded in Cheap. headed both Flem mings and English to fulfill the head strong cru elty of the commons. Many that day were beheaded, as well Flemmings, as Englishmen, for no cause; but only to fulfill the cruelty of the rude Commons. For it was a solemne pa stime to them, if they could take any that was not sworne to them, to take from such a one his Hood, with their accustomed clamours, and forthwith to behead him. Neither did they shew a ny reverence to sacred places; for in the very Churches they did kill any whom they had in hatred. They fetched 13. Flemmings out of the Augustines Fryers Church in London, and 17. out of ano ther Church, and 32. in the Vintry, and so in other places of the Citie, as also in Southwarke, all which they beheaded: except they could plainely pronounce Bread and Cheese. The vil laines made a pastime of putting men to death. For if their speech laines made a pastime of putting men to death. sounded any thing on Brot or Cawse, off went their heads, as a sure marke that they were Flemmings. The King comming to the Miles-end, the place before recited, was greatly a fraid, beholding the mad-headed Com mons: who (with froward countenan ces) required many things, which they had put in writing, and to be confirmed by the Kings Letter Patents. the place before recited, was greatly a fraid, beholding the mad-headed Com mons: who (with froward countenan ces) required many things, which they had put in writing, and to be confirmed by the Kings Letter Patents. The demands made by the Rebelles to the King at Miles-end. King at Miles-end. The first Article. THat all men should be free from servi tude and bondage; so as (from thence forth) there should be no bondmen. tude and bondage; so as (from thence forth) there should be no bondmen. The se cond Arti cle. cond Arti cle. That hee should pardon all men, of what estate soever, all manner actions and insur rections committed, and all manner of Trea sons, Felonies, transgressions and extorti ons, by any of them done, and to grant them peace. estate soever, all manner actions and insur rections committed, and all manner of Trea sons, Felonies, transgressions and extorti ons, by any of them done, and to grant them peace. The third Article. That all men (from thenceforth) might bee enfranchised to buy and sell in every County, City, Borough, Towne, Faire, Mar ket and other place within the Realme of England. bee enfranchised to buy and sell in every County, City, Borough, Towne, Faire, Mar ket and other place within the Realme of England. The fourth Ar ticle. ticle. That no Acre of Land, holden in bondage or service, should bee holden but for foure pence: And if it had been holden for lesse in former time, it should not hereafter bee in haunsed. or service, should bee holden but for foure pence: And if it had been holden for lesse in former time, it should not hereafter bee in haunsed. These, and many other things they required: hee had beene evilly governed till that day: but from that time forward hee must be governed otherwise. required: Reprehen sion of the Kings go vernment. And told him moreover, that sion of the Kings go vernment. hee had beene evilly governed till that day: but from that time forward hee must be governed otherwise. The King perceiving that he could not escape, quest, yeelded to the same: and so, cra ving Truce departed from them, the Essex men returned homeward. On the morrow, being Saturday, and the 15. of Iune, the King (after dinner) went from the Wardrobe in the Royall in London, to Westminster, to visite the Shrine of Saint Edward the King, see if they had done any mischiefe there. Then went he to the Chappell, called our Lady in the Piew, where hee made his prayers: and returning by the Sub urbes of West Smithfield, he found all that place full of people, to wit, the Kentish men. them, that their fellowes the Essex men were gone home, and that hee would grant to them the like forme of Peace, if it liked them to accept thereof. escape, A hard ex treamity for a king. except hee granted to their retreamity for a king. quest, yeelded to the same: and so, cra ving Truce departed from them, The Essex men re turned home. and turned home. the Essex men returned homeward. On the morrow, being Saturday, and the 15. of Iune, the King (after dinner) went from the Wardrobe in the Royall in London, to Westminster, to visite the Shrine of Saint Edward the King, The King goeth to Westminster. and to see if they had done any mischiefe there. Then went he to the Chappell, called our Lady in the Piew, where hee made his prayers: and returning by the Sub urbes of West Smithfield, he found all that place full of people, to wit, the Kentish men. The King sendeth to the Kentish men. Wherfore he sent to shew them, that their fellowes the Essex men were gone home, and that hee would grant to them the like forme of Peace, if it liked them to accept thereof. Their chiefe Captaine, named Iohn, or, Tylar, being a crafty fellow, and of an excellent wit, but wanting grace, an swered, That he desired peace, but with conditions to his liking, meaning, to feed the King with faire words untill next day, that hee might in the night time have compassed his purpose. For they thought (the same night) to have spoiled the Citie, slaine, and the great Lords that were a bout him: then to have burnt the City, by setting fire in foure parts thereof. But God that resisteth the proud, did suddenly disappoint him. For whereas the forme of peace was written in three several Charters, and thrice sent to him: none of them could please him. Where fore at length, the King sent to him one of his Knights, named Sir Iohn Newton, not so much to command, as to intreat him (for his pride was well enough knowne) to come and talke with him, about his owne demands, to have them put into his Charter: of which demands I will set downe one, that it may plain ly appeare, how contrary to reason all the rest were. or, Walter Hil liard, alias, Tylar their chiefe Captaine. as other affirme, Walter Hilliard, alias liard, alias, Tylar their chiefe Captaine. Tylar, being a crafty fellow, and of an excellent wit, but wanting grace, an swered, That he desired peace, but with conditions to his liking, meaning, to feed the King with faire words untill next day, that hee might in the night time have compassed his purpose. For they thought (the same night) to have F2 spoiled Towers and Castles. spoiled the Citie, The wic ked and bloody in tent of the Rebels in the night time. the King being first ked and bloody in tent of the Rebels in the night time. slaine, and the great Lords that were a bout him: then to have burnt the City, by setting fire in foure parts thereof. But God that resisteth the proud, did suddenly disappoint him. For whereas the forme of peace was written in three several Charters, and thrice sent to him: none of them could please him. Where fore at length, the King sent to him one of his Knights, named Sir Iohn Newton, not so much to command, as to intreat him (for his pride was well enough knowne) to come and talke with him, about his owne demands, to have them put into his Charter: of which demands I will set downe one, that it may plain ly appeare, how contrary to reason all the rest were. First, to behead all Lawyers, Escheators, and others whatsoever, that were learned in the Law, or communicated with the Law, by reason of their office. For hee had conceived in his mind, that this be ing brought to passe, all things after ward should bee ordered, according to the fancy of the Common people. And indeed it was said, that he had (but the day before) made his vaunt, putting his hand to his own lips: daies came to an end, all the Lawes of England shuld proceed from his mouth. When Sir Iohn Newton was in hand with him for dispatch, he answered with indignation: If thou art so hasty, thou maist get thee to thy Master, for I will come when it pleaseth mee. Notwith standing, he followed on horsebacke a slow pace: and by the way, there came to him a Doublet maker, who had brought to the Commons threescore Doublers, which they bought and wore, and hee demanded thirty Markes for them, but could have no payment, Wat Tylar answered him, saying, Friend, ap pease thy selfe, thou shalt be well pay ed before this day be ended: keep thee neere to me, I will be thy Creditor. One of Wat Tylars arrogant demands made to the King. he would have a Commission to behead all Lawyers, Escheators, and others whatsoever, that were learned in the Law, or communicated with the Law, by reason of their office. For hee had conceived in his mind, that this be ing brought to passe, all things after ward should bee ordered, according to the fancy of the Common people. And indeed it was said, that he had (but the day before) made his vaunt, putting his hand to his own lips: A bold brag of a Rebell. that before foure daies came to an end, all the Lawes of England shuld proceed from his mouth. When Sir Iohn Newton was in hand with him for dispatch, he answered with indignation: If thou art so hasty, thou maist get thee to thy Master, for I will come when it pleaseth mee. Notwith standing, he followed on horsebacke a slow pace: and by the way, there came to him a Doublet maker, who had brought to the Commons threescore Doublers, which they bought and wore, and hee demanded thirty Markes for them, but could have no payment, Wat Tylar answered him, saying, Friend, ap pease thy selfe, thou shalt be well pay ed before this day be ended: keep thee neere to me, I will be thy Creditor. Setting spurs to his horse, he depar ted from his company, and came so neere to the King, that his horse had touched the crooper of the Kings horse, and the first words he spake, were these: Sir King, seest thou all yonder people? Yea truely, quoth the King, wherefore saist thou so? Because (said he) they be all at my commandement, and have sworne to mee their faith and truth, to doe all that I will have them. In good time, replyed the King, I beleeve it well. Then said Wat Tylar, beleevest thou, King that these people, be in London, at my command, will de part from thee thus, without having thy Letters? No, said the King, yee shall have them, they bee ordained for you, and shall bee delivered to every one of them. ted from his company, and came so neere to the King, that his horse had touched the crooper of the Kings horse, and the first words he spake, were these: Sir King, seest thou all yonder people? Yea truely, quoth the King, wherefore saist thou so? Because (said he) they be all at my commandement, and have sworne to mee their faith and truth, to doe all that I will have them. In good time, replyed the King, I beleeve it well. Then said Wat Tylar, beleevest thou, King that these people, A lamen table case when a King should bee in such di stresse. and as many moe as table case when a King should bee in such di stresse. be in London, at my command, will de part from thee thus, without having thy Letters? No, said the King, yee shall have them, they bee ordained for you, and shall bee delivered to every one of them. At these words, Wat Tylar seeing the Knight Sir Iohn Newton neere to him on horsebacke, bearing the Kings sword, was offended, and said, It had become him better to be on foot in his presence. The Knight (not having forgot his old accustomed manhood) answered, That it was no harme, seeing himselfe was also on horsebacke. Which words so offended Wat, that he drew his Dagger, and offered to strike the Knight, calling him Traitor. The Knight answered, that he lied, and drew his Dagger likewise. Wat Tylar, not suffering such an indigni ty to be done him, and before his rustick companions, made as if he would have run upon the Knight. fore, seeing the Knight in danger, to as swage the rigor of Wat for the time, commanded the Knight to alight on foot, and to deliver his Dagger to Wat Tylar. But when his proud mind could not bee so pacified, but hee would also have his Sword: the Knight answered, It was the kings sword, and (quoth he) thou art not worthy to have it, nor durst thou aske it of me, if here were no more but thou and I. By my faith, said Wat Tylar, I shall never eat, untill I have thy head, and would have run in upon the Knight. Knight Sir Iohn Newton neere to him on horsebacke, bearing the Kings sword, was offended, and said, It had become him better to be on foot in his presence. The Knight (not having forgot his old accustomed manhood) answered, That it was no harme, seeing himselfe was also on horsebacke. Which words so offended Wat, that he drew his Dagger, and offered to strike the Knight, calling him Traitor. The Knight answered, that he lied, and drew his Dagger likewise. Wat Tylar, not suffering such an indigni ty to be done him, and before his rustick companions, made as if he would have run upon the Knight. The Knight comman ded to a light on foot be fore the Rebell. The King thereded to a light on foot be fore the Rebell. fore, seeing the Knight in danger, to as swage the rigor of Wat for the time, commanded the Knight to alight on foot, and to deliver his Dagger to Wat Tylar. But when his proud mind could not bee so pacified, but hee would also have his Sword: the Knight answered, It was the kings sword, and (quoth he) thou art not worthy to have it, nor durst thou aske it of me, if here were no more but thou and I. By my faith, said Wat Tylar, I shall never eat, untill I have thy head, and would have run in upon the Knight. At that very instant came to the King William Walworth, Lord Maior of Lon don, a bold, couragious and brave min ded man, with many Knights and Squires to assist the King, and hee said; My Liege, it were a great shame, and such as never had before been heard of, if in that presence, they should permit a Noble knight to be shamefully mur thered, and before the face of their So veraigne: wherefore hee ought to bee rescued, and Tylar the Rebell to be ar arrested. Which words being heard, the king, although he were but of ten der yeers, taking boldnesse and courage to him, commanded the Maior of Lon don to lay hand upon him. The Maior, being a man of an incomparable spirit and boldnes, without any further delay or doubting, straight arrested him with his Mace upon the head, and in such sort, that he fell downe at the feet of his horse. By and by, they which attended on the king, environed him round about, whereby he was not seene of his compa nie. And an Esquire of the Kings, cal led Iohn Cavendish,14 alighted from his horse, and thrust his Sword into Wat Ty lars belly: albeit more opinions do hold, that the Maior did it with his Dagger, and many beside did thrust him in, in many places of his body, and then drew him from among the people, into the Hospitall of Saint Bartholomew. Which when the Commons perceived, they cryed out, that their Captaine was trai terously slaine, heartning one another to fight, and to revenge his death, bending their Bowes. But the King rode to them, saying, What meane you to doe? Will you shoot at your king? Be not quarrellous, or sorry for the death of a Traytor and Ribald: I am your king, I will be your Captaine and Leader: follow me into the Field, there to have whatsoever you will require. William Walworth, Lord Maior of Lon don, a bold, couragious and brave min ded man, with many Knights and Squires to assist the King, and hee said; My Liege, it were a great shame, and such as never had before been heard of, if in that presence, they should permit a Noble knight to be shamefully mur thered, and before the face of their So veraigne: wherefore hee ought to bee rescued, and Tylar the Rebell to be ar rested. Towers and Castles. arrested. Which words being heard, the king, although he were but of ten der yeers, taking boldnesse and courage to him, commanded the Maior of Lon don to lay hand upon him. The Maior, being a man of an incomparable spirit and boldnes, without any further delay or doubting, straight arrested him with his Mace upon the head, and in such sort, that he fell downe at the feet of his horse. By and by, they which attended on the king, environed him round about, whereby he was not seene of his compa nie. And an Esquire of the Kings, cal led Iohn Cavendish,14 alighted from his horse, and thrust his Sword into Wat Ty lars belly: albeit more opinions do hold, that the Maior did it with his Dagger, and many beside did thrust him in, in many places of his body, and then drew him from among the people, into the Hospitall of Saint Bartholomew. Which when the Commons perceived, they cryed out, that their Captaine was trai terously slaine, heartning one another to fight, and to revenge his death, bending their Bowes. But the King rode to them, saying, The kings kinde words to the rude multitude What a worke is this, my men? What meane you to doe? Will you shoot at your king? Be not quarrellous, or sorry for the death of a Traytor and Ribald: I am your king, I will be your Captaine and Leader: follow me into the Field, there to have whatsoever you will require. This the king did, lest the Commons, being bitterly bent in minde, should set fire on the houses in Smithfield, where their Captain was slaine. They therfore followed him into the open Field, the Souldiers that were with him, not knowing as yet, whether they would kill the king, or be in rest, and depart home with the kings Charter. In the meane while, worthy Walworth, the (for ever) famous Maior of London, to second his first peece of service, that fell out to so good purpose, onely with one servant, riding speedily into the Citie, began to cry, You good Citizens, come to helpe your king, red, and succour me your Maior, that am in the like danger: Or if you will not succour me, yet leave not the king destitute. When the Citizens heard this, in whose hearts the love of the king was ingrafted, suddenly, and very seemely prepared, thousand) they tarried in the streets, for some one of the knights to lead them (with the Lord Maior) to the king. And by good fortune, Sir Robert Knowles, a Freeman of the Citie, came in the very instant, whom they all required to bee their Leader. Hee gladly undertooke part of them; and Perducas Dalbert, the Lord Maior, and some other knights, led on the rest to the kings presence. The king, and all that were with him, rejoy cing not a little at the unhoped for com ming of these brave armed Citizens, suddenly compassed the whole multi tude of the Commons. being bitterly bent in minde, should set fire on the houses in Smithfield, where their Captain was slaine. They therfore followed him into the open Field, They fol lowed the King into the field. and lowed the King into the field. the Souldiers that were with him, not knowing as yet, whether they would kill the king, or be in rest, and depart home with the kings Charter. In the meane while, worthy Walworth, the (for ever) famous Maior of London, to second his first peece of service, that fell out to so good purpose, onely with one servant, riding speedily into the Citie, began to cry, You good Citizens, come to helpe your king, Another worthy a ction per formed by the Lord Maior. that is in doubt to be murdection per formed by the Lord Maior. red, and succour me your Maior, that am in the like danger: Or if you will not succour me, yet leave not the king destitute. When the Citizens heard this, in whose hearts the love of the king was ingrafted, suddenly, and very seemely prepared, A Noble and loyall forwardnesse in true-hear ted Citi zens, for the succor of their king, be ing in great di stresse. (to the number of a ted Citi zens, for the succor of their king, be ing in great di stresse. thousand) they tarried in the streets, for some one of the knights to lead them (with the Lord Maior) to the king. And by good fortune, Sir Robert Knowles, a Freeman of the Citie, came in the very instant, whom they all required to bee their Leader. Hee gladly undertooke part of them; and Perducas Dalbert, the Lord Maior, and some other knights, led on the rest to the kings presence. The king, and all that were with him, rejoy cing not a little at the unhoped for com ming of these brave armed Citizens, suddenly compassed the whole multi tude of the Commons. There might a man have seene a won derfull change of Gods right hand, the Commons did now throw downe their weapons, and fall to the ground, beseeching pardon; who lately before did glory that they had the kings life in their power; and now were glad to hide themselves in caves, ditches, corne fields, &c. The knights therefore, desi rous to be revenged, besought the king to permit them to take off the heads of an hundred or two of them. would not condiscend to their request, but commanded the Charter which they had demanded, written and sealed, to be delivered to them for the time, to avoid any more mischiefe: As knowing well, that Essex was not yet pacified, nor Kent stayed, the Commons and Ru sticks of which Countries were ready to rise again, if he did not satisfie them the sooner. The Commons having got the Charter, departed homeward, and the rude people being dispersed and gone, the king called for his valiant Maior of Lond. W. Walworth, nour) he knighted there in the field, and as he had very worthily deserved. The like he did to Nicholas Brember, Ioh. Phil pot, Robert Lawnd, Iohn Standish,15 Nicho las Twiford, and Adam Frances, Alder men. Afterward, the king, with his lords and his company, orderly entred into the Citie of London with great joy, and went to his royal Mother, who was lod ged in the Tower Royall, called then the Queenes Wardrobe, and there shee had remained two dayes and two nights, very much abashed and amazed. But when shee saw the king her sonne, she was highly comforted, and said, Ah faire Sonne, what great sorrow have I suffered for you this day! swered, and said: Certainely, Madame, I know it well: but now rejoyce, and thanke God, for I have this day recove red mine Heritage, and the Realme of England, which I had neere-hand lost. The Archbishops head was taken off the Bridge, and Wat Tylars head set up in the place. derfull change of Gods right hand, A wonder full altera tiō among the Rebels how full altera tiō among the Rebels the Commons did now throw downe their weapons, and fall to the ground, beseeching pardon; who lately before did glory that they had the kings life in their power; and now were glad to hide themselves in caves, ditches, corne fields, &c. The knights therefore, desi rous to be revenged, besought the king to permit them to take off the heads of an hundred or two of them. Great wis dome and discretion in the king being so yong. But the king dome and discretion in the king being so yong. would not condiscend to their request, but commanded the Charter which they had demanded, written and sealed, to be delivered to them for the time, to avoid any more mischiefe: As knowing well, that Essex was not yet pacified, nor Kent stayed, the Commons and Ru sticks of which Countries were ready to rise again, if he did not satisfie them the sooner. The Commons having got the Charter, departed homeward, and the rude people being dispersed and gone, the king called for his valiant Maior of Lond. W. Walworth, VV VVal worth, L. Maior of London knighted in the field and other Aldermen with him. whom (with great howorth, L. Maior of London knighted in the field and other Aldermen with him. nour) he knighted there in the field, and as he had very worthily deserved. The like he did to Nicholas Brember, Ioh. Phil pot, Robert Lawnd, Iohn Standish,15 Nicho las Twiford, and Adam Frances, Alder men. Afterward, the king, with his lords and his company, orderly entred into the Citie of London with great joy, and went to his royal Mother, who was lod ged in the Tower Royall, called then the Queenes Wardrobe, and there shee had remained two dayes and two nights, very much abashed and amazed. F3 But Towers and Castles. But when shee saw the king her sonne, she was highly comforted, and said, Ah faire Sonne, what great sorrow have I suffered for you this day! The com fortable words of the King to his mo ther. The king anfortable words of the King to his mo ther. swered, and said: Certainely, Madame, I know it well: but now rejoyce, and thanke God, for I have this day recove red mine Heritage, and the Realme of England, which I had neere-hand lost. The Archbishops head was taken off the Bridge, and Wat Tylars head set up in the place. Here we are further to consider, that for an eternall remembrance of this happy day, and the Cities honour with all, the king granted, that there should be a Dagger added to the Armes of the Citie, in the right quarter of the shield, for an augmentation of the same Armes, and a memory of the Lord Mai or his valiant act, as doth appeare unto this day. For till that time, the Citie bare onely the Crosse without the Dag ger. for an eternall remembrance of this happy day, and the Cities honour with all, the king granted, that there should be a Dagger added to the Armes of the Citie, in the right quarter of the shield, for an augmentation of the same Armes, and a memory of the Lord Mai or his valiant act, as doth appeare unto this day. For till that time, the Citie bare onely the Crosse without the Dag ger. And whereas it hath been farre spred abroad by vulgar opinion, bell smitten downe so manfully by Sir William Walworth, the then worthy Lord Maior of London, was named Iack Straw, and not Wat Tylar: I thought good to reconcile this rash conceived doubt, by such testimony as I find in ancient and good Records. The principall Leaders and Captaines of the Commons, were Wat Tylar, himselfe to be offended. The second, was Iohn or Iack Straw: the third, was Iohn Kirkby: the fourth, Allen Thredder: the fifth, Thomas Scot: the sixth, Ralfe Rugge. These and many other were Lea ders of the Kentish and Essex men. At Mildenhall and Burie in Suffolke, was Robert Westbrome, that made himselfe a king; and was most famous, next to Iohn Wrawe, who being a Priest, could not set Crowne upon Crowne: but left the name of king and Crowne to the same Robert. At Norwich, Iohn Litester a Dyer, exercised the name and power of a king, till he was taken and hanged for his paines. Thus dangerously had this Rebellion dispersed it selfe abroad. But the happy and prosperous successe at London, with other good care for them further off, gave a gracious issue to all in the end. After the death of Wat Tylar, and Iack Straw being taken, with divers other, as chiefe actors in this monstrous disorder: the fore-named Lord Mayor sate in judgement upon the offenders, and pronounced the sentence of death upon them. At which time, the Lord Maior spake openly to him thus: Iohn (quoth he) behold, thy death is at hand without all doubt, and there is no way through which thou mayst hope to e scape: wherefore, for thy soules health, without making any lye, tell us what you purposed to have done among you, and to what end you did assemble the Commons. When hee had stayed a while, as doubtfull what to say, the Maior began thus againe to him: Sure ly thou knowest, Iohn, that the thing which I demand of thee, if thou doe it truely, it will redound to thy soules health, &c. He therefore, animated by the Lord Maiors good words, began as followeth: abroad by vulgar opinion, Concer ning vul gar mista king the Captaines name of the Rebels that the Rening vul gar mista king the Captaines name of the Rebels bell smitten downe so manfully by Sir William Walworth, the then worthy Lord Maior of London, was named Iack Straw, and not Wat Tylar: I thought good to reconcile this rash conceived doubt, by such testimony as I find in ancient and good Records. The principall Leaders and Captaines of the Commons, were Wat Tylar, The name of the chiefe Captaines and ring leaders in the rebel lion. as the first man that tooke leaders in the rebel lion. himselfe to be offended. The second, was Iohn or Iack Straw: the third, was Iohn Kirkby: the fourth, Allen Thredder: the fifth, Thomas Scot: the sixth, Ralfe Rugge. These and many other were Lea ders of the Kentish and Essex men. At Mildenhall and Burie in Suffolke, was Robert Westbrome, that made himselfe a king; and was most famous, next to Iohn Wrawe, who being a Priest, could not set Crowne upon Crowne: but left the name of king and Crowne to the same Robert. At Norwich, Iohn Litester a Dyer, exercised the name and power of a king, till he was taken and hanged for his paines. Thus dangerously had this Rebellion dispersed it selfe abroad. The rebel lion had extended it selfe in to many places. lion had extended it selfe in to many places. But the happy and prosperous successe at London, with other good care for them further off, gave a gracious issue to all in the end. After the death of Wat Tylar, and Iack Straw being taken, with divers other, as chiefe actors in this monstrous disorder: the fore-named Lord Mayor sate in judgement upon the offenders, and pronounced the sentence of death upon them. At which time, the Lord Maior spake openly to him thus: Iohn (quoth he) behold, thy death is at hand without all doubt, and there is no way through which thou mayst hope to e scape: wherefore, for thy soules health, without making any lye, tell us what you purposed to have done among you, and to what end you did assemble the Commons. When hee had stayed a while, as doubtfull what to say, the Maior began thus againe to him: Sure ly thou knowest, Iohn, that the thing which I demand of thee, if thou doe it truely, it will redound to thy soules health, &c. He therefore, animated by the Lord Maiors good words, began as followeth: NOw it booteth not to lye, neither is it lawfull to utter any untruth: especially, understanding that my Soule is to suffer more straiter torments if I should so doe. And because I hope for two commodities by speaking the truth: first, that what I shall speake, may profit the Com mon-wealth: and secondly, after my death, I trust by your suffrages to be succoured, ac cording to your promises, which is to pray for me: I will speake faithfully, and with out any deceit. it lawfull to utter any untruth: especially, understanding that my Soule is to suffer more straiter torments if I should so doe. And because I hope for two commodities by speaking the truth: first, that what I shall speake, may profit the Com mon-wealth: and secondly, after my death, I trust by your suffrages to be succoured, ac cording to your promises, which is to pray for me: I will speake faithfully, and with out any deceit. At the same time as wee were assembled upon Black-heath, to come unto us: our purpose was, to have slaine all such Knights, Squires and Gen tlemen, dance thither upon him: And as for the King, we would have kept him among us, to the end that the people might more boldly have repaired to us: sith they would have thought, that whatsoever we did, the same had beene done by his authority. Finally, when we had gotten power enough, that wee needed not to feare any force which might be made against us, we would have slaine all such Noblemen as might either have given counsell, or made any resistance against us: especially, we would have slaine the Knights of the Rhodes or Saint Iohns, wee would have killed the King himselfe, and all men of possessions: with Bishops, Monks, Canons, and Parsons of Churches. Onely Friers Mendicants wee would have spared, that might have sufficed for Mini stration of the Sacraments. upon Black-heath, What they intended to doe at Black heath. and had sent to the King to come unto us: our purpose was, to have slaine all such Knights, Squires and Gen tlemen, Their in tent for keeping the King. as should have given their attentent for keeping the King. dance thither upon him: And as for the King, we would have kept him among us, to the end that the people might more boldly have repaired to us: sith they would have thought, that whatsoever we did, the same had beene done by his authority. Finally, when we had gotten power enough, that wee needed not to feare any force which might be made against us, we would have slaine all such Noblemen as might either have given counsell, or made any resistance against us: especially, we would have slaine the Knights of Towers and Castles. of the Rhodes or Saint Iohns, The killing of all No blemen. Killing the King & all that had any possessi ons. and lastly, blemen. Killing the King & all that had any possessi ons. wee would have killed the King himselfe, and all men of possessions: with Bishops, Monks, Canons, and Parsons of Churches. Onely Friers Mendicants wee would have spared, that might have sufficed for Mini stration of the Sacraments. When we had made a riddance of all those, we would have devised Lawes, according to which Lawes the subjects of the Realme should have lived. For we would have cre ated Kings, other in other Countries. But because this our purpose was disappointed by the Arch bishop of Canturbury, mit the King to come to us: wee sought by all meanes to dispatch him out the way, as at length we did. Moreover, the same eve ning that Wat Tylar was kild, wee were determined (having the greatest part of the Commons of the City bent to joyne with us) to have set fire in foure corners of the Citie, and so to have divided among our selves, the spoile of the chiefest riches that might have been found at our owne pleasure. And this (said he) was our purpose, as God may helpe me now at my last end. Lawes de vised by thēselves. vised by thēselves. we would have devised Lawes, according to which Lawes the subjects of the Realme should have lived. For we would have cre ated Kings, Creation of kings a mong thē. as Wat Tylar in Kent, and mong thē. other in other Countries. But because this our purpose was disappointed by the Arch bishop of Canturbury, Their ma lice to the Archbi shop. that would not perlice to the Archbi shop. mit the King to come to us: wee sought by all meanes to dispatch him out the way, as at length we did. Moreover, the same eve ning that Wat Tylar was kild, wee were determined (having the greatest part of the Commons of the City bent to joyne with us) to have set fire in foure corners of the Citie, Their in tent to burne Lon don. tent to burne Lon don. and so to have divided among our selves, the spoile of the chiefest riches that might have been found at our owne pleasure. And this (said he) was our purpose, as God may helpe me now at my last end. After this confession made hee was beheaded, and his head set on London bridge by Wat Tylars, and many other. beheaded, and his head set on London bridge by Wat Tylars, and many other. In the yeere 1387. King Richard held his feast of Christmas in the Tower. And in the yeere 1399. the same King was sent prisoner to the Tower. his feast of Christmas in the Tower. And in the yeere 1399. the same King was sent prisoner to the Tower. In the yeere 1414. Sir Iohn Oldcastle brake out of the Tower. yeere a Parliament being holden at Lei cester, a Porter of the Tower was drawn, hanged and headed, whose head was sent up, and set over the Tower Gate, for consenting to one Whitlooke, that brake out of the Tower. brake out of the Tower. Porter of the Tower beheaded. And the same yeere a Parliament being holden at Lei cester, a Porter of the Tower was drawn, hanged and headed, whose head was sent up, and set over the Tower Gate, for consenting to one Whitlooke, that brake out of the Tower. In the yeere 1419. Fryer Randulph was sent to the Tower, and was there slaine by the Parson of Saint Peters in the Tower. was sent to the Tower, and was there slaine by the Parson of Saint Peters in the Tower. In the yeere 1426. there came to London a lewd fellow, feining himselfe to be sent from the Emperour, to the yong king Henry the sixt, calling him selfe the Baron of Blackamoore, and that he should be the principall Physician in this Kingdome: but his subtilty being knowne, he was apprehended, condem ned, drawne, hanged, headed and quar tered, his head set on the Tower of Lon don, and his quarters on foure Gates of the Citie. London a lewd fellow, feining himselfe to be sent from the Emperour, to the yong king Henry the sixt, calling him selfe the Baron of Blackamoore, and that he should be the principall Physician in this Kingdome: but his subtilty being knowne, he was apprehended, condem ned, drawne, hanged, headed and quar tered, his head set on the Tower of Lon don, and his quarters on foure Gates of the Citie. In the yeere 1458. in Whitson-week, the Duke of Somerset, with Anthony Rivers, fore the Queen in the Tower of London against three Esquires of the Queenes, and others. the Duke of Somerset, with Anthony Rivers, Iusting in the tower. and other foure, kept Iusts before the Queen in the Tower of London against three Esquires of the Queenes, and others. In the yeere 1470. the Tower was yeelded to Sir Richard Lee Maior of Lon don and his Brethren the Aldermen, who forthwith entred the same, delive ring King Henry of his imprisonment, and lodged him in the Kings lodging there, but the next yeere he was againe sent thither prisoner, and there murde red. yeelded to Sir Richard Lee Maior of Lon don and his Brethren the Aldermen, who forthwith entred the same, delive ring King Henry of his imprisonment, and lodged him in the Kings lodging there, but the next yeere he was againe sent thither prisoner, and there murde red. In the yeere 1478. George Duke of Clarence, Malmesey in the Tower: and within 5. yeeres after King Edward the fift, with his Brother,16 were said to be murthered there. Clarence, Duke of Clarence drowned in the Tower. was drowned in a Butte of Malmesey in the Tower: and within 5. yeeres after King Edward the fift, with his Brother,16 were said to be murthered there. In the yeere 1485. Iohn Earle of Ox ford was made Constable of the Tower, and had custody of the Lyons granted him. ford was made Constable of the Tower, and had custody of the Lyons granted him. In the yeere 1501. in the moneth of May, was royall Turney of Lords and Knights in the Tower of London before the king. May, was royall Turney of Lords and Knights in the Tower of London before the king. In the yeere 1512. the Chappell in the high white Tower was burned. In the yeere 1546. Queene Anne Bullein was beheaded in the Tower. 1541. La dy Katherine Howard, wife to king Hen ry the eighth, was also beheaded there. the high white Tower was burned. In the yeere 1546. Queene Anne Bullein was beheaded in the Tower. 1541. La dy Katherine Howard, wife to king Hen ry the eighth, was also beheaded there. In the yeere 1546. the 27. of April, being Tuesday in Easter weeke William Foxley, Potmaker for the Mint of the Tower of London, fell asleepe, and so continued sleeping, and could not bee wakened with pricking, cramping, or otherwise burning whatsoever, till the first day of the tearme, which was full 14. daies, and 15. nights, or more, for that Easter tearme beginneth not afore 17. dayes after Easter. The cause of his thus sleeping could not bee knowne, though the same were diligently sear ched after by the Kings Physicians, and other learned men: yea, the king him selfe examined the said Wil. Foxley, who was in all points found at his wakening, to be as if he had slept but one night, and he lived more than forty yeeres af ter in the said Tower, to wit, untill the yeere of Christ, 1587. and then decea sed on Wednesday in Easter weeke. being Tuesday in Easter weeke William Foxley, Potmaker for the Mint of the Tower of London, fell asleepe, and so continued sleeping, and could not bee wakened with pricking, cramping, or otherwise burning whatsoever, till the first day of the tearme, which was full 14. daies, and 15. nights, or more, for that Easter tearme beginneth not afore 17. dayes after Easter. The cause of his thus sleeping could not bee knowne, though the same were diligently sear ched Towers and Castles. ched after by the Kings Physicians, and other learned men: yea, the king him selfe examined the said Wil. Foxley, who was in all points found at his wakening, to be as if he had slept but one night, and he lived more than forty yeeres af ter in the said Tower, to wit, untill the yeere of Christ, 1587. and then decea sed on Wednesday in Easter weeke. Thus much for these accidents: and now to conclude thereof in summary. This Tower is a Cittadell, to defend or command the Citie: assemblies and treaties: a Prison of E state, for the most dangerous offenders: The onely place of coynage for all Eng land at this time: the Armorie for war like provision: the Treasurie of the Or naments and Iewels of the Crowne, and generall conserver of the most Re cords of the kings Courts of Iustice at Westminster. now to conclude thereof in summary. This Tower is a Cittadell, to defend or command the Citie: Vse of the Tower to defend the Citie. a Royall place for assemblies and treaties: a Prison of E state, for the most dangerous offenders: The onely place of coynage for all Eng land at this time: the Armorie for war like provision: the Treasurie of the Or naments and Iewels of the Crowne, and generall conserver of the most Re cords of the kings Courts of Iustice at Westminster. Tower on London Bridge.17 THe next Tower on the River of Thames, at the north end of the Draw bridge. This Tower was new begun to be builded 1426. Iohn Reynwell, Maior of London, laid one of the first corner stones in the foundation of this worke; the other three were laid by the She riffes and Bridge-masters: upon every of these foure stones was ingraven in faire Romane letters, the name of Ihesus. And these stones I have seene laid in the Bridge Storehouse, since they were ta ken up, when that Tower was of late newly made of timber. Thames, Tower at the north end of the Draw bridge. was on London Bridge, bridge. at the north end of the Draw bridge. This Tower was new begun to be builded 1426. Iohn Reynwell, Maior of London, laid one of the first corner stones in the foundation of this worke; the other three were laid by the She riffes and Bridge-masters: upon every of these foure stones was ingraven in faire Romane letters, the name of Ihesus. And these stones I have seene laid in the Bridge Storehouse, since they were ta ken up, when that Tower was of late newly made of timber. This Gate and tower was at the first strongly builded up of stone, and so con tinued untill the yeere 1577. in the mo neth of April, when the same stone ar ched gate and tower, being decayed, was begun to be taken downe, and then were the heads of the traytors removed thence, and set on the tower over the gate at the Bridge foot, towards South warke. This said tower beeing taken downe, a new foundation was drawne, and Sir Iohn Langley, Lord Maior, laid the first stone, in the presence of the Sheriffes and Bridge-masters. strongly builded up of stone, and so con tinued untill the yeere 1577. in the mo neth of April, when the same stone ar ched gate and tower, being decayed, was begun to be taken downe, and then were the heads of the traytors removed thence, and set on the tower over the gate at the Bridge foot, towards South warke. This said tower beeing taken downe, a new foundation was drawne, and Sir Iohn Langley, Lord Maior, laid the first stone, in the presence of the Sheriffes and Bridge-masters. On the 28 of Auguſt, and in the mo neth of September, the yeere 1579. the same tower was finished, a beautifull and chargeable peece of worke, all a bove the Bridge being of timber. neth of September, the yeere 1579. the same tower was finished, a beautifull and chargeable peece of worke, all a bove the Bridge being of timber. Tower on the South of London Bridge. ANother tower there is on Lon don Bridge, at the South end of the same Bridge, toward Southwarke. This gate, with the tower thereupon, and two Ar ches of the Bridge fell downe, and no man perished by the fall thereof, in the yeere 1436. Towards the new building whereof, divers charitable Citizens gave large summes of monies: which Gate being then againe new builded, was, with thirteene houses more on the Bridge, in the yeere 1471. burned by the Mariners and Saylers of Kent, Ba stard Fawconbridge being their Cap taine. don Bridge, Tower at the south end of the bridge. to wit, over the gate18at the South end of the same Bridge, toward Southwarke. This gate, with the tower thereupon, and two Ar ches of the Bridge fell downe, and no man perished by the fall thereof, in the yeere 1436. Towards the new building whereof, divers charitable Citizens gave large summes of monies: which Gate being then againe new builded, was, with thirteene houses more on the Bridge, in the yeere 1471. burned by the Mariners and Saylers of Kent, Ba stard Fawconbridge being their Cap taine. IN the west part of this Citie (saith Fitzstephen) are two most strong Ca stles, &c. Also Gervasim Tilbury, in the Reigne of Henry the second, writing of these Castles, hath to this effect: Two Castles (saith he) are built with wals and rampires, whereof one is in right of possession Baynards: the other, the Barons of Mount fitchet. The first of these Castles, ban king on the River Thames, was called Baynards Castle, of Baynard, a Nobleman that came in with the Conquerour, and then builded it, and deceased in the reigne of William Rufus: after whose de cease Geffrey Baynard succeeded, and then William Baynard, in the yeere 1111 who by forfeitThis text is the corrected text. The original is n (JZ)ure for Felonie, lost his Baronry of little Dunmow, and king Hen ry gave it wholly to Robert, the sonne of Richard, the sonne of Gilbert of Clare, and to his heires, together with the ho nour of Baynards Castle. This Robert mar ried Maude de Sent Licio, Lady of Brad ham, and deceased 1134. was buried at Saint Needes by Gilbert of Clare his Fa ther:19 Walter his sonne succeeded him, he tooke to wife Matilde de Bocham; and after her decease, Matilde the daughter and coheyre of Richard de Lucy, on whom hee begate Robert, and other: hee deceased in the yeere 1198. and was buried at Dunmow: after whom succeeded Robert Fitzwater, a valiant knight. Fitzstephen) are two most strong Ca stles, &c. Also Gervasim Tilbury, in the Reigne of Henry the second, writing of these Castles, hath to this effect: Two Castles (saith he) are built with wals and rampires, whereof one is in right of possession Baynards: the other, the Barons of Mount fitchet. The first of these Castles, ban king on the River Thames, was called Baynards Castle, of Baynard, a Nobleman that came in with the Conquerour, and then builded it, and deceased in the reigne of William Rufus: after whose de cease Geffrey Baynard succeeded, and then William Baynard, in the yeere 1111 who by forfeitThis text is the corrected text. The original is n (JZ)ure for Felonie, lost his Baronry of little Dunmow, and king Hen ry gave it wholly to Robert, the sonne of Richard, the sonne of Gilbert of Clare, and to his heires, together with the ho nour of Baynards Castle. This Robert mar ried Maude de Sent Licio, Lady of Brad ham, and deceased 1134. was buried at Saint Needes by Gilbert of Clare his Fa ther:19 Walter his sonne succeeded him, he tooke to wife Matilde de Bocham; and after her decease, Matilde the daughter and coheyre of Richard de Lucy, on whom hee begate Robert, and other: hee deceased in the yeere 1198. and was buried at Dunmow: after whom succeeded Robert Fitzwater, a valiant knight. About Towers and Castles. About the yeere 1213. there arose a great discord betwixt king Iohn and his Barons, Lib. Dun mow. because of Matilda, surnamed mow. the faire, daughter to the said Robert Fitzwater, whom the king unlawfully loved, but could not obtain her, nor her Father would consent thereunto: wher upon, and for other like causes, ensued warre through the whole Realme. The Barons were received into Lond. where they greatly endamaged the King, but in the end, the king did not onely (therefore) banish the said Fitzwater amongst other, out of the Realme, but also caused his Castell, called Baynard, and other his houses to bee spoiled. Which then being done, a Messenger being sent unto Matilda the faire, Virginity defended with the losse of worldly goods and life of the body, for life of the soule. about the kings suit, whereunto shee would not consent, she was poysoned: Robert Fitzwater, and other being then passed into France and some into Scotland, &c. It hapned in the yeere 1214. king Iohn being then in France with a great Army, that a truce was taken betwixt the two kings of England and France, for the tearme of five yeeres, and a River, or arme of the Sea being then betwixt either host. There was a Knight in the English host, that cryed to them of the other side, willing some one of their Knights, to come and just a course or twaine with him: whereupon, without stay, Robert Fitzwater, being on the French part, made himselfe ready, fer ried over, and got on horsebacke, with out any man to helpe him, and shewed himselfe ready to the face of his chal lenger, whom at the first course, hee strooke so hard with his great Speare, that horse and man fell to the ground: and when his Speare was broken, hee went back againe to the king of France. Which when the king had seene, by Gods tooth, oath) he were a king indeed, that had such a Knight. The friends of Robert hearing these words, kneeled downe and said: O king, he is your knight; it is Robert Fitzwater, and thereupon the next day hee was sent for, and restored to the kings favour: By which meanes, peace was concluded, and he received his livings, and had licence to repaire to his Castell of Baynard, and other Ca stles. Iohn being then in France with a great Army, that a truce was taken betwixt the two kings of England and France, for the tearme of five yeeres, and a River, or arme of the Sea being then betwixt either host. There was a Knight in the English host, that cryed to them of the other side, willing some one of their Knights, to come and just a course or twaine with him: whereupon, without stay, Robert Fitzwater, being on the French part, made himselfe ready, fer ried over, and got on horsebacke, with out any man to helpe him, and shewed himselfe ready to the face of his chal lenger, whom at the first course, hee strooke so hard with his great Speare, that horse and man fell to the ground: and when his Speare was broken, hee went back againe to the king of France. Which when the king had seene, by Gods tooth, King Iohns oath. quoth hee (after his usuall oath) he were a king indeed, that had such a Knight. The friends of Robert hearing these words, kneeled downe and said: O king, he is your knight; it is Robert Fitzwater, and thereupon the next day hee was sent for, and restored to the kings favour: By which meanes, peace was concluded, and he received his livings, and had licence to repaire to his Castell of Baynard, and other Ca stles. The yeere 1216. the first of Henry the third, the Castell of Hartford, being delivered to Lewes the French, and the Barons of England, Robert Fitzwater re quiring to have the same; because the keeping thereof did by ancient right and title pertaine to him, was answered by Lewes; That English men were not worthy to have such holds in keeping, because they did betray their own Lord, &c. This Robert deceased in the yeere 1234.20 and was buried at Dunmow, and Walter his sonne succeeded him, 1258. and his Barony of Baynard, was in the ward of King Henry in the nonage of Ro bert Fitzwater. This Robert tooke to his second wife, Ælianor, daughter and heire to the Earle of Ferrars,21 in the yeere 1289. and in the yeere 1303. on the 12. of March. Before Iohn Blondon, Maior of London, he acknowledged his service to the same Citie, and sware upon the Evangelists, that he would be true to the liberties thereof, and maintaine the same to his power, and the counsell of the same to keepe, &c. third, the Castell of Hartford, being delivered to Lewes the French, and the Barons of England, Robert Fitzwater re quiring to have the same; because the keeping thereof did by ancient right and title pertaine to him, was answered by Lewes; That English men were not worthy to have such holds in keeping, because they did betray their own Lord, &c. This Robert deceased in the yeere 1234.20 and was buried at Dunmow, and Walter his sonne succeeded him, 1258. and his Barony of Baynard, was in the ward of King Henry in the nonage of Ro bert Fitzwater. This Robert tooke to his second wife, Ælianor, daughter and heire to the Earle of Ferrars,21 in the yeere 1289. and in the yeere 1303. on the 12. of March. Before Iohn Blondon, Maior of London, he acknowledged his service to the same Citie, and sware upon the Evangelists, that he would be true to the liberties thereof, and maintaine the same to his power, and the counsell of the same to keepe, &c. The rights that belonged to Robert Fitz water, Chastilian and Banner-bearer of London, Lord of Wodeham were these. water, Chastilian and Banner-bearer of London, Lord of Wodeham were these. THe said Robert and his heires, ought to be, and are chiefe Ban nerers of London, in fee for the Chastilary, which he and his ancestors had by Castell Baynard, in the said Citie. In time of warre, the said Robert and his heyres ought to serve the City in man ner as followeth: that is; ought to be, and are chiefe Ban nerers of London, in fee for the Chastilary, which he and his ancestors had by Castell Baynard, in the said Citie. In time of warre, the said Robert and his heyres ought to serve the City in man ner as followeth: that is; The said Robert ought to come, hee being the twentieth man of Armes on horsebacke, covered with cloth, or Ar mour, unto the great West doore of St. Paul, with his Banner displaied before him, of his Armes. And when hee is come to the said doore, mounted and apparelled, as before is said, the Maior with his Aldermen and Sheriffs, armed in their Armes, shall come out of the said Church of Saint Paul unto the said doore, with a Banner in his hand all on foot, the Image of Saint Paul gold: the face, hands, feet, and sword of silver: and as soone as the said Robert shall see the Maior, Aldermen, and Sheriffs come on foot out of the Church, armed with such a Banner, he shall alight from his horse, and salute the Maior, and say to him; Sir Maior, I am come to doe my ser vice, which I owe to the Citie. being the twentieth man of Armes on horsebacke, covered with cloth, or Ar mour, unto the great West doore of St. Paul, with his Banner displaied before him, of his Armes. And when hee is come to the said doore, mounted and apparelled, as before is said, the Maior with his Aldermen and Sheriffs, armed in their Armes, shall come out of the said Church of Saint Paul unto the said doore, with a Banner in his hand all on foot, Banner of S. Paul. which Banner shalbe Gules, the Image of Saint Paul gold: the face, hands, feet, and sword of silver: and as soone as the said Robert shall see the Maior, Aldermen, and Sheriffs come on Towers and Castles. on foot out of the Church, armed with such a Banner, he shall alight from his horse, and salute the Maior, and say to him; Sir Maior, I am come to doe my ser vice, which I owe to the Citie. And the Maior and Aldermen shall answer: answer: We give to you, as to our Banneret of fee in this Citie, the Banner of this Citie to beare and governe, to the honour and profit of this Citie, to your power. in this Citie, the Banner of this Citie to beare and governe, to the honour and profit of this Citie, to your power. And the said Robert and his heires shall receive the Banner in his hands, and shall goe on foot out of the gate, with the Banner in his hands; and the Maior, Aldermen, and Shiriffes shall follow to the doore, and shall bring an horse to the said Robert, worth twenty pound, which horse shall bee saddled with a saddle of the Armes of the said Robert, and shall be covered with sindals of the said Armes. shall receive the Banner in his hands, and shall goe on foot out of the gate, with the Banner in his hands; and the Maior, Aldermen, and Shiriffes shall follow to the doore, and shall bring an horse to the said Robert, worth twenty pound, which horse shall bee saddled with a saddle of the Armes of the said Robert, and shall be covered with sindals of the said Armes. Also they shall present to him twen ty pounds starling money, and deliver it to the Chamberlaine of the said Ro bert, for his expences that day. Then the said Robert shall mount upon the horse which the Maior presented to him, with the Banner in his hand, and as soone as he is up, hee shall say to the Mayor, that he cause a Marshall to be chosen for the host, one of the Citie; which Marshall being chosen, the said Robert shall command the Maior and Burgesses of the Citie, to warne the Commons to assemble together, and they shall all goe under the Banner of S. Paul, and the said Robert shall beare it himselfe unto Ealdgate, and there the said Robert and Maior shall deliver the said Banner of Saint Paul from thence, to whom they shal assent or think good. And if they must make any issue forth of the Citie; then the said Robert ought to choose two forth of every Ward, the most sage personages, to foresee to the safe keeping of the Citie, after they be gone forth. And this counsell shall bee taken in the Priorie of the Trinity neere unto Ealdgate. And againe, before eve ry Towne or Castle, which the host of London shall besiege, if the siege conti nue a whole yeere, the said Robert shall have for every siege, of the Communal ty of London, one hundred shillings for his travell, and no more. ty pounds starling money, and deliver it to the Chamberlaine of the said Ro bert, for his expences that day. Then the said Robert shall mount upon the horse which the Maior presented to him, with the Banner in his hand, and as soone as he is up, hee shall say to the Mayor, that he cause a Marshall to be chosen for the host, one of the Citie; which Marshall being chosen, the said Robert shall command the Maior and Burgesses of the Citie, to warne the Commons to assemble together, and they shall all goe under the Banner of S. Paul, and the said Robert shall beare it himselfe unto Ealdgate, and there the said Robert and Maior shall deliver the said Banner of Saint Paul from thence, to whom they shal assent or think good. And if they must make any issue forth of the Citie; then the said Robert ought to choose two forth of every Ward, the most sage personages, to foresee to the safe keeping of the Citie, after they be gone forth. And this counsell shall bee taken in the Priorie of the Trinity neere unto Ealdgate. And againe, before eve ry Towne or Castle, which the host of London shall besiege, if the siege conti nue a whole yeere, the said Robert shall have for every siege, of the Communal ty of London, one hundred shillings for his travell, and no more. These be the rights that the said Ro bert hath in the time of warre. belonging to Robert Fitzwater and to his heires in the Citie of London in the time of peace, are these; that is to say, The said Robert hath a Soke or Ward in the Citie; that is, a wall of the Canon rie of Saint Paul, as a man goeth down the street before the Brewhouse of Saint Paul, unto the Thames, and so to the side of the Mill, which is in the water that commeth downe from the Fleet bridge, and goeth so by London wals, be twixt the Friers preachers and Ludgate, and so returneth backe by the house of the said Fryers, unto the said wall of the said Canonrie of Saint Paul; that is, all the Parish of Saint Andrew, which is in the gift of his Ancestors, by the said Signiority: and so the said Robert hath appendant unto the said Soke, all these things under-written: That he ought to have a Sokeman, and to place what Sokeman he will, so he be of the Soke manrie, or the same Ward; and if any of the Sokemanry be impleaded in the Guildhall, of any thing that toucheth not the body of the Maior that for the time is, or that toucheth the body of no Sheriffe, it is not lawfull for the Soke man of the Sokemanrie of the said Ro bert Fitzwater, to demand a Court of the said Robert; and the Maior and his Citizens of London ought to grant him to have a Court, ought to bring his judgements, at it is assented and agreed upon in the Guild hall, that shall be given them. bert hath in the time of warre. Rights be longing to Robert Fitz water in the time of peace. Rights longing to Robert Fitz water in the time of peace. belonging to Robert Fitzwater and to his heires in the Citie of London in the time of peace, are these; that is to say, The said Robert hath a Soke or Ward in the Citie; that is, a wall of the Canon rie of Saint Paul, as a man goeth down the street before the Brewhouse of Saint Paul, unto the Thames, and so to the side of the Mill, which is in the water that commeth downe from the Fleet bridge, and goeth so by London wals, be twixt the Friers preachers and Ludgate, and so returneth backe by the house of the said Fryers, unto the said wall of the said Canonrie of Saint Paul; that is, all the Parish of Saint Andrew, which is in the gift of his Ancestors, by the said Signiority: and so the said Robert hath appendant unto the said Soke, all these things under-written: That he ought to have a Sokeman, and to place what Sokeman he will, so he be of the Soke manrie, or the same Ward; and if any of the Sokemanry be impleaded in the Guildhall, of any thing that toucheth not the body of the Maior that for the time is, or that toucheth the body of no Sheriffe, it is not lawfull for the Soke man of the Sokemanrie of the said Ro bert Fitzwater, to demand a Court of the said Robert; and the Maior and his Citizens of London ought to grant him to have a Court, A Court to bee granted Robert Fitzwater for his Sokeman. and in his Court hee ought to bring his judgements, at it is assented and agreed upon in the Guild hall, that shall be given them. If any therefore be taken in his Soke. manry, he ought to have his Stocks and imprisonment in his Soke; and he shall be brought from thence to the Guild hall, before the Maior, and there they shall provide him his judgement that ought to be given of him: but his judge ment shall not be published till he come into the Court of the said Robert, and in his liberty. manry, he ought to have his Stocks and imprisonment in his Soke; and he shall be brought from thence to the Guild hall, before the Maior, and there they shall provide him his judgement that ought to be given of him: but his judge ment shall not be published till he come into the Court of the said Robert, and in his liberty. And the judgement shall bee such, that if he have deserved death by trea son, he to be tyed to a post in the Thames at a good Wharfe, where Boats are fast ned, two ebbings and two flowings of the water. Iudgemet for diver sity of of fences. sity of of fences. that if he have deserved death by trea son, he to be tyed to a post in the Thames at a good Wharfe, where Boats are fast ned, two ebbings and two flowings of the water. And if he be condemned for a com mon thiefe, he ought to bee led to the Elmes, and there suffer his judgement as other Theeves. And so the said Ro bert and his heires hath honour, that he holdeth a great Franches within the Ci tie, that the Maior of the Citie and Ci tizens are bound to doe him of right; that is to say, that when the Maior will hold a great Councell, he ought to call the said Robert and his heires, to be with him in councell of the Citie; and the said Robert ought to be sworne, to be of counsell with the Citie, against all peo ple, saving the King and his heires. And when the said Robert commeth to the Hustings in the Guild hall of the Citie, the Maior or his Lieutenant ought to rise against him, and set him downe neere unto him, and so long as hee is in the Guild-hall, all the judgements ought to be given by his mouth, according to the Record of the Recorders of the said Guild-hall. And so many waifes as come so long as he is there, he ought to give them to the Bayliffes of the Towne, or to whom he will, by the counsaile of the Maior of the Citie. mon thiefe, he ought to bee led to the Elmes, Towers and Castles. Elmes, and there suffer his judgement as other Theeves. And so the said Ro bert and his heires hath honour, that he holdeth a great Franches within the Ci tie, that the Maior of the Citie and Ci tizens are bound to doe him of right; that is to say, that when the Maior will hold a great Councell, he ought to call the said Robert and his heires, to be with him in councell of the Citie; and the said Robert ought to be sworne, to be of counsell with the Citie, against all peo ple, saving the King and his heires. And when the said Robert commeth to the Hustings in the Guild hall of the Citie, the Maior or his Lieutenant ought to rise against him, and set him downe neere unto him, and so long as hee is in the Guild-hall, all the judgements ought to be given by his mouth, according to the Record of the Recorders of the said Guild-hall. And so many waifes as come so long as he is there, he ought to give them to the Bayliffes of the Towne, or to whom he will, by the counsaile of the Maior of the Citie. These be the Franchises that belon ged to Robert Fitzwater in London, in time of peace, which, for the antiquity thereof, I have noted out of an old Re cord. ged to Robert Fitzwater in London, in time of peace, which, for the antiquity thereof, I have noted out of an old Re cord. This Robert deceased in the yeere 1305 leaving issue, Walter Fitzrobert, who had issue, Robert Fitzwalter,22 unto whom, in the yeere 1320. the Citizens of London acknowledged the right, which they ought to him and his heires for the Ca stle Baynard. He deceased 1325. unto whom succeeded Robert Fitzrobert, Fitz walter, &c.23 More of the Lord Fitzwa ter24 may ye read in my Annales, in the 51 of Edward the third. But how this ho nour of Baynards Castle, with the appur tenances, fell from the possession of the Fitzwaters, I have not read: only I find, that in the yeere 1428. the seventh of Henry the sixth, a great fire was at Bay nards Castle, and that Humfrey Duke of Gloucester builded it new. By his death and attaindor, in the yeere 1446. it came to the hands of Henry the sixth, and from him to Richard Duke of Yorke, of whom wee reade, that in the yeere 1457. he lodged there as in his owne house. leaving issue, Walter Fitzrobert, who had issue, Robert Fitzwalter,22 unto whom, in the yeere 1320. the Citizens of London acknowledged the right, which they ought to him and his heires for the Ca stle Baynard. He deceased 1325. unto whom succeeded Robert Fitzrobert, Fitz walter, &c.23 More of the Lord Fitzwa ter24 may ye read in my Annales, in the 51 of Edward the third. But how this ho nour of Baynards Castle, with the appur tenances, fell from the possession of the Fitzwaters, I have not read: only I find, that in the yeere 1428. the seventh of Henry the sixth, a great fire was at Bay nards Castle, and that Humfrey Duke of Gloucester builded it new. By his death and attaindor, in the yeere 1446. it came to the hands of Henry the sixth, and from him to Richard Duke of Yorke, of whom wee reade, that in the yeere 1457. he lodged there as in his owne house. In the yeere 1460. the 28 of February, the Earles of March and of Warwicke, with a great power of men, (but few of name) entred the City of London, where they were of the Citizens joyfully re ceived; and upon the third of March, be ing Sunday, the said Earle caused his people to be mustred in S. Iohns field: where, unto that host was shewed and proclaimed, certaine Articles & points, wherein King Henry, as they said, had offended, and thereupon it was deman ded of the said people, whether the said Henry was worthy to raigne as King any longer, or not: wherunto the people cry ed, nay. Then it was asked of them, whe ther they would have the E. for their King: and they cryed, yea, yea. Whereupon certaine Captaines were appointed to beare report thereof to the said Earle of March, then being lodged at his Castle of Baynard. Whereof when the Earle was by them advertised, he thanked God, and them for their electi on: notwithstanding, he shewed some countenance of insufficiency in him, to occupie so great a charge, till by exhor tation of the Archbishop of Canturbury, the Bishop of Excest. and certain Noble men, he granted to their petition: and on the next morrow at Pauls, he went on Procession, offered, and had Te Deum sung. Then was he with great Royalty conveyed to Westminster, and there in the great Hall, set in the Kings Seat, with Saint Edwards Scepter in his hand. the Earles of March and of Warwicke, with a great power of men, (but few of name) entred the City of London, where they were of the Citizens joyfully re ceived; and upon the third of March, be ing Sunday, the said Earle caused his people to be mustred in S. Iohns field: where, unto that host was shewed and proclaimed, certaine Articles & points, wherein King Henry, as they said, had offended, and thereupon it was deman ded of the said people, whether the said Henry was worthy to raigne as King any longer, or not: wherunto the people cry ed, nay. Then it was asked of them, whe ther they would have the E. Edward the 4 elected in S. Iohns field. of March for their King: and they cryed, yea, yea. Whereupon certaine Captaines were appointed to beare report thereof to the said Earle of March, then being lodged at his Castle of Baynard. Whereof when the Earle was by them advertised, he thanked God, and them for their electi on: notwithstanding, he shewed some countenance of insufficiency in him, to occupie so great a charge, till by exhor tation of the Archbishop of Canturbury, Edward the 4. took on him the Crownein Baynards Castle. the Bishop of Excest. and certain Noble men, he granted to their petition: and on the next morrow at Pauls, he went on Procession, offered, and had Te Deum sung. Then was he with great Royalty conveyed to Westminster, and there in the great Hall, set in the Kings Seat, with Saint Edwards Scepter in his hand. In the seventh yeere of King Edwards reigne, son, surmised against them, where though many of them were put to death, and other escaped for great sums of money. Amongst whom were, Sir Thomas Cooke, Humfrey Heyward, and other Aldermen of London arrested, and charged with treason: whereof they were acquitted, but they lost their goods to the King, to the value of 40000. Marks, or more, as some have written. And for example, Sir Thomas Cooke, lately before L. Maior of London, was by one, named Hawkins, appeached of Treason, for which he was committed to the Tower, his place in London seized on by the Lord Rivers;25 and his Lady and servants cleerely put out thereof, the cause being thus: reigne, Ex lib. Ers wick. Treason surmised against many men many men were arrested of treawick. Treason surmised against many men son, surmised against them, where though many of them were put to death, and other escaped for great sums of money. Amongst whom were, Sir Thomas Cooke, Divers Al dermen unjustly charged with trea son. Sir Iohn Plummer, Knights, dermen unjustly charged with trea son. Humfrey Heyward, and other Aldermen of London arrested, and charged with treason: whereof they were acquitted, but they lost their goods to the King, to the value of 40000. Marks, or more, as some have written. And for example, Sir Thomas Cooke, lately before L. Maior of London, was by one, named Hawkins, appeached of Treason, for which he was committed to the Tower, his place in London seized on by the Lord Rivers;25 and his Lady and servants cleerely put out thereof, the cause being thus: The Towers and Castles. The forenamed Hawkins came (up on a time) to the said Sir Thomas Cooke, requesting him to lend him a thousand Markes upon good surety; wherunto he answered, that he would first know for whom it should be: At length un derstanding that it should bee for the use of Queen Margaret, hee answered; he had no currant wares, whereof a ny shift might bee made, without too much losse, and therefore required Hawkins to move him no further, for he intended not to deale therewithall. Yet the said Hawkins requested but one hundred pounds at length, and went a way without it, or the value of one pen ny, and never after came again to move him; which rested so for two or 3. yeere after, till the said Hawkins was com mitted to the Tower; and brought at length to the Brake or Racke, common ly called, The Brake or Racke in the Tower, u sually cal led the Duke of Excesters Daughter the Duke of Excesters daughsually cal led the Duke of Excesters Daughter ter, because hee was the deviser of that torture. By meanes of which paine, he revealed many things: and among the rest, the motion, which hee had made to Sir Thomas Cooke, was one. In regard whereof, the said Sir Thomas was trou bled, as you have heard, and a Iury, by the meanes of Sir Iohn Fogge, endighted him of treason. After which, an Oyer determinThis text has been supplied. Reason: Dirt on the page, tearing, etc. Evidence: The text has been supplied based on an external source.er was26 held in the Guildhall, An Oyer de terminer for the tryall of Sir Thomas Cooke. terminer for the tryall of Sir Thomas Cooke. where sate the Lord Maior, the Duke of Clarence, the Earle of Warwicke, the Lord Rivers, Sir Iohn Fogge, with other of the kings Councell. To this place was the said Sir Thomas brought, and there arraigned upon life and death: where he was acquitted of the said endightment, Counter in Breadstreet, and from thence to the Kings Bench. Being thus acquit ted, his Wife got possession againe of his house, the which she found in a very evill plight: for the servants of Sir Iohn Fogge, and of the Lord Rivers, had made havocke of what they listed. Also, at his place at Giddy Hall in Essex, ther sort had destroyed the Deere in his Parke, his Conies and Fish, and spared not Brasse, Pewter, Bedding, and all that they could carry away; for which, neuer a penny might be gotten backe a gaine in recompence, nor Sir Thomas Cooke bee delivered, untill he had paid 8000. pounds to the King, and 800. pounds to the Queene. And because that Sir Iohn Markham knight, then chiefe Iustice of the Pleas, determined somewhat against the kings pleasure (that the offence done by Sir Thomas Cooke was no treason, but misprision, the which was no desert of death, but to be fined at the kings pleasure:) the Lord Rivers, and the Dutches of Bed ford his wife, procured, that he lost his Office afterward. brought, and there arraigned upon life and death: where he was acquitted of the said endightment, Sir Thomas Cooke ac quitted by the Iury. and sent to the quitted by the Iury. Counter in Breadstreet, and from thence to the Kings Bench. Being thus acquit ted, his Wife got possession againe of his house, the which she found in a very evill plight: for the servants of Sir Iohn Fogge, and of the Lord Rivers, had made havocke of what they listed. Also, at his place at Giddy Hall in Essex, When men are in distresse much spoil is made of them. anóther sort had destroyed the Deere in his Parke, his Conies and Fish, and spared not Brasse, Pewter, Bedding, and all that they could carry away; for which, neuer a penny might be gotten backe a gaine in recompence, nor Sir Thomas Cooke bee delivered, untill he had paid 8000. pounds to the King, and 800. pounds to the Queene. And because that Sir Iohn Markham knight, then chiefe Iustice of the Pleas, determined somewhat against the kings pleasure (that the offence done by Sir Thomas Cooke was no treason, but misprision, the which was no desert of death, but to be fined at the kings pleasure:) the Lord Rivers, and the Dutches of Bed ford his wife, procured, that he lost his Office afterward. Edward the fourth being dead, leaving his eldest sonne Edward, and his second sonne Richard, both infants; Richard Duke of Glocester, Nobles and Commons in the Guildhall of London, tooke on him the title of the Realme and kingdome, as imposed up on him in this Baynards Castle, as yee may read pended by Sir Thomas Moore, and set downe in my Annals. his eldest sonne Edward, and his second sonne Richard, both infants; Richard Duke of Glocester, Richard the third took on him the Crown in Baynards Castle. being elected by the Nobles and Commons in the Guildhall of London, tooke on him the title of the Realme and kingdome, as imposed up on him in this Baynards Castle, as yee may read pended by Sir Thomas Moore, and set downe in my Annals. Henry the seventh, 1501. the 16. of his reigne, repaired or rather new builded this house, not imbattelled, or so strongly fortified Castle-like; but farre more beautifull and commodious for the entertainment of any Prince or great Estate: hee also kept a Royall Turney, and Iusts in the Tower of London, for his Lords, knights and other. In the seventeenth of his reigne, he with his Queene were lod ged there, and came from thence to Pauls Church, where they made their offering, dined in the Bishops Palace, and so returned. Of Baynards Castle. about the yeere 1501. the 16. of his reigne, repaired or rather new builded this house, not imbattelled, or so strongly fortified Castle-like; but farre more beautifull and commodious for the entertainment of any Prince or great Estate: hee also kept a Royall Turney, and Iusts in the Tower of London, for his Lords, knights and other. In the seventeenth of his reigne, he with his Queene were lod ged there, and came from thence to Pauls Church, where they made their offering, dined in the Bishops Palace, and so returned. The 18. of his reigne he was lodged there, King of the Romanes, were thither brought to his presence, and from thence the king came to Pauls, and was there sworne to the King of the Romans, as the said King had sworne to him. there, Henry the 7 lodged in Baynards Castle. and the Ambassadours from the King of the Romanes, were thither brought to his presence, and from thence the king came to Pauls, and was there sworne to the King of the Romans, as the said King had sworne to him. The twenty of the said King, he with his Knights of the Order, all in their habits of the Gatter, rode from the Tower of London through the City, un to the Cathedrall Church of St. Pauls, and there heard Evensong, and from thence they rode to Baynards Castle, where the king lodged, and on the next morrow, in the same habit they rode from thence againe to the said Church of St. Pauls, went on Procession, heard the divine Service, offered and retur ned. The same yeere the King of Castile was lodged there. his Knights of the Order, all in their habits of the Gatter, rode from the Tower of London through the City, un to the Cathedrall Church of St. Pauls, and there heard Evensong, and from thence they rode to Baynards Castle, where the king lodged, and on the next morrow, in the same habit they rode from thence againe to the said Church of St. Pauls, went on Procession, heard the divine Service, offered and retur ned. The same yeere the King of Castile was Towers and Castles. was lodged there. In the yeere 1553. the 19. of Iuly, the Councell, partly moved with the right of the Lady Maries cause, partly considering, that the most of the Realm was wholly bent on her side, changing their minde from Lady Iane, lately pro claimed Queen; assembled themselves at this Baynards Castle, where they communed with the Earle of Pembrooke27 and the Earle of Shrewsbury,28 and Sir Iohn Mason, Clerke of the Councell, sent for the Lord Maior, and then ri ding into Cheape to the Crosse, where Garter King at Armes (Trumpets being sounded) proclaimed the Lady Marie, Daughter to King Henry the eight, and Queene Katharine, Queene of England, &c. the Councell, partly moved with the right of the Lady Maries cause, partly considering, that the most of the Realm was wholly bent on her side, changing their minde from Lady Iane, lately pro claimed Queen; assembled themselves at this Baynards Castle, where they communed with the Earle of Pembrooke27 and the Earle of Shrewsbury,28 and Sir Iohn Mason, Clerke of the Councell, sent for the Lord Maior, and then ri ding into Cheape to the Crosse, where Garter King at Armes (Trumpets being sounded) proclaimed the Lady Marie, Daughter to King Henry the eight, and Queene Katharine, Queene of England, &c. Next adjoyning to this Castle, was sometime a Tower, the name thereof I have not read, but that the same was builded by Edward the second, is mani fest by this that followeth: sometime a Tower, the name thereof I have not read, but that the same was builded by Edward the second, is mani fest by this that followeth: King Edward the third, yeere of his reigne, gave unto William de Ros, of Hamelake in Yorkeshire, a Tow er upon the water of Thames, by the Castle Baynard, in the Citie of London, which Tower his Father had builded, he gave the said Tower and appurtenances to the said William Hamesake, and his heires, for a Rose yeerely to be paid for al service due, &c. A Tower by Baynards Castle builded by Edward the second. in the second yeere of his reigne, gave unto William de Ros, of Hamelake in Yorkeshire, a Tow er upon the water of Thames, by the Castle Baynard, in the Citie of London, which Tower his Father had builded, he gave the said Tower and appurtenances to the said William Hamesake, and his heires, for a Rose yeerely to be paid for al service due, &c. THe next Tower or Castle, ban king also on the river of Thames, was (as is afore shewed) called Mountfiquits Castle, belonging to a No bleman, Baron of Mountfiquit, the first builder thereof, who came in with Wil liam the Conquerour, and was after ward named, William le Sir Monntfiquit. This Castle hee builded in a place, not far distant from Baynards, towards the West. The same William Mountfiquit li ved in the reigne of Henry the first, and was witnesse to a Charter then granted to the Citie for the Shiriffes of London, Richard Mountfiquit lived in king Iohns time, and in the yeere 1213. was by the same king banished the Realme in to France, when (peradventure) king Iohn caused his Castle of Mountfiquit, amongst other Castles of the Barons, to be overthrowne. The which, after his returne, might bee by him againe re e dified; for the totall destruction there of, was about the yeere 1276. when Ro bert Kilwarby, Archbishop of Cantur bury, began the foundation of the Fry ers Preachers Church there, com monly called, the Blacke Fryers, as appeareth by a Charter, in the fourth of Edward the first, in these words. king also on the river of Thames, was (as is afore shewed) called Mountfiquits Castle, belonging to a No bleman, Baron of Mountfiquit, the first builder thereof, who came in with Wil liam the Conquerour, and was after ward named, William le Sir Monntfiquit. This Castle hee builded in a place, not far distant from Baynards, towards the West. The same William Mountfiquit li ved in the reigne of Henry the first, and was witnesse to a Charter then granted to the Citie for the Shiriffes of London, Richard Mountfiquit lived in king Iohns time, and in the yeere 1213. was by the same king banished the Realme in to France, when (peradventure) king Iohn caused his Castle of Mountfiquit, amongst other Castles of the Barons, to be overthrowne. The which, after his returne, might bee by him againe re e dified; for the totall destruction there of, was about the yeere 1276. when Ro bert Kilwarby, Archbishop of Cantur bury, began the foundation of the Fry ers Preachers Church there, com monly called, the Blacke Fryers, as appeareth by a Charter, in the fourth of Edward the first, in these words. Gregory Rokesley, the Barons of London, granted, and gave to the Archbishop of Canturbury Robert Kilwarby, two lanes or wayes, ly ing next to the street of Baynards Castle, and the Tower of Mountfiquit, or Mount fichet to be destroyed. In the which place, the said Robert builded the late new Church of the Blacke Fryers, with the rest of the stones that were left of the said Tow er. For the best and choise stones the Bi shop of London had obtained of King Wil liam Conquerour, to re-edifie the upper part of Saint Pauls Church, which was then (by chance of fire) decaied. Cant. Récord ex Charta. The prea ching Fri ers Church founded by Baynards Castle; before which time their Church was in Oldborne. Lord Maior, and ching Fri ers Church founded by Baynards Castle; before which time their Church was in Oldborne. the Barons of London, granted, and gave to the Archbishop of Canturbury Robert Kilwarby, two lanes or wayes, ly ing next to the street of Baynards Castle, and the Tower of Mountfiquit, or Mount fichet to be destroyed. In the which place, the said Robert builded the late new Church of the Blacke Fryers, with the rest of the stones that were left of the said Tow er. For the best and choise stones the Bi shop of London had obtained of King Wil liam Conquerour, to re-edifie the upper part of Saint Pauls Church, which was then (by chance of fire) decaied. One other Tower there was also, tuate on the River of Thames, neere un to the said Black Fryers Church, on the West part thereof, builded at the Ci tizens charges, by licence and comman dement of Edward the first, and of Ed ward the second as appeareth by their gránts. Which Tower was then fini shed, and so stood for the space of 300. yeeres; and was at the last taken downe by the commandement of Iohn Sha, Maior of London, in the yeere 1502. Tower on the Thames situate on the River of Thames, neere un to the said Black Fryers Church, on the West part thereof, builded at the Ci tizens charges, by licence and comman dement of Edward the first, and of Ed ward the second as appeareth by their gránts. Which Tower was then fini shed, and so stood for the space of 300. yeeres; and was at the last taken downe by the commandement of Iohn Sha, Maior of London, in the yeere 1502. Another Tower or Castle also was there, in the West part of the Citie, pertaining to the king. For I read, that in the yeere 1087. the 20. of William the first, the City of London, with the Church of Saint Paul, being burned, Mauritius then Bishop of London, after ward began the foundation of a new Church, whereunto king William (saith mine Author) gave the choise stones of his Castle, standing neere to the bank of the River of Thames, at the west end of the Citie. his successor purchased the streets about Pauls Church, compassing the same with a wall of stone, and gates, King Henry the first gave to this Richard, so much of the Moat or wall of the Castle, on the Thames side to the South, as should be needfull to make the said wall of the Churchyard, and so much more as should suffice to make a way without the wall on the North side. there, in the West part of the Citie, pertaining to the king. For I read, that in the yeere 1087. the 20. of William the first, the City of London, with the Church of Saint Paul, being burned, Mauritius then Bishop of London, after ward began the foundation of a new Church, whereunto king William (saith mine Author) gave the choise stones of his Castle, standing neere to the bank of the River of Thames, at the west end of G the Towers and Castles. the Citie. In vita Ar kenwald. After this Mauritius, Richard kenwald. his successor purchased the streets about Pauls Church, compassing the same with a wall of stone, and gates, King Henry the first gave to this Richard, so much of the Moat or wall of the Castle, on the Thames side to the South, as should be needfull to make the said wall of the Churchyard, and so much more as should suffice to make a way without the wall on the North side. This Tower or Castle being thus de stroyed, stood, as it may seeme, in place where now standeth the House called Bridewell. For notwithstanding the de struction of the said Castle or Tower, the house remained large, so that the Kings of this Realme long after were lodged there, and kept their Courts. For untill the 9. yeere of Henry the third, the Courts of Law and Iustice were kept in the Kings house, wheresoever he was lodged, and not elsewhere. And that the Kings have beene lodged, and kept their Law Court in this place, I could shew you many, authors of record; but for a plaine proofe, this one may suf fice: Hæc est finalis concordia, facta in Cu ria Dom. a die Sancti Michaelis in 15. dies Anno reg ni Regis Iohannis 7. Corā G. Fil. Petri, Eu stacio de Fauconberg, Iohanne de Gestlinge, Osbart filio Hervey, Walter de Crisping, Iu sticiar. & aliis Baronibus Domini Regis. More (as Mathew Paris hath) about the yeere 1210. King Iohn, the 12. of his reigne, summoned a Parliament at S. Brides in London, where he exacted of the Clergie and religious persons, the summe of one hundred thousand pounds, and besides all this, the white Monks were compelled to cancell their priviledges, and to pay 40000. l. to the King, &c. This house of S. Brides of la ter time being left, and not used by the Kings, fell to ruine, insomuch that the very platforme thereof remained (for great part) waste, and as it were, but a lay-stall of filth and rubbish, only a faire Well remained there. A great part of this house, namely on the west, as hath beene said, was given to the Bishop of Salisbury; East remained waste, untill King Henry the 8. builded a stately and beautifull house thereupon, giving it to name, Bridewell, of the Parish and Well there. This house he purposely builded for the entertainmēt of the Emp. Charles the 5. who in the yeere 1522. came into this Citie, as I have shewed in my Summa rie, Annales, and large Chronicles. stroyed, stood, as it may seeme, in place where now standeth the House called Bridewell. For notwithstanding the de struction of the said Castle or Tower, the house remained large, so that the Kings of this Realme long after were lodged there, and kept their Courts. For untill the 9. yeere of Henry the third, the Courts of Law and Iustice were kept in the Kings house, wheresoever he was lodged, and not elsewhere. And that the Kings have beene lodged, and kept their Law Court in this place, I could shew you many, authors of record; but for a plaine proofe, this one may suf fice: Hæc est finalis concordia, facta in Cu ria Dom. Lib. Burton super Trent. Regis apud Sanct. Bridgid. Lond. a die Sancti Michaelis in 15. dies Anno reg ni Regis Iohannis 7. Corā G. Fil. Petri, Eu stacio de Fauconberg, Iohanne de Gestlinge, Osbart filio Hervey, Walter de Crisping, Iu sticiar. & aliis Baronibus Domini Regis. More (as Mathew Paris hath) about the yeere 1210. King Iohn, the 12. of his reigne, summoned a Parliament at S. Brides in London, where he exacted of the Clergie and religious persons, the summe of one hundred thousand pounds, and besides all this, the white Monks were compelled to cancell their priviledges, and to pay 40000. l. to the King, &c. This house of S. Brides of la ter time being left, and not used by the Kings, fell to ruine, insomuch that the very platforme thereof remained (for great part) waste, and as it were, but a lay-stall of filth and rubbish, only a faire Well remained there. A great part of this house, namely on the west, as hath beene said, was given to the Bishop of Salisbury; Bridewell builded by King Henry the eighth. the other part toward the East remained waste, untill King Henry the 8. builded a stately and beautifull house thereupon, giving it to name, Bridewell, of the Parish and Well there. This house he purposely builded for the entertainmēt of the Emp. Charles the 5. who in the yeere 1522. came into this Citie, as I have shewed in my Summa rie, Annales, and large Chronicles. On the North-west side of this Citie, neere unto Redcrosse-street, there was a Tower, commonly called Barbican, or Burhkenning, for that the same, being placed on an high ground, and also buil ded of some good height, was (in old time) used as a Watch-Tower for the Citie, from whence a man might be hold and view the whole Citie towards the South, and also into Kent, Sussex and Surrey, and likewise every other way, East, North, or West. neere unto Redcrosse-street, there was a Tower, commonly called Barbican, or Burhkenning, for that the same, being placed on an high ground, and also buil ded of some good height, was (in old time) used as a Watch-Tower for the Citie, from whence a man might be hold and view the whole Citie towards the South, and also into Kent, Sussex and Surrey, and likewise every other way, East, North, or West. Some other Burhkennings or Watch-Towers there were of old time, in and about the Citie, all which were repay red, yea and others new builded, by Gil bert de Clare, Earle of Gloucester, in the reigne of King Henry the third, when the Barons were in Armes, and held the Ci tie against the King. But the Barons being reconciled to his favour, in the yeere 1267. he caused all their Burhken nings, Watch-Towers, and Bulwarkes, made and repaired by the said Earle, to be plucked downe, and the ditches to be filled up, so that nought of them might seeme to remaine. And then was this Burhkenning, amongst the rest, over throwne and destroyed: and although the ditch neere thereunto, then called Hounds-ditch, was stopped up, yet the street (of long time after) was called Hounds-ditch, and of late time (more commonly) called Barbican. The plot or seat of this Burhkëning or watch-tow er, King Edward the third, in the yeere 1336. the tenth of his reigne, gave unto Robert Vfford, Earle of Suffolke, by the name of his Mannor of Base-court, in the Parish of S. Giles without Creplegate of London, commonly called the Barbican. there were of old time, in and about the Citie, all which were repay red, yea and others new builded, by Gil bert de Clare, Earle of Gloucester, in the reigne of King Henry the third, when the Barons were in Armes, and held the Ci tie against the King. But the Barons being reconciled to his favour, in the yeere 1267. he caused all their Burhken nings, Watch-Towers, and Bulwarkes, made and repaired by the said Earle, to be plucked downe, and the ditches to be filled up, so that nought of them might seeme to remaine. And then was this Burhkenning, amongst the rest, over throwne and destroyed: and although the ditch neere thereunto, then called Hounds-ditch, was stopped up, yet the street (of long time after) was called Hounds-ditch, and of late time (more commonly) called Barbican. The plot or seat of this Burhkëning or watch-tow er, King Edward the third, in the yeere 1336. the tenth of his reigne, gave unto Robert Vfford, Earle of Suffolke, by the name of his Mannor of Base-court, in the Parish of S. Giles without Creplegate of London, commonly called the Barbican. Tower Royall was of old time the kings house, King Stephen was there lodged; but since called the Queenes Ward robe. The Princesse,30 mother to King Ri chard the 2. in the 4. of his reigne, was lodged there, being forced to fly frō the Tower of London, when the Rebels pos sessed it. But on the 15. of Iune, (saith Frosard) Wat Tylar being slaine, the King went to this Lady Princesse his mother, then lodged in the Tower Royall, called the Queenes Wardrobe, where shee had tarried two dayes and two nights: which Tower (saith the Record of Ed ward the third, the thirty sixth yeere) was in the Parishe of the Saint Michael de Pater noster, &c. house, King Stephen was there lodged; but since called the Queenes Ward robe. The Princesse,30 mother to King Ri chard the 2. in the 4. of his reigne, was lodged there, being forced to fly frō the Tower of London, when the Rebels pos sessed it. But on the 15. of Iune, (saith Frosard) Wat Tylar being slaine, the King went Of Schooles and Houses of Learning. went to this Lady Princesse his mother, then lodged in the Tower Royall, called the Queenes Wardrobe, where shee had tarried two dayes and two nights: which Tower (saith the Record of Ed ward the third, the thirty sixth yeere) was in the Parishe of the Saint Michael de Pater noster, &c. In the yeere 1386. King Richard with Queene Anne his wife, Christmas at Eltham, whither came to him Lion King of Ermonie, tence to reforme peace betwixt the Kings of England and France; but what his comming profited, he onely under stood. For, besides innumerable gifts that he received of the King and of the Nobles, the King lying then in this Tower Royall, robe in London, granted to him a Char ter, of a thousand pounds by yeere du ring his life. He was, as hee affirmed, chased out of his Kingdome by the Tar tarians. More concerning this Tower shall you read, when you come to the Vintry Ward, in which it standeth. Queene Anne his wife, Lib. S. in Eborum. kept their Christmas at Eltham, whither came to him Lion King of Ermonie, The King of Ermonie came into England. under pretence to reforme peace betwixt the Kings of England and France; but what his comming profited, he onely under stood. For, besides innumerable gifts that he received of the King and of the Nobles, the King lying then in this Tower Royall, Richard 2. lodged in the Tower Royall. or the Queenes Wardrobe in London, granted to him a Char ter, of a thousand pounds by yeere du ring his life. He was, as hee affirmed, chased out of his Kingdome by the Tar tarians. More concerning this Tower shall you read, when you come to the Vintry Ward, in which it standeth. Sernes Tower in Bucklersberie, was sometimes the Kings house. Edward the third, in the eighteenth yeere of his reigne, appointed his Exchange of monies therein to be kept, and in the two and thirtieth, hee gave the same Tower to his free Chappell of S. Ste phen at Westminster. sometimes the Kings house. Edward the third, in the eighteenth yeere of his reigne, appointed his Exchange of monies therein to be kept, and in the two and thirtieth, hee gave the same Tower to his free Chappell of S. Ste phen at Westminster. Notes - I.e., Tower Ditch. (JZ)↑ - I.e., Tower Ditch. (JZ)↑ - Stow is likely referring here to the area of the Tower called Bulwark Gate. (JZ)↑ - Stow likely means Robert Passelewe. (JZ)↑ - Stow mentions this same event in Queenhithe Ward where Henry Brahe is calledHenry of Bath. (JZ)↑ - I.e., Eleanor of Provence. (JZ)↑ - I.e., London Bridge. (JZ)↑ - I.e., William Hastings. (JZ)↑ - There is a lack of consensus among early modern historiographers and modern historians on when regnal years begin and end. Cheney and Holinshed reckon that this date occurred in 1551, while Stow reckons that this date occurred in 1550. We have given preference here to Stow’s interpretation but readers should be aware that other interpretations exist. See MoEML’s Regnal Calendar or Cheney for more information. (JZ)↑ - There is a lack of consensus among early modern historiographers and modern historians on when regnal years begin and end. Cheney and Holinshed reckon that this date occurred in 1551, while Stow reckons that this date occurred in 1550. We have given preference here to Stow’s interpretation but readers should be aware that other interpretations exist. See MoEML’s Regnal Calendar or Cheney for more information. (JZ)↑ - There is a lack of consensus among early modern historiographers and modern historians on when regnal years begin and end. Cheney and Holinshed reckon that this date occurred in 1551, while Stow reckons that this date occurred in 1550. We have given preference here to Stow’s interpretation but readers should be aware that other interpretations exist. See MoEML’s Regnal Calendar or Cheney for more information. (JZ)↑ - The evening before the Feast of Corpus Christi. (JZ)↑ - Celebrated on the Thursday after Trinity Sunday, anywhere between May 21 and June 24. (JZ)↑ - Although historical accounts of this event differ, Stow’s attribution of this service to John Cavendish is most likely incorrect. According to ODNB, Cavendish was not with Richard II at this June 15, 1381 meeting with Wat Tyler but was beheaded by other rebels at Lakenheath the day before (ODNB Cavendish, Sir John). (JZ)↑ - It is possible that Stow is mistaken here. The ODNB states that the member of the royal party who mortally wounded Tyler, in addition to Sir William Walworth, was Sir Ralph Standish, an act that could have merited Standish a knighthood (ODNB Tyler, Walter [Wat]). Given the confusion of the historical accounts of this event, it is unclear whether there was a John and a Ralph Standish knighted at Smithfield by Richard II or if Stow is mistaken and it was only Ralph Standish. We have chosen to leave this name untagged and provide this note in lieu of a definite attribution. (JZ)↑ - I.e., Richard of Shrewsbury. (JZ)↑ - I.e., Drawbridge Tower. (JZ)↑ - I.e., Bridge Gate. (JZ)↑ - Stow is mistaken here. According to ODNB, Gilbert of Clare was Robert fitz Richard’s grandfather, not his father (See ODNB entry for Robert Fitzwalter). (JZ)↑ - Robert Fitzwalter actually died in 1235 (See ODNB entry for Robert Fitzwalter). (JZ)↑ - I.e., Robert de Ferrers. (JZ)↑ - Stow is mistaken here. According to ODNB, Lord Robert Fitzwalter’s son, Walter, predeceased him and had no children, making his other son, Sir Robert Fitzwalter, his heir (ODNB Fitzwalter family). This Robert may be the one here mentioned by Stow whose right and that of his heirs to Baynard’s Castle was recognized by the citizens of London in 1320. (JZ)↑ - Stow is mistaken here. The son of Sir Robert Fitzwalter was Lord John Fitzwalter, the second Lord Fitzwalter. Lord John Fitzwalter’s son and heir was named Walter Fitzwalter (ODNB Fitzwalter family). It is uncertain who Stow here means by Robert Fitzrobert, Fitzwalter. (JZ)↑ Lord Fitzwalter here could indicate the first Lord Fitzwalter, Lord Robert Fitzwalter, who died in 1326, or Lord John Fitzwalter, who died in 1361 (ODNB Fitzwalter family). (JZ)↑- I.e., Richard Woodville. (JZ)↑ - Damage to page; missing letters inferred by context (JZ)↑ - I.e., William Herbert. (JZ)↑ - I.e., Francis Talbot. (JZ)↑ - I.e., William Herbert. (JZ)↑ - I.e., Joan of Kent. (JZ)↑ References - Citation Cheney, C.R., ed. A Handbook of Dates for Students of British History. Ed. Michael Jones. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 2004. Print.This item is cited in the following documents: - Citation Holinshed, Raphael and William Harrison. The first and second volumes of Chronicles comprising 1 The description and historie of England, 2 The description and historie of Ireland, 3 The description and historie of Scotland: first collected and published by Raphaell Holinshed, William Harrison, and others: now newlie augmented and continued (with manifold matters of singular note and worthie memorie) to the yeare 1586. London, 1587. STC 13569.This item is cited in the following documents: - , , , and . Survey of London (1633): Queen Hithe Ward. The Map of Early Modern London, Edition 7.0, edited by , U of Victoria, 05 May 2022, mapoflondon.uvic.ca/edition/7.0/stow_1633_QUEE3.htm. Draft. - , , , and . Survey of London (1633): Gates of this City. The Map of Early Modern London, Edition 7.0, edited by , U of Victoria, 05 May 2022, mapoflondon.uvic.ca/edition/7.0/stow_1633_gates.htm. Draft. Cite this page MLA citation Survey of London (1633): Towers and Castles.The Map of Early Modern London, Edition 7.0, edited by , U of Victoria, 05 May 2022, mapoflondon.uvic.ca/edition/7.0/stow_1633_towers.htm. Draft. Chicago citation Survey of London (1633): Towers and Castles.The Map of Early Modern London, Edition 7.0. Ed. . Victoria: University of Victoria. Accessed May 05, 2022. mapoflondon.uvic.ca/edition/7.0/stow_1633_towers.htm. Draft. APA citation The Map of Early Modern London (Edition 7.0). Victoria: University of Victoria. Retrieved from https://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/editions/7.0/stow_1633_towers.htm. Draft. , , , & 2022. Survey of London (1633): Towers and Castles. In (Ed), RIS file (for RefMan, RefWorks, EndNote etc.) Provider: University of Victoria Database: The Map of Early Modern London Content: text/plain; charset="utf-8" TY - ELEC A1 - Stow, John A1 - Munday, Anthony A1 - Munday, Anthony A1 - Dyson, Humphrey ED - Jenstad, Janelle T1 - Survey of London (1633): Towers and Castles T2 - The Map of Early Modern London ET - 7.0 PY - 2022 DA - 2022/05/05 CY - Victoria PB - University of Victoria LA - English UR - https://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/edition/7.0/stow_1633_towers.htm UR - https://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/edition/7.0/xml/standalone/stow_1633_towers.xml TY - UNP ER - TEI citation <bibl type="mla"><author><name ref="#STOW6"><surname>Stow</surname>, <forename>John</forename></name></author>, <author><name ref="#MUND1"><forename>Anthony</forename> <surname>Munday</surname></name></author>, <author><name ref="#MUND1"><forename>Anthony</forename> <surname>Munday</surname></name></author>, and <author><name ref="#DYSO1"><forename>Humphrey</forename> <surname>Dyson</surname></name></author>. <title level="a">Survey of London (1633): Towers and Castles</title>. <title level="m">The Map of Early Modern London</title>, Edition <edition>7.0</edition>, edited by <editor><name ref="#JENS1"><forename>Janelle</forename> <surname>Jenstad</surname></name></editor>, <publisher>U of Victoria</publisher>, <date when="2022-05-05">05 May 2022</date>, <ref target="https://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/edition/7.0/stow_1633_towers.htm">mapoflondon.uvic.ca/edition/7.0/stow_1633_towers.htm</ref>. Draft.</bibl> Personography - Molly Rothwell MR Project Manager, 2022-present. Research Assistant, 2020-2022. Molly Rothwell was an undergraduate student at the University of Victoria, with a double major in English and History. During her time at MoEML, Molly primarily worked on encoding and transcribing the 1598 and 1633 editions of Stow’s Survey, adding toponyms to MoEML’s Gazetteer, researching England’s early-modern court system, and standardizing MoEML’s Mapography.Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - CSS Editor - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Markup Editor - Proofreader - Researcher - Transcription Proofreader Contributions by this author Molly Rothwell is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Molly Rothwell is mentioned in the following documents: - - Jamie Zabel JZ Research Assistant, 2020-2021. Managing Encoder, 2020-2021. Jamie Zabel was an MA student at the University of Victoria in the Department of English. She completed her BA in English at the University of British Columbia in 2017. She published a paper in University College London’s graduate publication Moveable Type (2020) and presented at the University of Victoria’s 2021 Digital Humanities Summer Institute. During her time at MoEML, she made significant contributions to the 1598 and 1633 editions of Stow’s Survey as proofreader, editor, and encoder, coordinated the encoding of the 1633 edition, and researched and authored a number of encyclopedia articles and geo-coordinates to supplement both editions. She also played a key role in managing the correction process of MoEML’s Gazetteer.Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - CSS Editor - Copy Editor - Data Manager - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Markup Editor - Primary Encoder - Proofreader - Researcher - Transcription Proofreader Contributions by this author Jamie Zabel is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Jamie Zabel is mentioned in the following documents: - - Chris Horne CH Research Assistant, 2018-2020. Chris Horne was an honours student in the Department of English at the University of Victoria. His primary research interests included American modernism, affect studies, cultural studies, and digital humanities.Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - CSS Editor - Compiler - Copy Editor - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Markup Editor - Proofreader - Researcher - Transcription Proofreader Contributions by this author Chris Horne is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Chris Horne is mentioned in the following documents: - - Tracey El Hajj TEH Junior Programmer 2018-2020. Research Associate 2020-2021. Tracey received her PhD from the Department of English at the University of Victoria in the field of Science and Technology Studies. Her research focuses on the algorhythmics of networked communications. She was a 2019-20 President’s Fellow in Research-Enriched Teaching at UVic, where she taught an advanced course onArtificial Intelligence and Everyday Life. Tracey was also a member of the Linked Early Modern Drama Online team, between 2019 and 2021. Between 2020 and 2021, she was a fellow in residence at the Praxis Studio for Comparative Media Studies, where she investigated the relationships between artificial intelligence, creativity, health, and justice. As of July 2021, Tracey has moved into the alt-ac world for a term position, while also teaching in the English Department at the University of Victoria.Roles played in the project - Author - CSS Editor - Editor - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Junior Programmer Contributions by this author Tracey El Hajj is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Tracey El Hajj is mentioned in the following documents: - - Joey Takeda JT Programmer, 2018-present. Junior Programmer, 2015-2017. Research Assistant, 2014-2017. Joey Takeda was a graduate student at the University of British Columbia in the Department of English (Science and Technology research stream). He completed his BA honours in English (with a minor in Women’s Studies) at the University of Victoria in 2016. His primary research interests included diasporic and indigenous Canadian and American literature, critical theory, cultural studies, and the digital humanities.Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - CSS Editor - Compiler - Conceptor - Copy Editor - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Junior Programmer - Markup Editor - Post-Conversion Editor - Programmer - Proofreader - Researcher - Toponymist - Transcriber - Transcription Proofreader Contributions by this author Joey Takeda is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Joey Takeda is mentioned in the following documents: Joey Takeda authored or edited the following items in MoEML’s bibliography: - Jenstad, Janelle and Joseph Takeda. Making the RA Matter: Pedagogy, Interface, and Practices. Making Things and Drawing Boundaries: Experiments in the Digital Humanities. Ed. Jentery Sayers. Minnesota: University of Minnesota Press, 2018. Print. - - Janelle Jenstad JJ Janelle Jenstad is Associate Professor of English at the University of Victoria, Director of The Map of Early Modern London, and PI of Linked Early Modern Drama Online. She has taught at Queen’s University, the Summer Academy at the Stratford Festival, the University of Windsor, and the University of Victoria. With Jennifer Roberts-Smith and Mark Kaethler, she co-edited Shakespeare’s Language in Digital Media (Routledge). She has prepared a documentary edition of John Stow’s A Survey of London (1598 text) for MoEML and is currently editing The Merchant of Venice (with Stephen Wittek) and Heywood’s 2 If You Know Not Me You Know Nobody for DRE. Her articles have appeared in Digital Humanities Quarterly, Renaissance and Reformation,Journal of Medieval and Early Modern Studies, Early Modern Literary Studies, Elizabethan Theatre, Shakespeare Bulletin: A Journal of Performance Criticism, and The Silver Society Journal. Her book chapters have appeared (or will appear) in Institutional Culture in Early Modern Society (Brill, 2004), Shakespeare, Language and the Stage, The Fifth Wall: Approaches to Shakespeare from Criticism, Performance and Theatre Studies (Arden/Thomson Learning, 2005), Approaches to Teaching Othello (Modern Language Association, 2005), Performing Maternity in Early Modern England (Ashgate, 2007), New Directions in the Geohumanities: Art, Text, and History at the Edge of Place (Routledge, 2011), Early Modern Studies and the Digital Turn (Iter, 2016), Teaching Early Modern English Literature from the Archives (MLA, 2015), Placing Names: Enriching and Integrating Gazetteers (Indiana, 2016), Making Things and Drawing Boundaries (Minnesota, 2017), and Rethinking Shakespeare’s Source Study: Audiences, Authors, and Digital Technologies (Routledge, 2018).Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - Author (Preface) - Author of Preface - Compiler - Conceptor - Copy Editor - Course Instructor - Course Supervisor - Data Manager - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Markup Editor - Peer Reviewer - Project Director - Proofreader - Researcher - Toponymist - Transcriber - Transcription Proofreader - Vetter Contributions by this author Janelle Jenstad is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Janelle Jenstad is mentioned in the following documents: Janelle Jenstad authored or edited the following items in MoEML’s bibliography: - Jenstad, Janelle and Joseph Takeda. Making the RA Matter: Pedagogy, Interface, and Practices. Making Things and Drawing Boundaries: Experiments in the Digital Humanities. Ed. Jentery Sayers. Minnesota: University of Minnesota Press, 2018. Print. - Jenstad, Janelle. Building a Gazetteer for Early Modern London, 1550-1650. Placing Names. Ed. Merrick Lex Berman, Ruth Mostern, and Humphrey Southall. Bloomington and Indianapolis: Indiana UP, 2016. 129-145. - Jenstad, Janelle. The Burse and the Merchant’s Purse: Coin, Credit, and the Nation in Heywood’s 2 If You Know Not Me You Know Nobody. The Elizabethan Theatre XV. Ed. C.E. McGee and A.L. Magnusson. Toronto: P.D. Meany, 2002. 181–202. Print. - Jenstad, Janelle. Early Modern Literary Studies 8.2 (2002): 5.1–26..The City Cannot Hold You : Social Conversion in the Goldsmith’s Shop. - Jenstad, Janelle. The Silver Society Journal 10 (1998): 40–43.The Gouldesmythes Storehowse : Early Evidence for Specialisation. - Jenstad, Janelle. Lying-in Like a Countess: The Lisle Letters, the Cecil Family, and A Chaste Maid in Cheapside. Journal of Medieval and Early Modern Studies 34 (2004): 373–403. doi:10.1215/10829636–34–2–373. - Jenstad, Janelle. Public Glory, Private Gilt: The Goldsmiths’ Company and the Spectacle of Punishment. Institutional Culture in Early Modern Society. Ed. Anne Goldgar and Robert Frost. Leiden: Brill, 2004. 191–217. Print. - Jenstad, Janelle. Smock Secrets: Birth and Women’s Mysteries on the Early Modern Stage. Performing Maternity in Early Modern England. Ed. Katherine Moncrief and Kathryn McPherson. Aldershot: Ashgate, 2007. 87–99. Print. - Jenstad, Janelle. Using Early Modern Maps in Literary Studies: Views and Caveats from London. GeoHumanities: Art, History, Text at the Edge of Place. Ed. Michael Dear, James Ketchum, Sarah Luria, and Doug Richardson. London: Routledge, 2011. Print. - Jenstad, Janelle. Versioning John Stow’s A Survey of London, or, What’s New in 1618 and 1633?. Janelle Jenstad Blog. https://janellejenstad.com/2013/03/20/versioning-john-stows-a-survey-of-london-or-whats-new-in-1618-and-1633/. - Shakespeare, William. The Merchant of Venice. Ed. Janelle Jenstad. Internet Shakespeare Editions. U of Victoria. http://internetshakespeare.uvic.ca/Library/Texts/MV/. - Stow, John. A SVRVAY OF LONDON. Contayning the Originall, Antiquity, Increase, Moderne estate, and description of that Citie, written in the yeare 1598. by Iohn Stow Citizen of London. Also an Apologie (or defence) against the opinion of some men, concerning that Citie, the greatnesse thereof. With an Appendix, containing in Latine, Libellum de situ & nobilitate Londini: written by William Fitzstephen, in the raigne of Henry the second. Ed. Janelle Jenstad and the MoEML Team. MoEML. Transcribed. - - Paul Schaffner PS E-text and TCP production manager at the University of Michigan Digital Library Production Service (DLPS), Paul manages the production of full-text transcriptions for EEBO-TCP.Roles played in the project - Editor of Original EEBO-TCP Encoding - - Sebastian Rahtz SR Chief data architect at University of Oxford IT Services, Sebastian was well known for his contributions to the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI), OxGarage, and the Text Creation Partnership (TCP).Roles played in the project - Creator of TEI Stylesheets for Conversion of EEBO-TCP Encoding to TEI-P5 - - Martin D. Holmes MDH Programmer at the University of Victoria Humanities Computing and Media Centre (HCMC). Martin ported the MOL project from its original PHP incarnation to a pure eXist database implementation in the fall of 2011. Since then, he has been lead programmer on the project and has also been responsible for maintaining the project schemas. He was a co-applicant on MoEML’s 2012 SSHRC Insight Grant.Roles played in the project - Abstract Author - Author - Conceptor - Editor - Encoder - Geo-Coordinate Researcher - Markup Editor - Post-Conversion Editor - Programmer - Proofreader - Researcher Contributions by this author Martin D. Holmes is a member of the following organizations and/or groups: Martin D. Holmes is mentioned in the following documents: - - Alfred the Great Alfred the Great King of Wessex King of the Anglo-Saxons (b. between 848 and 849, d. 899)King of Wessex 871-886. King of the Anglo-Saxons 886-899. Father of Ethelfled. Father-in-law of Æthelred and Adhered.Alfred the Great is mentioned in the following documents: - Anne Boleyn is mentioned in the following documents: - Catherine of Aragon is mentioned in the following documents: - Ralph Baynard is mentioned in the following documents: - William Baynard is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard de Belmeis I Richard de Belmeis This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 1I Bishop of London (d. 1127)Richard de Belmeis I is mentioned in the following documents: - John Bever is mentioned in the following documents: - Nicholas Bourne is mentioned in the following documents: - Charles V Charles This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 5V Holy Roman Emperor King of Germany King of Italy King of Spain (b. 1500, d. 1558)Holy Roman Emperor 1519-1556. King of Germany 1519-1556. King of Italy 1530-1556. King of Spain 1516-1556.Charles V is mentioned in the following documents: - George Plantagenet (b. 1449, d. 1478)First Duke of Clarence. Drowned in a vessel filled with malmsey (a fortified wine).George Plantagenet is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Thomas Cook Sir Thomas Cook Sheriff Mayor (b. 1410, d. 1478)Sheriff of London 1453-1454. Mayor 1462-1463. Member of the Drapers’ Company. Warden of Drapers’ Hall. Buried at Austin Friars.Sir Thomas Cook is mentioned in the following documents: - Humphrey Dyson is mentioned in the following documents: Humphrey Dyson authored or edited the following items in MoEML’s bibliography: - Stow, John, Anthony Munday, and Humphrey Dyson. THE SURVEY OF LONDON: CONTAINING The Original, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of that City, Methodically set down. With a Memorial of those famouser Acts of Charity, which for publick and Pious Vses have been bestowed by many Worshipfull Citizens and Benefactors. As also all the Ancient and Modern Monuments erected in the Churches, not only of those two famous Cities, LONDON and WESTMINSTER, but (now newly added) Four miles compass. Begun first by the pains and industry of John Stow, in the year 1598. Afterwards inlarged by the care and diligence of A.M. in the year 1618. And now compleatly finished by the study &labour of A.M., H.D. and others, this present year 1633. Whereunto, besides many Additions (as appears by the Contents) are annexed divers Alphabetical Tables, especially two, The first, an index of Things. The second, a Concordance of Names. London: Printed for Nicholas Bourne, 1633. STC 23345.5. - Strype, John, John Stow, Anthony Munday, and Humphrey Dyson. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster. Vol. 2. London, 1720. Remediated by The Making of the Modern World. - Edward I Edward This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 1I King of England Longshanks Hammer of the Scots (b. between 17 June 1239 and 18 June 1239, d. in or before 27 October 1307)Edward I is mentioned in the following documents: - Edward of Woodstock Edward the Black Prince (b. 1330, d. 1376)Prince of Wales and Aquitaine. Father of Richard II. Son of Edward III.Edward of Woodstock is mentioned in the following documents: - Edward III Edward This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 3III King of England (b. 12 November 1312, d. 21 June 1377)Edward III is mentioned in the following documents: - Edward VI Edward This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 6VI King of England King of Ireland (b. 12 October 1537, d. 6 July 1553)Edward VI is mentioned in the following documents: - Edward IV Edward This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 4IV King of England (b. 28 April 1442, d. 9 April 1483)Edward IV is mentioned in the following documents: - Edward the Confessor Edward the Confessor King of England (b. between 1003 and 1005, d. between 4 January 1066 and 5 January 1066)Edward the Confessor is mentioned in the following documents: - Elizabeth I Elizabeth This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 1I Queen of England Queen of Ireland Gloriana Good Queen Bess (b. 7 September 1533, d. 24 March 1603)Queen of England and Ireland 1558-1603.Elizabeth I is mentioned in the following documents: - Elizabeth of York Elizabeth Queen consort of England (b. 1466, d. 1503)Queen consort of England 1486-1503. Wife of Henry VII. Mother of Henry VIII. Buried at Henry VII’s Chapel.Elizabeth of York is mentioned in the following documents: - William fitz-Stephen is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John Plummer is mentioned in the following documents: - Henry le Waleys is mentioned in the following documents: - Eleanor of Provence Eleanor Queen consort of England Queen consort of England 1236-1272. Wife of Henry III. Daughter of Ramon Berenguer IV and Beatrice of Savoy. Sister of Margaret of Provence, Sanchia of Provence, and Beatrice of Provence.Eleanor of Provence is mentioned in the following documents: - John of Gaunt John (b. 1340, d. 1399)Duke of Aquitaine and First Duke of Lancaster. Husband of Blanche of Lancaster.John of Gaunt is mentioned in the following documents: - Lady Jane Grey (née Dudley) Lady Jane Grey Dudley (b. 1537, d. 1554)Contested Queen of England from 10 July to 19 July 1553.Lady Jane Grey (née Dudley) is mentioned in the following documents: - Henry VIII Henry This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 8VIII King of England King of Ireland (b. 28 June 1491, d. 28 January 1547)King of England and Ireland 1509-1547.Henry VIII is mentioned in the following documents: - Henry VI Henry This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 6VI King of England (b. 6 December 1421, d. 21 May 1471)Henry VI is mentioned in the following documents: - Henry VII Henry This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 7VII King of England (b. 1457, d. 1509)Henry VII is mentioned in the following documents: - Henry III Henry This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 3III King of England (b. 1 October 1207, d. 16 November 1272)Henry III is mentioned in the following documents: - Henry V Henry This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 5V King of England (b. 1386, d. 1422)Henry V is mentioned in the following documents: - William Herbert (b. 1580, d. 1630)Third Earl of Pembroke. Son of Henry Herbert. Brother of Phillip Herbert. Dedicatee of William Shakespeare’s First Folio.William Herbert is mentioned in the following documents: - Roger of Hoveden is mentioned in the following documents: - Joan of Kent Joan (b. 1328, d. 1385)Countess of Kent and Princess of Wales and Aquitaine. Mother of Richard II and Edmond Holland.Joan of Kent is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Robert Knolles (d. 1407)First Earl of Banbury. Led a large group of London citizens to Smithfield to assist Richard II during the Peasant’s Revolt of 1381. Husband of Constance Knolles. Buried at Whitefriars Church.Sir Robert Knolles is mentioned in the following documents: - Humphrey of Lancaster Humphrey (b. 1390, d. 1447)First Duke of Gloucester. Prince, soldier, and literary patron. Rebuit Baynard’s Castle after it was destroyed by fire in 1428. Husband of Eleanor de Cobham. Son of Henry IV and Mary de Bohun.Humphrey of Lancaster is mentioned in the following documents: - William de Longchamp William de Longchamp Bishop of Ely (d. 1197)Bishop of Ely 1189–1197. Chancellor of England.William de Longchamp is mentioned in the following documents: - Margaret of Anjou is mentioned in the following documents: - Mary I Mary This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 1I Queen of England Queen of Ireland (b. 18 February 1516, d. 17 November 1558)Mary I is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John Mason (b. 1503, d. 1566)Diplomat and Member of Parliament. Not to be confused with John Mason or John Mason.Sir John Mason is mentioned in the following documents: - Maurice is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Thomas More is mentioned in the following documents: Sir Thomas More authored or edited the following items in MoEML’s bibliography: - More, Thomas. The co[n]futacyon of Tyndales answere made by syr Thomas More knyght lorde chau[n]cellour of Englonde. London, 1532. STC 18079. - Anthony Munday (bap. 1560, d. 1633)Playwright, actor, pageant poet, translator, and writer. Possible member of the Drapers’ Company or Merchant Taylors’ Company.Anthony Munday is mentioned in the following documents: Anthony Munday authored or edited the following items in MoEML’s bibliography: - Anthony Munday. The Triumphs of Re-United Britannia. Arthur F. Kinney. Renaissance Drama: An Anthology of Plays and Entertainments. 2nd ed. Toronto: Wiley, 2005. - Munday, Anthony. Camp-Bell: or the Ironmongers Faire Feild. London: Edward Allde, 1609. DEEP406. STC 18279. - Munday, Anthony, Henry Chettle, Thomas Dekker, Thomas Heywood, and William Shakespeare. Sir Thomas More. 1998. Remediated by Project Gutenberg. - Munday, Anthony, Henry Chettle, Thomas Dekker, Thomas Heywood, and William Shakespeare. Sir Thomas More. Ed. Vittorio Gabrieli and Giorgio Melchiori. Revels Plays. Manchester; New York: Manchester UP, 1990. Print. - Munday, Anthony. Metropolis Coronata, The Trivmphes of Ancient Drapery. London: George Purslowe, 1615. DEEP 630. STC 18275. - Stow, John, Anthony Munday, and Henry Holland. THE SVRVAY of LONDON: Containing, The Originall, Antiquitie, Encrease, and more Moderne Estate of the sayd Famous Citie. As also, the Rule and Gouernment thereof (both Ecclesiasticall and Temporall) from time to time. With a briefe Relation of all the memorable Monuments, and other especiall Obseruations, both in and about the same CITIE. Written in the yeere 1598. by Iohn Stow, Citizen of London. Since then, continued, corrected and much enlarged, with many rare and worthy Notes, both of Venerable Antiquity, and later memorie; such, as were neuer published before this present yeere 1618. London: George Purslowe, 1618. STC 23344. Yale University Library copy. - Stow, John, Anthony Munday, and Humphrey Dyson. THE SURVEY OF LONDON: CONTAINING The Original, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of that City, Methodically set down. With a Memorial of those famouser Acts of Charity, which for publick and Pious Vses have been bestowed by many Worshipfull Citizens and Benefactors. As also all the Ancient and Modern Monuments erected in the Churches, not only of those two famous Cities, LONDON and WESTMINSTER, but (now newly added) Four miles compass. Begun first by the pains and industry of John Stow, in the year 1598. Afterwards inlarged by the care and diligence of A.M. in the year 1618. And now compleatly finished by the study &labour of A.M., H.D. and others, this present year 1633. Whereunto, besides many Additions (as appears by the Contents) are annexed divers Alphabetical Tables, especially two, The first, an index of Things. The second, a Concordance of Names. London: Printed for Nicholas Bourne, 1633. STC 23345.5. - Strype, John, John Stow, Anthony Munday, and Humphrey Dyson. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster. Vol. 2. London, 1720. Remediated by The Making of the Modern World. - Richard II Richard This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 2II King of England (b. 6 January 1367, d. 1400)Richard II is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard III Richard This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 3III King of England (b. 1452, d. 1485)King of England and Lord of Ireland 1483-1485.Richard III is mentioned in the following documents: - John Stow (b. between 1524 and 1525, d. 1605)Historian and author of A Survey of London. Husband of Elizabeth Stow.John Stow is mentioned in the following documents: John Stow authored or edited the following items in MoEML’s bibliography: - Blome, Richard. Aldersgate Ward and St. Martins le Grand Liberty Taken from the Last Survey, with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. M3r and sig. M4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Aldgate Ward with its Division into Parishes. Taken from the Last Survey, with Corrections & Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. H3r and sig. H4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Billingsgate Ward and Bridge Ward Within with it’s Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. Y2r and sig. Y3v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Bishopsgate-street Ward. Taken from the Last Survey and Corrected. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. N1r and sig. N2v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Bread Street Ward and Cardwainter Ward with its Division into Parishes Taken from the Last Survey. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. B3r and sig. B4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Broad Street Ward with its Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey with Corrections and Additions, & Cornhill Ward with its Divisions into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey, &c. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. P2r and sig. P3v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Cheape Ward with its Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey, with Corrections and Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig.D1r and sig. D2v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Coleman Street Ward and Bashishaw Ward Taken from the Last Survey with Corrections and Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. G2r and sig. G3v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Cow Cross being St Sepulchers Parish Without and the Charterhouse. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. H2v and sig. H3r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Creplegate Ward with its Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey, with Additions, and Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. I3r and sig. I4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Farrington Ward Without, with its Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey with Corrections & Amendments. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. 2F3r and sig. 2F4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Lambeth and Christ Church Parish Southwark. Taken from ye last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. Z1r and sig. Z2r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Langborne Ward with its Division into Parishes. Corrected from the Last Survey. & Candlewick Ward with its Division into Parishes. Corrected from the Last Survey. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. U3r and sig. U4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Map of St. Gilles’s Cripple Gate. Without. With Large Additions and Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. H2v and sig. H3r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Map of the Parish of St. Dunstans Stepney, als. Stebunheath Divided into Hamlets. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. F3r and sig. F4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Map of the Parish of St Mary White Chappel and a Map of the Parish of St Katherines by the Tower. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. F2r and sig. F3v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of Lime Street Ward. Taken from ye Last Surveys & Corrected. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. M1r and sig. M2v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of St. Andrews Holborn Parish as well Within the Liberty as Without. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. 2I1r and sig. 2I2v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of the Parishes of St. Clements Danes, St. Mary Savoy; with the Rolls Liberty and Lincolns Inn, Taken from the Last Survey with Corrections and Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig.O4v and sig. O1r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of the Parish of St. Anns. Taken from the last Survey, with Correction, and Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. L2v and sig. L3r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of the Parish of St. Giles’s in the Fields Taken from the Last Servey, with Corrections and Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. K1v and sig. K2r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of the Parish of St Margarets Westminster Taken from the Last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig.H3v and sig. H4r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of the Parish of St Martins in the Fields Taken from ye Last Survey with Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. I1v and sig. I2r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of the Parish of St Pauls Covent Garden Taken from the Last Survey. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. L3v and sig. L4r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. A Mapp of the Parish of St Saviours Southwark and St Georges taken from ye last Survey. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. D1r and sig.D2v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. The Parish of St. James Clerkenwell taken from ye last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. H3v and sig. H4r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. The Parish of St. James’s, Westminster Taken from the Last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. K4v and sig. L1r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. The Parish of St Johns Wapping. The Parish of St Paul Shadwell. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. E2r and sig. E3v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Portsoken Ward being Part of the Parish of St. Buttolphs Aldgate, taken from the Last Survey, with Corrections and Additions. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. B1v and sig. B2r. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Queen Hith Ward and Vintry Ward with their Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. 2C4r and sig. 2D1v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Shoreditch Norton Folgate, and Crepplegate Without Taken from ye Last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. G1r and sig. G2v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Spittle Fields and Places Adjacent Taken from ye Last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. F4r and sig. G1v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. St. Olave and St. Mary Magdalens Bermondsey Southwark Taken from ye last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. C2r and sig.C3v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Tower Street Ward with its Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey, with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. E2r and sig. E3v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. Walbrook Ward and Dowgate Ward with its Division into Parishes, Taken from the Last Surveys. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. 2B3r and sig. 2B4v. [See more information about this map.] - Blome, Richard. The Wards of Farington Within and Baynards Castle with its Divisions into Parishes, Taken from the Last Survey, with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. Q2r and sig. Q3v. [See more information about this map.] - The City of London as in Q. Elizabeth’s Time. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Frontispiece. - A Map of the Tower Liberty. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. H4v and sig. I1r. [See more information about this map.] - A New Plan of the City of London, Westminster and Southwark. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Frontispiece. - Pearl, Valerie. Introduction. A Survey of London. By John Stow. Ed. H.B. Wheatley. London: Everyman’s Library, 1987. v–xii. Print. - Pullen, John. A Map of the Parish of St Mary Rotherhith. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 2. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. Z3r and sig. Z4r. [See more information about this map.] - Stow, John. The abridgement of the English Chronicle, first collected by M. Iohn Stow, and after him augmented with very many memorable antiquities, and continued with matters forreine and domesticall, vnto the beginning of the yeare, 1618. by E.H. Gentleman. London, Edward Allde and Nicholas Okes, 1618. STC 23332. - Stow, John. The annales of England Faithfully collected out of the most autenticall authors, records, and other monuments of antiquitie, lately collected, since encreased, and continued, from the first habitation vntill this present yeare 1605. London: Peter Short, Felix Kingston, and George Eld, 1605. STC 23337. - Stow, John, Anthony Munday, and Henry Holland. THE SVRVAY of LONDON: Containing, The Originall, Antiquitie, Encrease, and more Moderne Estate of the sayd Famous Citie. As also, the Rule and Gouernment thereof (both Ecclesiasticall and Temporall) from time to time. With a briefe Relation of all the memorable Monuments, and other especiall Obseruations, both in and about the same CITIE. Written in the yeere 1598. by Iohn Stow, Citizen of London. Since then, continued, corrected and much enlarged, with many rare and worthy Notes, both of Venerable Antiquity, and later memorie; such, as were neuer published before this present yeere 1618. London: George Purslowe, 1618. STC 23344. Yale University Library copy. - Stow, John, Anthony Munday, and Humphrey Dyson. THE SURVEY OF LONDON: CONTAINING The Original, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of that City, Methodically set down. With a Memorial of those famouser Acts of Charity, which for publick and Pious Vses have been bestowed by many Worshipfull Citizens and Benefactors. As also all the Ancient and Modern Monuments erected in the Churches, not only of those two famous Cities, LONDON and WESTMINSTER, but (now newly added) Four miles compass. Begun first by the pains and industry of John Stow, in the year 1598. Afterwards inlarged by the care and diligence of A.M. in the year 1618. And now compleatly finished by the study &labour of A.M., H.D. and others, this present year 1633. Whereunto, besides many Additions (as appears by the Contents) are annexed divers Alphabetical Tables, especially two, The first, an index of Things. The second, a Concordance of Names. London: Printed for Nicholas Bourne, 1633. STC 23345.5. - Stow, John. The chronicles of England from Brute vnto this present yeare of Christ. 1580. Collected by Iohn Stow citizen of London. London, 1580. - Stow, John. A Summarie of the Chronicles of England. Diligently Collected, Abridged, & Continued vnto this Present Yeere of Christ, 1598. London: Imprinted by Richard Bradocke, 1598. - Stow, John. A suruay of London· Conteyning the originall, antiquity, increase, moderne estate, and description of that city, written in the yeare 1598. by Iohn Stow citizen of London. Since by the same author increased, with diuers rare notes of antiquity, and published in the yeare, 1603. Also an apologie (or defence) against the opinion of some men, concerning that citie, the greatnesse thereof. VVith an appendix, contayning in Latine Libellum de situ & nobilitate Londini: written by William Fitzstephen, in the raigne of Henry the second. London: John Windet, 1603. STC 23343. U of Illinois (Urbana-Champaign Campus) copy. - Stow, John, The survey of London contayning the originall, increase, moderne estate, and government of that city, methodically set downe. With a memoriall of those famouser acts of charity, which for publicke and pious vses have beene bestowed by many worshipfull citizens and benefactors. As also all the ancient and moderne monuments erected in the churches, not onely of those two famous cities, London and Westminster, but (now newly added) foure miles compasse. Begunne first by the paines and industry of Iohn Stovv, in the yeere 1598. Afterwards inlarged by the care and diligence of A.M. in the yeere 1618. And now completely finished by the study and labour of A.M. H.D. and others, this present yeere 1633. Whereunto, besides many additions (as appeares by the contents) are annexed divers alphabeticall tables; especially two: the first, an index of things. The second, a concordance of names. London: Printed by Elizabeth Purslovv for Nicholas Bourne, 1633. STC 23345. U of Victoria copy. - Stow, John, The survey of London contayning the originall, increase, moderne estate, and government of that city, methodically set downe. With a memoriall of those famouser acts of charity, which for publicke and pious vses have beene bestowed by many worshipfull citizens and benefactors. As also all the ancient and moderne monuments erected in the churches, not onely of those two famous cities, London and Westminster, but (now newly added) foure miles compasse. Begunne first by the paines and industry of Iohn Stovv, in the yeere 1598. Afterwards inlarged by the care and diligence of A.M. in the yeere 1618. And now completely finished by the study and labour of A.M. H.D. and others, this present yeere 1633. Whereunto, besides many additions (as appeares by the contents) are annexed divers alphabeticall tables; especially two: the first, an index of things. The second, a concordance of names. London: Printed by Elizabeth Purslovv [i.e., Purslow] for Nicholas Bourne, 1633. STC 23345. - Stow, John. A Survey of London. Reprinted from the Text of 1603. Ed. Charles Lethbridge Kingsford. 2 vols. Oxford: Clarendon, 1908. Remediated by British History Online. [Kingsford edition, courtesy of The Centre for Metropolitan History. Articles written after 2011 cite from this searchable transcription.] - Stow, John. A Survey of London. Reprinted from the Text of 1603. Ed. Charles Lethbridge Kingsford. 2 vols. Oxford: Clarendon, 1908. See also the digital transcription of this edition at British History Online. - Stow, John. A SVRVAY OF LONDON. Contayning the Originall, Antiquity, Increase, Moderne estate, and description of that Citie, written in the yeare 1598. by Iohn Stow Citizen of London. Also an Apologie (or defence) against the opinion of some men, concerning that Citie, the greatnesse thereof. With an Appendix, containing in Latine, Libellum de situ &nobilitate Londini: written by William Fitzstephen, in the raigne of Henry the second. 23341. Transcribed by EEBO-TCP. - Stow, John. A SVRVAY OF LONDON. Contayning the Originall, Antiquity, Increase, Moderne estate, and description of that Citie, written in the yeare 1598. by Iohn Stow Citizen of London. Also an Apologie (or defence) against the opinion of some men, concerning that Citie, the greatnesse thereof. With an Appendix, containing in Latine, Libellum de situ & nobilitate Londini: written by William Fitzstephen, in the raigne of Henry the second. Ed. Janelle Jenstad and the MoEML Team. MoEML. Transcribed. - Stow, John. A SVRVAY OF LONDON. Contayning the Originall, Antiquity, Increase, Moderne estate, and description of that Citie, written in the yeare 1598. by Iohn Stow Citizen of London. Also an Apologie (or defence) against the opinion of some men, concerning that Citie, the greatnesse thereof. With an Appendix, containing in Latine, Libellum de situ &nobilitate Londini: written by William Fitzstephen, in the raigne of Henry the second. Folger Shakespeare Library. - Stow, John. A SVRVAY OF LONDON. Contayning the Originall, Antiquity, Increase, Moderne estate, and description of that Citie, written in the yeare 1598. by Iohn Stow Citizen of London. Also an Apologie (or defence) against the opinion of some men, concerning that Citie, the greatnesse thereof. With an Appendix, containing in Latine, Libellum de situ &nobilitate Londini: written by William Fitzstephen, in the raigne of Henry the second. London: John Windet for John Wolfe, 1598. STC 23341. - Stow, John. A SVRVAY OF LONDON. Coteyning the Originall, Antiquity, Increaſe, Moderne eſtate, and deſcription of that City, written in the yeare 1598, by Iohn Stow Citizen of London. Since by the ſame Author increaſed with diuers rare notes of Antiquity, and publiſhed in the yeare, 1603. Alſo an Apologie (or defence) againſt the opinion of ſome men, concerning that Citie, the greatneſſe thereof. With an Appendix, contayning in Latine Libellum de ſitu & nobilitae Londini: Writen by William Fitzſtephen, in the raigne of Henry the ſecond. London: John Windet, 1603. U of Victoria copy. Print. - Strype, John, John Stow, Anthony Munday, and Humphrey Dyson. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster. Vol. 2. London, 1720. Remediated by The Making of the Modern World. - Strype, John, John Stow. A SURVEY OF THE CITIES OF LONDON and WESTMINSTER, And the Borough of SOUTHWARK. CONTAINING The Original, Antiquity, Increase, present State and Government of those CITIES. Written at first in the Year 1698, By John Stow, Citizen and Native of London. Corrected, Improved, and very much Enlarged, in the Year 1720, By JOHN STRYPE, M.A. A NATIVE ALSO OF THE SAID CITY. The Survey and History brought down to the present Time BY CAREFUL HANDS. Illustrated with exact Maps of the City and Suburbs, and of all the Wards; and, likewise, of the Out-Parishes of London and Westminster, and the Country ten Miles round London. Together with many fair Draughts of the most Eminent Buildings. The Life of the Author, written by Mr. Strype, is prefixed; And, at the End is added, an APPENDIX Of certain Tracts, Discourses, and Remarks on the State of the City of London. 6th ed. 2 vols. London: Printed for W. Innys and J. Richardson, J. and P. Knapton, and S. Birt, R. Ware, T. and T. Longman, and seven others, 1754–1755. ESTC T150145. - Strype, John, John Stow. A survey of the cities of London and Westminster: containing the original, antiquity, increase, modern estate and government of those cities. Written at first in the year MDXCVIII. By John Stow, citizen and native of London. Since reprinted and augmented by A.M. H.D. and other. Now lastly, corrected, improved, and very much enlarged: and the survey and history brought down from the year 1633, (being near fourscore years since it was last printed) to the present time; by John Strype, M.A. a native also of the said city. Illustrated with exact maps of the city and suburbs, and of all the wards; and likewise of the out-parishes of London and Westminster: together with many other fair draughts of the more eminent and publick edifices and monuments. In six books. To which is prefixed, the life of the author, writ by the editor. At the end is added, an appendiz of certain tracts, discourses and remarks, concerning the state of the city of London. Together with a perambulation, or circuit-walk four or five miles round about London, to the parish churches: describing the monuments of the dead there interred: with other antiquities observable in those places. And concluding with a second appendix, as a supply and review: and a large index of the whole work. 2 vols. London : Printed for A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. ESTC T48975. - The Tower and St. Catherins Taken from the Last Survey with Corrections. A Survey of the Cities of London and Westminster: Containing the Original, Antiquity, Increase, Modern Estate and Government of those Cities. By John Stow and John Strype. Vol. 1. London: A. Churchill, J. Knapton, R. Knaplock, J. Walthoe, E. Horne, B. Tooke, D. Midwinter, B. Cowse, R. Robinson, and T. Ward, 1720. Insert between sig. H4v and sig. I1r. [See more information about this map.] - Wheatley, Henry Benjamin. Introduction. A Survey of London. 1603. By John Stow. London: J.M. Dent and Sons, 1912. Print. - Sir William Walworth Sir William Walworth Sheriff Mayor Sheriff of London 1370-1371. Mayor 1374-1375 and 1380-1381. Member of the Fishmongers’ Company. Known for killing Wat Tyler. Founder of a college at St. Michael, Crooked Lane. Appears in Richard Johnson’s Nine Worthies of London. Buried at St. Michael, Crooked Lane.Sir William Walworth is mentioned in the following documents: - William I William This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 1I King of England the Conqueror (b. between 1027 and 1028, d. 1087)William I is mentioned in the following documents: - William II William King of England Rufus This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 2II (b. 1060, d. 1100)King of England 1087-1100.William II is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard of York is mentioned in the following documents: - Acliuillus Constable of the Tower of London.Acliuillus is mentioned in the following documents: - Anne of Bohemia Anne Queen consort of England (b. 1366, d. 1394)Queen consort of England 1382-1394. Wife of Richard II. Daughter of Charles IV of Bohemia. Sister of Wenceslaus IV of Bohemia. Buried at Westminster Abbey.Anne of Bohemia is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Nicholas Brembre Sir Nicholas Brembre Sheriff Mayor (d. 1388)Sheriff of London 1372-1373. Mayor 1376-1378 and 1383-1386. Member of the Grocers’ Company. Knighted by Richard II for his help in suppressing the Peasant’s Revolt in 1381. Buried at Christ Church.Sir Nicholas Brembre is mentioned in the following documents: - Julius Caesar is mentioned in the following documents: - Eustace de Fauconberg is mentioned in the following documents: - Humphrey Heyford Humphrey Heyford Sheriff Mayor (fl. between 1467 and 1478)Sheriff of London 1467-1468. Mayor 1477-1478. Member of the Goldsmiths’ Company. Monument at St. Edmund, Lombard Street.Humphrey Heyford is mentioned in the following documents: - Jack Straw Leader of the Peasants’ Revolt of 1381.Jack Straw is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Robert Launde Sir Robert Launde Sheriff Sheriff of London 1376-1377. Member of the Goldsmiths’ Company. Helped restore order in London following the Peasants’ Revolt in 1381. Knighted by Richard II as a result.Sir Robert Launde is mentioned in the following documents: - Hugh fitz-Otho Constable of the Tower of London. Possibly the same person as Hugh fitz-Otho.Hugh fitz-Otho is mentioned in the following documents: - Othowerus Constable of the Tower of London.Othowerus is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John Philipot Sir John Philipot Sheriff Mayor (d. 1384)Sheriff of London 1372-1373. Mayor 1378-1379. Possible member of the Grocers’ Company or Fishmongers’ Company. Husband of Jane Sampford. Knighted by Richard II for his help in suppressing the Peasant’s Revolt in 1381. Owner of Tenements in Castle Baynard Ward. Buried at Christ Church.Sir John Philipot is mentioned in the following documents: - Elizabeth Purslowe is mentioned in the following documents: - John Reynwell John Reynwell Sheriff Mayor Sheriff of London 1411-1412. Mayor 1426-1427. Member of the Stock Fishmongers’ Company. Son of William Reynwell. Buried at St. Botolph, Billingsgate.John Reynwell is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John Shaa Sir John Shaa Sheriff Mayor (d. 1503)Sheriff of London 1496-1497. Mayor 1501-1502. Member of the Goldsmiths’ Company. Son of Sir Edmund Shaw.Sir John Shaa is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Ralph Standish Sir Ralph Standish John Royal squire. Possibly helped kill Wat Tyler during the Peasants’ Revolt in 1381. Knighted by Richard II as a result.Sir Ralph Standish is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Nicholas Twyford Sir Nicholas Twyford Sheriff Mayor (d. between 1390 and 1391)Sheriff of London 1377-1378. Mayor 1388-1389. Member of the Goldsmiths’ Company. Knighted by Richard II for his help in suppressing the Peasant’s Revolt in 1381. Husband of Dame Margery Twyford. Buried at St. John Zachary.Sir Nicholas Twyford is mentioned in the following documents: - Wat Tyler is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard Woodville (d. 1469)First Earl Rivers. Late medieval gentleman and magnate. Husband of Jaquetta de Luxembourg. Father of Anthony Woodville.Richard Woodville is mentioned in the following documents: - William Hastings is mentioned in the following documents: - Matthew Paris is mentioned in the following documents: - Hubert de Burgh (b. 1170, d. May 1243)First Earl of Kent. Justiciar for Henry II. Buried at Blackfriars Monastery.Hubert de Burgh is mentioned in the following documents: - Isabella of France Isabella (b. 1295, d. 1358)Wife of Edward II. Deposed and killed the king before governing the country. Financier of Greyfriars. Buried at Christ Church.Isabella of France is mentioned in the following documents: - John II of France John This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 2II King of France the Good (b. 16 April 1319, d. 8 April 1364)King of France 1350-1364.John II of France is mentioned in the following documents: - William of Malmesbury is mentioned in the following documents: - Æthelred Æthelred Lord of the Mercians (d. 911)Lord of the Mercians 881-911. Son-in-law of Alfred the Great.Æthelred is mentioned in the following documents: - Roger of Wendover is mentioned in the following documents: - John Cavendish (b. 1346, d. 1381)Judge. Member of the Fishmongerʼs Company. Beheaded by rebels during the Peasant’s Revolt of 1381.John Cavendish is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Thomas Becket Saint Thomas Becket Archbishop of Canterbury (b. 21 December 1120, d. 29 December 1170)Lord Chancellor of England 1155-1162. Archbishop of Canterbury 1162–1170. Venerated as a saint and martyr after being assassinated in 1170.St. Thomas Becket is mentioned in the following documents: - Geoffrey de Mandeville Geoffrey de Mandeville Sheriff (d. 26 September 1144)First Earl of Essex. Portgrave of London during the reign of Stephen I. Husband of Athelaise de Mandeville. Son of William de Mandeville. Buried at Westminster Abbey.Geoffrey de Mandeville is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard Lyons (d. 1381)Sheriff of London 1374-1375. Member of the Vintners’ Company. Possible member of the Goldsmiths’ Company. Beheaded by rebels during the Peasant’s Revolt in Cheap. Monument at St. James Garlickhithe. Buried at St. Martin, Vintry.Richard Lyons is mentioned in the following documents: - Edmund of Hadenham is mentioned in the following documents: - Gundulf of Rochester Gundulf Bishop of Rochester (b. between 1023 and 1024, d. 1108)Norman monk.Bishop of Rochester 1075-1108.Gundulf of Rochester is mentioned in the following documents: - William fitz-Osbert is mentioned in the following documents: - Giles of Andwarp Giles Received 200 markes from Edward I’s treasury for the purpose of rebuilding Tower Ditch.Giles of Andwarp is mentioned in the following documents: - Constantine fitz-Aelulfe is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Falkes de Breauté is mentioned in the following documents: - Griffith of Wales is mentioned in the following documents: - Llywelyn ap Gruffydd is mentioned in the following documents: - Mr. Othon is mentioned in the following documents: - Roger Lestrange Beheaded Llywelyn ap Gruffydd in 1282.Roger Lestrange is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Roger Mortimer is mentioned in the following documents: - Roger Mortimer de Chirk Soldier and nobleman. Uncle of Sir Roger Mortimer.Roger Mortimer de Chirk is mentioned in the following documents: - Percivall de Porte Master of the coin under Edward III.Percivall de Porte is mentioned in the following documents: - Burgred of Mercia is mentioned in the following documents: - Edward the Elder is mentioned in the following documents: - Plegmond is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert de Beaumont is mentioned in the following documents: - Numa Pompilius is mentioned in the following documents: - William Edington William Edington Bishop of Winchester Archbishop-elect of Canterbury Lord High Treasurer 1344-1356. Lord Chancellor of England 1356–1363. Bishop of Winchester 1345–1366. Archbishop-elect of Canterbury 1366.William Edington is mentioned in the following documents: - Simon Sudbery Simon Sudbery Tibald Bishop of London Archbishop of Canterbury Lord Chancellor of England 1380–1381. Bishop of London 1361–1375. Archbishop of Canterbury 1375–1381. Executed on Tower Hill by the rebels of Kent. Son of Nicholas Tibald.Simon Sudbery is mentioned in the following documents: - William Appleton Knight. Friar and Confessor of Richard II. Beheaded on Tower Hill by the rebels of Kent. Buried at Christ Church.William Appleton is mentioned in the following documents: - John Legge King’s Sergeant for Richard II. Beheaded on Tower Hill by the rebels of Kent.John Legge is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John Oldcastle Sir John Oldecastle (d. 1417)Baron Cobham. After being convicted of heresy and imprisoned for his Lollard support, Oldcastle escaped from the Tower of London and led a Lollard rebellion. After spending three years as an outlaw, he was captured, charged with treason, and executed. As the basis of Shakespeare’s popular Falstaff character, Sir John Oldcastle and his legacy are of particular interest to Shakespeare scholars.Sir John Oldcastle is mentioned in the following documents: - Mr. Whitlooke is mentioned in the following documents: - Mr. Randulph is mentioned in the following documents: - Catherine Howard is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John Langley Sir John Langely Sheriff Mayor Sheriff of London 1566-1567. Mayor 1576-1577. Member of the Goldsmiths’ Company. Buried at Chapel of St. Mary Magdalen, Guildhall.Sir John Langley is mentioned in the following documents: - Thomas Neville Thomas Neville the Bastard Bastard of Fauconberg (b. 1429, d. 22 September 1471)Naval commander. Rebel. Received freedom from the City of London in 1454 to eliminate pirates from the Channel and North Sea. Not to be confused with Thomas Neville or Thomas Neville.Thomas Neville is mentioned in the following documents: - Gervase of Tilbury is mentioned in the following documents: - Lord Robert Fitzwalter (b. 1247, d. 18 January 1326)First Lord Fitzwalter. Husband of Lady Eleanor Fitzwalter. Son of Sir Walter Fitzwalter. Father of Walter Fitzwalter and Sir Robert Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for the Fitzwalter family.Lord Robert Fitzwalter is mentioned in the following documents: - Geoffrey Baynard is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert fitz Richard (d. 1134)Inherited Baynard’s Castle from Henry I. Husband of Maude de Senlis. Son of Richard de Clare. Father of Walter fitz Robert. See related ODNB entry for Robert Fitzwalter.Robert fitz Richard is mentioned in the following documents: - Gilbert de Clare Count of Brionne and Eu. Father of Richard de Clare.Gilbert de Clare is mentioned in the following documents: - Maud de Senlis is mentioned in the following documents: - Walter fitz Robert Husband of Matilda de Bocham and Matilda fitz Robert. Son of Robert fitz Richard. Father of Robert Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for Robert Fitzwalter.Walter fitz Robert is mentioned in the following documents: - Matilde fitz Robert (née de Lucy) Matilda fitz Robert Wife of Walter fitz Robert. Daughter of Richard de Lucy. Mother of Robert Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for Robert Fitzwalter.Matilde fitz Robert (née de Lucy) is mentioned in the following documents: - Matilda de Mandeville (née Fitzwalter) Matilda de Mandeville the Faire Wife of Geoffrey de Mandeville. Daughter of Robert Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for Robert Fitzwalter and Wikipedia entry for Geoffrey de Mandeville.Matilda de Mandeville (née Fitzwalter) is mentioned in the following documents: - Walter Fitzwalter (d. in or before 1326)Son of Lord Robert Fitzwalter and his first wife (not mentioned in Stow). Brother of Sir Robert Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for the Fitzwalter family.Walter Fitzwalter is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Walter Fitzwalter Sir Walter Fitzwalter fitz Robert (d. 1258)Son of Robert Fitzwalter. Father of Lord Robert Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for the Fitzwalter family.Sir Walter Fitzwalter is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Robert Fitzwalter (b. 1297, d. 1328)Son and heir of Lord Robert Fitzwalter and Lady Eleanor Fitzwalter. Father of Lord John Fitzwalter. Brother of Walter Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for the Fitzwalter family.Sir Robert Fitzwalter is mentioned in the following documents: - Lord John Fitzwalter Second Lord Fitzwalter. Son of Sir Robert Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for the Fitzwalter family.Lord John Fitzwalter is mentioned in the following documents: - Lady Eleanor Fitzwalter (née de Ferrers) Lady Eleanor Fitzwalter Lady Eleanor Fitzwalter (née de Ferrers) is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John le Blund is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard of Shrewsbury Richard Duke of York. Son of Edward IV. Brother of Edward V. Mysteriously disappeared shortly after Richard III seized the throne in 1483.Richard of Shrewsbury is mentioned in the following documents: - William Mountfiquit Baron of Mountfitchet. First builder of Montfichet’s Tower.William Mountfiquit is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard Montfiquit Resident of Montfichet’s Tower. Exiled by John I.Richard Montfiquit is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert Kilwardby Robert Kilwardby Archbishop of Canterbury Archbishop of Canterbury 1273–1278. Began the foundations for the Blackfriars Monastery.Robert Kilwardby is mentioned in the following documents: - Gilbert de Clare (b. 1243, d. 1295)Sixth Earl of Hertford, Seventh Earl of Gloucester, Ninth Lord of Glamorgan, and Ninth Lord of ClareNoble.Gilbert de Clare is mentioned in the following documents: - Jean Froissart is mentioned in the following documents: - Jesus Christ is mentioned in the following documents: - Henry of Bath is mentioned in the following documents: - Jeremy of Caxton is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert Ufford is mentioned in the following documents: - Walter Fitzwalter (b. 1345, d. 1386)Third Baron Fitzwalter. Persuaded citizens of London to free John Prendergast. Husband of Philippa de Mohun. Son of Lord John Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for the Fitzwalter family.Walter Fitzwalter is mentioned in the following documents: - Thomas Walsingham (b. 1340, d. 1422)Chronicler and Benedictine monk. Known for his works on the reigns of Richard II, Henry IV, and Henry V.Thomas Walsingham is mentioned in the following documents: - Louis VIII Louis This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 8VIII King of France (b. 1187, d. 1226)King of France 1223-1226.Louis VIII is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Paul the Apostle is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Ralph Hengham (b. 1235, d. 1311)Justice. Prisoner of the Tower of London in 1290. Redeemed from imprisonment by offering seven thousand marks.Sir Ralph Hengham is mentioned in the following documents: - William Herbert (b. 1501, d. 1570)First Earl of Pembroke. Husband of Anne Herbert. Not to be confused with William Herbert. Buried at St. Paul’s Cathedral.William Herbert is mentioned in the following documents: - Gregory de Rokesley Gregory de Rokesley Sheriff Mayor (fl. 1274-84d. 1291)Sheriff of London 1263-1264 and 1270-1271. Mayor 1274-1281 and 1284-1285. Possible member of the Goldsmiths’ Company. Lord Chief Justice of the Court of the King’s Bench. Financier of Greyfriars. Buried at Christ Church.Gregory de Rokesley is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Robert Hales (b. 1325, d. 1381)Treasurer of England. Administrator and prior of St. John’s of Jerusalem. Beheaded by rebels on Tower Hill during the 1381 Peasant’s Revolt.Sir Robert Hales is mentioned in the following documents: - Philippe de Commines is mentioned in the following documents: - Geoffrey de Mandeville (b. 1191, d. 23 February 1216)Second Earl of Essex and Fourth Earl of Gloucester. Husband of Matilda de Mandeville. Not to be confused with Geoffrey de Mandeville.Geoffrey de Mandeville is mentioned in the following documents: - William de Ros Duke of Hamelake. Recipient of a tower by Baynard’s Castle, given by Edward III in the second year of his reign.William de Ros is mentioned in the following documents: - William of York is mentioned in the following documents: - William Dunthorne Town Clerk of London. Buried at St. Alban, Wood Street.William Dunthorne is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert Fitzwalter (d. 9 December 1235)One of the leaders of the opposition to John I during the First Baron’s War. An owner of Baynard’s Castle. Son of Walter fitz Robert and Matilda fitz Robert. Father of Sir Walter Fitzwalter and Matilda de Mandeville.Robert Fitzwalter is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John de Gisors is mentioned in the following documents: - Mr. Edmere Edmere Mr. Edmere is mentioned in the following documents: - Anthony Woodville (b. 1440, d. 1483)Second Earl Rivers. Son of Richard Woodville and Jaquetta de Luxembourg.Anthony Woodville is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard de Clare Richard de Clare fitz Gilbert (b. in or after 1030, d. in or before 1090)Founder of the baronial family of Clare. Son of Gilbert de Clare. Father of Robert fitz Richard.Richard de Clare is mentioned in the following documents: - Richard de Lucy is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert de Ferrers Earl of Derby. Father of Lady Eleanor Fitzwalter. See related ODNB entry for the Fitzwalter family for relationship to Lady Eleanor Fitzwalter.Robert de Ferrers is mentioned in the following documents: - Matilde de Bocham Wife of Walter fitz Robert.Matilde de Bocham is mentioned in the following documents: - Henry of Huntingdon is mentioned in the following documents: - Frederick II Frederick This numeral is a Roman numeral. The Arabic equivalent is 2II Holy Roman Emperor King of Sicily King of Germany King of Jerusalem (b. 26 December 1194, d. 13 December 1250)Holy Roman Emperor 1220-1250. King of Sicily 1197-1250. King of Germany 1212-1250. King of Jerusalem 1229-1243.Frederick II is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert Bowre Keeper of exotic animals in the Tower of London. Son of John Bowre.Robert Bowre is mentioned in the following documents: - John Bowre Father of Robert Bowre.John Bowre is mentioned in the following documents: - William of Cornhill William of Cornhill Bishop of Coventry (d. 1223)Bishop of Coventry 1214–1223. Archdeacon of Huntingdon.William of Cornhill is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert Passelewe is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Thomas Weyland (b. 1230, d. 1298)Justice. Sent to the Tower of London as prisoner in 1290 and later exiled to France.Sir Thomas Weyland is mentioned in the following documents: - Adam Murimuth is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John Lovelet Justice of the lower bench. Prisoner of the Tower of London in 1290. Redeemed from imprisonment by offering three thousand marks.Sir John Lovelet is mentioned in the following documents: - Adam de Stratton Administrator and moneylender. Paid a large sum to purchase liberty from the Tower of London including a king’s crown said to belong to John I.Adam de Stratton is mentioned in the following documents: - Henry Knighton is mentioned in the following documents: - Nicholas Tibald Gentleman. Father of Simon Sudbury.Nicholas Tibald is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John Minsterworth is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir William Bromtone Justice. Prisoner of the Tower of London in 1290. Redeemed from imprisonment by offering six thousand marks.Sir William Bromtone is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert Littlebury Prisoner of the Tower of London in 1290. Redeemed from imprisonment by offering one thousand marks.Robert Littlebury is mentioned in the following documents: - Roger Leicester Robert Leicester Prisoner of the Tower of London in 1290. Redeemed from imprisonment by offering one thousand marks.Roger Leicester is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John Newton is mentioned in the following documents: - John Tickle Doublet maker. Crafted doublets for the rebels during the Peasant’s Revolt in 1381.John Tickle is mentioned in the following documents: - Perducas Dalbert is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Adam Frances is mentioned in the following documents: - John Kirkby is mentioned in the following documents: - Allen Thredder is mentioned in the following documents: - Thomas Scot is mentioned in the following documents: - Ralph Rugge is mentioned in the following documents: - Robert Westbrome is mentioned in the following documents: - John Wrawe is mentioned in the following documents: - John Litester (d. 1381)Member of the Dyers’ Company. Leader of the rebels in Norwich during the 1381 Peasant’s Revolt.John Litester is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir Richard Lee is mentioned in the following documents: - John de Vere is mentioned in the following documents: - William Foxley is mentioned in the following documents: - Mr. Hawkins Hawkins Prisoner of the Tower of London. Accused Sir Thomas Cooke of withholding money from Margaret of Anjou.Mr. Hawkins is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John Fogge is mentioned in the following documents: - Sir John Markham is mentioned in the following documents: - Francis Talbot (b. 1500, d. 1560)Fifth earl of Shrewsbury. Husband of Anne Talbot. Father of George Talbot.Francis Talbot is mentioned in the following documents: - Walter de Crisping Justice.Walter de Crisping is mentioned in the following documents: - Mr. Lion is mentioned in the following documents: - Osbart Hervey MoEML has not yet added biographical content for this person. The editors welcome research leads from qualified individuals. Please contact us for further information.Osbart Hervey is mentioned in the following documents: - John de Guestling MoEML has not yet added biographical content for this person. The editors welcome research leads from qualified individuals. Please contact us for further information.John de Guestling is mentioned in the following documents: - Edward of Westminster MoEML has not yet added biographical content for this person. The editors welcome research leads from qualified individuals. Please contact us for further information.Edward of Westminster is mentioned in the following documents: Locations - London is mentioned in the following documents: - Tower of London is mentioned in the following documents: - The Thames Perhaps more than any other geophysical feature, the Thames river has directly affected London’s growth and rise to prominence; historically, the city’s economic, political, and military importance was dependent on its riverine location. As a tidal river, connected to the North Sea, the Thames allowed for transportation to and from the outside world; and, as the longest river in England, bordering on nine counties, it linked London to the country’s interior. Indeed, without the Thames, London would not exist as one of Europe’s most influential cities. The Thames, however, is notable for its dichotomous nature: it is both a natural phenomenon and a cultural construct; it lives in geological time but has been the measure of human history; and the city was built around the river, but the river has been reshaped by the city and its inhabitants.The Thames is mentioned in the following documents: - White Tower is mentioned in the following documents: - The Wall Originally built as a Roman fortification for the provincial city of Londinium in the second century C.E., the London Wall remained a material and spatial boundary for the city throughout the early modern period. Described by Stow ashigh and great (Stow 1:8), the London Wall dominated the cityscape and spatial imaginations of Londoners for centuries. Increasingly, the eighteen-foot high wall created a pressurized constraint on the growing city; the various gates functioned as relief valves where development spilled out to occupy spacesoutside the wall. The Wall is mentioned in the following documents: - Westminster Hall Westminster Hall isthe only surviving part of the original Palace of Westminster (Weinreb and Hibbert 1011) and is located on the west side of the Thames. It is located on the bottom left-hand corner of the Agas map, and is labelled asWeſtmynſter hall. Originally built as an extension to Edward the Confessor’s palace in 1097, the hall served as the setting for banquets through the reigns of many kings.Westminster Hall is mentioned in the following documents: - Holy Trinity Priory Holy Trinity Priory, located west of Aldgate and north of Leadenhall Street, was an Augustinian Priory. Stow notes that Queen Matilda established the Priory in 1108in the parishes of Saint Marie Magdalen, S. Michael, S. Katherine, and the blessed Trinitie, which now was made but one Parish of the holy Trinitie (Stow). Before Matilda united these parishes under the name Holy Trinity Priory, they were collectively known as the Holy Cross or Holy Roode parish (Stow; Harben).Holy Trinity Priory is mentioned in the following documents: - East Smithfield East Smithfield is a district located east of the City of London and northeast of the Tower of London. Its name derives fromsmoothfield , with the prefixeast helping to differentiate it from the Smithfield northwest of Cripplegate (Harben). As time progressed, it transformed from what Stow describes as aplot of ground with very few houses into a densely populated area by the mid-seventeenth century (Stow; Harben).East Smithfield is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Alban (Wood Street) is mentioned in the following documents: - Tower Ditch The Tower Ditch, or Tower Moat, was part of the Tower of London’s medieval defences. It was built by the Bishop of Ely William de Longchamp while Richard I was crusading in the Holy Land (1187-1192) (Harben). The ditch was used as a dumping ground for plague victim corpses, human waste from the Tower, and meat carcasses from East Smithfield market.Tower Ditch is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Katherine’s Hospital St. Katherine’s Hospital was a religious hospital founded in 1148. According to Stow, the hospital was founded by Queen Matilda. The hospital, the grounds of which contained a church, gardens, orchards, and residences, was at the southern end of St. Katherine’s Lane and north of the St. Katherine Steps, all of which is east of the Tower of London. Stow praised the choir of the hospital, noting how itwas not much inferior to that of [St.] Paules [Cathedral] (Stow).St. Katherine’s Hospital is mentioned in the following documents: - Iron Gate Iron Gate was an entry gate into the Tower of London on its eastern side near the Thames. According to Stow, the gate wasgreat and strong but not often opened (Stow 1633, sig. E4r). It was built in the late fourteenth century on a plot of land that once contained mills belonging to St. Katherine’s Hospital (Carlin and Belcher Tower of London; Stow 1598, sig. D4r). The gate is labelledIron Gate on the 1520 map (A Map of Tudor London, 1520).Iron Gate is mentioned in the following documents: - Tower Hill Tower Hill was a large area of open ground north and west of the Tower of London. It is most famous as a place of execution; there was a permanent scaffold and gallows on the hillfor the execution of such Traytors or Transgressors, as are deliuered out of the Tower, or otherwise to the Shiriffes of London (Stow).Tower Hill is mentioned in the following documents: - Posterngate is mentioned in the following documents: - West Gate of the Tower The West Gate of the Tower was located on the western side of the Tower of London at or near the joining of Tower Street and two unnamed roadways: one leading to Lion Tower and the other to Tower Wharf (A Map of Tudor London, 1520). In 1321 inquest, the gate was described as being in the Parish of All Hallows (Barking) in Tower Street Ward, potentially making it a part of London and the jurisdictionally independent Tower of London (Harben, Tower of London).West Gate of the Tower is mentioned in the following documents: - Bulwark Gate Bulwark Gate was one of the outer defences of the Tower of London, located near Tower Hill (Harben Tower of London, Bulwark Gate). While Stow describes a number ofbulwarks around the Tower, it is likely that his description ofthe Bulwarke, a piece of Tower Hill west from Lion Tower that was fortified by Edward IV, is referring to Bulwark Gate (Stow 1633, sig. E3v).Bulwark Gate is mentioned in the following documents: - Lion Tower Lion Tower, also called the Barbican and the Bulwark, was a defensive structure located near the southwest corner of the Tower of London (Carlin and Belcher; Historical Towns Trust). The tower was built in the reign of Edward I (Carlin and Belcher). It was known asLion Tower because lions and leopards were housed there, along with their keepers, in the reign of Henry III and of Edward III (Stow 1633, sig. E3v). It is labelledLion Tower (Barbican) on the 1520 map (A Map of Tudor London, 1520).Lion Tower is mentioned in the following documents: - Tower Street Ward is mentioned in the following documents: - PLACEHOLDER LOCATION PLACEHOLDER LOCATION ITEM. The purpose of this item is to allow encoders to link to a location item when they cannot add a new location file for some reason. MoEML may still be seeking information regarding this entry. If you have information to contribute, please contact the MoEML team.PLACEHOLDER LOCATION is mentioned in the following documents: - The Elms (Smithfield) Located between Horsepool and the Fleet River, the Elms, as Stow notes, was a place of execution named after the once flourishing number of elm trees on site. Stow refers to the area asLe elmes orle two elmys. By Stow’s lifetime the expansion of London meant the namesake trees had been cut down.The Elms (Smithfield) is mentioned in the following documents: - Westminster Abbey Westminster Abbey was and continues to be a historically significant church. One of its many notable features isPoets’ Corner. Located in the south transept of the church, it is the final resting place of Geoffrey Chaucer, Ben Jonson, Francis Beaumont, and many other notable authors; in 1740, a monument for William Shakespeare was erected in Westminster Abbey (ShaLT). The church is located on the bottom-left corner of the Agas map.Westminster Abbey is mentioned in the following documents: - Newgate The gaol at Newgate, a western gate in the Roman Wall of London, was constructed in the twelfth century specifically to detainfellons and trespassors awaiting trial by royal judges (Durston 470; O’Donnell 25; Stow 1598, sig. C8r). The gradual centralisation of the English criminal justice system meant that by the reign of Elizabeth I, Newgate had become London’s most populated gaol. In the early modern period, incarceration was rarely conceived of as a punishment in itself; rather, gaols like Newgate were more like holding cells, where inmates spent time until their trials or punishments were effected, or their debts were paid off.Newgate is mentioned in the following documents: - London Bridge As the only bridge in London crossing the Thames until 1729, London Bridge was a focal point of the city. After its conversion from wood to stone, completed in 1209, the bridge housed a variety of structures, including a chapel and a growing number of shops. The bridge was famous for the cityʼs grisly practice of displaying traitorsʼ heads on poles above its gatehouses. Despite burning down multiple times, London Bridge was one of the few structures not entirely destroyed by the Great Fire of London in 1666.London Bridge is mentioned in the following documents: - Greyfriars Enduring for over three centuries, longer than any other London friary, Greyfriars garnered support from both England’s landed elite and common Londoners. Founded in 1225 on a tenament donated by London Mercer John Iwyn, Greyfriars housed London’s Franciscan Friars (known in England as the Grey Friars). The friary expanded from its original pittance of land on the west side of Stinking Lane to over four-and-a-half acres by 1354. With the patronage of Queens Margaret, Isabella, and Philippa throughout the fourteenth century, the Franciscans constructed a formidable church, London’s third largest after St. Paul’s and Westminster Abbey. After the friary’s closure in 1538 pursuant to the Dissolution of the Monasteries, the church became the centre of the newly established Christ Church parish, and the cloisters housed Christ’s Hospital (Holder 66–96).Greyfriars is mentioned in the following documents: - Bucklersbury is mentioned in the following documents: - Sernes Tower Sernes Tower was located in Cheap Ward on the north side of Bucklersbery (Harben). The tower changed hands several times. It was built in 1305 by William Servat to serve as his residence (Harben). Sometime between 1317 and 1318, the tower wasgranted for life to Isabella of France and was most likely owned by Philippa of Hainault by 1338 (Carlin and Belcher). In 1344, Edward III made the tower into theKing’s Exchange for gold and silver and, finally, gave it as a gift to St. Stephen’s, Westminster Palace in the thirty second year of his reign (Carlin and Belcher; Harben; Stow 1633, sig. F6v). The tower was destroyed during Stow’s lifetime (Carlin and Belcher Servat’s Tower).Sernes Tower is mentioned in the following documents: - Gutter Lane Gutter Lane ran north-south from Cheapside to Maiden Lane (Wood Street). It is to the west of Wood Street and to the east of Foster Lane, lying within the north-eastern most area of Farringdon Ward Within and serving as a boundary to Aldersgate ward. It is labelled asGoutter Lane on the Agas map.Gutter Lane is mentioned in the following documents: - King’s Exchange is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Paul’s Cathedral St. Paul’s Cathedral was—and remains—an important church in London. In 962, while London was occupied by the Danes, St. Paul’s monastery was burnt and raised anew. The church survived the Norman conquest of 1066, but in 1087 it was burnt again. An ambitious Bishop named Maurice took the opportunity to build a new St. Paul’s, even petitioning the king to offer a piece of land belonging to one of his castles (Times 115). The building Maurice initiated would become the cathedral of St. Paul’s which survived until the Great Fire of London.St. Paul’s Cathedral is mentioned in the following documents: - Stepney is mentioned in the following documents: - St. John’s of Jerusalem St. John’s of Jerusalem provided housing and care for pilgrims and crusading knights. It was held by the Knights Hospitallers and dissolved in the reign of Henry VIII (Stow 1598, sig. 2D7r).St. John’s of Jerusalem is mentioned in the following documents: - Southwark is mentioned in the following documents: - Lambeth Palace Lambeth Palace, also known as Lambeth House and the Palace of the Archbishop, was and continues to be the London residence of the Archbishop of Canterbury (Stow 1633, sig. F1r; Encyclopedia Britannica). It is located on the south bank of the River of Thames by Lambeth Marsh, slightly south of being directly across the Thames from Westminster Abbey. St. Mary (Lambeth) is a part of the palace’s environs. The palace was first built in about 1200 with later additions coming in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries (Encyclopedia Britannica). Lambeth Palace was spoiled by rebels during the 1381 Peasants’ Revolt (Stow 1633, F1r). It is labelledThe lambeht on the Agas map andLambeth Palace on Google’s modern map (Google Earth).Lambeth Palace is mentioned in the following documents: - Lambeth Lambeth was a neighbourhood located on the southern bank of the Thames, directly opposite to Westminster (Lysons). Jeremy Boulton notes that Lambeth lay outside the Corporation of London’s jurisdiction and was instead controlled by Surrey authorities (Boulton 9). Lambeth is depicted on the Agas map, though it is partially covered by a descriptive cartouche. While the Agas map labels the area near Lambeth’s coordinates asThe lambeht, this label appears to refer to Lambeth Palace rather than the neighbourhood as a whole. For a more detailed look at Lambeth, see Richard Blome’s 1720 map (Blome).Lambeth is mentioned in the following documents: - Savoy Manor Located along the Strand in Westminster, Savoy Manor was initially the residence of Peter II of Savoy. The manor was destroyed in the 1381 Peasants’ Revolt, and the site was converted into Savoy Hospital in 1505 by Henry VII.Savoy Manor is mentioned in the following documents: - Inner Temple Inner Temple was one of the four Inns of CourtInner Temple is mentioned in the following documents: - Smithfield Smithfield was an open, grassy area located outside the Wall. Because of its location close to the city centre, Smithfield was used as a site for markets, tournaments, and public executions. From 1123 to 1855, the Bartholomew’s Fair took place at Smithfield (Weinreb, Hibbert, Keay, and Keay 842).Smithfield is mentioned in the following documents: - Highbury is mentioned in the following documents: - Mile End is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Sepulchre is mentioned in the following documents: - Cheap Ward Cheap Ward is west of Bassinghall Ward and Coleman Street Ward. Both the ward and its main street, Cheapside, are named after West Cheap (the market).Cheap Ward is mentioned in the following documents: - Austin Friars Austin Friars was a church on the west side of Broad Street in Broad Street Ward. It was formerly part of the Priory of Augustine Friars, established in 1253. At the dissolution of the monastery in 1539,the West end [of the church] thereof inclosed from the steeple, and Quier, was in the yeare 1550. graunted to the Dutch Nation in London [by Edward VI], to be their preaching place (Stow). TheQuier and side Isles to the Quier adioyning, he reserued to housholde vses, as for stowage of corne, coale, and other things (Stow). The church, completely rebuilt in the nineteenth century and then again mid-way through the twentieth century, still belongs to Dutch Protestants to this day.Austin Friars is mentioned in the following documents: - The Vintry is mentioned in the following documents: - King’s Wardrobe The King’s Wardrobe, built in the fourteenth century between St. Andrew’s Hill and Addle Hill near Blackfriars Precinct, was originally a repository for royal clothing, but later housed offices of the royal household and became a key seat of government (Sugden 557). Stow explains its significance:In this houſe of late yeares, is lodged Sir Iohn Forteſcue, knight, Maiſter of the Wardrobe, Chancellor and vnder Treaſu rer of the Exchequer, and one of her Maieſties Priuy Councel. The ſecret letters & writings touching the eſtate of the realme, were wont to be introlled in the kings Wardrobe, and not in the Chauncery, as appeareth by the Records. (Stow 1598, sig. U6r)King’s Wardrobe is mentioned in the following documents: - Chapel of Our Lady of the Pew is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Bartholomew’s Hospital According to Stow, St. Bartholomew’s Hospital was located on the west side of Smithfield in Farringdon Without Ward. Originally a religious hospital, it was founded by its first prior, Rahere, in 1102 (Stow 1598, sig. X1r). It was dissolved under Henry VIII and reendowed and granted to the City of London in 1544 as a part of the civic hospital system.St. Bartholomew’s Hospital is mentioned in the following documents: - Tower Royal is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Peter Ad Vincula is mentioned in the following documents: - St. John’s Chapel in the Tower St. John’s Chapel in the Tower was located in the White Tower. The chapel served as a place of worship forthe Constable and officers of the Tower and was also used on State occasions (Harben). In 1512, the chapel was damaged in a fire (Stow 1633, sig. F4r).St. John’s Chapel in the Tower is mentioned in the following documents: - Drawbridge Tower Drawbridge Tower was located on London Bridge, at the northernmost end of the drawbridge (Harben, London Bridge; Stow 1633, sig. F4v). Traitors’ heads were displayed on the tower until it was rebuilt in 1577 (Stow 1633, sig. F4v).Drawbridge Tower is mentioned in the following documents: - Bridge Gate is mentioned in the following documents: - Baynard’s Castle Located on the banks of the Thames, Baynard’s Castle was built sometime in the late eleventh centuryby Baynard, a Norman who came over with William the Conqueror (Weinreb and Hibbert 129). The castle passed to Baynard’s heirs until one William Baynard,who by forfeyture for fellonie, lost his Baronie of little Dunmow (Stow 1:61). From the time it was built, Baynard’s Castle wasthe headquarters of London’s army until the reign of Edward I when it washanded over to the Dominican Friars, the Blackfriars whose name is still commemorated along that part of the waterfront (Hibbert 10).Baynard’s Castle is mentioned in the following documents: - Aldgate Aldgate was the easternmost gate into the walled city. The nameAldgate is thought to come from one of four sources: Æst geat meaningEastern gate (Ekwall 36), Alegate from the Old English ealu meaningale, Aelgate from the Saxon meaningpublic gate oropen to all, or Aeldgate meaningold gate (Bebbington 20–21).Aldgate is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Paul’s Head Tavern is mentioned in the following documents: - Fleet Bridge is mentioned in the following documents: - Blackfriars Monastery is mentioned in the following documents: - Ludgate Located in Farringdon Within Ward, Ludgate was a gate built by the Romans (Carlin and Belcher 80). Stow asserts that Ludgate was constructed by King Lud who named the gate after himselffor his owne honor (Stow 1:1).Ludgate is mentioned in the following documents: - Parish of St. Andrew by the Wardrobe is mentioned in the following documents: - Guildhall is mentioned in the following documents: - St. John’s Fields St. John’s Fields were located near St. John’s of Jerusalem and were likely owned by the priory (Wikipedia). Stow describes the fields as the site where Edward IV was elected king in 1460 (Stow 1633, sig. F6r).St. John’s Fields is mentioned in the following documents: - Westminster Palace is mentioned in the following documents: - The Compter (Bread Street) Stow mentions two compters existing in his time: The Compter (Poultry) and The Compter (Bread Street). With relevance to the mobility of the place, Harben records that theWood Street Counter had been removed there from Bread Street in 1555 (Harben 166). Tracing its history back ever further, Carlin and Belcher note that the prison was initially located in the Broken Seld around 1412 (Carlin and Belcher 70).The Compter (Bread Street) is mentioned in the following documents: - King’s Bench is mentioned in the following documents: - Bishop’s Palace Bishop’s Palace was located on the north-west side of St. Paul’s Church. It was bordered on the north by Paternoster Row and on the west by Ave Maria Lane. Agas coordinates are based on coordinates provided by Harben and supplemented by Stow.Bishop’s Palace is mentioned in the following documents: - Cheapside Cross (Eleanor Cross) Cheapside Cross (Eleanor Cross), pictured but not labelled on the Agas map, stood on Cheapside Street between Friday Street and Wood Street. St. Peter, Westcheap lay to its west, on the north side of Cheapside Street. The prestigious shops of Goldsmiths’ Row were located to the east of the Cross, on the south side of Cheapside Street. The Standard in Cheapside (also known as the Cheap Standard), a square pillar/conduit that was also a ceremonial site, lay further to the east (Brissenden xi).Cheapside Cross (Eleanor Cross) is mentioned in the following documents: - Legate’s Inn is mentioned in the following documents: - Montfichet’s Tower is mentioned in the following documents: - Holborn Holborn ran east-west from the junction of Hosier Lane, Cock Lane and Snow Hill to St. Giles High Street, and passed through Farringdon Without Ward and Westminster.Holborn is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Bride is mentioned in the following documents: - Bridewell Bridewell was a prison and hospital. The site was originally a royal palace (Bridewell Palace) but was transferred to the City of London in 1553, when it was converted to function as an orphanage and house of correction. Bridewell is located on the Agas map at the corner of the Thames and Fleet Ditch, labelled asBride Well. Bridewell is mentioned in the following documents: - Fleet Street Fleet Street runs east-west from Temple Bar to Fleet Hill or Ludgate Hill, and is named for the Fleet River. The road has existed since at least the twelfth century (Sugden 195) and known since the fourteenth century as Fleet Street (Beresford 26). It was the location of numerous taverns including the Mitre and the Star and the Ram.Fleet Street is mentioned in the following documents: - Bridewell Palace Bridewell Palace was a royal palace acquired by the crown in 1510. In 1553, the site was granted to the City of London and converted into Bridewell, a hospital and prison.Bridewell Palace is mentioned in the following documents: - Redcross Street is mentioned in the following documents: - Barbican Tower Barbican Tower was a watchtower or barbican to the northeast of the London Wall. According to Stow, Henry III ordered the tower’s demolition in 1267 in response to the Second Barons’ War (Stow 1598, sig. E2v), though Harben suggests that the tower was later rebuilt (Harben). The site was granted to Robert Efforde in 1336 and became Barbican Manor (Stow 1598, sig. E2v).Barbican Tower is mentioned in the following documents: - City Ditch The city ditch was part of London’s medieval defence system that ran along the outside of the wall from the Tower to Fleet River. According to Stow, the ditch was referred to as Houndsditch becausemuch filth (conveyed forth of the Citie) especially dead dogs, were there laid or cast (Stow 1633, sig. M1v). The ditch was filled in and covered with garden plots by the time of Stow’s 1598 Survey.City Ditch is mentioned in the following documents: - Houndsditch Street Running southeast from Bishopsgate Street to Aldgate Street outside the city wall, Houndsditch Street passed through Bishopsgate Ward and Portsoken Ward. It was first paved in 1603 (Harben 311). Houndsditch Street took its name from nearby Houndsditch. Stow refers to the neighbourhood surrounding Houndsditch Street asHoundsditch :(within the limits of Hounds-ditch) dwell many a good and honest Citizen (Stow 1633, sig. M1v).Houndsditch Street is mentioned in the following documents: - Parish of St. Giles (Cripplegate) is mentioned in the following documents: - Parish of St. Michael Paternoster Royal is mentioned in the following documents: - PLACE OUTSIDE OF LONDON PLACE OUTSIDE OF LONDON. While this location exists within the boundaries of modern-day Greater London, it lies outside of the early-modern City of London and is beyond MoEML’s current scope.PLACE OUTSIDE OF LONDON is mentioned in the following documents: - Vintry Ward Vintry Ward is west of Dowgate Ward. The ward is named after the Vintners’ Company and the Vintry,a part of the banks of the Riuer of Thames within Vintry Ward used by the merchants of Bordeaux for the transporting and selling of their wines (Stow 1603).Vintry Ward is mentioned in the following documents: - St. Stephen’s (Westminster Palace) is mentioned in the following documents: Organizations - Court of Husting According to John Stow, the Court of Husting was located in the Guildhall (Stow 1633, sig. F6r). The word,husting, comes from the Icelandic,hus-ping, meaning a court or council held in a house, a description meant to contrast courts that wereheld in the open air (Harben). At one time, the Court of Husting wasthe sole court for the settlement of disputes between citizens of London, evidenced by it being called the Husting of London of the Common Pleas in 1305 (Harben). The court’s specific purview wasthe enrolment of deeds and wills relating to the property of the citizens (Harben).This organization is mentioned in the following documents: - Mayor of London The Mayor (or Lord Mayor) of London was an office occupied annually by a new mayor. For the purposes of recording the authorship of mayoral proclamations, MoEML distinguishes between the office of the mayor and the person elected to the office for the year.Roles played in the project - Author Contributions by this author This organization is mentioned in the following documents: - - The MoEML Team These are all MoEML team members since 1999 to present. To see the current members and structure of our team, seeTeam. - Former Student Contributors We’d also like to acknowledge students who contributed to MoEML’s intranet predecessor at the University of Windsor between 1999 and 2003. When we redeveloped MoEML for the Internet in 2006, we were not able to include all of the student projects that had been written for courses in Shakespeare, Renaissance Drama, and/or Writing Hypertext. Nonetheless, these students contributed materially to the conceptual development of the project. Roles played in the project - Author - Data Manager - Researcher Contributions by this author This organization is mentioned in the following documents: - University of Victoria The University of Victoria, writ large. Located in Victoria, BC, Canada. Website.This organization is mentioned in the following documents:


--- [East Smithfield] ---
East Smithfield (note: West Smithfield is in the City of London, beside St Bartholomew's Hospital) Seen left in the 1970s and today, and now a busy and nondescript stretch of road (A1203) between The Highway and The Tower of London - on London Marathon and Triathlon routes - East Smithfield (derived from smooth-field?) was once the name of the whole area between Aldgate and the Tower, and has a complex history. The area north of the Highway fell successively into the parishes of St Botolph Aldgate, St Mary Matfelon (Whitechapel), St Mark Whitechapel and St Paul Dock Street before becoming part of St George-in-the-East. South of The Highway, most of it (the St Katharine's area) was part of the parish of St John Wapping and now is part of St Peter Wapping. Right is a 1975 oil painting by Noel Gibson of 1 East Smithfield. Early history According to John Stow's Survey of London (first edition 1598), the Saxon king Edgar granted the wasteland to the east of the city wall to a guild of 13 knights, on condition that each should accomplish three combats, one above the ground, one below the ground, and the third in the water; after this, at a certain day in East Smithfield, they should run with spears against all comers; all of which was gloriously performed; and the same day the King named it Knighten Guilde, and so bounded it from Ealdgate [Aldgate] to the place where the bars now are toward the east, &c. and again toward the south unto the river of Thames, and so into the water, and throw his speare; so that all East Smithfield, with the right part of the street that goeth by Dodding Pond into the Thames and also the hospital of St Katherin's, with the mills that were founded in King Stephen's daies, and the outward stone wall, and the new ditch of the Tower, are of the saide fee and liberbertie. Edward the Confessor, and William II (Rufus) confirmed this 'liberty' (a building-free area defined by the distance an arrow could be fired from the Tower). By 1115, in the reign of Henry I, the wider liberty, or soke, fell to the priory church of Holy Trinity within Aldgate, founded in 1107 by his wife Queen Matilda (Edith) of Scotland, with the prior sitting as an Alderman of London. (A tussle resulted when Geoffrey de Mandeville, Constable of the Tower, used its garrison to defend his vineyard on land by the Tower.) In 1147, the priory built the Hospital of St Katharine under the patronage of Mathilda (Maud) of Boulogne, wife of king Stephen; ever since, the foundation has prayed daily for the repose of her soul. With further foundations by Eleanor (widow of Henry III) and Philippa (wife of Edward III) the area south of the present-day main road became the Precinct of St Katharine, holding a 15-day fair at Pentecost from 1229. From 1236 until their expulsion in 1290, Jews settled in the area, under the protection of the Tower garrison. Meanwhile, in 1294 the Liberty of the Minories was created around the Minoresses of St Mary (of the Order of St Clare) - more details here - in the area which is now Tower Gateway DLR. The Liberty of Wellclose, around the Abbey of St Mary Grace, was also formed, and constituted in 1442 as a Precinct free from jurisdiction civil or ecclesiastical, except that of the Lord Chancellor. In 1686 all these areas were consolidated into the Liberties of the Tower of London. The peculiarties of jurisdiction remained: as late as 1831, James Elmes Topographical Dictionary of London and its environs (Whitaker, Treacher & Arnott) reports that in the liberty of East Smithfield a courtleet and court-baron are held, wherein pleas to the amount of forty shillings are held, nuisances presented, and of similar judicial acts. However, from 1855 the whole East Smithfield area fell under the administration of the local Magistrates' Court. Black Death burial grounds and St Mary Grace's Abbey St Mary Grace's Abbey, sometimes known as Eastminster, was the only new Cistercian foundation in the 14th century (it was subject to the monastery at Beaulieu). [Grace's Alley, off Wellclose Square, perpetuates the name.] It was founded by Edward III in 1350, and was unusual in having an urban setting. It was established in the aftermath of the Black Death of 1347-51, adjacent to two emergency burial grounds, and had a relatively short life, as it was suppressed in 1539. An old map shows a river running down each side of Nightingall Lane [now Thomas More Street], in Wapping. It has been suggested that this was one of London's lost rivers and ran from Well Street into the Thames. Archaeological investigations of the whole site, including the abbey and the burial grounds (and of the later victualling yard), were carried out between 1983-88. Three-quarters of the abbey site were explored, including parts of the church and presbytery (with 131 clergy and lay burials), the chapter house, refectory, infirmary and kitchen; its layout was a cross between that of older foundations and the pattern that had developed for friars' housing in the 14th century. As for the two burial grounds, there were probably over 2,400 burials (with perhaps 200 a day at the height of the plague), and evidence of 759 was found, both in individual graves and in mass trenches, with bodies five deep. DNA samples from 53 bones and 43 teeth were taken, and the whole project was valuable in confirming burial practice, and in demonstrating that the weak and malnourished were the most likely victims. See further Ian Grainger, Duncan Hawkins, Lynne Cowal & Robert Mikulski The Black Death Cemetery, East Smithfield (MOLAS monograph 43, Museum of London Archaeology Service 2008) and Ian Grainger & Christopher Philpotts The Cistercian Abbey of St Mary Graces, East Smithfield, London (MOLAS monograph 44, Museum of London Archaeological Service 2011). When Henry VIII dissolved the monasteries in 1531, much of the land in the area was taken by the Crown and - with the exception of St Katharine's - was given to prominent nobles. On 28 May 1541 Margaret Pole, Countess of Salisbury, was martyred on 'East Smithfield Green' (now Tower Green, within its precincts). Haiward and Gascoyne's 1597 map shows East Smith Field (formerly Piece) on the north-east of the Tower; the map of 1755 describes it as Little Tower Hill. Hospital of St Katharine (continued) Because of its long-standing royal connections, the Hospital of St Katharine was not seized, but was re-established as a Protestant house. The site had for some time been associated with brewing: see this 1911 account, from the article on 'Brewing' in A History of the County of Middlesex (vol 2, pages 168-78): Royal Navy Victualling Yard Established in 1560 on the site of St Mary Grace's Abbey and the two former burial grounds, it used some of the former abbey buildings (which later caused problems). Ships' biscuits were made here, and in 1654 (when the diarist Samuel Pepys was working for the Navy) it became the main London Victualling Office, covering a 5-acre site. It was the first and principal large-scale naval food supply base in Britain, until it became inadequate for the needs of the expanding navy and was closed in 1785, with the office moving to The Strand. (Its formal functions were transferred to the Admiralty Board in 1832.) The 1983-88 excavations, working from detailed plans of 1635 and 1776, discovered salthouses, picking sheds, slaughterhouses and yards, bakeries, coopers' workshops, storehouses and offices, and revealed the industrial scale of the operations. See Ian Grainger & Christopher PhilpottsThe Royal Navy Victualling Yard, East Smithfield (MOLAS monograph 45, Museum of London Archaelogical Service 2010). In the year after it closed, local residents petitioned Parliament to continue to levy land tax on the office and its officers' salaries for the Manor of East Smithfield, because otherwise they would have been seriously out of pocket: see the report [left] and full text in the Journal of the House of Commons vol 41 p881. Leave was granted to introduce a petition because of the exceptional circumstances, and this provision was enacted the following year (27 Geo III c5, §73). A suicide's burial St Botolph Aldgate had a burial ground, consecrated in 1615 in what was later known as Darby Street, on the east side of Church Yard Alley [later Cartwright Street]. John Clerke, the parish clerk, recorded in the parish registers an unusual act of institutional kindness, given the way that suicides were normally treated: East Smithfield School The Parish Charity School of St Botolph Aldgate was one of the first Protestant schools of its kind, founded by Zachary Crofton (minister of St Botolph's during the Protectorate) on a site on Little Tower Hill c1665, and endowed by Sir Samuel Starling in 1573. It later merged with another parochial school in the parish, established by subscription, and in 1905 was amalgamated with Billingsgate and Tower Wards School as the SIr John Cass Junior School, continuing under this name. By the turn of the century, overseas branches of the Royal Mint were opened in Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Ottawa, Bombay and Pretoria. They were authorised to strike Imperial gold coins, and their combined output of sovereigns almost equalled that of the London Mint, which had diversified into providing coinage for the Empire and (especially after the First World War) other nations. During the Second World War, the Royal Mint was hit by bombs on several occasions (and was put out of action for three weeks at one point). In the post-war years, it dominated the market for export trade in coinage, though this later waned. In the run-up to decimalization in 1971, plans were made to move production to a new site in Llantrisant, 10 miles north-west of Cardiff. This began production in 1968 and the last coin at the London site, a gold sovereign, was struck in 1975. All that remains of the original buildings is Smirke's east lodge gatehouse. The site is now occupied by Barclays Global Investors. The Docks, and street improvements See here for the history of London Docks (begun in 1801) and St Katharine's Docks (built between 1824-28 on the site of the Hospital). From that point onwards, there were various attempts to upgrade the highways - for example, the 1817 East Smithfield Improvement Bill for altering, amending, and explaining two Acts of His present Majesty's Reign, for widening and improving the Street leading from Tower Hill to the Street called Upper East Smithfield, in the county of Middlesex. Progress was slow. Part of the brief of the 1840 Select Committee on Metropolis Improvement was to investigate (in the light of earlier reports) the opening of a spacious thoroughfare between the populous neighbourhood of Whitechapel and Spitalfields, and the docks and wharfs of the river Thames, by widening the northern and southern extremities of Leman-street, and by creating a new street from the northern side of Whitechapel to Spitalfields-church [originally called Spital Street, this became Commercial Street]. This scheme involved the widening of East Smithfield to improve access to the Docks, and of Dock Street as the main north-south access route. (The area was riddled with courts and alleys with names such as Harebrain Court, Money Bag Alley, Hog Yard, Black Jack Alley, Black Dog Alley, Black Boy Alley and Holyday Court.)The evidence presented is here - see Minutes of Evidence from p17 onwards, in particular questions 230-350 to Thomas Chawner and James Pennefeather (architects of the scheme) and 351-413 to George Parker Bidder (engineer to the Blackwall Railway). Right is a Victorian doorplate for 6 Upper East Smithfield. See here for concerns about local sanitation. Brewing (continued) The Red Lion Brewery in Lower East Smithfield stood on the site of the ancient beer house - the 1911 article cited above continues | In 1705 the brewery belonged to Alderman Humphrey Parsons [Alfred Barnard Noted Breweries 1889 iii, 53-4], who was elected alderman of Portsoken Ward in 1721, served as sheriff in the following year, and was Lord Mayor in 1730 and again in 1740. The following anecdote is told of him in a contemporary journal:- On one occasion, during his mayoralty, he went out riding with a hunting party which included Louis XV and his suite. He was exceedingly well mounted, and, contrary to the etiquette observed in the French Court, outstripped the rest of the company, and was first in at the death. The king, observing this, inquired the name of the stranger, and was indignantly informed that he was 'un chevalier de malte.' On receiving this information the king entered into conversation with Mr. Parsons and asked the price of his horse. Bowing in the most courtly style, the 'chevalier' replied that his horse was beyond any price other than His Majesty's acceptance. In due time the horse was accepted by the king, and from thenceforward Chevalier Parsons had the exclusive honour and privilege of supplying the French Court with his far-famed porter. In the year 1802 the brewery came into the hands of the Hoare family, and since that time has descended from father to son without changing hands. The Red Lion Brewery is of considerable extent, consisting of a large range of buildings facing the River Thames, and covers 3 acres of ground. The brewhouse is situated in Lower East Smithfield and has a convenient wharf at the river side. The malthouse is the most ancient part of the premises, with its crossbeams and joists of enormous thickness and curious old staircases with broad landings and quaint turnings; the elevator or 'Jacob's ladder' in this building is said to be a hundred years old, but does its work to-day as well as ever. Like many other London breweries, the Red Lion Brewery is supplied with the purest water by means of a well of great depth sunk on the premises. This well has a diameter of 5 ft. to the depth of 100 ft., below which it is carried by two bore-holes, of 12 and 9 in. diameter respectively, 300 ft. down to the chalk. A further supply of water is obtained from the London Clay by ther wells of less depth which are only used in summer, when the Thames water is not cold enough for supplying the refrigerators. Up to the beginning of the 19th century, says Mr. Barnard [op cit iii 58] the peculiar flavour of porter hitherto thought inimitable gave rise to an opinion that no other than Thames water was calculated to produce good porter. This opinion became so general that not only in the United Kingdom but in the world at large, wherever porter was known and prized as a beverage, the genuine brew was considered as locally confined to London. Here, in the oldest brewery in London, Thames water was never used, the supply from the wells being considered superior for mashing and for preserving the intrinsic quality of the beverage. It is a well known fact that up to quite recently the London brewers were not quite agreed among themselves on the process of brewing porter, each pursuing a different road to the same object, and all pretending to some secret with which the others were supposed to be unacquainted. | | W. Hoare. Chairman of the Red Lion Brewery (Hoare & Co.) Lower East Smithfield. Went to see him about (1) The class of men put in by them as publicans (2) The rise in the prices of public houses (3) Views as to the varying policies of licensing bodies. Looks rather a weak man. Has no fixed views or policies to many of the above. The value of the house he said depended on the value of its trade. A trade in spirits is more lucrative than one in beer only. The profit on spirits was about 100%. That on beer only 75%. Publican reckon every month as 28 days and every year as consisting of 13 months. Trade is reckoned as so much per month. All classes of men are put into their houses. there are always a number of applicants among our private connection. Some send their sons to the university. The best men are in the largest houses. The worst in the beer houses. Public houses cater for a public need. If you did away with them, what would take their place? Prices have gone up partly because of the immensely greater stability in the trade. Brewers now see they will not be done away with. When he entered the business 30 years ago everyone was afraid of W. Lawson and his followers. Houses were then no assured source of revenue. Now they are to all intents and purposes. He gave an introduction to one of his publicans. Mr. E. B. Donet of the Hope and Anchor, Hereford St., Lisson Grove, whom he said would be able to tell most about the relations of police and publicans. | Twentieth century, and today Left is an advertisement from the 1915 Crufts catalogue from a firm of military equipment suppliers, based at 44 Upper Smithfield and 343 Cable Street (another similar local firm was Crompton & Thompson, at 157-162 St George's Street); and right are men assembling outside the union offices at the time of the 1931 Dock Strike, and from the present day a table-dancing club... Rebuilding has proceeded apace. Right are three views from the late 1970s - the top of John Fisher Street (with Hart's shop on the corner); industrial buildings including a refinery associated with the Royal Mint (looking north across East Smithfield); and (looking towards Shearsmith House) a block, never commercially successful, that was replaced by Admiral House (no.66-68) [far right] which housed the Times Educational Supplement (formerly part of News International, in 2013 the title was put up for sale by Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP). Ensign House, next door, is also due to be redeveloped.


--- [A Survey of London: Reprinted From the Text of 1603, by John Stow et al. | The Online Books Page] ---
| Title: | A Survey of London: Reprinted From the Text of 1603 | | Author: | Stow, John, 1525?-1605 | | Editor: | Kingsford, Charles Lethbridge, 1862-1926 | | Note: | 2 volumes; Oxford, UK: At the Clarendon Press, 1908 | | Link: | Volume I: multiple formats at archive.org | | Link: | Volume II: multiple formats at archive.org | | Link: | illustrated HTML at British History Online | | Stable link here: | https://onlinebooks.library.upenn.edu/webbin/book/lookupid?key=olbp77670 | | Subject: | London (England) -- Description and travel | | Subject: | London (England) -- History -- 16th century -- Sources | | Subject: | London (England) -- Surveys | | Call number: | DA680 .S87 1908 | | Other copies: | Look for editions of this book at your library, or elsewhere. | Help with reading books -- Report a bad link -- Suggest a new listing Home -- Search -- New Listings -- Authors -- Titles -- Subjects -- Serials Books -- News -- Features -- Archives -- The Inside Story Edited by John Mark Ockerbloom (onlinebooks@pobox.upenn.edu) Data for this curated collection listing is CC0. See OBP copyrights and licenses.


--- [The New Constable of the Tower of London | Historic Royal Palaces] ---
The New Constable of the Tower of London Date: 04 October 2022 Author: Historic Royal Palaces 04 Oct 2022 The Tower of London has a new Constable. General Sir Gordon Messenger became the 161st Constable of the Tower of London in August 2022, succeeding General The Lord Nicholas Houghton. On 05 October the General Messenger was officially installed as Constable, becoming the first Royal Marine to hold the post, which has been recruited from senior ranks of the Army since 1784. Fanfares and a parade featuring our Yeoman Warders (Beefeaters) will take place before the Lord Chamberlain, representing His Majesty the King. The Lord Chamberlain will hand the King’s Keys (the Tower’s symbolic golden keys) to the Constable as a symbol of his custodianship of the Tower. What does the Constable of the Tower of London do? Historically, the Constable was in charge of the operation, upkeep and security of the Tower and all those who lived and worked within it. Amongst his particular duties was the safekeeping of the Tower’s prisoners. The role was established by William the Conqueror c.1078 and the holder was then known as the Keeper of the Tower. It was not until 100 years later that the title was changed to Constable. Today the role of the Constable is largely ceremonial. In return for his service, the Constable was given the right to seize any swan that swam under London Bridge; any horse, ox, cow, pig or sheep that fell into the Thames from the bridge and any cart that fell into the Tower of London’s moat. For every foot of livestock that stumbled into the Tower’s moat the Constable received a penny, and any cart that fell in became his property. Also all the herbage growing on Tower Hill belonged to the Constable! Responsible for famous prisoners Sir William Kingston, Constable during the reign of Henry VIII, was responsible for the incarceration and fate of some of the Tower’s most famous prisoners, including Queen Anne Boleyn and Sir Thomas More. In order to keep the king fully informed of Anne’s words and actions, he installed his wife into her apartments as a spy. What is the Constable's Dues? Every ship that came upstream to the city had to moor at Tower Wharf to unload a portion of its cargo for the Constable. These included oysters, mussels, cockles, rushes and wine. This tradition is still upheld today at the annual Ceremony of the Constable's Dues. When a ship of the Royal Navy visits the Port of London, the Captain, with an escort from the ship’s company, presents a barrel of wine (the “Dues”) to the Constable on Tower Green. Where does the Constable of the Tower of London live? The Constable’s official residence is the Kings House at the Tower of London. Built in the 16th-century, the timber-framed building overlooks Tower Green. The house, formerly known as The Queen’s house, was renamed following the proclamation of HM King Charles III. Notable Constables of the Tower Geoffrey de Mandeville The first constable of the Tower, a French knight called Geoffrey de Mandeville, was appointed Keeper of the Tower by William the Conqueror after distinguishing himself at the Battle of Hastings. At first, the office was a hereditary right of the de Mandeville family but that right was confiscated by the king as a punishment after William de Mandeville allowed the first prisoner of the Tower, Bishop Ranulf Flambard, to escape. Thomas Becket One of the earliest non-hereditary appointees was Thomas Becket, later Archbishop of Canterbury, the only holder of the office to date to be made a saint. The Duke of Wellington The Duke of Wellington became Constable in 1826 and remained in the role for 26 years. A national hero from the Napoleonic Wars, the Duke was a highly influential Constable and ruled during a time of immense change for the Tower. He reformed the Body of Yeoman Warders by establishing the criteria that they must be ex-military, he closed the pubs and shops inside the Tower in order to turn it into an efficient military installation and drained the moat which, by 1841, was ‘impregnated with putrid animal and excrementitious matter…and emitting a most obnoxious smell’, creating the dry ditch, or fosse, that visitors see today. He also oversaw the move of the Royal Menagerie to become London Zoo in Regent’s Park, and his tenure saw the Tower establish itself as a major tourist attraction. More from our blog How was the Tower saved from the Great Fire of London? 02 September 2025 The Great Fire of London is the most famous blaze in London's history. Here, Curator Charles Farris explores the Tower of London’s role in this terrible and famous event. Life, death and worship in the Tower of London, Part II 21 July 2025 In the second post of a two-part series, Curator of Historic Buildings Alfred Hawkins explores what the major excavation at the Tower of London in 2025 might tell us about the chapel's history.
