=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Whitt L. Moreland - Wikipedia]
Born in Waco, Texas on March 7, 1930, Whitt Lloyd Moreland attended public school in Austin, and graduated from Junction High School in 1948, where he played football for two years. In September 1948, he enlisted in the United States Marine Corps for one year, serving in San Diego and Camp Pendleton, California. Upon discharge he enlisted in the Marine Corps Reserve for six years. On November ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whitt_L._Moreland

[Whitt Lloyd Moreland (1930–1951) - Encyclopedia of Arkansas]
Jun 16, 2023 · Whitt Lloyd Moreland was born on March 7, 1930, in Waco, Texas, the son of Lloyd W. Moreland and Patsy Whittington Moreland. The family moved around Texas when he was young, following construction jobs, but he went to high school in Austin and Junction City, Texas, where he excelled on the track team before graduating in 1948.
URL: https://encyclopediaofarkansas.net/entries/lloyd-whittington-moreland-15351/

[Moreland, Whitt L. - TSHA]
Apr 1, 1995 · Moreland, Whitt L. (1930–1951). Whitt L. Moreland, Medal of Honor recipient, was born in Waco, Texas, on March 7, 1930, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd W. Moreland. He entered the military service in Austin. Private First Class Moreland was an intelligence scout attached to Company C, First Battalion, Fifth Marines, First Marine Division, at Kwangch'i-Dong, Korea, on May 29, 1951. He was ...
URL: https://www.tshaonline.org/handbook/entries/moreland-whitt-l

[Hero 266 - Whitt L. Moreland - The Grateful Nation Project]
Age: 21 Conflict: Korean War 1950-1953 Whitt Moreland's father, Lloyd, worked as a machine operator for a construction company, which required the family to move frequently. Whitt was born on March 7, 1930, in Waco, Texas. Lloyd and Patsy Ann (Whittington) Moreland moved the family around the Austin and San Antonio areas as his job demanded.
URL: https://www.herocards.us/hero266

[Whitt L. Moreland Private First Class E-2, U.S. Marine Corps]
Whitt Moreland was born on March 7, 1930, in Waco, Texas. He enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps on September 28, 1948, and completed basic training at MCRD San Diego, California, in January 1949. PFC Moreland next attended Infantry training at Camp Pendleton, California, from January to April ...
URL: https://veterantributes.org/TributeDetail.php?recordID=2411


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Whitt L. Moreland - Wikipedia] ---
Whitt Lloyd Moreland (March 7, 1930 – May 29, 1951) was a United States Marine who was posthumously awarded the United States' highest military decoration, the Medal of Honor, for sacrificing his life to save the lives of fellow Marines by smothering a hand grenade with his body during the UN May–June 1951 counteroffensive of the Korean War. He was the 17th Marine to be awarded the Medal of Honor during the Korean War.


--- [Whitt Lloyd Moreland (1930–1951) - Encyclopedia of Arkansas] ---
No content


--- [Moreland, Whitt L. - TSHA] ---
Whitt L. Moreland: Medal of Honor Recipient and Heroic Sacrifice (1930–1951) By: Art Leatherwood Published: April 1, 1995 Updated: May 15, 2014 Whitt L. Moreland, Medal of Honor recipient, was born in Waco, Texas, on March 7, 1930, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd W. Moreland. He entered the military service in Austin. Private First Class Moreland was an intelligence scout attached to Company C, First Battalion, Fifth Marines, First Marine Division, at Kwangch'i-Dong, Korea, on May 29, 1951. He was accompanying a rifle platoon in an assault against a strongly defended hill position of the aggressor forces, which his accurate rifle fire helped to take. Afterward, he led a party to neutralize an enemy bunker 400 meters beyond. Crossing the fire-swept area, he had almost reached the hostile position when the enemy launched a volley of hand grenades on his group. Heedless of the danger, Moreland kicked several of the grenades off the ridge line where they exploded harmlessly. While attempting to kick another away, he slipped and fell. Aware that the grenade would explode before he could regain his footing and dispose of it, he shouted a warning to his comrades and covered it with his body. He absorbed the full blast of the explosion, but in so doing saved his companions from possible injury or death, and was himself killed. Moreland is buried in the Whittington Cemetery at Mount Ida, Arkansas. Bibliography: Committee on Veterans' Affairs, United States Senate, Medal of Honor Recipients, 1863–1973 (Washington: GPO, 1973). The following, adapted from the Chicago Manual of Style, 15th edition, is the preferred citation for this entry. Art Leatherwood, “Moreland, Whitt L.,” Handbook of Texas Online, accessed March 04, 2026, https://www.tshaonline.org/handbook/entries/moreland-whitt-l. Published by the Texas State Historical Association. TID: FMOZX - April 1, 1995 - May 15, 2014


--- [Hero 266 - Whitt L. Moreland - The Grateful Nation Project] ---
Hometown: Austin, TX Branch: U.S. Marine Corps Unit: Company C, 1st Battalion, 5th Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division Military Honors: Medal of Honor, Purple Heart Date of Sacrifice: May 29, 1951 - KIA in Kwagch’i-Dong, Korea Age: 21 Conflict: Korean War 1950-1953 Whitt Moreland’s father, Lloyd, worked as a machine operator for a construction company, which required the family to move frequently. Whitt was born on March 7, 1930, in Waco, Texas. Lloyd and Patsy Ann (Whittington) Moreland moved the family around the Austin and San Antonio areas as his job demanded. When Whitt was 12 years old, he joined the Boy Scouts. That same year, the family welcomed his baby sister, Elizabeth. While living in Austin, Whitt attended Fulmore Junior High School and Austin High School. A family move 140 miles west made him finish his high school years at Junction (TX) High School. Moreland was a devout Methodist and was well-liked and easy-going, according to the local newspaper. He also loved to compete. He played two seasons of high school football, earned two varsity letters as a track athlete—specializing in the 440 relay—and participated in local rodeos. Moreland held a variety of jobs as a young man—ranching, construction, and working at Austin National Bank. His father told the Austin American that Whitt loved horses and had an ambition to own and operate a ranch in West Texas after his service. After graduating from Junction High School in 1948, Moreland enlisted in the United States Marine Corps the following September, at age 18. While training at Camp Pendleton in Southern California, Moreland was flown across the country to Marine Corps Base Quantico in Virginia, to run with the 440-yard relay team in the all-Corps track meet. He was discharged from the Marines after a year and immediately enlisted in the Marine Corps Reserve. His time in the Reserve was short-lived. When communist North Korean forces moved south to invade the non-communist Republic of Korea on June 25, 1950, the United Nations approved the use of force—including American forces—to defend the south. Whitt Moreland was reinstated to active duty that year. With the rank of private first class, Moreland was assigned as an intelligence scout for Company C, 1st Battalion, 5th Marines Regiment, 1st Marine Division. His unit was deployed to Korea shortly after his reinstatement. According to the U.S. Department of Defense: On May 29, 1951, a 21-year-old Moreland volunteered to go with a rifle platoon on a mission to assault a strongly defended enemy position on a hillside near Kwagch’i-Dong, Korea. They succeeded in taking over the enemy emplacement. Afterward, Moreland led a party to neutralize another enemy bunker he’d seen about 400 meters ahead. He and his fellow Marines pushed through a fire-swept area and were almost at the bunker when the enemy launched a volley of hand grenades at them. What happened next would earn PFC Whitt Moreland the military’s highest decoration for valor—the Congressional Medal of Honor. His citation reads, in part: Quick to act despite the personal danger involved, he kicked several of the grenades off the ridgeline where they exploded harmlessly and, while attempting to kick away another, slipped and fell near the deadly missile. Aware that the sputtering grenade would explode before he could regain his feet and dispose of it, he shouted a warning to his comrades, covered the missile with his body and absorbed the full blast of the explosion, but in saving his companions from possible injury or death, was mortally wounded. His heroic initiative and valiant spirit of self-sacrifice in the face of certain death reflect the highest credit upon Pfc. Moreland and the U.S. Naval Service. He gallantly gave his life for his country. Moreland was laid to rest in Mount Ida, Arkansas, in his mother’s family cemetery. On August 4, 1952, Lloyd and Patsy Moreland were presented with his Medal of Honor in a ceremony at the state capitol building in Austin, Texas. Hundreds attended, including Boy and Girl Scouts in their uniforms. PFC Whitt L. Moreland’s name is engraved on the Wall of Remembrance at the Korean War Veterans Memorial, on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. (Panel 88). Sources U.S. Department of Defense, Medal of Honor Monday: Marine Corps Pfc. Whitt Moreland The Austin Statesman, July 29, 1952: Whitt Had the Makings Of a Hero in Boyhood The Austin Statesman, Jun. 23, 1952: Austin Marine Honored For Heroism in Korea Congressional Medal of Honor Society: Whitt Lloyd Moreland HonorStates.org: Whitt Lloyd Moreland Burial Site: Find a Grave


--- [Whitt L. Moreland Private First Class E-2, U.S. Marine Corps] ---
Whitt Moreland was born on March 7, 1930, in Waco, Texas. He enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps on September 28, 1948, and completed basic training at MCRD San Diego, California, in January 1949. PFC Moreland next attended Infantry training at Camp Pendleton, California, from January to April 1949, followed by service with Headquarters Battalion, Marine Barracks, at Camp Pendleton from April 1949 until he left active duty and went into the Marine Corps Reserve on September 28, 1949. He was recalled to active duty in the Marine Corps on December 1, 1950, and then received replacement training at Camp Pendleton from December 1950 to January 1951. PFC Moreland deployed for Korea in February 1951, and arrived in March 1951, where he was assigned to Headquarters & Service Company, 1st Battalion, 5th Marine Regiment of the 1st Marine Division from March 1951 until he was Killed in Action on May 29, 1951. Whitt Moreland was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for his heroism on August 4, 1952, and he was buried at the Whittington Cemetery in Mount Ida, Arkansas. His Medal of Honor Citation reads: For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty while serving as an intelligence scout attached to Company C, in action against enemy aggressor forces. Voluntarily accompanying a rifle platoon in a daring assault against a strongly defended enemy hill position, Pfc. Moreland delivered accurate rifle fire on the hostile emplacement and thereby aided materially in seizing the objective. After the position had been secured, he unhesitatingly led a party forward to neutralize an enemy bunker which he had observed some 400 meters beyond, and moving boldly through a fire-swept area, almost reached the hostile emplacement when the enemy launched a volley of hand grenades on his group. Quick to act despite the personal danger involved, he kicked several of the grenades off the ridgeline where they exploded harmlessly and, while attempting to kick away another, slipped and fell near the deadly missile. Aware that the sputtering grenade would explode before he could regain his feet and dispose of it, he shouted a warning to his comrades, covered the missile with his body and absorbed the full blast of the explosion, but in saving his companions from possible injury or death, was mortally wounded. His heroic initiative and valiant spirit of self-sacrifice in the face of certain death reflect the highest credit upon Pfc. Moreland and the U.S. Naval Service. He gallantly gave his life for his country. |
