=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Oommen Chandy - Wikipedia]
Oommen Chandy (31 October 1943 - 18 July 2023) was an Indian lawyer and statesman who served as the 10th chief minister of Kerala, serving from 2004 to 2006 and 2011 to 2016.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oommen_Chandy

[Former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy passes away]
Bengaluru: Former Kerala Chief Minister and Congress Working Committee member Oommen Chandy died in a hospital in Bengaluru on July 18, 2023 morning. He was 79. He served twice as the state Chief-Minister from 2011 to 2016, and from 2004 to 2006. The death of Chandy, who had been undergoing treatment for cancer since 2019, was announced by his son, Congress leader Chandy Oommen, in a Facebook ...
URL: https://inc.in/congress-sandesh/tribute/former-kerala-chief-minister-oommen-chandy-passes-away

[Former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy passes away]
Former Kerala chief minister and Congress Working Committee member Oommen Chandy died in a hospital in Bengaluru on Tuesday morning. He was 79. The death of Chandy, who had been undergoing treatment for cancer since 2019, was announced by his son, Congress leader Chandy Oommen, in a Facebook post at 4.30 am.
URL: https://indianexpress.com/article/india/oommen-chandy-dead-congress-former-kerala-chief-minister-oommen-8845005/

[Former Kerala CM Oommen Chandy passes away at 79 - The Hindu]
Jul 18, 2023 — Oommen Chandy, former Chief Minister of Kerala, passed away in Bengaluru on July 18. He was 79 and had been unwell for some time.
URL: https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/former-kerala-cm-oommen-chandy-passes-away-at-79/article67092672.ece

[Former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy dies at 79]
Jul 18, 2023 · He was taken to Germany in November last year after his cancer aggravated. The death was announced by the leader's son Chandy Oommen on Facebook: "Appa has passed away," he wrote on the social media platform. His funeral will be held at St. George Orthodox Church in Puthuppally on Thursday.
URL: https://www.onmanorama.com/news/kerala/2023/07/18/former-cm-oommen-chandy-no-more.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Oommen Chandy - Wikipedia] ---
Oommen Chandy (31 October 1943 – 18 July 2023) was an Indian lawyer and statesman who served as the 10th chief minister of Kerala, serving from 2004 to 2006 and 2011 to 2016. He served also as the leader of the opposition in the Kerala Legislative Assembly from 2006 to 2011. 
He represented Puthuppally constituency as a member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) in the State Assembly from 1970 until his death in 2023, making him the longest-serving member of the Kerala Legislature Assembly. He received an award for public service from the United Nations in 2013.
In 2018, he was appointed the general secretary of the All India Congress Committee, in charge of the state of Andhra Pradesh. He was also a Congress Working Committee member at the time of his death.


--- [Former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy passes away] ---
Bengaluru: Former Kerala Chief Minister and Congress Working Committee member Oommen Chandy died in a hospital in Bengaluru on July 18, 2023 morning. He was 79. He served twice as the state Chief-Minister from 2011 to 2016, and from 2004 to 2006. The death of Chandy, who had been undergoing treatment for cancer since 2019, was announced by his son, Congress leader Chandy Oommen, in a Facebook post at 4.30 am on July 18, 2023.The Kerala Government has declared a two-day mourning and public holiday in the state. In Bengaluru, where the Congress leadership was present for Opposition Leaders Meet, Congress Parliamentary Party Chairperson Smt. Sonia Gandhi, Congress President Shri Mallikarjun Kharge, and former President Shri Rahul Gandhi and several leaders paid last respects to former Kerala Chief Minister Shri Oommen Chandy. The mortal remains of the former Chief Minister Shri Oommen Chandy will be flown to Thiruvananthapuram, where his body will be kept at the Indira Bhavan and later at the Darbar hall of the Secretariat for people to pay their homage. His funeral was held on July 20, 2023, at Puthuppally in Kottayam. The Kerala government declared two-day state mourning and a public holiday on account of former CM Chandy’s demise. Chandy’s demise has led to a downpour of wishes from leaders across the political spectrum. In a condolence letter by former Prime Minister Dr. Mamohan Singh to Smt. Mariamma Oommen, he said, “He was a leader of high esteem who was respected by everybody irrespective of party lines. He was a mass leader and distinguished administrator who devoted his whole life for the service of the people. He will always be remembered for his contribution to the Indian National Congress and the State of Kerala”. In a tweet message by the Congress President Shri Mallikarjun Kharge, he said, “My humble tribute to the stalwart Oommen Chandy, Former Kerala Chief Minister and a staunch Congress man who stood tall as a leader of the masses. His unwavering commitment and visionary leadership left an indelible mark on Kerala’s progress and the nation’s political landscape. He will be remembered for his dedication and service to the people. Heartfelt condolences to the family and supporters.” In a tweet message by the former Congress President Shri Rahul Gandhi, he said “Oommen Chandy ji was an exemplary grassroots Congress leader. He will be remembered for his lifelong service to the people of Kerala. We will miss him dearly. Much love and condolences to all his loved ones.” In a tweet message, AICC General Secretary Smt. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said “Deepest condolences to the family of Shri. Oommen Chandy. He was a pillar of the Congress Party, a leader who dedicated his life to service and was deeply committed to the values we are fighting for today. We will all remember him with great respect and miss his wise counsel.” Kerala Congress President K. Sudhakaran condoled the death of Chandy. “The tale of the king who triumphed over the world with the power of ‘love’ finds its poignant end. Today, I am deeply saddened by the loss of a legend, @Oommen_Chandy. He touched the lives of countless individuals, and his legacy will forever resonate within our souls,” Sudhakaran said in a tweet. One of the popular political leaders in Kerala and a crowd puller, Chandy served as the state’s Chief Minister from 2011 to 2016, and from 2004 to 2006. He had also served as the Opposition leader in the Kerala Assembly from 2006 to 2011. Chandy, known as a mass leader who loved to live among the people, was the longest-serving legislator in the Kerala Assembly. He had represented the Puthuppally Assembly constituency from 1970 successively until his death, a rare feat in state politics. In the Assembly election held in 1970, Chandy was elected from Puthuppally at the age of 27. When Chandy won the Assembly elections of 2021, it was his 12th consecutive win from the same seat. Chandy had also served four Congress cabinets, under the veteran leaders K. Karunakaran and A K Antony, handling the portfolios of labour, finance, and home. Chandy, the mainstay of Congress politics in Central Kerala, was born on October 31, 1943, in Puthuppally, which later emerged as his political fiefdom. He was initiated into politics through the Kerala Students Union, the students’ wing of Congress. A graduate in law, Chandy went on to become a prominent leader of Youth Congress in Kerala and rose as its State President in 1969. During his second stint as the Kerala Chief Minister, Chandy had launched a mass contact programme to meet people and hear their grievances and ensure relief to them. His programme was widely lauded as a unique democratic experiment in which the Chief Minister of a state met thousands of people directly without any intermediaries. The programme received the United Nations Global Award for Public Service in 2013. He is survived by his wife Mariamma and children Maria Oommen, Chandy Oommen, and Achu Oommen.


--- [Former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy passes away] ---
Stay updated with the latest - Click here to follow us on Instagram Former Kerala chief minister and Congress Working Committee member Oommen Chandy died in a hospital in Bengaluru on Tuesday morning. He was 79. The death of Chandy, who had been undergoing treatment for cancer since 2019, was announced by his son, Congress leader Chandy Oommen, in a Facebook post at 4.30 am. The Kerala Government has declared a two-day mourning and public holiday in the state Tuesday. Congress Parliamentary Party Chairperson Sonia Gandhi, Congress president Mallikarjun Kharge, and party leader Rahul Gandhi paid last respects to former Kerala CM Oommen Chandy, in Bengaluru. (Pics: Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee) https://t.co/sBEdeAOeZm pic.twitter.com/Say0VC2wmT — ANI (@ANI) July 18, 2023 The mortal remains of Chandy will be flown to Thiruvananthapuram, where his body will be kept at the Congress State Committee office and later at the Darbar hall of the Secretariat for people to pay their homage. His funeral will be held on Thursday at Puthuppally in Kottayam. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Chandy was a capable administrator and one closely involved in people’s lives, reported ANI. “We were elected to the Legislative Assembly in the same year. It was at the same stage that we came to the political fore through student life. we led public life at the same time and its extremely difficult to bid him farewell,” the Kerala Chief Minister was quoted as saying by ANI. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too condoled the passing away of Chandy, and said “we have lost a humble and dedicated leader who devoted his life to public service and worked towards the progress of Kerala”. In the passing away of Shri Oommen Chandy Ji, we have lost a humble and dedicated leader who devoted his life to public service and worked towards the progress of Kerala. I recall my various interactions with him, particularly when we both served as Chief Ministers of our… pic.twitter.com/S6rd22T24j — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 18, 2023 Kerala Congress President K Sudhakaran condoled the death of Chandy. “The tale of the king who triumphed over the world with the power of ‘love’ finds its poignant end. Today, I am deeply saddened by the loss of a legend, @Oommen_Chandy. He touched the lives of countless individuals, and his legacy will forever resonate within our souls,” Sudhakaran said in a tweet. The tale of the king who triumphed over the world with the power of ‘love’ finds its poignant end. Today, I am deeply saddened by the loss of a legend, @Oommen_Chandy. He touched the lives of countless individuals, and his legacy will forever resonate within our souls. RIP! pic.twitter.com/72hdK6EN4u — K Sudhakaran (@SudhakaranINC) July 18, 2023 One of the popular political leaders in Kerala and a crowd puller, Chandy served as the state’s chief minister from 2011 to 2016, and from 2004 to 2006. He had also served as the Opposition leader in the Kerala Assembly from 2006 to 2011. Chandy, known as a mass leader who loved to live among the people, was the longest-serving legislator in the Kerala Assembly. He had represented the Puthuppally Assembly constituency from 1970 successively until his death, a rare feat in state politics. In the Assembly election held in 1970, Chandy was elected from Puthuppally at the age of 27. When Chandy won the Assembly elections of 2021, it was his 12th consecutive win from the same seat. Chandy had also served four Congress cabinets, under the veteran leaders K Karunakaran and A K Antony, handling the portfolios of labour, finance, and home. Oommen Chandy (1943-2023). @Oommen_Chandy@Chandyoommen A most cartoon-friendly and friendly leader. RIP. pic.twitter.com/9rarh1p0fG— E P Unny (@unnycartoonist) July 18, 2023 Chandy, the mainstay of Congress politics in Central Kerala, was born on October 31, 1943, in Puthuppally, which later emerged as his political fiefdom. He was initiated into politics through the Kerala Students Union, the students’ wing of Congress. A graduate in law, Chandy went on to become a prominent leader of Youth Congress in Kerala and rose as its state president in 1969. During his second stint as the Kerala chief minister, Chandy had launched a mass contact programme to meet people and hear their grievances and ensure relief to them. His programme was widely lauded as a unique democratic experiment in which the chief minister of a state met thousands of people directly without any intermediaries. The programme received the United Nations Global Award for Public Service in 2013. Oommen Chandy is survived by his wife Mariamma and children Maria Oommen, Chandy Oommen, and Achu Oommen. Stay updated with the latest - Click here to follow us on Instagram


--- [Former Kerala CM Oommen Chandy passes away at 79 - The Hindu] ---
Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has passed away. He was 79. The senior Congress leader, who was being treated for cancer, breathed his last at a Bengaluru hospital early July 18 morning. His son Chandy Oommen announced the news through a Facebook post. A long-time legislator representing the Puthupally constituency in Kottayam district and an immensely popular public figure, Chandy was the Chief Minister of Kerala twice. He led the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) ministries in Kerala from August 31, 2004, to May 12, 2006, and from May 18, 2011, to May 20, 2016. During a long political career, Chandy served as Labour’s Minister in 1977 in the K. Karunakaran Ministry and held the same portfolio in the Ministry led by A.K. Antony in the succeeding cabinet. He was the Home Minister in the K. Karunakaran cabinet from December 1981 to March 1982. He also held the Finance portfolio in the UDF ministry of 1991. Born to Karottu Vallakalil K.V. Chandy and Baby Chandy on October 30, 1943, Chandy became active in politics through the Kerala Students Union (KSU) and the Youth Congress. He became State general secretary of the KSU in 1965 and its State in 1967. He did his schooling at the St. George High School, Kottayam. Chandy is also an alumnus of the CMS College, Kottayam, SB College Changanassery, and the Government Law College, Thiruvananthapuram. He became president of the Youth Congress in 1970, and was also active in the INTUC, the Congress-backed trade union. He was elected to the Kerala Legislative Assembly for the first time in 1970. He was also the convener of the UDF during 1982-86 and 2001-2004. Chandy took over as Chief Minister in 2004 following the resignation of A.K. Antony. He became CM a second time in 2011. He was also Opposition Leader during 2006-2011. He represented the Puthupally constituency for over five decades. An astute politician, Chandy had featured prominently in the inner-party ‘group’ manoeuvring within the state unit of the Congress. He was also immensely popular with the masses. He had devised the ‘Mass Contact’ programme to address the problems faced by the public during his term as Chief Minister. Also Read | Ex-Kerala CM Oommen Chandy’s Death: Leaders pay tribute to the Congress veteran He was also the general secretary of the AICC at present. Chandy leaves behind his wife Mariamma Oommen, and children Achu Oommen, Maria Oommen and Chandy Oomen. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan condoled the death. Published - July 18, 2023 06:09 am IST


--- [Former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy dies at 79] ---
Former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy dies at 79 Mail This Article Bengaluru: Former Chief Minister of Kerala and veteran Congress leader Oommen Chandy passed away at 4.25 am on Tuesday. He was 79. The Congress leader, who was unwell since 2019, was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Bengaluru. He was taken to Germany in November last year after his cancer aggravated. The death was announced by the leader's son Chandy Oommen on Facebook: "Appa has passed away," he wrote on the social media platform. His funeral will be held at St. George Orthodox Church in Puthuppally on Thursday. Oommen Chandy was born on October 31, 1943 in Kottayam's Kumarakom to K O Chandy and Baby Chandy. Chandy did his schooling at St George High School Puthupally and pre-university course at CMS College, Kottayam. He went on to pursue BA Economics at St Berchmans College, Changanassery and further on a bachelor's degree in law from Government Law College, Ernakulam. His political stint began with the Kerala Students Union (KSU) in which he served as president from 1967 to 1969. He was elected as the president of the State Youth Congress in 1970. Chandy represented Puthuppally constituency in the state assembly since 1970. He was the chief minister of Kerala twice. He was the CM from 2004 to 2006 and from 2011 to 2016. He served as the Opposition leader from 2006 to 2011. He was also the longest-serving member of the Kerala assembly. Chandy was elected a consecutive 12 times from Puthupally constituency from 1970 to 2021. He had been a minister in the state cabinet four times: Minister for labour in the first Karunakaran Cabinet (1977) and the first Antony cabinet (1977-78). In the second Karunakaran cabinet (1981-82), Chandy was in charge of the home department. He served as the finance minister from 1991–94 in the fourth Karunakaran cabinet. Of the total 12 chief ministers who served the state of Kerala, Chandy held the fourth position for the longest tenure. He had been the chief minister for 2,459 days. Former chief ministers E K Nayanar (4,009), K Karunakaran (3,246) and C Achutha Menon (2,640) top the list. Since the formation of Kerala state, there have been 970 legislators in the assembly of whom only K M Mani and Oommen Chandy had completed 50 years as MLAs. Chandy is survived by his wife Mariamma Oommen, and children Maria Oommen, Achu Oommen and Chandy Oommen.
