=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Timofeyev Visit to Jonestown - 1978 - Flickr]
A diplomat from theSovietEmbassy,FeodorTimofeyevvisited Jonestown October 1 oe 2, 1978. Most of the photos here show a dinner at whichTimofeyevspeaks and Jim Jones speaks with him. An unknown individual accompaniedTimofeyev. Photos taken by unknown Jonestown resident, and recovered by the FBI after November 18. Released under the Freedom of Information Act and in the public domain ...
URL: https://www.flickr.com/photos/peoplestemple/albums/72177720328992369

[Q352 Summary - Jonestown & Peoples Temple]
This tape includes Jonestown's formal welcome ofFeodorTimofeyev,theconsulofSovietUnionembassy in Guyana and — as the book Raven points out — a man that Jim Jones wanted to cultivate in order to smooth the way for the community's proposed move to theSovietUnion.
URL: https://jonestown.sdsu.edu/?page_id=28134

[Jonestown - New World Encyclopedia]
On October 2, 1978,FeodorTimofeyevfromtheSovietUnionembassy in Guyana visited Jonestown for twodaysandgave a speech. Jones stated before the speech that "Formanyyears, we have let our sympathies be quite publicly known, that the United States government was not our mother, but that theSovietUnionwas our spiritual motherland."
URL: https://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Jonestown

[On the Road's Journal - Democratic Underground Forums]
On October 2, 1978,SovietdignitaryFeodorTimofeyevvisited Jonestown for twodaysandgave a speech. [82] Jones stated before the speech that, "Formanyyears, we have let our sympathies be quite publicly known, that the United States government was not our mother, but that theSovietUnionwas our spiritual motherland." [82]
URL: https://www.democraticunderground.com/?com=journals&uid=104805&year=2014&month=8

[Timofeyev Discusses His Visit to Jonestown, Jones' Visit to Moscow ...]
A Digital ArchiveTimofeyevDiscusses HisVisitto Jonestown, Jones'Visitto Moscow, October 13 [Editor's notes: The transcript of this document retains its original spellings, with corrections noted only where necessary for clarity. [Likely in an effort to save paper, Temple members often used the reverse side of old documents.
URL: https://jonestown.sdsu.edu/?page_id=112495


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Timofeyev Visit to Jonestown - 1978 - Flickr] ---
1978 Timofeyev Visit to Jonestown A diplomat from the Soviet Embassy, Feodor Timofeyev visited Jonestown October 1 oe 2, 1978. Most of the photos here show a dinner at which Timofeyev speaks and Jim Jones speaks with him. An unknown individual accompanied Timofeyev. Some photos were enhanced by Lori Wortham, 2025. Originals appear at the end of the album. Photos taken by unknown Jonestown resident, and recovered by the FBI after November 18. Released under the Freedom of Information Act and in the public domain, free to use. Please credit the Jonestown Institute. 26 photos · 189 views


--- [Q352 Summary - Jonestown & Peoples Temple] ---
Summary prepared by Fielding M. McGehee III. If you use this material, please credit The Jonestown Institute. Thank you. To read the Tape Transcript, click here. Listen to MP3 (Pt. 1, Pt. 2). To return to the Tape Index, click here. FBI Catalogue: Jones speaking FBI preliminary tape identification note: Labeled in part “10/1/78 Russian Guest” Date cues on tape: October 2, 1978 (according to Raven, by Tim Reiterman and John Jacobs, p. 446) People named: Vladimir Ilich Lenin, father of the Russian Revolution Karl Marx, German socialist, author of Das Kapital Friedrich Engels, German socialist Alexander Pushkin, Russian author Feodor Timofeyev, Consul of Soviet Union embassy in Guyana (speaks) Dr. Nikolai (first name unknown), Soviet doctor Jonestown residents: Deanna Wilkinson (sings) Bible verses cited: None Summary: (Note: This tape was one of the 53 tapes initially withheld from public disclosure.) This tape includes Jonestown’s formal welcome of Feodor Timofeyev, the consul of Soviet Union embassy in Guyana and — as the book Raven points out — a man that Jim Jones wanted to cultivate in order to smooth the way for the community’s proposed move to the Soviet Union. The consular’s October 1978 visit had been months in the making, and Jones wanted to be sure that everyone in Jonestown could greet the Soviet visitor in the Russian language and knew enough Russian history to recognize important dates. The tape opens with Deanna Wilkinson performing a song of protest — and some sorrow — of the U.S. government’s betrayal of its citizens. Jones then introduces Timofeyev by declaring Jonestown’s allegiance to the Soviet Union as their alternative to their own homeland. His first words of the evening are, “For many years, we have let our sympathies be quite publicly known, that the United States government was not our mother, but that the Soviet Union was our spiritual motherland.” The community gives Timofeyev an enthusiastic welcome, and the Soviet consular is just as effusive in his praise for Jonestown, which he describes as “the first American socialist and … communist community.” He expresses his appreciation for the universal knowledge of some Soviet history by every resident he has met (thereby demonstrating the success of Jones’ recent exhortations). Later, he speaks approvingly of the exchange of views on health issues between the Russian doctor who accompanied the consular and the Jonestown clinic. Timofeyev outlines the history of Soviet Russia, and praises the socialist states of Eastern Europe. To tremendous applause, he adds that the USSR will support national liberation movements in Angola, Mozambique, and South Africa, and across the African continent. Timofeyev discusses the Soviet Union society of the present day, emphasizing its treatment of ethnic minorities. He notes that the country has 130 nationalities and cultures, and describes the challenge that diversity represents to all the people, a challenge, he adds, that they have met. He points out that Russia never imported slaves from the outside world, so didn’t have any African blacks throughout much of its history. Now there is a black population, but it is fully integrated into the culture. “So, there is no national discrimination, there is no racial discrimination in the Soviet Union.” The groups of people in the USSR include a Jewish population, and Timofeyev takes pains to deny discrimination against Soviet Jewry. “In the opposite,” he declares in his modest English, look at the Jewish influence and presence in their sciences, in their academia, and in their professions. The United States is the first to attack the Soviet Union on this issue, Timofeyev says, but it should clean up its own house first before it goes around criticizing others. (Jones later affirms Timofeyev’s claims and his rebuke to the U.S.) The USSR is not perfect, Timofeyev acknowledges, but they have systems of self-criticism as they struggle to improve their society. Timofeyev closes with congratulations to the Jonestown community for its past successes, and best wishes for the future. Jones returns to the microphone to say he has received new words of assurance from their visitors. Although he is not at liberty to quote the exact words, he says Timofeyev “gave me more peace than ever before. I know after I heard his words, I didn’t need to worry about my family, Jonestown, any more.” The inference is that the community would have a home in the Soviet Union if things fell apart in Guyana, an inference which a woman reminds Jones of during the Jonestown’s final day, six weeks after this tape was made. Jones leads a repetitious song of commitment to communism and — by extension — to the Soviet Union. As the tape draws to a close, he asks his followers to give Timofeyev a hearty salute from “Jonestown, Soviet Union,” an address he then repeats. FBI Summary: Date of transcription: 6/20/79 In connection with the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s investigation into the assassination of U.S. Congressman LEO J. RYAN at Port Kaituma, Guyana, South America, on November 18, 1978, a tape recording was obtained. This tape recording was located in Jonestown, Guyana, South America, and was turned over to U.S. Officials in Guyana and subsequently transported to the United States. On June 2, 1979, Special Agent (name deleted) reviewed the tape numbered 1B93-86. This tape was found to contain the following: Music. JAMES JONES introduces guest of honor, the Counselor [Consular] and Chief of Press of the Soviet Embassy in Guyana. JONES states that the US is not our mother, but that the Soviet Union is our spiritual mother. The Soviet counselor makes a short speech in English, and praises JONES and Jonestown for their socialist and communist effort. JONES leads group in singing of Russian and pro-communist songs. JONES concludes by saying Jonestown is totally committed to the Soviet Union, and refers to Jonestown, USSR. Differences with FBI Summary: The summary is accurate and meets the FBI’s purposes. Tape originally posted September 2003


--- [Jonestown - New World Encyclopedia] ---
Jonestown Jonestown was a Marxist settlement in northwestern Guyana founded by Jim Jones of the Peoples Temple, mostly comprised of emigres from the Unites States. It gained lasting international notoriety in 1978, when nearly its whole population died in a mass suicide orchestrated by its founder. Named after Jones, the settlement was founded in 1974, on his initiative about seven miles (11 km) southwest of the small town of Port Kaituma. It had a population of almost a thousand at its height, with most residents having lived there less than one year. There, Jones established what he described as a "socialist paradise," but reports soon reached the United States of harsh conditions, abuse, armed guards, and people being forced to remain in Jonestown against their will. In November 1978, United States Congressman Leo Ryan and a group of reporters and relatives of Jones' followers visited Jonestown to investigate the alleged abuses. On November 18, while attempting to fly out, Ryan and four others were killed at an airstrip by members of the Peoples Temple. That evening, Jones led his followers in their mass murder-and-suicide. Over 900 men, women, and children perished, Jones among them. After a period of abandonment, the Guyanese government allowed Hmong refugees from Laos to re-occupy the settlement for a brief period in the early 1980s, but after that it was deserted. It was mostly destroyed by a fire in the mid-1980s, and afterward left to decay and be reclaimed by the jungle. Origins The Peoples Temple was formed in Indianapolis, Indiana, during the mid-1950s and later became affiliated with the Disciples of Christ under Jones' leadership. Beginning in 1965, Jones and about 80 followers moved to Redwood Valley in Mendocino County, California, where he taught a blend of Christianity, hippie philosophy, and Marxist liberation theology. In 1972, Jones moved his congregation to San Francisco and opened another church in Los Angeles, California. In San Francisco, Jones vocally supported prominent liberal-left political candidates. He was appointed to city commissions and was a frequent guest at political events. He also supported charity efforts and recruited new members from the ranks of the poor into his interracial and intercultural congregation. Soon, scandals regarding tax evasion, drug use, and abuse of his members convinced Jones that the capitalist "establishment" was inevitably turning against him, and he began planning a relocation of the Temple outside the U.S. In 1974, he leased over 3,800 acres (15.4 km²) of jungle land from the Guyanese government.[1] Jones encouraged all of his followers to move to Jonestown, also called the "Peoples Temple Agricultural Project," in 1977. Jonestown's population increased from 50 members in 1977 to more than 900 at its peak in 1978. Jonestown, 1977-78 Many of the Peoples Temple members believed that Guyana would be, as Jones promised, a "socialist paradise." However, the life they found there was anything but ideal. Work was performed six days a week, from seven in the morning to six in the evening, with humid temperatures that often reached over 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius). According to some, meals for the members often consisted of nothing more than rice and beans. As with other communist agricultural projects, children were raised communally and both children and adults also taught to address Jones as "Father" or "Dad." Up to $65,000 in monthly U.S. welfare payments to Jonestown residents was allegedly appropriated by Jones.[2] Local Guyanese related stories about harsh beatings and a well into which Jones had misbehaving children thrown in the middle of the night. Jones kept in communication with left-wing leaders and governments, and during a 1977 custody battle with the parents of an underage Jonestown resident, University of California radicals Angela Davis and Huey Newton communicated via radio-telephone to the Jonestown crowd, urging them to hold strong against the "conspiracy." Jones made radio broadcasts stating "we will die unless we are granted freedom from harassment and asylum." Guyana Deputy Minister Ptolemy Reid finally assured Jones' wife Marceline that Guyanese Defense Forces would not invade Jonestown. Medical problems such as severe diarrhea and high fevers struck half the community in February 1978. According to the New York Times, copious amounts of drugs such as Thorazine, sodium pentathol, chloral hydrate, Demerol, and Valium were administered to Jonestown residents, with detailed records being kept of each person’s drug regimen.[3] Various forms of punishment were used against members considered to be serious disciplinary problems, and some members who attempted to run away were allegedly drugged to the point of incapacitation. Increasingly alienated from the U.S. and looking to nations like Cambodia, North Korea, and the Soviet Union as models, Jones reportedly had armed guards patrolling the compound day and night both to protect the compound from the CIA and to prevent unauthorized travel by Jonestown's own residents. Jones' recorded readings of the news were part of the constant broadcasts over Jonestown's tower speakers. Jones' news readings usually portrayed the United States as a "capitalist" and "imperialist" villain, while casting "socialist" leaders, such as former North Korean dictator Kim Il-sung and Joseph Stalin in a positive light. On October 2, 1978, Feodor Timofeyev from the Soviet Union embassy in Guyana visited Jonestown for two days and gave a speech. Jones stated before the speech that "For many years, we have let our sympathies be quite publicly known, that the United States government was not our mother, but that the Soviet Union was our spiritual motherland." Convinced that the U.S. and the capitalist world might attempt to destroy his socialist experiment, Jones preached an increasingly apocalyptic vision and began rehearsing for a mass suicide in case of a CIA attack. According to former Jonestown member Deborah Layton: Everyone, including the children, was told to line up. As we passed through the line, we were given a small glass of red liquid to drink. We were told that the liquid contained poison and that we would die within 45 minutes. We all did as we were told. When the time came when we should have dropped dead, Rev. Jones explained that the poison was not real and that we had just been through a loyalty test. He warned us that the time was not far off when it would become necessary for us to die by our own hands.[4] Reports of these and other abuses began reaching the U.S. through relatives and Peoples Temple members who succeeded in leaving Jonestown. Charges included human rights violations, false imprisonment, the confiscation of money and passports, mass suicide rehearsals, and the murder of seven attempted defectors. Relatives became increasingly concerned that members were being held against their will or had been brainwashed or drugged into submission by an increasingly unstable Jones. The Ryan investigation On Tuesday November 14, 1978, Congressman Leo Ryan, a Democrat from San Francisco, flew to Guyana along with a team of 18 people consisting of government officials, media representatives, and members of the anti-Jones group "Concerned Relatives of Peoples Temple Members." The group also included Richard Dwyer, Deputy Chief of Mission of the U.S. Embassy to Guyana at Georgetown, believed by some to have been a CIA officer.[5] After the delegation's arrival in Guyana, Jones' lawyers in Georgetown, Mark Lane and Charles Garry, refused to allow Ryan's party access to Jonestown. Ryan had previously visited the Temple office in the suburb of Lamaha Gardens, but his request to speak to Jones by radio was denied. On Friday, November 17, Ryan informed Lane and Garry that he would leave for Jonestown at 2:30 p.m., regardless of Jones' schedule or willingness. Accompanied by Lane and Garry, Ryan flew to Port Kaituma airstrip, six miles (10 km) from Jonestown. Only Ryan and three others were initially accepted into Jonestown, but the rest of Ryan's group was allowed in after sunset. At first the visit was cordial. Jones organized a reception and concert for the Ryan delegation, and its members were given guided tours around the community. Some of the residents were reportedly angry with the visitors, seeing Ryan as a hostile investigator in cahoots with the CIA and resenting the presence of reporters and relatives who were perceived as hostile to the community. Jones reportedly commented that he felt like a dying man and ranted about government conspiracies and martyrdom. At some point in the evening, two Peoples Temple members, Vernon Gosney and Monica Bagby, passed a note to addressed to Ryan, reading "Please help us get out of Jonestown." That night the primary Ryan delegation (Ryan, his legal adviser Jackie Speier, U.S. embassy official Dwyer, and Guyanese official Neville Annibourne) stayed in Jonestown. Members of the press corps and the "Concerned Relatives" went to Port Kaituma and stayed at a small café. Meanwhile, back in Jonestown, feelings of an adversarial confrontation were rising, and in the early morning of November 18, more than a dozen Temple members walked out of the colony in the opposite direction from Port Kaituma. When the reporters and the Concerned Relatives group arrived back at Jonestown, Jones' wife Marceline gave a tour of the settlement for the reporters. However, a dispute arose when the reporters insisted on entering the home of an elderly black woman, and other residents accused the press of being racist for trying to invade her privacy. Jim Jones, who was reportedly severely addicted to drugs, woke late on the morning of November 18, and the NBC crew confronted him with Vernon Gosney's note. Jones angrily declared that those who wanted to leave the community would lie and would attempt to "destroy Jonestown." Then two more families stepped forward and asked to be escorted out of Jonestown by the Ryan delegation. Jones reportedly remained calm and gave them permission to leave, along with some money and their passports, telling them they would be welcome to come back at any time. That afternoon Jones was informed that two other families had defected on foot. While negotiations proceeded, emotional scenes developed, as some family members wished to leave and others, determined to stay, accused them of betrayal. Al Simon, an Amerindian member of the Peoples Temple, walked toward Ryan with two of his small children in his arms and asked to go back with them to the U.S., but his wife Bonnie denounced her husband over Jonestown's loudspeaker system. Meanwhile, enough people had expressed a desire to leave on Ryan's chartered plane that there would not be room for them in one trip. Ryan attempted to placate Jones by informing Jones' attorney that he would issue a basically positive report, noting that none of the people targeted by the Concerned Parents group wanted to leave Jonestown. Jones, however, reportedly had grown despondent, declaring that "all is lost." Violence breaks out Ryan planned on sending a group back to the capital of Georgetown and staying behind with the rest until another flight could be scheduled. Then Temple member Don Sly attacked Ryan with a knife, allegedly on Jones' orders. Although the congressman was not seriously hurt in the attack, he and Dwyer realized that both the visiting party and the defectors were in danger. Shortly before departure, Jones loyalist Larry Layton asked to join the group that was leaving, but other defectors voiced their suspicions about his motives, which Ryan and Speier disregarded. Ryan's party and 16 ex-Temple members left Jonestown and reached the nearby Port Kaituma airstrip at 4:30 p.m., where they planned to use two planes (a six-passenger Cessna and a slightly larger Twin Otter) to fly to Georgetown. Before the Cessna took off, Layton produced a gun he had hidden under his poncho and started shooting at the passengers. He wounded Monica Bagby and Vernon Gosney, and was finally disarmed after wounding Dale Parks. About this time, a tractor appeared at the airstrip, driven by members of Jones' armed guards. Jones loyalists opened fire while circling the plane on foot. Ryan was shot dead along with four journalists. A few seconds of the shooting were captured on camera by NBC cameraman Bob Brown, whose camera kept rolling even as he was shot dead. Ryan, three news team members, and 44 year old Jonestown defector Patricia Parks were killed in the few minutes of shooting. Jackie Speier was injured by five bullets. Steve Sung and Anthony Katsaris also were badly wounded. The Cessna was able to take off and fly to Georgetown, leaving behind the damaged Otter, whose pilot and co-pilot also flew out in the Cessna. The Jonestown gunmen, meanwhile, returned to the settlement. Journalist Tim Reiterman, who had stayed at the airstrip, photographed the aftermath of the violence. Dwyer assumed leadership at the scene, and at his recommendation, Layton was arrested by Guyanese state police. The ten wounded and others in their party gathered themselves together and spent the night in a café, with the more seriously wounded cared for in a small tent on the airfield. A Guyanese government plane came to evacuate the wounded the following morning. Six teenage defectors attempted to hide in the adjacent jungle until help arrived and their safety was assured, but became lost for three days and nearly died, until they were found by Guyanese soldiers. Mass murder-suicide A great deal remains either unknown or controversial concerning what happened in Jonestown on the evening of November 18, 1978. What is known for certain is that 909 people died in Jonestown that night, including 287 children. Most of the dead apparently died from ingesting grape-flavored Flavor Aid, poisoned with Valium, chloral hydrate, Penegram, and presumably (probably) cyanide. About 45 minutes after the Port Kaituma shootings, the airstrip shooters, numbering about nine, arrived back in Jonestown. Their identities are not all certainly known, but most sources agree that Joe Wilson (Jones’ head of security), Thomas Kice Sr., and Albert Touchette were among them. In the early evening, Jones called a meeting under the Jonestown pavilion. A tape recording found at the scene recorded about 43 minutes of Jonestown's end. When the community gathered, Jones told the assembly: "They'll torture our children, they'll torture some of our people here, they'll torture our seniors. We cannot have this." He then put into effect the mass suicide plan the group had previous rehearsed, saying: "All it is, is taking a drink to take… to go to sleep. That's what death is, sleep."[6] Several community members also made statements that hostile forces would convert captured children to fascism and supported the decision to commit "revolutionary suicide." Jones argued with one Temple member who actively resisted the decision for the whole congregation to die: Christine Miller is heard objecting to mass death and calling for an airlift to Russia. After several exchanges, in which Ryan explained that "the Congressman is dead," she backed down, apparently after being shouted down by the crowd. The children were poisoned first, sometimes accompanied by their parents. The poisoned drink was squirted into children's mouths with plastic syringes. Survivor Stanley Clayton, who was assisting already-poisoned children, reports that some children resisted and were physically forced to swallow by guards and nurses. According to Clayton, the poison caused death within about five minutes. After consuming the drink, people were escorted away and told to lie down along walkways and areas out of view of the people who were still being dosed. In response to reactions of seeing the poison take effect, Jones commanded: "Stop this hysterics. This is not the way for people who are socialists or Communists to die. No way for us to die. We must die with some dignity." Four people who were intended to be poisoned managed to survive. They were: - 79-year-old Grover Davis, who was hearing impaired, missed the announcement on the loudspeaker to assemble, laid down in a ditch and pretended to be dead - 76-year-old Hyacinth Thrash, who hid under her bed when nurses were going through her dormitory with cups of poison - 36-year-old Odell Rhodes, a Jonestown teacher and craftsman who volunteered to fetch a stethoscope and hid under a building - 25-year-old Stanley Clayton, a kitchen worker and cousin of Huey Newton, tricked security guards and ran into the jungle[7] Three more survivors were brothers Tim and Mike Carter (30 and 20), and and Mike Prokes (31) who were given luggage containing $500,000 U.S. currency and documents, which they were told to deliver to Guyana’s Soviet Embassy, in Georgetown. They soon ditched most of the money and were apprehended heading for the Temple boat at Kaituma. One document read: "The following is a letter of instructions regarding all of our assets (balances totaling in excess of $7.3 million) that we want to leave to the Communist Party of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics."[8] Before the killing began, Jones' two lawyers, Charles Garry and Mark Lane, talked their way past Jonestown's armed guards and made it to the jungle, eventually arriving in Port Kaituma. While in the jungle near the settlement, they heard cheering, then gunshots. This observation concurs with the testimony of Clayton, who heard the same sounds as he was sneaking back into Jonestown to retrieve his passport. According to Guyanese police, Jones and his immediate staff, after having successfully carried out the "revolutionary suicide," came together and killed themselves and each other with handguns, after giving a final cheer. However, only two people were reported to have gunshot wounds: Jim Jones and Annie Moore—one wound each. Aftermath The first headlines reporting the event claimed that 407 Temple members had been killed and that the remainder had fled into the jungle. This death count was revised several times over the next week until the final total of 909 was reached. The sheer scale of the killings, as well as Jones' socialist leanings, led some to suggest CIA involvement. In 1980, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence investigated the Jonestown mass suicide and announced that there was no evidence of CIA involvement at Jonestown. Most government documents relating to Jonestown, however, remain classified.[9] Guyanese Chief Medical Examiner Dr. Leslie Mootoo and his assistants examined 137 bodies soon after the tragedy. He concluded that all but two or three of these bodies were victims of murder.[10] However, no determination was made as to whether those injections initiated the introduction of poison or whether they were so-called "relief" injections to quicken death and reduce suffering from convulsions from those who had previously taken poison orally. Mootoo and American pathologist Dr. Lynn Crook determined that cyanide was present in some of the bodies, while analysis of the contents of the vat revealed tranquilizers and two poisons: potassium cyanide and potassium chloride. He also reported that many needles and syringes were found on tables and on the ground around the area, many with bent or broken needles, suggesting struggles among unwilling adults. Plastic cups, Flavor-Aid packets and syringes, some with needles and some without, littered the area where the bodies were found. However, only seven bodies of 913 were autopsied, including Jim Jones, Annie Moore, and Dr. Lawrence Schact. Annie Moore left a note which in part stated: "We died because you would not let us live in peace." Marceline Jones left a note indicating that she wished to "leave all bank accounts in my name to the Communist Party of the USSR. I especially request that none of these are allowed to get into the hands of my adopted daughter, Suzanne Jones Cartmell." A number of inconsistencies in the testimony and evidence of the Jonestown tragedy have raised various suspicions and conspiracy theories: - At 4:44 a.m. local time (just about 8 hours after the deaths) the CIA's National Operations and Intelligence Watch Officers Network broadcast news of "mass suicides" at Jonestown, according to an official report from January 1979.[11] But Guyanese soldiers were the first to arrive on scene, and they did not arrive until more than 12 hours after that transmission. - A cloud of secrecy descended on the further investigation of the events. President Bill Clinton signed a bill into law in the 1990s, mandating the expiration of secrecy in documents after 25 years. The majority of Jonestown documents remain classified, despite Freedom of Information requests from numerous people over the past three decades.[12] Larry Layton was found not guilty of murder by a Guyanese court, employing the defense that he was "brainwashed." He was later extradited to the U.S. and put in prison on lesser charges. He is the only person ever to have been held responsible for the events at Jonestown. He was paroled 24 years later, in 2002. Legacy The area formerly known as Jonestown was at first tended by the Guyanese government, which allowed its re-occupation by Hmong refugees from Laos, for a few years in the early 1980s, but it has since been altogether deserted.[13] It was mostly destroyed by a fire in the mid-1980s, after which the ruins were left to decay. The buildings and grounds were not taken over by local Guyanese people because of the social stigma associated with the murders and suicides. The Jonestown tragedy created a wave of fear about "cults." As a result, several new religious movements with no history of violence reported increased persecution, anti-cult movements received thousands of inquiries from concerned relatives, and a new wave of illegal "deprogramming" attempts were directed at NRM members in an effort to "save" them from the dangers of alleged brainwashing and possible mass suicide. Notes - ↑ PBS, Timeline: The Life and Death of Jim Jones. Retrieved October 16, 2008. - ↑ New York Times: Nov 29, 1978. - ↑ New York Times, Dec 29, 1978. - ↑ Deborah Layton, Poison: Affidavit of Deborah Layton Blakey, 1978. Retrieved October 16, 2008. - ↑ Laurie Kahalas, Was there a C.I.A. Conspiracy to Destroy Jonestown? Retrieved October 16, 2008. - ↑ Ibid. - ↑ Reiterman, 561-580. - ↑ Ibid., 580. - ↑ Michael Taylor and Don Lattin, Most Peoples Temple Documents Still Sealed. Retrieved October 16, 2008. - ↑ Miami Herald, "Coroner Says 700 Who Died in Cult were Slain," Miami Herald, December 17, 1978. - ↑ "Guyana Operations," After-Action Report, November 18-27, 1978, prepared by the Special Study Group, Operations Directorate, USMC Directorate, Joint Chiefs of Staff (distributed January 31, 1979). Appendix B, "Chronology of Events." - ↑ CENSUR, Request to Declassify Jonestown Documents. Retrieved October 16, 2008. - ↑ SDSU, What happened to Jonestown. Retrieved October 16, 2008. ReferencesISBN links support NWE through referral fees - Kerns, Phil, and Doug Wead. People's Temple, People's Tomb. Plainfield, NJ: Logos International, 1979. ISBN 0882703633. - Kilduff, Marshall, and Ron Javers. The Suicide Cult: The Inside Story of the Peoples Temple Sect and the Massacre in Guyana. New York, NY: Bantam Books, 1978. ISBN 0553129201. - Krause, Charles A., Laurence M. Stern, Richard Harwood, and Frank Johnston. Guyana Massacre The Eyewitness Account. New York, NY: Berkley, 1978. ISBN 0425042340. - Moore, Rebecca. A Sympathetic History of Jonestown: The Moore Family Involvement in Peoples Temple. Lewiston, New York, NY: E. Mellen Press, 1985. ISBN 0889468605. - Naipaul, Shiva. Journey to Nowhere A New World Tragedy. New York, NY: Simon and Schuster, 1981. ISBN 0140061894. - Reiterman, Tim, and John Jacobs. Raven: The Untold Story of the Rev. Jim Jones and His People. New York, NY: Dutton, 1982. ISBN 0525241361. - United States. The Assassination of Representative Leo J. Ryan and the Jonestown, Guyana, Tragedy: Report of a Staff Investigative Group to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, U.S. House of Representatives. Washington, DC: U.S. Govt. Print. Off, 1979. OCLC 6331602. External links All links retrieved February 6, 2025. - Alternative considerations of Jonestown and Peoples Temple jonestown.sdsu.edu - The Jonestown Death Tape (FBI No. Q 042) (November 18, 1978) www.archive.org - 1978: Mass suicide leaves 900 dead news.bbc.co.uk Credits New World Encyclopedia writers and editors rewrote and completed the Wikipedia article in accordance with New World Encyclopedia standards. This article abides by terms of the Creative Commons CC-by-sa 3.0 License (CC-by-sa), which may be used and disseminated with proper attribution. Credit is due under the terms of this license that can reference both the New World Encyclopedia contributors and the selfless volunteer contributors of the Wikimedia Foundation. To cite this article click here for a list of acceptable citing formats.The history of earlier contributions by wikipedians is accessible to researchers here: The history of this article since it was imported to New World Encyclopedia: Note: Some restrictions may apply to use of individual images which are separately licensed.


--- [On the Road's Journal - Democratic Underground Forums] ---
Welcome to DU! The truly grassroots left-of-center political community where regular people, not algorithms, drive the discussions and set the standards. Join the community: Create a free account Support DU (and get rid of ads!): Become a Star Member Latest Breaking News Editorials & Other Articles General Discussion The DU Lounge All Forums Issue Forums Culture Forums Alliance Forums Region Forums Support Forums Help & Search


--- [Timofeyev Discusses His Visit to Jonestown, Jones' Visit to Moscow ...] ---
[Editor’s notes: The transcript of this document retains its original spellings, with corrections noted only where necessary for clarity. [Likely in an effort to save paper, Temple members often used the reverse side of old documents. That is the case here, and the three reverse sides of the pages on this memo were not transcribed.] G-1-b-7a VISIT TO RUSSIAN EMBASSY (Sharon [Amos] and Jimmy [Jones] Jr.) 13/10/78 [October 13, 1978] – we started out talking about some matters that Jimmy could be in the room (Jimmy was very nice about being willing to leave the room later; he had no attitude of being threatened at all) – we asked if they had received an answer on the bank and they said they hadn’t yet. – he said he listened to the cassette tape of the songs we made for him in Jonestown but you can’t hear the band in it, just the voices so he wants a tape of the whole program made so you can hear both the band and the singer (also he has asked for a description of the numbers that are dances so he can submit that) [Paragraph circled, and marginal note: “Band”] RE GDR [German Democratic Republic] DELEGATION: – he said he didn’t have a chance to talk to them about visiting JT – they were a very high-level delegation visiting and they have a lot of high-level business to do and they wouldnt have had time/also he feels it takes a couple of days to really see JT – but he prefers that because when we want them to visit we deal with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because this delegation was with the govt. and their time was designated by the govt. or call the GDR directly (I said we had done the latter) but just thought since Fedor [Feodor Timofeyev] had visited he could have passed onto them that it might be interesting to come to JT Re Johnny’ Jones’ wife – Johnny asked the Russian Dr. to consult with her on her situation/ Fedor said the Russian doctor has been very busy because they have had a tropical illness and their children are sick – an epidemic and he’s working night and day on that situation/ he suggested we could talk directly to the Cuban Dr. who is a specialist in elephantitis (tropical diseases) at Public Hospital. Nikolai is afraid to give the wrong advice as he’s not a specialist in this RE JJ’s hemoglobin: Nikolai said it must be a mistake. Some tests need to be checked again. That kind of difference so great in the hemoglobin doesn’t happen in one day – it’s impossible and it should be rechecked. It might be a mathematical mistake. – he had some home remedy he wanted to give JJ/ but the PM requested some and was given to him so Fedor had to locate some more. COMMERCIAL Consul: has been ill – we should get the list together right away so we can meet with the commercial consul. Just have to give Fedor a couple of days notice and he’ll arrange it [Marginal note: “F.E.B. should prepare this!”] MORSE CODE: he said they have no-one in the Embassy trained in Morse Code. At first he thought we wanted one of them to train us in Morse code but I explained we wanted it for communication and we already have people trained in it. DAVID WOLPER: Film producer – mentioned how prestigious he is. He wanted to know the name of his film company as he said that just because he is prestigious it doesn’t mean he is progressive. I told him he would be a contact of Mark Lane and thus would be progressive. Told him we knew of a film producer that Mark had talked to in LA who had been blacklisted in the McCarthyite era. MEAT IN JONESTOWN: told him not to worry about the meal in JT where they just that once had different food. He said he had already forgotten about it. He said that it’s just in the USSR they never have executives eat and others watch them. I told him in JT and I repeated again that that table wasn’t just the governing persons/ it was a mixture and the people were just watching as they wanted to see the program and had already eaten. I told him that was the only time it happened and we eat well, even snacks etc. He didn’t seem to be very concerned about it. DPRK [Democratic People’s Republic of Korea]: told him that the DPRK had treated us very well but we talk to them and others how close we feel to the Soviet Union (when we get a chance to really talk to people). He said that I should just read the article in the Guyana Chronicle during the time of the anniversary (30th) of DPRK because China had some things to say about DPRK and DPRK had some things to say about China and I should read it. He said that they too are friendly toward socialist countries but this article would explain their feelings. ROUND TRIP TICKETS: he’s sorry he forgot to bring them. He left them at home. He would be glad to bring the next time or offerred to pay the money. I told him we’d be glad to turn in the tickets and not to worry he could bring them next time. CONVERSATIONAL RUSSIAN: he said it’s the same. He said to learn the proper Russian and you can pick up the slang later but the russian we are G-1-b-7b [Reverse side of G-1-b-7a, not transcribed] USSR PG @ [2] would be fine. He hasn’t gotten any films that have translations, but if you tell me you want me to xerox the English for the Russian films, I will but it will be quite a few pages. He’s contacted Moscow about getting the tapes we want. YUGOSLAVIANS: told him that I learned from the Yugoslavians that Hippie (the word) in Yugoslavia (or so the Embassy told me) doesn’t have the same negative connotations it does in the US. But I told him that the Yugoslavian Embassy here knows we are not a hippie group. He said how did we find out about this and I told him that Igor with the TUC International told us about. He would like to know the details of the date of the periodical and the name but I said we’d give it to him when we find out. – he said Igor is a good friend of his but didn’t mention this to him. He said Igor had read about us being a very progressive group in the Soviet Union. Also, he said that the Soviet Women’s delegation had heard about us and wanted to come and see us but they didn’t have time. He said we are getting to be a big thing in the Soviet Union. [Following paragraph circled, marginal note: “Stat”] NIKOLAI’S RECOMMENDATIONS: he said there needs to be by the kitchen and toilets more facilities for washing the hands (right as you come up to eat) as it could be a problem for contagion – he explained to Jimmy what the facility should be like – some kind of thing it looked like a drinking fountain spigot that comes out of the sink (Jimmy Jr. would have to explain it) – I told him we had a sink in back of the kitchen and by every bathroom we had a faucet but he didn’t think it was enough and felt sone [some] wouldn’t wash their hands unless it was right by the kitchen. (JIMMY LEFT THE ROOM) – he read the enclosed letter and studied it very carefully. One thing that he said was very important was that he didn’t think it was a good idea for me to carry typed information into the Embassy and show him and carry it home. He said “a little revolutionary like you” something could happen and you could get arrested with these papers and it would be very bad for you and very bad for us as it is negative to Guyana. He said “we already know all about the Cabinet Ministers although this about [Minister of Home Affairs Vibert] Mingo is new”[.] He said maybe Mingo was just cool to us as he might have been mad about something else. I said I didn’t think so because of what he said. But I said maybe I could write it while I was in the Embassy (but the problem then is he wouldn’t want me to carry it out and I’d have to ask him to burn it right there and then he’d say we don’t trust him etc. etc.) or I said I could just talk to him with the radio on, but he said it’s fine to write it as long as I do it there. RE JJ AND JOHN [Victor Stoen] GOING TO THE SOVIET UNION – he said of course JJ would be the first to go. But in terms of his asking about John right now and explaining all the complexities of the case, he hasn’t done so accept [except] to tell them JJ was harassed (or maybe he said blackmailed) on this situation and given a rough time with his child and put it in the way that said that JJ was in the right and he was given a hard time in the US about it. He said that right now we have to solve the big problem – get the answer on the big problem (the entire group) before we give them complexities to hinder that decision and once we get that main decision, then we can explain the other things. – he said that this is the sort of thing that would have to be explained in person to the USSR and if he were to write it, it would take pages and pages to explain why JJ had intercourse with this diabolical woman [Grace Stoen] and that it might have been a frame-up from the beginning and that Russians don’t understand such a thing very easily anyway, about having intercourse with a woman outside of marriage. – I said well why would they have such a problem, Lenin had a mistress – and he worked very closely with both her and his wife. – he said “I’ve never heard of this.[“] He said that in the Soviet Union if you talk to maybe 100 people, none of them have heard this. He said he’s been studying the biographies of Lenin since he’s 8 years old and hasn’t read this. Not just biographies written in the Soviet Union but other countries as well. – I said it was irrelevant but at the books I had read were very positive to Lenin and very positive to the revolutionary work he did. I said I read that he worked very closely with both his wife and Inessa In the revolutionary struggle, and whatever his reasons were, I am sure they were good ones. – he said that capitalist propaganda was very cleaver/ it could write maybe much truth and then the 1 lie – I said that perhaps since the society had changed so much, it was important to change that image of Lenin/ that it was hard to judge what a man had to do in a revolutionary period – a man that had to live under the old conditions and had to often do many things to bring about a revolution. – he said he understood that – he asked me if I had heard that Lenin had children – I said well of course you know more about that than me. I have heard a rumor to that effect but not much about it. – he said he would be very appreciative if I could show him a book about Lenin and Inessa. – he said she was from Russia – I said I thought she had come from another country and had left a very middle G-1-b-7d [Reverse side of G-1-b-7c, not transcribed] G-1-b-7e USSR pg 3 life and even had left husband and children to join the revolution – I said that I had read Krupskaya’s book and had been very interested in the fact that she showed the great work done by women in the revolutionary struggle – I explained that I hoped the USSR would understand the necessity in a revolutionary struggle to do certain things. I said it is much different to be in that situation like in the US when we are surrounded by an enemy culture and even getting members you have to be so careful. I said that if Grace Stoen had exposed the whole thing about PT at that time it would’ve been very bad. [2 lines struck out] – he said maybe it would have been better just to expell Tim Stoen and Grace and not gotten pulled into a trap – I said that JJ of course feels very sorry about the situation and he certainly didn’t try to have a child by Grace but I feel that if he hadn’t of done something to delay the problem of Grace and Tim becoming enemies at a time when we weren’t ready to have people go to Guyana we would have been destroyed like the Black Panthers – he looked kind of dubious about this – I said it’s hard to understand such a situation unless you are in it/ you do the best you can and we all studied the situation and made the best decision we could under the circumstances but it was a very difficult decision – he said in the Soviet Union the morality is very strict. If a woman reports that her husband is having an affair he is thrown out of the party as they feel if he is living a dual life, he could be doing so in other ways. You can get a divorce and remarry if you are not happy but it is frowned upon strictly to have a relationship outside of marriage – I said we have the same type of morality. We strongly feel that a person should not be promiscuous and it would have been easier if jJ could have had his marriage and a normal family life without having to go through all this and he certainly didn’t expect that Grace wouldhave a child. – He said he understood RE MARK LANNE [Lane] AND THE NEWS ARTICLES: told him about all the positive press and radio and TV coverage and how Mark Lane was able to stop the National Enquirer sotry by threatening a suit with them and they admitted they were going to be paid to write lies about us. He said that he would be most appreciative to have the articles about us and how the US covered the Mark Lane situation (I think he wants to see if Mark is doing the suit or not and if he is stirring up the US) – he said that he thinks but right now we should be producitve and keep things as quiet as possible around us until we get an answer MONEY: – he didn’t have any answers to our questions about money but thought he had some time on this as we said there was no rush on transferring the money. He said that he had submitted all the info and the info on the Swiss banks. He said that had been quite a surprise to him but maybe wouldn’t be so to others in Moscow IMF LOAN and the situation in Guyana. I told him I had talk to someone connected with PPP (didn’t mention name or profession) and he thought, I said, that things were getting quite dangerous in Guyana because of the IMF loan. He said he didn’t think so. I asked if this was just his opinion or what and he said he knew that was the case. he said that some countries take IMF money because of economic need they don’t get too far into the situation. He said it might be more dangerous if [Guyana Prime Minister Forbes] Burnham goes to the US. I said that I had been worried because of the amount of propaganda involved. Guyana says there was no loan available from the Soviet bloc which I understand not to be true. He said that is not true. Also, the paper had implied there was a deficit in the Socialist loan and when the paper mentioned there were some erroneous things in the article they didn’t really give details to clarify this. He didn’t say much to this but [one line of type struck out] looked intently. LIONEL LUCKHOO: he said [Guyana attorney] Lionel Luckhoo worked for the American Embassy. He had asked me who our attorney was. I said are you sure it is he and not his brother or relative and he said very firmly “yes I’m sure.” He said be careful on this because of the American Embassy tells him to do something, he will follow his connection to them before he will his connection to us – he asked why he was a sir when the connection with Britain is no longer valid in Guyana/ I told him it meant a lot to Lionel and that Lionel was very conservative but we had been referred to him because he had a lot of connections and he had never lost a case and because he had to fight for his children when his wife had the children in England G-1-b-7f [Reverse side of G-1-b-7e, not transcribed] G-1-b-7g With the Guyanese attitude of not wanting to give Jim Jones written assurance on travel and with Guyana saying that Jim Jones would have to play a hide and seek game while in Georgetown – if worse came to worse would there be some way that Jim and John could go to the Soviet Union. This is important to us because if Jim demanded that the majority of people go to the Soviet Union without him, it would be like we were dead (if he didn’t go also). However, if the issue comes up, Jim wants his family (Jonestown) to go even if he and John cannot go. We know we don’t yet have a formal invitation so we want to know, and people asked me to ask you, if Jim and John could go to the USSR. We have heard that they are dangling Jim’s court situation to hold Jim in the Interior because they know of his influence. They see him organizing more people to be Marxist-Leninists – in the way that he does – using the church, and working through religion etc. Peoples Temple was told this by [former Guyana Foreign Minister Fred] Wills and also by one of his Secretaries and even Minister [Vibert] Mingo said it would be possible. This was some time ago but Minister Mingo did say it was possible. We think that Jim has concluded that the USA and Guyana my [may] put too much pressure on Peoples Temple and that Jim will have to remain and die before he’ll be able to go to the USSR. Jim won’t sacrifice John as a political pawn when he knows Grace and Tim Stoen never showed any real concern for John. It’s not something that Jim talks about much but Jim always tells us that we will be happy in the Soviet Union. Jim has often expressed the desire to have that opportunity of going to the USSR and once or twice he has cried and asked if there wasn’t some way that John could be carefully taken to the USSR even if Jim Jones had to remain here. Jim doesn’t like people to cry and he stops the tears. One member said he had never seen him cry before in all the years. Jim would go into the jungle if he can’t go to the USSR. He is no idealist and knows about that type of environment. He knows he wouldn’t live very long. But at least John would be better off going to the USSR then back to Grace if Jim Jones died. You don’t know how evil Grace Stoen is – devious and diabolical. John was made by Grace to listen to her having sex and also she made him kiss her on different parts of her body, the child remembers it vividly. We don’t know if people would go to the USSR without Jim. It makes a very difficult situation, not because of any personality cult but merely because of his character and a sense of loyalty. He has sacrificed in physical ways to help all the ones he loves financially. When Peoples Temple members were being framed in the courts, Jim would see that the courtrooms were filled. We wouldn’t do anything threatening – just sit there and look at the jury and the’d [they’d] know which side Peoples Temple was on. Many people were freed from jail and false charges. Jim would stand behind anyone who was being framed in the courts no matter who they were – even if they were a total stranger. And as far as his own life – when Salvadore [Salvador] Allende was killed and Chilean refugees came – Jim stood by them when they were being framed and harassed. Jim doesn’t expect to enjoy life in the USSR – he would love to but he doesn’t count on it. It’s too painful G-1-b-7g to count on but it’s important to him that his people be gotten to the USSR. Minister Mingo had not been friendly and it correlated with the time you visited Jonestown. But the next time we saw him he was warmer and friendlier but he still wouldn’t give us any assurances. And he said that although we have the word of Dr. Reid [Guyana Deputy Prime Minister Ptolemy Reid], he still can’t put anything on paper. We have seen other people in the PNC who seem friendly so maybe it was just coincidental. It doesn’t make any sense to us unless as we said it is coincidental. We have seen Minister Mingo get awfully upset when he has been in the office with other people. We have never seen him talk roughly to us like he did at the time of your visit. It is almost as if he was trying to force us into bringing Jim into Georgetown and he put the blame on us for telling him about the problem. We did not tell Minister Mingo or anyone else that Jim does not have a terminal illness that the slide was sent to the laboratory indicated. We didn’t tell him that the cells were not there on subsequent tests as we were just trying to see how far they will go thinking that Jim is dying. Minister Mingo by the way, as we told you,, as told us that we should not have anymore [any more] to do with the World Peace Council. We were told several times by people who seem to be friendly to the Soviet Union that your embassy is bugged. One of these people Wills is gone and he told us about the bugging before we even started seeing you. In regards to other people in the Guyana government, Minister Hoyte [Guyana Minister of Development Desmond Hoyte] never speaks and tragically one who was the most kindly to us, Minister King [Guyana Minister of Trade George King], was a thief and he used to seek Peoples Temple out. Minister Hope [Guyana Minister of Finance Frank Hope] we understand is also a thief. [Guyana Minister of Energy and Natural Resources] Hubert Jack and [Guyana Minister of Education Vincent] Teekah are both friendly to us but Peoples Temple has always been told to talk to Minister Mingo.
