=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Helmut Lang | Contemporary Art Library]
Contemporary Art Library includes documentation of 7 projects including Helmut Lang from as early as 2017.
URL: https://www.contemporaryartlibrary.org/artist/helmut-lang-9089

[HELMUT LANG. SÉANCE DE TRAVAIL 1986–2005 - MAK Museum Vienna]
Excerpts from the MAK Helmut Lang Archive With HELMUT LANG. SÉANCE DE TRAVAIL 1986–2005 / Excerpts from the MAK Helmut Lang Archive , the MAK presents the first comprehensive exhibition of Helmut Lang’s oeuvre, offering a renewed understanding of his contribution to culture. Based on the largest and only official public archive dedicated to his legacy—which has been part of the MAK ...
URL: https://www.mak.at/exhibition/helmutlang

[Make It Hard exhibition of work by Helmut Lang | Wallpaper*]
Jul 22, 2011 · Lang, who retired from his eponymous Prada -owned label in January 2005 to live in Long Island and make art, has shredded 6,000 of his garments, using the metabolised scraps of fabric, fur, feathers, leather, plastic, hair and metal as raw materials for a series of sculptures entitled 'Make It Hard'.
URL: https://www.wallpaper.com/art/make-it-hard-exhibition-of-work-by-helmut-lang

[Helmut Lang (artist) - Wikipedia]
For the S/S '99 collection, Helmut Lang moves the presentation ahead of the European schedule (from November to September), having the impact of shifting the entire fashion calendar.’’
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helmut_Lang_(artist)

[Helmut Lang exhibition - Visiting Vienna]
Dec 10, 2025 · A name resonant with vision and distinction: the MAK draws on its Helmut Lang archives for a comprehensive exhibition around the creativity and influence of this designer and artist. Insights into his innovations Covers fields like fashion (!), interior design, advertising, and more Runs Dec 10, 2025 – May 3, 2026 Book MAK museum tickets * See also: The MAK museum Design exhibitions in ...
URL: https://www.visitingvienna.com/sights/museums/helmut-lang-exhibition/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Helmut Lang | Contemporary Art Library] ---
Contemporary Art Library Helmut Lang The Library has records for 1 of this artist's projects, plus 6 group exhibitions including this artist. 2025 Helmut Lang What remains behind MAK Center for Art and Architecture, Los Angeles February 19 – May 4, 2025 Group Exhibitions 2023 FOCUS GROUP 4 von ammon co, Washington DC May 13 – June 11, 2023 2022 FOCUS GROUP 3 von ammon co, Washington DC July 17 – August 31, 2022 2021 HOW DOES ONE THINK OF NOTHING? FF projects, San Pedro November 18, 2021 – February 26, 2022 100 Sculptures - NYC Anonymous Gallery, New York June 30 – August 21, 2021 ALIEN NATION von ammon co, Washington DC June 20 – August 1, 2021 2017 Wormwood Ellis King, Dublin July 7 – August 12, 2017 ?


--- [HELMUT LANG. SÉANCE DE TRAVAIL 1986–2005 - MAK Museum Vienna] ---
No content


--- [Make It Hard exhibition of work by Helmut Lang | Wallpaper*] ---
'Make It Hard' exhibition of work by Helmut Lang Receive our daily digest of inspiration, escapism and design stories from around the world direct to your inbox. You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful Want to add more newsletters? At first sight they resemble some kind of organic material. Coral perhaps, or bubbling mineral deposits. But these tubular sculptures currently exhibited by Helmut Lang have a more complex significance - they are all that remains of his personal professional archive as a fashion designer. Lang, who retired from his eponymous Prada-owned label in January 2005 to live in Long Island and make art, has shredded 6,000 of his garments, using the metabolised scraps of fabric, fur, feathers, leather, plastic, hair and metal as raw materials for a series of sculptures entitled 'Make It Hard'. The Austrian designer, who has already donated thousands of pieces to museums worldwide, destroyed more than 25 years worth of his collections to create the floor-to-ceiling column-shaped artefacts. The 12 artworks will be on show from 22 July to 8 August at The Fireplace Project, in the Springs historic district of East Hampton, across the road from the house formerly owned by Jackson Pollock and Lee Krasner. According to writer and creative director Neville Wakefield, who is presenting the exhibition, Lang's sartorial oeuvre now takes the form of 'strangely beautiful excretions', which erase the past and bear witness to 'the transience of our creative endeavours'. ADDRESS The Fireplace Project 851 Springs Fireplace Road East Hampton, NY 11937 Receive our daily digest of inspiration, escapism and design stories from around the world direct to your inbox.


--- [Helmut Lang (artist) - Wikipedia] ---
Helmut Lang (born 10 March 1956) is an Austrian artist and former fashion designer and mentor who lives and works in New York and on Long Island.


--- [Helmut Lang exhibition - Visiting Vienna] ---
A name resonant with vision and distinction: the MAK draws on its Helmut Lang archives for a comprehensive exhibition around the creativity and influence of this designer and artist. - Insights into his innovations - Covers fields like fashion (!), interior design, advertising, and more - Runs Dec 10, 2025 – May 3, 2026 - Book MAK museum tickets* - See also: Séance de travail 1986-2005 ((Helmut Lang was the first luxury brand to use New York’s taxi tops for ad purposes; New York City Taxi Top, advertising, 1998–2004; MAK Helmut Lang Archive, LNI 649; photo: MAK/Christian Mendez) Former fashion designer and label founder (and now artist), Helmut Lang is one of those names whose influence defies easy description. Some people ride the waves of art and design, while others (like Lang) make those waves themselves. When words like pioneering, revolutionary, visionary, and distinctive collide, you’re left with a maelstrom of creativity whose whirlpools and eddies shift the surrounding cultural landscape. An exhibition at the MAK museum presents Lang’s continuing impact on fashion & design aesthetics and the wider socioculture, with a focus on the years 1986 (which saw his first runway collection) to 2005 (when he retired from fashion). (Helmut Lang, video still, Helmut Lang Collection Hommes Femmes Séance de Travail Défilé # Hiver 94/95 (1994). Depicted person: Kirsten Owen. MAK Helmut Lang Archive. Courtesy of hl-art) The Séance de Travail exhibition dips into the museum’s unique Helmut Lang archive to offer insight into, for example, his approaches, processes, and spheres of influence. We discover that those spheres of influence extend far beyond fashion design into advertising, store architecture, and other realms. Artists Louise Bourgeois and Jenny Holzer, for example, created location-specific installations for Lang’s flagship stores. Largely ignorant of all things fashion, I can only offer up my personal observations from a wander around the exhibition galleries… One of Lang’s innovations in fashion was to change the traditional runway show into a more authentic and raw experience. Show notes, clothes, photos and other documents (including budget lists) allow us an intriguing glimpse of the paddling beneath the water of the show swan. (MAK Exhibition View, 2025 / Chapter Séance de Travail; HELMUT LANG. SÉANCE DE TRAVAIL 1986–2005 / Excerpts from the MAK Helmut Lang Archive; MAK Exhibition Hall; press photo © kunst-dokumentation.com/MAK) One huge gallery even reproduces the floor plan of the kind of show shown in videos elsewhere in the exhibition. I’d recommend doing what I did: stride confidently along the paths taken by models to get a smidgen of an idea for what it must feel like. Particularly as you pass seats marked with such names as Anna Wintour, Vogue, Le Figaro, New York Times, Elle, Harper & Queens, GQ, and Vanity Fair. Back to those videos. If we ignore the clothes for a moment, the audience feels like a paradox of transience and intransience. Their enthusiasm, curiosity or affected coolness seem a constant at such events, yet the faces would inevitably change through the decades. The exhibition certainly gives you a feel for Lang as designer, disruptor, innovator, brand manager, collaborator, artist, copywriter and communicator. Most of us struggle to succeed at just one of those. So a doff of the (well-designed) hat to Mr Lang. And to the MAK for bringing us the exhibition. Dates, tickets & tips Dive into the world of Helmut Lang from December 10th, 2025 to May 3rd, 2026. An entrance ticket for or from the MAK includes Séance de Travail, which takes place in the main ground floor exhibition space. (Booking service provided by Tiqets.com*, who I am an affiliate of) How to get there See my main MAK page for travel tips, but the museum sits close to the Stubentor station on both the U3 subway line and tram line 2 that seems to go just about everywhere in Vienna. Address: Stubenring 5, 1010 Vienna
