=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mehbooba Mufti - Wikipedia]
Mehbooba Bur Mufti Sayed (born 22 May 1959) is an Indian politician and leader of the Jammu and Kashmir People's Democratic Party (PDP), who served as the 9th chief minister of the erstwhile state Jammu and Kashmir from 4 April 2016 to 19 June 2018.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mehbooba_Mufti

[Mehbooba Mufti profile - Early Times Newspaper Jammu Kashmir]
ET Report Srinagar, Apr 4: The PDP president Mehbooba Mufti created history by becoming the first woman to assume the office of Chief Minister in Jammu and Kashmir. Eldest of four siblings - two sisters and one brother - Mehbooba has two daughters, Illtija Iqbal and Irtiqa Iqbal. She is now the first woman chief minister of the country's only Muslim majority state, heading an alliance of the ...
URL: https://www.earlytimes.in/newsdet.aspx?q=173251

[Mehbooba Mufti's daughter acted in 'Omkara'? know the truth.]
Claim "Two daughters of Mehbooba Mufti, Iltija and Irtiqa Mufti. One became IFS via backdoor and now working in London. 2nd acts in Bollywood, she was seen in Omkara Movie. Both lives normal Non Islamic Life but Mehbooba Mufti wants all Kashmiri Girls to live in Burqa." Fact The viral claim about Mehbooba Mufti's daughter is fake. Irtiqa Mufti did not act in the Omkara movie as mentioned ...
URL: https://newschecker.in/fact-check/mehbooba-muftis-daughter-acted-in-omkara-viral-claim-on-irtiqa-and-iltija-mufti-is-false

[Mehbooba Mufti Biography - Age, Education, Family, Political Life]
About Mehbooba Mufti Mehbooba Mufti Sayeed is the president of Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). She is the daughter of PDP founder and former J&K chief minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed. Sayeed died in office on 7 January 2016. Following her father's demise, Mehbooba Mufti is now set to become the first woman Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir. Mehbooba Mufti was a member of the ...
URL: https://www.elections.in/political-leaders/mehbooba-mufti.html

[Mehbooba Mufti: Navigating Turbulent Terrain as a Leader]
Mehbooba Mufti's personal life reflects her nurturing and caring nature, evident in her relationship with her two daughters, Iltija and Irtiqa. Her ex-husband, a political analyst and animal rights activist, briefly associated with the National Conference party, adding another layer of political depth to her personal narrative.
URL: https://thecorporatewomen.com/blogs/mehbooba-mufti-navigating-turbulent-terrain-as-a-leader/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mehbooba Mufti - Wikipedia] ---
Mehbooba Bur Mufti Sayed (born 22 May 1959) is an Indian politician and leader of the  Jammu and Kashmir People's Democratic Party (PDP), who served as the 9th  chief minister of the erstwhile state Jammu and Kashmir from 4 April 2016 to 19 June 2018. She is the first female chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir. After the revocation of Article 370 of the constitution in August 2019, Mufti was detained without any charges at first and later under the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act.
Mufti was the first woman to hold the office of chief minister in the Jammu and Kashmir. She formed a coalition government in Jammu and Kashmir jointly with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). She resigned in June 2018 after the BJP withdrew from the coalition.
Mufti was the president of the PDP and was a member of the Indian parliament, representing Anantnag in the 16th Lok Sabha before she was sworn in as the chief minister of the Jammu and Kashmir. She also represented Anantnag in the 14th Lok Sabha (2004–09) and has also been a Leader of Opposition in Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Assembly.




--- [Mehbooba Mufti profile - Early Times Newspaper Jammu Kashmir] ---
news details | | | | Mehbooba Mufti profile | | | ET Report Srinagar, Apr 4: The PDP president Mehbooba Mufti created history by becoming the first woman to assume the office of Chief Minister in Jammu and Kashmir. Eldest of four siblings - two sisters and one brother - Mehbooba has two daughters, Illtija Iqbal and Irtiqa Iqbal. She is now the first woman chief minister of the country's only Muslim majority state, heading an alliance of the regional Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the centrist, right-wing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Mehbooba fought her first elections from the ancestral Bijbehara (Anantnag) assembly constituency in 1996. She resigned her assembly seat and went on to contest the parliamentary elections in 1999 from Srinagar, where she lost to the sitting member Omar Abdullah but won the Pahalgam seat in the state assembly from South Kashmir, defeating Rafi Ahmed Mir, when assembly elections were held again in 2002. She has been elected to the Lok Sabha from Anantnag seat in 2004 and 2014. She was instrumental in resurrecting her late father Mufti Muhammad Sayeed's political career when he formed the PDP and decided to challenge the well-entrenched regional National Conference (NC) on its own turf. Those close to her say despite her no-nonsense pragmatic approach to politics, Mehbooba has always maintained a strong link with the party's ground-level workers. "It was because of her knowledge about the ground situation that Mufti sahib would always say his daughter is more connected to the ground than him," said a close confident of Mehbboba Mufti. Despite the fact that her political baptism happened by fire when separatist violence was at its peak in Jammu and Kashmir, this is her first innings at governance. Mehbooba is a politician by choice who responded to a political situation when Jammu and Kashmir was in the grip of a gloomy scenario of violence and its tragic fallout as the State was reeling under extremely adverse conditions on politico-economic fronts. Distressed by the tragedies of turmoil, Mehbooba and her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed decided to reach out to the people and re-establish the lost contact between the citizens and the State to repair their hurt psyche, salvage their bruised dignity, rekindle a new hope in their hearts and motivate them to mould their destiny through a participatory political process. She is one of the few politicians in Jammu and Kashmir, who has traversed every nook and corner of the State, sometimes covering extensive treacherous distances on foot, with no cavalcades, not many escorts, no jammers and no cell phones to reach out to the people. In 2002 assembly elections, people recognized PDP as an emerging and alternative political force in the State and gave it a modest mandate which led to the historic initiatives in J&K with the famous punch-line of "Healing Touch". While Mufti Mohammad Sayeed was busy steering the State out of the most terrible era of its history, Ms Mehbooba's strenuous work at the grassroots level produced an instant impact of the substantial politico-economic measures initiated by the then Government. She schooled from Presentation Convent School in Srinagar and graduated in English literature from Government College for Women, Parade in Jammu. She went on to obtain a degree in Law from University of Kashmir and got married soon after completion of her law degree. But her marriage later ran into problems. She shifted to New Delhi in 0ctober 1989 and joined Bombay Mercantile Bank to be financially independent to take care of her infant daughters. She also worked with East West Airlines for sometime before moving back to J&K. Mehbooba left the job and returned to the State to help her father in his political work. She contested her maiden assembly election in 1996 from the home. Mehbooba is so entrenched in local culture that the power hasn't changed her. She is known for her compassion, courteousness and respect for her colleagues and common people. Given her value system of high personal and ideological integrity, s Mehbooba is set to question and change the traditional politics of the State to create a new narrative of public and political discourse. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |


--- [Mehbooba Mufti's daughter acted in 'Omkara'? know the truth.] ---
Newchecker.in is an independent fact-checking initiative of NC Media Networks Pvt. Ltd. We welcome our readers to send us claims to fact check. If you believe a story or statement deserves a fact check, or an error has been made with a published fact check Contact Us: checkthis@newschecker.in Fact Check Claim “Two daughters of Mehbooba Mufti, Iltija and Irtiqa Mufti. One became IFS via backdoor and now working in London. 2nd acts in Bollywood, she was seen in Omkara Movie. Both lives normal Non Islamic Life but Mehbooba Mufti wants all Kashmiri Girls to live in Burqa.” Fact The viral claim about Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter is fake. Irtiqa Mufti did not act in the Omkara movie as mentioned in the claim. The other daughter Iltija Mufti is not in London as an IFS officer, but has been living in Srinagar since 2015 until recently, when she relocated to UAE for higher education. A social media post taking aim at the family of former Chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Mehbooba Mufti has gone viral on social media. The viral X post claims that Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter Irtiqa Mufti was a Bollywood actor, and featured in the film Omkara while her other daughter Iltija got a job in London as an IFS officer, through backdoor channels. The viral post, shared by Imtiaz Mahmood, has 24.9K likes, 8602 retweets and over 1.1 Million views. This viral post can be viewed by clicking here. The same post has also been shared by several other social media users on both X and Facebook. They can be viewed by clicking here, here, here and here. The post has been viral on various occasions in the past as well. They can be seen here and here. Newschecker also received the same claim on our WhatsApp tipline (+91 9999499044) to be fact checked. In order to ascertain the fact of the viral image, we conducted a Google reverse image and keyword search. During this process, we came across a report by Hindustan Times on August 27, 2023, titled “No, my daughter did not act in Omkara: Mehbooba Mufti on ‘non-Islamic’ allegation.” The report carries a tweet of the former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti, where she clarified that her brother Tassaduq had worked as a cinematographer in the film OMKARA. However, she clearly stated, her eldest daughter Irtiqa Mufti (Irtiqa Iqbal) did not act in the film. Subsequently, we looked up the cast and crew information of OMKARA, released in 2006, on IMDb.com, which confirmed that Tassaduq Hussain was indeed the cinematographer for the film. However, we found no mention of Irtiqa Mufti or Irtiqa Iqbal. Rejecting the claim by Imtiaz Mehmood that Iltija Mufti was working in the Indian consulate in London as an IFS officer through ‘backdoor channels’, the former chief minister tweeted that her younger daughter has been in Srinagar since 2015. A look at the Foreign Service officers in London on the official website of The High Commission of India also shows that there is no individual named Iltija Iqbal or Iltija Mufti currently employed there. However, during our search, we came across the name Ovessa Iqbal, who is working there as First Secretary (Political & Extradition). Notably, Ovessa Iqbal is the first woman from Jammu and Kashmir to be nominated to the Indian Foreign Service. On the other hand, Iltija Iqbal or Iltija Mufti is said to have recently been appointed as Mehbooba Mufti’s Media Advisor. We found these details in a report by The Indian Express. The report can be read by clicking here. We had checked the X (Twitter) profile of Iltija Mufti to find out the truth here. Its details read – Media Advisor to Ms Mehbooba Mufti . Iltija Mufti has also been in the news recently over her the issue regarding her passport. Iltija Mufti, whose passport had reportedly expired on 2nd January, 2022, initially received a two-year country-specific passport, but later obtained a regular passport from the Srinagar Passport Office after a high court plea related to her plans for education in the UAE. The viral claim is false. Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti’s eldest daughter was not acted in OMKARA. On the other hand, the younger daughter is not currently working as an Indian Foreign Service Officer in London, but also as a media advisor to her mother or Mehbooba Mufti. So, the claim made in the viral post is false. Our Sources: 1. Report by Hindustan Times, dated August 27, 2023 2. Report by Indian Express, dated 30 August, 2023 3. X post by Mehbooba Mufti, dated August 27, 2023 4. X post by Imtiaz Mahmood, dated August 25, 2023 If you would like us to fact-check a claim, give feedback or lodge a complaint, WhatsApp us at 9999499044 or email us at checkthis@newschecker.in. You can also visit the Contact Us page and fill out the form. Please follow us on WhatsApp – https://whatsapp.com/channel/0029Va23tYwLtOj7zEWzmC1Z Vasudha Beri February 23, 2026 Vasudha Beri April 23, 2025 Vasudha Beri July 4, 2025


--- [Mehbooba Mufti Biography - Age, Education, Family, Political Life] ---
About Mehbooba Mufti Mehbooba Mufti Sayeed is the president of Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). She is the daughter of PDP founder and former J&K chief minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed. Sayeed died in office on 7 January 2016. Following her father's demise, Mehbooba Mufti is now set to become the first woman Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir. Mehbooba Mufti was a member of the 14th Lok Sabha (2004-2009). She represented the Anantnag constituency of Jammu and Kashmir. In 2014, she was elected again to the 16th Lok Sabha from the same constituency. She was sworn-in as the first woman chief minister of J&K on 4 April, 2016. Early Life and Political Career Mehbooba Mufti was born on 22 May, 1959 in Bijbehara town of Jammu & Kashmir's Anantnag district. She earned her law degree from the University of Kashmir. Her sister Rubaiya Sayeed as well as her family came in the news in 1989 when Rubaiya was abducted by a terrorist outfit and later released in exchange of three dreaded terrorists in Kandahar, Afghanistan. Their father, Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, was India's Home Minister then. Mehbooba came in political limelight when she won the 1996 Assembly elections in J&K on Congress ticket from Bijbehara constituency. In 1999, she lost to Omar Abdullah in the parliamentary elections. But Mehbooba made her mark quickly as a fierce opposition leader. When her father Mufti Mohammad split from the Congress to launch the Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party in 1999, she became the party's vice-president. Mehbooba Mufti won the Pahalgam constituency in the 2002 Assembly polls. She contested from Anantnag seat successfully in the 2004 Lok Sabha elections. In the 2014 general elections, she won the Anantnag-Pulwama seat again for another five years' term. She defeated National Conference’s Mirza Mehboob Beg by a margin of 44,735 votes. While she won 1,42,237 votes, Beg got 97,502. The PDP and BJP reached an agreement to form government in Jammu & Kashmir after the 2015 Assembly elections. Mufti Mohammad Sayeed took over as the chief minister of the state. Following Mufti's demise in office, Mehbooba became the unanimous choice to take over her father's mantle. The PDP matriarch is now finally set to take over and become the first female chief minister of Jammu & Kashmir. Growing Public Support for Mehbooba Mufti According to political pundits, currently, there is a strong wave in the PDP’s favour in J&K in the wake of people’s aspirations of bringing about a change in the government in the state. Recently, Mehbooba had whole-heartedly welcomed Prime Minister Modi’s decision to celebrate the festival of Diwali with the flood affected people in the state. She has continuously criticised the mismanagement of the situation erupted after the floods hit the state, on the part of the ruling Omar Abdullah government. She was the one of the first leaders in J&K who tried to draw attention of the Prime Minister with a memorandum, towards the alleged mishandling of the post-flood situation in the state. She demanded Rs 44000 crore from the Centre for the relief and rehabilitation measures. Unemployment, favouritism and rampant corruption with regard to the Omar Abdullah government are amongst the most important issues raised her party in the current elections in the state and on almost all these pro-people issues she seems to be drawing considerable support from the people in J&K. WBSKJ03.11.2014 Last Updated on June 30, 2020


--- [Mehbooba Mufti: Navigating Turbulent Terrain as a Leader] ---
Amplify Your Leadership Voice Worldwide Join 7,000+ industry leaders sharing insights with millions of professionals globally Join 7,000+ industry leaders sharing insights with millions of professionals globally Mehbooba Mufti, born on May 22, 1959, stands as a notable Indian politician renowned for her resilience, dedication to public service, and significant role in the intricate political landscape of Jammu and Kashmir. Serving as the first female Chief Minister of the state, her journey unfolds against a backdrop of challenges, achievements, and an unwavering commitment to the welfare of her people. Born into a politically influential family in Akhran Nowpora, Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti, the daughter of Mufti Mohammad Sayeed and Gulshan Ara, exhibited an early passion for the environment and animals. Her academic pursuits included English literature at the Government College for Women in Jammu, followed by a law degree from the University of Kashmir. This educational foundation not only equipped her for the complexities of politics but also underscored her commitment to personal growth and education. Mehbooba Mufti’s personal life reflects her nurturing and caring nature, evident in her relationship with her two daughters, Iltija and Irtiqa. Her ex-husband, a political analyst and animal rights activist, briefly associated with the National Conference party, adding another layer of political depth to her personal narrative. Shaped by the political legacy of her father, Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, Mehbooba Mufti’s political journey commenced in 1996 when she was elected as a member of the state assembly from Bijbehara, contesting on an Indian National Congress ticket. As the leader of the opposition, she effectively challenged Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah, hinting at her potential as a future leader. Over the years, her political journey unfolded with various electoral victories, including winning the Pahalgam seat in the state assembly, securing victories in parliamentary elections, and ultimately becoming the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir in 2016. Mehbooba Mufti faced significant challenges during her tenure as Chief Minister, notably within the PDP-BJP alliance. Tensions escalated in 2018, leading to the BJP’s withdrawal from the alliance after two ministers expressed support for a man accused of a heinous crime. Subsequently, she resigned, emphasising that a “muscular policy” would not be effective in Kashmir. Her attempt to suspend security operations during Ramadan faced setbacks, and security conditions continued to deteriorate. The resignation marked a crucial juncture in her political career. Following the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August 2019, Mehbooba Mufti was detained by the Central government. Her daughter, Iltija Mufti, assumed control of her Twitter account, becoming her voice during this period. Subsequently, she faced further detention under the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act until her release in October 2020, prompted by the Supreme Court questioning the duration of her detention. Mehbooba Mufti’s enduring involvement in Jammu and Kashmir’s political landscape showcases her resilience and commitment to the region’s welfare. Her journey remains a testament to her dedication to the people and her unwavering pursuit of justice and peace in one of India’s most complex and sensitive regions. Join industry leaders who have shared their insights with millions of professionals globally. Copyright © 2025 The Corporate Women. All Rights Reserved.
