=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[U.S. OPEN WOMEN'S POLO CHAMPIONSHIP® PRESENTED BY THE BRAD AND KATHY COORS FOUNDATION | U.S. POLO ASSN.]
Women were officially welcomed into the United States Polo Association (USPA) in 1972 with Sue Sally Hale becoming one of the first woman members. The modern U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship competition did not resurface until the early 1990s.
URL: https://www.uspolo.org/calendar/tournaments/u-s-open-womens-polo-championship-2024

[U.S. OPEN WOMEN'S POLO CHAMPIONSHIP® | U.S. POLO ASSN.]
At the onset of World War II however, the women focused their attention towards the war effort. Women were officially welcomed into the United States Polo Association (USPA) in 1972 with Sue Sally Hale becoming one of the first woman members.
URL: https://www.uspolo.org/calendar/tournaments/u-s-open-womens-polo-championship-2025

[The History Of The US Polo Women Championship — PoloHUB]
Women were officially welcomed into the United States Polo Association (USPA) in 1972 with Sue Sally Hale becoming one of the first woman members. A devoted advocate of women in polo, Hale was alleged to have disguised herself as a man in order to compete in tournaments throughout the 1950s and 60s.
URL: https://polohub.net/the-history-of-the-us-polo-women-championship/

[U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship® - National Polo Center]
At the onset of World War II however, the women focused their attention towards the war effort. Women were officially welcomed into the United States Polo Association (USPA) in 1972 with Sue Sally Hale becoming one of the first woman members. The modern U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship competition did not resurface until the early 1990s.
URL: https://www.nationalpolocenter.com/tournaments/u-s-open-womens-polo-championship-2024

[U.S. Polo Assn. Celebrates International Women's Day Alongside the 2023 ...]
Mar 8, 2023 · Women were officially welcomed into the United States Polo Association in 1972 with Sue Sally Hale becoming the first woman member. On the centennial anniversary of the USPA in 1990, a U.S. Women's Open was officially sanctioned and held at Empire Polo Club in Indio, California.
URL: https://www.accessnewswire.com/newsroom/en/sports-leisure-and-entertainment/u.s.-polo-assn.-celebrates-international-womens-day-alongside-the-2-742571


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [U.S. OPEN WOMEN'S POLO CHAMPIONSHIP® PRESENTED BY THE BRAD AND KATHY COORS FOUNDATION | U.S. POLO ASSN.] ---
U.S. OPEN WOMEN'S POLO CHAMPIONSHIP® TOURNAMENT HISTORY The U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship has a profound history dating back to the 1930s in California. The first women’s U.S. Open tournament was presented by the United States Women’s Polo Association (U.S.W.P.A) in 1937 at Golden Gate Field in San Francisco, California. Riviera (Louise Tracey, Dorothy Rodgers, Audrey Scott, Ruth Cropp) defeated Santa Barbara 9-4 to capture the inaugural title. The U.S.W.P.A., the first and only women’s polo association in the history of American polo, created a women’s handicapping system mirroring that of the men, with one nine-goal player and several eight-goal players. The U.S.W.P.A. played eight to 10 tournaments a year accumulating 300 members and 25 clubs in its 10-year tenure. At the onset of World War II however, the women focused their attention towards the war effort. Women were officially welcomed into the United States Polo Association (USPA) in 1972 with Sue Sally Hale becoming one of the first woman members. The modern U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship competition did not resurface until the early 1990s. On the centennial anniversary of the USPA in 1990, a U.S. Women’s Open was officially sanctioned and held at Empire Polo Club in Indio, California. Appropriately, Hale along with her two daughters, Sunny and Stormie captured the title with teammate Caroline Anier. In an electrifying overtime match, Empire defeated Palmera Hanalei Bay 10-9, with Anier scoring the sudden-death goal in the seventh chukker. After a few years of competition at Empire Polo Club, U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship competition once again lost momentum. It was officially recognized as a national tournament in 2011, and was hosted at Houston Polo Club (Houston, Texas) until it found a permanent home in South Florida in 2018. Recent champions since relocating to the Sunshine State include Hawaii Polo Life (2019, 2020, 2022) and BTA/The Villages (2021). In 2023, newcomer La Fe (Winifred Branscum, Pamela Flanagan, Hope Arellano, Hazel Jackson) faced-off against returning contender Dundas (Ana de la Fuente, Erica Gandomcar-Sachs, Mia Cambiaso, Nina Clarkin). Relying on nonstop offensive firepower, especially from Arellano, La Fe launched an impressive effort that ended in a dominant 12-6 first-time victory and $40,000 in prize money. Read article here. The most prestigious tournament in women's polo in the United States, the 2024 U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship will be hosted by Port Mayaca Polo Club (PMPC) in Okeechobee, Florida. Preliminary games will take place at PMPC, with the final slated for Friday, February 23 on U.S. Polo Assn. Field One at the National Polo Center - Wellington (NPC). Friday’s finale will include free food on the 7th Chukker’s veranda, as well as an after party at the Mallet Grille immediately following the final horn. All games of the U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship will be livestreamed exclusively on the USPA Polo Network. Additionally, the final will be available on the ESPN family of brands. Check your local listings for times and channels. This year's edition of the U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship presented by the Brad and Kathy Coors Foundation will feature many familiar faces and past champions spanning eight talented teams including 90210 Polo, BTA/Lazy 3, Buena Vibra, Iconica, La Fe, Mint Eco Car Wash, Parrotheads Polo and Work to Ride/Grand Champions. Reigning victors, 10-goalers and former U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship Most Valuable Player recipients Hope Arellano and Hazel Jackson will team up once more for La Fe. Fellow champion Winifred Branscum will continue her steady rise in women's polo alongside four-time (2011, 2013, 2014, 2015) victor Maureen Brennan for Iconica. 2023 finalist Mia Cambiaso will attempt to earn her fourth (2019, 2020, 2022) U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship title joining 90210 Polo, as the competition's third 10-goaler Nina Clarkin will compete for Work to Ride/Grand Champions. BTA/Lazy 3's Sarah Wiseman will seek to add to her impressive U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship record, vying for her fifth (2014, 2015, 2016, 2017) title, as Mint Eco Car Wash's Kylie Sheehan looks for a return to the podium for the first time since 2021. Former champion Lia Salvo (2017) will attempt to deliver Parrotheads Polo their first victory, as fellow newcomer Buena Vibra will round-out the impressive competition. Representing Team USPA is Active Member Hope Arellano (La Fe), Sophie Grant (Parrotheads Polo) and alumna Kylie Sheehan (Mint Eco Car Wash). The U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship will award $25,000 in prize money. The prize will divided between first ($17,000) and second ($8,000) place teams. U.S. Polo Assn. will continue to encourage the spirit of philanthropy this winter season by providing $2,500 to both the winning team and the runner-up to donate to the polo charity of their choice. 2023 U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship Winners: La Fe - Hazel Jackson, Hope Arellano, Pamela Flanagan, Winifred Branscum. ©David Lominska


--- [U.S. OPEN WOMEN'S POLO CHAMPIONSHIP® | U.S. POLO ASSN.] ---
U.S. OPEN WOMEN'S POLO CHAMPIONSHIP® TOURNAMENT HISTORY The U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship has a profound history dating back to the 1930s in California. The first women’s U.S. Open tournament was presented by the United States Women’s Polo Association (U.S.W.P.A) in 1937 at Golden Gate Field in San Francisco, California. Riviera (Louise Tracey, Dorothy Rodgers, Audrey Scott, Ruth Cropp) defeated Santa Barbara 9-4 to capture the inaugural title. The U.S.W.P.A., the first and only women’s polo association in the history of American polo, created a women’s handicapping system mirroring that of the men, with one 9-goal player and several 8-goal players. The U.S.W.P.A. played eight to 10 tournaments a year accumulating 300 members and 25 clubs in its 10-year tenure. At the onset of World War II however, the women focused their attention towards the war effort. Women were officially welcomed into the United States Polo Association (USPA) in 1972 with Sue Sally Hale becoming one of the first woman members. The modern U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship competition did not resurface until the early 1990s. On the centennial anniversary of the USPA in 1990, a U.S. Women’s Open was officially sanctioned and held at Empire Polo Club in Indio, California. Appropriately, Hale along with her two daughters, Sunny and Stormie captured the title with teammate Caroline Anier. In an electrifying overtime match, Empire defeated Palmera Hanalei Bay 10-9, with Anier scoring the sudden-death goal in the seventh chukker. After a few years of competition at Empire Polo Club, U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship competition once again lost momentum. It was officially recognized as a national tournament in 2011, and was hosted at Houston Polo Club (Houston, Texas) until it found a permanent home in South Florida in 2018. Recent champions since relocating to the Sunshine State include Hawaii Polo Life (2019, 2020, 2022), BTA/The Villages (2021) and La Fe (2023). In 2024, 90210 Polo (Mia Cambiaso, Meghan Gracida, Catalina Lavinia, Winifred Branscum) faced-off against Buena Vibra (Milly Hine, Clara Seppe, Cory Williams, Valentina Tarazona). A game decided primarily from the penalty line, Buena Vibra’s Hine converted nine times to grant the ladies in hot pink the upper hand. Despite 90210 Polo’s Cambiaso posting two points off penalties in the fifth chukker to steal the lead, Buena Vibra proved unstoppable, with Hine and Seppe securing another three goals to defeat 90210 Polo, 13-11 and gallop away with $17,000 in prize money. Read article here. The most prestigious tournament in women’s polo in the United States, the 2025 U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship presented by the Brad and Kathy Coors Foundation, will be hosted by Port Mayaca Polo Club (PMPC) in Okeechobee, Florida. Preliminary games will take place at PMPC, with the semifinals held at the National Polo Center - Wellington (NPC) and the final slated for Sunday, February 9, on U.S. Polo Assn. Field One at NPC. All games will be livestreamed exclusively on the USPA Polo Network. Additionally, the final will be broadcast on Sunday, February 16, at 12:00pm ET on ESPNews and ESPN.com. This year's edition will feature many familiar faces and past champions spanning six talented teams including BTA/Lazy 3, Buena Vibra, La Dolfina/90210, La Fe Eastern Hay, Mint Eco Car Wash and North Star. Reigning champions Valentina Tarazona and Milly Hine will return to defend their tile for Buena Vibra with new additions Giuliana Tarazona and Candelaria "Cande" Fernandez-Araujo. Fielding two 10-goalers in the competition, former tournament champions Hazel Jackson (North Star) and Hope Arellano (La Fe Eastern Hay) will each attempt to return to the podium with their respective teams for the first time since 2023. 2024 finalist Mia Cambiaso will vie for her fourth (2019, 2020, 2022) U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship title with La Dolfina/90210, as Mint Eco Car Wash's Kylie Sheehan seeks her second victory (2021). Previously capturing the championship in 2021, KC Krueger will seek to lead BTA/Lazy 3 back to the top of the elite competition. Representing Team USPA is Active Member Hope Arellano (La Fe Eastern Hay) and alumna Kylie Sheehan (Mint Eco Car Wash). The U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship will award $25,000 in prize money. The prize will be divided between the first ($17,000) and second ($8,000) place teams. U.S. Polo Assn. will continue to encourage the spirit of philanthropy this winter season by providing $2,500 to both the winning team and the runner-up to donate to the polo charity of their choice. Photo: 2024 U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship Winners: Buena Vibra - Valentina Tarazona, Cory Williams, Clara Seppe, Milly Hine. ©David Lominska


--- [The History Of The US Polo Women Championship — PoloHUB] ---
The U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship® has a profound history dating back to the 1930s in California. The first women’s U.S. Open tournament was presented by the United States Women’s Polo Association (U.S.W.P.A) in 1937 at Golden Gate Field (San Francisco, California), in 1937. Riviera (Louise Tracey, Dorothy Rodgers, Audrey Scott, Ruth Cropp) defeated Santa Barbara 9-4 to capture the inaugural title. The U.S.W.P.A., the first and only women’s polo association in the history of American polo, created a women’s handicapping system mirroring that of the men, with one nine-goal player and several eight-goal players. The U.S.W.P.A. played eight to ten tournaments a year accumulating 300 members and 25 clubs in its ten-year tenure. At the onset of World War II however, the women focused their attention towards the war effort. Women were officially welcomed into the United States Polo Association (USPA) in 1972 with Sue Sally Hale becoming one of the first woman members. A devoted advocate of women in polo, Hale was alleged to have disguised herself as a man in order to compete in tournaments throughout the 1950s and 60s. The U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship® competition did not resurface until the early 1990s. On the centennial anniversary of the USPA in 1990, a U.S. Women’s Open was officially sanctioned and held at Empire Polo Club in Indio, California. Appropriately, Hale along with her two daughters, Sunny and Stormie captured the title with teammate Caroline Anier. In an electrifying overtime match, Empire defeated Palmera Hanalei Bay 10-9, with Anier scoring the sudden-death goal in the seventh chukker. After a few years of competition at Empire Polo Club, U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship® competition once again lost momentum, this time for only a couple decades. It was officially recognized as a national tournament in 2011, and was hosted at Houston Polo Club (Houston, Texas) until 2018. The most prestigious cup in women’s polo in the United States, the U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship® relocated to Florida in 2019 with preliminary games played at Port Mayaca Polo Club (PMPC) in Okeechobee, Florida, and the heralded final at the International Polo Club Palm Beach (IPC) in Wellington, Florida. It should be noted that 2011 was the year in which this competition was recognized as a national tournament and it was from 2019, when it began to be played in Florida, in the two current sites: the Port Macaya Club and the National Polo Center.


--- [U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship® - National Polo Center] ---
The U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship has a profound history dating back to the 1930s in California. The first women’s U.S. Open tournament was presented by the United States Women’s Polo Association (U.S.W.P.A) in 1937 at Golden Gate Field in San Francisco, California. Riviera (Louise Tracey, Dorothy Rodgers, Audrey Scott, Ruth Cropp) defeated Santa Barbara 9-4 to capture the inaugural title. The U.S.W.P.A., the first and only women’s polo association in the history of American polo, created a women’s handicapping system mirroring that of the men, with one nine-goal player and several eight-goal players. The U.S.W.P.A. played eight to 10 tournaments a year accumulating 300 members and 25 clubs in its 10-year tenure. At the onset of World War II however, the women focused their attention towards the war effort. Women were officially welcomed into the United States Polo Association (USPA) in 1972 with Sue Sally Hale becoming one of the first woman members. The modern U.S. Open Women’s Polo Championship competition did not resurface until the early 1990s.


--- [U.S. Polo Assn. Celebrates International Women's Day Alongside the 2023 ...] ---
U.S. Polo Assn. Celebrates International Women's Day Alongside the 2023 U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship Airing on ESPN Wednesday, 08 March 2023 07:00 AM Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Iconic Sports Brand Donates to Equestrian and Polo Charities Chosen by the Finalists WEST PALM BEACH, FL / ACCESSWIRE / March 8, 2023 / U.S. Polo Assn., the official brand of the United States Polo Association (USPA), celebrates International Women's Day on March 8, the globally celebrated day dedicated to economic, social and gender equality for women, alongside the 2023 U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship®. The most prestigious cup in women's polo in the United States runs from March 10-19. U.S. Polo Assn.'s involvement with the most celebrated cup for women's polo in the United States includes donations made to polo and equestrian charities selected by the finalists in the 2023 U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship. The qualifying games will be played at Port Mayaca Polo Club, while the U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship Final will be played once again at the world-renowned USPA National Polo Center (NPC) - Wellington on March 19. ESPN will distribute the Women's Championship Final for sports fans around the globe, where it will be available on ESPN's family of brands. Check your local listings for air times. The 2023 U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship is being played alongside International Women's Day, which honors women's achievements around the world while challenging inequality and working to increase visibility for women. "Not only do these athletes exude incredible tenacity and strength on the field, but they also do off of the field. From lawyers, to entrepreneurs, to mothers, to movie producers, to students, to animal conservationists, and more, the contestants in this year's Open fully show what a woman is capable of in their off-field endeavors," said Meghan Gracida, USPA Women's Committee Chair. "It is the great sport of polo that brings all of these women together to empower one another as players while exhibiting their love for the ultimate four-legged teammates-horses. I am honored to again be involved with this most special women's polo event." Prominent players in this year's high-goal tournament include Hope Arellano, Hazel Jackson, and Mia Cambiaso, to name a few. "As a fourth-generation polo player, my love for the game started at a very young age and continues to provide opportunities for me to participate in top-rated polo tournaments, like the 2023 U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship, which I am so grateful to be a part of," said Hope Arellano, professional polo player and U.S. Polo Assn. Brand Ambassador. "I look forward to competing against incredibly talented women polo players and being surrounded by those in the South Florida polo community who support women's professional polo." Unlike other team sports, women and men play polo together as equals, and approximately 40% of USPA club members are female. Women are, in fact, the fastest-growing segment in the sport of polo at the club level. "The 2023 U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship is both a celebration and showcase of women's many polo achievements," said J. Michael Prince, President and CEO of USPA Global Licensing, the worldwide licensor of the multi-billion-dollar U.S. Polo Assn. brand. "U.S. Polo Assn. continues to support the sport of polo and its players around the world, both on and off the field, and this tournament highlights some of the very best female players in the sport." If you attend: Who/What: U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship Final When: Sunday, March 19, 2023 3:00 p.m. EDT Championship Final Where: U.S. Polo Assn. Stadium Field USPA National Polo Center, 3667 120th Ave. S, Wellington, Florida To learn more or to purchase tickets, please click HERE. About the U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship™ The U.S. Open Women's Polo Championship® has a profound history dating back to the 1930s in California. The first women's U.S. Open tournament was presented by the United States Women's Polo Association (U.S.W.P.A) in 1937 at the Golden Gate Field in San Francisco, California. Women were officially welcomed into the United States Polo Association in 1972 with Sue Sally Hale becoming the first woman member. On the centennial anniversary of the USPA in 1990, a U.S. Women's Open was officially sanctioned and held at Empire Polo Club in Indio, California. It was officially recognized as a national tournament in 2011 and has been hosted at the Houston Polo Club for the past seven years, becoming the largest annual women's polo event in the United States. About U.S. Polo Assn. U.S. Polo Assn. is the official brand of the United States Polo Association (USPA), the non-profit governing body for the sport of polo in the United States and one of the oldest sports governing bodies, having been founded in 1890. With a multi-billion-dollar global footprint and worldwide distribution through some 1,100 U.S. Polo Assn. retail stores and thousands of department stores as well as sporting goods channels, independent retailers and e-commerce, U.S. Polo Assn. offers apparel for men, women, and children, as well as accessories and footwear in more than 190 countries worldwide. U.S. Polo Assn. was named as one of the top five sports licensors in 2022, according to License Global. Visit uspoloassnglobal.com and follow @uspoloassn. About the United States Polo Association® (USPA) The United States Polo Association was organized and exists for the purposes of promoting the game of polo, coordinating the activities of its Member Clubs and Registered Players, arranging and supervising polo tournaments, competitions and games, and providing rules, handicaps, and conditions for those tournaments, competitions, and games including the safety and welfare of participants and mounts. Founded in 1890, the USPA is the national governing body for the sport of polo. The USPA is currently comprised of almost 200 member clubs with thousands of individual members and oversees 40 national tournaments. For more information, please visit uspolo.org. Contact Information: Stacey Kovalsky Senior Director, Global Communications [email protected] +001.561.790.8036 Shannon Stilson VP, Sports Marketing & Media [email protected] +001.561.227.6994 SOURCE: USPA Global Licensing Inc.
