=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Rachel Carson - Wikipedia]
Carson met Dorothy M. Freeman in the summer of 1953 on Southport Island, Maine. Freeman had written to Carson welcoming her to the area when she had heard that the famous author was to become her neighbor. It was the beginning of a devoted friendship that lasted the rest of Carson's life. Their relationship was conducted mainly through letters and during summers spent together in Maine. Over ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rachel_Carson

[Year 135 – 1995: Always, Rachel: The Letters of Rachel Carson and Dorothy Freeman, 1952-1964 | 150 Years in the Stacks]
May 21, 2011 · While overseeing the cottage’s construction on Southport Island in 1953, Carson met summer residents Dorothy and Stanley Freeman. Dorothy had read and admired The Sea Around Us, and had written to Rachel in the fall of 1952 to welcome her as a new neighbor.
URL: https://libraries.mit.edu/150books/2011/05/21/1995/

[queerplaces - Dorothy M. Freeman]
Rachel Carson first met Dorothy Freeman in the Summer of 1953 in Southport Island, Maine. Freeman had written to Carson welcoming her to the area when she had heard that the famous author was to become her neighbor. It was the beginning of an extremely close friendship that would last the rest of Carson's life. Their relationship was conducted mainly through letters, and during summers spent ...
URL: http://www.elisarolle.com/queerplaces/ch-d-e/Dorothy%20M.%20Freeman.html

[Remember the Monarchs - Island Institute]
Rachel Carson, far right; the other adults are Stanley and Madeleine Freeman. The boy wearing glasses is Roger Christie, Carson’s adopted son. Rachel Carson and Dorothy Freeman met when Carson moved to Maine and became the best of friends. Carson was an unmarried 46-year-old woman and Freeman a 55-year-old wife, mother, and grandmother when they met.
URL: https://www.islandinstitute.org/island-journal/remember-the-monarchs/

[Always, Rachel: The Letters of Rachel Carson and Dorothy Freeman, 1952 ...]
Martha Freeman is the granddaughter of Dorothy E. Freeman. She is the author of a wide variety of books, including many for children. Award-winning author Rachel Carson (1907-1964) was one of the greatest American natural history writers of the twentieth century. In addition to the environmental classic Silent Spring, her books include Under the Sea Wind, The Edge of the Sea, and The Sea ...
URL: https://books.google.com/books/about/Always_Rachel.html?id=teJWEAAAQBAJ


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Rachel Carson - Wikipedia] ---
Rachel Louise Carson (May 27, 1907 – April 14, 1964) was an American marine biologist, writer, and conservationist whose sea trilogy (1941–1955) and book Silent Spring (1962) are credited with advancing marine conservation and the global environmental movement.
Carson began her career as an aquatic biologist in the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries, and became a full-time nature writer in the 1950s. Her widely praised 1951 bestseller The Sea Around Us won her a U.S. National Book Award, recognition as a gifted writer, and financial security. Its success prompted the republication of her first book, Under the Sea Wind (1941), in 1952, which was followed by The Edge of the Sea in 1955 — both were also bestsellers. This sea trilogy explores the whole of ocean life from the shores to the depths.
Late in the 1950s, Carson turned her attention to conservation, especially some problems she believed were caused by synthetic pesticides. The result was the book Silent Spring (1962), which brought environmental concerns to an unprecedented share of the American people. Although Silent Spring was met with fierce opposition by chemical companies, it spurred a reversal in national pesticide policy, which led to a nationwide ban on DDT and other pesticides. It also inspired a grassroots environmental movement that led to the creation of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Carson was posthumously awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Jimmy Carter.




--- [Year 135 – 1995: Always, Rachel: The Letters of Rachel Carson and Dorothy Freeman, 1952-1964 | 150 Years in the Stacks] ---
Published: Boston, 1995 Spring moves over the temperate lands of our Northern Hemisphere in a tide of new life, of pushing green shoots and unfolding buds … the different sound of the wind which stirs the young leaves where a month ago it rattled the bare branches. These things we associate with the land, and it is easy to suppose that at sea there could be no such feeling of advancing spring. But the signs are there, and seen with the understanding eye, they bring the same magical sense of awakening. In The Sea Around Us, Rachel Carson drew on her professional experience as a marine biologist to write about oceanography for a general readership. Her science was solid, but her engaging style was also imbued with a poetic “sense of wonder” (a theme to which she often returned). The book was a bestseller when it was published in 1951, and the royalties it generated brought her financial independence and allowed her to realize her dream of building a summer cottage in Maine. At home in Maryland she lived with and cared for her elderly mother, and supported an ailing niece and grandnephew. In her visits to Maine, she could devote herself fully to her writing in the coastal surroundings she dearly loved. While overseeing the cottage’s construction on Southport Island in 1953, Carson met summer residents Dorothy and Stanley Freeman. Dorothy had read and admired The Sea Around Us, and had written to Rachel in the fall of 1952 to welcome her as a new neighbor. During their brief time together that first summer, Rachel and Dorothy formed an immediate friendship as they explored the marine life of the local tide pools. Their bond deepened in intimacy and affection through the letters they wrote upon returning home, Dorothy to Massachusetts, and Rachel to Maryland. Their correspondence continued through the years during the fall, winter, and spring months that they spent away from each other. For both Rachel and Dorothy, their relationship filled a need that no one else could. If the basis of their friendship lay in their shared “sense of wonder” at the natural world around them, in their letters what is most evident – and most moving – is their unceasing sense of wonder at having found one another. Always, Rachel is a beautifully compiled volume of their 12-year correspondence. It was during these years that Rachel Carson wrote her seminal work, Silent Spring. She did not lightly take on the task of researching and documenting the destructive effects of DDT and other chemicals, but she felt she had to. A clarion call to the dangers of the reckless use of herbicides and pesticides, Silent Spring caused an uproar after the first of three installments appeared in the June 15, 1962 issue of The New Yorker. The personal attacks from the chemical industry were even more vicious than Carson anticipated, but the ensuing publicity ultimately helped her cause. And her science was solid: the report of an advisory panel – established by MIT’s Jerome Wiesner, science advisor to President Kennedy – supported her findings, with the recommendation that “elimination of pesticides should be a goal” (though Carson herself called only for regulation and ecological balance, not a total ban). By the time Silent Spring was published, Carson knew it would be her last book. Since 1958, she had been struggling with cancer, arthritis, and heart disease. She lived to see the initial impact of her work, and found satisfaction in achieving what she’d set out to do. But since then it has become clear: Silent Spring laid the foundation for a new ecological consciousness – it changed the world. Rachel Carson died at age 56 on April 14, 1964. Always, Rachel ends with the last letters Dorothy would receive from Rachel. Written in January and April of 1963, Rachel left them to be delivered to Dorothy posthumously. In her January 24 letter, she wrote: Darling [Dorothy], I have been coming to the realization that suddenly there might be no chance to speak to you again and it seems I must leave a word of goodbye … When I think back to the many farewells that have marked the decade (almost) of our friendship, I realize they have almost been inarticulate. I remember chiefly the great welling up of thoughts that somehow didn’t get put into words – the silences heavy with things unsaid. But then we knew or hoped there was always to be another chance – and always the letters to fill the gaps … What I want to write of is the joy and fun and gladness we have shared – for these are the things I want you to remember – I want to live on in your memories of happiness. I shall write more of those things. But tonight I’m weary and must put out the light. Meanwhile, there is this word – and my love that will always live. And on April 30, 1963: My darling, You are starting on your way to me in the morning, but I have such a strange feeling that I may not be here when you come – so this is just an extra little note of farewell, should that happen. There have been many pains (heart) in the past few days, and I’m weary in every bone. And tonight there is something strange about my vision, which may mean nothing. But of course I thought, what if I can’t write – can’t see to write – tomorrow? So, a word before I turn out the light… And her closing words: Darling – if the heart does take me off suddenly, just know how much easier it would be for me that way. But I do grieve to leave my dear ones. As for me, however, it is quite all right. Not long ago I sat late in my study and played Beethoven, and achieved a feeling of real peace and even happiness. Never forget, dear one, how deeply I have loved you all these years. Rachel


--- [queerplaces - Dorothy M. Freeman] ---
Queer Places: Silverledges, Southport, ME 04576, Stati Uniti Dorothy Murdoch Freeman (1898 – August, 1978) was born in Somerville, Massachusetts. She grew up in the coastal town of Marblehead, Massachusetts. Her mother's family (Whitney) was one of the first families to settle in Southport (in the 1880's) and Dorothy and her family spent their summers there. From 1916-1919 Dorothy attended the Framingham State Normal School. She taught home economics in high school until 1921 when she found a job with the Massachusetts Cooperative Extension Service in Amherst. In 1924 she became a regional director of 4H. Dorothy married Stanley Freeman in 1924. Stanley Freeman was studying animal nutrition at the Massachusetts Agricultural College (now University of Massachusetts) and when he graduated he found a job as an agricultural agent. Since married women were prohibited from teaching, Dorothy resigned her job. Stanley Jr., their only child, was born in 1926. Stan Sr. began working for the Wirthmore Feed Company and rose to become manager of the service department. Stanley Jr. attended Bates College (Class 1947), interrupting his study when he joined the Navy. Stanley Jr. married Madeleine Richard, (Bates Class 1947) in 1948. They had two children-Martha, born in 1953, and Richard, born in 1955. Rachel Carson first met Dorothy Freeman in the Summer of 1953 in Southport Island, Maine. Freeman had written to Carson welcoming her to the area when she had heard that the famous author was to become her neighbor. It was the beginning of an extremely close friendship that would last the rest of Carson's life. Their relationship was conducted mainly through letters, and during summers spent together in Maine. Over the course of 12 years, they would exchange somewhere in the region of 900 letters. Many of these were published in the book Always, Rachel, published in 1995 by Beacon Press. Stanley Freeman Sr. died in January 1964. Rachel Carson died in April 1964. In 1968, Dorothy married Arthur Rand. In 1970 Arthur Rand died. Dorothy Murdoch Freeman Rand died in August 1978. My published books:


--- [Remember the Monarchs - Island Institute] ---
Remember the Monarchs Rachel Carson’s Last Summer at Southport By Edgar Allen Beem Photos by Michele Stapleton “When the tide is high on a rocky shore, when its brimming fullness creeps up almost to the bayberry and the junipers where they come down from the land, one might easily suppose that nothing at all lived in or on or under these waters of the sea’s edge.” So wrote Rachel Carson, perhaps the greatest environmentalist of the 20thcentury, in The Edge of the Sea. Carson was describing the littoral landscape just below her small summer cottage on Southport Island west of Boothbay Harbor. The low, one-story silvery gray home with its seaside deck sits like a wooden gull above the shore of the Sheepscot River between Dogfish Head and Hendricks Head Light. Rachel Carson’s cottage on Southport Island. The Carson cottage is an accurate reflection of the woman herself. A modest dwelling simply furnished with pine paneling, rattan chairs, books, nautical charts, sunlight, and sea air, her summer home is an artifact of the 1960s, intimate and authentic in ways that very few Maine summer cottages are anymore. The cottage defers to the site, hiding atop the ledges in the trees, not calling attention to itself. Just so, Rachel Carson was a modest woman who lived a quiet life beside the sea, yet her work had a global impact. Carson (1907-1964) was a federal employee much of her working life, but her sea trilogy—Under the Sea-Wind (1941), The Sea Around Us (1951), and The Edge of the Sea (1955), established her as one of America’s leading nature writers. Silent Spring (1962), Carson’s bombshell documentation of chemicals in the environment, led directly to the banning of DDT and indirectly to the founding the Environmental Protection Agency. * * * Rachel Carson first came to Maine in 1946, renting a cottage for a month near Boothbay Harbor with her mother. In 1953, she built the cottage on Southport Island where she spent the happiest years of her life. “Maine was her haven. It was her laboratory and it gave her the solitude to write,” says Martha Freeman, who edited the voluminous letters between Carson and her Freeman’s grandmother, Dorothy Freeman, and published them as Always, Rachel (1995). “Without Maine in her life, she couldn’t have done Silent Spring. Maine was her refuge. It re-energized her. It was her relation with nature. And she had my grandmother.” Rachel Carson, far right; the other adults are Stanley and Madeleine Freeman. The boy wearing glasses is Roger Christie, Carson’s adopted son. Rachel Carson and Dorothy Freeman met when Carson moved to Maine and became the best of friends. Carson was an unmarried 46-year-old woman and Freeman a 55-year-old wife, mother, and grandmother when they met. In Maine, they explored the shores and woods together, sharing a love of nature and a companionship in the outdoors. Freeman became Carson’s best reader, confidant, and kindred soul. Carson was the writer Freeman had hoped to become. When they returned home—Carson to Silver Springs, Maryland and Freeman to West Bridgewater, Massachusetts, they wrote so often that Martha Freeman inherited an entire maroon plaid suitcase full of their correspondence, some 750 letters in all. Though she became a major figure in the public life of America with the publication of Silent Spring, Carson was a very private person. One of the amazing things about her was how much she was able to accomplish despite the weight of family responsibilities that fell to her. As an unmarried daughter, Carson became the caretaker for her aged mother. When her older sister died, leaving two young daughters, she took on that responsibility as well. When one of her nieces died at 31, leaving a five-year-old son, Carson dutifully adopted her grandnephew Roger Christie as her own son. All this while working full-time for the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service and writing her books. * * * When Silent Spring appeared in 1962, Carson found herself taking on not only the chemical industry, but government regulators and the media as well. For questioning the amount of toxic chemicals being pumped into the atmosphere, she was attacked as a spinster, a pseudo-scientist and a mystic. Time magazine, to its everlasting shame, was especially hard on Carson, calling Silent Spring “unfair, one-sided, hysterically overemphatic” and “nonsense.” The unnamed author of the Time review claimed DDT was perfectly safe, citing a government scientist who claimed to have fed 200 times the “safe” level of DDT to convicts for months with “no ill effects.” The fact that Carson was able to prevail over industry, regulators, and media critics, says her son Roger Christie, who inherited the Southport cottage, was a function of the kind of person Rachel Carson was. “She was a pretty compelling person,” says Christie. “She was good and she was thorough. She took great pains to document everything she was doing. She would just lock herself away and work. I’d ask her to do something and she’d say, ‘No, I’m in the study footnoting.’ The fact that she did it all while she was dying is even more remarkable. She wanted someone else to do it, but she couldn’t find anyone, so she did it herself.” Carson struggled with cancer and a heart condition the last few years of her life, though male doctors never gave her the full diagnosis, as women were felt to be too fragile to handle the truth. Then, as now, an earnest person in possession of a scientific truth could be subjected to partisan attacks and charges of fake news, but Rachel Carson only needed an audience of three powerful men to get her Silent Spring message out to the world. New Yorker editor William Shawn serialized the book, CBS Reports news anchor Eric Sevaried presented Carson to an audience of 15 million viewers, and President John F. Kennedy saw to it that Carson’s findings in Silent Springwere included in “The Uses of Pesticides,” a report of the President’s Science Advisory Committee. “She was the apex of something going on all around the country,” says Martha Freeman, that something being the dawning of an environmental consciousness, the realization that human beings are part of the natural world, not separate and apart from it. “She was laser-focused, an efficient organizer, an excellent researcher, a great writer. And Kennedy wanted the facts. Government officials believed one of their constituencies was the facts, reality. That doesn’t seem to be true today.” * * * After the watershed Silent Spring year, Rachel Carson sought refuge in Maine the following summer, her last summer on Southport. She and young Roger arrived on June 25, 1963, and Roger, 11, was quickly sent off to camp at Chewonki for the month of July. In mid-summer, Rachel Carson sent a note to Dorothy Freeman asking, “Would you help me search for a fairy cave on an August moon and low, low tide? I would love to try once more, for the memories are precious.” The tide pools, stone beaches, and sea caves along the rocky Southport shore were Carson’s favorite marine landscapes. She loved nothing better than spending her time exploring the marine life at the edge of the sea. But when he returned from summer camp, Roger Christie discovered that Carson had been unable to climb down over the steep ledges to the rocks below the cottage. “I knew she was ill,” recalls Christie, “but I didn’t know she was dying.” Carson’s last tide pool expedition took place remotely in September 1963 when Christie, his friend Martha Freeman, and Martha’s parents brought specimens up to the cottage for Carson to examine under her microscope and then, at her insistence, dutifully returned them to the natural world. “She taught us to have respect for other forms of life on the planet and to be good stewards of the Earth,” says Christie of his mother’s legacy. On September 9, Carson’s cat Moppet died. The following morning she and Dorothy Freeman went to the Newagen Inn where they sat together on a bench above the shore watching the sea and sky and listening to the wind in the spruces, the surf on the rocks, and the gulls crying in the distance. The highlight of that outing was the spectacle of a drift of hundreds of Monarch butterflies, riding the breeze from milkweed to milkweed before lifting off for Mexico. Already in a funereal mood, the two women speculated that these lovely orange and black butterflies would not live to return to Southport. “But it occurred to me this afternoon,” wrote Carson to Freeman later that same day, “remembering that it has been a happy spectacle, that we had felt no sadness when we spoke of the fact that there would be no return. And rightly—for when any living thing has come to the end of its life cycle we accept that end as natural … when that intangible cycle has run its course it is a natural and not unhappy thing that a life comes to an end … That is what those brightly fluttering bits of life taught me this morning. I found a deep happiness in it—so, I hope, may you. Thank you for this morning.” Carson died the following spring, April 14, 1964, in a Cleveland hospital without ever returning to Maine. Christie, Dorothy Freeman and the people who loved her scattered some of her ashes along the shore below the Newagen Inn. A pair of white Adirondack chairs mark the spot, a comfortable perch from which to contemplate the natural world. On a quiet morning when no gulls call and lobster boats are too far off to be heard, silent clouds propelled by invisible winds cast shadows on the eternal rock and the gray-green brine from which we all came and to which we all return. Just below the chairs is a bronze plaque mounted on a split boulder, marking where Rachel Carson’s earthly remains were returned to the sea. “But most all,” reads the inscription, “I shall remember the Monarchs.” Edgar Allen Beem is a freelance writer living in Brunswick. He has written about the cultural life of Maine since 1978 in such publications as Maine Times, Down East, Yankee, Boston Globe Magazine, The Forecaster, Maine Arts Journal and Island Journal.


--- [Always, Rachel: The Letters of Rachel Carson and Dorothy Freeman, 1952 ...] ---
Always, Rachel: The Letters of Rachel Carson and Dorothy Freeman, 1952–1964These letters between the pioneering environmentalist and her beloved friend reveal "a vibrant, caring woman behind the scientist" ( Los Angeles Times). "Rachel Carson, author of The Silent Spring, has been celebrated as the pioneer of the modern environmental movement. Although she wrote no autobiography, she did leave letters, and those she exchanged—sometimes daily—with Dorothy Freeman, some 750 of which are collected here, are perhaps more satisfying than an account of her own life. In 1953, Carson became Freeman's summer neighbor on Southport Island, ME. The two discovered a shared love for the natural world—their descriptions of the arrival of spring or the song of a hermit thrush are lyrical—but their friendship quickly blossomed, as each realized she had found in the other a kindred spirit. To read this collection is like eavesdropping on an extended conversation that mixes the mundane events of the two women's family lives with details of Carson's research and writing and, later, her breast cancer. . . . Few who read these letters will forget these remarkable women and their even more remarkable bond." — Publishers Weekly "Darting, fresh, sensuous, pleasingly elliptical at times, these letters also serve to tether the increasingly deified Carson firmly to earth—just where she'd want to be." — Kirkus Reviews (starred review) "It is not often that a collection of letters reveals character, emotional depth, personality, indeed intellect and talent, as well as a full biography might; these letters do all that." — The New York Times Book Review "Provides insight into the creative process and a look into the daily lives of two intelligent, perceptive women whose family responsibilities were, at times, almost crushing." — Library Journal "Dotted with vivid observations of the natural world and perceptive commentary on friendship, family, fame, and life itself, Always, Rachel will appeal to readers interested in biography and women's studies as well as those drawn to nature writing and the history of the environmental movement." — Booklist Online | Other editions - View all Always, Rachel: The Letters of Rachel Carson and Dorothy Freeman, 1952-1964 Rachel Carson No preview available - 1996 |
