=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Weight and balance | Guggenheim Museum Bilbao]
This causes his works to be full of tension, like in One–Ton Prop (House of Cards), 1969, where four lead plates are vertically sustained by their own weight by ...
URL: https://www.guggenheim-bilbao.eus/en/learn/schools/teachers-guides/weight-and-balance

[MUCH Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of MUCH is great in quantity, amount, extent, or degree. How to use much in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/much

[Richard Serra’s One Ton Prop (House of Cards ... - Public ...]
Richard Serra has undeniably consolidated his career in contemporary art through his many controversial works including his now well known installation One Top Prop. Most Richard Serra exhibitions have elicited debates and discussions. In some cases, visitors have even sustained injuries, and there have even been some incidences of death recorded.
URL: https://publicdelivery.org/richard-serra-one-ton-prop/

[Richard Serra Is Carrying the Weight of the World]
Aug 29, 2019 — Serra's early masterwork, “One Ton Prop (House of Cards),” from 1969, consists of an imposing four-foot cube whose lead-plate sides remain ...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/28/arts/design/richard-serra-gagosian-sculpture.html

[Much - definition of much by The Free Dictionary]
1. A large quantity or amount: Much has been written. 2. Something great or remarkable: The campus wasn't much to look at.
URL: https://www.thefreedictionary.com/much


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Weight and balance | Guggenheim Museum Bilbao] ---
Weight and balance “ For me weight is an essential value; it’s not that it’s more attractive than lightness, but I simply know more about the heavy than about the light and therefore I have more things to say about it, more to say about the balance of weight, the reduction of weight, the addition and subtraction of weight, the concentration of weight, the manipulation of weight, the retention of weight”(1). One–Ton Prop (House of Cards), 1969 Lead antimony. Four plates, each: 121,9 x 121,9 cm Museum of Modern Art, New York. Gift of the Grinstein family Photo: Peter Moore Introduction Notwithstanding their great weight and size, the plates that form Richard Serra’s (San Francisco, USA 1939) sculptures aren’t permanently anchored to the floor, but held in balance. The artist calculates in advance and in great detail the shape and weight that the plates should have so that they can stand by themselves. Serra feels a profound fascination for weight: with his works he searches to underline the psychological and spiritual effects that weight has in our lives. He feels more related to “heaviness” than to “lightness”. For Serra, weight is a physical condition to which we are all condemned to by the force of gravity. In his works heavy steel or lead plates are free standing without any other support. This causes his works to be full of tension, like in One–Ton Prop (House of Cards), 1969, where four lead plates are vertically sustained by their own weight by having them lean against each other, like in a house of cards. In the last thirty five years, Serra has used primarily steel to make his sculptures, allowing their scale increase considerably. The scale, weight and height of the installation titled The Matter of Time are monumental. The lightest piece weights 44 tons and the heaviest 276 tons. All of them are more than four metres tall and around five centimeters thick. The artist does a previous exhaustive study of the structural principles of the material in relationship with the weight and mass to be able to achieve an extreme tension in his works. These works situate us in an ambiguous space, where weight becomes light. The enormous mass, despite its weight, becomes airy. Serra transforms a steel plate into a floating object by folding it in particular ways. Weight and balance, gravity and grace provoke opposite reactions and feelings in the spirit of the viewer allowing multiple reactions to the work The artist has arranged the pieces of The Matter of Time in such a way that the viewer is able to move through them and through the space surrounding them, so as to maximize the visual impact of their physical presence. Serra, in his study of weight and balance, uses the observation of the human body as a vivid and moving example of tension. In this way, his pieces can be compared to a dancer, who, through his dance, defies gravity through movement and balance. 1 Richard Serra. Exhibition Catalogue. Serra. January 28–March 23, Museo Nacional Reina Sofía, Madrid, 1992, p.9. Preguntas Name everyday objects that are heavy and others that are light. What sensations do heavy objects cause you? And the light ones? Name heavy and light materials. How can a heavy material turn into a light one? And vice versa? Serra affirms that he feels closer to “heavyness” than to “lightness”, what do you think he means? To understand his preference you can read the quote that appears at the beginning of this folder. Which preference–heaviness or lightness– do you identify with more? Show your students an image of the work One–Ton Prop (House of Cards) and ask them: How would you feel if you were close to this piece? Would it provoke the same effect on you if it was made out of a different material? In his works, Serra doesn’t use glue nor nails…how do you think that this piece can stand by itself? Why doesn’t the artist use anything to fix it to the floor? Serra titles this work One–Ton Prop (House of Cards). What does the title of the work suggest to you? Why do you think it has a double title? The size of things affects our perception of them. How does the size of a sculpture affect our way of looking at it? Imagine Serra’s sculptures in a much smaller scale: how would your perception of them change? Why do you think Serra chose to create them in such a large scale? Why do you think that Serra pays attention to dancers to study issues of weight and balance? What relationship can there be between a sculpture and a dancer?


--- [MUCH Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 a : great in quantity, amount, extent, or degree There is much truth in what you say. taken too much time b : great in importance or significance nothing much happened 2 obsolete : many in number 3 : more than is expected or acceptable : more than enough The large pizza is a bit much for one person. We spent so much money. see also: more; most 1 a(1) : to a great degree or extent : considerably much happier (2) : very much gratified b(1) : frequently, often doesn't visit the family much (2) : by or for a long time didn't get to work much before noon c : by far was much the brightest student 2 : nearly, approximately looks much the way his father did see also: 1 : a great quantity, amount, extent, or degree She gave away much of what she owned. 2 : something considerable or impressive was not much to look at see also: Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [Richard Serra’s One Ton Prop (House of Cards ... - Public ...] ---
Introduction Richard Serra 1 has undeniably consolidated his career in contemporary art through his many controversial works 2 including his now well known installation One Top Prop. Most Richard Serra exhibitions have elicited debates and discussions. In some cases, visitors have even sustained injuries, and there have even been some incidences of death recorded. This sculpture killed a laborer For instance, in November 1971, Richard Serra’s One Ton Prop turned deadly suddenly when a rigger known as Raymond Johnson was trapped after one of the plates from the sculptor slipped from its frail support and fell. Unfortunately, Raymond passed away, but his wife filed a lawsuit 34 against the artist and the museum. In the end, Richard Serra was exonerated; it was the fabricators of the steel plates that were found negligent after constructing the plates shoddily. Another accident occurred in October 1988 during Serra’s two-person exhibition 56 alongside Bruce Nauman 7 at the Castelli gallery 8 in New York 9. The 32-ton heavy steel sculpture Reading Cones (1988) pinned two workers 1011 for some minutes when it fell from its jacks. What Richard Serra is famous for Serra’s pieces have always resembled architectural relics more than they have giant sculptures. Serra is famous for incorporating curved spaces and arcs, as well as many other elements of architecture 12 in his works, such as in his well-known work Tilted Art, 1981 1314. Like architects, Serra has also always designed his works to be explored by the audience. In One Ton Prop, the audience could enter, walk in and out and interact with the artwork. The capacity to explore pieces this way allowed the audience to gain a unique experience by touching, feeling and in a way communicating with the works. About One Top Prop One Ton Prop, although deadly, was the outcome of Serra’s most mature works, managing to combine elements of weight, gravity, counterforce and other properties of architecture in the piece. The work, contrary to popular belief, was not an abstract form but a sculpture. Serra constructed and designed the strips of lead and steel to lean against one another. As such, Serra did not use bolts or rivets to join the pieces together. He simply wanted to develop a sculpture that depended on its inner stability. Speaking about One Ton Prop (House of Cards), Serra said 1516: Even though it seemed it might collapse, it was in fact freestanding. You could see through it, look into it, walk around it, and I thought, ‘There’s no getting around it. This is sculpture. The meaning of the work The purpose of creating the One Ton Prop was to use gravity to attack the steadiness and permanence of form. Serra established the conditions of gravitational balance where every part of the structure was necessary for the whole to remain propped. In the end, the piece was a fluid work that existed in a state of tension, which pointed toward the unchanging state of the being. It also helped to point out the emotions that human beings experience internally and externally in relation to their environment.


--- [Richard Serra Is Carrying the Weight of the World] ---
Richard Serra Is Carrying the Weight of the World The 80-year-old artist, unlike his modernist forebears, counts pounds. He calls one coming exhibition his “heaviest show ever.” Supported by What do we talk about when we talk about sculpture? Not pounds or kilograms, for sure. It hardly deepens our view of Giacometti’s spindly figures or Calder’s light-as-air mobiles, or even the pioneering brown-hued “Guitar” that Picasso assembled from sheet metal, to know they weigh, say, 50 or 60 or 100 pounds. But Richard Serra, unlike his modernist forebears, counts pounds. “This is my heaviest show ever,” he said with a hint of pride, when we met recently in his studio. It was an August weekend, and the streets of TriBeCa, where he lives and works in a six-story brick building, had emptied out. The 80-year-old artist was preparing for a somewhat crazed fall season. Three exhibitions of his new work will open simultaneously, in mid-September, at the Gagosian Gallery’s spaces in Chelsea and on the Upper East Side. Add to that the unveiling of a not-slight piece at the Museum of Modern Art. “Equal” (2015), a room-sized assembly of eight, 40-ton forged-steel blocks that together weigh more than a Boeing 777, will occupy its own gallery in the new David Geffen Wing when the museum reopens on Oct. 21. Mr. Serra, the best-known living sculptor in America, might seem out of step with our increasingly virtual world. In an age when visual satisfactions scroll by on Instagram in seconds, he revels in the physical — enshrining abstract forms as maximalist feats of mass and scale. Tellingly, his medium is steel, whose production in this country peaked in the middle of the 20th century. Does he see his sculpture as distinctly masculine? “It’s not feminine,” he replies, sitting at a table in his studio. He was dressed in a black turtleneck and black pants, an intense figure with Slavic cheekbones and a steady gaze. Does he see any tenderness in his work? He appeared surprised by the question. “I don’t think in those terms,” he replied. “It sounds like you are talking about steak.” Related Content Advertisement


--- [Much - definition of much by The Free Dictionary] ---
much Also found in: Thesaurus, Medical, Acronyms, Idioms, Encyclopedia, Wikipedia. much (mŭch)much (mʌtʃ)much (mʌtʃ)adj. more, most, adj. much You use very much to say that something is true to a great extent. When very much is used with a transitive verb, it usually goes after the object. Don't use it immediately after the verb. Don't say, for example, 'I enjoyed very much the party'. Say 'I enjoyed the party very much'. Be Careful! In positive sentences, don't use much without very. Don't say, for example, 'I enjoyed it much' or 'We much agree' Say 'I enjoyed it very much' or 'We very much agree'. In negative sentences, you can use much without 'very'. You can also use much in negative sentences and questions to mean 'often'. Be Careful! Don't use 'much' in positive sentences to mean 'often'. Don't say, for example, 'He comes here much'. Many other words and expressions can be used to indicate degree. You often use much or very much in front of comparative adjectives and adverbs. For example, if you want to emphasize the difference in size between two things, you can say that one thing is much bigger or very much bigger than the other. Much more and very much more can be used in front of a noun to emphasize the difference between two quantities or amounts. You use much too in front of an adjective to say that something cannot be done or achieved because someone or something has too much of a quality. Be Careful! In sentences like these you put much in front of too, not after it. Don't say, for example, 'The bedrooms were too much cold'. You use much in front of an uncountable noun to talk about a large quantity or amount of something. Much is usually used like this in negative sentences, in questions, or after too, so, or as. In positive sentences, a lot of is usually used instead of 'much', especially in conversation and less formal writing. In more formal writing, much is sometimes used, especially before abstract nouns such as discussion, debate, or attention. In front of it, this, or that, use much of, not 'much'. You also use much of in front of a noun phrase which begins with a determiner, such as the or a, or a possessive, such as my or his. In positive sentences, a lot of is usually used instead of 'much of', especially in conversation and less formal writing. You can use much as a pronoun to refer to a large quantity or amount of something. Be Careful! You don't usually use 'much' as an object pronoun in positive sentences. Instead you use a lot. For example, don't say 'He knows much about butterflies'. Say 'He knows a lot about butterflies'. You use how much when you are asking the price of something. Be Careful! Don't use 'much' or 'much of' with plural countable nouns, to talk about a large number of people or things. Use many or many of. | Noun | 1. | much - a great amount or extent; "they did much for humanity" large indefinite amount, large indefinite quantity - an indefinite quantity that is above the average in size or magnitude | | Adj. | 1. | much - (quantifier used with mass nouns) great in quantity or degree or extent; "not much rain"; "much affection"; "much grain is in storage" more, more than - (comparative of `much' used with mass nouns) a quantifier meaning greater in size or amount or extent or degree; "more land"; "more support"; "more rain fell"; "more than a gallon" slight, little - (quantifier used with mass nouns) small in quantity or degree; not much or almost none or (with `a') at least some; "little rain fell in May"; "gave it little thought"; "little time is left"; "we still have little money"; "a little hope remained"; "there's slight chance that it will work"; "there's a slight chance it will work" | | Adv. | 1. | much - to a great degree or extent; "she's much better now" | | 2. | much - very; "he was much annoyed" | | | 3. | much - to a very great degree or extent; "I feel a lot better"; "we enjoyed ourselves very much"; "she was very much interested"; "this would help a great deal" | | | 4. | much - (degree adverb used before a noun phrase) for all practical purposes but not completely; "much the same thing happened every time"; "practically everything in Hinduism is the manifestation of a god" | | | 5. | much - frequently or in great quantities; "I don't drink much"; "I don't travel much" | much greatly hardly, slightly, barely, not much, only just, scarcely, not a lot great little, inadequate, insufficient, scant a lot little, very little, not much, not a lot, next to nothing, hardly anything, practically nothing "much of a muchness" [John Vanburgh & Colley Cibber The Provok'd Husband] much nounmuch [mʌtʃ]there isn't much time → no tenemos mucho tiempo → tenemos poco tiempo much crime goes unreported → hay muchos crímenes que no se denuncian I haven't got as much energy as you → no tengo tanta energía como tú how much sugar do you want? → ¿cuánto azúcar quieres? so much tea → tanto té she's got so much energy → tiene tanta energía too much jam → demasiada mermelada f we haven't got too much time → no tenemos demasiado tiempo very much → mucho we haven't very much time → no tenemos mucho tiempo, tenemos poco tiempo without much money → sin mucho dinero she doesn't go out much → no sale mucho it doesn't much matter; it doesn't matter much → no importa mucho I much regret that → siento mucho que ... it won't finish much before midnight → no terminará mucho antes de la media noche much better → mucho mejor he's much richer than I am or than me → es mucho más rico que yo much pleased → muy satisfecho much as I would like to go → a pesar de que me gustaría mucho ir, aunque me gustaría mucho ir much as I should like to → por mucho que quisiera much as I like him → aunque or a pesar de que me gusta mucho much as he hated the idea → a pesar de lo que odiaba la idea ... much as I respect her ideas, I still think she's wrong → a pesar de que respeto mucho sus ideas or aunque respeto mucho sus ideas, creo que está equivocada however much he tries → por mucho que se esfuerce I hardly know her, much less her mother → apenas la conozco, y mucho menos a su madre not much → no mucho thank you (ever) so much → muchísimas gracias, muy agradecido I feel ever so much better → me siento muchísimo mejor much though I like him → por mucho que él me guste much though he hated the idea, he knew that → a pesar de lo que odiaba la idea, sabía que ... he had reservations about the scheme, much though he valued Alison's opinions → tenía sus dudas respecto al plan, a pesar de que valoraba mucho las opiniones de Alison much to my astonishment → para gran sorpresa mía he talks too much → habla demasiado very much → mucho I enjoyed myself very much → me divertí mucho much the biggest → con mucho el más grande I would much rather stay → prefiero mucho más quedarme they're much the same size → tienen más o menos el mismo tamaño they are much of an age → tienen casi la misma edad there isn't much to do → no hay mucho que hacer but much remains to be done → pero queda mucho que or por hacer you've got as much as she has → tienes tanto como ella it didn't cost as much as I had expected → no costó tanto como yo me esperaba it can cost as much as $2,000 → puede llegar a costar 2.000 dólares that's a bit much! → ¡eso es demasiado! there isn't much in it (between alternatives) → no hay mucha diferencia, no va mucho de uno a otro how much is it a kilo? → ¿cuánto vale el kilo? how much does it cost? → ¿cuánto cuesta? she won but there wasn't much in it → ganó, pero no por mucho she's not much to look at → físicamente no vale mucho to make much of sth → dar mucha importancia a algo much of this is true → gran parte de esto es verdad we don't see much of each other → no nos vemos mucho we haven't heard much of him lately → últimamente apenas sabemos nada de él I'm not much of a musician → sé muy poco de música, entiendo poco de música I'm not much of a cook → no cocino muy bien he's not much of a player → como jugador no vale mucho that wasn't much of a dinner → eso apenas se podía llamar cena we spent so much → gastamos tanto I've got so much to do → tengo tantísimo que hacer that's too much → eso es demasiado it's not up to much → no vale gran cosa much [ˈmʌtʃ]I haven't got much money → Je n'ai pas beaucoup d'argent. I don't want much rice → Je ne veux pas beaucoup de riz. not very much → pas beaucoup de I haven't got very much money → Je n'ai pas beaucoup d'argent. how much (+ noun) → combien de How much time have you got? → Tu as combien de temps? too much (+ noun) → trop de They give us too much homework → Ils nous donnent trop de devoirs. so much (+ noun) → tant de I've never seen so much traffic → Je n'ai jamais vu tant de circulation. There was so much traffic that → Il y avait tant de circulation que ... Do you go out much? → Tu sors beaucoup? I don't like sport much → Je n'aime pas beaucoup le sport. I feel much better now → Je me sens beaucoup mieux maintenant. very much → beaucoup I enjoyed the film very much → J'ai beaucoup apprécié le film. Thank you very much → Merci beaucoup. I like it very much → J'aime beaucoup ça. I like it so much → j'aime tellement ça much to my amazement ... → à mon grand étonnement ... not much (= only a small amount) → pas beaucoup Have you got a lot of luggage? - No, not much → As-tu beaucoup de bagages? - Non, pas beaucoup. (= nothing of value) → pas grand-chose What's on TV? - Not much → Qu'est-ce qu'il y a à la télé? - Pas grand-chose. What did you think of it? - Not much → Qu'est-ce que tu en as pensé? - Pas grand-chose. it's not much (= not a lot) → ce n'est pas beaucoup how much? → combien? How much do you want? → Tu en veux combien? how much is it? → combien est-ce que ça coûte? too much → trop That's too much! → C'est trop It costs too much → Ça coûte trop cher. so much → tant So much has happened → Il s'est passé tant de choses. not so much → pas autant I didn't think it would cost so much → Je ne pensais pas que ça coûterait autant. I thought as much → c'est bien ce que je pensais much much (matʃ) – comparative more (moː) : superlative most (moust) – adjectivemuch → كَثِيرٌ, كَثِيرَاً mnoho meget viel πολύ, πολύς mucho paljon beaucoup, une bonne partie mnogo, previše molto, troppo たくさん, 多くの, 大いに 대량, 많은, 매우 veel mye, svært dużo, ile, znaczny muito весьма, много mycket จำนวนมาก, มาก çokça, fazla lắm, nhiều, nhiều lắm 许多, 许多的, 非常much - Thank you very much - I like you very much - How much does it cost? - How much is it? - How much will it be? - Why are you charging me so much? - There's too much ... in it
