=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mars to Stay - Wikipedia]
[1] and, in June 2013, Aldrin promoted a crewed mission "to homestead Mars and become a two-planet species". [2] In August 2015, Aldrin, in association with the Florida Institute of Technology, presented a "master plan", for NASA consideration, for astronauts, with a "tour of duty of ten years", to colonize Mars before the year 2040. [3]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mars_to_Stay

[Buzz Aldrin - Wikipedia]
In a June 2013 opinion piece in The New York Times, Aldrin supported a human mission to Mars and which viewed the Moon "not as a destination but more a point of departure, one that places humankind on a trajectory to homestead Mars and become a two-planet species." In August 2015, in association ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buzz_Aldrin

[Buzz Aldrin joins university, forming ‘master plan’ for Mars]
Aug 27, 2015 · The 85-year-old Aldrin, who followed Neil Armstrong onto the moon’s surface on July 20, 1969, will serve as a research professor of aeronautics as well as a senior faculty adviser for the institute. He said he hopes his “master plan” is accepted by NASA and the country, with international input.
URL: https://apnews.com/buzz-aldrin-joins-university-forming-master-plan-for-mars-a2197530b5b34ad2b5fb262999ed342a

[12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com]
Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius).
URL: https://www.timeanddate.com/calendar/months/

[r/SpaceXMasterrace on Reddit: Elon's recent comment about "Moon is a distraction" reminded me of this scene from the first Trump administration.]
... Aldrin, in association with the Florida Institute of ... master plan", for NASA consideration, for astronauts, with a "tour of duty ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/SpaceXMasterrace/comments/1htf0d7/elons_recent_comment_about_moon_is_a_distraction/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mars to Stay - Wikipedia] ---
Mars to Stay missions propose that astronauts sent to Mars for the first time should intend to remain there. Unused emergency return vehicles would be recycled into settlement construction as soon as the habitability of Mars becomes evident to the initial pioneers. Mars to Stay missions are advocated both to reduce cost and to ensure permanent settlement of Mars. Among many notable Mars to Stay advocates, former Apollo astronaut Buzz Aldrin has been particularly outspoken, suggesting in numerous forums "Forget the Moon, Let’s Head to Mars!" and, in June 2013, Aldrin promoted a crewed mission "to homestead Mars and become a two-planet species". In August 2015, Aldrin, in association with the Florida Institute of Technology, presented a "master plan", for NASA consideration, for astronauts, with a "tour of duty of ten years", to colonize Mars before the year 2040. The Mars Underground, Mars Homestead Project / Mars Foundation, Mars One (defunct in 2019), and Mars Artists Community advocacy groups and business organizations have also adopted Mars to Stay policy initiatives.
The earliest formal outline of a Mars to Stay mission architecture was given at the Case for Mars VI Workshop in 1996, during a presentation by George Herbert titled "One Way to Mars".


--- [Buzz Aldrin - Wikipedia] ---
Buzz Aldrin ( AWL-drin; born Edwin Eugene Aldrin Jr.; January 20, 1930) is an American former astronaut, aeronautical engineer, and fighter pilot. He was the second person to walk on the Moon after mission commander Neil Armstrong. He made three spacewalks as pilot of the 1966 Gemini 12 mission, and was the Lunar Module Eagle pilot on the 1969 Apollo 11 mission. Following the deaths of Armstrong in 2012 and pilot Michael Collins in 2021, he is the last surviving Apollo 11 crew member. Following Jim Lovell's death in 2025, Aldrin became the oldest living astronaut.
Born in Glen Ridge, New Jersey, Aldrin graduated third in the class of 1951 from the United States Military Academy at West Point with a degree in mechanical engineering. He was commissioned into the United States Air Force and served as a jet fighter pilot during the Korean War. He flew 66 combat missions and shot down two MiG-15 fighter jets.
After earning a Doctor of Science degree in astronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Aldrin was selected as a member of NASA's Astronaut Group 3, making him the first astronaut with a doctoral degree. His doctoral thesis, Line-of-Sight Guidance Techniques for Manned Orbital Rendezvous, earned him the nickname "Dr. Rendezvous" from fellow astronauts. His first space flight was in 1966 on Gemini 12, during which he spent over five hours on extravehicular activity. Three years later, Aldrin set foot on the Moon at 03:15:16 on July 21, 1969 (UTC), nineteen minutes after Armstrong first touched the surface, while command module pilot Michael Collins remained in lunar orbit. A Presbyterian elder, Aldrin became the first person to hold a religious ceremony on the Moon, when he privately took communion, which was the first food and liquid to be consumed there.
After leaving NASA in 1971, Aldrin became Commandant of the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School. He retired from the Air Force in 1972 after 21 years of service. His autobiographies Return to Earth (1973) and Magnificent Desolation (2009) recount his struggles with clinical depression and alcoholism in the years after leaving NASA. Aldrin continues to advocate for space exploration, particularly a human mission to Mars. He developed the Aldrin cycler, a special spacecraft trajectory that makes travel to Mars more efficient in terms of time and propellant. He has been accorded numerous honors, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1969.




--- [Buzz Aldrin joins university, forming ‘master plan’ for Mars] ---
Buzz Aldrin joins university, forming ‘master plan’ for Mars MELBOURNE, Fla. (AP) — Buzz Aldrin is teaming up with Florida Institute of Technology to develop “a master plan” for colonizing Mars within 25 years. The second man to walk on the moon took part in a signing ceremony Thursday at the university, less than an hour’s drive from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center. The Buzz Aldrin Space Institute is set to open this fall. The 85-year-old Aldrin, who followed Neil Armstrong onto the moon’s surface on July 20, 1969, will serve as a research professor of aeronautics as well as a senior faculty adviser for the institute. He said he hopes his “master plan” is accepted by NASA and the country, with international input. NASA already is working on the spacecraft and rockets to get astronauts to Mars by the mid-2030s. Aldrin is pushing for a Mars settlement by approximately 2040. More specifically, he’s shooting for 2039, the 70th anniversary of his own Apollo 11 moon landing, although he admits the schedule is “adjustable.” He envisions using Mars’ moons, Phobos and Deimos, as preliminary stepping stones for astronauts. He said he dislikes the label “one-way” and imagines tours of duty lasting 10 years. “The Pilgrims on the Mayflower came here to live and stay. They didn’t wait around Plymouth Rock for the return trip, and neither will people building up a population and a settlement” on Mars. As for Aldrin, he’s recently settled in nearby Satellite Beach, right on the Atlantic Ocean, after moving from California. He told reporters he considers it “a terminal assignment,” using Air Force jargon. “I’ve traded earthquakes and fires for hurricanes by coming to Florida,” he said. The press conference made reference to Aldrin’s recent celebrity pursuits. Florida Tech’s executive vice president, T. Dwayne McCay, greeted Aldrin by noting, “Everyone knows what Buzz Aldrin is most famous for, and that is being a contestant on ‘Dancing with the Stars.’” “Big Bang Theory,” Aldrin corrected. Aldrin — who has a doctorate in science from Massachusetts Institute of Technology — joins two other space fliers on the faculty: former shuttle astronauts Winston Scott and Sam Durrance. ___ Online: Florida Tech: http://www.fit.edu/ Aldrin: http://buzzaldrin.com/


--- [12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com] ---
Each month has either 28, 30, or 31 days during a common year, which has 365 days. During leap years, which occur nearly every 4 years, we add an extra (intercalary) day, Leap Day, on 29 February, making leap years 366 days long. This is to keep our current calendar aligned with the solar year and astronomical seasons marked by equinoxes and solstices. The 12 Months The Gregorian calendar consists of the following 12 months: - January (31 days) - March (31 days) - April (30 days) - May (31 days) - June (30 days) - July (31 days) - August (31 days) - September (30 days) - October (31 days) - November (30 days) - December (31 days) Tracking the Moon’s Orbit The months originated as a way to mark time and break up the year into shorter periods based on the Moon’s orbit around Earth. The word month is even derived from the word Moon. As far as we know, months were first used in Mesopotamia sometime between the years 500 BCE and 400 BCE to measure the natural period related to the lunar month, or synodic month, which is the time it takes for the Moon to go through all the Moon phases. Moon phases in your cityHow Many Have 28, 29, 30, or 31 Days? The Gregorian calendar has 4 months that are 30 days long and 7 months that are 31 days long. February is the only month that is 28 days long in common years and 29 days long in leap years. From 10 to 12 Months Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius). Calendar with holidaysThe Romans named some of the months after their position in the calendar year: September means the 7th month, October the 8th, November the 9th, and December the 10th month. However, when January and February were eventually added and the beginning of the calendar year was moved to January, the position of these months no longer corresponded with the original meaning of their names. Today, we still call the 9th month of the year September, the 7th month. The Islamic calendar, the Hebrew calendar, and the Hindu calendar also use months to divide up the year. Although the Gregorian calendar is the most commonly used calendar today, other calendars are still used in many parts of the world to calculate certain holidays and annual feasts. Old Names of Months Months in the ancient Roman calendar include:


--- [r/SpaceXMasterrace on Reddit: Elon's recent comment about "Moon is a distraction" reminded me of this scene from the first Trump administration.] ---
Elon's recent comment about "Moon is a distraction" reminded me of this scene from the first Trump administration. https://www.politico.com/story/2019/07/19/trump-nasa-apollo-11-1423151 “We don’t know what we’re going to find on Mars, but it certainly is going to be a trip that’s very interesting,” Trump said, after recounting the Apollo 11 mission and his White House’s focus on reviving the U.S. space program. “To get to Mars, you have to land on the moon, they say.” But, he asked, is it possible to bypass the moon and go straight to Mars? “We need to use the moon as a proving ground,” Bridenstine responded, explaining to the president that for a trip to Mars, “we’re going to have to be there for a long period of time, so we need to learn how to live and work on another world.” The administrator added that an additional wrinkle of Mars travel is that the red planet is only on the same side of the sun as Earth about once every two years. “So we have to be prepared to stay on Mars for long periods of time; we prove that out — on the moon — then we go onto Mars.” Trump then turned to [Michael] Collins. “How do you feel about it?” he asked. “Mars direct,” Collins nodded. “You like it direct?” Trump repeated. When Collins answered in the affirmative again, the president turned back to Bridenstine, seemingly convinced, and unperturbed by [Buzz] Aldrin’s dismissal of Collins as “impatient.” “It seems to me, Mars direct,” Trump shrugged. “I mean who knows better than these people? What about the concept of Mars direct?” Bridenstine again explained the drawbacks of bypassing the moon. “Think about this: We need to use the resources of another world in order to live and work for long periods of time,” he said, adding that the water-ice found on the moon would be an excellent source of life support and rocket fuel for a Mars mission as well as an untapped market for commercial space companies. BTW, despite Buzz calling Collins "impatient" (some media outlet claims he called Trump "impatient"), he actually is a big proponent of direct to Mars and stay for a long time: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mars_to_Stay former Apollo astronaut Buzz Aldrin has been particularly outspoken, suggesting in numerous forums "Forget the Moon, Let’s Head to Mars!"[1] and, in June 2013, Aldrin promoted a crewed mission "to homestead Mars and become a two-planet species".[2] In August 2015, Aldrin, in association with the Florida Institute of Technology, presented a "master plan", for NASA consideration, for astronauts, with a "tour of duty of ten years", to colonize Mars before the year 2040. So yeah, just some interesting space history to consider, before the shitstorm starts when Jared Isaacman announces NASA will go direct to Mars with SpaceX, skipping the Moon, in a few months...
