=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Donald Harry Sadler - RAS obituary - MacTutor History of Mathematics]
Sadler was appointed as a Temporary Assistant at a salary of £6 per week in HM Nautical Almanac Office (NAO) on 1930 October 13. At that time the Superintendent was L.J.Comrie, who was a pioneer in the use of commercial calculating machines for scientific computations and a master craftsman in the design and production of mathematical and ...
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Obituaries/Sadler_RAS/

[Donald Sadler - Wikipedia]
Comrie left the Nautical Almanac Office in 1936. A decision was taken to move the Office to the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, placing it under the direction of the Astronomer Royal, and Sadler was appointed a Chief Assistant at the observatory. Sadler was appointed Comrie's successor as Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac Office in 1937.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Sadler

[Donald Sadler (1908 - 1987) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics]
Sadler received an invitation to attend for interview for a post and was offered a position as Temporary Assistant to Comrie which he accepted, beginning work on 13 October 1930. Sadler learnt much from Comrie and was appointed Deputy Superintendent ...
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Sadler/

[Donald Sadler (August 22, 1908 — October 24, 1987), United Kingdom of Great Bri Astronomer | World Biographical Encyclopedia]
Sadler was promoted to Deputy Superintendent of the Office in 1933. Comrie left the Nautical Almanac Office in 1936. A decision was taken to move the Office to the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, placing it under the direction of the Astronomer Royal, and Sadler was appointed a Chief Assistant at the observatory.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/donald.sadler/2393420

[A History of the British Nautical Almanac Office]
by GA Wilkins · 1999 — Then L. J. Comrie and his successor, D. H. Sadler, greatly extended the work of the Office by producing additional publications for astronomy, navigation and ...
URL: https://adsabs.harvard.edu/full/1999naos.symp...55W


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Donald Harry Sadler - RAS obituary - MacTutor History of Mathematics] ---
Donald Harry Sadler was born in Dewsbury, Yorkshire, on 1908 August 22. He was the second son of James Wright Sadler, a master tailor, and Gertrude Jane (née Needham), formerly a schoolteacher. From 1919 to 1926 he attended the Wheelwright Grammar School in Dewsbury, where the headmaster, Leslie Sadler (no relation), was a very good mathematician and teacher. Donald won an Open Entrance Exhibition to Trinity College, Cambridge, where he was awarded a Senior Scholarship on the result of the second-year examinations. He obtained a B.A. degree with first-class honours in mathematics in 1929. He spent a further year in Cambridge and worked primarily in mathematical statistics under the guidance of G. Udney Yule, but he also kept up his earlier interest in celestial mechanics. He was awarded his M.A. degree in 1933. Sadler was appointed as a Temporary Assistant at a salary of £6 per week in HM Nautical Almanac Office (NAO) on 1930 October 13. At that time the Superintendent was L.J.Comrie, who was a pioneer in the use of commercial calculating machines for scientific computations and a master craftsman in the design and production of mathematical and astronomical tables. Sadler learnt much from him, and he was established and appointed Deputy Superintendent in 1933. The NAO was then based in the Royal Naval College at Greenwich, and Comrie reported directly to the Board of Admiralty. Comrie was suspended at short notice on 1936 August 19 and Sadler became Acting Superintendent. The Board decided that the NAO should become a part of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, and Sadler became a Chief Assistant to the Astronomer Royal, then H.S.Jones (later Sir Harold Spencer Jones); his appointment as the seventh Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac was confirmed on 1937 July 27. (The first person to hold this title was Thomas Young, who supervised the work of home-based computers and comparers as there was then no 'office'.) Sadler carried through to a successful conclusion several projects that had been initiated by Comrie, and new publications included Planetary Co-ordinates for 1940-1960, Interpolation and Allied Tables, the first Air Almanac (for the end of 1937), a 16-volume set of Astronomical Navigation Tables (AP 1618), and Apparent Places of Fundamental Stars (for 1941). During the Second World War the NAO was based in Bath with many other departments of the Admiralty, and its activities and staff were considerably expanded. The NAO produced tables and diagrams for use by the Army and the Air Force as well as for the Royal Navy; examples were corrections for gun-sound ranging, bomb-ballistic tables, and night-illumination diagrams. In all such projects Sadler played a major role in design, planning and execution. From 1941 to 1946 the NAO acted as the computing centre for the Admiralty Computing Service (ACS), of which the head, J.T.Todd, was based in London. Sadler had to plan and supervise all the computational work for a large number of special projects as well as for the astronomical and navigational almanacs and tables. The ACS produced over 100 reports; Sadler wrote some of them and edited them all. One of the major tasks undertaken during this period (and for many years after the end of the war) was the calculation of coordinates for use in plotting hyperbolic lattices on charts for the newly developed top-secret DECCA navigation system, which was first used on D-Day. Sadler's considerable wartime services to the nation were recognized by the award of the Order of the British Empire in 1948; and he also received the Thurlow Award of the US Institute of Navigation in the same year. He was elected Membre Correspondant du Bureau des Longitudes, Paris in 1950. The strong team of NAO and ACS staff that Sadler had built up was eventually split when a Mathematics Division was formed in the National Physical Laboratory in 1946. Sadler remained the Superintendent of the NAO, and so astronomy and navigation continued to benefit from his technical skills and leadership abilities. There was some cooperation between the NAO and the NPL over the next decade, but it is clear that the benefits to the nation would have been much greater if the team had formed the nucleus of a central computing facility for Government Departments in a National Mathematical Laboratory as Sadler and Todd had proposed. The post-war years saw other major changes in the NAO: the introduction of a new staff complement and grading structure within the Scientific Civil Service; the move from Bath to Herstmonceux to join some other departments of the renamed Royal Greenwich Observatory (RGO) in 1949; the acquisition of punched-card machines for computation and copy preparation; and the development of closer ties with the NAO of the US Naval Observatory in Washington. As a consequence of Sadler's shrewd judgement, strong determination and careful attention to detail, all these changes took place smoothly and the regular production work for the almanacs continued without apparent disruption. Sadler became strongly involved in the general administration of the RGO and in the promotion of greater international cooperation in the production of the almanacs, and yet he also made major contributions to the improvement of the almanacs, to the design of new auxiliary tables for astronavigation, and to the preparation of other new publications. For example, he made major contributions to: The Star Almanac for Land Surveyors (first published for 1951), The Abridged Nautical Almanac (completely redesigned in principle and layout for 1952), Interpolation and Allied Tables (completely new edition in 1956), Planetary Co-ordinates for 1960-1980 (1958), Subtabulation (1959), The Astronomical Ephemeris for 1960 (with its many changes from The Nautical Almanac and Astronomical Ephemeris for 1959), and The Explanatory Supplement to the Astronomical Ephemeris (1961). Sadler was the driving force behind a great deal of rationalization of the computation and publication of navigational and astronomical ephemerides. Some computations had been shared between the principal ephemeris offices for many years (even during the war), but the almanacs were still printed separately in many countries, with different layouts as well as in different languages. Sadler stressed the advantages of the use of camera-ready copy that could be prepared in one country and then distributed to other countries for use in the final printing process. This obviated much computation and proof-reading, and also meant that navigators and astronomers in many countries could use the same high-quality material. The initial step in this project was to unify the navigational almanacs and tables of the UK and USA; this involved an enormous amount of correspondence and delicate negotiations. Fortunately, Sadler established a very good working re-lationship with the Director of the Nautical Almanac Office of the US Naval Observatory, Dr G.M.Clemence. The first example of this approach was the Air Almanac, but the outstanding example is still the Nautical Almanac; the copy was prepared by using a card-controlled typewriter at Herstmonceux and this was copied photographically and distributed to eight countries by Her Majesty's Stationery Office. It was estimated that the NAO figures were used on a quarter of a million ships and boats throughout the world. Sadler was very disappointed that he could not get agreement to the introduction of an international fundamental astronomical ephemeris' based on a similar approach; in this case, Clemence was unable to get approval to change the name of the American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac and so from 1960 until 1980 the British and American astronomical almanacs had identical contents but different covers and title pages. Sadler did, however, convince Professor W. Fricke, Director of the Astronomisches Rechen Institut (ARI) at Heidelberg, of the value of this approach; the ARI stopped the publication of the Berliner Jahrbuch and took over from the NAO the production and publication of Apparent Places of Fundamental Stars from 1960. Throughout his career Sadler was involved in the activities and administration of several astronomical, mathematical and navigational organizations. In the early 1930s he was an active member of the Computing Section of the British Astronomical Association. He became a Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society in 1931 and a member of its Council in 1937. He was one of its Secretaries from 1939 to 1947; in this capacity he played a major role in the running of the affairs of the Society during the Second World War. He has written an account of the decade 1940-1950 in Vol. 2 of the History of the Royal Astronomical Society. With characteristic modesty he has emphasized the contributions of others during this very difficult period, when he was working in Bath, the Society's office was in Oxford, and the meetings were held in London. His election to President for the period 1967-69 recognized his personal contributions to the Society as well as his scientific achievements. He was a member of the Council for a total of 20 years, and he was a very regular attender at the dinners of the Royal Astronomical Society Club. He served British astronomy in many other ways; as Superintendent of HM Nautical Almanac Office he was an ex officio member of the British National Committee for Astronomy and he was also a member of the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee of the Royal Society and Royal Astronomical Society. The Royal Institute of Navigation also owes much to Sadler's participation in its affairs; he was a member of the Steering Committee, the Preliminary Council and the first Council, which was elected in 1947 with (at Sadler's suggestion) the Astronomer Royal, Sir Harold Spencer Jones, as its President. He himself was President of the Institute from 1953 to 1955, and he was chairman of the Membership and Fellowship Committee for many years. He was awarded the Gold Medal of the Institute in 1957 and Honorary Membership in 1973. His presidential addresses to the RIN, and later the RAS, covered the relationships between astronomy and navigation and the astronomical measurement of time. He continued to contribute to the Journal of Navigation to the end of his life; his main interest was in astronavigation, but he also participated in the discussions on the rules for the avoidance of collision at sea and other aspects of navigation. Sadler was one of a small group of specialists who served on the Mathematical Tables Committees of the British Association for the Advancement of Science (from 1933 to 1948) and then of the Royal Society (to 1965). He made special contributions to the volumes on Emden functions (then of great importance for the development of astrophysics) and on Bessel functions, but he also took part in the planning, proof-reading and other editorial work for many of the other volumes. The computations, including the running checks and final independent checks, had to be carefully planned so that they could be carried out efficiently by human computers using desk calculating machines, and the tables had to be designed so that they were economical of space (and hence in cost) and yet could be used with reasonable ease. Sadler became an expert in both these fields to the benefit of both astronomy and navigation. The post of Superintendent of HM Nautical Almanac Office was graded at the level of Senior Principal Scientific Officer, but on Woolley's nomination Sadler was given in 1959 a Special Merit promotion to Deputy Chief Scientific Officer; in this case, the rules had to be bent rather than broken as it was clear that Sadler would not be able to devote all his time to research, rather than to administration. During the 1960s he had to delegate more of the responsibility for the work of the NAO to other members of the staff, but nevertheless he kept a strong interest in all of the work. During the negotiations for the transfer of responsibility for the RGO to the proposed Science Research Council, the future of the Office came into question, but Sadler argued successfully that it should stay as part of the RGO and not be retained in the Ministry of Defence. He was, however, horrified when he found that the bureaucracy in SRC was much more intrusive than that of the Admiralty. He recalled that the estimates for the work of the NAO could usually be settled each year by a short telephone call, but the SRC refused to accept his estimate of the cost of the 'defence' portion of the work of the Office. Instead, the SRC sent a three-man team that spent 3 days at Herstmonceux and eventually arrived at a figure that was within a few hundred pounds of the estimate that had taken him only a few minutes to derive. The international character of the work of the NAO meant that Sadler was strongly involved in the activities of the International Astronomical Union. His first introduction to the administration of the Union came in 1948 when he was the UK representative on the Finance Committee. He was President of Commission 4 on Ephemerides from 1952 to 1958 and did much to encourage greater cooperation between the ephemeris offices and other related organizations throughout the world. In 1957 Andre Danjon, then President of the Union, invited him to become the next General Secretary; at first he declined, but he later accepted after Woolley (then Astronomer Royal) had been persuaded to put pressure on him and had agreed to make available some assistance from the RGO. He was General Secretary from 1958 to 1964, and so was responsible for the organization of the General Assemblies in Berkeley in 1961 and in Hamburg in 1964. During that period he did much to systematize and document the very large number of jobs that had to be done at the appropriate times in order to ensure both the smooth running of the meetings and the publication of the triennial reports on astronomy and of the proceedings of the Assemblies. His influence can still be seen in the procedures that are in use today. Sadler felt very strongly that the activities of all such organizations, whether a local sports club or an international scientific union, should be conducted in accordance with an appropriate set of rules. He not only took time to draft new or improved rules, but he would also draw attention to situations where he felt that the rules were not being followed correctly; to some this appeared pedantic, but he was only too well aware of the difficulties that can arise when such rules are broken. After his period as General Secretary, he continued to assist the Union in various ways; for example, he represented the Union on the Council of the Federation of Astronomical and Geophysical Services, and he became its Vice-President (1965-68) and then its President (1968-70). The Royal Society invited the IAU to hold its fourteenth General Assembly at Brighton in 1970, and Sadler was appointed as chairman of the Local Organizing Committee. He tried, with a high degree of success, to anticipate all the requirements of the participants and to ensure that information about the meetings and facilities was readily available to all. Again, many of his ideas have been adopted in later Assemblies. Several countries in Europe formally recognized the value of his work: he was elected a Foreign Member of the Société Royale des Sciences de Liège in 1964; he was granted an Honorary Doctorate by the University of Heidelberg in 1970; and he was awarded the Adion Medal by the International Observatory at Nice in 1969 and the Prix Jannsen by the Société Astronomique de France in 1972. The year 1967 saw the bicentenary of the publication of the first Nautical Almanac and hence a revival of interest in the method of lunar distances. Although he was heavily engaged in the preparation of new sight reduction tables for marine navigation, Sadler quickly wrote the text for the booklet Man is not lost, which was issued in conjunction with a special exhibition at the Old Royal Observatory at Greenwich. He also developed the concept of a hands-on exhibit (sometimes referred to as the 'sadlerium') to illustrate the taking of a lunar distance, but the realization by the National Maritime Museum did not stand up to the hard use that it was given. Sadler made major contributions to the formation of the International Association of the Institutes of Navigation. First of all he had discussions with R.L.Duncombe, then President of the American Institute and a former Director of the (US) Nautical Almanac Office; these discussions led to a joint proposal for the Association. He later took part in the detailed planning and encouraged Michael Richey to be the first secretary of the Association in 1972. Sadler was elected an Honorary Member of the US Institute of Navigation in 1979. At the beginning of 1970, he was formally seconded to work on the organization of the IAU General Assembly in Brighton, and he gave up his day-to-day responsibility for the work of the NAO. He did not take back this responsibility after the Assembly, although he retained the title of Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac until he was disestablished in February 1971. He remained on the staff of the RGO for a further year. Unfortunately, Sadler suffered from angina, and so he did not feel able to accept an invitation to be nominated as the General Secretary of the International Council of Scientific Unions. As a consequence, after his retirement from the RGO in 1972 he was able to keep up his interest in time and navigational matters, and he started to write a history of the NAO. He abandoned this when he became convinced that the archived documents about the activities of the previous Superintendents were too limited in their scope, but he did write from memory 'a personal history of H.M. Nautical Almanac Office 1931-1972', which contains much fascinating detail about the background to the formal record and about his own wide-ranging activities. During his retirement Sadler planned the astronavigation section of the new Macmillan and Silk Cut Nautical Almanac, and he later designed the sight reduction tables for the Macmillan and Silk Cut Yachtsman's Handbook. He continued to argue for the retention of the name Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) for navigational purposes, and it is said that he always wore a black tie on those occasions when a leap second was to be inserted in the time-scale and hence in the BBC six-pips signal for GMT. His 1978 review paper (in this journal) about GMT describes the controversial changes that were made in 1925 and 1972, and the RGO archives contain an unpublished note giving additional detail. The centenary celebrations of GMT in 1981 and of the Prime Meridian Conference in 1984 gave him further opportunities to comment on these matters. Sadler had the reputation in the RGO of being a strict disciplinarian, and there is no doubt that he expected high standards of work from the staff of the NAO. Nevertheless, those who came to know him better realized that he was always scrupulously fair, and that he would go to a great deal of trouble to try to ensure the well-being of his staff. This is perhaps best illustrated by a tribute which was written by one of his wartime secretaries and which was unexpectedly published in IUGG Chronicle in 1988; she knew him as a kindly, courteous and modest man'. To the staff of the NAO he was known as 'DHS' as the use of initials in internal memoranda was the accepted practice, regardless of rank. The loyalty that he engendered in his staff, especially those that worked long hours with him during the war, is shown by the high attendances at the NAO Reunions that were held in 1963, 1973, 1982 and 1987. In 1954 Sadler surprised most, if not all, of his colleagues and friends by marrying Flora McBain, who had been a vacation student in the NAO in 1935 and a member of the staff since 1937. Flora had also served as a Secretary of the RAS, and she was in charge of the Occultation Section of the NAO at the time of their marriage. At first they lived in Flora's flat in Bexhill, but they soon moved to a house in Cooden that became well known to many astronomers from many different countries. Their dinner guests sometimes included vacation students, and at least one astronomical couple admits to meeting on such an occasion. Sadler was a great competitor, and he took part in a variety of both outdoor and indoor sports and games. He was particularly keen on hockey and tennis, and he was also a useful cricketer and a member of the 'RGO Stars' table-tennis team in the early years at Herstmonceux. He also enjoyed billiards, snooker and darts, and he won the Spencer Jones Indoor Sports Trophy in the RGO Club in 1954; he used to organize a billiards match between the UK and the USA at IAU General Assemblies. He was a good chess player, winning tournaments in town clubs as well as in the RGO, and he enjoyed bridge and any other game or puzzle that required skill or intellectual effort. Although he made no major scientific discovery, Sadler contributed a great deal to astronomy and navigation, and it is probable that other fields of science have benefited from his diverse activities, particularly in the publication of mathematical tables. It must also be recognized that many young people gained valuable training and experience while working in the NAO under his general supervision and that they have subsequently gone into other jobs in many different fields. Many other people have benefited from working with him in societies and international organizations, and those who came to know him as a friend will remember him with pleasure. GEORGE A. WILKINS Sadler was appointed as a Temporary Assistant at a salary of £6 per week in HM Nautical Almanac Office (NAO) on 1930 October 13. At that time the Superintendent was L.J.Comrie, who was a pioneer in the use of commercial calculating machines for scientific computations and a master craftsman in the design and production of mathematical and astronomical tables. Sadler learnt much from him, and he was established and appointed Deputy Superintendent in 1933. The NAO was then based in the Royal Naval College at Greenwich, and Comrie reported directly to the Board of Admiralty. Comrie was suspended at short notice on 1936 August 19 and Sadler became Acting Superintendent. The Board decided that the NAO should become a part of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, and Sadler became a Chief Assistant to the Astronomer Royal, then H.S.Jones (later Sir Harold Spencer Jones); his appointment as the seventh Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac was confirmed on 1937 July 27. (The first person to hold this title was Thomas Young, who supervised the work of home-based computers and comparers as there was then no 'office'.) Sadler carried through to a successful conclusion several projects that had been initiated by Comrie, and new publications included Planetary Co-ordinates for 1940-1960, Interpolation and Allied Tables, the first Air Almanac (for the end of 1937), a 16-volume set of Astronomical Navigation Tables (AP 1618), and Apparent Places of Fundamental Stars (for 1941). During the Second World War the NAO was based in Bath with many other departments of the Admiralty, and its activities and staff were considerably expanded. The NAO produced tables and diagrams for use by the Army and the Air Force as well as for the Royal Navy; examples were corrections for gun-sound ranging, bomb-ballistic tables, and night-illumination diagrams. In all such projects Sadler played a major role in design, planning and execution. From 1941 to 1946 the NAO acted as the computing centre for the Admiralty Computing Service (ACS), of which the head, J.T.Todd, was based in London. Sadler had to plan and supervise all the computational work for a large number of special projects as well as for the astronomical and navigational almanacs and tables. The ACS produced over 100 reports; Sadler wrote some of them and edited them all. One of the major tasks undertaken during this period (and for many years after the end of the war) was the calculation of coordinates for use in plotting hyperbolic lattices on charts for the newly developed top-secret DECCA navigation system, which was first used on D-Day. Sadler's considerable wartime services to the nation were recognized by the award of the Order of the British Empire in 1948; and he also received the Thurlow Award of the US Institute of Navigation in the same year. He was elected Membre Correspondant du Bureau des Longitudes, Paris in 1950. The strong team of NAO and ACS staff that Sadler had built up was eventually split when a Mathematics Division was formed in the National Physical Laboratory in 1946. Sadler remained the Superintendent of the NAO, and so astronomy and navigation continued to benefit from his technical skills and leadership abilities. There was some cooperation between the NAO and the NPL over the next decade, but it is clear that the benefits to the nation would have been much greater if the team had formed the nucleus of a central computing facility for Government Departments in a National Mathematical Laboratory as Sadler and Todd had proposed. The post-war years saw other major changes in the NAO: the introduction of a new staff complement and grading structure within the Scientific Civil Service; the move from Bath to Herstmonceux to join some other departments of the renamed Royal Greenwich Observatory (RGO) in 1949; the acquisition of punched-card machines for computation and copy preparation; and the development of closer ties with the NAO of the US Naval Observatory in Washington. As a consequence of Sadler's shrewd judgement, strong determination and careful attention to detail, all these changes took place smoothly and the regular production work for the almanacs continued without apparent disruption. Sadler became strongly involved in the general administration of the RGO and in the promotion of greater international cooperation in the production of the almanacs, and yet he also made major contributions to the improvement of the almanacs, to the design of new auxiliary tables for astronavigation, and to the preparation of other new publications. For example, he made major contributions to: The Star Almanac for Land Surveyors (first published for 1951), The Abridged Nautical Almanac (completely redesigned in principle and layout for 1952), Interpolation and Allied Tables (completely new edition in 1956), Planetary Co-ordinates for 1960-1980 (1958), Subtabulation (1959), The Astronomical Ephemeris for 1960 (with its many changes from The Nautical Almanac and Astronomical Ephemeris for 1959), and The Explanatory Supplement to the Astronomical Ephemeris (1961). Sadler was the driving force behind a great deal of rationalization of the computation and publication of navigational and astronomical ephemerides. Some computations had been shared between the principal ephemeris offices for many years (even during the war), but the almanacs were still printed separately in many countries, with different layouts as well as in different languages. Sadler stressed the advantages of the use of camera-ready copy that could be prepared in one country and then distributed to other countries for use in the final printing process. This obviated much computation and proof-reading, and also meant that navigators and astronomers in many countries could use the same high-quality material. The initial step in this project was to unify the navigational almanacs and tables of the UK and USA; this involved an enormous amount of correspondence and delicate negotiations. Fortunately, Sadler established a very good working re-lationship with the Director of the Nautical Almanac Office of the US Naval Observatory, Dr G.M.Clemence. The first example of this approach was the Air Almanac, but the outstanding example is still the Nautical Almanac; the copy was prepared by using a card-controlled typewriter at Herstmonceux and this was copied photographically and distributed to eight countries by Her Majesty's Stationery Office. It was estimated that the NAO figures were used on a quarter of a million ships and boats throughout the world. Sadler was very disappointed that he could not get agreement to the introduction of an international fundamental astronomical ephemeris' based on a similar approach; in this case, Clemence was unable to get approval to change the name of the American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac and so from 1960 until 1980 the British and American astronomical almanacs had identical contents but different covers and title pages. Sadler did, however, convince Professor W. Fricke, Director of the Astronomisches Rechen Institut (ARI) at Heidelberg, of the value of this approach; the ARI stopped the publication of the Berliner Jahrbuch and took over from the NAO the production and publication of Apparent Places of Fundamental Stars from 1960. Throughout his career Sadler was involved in the activities and administration of several astronomical, mathematical and navigational organizations. In the early 1930s he was an active member of the Computing Section of the British Astronomical Association. He became a Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society in 1931 and a member of its Council in 1937. He was one of its Secretaries from 1939 to 1947; in this capacity he played a major role in the running of the affairs of the Society during the Second World War. He has written an account of the decade 1940-1950 in Vol. 2 of the History of the Royal Astronomical Society. With characteristic modesty he has emphasized the contributions of others during this very difficult period, when he was working in Bath, the Society's office was in Oxford, and the meetings were held in London. His election to President for the period 1967-69 recognized his personal contributions to the Society as well as his scientific achievements. He was a member of the Council for a total of 20 years, and he was a very regular attender at the dinners of the Royal Astronomical Society Club. He served British astronomy in many other ways; as Superintendent of HM Nautical Almanac Office he was an ex officio member of the British National Committee for Astronomy and he was also a member of the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee of the Royal Society and Royal Astronomical Society. The Royal Institute of Navigation also owes much to Sadler's participation in its affairs; he was a member of the Steering Committee, the Preliminary Council and the first Council, which was elected in 1947 with (at Sadler's suggestion) the Astronomer Royal, Sir Harold Spencer Jones, as its President. He himself was President of the Institute from 1953 to 1955, and he was chairman of the Membership and Fellowship Committee for many years. He was awarded the Gold Medal of the Institute in 1957 and Honorary Membership in 1973. His presidential addresses to the RIN, and later the RAS, covered the relationships between astronomy and navigation and the astronomical measurement of time. He continued to contribute to the Journal of Navigation to the end of his life; his main interest was in astronavigation, but he also participated in the discussions on the rules for the avoidance of collision at sea and other aspects of navigation. Sadler was one of a small group of specialists who served on the Mathematical Tables Committees of the British Association for the Advancement of Science (from 1933 to 1948) and then of the Royal Society (to 1965). He made special contributions to the volumes on Emden functions (then of great importance for the development of astrophysics) and on Bessel functions, but he also took part in the planning, proof-reading and other editorial work for many of the other volumes. The computations, including the running checks and final independent checks, had to be carefully planned so that they could be carried out efficiently by human computers using desk calculating machines, and the tables had to be designed so that they were economical of space (and hence in cost) and yet could be used with reasonable ease. Sadler became an expert in both these fields to the benefit of both astronomy and navigation. The post of Superintendent of HM Nautical Almanac Office was graded at the level of Senior Principal Scientific Officer, but on Woolley's nomination Sadler was given in 1959 a Special Merit promotion to Deputy Chief Scientific Officer; in this case, the rules had to be bent rather than broken as it was clear that Sadler would not be able to devote all his time to research, rather than to administration. During the 1960s he had to delegate more of the responsibility for the work of the NAO to other members of the staff, but nevertheless he kept a strong interest in all of the work. During the negotiations for the transfer of responsibility for the RGO to the proposed Science Research Council, the future of the Office came into question, but Sadler argued successfully that it should stay as part of the RGO and not be retained in the Ministry of Defence. He was, however, horrified when he found that the bureaucracy in SRC was much more intrusive than that of the Admiralty. He recalled that the estimates for the work of the NAO could usually be settled each year by a short telephone call, but the SRC refused to accept his estimate of the cost of the 'defence' portion of the work of the Office. Instead, the SRC sent a three-man team that spent 3 days at Herstmonceux and eventually arrived at a figure that was within a few hundred pounds of the estimate that had taken him only a few minutes to derive. The international character of the work of the NAO meant that Sadler was strongly involved in the activities of the International Astronomical Union. His first introduction to the administration of the Union came in 1948 when he was the UK representative on the Finance Committee. He was President of Commission 4 on Ephemerides from 1952 to 1958 and did much to encourage greater cooperation between the ephemeris offices and other related organizations throughout the world. In 1957 Andre Danjon, then President of the Union, invited him to become the next General Secretary; at first he declined, but he later accepted after Woolley (then Astronomer Royal) had been persuaded to put pressure on him and had agreed to make available some assistance from the RGO. He was General Secretary from 1958 to 1964, and so was responsible for the organization of the General Assemblies in Berkeley in 1961 and in Hamburg in 1964. During that period he did much to systematize and document the very large number of jobs that had to be done at the appropriate times in order to ensure both the smooth running of the meetings and the publication of the triennial reports on astronomy and of the proceedings of the Assemblies. His influence can still be seen in the procedures that are in use today. Sadler felt very strongly that the activities of all such organizations, whether a local sports club or an international scientific union, should be conducted in accordance with an appropriate set of rules. He not only took time to draft new or improved rules, but he would also draw attention to situations where he felt that the rules were not being followed correctly; to some this appeared pedantic, but he was only too well aware of the difficulties that can arise when such rules are broken. After his period as General Secretary, he continued to assist the Union in various ways; for example, he represented the Union on the Council of the Federation of Astronomical and Geophysical Services, and he became its Vice-President (1965-68) and then its President (1968-70). The Royal Society invited the IAU to hold its fourteenth General Assembly at Brighton in 1970, and Sadler was appointed as chairman of the Local Organizing Committee. He tried, with a high degree of success, to anticipate all the requirements of the participants and to ensure that information about the meetings and facilities was readily available to all. Again, many of his ideas have been adopted in later Assemblies. Several countries in Europe formally recognized the value of his work: he was elected a Foreign Member of the Société Royale des Sciences de Liège in 1964; he was granted an Honorary Doctorate by the University of Heidelberg in 1970; and he was awarded the Adion Medal by the International Observatory at Nice in 1969 and the Prix Jannsen by the Société Astronomique de France in 1972. The year 1967 saw the bicentenary of the publication of the first Nautical Almanac and hence a revival of interest in the method of lunar distances. Although he was heavily engaged in the preparation of new sight reduction tables for marine navigation, Sadler quickly wrote the text for the booklet Man is not lost, which was issued in conjunction with a special exhibition at the Old Royal Observatory at Greenwich. He also developed the concept of a hands-on exhibit (sometimes referred to as the 'sadlerium') to illustrate the taking of a lunar distance, but the realization by the National Maritime Museum did not stand up to the hard use that it was given. Sadler made major contributions to the formation of the International Association of the Institutes of Navigation. First of all he had discussions with R.L.Duncombe, then President of the American Institute and a former Director of the (US) Nautical Almanac Office; these discussions led to a joint proposal for the Association. He later took part in the detailed planning and encouraged Michael Richey to be the first secretary of the Association in 1972. Sadler was elected an Honorary Member of the US Institute of Navigation in 1979. At the beginning of 1970, he was formally seconded to work on the organization of the IAU General Assembly in Brighton, and he gave up his day-to-day responsibility for the work of the NAO. He did not take back this responsibility after the Assembly, although he retained the title of Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac until he was disestablished in February 1971. He remained on the staff of the RGO for a further year. Unfortunately, Sadler suffered from angina, and so he did not feel able to accept an invitation to be nominated as the General Secretary of the International Council of Scientific Unions. As a consequence, after his retirement from the RGO in 1972 he was able to keep up his interest in time and navigational matters, and he started to write a history of the NAO. He abandoned this when he became convinced that the archived documents about the activities of the previous Superintendents were too limited in their scope, but he did write from memory 'a personal history of H.M. Nautical Almanac Office 1931-1972', which contains much fascinating detail about the background to the formal record and about his own wide-ranging activities. During his retirement Sadler planned the astronavigation section of the new Macmillan and Silk Cut Nautical Almanac, and he later designed the sight reduction tables for the Macmillan and Silk Cut Yachtsman's Handbook. He continued to argue for the retention of the name Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) for navigational purposes, and it is said that he always wore a black tie on those occasions when a leap second was to be inserted in the time-scale and hence in the BBC six-pips signal for GMT. His 1978 review paper (in this journal) about GMT describes the controversial changes that were made in 1925 and 1972, and the RGO archives contain an unpublished note giving additional detail. The centenary celebrations of GMT in 1981 and of the Prime Meridian Conference in 1984 gave him further opportunities to comment on these matters. Sadler had the reputation in the RGO of being a strict disciplinarian, and there is no doubt that he expected high standards of work from the staff of the NAO. Nevertheless, those who came to know him better realized that he was always scrupulously fair, and that he would go to a great deal of trouble to try to ensure the well-being of his staff. This is perhaps best illustrated by a tribute which was written by one of his wartime secretaries and which was unexpectedly published in IUGG Chronicle in 1988; she knew him as a kindly, courteous and modest man'. To the staff of the NAO he was known as 'DHS' as the use of initials in internal memoranda was the accepted practice, regardless of rank. The loyalty that he engendered in his staff, especially those that worked long hours with him during the war, is shown by the high attendances at the NAO Reunions that were held in 1963, 1973, 1982 and 1987. In 1954 Sadler surprised most, if not all, of his colleagues and friends by marrying Flora McBain, who had been a vacation student in the NAO in 1935 and a member of the staff since 1937. Flora had also served as a Secretary of the RAS, and she was in charge of the Occultation Section of the NAO at the time of their marriage. At first they lived in Flora's flat in Bexhill, but they soon moved to a house in Cooden that became well known to many astronomers from many different countries. Their dinner guests sometimes included vacation students, and at least one astronomical couple admits to meeting on such an occasion. Sadler was a great competitor, and he took part in a variety of both outdoor and indoor sports and games. He was particularly keen on hockey and tennis, and he was also a useful cricketer and a member of the 'RGO Stars' table-tennis team in the early years at Herstmonceux. He also enjoyed billiards, snooker and darts, and he won the Spencer Jones Indoor Sports Trophy in the RGO Club in 1954; he used to organize a billiards match between the UK and the USA at IAU General Assemblies. He was a good chess player, winning tournaments in town clubs as well as in the RGO, and he enjoyed bridge and any other game or puzzle that required skill or intellectual effort. Although he made no major scientific discovery, Sadler contributed a great deal to astronomy and navigation, and it is probable that other fields of science have benefited from his diverse activities, particularly in the publication of mathematical tables. It must also be recognized that many young people gained valuable training and experience while working in the NAO under his general supervision and that they have subsequently gone into other jobs in many different fields. Many other people have benefited from working with him in societies and international organizations, and those who came to know him as a friend will remember him with pleasure. GEORGE A. WILKINS Donald Harry Sadler's obituary appeared in Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 32:1 (1991), 59-65.


--- [Donald Sadler - Wikipedia] ---
Donald Harry Sadler (22 August 1908 – 24 October 1987) was an English astronomer and mathematician
who developed an international reputation for his work in preparing
astronomical and navigational almanacs. He worked as the
Superintendent of His Majesty's Nautical Almanac Office 
from 1937 to 1971.




--- [Donald Sadler (1908 - 1987) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics] ---
Donald Harry Sadler Quick Info Dewsbury, Yorkshire, England Bexhill, Sussex, England Biography Donald Sadler was the son of James Wright Sadler (1878-1948) and Gertrude Jane Needham (1881-1942). James Sadler had been born and brought up in Dudley, Worcestershire, the son of the commercial traveller Joseph W Sadler and his wife Harriet B Wright. James became a tailor and at the time of the 1901 England Census he was living in Nottingham with his uncle Thomas Sadler who was in woollen trade. James married the schoolteacher Gertrude in 1904; she was the daughter of the woollen stocking maker Thomas Needham and his wife Jane. James and Gertrude' first son, Cyril Arthur Needham Sadler, was born in Lincoln on 1 December 1904 and baptised in Loughborough on 21 May 1905. Their second son Donald, the subject of this biography, was born and brought up in Dewsbury, Yorkshire.After attending primary school in Dewsbury, Donald entered the Wheelwright Grammar School in Dewsbury which had been founded and endowed in 1724 in the will of John Wheelwright. When Sadler began his studies at the school in 1919 the headmaster was Leslie Sadler. (Despite being a 'Sadler' they were not related). Leslie Sadler was a fine teacher and an excellent mathematician who had gained a double first class degree in mathematics and physics at Oxford University. He had a strong influence on Donald, encouraging him in his study of mathematics. This inspiring teaching helped Donald to win an Open Scholarship to Trinity College Cambridge in 1926. Donald writes [15]:- At Trinity my supervisor was J E Littlewood, perhaps the greatest pure mathematician of the time; but his supervision of undergraduates was rather superficial and I essentially chose the actual courses for myself.Among Sadler's fellow students, there were a number of outstanding mathematicians including Donald Coxeter, Patrick Du Val and Harold Davenport. Sadler was first class in Part 1 of the Mathematical Tripos since his performance in the second year examinations was outstanding, he was awarded a Senior Scholarship. He submitted the essay Moving Axes and Differential Geometry of Space-curves and Surfaces for the Yeats and Rouse-Ball Essay Prize. It was highly commended but did not win the prize; the winner was Harold Davenport. Sadler avoided physics courses since he had not studied any advanced physics at the Wheelwright Grammar School but did take astronomy courses such as Frederick Stratton's spherical astronomy. Stratton (1881-1960) was the newly appointed Professor of Astrophysics at Cambridge. Sadler also took courses on orbit calculation and celestial mechanics given by William Smart, a lecturer in mathematics and the John Couch Adams Astronomer. Sadler writes [15]:- ... I was not impressed by the latter - possibly because there were too few students ... I also thought that the treatment was too theoretical; I suspect that Smart had never himself computed an orbit from three observations. I also attended Smart's course on practical astronomy at the Observatory, and duly determined its position with a sextant, an artificial horizon and 7-figure logarithms.Sadler was First Class in Part 2 of the Mathematical Tripos in 1929 and, since his scholarship was for four years, decided to remain for another year. He attended Eddington's lectures on relativity and began research on the periodicities of sunspots advised by Udny Yule. He also attended a course by Henry Baker on dynamical problems in astronomy. During this fourth year at Cambridge, Sadler began to look for a job. Offered a post as a mathematical statistician by the chocolate manufacturer Rowntrees of York, he turned it down. The Nautical Almanac Office was at that time based in the Royal Naval College at Greenwich. The Superintendent was Leslie John Comrie who had been promoted to that position in 1930. Comrie was an expert on numerical analysis and had developed punched card computing equipment to construct interpolating tables. William Smart, one of Sadler's lecturers at Cambridge, suggested to Comrie that Sadler would be a good person to appoint to the Nautical Almanac Office. Sadler received an invitation to attend for interview for a post and was offered a position as Temporary Assistant to Comrie which he accepted, beginning work on 13 October 1930. Sadler learnt much from Comrie and was appointed Deputy Superintendent in 1933. The London Gazette [10] reported:- June 26, 1933. After Open Competition. Admiralty: Senior Assistant in the Nautical Almanac Office, Donald Harry Sadler.There were, however, tensions between Comrie and his superiors regarding his use of machines for calculation and taking on outside work, and he was suspended at short notice on 19 August 1936; Sadler became Acting Superintendent. Late in 1936 Doreen Barrett (née Ifield) went for an interview for a position at the Nautical Almanac Office. She wrote [15]:- I went for interview with D H Sadler very nervous as I couldn't find anyone even in my large department who knew anything about the Nautical Almanac Office. ... On arrival I realised that the Acting Superintendent was just as nervous as I was. (I found out subsequently he had just been appointed to that post himself.) The Offices were in the Royal Naval College, Greenwich. A magnificent building in which to work. We were allocated a few rooms in the College, D H Sadler in a room overlooking the river and the majority of staff in one large room ...Sadler began publishing soon after taking up his position at the Nautical Almanac Office in 1930 and took over several projects which Comrie had been working on. He co-authored The British Association for the Advancement of Science Mathematical Tables Volume II - Emden Functions, Being Solutions of Emden's Equation Together with Certain Associated Functions with Jeffrey Charles Percy Miller (1906-1981) which first appeared in 1932. Norman Anning writes [2]:- This volume, prepared under the joint sponsorship of the British Association and the International Astronomical Union, contains tables of Emden functions for . These functions are solutions of a differential equation which is essential in the theoretical exploration of the internal constitution of the stars.Sadler wrote an obituary [8] of his co-author Miller in which he noted that Miller was a fellow student at Trinity College when he had studied there, being one year ahead of him. Miller was a Wrangler in the Mathematical Tripos of 1928 and awarded the Tyson Medal (1928), the Sheepshanks Exhibition (1929), and Isaac Newton Studentship (1930), a Rouse Ball Studentship (1930) and the Rayleigh Prize (1931). Sadler writes [8]:- In the early 1930s posts for mathematical astronomers were few. Miller was clearly the best qualified and most suitable person to fill the vacancy of Assistant (later to be Deputy Superintendent) in H M Nautical Almanac Office. His illness, and its after effects, did not allow him to satisfy the Civil Service medical requirements either then or in 1934. This led to his leaving astronomy, and to my own appointment.The Board of the Admiralty decided that the Nautical Almanac Office should become part of the Royal Observatory at Greenwich. Harold Spencer Jones (1890-1960) was the Astronomer Royal of England at this time and Sadler became his assistant. On 27 July 1937 Sadler was appointed Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac Office. In 1938 Sadler published the paper New Geometry for Germany in which he discussed Germany's intention to make geometry decimal with 100 degrees to a right angle. For more information about this paper and several other papers by Sadler, see THIS LINK. The outbreak of World War II in 1939 had a major effect on the Nautical Almanac Office, and on Sadler's role. The Office moved to Devonport House for the three months, July-September, before being evacuated to Bath. First let us give Doreen Barrett's account [15]:- In September 1939 the Nautical Almanac Office was evacuated to Bath and the whole staff relationships changed. D H Sadler was suddenly responsible for all his very young and junior staff. He was instantly anxious and caring about us all and made certain that we were in suitable billets. I believe, despite the important work that the Nautical Almanac Office was called upon to do (D H Sadler seemed to put in endless hours), he was always concerned for his staff which increased enormously during this time. It can't have been easy for some one, who at that time appeared to live mainly for his work, to have in his charge girls whose fiancés and husbands were away fighting and who went through anxious times. He was most understanding and supportive. The day Bath was blitzed we all managed to get to the Office despite lack of transport except one, and I realised then just how much everyone was concerned for our missing member. D H Sadler turned up at last, very white and shaken, having dug himself and his elderly landlady out of the rubble - his concern was were we all there!Now let us give Mary Croarken's account of the Nautical Almanac Office's work during the war years [3]:- Unlike the other service ministries, the Admiralty already had a well equipped and knowledgeably staffed computing centre in the form of the Nautical Almanac Office. While before the war the Admiralty had sacked Comrie for taking on outside work, when war broke out the Admiralty recognised that it had an extremely valuable resource which it came under pressure to open up. Donald Sadler, Comrie's successor as Superintendent, began to take on outside work in autumn 1939. In the first two years of the war HM Nautical Almanac Office took on ballistics table work for the Ordnance Board, the Air Ministry and the Ministry of Aircraft Production as well as more specialist one off pieces of research work for various Admiralty research establishments; one example was a calculation involved in mine design. To add to the pressure on HM Nautical Almanac Office its own work had increased. Before the war the computation of star positions had been jointly shared between several countries. The war had terminated those agreements and HM Nautical Almanac Office had now to calculate all its own astronomical data for the annually published Nautical Almanac - now an even more critical publication for navigational purposes. However, it was not until July 1941 that Sadler received an extra member of staff to help cope with the ever increasing work load. Because of Sadler's unique position in running a major computing facility to which many service ministries were applying for help, he could see a need for a large, central computing facility to which all of the armed forces and the scientific civil service could have access. In 1941 he wrote a formal proposal for the creation of just such a facility but the suggestion came to nothing as the ever increasing crisis of computing resource had not yet been recognised by those in power. A suggestion from another quarter to centralise computing within the Admiralty did, however, bear fruit.One of the organisations which worked with the Nautical Almanac Office during the war was the Admiralty Computing Service which was being organised by Jack Todd. Sadler and Jack Todd wrote two joint papers about the Admiralty Computing Service during World War II, namely Mathematics in Government Service and Industry: Some Deductions from the War-Time Experience of the Admiralty Computing Service (1946), and Admiralty Computing Service (1947). For more information about these papers, see THIS LINK. For his contribution to the war effort, Sadler was awarded an OBE in 1948 and, in the same year, the US Institute of Navigation gave him their Thurlow Award. Two years later, in 1950, the French Bureau des Longitudes made him a corresponding member. We should at this point mention the excellent service that Sadler gave to the Royal Astronomical Society. He was elected a Fellow of the Society in 1931 and served on its Council in 1937. From 1939 to 1947 he was one of the secretaries of the Royal Astronomical Society and played an important role in seeing that the Society ran smoothly during the extremely challenging years of the war. He contributed the chapter 1940-1950 to Volume 2 of History of the Royal Astronomical Society. He went on to become President of the Society in 1967-69. G A Wilkins describes many contributions by Sadler in [16]. Here is his description of Sadler's contribution to international almanacs:- The Nautical Almanac Office moved from Bath to Herstmonceux Castle in 1949 to join other departments of the Royal Greenwich Observatory. Donald Sadler, the Superintendent, then carried through the unification of the almanacs of the UK and the USA. He and Gerald Clemence (Director of the Nautical Almanac Office in the US Naval Observatory) had to persuade the navies and the air forces to change their practices in order to arrive at a common content and format, and this was not easy. There was already a lot in common between the astronomical almanacs, but there had to be some give and take to get the final agreement on content and on the sharing of the work of computation and printing. Unfortunately, he could not persuade the Americans to change their title from 'American Ephemeris' to 'Astronomical Ephemeris (AE)'. The preparation of the 'Explanatory Supplement' was also shared, although it was only published in the UK. Sadler had been aiming even higher - for an 'International Astronomical Ephemeris', but he did not achieve this, although Germany gave up its 'Astronomisches Jahrbuch' and took over from us the work of publishing 'Apparent Places of Fundamental Stars'. The unification of the 'Nautical' and 'Air Almanacs' was accompanied by a unification of the auxiliary navigation tables and Sadler played a major role in this. He also designed the 'Star Almanac for Land Surveyors', which is still in use in its original form nearly 50 years later!On 22 December 1954 Sadler married Flora Munro McBain (1912-2000). Flora was the eldest of three children born to John McBain, a dairyman's carter, and his wife Isabella Webster, a domestic servant, who had been married in Aberdeen in 1909. Born in Aberdeen, Scotland, on 4 June 1912, Flora had been awarded an Honours Degree in mathematics and physics from the University of Aberdeen in 1934, became a lecturer in applied mathematics and, in 1937, joined the Nautical Almanac Office soon after Sadler had become Superintendent. She had worked closely with Sadler, not only at the Nautical Almanac Office, where she was promoted to Principal Scientific Officer, but also at the Royal Astronomical Society where she was the first editor of the Monthly Notices in 1948 [14]:- There was no prior announcement and the marriage came as a complete surprise to the current members of the staff. Flora continued to work, but after a short while she reduced her hours of attendance - probably so that she could devote more time to the preparations for the entertainment of guests at their frequent dinner parties. After a few years they moved from Flora's apartment to a new home in Cooden Beach. Many astronomers from overseas who visited the Royal Greenwich Observatory were entertained to dinner by them and they were also generous in extending their invitations to members of the staff and to some vacation students.Another major contribution by Sadler was to the Royal Institute of Navigation [12]:- The Royal Institute of Navigation also owes much to Sadler's participation in its affairs; he was a member of the Steering Committee, the Preliminary Council and the first Council, which was elected in 1947 with (at Sadler's suggestion) the Astronomer Royal, Sir Harold Spencer Jones, as its President. He himself was President of the Institute from 1953 to 1955, and he was chairman of the Membership and Fellowship Committee for many years. He was awarded the Gold Medal of the Institute in 1957 and Honorary Membership in 1973. His presidential addresses to the Royal Institute of Navigation, and later the Royal Astronomical Society, covered the relationships between astronomy and navigation and the astronomical measurement of time. He continued to contribute to the 'Journal of Navigation' to the end of his life; his main interest was in astronavigation, but he also participated in the discussions on the rules for the avoidance of collision at sea and other aspects of navigation.In 1968 he published Man is Not Lost: A Record of Two Hundred Years of Astronomical Navigation with The Nautical Almanac 1767-1967. Early in 1970, Sadler was released from his duties as Superintendent at the Nautical Almanac Office so that he could plan the International Astronomical Union General Assembly that was to be held at the University of Sussex in August of that year. He returned to the Nautical Almanac Office in 1971 but not in the role of Superintendent, then retired in 1972. We learn something of Sadler's character from Doreen Barrett [15]:- During the 11 years that I worked for him, mainly as his secretary, I never knew him to offer an angry word - just the odd grumble for a couple of months when he was told to stop smoking, but that soon passed and he soon reverted to his kindly self. He was always anxious to have Office outings and arranged for us to have several parties during our time in Bath. The bond that D H Sadler created between himself and his staff remained until his death, as was very obvious when old staff returned from near and far. I knew him as a kindly, courteous and modest man. Until I read his obituaries I hadn't realised just how much he had contributed to the world of astronomy and mathematics.G A Wilkins writes [12]:- Sadler was a great competitor, and he took part in a variety of both outdoor and indoor sports and games. He was particularly keen on hockey and tennis, and he was also a useful cricketer and a member of the 'Royal Greenwich Observatory Stars' table-tennis team in the early years at Herstmonceux. He also enjoyed billiards, snooker and darts, and he won the Spencer Jones Indoor Sports Trophy in the Royal Greenwich Observatory Club in 1954; he used to organize a billiards match between the UK and the USA at International Astronomical Union General Assemblies. He was a good chess player, winning tournaments in town clubs as well as in the RGO, and he enjoyed bridge and any other game or puzzle that required skill or intellectual effort.Sadler suffered from angina, and he died at his home, 8 Collington Rise, Bexhill, Sussex. He was cremated at Eastbourne crematorium on 2 November 1987. He was survived by his wife Flora who [12]:- Although he made no major scientific discovery, Sadler contributed a great deal to astronomy and navigation, and it is probable that other fields of science have benefited from his diverse activities, particularly in the publication of mathematical tables. It must also be recognised that many young people gained valuable training and experience while working in the Nautical Almanac Office under his general supervision and that they have subsequently gone into other jobs in many different fields. Many other people have benefited from working with him in societies and international organisations, and those who came to know him as a friend will remember him with pleasure. ... remained at Cooden Beach for a few more years, but then returned to Aberdeen where she would be closer to her family. Her nieces have recorded how Flora had always been generous to her younger sister and to them and other members of the family. She had a bad fall in 1998 and had to move from her bungalow into a nursing home where she died on Christmas Day, 25 December 2000. References (show) - R G Aitken, Review: The Prediction and Reduction of Occultations. Supplement to the Nautical Almanac for 1938, by D H Sadler and H W P Richards, Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 49 (292) (1937), 351-352. - N Anning, Review: British Association Mathematical Tables. Volume II - Emden Functions, Being Solutions of Emden's Equation Together with Certain Associated Functions, by J C P Miller and D H Sadler, Journal of the American Statistical Association 30 (191) (1935), 633-634. - M Croarken, IEEE History of Technology, Summer Meeting 6th July 2002, Computing in Britain during World War II. http://www.meccano.us/documents/HistoryWk_Computing_in_Britain-3.pdf - A Fletcher, Review: British Association Mathematical Tables. Volume X Part II: Functions of Positive Integral Order, by W G Bickley, L J Comrie, J C P Miller, D H Sadler and A J Thompson, The Mathematical Gazette 7 (322) (1953), 307-308. - F B Pidduck, E Borel and D H Sadler, New Geometry for Germany, The Mathematical Gazette 22 (248) (1938), 73-76. - M W Richey, Donald Harry Sadler, Journal of Navigation 41 (1988), 139-141. - D H Sadler, The Prediction Service of H M Nautical Almanac Office, Proceedings of the Royal Society of London. Series A, Mathematical and Physical Sciences 248 (1252) (1958), 45-48. - D H Sadler, Obituary - Miller, Jeffrey-Charles, Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 23 (1982), 311-313. - J Todd and D H Sadler, Admiralty Computing Service, Mathematical Tables and Other Aids to Computation 2 (19) (1947), 289-297. - The London Gazette (7 July 1933), 4571. - The National Almanac & its Superintendents. 1936: D H Sadler, Superintendent 1936-1970. http://astro.ukho.gov.uk/nao/history/nao_1936.html - G A Wilkins, Donald Harry Sadler, O.B.E. (1908-1987), Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society 32 (1) (1991), 59-65 - G A Wilkins, Sadler, Donald Harry (1908-1987), mathematician and astronomer, Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (2004). - G A Wilkins, Flora Munro McBain 1912-2000, A&G 42 (2001), 4.34. - G A Wilkins (ed.), A Personal History of H M Nautical Almanac Office 30 October 1930-18 February 1972 (United Kingdom Hydrographic Office, 2008). - G A Wilkins, A Personal History of the Royal Greenwich Observatory at Herstmonceux Castle 1948-1990 Volume 2 - Appendices (Sidford, Devon, 2009). Additional Resources (show) Other pages about Donald Sadler: Other websites about Donald Sadler: Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update September 2021 Last Update September 2021


--- [Donald Sadler (August 22, 1908 — October 24, 1987), United Kingdom of Great Bri Astronomer | World Biographical Encyclopedia] ---
Background Donald Sadler was born in Dewsbury, Yorkshire, on 22 August 1908. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. Donald Sadler was born in Dewsbury, Yorkshire, on 22 August 1908. He attended the local grammar school where he excelled in mathematics. He studied mathematics at the University of Cambridge and received a first-class degree in 1929. He worked as the Superintendent of His Majesty"s Nautical Almanac Office from 1937 to 1971. Sadler developed an interest in celestial mechanics during his studies at Cambridge. He contributed to the work of the Computing Section of the British Astronomical Association. Sadler began work as an assistant at His Majesty"s Nautical Almanac Office in 1930, working under the direction of the Superintendent, Leslie Comrie, when it was based at the Royal Naval College in Greenwich, London. Sadler was promoted to Deputy Superintendent of the Office in 1933. Comrie left the Nautical Almanac Office in 1936. A decision was taken to move the Office to the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, placing it under the direction of the Astronomer Royal, and Sadler was appointed a Chief Assistant at the observatory. Sadler was appointed Comrie"s successor as Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac Office in 1937. Sadler was the eighth person to occupy this post since it was created in 1818. Sadler took on the task of consolidating projects begun by Comrie, publishing new tables for use in navigation. The Second World War soon intervened and the Nautical Almanac Office was moved temporarily out of London to the safer environment of Bath. The Office expanded in size temporarily to prepare data for military use. Sadler was awarded the Officer of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire in 1948 in recognition of this work. Sadler supervised the relocation of the Nautical Almanac Office in 1949 from Bath to the new home of the Royal Greenwich Observatory at Herstmonceux Castle in Sussex. He expanded the use of calculating machines in astronomical calculations. He increased international cooperation in preparing astronomical tables, particularly with the United States Naval Observatory. Donald Sadler oversaw the transfer of the Nautical Almanac Office within the Royal Greenwich Observatory from the control of the Admiralty to the new Science Research Council. Donald Sadler became a fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society in 1931, and served on the society"s council. He acted as a secretary between 1939 and 1947, contributing to sustaining the society"s work during the war. He served as the society"s president from 1967 to 1969. Sadler contributed to other scientific societies, including the Royal Institute of Navigation, of which he was president He served as general secretary of the International Astronomical Union (1958–1964), then as vice-president, and president (1968–1970). Donald Sadler retired as Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac Office in 1971. He continued working at the office for a further year, retiring in February 1972. Sadler continued with his activities in the Royal Institute of Navigation. Donald Sadler died at Bexhill-on-Sea, East Sussex, on 24 October 1987.


--- [A History of the British Nautical Almanac Office] ---
No content
