=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Rockabye (song) - Wikipedia]
It is also Anne-Marie 's first entry on the Billboard Hot 100 and her highest-charting song. [19] On Billboard ' s Dance/Mix Show Airplay chart, the song reached number one in its 18 February 2017 issue, giving both Clean Bandit and Sean Paul their second number one on this chart, as well as Anne-Marie's first.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rockabye_(song)

[Clean Bandit's 'Rockabye' Cleans Up on Dance/Electronic Charts]
Feb 9, 2017 · Clean Bandit rises 2-1 on Billboard ‘s Dance/Mix Show Airplay chart (dated Feb. 18) with “Rockabye,” featuring Sean Paul and Anne-Marie, marking the act’s second leader on the list.
URL: https://www.billboard.com/pro/clean-bandit-rockabye-dance-electronic-charts/

[Clean Bandit's Rockabye becomes their second Top 10 ... - Official Charts]
Mar 14, 2017 · Clean Bandit have landed their second Top 10 hit in America on this week's Billboard Hot 100. The British trio's song Rockabye, which features Sean Paul and Anne-Marie, zooms from 24 to Number 9 ...
URL: https://www.officialcharts.com/chart-news/clean-bandits-rockabye-becomes-their-second-top-10-single-on-americas-billboard-hot-100__18477/

[Deftones | Biography, Music & News | Billboard]
Deftones Biography Music News News Billboard. Billboard Hot 100Billboard 200Global 200Artist 100. Billboard 200Billboard Artist 100. Top Country Albums of the 21st Century. Top RBHipHop Artists. Top Hot Country Songs.
URL: https://www.billboard.com/artist/deftones/

[Rockabye (song) explained]
Oct 21, 2016 · It is also Anne-Marie 's first entry on the Billboard Hot 100 and her highest-charting song. [15] On Billboard s Dance/Mix Show Airplay chart, the song reached number one in its 18 February 2017 issue, giving both Clean Bandit and Sean Paul their second number one on this chart, as well as Anne-Marie's first.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/%5C/Rockabye_(song)/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Rockabye (song) - Wikipedia] ---
"Rockabye" is a song by British electronic group Clean Bandit featuring Jamaican dancehall musician Sean Paul and English singer Anne-Marie. It was released on 21 October 2016 and was their first single since Neil Amin-Smith's departure from the group and it serves as the lead single from their second studio album, What Is Love? (2018). The song is about hardships of single mothers and alludes to the nursery rhyme and lullaby, Rock-a-bye Baby. "Rockabye" is included on the deluxe edition of Anne-Marie's debut studio album, Speak Your Mind.
The song became 2016's Christmas number one on 23 December 2016, beating the likes of Rag'n'Bone Man, Little Mix, Zara Larsson, Mariah Carey, Matt Terry, Louis Tomlinson and Steve Aoki to the Christmas number one spot. It is the first song in chart history to become Christmas number one after already being at the top of the charts for six weeks. In total, the song spent nine weeks at the summit of the UK Singles Chart while also topping the charts in over 28 other countries. It is certified 3× Diamond in Poland, Diamond in France, 9× Platinum in Canada, and multi-Platinum in twelve additional countries.


--- [Clean Bandit's 'Rockabye' Cleans Up on Dance/Electronic Charts] ---
Clean Bandit’s ‘Rockabye’ Cleans Up on Dance/Electronic Charts The song, featuring Sean Paul & Anne-Marie, tops Dance/Mix Show Airplay, among other moves. Plus, chart action for Major Lazer, Martin Garrix, Steve Aoki & J Sutta. Clean Bandit rises 2-1 on Billboard‘s Dance/Mix Show Airplay chart (dated Feb. 18) with “Rockabye,” featuring Sean Paul and Anne-Marie, marking the act’s second leader on the list. The track, which borrows lyrical elements of nursery rhyme “Rock-a-bye Baby,” is also the second No. 1 for Paul and the first for Anne-Marie. Clean Bandit, the U.K.-based outfit of Grace Chatto and brothers Jack and Luke Patterson, first topped the chart on Sept. 13, 2014, with “Rather Be,” featuring Jess Glynne. The act again teamed with Glynne for “Real Love,” which reached No. 20 in March 2015. On Hot Dance/Electronic Songs, “Rockabye” (No. 4) has earned top Digital and Streaming Gainer honors for three weeks running. It lifts 4-2 on Dance/Electronic Digital Songs (29,000 sold, up 27 percent, according to Nielsen Music) and 6-5 on Dance/Electronic Streaming Songs (10.5 million U.S. steams, up 10 percent). On Dance Club Songs, “Rockabye” rolls 19-14. “Rockabye” also hits a new high on the Billboard Hot 100 (32-24) and enters the top 20 of the Pop Songs airplay chart (21-19). MAJOR MOVES: Two tracks by high-profile acts debut in the Hot Dance/Electronic Songs top 10: Major Lazer‘s “Run Up,” featuring PARTYNEXTDOOR and Nicki Minaj, launches at No. 9 (5.9 million U.S. streams, 19,000 sold) and Martin Garrix and Dua Lipa‘s “Scared to Be Lonely” leaps in at No. 10 (4.8 million streams, 15,000 sold). “Run” is the sixth top 10 for Lazer, the first for PARTYNEXTDOOR and the third for Minaj. With “Scared,” Garrix cements a third top 10, while Dua Lips earns her first. In October, Dua Lipa topped the Billboard + Twitter Emerging Artists chart with “Blow Your Mind (Mwah),” which then led Dance Club Songs on Jan. 14. UPWARD DIRECTION: Steve Aoki and Louis Tomlinson jet 11-8 on Dance/Mix Show Airplay with “Just Hold On,” the first top 10 for each. While also the first overall chart entry for vocalist and One Direction member Tomlinson, it’s the sixth for superstar DJ Aoki, who notched his first in 2010 with the No. 12-peaking “I’m in the House,” featuring [[[Zuper Blahq]]]. Prior to “Just,” Aoki, teaming with Chris Lake and Tujamo, had reached a No. 11 high in 2013 with “Boneless.” With 1D, Tomlinson has made two visits to Dance/Mix Show Airplay: with the boy band’s breakthrough hit “What Makes You Beautiful” (No. 13, 2012) and “Drag Me Down” (No. 26, 2015). J JUMPS TO No. 1: J (aka Jessica) Sutta storms to her fourth solo No. 1 on Dance Club Songs with “Distortion” (2-1). She also made six trips to the top as a member of The Pussycat Dolls in 2005-09. Remixes from Dave Aude, Ivan Gomez and DirtyFreqs, among others, helped clear “Distortion” for the summit.


--- [Clean Bandit's Rockabye becomes their second Top 10 ... - Official Charts] ---
Clean Bandit's Rockabye becomes their second Top 10 single on America's Billboard Hot 100 The trio have made a massive leap on this week's Billboard Hot 100 singles chart... Clean Bandit have landed their second Top 10 hit in America on this week's Billboard Hot 100. The British trio's song Rockabye, which features Sean Paul and Anne-Marie, zooms from 24 to Number 9 on the US singles chart, giving them a second hit in the country following their debut Rather Be. Rockabye also becomes the band's highest charting single in the US yet - Rather Be peaked at Number 10. The track was a massive hit in the UK and across Europe last year, spending nine weeks at Number 1 on the Official Singles Chart and bagging the coveted Official Christmas Number 1. Watch the group celebrate with Official Charts below: MORE: Clean Bandit's complete Official UK Chart history Elsewhere on the Hot 100, Ed Sheeran's Shape Of You logs a seventh week in pole position, while ten songs from his new album ÷ enter further down the chart, the next highest being Perfect at Number 37. Other highlights on this week's chart include Rihanna, who scores her 22nd Top 5 single in the country with Love On Brain (5) and overtakes Elvis to notch up the fifth highest tally of Top 5 singles. Only The Beatles (29), Madonna (28), Mariah Carey (26) and Janet Jackson (24) now stand in Riri's way of the all-time record. Finally, The Chainsmokers also achieve a mighty feat on this week's Hot 100; their track closer logs at mammoth 32nd week in the Top 10, matching a record set by LeAnn Rimes' How Do I Live in 1997/1998. The Billboard charts are now posted on OfficialCharts.com every Wednesday. Check out the latest charts here.


--- [Deftones | Biography, Music & News | Billboard] ---
× Skip to main content Open menu Search Click to Expand Search Input Plus Icon Click to Close Search Input Billboard Billboard Charts Music Video Awards Business Search Click to Expand Search Input Plus Icon Click to Close Search Input Account Manage Account Log Out Account LOGIN Login Search Click to Expand Search Input Plus Icon Click to Close Search Input Open menu Billboard Charts Music Video Awards Business LOGIN Login Account Manage Account Log Out Account Click to Expand Search Input Plus Icon Click to Close Search Input Year End Charts Billboard Hot 100™ Billboard 200™ Global 200 Artist 100 Open menu Search Click to Expand Search Input Plus Icon Click to Close Search Input Billboard Billboard Charts Music Video Awards Business Search Click to Expand Search Input Plus Icon Click to Close Search Input Account Manage Account Log Out Account LOGIN Login Search Click to Expand Search Input Plus Icon Click to Close Search Input All Charts Close the menu 2025 Year End Expand 2025-year-end menu Top Charts Expand top-charts menu Billboard Hot 100™ Billboard 200™ Billboard Artist 100 Emerging Artists Streaming Songs Radio Songs Digital Song Sales Top Album Sales Top Streaming Albums Independent Albums Vinyl Albums Indie Store Album Sales Global Expand global menu Billboard Global 200 Billboard Global Excl. U.S. Afrobeats Expand afrobeats menu Billboard U.S. Afrobeats Songs Hits of the World Expand hits-of-the-world menu Billboard Arabic Hot 100 Billboard Arabic Artist 100 Billboard Argentina Hot 100 Billboard Brasil Hot 100 Billboard Colombia Hot 100 Billboard Canadian Hot 100 Billboard Canadian Albums Billboard Italy Hot 100 Billboard Italy Albums Top 100 Billboard Japan Hot 100 Billboard Korea Hot 100 Billboard Korea Global K-Songs Billboard Philippines Hot 100 Billboard Philippines Top Philippine Songs Billboard Thailand Top Thai Songs Billboard Thailand Top Thai Country Songs Billboard Vietnam Hot 100 Billboard Vietnam Top Vietnamese Songs The Official U.K. Singles Chart The Official U.K. Albums Chart Australia Songs Australia Albums Austria Songs Belgium Songs Bolivia Songs Chile Songs China TME UNI Chart Croatia Songs Czech Republic Songs Denmark Songs Ecuador Songs Finland Songs France Songs Germany Songs Germany Albums Greece Songs Greece Albums Hong Kong Songs Hungary Songs Iceland Songs India Songs Indonesia Songs Ireland Songs Luxembourg Songs Malaysia Songs Mexico Songs Netherlands Songs New Zealand Songs Norway Songs Peru Songs Poland Songs Portugal Songs Romania Songs Singapore Songs Slovakia Songs South Africa Songs Spain Songs Sweden Songs Switzerland Songs Taiwan Songs Turkey Songs U.K. Songs Greatest of All Time Expand greatest-of-all-time menu Greatest of All Time Artists Greatest of All Time Hot 100 Songs Greatest of All Time Hot 100 Artists Greatest of All Time Billboard 200 Albums Greatest of All Time Billboard 200 Artists Top Artists of the 21st Century Top Hot 100 Songs of the 21st Century Top Billboard 200 Albums of the 21st Century Top Women Artists of the 21st Century Greatest of All Time Hot 100 Women Artists Greatest of All Time Hot 100 Songs by Women Greatest of All Time Billboard 200 Women Artists Greatest of All Time Billboard 200 Albums by Women Greatest of All Time Songs of the '80s Greatest of All Time Songs of the '90s Greatest of All Time Holiday 100 Songs Greatest of All Time Top Holiday Albums Greatest of All Time Songs of the Summer Greatest of All Time Hot 100 No. 2 Hits Greatest of All Time Pop Songs Artists Greatest of All Time Pop Songs Greatest of All Time Adult Contemporary Artists Greatest of All Time Adult Contemporary Songs Greatest of All Time Adult Pop Songs Artists Greatest of All Time Adult Pop Songs Greatest of All Time Top Country Artists Greatest of All Time Hot Country Songs Greatest of All Time Top Country Albums Top Country Artists of the 21st Century Top Hot Country Songs of the 21st Century Top Country Albums of the 21st Century Greatest of All Time Top R&B/Hip-Hop Artists Greatest of All Time Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs Greatest of All Time Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums Top R&B/Hip-Hop Artists of the 21st Century Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums of the 21st Century Top Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs of the 21st Century Greatest of All Time Alternative Artists Greatest of All Time Alternative Songs Greatest of All Time Adult Alternative Artists Greatest of All Time Adult Alternative Songs Greatest of All Time Mainstream Rock Artists Greatest of All Time Mainstream Rock Songs Greatest of All Time Latin Artists Greatest of All Time Hot Latin Songs Artists Greatest of All Time Hot Latin Songs Top Latin Artists of the 21st Century Top Latin Albums of the 21st Century Top Hot Latin Songs of the 21st Century Greatest of All Time Top Dance Club Artists Pop Expand pop menu Pop Airplay Adult Contemporary Adult Pop Airplay Country Expand country menu Hot Country Songs Top Country Albums Country Streaming Songs Country Airplay Country Digital Song Sales Bluegrass Albums Americana/Folk Albums Rock & Alternative Expand rock-alternative menu Hot Rock & Alternative Songs Top Rock & Alternative Albums Rock & Alternative Airplay Hot Rock Songs Top Rock Albums Rock Streaming Songs Rock Digital Song Sales Hot Alternative Songs Top Alternative Albums Alternative Streaming Songs Alternative Airplay Alternative Digital Song Sales Hot Hard Rock Songs Top Hard Rock Albums Hard Rock Streaming Songs Hard Rock Digital Song Sales Adult Alternative Airplay Mainstream Rock Airplay R&B/Hip-Hop Expand rb-hip-hop menu Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums R&B/Hip-Hop Streaming Songs R&B/Hip-Hop Airplay R&B/Hip-Hop Digital Song Sales Hot R&B Songs Top R&B Albums R&B Streaming Songs R&B Digital Song Sales Hot Rap Songs Top Rap Albums Rap Streaming Songs Rap Airplay Rap Digital Song Sales Mainstream R&B/Hip-Hop Airplay Adult R&B Airplay Rhythmic Airplay Latin Expand latin menu Hot Latin Songs Top Latin Albums Latin Airplay Latin Streaming Songs Latin Digital Song Sales Hot Regional Mexican Songs Top Regional Mexican Albums Regional Mexican Airplay Hot Latin Pop Songs Top Latin Pop Albums Latin Pop Airplay Hot Tropical Songs Top Tropical Albums Tropical Airplay Hot Latin Rhythm Songs Top Latin Rhythm Albums Latin Rhythm Airplay Dance Expand dance menu Hot Dance/Electronic Songs Hot Dance/Pop Songs Top Dance Albums Dance Streaming Songs Dance Digital Song Sales Dance/Mix Show Airplay Christian Expand christian menu Hot Christian Songs Top Christian Albums Christian Streaming Songs Christian Airplay Christian Digital Song Sales Christian AC Airplay Gospel Expand gospel menu Hot Gospel Songs Top Gospel Albums Gospel Streaming Songs Gospel Airplay Gospel Digital Song Sales Songwriters & Producers Expand songwriters-producers menu Hot 100 Songwriters Hot 100 Producers Country Songwriters Country Producers Rock & Alternative Songwriters Rock & Alternative Producers Rock Songwriters Rock Producers Alternative Songwriters Alternative Producers Hard Rock Songwriters Hard Rock Producers R&B/Hip-Hop Songwriters R&B/Hip-Hop Producers R&B Songwriters R&B Producers Rap Songwriters Rap Producers Latin Songwriters Latin Producers Dance/Electronic Songwriters Dance/Electronic Producers Dance/Pop Songwriters Dance/Pop Producers Christian Songwriters Christian Producers Gospel Songwriters Gospel Producers Classical Expand classical menu Classical Albums Classical Crossover Albums Traditional Classical Albums Jazz Expand jazz menu Jazz Albums Contemporary Jazz Albums Traditional Jazz Albums Smooth Jazz Airplay World Expand world menu World Albums World Digital Song Sales Holiday Expand holiday menu Holiday 100 Top Holiday Albums Holiday Streaming Songs Holiday Airplay Holiday Digital Song Sales Holiday 100 Songwriters Holiday 100 Producers Summer Expand summer menu Songs of the Summer Stage & Screen Expand stage-screen menu Cast Albums Soundtracks Additional Genres Expand additional-genres menu Blues Albums Comedy Albums Kid Albums New Age Albums Reggae Albums Additional Charts Expand additional-charts menu Bubbling Under Hot 100 LyricFind U.S. Catalog Albums LyricFind Global Compilation Albums Explore Deftones Billboard 200™ 0 No. 1 Hits 0 Titles 0 Top 10 Hits Billboard 200™ Billboard 200™ Billboard Artist 100 Top Album Sales Hot Rock & Alternative Songs Top Rock Albums Mainstream Rock Airplay Alternative Airplay Rock Streaming Songs Rock & Alternative Airplay Rock Digital Song Sales Hot Alternative Songs Top Alternative Albums Alternative Streaming Songs Alternative Digital Song Sales Hot Hard Rock Songs Top Hard Rock Albums Hard Rock Streaming Songs Hard Rock Digital Song Sales Hot Rock Songs Top Rock & Alternative Albums Top Current Album Sales Catalog Albums Billboard Canadian Albums Bubbling Under Hot 100 Indie Store Album Sales Hard Rock Producers Vinyl Albums Australia Albums Active Rock The Official U.K. Albums Chart Rock & Alternative Producers LyricFind U.S. LyricFind Global Germany Albums Alternative Producers Rock Producers Greece Albums Heritage Rock Hot Alternative Songs Mexico Ingles Airplay Billboard Italy Albums Top 100 Top Streaming Albums Debut Date Peak Pos. Peak Date Wks. on Chart View full chart history Videos Deftones LIVE @ Lollapalooza 2011 The Daily Noise 10.26.2009 – Billboard.com Browse Latest News Business News Deftones Rights Sale to Warner Music Follows Explosive Growth in Catalog Activity 1/30/26 Ed Christman Pro Rock Deftones Plot First Aus/NZ Arena Run in Nearly a Decade 11/17/25 Jessica Lynch Latin The Killers, Guns N’ Roses, Tyler, The Creator & Deftones to Headline Tecate Pa’l Norte 2026 11/5/25 Natalia Cano Chart Beat Deftones’ ‘Private Music’ Tops Billboard Rock Album Charts 9/2/25 Kevin Rutherford Chart Beat Stray Kids Earn Seventh No. 1 on Billboard 200 With ‘KARMA’ 8/31/25 Keith Caulfield Chart Beat Deftones Achieve First Radio No. 1, Set Longevity Record on Mainstream Rock Airplay Chart 8/29/25 Kevin Rutherford Concerts Sabrina Carpenter, Tyler, The Creator, Chappell Roan & More to Headline 2026 Lollapalooza in Chile, Argentina & Brazil 8/28/25 Sigal Ratner-Arias Rock Deftones’ Chino Moreno Reveals Whether Lost ‘Eros’ Album Will Ever Be Released 8/22/25 Gil Kaufman Music News Deftones Go Public With New Album ‘Private Music’: Stream It Now 8/22/25 Hannah Dailey Chart Beat Deftones Debut Atop Hot Hard Rock Songs With ‘My Mind Is a Mountain’ 7/24/25 Kevin Rutherford Pro Read More Login Login Account Manage Account Log Out Close the menu Charts Expand charts menu All Charts Billboard Hot 100™ Billboard 200™ Global 200 Hits Of The World™ Chart Beat Songs Of The Summer Year-End Charts Decade-End Charts Music Expand music menu Music News Pop R&B/Hip-Hop Latin Rock Awards Chart Beat Concerts Features Reviews Videos Expand videos menu Culture Expand culture menu Events Lifestyle Politics TV/Film Media Expand media menu Lists Photos Podcasts Videos Business Expand business menu Business News Legal Touring Publishing Radio Record Labels View All Pro Pro Tools Expand pro-tools menu Songwriters & Producers Song Index Artist Index Royalty Calculator Market Watch Industry Events Calendar Billboard Español Expand billboard-espanol menu Noticias Música Negocios Cultura y Entretenimiento Crossword Puzzle Expand crossword-puzzle menu GET ACCESS TODAY ad


--- [Rockabye (song) explained] ---
No content
