=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lawler's campaigns paid his former firm over $500K - POLITICO]
Oct 29, 2025 · Checkmate Strategies, a “strategic communications firm” cofounded in 2018 by Lawler and Chris Russell, his business partner and occasional campaign spokesperson, has raked in over $500,000 in ...
URL: https://www.politico.com/newsletters/new-york-playbook-pm/2025/10/29/lawlers-campaigns-paid-his-former-firm-over-500k-00627791

[Mike Lawler’s congressional campaign is paying his own consulting firm - City & State New York]
For Assembly member and congressional candidate Michael Lawler, it could have paid to run for office - literally. Lawler, who is currently running for the 17th Congressional District in the Hudson Valley against Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney, won his seat in the Assembly in 2020. Before then, he had worked as a political strategist and campaign consultant at Checkmate Strategies, a firm he co ...
URL: https://www.cityandstateny.com/politics/2022/10/mike-lawlers-congressional-campaign-paying-his-own-consulting-firm/378794/

[Michael Lawler (New York) - Ballotpedia]
Biography Michael Lawler was born in Suffern, New York and lives in Pearl River, New York. He earned a bachelor's degree in business administration from Manhattan College in 2009. Lawler's career experience includes working on political campaigns, as Executive Director for the New York Republican Party, as a partner with Checkmate Strategies, and as the deputy town supervisor for Orangetown ...
URL: https://ballotpedia.org/Michael_Lawler_(New_York)

[Checkmate Strategies]
Since first launching his own business in 2009, Chris has worked as a Republican strategist and direct mail consultant with a track record of taking on and winning tough races in the challenging political terrain of the Northeast. Along the way, Chris co-founded Checkmate Strategies in 2018 and expanded to work on behalf of Republican candidates and groups nationally, as well as in public ...
URL: https://www.checkmatewins.com/

[Michael "Mike" V. Lawler - BallotReady]
About Michael "Mike" V. Lawler Professional Experience US House of Representatives, Representative (2023 - Present) New York State Assembly, Assemblymember (2021 - 2022) Town Of Orangetown, Deputy Town Supervisor (2018 - 2020) Checkmate Strategies, LLC, Partner (2018 - 2022) Massey for Mayor, Senior Advisor (2016 - 2017)
URL: https://www.ballotready.org/people/michael-v-lawler


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lawler's campaigns paid his former firm over $500K - POLITICO] ---
No content


--- [Mike Lawler’s congressional campaign is paying his own consulting firm - City & State New York] ---
No content


--- [Michael Lawler (New York) - Ballotpedia] ---
History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently. There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at http://www.archivebot.com. ArchiveBot's source code can be found at https://github.com/ArchiveTeam/ArchiveBot.


--- [Checkmate Strategies] ---
“Bragging about wins in ‘red’ districts, counties and cities is like dunking on a six-foot rim and thinking you’re Michael Jordan. Our firm takes on tough races and knows how to message swing voters who decide elections.” – CHRIS RUSSELL & AMANDA WOLOSHEN GLASS Winners of nearly 40 Pollie & Reed Awards for our creative, outside the box, and effective direct mail. Proud to be one of the most awarded GOP direct mail shops in the country. 2021 Reed Award "Professor Pelosi" 2021 Reed Award "Cliff & Newman" 2020 Pollie Award "Insanity" 2020 Pollie Award "Doggone Cold" 2020 Pollie Award "When Thom Kleiner Was First Elected..." 2020 Pollie Award "Double Dipper" Since first launching his own business in 2009, Chris has worked as a Republican strategist and direct mail consultant with a track record of taking on and winning tough races in the challenging political terrain of the Northeast. Along the way, Chris co-founded Checkmate Strategies in 2018 and expanded to work on behalf of Republican candidates and groups nationally, as well as in public affairs and communications. "*" indicates required fields


--- [Michael "Mike" V. Lawler - BallotReady] ---
Currently holds the office of U.S. House of Representatives - New York 17th Congressional District until January 3, 2027. Candidate for U.S. House of Representatives - New York 17th Congressional District in 2024 New York General Election. View your personalized ballot, check your voter registration, make a plan to vote, and research every name and measure on the ballot with BallotReady. Get StartedSupports parental notification for instances when a minor is pregnant and seeking an abortion. Learn more Opposing late-term abortions, sex-selection abortions, and non-doctors performing abortions. Learn more Opposing a federal ban on abortion. Learn more Fight the radical “defund the police” agenda. Learn more Force states like New York to repeal the dangerous cashless bail laws. Learn more Never supporting any cuts to Social Security, Medicare, or veterans services that violate the sacred promises made to the hard working men and women who built this country, nor those who wore the uniform in defense of our freedoms. Learn more Always a staunch ally of Israel and the Jewish people, Congressman Lawler’s commitment to our greatest ally was only strengthened in the wake of the barbaric Hamas terrorist attacks of October 7, 2023. Learn more Supporting red flag laws, so long as they mandate due process, to keep guns out of the hands of those likely to harm themselves or others. Learn more Congressman Lawler is a supporter of the constitutional rights of law-abiding Americans to keep and bear arms for defense of property and person, as well as recreational pursuits like hunting, competitive shooting, and as a collector. Learn more Prohibiting gun purchases by anyone with an outstanding warrant, and increasing penalties for the threat of mass harm. Learn more Fighting against Gov. Hochul and Mayor Adams’ absurd congestion pricing plan. Learn more Supporting the “Volunteer First Responder Housing Act” to help establish a new 18,000 tax deduction to help volunteer firefighters and EMTs offset the cost of housing in the Hudson Valley. Learn more Introducing both the “Middle Class Tax Relief Act” and “SALT Marriage Penalty Elimination Act” in an ongoing effort to provide tax relief to middle-class Hudson Valley families who have been negatively impacted by the SALT cap. Learn more Voting to pass an expanded Child Tax Credit out of the House. Learn more View your personalized ballot, check your voter registration, make a plan to vote, and research every name and measure on the ballot with BallotReady.
