=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kimberley, South Africa - Wikipedia]
On 2 September 1882, Kimberley became the first city in the Southern Hemisphere and the second in the world after Philadelphia, in the United States, to install electric street lighting.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kimberley,_South_Africa

[TODAY IN KIMBERLEY'S HISTORY 2 SEPTEMBER - Kimberley City Info]
Sep 2, 2025 · The first electric street lights in the world were in Mosley Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, in England, this being on 3 February 1879. Second in the world, and first in the United States, was Cleveland, Ohio, on 29 April 1879.
URL: https://www.kimberley.org.za/2-september-today-in-kimberleys-history/

[Kimberley First in Street Lighting and Stock Exchange in Africa]
May 2, 2024 · Innovations and Achievements: Electric Lights and Stock Exchange Kimberley embraced innovation by installing electric street lights on September 2, 1882, becoming the first city in the Southern Hemisphere (and only the second in the world after Philadelphia) to do so. This transformation marked Kimberley's shift from a frontier town to a modern ...
URL: https://africaviewfacts.com/facts/kimberley-first-in-street-lighting-and-stock-exchange-in-africa/

[Kimberley 150: A city of firsts - Netwerk24]
Jul 15, 2021 · On 2 September 1882, Kimberley was the first city in the Southern Hemisphere and the second in the world, after Philadelphia in the United States, to integrate electric street lights into its infrastructure. This came after the French Mining Company experimented with a 300 candlepower “Lontin” arc lamp at the Kimberley Mine in August 1881.
URL: https://www.netwerk24.com/kimberley-150-a-city-of-firsts-20210715

[Kimberley: Pioneering Innovations in South Africa | African ...]
In September 1882, the city achieved a significant milestone by becoming the first in the Southern Hemisphere and the second globally, after Philadelphia, to install electric street lights. This historic development marked a pivotal moment in the advancement of urban infrastructure, setting a precedent for cities worldwide.
URL: https://innovation.africa/news/kimberley-pioneering-innovations-in-south-africa/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kimberley, South Africa - Wikipedia] ---
Kimberley  (Khoekhoe: ǃ’Ās; Tswana: Kimbali) is the capital and largest city of the Northern Cape province of South Africa. It is located approximately 110 km east of the confluence of the Vaal and Orange Rivers. The city has considerable historical significance because of its diamond mining past and the siege during the Second Boer War. The British businessmen Cecil Rhodes and Barney Barnato made their fortunes in Kimberley, and Rhodes also established the De Beers diamond company in the early days of the mining town.
On 2 September 1882, Kimberley became the first city in the Southern Hemisphere and the second in the world after Philadelphia, in the United States, to install electric street lighting. The first stock exchange in Africa was built in Kimberley as early as 1881.


--- [TODAY IN KIMBERLEY'S HISTORY 2 SEPTEMBER - Kimberley City Info] ---
TODAY IN KIMBERLEY’S HISTORY 2 SEPTEMBER UPDATED: 02/09/2025 2 September 1882, The southern hemisphere’s first street lights switched on in Kimberley. Flashback to 2015 – 10 years ago today The military parade today in Kimberley – 2 September 2015 – is to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of the birth of an air defence unit in South Africa, and also the centenary of military hardware being used as an anti-aircraft weapon. The weapon used in 1915 was “Skinny Liz” and the action was in German South West Africa. Herewith the story. The “Skinny Liz” is a 15 pounder BLC (Breech Loading) gun, and is used as a memorial to the fallen at Kimberley’s very own 10 Anti-Aircraft Regiment at Diskobolos (on the way to Magersfontein battlefield). The carriage was constructed at the Salt River Railway Workshops, Cape Town, around November 1914, and was made from one-inch steel. It took ten men to lift the trail. (Gerald Lange’s book “On Urgent Imperial Service” states that the gun was constructed at Fort Knokke army ordnance workshops.) The gun had an elevation of 60 degrees and was specially built as an anti-aircraft gun. The gun, constructed as an anti-aircraft gun and as such is certainly South Africa’s first such gun, was tested at Simonstown and proceeded to South West Africa (now Namibia) under the command of Lt E.H. Tamplin MC of the Royal Field Artillery. It arrived at Walfisch Bay on Christmas Day 1914. An interesting aside is that Kimberley’s unique Long Cecil gun has a Christmas Day story as well in that Cecil Rhodes gave the go ahead to George Labram to make the gun on this holy day! Skinny Liz accompanied the advance of General Skinner’s Infantry Brigade and was used successfully against the German aeroplanes, although that is open to debate! It was more successfully used as a field gun, particularly at the battle of Trekkopjes on 26 April 1915 where Skinny Liz was the only British gun present. She took on the German field guns and neutralized them scoring several direct hits. Owing to the construction of the gun carriage it was necessary for the gunlayer to stand on two biscuit tins in order to lay, this accentuating the already good target. Although many German shells landed between the gun and the limber, Skinny Liz was not put out of action and saw the whole campaign through to the end. The German aircraft bombed, if that is the correct word, the SA forces with hand grenades and shells, many of which did not explode until they tied ribbons to the shell making a tail and thus allowing it to land nose first. General Skinner, after whom the gun was named, did not approve of the name “Lizzie Skinner” and preferred the term “Skinny Liz”. The South Africans also fired two other guns at the German aircraft, a 4-inch and a 4.7 inch. Pictured is Skinny Liz in WW 1 and today as a memorial in Kimberley. UPDATED: 02/09/2022 2 September 1882, The southern hemisphere’s first street lights switched on in Kimberley. First electric street lights in the southern hemisphere Electric streetlights made their appearance in 1882, with 16 electric streetlights, four of them outside the City Hall. Kimberley was the first town in South Africa to have electric street lights and quite possibly the first in the southern hemisphere. Swan lamps were used. Mosley Street, Newcastle upon Tyne in England, was the first town in the world to have electric street lights, using Joseph Swan’s incandescent lamps on 3 February 1879. Second in the world was Cleveland, Ohio in the USA on 29 April 1879, followed by New York in 1880. Both the American cities used Thomas Edison’s experimental lamps. Swan then set up a partnership with Edison in 1883, their company being called Ediswan. In Latin America: San Jose, Costa Rica on 9 August 1884 using Ediswan lamps. In mainland Europe: Milan in 1883 In Australia: Tamworth, New South Wales: on 15 May 1888 In Cape Town, an arc-lighting installation was commissioned for the harbour in 1882, while the railway station had four lamps burning by 1881. Interestingly, Charles Rudd was the first person to install electricity in his home – in Newlands, Cape Town, this happening in 1891. In Johannesburg the first electric street lamp was erected on the corner of Rissik and President Streets in October 1895. The French Mining Company experimented with a 300 candle power “Lontin” arc lamp at the Kimberley Mine in August 1881. The Daily Independent of 15 and 18 August 1881 described it as “magnificently brilliant, somewhat resembling the light of the sun.” The Government Inspector of Diamond Mines, WCC Erskine, stated that in 1881 “the electric light was introduced for mining operations in the Kimberley Mine, where it was used in the claims and on the margin at the delivery boxes. It was found to be an immense improvement on the old style of lighting by night, viz. paraffin tins filled with waste saturated with paraffin oil”. [divider] 2 September 1882, The southern hemisphere’s first street lights switched on in Kimberley. Pictured is one of the lights on Dutoitspan Road. DID YOU KNOW Kimberley can proudly boast that the diamond city was the first town in Africa, and indeed the southern hemisphere, to have street lights installed. Sixteen lights were officially “switched on” on 2 September 1882. The first test had been done as early as 15 February, but only four lights had burned brightly for a short while before fading. Four of the sixteen lights were on the corners of Market square. The first electric street lights in the world were in Mosley Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, in England, this being on 3 February 1879. Second in the world, and first in the United States, was Cleveland, Ohio, on 29 April 1879. Wabash, Indiana, also in the USA, holds the title of being the third electrically lit city, this happening on 2 February 1880. Chicago and New York followed shortly thereafter. Kimberley was the first city in the Southern Hemisphere. In Latin America, San Jose, Costa Rica was the first city, being launched on 9 August 1884. Timisoara, in present-day Romania, was the first city in mainland Europe to have electric public lighting, this on the 12 November 1884. In 1888 Tamworth, New South Wales, Australia became the first location in Australia to have electric street lighting. [divider] From Kimberley Calls and Recalls on Facebook By Steve Lunderstedt [divider] [vc_basic_grid post_type=”ids” max_items=”10″ style=”all” items_per_page=”10″ show_filter=”” element_width=”12″ gap=”30″ orderby=”date” order=”DESC” filter_source=”category” filter_style=”default” filter_align=”center” filter_color=”grey” filter_size=”md” button_style=”rounded” button_color=”blue” button_size=”md” arrows_design=”none” arrows_position=”inside” arrows_color=”blue” paging_design=”radio_dots” paging_color=”grey” loop=”” autoplay=”-1″ item=”basicGrid_TextFirst” grid_id=”vc_gid:1441181914460-b13a275d-88b8-4″ include=”5056″]


--- [Kimberley First in Street Lighting and Stock Exchange in Africa] ---
Kimberley's Old Town ( Photo: Nomad's Overland Journal ) In the heart of South Africa's Northern Cape Province lies Kimberley, a city with a fascinating history and a legacy of innovation. Known as the "City of Diamonds," Kimberley has a remarkable story as the place where the De Beers diamond empire began. But Kimberley is more than just diamonds—it was also a pioneer in introducing electric street lights and hosting Africa's first stock exchange. Let's dive into the intriguing story of Kimberley. The Rise of Kimberley: Birth of the Diamond Industry The story of Kimberley starts with the discovery of diamonds at Colesberg Kopje in 1871. This discovery attracted a huge number of people seeking their fortune, and the small settlement quickly grew into a bustling mining town called New Rush, later renamed Kimberley. The De Beers family became well-known in Kimberley's diamond history, laying the groundwork for a global diamond business. Within a year of the diamond find, Kimberley's landscape changed dramatically with the creation of the Big Hole—a massive pit dug by thousands of miners. Innovations and Achievements: Electric Lights and Stock Exchange Kimberley embraced innovation by installing electric street lights on September 2, 1882, becoming the first city in the Southern Hemisphere (and only the second in the world after Philadelphia) to do so. This transformation marked Kimberley's shift from a frontier town to a modern city. Additionally, Kimberley was a pioneer in finance, hosting Africa's first stock exchange in 1881—the Kimberley Royal Stock Exchange. This helped fuel economic growth and establish Kimberley's importance in the region. Kimberley's Historical Role: Beyond Diamonds During the Anglo-Boer Wars, Kimberley played a significant role, leaving a lasting impact on South Africa's history. Today, Kimberley's museums and heritage sites offer a glimpse into its past. The Kimberley Mine Museum Village and Big Hole are iconic attractions where visitors can explore reconstructed buildings and learn about life during Kimberley's mining boom. Kimberley's Old Town Modern Kimberley: Blending History and Progress Today, Kimberley is a vibrant city that combines its rich history with modern life. Its museums showcase Khoisan artifacts, preserving local culture. Kimberley's cathedrals, historical buildings, and museums are cherished landmarks that attract visitors from around the world. Kimberley train station FAQs 1. What is Kimberley famous for? Kimberley is famous as the "City of Diamonds" and was the starting point of the De Beers diamond empire. 2. When did Kimberley install electric street lights? Kimberley installed electric street lights on September 2, 1882, becoming the first city in the Southern Hemisphere to do so. 3. Why was Kimberley important during the Anglo-Boer Wars? Kimberley played a strategic role during the wars and endured a 126-day siege by the Boers. 4. What landmarks can visitors explore in Kimberley? Visitors can explore iconic sites like the Big Hole, Kimberley Mine Museum Village, and historical museums showcasing Kimberley's mining history. Conclusion Kimberley's journey—from a diamond rush town to a hub of innovation—is a testament to human creativity and determination. Today, Kimberley continues to shine as a city rich in history and a symbol of progress. As the diamond capital of the world and a trailblazer in electric lighting and finance, Kimberley's legacy endures and captivates visitors seeking to uncover its remarkable story. Source : Eskom, britannica, kimberleystays


--- [Kimberley 150: A city of firsts - Netwerk24] ---
“Kimberley has had a profound effect on the course of history in Southern Africa. The discovery of diamonds there, more than a century ago, proved to be the first step in the transformation of South Africa from an agricultural into an industrial country.” – H.F. Oppenheimer, 1976, in the foreword to Brian Roberts’ book, Kimberley, Turbulent City. Also known as the Diamond City, this capital of the Northern Cape – and the only city in the province – was founded in 1871 when diamonds were discovered on the farm Vooruitzicht. Now, 150 years later, Kimberley boasts quite a few firsts in history books. - The city housed South Africa’s first stock exchange, the Kimberley Royal Stock Exchange, which opened on 2 February 1881. - On 2 September 1882, Kimberley was the first city in the Southern Hemisphere and the second in the world, after Philadelphia in the United States, to integrate electric street lights into its infrastructure. This came after the French Mining Company experimented with a 300 candlepower “Lontin” arc lamp at the Kimberley Mine in August 1881. The Daily Independent of 15 and 18 August 1881 described it as “magnificently brilliant, somewhat resembling the light of the sun”. This light was found to be an immense improvement on the old style of lighting, which was paraffin tins filled with waste saturated with paraffin oil. - Kimberley was the first city in South Africa to switch to an automatic telephone exchange. - South Africa’s first flying school opened in Kimberley in 1913. Pilots of the South African Aviation Corps, which later became the South African Air Force, were trained there. More interesting facts - Kimberley was the initial hub of industrialisation in South Africa in the late 19th century, which transformed the country’s agrarian economy into one more dependent on its mineral wealth. - From mid-July 1871 to 1914, miners dug the now famous Big Hole (then called the Kimberley Mine) with picks and shovels. The hole, with a surface of 17 ha and width of 463 m, yielded 2 722 kg of diamonds. It was originally excavated to a depth of 240 m, but debris reduced its depth to about 215 m. Since then it has accumulated water to a depth of 40 m, leaving only 175 m visible. - Kimberley is surrounded by five rivers, namely the Orange, Vaal, Modder, Riet and Harts. The confluence of the Vaal and the Orange is located approximately 110 km east of the city.


--- [Kimberley: Pioneering Innovations in South Africa | African ...] ---
Kimberley stands as a beacon of innovation and progress in South Africa’s history, pioneering several groundbreaking technologies and initiatives that have left a lasting impact on society. In September 1882, the city achieved a significant milestone by becoming the first in the Southern Hemisphere and the second globally, after Philadelphia, to install electric street lights. This historic development marked a pivotal moment in the advancement of urban infrastructure, setting a precedent for cities worldwide. Beyond its pioneering electrification, Kimberley boasts a rich legacy of innovation across various sectors. In 1881, it established Africa’s inaugural stock exchange, laying the foundation for modern financial systems in the region. Additionally, Kimberley was home to South Africa’s first hotel equipped with electricity, reflecting its commitment to embracing cutting-edge technology for the benefit of its residents and visitors alike. Moreover, Kimberley has been at the forefront of social progress, hosting notable milestones such as the establishment of the first state school for paraplegics, demonstrating its dedication to inclusive education and accessibility. The city also witnessed significant advancements in communication with the introduction of the first direct dialling telephones, facilitating seamless connectivity and enhancing communication networks. Furthermore, Kimberley’s trailblazing spirit extended to the judiciary, as evidenced by the appointment of Justice Leonora van de Heever, the first female judge in South Africa. This historic achievement shattered gender barriers and paved the way for greater representation and diversity in the legal profession. In addition to these milestones, Kimberley boasts several other firsts, including the introduction of the first drive-in and the establishment of the first professional nursing academy. These achievements underscore Kimberley’s enduring legacy as a pioneer in innovation, technology, and social progress, inspiring future generations to continue pushing the boundaries of possibility and driving positive change in their communities.
