=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[On This Day - Patch 1.3: Ruins of the Dire Maul Launched ... - Wowhead]
On this day, March 7th, 2005, Patch 1.3.0: Ruins of the Dire Maul was released. World of Warcraft hadn't even had an expansion yet, and the game was very different than the one we know now. Here are a few things that changed with Patch 1.3 as the game started to find its feet.
URL: https://www.wowhead.com/news/on-this-day-patch-1-3-ruins-of-the-dire-maul-launched-seventeen-years-ago-on-326232

[Dire Maul introduced as WoW Classic's first new dungeon]
Dec 6, 2021 · The first new content for World of Warcraft Classic since its launch is about to arrive, with the Dire Maul dungeon set for release on October 15.
URL: https://www.dexerto.com/world-of-warcraft/wow-classic-dire-maul-release-1139720/

[Warcraft: A Complete History - Bellular - World of Warcraft - Old ...]
World of Warcraft Patch 1.3, Ruins of the Dire Maul, was the games second major update, going live on the 7th of March 2005 - 3 months after Mysteries of Mauradon. Like 1.2, it contained a lot, bringing with it Azeroth's first world bosses, Azuregos and Lord Kazzak, and the game-changing Dire Maul.
URL: https://forums.oldtimersguild.com/t/warcraft-a-complete-history-bellular/19229

[WoW Classic's First Big Content Update Adds Dire Maul Dungeons]
Oct 15, 2019 — Today's first major update to World of Warcraft Classic adds the three-part Dire Maul dungeon, filed with Ogres, elves, and assorted evil.
URL: https://kotaku.com/wow-classics-first-big-content-update-adds-dire-maul-du-1839066799

[World of Warcraft Classic Gets Dire Maul Dungeon Next | GameWatcher]
World of Warcraft Classic has been out for over a month and its first batch of added content, in the form of the Dire Maul dungeon, is coming sooner than expected. Eager adventurers will be able to take on the ogres of Dire Maul as soon as next week, starting with October 15. The dungeon was initially planned to arrive with World of Warcraft Classic 's Phase 2 of content, but Blizzard opted ...
URL: https://www.gamewatcher.com/news/world-of-warcraft-dire-maul


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [On This Day - Patch 1.3: Ruins of the Dire Maul Launched ... - Wowhead] ---
We've discontinued servicing users from your location and are thereby preventing access to any of the websites owned and operated by ZAM Network, LLC DBA Fanbyte (the owner of Wowhead.com): This decision is ultimately one we were forced to make due to the number of visitors from your region when compared to the operational costs necessary to continue providing access there. It was a tough decision but one that we ultimately had to accept. This is an indefinite decision. We genuinely apologize for the inconvenience this will cause all of those who reside within your region. Note: This is not related to Russia/Ukraine or any other political/military actions around the world.


--- [Dire Maul introduced as WoW Classic's first new dungeon] ---
The first new content for World of Warcraft Classic since its launch is about to arrive, with the Dire Maul dungeon set for release on October 15. WoW Classic returns Blizzard’s immensely popular MMO to its original, pre-expansion state, and has been met with massive interest, with huge numbers of players flooding to relive their early WoW experience, or try the original game for the first time. Original “vanilla” Warcraft didn’t remain entirely the same throughout its lifespan, however, with a variety of new content added in much the same way that the modern retail version of the game evolves throughout each expansion. For Classic, Blizzard have started the clock near the beginning of vanilla WoW, and are set to introduce additional content over six phases, following a similar structure to the game’s original progression. In a recent content update, Blizzard revealed that the first new release would be the Dire Maul dungeon, which will arrive on October 15. Dire Maul is a five-player dungeon found in Feralas designed for players at level 58-60, offering some of the strongest gear players can find before jumping into raids. As well as the new drops, Dire Maul also offers some valuable world buffs to power up players ahead of raids. The dungeon was originally slated to go live as part of Phase Two, which will also include world bosses Azuregos and Kazzak, as well as the Honor System for PvP and PvP Rank rewards. However, Dire Maul has now been moved forward, while the rest of Phase Two will be released at a date yet to be announced. Blizzard haven’t announced a specific time frame for the progression of each content phase for WoW Classic, but with the original game having advanced over the course of two years prior to the release of the first expansion, The Burning Crusade, it seems likely that Classic will follow a similar schedule.


--- [Warcraft: A Complete History - Bellular - World of Warcraft - Old ...] ---
Published on Aug 16, 2019 Patch 1.1 released alongside World of Warcraft, marking the end of beta and the beginning of the most influential MMORPG of all time. WoW Patch 1.2: The First EVER Patch, INTRO of LFG & MAJOR Change | Complete History of WoW Published on Aug 24, 2019 World of Warcraft’s first ever content patch, Mysteries of Maradon, released just 6 weeks after the game’s release, bringing with it much needed content, systems changes & more. WoW Patch 1.3: Ruins of Dire Maul | Blizz’s LFG BACKFIRE, Epic World Bosses & Revamps | WoW History Published on Sep 6, 2019 World of Warcraft Patch 1.3, Ruins of the Dire Maul, was the games second major update, going live on the 7th of March 2005 - 3 months after Mysteries of Mauradon. Like 1.2, it contained a lot, bringing with it Azeroth’s first world bosses, Azuregos and Lord Kazzak, and the game-changing Dire Maul. WoW Patch 1.4: Azeroth ABLAZE! EPIC Class Quests, The LEGENDARY Honor Grind | WoW History PvP was always a foundational aspect of World of Warcraft but it wasn’t until five months in that a substantive reward and progression system was added. Patch 1.4, The call to War, truly was an apt name as thousands of players were about to pour thousands of hours into the original pvp rank system.


--- [WoW Classic's First Big Content Update Adds Dire Maul Dungeons] ---
Now that players have had a month and a half to get used to World of Warcraft as it was in late 2004, it’s time to scootch forward to early 2005. Today’s first major update to World of Warcraft Classic adds the three-part Dire Maul dungeon, filed with Ogres, elves, and assorted evil. Dire Maul was an epic undertaking back in the day, crafted as a challenge for players from level 55 right on up to the original level 60 cap. While the East Wing of the dungeon was open to all, Dire Maul West and North required keys, lockpicks, or explosives to explore. This is the dungeon where players would journey to earn class-based trinkets with special stat enhancements or to procure the mystical Orb of Deception, a magical item capable of transforming players into members of the opposite faction. And now it’s all of those things once more in World of Warcraft Classic. Along with all of that old dire content, today’s update also adds quests for epic Paladin and Warlock mounts, so expect players of those two classes to be even more insufferable for a bit. Best of all, the addition of Dire Maul to World of Warcraft Classic means the Alliance side can stop arguing about whether “DM” means Deadmines or Dire Maul in Westfall general chat. Or perhaps the arguing will only get stronger. We’ll see.


--- [World of Warcraft Classic Gets Dire Maul Dungeon Next | GameWatcher] ---
World of Warcraft Classic has been out for over a month and its first batch of added content, in the form of the Dire Maul dungeon, is coming sooner than expected. Eager adventurers will be able to take on the ogres of Dire Maul as soon as next week, starting with October 15. The dungeon was initially planned to arrive with World of Warcraft Classic’s Phase 2 of content, but Blizzard opted to “get it out there as soon as possible” instead. World of Warcraft Classic Dire Maul With Dire Maul now set to arrive ahead of plan, Phase 2 will bring two major additions to World of Warcraft Classic when it launches before the end of the year. One of these additions is world bosses, which will see Azuregos roaming Azshara and the notorious Lord Kazzak taking to the Blasted Lands. If the former will be primarily the target of Hunters looking to obtain the Ancient Sinew Wrapped Lamina bag which increases ranged attack speed by 15%, the latter will be the main target of Priests looking to get the epic Beneditction staff. Phase 2 also introduces the PvP Honor System to World of Warcraft Classic, which enables players to gain Honor from defeating those of the opposing faction. Honor can then be spent on faction-specific titles and powerful gear. The Dire Maul dungeon is remembered by veteran World of Warcraft players for a number of things, including the so-called “tribute runs”. These saw players disguising themselves as ogres – the primary inhabitants of the dungeon –, sneaking past otherwise hostile guards, only to be named king of the Godrok tribe which, aside from being a cool title, gained them extra loot and buffs. Even ahead of Dire Maul, World of Warcraft Classic was a success for Blizzard, who once claimed players wouldn’t want it. The title increased subscription revenue by 223% in August. World of Warcraft Classic is available on PC and only requires a monthly subscription to Blizzard’s MMO.
