=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Eger V. Murphree - Wikipedia]
Among his awards were the Perkin Medal in 1950 and the Industrial Research Institute (IRI) Medal in 1953. The E. V. Murphree Award in Industrial and Engineering Chemistry awarded annually by the American Chemical Society is named in his honor.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eger_V._Murphree

[Eger V Murphree - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Among his awards were the Perkin Medal in 1950 and the Industrial Research Institute (IRI) Medal in 1953. The E. V. Murphree Award in Industrial and Engineering Chemistry awarded annually by the American Chemical Society is named in his honor. He died on October 29, 1962 at Overlook Hospital in Summit, New Jersey of coronary thrombosis.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Eger-V-Murphree

[Eger Vaughn Murphree - ukalumni.net]
He was a recipient of the Perkin Medal awarded by the Society of Chemical Industry in 1950 for his work in applied chemistry. He also received the Industrial Research Institute Award in 1953.
URL: https://www.ukalumni.net/s/article/Eger-Vaughn-Murphree

[Eger V. Murphree Dies at 63; Led Esso Research Company; Chemist Helped ...]
Mr. Murphree received an honorary doctorate in science from the University of Kentucky in 1949 and the Perkin Medal from the American section of Society of Chemical Industry in 1950 for work in ...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/1962/10/30/archives/eger-v-murphree-dies-at-63-led-esso-research-company-chemist-helped.html

[4 Tage – Petra & Wadi Rum - IJO Reisen]
4 Tage Reise Jordanien privat mit Petra und Wadi Rum - ein Bausteinprogramm ab/an Grenze nach Israel ab 789 euro.
URL: https://www.ijo-reisen.de/4-tage-petra-und-wadi-rum/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Eger V. Murphree - Wikipedia] ---
Eger Vaughan Murphree (November 3, 1898 – October 29, 1962) was an American chemist, best known for his co-invention of the process of fluid catalytic cracking.


--- [Eger V Murphree - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Name Eger Murphree Education University of Kentucky | Died October 29, 1962 Role Chemist | | Eger Vaughan Murphree (November 3, 1898 – October 29, 1962) was an American chemist, best known for his co-invention of the process of fluid catalytic cracking. Contents Biography He was born on November 3, 1898 in Bayonne, New Jersey, moving as a child to Kentucky. He graduated from Kentucky University with degrees in chemistry and mathematics in 1920, and a master's degree in chemistry in 1921. After teaching school for a year he spent several years at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as a Staff Assistant and Research Associate in the Chemical Engineering Department. In 1930 he joined what was then Standard Oil of New Jersey. During the Second World War Murphree was a member of the committee that organized the Manhattan Project and was widely recognized as a leader in the fields of synthetic toluene, butadiene and hydrocarbon synthesis, fluid cat cracking, fluid hydroforming, and fluid coking. He was also involved in the early Manhattan Project as a member of the S-1 Section. Murphree was head of the centrifuge project (soon abandoned) and overall engineer for the Manhattan Project in June 1942. He struck Deputy District Engineer Kenneth Nichols as "more like the industrial engineers I was accustomed to dealing with. He was stable, conservative, thorough and precise". He was to have been on the Lewis Committee reviewing the entire project in November 1942, but was sick. He (and James Conant) disagreed with the committee recommendation to build only a small electromagnetic plant, and a full-size plant was built. In the 1950s he served in the Defence Department on scheduling missiles and coordinating the programs of the three services (as Nichols had done earlier). From 1947 to 1962 he served as Vice President of research and engineering at Exxon, as Standard Oil had become. Among his awards were the Perkin Medal in 1950 and the Industrial Research Institute (IRI) Medal in 1953. The E. V. Murphree Award in Industrial and Engineering Chemistry awarded annually by the American Chemical Society is named in his honor. He died on October 29, 1962 at Overlook Hospital in Summit, New Jersey of coronary thrombosis. Legacy He was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in 1999.


--- [Eger Vaughn Murphree - ukalumni.net] ---
2 captures 29 Aug 2025 - 05 Oct 2025 Sep OCT Nov 05 2024 2025 2026 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20251005231818/https://www.ukalumni.net/s/article/Eger-Vaughn-Murphree Loading × Sorry to interrupt CSS Error Refresh


--- [Eger V. Murphree Dies at 63; Led Esso Research Company; Chemist Helped ...] ---
Supported by Eger V. Murphree Dies at 63; Led Esso Research Company; Chemist Helped Establish the Manhattan District Project --Held 39 Patents October 30, 1962, Page 35Buy Reprints SUMMIT, N. J., Oct. 29- Eger V. Murphree, president of the Esso Research and Engineering Company and a vice president of the parent Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, died today in Overlook Hospital. His age was 63. He suffered a coronary thrombosis on Oct. 18. His home was at 60 Edgewood Road. Mr. Murphree, who had served Jersey Standard since 1930, was a member of the Office of Scientific Research and Development committee headed by Dr. James B. Conant was instrumental in establishing the Manhattan District Project for development of the atomic bomb during World War II. He also supervised the design of a heavy-water plant in British Columbia that used a centrifugal method of separating uranium isotopes. Since his appointment by President Harry S. Truman in 1950, he had served on the general advisory committee of the Atomic Energy Commission. In 1956-57 as a special assistant to Secretary of Defense Charles E. Wilson he helped reduced the interservice rivalry on missile projects that was delaying production. Long a leader in the World Petroleum Congress, he was chairman of the permanent council for its fourth congress in Rome in 1955 and its fitfh congress in New York in 1959. Soft Southern Accent Born in Bayonne, he was taken as a boy to Louisville, Ky., where he acquired the trace of a soft Southern accent that stayed with him all his life. From Louisville Male High School he went to the University of Kentucky, where he received a B.S. in chemistry in 1920 and an M.S. in 1921. He was football captain and All-Southern tackle as a senior. After a year of teaching mathematics and physics and coaching football at Paris (Ill.) High School, he became staff assistant and then a research associate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, publishing a number of papers. In 1924 he joined the Solvay Process Company in Syracuse, N.Y., and was made head of its chemical engineering department. When Jersey Standard formed a new group in 1930 to develop chemical processes for utilizing petroleum raw materials, he was chosen to direct it. Many years later he told the American Chemical Society that one of the secrets of successful research management was "to help the industrial research man to grow by offering challenging work-work that will stretch his brains and tempt his intellectual powers." At Jasco, Inc.,-as the new group at Baton Rouge, La., was known-a fluid catalytic cracking process permitting production of higher-grade gasoline was developed. In 1932 he took on the additional post of manager of development and research for the Standard Oil Company of Louisiana. In 1934 he was brought to New York in the same capacity for the Standard Oil Development Company, now the Esso Research and Engineering Company. He had served as its president, intermittently, since 1947. Mr. Murphree received an honorary doctorate in science from the University of Kentucky in 1949 and the Perkin Medal from the American section of Society of Chemical Industry in 1950 for work in applied chemistry. Processes and products he helped develop included synthetic toluene, butadiene and hydrocarbon synthesis, all-butyl synthetic rubber, automobile tires, synthetic lubricants for jet aircraft and a number of versatile plastics and petrochemicals. The most recent of his 34 patents was issued last year for a process to increase the recovery of oil from shale and other oil-bearing solids. With his easy smile Mr. Murphree was always a center of calm during crises in the administration of scientific explorations by his subordinates. In 1934, he married Georgie C. Rabelais. A daughter, Sarah, also survives. Related Content Advertisement


--- [4 Tage – Petra & Wadi Rum - IJO Reisen] ---
4 Tage – Petra & Wadi Rum – Petra, das einstige Handelszentrum der Nabatäer, liegt inmitten der jordanischen Wüste. Vor etwa 2.000 Jahren wurde diese beeindruckende Stadt aus Sandstein geschaffen – ein architektonisches Meisterwerk, das der Natur getrotzt hat. 🌄 Der Weg dorthin? Ein 1,5 Kilometer langer Durchgang durch eine schmale Schlucht. So viel Aufwand, nur um anzukommen – aber es lohnt sich. 🏜️ Heute ist Petra nicht nur ein Zeugnis der Geschichte, sondern auch Inspiration für große Filmemacher. Oder war es umgekehrt? Vielleicht hat die Stadt sich von der Filmkulisse inspirieren lassen. 🎥 Leistungen im Reisepreis: - Empfang an der Grenze und Hilfe bei Ein- und Ausreise - Fahrt im modernem, klimatisierten PKW - englischsprachiger Fahrer (nach Verfügbarkeit auch auf deutsch) - 2 Übernachtungen z.B. im 3* Hotel Edom Petra (4* Hotel gegen Aufpreis möglich) - 1 Übernachtung z.B. im Sharah Luxury oder Space Village Camp in Wadi Rum - 3 x Frühstück und Abendessen - 2 Tageskarte Petra - 2 stündige Jeeptour Wadi Rum - Informationsmaterial Jordanien - Einreisevisum Jordanien und Ausreisegebühren Jordanien - Veranstalter IJO Reisen Leistungen nicht im Reisepreis: - Ausreisegebühren Israel - Persönliche Ausgaben, weitere Mahlzeiten und Getränke - Trinkgelder für Fahrer - Eintrittskarte Petra by Night ca. 28 € ( nur Montag , Mittwoch und Donnerstag von 20:30 bis 22:00 Uhr) - deutschsprachiger Guide in Petra für ca. 3 Stunden 60,- € - Aufpreis für 4 Nächte in 4* Hotels p.P. ab 108,- € - Zuschlag an Fest- und Feiertagen möglich Täglich Anreise möglich ab/an Grenzübergang Wadi Arba bei Aqaba/Eilat – auch als 3 Tagestour mit 2 Übernachtungen in Petra ab 698,- € pro Person (bei 4 Teilnehmern) Hinweis: Der Reiseverlauf und die Reisedauer kann Ihren individuellen Wünschen angepaßt werden, auch mit einer Badeverlängerung in Aqaba oder am Toten Meer ergänzt werden. Reiseverlauf 1. Tag Aqaba – Wadi Arba (Eilat) – Petra Individuelle Anreise nach Eilat Grenzübergang Wadi Araba. (Der Übergang in Wadi Araba/Südgrenze befindet sich 324 km südlich von Amman. Er verbindet die beiden am Roten Meer gelegenen Orte Eilat und Aqaba. An diesen Grenzübergängen werden Visa für Einreisende aus den meisten Ländern ausgestellt. Vorab beantragte Visa sind nur für Nationalitäten mit Einreisebeschränkungen erforderlich. Der Übergang in Wadi Araba ist am islamischen Neujahrstag und an Yom Kippur geschlossen) oder (Sheikh Hussein-Übergang/Nordgrenze, 90 km von Amman. Der Übergang liegt im Norden in der Nähe des See Genezareth und ist ganzjährig rund um die Uhr geöffnet) Empfang durch unsere örtliche Reiseleitung auf jordanischer Seite und Hilfe bei den Einreiseformalitäten. Fahrt ins Wadi Musa zur roten Felsenstadt Petra und Besichtigung von „Little Petra“ anschließend Abendessen und Übernachtung in Petra. 2. Tag Petra Dieser Tag steht ganz im Zeichen von Petra, ganztägige Besichtigung des Felsenstadt. Eine lokaler deutschsprechender Reiseleiter wird Sie für 3 Stunden begleiten* , dann haben Sie Zeit für die weitere, individuelle Besichtigung von Petra. Am Abend erwartet Sie die Abendvorstellung von „Petra by Night“ (nur Montag, Mittwoch und Donnerstag), eine einmalige Lichtershow im Kerzenschein vor dem großen Schatzhaus. Abendessen und Übernachtung in Petra*. (* Optional zubuchbar) 3. Tag Petra – Wadi Rum Nach dem Frühstück Fahrt nach Wadi Rum und 2 stündige Jeeptour oder 2 stündige Kamelsafari. Optional zubuchbar; Ballonfahrt im Wadi Rum (p.P. ca. 180 euro – je nach Wetterlage). Abendessen und Übernachtung im Beduinencamp z.B. Space Village Luxury Camp. 4. Tag Wadi Rum – Aqaba – Wadi Araba (Eilat) Geniessen Sie noch den einmaligen Sonnenaufgang in der Wüste und unternehmen einen frühen Spaziergang. Anschließend Frühstück und Weiterfahrt nach Aqaba zum Grenzübergang Wadi Araba. Ausreise nach Israel, unsere Mitarbeiter übernehmen für Sie die Ausreiseformalitäten. Reisetermin und Reisepreise In folgender Tabelle finden Sie die Reisetermine und Reisepreise pro Person der Reise 4 Tage – Petra & Wadi Rum. Um eine Buchungsanfrage zu stellen, klicken Sie bitte auf den jeweiligen Preis Ihres Wunschzeitraums. | # | Anreise | Abreise | 3 Bett | DZ | EZ | |---|
