=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[BEDE COTTAGE,Stonehouse-1090695| Historic England]
Listentry1090695. Grade IIListedBuilding: Bede Cottage. May include summary, reasons for designation and history.WhatareHeritageAction Zones?
URL: https://historicengland.org.uk/listing/the-list/list-entry/1090695

[cbp.gov/travel/trusted-traveler-programs/global-entry]
CBP globalentrymember IDnumber.
URL: https://www.cbp.gov/travel/trusted-traveler-programs/global-entry

[ListedBuilding Consent in London: What Homeowners Need to Know]
Determining Your Building’sListedStatus. Homeowners can verify their property’slistedstatus through their local planning authority’s online search tool or Historic England’sNationalHeritageList.Theheritagestatement must build a compelling casefortheproposed works.
URL: https://londondailypost.co.uk/listed-building-consent-in-london-what-homeowners-need-to-know/

[The Beginning of Rothschildshire: Mentmore, Buckinghamshire]
The rise and fall of Mentmore, in Buckinghamshire: one of the greatesthousesof the Victorian age, offered tothenation, declined, and now recognised as being at 'immediate risk of further rapid deterioration or loss of fabric'.Gloucestershire.
URL: https://gardensheritageandplanning.com/2026/02/13/the-beginning-of-rothschildshire-mentmore-buckinghamshire/

[jetpunk.com/quizzes/how-many-countries-can-you-name]
Listof countries of the world in alphabetical order.
URL: https://www.jetpunk.com/quizzes/how-many-countries-can-you-name


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [BEDE COTTAGE,Stonehouse-1090695| Historic England] ---
No content


--- [cbp.gov/travel/trusted-traveler-programs/global-entry] ---
Global Entry is a U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Trusted Traveler Program that allows expedited clearance for pre-approved, low-risk travelers upon arrival in the United States. The application fee is $120, and membership lasts for five years. All applicants must undergo a background check. Global Entry Reduce the Line with Global Entry Learn How to Use Global Entry at the AirportLast Modified: Jul 09, 2025


--- [ListedBuilding Consent in London: What Homeowners Need to Know] ---
No content


--- [The Beginning of Rothschildshire: Mentmore, Buckinghamshire] ---
The Mentmore estate, in Buckinghamshire, is something of a cause célèbre in the conservation world. Having been offered to the nation in the 1970s, it was declined, resulting in the dispersal of its extensive collection, and the slow but inexorable decline of the estate, to the point that both house (Grade I) and landscape (Grade II*) are now identified as ‘Heritage at Risk’. This post explores the creation and subsequent demise of what was once regarded as one of the greatest houses of the Victorian age. The House Mentmore House (also known as Mentmore Towers) was one of a number of properties acquired by members of the Rothschild family in the area around Tring (Hertfordshire) and Aylesbury (Buckinghamshire), later referred to as ‘Rothschildshire’: other properties include Aston Clinton House (now lost), Tring Park, Waddesdon Manor, Ascott House, and Halton House. The Rothschilds of Rothschildshire were the English branch of the much larger European family, which had been founded in Frankfurt in the eighteenth century by the banker Mayer Amschel Rothschild (1744-1812). The expansion of the family’s financial empire was carefully orchestrated, and Mayer’s sons – the ‘five arrows’ of the family coat of arms – settled in Frankfurt, London, Vienna, Naples, and Paris. The English line of the family was founded by Mayer’s third son, Nathan Mayer Rothschild (1777-1836), and it was Nathan’s youngest son, another Mayer Amschel (Baron Mayer Amschel de Rothschild, 1818-1874), who built Mentmore in the 1850s (the full Rothschild family tree can be viewed here). There was already a manor house in the village of Mentmore (the eighteenth-century house is now listed at Grade II*), just a few hundred metres away from the site the Baron chose for his own house, on the land he and his family had acquired in what the appraisal of the Mentmore conservation area describes as ‘an extensive programme of acquisition of all the numerous farms and other properties that formerly lay within the village and present park’. Sir Joseph Paxton was commissioned to design the new house (described by Pevsner as ‘very large and conspicuous’), and the result is described in the Register entry: [The house was built] on a low but prominent hill close to the north boundary of the site, with long views south and south-east across the park to the distant hills. The house is of light grey Ancaster ashlar, in Jacobethan style, much influenced by the Elizabethan prodigy house Wollaton Hall, Nottinghamshire (qv), of two storeys in a square plan with projecting three-storey corner towers and single-storey wings flanking the entrance courtyard. A large square service wing, with a central courtyard approached from the service drive to the north, is attached to the north corner. The brick stable courtyard and riding school (G Devey 1869-70) lie 200m north-east of the house, opening onto the Mentmore to Wing lane. The appearance may have been influenced by the historic, but, as noted by Pevsner, it was modern in its construction: ‘the house was remarkable for its date for having copper window casements and a large amount of plate glass used in very large sheets. Its hot-water heating and artificial ventilation systems were equally unusual then’. This being a Paxton building, it also had some dramatic glazing, in the form of a ridge and furrow roof to a central courtyard, which functioned as a grand hall. The Gardens As the Register entry notes, the house is ‘situated in a prominent, elevated position in the midst of the Vale of Aylesbury, together with an impressive garden and park to complement it, created from unadorned agricultural land’: the house can be seen from some distance. The parkland around the house is ‘largely flat’, with the pleasure grounds ‘on a spine of land east of the main drive to the house’. The gardens were also designed by Paxton. As described by Kate Colquhoun in A Thing in Disguise: The Visionary Life of Joseph Paxton (2003): The relationship between the house and its grounds was carefully considered, much in the way of an eighteenth-century ideal, though here the small flower gardens immediately outside the windows were formal and highly decorative. Indeed, initially, Mayer did not want a garden at all, though later, there would be an aviary, a range of glasshouses filled with exotic and valuable plants, vast orchards, a subtropical garden and a rose garden. Paxton continued to work on the grounds into the final years of his life, becoming great friends with the family and often staying as their guest with one or other of his unmarried daughters. The gardens were later expanded by the Baron’s daughter Hannah, in the 1870s/1880s: she extended the garden to the south, and – as noted in the Register entry – ‘created a series of gardens in the pleasure grounds east of the house’. The Mentmore conservation area appraisal notes that, by 1875, ‘ornamental features included the Fountain Garden, Italian Flower Garden (attr. Nesfield), Big Wood, Herbaceous Garden, the Sub-Tropical Garden’. Further work was undertaken at the turn of the century, in the form of park and woodland planting. Stone Lodge (Grade II) marks the main entrance to the estate, located immediately to the north-east of the house. Described in the list entry as ‘picturesque in an early C17 manner’, it was built in 1879, and has a distinctive shaped gable. The adjoining gates, gate piers and railings are also listed (Grade II). Cheddington Lodge, to the south-east of the house (Grade II), and Crafton Lodge, to the west (Grade II) are of the same broad date, but have a very different style, both being faced with brick, render and ornamental half-timbering. A fourth lodge, Wing (now Honeysuckle) Lodge, to the north-west, is not listed. The main drive leads to a courtyard under the east front of the house, where decorative urns and some planting remain. A gravel path runs around the house to the south (past the conservatory), accessed through ornate wrought iron eighteenth-century gates (listed at Grade II): Central double gates, convex in plan, with flanking concave and straight railings, the posts also of wrought iron. Ornamented with scrolls, scrolled foliage and delicate realistic flowers. Curved tops with scrolled crests. Posts are similar, the inner ones topped with vases of flowers, the outer posts topped with asymmetrical scrolls, one carrying a lantern. The path links the garden areas to the north, south and west of the house, with stone steps allowing a descent to the lawns and a second encircling path. There is a rectangular parterre to the north-west of the house, and an oval one to the south-west, centred on a pond. As outlined in the Register entry, the ‘pleasure grounds are detached from the formal garden areas, lying east of the house and south of the main drive’: They consist of an informal area of mature trees and lawn which held several formal features added in the 1870s, including a rosery, fernery, aviary and maze, now all gone except the aviary building sited close to the village green. A 1990s shrub garden lies at the north-west end and a C19 arboretum with many fine specimen trees at the south-east end, connected by a grass path through the middle. The west end of the area faces south-west, with views across the park to the house and hills in the distance. With regard to the rest of the estate, the walled kitchen garden lies to the east of the house, ‘divided into two sections by a brick wall running from west to east’. The Register entry then characterises the park as being in three sections. The first, west of the south drive, ‘is largely surrounded by belt planting with substantial spinneys and parkland trees’, and became the home of the Mentmore Golf and Country Club in the early 1990s, complete with a clubhouse and a new access drive from the south-east. The conservation area appraisal observes that ‘the golf course planting has significantly damaged the characteristic pattern of parkland planting established by Baron Rothschild by 1875’, not least because ‘the former field boundary trees that characterised the North Park and were important in the approaches from Wing and Leighton Buzzard have gone’. The Club closed in 2015, and it was reported in October 2025 that it would now cost more than £2.5 million to resurrect it. The second part of the park, to the east, is half pasture, and half arable land, and ‘is bisected by the lane running north from Cheddington Lodge to the village, flanked by a double horse chestnut avenue, with occasional glimpses of the house to the north-west’. The third part of the park ‘runs north-west from the house, with the north drive running through it, flanked to the north by… screening’. The estate is privately owned, and vacant, but various parts of it can be glimpsed from the highway and other vantage points. Decline and Fall Hannah de Rothschild died in 1890, and her husband, the 5th Earl of Rosebery, died in 1929. The conservation area appraisal notes that ‘the outlying estate land was sold by the Rosebery estate in 1944’, but it was not until 1977 that the remainder of the estate was sold, after the death of the 6th Earl in 1974. Facing significant death duties, the 7th Earl offered Mentmore – and its extensive collections – to the nation for £2 million, a move supported by the Victoria & Albert Museum. The offer has been described by the Rothschild Archive as ‘a rock-bottom price which could have turned the house into one of England’s finest museums of European furniture, objets d’art and Victorian era architecture’. The National Land Fund was proposed as a key source of funding to enable this acquisition: as discussed further here, the Fund had been established in the 1940s to support the use of existing legal powers to increase the National Estate through accepting land in lieu of money when faced with death duties, thereby increasing the National Estate. The Fund was established with £50 million from the sale of war stores, but was not much utilised. As a result, the Treasury reduced the available sum to £10 million in 1957, after which it was (as summarised here) ‘insufficient to deal with the loss of country houses’. The government of the day declined the offer to acquire Mentmore. As outlined here, there were concerns about ongoing maintenance costs, and a reluctance to use the National Land Fund to even partly fund the purchase. Debate raged for three years. The Hansard report of a parliamentary debate in April 1977 gives a flavour of the range and strength of views. The Secretary of State for the Environment was asked whether he would make a statement on the Government’s position, ‘as Lord Rosebery’s offer of the house and its contents to the nation expires on 5th April’. The Secretary of State for the Environment, Peter Shore, responded as follows: I have made it clear that the Government are prepared to spend up to £1 million on Mentmore Towers and its collection. I agreed to consider Lord Rosebery’s renewed offer if a contribution towards the cost of acquisition and running costs of at least £2 million were made available from private sources. Considerable interest has been shown, but all the schemes so far proposed would have involved public expenditure in excess of £2 million. Information was provided regarding recent promises of ‘substantial funds’ from private sources, and flexibility on the part of the 7th Earl in relation to both the deadline and the payment term, and further discussions were offered, ‘to see what can be done’. It was then suggested, though, that, ‘if there is any public money to be spent on a building of architectural merit it should be spent on the original and not on the copy’ – to which the response was that the building had been recently upgraded to Grade I. Another contributor noted the likely profit to the nation, given that the collection was believed to be worth up to £9 million, in response to which the Secretary of State agreed that ‘there is here a valuable and, in many ways, a unique collection, and it would be desirable, if we could, to find satisfactory terms on which it could be brought into the public domain’. When asked if the dispersal of the house and its contents would be ‘not only… a grave loss to the national heritage’ but also the loss of ‘the bargain of the century on behalf of the nation’, the Secretary of State noted the country’s interest in protecting the national heritage, adding ‘but the truth is that we have an enormous national heritage to protect, and it is the job of successive Secretaries of State to come to a view of what really are the most important items to preserve’. A further comment of some interest was the somewhat prescient (and colourful) suggestion that ‘passing up [this] unique opportunity’ would result in a Grade I building lying ‘like a white elephant around the Government’s neck’. Once the offer was finally declined, the estate and its contents were sold (yielding £6 million pounds for the estate). As noted by the Rothschild Archive, the introduction to the sale catalogue suggested that ‘the art collections at Mentmore were amongst the most outstanding of their kind anywhere in the world…. Such a collection is unlikely ever to be brought together again’. Whilst the battle was lost, the war was won, in a way. The outcry over Mentmore’s loss led directly to the National Heritage Act 1980, which established the National Heritage Memorial Fund (the successor to the National Land Fund), and demonstrated the government’s acceptance of the principle that a house and its contents could be worthy of retention as a singe entity. In 1978, the house and gardens were acquired by The Maharishi Foundation in the UK for use as the headquarters of the Natural Law Party and the campus of Maharishi University of Natural Law, becoming famous as a centre for yogic flying. It sold Mentmore in 1997 for £3 million (a much smaller sum than the £10 million originally sought). The leader of the consortium which intended to develop the site as a six-star hotel, Simon Halabi, was however declared bankrupt in 2010, and the plans did not progress. Apart from occasional use for filming, the property has remained empty and neglected since, to the degree that both house and landscape have been on Historic England’s Heritage at Risk (HAR) Register for some years. The 2025 HAR Register entry for the house notes that its condition is ‘very bad’, its vulnerability ‘high’, and the overall trend ‘declining’. It is identified as being ‘Priority A’, given the ‘immediate risk of further rapid deterioration or loss of fabric’, with ‘no solution agreed’. The corresponding entry for the designed landscape notes the condition as being ‘generally satisfactory but with significant localised problems’, though the vulnerability is ‘high’, and the overall trend ‘declining’. It too is ‘Priority A’, as ‘no action/strategy identified or agreed’. Conclusion The decision not to acquire Mentmore is still widely regarded as a significant error. It was certainly short-sighted, and has left a legacy that remains problematic half a century later. The gardens are marginally less vulnerable than the house, but both are without a certain future, and also without access. For now, occasional glimpses from the margins – or through the site’s use as a film location – must suffice to try to appreciate this extraordinary site.


--- [jetpunk.com/quizzes/how-many-countries-can-you-name] ---
No content
