=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Moonology# Messages Oracle: A 48-Card Deck and Guidebook]
Sep 19, 2023 · The Moonology™ Messages Oracle taps into the Moon's message via 48 beautiful Moon symbols, helping you navigate tricky times and back to peace. Be inspired to take action based on your inner knowing.
URL: https://www.amazon.com/MoonologyTM-Messages-Oracle-48-Card-Guidebook/dp/1788177681

[MOONOLOGY MESSAGES ORACLE: A 48-card Deck and Guidebook - Amazon]
Yasmin Boland is an award-winning astrologer (voted the UK's best loved astrologer) and Sunday Times best-selling Hay House author of books including Moonology and Astrology Made Easy, and the creator of the Moonology oracle cards.
URL: https://www.amazon.in/MOONOLOGY-MESSAGES-ORACLE/dp/1788177681

[Moonology Messages Oracle Cards - ritual + root]
The Moonology Messages oracle card deck by Yasmin Boland includes a 48-card deck and informational guidebook to illuminate your path through life's twists and turns. As you tune into the Moon's ancient wisdom, you'll be empowered to navigate challenges and embrace opportunities, guided by your inner knowing. Presented in a matching box and illustrated by Ali Vermilio. The Moonology™ Messages ...
URL: https://theritualroot.com/products/moonology-messages-oracle-cards

[MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of MANY is consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number. How to use many in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/many

[Moonology Messages Oracle: A 48-Card Deck and Guidebook by ...]
The Moon is whispering to you – are you listening?The Moonology™ Messages Oracle is a powerful divination tool that will connect you to your own innate wisdom and intuition.
URL: https://shopspiritandsoulstudio.com/products/moonology-messages-oracle-a-48-card-deck-and-guidebook-by-yasmin-boland


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Moonology# Messages Oracle: A 48-Card Deck and Guidebook] ---
Click the button below to continue shopping Continue shopping Conditions of Use Privacy Policy © 1996-2025, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates


--- [MOONOLOGY MESSAGES ORACLE: A 48-card Deck and Guidebook - Amazon] ---
Customers who viewed this item also viewed Download the free Kindle app and start reading Kindle books instantly on your smartphone, tablet or computer – no Kindle device required. Read instantly on your browser with Kindle for Web. Using your mobile phone camera, scan the code below and download the Kindle app. Follow the author OK MOONOLOGY MESSAGES ORACLE: A 48-card Deck and Guidebook Cards – 19 September 2023 Save Extra with 3 offers 10 days Replacement | Replacement Reason | Replacement Period | Replacement Policy | |---|---|---| | Physical Damage, Defective, Wrong and Missing Item | 10 days from delivery | Replacement | Replacement Instructions Read full returns policy Purchase options and add-ons The Moonology™ Messages Oracle is a powerful divination tool that will connect you to your own innate wisdom and intuition. The ever-changing Moon speaks to those of us who are listening – leaving clues, hints and messages, which come through as feelings. These cards tap into those feelings, to offer clear guidance about you situation; where you are and the best way forwards. All you need to do is listen to Her whispers. The Moonology™ Messages Oracle taps into the Moon's message via 48 beautiful Moon symbols, helping you navigate tricky times and back to peace. Be inspired to take action based on your inner knowing. The mystical Moon is there for us and guiding us. Use this oracle to ask a question and She will light the path ahead. Let Her help you access your own wisdom and knowledge. - Print length257 pages - LanguageEnglish - PublisherHay House Uk Ltd - Publication date19 September 2023 - Reading age14 years and up - Dimensions9.86 x 3.96 x 13.49 cm - ISBN-101788177681 - ISBN-13978-1788177689 Frequently bought together Customers who viewed this item also viewed - Moonology™ Oracle Cards: A 44-Card Deck and GuidebookCardsFREE Delivery by AmazonGet it by Sunday, March 8 Product description Review About the Author Product details - Publisher : Hay House Uk Ltd - Publication date : 19 September 2023 - Language : English - Print length : 257 pages - ISBN-10 : 1788177681 - ISBN-13 : 978-1788177689 - Reading age : 14 years and up - Item Weight : 1 kg 50 g - Dimensions : 9.86 x 3.96 x 13.49 cm - Country of Origin : USA - Importer : Penguin Random House India Pvt Ltd - Packer : Penguin Random House India Pvt Ltd - Generic Name : Book - Best Sellers Rank: #38,536 in Books (See Top 100 in Books) - #244 in Astrology (Books) - #350 in Self-Help for Happiness - #815 in Motivational Self-Help - Customer Reviews: About the author Yasmin Boland is an award-winning astrologer (voted the UK's best loved astrologer) and Sunday Times best-selling Hay House author of books including Moonology and Astrology Made Easy, and the creator of the Moonology oracle cards. Yasmin, born in Germany to Maltese/English/Irish parents, raised in Tasmania and now based in London, teaches about the Moon, the Divine Feminine, moonology and astrology. A former journalist and TV producer, Yasmin has been working with the Moon for nearly 20 years. She's now read by millions of people each week via her site yasminboland.com, and her astrology and New Age columns appear on websites and in magazines around the world including Yahoo! Australia, Soul & Spirit, Who, Take 5, Chat It's Fate, Closer and Red magazines. Yasmin's book Moonology; working with the magic of lunar cycles has been in the top 10 Amazon astrology best-sellers UK for 6+ years (often at number 1). Yasmin is also the author of Mercury Retrograde Book. Her work has been translated into multiple languages including French, German, Turkish, Japanese, Taiwanese, Polish, Estonian and Dutch. Products related to this item Customer reviews Reviews with images Not bad although Chaina printed Hey House product Top reviews from India There was a problem filtering reviews. Please reload the page. - Reviewed in India on 4 January 2026Format: CardsVerified PurchaseVery good quality deck with vibrant colours and spiritual keywords, easy to shuffle.Exactly what you can expect from a Moonology series. I have all the the of them. - Reviewed in India on 19 October 2024Format: CardsVerified PurchaseAmazing cards with messages - Reviewed in India on 12 October 2023Format: CardsVerified PurchaseMat finished. All hey house product comes from China in India. No more Hey House order from my side. 3.0 out of 5 starsMat finished. All hey house product comes from China in India. No more Hey House order from my side.Not bad although Chaina printed Hey House product Reviewed in India on 12 October 2023 Images in this review - Reviewed in India on 19 October 2024Format: CardsVerified PurchaseThis is my second Card Deck from Yasmin Boland and I love it! The art work is stunning. The messages are superb! Highly recommend it. This is my second Card Deck from Yasmin Boland and I love it! The art work is stunning. The messages are superb! Highly recommend it. Images in this review Top reviews from other countries - BRUNA SILVA RIZATOReviewed in Brazil on 18 September 2024 5.0 out of 5 stars Lindo oráculo! Format: CardsVerified PurchaseRecomendo - AmazonカスタマーReviewed in Japan on 16 October 2025 5.0 out of 5 stars これは素敵！！ Format: CardsVerified Purchaseこれは素敵！ この作家さんのMoonologyシリーズでは、 これが一番好きです。 シンプルなのに美しいデザインで、自分好みのいい感じ。 メッセージも入ってきやすい。 - Sunsets and flowersReviewed in the United States on 25 June 2025 5.0 out of 5 stars This Is the Prettiest Moonology Deck Format: CardsVerified PurchaseSuch a vibrant deck! I chose Moonology Messages as my first Moonology deck—and I’m really happy I did. Among all the options, this one stood out because of its art. It’s visually rich, with updated, vibrant illustrations and a beautiful, cohesive color palette. If you’re someone who cares about aesthetics as much as message, this one delivers on both fronts. The messages themselves are powerful and direct, offering grounded lunar insight without feeling vague or fluffy. The cardstock feels great in hand, and the overall production quality is high. Moonology decks have a strong reputation, and if you’re trying to decide where to start, this newer edition may appeal for its refreshed visuals and tone. It certainly did for me. Such a vibrant deck!5.0 out of 5 starsSunsets and flowersThis Is the Prettiest Moonology Deck Reviewed in the United States on 25 June 2025 I chose Moonology Messages as my first Moonology deck—and I’m really happy I did. Among all the options, this one stood out because of its art. It’s visually rich, with updated, vibrant illustrations and a beautiful, cohesive color palette. If you’re someone who cares about aesthetics as much as message, this one delivers on both fronts. The messages themselves are powerful and direct, offering grounded lunar insight without feeling vague or fluffy. The cardstock feels great in hand, and the overall production quality is high. Moonology decks have a strong reputation, and if you’re trying to decide where to start, this newer edition may appeal for its refreshed visuals and tone. It certainly did for me. Images in this review


--- [Moonology Messages Oracle Cards - ritual + root] ---
No content


--- [MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 : consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number worked for many years the many advantages of an education 2 : being one of a large but indefinite number many a man many another student see also: plural in construction 1 : a large but indefinite number a good many of them 2 : the great majority of people the many Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [Moonology Messages Oracle: A 48-Card Deck and Guidebook by ...] ---
No content
