=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Randy Johnston (model) - Wikipedia]
Randy Johnston (September 25, 1988 - October 11, 2008) [1] was an American model. He was represented by the Ford NY modeling agency and was best known for his starring in the fall 2007 Dior Homme advertising campaign.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Randy_Johnston_(model)

[Randell Johnston Obituary (2008) - Waterford, CT, CT - The Day]
Oct 14, 2008 · Randell Johnston Obituary Waterford - Randell "Randy" Johnston, 20, caring and compassionate son and brother, passed away Oct. 11, 2008.
URL: https://www.legacy.com/us/obituaries/theday/name/randell-johnston-obituary?id=23529002

[Randy Johnston (September 25, 1988 — October 11, 2008), American male ...]
Randy Johnston was an American male model. He used TMax400 black and white (film). He began to photograph his friends, and his hometown city"s architecture. After a dedicated and sincere attempt at getting off drugs, Johnston relapsed, after three months of sobriety, and died in New London, Connecticut, suddenly on October 11, 2008 around 5pm Eastern Standard Time. He was 20 years old. The ...
URL: https://prabook.com/web/randy.johnston/1935218

[Randall Robert "Randy" Johnston (1988-2008) - Find a Grave]
After a dedicated and sincere attempt at getting off of drugs, Johnston relapsed, after three months of sobriety, and died in New London, Connecticut, suddenly on October 11, 2008 around 5pm Eastern Standard Time. He was 20 years old. The cause of death was a drug overdose, which was ruled accidental. His obituary- Ford Model Randy Johnston ...
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/190317587/randall_robert-johnston

[Randy Johnston - Wikidata]
0 references given name Randy 1 reference based on heuristic inferred from person's full name family name Johnston 1 reference based on heuristic inferred from person's full name date of birth 25 September 1988 1 reference place of birth Waterford 1 reference date of death 11 October 2008 2 references place of death New London 1 reference ...
URL: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q7292268


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Randy Johnston (model) - Wikipedia] ---
Randy Johnston (September 25, 1988 – October 11, 2008) was an American model. He was represented by the Ford NY modeling agency and was best known for his starring in the fall 2007 Dior Homme advertising campaign.
Johnston was born in Waterford, Connecticut, United States, of German and English descent. He was a successful model; besides his best known role as the last "Dior Boy", he did an ad campaign for Levi's in 2008 with Rachel Clark and Shannan Click. His last known modeling gig was an appearance in the November 2008 issue of the i-D magazine with Lara Stone. Randy was also a talented musician, and multi-instrumentalist;(drums, bass, guitar) playing in a few Connecticut based indie rock and punk bands. One talented up and coming band, with best friend Jared, called The Electric Noise Act (drumming), and another local band called Soviet Tribe. also providing exciting rhythmic dimension on drums. His favorite book was Things Fall Apart, by Chinua Achebe.
At the time of his death, his hobbies included skateboarding, reading, as well as writing poetry, prose, and sketching. He also had a passion for developing photography of his own; stating that he'd like to be behind the camera professionally, one day. He used TMax400 black and white film. He began to photograph his friends, and his hometown city's architecture. He delighted in sailing boats with his grandfather, camping, and survivalist strategy, He became quite skilled in many areas and crafts.
After a dedicated and sincere attempt at getting off drugs, Johnston relapsed, after three months of sobriety, and died in New London, Connecticut, suddenly on October 11, 2008, around 5pm Eastern Standard Time. He was 20 years old. The cause of death was a drug overdose, which was ruled accidental.


--- [Randell Johnston Obituary (2008) - Waterford, CT, CT - The Day] ---
No content


--- [Randy Johnston (September 25, 1988 — October 11, 2008), American male ...] ---
Background Johnston was born in Waterford, Connecticut, United States, of German and English descent. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. Johnston was born in Waterford, Connecticut, United States, of German and English descent. He was represented by the Ford New York modeling agency and was best known for his starring in the fall 2007 Dior Homme advertising campaign. He was a successful male model. Besides his best known role as the last "Dior Boy", he did an ad campaign for Levi"s in 2008 with Rachel Clark and Shannan Click. His last known modeling gig was an appearance in the November 2008 issue of the i-Doctorate magazine with Lara Stone. Randy was also a talented musician, and multi-instrumentalist;(drums, bass, guitar) playing in a few Connecticut based indie rock and punk bands. One talented up and coming band, with best friend Jared, called The Electric Noise Acting (drumming), and another local band called Soviet Tribe. also providing exciting rhythmic dimension on drums. At the time of his death, his hobbies included skateboarding, reading, as well as writing poetry, prose, and sketching. He also had a passion for developing photography of his own. Stating that he"d like to be behind the camera professionally, one day. He used TMax400 black and white (film). He began to photograph his friends, and his hometown city"s architecture. After a dedicated and sincere attempt at getting off drugs, Johnston relapsed, after three months of sobriety, and died in New London, Connecticut, suddenly on October 11, 2008 around 5pm Eastern Standard Time. He was 20 years old. The cause of death was a drug overdose, which was ruled accidental.


--- [Randall Robert "Randy" Johnston (1988-2008) - Find a Grave] ---
Randy Johnston-He was an American male model. Born Randell Robert Johnston, September 25th, he was represented by the Ford NY modeling agency and was best known for his starring in the fall 2007 Dior Homme ad campaign. Johnston was born in Waterford, Connecticut, United States, of German and English descent. He was a successful male model. Besides his best known role as the last "Dior Boy", he did an ad campaign for Levi's in 2008 with Rachel Clark and Shannan Click. His last known modeling gig was an appearance in the November 2008 issue of the i-D magazine with Lara Stone. Randy was also a talented musician, and multi-instrumentalist;(drums, bass, guitar) playing in a few Connecticut based indie rock and punk bands. His favorite book was "Things Fall Apart," by Chinua Achbe. At the time of his death, his hobbies included skateboarding, reading, as well as writing poetry, prose, and sketching. He also had a passion for developing photography of his own; stating that he'd like to be behind the camera professionally, one day. He used TMax400 black and white (film). He began to photograph his friends, and his hometown city's architecture. He delighted in sailing boats with his Grandfather, camping, and survivalist strategy, He became quite skilled in many areas and crafts. After a dedicated and sincere attempt at getting off of drugs, Johnston relapsed, after three months of sobriety, and died in New London, Connecticut, suddenly on October 11, 2008 around 5pm Eastern Standard Time. He was 20 years old. The cause of death was a drug overdose, which was ruled accidental. His obituary- Ford Model Randy Johnston Passes Away Former Dior Homme model Randy Johnston passed away of unknown causes on October 11. Ford currently has a tribute to Johnston up on their Website. He starred in the fall 2007 Dior Homme campaign when Hedi Slimane headed the label. You can also see him with Lara Stone in next month's i-D. [Ford, Fashionologie]. Randy Johnston-He was an American male model. Born Randell Robert Johnston, September 25th, he was represented by the Ford NY modeling agency and was best known for his starring in the fall 2007 Dior Homme ad campaign. Johnston was born in Waterford, Connecticut, United States, of German and English descent. He was a successful male model. Besides his best known role as the last "Dior Boy", he did an ad campaign for Levi's in 2008 with Rachel Clark and Shannan Click. His last known modeling gig was an appearance in the November 2008 issue of the i-D magazine with Lara Stone. Randy was also a talented musician, and multi-instrumentalist;(drums, bass, guitar) playing in a few Connecticut based indie rock and punk bands. His favorite book was "Things Fall Apart," by Chinua Achbe. At the time of his death, his hobbies included skateboarding, reading, as well as writing poetry, prose, and sketching. He also had a passion for developing photography of his own; stating that he'd like to be behind the camera professionally, one day. He used TMax400 black and white (film). He began to photograph his friends, and his hometown city's architecture. He delighted in sailing boats with his Grandfather, camping, and survivalist strategy, He became quite skilled in many areas and crafts. After a dedicated and sincere attempt at getting off of drugs, Johnston relapsed, after three months of sobriety, and died in New London, Connecticut, suddenly on October 11, 2008 around 5pm Eastern Standard Time. He was 20 years old. The cause of death was a drug overdose, which was ruled accidental. His obituary- Ford Model Randy Johnston Passes Away Former Dior Homme model Randy Johnston passed away of unknown causes on October 11. Ford currently has a tribute to Johnston up on their Website. He starred in the fall 2007 Dior Homme campaign when Hedi Slimane headed the label. You can also see him with Lara Stone in next month's i-D. [Ford, Fashionologie]. Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/190317587/randall_robert-johnston: accessed ), memorial page for Randall Robert “Randy” Johnston (25 Sep 1988–11 Oct 2008), Find a Grave Memorial ID 190317587, citing Union Cemetery, Quaker Hill, New London County, Connecticut, USA; Maintained by Alison L (contributor 49322344). Add Photos for Randall Robert “Randy” Johnston Fulfill Photo Request for Randall Robert “Randy” Johnston Photo Request Fulfilled Thank you for fulfilling this photo request. An email has been sent to the person who requested the photo informing them that you have fulfilled their request There is an open photo request for this memorial Are you adding a grave photo that will fulfill this request? Oops, some error occurred while uploading your photo(s). Oops, something didn't work. Close this window, and upload the photo(s) again. Make sure that the file is a photo. Photos larger than 8 MB will be reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. All photos uploaded successfully, click on the <b>Done button</b> to see the photos in the gallery. General photo guidelines: Photos larger than 8.0 MB will be optimized and reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. Each contributor can upload a maximum of 5 photos for a memorial. A memorial can have a maximum of 20 photos from all contributors. The sponsor of a memorial may add an additional 10 photos (for a total of 30 on the memorial). Include gps location with grave photos where possible. No animated GIFs, photos with additional graphics (borders, embellishments.) This memorial already has a grave photo. Please indicate why you think it needs another. There is no plot information for this memorial. Your photo request is more likely to be fulfilled if you contact the cemetery to get the plot information and include it with your request. You are only allowed to leave one flower per day for any given memorial. Memorial Photos This is a carousel with slides. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Use Escape keyboard button or the Close button to close the carousel. Quickly see who the memorial is for and when they lived and died and where they are buried. Show Map If the memorial includes GPS coordinates, simply click 'Show Map' to view the gravesite location within the cemetery. If no GPS coordinates are available, you can contribute by adding them if you know the precise location. Photos For memorials with more than one photo, additional photos will appear here or on the photos tab. Photos Tab All photos appear on this tab and here you can update the sort order of photos on memorials you manage. To view a photo in more detail or edit captions for photos you added, click the photo to open the photo viewer. Flowers Flowers added to the memorial appear on the bottom of the memorial or here on the Flowers tab. To add a flower, click the Leave a Flower button. Family Members Family members linked to this person will appear here. Related searches Use the links under See more… to quickly search for other people with the same last name in the same cemetery, city, county, etc. Sponsor This Memorial Remove advertising from a memorial by sponsoring it for <strong>just $10</strong>. Previously sponsored memorials or famous memorials will not have this option. Share Share this memorial using social media sites or email. Save to Save to an Ancestry Tree, a virtual cemetery, your clipboard for pasting or Print. Edit or Suggest Edit Edit a memorial you manage or suggest changes to the memorial manager. Have Feedback Thanks for using Find a Grave, if you have any feedback we would love to hear from you. This photo is larger than 20 MB. Please resize to less than 20 MB and try again. You may not upload any more photos to this memorial There was a problem uploading this image "Unsupported file type" Uploading... Waiting... Success Failed Duplicate photo Not image owner Photo status will not allow linking This photo has already been added to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial Invalid File Type Uploading 1 Photo Uploading 2 Photos 1 Photo Uploaded 2 Photos Uploaded Added by GREAT NEWS! There is 1 volunteer for this cemetery. Sorry! There are no volunteers for this cemetery. Continuing with this request will add an alert to the cemetery page and any new volunteers will have the opportunity to fulfill your request. Enter numeric value Enter memorial Id Year should not be greater than current year Invalid memorial Duplicate entry for memorial You have chosen this person to be their own family member. Reported! This relationship is not possible based on lifespan dates. 0% Complete Saved Sign in or Register Sign in to Find a Grave Sign-in to link to existing account There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. We’ve updated the security on the site. Please reset your password. Your account has been locked for 30 minutes due to too many failed sign in attempts. Please contact Find a Grave at [email protected] if you need help resetting your password. This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] Email not found Please complete the captcha to let us know you are a real person. Sign in to your existing Find a Grave account. You’ll only have to do this once—after your accounts are connected, you can sign in using your Ancestry sign in or your Find a Grave sign in. We found an existing Find a Grave account associated with your email address. Sign in below with your Find a Grave credentials to link your Ancestry account. After your accounts are connected you can sign in using either account. Please enter your email to sign in. Please enter your password to sign in. Please enter your email and password to sign in. There is a problem with your email/password. A system error has occurred. Please try again later. A password reset email has been sent to EmailID. If you don't see an email, please check your spam folder. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. Password Reset Please enter your email address and we will send you an email with a reset password code. or Registration Options Welcome to Find a Grave Create your free account by choosing an option below. or Ancestry account link To create your account, Ancestry will share your name and email address with Find a Grave. To continue choose an option below. or If you already have a Find a Grave account, please sign in to link to Ancestry®. New Member Registration Email is mandatory Email and Password are mandatory This account already exists, but the email address still needs to be confirmed. Resend Activation Email Your password is not strong enough Invalid Email You must agree to Terms and Conditions Account already exists Please check the I'm not a robot checkbox Internal Server error occurred If you want to be a Photo Volunteer you must enter a ZIP Code or select your location on the map You must select an email preference We have sent you an activation email Your new password must contain one or more uppercase and lowercase letters, and one or more numbers or special characters. We just emailed an activation code to Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account. cemeteries found in will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within miles of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within kilometers of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. Within 5 miles of your location. Within 5 kilometers of your location. 0 cemeteries found in . 0 cemeteries found. Add a cemetery to fulfill photo requests You can customize the cemeteries you volunteer for by selecting or deselecting below. Search above to list available cemeteries. Getting location… Loading... Loading... No cemeteries found Find a Grave Video Tutorials Default Language Translation on Find a Grave is an ongoing project. If you notice a problem with the translation, please send a message to [email protected] and include a link to the page and details about the problem. Thanks for your help! Preferred Language We have set your language to English based on information from your browser. You can choose another language below: Welcome Back! Thanks for signing in. Your account will not be marked as inactive. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave. Your account has been reactivated. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . Sign out successful Return to the email you received and click on the link to contact us.


--- [Randy Johnston - Wikidata] ---
Randy Johnston (Q7292268) Appearance American male fashion model, and indie musician (1988–2008) - Randell Robert Johnston | Language | Label | Description | Also known as | |---|---|---|---| | default for all languages | No label defined | || | English | Randy Johnston | American male fashion model, and indie musician (1988–2008) | | Statements Identifiers Sitelinks Wikipedia(2 entries) - arwiki راندي جونستون (عارض) - enwiki Randy Johnston (model)
