=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Viktor Vasnetsov - Wikipedia]
In 1897 he collaborated with his brother Apollinary on the theatrical design of another Rimsky-Korsakov premiere, Sadko. At the turn of the century, Vasnetsov elaborated his hallmark "fairy-tale" style of Russian Revivalist architecture.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viktor_Vasnetsov

[Vasnetsov Viktor, artist - paintings and rarities of great artists]
In 1885 the painter traveled to Italy. That same year he worked on stage designs and costumes for Nikolay Rimsky-Korsakov's opera "The Snow Maiden." Later on Vasnetsov collaborated with his brother, Apollinary, on the theatrical design of another Rimsky-Korsakov premiere, "Sadko" in 1897.
URL: http://artrussia.ru/en/rarities/Viktor_Vasnetsov

[Viktor Mikhailovich Vasnetsov Paintings Reproduction and Biography]
At that period, he turned to other media more often. He collaborated with his brother Apollinary on the theatrical design of another Rimsky-Korsakov premiere, Sadko, in 1897. In the 1910s, Vasnetsov was commissioned to design a new uniform for the Russian military and produced the so-called bogatyrka, a Russian army headwear.
URL: https://www.allartclassic.com/author_biography.php?p_number=870

[Viktor Vasnetsov - Russiapedia Art Prominent Russians]
Later on Vasnetsov collaborated with his brother, Apollinary, on the theatrical design of another Rimsky-Korsakov premiere, "Sadko" in 1897. In the 1910s Vasnetsov was commissioned to design a new uniform for the Russian military and produced the so-called "bogatyrka" military cap.
URL: https://russiapedia.rt.com/prominent-russians/art/viktor-vasnetsov/

[Viktor Mikhailovich Vasnetsov - Artvee]
In 1897 he collaborated with his brother Apollinary on the theatrical design of another Rimsky-Korsakov premiere, Sadko. At the turn of the century, Vasnetsov elaborated his hallmark "fairy-tale" style of Russian Revivalist architecture. His first acclaimed design was a church in Abramtsevo (1882), executed jointly with Vasily Polenov.
URL: https://artvee.com/artist/viktor-mikhailovich-vasnetsov/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Viktor Vasnetsov - Wikipedia] ---
Viktor Mikhaylovich Vasnetsov (Russian: Ви́ктор Миха́йлович Васнецо́в; 15 May [O.S. 3 May] 1848 – 23 July 1926) was a Russian painter and draughtsman who specialised in mythological and historical subjects. He is considered a co-founder of Russian folklorist and romantic nationalistic painting, and a key figure in the Russian Revivalist movement.




--- [Vasnetsov Viktor, artist - paintings and rarities of great artists] ---
Viktor Vasnetsov (May 15, 1848 - July 23, 1926). Among the historical painters of the turn of the nineteenth century, Viktor Vasnetsov is probably best noted for his depth of feeling and power of style. A painter, draftsman and graphic artist, Vasnetsov played a primary role in the development of Russian art from the realist traditions of the Wanderers to Art Nouveau. He is considered a key figure in the revivalist movement in Russian art. Born in the village of Lopiyal in Viatka Province, Vasnetsov was destined to become a priest like his grandfather and father before him. His father was a well-educated and philosophically-inclined man interested in natural science, astronomy and painting. His grandfather was an icon painter. Viktor had two brothers; one of whom became a fellow painter while the other became a school teacher. At the age of ten, Viktor began studying at a seminary, spending summers with his family in the rich merchant village of Ryabovo. During his seminary years he worked for a local icon shopkeeper. He also helped the exiled Polish artist, Andriolli, to execute frescoes for Vyatka’s Aleksandr Nevsky Cathedral. After graduating from the seminary, Viktor decided to give up his theological career and moved to St. Petersburg to attend the Imperial Academy of the Arts. He auctioned his paintings “Woman Harvester” and “Milkmaid” (both 1867) in order to raise the money required for the trip to the city. Three years later, the Peredvizhniki (the Wanderers) movement of realist artists rebelled against Academism. Vasnetsov befriended their leader, Ivan Kramskoy, referring to him as his teacher. He also became very close to his fellow student, Ilya Repin, another prominent Russian artist. Ironically, Vasnetsov, who is intricately associated with historical and mythological paintings, initially avoided these subjects at all costs. In the early 1870s he executed many engravings depicting contemporary life. Two of these (“Provincial Bookseller,” 1870 and “A Bottle of Vodka,” 1872) earned him a bronze medal at the World Fair in London in 1874. Around that time, he started producing genre paintings in oil. Such pieces as “Peasant Singers” and “Moving House” were warmly welcomed by democratic circles of Russian society. In 1876 Repin invited Vasnetsov to join the Wanderers colony in Paris. While living in France Viktor studied classical and contemporary painting. It was also during this time that he began to discover what would become his primary source of inspiration - Russian mythology and its legends, ballads, and fairytales. The 'folklore outlook' was still very much alive in the northern Russian village where he grew up and Vasnetsov found that his very soul was steeped in the poetry of Russian epic literature. Not only was he one of the first artists to turn to folklore for inspiration, but he also one of the first to study it in terms of method and technique. Thus he became the founder of a new style in Russian painting. In Paris, Vasnetsov starting work on his first fairytale subjects, “Ivan-Tsarevich Riding a Grey Wolf” and “The Friend.” He was also the model for Sadko in Repin’s celebrated painting “Sadko in the Underwater Kingdom.” The large canvas, “Fairground Booths in Paris,” 1876-77 is also a product of Vasnetsov’s Paris period. In 1877 Vasnetsov returned to Moscow. "When I came to Moscow, I felt I had come home," he wrote. At that time his imaginary characters were 'little men' portrayed in the spirit of the time when the Wanderers (Peredvizhniki) movement was at its prime. This period is best exemplified by such paintings as “From Lodging to Lodging,” 1876 and “The Preference,” 1879, a moralizing canvas done in the spirit of William Hogarth. Both of the works were based on the tradition of genre painting derived from Dutch painting, and both were warmly received by the public. The last decades of the 19th century witnessed a powerful upsurge of public interest in Russia's ancient past, brought about by the Old Russian Revival. Vasnetsov became one of the founding figures of this artistic movement. In the late 1870s Vasnetsov concentrated on illustrating Russian fairytales and tall-tales. During this period, he executed some of his best known pieces such as “Alyonushka, Knight at the Crossroads.” The works, however, were not appreciated at the time they appeared. Even such prominent connoisseurs as Pavel Tretyakov refused to buy them. The popularity of Vasnetsov’s paintings would spread in the 1880s, when he turned to religious subjects and executed a number of icons for the Abramtsevo Estate of his patron, Savva Mamontov. From 1884-1889 Vasnetsov was commissioned to paint frescoes in St. Vladimir’s Cathedral in Kiev. It was challenging work. Vasnetsov jumped at this offer as it gave him the opportunity to create an integral ensemble comparable to those done by ancient fresco-painters. Work on the decoration of the cathedral took over 10 years, during which time Vasnetsov executed nearly 400 sketches and studies. The murals he and his assistants painted covered almost two thousand square meters. In fulfilling this assignment, Vasnetsov relied on his favorite range of motifs and characters, painting the walls with the images of Princes Vladimir, Alexander Nevsky and Andrey Bogoliubsky, Princess Olga, the chronicler Nestor, and other outstanding figures from Russian history. The influential art critic Vladimir Stasov called the frescoes “a sacrilegious play on the religious feelings of the Russian people.” Another popular critic, Dmitry Filosofov, referred to them as “the first bridge over the 200-year-old gulf separating different classes of Russian society.” While living in Kiev, Vasnetsov made friends with Mikhail Vrubel, who was also involved in the Cathedral decoration. While they worked together, Vasnetsov taught the younger artist a great deal. It was in Kiev that Vasnetsov finally finished “Ivan Tsarevich Riding a Grey Wolf” and started his most famous painting, “The Bogatyrs.” In keeping with the general tendencies in the development of Russian art at the end of the 19th century, an important role is played in Vasnetsov's works by landscape elements, “moods” which unite people and nature, akin to folklore “parallelism” of imagery. “Ivan Tsarevich Riding a Grey Wolf,” 1889, depicts a scene from a popular Russian fairytale. The magical plot has been reflected in numerous literary works and musical pieces. The landscape background was derived from studies made in Abramtsevo. The landscape is very important. Forces of evil surround Ivan Tsarevich and Helen the Fair. The impassable wall of the wood rises in front of them. The artist's imagination has transformed an ordinary wood near Moscow into a fantastic, mysterious wilderness. In 1885 the painter traveled to Italy. That same year he worked on stage designs and costumes for Nikolay Rimsky-Korsakov’s opera “The Snow Maiden.” Later on Vasnetsov collaborated with his brother, Apollinary, on the theatrical design of another Rimsky-Korsakov premiere, “Sadko” in 1897. In the 1910s Vasnetsov was commissioned to design a new uniform for the Russian military and produced the so-called “bogatyrka” military cap. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries Vasnetsov actively worked in different fields. At the turn of the century he elaborated his hallmark “fairytale” style of Russian Revivalist architecture. His first acclaimed design was a church in Abramtsevo in 1882, executed jointly with Vasily Polenov. In 1894 he designed his own mansion. The house built to his project in 1894 in Moscow was turned into the Vasnetsov House Museum in 1953. The picturesque wooden house that Vasnetsov lived in has some beautiful wooden furniture and tiled stoves downstairs as well as several of Vasnetsov's paintings of fairytale characters such as Sleeping Beauty and Baba Yaga in the studio upstairs. Unlike many house-museums where the furniture has been brought in to approximate the requisite era, everything here is original, from the 19th century benches to the huge canvases in the wooden attic. Vasnetsov's paintings here are at least as good as the ones in the Tretyakov Gallery, the facade of which Vasnetsov designed in 1906. Even prior to the Russian Revolution, Vasnetsov became active as a regent of the Tretyakov Gallery. He allocated significant money to the State Historical Museum, so that a large part of the museum’s collection was acquired with his money. After the October Revolution he advocated the relocation of religious paintings, notably those by Aleksandr Ivanov, from churches to the Tretyakov. Vasnetsov was also a brilliant portrait painter and book illustrator. His paintings greatly influenced the development of modernism and symbolism in Russian painting and poetry. In scope and monumentality Vasnetsov’s works are incomparable; his great artistic merit and profound conception have become the pride of Russian national culture. “A true work of art expresses everything about people,” Vasnetsov believed. “It conveys the past, the present and perhaps the future.”


--- [Viktor Mikhailovich Vasnetsov Paintings Reproduction and Biography] ---
Viktor Mikhailovich Vasnetsov Biography Viktor Mikhailovich Vasnetsov Born (may 15 (N.S.), 1848 in village Lopyal (Viatka province) Died in Moscow ?1926) Russian artist who specialized in mythological and historical subjects. He is considered a key figure of the revivalist movement in Russian art. Childhood (1848-1858) Viktor Vasnetsov was born in a remote village of Vyatka guberniya in 1848. His father Mikhail Vasilievich Vasnetsov was a village priest. He was a well-educated 'philosophy-inclined' man interested in natural science, astronomy and painting. His grandfather was an icon painter. Two of his three sons, Viktor and Apollinary, became remarkable painters, the third one becoming a schoolteacher. Recalling his childhood in a letter to Vladimir Stasov, Vasnetsov remarked that he "had lived with peasant children and liked them not as a narodnik but as a friend". Vyatka (1858-1867) Since the age of ten, Viktor studied in a seminary in Vyatka, each summer moving with his family to a rich merchant village of Ryabovo. During his seminary years, he worked for a local icon shopkeeper. He also helped an exiled Polish artist Andriolli to execute frescoes for Vyatka's Alexander Nevsky cathedral. Having graduated from the seminary, Viktor decided to move to Saint Petersburg to study art. He auctioned his paintings of Woman Harvester and Milk-maid (both 1867) in order to raise money required for the trip to the Russian capital Saint Petersburg (1867-1876) In August 1867 Viktor entered the Imperial Academy of Arts. Three years later, the Peredvizhniki movement of realist painters rebelled against the Academism. Vasnetsov befriended their leader Ivan Kramskoi, referring to him as his teacher. He also became very close to his fellow student Ilya Yefimovich Repin. It is ironic, but Viktor, whose name is associated with historical and mythological paintings, initially avoided these subjects at all costs. For his graphical composition of Christ and Pontius Pilate Before the People, the Academy awarded a small silver medal to him. In the early 1870s he executed a lot of engravings depicting contemporary life. Two of them (Provincial Bookseller from 1870 and A Boy with a Bottle of Vodka from 1872) won him a bronze medal at the World Fair in London (1874). At that period he also started producing genre paintings in oil. Such pieces as Peasant Singers (1873) and Moving House (1876) were warmly welcomed by democratic circles of Russian society. ) Paris (1876-1877) In 1876 Repin invited Vasnetsov to join the Peredvizhniki colony in Paris. While living in France, Viktor studied classical and contemporary paintings, academist and impressionist alike. At that period, he painted Acrobats (1877), produced prints, and exhibited some of his works at the Salon. It was in Paris that he became fascinated with fairy-tale subjects, starting to work on Ivan-Tsarevich Riding a Grey Wolf and The Firebird. Vasnetsov was a model for Sadko in Repin's celebrated painting Sadko in the Underwater Kingdom. In 1877 he returned to Moscow. Moscow (1877-1884) In the late 1870s Vasnetsov concentrated on illustrating Russian fairy tales and bylinas, executing some of his best known pieces: Knight at the Crossroads (1878), Prince Igor's Battlefield (1878), Three tsarevnas of the Underground Kingdom (1879-1881), The Magic Carpet (1880), and Alionushka (1881). These works were not appreciated at the time they appeared. Many radical critics dismissed them as undermining the realist principles of the Peredvizhniki. Even such prominent connoisseurs as Pavel Mikhailovich Tretyakov refused to buy them. The vogue for Vasnetsov's paintings would spread in the 1880s, when he turned to religious subjects and executed a lot of icons for Abramtsevo estate of his patron Savva Mamontov. Kiev 1884-1889 In 1884-1889 Vasnetsov was commissioned to paint frescos in the St Vladimir's Cathedral of Kiev. This was a challenging work which ran contrary to both Russian and Western traditions of religious paintings. The influential art critic Vladimir Stasov labelled them a sacrilegious play with religious feelings of the Russian people. Another popular critic, Dmitry Filosofov, referred to these frescoes as "the first bridge over 200 years-old gulf separating different classes of Russian society". While living in Kiev, Vasnetsov made friends with Mikhail Vrubel, who was also involved in the cathedral's decoration. While they worked together, Vasnetsov taught the younger artist a great deal. It was in Kiev that Vasnetsov finally finished Ivan Tsarevich Riding a Grey Wolf and started his most famous painting, the Bogatyrs. In 1885 the painter travelled to Italy. The same year he worked on stage designs and costumes for Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov's opera The Snow Maiden. Later years (1890-1926) During the following two decades, Vasnetsov worked a lot, but most of his later paintings were perceived as being of secondary importance. At that period, he turned to other media more often. He collaborated with his brother Apollinary on the theatrical design of another Rimsky-Korsakov premiere, Sadko, in 1897. In the 1910s, Vasnetsov was commissioned to design a new uniform for the Russian military and produced the so-called bogatyrka, a Russian army headwear. At the turn of the century, Vasnetsov elaborated his hallmark "fairy-tale" style of Russian Revivalist architecture. His first acclaimed design was a church in Abramtsevo (1882), executed jointly with Vasily Polenov. In 1894, he designed his own mansion in Moscow. The Russian pavilion of the World Fair in Paris followed in 1898. Finally, in 1904, Vasnetsov designed the best known of his "fairy-tale" buildings - the Tretyakov Gallery. Even prior to the Russian Revolution, Vasnetsov became active as a regent of that gallery. He allocated a significant portion of his income to the State Historical Museum, so that a large part of the museum's collection was acquired on Vasnetsov's money. After the October Revolution he advocated removing some of the religious paintings (notably those by Alexander Ivanov) from churches to the Tretyakov Gallery


--- [Viktor Vasnetsov - Russiapedia Art Prominent Russians] ---
Prominent Russians: Viktor Vasnetsov Among the historical painters of the turn of the nineteenth century, Viktor Vasnetsov is probably best noted for his depth of feeling and power of style. A painter, draftsman and graphic artist, Vasnetsov played a primary role in the development of Russian art from the realist traditions of the Wanderers to Art Nouveau. He is considered a key figure in the revivalist movement in Russian art. Born in the village of Lopiyal in Viatka Province, Vasnetsov was destined to become a priest like his grandfather and father before him. His father was a well-educated and philosophically-inclined man interested in natural science, astronomy and painting. His grandfather was an icon painter. Viktor had two brothers; one of whom became a fellow painter while the other became a school teacher. At the age of ten, Viktor began studying at a seminary, spending summers with his family in the rich merchant village of Ryabovo. During his seminary years he worked for a local icon shopkeeper. He also helped the exiled Polish artist, Andriolli, to execute frescoes for Vyatka’s Aleksandr Nevsky Cathedral. After graduating from the seminary, Viktor decided to give up his theological career and moved to St. Petersburg to attend the Imperial Academy of the Arts. He auctioned his paintings “Woman Harvester” and “Milkmaid” (both 1867) in order to raise the money required for the trip to the city. Three years later, the Peredvizhniki (the Wanderers) movement of realist artists rebelled against Academism. Vasnetsov befriended their leader, Ivan Kramskoy, referring to him as his teacher. He also became very close to his fellow student, Ilya Repin, another prominent Russian artist. Ironically, Vasnetsov, who is intricately associated with historical and mythological paintings, initially avoided these subjects at all costs. In the early 1870s he executed many engravings depicting contemporary life. Two of these (“Provincial Bookseller,” 1870 and “A Bottle of Vodka,” 1872) earned him a bronze medal at the World Fair in London in 1874. Around that time, he started producing genre paintings in oil. Such pieces as “Peasant Singers” and “Moving House” were warmly welcomed by democratic circles of Russian society. In 1876 Repin invited Vasnetsov to join the Wanderers colony in Paris. While living in France Viktor studied classical and contemporary painting. It was also during this time that he began to discover what would become his primary source of inspiration - Russian mythology and its legends, ballads, and fairytales. The 'folklore outlook' was still very much alive in the northern Russian village where he grew up and Vasnetsov found that his very soul was steeped in the poetry of Russian epic literature. Not only was he one of the first artists to turn to folklore for inspiration, but he also one of the first to study it in terms of method and technique. Thus he became the founder of a new style in Russian painting. (Image from allart.biz) In Paris, Vasnetsov starting work on his first fairytale subjects, “Ivan-Tsarevich Riding a Grey Wolf” and “The Friend.” He was also the model for Sadko in Repin’s celebrated painting “Sadko in the Underwater Kingdom.” The large canvas, “Fairground Booths in Paris,” 1876-77 is also a product of Vasnetsov’s Paris period. In 1877 Vasnetsov returned to Moscow. "When I came to Moscow, I felt I had come home," he wrote. At that time his imaginary characters were 'little men' portrayed in the spirit of the time when the Wanderers (Peredvizhniki) movement was at its prime. This period is best exemplified by such paintings as “From Lodging to Lodging,” 1876 and “The Preference,” 1879, a moralizing canvas done in the spirit of William Hogarth. Both of the works were based on the tradition of genre painting derived from Dutch painting, and both were warmly received by the public. The last decades of the 19th century witnessed a powerful upsurge of public interest in Russia's ancient past, brought about by the Old Russian Revival. Vasnetsov became one of the founding figures of this artistic movement. In the late 1870s Vasnetsov concentrated on illustrating Russian fairytales and tall-tales. During this period, he executed some of his best known pieces such as “Alyonushka, Knight at the Crossroads.” The works, however, were not appreciated at the time they appeared. Even such prominent connoisseurs as Pavel Tretyakov refused to buy them. The popularity of Vasnetsov’s paintings would spread in the 1880s, when he turned to religious subjects and executed a number of icons for the Abramtsevo Estate of his patron, Savva Mamontov. From 1884-1889 Vasnetsov was commissioned to paint frescoes in St. Vladimir’s Cathedral in Kiev. It was challenging work. Vasnetsov jumped at this offer as it gave him the opportunity to create an integral ensemble comparable to those done by ancient fresco-painters. Work on the decoration of the cathedral took over 10 years, during which time Vasnetsov executed nearly 400 sketches and studies. The murals he and his assistants painted covered almost two thousand square meters. In fulfilling this assignment, Vasnetsov relied on his favorite range of motifs and characters, painting the walls with the images of Princes Vladimir, Alexander Nevsky and Andrey Bogoliubsky, Princess Olga, the chronicler Nestor, and other outstanding figures from Russian history. The influential art critic Vladimir Stasov called the frescoes “a sacrilegious play on the religious feelings of the Russian people.” Another popular critic, Dmitry Filosofov, referred to them as “the first bridge over the 200-year-old gulf separating different classes of Russian society.” While living in Kiev, Vasnetsov made friends with Mikhail Vrubel, who was also involved in the Cathedral decoration. While they worked together, Vasnetsov taught the younger artist a great deal. It was in Kiev that Vasnetsov finally finished “Ivan Tsarevich Riding a Grey Wolf” and started his most famous painting, “The Bogatyrs.” In keeping with the general tendencies in the development of Russian art at the end of the 19th century, an important role is played in Vasnetsov's works by landscape elements, “moods” which unite people and nature, akin to folklore “parallelism” of imagery. “Ivan Tsarevich Riding a Grey Wolf,” 1889, depicts a scene from a popular Russian fairytale. The magical plot has been reflected in numerous literary works and musical pieces. The landscape background was derived from studies made in Abramtsevo. The landscape is very important. Forces of evil surround Ivan Tsarevich and Helen the Fair. The impassable wall of the wood rises in front of them. The artist's imagination has transformed an ordinary wood near Moscow into a fantastic, mysterious wilderness. In 1885 the painter traveled to Italy. That same year he worked on stage designs and costumes for Nikolay Rimsky-Korsakov’s opera “The Snow Maiden.” Later on Vasnetsov collaborated with his brother, Apollinary, on the theatrical design of another Rimsky-Korsakov premiere, “Sadko” in 1897. In the 1910s Vasnetsov was commissioned to design a new uniform for the Russian military and produced the so-called “bogatyrka” military cap. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries Vasnetsov actively worked in different fields. At the turn of the century he elaborated his hallmark “fairytale” style of Russian Revivalist architecture. His first acclaimed design was a church in Abramtsevo in 1882, executed jointly with Vasily Polenov. In 1894 he designed his own mansion. The house built to his project in 1894 in Moscow was turned into the Vasnetsov House Museum in 1953. The picturesque wooden house that Vasnetsov lived in has some beautiful wooden furniture and tiled stoves downstairs as well as several of Vasnetsov's paintings of fairytale characters such as Sleeping Beauty and Baba Yaga in the studio upstairs. Unlike many house-museums where the furniture has been brought in to approximate the requisite era, everything here is original, from the 19th century benches to the huge canvases in the wooden attic. Vasnetsov's paintings here are at least as good as the ones in the Tretyakov Gallery, the facade of which Vasnetsov designed in 1906. After many years of living in different places, Vasnetsov finally felt at home in this house with his wife Aleksandra Ryazantseva and their five children. Even prior to the Russian Revolution, Vasnetsov became active as a regent of the Tretyakov Gallery. He allocated significant money to the State Historical Museum, so that a large part of the museum’s collection was acquired with his money. After the October Revolution he advocated the relocation of religious paintings, notably those by Aleksandr Ivanov, from churches to the Tretyakov. Vasnetsov was also a brilliant portrait painter and book illustrator. His paintings greatly influenced the development of modernism and symbolism in Russian painting and poetry. In scope and monumentality Vasnetsov’s works are incomparable; his great artistic merit and profound conception have become the pride of Russian national culture. “A true work of art expresses everything about people,” Vasnetsov believed. “It conveys the past, the present and perhaps the future.” Legal disclaimer Feedback Contact us © Autonomous Nonprofit Organization “TV-Novosti”, 2005–2021. All rights reserved.


--- [Viktor Mikhailovich Vasnetsov - Artvee] ---
Viktor Mikhaylovich Vasnetsov was a Russian painter and draughtsman who specialised in mythological and historical subjects. He is considered a co-founder of Russian folklorist and romantic nationalistic painting, and a key figure in the Russian Revivalist movement. Viktor Vasnetsov was born in the remote village of Lopyal in Vyatka Governorate in 1848, the second of the seven children (his only sister died 4 months after her birth). His father Mikhail Vasilievich Vasnetsov (1823–1870), known to be philosophically inclined, was a member of the priesthood, and a scholar of the natural sciences and astronomy. His grandfather was an icon painter. Two of Mikhail Vasnetsov's six sons, Viktor and Apollinary, became remarkable painters, three becoming schoolteachers and one a Russian folklorist. It was in Lopyal that Viktor started to paint, mostly landscapes and scenes of village life. Recalling his childhood in a letter to Vladimir Stasov, Vasnetsov remarked that he "had lived with peasant children and liked them not as a narodnik but as a friend". From the age of ten, Viktor studied in a seminary in Vyatka, each summer moving with his family to a rich merchant village of Ryabovo. During his seminary years, he worked for a local icon shopkeeper. He also helped an exiled Polish artist, Michał Elwiro Andriolli, to execute frescoes for Vyatka's Alexander Nevsky cathedral. Having graduated from the seminary, Viktor decided to move to Saint Petersburg to study art. He auctioned his paintings of Woman Harvester and Milk-maid (both 1867) to raise the money required for the trip to the Russian capital. In August 1867 Viktor tried to enter the Imperial Academy of Arts, but failed. He succeeded one year later in August 1868. Already in 1863 a group of fourteen students left the Academy, finding its rules too constraining. This led to the Peredvizhniki movement of realist painters rebelling against Academism. Vasnetsov befriended their leader Ivan Kramskoi during his drawing classes before entering the Academy, referring to him as his teacher. He also became very close to fellow student, Ilya Repin. Viktor, whose name would subsequently be associated with historical and mythological paintings, initially avoided these subjects at all costs. For his graphic composition of Christ and Pontius Pilate Before the People, the Academy awarded a small silver medal to him. In the early 1870s he completed a large number of engravings depicting contemporary life. Two of them (Provincial Bookseller from 1870 and A Boy with a Bottle of Vodka from 1872) won him a bronze medal at the World Fair in London (1874). During this period he also started producing genre paintings in oil. Such pieces as Peasant Singers (1873) and Moving House (1876) were warmly welcomed by democratic circles of Russian society. In 1876 Repin invited Vasnetsov to join the Peredvizhniki colony in Paris. While living in France, Viktor studied classical and contemporary paintings, academist and Impressionist alike. During that period, he painted Acrobats (1877), produced prints, and exhibited some of his works at the Salon. It was in Paris that he became fascinated with fairy-tale subjects, starting to work on Ivan Tsarevich Riding a Grey Wolf and The Firebird. Vasnetsov was a model for Sadko in Repin's celebrated painting Sadko. In 1877 he returned to Moscow. In the late 1870s Vasnetsov concentrated on illustrating Russian fairy tales and the epic narrative poem Bylinas, executing some of his best known pieces: The Knight at the Crossroads (1878), Prince Igor's Battlefield (1878), Three princesses of the Underground Kingdom (completed 1884 ), The Flying Carpet (1880), and Alionushka (1881). These works were not appreciated at the time they appeared. Many radical critics dismissed them as undermining the realist principles of the Peredvizhniki. Even such prominent connoisseurs as Pavel Mikhailovich Tretyakov refused to buy them. The vogue for Vasnetsov's paintings would spread in the 1880s, when he turned to religious subjects and executed a series of icons for Abramtsevo estate of his patron Savva Mamontov. In 1884–1889 Vasnetsov was commissioned to paint frescoes in St Vladimir's Cathedral in Kiev. This was a challenging work which ran contrary to both Russian and Western traditions of religious paintings. The influential art critic Vladimir Stasov labelled them a sacrilegious play with religious feelings of the Russian people. Another popular critic, Dmitry Filosofov, referred to these frescoes as "the first bridge over 200 years-old gulf separating different classes of Russian society". While living in Kiev, Vasnetsov made friends with Mikhail Vrubel, who was also involved in the cathedral's decoration. While they worked together, Vasnetsov taught the younger artist a great deal. It was in Kiev that Vasnetsov finally finished Ivan Tsarevich Riding a Grey Wolf and started his most famous painting, the Bogatyrs. In 1885 the painter travelled to Italy. The same year he worked on stage designs and costumes for Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov's opera The Snow Maiden. The following two decades were productive for Vasnetsov. He increasingly turned to other media during this period. In 1897 he collaborated with his brother Apollinary on the theatrical design of another Rimsky-Korsakov premiere, Sadko. At the turn of the century, Vasnetsov elaborated his hallmark "fairy-tale" style of Russian Revivalist architecture. His first acclaimed design was a church in Abramtsevo (1882), executed jointly with Vasily Polenov. In 1894, he designed his own mansion in Moscow. The Russian pavilion of the World Fair in Paris followed in 1898. Finally, in 1904, Vasnetsov designed the best known of his "fairy-tale" buildings – the façade of the Tretyakov Gallery. Between 1906 and 1911, Vasnetsov worked on the design of the mosaics for Alexander Nevsky Cathedral, Warsaw; he was also involved in the design of Alexander Nevsky Cathedral, Moscow. In 1912, he was given a noble title by Czar Nicholas II. In 1914, he designed a revenue stamp intended for voluntary collection for victims of World War I. Even prior to the Russian Revolution, Vasnetsov became active as a regent of the Tretyakov Gallery. He allocated a significant portion of his income to the State Historical Museum, so that a large part of the museum's collection was acquired on Vasnetsov's money. After the October Revolution he advocated removing some of the religious paintings from churches to the Tretyakov Gallery. In 1915, Vasnetsov participated in the designing of a military uniform for the Victory parade of the Russian army in Berlin and Constantinopole. Vasnetsov is credited with the creation of the budenovka (initially named bogatyrka), a military hat reproducing the style of Kievan Rus' cone-shaped helmets. Vasnetsov died in Moscow in 1926, he was 78.
