=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Gibson-Fawcett Award - Wikipedia]
The Gibson-Fawcett Award is awarded by the Royal Society of Chemistry [1] every two years to recognise outstanding work in the field of materials chemistry. [2] In particular, the emphasis is on the originality and independence of the work carried out. [3] The prize was established in 2008 and is awarded by the Materials Chemistry Division Awards Committee. It can only be given to ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gibson%E2%80%93Fawcett_Award

[Gibson-Fawcett Award - The Royal Society of Chemistry]
The Gibson-Fawcett Award was established in 2008, and recognised original and independent contributions to materials chemistry. This award recognised the contributions of two great chemists, Reginald Gibson and Eric Fawcett.
URL: https://www.rsc.org/standards-and-recognition/prizes/gibson-fawcett-award

[Gibson-Fawcett Award - The Royal Society of Chemistry]
The Gibson-Fawcett Award was established in 2008, and recognised original and independent contributions to materials chemistry. This award recognised the contributions of two great chemists, Reginald Gibson and Eric Fawcett. Fawcett graduated from Oxford University in 1929, going on to work for ICI Alkali Group's Research Department at Winnington to work on the 'oil from coal' project. Gibson ...
URL: https://qa-rsccorp-fa30c0.xperience-sites.com/standards-and-recognition/prizes/gibson-fawcett-award

[Surname和Givenname是什么意思啊 - 百度知道]
Dec 23, 2024 · Surname和Givenname是什么意思啊1. Surname指的是一个人的姓氏，即姓名的第一个字。2. Given name是指一个人的名字，除去姓氏以外的部分。3. 在英文中，姓与名的顺序与中国相反，例如张三在英文中表述为San Zhang，
URL: https://zhidao.baidu.com/question/1907324067119831260.html

[March 27, 1933: Just One Word ... Plastics | WIRED]
Mar 27, 2012 · Reginald Gibson and Eric Fawcett worked at Imperial Chemical Industries' research laboratory at Winnington, Chesire. Their equipment was faulty when they attempted to react ethylene and...
URL: https://www.wired.com/2012/03/march-27-1933-just-one-word-plastics/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Gibson-Fawcett Award - Wikipedia] ---
The Gibson–Fawcett Award is awarded by the Royal Society of Chemistry every two years to recognise outstanding work in the field of materials chemistry. In particular, the emphasis is on the originality and independence of the work carried out. The prize was established in 2008 and is awarded by the Materials Chemistry Division Awards Committee. It can only be given to researchers under age 40. The award was discontinued in 2020.


--- [Gibson-Fawcett Award - The Royal Society of Chemistry] ---
Gibson-Fawcett Award | Status | Discontinued | |---| The Gibson-Fawcett Award was established in 2008, and recognised original and independent contributions to materials chemistry. This award recognised the contributions of two great chemists, Reginald Gibson and Eric Fawcett. Fawcett graduated from Oxford University in 1929, going on to work for ICI Alkali Group's Research Department at Winnington to work on the 'oil from coal' project. Gibson studied at University College London and was offered a job at the High Pressure Physics Laboratory in Leiden, Holland. Due to the small salary and his family's financial situation at the time, he could not accept. It was only upon receipt of a loan of £25 from the Benevolent Fund of the now Royal Society of Chemistry that Gibson was able to take this position. It was here that he met Anton Michels. When Gibson returned to ICI in 1931 and Fawcett returned from a one year secondment to the National Bureau of Standards in Washington, they started work together on the effects of high pressures on chemical reactions using equipment designed by Michels. An experiment on 24 March 1933 produced a waxy solid which was later identified as polyethylene. Shortly before the war, Gibson worked on producing tetra-ethyl lead required for aviation fuel anti-knock compounds. After the war he joined Associated Ethyl as a Chief Chemist, in 1950 he was appointed R&D Manager. Gibson was actively involved in the Royal Society of Chemistry throughout his life. In 1938 Fawcett joined what is now BP and was associated with the invention and development of a butane isomerisation process to produce isobutane, an intermediate required in the alkylation process for aviation gasoline. This award was discontinued in 2020, as part of a series of changes introduced following an independent review of the Royal Society of Chemistry’s recognition programmes. Previous winners - 2020 - Professor Cinzia Casiraghi - 2018 - Dr Silvia Vignolini - 2016 - Professor Rachel O'Reilly - 2014 - Dr Andrew Dove - 2012 - Dr Andrew Fogg - 2010 - Dr Simon Clarke Prizes archive We have recognised excellence in the chemical sciences for more than 150 years and we are proud of this legacy and history. This prize is part of our archive that holds a digital library of our previously administered prizes, their history, and previous winners.


--- [Gibson-Fawcett Award - The Royal Society of Chemistry] ---
Gibson-Fawcett Award | Status | Discontinued | |---| The Gibson-Fawcett Award was established in 2008, and recognised original and independent contributions to materials chemistry. This award recognised the contributions of two great chemists, Reginald Gibson and Eric Fawcett. Fawcett graduated from Oxford University in 1929, going on to work for ICI Alkali Group's Research Department at Winnington to work on the 'oil from coal' project. Gibson studied at University College London and was offered a job at the High Pressure Physics Laboratory in Leiden, Holland. Due to the small salary and his family's financial situation at the time, he could not accept. It was only upon receipt of a loan of £25 from the Benevolent Fund of the now Royal Society of Chemistry that Gibson was able to take this position. It was here that he met Anton Michels. When Gibson returned to ICI in 1931 and Fawcett returned from a one year secondment to the National Bureau of Standards in Washington, they started work together on the effects of high pressures on chemical reactions using equipment designed by Michels. An experiment on 24 March 1933 produced a waxy solid which was later identified as polyethylene. Shortly before the war, Gibson worked on producing tetra-ethyl lead required for aviation fuel anti-knock compounds. After the war he joined Associated Ethyl as a Chief Chemist, in 1950 he was appointed R&D Manager. Gibson was actively involved in the Royal Society of Chemistry throughout his life. In 1938 Fawcett joined what is now BP and was associated with the invention and development of a butane isomerisation process to produce isobutane, an intermediate required in the alkylation process for aviation gasoline. This award was discontinued in 2020, as part of a series of changes introduced following an independent review of the Royal Society of Chemistry’s recognition programmes. Previous winners - 2020 - Professor Cinzia Casiraghi - 2018 - Dr Silvia Vignolini - 2016 - Professor Rachel O'Reilly - 2014 - Dr Andrew Dove - 2012 - Dr Andrew Fogg - 2010 - Dr Simon Clarke Prizes archive We have recognised excellence in the chemical sciences for more than 150 years and we are proud of this legacy and history. This prize is part of our archive that holds a digital library of our previously administered prizes, their history, and previous winners.


--- [Surname和Givenname是什么意思啊 - 百度知道] ---
Surname和Givenname是什么意思啊 1个回答 展开全部 1. Surname指的是一个人的姓氏，即姓名的第一个字。 2. Given name是指一个人的名字，除去姓氏以外的部分。 3. 在英文中，姓与名的顺序与中国相反，例如张三在英文中表述为San Zhang，其中San是名，Zhang是姓。 4. David A. James是英文名字的例子，其中David是First Name（名），James是Last Name（姓），A.是Middle Name，通常可以忽略。 5. Surname和Given Name在某些场合仍然使用，Surname指的是姓氏，而Given Name指的是名字。Given Name中的Given意味着父母赋予的名字，即名。 6. 总之，可以用以下公式表示：First Name = Given Name = 名，Last Name = Surname = 姓。 2. Given name是指一个人的名字，除去姓氏以外的部分。 3. 在英文中，姓与名的顺序与中国相反，例如张三在英文中表述为San Zhang，其中San是名，Zhang是姓。 4. David A. James是英文名字的例子，其中David是First Name（名），James是Last Name（姓），A.是Middle Name，通常可以忽略。 5. Surname和Given Name在某些场合仍然使用，Surname指的是姓氏，而Given Name指的是名字。Given Name中的Given意味着父母赋予的名字，即名。 6. 总之，可以用以下公式表示：First Name = Given Name = 名，Last Name = Surname = 姓。 舒仕福 2023-07-11 广告 2023-07-11 广告 eor有以下两种含义：1. eor是计算机术语，表示二进制异或运算。在计算机逻辑运算中，算术逻辑执行二进制按位异或运算，两数执行异或后相同位结果为0，不同位结果为1。2. eor也表示在任何时期，向地层中注入流体、能量，以提高产量或采收率的... 点击进入详情页 本回答由舒仕福提供 推荐律师服务： 若未解决您的问题，请您详细描述您的问题，通过百度律临进行免费专业咨询


--- [March 27, 1933: Just One Word ... Plastics | WIRED] ---
__1933: __ Two British research chemists miss an important detail ... and make polyethylene. Reginald Gibson and Eric Fawcett worked at Imperial Chemical Industries' research laboratory at Winnington, Chesire. Their equipment was faulty when they attempted to react ethylene and benzaldehyde under high pressure. They produced a waxy lump of what the British call polythene. Unbeknownst to the researchers, oxygen had leaked into their apparatus and catalyzed the reaction. Using better equipment two years later, ICI scientists M.W. Perrin and J.C. Swallow detected a leak. It took several months before they figured out that it was trace oxygen in their ethylene that played the key role. American chemist Carl Marvel actually made polyethylene by a different method before the ICI team, in the early 1930s. He just ignored it, because "nobody thought polyethylene was good for anything." ICI, however, had plenty of ideas. The chemical conglomerate obtained its first patents in 1936 and quietly put the new plastic into production in 1938. During World War II, polyethylene was a military secret. It was used to insulate cables on newly developed radar devices. Large-scale, commercial polyethylene production began after the war to create a plethora of plastic kitchenware, toys, containers and packaging. Polyethylene achieved wide use because of its versatility and low cost. It now competes with other plastics like polyfluoroethylene and polypropylene. Low-density polyethylene (LDPE) has lots of branched polymer chains, which make it more flexible for use in plastic bags, films and packaging materials. High-density polyethylene (HDPE) has long, straight polymer chains, which make it more durable for use in containers, plumbing, and other parts and fittings. Source: Chemistry in Action, other websites This article first appeared on Wired.com March 27, 2008. See Also:- Plastic Just Got More Sinister
