=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Tomball High School - Wikipedia]
In 1961, the original high school on Main Street was destroyed after an electrical fire in the school's attic engulfed the building. The Houston Fire Department responded, where the fire fighters dropped a hose into the swimming pool to extinguish the flame. School was dismissed for four days.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tomball_High_School

[A Tribute to Tomball: A Pictorial History of the Tomball Area - Page 66 - The Portal to Texas History]
February 7, 1961 Tomball High I I, School Burns Major changes took place in the lives of the students in the early 1960's. Early in the morning of February 7, 1961, fire destroyed the Main Street High School. The gymnasium was undamaged, however. It was attached to the main structure by a covered walkway. As the fire ~ raged in the school, fire fighters tore down the walkway t and wet down the ...
URL: https://texashistory.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metapth875810/m1/70/

[About TISD - Tomball Independent School District]
In 1961, the high school on Main Street burned to the ground. Classes were held in churches and community facilities for years to come. Despite the fire that destroyed the high school on Main Street, enrollment continued to grow. By 1970, the district enrolled 1,246 students. By 1974, students began attending classes at the new Tomball ...
URL: https://www.tomballisd.net/about-tisd

[Our School - Tomball High School]
Fire fighters dropped a hose into the swimming pool that was adjacent to the school in order to extinguish the flames. School was dismissed for four days. Churches and other businesses throughout the community offered their facilities so the high school students could complete the school year.
URL: https://ths.tomballisd.net/our-school

[Edelweiss+ by Above the Treeline | Work Better, Read More]
We would like to show you a description here but the site won't allow us.
URL: https://www.edelweiss.plus/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Tomball High School - Wikipedia] ---
Tomball High School is an accredited public high school in the city of Tomball, Texas. It was the only high school in the Tomball Independent School District before the construction of Tomball Memorial High School in 2011.


--- [A Tribute to Tomball: A Pictorial History of the Tomball Area - Page 66 - The Portal to Texas History] ---
A Tribute to Tomball: A Pictorial History of the Tomball Area Page: 66 This book is part of the collection entitled: Rescuing Texas History, 2016 and was provided to The Portal to Texas History by the LSC - Tomball Community Library. Extracted Text The following text was automatically extracted from the image on this page using optical character recognition software: February 7, 1961 Tomball High I I, School Burns Major changes took place in the lives of the students in the early 1960's. Early in the morning of February 7, 1961, fire destroyed the Main Street High School. The gymnasium was undamaged, however. It was attached to the main structure by a covered walkway. As the fire ~ raged in the school, fire fighters tore down the walkway t and wet down the gym. Salvaging what little remained was a tremendous job. Some things had fallen through the floor and into the water, so even though they were damaged, they were usable. Two students volunteered many of their hours to help replace the permanent records. After a few days of planning, school was again under- way with a few changes. Since there was no longer a building for the high school students, they were assigned to the Elementary School on Keefer Road. The sixth through eighth grades were moved to Cherry Street, and kindergarten through fifth grade were housed in local churches. Busses transported the high school students between the gym on Main Street and the temporary high school. Very few students ever missed their rides to class. Barbara Sojourner, 15, and Anna Kent, 16, salvage textbooks from the ruins of Tomball High School. The students crowded into elementary schools and churhes for temporary66 Tomball High School would like to pay honor to all of its former students and past faculty and staff members. Upcoming Pages Here’s what’s next. Search Inside This book can be searched. Note: Results may vary based on the legibility of text within the document. Tools / Downloads Get a copy of this page or view the extracted text. Citing and Sharing Basic information for referencing this web page. We also provide extended guidance on usage rights, references, copying or embedding. Reference the current page of this Book. Tomball Area Diamond Jubilee, Inc. A Tribute to Tomball: A Pictorial History of the Tomball Area, book, 1982; Tomball, Texas. (https://texashistory.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metapth875810/m1/70/: accessed March 3, 2026), University of North Texas Libraries, The Portal to Texas History, https://texashistory.unt.edu; crediting LSC - Tomball Community Library.


--- [About TISD - Tomball Independent School District] ---
Tomball ISD takes great pride in its many accomplishments, but in order to celebrate where we are today, we must revisit our past. In the Beginning In 1908, school was first held in Tomball in the Woodmen of the World Building, which was a one room framed building that educated nearly 15 students. The community soon made plans to build a school. Land on Cherry Street was donated, and by 1910 a school was built. The two-story red brick schoolhouse, which was part of the Harris County School System, consisted of two classrooms downstairs and an auditorium upstairs. By 1916, sixty-two students attended the Tomball school. As of 1928, the community grew and consisted of four schools. By 1931, the district employed five teachers. By 1935, the original schoolhouse on Cherry Street was torn down and replaced with a new buff colored brick building. The school opened in 1936 with grades one through 11. In 1937, a petition was presented to the Harris County School Board requesting that Tomball have its own school district. That petition was granted and all funds and debts were transferred to the Tomball Independent School District. The school on Cherry Street had grown so much that by 1938 a second campus was needed. Therefore, the district built a new red brick high school and a gymnasium located in the 700 block of Main Street. Continued Growth Decker Prairie, Bauer, and the Kohrville areas eventually became part of the district, and the Rosehill community was annexed in 1954. In 1961, the high school on Main Street burned to the ground. Classes were held in churches and community facilities for years to come. Despite the fire that destroyed the high school on Main Street, enrollment continued to grow. By 1970, the district enrolled 1,246 students. By 1974, students began attending classes at the new Tomball High School on Sandy Lane. In 2000, voters approved a $98.4 million bond referendum that enabled the district to renovate Tomball High School. The district also renovated the transportation center and five other existing campuses. New facilities including Willow Wood Junior High, Northpointe Intermediate, Rosehill Elementary, a district aquatic center, and other athletic facilities were also constructed under the 2000 bond referendum. The district also expanded its fine arts, athletic, agriculture, and other extracurricular and instructional programs to serve the needs of its students. In 2007, voters passed Bond 2007 – a $198 million bond program, which funded Canyon Pointe, Creekside Forest, and Timber Creek Elementary Schools, and Tomball Memorial High School. Additional support facilities including a new Ancillary Building, Agriculture Project Barn, and the Technology/Staff Development Center were also completed under Bond 2007. The 2007 bond referendum also funded the John P. Neubauer Administration Building, which was named after former Superintendent John Neubauer. The administration building was built on Cherry Street at the site where the original 1936 buff colored brick school once stood. A replica of the front façade of the original school was incorporated into the design of the new building. Although Mr. Neubauer retired after devoting 46 years to Tomball ISD, he maintains vivid memories of his first teaching job in the original 1936 school. In May 2013, voters approved Bond 2013 – a $160 million bond program that funded four new schools and addressed security and technology district wide. Wildwood Elementary and Oakcrest Intermediate School opened in the southern portion of the district in August 2015. Creekview Elementary School, located in The Woodlands, also opened its doors in August 2015. Creekside Park Junior High opened in The Woodlands in August 2016. Five Years Ago Tomball ISD’s growth is evident thanks to the emphasis placed on academic achievement and improving facilities and resources following the passing of Bond 2017, a $275 million bond referendum. Bond 2017 will address improvements in all areas of academic success at Tomball ISD from fine arts, technology, and athletics to the renovations of existing campuses and construction of new district facilities. Tomball ISD celebrated the opening of Tomball Star Academy – an Early College High School in 2017-18. This joint initiative between Tomball ISD and Lone Star College–Tomball enables students to earn a high school diploma and up to 60 college credit hours free of charge while in high school. Tomball Star Academy provides a rigorous, supportive learning environment that blends high school and the first two years of college. Students have the ability to participate in a variety of extracurricular activities as well as intramural sports. Tomball Star Academy graduated its first class in May 2021. In 2019, Tomball ISD launched its Two-Way Dual Language Academy, a biliteracy program at Rosehill Elementary, that integrates native English and native Spanish speakers in one classroom setting to encourage students to become bilingual, biliterate and bicultural. Where we are Today Because of the continued support from community stakeholders, Tomball ISD passed a voter-approved $465 million as part of the Bond 2021 package, which will feature a new high school (Tomball West HS), new intermediate school (West Intermediate), two new elementary schools (West Elementary, TBD), a Pre-K Center (Early Excellence Academy), an Agricultural Show Barn, and much more. In August 2023, Tomball ISD will open a Pathways in Technology Early College High School (P-TECH) for Healthcare within Tomball Star Academy. Similar to TSA’s Early College High School, this new program will provide students a rigorous, supportive learning environment, and an opportunity to earn s high school diploma, up to 60 college credit hours, an Associate's of Science degree, health industry-based certifications, and a Level 1 Pre-Professional Certificate free of charge. With a vision that students will lead in creating the future, Tomball ISD continues to offer high-quality academic learning to ensure students are prepared for whatever the future holds. The District boasts 26 Career & Technical Education (CTE) pathways, including four brand new programs: law enforcement, legal studies, cybersecurity and aviation. As the district continues to grow, Tomball ISD makes sure every student finds a place to belong, a passion to pursue, and a love for learning that will serve them well beyond the years they spend in Tomball.


--- [Our School - Tomball High School] ---
Our School Mascot Cougar The Tomball Fight Song O when the Tomball Cougars fall in line, we're going to win this game another time, For the dear old school we'll yell, and yell and yell. Our team is full of spirit, pep and go. For the dear old school we love so well. Fight, Fight, Fight!!! Campus Accolades 2024-25 2023-24 School History Tomball High School… In the Beginning In 1908, school was first held in Tomball in the Woodmen of the World building, which was a one room framed building that educated nearly 15 students. The community soon made plans to build a school. Land on Cherry Street was donated, and by 1910 a school was built. The two-story red brick schoolhouse, which was part of the Harris County School System, consisted of two classrooms downstairs and an auditorium upstairs. By 1916, 62 students attended the school. As of 1928, the community grew and consisted of four schools. By 1931, the district employed five teachers. By 1935, the original schoolhouse was torn down and replaced with a new buff brick building that contained grades one through eleven. In 1937, a petition was presented to the Harris County School Board requesting that Tomball have its own school district. That petition was granted and all funds and debts were transferred to the Tomball Independent School District. The school on Cherry Street had grown so much that by 1938 a second campus was needed. Therefore, the district built a new red brick high school with a gymnasium and a swimming pool, which was located in the 700 block of Main Street. Tragedy Strikes On a cold winter morning in 1961, sparks from an electrical fire in the attic of the high school on Main Street erupted into a fire that completely destroyed the building. The Houston Fire Department responded. Fire fighters dropped a hose into the swimming pool that was adjacent to the school in order to extinguish the flames. School was dismissed for four days. Churches and other businesses throughout the community offered their facilities so the high school students could complete the school year. Continued Growth By 1974, students began attending classes at the new Tomball High School on Sandy Lane, which later became Quinn Road. Continued growth over the decades meant there was a need for additional classrooms. In 2000, voters approved a $98.4 million bond referendum that enabled the district to renovate Tomball High School. Since that time, Tomball High School has increased its enrollment to over 1,800 students, and earned a Recognized rating from the Texas Education Agency, which determines state accountability ratings based on data collected via the Academic Excellence Indicator System. Tomball High School has also met Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) standards under the federal accountability system. AYP ratings are based on student performance on the TAKS test, the percentage of students participating in the assessment process, and performance on additional indicators such as student attendance and graduation rates. Tomball High School maintains strong academic, extracurricular, and athletic programs. Our students have earned numerous national, state, regional, and local honors and awards. Collectively, graduating seniors receive over $2.5 million in scholarships each year from various foundations, colleges, and universities. The future is brighter than ever for our students. They make us proud, and they make Tomball High School the “Pride of Texas.”


--- [Edelweiss+ by Above the Treeline | Work Better, Read More] ---
US Trade Change Market, Language and Currency Register / Back to login Home Publishers Catalogs Review Copies Loading...
