=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Omar Abdullah - Wikipedia]
On the intervening night of 4 and 5 August 2019, Omar Abdullah was placed under preventive detention by the Indian Government under Section 107 of the CRPC. This came as a backdrop to the government's decision of scrapping Article 370 of the Constitution of India, which gave the state of Jammu & Kashmir semi-autonomous powers. [46] After the expiry of the six-month detention without any ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Omar_Abdullah

[Omar Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti detained under PSA Act, says Amit Shah; J ...]
Oct 15, 2019 — “They had been taken into preventive detention under Section 107 [security for keeping the peace in other cases] of the CrPC [Code of Criminal ...
URL: https://scroll.in/latest/940556/j-k-police-refute-amit-shahs-claim-that-omar-abdullah-mehbooba-mufti-booked-under-psa

[‘He disturbed peace’ : J-K govt defends PSA against Omar Abdullah]
National Conference leader and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah was earlier placed under preventive detention by the Centre as per Section 107 of the CrPC right after the ...
URL: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omar-abdullah-detained-under-psa-due-to-past-conduct-j-k-govt-tells-supreme-court/story-8tLhtDHlLTtSGlb8tBKaqJ.html

[Challenges in the Life of Omar Abdullah in a Detailed Timeline]
August 2019: Preventive Detention On the intervening night of August 4 and 5, 2019, Omar Abdullah was placed under preventive detention by the Indian Government under Section 107 of the CRPC following the decision to scrap Article 370.
URL: https://populartimelines.com/timeline/Omar-Abdullah/challenges-struggles

[Omar Abdullah - Wikiwand]
On the intervening night of 4 and 5 August 2019, Omar Abdullah was placed under preventive detention by the Indian Government under Section 107 of the CRPC. This came as a backdrop to the government's decision of scrapping Article 370 of the Constitution of India, which gave the state of Jammu & Kashmir semi-autonomous powers.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Omar_Abdullah


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Omar Abdullah - Wikipedia] ---
Omar Abdullah (born 10 March 1970) is an Indian politician serving as the chief minister of union territory of Jammu and Kashmir since 2024 and also as the leader of the house in J&K Legislative Assembly. He had previously served as the 8th chief minister of the state of Jammu and Kashmir between 2009 and 2014, and is the current vice president of the Jammu & Kashmir National Conference, a position he has held since 2009 and also previously served as its president. Abdullah also served as a member of parliament in the Lok Sabha from 1998 to 2009, representing the Srinagar parliamentary constituency, and was a union minister of State for External Affairs.
The son of former Jammu and Kashmir State chief minister Farooq Abdullah, he joined politics in 1998 after being elected as the youngest member of the Lok Sabha, a feat he repeated in subsequent three elections. He was the union Minister of State for External Affairs in Atal Bihari Vajpayee's NDA government, from 23 July 2001 to 23 December 2002. He resigned from NDA government in October 2002 to concentrate on party work. During this time, he took a larger role in state politics. However, his party faced defeat in the 2002 state elections. However, him and his party were later elected in the 2008 state elections.
He became the youngest, and 11th chief minister of the state of Jammu and Kashmir after forming a government in coalition with the Indian National Congress, on 5 January 2009. He would serve in that position until 2015, after being defeated in the 2014 state elections. He was the last leader of opposition in the erstwhile state Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Assembly, serving as an MLA from Beerwah constituency, before the assembly was dissolved in 2018 and the state of Jammu & Kashmir ceased to exist as on 6 August 2019 and became a union territory following the revocation of Article 370, which Abdullah fiercely opposed.
Following being arrested and detained in 2020, Abdullah returned to politics first in the 2024 Indian general election, where he was defeated for a seat. Despite initially refusing to run for a seat, Abdullah was elected as an MLA following the 2024 union territory elections, being elected the first chief minister of the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. He took office in October 2024.


--- [Omar Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti detained under PSA Act, says Amit Shah; J ...] ---
J&K Police refute Amit Shah’s claim that Omar Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti booked under PSA The police said the two former chief ministers had been taken into preventive detention under Section 107 of the CrPC. Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday said former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti were detained under the Public Safety Act. In an exclusive interview to India Today, Shah said: “They [Mufti and Abdullah] are still in detention under the Public Safety Act.” The home minister was first asked if National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah’s claim of being put under house arrest before the invocation of the PSA Act was true. After Shah refuted the allegation, he was asked about the detention of Mufti and Omar Abdullah. However, police officials in Srinagar denied that Mufti and Omar Abdullah had been booked under the Public Safety Act. “They had been taken into preventive detention under Section 107 [security for keeping the peace in other cases] of the CrPC [Code of Criminal Procedure],” officials told Scroll.in. On August 5, the Centre had imposed restrictive orders as it scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and split it into Union Territories. Several political leaders, including the three former chief ministers, were placed under house arrest. On September 16, the Jammu and Kashmir administration said it had invoked the Public Safety Act to keep Farooq Abdullah under detention. Abdullah was booked under the “public order” section of the Public Safety Act, which allows one to be detained for six months without trial. Shah said that shock among people, after the special status was revoked, was normal as the incident “was fresh”. “If someone tries to instigate, obviously there will be a problem in controlling the situation,” he said. The Union minister said that fewer than 1,000 people out of 4,000 taken into preventive custody were now in jail, adding that 800 of them were caught during stone-pelting incidents. He also attributed the deaths of 40,000 locals over the years to Article 370 of the Constitution, which gave the state its special status. “I believe they were killed because of Article 370,” Shah said. “We have removed Article 370, we need time to send word down the line. If someone keeps scratching the wounds, people may get instigated. As a precaution, we have kept them under detention. It is better to take precaution than allow loss of life.” The home minister also rejected claims that there was a curfew in place in Jammu and Kashmir and said that security forces had not resorted to firing in the last two months. He asserted that the region was gradually moving towards normalcy. After 72 days of communication networks being snapped, postpaid mobile phone services were restored across all networks in the Kashmir Valley on Monday. Fixed line telephone services were restored in parts of Jammu and Kashmir on August 17, and by September 4, nearly all 50,000 landline connections were restored. Mobile phone services had already been restored in Jammu and Ladakh regions, and in the Kupwara district of Kashmir. Also read: - Kashmiris are resisting government ‘through satyagraha’, says fact-finding report - This is what Kashmir looks like after 61 days of ‘normalcy’ - In 21 days, 21 reasons to believe ‘Kashmir is normal’ Now, follow and debate the day’s most significant stories on Scroll Exchange.


--- [‘He disturbed peace’ : J-K govt defends PSA against Omar Abdullah] ---
‘He disturbed peace’ : J-K govt defends PSA against Omar Abdullah Terming Abdullah as “a very vocal critic” of abrogating Article 370, the J&K administration claimed that his acts squarely fell within the realm of public order as it was “calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility”. Jammu and Kashmir administration informed the Supreme Court on Monday that National Conference leader Omar Abdullah has been detained under the Public Safety Act considering his “past conduct” and possibility of such conduct being repeated on his release, which may “prejudice the public order”. Terming Abdullah as “a very vocal critic” of abrogating Article 370, the J&K administration claimed that his acts squarely fell within the realm of public order as it was “calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility”. The District Magistrate of Srinagar has said this in his reply filed on a plea by Sara Abdullah Pilot, who has challenged the detention of her brother Omar Abdullah under the provision of the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act (PSA). ALSO WATCH | Omar Abdullah’s sister moves Supreme Court against his detention under PSA The J&K administration has said that in the history of independent India the existence and continuance of Article 370 of the Constitution, which used to give special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, has “always remained a contentious and burning issue”. “The detenu has been a very vocal critic of any possible abrogation of Article 370 prior to its abrogation on August 5, 2019. It is submitted that considering the very peculiar geo-political position of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and its geographical proximity with Islamic Republic of Pakistan, the concept of ‘public order’ needs to be examined contextually,” it said. It also said that Abdullah should have moved the Jammu and Kashmir High Court to avail his remedy before approaching the apex court. The matter came up for hearing on Monday before a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for J&K administration, told the bench about the reply filed by the district magistrate. The bench, which posted the matter for hearing on March 5, said the petitioner can file rejoinder, if any, to it. In its reply, J&K administration has said that detention of Abdullah was ordered under section 8 of the PSA after being satisfied that it is necessary to detain him with a view “to prevent him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order”. It also dealt with submissions advanced in Pilot’s plea which said that as Abdullah was already under detention since August 5 last year, there was no ground to come to a conclusion that he may act in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order. “It is submitted that the said assertion is fallacious and ignores that the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority, the grounds of detention and the dossier clearly indicate that there exists a live and proximate link in the events that occurred in the past, the activities of the detenu (Abdullah) and the possibility of such activities being prejudicial to maintenance of public order,” it said. “In light of the above, the deponent states and submits that there was ample material and grounds to issue the impugned order of detention against the detenu considering the past conduct and the possibility of such conduct being repeated on release and thereby prejudicing the public order in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” it said. The reply further said, “It may not be out of place to mention that so far since 1990, 41,866 persons have lost their lives in 71,038 incidents throughout the erstwhile state of J&K. This includes 14,038 civilians, 5,292 personnel of security forces and 22,536 terrorists.” It said that J&K High Court is seized of over 350 habeas corpus petitions and pleas challenging the detention orders. “It is further submitted that the high court is fully functional and has in fact quashed 68 detention orders since August 2019 while confirming 11 detention orders passed by the appropriate authority,” it said, adding that the petitioner has failed to disclose the reason for not approaching the high court first. “It is submitted that entertaining one petition would open flood gates of petitions which in absence of any special ground to make a departure, needs to be avoided,” it said. Seeking dismissal of the plea for “bypassing the effective alternative remedy” available under the PSA, the district magistrate said, “The detenue has chosen not to file a representation before the advisory board”. Grounds of detention were supplied to Abdullah to enable him to make an effective representation as stipulated in law, it said, adding that the advisory board had on February 24 observed that there was sufficient cause for his detention. “It is submitted that the acts, which are easily available in public domain, on the part of the detenu squarely fell within the realm of public order, as it was calculated to disturb public peace and tranquility. It is needless to emphasise that the incitement of the public at large, pertains to public order,” it said. It said the detention order is “not vague or without any material facts” and such order based on subjective satisfaction of detaining authority cannot be a matter of judicial review. “The deponent states and submits that invocation of jurisdiction of this court to issue high prerogative writ in the present case is unjustified and unwarranted in as much as the detention of the detenu was neither illegal nor unlawful as alleged in the petition,” it said. Pilot has approached the apex court claiming that the detention order was “manifestly illegal” and there was no question of him being a “threat to the maintenance of public order”.


--- [Challenges in the Life of Omar Abdullah in a Detailed Timeline] ---
A closer look at the defining struggles that shaped Omar Abdullah's life and career. Omar Abdullah is an Indian politician prominent in Jammu and Kashmir. He served as the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir from 2009 to 2014 and is currently the vice president of the Jammu & Kashmir National Conference, a position he has held since 2009. He previously served as its president. He was also a Member of Parliament in the Lok Sabha from 1998 to 2009, representing Srinagar, and held the position of Union Minister of State for External Affairs. In 1989, the insurgency and violence caused by cross border terrorism started in Jammu and Kashmir. In September-October 2002, Omar Abdullah lost his Ganderbal seat in the Kashmir assembly elections. In 2009, Omar Abdullah was accused of covering up the rape and murder of two young women in Shopian. On August 6, 2019, the state of Jammu & Kashmir ceased to exist and became a union territory following the revocation of Article 370, which Omar Abdullah fiercely opposed. On the intervening night of August 4 and 5, 2019, Omar Abdullah was placed under preventive detention by the Indian Government under Section 107 of the CRPC following the decision to scrap Article 370. On February 10, 2020, senior advocate Kapil Sibal mentioned the matter of Omar Abdullah's detention for urgent listing before a bench of the Supreme Court. On February 14, 2020, the Supreme Court issued notice to the Jammu & Kashmir administration regarding Omar Abdullah's detention. On February 6, 2020, the government of India booked Omar Abdullah under the Public Safety Act (PSA). On February 14, 2020, the Supreme Court issued notice and set the next date of hearing as March 2, 2020. In 2020, Omar Abdullah was arrested and detained. In the 2024 Lok Sabha Election, Omar Abdullah was defeated by Engineer Sheikh Abdul Rashid, and won two assembly seats before retaining Ganderbal seat. India officially the Republic of India is a South Asian... Pakistan officially the Islamic Republic of Pakistan is a South... A supreme court or court of last resort is the... Istanbul is Turkey's largest city and its economic cultural and... An election is a structured decision-making process where a population... September is the ninth month of the year in the... 53 minutes ago South Korea's Kospi Plunges Amid Middle East Tensions, Triggering Regional Stock Selloff 54 minutes ago BTS Reunites in Gwanghwamun Square: A Comeback Concert for the Ages 54 minutes ago US & Ecuadorian Forces Combat Drug Trafficking; General Donovan Visits; Curfew Imposed. 54 minutes ago Brandon Ingram shines with well-rounded performance, playmaking improves for the Raptors. 54 minutes ago Texas 21st Congressional District: Runoff Likely in Race to Succeed Chip Roy 2 hours ago Giants to cut Bobby Okereke before free agency, impacting salary cap space. Hillary Diane Rodham Clinton is a prominent American politician lawyer... Jesse Jackson is an American civil rights activist politician and... Ken Paxton is an American politician and lawyer serving as... Jim Carrey is a Canadian-American actor and comedian celebrated for... Bill Clinton served as the nd U S President from... XXXTentacion born Jahseh Dwayne Ricardo Onfroy was a controversial yet...


--- [Omar Abdullah - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
