=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Nathaniel Brent - Wikipedia]
Sir Nathaniel Brent (c. 1573 – 6 November 1652) was an English college head. He was the son of Anchor Brent of Little Wolford, Warwickshire, where he was born about 1573. He became 'portionist,' or postmaster, of Merton College, Oxford, in 1589; proceeded B.A. on 20 June 1593; was admitted probationer fellow there in 1594, and took the degree of M.A. on 31 October 1598. He was proctor of the university in 1607, and admitted bachelor of law ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nathaniel_Brent

[Dictionary of National Biography, 1885-1900/Brent, Nathaniel - Wikisource, the free online library]
BRENT, Sir NATHANIEL (1573?-1652), warden of Merton College, Oxford, was the son of Anchor Brent of Little Wolford, Warwickshire, where he was born about 1573. His grandfather's name was Richard, and his great-grandfather was John Brent of Cosington, Somersetshire. He became 'portionist,' or postmaster, of Merton College, Oxford, in 1589; proceeded B.A. on 20 June 1593; was admitted ...
URL: https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Dictionary_of_National_Biography,_1885-1900/Brent,_Nathaniel

[Ath. Ox.: Nathaniel Brent]
I find one William Brent a writer, whose Great Grandfather William Brent of Stoke-lark in Glocestershire, was younger Brother to Richard Brent, Grandfather to Sir Nathaniel. Of which William Brent the Writer, I shall make some mention in Hen. Carey Earl of Monmouth, under the year 1661.
URL: https://words.fromoldbooks.org/Wood-AthenaeOxonienses/brent-nathaniel.html

[SWEET / I THOUGHT YOU WANTED TO DANCE (Audio) - YouTube]
Concert events listed are based on the artist featured in the video you are watching, channels you have subscribed to, your past activity while signed in to YouTube, including artists you search ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZKjIHQxG_3Q

[Full text of "The Brent Family (Continued)"]
Anthony A. Wood, the historian of Oxford University, states that Sir Nathaniel Brent was the son of Anchor [Ancar] Brent of Li'.tle Woolford in Warwickshire, a younger son of Richard Brent, gentleman, eldest son of John Brent of the house of Cossington in Somersetshire.
URL: https://archive.org/stream/jstor-4242785/4242785_djvu.txt


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Nathaniel Brent - Wikipedia] ---
No content


--- [Dictionary of National Biography, 1885-1900/Brent, Nathaniel - Wikisource, the free online library] ---
Dictionary of National Biography, 1885-1900/Brent, Nathaniel BRENT, Sir NATHANIEL (1573?–1652), warden of Merton College, Oxford, was the son of Anchor Brent of Little Wolford, Warwickshire, where he was born about 1573. His grandfather's name was Richard, and his great-grandfather was John Brent of Cosington, Somersetshire. He became 'portionist,' or postmaster, of Merton College, Oxford, in 1589; proceeded B.A. on 20 June 1593; was admitted probationer fellow there in 1594, and took the degree of M.A. on 31 Oct. 1598. He was proctor of the university in 1607, and admitted bachelor of law on 11 Oct. 1623. In 1613 and 1614 he travelled abroad 'into several parts of the learned world, and underwent dangerous adventures in Italy to procure the "History of the Council of Trent," which he translated into English' (Wood). In 1616 Carleton, ambassador at the Hague, writes to Winwood that he leaves Brent, 'one not unknown to your honour,' to conduct the business of the embassy during his temporary absence at Spa. On 31 Oct. of the same year Carleton writes again to Winwood that Brent is bringing home despatches, and hopes to secure an office in Ireland, for which Carleton recommends him highly. On 26 Nov. Winwood replied that the post in question, that of 'secretary of Ireland,' had been conferred on Sir Francis Annesley before Brent's arrival in England. Soon after the close of his foreign tour Brent married Martha, the daughter and heiress of Robert Abbot, bishop of Salisbury, and niece of George Abbot, archbishop of Canterbury. The influence of the Abbots secured Brent's election in 1622 to the wardenship of Merton College, in succession to Sir Henry Savile. He was afterwards appointed commissary of the diocese of Canterbury, and vicar-general to the archbishop, and on Sir Henry Marten's death became judge of the prerogative court. During the early years of Laud's primacy (1634–7), Brent made a tour through the length and breadth of England south of the Trent, reporting upon and correcting ecclesiastical abuses (Gardiner, Hist. 1884, viii. 108–17; cf. Hist. MSS. Comm. 4th Rep. 131–147). But Brent chiefly owed his fame to his connection with Merton College. Wood, who was largely indebted to Brent, refers to him as one who, 'minding wealth and the settling a family more than generous actions,' allowed the college to lose much of the reputation it had acquired under Sir Henry Savile (Wood, Athenæ, ed. Bliss, ii. 316). Complaints were frequently made of Brent's long sojourns in London, where he had a house of his own in Little Britain. On 23 Aug. 1629 he was knighted at Woodstock by the king, who was preparing to pay a state visit to Oxford. On 24 Aug. Brent entertained the French and Dutch ambassadors at Merton, and on 27 Aug. gave a dinner to the king and queen. In 1629–30 he was admitted to the freedom of the city of Canterbury honoris causa (Hist. MSS. Comm. 9th Rep. 1635). In August 1636 Brent presented Prince Charles and Prince Rupert for degrees, when Laud, who had become chancellor in 1630, was entertaining the royal family. In 1638 Laud held a visitation of Merton College, and insisted on many radical reforms. Laud stayed at the college for many weeks, and found Brent an obstinate opponent. Laud complains in his 'Diary' that 'the warden appeared very foul.' Some outrageous charges of maladministration were indeed brought against Brent by some of those whom Laud examined, but the visitor took no public proceedings against Brent on these grounds. His letters to the warden are, however, couched in very haughty and decisive language. Brent ultimately gained the victory over Laud. The tenth charge in the indictment drawn up against the archbishop in 1641 treats of the unlawful authority exercised by him at Merton in 1638. The warden came forward as a hostile witness at Laud's trial. His testimony as to Laud's intimacy with papists and the like was very damaging to the archbishop, but it does not add much to his own reputation. Laud replied to Brent's accusations in his 'History of the Troubles and Trial' (Anglo-Cath. Libr. iv. 194). On the outbreak of the civil wars Brent sided with the parliament. Before Charles I entered Oxford (29 Oct. 1642), the warden had abandoned Oxford for London. On 27 Jan. 1644–1645 Charles I wrote to the loyal fellows at Merton that Brent was deposed from his office on the grounds of his having absented himself for three years from the college, of having adhered to the rebels, and of having accepted the office of judge-marshal in their ranks. He had also signed the covenant. The petition for the formal removal of Brent, to which the king's letter was an answer, was drawn up by John Greaves, Savilian professor of geometry. On 9 April the great William Harvey was elected to fill Brent's place: but as soon as Oxford fell into the hands of Fairfax, the parliamentary general (24 June 1646), Brent returned to Merton, and apparently resumed his post there without any opposition being offered him. In 1647 Brent was appointed president of the famous parliamentary commission, or visitation, ordered by the parliament 'for the correction of offences, abuses, and disorders' in the university. The proceedings began on 3 June, but it was not until 30 Sept. that the colleges were directed to forward to Merton their statutes, registers, and accounts to enable Brent and his colleague to really set to work. On 12 April 1648 Brent presented four of the visitors for the degree of M.A. Early in May of the same year Brent showed more mercy than his colleagues approved by 'conniving' at Anthony à Wood's retention of his postmastership in spite of his avowed royalism. Wood tells us that he owed this favour to the intercession of his mother, whom Brent had known from a girl. On 17 May 1649 Fairfax and Cromwell paid the university a threatening visit, and malcontents were thenceforth proceeded against by the commission with the utmost rigour. But Brent grew dissatisfied with its proceedings. The visitors claimed to rule Merton College as they pleased, and, without consulting the warden, they admitted fellows, masters, and bachelors of arts. On 13 Feb. 1650–1 he sent a petition of protest against the conduct of the visitors to parliament. The commissioners were ordered to answer Brent's complaint, but there is no evidence that they did so, and in October 1651 Brent retired from the commission. On 27 Nov. following he resigned his office of warden, nominally in obedience to an order forbidding pluralities, but his refusal to sign 'the engagement,' which would have bound him to support a commonwealth without a king or a house of lords, was probably the more direct cause of his resignation. Brent afterwards withdrew to his house in Little Britain, London, and died there on 6 Nov. 1652. He was buried in the church of St, Bartholomew the Less on 17 Nov. Wood states that he had seen an epitaph in print on Brent by one 'John Sictar, a Bohemian exile, whom Brent had provisioned' in his lifetime. Brent's daughter Margaret married Edward Corbet of Merton College, a presbyterian, on whom Laud repeatedly refused to confer the living of Chartham. Brent's literary work was small. In 1620 he translated into English the 'History of the Council of Trent' by Pietro Soane Polano (i.e. Pietro Sarpi). A second edition appeared in 1629, and another in 1676, Archbishop Abbot had caused the Latin original to be published for the first time in 1619 in London. In 1625, 'at the importunity of George [Abbot], archbishop of Canterbury,' Brent edited and republished the elaborate defence of the church of England 'Vindiciæ Ecclesiæ Anglicanæ,' first published in 1613 by Francis Mason, archdeacon of Norfolk (Strype, Parker, i. 117). He did 'review it,' says Wood (Athenae Oxon., Bliss, ii. 307), 'examine the quotations, compare them with the originals, and at length printed the copy as he found it under the author's hands.' [Brodrick's Memorials of Merton College. Oxford : Wood's Athenae Oxon. (Bliss), iii. 332-6, and passim; Wood's Fasti (Bliss). i. iii.; Laud's Works; Cal. State Papers (Dom.), 1615-50; Barrow's Parliamentary Visitation of Oxford (Camden Soc.)] Dictionary of National Biography, Errata (1904), p.36 N.B.— f.e. stands for from end and l.l. for last line | Page | Col. | Line | | | 263 | i | 15 | Brent, Sir Nathaniel: for 1639 read 1630 | | ii | 5 f.e. | for Latin read Italian |


--- [Ath. Ox.: Nathaniel Brent] ---
Athenæ Oxonienses. The History of Oxford Writers. Vol. 2, p. 92 Nathaniel Brent Son of Anchor Brent of Little Wolford in Warwickshire, a younger Son of Rich. Brent Gentleman, eldest Son of John Brent of the House of Brent of Cosington in Sommersetshire, was born at Little Wolford beforemention’d, became Portionist, commonly called Postmaster, of Merton Coll, in 1589, admitted Probationer-Fellow of the said Coll. in 94. being then Bach. of Arts, proceeded in that faculty four years after, entred himself on the Law Line, became Proctor of the University in 1607, travelled into several parts of the learned World in 1613. 14. &c. and underwent dangerous adventures in Italy to procure the History of the Council of Trent, which he translated into English, as I shall anon tell you; and therefore to be remembred by posterity with an honorable mention. After his return he married Martha Dau. and Heir of Dr. Rob. Abbot Bish. of Salisbury, and neice to Dr. Abbot Archb. of Canterbury; by the favour of which last, he had the Wardenship of Merton Coll. conferr’d on him, was made Commissary to him, Vicar general of England, being then Doctor of the Civ. Law, and at length judge of the Prerogative on the death of Sir Henry Marten by another hand. In 1629, Aug. 23, he received the honour of Knighthood from his Majesty at Woodstock, he being then and after accounted a zealous man for the Church and Prelacy. But when he saw the Presbyterians begin to be dominant, he sided with them, and because of a Pique that had been between the Abbots and Bishop Laud, he therefore became a frequent witness against the last at his trial, deserted Oxon and his College, when K. Ch. 1. garrisoned that place for his use, took the Covenant, and ran altogether with the rebellious rout. About the same time he was ejected his Wardenship of Mert. Coll. by his Majesties command, but restored again when Oxford Garison was surrendred for the Parliaments use, an. 1646. In the years 1647. and 48. he was appointed Arch-visitor of this University, and what he did there to promote the Presbyterian cause, the Hist. and Antiq. of the Univ. of Oxon. will tell you under those years. When an order was made against pluralities, he was forced to leave Mert. Coll. in 1650, at which time, if I mistake not, he refused also the oath called the Engagement. He translated into English, as I have intimated before, The History of the Council of Trent, containing eight books. In which (besides the ordinary Acts of Council) are declared many notable occurrences, which hapned in Christendom, during the space of 40 years and more, &c. Lond. 1616. there again 1619. 1677. fol. Sir Nath. Brent did also review Vindiciae Ecclesiae Anglicanae, examine the quotations, and compare them with the originals, as I have told you before, in Fr. Mason, under the year 1621: And what else he hath translated and written, is yet (if any) in Ms. At length after he had lived 79 years, he gave way to fate in his house in Little Britaine in the City of London, on the sixth day of November in sixteen hundred fifty and two.1652. Whereupon his body was buried with great solemnity on the 17. of the same month in the Church of Little S. Barthelmew within the said City. I have seen a printed Epitaph made on him by John Sictor a Bohemian Exile, who, if I mistake not, had for some time before been exhibited to by Brent: The contents of which being large, I shall now for brevity sake pass by. I find one William Brent a writer, whose Great Grandfather William Brent of Stoke-lark in Glocestershire, was younger Brother to Richard Brent, Grandfather to Sir Nathaniel. Of which William Brent the Writer, I shall make some mention in Hen. Carey Earl of Monmouth, under the year 1661.


--- [SWEET / I THOUGHT YOU WANTED TO DANCE (Audio) - YouTube] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Full text of "The Brent Family (Continued)"] ---
Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in the world by JSTOR. Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial purposes. Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- journal-content . JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org. fa o e o W o <1 8 I o Oh GENEALOGY. 95 Genealogy. THE BRENT FAMILY. Complied by W. B. Chilton, Washington, D. C. (Continued.) Stoke and Admington. It is stated in the Brent genealogy and borne out by the memorial tablet in Illmington Church,* and by other evidence, that Robert Brent, son of Robert Brent of Cossington by Margaret, came to Stoke near Camden in Gloucestershire about the year 1487 and lived concealed under the name of John Buston. The reason for concealment can be only conjectured but was probably political. The battle of Bos worth field had been fought only two years before, and England for a long time had been rent by internal dissentions. However, there were various reason for changing names then as at the present time. Fuller in his "Worthies" mentions some of them as follows : Fuller's Worthies, Vol. I, p. 70. Altering Surnames— Reasons for— i. Concealment in time of civil wars. 2. For Advancement, when adopted into an estate. Whatever the reason in this case for concealment, there was evidently •That the Brents of Gloucestershire and Warwickshire were descended from the Somersetshire family is clearly indicated in several ways, but the Woodstock genealogy is the authority for the statement that the ancestor who came from Somerset in 1487 or thereabouts was named Robert, that he was the son of Robert and Margaret, and the brother of John Brent who married Maud Poncefoot. The will of this John Brent does n^t mention a brother Robert nor does his fathers will mention a son Robert. Collinson does not refer to this son Robert, but he does not give all of the descendants, as may be seen in the case of the will of John Brent, above mentioned. A note \o the Oxfordshire pedigree indicates the connection between Sir Nathaniel Brent and the Cossington family, which is corroborated by his published biography, and his father, Ancar Brent is shown by the wills of William Brent and his brother Nicholas to have been their cousin, though in what degree it does not appear. The dates of their deaths are not in- consistent with the account given in the Woodstock genealogy. There are some dis- crepancies, however, which indicate that the Woodstock genealogy is an independent account, perhaps derived from more ancient sources, and that its author was not ac- quainted with the Illmington inscription. Anthony A. Wood, the historian of Oxford University, states that Sir Nathaniel Brent was the son of Anchor [Ancar] Brent of Li'.tle Woolford in Warwickshire, a younger son of Richard Brent, gentleman, eldest son of John Brent of the house of Cossington in Somersetshire. He also mentions a William Brent, whose great grandfather, William Brent, of Stoke Lark, in Gloucestershire, was younger brother to Richard Brent, grandfather to Sir Nathaniel Brent. The William Brent first mentioned above was evidently the son of Richard Brent and Elizabeth Reed. 96 VIRGINIA HISTORICAL MAGAZINE. no stigma at taching to the act, as the name of Brent was soon .resumed and the family acquired large estates of which they remained in un- disturbed possession for many generations. The place of burial of this family was in the church at Illmington in Warwickshire, where a memorial tablet in brass gives an account of their marriages and deaths, of which the following is a transcript : The Brents of Stoke have had a place of burial here since the coming of their ancestor out of Somersetshire about the year 1487 by the con- cealed name of John Buston, who married Margery, daughter of George Colchester, then of Stoke and Admington, Esq., about the year 1498 and died 1531. Their son William Brent Lord of Stoke and Admington dyed 1595 with Elizabeth his wife here buried. Their son Richard Brent married Mary daughter of John Huggeford and Katherine Hennage his wife, 1572, and died 1587. Here buried. Their son Richard Brent maried Elizabeth daughter of Giles Reed Esquire & Katherine Grevill his wife Anno 1594 and dyed 1652. He was here buried but his wife at Bredon with her father. Their son Richard Brent married Margaret daughter of Sir John Peshall Baronet and Anne Sheldon his wife Ano J622. Four of whose children (viz) Frances, Mary, Elizabeth, and Giles lye here buried Anno 1657. The sd. Margaret Brent died June 20th, 1666. Here buried. Cui familiae propicetur Deus. Tempus edax rerum periunt et nomina Saxa. Omnia More poscit Lex est, non paena, perire.* Silentio et diligentia. Silentio et diligentia. The Brent memorial brass in the North Transept of the church of St. Mary, Illmington, Warwks. contains the inscription copied above. The two figures of Griffins in shield with motto indicated above are placed over the brass. (Sd) N. J. Warner, Rector of Illmington. July 2, 1903. Illmington is eight miles from Stratford, and lies on the hillside over- looking the vale of the Red Horse. The church consists of a nave, western tower, north and south tran- septs, and a chancel with a small vestry on the north side. A con- siderable portion of the church appears to be of the Norman period, in- cluding part of the tower, the south doorway, some of the north wall of the nave, and the chancel arch. Most of the windows of the chancel, ♦To what family is God propitious. Time is the devourer of all things. Both the names and the monuments will perish. Death includes all. It is the law, not a punish- ment to die. These lines, except the first sentence, are quoted from Seneca. 3 p I g 5 O H o o W » o "t'w ,,;.v:-':\. Mrf 1 F V«J^E^^I - !■!»*■ HI H BL ^V;W GENEALOGY. 97 and also a priest's doorway on the south side are of early English date. The church was considerably restored about 1840. Upon the walls and floor may be noticed monuments to the Brents, Cannings, Overburys and Palmers. Richard Palmer married the daughter of that family of Borton, one of whom was the famous Sir Thomas who fell a victim to the malice of the Countess of Essex in the time of James L* Lark Stoke in Gloucestershire is four miles north-east of Chipping Campden. Admington is six miles north-east of the same place and two miles from Lark Stoke. This region at the junction of Warwickshire, Gloucestershire and Worcestershire is of peculiar interest in many ways. It is the Shake- speare neighborhood; Stratford is not far away. Warwick Castle, Char- lecote, the home of the Lucy's, and the forest of Arden are within easy distance, and many of the local and family names are connected either directly or indirectly with the memory of the poet. Many of the old Catholic families were located here, and in some of the villages the old faith was never entirely extinguished, despite the most stringent penal laws and political and other disabilities imposed upon recusants, and not removed until the beginning of the last century. Admington and Lark Stoke are described by Samuel Rudder in his "New History of Gloucestershire" ( 1779). Under the head of Queinton he gives the following account : Robert Marmion who in the time of Henry III held one of the manors of Queinton *took away the abbey of Polesworth from the nuns of that place and drove them to Oldbury. But when Marmion was in bed at Tarn worth," says the legendary story about that matter, "Saint Edyth to whom the abbey was dedicated, appeared to him with her crozier and told him that unless he restored the abbey to the nuns, he should have an evil death and go to hell; and then striking him on the side with the crozier, vanished. Upon which under great anxiety, he con- fessed to a priest, restored the abbey immediately and was well." * * Queinton. Hamlets. — There are six hamlets in this parish. 3. Adminton, or Adderminton, or more antientlv Edelminton. Among the lands belonging to the abbey of Winchcomb, in Domesday Book, are the following particulars: "The same church (Winchcomb) holds Edelmintone in Celflede hun- dred. There are three hides and a half. In demean are two plow- tillages and thirteen villeins with six plow tillages. There are four servi and two ancilae. It was worth 4/" now $£. Domesday Book, p. 71. The abbey purchased a charter of free warren in Adelminston 35 Henry III, which privilege was allowed in a writ of quo warranto 15 ♦Shakespeare's Homeland, by W. 8alt Brassington, F. 8. A., 1903. 98 VIRGINIA HISTORICAL MAGAZINE. Edward I. The abbot of Winchcombe assigned this manor to the abbey of St. Ebroulf in Normandy, 12 Edward II, but it reverted to the monks of Wichcombe, who were the proprietors of this manor till their house was dissolved. Tithes in Adelminton, which belonged to that abbey, were granted to Sir Thomas Seimour, 1 Edward VI. The manor and chapel of Adminton, and lands called Wind-Cerney, &c, formerly belonging to the abbey of Winchcombe, were granted to William Brent, alias Burston, 7 Edward VI (1554). Earl Brooke is the present Lord of this manor and has a large house here. John Witchurch granted ten librats of land in Adelminton to the abbey of Evesham 6 Edward II. Lark Stoke. This place is a hamlet in the parish of Ilmington, or Illmington, in Warwickshire, but the hamlet itself is in Gloucestershire. It is men- tioned as a distinct manor in the ancient survey, of which the following is a translation: "The same church (St. Mary of Evesham) holds Stoch in Widelei hundred. There are two hides and one plow-tillage in demean, and seven villeins and two bordars with two plow tillages. There is one servus. It is and was worth 40s.' ' Domesday Book, p. 72. The manor anciently belonged to the family of Bishopstones. John de Bishopsdon died seized of Lark Stoke with free warren therein, 13 Edward II (1307). Sir William Bishopston levied a fine of this manor to the use of divers persons for life the remainder to himself and the heirs of his body by Philippa his wife, 11 Henry 7th (1494). John de Vail was seized of Lands in Lark Stoke and Queinton 36, Edward III (1363). This estate was afterwards in possession of the Brents who were seized of it when Sir Robert Atkyns compiled his account of Gloucestershire, in which he has fallen into several mistakes concerning it and has placed the abstract from Domesday Book under Stoke Archer in the parish of Cleeve. Larke Stoke has been lately purchased by John Hart, Esq., who is the present Lord of the manor and proprietor of a fine estate there. The manor house of the Brents at Lark Stoke is still in existence. It is a large stone house of massive construction and is said to date from the time of James I or perhaps a little later. Upon an archway near the house may still be seen carved in stone the crest of the Brents, the wy vern. It is owned by Canning Howard, Esq., of Corby Castle, Carlisle and of Foxcote House, Shipston on Stour. It is used as a farm house and occupied by a family by the name of Wilson. The house at Admington is probably a more modern structure. Sir Thomas Atkyns, writing in 17 12 says of Lark Stoke: 'This GENEALOGY. 99 manor is now in the family of the Brents who are the present possessors thereof and have an ancient seat in this place." Sir William Dugdale in his "History of Warwickshire" states: " About a quarter of a mile North West from the town (Illmington) there is a strong chalybeate spring * * The ground about it was generously given to the public forever by Sir Henry afterwards Lord Gapell, then Lord of the Manor, and by Robert Brent of Larkstoke Esqr., who were the owners thereof." The Brents of Stoke and Admington. Issue of Robert and Margery (Colchester) Brent; i. William, married Elizabeth and died 1595, will dated 23 June, 1591, proved 10 November 1597, buried at Illmington 5 April, 1595, leaves legacy to church at Quinton; 2. Nicholas, of Stow on the Wold, Gloucestershire, will dated 22 October, 1582, proved 11 February, 1583, in brother William's will, mentions kinsman Ancar Brent, married Elizabeth ; 3. Thomas, mentioned in brother William's will; 4. a daughter, married Croftes; 5. a daughter, married Chettle; 6. a daughter, married Hyett; 7. Helen. Issue of William and Elizabeth Brent: 1. Richard, in father's will, married (1572) Mary Huggeford and died before 1591; 2. Elizabeth, married John Hawthen, mentioned in father's will. Issue of Thomas and Brent, 1. John, mentioned in uncle Wil- liam's will; 2. Elizabeth, mentioned in uncle William's will, had a daughter Joan ; 3. Agnes Brent, mentioned in uncle's will; 4. William, baptized July ^8, 1586, married Margaret Randall Feb. 3, 1622. Issue of Nicholas and Elizabeth Brent: 1, William Brent, eldest son, undeir age in 1582, mentioned in father's and uncle William's will; 2. William Brent, second son, mentioned in father's and uncle's will; 3. William Brent, third son, mentioned as in the foregoing; 4. Elizabeth Brent. Issue of Richard and Mary (Huggeford) Brent: 1. Richard Brent, mentioned, as executor, in his mother's will, also in grandfather's will. Administration granted 21st May, 1652, to son George Brent and further administration in 1677 to nephew Robert Brent, married Elizabeth, daughter of Richard (Giles ?) Reed, buried at Illmington 1 May, 1652; 2. Margaret Br.ent, married John Fowke, mentioned in mother's will; 3. Catherine^. Eleanor; 5. a daughter married Colborne; 6. a daughter married Chadwell; 7. Anne born Feb. 10, 1612; 8. a son who married and left a son named Robert who administered his uncle Richard's estate in 1677; 9. a daughter married Hopper. Mary Brent who married Richard Catesby Aug. 8, 1598, may have been a daughter of Richard and Mary Brent. Richard Brent was Sheriff of Gloucestershire, 1614, and was a sub- scriber to the building of a bridge at Stratford upon Avon in 1618. Issue of Richard and Elizabeth (Reed) Brent; 1. Fulke emigrated to 100 VIRGINIA HISTORICAL MAGAZINE. Maryland 1638, married Cecelia — and died without issue in 1656; 2. Richard baptized Nov. 7, 1656, married Margaret, daughter of Sir John Peshall, mentioned in grandmother's will—- will dated 22 July, 1676. Codicil 27 Oct., 1678, will proved 10 May, 1679, his wife Margaret buried at Illmington 22 June, 1666; 3. Giles emigrated to Maryland 1638, married Mary , died in Virginia 167 1; 4. William, married Barbara and died without issue, his wife buried at Illmington, July 10, 1686. Concerning this gentleman, Anthony a Wood says : 11 Henry Carey began a translation of the history of France written by the Count Gualdo Priorato, but died after he had made some progress therein. Afterwards it was finished by Wtn. Brent, Esq'r, and printed at London, 1677 (being the same person that had before wrote (sic), a book entitled, "A discourse upon the nature of eternity and the condition of a separated soul according to the grounds of reason and principles of Christian Religion" London, 1655, written while he was a prisoner in the Gatehouse at Westminister. It was afterwards printed there again in 1674.) By the way it must be known that though we have had several Brents who have been students of the University (Oxford), yet this Will. Brent was not, but educated when a youth in Coll. of English Jesuits at St. Omers. Afterwards being entered into the Society of Grey's Inn, he became a barrister and a solicitor or such like officer under Thomas Earl of Strafford, when he was Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. He was born at Stoke Lark in Gloucestershire, in the Parish of Illmington in Warwickshire, and having suffered much for his religion by imprison- ment, payments of money, and I know not what, lived privately several years at Foxcote in Warwickshire, and in his last days in London. He died near Little Turnstile, in Holborn in the Parish of St. Giles, in the Fields near London, 21 May, 1691, aged 80 years or more." 5. Edward, unmarried; 6. George, administrator to his father 1652, mentioned in grandmother's will and in conveyance 1663 as "of Defford," married Marianna, daughter of Sir John Peyton of Doddington, and twice married afterwards; 7. Margaret born 1601, emigrated to Maryland 1638, was alive in 1661, mentioned in grandmother's will; 8. Mary emigrated to Maryland 1638, died about 1657; 9. Catherine, baptized Aug. 25, 1630, died Nov. 1, 1640; 10. Elizabeth; 11. Eleanor; 12. Jane; 13. Ann, baptized Aug. 7, 1637, at Illmington. Issue of Richard and Margaret (Peshall) Brent; 1. Robert, married Catherine , executor to his father, will dated 19 November, 1693, will proved 24 October, 1695. The following curious grant is men- tioned in Hotten's "Our Emigrant Ancestors " : 28 February, Grant to Robert Brent of all wrecks, &c, in or upon any of the Rocks, Shelves, seas or banks, on or near the coast of America between the Bermudas and Porto Rico or between Cartagena and the Havanna; 4. Jas. II, (1689). 2. Frances, died Dec. 20, 1656; 3. Mary, died April 3, 1657; 5. GENEALOGY. 101 Katherine, born May 7, 1639; 6. Elizabeth, died July 14, 1656; 7. Giles, died before 1666; 8. Margaret, married Thomas Bartlett of Evesham and had Richard and other children. Issue of Robert and Catherine ( ) Brent, 1; 2. Margaret and Mary, twins, born April 6, 1663, baptized May 4, 1663; 3. Anne married Sir John Littcott*; 4. Frances; 5. Elizabeth, baptized 20th October, 1665, married Conquest and died before 1743; 6. Falcatius, died without issue before 1743, baptized at Illmington 30 July, 1667, men- tioned in father's will, last in possession of Stoke. Issue of Georgef and Marianna (Peyton) Brent; 1. George emigrated to Virginia about 1650, died about 1700, married first Elizabeth, daughter of William Green of Bermuda, and niece of Sir William Layton, married second Mary, widow of Colonel William Chandler; 2. John, died young; 3. Henry, married daughter of Henry Calvert, emigrated to Maryland and died there; 4. William, unmarried; 5. Edward died young at the College of Douay in Flanders; 6. Robert emigrated to Virginia, buried at Aquia, married Anne Baugh; 7. Anne, married James Clifton; 8 Elizabeth unmarried; 9. Dorothy married ; 10. Mary, married Giles Brent, her cousin; n. Margaret, unmarried, 12. Ursula, married Charles Umpraville. (to be continued.) THE MALLORY FAMILY. (continued.) Note. — By accident the pages of the last instalment of this genealogy were transposed. The correct order in which they should be read is 441, 443 (which should be 442), 442 (which should be 443) 444, and 445. Thomas 11 Mallory, 6th son of Sir John Mallory, of Studley (see this Magazine XIII, 442), was born about 1566. He was B. D. of Cambridge, and was instituted June 27, 1599, to the important living of Ronaldskirk in the North Riding of Yorkshire. He also held the livings of Mobberley and Davenham in Cheshire; was instituted Archdeacon of Richmond, ♦Concerning him the following is quoted from the Harleian Society Publications : John Litcott— A Soldier of fortune in Scotland in the time of King Charles I. Sir John Litcott, knighted- by in France. 1701. No child living. Anne, daughter of Robert Bridget Brent the famous Prose- unmarried, cutor of King James II, time. James, died young. tGeorge Brent was twice married afterwards, had children by both marriages and left a son Richard who went to France.
