=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jerlov Award | Ocean Optics Conference]
The Oceanography Society is pleased to announce that Dr. Annick Bricaud has been selected as the 2018 recipient of The Nils Gunnar Jerlov Award recognizing her contributions to the advancement of our knowledge of the nature and consequences of light in the ocean.
URL: https://2018.oceanopticsconference.org/jerlov-award/

[Dr. Annick Bricaud selected as 2018 recipient of the Jerlov Award]
Sep 13, 2018 · Bricaud will receive the award on October 11, 2018, during a ceremony at the Ocean Optics XXIV Conference in Dubrovnik, Croatia.
URL: https://www.eurekalert.org/news-releases/490504

[2018 Jerlov Award Recognizes Optical Oceanographer]
Annick Bricaud has been selected by the Oceanography Society as the 2018 recipient of the Jerlov Award.
URL: https://www.photonics.com/Articles/2018-Jerlov-Award-Recognizes-Optical-Oceanographer/a64036

[Jerlov Medal | The Oceanography Society]
The Dr. Nils Gunnar Jerlov Medal is awarded biennially to an individual for advancing our knowledge of how light interacts with the ocean.
URL: https://tos.org/jerlov-medal

[AWARDS BANQUET - Ocean Optics Conference]
The Oceanography Society is pleased to announce that Dr. Annick Bricaud has been selected as the 2018 recipient of The Nils Gunnar Jerlov Award recognizing her contributions to the advancement of our knowledge of the nature and consequences of light in the ocean.
URL: https://2018.oceanopticsconference.org/awards-banquet/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jerlov Award | Ocean Optics Conference] ---
THE JERLOV AWARD 2018 Jerlov Award: Dr. Annick Bricaud The Oceanography Society is pleased to announce that Dr. Annick Bricaud has been selected as the 2018 recipient of The Nils Gunnar Jerlov Award recognizing her contributions to the advancement of our knowledge of the nature and consequences of light in the ocean. Dr. Bricaud is recognized internationally for her groundbreaking contributions to ocean optics, which cover experimental and theoretical studies on seawater optical properties, fieldwork-based bio-optical relationships, and algorithms for deriving biogeochemical products from satellite ocean color.She is a senior research scientist at the Laboratoire d’Océanographie de Villefranche (LOV), CNRS – Sorbonne Université, Villefranche-sur-Mer, France, which she joined in 1976. Her 75 papers received the outstanding number of 11,400 citations, and many opened new avenues of research. Annick mentored numerous students, in France and worldwide, and has a long record of contribution to community service. She is among the first female researchers in optical oceanography. About the Award Nils Gunnar Jerlov was an early leader in the area of ocean optics research. His name is recognized widely within the entire international oceanographic research community. Jerlov’s theoretical and experimental work on ocean optical and related processes helped form the foundation of modern ocean optical research. He proposed the concept of an optical ocean water mass classification and the Jerlov water types are familiar to many outside of the ocean optics community. His book, Marine Optics, published in 1976, remains widely referenced and is considered required reading for all students of ocean optics and ocean color remote sensing. The Oceanography Society (TOS) commemorates Dr. Jerlov and his many contributions to the study of light in the ocean with an international award, established in his name. For more information visit: https://tos.org/jerlov-award. PREVIOUS RECIPIENTS 2016 – Dr. Curtis Mobley 2014 – George W. Kattawar 2012 – Kendall L. Carder 2010 – Charles S. Yentsch 2008 – Talbot Waterman 2006 – J. Ronald V. Zaneveld 2004 – Howard R. Gordon 2002 – Raymond C. Smith 2000 – André Morel


--- [Dr. Annick Bricaud selected as 2018 recipient of the Jerlov Award] ---
The Oceanography Society (TOS) congratulates Dr. Annick Bricaud on being selected as the 2018 recipient of the Jerlov Award. The citation for Dr. Bricaud recognizes her groundbreaking contributions to ocean optics, which cover experimental and theoretical studies on seawater optical properties, fieldwork-based bio-optical relationships, and algorithms for deriving biogeochemical products from satellite ocean color. She is a senior research scientist at the Laboratoire d'Océanographie de Villefranche (LOV), CNRS - Sorbonne Université, Villefranche-sur-Mer, France, which she joined in 1976. Her 75 papers received the outstanding number of 11,400 citations, and many opened new avenues of research. Annick mentored numerous students, in France and worldwide, and has a long record of contribution to community service. She is among the first female researchers in optical oceanography. Dr. Bricaud will receive the award on October 11, 2018, during a ceremony at the Ocean Optics XXIV Conference in Dubrovnik, Croatia. The nominating letter for Dr. Bricaud states, "Annick's early career work then provided, and still provides today, a powerful framework for interpreting the natural variability encountered in field observations and for modeling ocean color for satellite applications. Annick's coupled theoretical-experimental studies published in 1981 continue to be among the most cited in optical oceanography. Measuring optical properties, in particular backscattering, was not an easy task at a time where no user-friendly, commercially available, instrumentation existed. Hence Annick had to design and build, for her PhD research, her own light back-scatterometer equipped with an integrating sphere, which she could do thanks to her strong engineering background in theoretical and empirical physical optics. She was the ideal person, at the right place, and at a critical time." ### Nils Gunnar Jerlov was an early leader in the area of ocean optics research. His name is recognized widely within the entire international oceanographic research community. Jerlov's theoretical and experimental work on ocean optical and related processes helped form the foundation of modern ocean optical research. He proposed the concept of an optical ocean water mass classification and the Jerlov water types are familiar to many outside of the ocean optics community. His book, Marine Optics, published in 1976, remains widely referenced and is considered required reading for all students of ocean optics and ocean color remote sensing. The Oceanography Society (TOS) commemorates Dr. Jerlov and his many contributions to the study of light in the ocean with an international award, established in his name, to recognize outstanding achievements in ocean optics and ocean color remote sensing research. The Oceanography Society (TOS) was founded in 1988 to advance oceanographic research, technology, and education, and to disseminate knowledge of oceanography and its application through research and education. TOS promotes the broad understanding of oceanography, facilitates consensus building across all the disciplines of the field, and informs the public about ocean research, innovative technology, and educational opportunities throughout the spectrum of oceanographic inquiry. TOS welcomes members from all nations. Any individual, business, or organization interested in ocean sciences is encouraged to join and to participate in the activities and benefits of the society.


--- [2018 Jerlov Award Recognizes Optical Oceanographer] ---
No content


--- [Jerlov Medal | The Oceanography Society] ---
Nils Gunnar Jerlov Medal ABOUT The Dr. Nils Gunnar Jerlov Medal is awarded biennially to an individual for advancing our knowledge of how light interacts with the ocean. Additionally, the Jerlov Medal also seeks to recognize individuals who have made significant contributions toward educating and mentoring students and early career ocean professionals or who have conducted significant interdisciplinary research in ocean science and/or collaborative work towards meaningful societal impact. 2026 MEDAL Dr. Zhongping Lee For his breakthrough in water transparency theory and outstanding contributions to the advancement of ocean color remote sensing CRITERIA Outstanding contributions to the understanding of and/or the advancement or application of the interaction of light with the ocean and/or the consequences of such interactions. These contributions may be demonstrated by: - Educating and mentoring students and early career ocean professionals - Interdisciplinary research in ocean science - Collaborative work towards meaningful societal impact ELIGIBILITY NOMINEES - Active membership in The Oceanography Society is not required at the time of nomination. - TOS officers and members of the Council are not eligible for selection during their terms of service. - Nomination is for an individual from any country. Nominations are sought for individuals who have not received similar awards in the past two years (from TOS or other societies). - If selected, nominees must certify their compliance with all TOS policies, specifically the Professional Integrity, Ethics, and Conduct and Guidelines on Implementation. NOMINATORS - Anyone can serve as a nominator for another individual. Potential candidates should feel encouraged to ask a potential nominator to advance a nomination. We also encourage self-nominations. Self-nominations should also include a nomination letter. - Nominators are not required to be TOS members. - One co-nominator is allowed. - Nominators must certify their compliance with all TOS policies, specifically the Professional Integrity, Ethics, and Conduct and Guidelines on Implementation and acknowledge the TOS Values Statement on Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion. SUPPORTERS - Supporters are not required to be TOS members. SUBMISSION AND DEADLINE INFORMATION - Nominations must be submitted using the Online Nomination System which will open in late winter 2027. - The nominations deadline will be March 31, 2027. - Nominations must include the elements described in the Nomination Package section below. NOMINATION PACKAGE Nominations are must include the following elements: 1. CITATION - Please suggest text that may be edited to appear in news releases and on a certificate presented to the recipient. The text of this citation should be 200 characters or less. 2. PROFESSIONAL HISTORY - Nominee’s curriculum vita or resume (five pages maximum) must be up to date and include the nominee’s name, mailing and email addresses. - A description of the nominee's outstanding contributions (two pages maximum). If in the form of a bibliography, include key publications or products and indicate when students or postdocs appear as first author. If in narrative form, please provide descriptions and include any links that may be available to reference material (website, projects, initiatives, etc.). 3. NOMINATION LETTER - The nomination letter can be a maximum of two pages and must include the name, title, affiliation, and contact information for the nominator or co-nominators. - The letter should succinctly describe why the nominee is suited to receive the award, highlight their accomplishments, and elaborate on any information that is not specifically addressed in the nomination materials. 4. SUPPORTING LETTERS - At least two but not more than three individuals may provide support for the nomination. These individuals are in addition to the nominator or co-nominators. Supporting letters are capped at two pages in length (800 words maximum, 12-point font) and must include the supporter's name, title, and contact information, relationship to the nominee, and clear justification for the qualifications of the nominee. ABOUT NILS GUNNAR JERLOV Professor Nils Gunnar Jerlov (1910–1990) graduated in 1939 with a Ph.D. in physics from the University of Lund. He was very active in many fields of scientific research including nuclear physics, environmental pollution, and the ocean heat budget. However, he is best known for his many contributions to ocean optics; the study of how light interacts with ocean water. His work ranged from fundamental theory and predictive models to sensor development to field and laboratory observations. In 1947–48 Dr. Jerlov participated in the Albatross Expedition, a worldwide Swedish oceanographic expedition to study ocean sediments. His observations during this expedition combined with data he collected around the world during many other campaigns, often in collaboration with leading oceanographers of his time, laid the foundations for his optical classification of ocean water; the well-known “Jerlov water types”. He summarized his own work and those of many others in his 1968 book “Optical Oceanography”, which he revised in 1976 and published under the title “Marine Optics”. In 1963 Dr. Jerlov was appointed professor in physical oceanography at the University of Copenhagen, a position he held until 1978 when he retired. While there, he established one of the leading international centers of excellence in optical oceanography. He was a member of numerous international associations such as the International Association for Physical Oceanography, the Scientific Committee on Oceanic Research, the Nordic Committee on Physical Oceanography, and the Danish National Board for Oceanography. Dr. Jerlov was a man of peace and had no understanding of disputes between colleagues regarding the publication of scientific findings. He was a leading figure in science promoting the establishment of national and international oceanographic cooperation. MEET THE RECIPIENTS | 2026 MEDAL – ZHONGPING For his breakthrough in water transparency theory and outstanding contributions to the advancement of ocean color remote sensing > Read More | | PREVIOUS RECIPIENTS | QUESTIONS? If you have any questions about the the Jerlov Medal, please contact Jenny Ramarui, TOS Executive Director. Background photo credit: J. Schmaltz, MODIS Rapid Response Team, NASA GSFC © 2026 The Oceanography Society 1 Research Court, Suite 450-117, Rockville, MD, 20850, USA | Phone: (1) 301-251-7708 | [email protected] | Privacy Policy


--- [AWARDS BANQUET - Ocean Optics Conference] ---
AWARDS BANQUET Thursday, October 11 19:00–Late Elafiti Conference Hall The highlight of the conference week is the banquet on Thursday night where attendees gather to honor ocean optics community award recipients. After dinner is served, a performance by a local Croatian group will take place, followed by presentations of the Jerlov Award and Best Student Paper Award. The evening will conclude with dancing with live music provided by Teatar, a local Dubrovnik rock/pop/dance band. The Jerlov Award The Oceanography Society is pleased to announce that Dr. Annick Bricaud has been selected as the 2018 recipient of The Nils Gunnar Jerlov Award recognizing her contributions to the advancement of our knowledge of the nature and consequences of light in the ocean. Dr. Bricaud is recognized internationally for her groundbreaking contributions to ocean optics, which cover experimental and theoretical studies on seawater optical properties, fieldwork-based bio-optical relationships, and algorithms for deriving biogeochemical products from satellite ocean color. She is a senior research scientist at the Laboratoire d’Océanographie de Villefranche (LOV), CNRS – Sorbonne Université, Villefranche-sur-Mer, France, which she joined in 1976. Her 75 papers received the outstanding number of 11,400 citations, and many opened new avenues of research. Annick mentored numerous students, in France and worldwide, and has a long record of contribution to community service. She is among the first female researchers in optical oceanography. About the Award. Nils Gunnar Jerlov was an early leader in the area of ocean optics research. His name is recognized widely within the entire international oceanographic research community. Jerlov’s theoretical and experimental work on ocean optical and related processes helped form the foundation of modern ocean optical research. He proposed the concept of an optical ocean water mass classification and the Jerlov water types are familiar to many outside of the ocean optics community. His book, Marine Optics, published in 1976, remains widely referenced and is considered required reading for all students of ocean optics and ocean color remote sensing. The Oceanography Society (TOS) commemorates Dr. Jerlov and his many contributions to the study of light in the ocean with an international award, established in his name. For more information visit: https://tos.org/jerlov-award. Best Student Paper Award The OOXXIV Planning Committee selects the winner of this award based on a review of extended abstracts. The winner of this award will receive a check for $500, a certificate, and will have their name added to the plaque recognizing previous recipients. Best Speaker and Best Poster Awards All attendees are able to cast their vote for the best oral presentation and the best conference poster. All presentations (except for invited plenary presentations) and posters are eligible to receive a vote. The winners of the Best Speaker Award and Best Poster Award will receive certificates, and their names will be announced to all conference attendees after the conclusion of the conference. Please be sure to view posters during the Monday–Thursday poster sessions. Voting instructions for both of these awards will be provided during registration. All votes must be cast by Friday, October 12, at 16:00.
