=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Devon Scout-Hale | Severance Wiki - Fandom]
Devon Scout-Hale is the sister of Mark Scout, and is married to Ricken Hale. Devon grew up with her brother Mark, and the two shared a close bond that continued into adulthood. However, she described their father as "a misdiagnosed alcoholic" and used past tense — implying that he is dead and she and her brother may have had a rocky childhood. Mark eventually married fellow professor Gemma ...
URL: https://severance-tv.fandom.com/wiki/Devon_Scout-Hale

[Severance: The Senator's Wife Reveals An Even Darker World For Innies]
In Severance season 1, episode 5 "The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design," Mark's sister Devon meets Gabby, a pregnant woman who plans to name her baby William. Gabby gives Devon some coffee and the two have a conversation about parenthood and pregnancy. In the following episode, Devon sees Gabby holding her new baby, but Gabby doesn't remember her and even corrects her when she calls the baby William, stating that his name is actually Bradley.
URL: https://screenrant.com/severance-senator-wife-gabby-baby-william-pregnant-innies/

[Jen Tullock on the Post-Pregnancy Storyline She Championed for 'Severance']
A personal tragedy has led Mark to make a career change from academia to a “severed” Lumon employee. When he gets caught up in an unraveling mystery, his heavily pregnant sister Devon is the anchor to his “outtie”—while his “innie” ...
URL: https://www.elle.com/culture/movies-tv/a39542161/jen-tullock-severance-season-1-interview/

[Mark Scout | Severance Wiki | Fandom]
Mark Scout, known as Mark S. when working at Lumon, is a former history professor who underwent the severance procedure so his consciousness and memory are divided into two parts. Mark was born on April 3, 1978 and grew up with a younger sister named Devon, with whom he shared a close bond that continued long into their adult years. When he was growing up, Mark left his house's back gate open ...
URL: https://severance-tv.fandom.com/wiki/Mark_Scout

['Severance' Season 1 Recap: What Happened to Innies Ahead of Season 2]
While Cobel is not severed, she lives a double life outside of Lumon as Mrs. Selvig, Mark’s next-door neighbor and the doula to his sister, Devon (Jen Tullock).
URL: https://variety.com/2025/tv/news/severance-season-1-recap-1236274493/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Devon Scout-Hale | Severance Wiki - Fandom] ---
Devon Scout-Hale is the sister of Mark Scout, and is married to Ricken Hale. History[] Devon grew up with her brother Mark, and the two shared a close bond that continued into adulthood. However, she described their father as "a misdiagnosed alcoholic" and used past tense — implying that he is dead and she and her brother may have had a rocky childhood. Mark eventually married fellow professor Gemma, and Devon married author Ricken Hale. The couples spent a lot of time together, even going on joint vacations.[3] After Gemma's death, Devon tried to support him in his grief. Devon came to Mark's place to pick him up for her husband, Ricken's, food-less dinner. At the dinner, the conversation flowed, talking about Mark's work as a history professor and then switching to his later work at Lumon. When they learned he was severed, they were curious about that process and asked him about it. The conversation got a little tense until Ricken redirected things, saying he stood behind Mark despite him being severed. After the guests had left, Devon made Mark a sandwich and offered to buy his forgiveness for subjecting him to the dinner. Then she insisted he stay the night. The next morning, Mark told Devon that during the night, he'd seen a man standing in Devon's yard. Devon said it was probably a stumbler from a nearby bar.[1] Devon started working with Alexa as a midwife for her pregnancy and set Alexa up on a date with Mark.[4] When his fifth book was published, Ricken wrapped a copy of it and drove over to Mark's house to leave it on his porch. He prevaricated over how to place it and Devon encouraged him to do it quickly.[5] As they got closer to the birth, Ricken suggested a birthing retreat as the location for Devon to give birth. Devon talked about the idea to Mark, who was less enthusiastic about it.[6] When Devon went into labor, they went to the birthing resort they'd booked and Ricken called Mark, who was at work. When Mark got out of work, he came to the cabin to support Devon. After a contraction, Devon left in search of coffee and ended up in the next cabin over, which was much larger and nicer than hers, where Gabby Arteta was giving birth. She and Gabby talked over coffee and Devon shared her fear of messing up her child. Devon then returned to her own cabin, where Mark helped her through another contraction and admitted that he thought Lumon was up to something. When Devon cried out in pain, Mark went to get the midwife, who turned out to be Alexa. Devon and Ricken's daughter was born soon after.[7] Devon took baby Eleanor to the park, where they walked around. She saw Gabby in the park and waved to her. But when she went to talk to Gabby, Gabby seemed not to remember her. Angelo Arteta, Gabby's husband, came up and introduced himself and after some awkward conversation, including Deon calling the baby William and Gabby correcting that his name was Bradley, they left, leaving Devon confused. Devon looked up Gabby on social media and found that her profile was private. She then looked at articles about Gabby and Angelo and found that they were firm supporters of severance. Her research was interrupted when Ricken told her that a candidate they were considering to help Devon breastfeed had arrived. Devon recognized Mrs. Selvig as Mark's neighbor and she and Ricken were both impressed when Mrs. Selvig got Eleanor to stop crying in seconds.[8] Mrs. Selvig continued to help Devon with her breastfeeding. They also bonded over stories. Devon confided in Mrs. Selvig about her encounter with Gabby Arteta and Mrs. Selvig asked Devon why she thought Mark had severed. Gemma said he did it right after his wife died and he discovered he couldn't keep teaching as he had before.[9] Devon helped host a party/book reading for Ricken's new book. When Mark arrived at the party, Devon told him there was food. Mark said he wanted to talk to her later because he was contemplating a life change.[10] Devon told him they could talk after she pumped, but when she came back to him, Ricken called them to start the reading, so Devon promised to talk during the first reflection break. During the break, Devon asked Mark to meet her in the baby's room. When Eleanor started crying, Devon asked Mrs. Selvig to hold her while she talked to Mark. During the conversation, Mark told her that he was his innie and everything that was going on at Lumon. She suggested talking to some reporters Ricken knew as Lumon had great influence and they had to be careful who they talked to. Mark then asked her why Cobel, his boss at Lumon, was at the party. When he described Cobel, Devon realized he meant Mrs. Selvig and she raced out to find Mrs. Selvig gone. She frantically searched for Eleanor, who ended up being in another room in her car seat. She was holding Eleanor when Mark ran into the room, saying "she's alive."[11] Devon was relieved when Outie Mark woke up. She, Mark, and Ricken talked about what Innie Mark meant by, "She's alive." Ricken believed he was talking about Eleanor and Mark agreed, though Devon was less sure. When Seth Milchick came to their house to talk to Mark about what had happened, Devon worried Innie Mark would be punished for what she said. Milchick told her Lumon doesn't have punishments and they wanted Mark to return to work and make things right with him. The next morning, Devon texted Mark, offering to buy him diner food. They met at Pip's and Devon asked again about Mark's words. Mark denied the possibility he could have been talking about Gemma, as he'd seen and identified her body. He also took issue with Devon talking about how Gemma's death had affected her. He told her he was sure he'd only meant Eleanor and left.[2] Devon came in to find Ricken talking to Natalie Kalen from Lumon about his book and the effect it had on the innies. Devon told Ricken that Eleanor needed a bottle in an hour and left to meet with Mark. They were trying to create a light that would leave an afterimage on Mark's cornea long enough for his innie to see it. They wanted to ask him who he meant when he said she was alive.[12] Ricken began adapting his book, but when Devon read what he'd written, she said it sounded like Lumon's words and if he watered down his work to spout their propaganda, he was hurting people just like Lumon was.[13] Devon came to Mark's house to tell him she'd been thinking about it and had another idea to get a message into Lumon which included Gabby Arteta. Before she could tell Mark the plan, he told her he was doing something else, but refused to tell her what it was. Mark then collapsed and Devon was confused when Asal Reghabi came out of Mark's basement and told Devon not to touch him as he convulsed.[14] Devon and Asal watched over Mark as he remained unconscious. When Devon pressed, Asal told her that Mark had reintegrated. Devon didn't believe it, but was shocked when Asal told her that Gemma was alive. Later, Devon told Asal about the birthing cabin and wanted to use it to talk to Mark's innie, but Asal already knew about the cabin and said those were two separate things and that wouldn't help get Gemma out. Devon said she was going to call Cobel, since she no longer worked at Lumon, but might help them. Asal said that Cobel would report them to Lumon and packed up her things and left, so she could avoid capture. After Asal left, Devon continued watching Mark until he woke up. She looked at him and asked him where he'd gone.[3] Devon continuously tried calling Cobel. When Cobel finally answered, she told her that Mark had reintegrated. Cobel had her put Mark on the phone and she asked him to tell her everything.[15] They arranged a meeting with Cobel. When she showed up, Devon asked her to take them to the cabin so they could talk to Mark's innie. She said it wasn't safe and it would be better to wait until dark. She had Mark call Milchick and feign illness to explain why he wasn't coming in to work. Once it was dark, they hid Mark in the truck bed, Devon pretended to be pregnant, and Cobel drove them to the birthing retreat, where she used coded language to get them access to the cabin. Once they were there, Mark's innie activated and Devon brought him to talk to Cobel. Devon asked if he remembered the last words he said to her and he says, "She's alive."[16] Cobel asked if he'd finished Cold Harbor and when he said no, she said that was good, because it meant Gemma was still alive and they could get her out of Lumon. She was surprised when he told her he knew of the Exports Hall from Irving's drawings. She then explained to him what he would have to do in order to get Gemma out. It involved cooperation between him and his outie, so they played a message his outie had recorded for him and waited while the two of them had a back and forth conversation. When they couldn't agree, Cobel asked to speak to innie Mark alone. After their conversation, innie Mark told Devon to warn outie Mark against activating him again before his next shift at Lumon.[17] Personality[] Devon is sarcastic, intelligent, and laid-back. Her rationality and subdued character have led some fans to dub her "the only normal character on the show." She is supportive to her friends and family, especially to her brother Mark, to whom she is the closest friend after the death of his wife. They both exude exhausted introversion and enjoy witty banter together, but Devon once confided that he could "depress" her. (Season 1 Episode 5) Devon sharply contrasts with her spouse, Ricken Hale. Some fans question how the sensible Devon and the wishy-washy, pretentious hipster Ricken "got hitched," as they are visibly different and Devon sometimes joins in on Mark's making fun of him. Despite this, she appears to be genuinely committed to him and willing to put up with his antics. Devon is often cast as "the voice of reason." When innie Mark woke up in the outside world and revealed his identity, she instantly believed him and listened to his story, wanting to work to help the Severed. She serves as a foil to both the ludicrous Ricken and to her brother, rendered irrational and unstable by grief. Physical Description[] Devon is a middle-aged white woman with dark, curly shoulder-length hair (often pulled back) and blue eyes. She wears cool, subdued colors and hoop earrings. Relationships[] Quotes[] - Devon: "She was wonderful. She made you wonderful." Notes and Trivia[] - Devon was based on series creator Dan Erickson's sister, Hayley Erickson Goelzer. Gallery[] Promotional[] Appearances[] | Season 1 | ||||| | #01 | "Good News About Hell" | #04 | "The You You Are" (voice) | #07 | "Defiant Jazz" | | #02 | "Half Loop" | #05 | "The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design" | #08 | "What's for Dinner?" | | #03 | "In Perpetuity" | #06 | "Hide and Seek" | #09 | "The We We Are" | | Season 2 | ||||| | #01 | "Hello, Ms. Cobel" | #05 | "Trojan's Horse" | #09 | "The After Hours" | | #02 | "Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig" | #06 | "Attila" | #10 | "Cold Harbor" | | #03 | "Who Is Alive?" | #07 | "Chikhai Bardo" | || | #04 | "Woe's Hollow" | #08 | "Sweet Vitriol" (voice) | References[] - ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 Good News About Hell, 1x01 - ↑ 2.0 2.1 Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig, 2x02 - ↑ 3.0 3.1 Chikhai Bardo, 2x07 - ↑ Half Loop, 1x02 - ↑ In Perpetuity, 1x03 - ↑ The You You Are, 1x04 - ↑ The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design, 1x05 - ↑ Hide and Seek, 1x06 - ↑ Defiant Jazz, 1x07 - ↑ What's for Dinner?, 1x08 - ↑ The We We Are, 1x09 - ↑ Who Is Alive?, 2x03 - ↑ Trojan's Horse, 2x05 - ↑ Attila, 2x06 - ↑ Sweet Vitriol, 2x08 - ↑ The After Hours, 2x09 - ↑ Cold Harbor, 2x10


--- [Severance: The Senator's Wife Reveals An Even Darker World For Innies] ---
No content


--- [Jen Tullock on the Post-Pregnancy Storyline She Championed for 'Severance'] ---
Spoilers for Severance episode 7 ahead. In Apple TV+’s new sci-fi dramedy Severance, a person can achieve the perfect work-life balance with a surgical procedure performed by Lumon Industries, which separates one's memories at work from the rest of their lives. The “innie” version can only remember what goes on at the office, whereas the “outtie” allows people to enjoy their downtime without ever worrying about unanswered emails, project deadlines, or even whether their co-workers like them. It is a best of both worlds scenario, except this is far from a blissful existence for the Lumon employees. Leading the Severance cast is actor Adam Scott—who is no stranger to workplace settings (think Parks and Recreation and Party Down)—as Mark Scout. A personal tragedy has led Mark to make a career change from academia to a “severed” Lumon employee. When he gets caught up in an unraveling mystery, his heavily pregnant sister Devon is the anchor to his “outtie”—while his “innie” has no idea he even has a sibling. “It wasn't in response to lockdown though it certainly was informed by lockdown,” Jen Tullock, who plays Devon, tells ELLE.com about Severance’s timely themes. After all, many homes have recently doubled as office spaces, and this conversation is taking place over Zoom with each of us chatting from our respective abodes. Creator Dan Erickson wrote the pilot long before WFH became a familiar shorthand, and the initial table read took place in March 2020 before everything shut down. Filming finally began in the fall of that same year in a very different landscape. Tullock is also a filmmaker (she created the Eggshell series during the pandemic), but Severance marked her first time back on a set. Ahead, Tullock explains what appealed to her about Severance, working with Ben Stiller (who directed six episodes), and the post-pregnancy storyline she championed. She also offers up a hint of what to expect from the new Ryan Reynolds, Will Ferrell, and Octavia Spencer festive musical Spirited and Perry Mason’s second season—which Tullock is currently working on. I originally thought Severance was written in reaction to lockdown, but when did the show come to you? I got the job in late 2018. Dan Erickson, the show creator, I had worked with him before. We both worked at a very short-lived company called Super Deluxe [in 2016]. At the time, he was working on the pilot of Severance, and I remember my friend Nora was like, You've got to read this guy's pilot, it's mind-blowing. And I was like, Yes, I will! And then I never got to. A couple of years later when I went in to read with Ben [Stiller] and Adam [Scott] for it when I was auditioning, they were like, Oh, you know Dan. I had not pieced it together because when your agents send you this stuff it'll say like 80 names on the thing. It was cool to come into it knowing he was someone I cared about and is a genuinely wonderful person. Devon serves as sort of an anchor throughout the series, especially for Mark's “outtie.” Tell me about the character, and specifically about her relationship with both Mark and her husband, Rickon, played by Michael Chernus. I loved Devon immediately. I kind of based her on a combination of a few people I know and love very dearly. For the first part of the series, she’s with child. So she's gone through this incredibly intense biological experience while carrying the grief that she shares with Mark, worried about him daily, dealing with a husband who has a very big energy, and a blossoming career. And I was like, Okay, this is someone who instead of calling things out is very strategic and compassionate about the timing of gently helping people through growth. Oftentimes she forfeits her own autonomy and that was one of the arcs I was interested in trying to build out over the season. The relationship with Mark is so special and tender. Adam and I got close very fast and he's such a wonderful person, and so easy to build rapport with. I'm very close with my real brother, he's my best friend. So it wasn't difficult to pull from that. I also know from times in my life where I've been in a tougher time—or my brother has been in a tougher time—how specific the pain and fear is when the person you love most in the world is struggling. That's where we meet Devon because Mark is clearly in a moment of crisis. I think another actor could have made [Rickon] a hateable character, but Michael breaths humanity into him, and found the things in him that was so sincere. This is an opposites-attract relationship. Devon is sardonic and grounded, and Rickon is incredibly sincere and not grounded. I think they balance each other and he's provided her some stability and also this sort of fantastical view of the world. I think she probably had a wild time in her 20s—dated everybody and backpacked through Europe. Devon is not part of the “innie” world at Lumon, but did you get to see that set? How separate did they keep the "outtie" and "innie" characters? There was [a separation], and not necessarily by design. Most of the Lumon set save those gorgeous shots of that giant atrium—which is so exquisite—all the stuff in MDR (microdata refinement), and the office with the cubicles was all shot on sound stages. Most of Devon and Rickon's stuff was all on location. They were shooting in the Bronx, I was shooting in the Hudson Valley. I did have my camera test for wardrobe on that set and let me tell you that was wacky. They had us come there because they were shooting there. So I walked into that set with that lighting and I was like, Oh, man, this is crazy. I had it easy. Those brilliant actors were in that windowless track lighting all day and I got to run around in the snow, and be in my giant Frank Lloyd Wright house. I remember talking to them and being like, Hi, everyone, we’ve had the same experience. And they were like, We've been on two separate shows. Because we really were. I hadn't seen much of the show until recently and I hadn't seen any of the “innie” stuff. To your point, it did feel like we were shooting two separate shows. I guess that helped because your character doesn't know anything about what goes on in there. You also get to see the other side of Patricia Arquette's character who is posing as “outtie” Mark’s neighbor (and lactation expert), Mrs. Selvig. Can you talk to me about working with her? It was an absolute blast. There was a particular day I'll never forget, which is the scene where she's teaching me how to breastfeed. And you know, I've got one boob out, a baby in my other arm, and Patricia sitting next to me—I'm pretty sure it's the first thing we shot together. So you walk on, you're like, Hi, nice to meet you. And then you whip your boob out. We got one take and we stopped, and she was like, Sorry guys, this baby is not swaddled properly. Jen, can I swaddle the baby for you? I was like, Please, by all means, I don't have children. She tenderly swaddles this baby, which I should say that particular baby was not a real baby. It's a fake baby. So she’s swaddling this tenderly, and handing it back to me she's like, Here you go, sweetie. That's gonna be better for you to hold. And I remember being like, I'm in good hands. I'm not a mother myself either, but I've had friends who have struggled to breastfeed. It doesn't happen straight away, and then they feel like shit because society has told them they're terrible for not being able to do this. I thought it was really great having a storyline that isn't covered very often. How was this developed? When we started talking about the character, I asked Dan and Ben if they would be open to me exploring her having at least a version of postpartum. What does it look like in the world of this show for one of the only characters who's chosen the emotional sobriety of not severing, the emotional intensity of actually living through all of the pain and having to remember? This is a beautiful opportunity in a post-pregnancy moment, we've met her when she's peppy, and supporting everyone. What happens if she continues doing that, but she's also incredibly uncomfortable and depressed? They were great and we worked together on how to subtly weave that into the landscape of her arc. I've also had friends who have had trouble breastfeeding, and I've seen what it did to their experience, to their mental health. So that scene as small as it is when Patricia shows me how to do it when the baby latches for the first time, I remember feeling really emotional because I was thinking about my friends who had had that moment. That was a really cool thing we explored through the second half of the season was what happens when a character carries the pain, shame, and trauma of all of the people around her, and where does that boiling point happen? We all know someone or have been—I think particularly women—who carries everyone else's shit and moves through the world with that type of empathy, but then also maybe sacrifices their own autonomy because of it. Sometimes with the supportive sister characters, you don't get your own arc, and you are literally there as a support for the man. So it was great that Devon gets this whole arc. One of the things I love and appreciate about them both [Dan and Ben], is there wasn't a character that didn't have a rich arc, a rich backstory, and a ton of conflicting nuance. Even for Devon, who's a supporting character coming in with all of this stuff that moves to the second half of the season. I remember getting the scripts in real-time and being like, Oh, ooooh. So you didn't know at the start of shooting where you were going to end up? I had a vague idea because I had spoken to Dan. There were small pieces in between that I didn't know about, and there were big pieces in the world of Lumon that I didn't know until I watched the show. So that's been exciting to go back and be like, Oh, okay, that's all making sense. What was it like working with Ben Stiller as a director? I loved working with Ben. He has such a specific vision and something I really respond to in directors is when you're never left wondering what they want. I'm not being diplomatic in saying that, he has such a specific idea moment to moment, but also allows you to play. To me, that's the magical combo where you know exactly what his vision of the scene is, but if you want to riff on that a little bit everyone always felt safe to do that. It's hard to say no to people that are that passionate about the thing you're working on. It felt like it was his life while we were working on it and that's an infectious energy. I also appreciate anyone who's honest about where they are that day, and I feel like to me, I'm walking in going, Oh, my God. It's Ben Stiller. He's a giant. He's untouchable. I remember one particular moment where I said, How you doing? He said, I'm tired today and I'm a little stressed. And I was like, Thanks for saying that. Because I feel like most people in his position are like, I'm great! He was always very warm, honest, and he checked in constantly. I did want to quickly ask you about your future projects because I know you've got a Christmas movie called Spirited coming out with Ryan Reynolds. Is there anything you can tell us about that? I can say it's an updated version of the Charles Dickens classic A Christmas Carol. I can tell you that it is a musical, and the music is written by Pasek and Paul, who wrote the music for Dear Evan Hanson, and La La Land. I can also tell you that it is incredibly funny and I had a blast. I grew up loving musicals, so it was a dream come true to be on a giant musical movie set. And that will be out this upcoming Christmas. Do you get to sing? I sing a little. I can't say too much. But I play a character you don't want to hear sing, I'll put it to you that way. You're currently shooting Season 2 of Perry Mason. What can you tease about your role on the show? Not to be a complete Pollyanna, but I've never felt more like I was living my childhood dream than I do when I show up to the Warner Brothers lot in a 1930s period costume. It doesn't get better than this. I play a character called Anita St. Pierre and she is a successful screenwriter—so a bit of an anomaly at the time being a woman. She is inspired by a real person called Anita Loos, who wrote Gentlemen Prefer Blondes and several other big giant studio movies at the time. She's a bawdy, foul-mouthed, Turkish-cigarette-smoking, take-no-prisoners sort of person. But she comes into the life of Della Street played by the wonderful Juliet Rylance, and they end up teaching each other quite a bit about what they have both been missing. This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.


--- [Mark Scout | Severance Wiki | Fandom] ---
Mark Scout, known as Mark S. when working at Lumon, is a former history professor who underwent the severance procedure so his consciousness and memory are divided into two parts. History[] Early Life[] Mark was born on April 3, 1978 and grew up with a younger sister named Devon, with whom he shared a close bond that continued long into their adult years. When he was growing up, Mark left his house's back gate open, which his dog escaped through and ended up getting killed. He felt great shame from the accident and still blamed himself decades later.[2] Meeting Gemma[] In his later years, Mark worked as a history professor at Ganz College, teaching about the First World War. He once took part in a blood drive hosted by Lumon Industries at the college, where he first met Gemma, a fellow member of the faculty. After spending a night out together, the two soon fell deeply in love, marrying after a short time and moving into a quaint woodland cottage where they lived an idyllic life together. The couple also became close friends with Devon and her husband Ricken Hale, often meeting to go on hikes and camping trips together. During one such meeting at their home, Gemma subtly informed Devon she was pregnant with Mark's child, while Mark and Ricken discussed a past trip, unaware. That night however, Gemma suffered a miscarriage and collapsed in the bathroom. Mark rushed in to tend to her and realized what had happened. After Gemma's miscarriage, the couple instead decided to have a child through in vitro fertilization treatments, receiving them from Butzemann Fertility Clinic. Unfortunately, three rounds of IVF came and went with no signs of success, putting a heavy strain on Mark and Gemma's marriage. He eventually suggested they stop trying for a baby. The stress and tragedy of the miscarriage and failed IVF caused Mark to despair, as he retreated into himself and became distant to Gemma. As he was working late one night, Gemma asked him to join her on a night out with local friends, but he gave a half-hearted excuse and decided to stay in. Gemma called out that she loved him, but Mark simply sat and didn't respond, only returning the sentiment after Gemma repeated herself. That night, tragedy struck Mark again, as police officers arrived at his door to inform him that Gemma had been killed in a car accident. Mark was utterly destroyed by Gemma's death, as well as guilty over his ignorant behavior to her just before she died. He helped identify her body and was forced to inform Gemma's parents and students of her death, receiving an urn of her cremated remains from the local morgue. A few weeks after her passing, Mark attempted to return to work at Ganz College, but his grief and the short time that had passed made the effort disastrous, as he started showing up for work drunk most days.[3] Joining Lumon & Innie Life[] After being fired or quitting, Mark fell into the orbit of Lumon Industries and became employed by the company. He agreed to have the Severance procedure performed on him, a neurosurgery process that implanted a microchip in his brain and separated his consciousness into two personalities, one that only existed to work on Lumon's underground severed workspace (the "Innie") and his original self who lived his personal life on the outside (the "Outie"). Mark agreed to the procedure purely because of his grief over Gemma's death, as he had hoped part of him would be free from the crushing pain he lived with daily.[4][5] Mark moved away from his and Gemma's cottage into the Lumon corporate town Kier.[6] His Innie self, known as Mark S., first awoke on the severed floor, where he received his orientation from fellow Innie Petey K., whom he threatened to kill after realizing he had no personal memories. Mark joined the Macrodata Refinement (MDR) department and worked alongside Petey, Irving B., and Carol D.. At some point after he woke up, Carol "retired" and was replaced by Dylan G.[1] Shortly after his orientation, Mark was given his first Macrodat file named Allentown, which he managed to refine and complete in a record-breakingly short time. Lumon managed to engineer a faster refinement process based on his work, cutting down the average completion time to a few weeks. In recognition for his outstanding debut, Mark was rewarded with a laser-etched crystal head cube of himself, a one-of-a-kind gift that other Innies didn't receive. Over the next two years at Lumon, Mark and the rest of the MDR team became close friends, Mark and Petey in particular became best friends and bonded over their shared humor. Mark had completed twenty-three files by the 882nd Quarter, with his latest being Dranesville.[7][1] Helly R.'s Arrival[] One day, Petey disappeared and never came into work. After an emotional breakdown in his car, Mark entered the office as usual. Floor manager Harmony Cobel and supervisor Seth Milchick informed him of Petey "leaving" the company, but refused to divulge why, deeply distressing him. He hesitantly accepted a promotion to Department Chief, and was given his first assignment of overseeing the orientation of Helly R., Petey's replacement. Observing her "birth" from a separate room through a speaker, Mark nervously probed Helly's memory for any bleedthrough effects by asking a series of questions, but she became aggressive and attempted to force her way out of the room. Mark eventually entered and informed Helly of her name and current situation, attempting to stick by the script he was given while under the watchful eye of a CCTV camera. Helly lashed out and threw the speaker at his head, cutting his temple open, and again tried to break the door down. Realizing Helly wouldn't listen to Lumon's propaganda, Mark instead went off-script and described his own experience waking up for the first time, just as she did. He attempted to reason with her and assured her she could still live a fulfilling life on the severed floor, but Helly still refused to listen and again demanded to be let free, which Mark finally granted her after she asked a third time. Mark walked Helly through the halls to the exit Stairwell and allowed her to walk through to "leave." After realizing she physically couldn't leave from her perspective, Mark assured her that she wasn't dead or in hell and brought her to Cobel's office. Milchick bandaged his temple wound while Cobel spoke with Helly, then entered her office himself. She sharply admonished him for going off-script and delivered a lecture about human ingenuity for even the most horrific creations, which the socially-stunted Mark failed to understand. She stated that a department like MDR could go good or bad, and the only difference is the people within it. He returned to MDR, arriving just as Helly finished watching a video from her Outie explaining Severance. Despondent, Helly questioned him if they ever get to leave, which he said she would, but perceptually that this version of her would never experience it. When she asked if she had any choice, Mark told her that every time she found herself at Lumon, it was because she chose to come back. Mark left the office and transitioned back to his Outie self, where he discovered an envelope on his car that gave a false explanation for his bandage, as well as a Pip's Bar & Grille gift card. As he left in his car, Mark nearly ran over Helly's Outie, though the two quickly moved on from it and showed no recognition of each other. Devon came to Mark's house that night to pick him up for a "dinner-less dinner" at her home with Ricken and his colleagues. While everyone spoke at the table, Mark remained silent until Danise asked him about his teaching days in Ganz, prompting another question from Patton about WW1. Mark stayed withdrawn from most of the conversation until Ricken bluntly revealed he was severed, instantly changing the mood to a tense one as everyone fell silent. Ricken apologized even though Mark expressed his indifference, but Danise then began hounding him with questions about what severance feels like and how he feels about "the other one," which he denied the existence of. Patton then tried to deliver his own explanation of what Mark experienced when working, but referred to his Innie as being "trapped" at Lumon, which aggravated Mark into threatening Patton. Ricken broke the tension in the air and expressed his own view that, in spite of the ethical controversies, he stood behind Mark's decision to sever unreservedly. After the others left, Devon made Mark a sandwich and they discussed his lack of visits to his therapist, as he believed severance was helping him better. Though Devon was still proud of him for taking the job, she felt that shutting out and forgetting about Gemma during his workday was not a healthy way to heal from her death. Mark didn't answer. Devon then offered for him to stay the night despite his protests, and he stayed in a race car-style bed intended for Devon and Ricken's upcoming child. Unable to sleep, Mark went downstairs to get water and noticed something moving outside Devon's house. He stepped outside and saw a strange man dressed in a business suit staring at him, suddenly vanishing after a car driving past distracted him. He told Devon about it the next morning, but she assumed it was probably a drunk patron from a nearby bar.[1] Petey Blows the Whistle[] After returning home, Mark went to Pip's at night to use his gift card, where he got a call from Mrs. Selvig about days when their bins were collected. Suddenly, the same businessman from the night before appeared and sat across from him, ordering him to hang up the phone. The stranger introduced himself as Petey, one of Mark's coworkers at Lumon, which Mark refused to believe until Petey told him he had managed to bypass his severance chip, a widely-accepted impossibility beforehand. Mark, still unconvinced, asked if Petey thought Lumon were after him, which he knew they were. Petey slid a red envelope to Mark and insisted that nothing Lumon says about the severed floor is true, and the information he knows needs to stay known. When Mark asked if they were friends, Petey confirmed he was Mark's best friend, while Mark was Petey's "very good" friend. After Petey left, Mark went to his car and read the letter. Petey explained that their Innie selves believed their Outies were monsters for trapping them at Lumon, but he knew now that wasn't true. Petey also gave him an address to come to alone, where he could find answers. He returned home and was met by Mrs. Selvig out front as she apologized for mixing up their bins. After asking about his dinner, Mrs. Selvig told him about an old saying from her mother that Catholic saints took eight hours a day to bless a "sleeping child." Mark excused himself and went to leave, though Mrs. Selvig then called out to him and said he was a good person.[1] Integrating Helly[] Once the weekend passed, Mark was the first to arrive in MDR, carrying out his duties as Department Chief to clean and prepare the office for its use that day. As he was dusting off the old group picture of MDR, Mark was distressed to see Petey's face, so he took all the group photos from everyone's desks and hid them in the storage closet. Helly then arrived and asked about their perception of time, as the weekend felt like a split second for her. He explained that they never experienced the passing to the next day, but instead believed it was better to focus on the physical effects of sleep and relaxation. Helly supposed the two weren't friends on the outside, which Mark agreed with. Mark gave Helly her introduction to the MDR terminals and the process of refining, through her first file Siena. He explained to her that certain clusters of numbers on her terminal would evoke an emotional response, allowing her to categorize it into a bin. The process baffled Helly, but Mark reassured her that getting the correct response to the numbers took time. Helly then asked if she was truly trapped, and if deciding to quit was an option for an Innie. Mark told her if she really wanted to, she could submit a resignation request to her Outie, which Dylan said almost never got approved. Mark then reminded her that, as her Innie self only exists at Lumon, then "quitting" would effectively end her life, however short it has been. Before Helly could respond, Milchick then arrived in MDR with a melon bar to celebrate Helly's induction into MDR. Milchick and the team played the team-building ball game, during which Helly became agitated at Milchick and bombarded him with questions about contacting her Outie and her outside life. Mark explained what the Outies were to Helly, and also confirmed that the elevators were equipped with letter-scanning code detectors, preventing messages from reaching the surface. After revealing some basic facts about Helly, Milchick passed the ball to Mark. He attempted to take his turn quickly, but Milchick said he used the same response. Mark, after a long pause, admitted he broke protocol by removing the group photos, as seeing Petey's face had made him feel sad. Milchick found his reaction sweet, but wondered why he was so emotional over Petey's departure as opposed to Carol D. Mark reminded him that Carol D.'s Outie filmed a retirement video and thus they knew she was leaving, whereas Petey had vanished with no warning, leaving him wondering if Petey was dead or in trouble somewhere. Milchick immediately shut down Mark's outburst, reminding MDR that deaths do not happen there, and their lives are protected at Lumon. Afterwards, the team indulged in the melon bar, during which Mark and Helly spoke. She asked him how he was going to find out if Petey's okay, but Mark said Milchick already made it clear they should stop prying. When Helly pressed him again, he told her that Milchick was kind and it was best to listen to him, lest they make him lose his cheery demeanor. The MDR team then gathered for their new group photo, but Helly became overwhelmed and stormed out of the office, writing a note for her Outie saying that she quit. Mark cautioned her again about the code detectors, though she refused to believe they were even real. Mark followed after her, causing her to run and make a break for the elevator. Sure enough, the decectors were triggered and Helly was sealed in the foyer, trapping Mark out via the emergency doors. Head of Security Doug Graner then arrived to deal with the incident, confiscating her note and moving to take her to the Break Room, until Mark intervened and caught Graner's attention. He apologized for the note and passed it off as him forgetting to tell Helly the data-smuggling restrictions, insisting the incident was on his shoulders. Graner then took him to the Break Room in Helly's place, where Mark received a punishment from Ms. Cobel herself. That night, Mark went out on a date with Alexa, Devon's midwife friend, where the two awkwardly discussed her past experience with delivering babies. As Mark downed several whiskeys, Alexa spoke to him about Lumon, puzzled by the effects severance had on a person's memory. She asked him if forgetting about those closest to him for eight hours a day messed with his head. Mark instead believed that it was the point for some people. Slightly drunk, Mark and Alexa left the restaurant and walked through the streets, during which he blundered remembering Alexa's hometown. Nearby, a group of young Whole Mind Collective activists were handing out pamphlets denouncing severance. Mark and Alexa approached them and he started drunkenly bombarding the WMC members with obnoxious questions about severance, but didn't actually disagree with their views on the procedure. Mark and Alexa left after he realized how aggressive he was being. After returning home, Mark continued to drink, but he was interrupted by Mrs. Selvig arriving at his door, where she offered him homemade chamomile cookies as a peace offering for a supposed fight between them. Mark invited her in and tasted her cookies, masking his disgust with praise, though Selvig then asked if he had been on a date based on his cologne. She told Mark a story about her late carpenter husband, who promised to build her a house in the afterlife, as well as a guest apartment in case she found a new man before joining him. Stunned, Mark called the story sweet and saw Mrs. Selvig out. He descended to the basement to find a replacement lightbulb, searching through boxes of Gemma's old handcrafts and memorabilia. He eventually gave up on the effort and passed out drunk on the sofa yet again.[7] The next morning, Mark decides to take up Petey's offer and calls Mr. Milchick while driving to the address on the card, informing him he was taking a sick day. After arriving at a greenhouse on 499 Half Loop Road, Mark was surprised to find Petey living in harsh conditions, as he couldn't return home for fear of being caught. Mark asked him what exactly they were working on in the office, but Petey still didn't know, despite managing to completely reverse the microchip's effects through an operation called "reintegration". He showed Mark a large, in-progress map of the severed floor which he was trying to recreate from the original, which he hid somewhere in the office before he left Lumon. Petey suddenly suffered a strange headache which he explained was caused by "reintegration sickness", baffling Mark as he'd never heard of such a thing; Petey was the first to contract it. Still unconvinced, Mark questioned what was so terrible about the severed floor, to which Petey started to explain what the break room was, then revealed he had managed to smuggle a cassette tape out of Lumon. The tape played a recording of one of Innie Mark's sessions in the break room, as he read the Compunction Statement to Milchick on the brink of tears, shocking and horrifying Mark. Feeling sympathetic due to their Innies' friendship, Mark brought Petey back to his home and gave him the basement sofa to sleep on. He also offered Petey a shower and a gifted bathrobe from Ricken, which Petey thanks him for before leaving to wash up. However, in the bathroom Petey suffered another mental attack from reintegration, causing an intense nosebleed that made him collapse in the shower; Mark repeatedly asked if he was okay.[7] Mark continued calling out to Petey to see if he was okay, but Petey suddenly left the bathroom and started talking to Mark about Lumon-related terms like "Cobel" and "Sunset Park", as he was experiencing a strong hallucination that perceptually transported him back to the MDR office. After Mark snapped him out of it, Petey tried to downplay it as disorientation, though he couldn't give an answer when Mark asked what Sunset Park was. After retrieving a pizza for Petey, Mark sat down and listened to him explain reintegration, describing it as having two separate lives suddenly meshed together, which scrambles the relativity of his memories and causes the hallucinations. Petey says "they" told him it would The next morning, as he went to leave for work, Mark found the flier from the WMC in his pocket and called in sick to work. Then he drove to the address on the card Petey gave him and found Petey living in a greenhouse there. Mark told him about the break room, where they were forced to recite a statement of contrition until the person with them believed they genuinely regretted what they'd done. Petey also said he'd been mapping the severed floor and left a copy of it for innie Mark to find before he left. Petey said he'd been experiencing reintegration sickness, which caused him a lot of pain. Mark brought Petey home with him since Petey couldn't return to his own home. He said Petey could stay on his couch and found a sleeping bag for him to use.[7] Mark spoke more with Petey about his reintegration and told Petey he wouldn't be reintegrating himself because severance had helped him, despite the negative things Petey told him about the company. The next morning, when Mark went to leave for work, he told Petey that he'd lost his wife a few years prior and that severance helped him deal with that. Petey said he used to come to work with red eyes and they joked that he had an elevator allergy. He was taking the grief to work with him, only he didn't know where it came from. When Mark got to work, he found that the new group photos had come in. Helly also told him he'd been gone the day before and she successful refined some data while he was gone. Mark then read the morning announcements for his first time as the new department chief, including the news that Helly's resignation request had been denied, which upset her. Mark found Helly twice trying to send her outie messages. He stopped her both times and warned her that it would be worse for her if she tried it. Then he took Helly and the rest of the MDR team to the Perpetuity Wing at Irving's suggestion, to show Helly what kind of history she was part of. While they were there, they played "Eagan Bingo," except Irving, who treated the wing with reverence. This led to an argument when Irving discovered their game. The argument was interrupted when Mark noticed that Helly had left the room. He chased her to a stairwell, where she broke a window and stuck her arm out with a note in her hand. Graner found them and had Helly come with him to the Break Room. At the end of the day, after everyone else had left, Mark decided to replace the old group photos with the new ones. As he opened the last frame, he found a map of the severed floor behind the picture. He put the map back in the frame with the new picture and left work. When Mark got home, he found that Petey was gone. He drove around and found Petey at a convenience store, being cared for by EMTs. He watched from a distance as Petey collapsed and the EMTs said he wasn't breathing. Mark went back home and removed all evidence that Petey had been there. Then he heard Petey's phone vibrating with an incoming phone call.[6] Petey's phone continued ringing, so Mark hid it in a box of camping equipment. Back at work, Mark looked at the map Petey had left him. When he left the bathroom, Irving mentioned that Helly was still in the Break Room despite it being several hours into her second day there and asked if Mark could check on her. Their conversation was interrupted when Burt came in, bringing the new handbook tote bags and offering up a tour of O&D. As Irving life to take him up on that, Helly returned and reported that she'd had to recite the compunction statement 1,072 times. Helly talked to Dylan about her experience until Mark reminded them they weren't supposed to talk about it. When Helly found the map in Mark's drawer, she confronted him about it, calling him a hypocrite for lecturing her about policy while he had a hidden map of the floor. She was also surprised he wasn't planning to do anything with the map even though his best friend had left it. Mark took the map and shredded it to prove to Helly he didn't care about it. Irving came back to MDR and said there was an emergency. Then he led Mark and Dylan to a room where he'd found a book, The You You Are, on a chair. Dylan thought it was a message from Petey, while Irving thought it was a loyalty test. Mark decided he'd take it to Milchick. When they got back to MDR, they found Helly missing. She had gone to Cobel's office and threatened to cut off her fingers if Cobel didn't allow her to record a video to her outie. Once she'd recorded the message, they all escorted her to the elevator to leave. She quickly returned with a message from her outie refusing to let her quit. At home that night, Mark got a notification telling him about an article reporting Petey's death. Mark decided to go to Petey's funeral. When he ran into Mrs. Selvig there, he said he'd read that Petey worked at Lumon and thought they might have known each other. He met Petey's ex-wife and daughter. June, Petey's daughter, learned that Mark was severed and asked if he'd ever considered that maybe severance wasn't the best way to deal with his problems. Mark admitted he didn't know. When the funeral started with a video of Petey playing music with his daughter, Mark became overwhelmed and had to leave. He went home, but instead of going inside, he left again and drove out to a remote location, where he touched a tree and cried. Despite having said he'd turn the book into Milchick, Mark kept it and secretly read it in the bathroom. Then he was called in for a wellness session with Ms. Casey, who gave him a ball of clay to mold his feelings. He molded the ball into the shape of a tree.[8] Mark returned to MDR and then left for the day. When he got to the elevator, he found Helly hanging there. He grabbed onto her, holding her body up, and called for help. Graner came, untied Helly, and then ordered Mark into the elevator. When Mark returned to work, he found Cobel and Milchick waiting for him. Cobel said that it happened on his watch, implying that it was his fault. She also told him Helly was bruised, but would be okay. With Helly gone, Mark hid in the bathroom to read The You You Are, which he found inspiring. When Mark left work one day, He found several missed calls from Ricken, telling him that Devon was in labor. He went to the birthing retreat, where he ran into Alexa. He apologized for the night of their date, but she said it was okay. Mark then supported Devon and helped Ricken hang up kelp. During a contraction, he admitted to her that he thought Lumon was up to something. Soon afterward, Devon gave birth to the baby. Mark returned to work and learned it would be Helly's first day back. Milchick encouraged him to have kind eyes when greeting her as it would be innie Helly's first time being conscious since the attempt. As she stepped off the elevator, Mark told her they'd gotten rid of everything that might be dangerous to her. He tried to talk to her about the attempt, but she walked away from him. Ms. Casey was assigned to watch her, which annoyed Helly. Mark distracted Ms. Casey by spilling a drinking. While Ms. Casey was gone getting something to clean up, Mark took Helly out of MDR. He tried to ask her how she was. She said that she told her outie she wanted to quit and her outie told her she wasn't a person, so that was bad. Their conversation was interrupted by a cry. They followed it to a room where Wyatt was feeding a goat and surrounded by other goats. He told them that they couldn't take the goats because they weren't ready yet. He told them to go. They left and Helly questioned if the goats were the data they were refining. Mark didn't think it was. He said he knew Helly didn't want to be there, but he was glad she was. Helly then agreed to clean up the map for Mark, because his drawing was bad. Ms. Casey found them and Mark said they were on their way back from a mental health walk. She was relieved they were not hurt.[9] At home, Mark took Petey's phone out of the basement, took out the battery, and threw both separately in his trash can. At work, Mark continued reading The You You Are. Irving said he wanted the whole MDR team to go to O&D together, to unite the two departments as Keir intended. Helly was immediately on board, but Mark was more reluctant, especially after he noticed Ms. Casey was missing. However, after finding out that Ms. Casey had been sent to the Break Room because of it, Mark led his entire team to O&D, in direct defiance of Cobel's removal of their hallway privileges until they met their quota. Burt led them into the storeroom and introduced the two teams. They shared their mutual lack of knowledge of what they were actually working on and decided that Burt and Mark, as the department heads, would reach out to the goat room, the other department they were aware of, and figure out what they knew. Their conversation was interrupted when Milchick came in and returned the MDR team to their department. Cobel was waiting for them and sent Mark to the Break Room. On his way into the Break Room, Mark passed Ms. Casey, who was leaving. He apologized to her as they passed. That night, Mark went on another date with Alexa. His knuckles were bruised and he told her that Lumon had said he jammed his hand while replacing a water cooler jug. They talked about Devon's baby and struggles with breastfeeding and then Mark talked about Gemma. He asked if that was weird, but Alexa said she thought it was healthy not to split his life. When she realized what she'd said, she cringed, but he made a joke about it. After they ate, Mark saw a poster saying June's band was playing nearby and they decided to go The watched as the band performed a song about how much Lumon sucked and then Mark talked to June. When a fight broke out nearby, Mark and Alexa decided to leave. Mark explained that June was the daughter of a co-worker of his who died. Alexa leaned in and kissed him and went home with him. Mark woke up and had a flash of Petey collapsing. He got out of bed and retrieved Petey's phone and the battery. He turned the phone back on and answered it when it rang. He told the person on the other side that he was a friend of Petey and wanted to understand. They arranged to meet at Ganz College. When he got there, Asal Reghabi asked if he'd come alone. He said he had and he used to work at Ganz, which she knew. She told him to come with her.[10] Asal led Mark to a more secluded area, where she told him she'd put the chip in his head and was the only person who could deactivate it. When he stood by his decision to sever, she asked if he ever thought about his innie and how his innie felt about it. Graner came in and told Mark they worked together at Lumon. Before Graner could question him further, Asal came up behind him and hit him with a bat, killing him. Then she had Mark help her move the body. She told him Graner was the head of security at Lumon and gave Mark his key card and had Mark give her Petey's phone. Then she told Mark to go home and get rid of his clothes. Mark collected his clothes in a trash bag. Alexa found him and knew he'd left in the middle of the night. He told her he just felt the need to go for a drive because their relationship was kind of a big deal for him. The next morning, Mark put the trash bag in his outdoor trash can and took the key card with him to work, hiding it in his pocket. When he got to the severed floor, he was surprised to have Milchick greet him. Milchick escorted him to MDR, which now had a door that required a key card to open. Milchick denied that they were trapped. Later that day, Milchick brought in a cart for a Music Dance Experience to celebrate Helly getting to 75%. When Irving pointed out that she was only at 73%, Milchick said they all needed something nice. He put the music on and all of them except Dylan started dancing. The Music Dance Experience abruptly ended when Dylan lunged at Milchick, knocking him over and biting him. Once Milchick left, Dylan explained that he'd been woken up outside Lumon. Helly realized they could do that for themselves and Mark showed them the key card he'd found in his pocket, which he thought was Graner's. They used it to leave MDR. Dylan stayed behind to distract Milchick if he came back. Once they were out, Irving left to go to O&D to check on Burt while Mark and Helly went to the security office. There, they found a binder that had a page about the Overtime Contingency. Helly ripped it out and the left when they saw Cobel coming down an elevator to the floor. Back in MDR, Helly and Mark told Dylan what they'd found. He offered to stay behind at the end of the work day to be the one to activate the OTC. Despite it being meant for two people, he insisted he could do it. When Irving returned, escorted by Milchick, he told them they should burn Lumon to the ground. At home, Mark was drinking when Alexa came over to get her phone, which she'd left there. He tried to assure her he was ready for a relationship, though she didn't believe him. He tried to prove it by ripping up a picture of Gemma, but Alexa left anyway. Once Alexa was gone, Mark gathered the pieces of the picture and taped it back together.[11] Mark, Dylan, Helly, and Irving prepared their plan to activate their innie selves while outside Lumon. This involved pushing to meet their quota, which allowed one of them to have a waffle party. When Helly finished the Siena file, Mark met with Cobel, who celebrated their success, and told her the waffle party would go to Dylan. She told him to report to Wellness for a session before returning to MDR. When he got there, he learned that Ms. Casey had been fired and that her life had consisted of mostly half-hour wellness sessions, which made the day she spent watching Helly the longest she'd ever been awake for and the highlight of her life. She then read him facts about his outie. Mark went back to MDR and told the others about his session and Ms. Casey being fired. He asked if they were sure about their plan, but before they could answer, Milchick came in with their pre-waffle party egg bar social, which they enjoyed. At the party, Mark admitted to Helly that he was scared of getting caught. He just hoped that he had things he cared about on the outside. The party was abruptly ended when Milchick left to attend to a management issue. Before leaving for the day, Mark, Helly, Irving, and Dylan talked over what Dylan would do. Mark said it was important for them to be prepared to wake up in any possible situation, as they had no way of knowing what their outie would be doing. Then they needed to find someone they could trust as quickly as possible and tell them everything as they had no idea how much time they would have. Mark, Helly, and Irving then got on the elevator one at a time. Before Helly left, she stepped out of the elevator to kiss Mark just in case. Mark went home and went to Mrs. Selvig's house to invite her to a party at Ricken and Devon's. Despite being upset, she decided to go in her own car so she could leave if she wanted to. When Mark got to the party, Ricken told him the reading would start in eight minutes and was upset that Mark hadn't brought his own copy to read along. Mark then talked to Devon and said they should talk later about a life change he was pondering. Mrs. Selvig/Cobel overheard this and asked Mark about it. He said he was thinking about quitting because he didn't think he needed severance anymore. Cobel encouraged him to do it, to get away from Lumon.[12] When Mark's Innie was activated, he looked around and tried to figure out where he was. Throughs some conversations, he figured out that Devon was his sister and Ricken his brother-in-law. He told Ricken how much his book meant to him, though Ricken believed he was being sarcastic. Finally, during a reflection break, Mark was able to talk to Devon. Devon suggested going to reporters instead of the police because of Lumon's influence. They had to be careful who they talked to. Mark then remembered to ask why Cobel was there. When he described her, Devon realized she's the woman Devon knew as Mrs. Selvig. Since she had left Eleanor with her, she immediately panicked and went to find her. They searched the house and Mark found her in a room, safe in her car seat. Also in the room, Mark found a picture of himself with Gemma, whom he recognized as Ms. Casey. He took it and ran into the living room, telling Devon she was alive just as his Innie was deactivated.[13] Outie Mark woke up and learned from Devon and Ricken what he'd said. Ricken believed that Mark's comment referred to Eleanor and Mark said he was sure of that as well. Devon was less sure, but went along with them. Shortly thereafter, Milchick arrived, saying he imagined Mark was confused and wanted to answer his questions. He explained what had happened and said he wanted Mark to return to work on Monday. The next morning, Mark had breakfast at Pip's with Devon, where he told her he was going to quit. She asked if he was sure he didn't want to be sure what his innie meant, but he insisted Mark was talking about Eleanor, because he'd seen and identified Gemma's body. He was upset by Devon's assertion that Gemma's death affected her as well and left. Milchick came to his place that night with a gift basket and the offer of a 20% raise for him to return to work. He reminded Mark that he'd undergone the severance procedure to escape the pain of losing Gemma and told him that innie Mark was free of that pain.[14] Mark returned to MDR only to find that the rest of his team was gone and three new refiners: Mark Wilkins, Gwendolyn Y., and Dario Rossi, had been brought in to replace them. Mark refused to accept Milchick's insistence that the others didn't want to return and tried to sabotage the new refiners. He distracted Milchick and ran to Milchick's office, where he used the speaker to appeal directly to the board to bring his team back. Milchick found him and escorted him to the elevator. When he returned to work, his team came in behind him to his delight. Milchick called them all to the new, improved Break Room, where he showed them a video about the uprising and explained that they, not their outies, had a choice to stay or leave. He gave them until the end of the day to decide. Mark told Helly about his desire to find out where Ms. Casey was, as he believed he was his outie's wife and they both decided to stay. As they sat down to get to work, Irving and Dylan joined them, having also decided to stay.[4] Wanting to find out what really happened to Ms. Casey, Mark and Helly made posters with a drawing of her face and made copies to show people from other departments. They took theirs to the goat room, where they found a tunnel to a back room. They crawled through and found a room full of goats. They were confronted by Lorne, who denied making use of the Wellness department and rang a bell, summoning the other employees, who surrounded Mark and Helly. When Helly held up the poster and explained that they were looking for her, Lorne said they decided they were going to send a courier to tell Milchick what they were doing. Mark said they might kill Ms. Casey if they found out and he worried about it happening to others if they stood by and let it happen to Ms. Casey. The goat wranglers decided to let them go without intervening after they showed they didn't have pouches on their bellies. Outside work, Mark counted the seconds it took to get from his car to the elevator to the severed floor. Then he went home and he and Devon tried to figure out how to burn an afterimage onto his cornea that would stay long enough for his innie to see it. He tested this out in his car, but when Asal Reghabi found him, she told him it wouldn't work because the switch dilated his pupils for a second. She told him that the only way to get information in and out of Lumon was reintegration. He was reluctant until she told him his wife was still alive as of the last time Asal saw her. Asal started the reintegration process, showing him the two waves that represented the two halves of him and how he'd make them one again. As she worked, she asked him questions, first about his outie life, but then also about his work at Lumon. He struggled to answer the questions as the waves merged until finally, he remembered waking up at Lumon for the first time with Petey's voice welcoming him.[2] Irving woke up one day in a frozen tundra. He soon met up with Helly, Mark, and Dylan. They found a television, which played a video that explained that they were on a corporate retreat that would last two days, during which they would traverse the terrain of Dieter Eagan National Forest. The answer to the question of who Dieter was is in the fourth appendix of the compliance handbook, which was forbidden on the severed floor. They would follow Kier's path in the forest, which is where he first tamed the four tempers, and they would have help along the way. They saw what that help was when they spotted a figure that looked like Mark across the way pointing them in the right direction. With no other option, they followed his directions. Next, they came across a figure that looked like Helly and they followed her directions to a cave containing the fourth appendix. Helly started reading it and it told the story of Kier and Dieter's journey. They continued walking, following that path. When Irving noticed Mark and Helly talking privately, he asked Mark about it. He admitted he didn't trust Helly because her story of what she saw outside didn't add up. Mark brushed off his concern. As they continued walking, they found a dead animal. Irving suggested eating it because they didn't know if there would be food waiting for them whoever they were going, but they decided not to. Irving admitted that he didn't trust Lumon to take care of them, which caused an argument. Finally, they reached a waterfall and Milchick appeared to tell them they'd followed Kier and Dieter's path and reached Woe's Hollow. He led them to their tents, where Miss Huang had prepared a grill for them to cook their meat. He also told them all about the amenities.Then he read them more of Keir and Dieter's story, ending with Dieter's death. Helly and Mark began laughing and Milchick had their marshmallows thrown into the fire before leaving. Once he was gone, Irving again pestered Helly with questions about what she'd seen on the outside. Helly said he was just upset because he would never see Burt again. Irving took his torch and walked into the forest alone while the rest of them went to bed. Mark went into Helly's tent and they had sex. When they were done, Mark asked her about her outie. She only told him she was someone she didn't like, which made her feel ashamed. While they were talking, Mark glitched for a second, but told her he was okay. The next morning, Mark learned that Irving hadn't come back to the camp the night before and Helly was also missing. They heard yelling and found Irving threatening to drown Helly, saying she wasn't really Helly, but an Eagan. After dunking her under the water a few times, Helly told "Seth" to do it already and Milchick called for someone to remove the Glasgow block. Helly switched back to her innie self and Milchick told Irving he was fired. Dylan apologized for not believing Irving, but Milchick ordered them to cease communication. Then he had Irving walk into the forest and told him it would be like he never existed.[15] With the first phase of reintegration complete, Mark waited for Asal to say they could start the next part. In the meantime, he showed some signs of reintegration sickness and took multiple medications. Asal also began staying with him. When Mark returned to work, he, Helly, and Dylan were told Irving wouldn't be coming back. He also to them that Helena Eagan had come to work among them to learn their grievances like Kier had done before her. When they returned to MDR, they found all traces of Irving erased, including his work station. Dylan asked for a funeral and Milchick agreed to arrange it while they worked on their files. At the funeral, Milchick gave them a few seconds to remember Irving and had Dylan give a eulogy. Then he gave them a melon shaped like Irving's head to enjoy. Mark left soon after that and Helly followed him. He admitted that he didn't trust that she was Helly and couldn't continue the search for Ms. Casey because Lumon knew about it and was watching everything they did. Mark went back to MDR, where he worked on Cold Harbor until he got it to 85% completion. When he saw it was 5:54, he got up and left for the day. Milchick stopped the elevator and got on. He asked if the funeral had helped Mark and Mark placated him by saying yes and agreeing to put everything behind them. Milchick finally let Mark leave. Back at home, Mark found Asal in his basement, looking through Gemma's things for something to rattle his memories. He asked when they could continue the process and she said possibly the next day. When they came across a box of cremated remains, Mark asked who it was. Asal told him Lumon had someone at the morgue on payroll. When he asked if they were hurting Gemma, Asal admitted she didn't know. Mark went to go upstairs, but had flashes of memories of Ms. Casey reading facts about his outie to him during a wellness session. Then he remembered being in a hall at Lumon and seeing Ms. Casey there.[16] Mark told Asal what he'd seen and asked what Lumon was doing to her. Asal said she didn't know but she knew that Gemma was essential to them. Mark said that he'd spent a lot of time bargaining after Gemma's death, thinking about things he would change to have more time with her and was not facing that being a real possibility. At work, Dylan told Mark and Helly about a map he'd found in the break room. They were upset with him for leaving it there. Helly said she had a hall pass and offered to use it to go get the map. Mark later told Helly about Milchick threatening him in the elevator. Helly felt it was part of a plan to drive a wedge between them to keep them from working together. Mark also confessed that he'd had sex with Helly's outie believing she was Helly. Helly said it was okay, that he thought it was her, but then left. When she returned, she told Mark that it sucked that Helena got to have sex with him and she didn't. He offered to describe it to her, but she said she didn't want Helena's memory. She wanted her own. They slipped away and found an empty room, where they had sex. On the way back to MDR, Helly asked Mark if it was different with her. Mark responded by pressing her against the wall and kissing her. When he pulled back, she told him he was bleeding. They went to Miss Huang, who had Mark hold pressure on his nose and tried to figure out the cause. The bleeding quickly stopped. While Miss Huang took his blood pressure, Mark flashed between his life at Lumon and his life outside. When he settled, he found himself in his basement. Asal said it was a good sign that he felt he'd just been at Lumon, as it was a sign that his two selves were merging. She had the idea to flood his chip to make the process faster, but when she tried to do that, Mark decided he'd had enough and refused to allow it. He left to go get some food. While he was at a restaurant, Helena Eagan approached him and talked to him about his work and the Overtime Contingency he'd experienced. This led Mark to believe that Lumon was onto him and he rushed home and told Asal he wanted to continue right away. Asal opened his head and flooded his chip. He immediately felt the effects. When his sister knocked on the door, Asal told him not to answer, but he ignored her, saying his sister could see his car in the driveway and knew he was home. Devon said she had an idea for another way to get a message into Lumon. Mark told her he was trying something else, but refused to tell her what it was. He then had more flashes of memory and collapsed to the floor, convulsing.[17] Mark remained unconscious while Asal and Devon looked over him, making sure he was okay. Asal told Devon that Mark was on a journey. When Mark finally woke up, Devon asked where he'd gone.[3] Devon repeatedly tried calling Cobel. When Cobel finally answered, Devon told her about Mark reintegrating. Cobel had her put Mark on the phone and asked him to tell her everything.[18] They arranged a meeting with Cobel. When she showed up, Devon asked her to take them to the cabin so they could talk to Mark's innie. She said it wasn't safe and it would be better to wait until dark. She had Mark call Milchick and feign illness to explain why he wasn't coming in to work. Once it was dark, they hid Mark in the truck bed, Devon pretended to be pregnant, and Cobel drove them to the birthing retreat, where she used coded language to get them access to the cabin. Once they were there, Mark's innie activated and Devon brought him to talk to Cobel. Devon asked if he remembered the last words he said to her and he say, "She's alive."[19] Cobel asked if he'd finished Cold Harbor and when he said no, she said that was good, because it meant Gemma was still alive and they could get her out of Lumon. She was surprised when he told her he knew of the Exports Hall from Irving's drawings. She then explained to him what he would have to do in order to get Gemma out. It involved cooperation between him and his outie, so they played a message his outie had recorded for him and waited while the two of them had a back and forth conversation. When they couldn't agree, as innie Mark wasn't convinced he would benefit as much as his outie, Cobel asked to speak to innie Mark alone. She told him that the numbers were his wife and every filed he'd completed created a new innie for her. Cold Harbor was the last of those and after he completed it, he'd be done at Lumon as he'd served his purpose. She also told him that he and Helly wouldn't have a happy ending because he meant nothing to Helena. Mark responded by telling Devon and Cobel to warn Mark against activating him again before his next shift at Lumon. Innie Mark next woke up at Lumon. When he got to MDR, he found a note congratulating him for completing his 25th file. He and Helly went to the work stations and he explained to her what he'd learned about Gemma. She wasn't sure if they could trust Cobel, but he said she seemed different. When Mark got to the end of his file, Helly slipped him the directions and they watched as the lights went out and a performance celebrating his success started. When Mark said he needed to leave, so he could rescue Gemma, Helly created a distraction by stealing Milchick's radio. Mark ran out of MDR and made his way to the testing floor. He found a door, but was unable to open it. His banging on the door was heard by Drummond, who attacked Mark. Lorne saved Mark by putting a captive bolt pistol to Drummond's head, ready to kill him. Mark stopped her and ended up taking Drummond with him to lead him to the testing floor. In the elevator, he told Drummond to lead him to Gemma, but when his outie activated, his body tensed and he fired the gun, killing Drummond. Mark, now covered in Drummond's blood, went to find Gemma. He found the Cold Harbor room and used his blood-soaked tie to get into the room. There, he found Gemma's new innie. He asked her to trust him and led her out of the room, which activated her outie. The two of them ran back to the elevator together, where they hugged and kissed. They were kissed when her Ms. Casey innie and his innie activated, creating an awkward situation for them. Mark then led Gemma to the exit door and told her to do through. Once she did, her outie activated and she called for Mark to come with her. He hesitated and when Helly appeared at the other end of the hallway, he ignored Gemma's begging and went to Helly. The two of them took off down the hallway, running hand in hand.[5] Personality[] Outie Mark, even two years on, still struggles with the grief of losing his wife, drinking heavily most nights to dissociate from his depression. Gemma's death has incited self-destructive and spiteful habits in Mark, as he often tries to avoid other people and even unintentionally sabotages his relationships due to his avoidant personality. His grief was so great that Mark believed becoming severed would act as a way to heal, but in truth, Mark was simply cutting his lifespan in half and still living with the same pain every day. Mark is also ignorant and callous in his views of the Severance procedure and its ethics. He never actually acknowledged his Innie as his own person and even disregarded his relationship with Helly R. when attempting to enlist his help against Lumon. In his own words, Mark isn't a bad person, but he's not a nice person. For most of his two years at Lumon, Innie Mark was a content, hardworking Lumon employee who abided by the company's ethos and beliefs dilligently. A change began when Petey vanished from Lumon without warning, inspiring Mark to begin questioning Lumon's shady activities, though he wasn't fully swayed until Helly R. came into existence on the severed floor. Slowly, Helly challenged the by-the-book life Mark had been living until he began to openly question the mysterious nature of their work for Lumon, culminating in him joining MDR to hijack the Overtime Contingency and spread word to the outside. However, Mark's spirit was crushed in the aftermath of the ORTBO and Helena's impersonation of Helly, causing him to become anti-social and indifferent to Irving's death and his blossoming romance with Helly. The two were able to reconnect and soon fell in love, though it was prevented from becoming something more as Mark was thrown into his Outie's plan to infiltrate Lumon and rescue Gemma from captivity, facing the difficult revelation that he and all the other Innies would die after she was freed and the company exposed. After seeing his Outie's indifference to his own life and Cobel's confession that Lumon would dispose of the Innies regardless, Mark refused to help them and wanted to live with Helly, a future they both quietly accepted was impossible. Realizing that he was finished either way, Mark decided to help and, after almost being killed in the process, saved Gemma and led her to her freedom. Faced with non-existence and never seeing Helly again, Mark chose not to leave Lumon with Gemma, instead fleeing into the depths of Lumon with Helly in a final act of freedom. Physical Description[] Mark is a middle aged man with white skin and brown eyes. He has dark brown hair that is straight, which he keeps short in the front and longer in the back. He often looks tired or hung over, due to his late night wine habit. He dresses formally for work, often in a suit, but is always in casual clothing outside of work, usually jeans and long sleeved shirts. Relationships[] Gemma Scout[] Mark and Gemma had a deeply special and romantic marriage for four years. For all intents and purposes, they were perfect for each other. The couple enjoyed a quiet and loving life together as Gemma, in Devon's words, made Mark wonderful and less of a bitter person. Their marriage was strained after Gemma's tragic miscarriage and thrice-failed IVF treatments, causing Mark to start slowly ignoring her and avoid social events together. When Gemma was believed to have died in a car accident, Mark's immense grief made him destroy himself, eventually choosing to undergo the severance procedure in a desperate attempt to escape his agony. Two years on from her death, Mark still grieved Gemma deeply, drinking heavily almost every night and even barring himself from a potential new relationship due to not healing properly. When Mark ultimately discovered that she was alive on the severed floor, he was willing to do anything to reunite with her, agreeing to the reintegration procedure immediately. Helly R.[] Dylan G.[] Irving B.[] Quotes[] | Notes and Trivia[] - Mark lives in Baird Creek in Lumon-subsidized housing in the city of Kier. - His employee number is 4502, although his employee code on his ID badge reads 08-927.[7] - Mark has worked at Lumon for approximately two years, since just after his wife allegedly died. - Mark S. received a glass cube portrait of himself as a reward early in his refining career for his work on the Allentown file. - The watch worn by Outie Mark is a Vostok Komandirskie 341307, and the watch worn by Innie Mark is a Bijouone B001. Both watches were supplied by Severance prop master Catherine Miller. - The word "komandirskie" in Russian translates to commander. Given that his wife taught Russian literature at Ganz College, it is likely she gifted him the watch. - The character is named after Mark Erickson, the father of Severance creator Dan Erickson. - His license was issued on April 24, 2020. - Mark drives a light-colored 1997 Volvo S90. - His kindergarten teacher was named Mrs. Lustgarten.[2] - He can parallel park in less than twenty seconds.[16] - He can roller-skate with grace.[16] - He pays all his gas and electric bills within three business days.[16] - He listens to music while shaving, but not while showering.[16] - He prefers two scoops of ice cream in a serving, but they must be the same flavor.[16] - He once captured a butterfly.[16] - He can set up a tent in under three minutes.[12] - He knows a beautiful rock from a plain one.[12] Gallery[] Promotional[] Screenshots[] Appearances[] | Season 1 | ||||| | #01 | "Good News About Hell" | #04 | "The You You Are" | #07 | "Defiant Jazz" | | #02 | "Half Loop" | #05 | "The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design" | #08 | "What's for Dinner?" | | #03 | "In Perpetuity" | #06 | "Hide and Seek" | #09 | "The We We Are" | | Season 2 | ||||| | #01 | "Hello, Ms. Cobel" | #05 | "Trojan's Horse" | #09 | "The After Hours" | | #02 | "Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig" | #06 | "Attila" | #10 | "Cold Harbor" | | #03 | "Who Is Alive?" | #07 | "Chikhai Bardo" | || | #04 | "Woe's Hollow" | #08 | "Sweet Vitriol" (voice) | References[] - ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 Good News About Hell, 1x01 - ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 Who Is Alive?, 2x03 - ↑ 3.0 3.1 Chikhai Bardo, 2x07 - ↑ 4.0 4.1 Hello, Ms. Cobel, 2x01 - ↑ 5.0 5.1 Cold Harbor, 2x10 - ↑ 6.0 6.1 In Perpetuity, 1x03 - ↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 Half Loop, 1x02 - ↑ The You You Are, 1x04 - ↑ The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design, 1x05 - ↑ Hide and Seek, 1x06 - ↑ Defiant Jazz, 1x07 - ↑ 12.0 12.1 12.2 What's for Dinner?, 1x08 - ↑ The We We Are, 1x09 - ↑ Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig, 2x02 - ↑ Woe's Hollow, 2x04 - ↑ 16.0 16.1 16.2 16.3 16.4 16.5 16.6 Trojan's Horse, 2x05 - ↑ Attila, 2x06 - ↑ Sweet Vitriol, 2x08 - ↑ The After Hours, 2x09


--- ['Severance' Season 1 Recap: What Happened to Innies Ahead of Season 2] ---
SPOILER ALERT: This story contains spoilers for Season 1 of “Severance,” streaming on Apple TV+. A recap is available upon request. “Severance” returns on Apple TV+ this Friday, but it’s been nearly three years since the first season of the sci-fi workplace thriller ended on a brutal cliffhanger. So, before you head back into the office Jan. 17, here are some things you should remember from Season 1. If you’re looking to freshen up on just the finale episode, skip to the end. Innies and Outies “Severance” follows Mark Scout (Adam Scott), a man who is grieving the loss of his wife Gemma outside of the office — and who is blissfully unaware he has a wife inside the office. That’s because he works at the mysterious Lumon Industries and underwent an experimental and controversial “severance” procedure, essentially splitting himself into two different people: his innie and his outie. When severed people enter the Lumon office, they have no memory of their life outside of work. Likewise, outies know they work at Lumon, but they have no memory of their 9-5, including their co-workers. Outie Mark is depressed and spends most of his nights alone, in the dark. Innie Mark is chipper, spending his days “refining macrodata” (neither his innie nor his outie knows exactly what that means beyond sorting numbers into different boxes in a computer program). At the start of the series, Mark has been promoted to department head after the sudden departure of his colleague, Petey. He works alongside Helly R. (Britt Lower), Irving B. (John Turturro) and Dylan G. (Zach Cherry) on the Severed Floor of Lumon, which is overseen by non-severed managers Harmony Cobel (Patricia Arquette) and Seth Milchick (Tramell Tillman). Every so often, the innies are provided with therapeutic wellness sessions with Ms. Casey (Dichen Lachman), who tells them facts about their outies. Popular on Variety Petey After work one day, Outie Mark is approached by an unfamiliar man named Petey (Yul Vazquez), who claims to have worked closely with him at Lumon. Petey reveals he has undergone “reintegration,” an untested process meant to reverse the severance procedure, allowing him to merge his innie and outie and access both his work and personal memories. He tells Mark that Lumon is up to some shady stuff, and severance is not what it seems. He gives Mark information he gathered inside Lumon that opens his eyes to the company’s nefarious behavior. Petey fears he is being watched, so for his own innie’s sake, Mark takes Petey into his home to hide out. He suffers from severe side effects of the reintegration process, including debilitating headaches and hallucinations. Midway through the season, he dies due to the sickness. Ms. Cobel and Mrs. Selvig Things start to get worrisome when it’s revealed that Ms. Cobel is surveilling Mark outside of work, too. While Cobel is not severed, she lives a double life outside of Lumon as Mrs. Selvig, Mark’s next-door neighbor and the doula to his sister, Devon (Jen Tullock). After Petey dies, she sneaks into his funeral to covertly cut open his head and retrieve the severance implant. Helly’s Struggles The series starts on Helly’s first day working at Lumon. Unlike her more senior colleagues Mark (who believes his work is meaningful), Irving (a scholar of Lumon’s rules and history) and Dylan (obsessed with acquiring company perks), Helly wants out. In the first few episodes of the show, she constantly attempts to escape the office. She tries to send messages to her outie by writing words on her body, but they are intercepted by Lumon. She files a formal resignation request, but her outie denies it. And she even attempts to end her life by hanging herself in the elevator. Another Case for Severance Other than it being advertised to potential employees as a lifestyle choice (come shut off your brain for half the day and never work!), severance is justified by Lumon claiming its severed workers deal with highly classified information. It’s a way of guaranteeing that Lumon secrets stay within the confines of the office. But there are other uses for the severance procedure as well, as is the case with Gabby Arteta (Nora Dale), the wife of a pro-severance senator, who used the severance technology to compartmentalize (and completely forget about) her pregnancy. Irving <3 Burt Things get spicy in the office when the Macrodata Refinement department crosses paths with another group of severed workers over at Optics and Design. There are rules against fraternizing with other departments, something Irving would typically care about. But instead, he’s smitten by Burt G. (Christopher Walken), who similarly has an appreciation for the paintings hanging throughout Lumon’s halls. The two forge a strictly forbidden office romance, and suddenly Burt is “permanently retired” (i.e. his innie essentially dies). This radicalizes Irving. Meanwhile, he keeps having hallucinations at work of a black paint-like liquid dripping from the ceiling. Exploring Lumon In the third episode, Mark discovers a map of the office sketched by Petey, hidden behind a framed photo. As skepticism and curiosity grows amongst the innies, Mark and Helly set out to explore the long, white halls of Lumon. They discover a room filled with baby goats, and a man wearing a lab coat who warns, “They’re not ready yet!” Among the other known places in Lumon are the Break Room, which breaks the minds and spirits of innies as they repeatedly read an apology script as punishment for misbehavior; Optics and Design, where Burt works; the administration offices, where Ms. Cobel and Mr. Milchick are stationed; and the Wellness Center, with Ms. Casey. There is also the Perpetuity Wing, which serves as a Lumon museum of sorts. Separate from the Severed Floor is the Testing Floor, where it is implied that Lumon runs experiments on the innies and tinkers with their severance chips. No character is seen entering the Testing Floor except for Ms. Casey. The Overtime Contingency Things take a sharp turn in Episode 6, when Dylan’s innie suddenly wakes up at home, inside his outie body. Innie Dylan had misplaced some type of informational card from the Optics and Design office, so Mr. Milchick has come to his house after work hours to find out where he put it. This is possible due to the Overtime Contingency, an emergency process that allows innies to be woken up in the outside world. Innie Dylan’s world is shaken when a young child barges into the room, hugging him and yelling “Daddy!” Now that Innie Dylan knows he has a son back home, it’s all he can focus on at work. Reghabi and the Underground Resistance Toward the end of the season, Mark is led toward Reghabi (Karen Aldridge), an ex-Lumon scientist who was integral to the creation of severance technology but is now leading an underground resistance against the company. She is the one who performed the reintegration procedure on Petey. Mark meets Reghabi in a dark building in the middle of the night, where he is discovered by Doug Graner (Michael Cumpsty), head of security on the Severed Floor. To Mark’s shock, Reghabi murders Graner and gives Mark his all-access security card to take into the office. She promises him that his innie will know what to do with it. Gemma = Ms. Casey One of the series’ most jaw-dropping revelations comes at the end of Episode 7, as Mark is taping back together a photo of his late wife, which he had previously torn up. As Outie Mark stares longingly at a photo of his wife Gemma, we recognize that very same woman (who is said to have died in a car accident) as Lumon’s very own Ms. Casey. In the following episode, Ms. Casey informs Innie Mark that she has been fired as wellness director. She is sent to the Testing Floor. The Innie Rebellion Armed with Graner’s security card, motivation from a self-help book discovered inside the office and a whole bunch of rage, the innies devise a plot to activate the Overtime Contingency on themselves. The plan is for Dylan to stay back and sneak into the security office so he can wake up Mark, Helly and Irving in the outside world, where they can share the truth about Lumon. Leading up to the big rebellion, Helly and Mark share a kiss. Ms. Cobel is fired for her ongoing failure to control the innies. And Dylan is treated to the coveted “waffle party” perk, which involves a freaky sexual performance in a replica of Lumon founder Kier Eagan’s house. When the innies wake up in their outie bodies after Dylan starts the Overtime Contingency, they find themselves in shocking situations. Mark is at a party at his sister’s house featuring a reading from the innies’ favorite self-help book, which is written by her husband, Mark’s brother-in-law Ricken (Michael Chernus). He recognizes Ms. Cobel at the party (though in this setting, she is Mrs. Selvig). Irving awakens in his house surrounded by dozens of black canvases all depicting the same scene — he has been repeatedly painting the hallway to the Testing Floor, despite never consciously visiting it. In his house, he finds a dog, military medals and files containing information about past and present Lumon employees, including Burt’s home address. Helly finds herself at the Eagan family gala, where she discovers her outie is Helena Eagan, daughter of Lumon CEO Jame Eagan. She agreed to get severed as part of a public relations campaign, to present the procedure as both safe and ethical. Innie Mark tips Ms. Cobel off about his identity by calling her Ms. Cobel, rather than Mrs. Selvig. Irving gets in the car and races to Burt’s house, only to discover he is married to another man. Mark tells his sister Devon he is currently in innie mode and that there is shady stuff going on at Lumon. She tells him about Gemma, his outie’s dead wife. Helly gets put on stage in front of the Lumon board and other gala attendees, where she reveals the truth about her family’s company: “We’re prisoners!” And Mark finds a photo of him and Gemma, recognizing her as Ms. Casey. He rushes into the living room of his sister’s party and screams, “She’s alive!” Immediately after, Mr. Milchick breaks into the security office and tackles Dylan, shutting off the Overtime Contingency. The innies zap back into outies. Season 1 cuts to black.
