=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Heinrich Vogl - Wikipedia]
His performance in the role caused fellow singer Lilli Lehmann to comment that he was born for the part and that his Loge had never been equalled. His debut at the Metropolitan Opera was in the title role of Lohengrin on 1 January 1890; he also sang Loge, Siegmund, the title role of Tannhäuser, Tristan in Tristan und Isolde, and Siegfried in both Siegfried and Götterdämmerung at the Met.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heinrich_Vogl

[125 Moments: 035 Metropolitan Opera | Chicago Symphony Orchestra]
Wagner’s Lohengrin (sung in Italian) was the first opera presented in collaboration with the Chicago Orchestra and the Metropolitan Opera on November 9, 1891, at the Auditorium Theatre.
URL: https://cso.org/experience/article/8479/125-moments-035-metropolitan-opera

[The Met’s Golden Age in the Gilded Age: 1891-1903]
The Metropolitan Opera during a ... the light lyric repertoire in Paris and London. But it was the debut of Polish tenor Jean de Reszke as Roméo that had the greatest impact on the destiny of the company....
URL: https://www.taminoautographs.com/blogs/autograph-blog/the-met-s-golden-age-in-the-gilded-age-1891-1903

[Heinrich Vogl (1845-1900) :: museum-digital]
His performance in the role caused fellow singer Lilli Lehmann to comment that he was born for the part and that his Loge had never been equalled. His debut at the Metropolitan Opera was in the title role of Lohengrin on January 1, 1890, and he also sang Loge, Siegmund, the title role of Tannhäuser, Tristan in Tristan und Isolde, and Siegfried in both Siegfried and Götterdämmerung at the Met.
URL: https://global.museum-digital.org/resolver/actor/gnd/118627503

[Metropolitan Opera Archives]
Lohengrin received 9 performances this season. Review 1: Review in The New York Times METROPOLITAN OPERA HOUSE. Wagner's "Lohengrin" was performed at the Metropolitan Opera House last evening for the first time this season. It served to introduce Herr Heinrich Vogl, one of the tenors of the company, and a Wagner singer of experience and repute.
URL: https://archives.metopera.org/MetOperaSearch/record.jsp?dockey=0358006


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Heinrich Vogl - Wikipedia] ---
Heinrich Vogl (15 January 1845 – 21 April 1900) was a German operatic heldentenor.

He played the role of Loge in Richard Wagner's Das Rheingold at Munich Court Opera on 22 September 1869, with his wife, Therese Vogl, playing the role of Wellgunde. He also played the role of Siegmund in Wagner's Die Walküre, also at Munich, on 26 June 1870.  Therese Vogl played the role of Siegmund's sister and lover Sieglinde in the same performance.  His Munich debut was as Max in Weber's Der Freischütz.  He sang at Bayreuth, Berlin, London and the Metropolitan Opera in New York City.  At Bayreuth, he played the role of Loge in the first complete Ring cycle on 13 August 1876.
His performance in the role caused fellow singer Lilli Lehmann to comment that he was born for the part and that his Loge had never been equalled.  His debut at the Metropolitan Opera was in the title role of Lohengrin on 1 January 1890; he also sang Loge, Siegmund, the title role of Tannhäuser, Tristan in Tristan und Isolde, and Siegfried in both Siegfried and Götterdämmerung at the Met.  Heinrich Vogl was also the first performer to play the roles of Loge and Siegfried in London, which he did in the first Ring cycle in London at Her Majesty's Theatre, with Anton Seidl conducting and his wife playing the role of Brünnhilde.
His Wagner repertoire included all the leading tenor roles except Walther in Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg, for which Wagner rejected him for the 1868 premiere on the grounds that, at the age of 23, Vogl was "totally incompetent".  He and his wife Therese were among the first performers to sing the lead roles in Tristan und Isolde, and were highly regarded in these roles.  His non-Wagner roles included the title role in Verdi's Otello, Canio in Leoncavallo's Pagliacci, Aeneas in Berlioz's Les Troyens and the title role of Berlioz's Benvenuto Cellini.  He was known for his vocal power and stamina, which allowed him to perform Loge, Siegmund and both Siegfrieds from Wagner's Ring cycle on consecutive evenings multiple times.
Heinrich Vogl is buried beside his wife in Tutzing, Bavaria.


--- [125 Moments: 035 Metropolitan Opera | Chicago Symphony Orchestra] ---
Wagner’s Lohengrin (sung in Italian) was the first opera presented in collaboration with the Chicago Orchestra and the Metropolitan Opera on November 9, 1891, at the Auditorium Theatre. Less than a month after its inaugural concerts, the Chicago Orchestra was in the pit at the Auditorium Theatre for performances by the Metropolitan Opera Company (under the auspices of the Abbey-Grau Company) from November 9 until December 12, 1891. Conducting duties were shared by Auguste Vianesi and Louis Saar, the Orchestra’s first guest conductors. The singers who appeared were among the most famous of the day, including sopranos Emma Albani, Lilli Lehmann and Marie Van Zandt, and mezzo-soprano Sofia Scalchi. During the residency, several prominent singers made their U.S. debuts, including soprano Emma Eames, tenor Jean de Reszke, baritones Edoardo Camera and Jean Martapoura and basses Edouard de Reszke and Jules Vinche. A staggering number of operas were performed, including Bellini’s Norma and La sonnambula; Flotow’s Martha; Gluck’s Orpheus and Eurydice; Gounod’s Faust and Romeo and Juliet; Mascagni’s Cavalleria rusticana; Meyerbeer’s Dinorah and Les Huguenots; Mozart’s Don Giovanni; Thomas’s Mignon; Verdi’s Aida, Rigoletto, and act 1 of La traviata; and Wagner’s Lohengrin. The residency also included the Metropolitan Opera Company’s first performance of Verdi’s Otello, on November 23.* The cast included Jean de Reszke in the title role, Albani as Desdemona and Camera as Iago. During Theodore Thomas’s tenure as music director, the Metropolitan returned in March 1894, February-April 1897, November 1898 and November 1899. * There only had been four previous performances of Otello (all with tenor Francesco Tamagno, who had created the title role at La Scala on February 5, 1887) in Chicago, given under the auspices of Henry Abbey’s Grand Italian Opera Company on January 2 and 3, and March 12 and 14, 1890 (Abbey was not the official impresario at the Metropolitan that season). The Grand Italian Opera Company also gave three performances (also with Tamagno) at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York on March 24, 29 and April 4, 1890, while the resident German company was on tour. Chicago Symphony Orchestra: 125 Moments was created to celebrate the ensemble’s 125th season in 2015-16 and gathered significant events, illustrated with imagery and artifacts from the collections of the Rosenthal Archives. This article also appears here.


--- [The Met’s Golden Age in the Gilded Age: 1891-1903] ---
No content


--- [Heinrich Vogl (1845-1900) :: museum-digital] ---
"Heinrich Vogl (January 15, 1845 – April 21, 1900) was a German operatic heldentenor. He played the role of Loge in Richard Wagner´s Das Rheingold at Munich Court Opera on September 22, 1869, with his wife, Therese Vogl, playing the role of Wellgunde. He also played the role of Siegmund in Wagner´s Die Walküre, also at Munich, on June 26, 1870. Therese Vogl played the role of Siegmund´s sister and lover Sieglinde in the same performance. His Munich debut was as Max in Weber´s Der Freischütz. He sang at Bayreuth, Berlin, London and the Metropolitan Opera in New York City. At Bayreuth, he played the role of Loge in the first complete Ring cycle on August 13, 1876. His performance in the role caused fellow singer Lilli Lehmann to comment that he was born for the part and that his Loge had never been equalled. His debut at the Metropolitan Opera was in the title role of Lohengrin on January 1, 1890, and he also sang Loge, Siegmund, the title role of Tannhäuser, Tristan in Tristan und Isolde, and Siegfried in both Siegfried and Götterdämmerung at the Met. Heinrich Vogl was also the first performer to play the roles of Loge and Siegfried in London, which he did in the first Ring cycle in London at Her Majesty´s Theatre, with Anton Seidl conducting and his wife playing the role of Brünnhilde." - (en.wikipedia.org 08.03.2020) en


--- [Metropolitan Opera Archives] ---
Key Word Search Multi-Field Search Browse Repertory Report Performers Report Contacts Met Opera Website Lohengrin Metropolitan Opera House, Wed, January 1, 1890 Debut : Heinrich Vogl Lohengrin (49) Richard Wagner | Richard Wagner - Lohengrin - Heinrich Vogl [Debut] - Elsa - Sophie Wiesner - Ortrud - Charlotte Huhn - Telramund - Theodore Reichmann - King Heinrich - Conrad Behrens - Herald - Joseph Beck - Conductor - Walter Damrosch - Director - Theodore Habelmann - Set Designer - Charles Fox, Jr. - Set Designer - William Schaeffer - Set Designer - Gaspar Maeder - Set Designer - Mr. Thompson - Costume Designer - D. Ascoli - Costume Designer - Henry Dazian Lohengrin received 9 performances this season. Review 1: Review in The New York Times METROPOLITAN OPERA HOUSE. Wagner's "Lohengrin" was performed at the Metropolitan Opera House last evening for the first time this season. It served to introduce Herr Heinrich Vogl, one of the tenors of the company, and a Wagner singer of experience and repute. He has been suffering from sickness since his arrival in America, and cannot fairly be said to be at his best yet. Nevertheless he made a favorable impression last evening and bids fair to become a favorite with this public. Herr Vogl is far from being a handsome man, but his bearing is manly and dignified. His voice shows some evidence of the wear and tear of long service in the unfavorably-constructed vocal measures of the great German master. Yet it is a good voice, containing many beautiful tones, and of agreeable general quality. The singer uses it with no little judgment, making effective use of its better notes, and declaiming the recitative passages with the customary skill and intelligence of a German. He was beyond a doubt the most vigorous and assertive Lohengrin seen on the local stage since the palmy days of Campanini. Herr Vogl's début was not made under auspicious circumstances. In addition to his own weakened condition, Fräulein Huhn, who was the Ortrud, had a fainting fit near the end of the first act; in the second act the top of Antwerp minster folded down over the rose window, and was thereafter shaken with inward convulsions by a verdant stage carpenter who did not know enough to let it alone, and throughout the performance the nuisances in the parterre boxes, just below the entrance to the orchestra on the left of the auditorium, talked out loud, with an utter disregard of the commonest courtesy, during the entire performance. It is a pity that Ward McAllister does not teach his friends good manners, if he is acquainted with them himself. The Elsa of the evening was Fräulein Wiesner, who contrived to sing out of tune most of the time and exhibited an alarming vibrato all the time. Her unhappy habit of endeavoring to produce her upper notes as open tones sometimes leads to her sending out very disagreeable sounds. Fräulein Huhn was the Ortrud, and, under the circumstances her performance cannot be criticized. She was sick, and that was a sufficient excuse. Herr Reichmann was an excellent Telramund, declaiming his vigorous measures with fine fervor. Herr Beck was the Herald, a rôle in which he is satisfactory, and Herr Behrens was a tolerably good King. The chorus did its share of the evening's work passably. Walter Damrosch conducted and read the vorspiel much too slowly and the introduction to the third act considerably too fast. Search by season: 1889-90 Search by title: Lohengrin, Met careers - Walter Damrosch [Conductor] - Heinrich Vogl [Lohengrin] - Sophie Wiesner [Elsa] - Charlotte Huhn [Ortrud] - Theodore Reichmann [Telramund] - Conrad Behrens [King Heinrich] - Joseph Beck [Herald] - Theodore Habelmann [Director] - Charles Fox, Jr. [Set Designer] - William Schaeffer [Set Designer] - Gaspar Maeder [Set Designer] - Mr. Thompson [Set Designer] - D. Ascoli [Costume Designer] - Henry Dazian [Costume Designer]
