=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[WhatsApp to launch structured group chats with admin controls]
Apr 14, 2022 · On that front, the company today introduced its plans for a significant update to its WhatsApp messaging app that will allow users to now not only connect privately with friends and family,...
URL: https://techcrunch.com/2022/04/14/whatsapp-to-launch-communities-more-structured-groups-chats-with-admin-controls/

[WhatsApp starts to roll out Communities feature globally: What is it ...]
Nov 3, 2022 · What is WhatsApp Communities feature and how it works WhatsApp Communities feature allows users to add and manage multiple groups under a single umbrella. Community admins can reach members with important updates by sending announcements, and community members can stay connected by exploring and chatting in groups that matter to them.
URL: https://www.dnaindia.com/technology/report-whatsapp-starts-to-roll-out-communities-feature-globally-what-is-it-and-how-it-works-2998790

[WhatsApp announces Communities — and big changes to Groups]
Apr 14, 2022 · WhatsApp has officially announced Communities — a major addition to its existing group chat and broadcast list feature set. It also said there would be several changes to how groups work on ...
URL: https://mybroadband.co.za/news/smartphones/441344-whatsapp-announces-communities-and-big-changes-to-groups.html

[Sharing Our Vision for Communities on WhatsApp]
We’re also introducing new features for groups, including emoji reactions, file sharing and larger voice calls. ... We’ve started to roll out Communities on WhatsApp globally and this will be available to everyone over the next few months. We’re also launching more features that will be helpful for Communities: the ability to create in-chat polls, 32-person video calling and groups with up to 1,024 users.
URL: https://about.fb.com/news/2022/04/our-vision-for-communities-on-whatsapp/

[WhatsApp announces Communities (Update: features rolling out globally)]
If groups didn't do the trick, you can now use the new Communities on WhatsApp features. ... The new features are rolling out to users, as of May 5, 2022. WhatsApp has detailed its new communities feature coming to the app.
URL: https://www.androidauthority.com/whatsapp-communities-new-features-3153950/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [WhatsApp to launch structured group chats with admin controls] ---
Meta is throwing billions of dollars into building out the metaverse as the future of social networking, but in the near term, the tech giant is looking toward the power of messaging to connect users in a more personal way. On that front, the company today introduced its plans for a significant update to its WhatsApp messaging app that will allow users to now not only connect privately with friends and family, as before, but also participate in larger discussion groups, called Communities. These groups aim to serve as a more feature-rich replacement for people’s larger group chats with added support for tools like file sharing, 32-person group calls and emoji reactions, as well as admin tools and moderation controls, among other things. The feature has been under development for some time as the next big iteration for the WhatsApp platform, meant to capitalize on the app’s existing end-to-end encryption as well as users’ growing desire to join private communities outside of larger social platforms, like Facebook. In particular, Communities could present a challenge to other messaging apps like Telegram — which has recently become a prominent player in communications related to the Russia-Ukraine war — in addition to other private messaging platforms, like iMessage or Signal, as well as apps like GroupMe, Band, Remind and others used to communicate with groups. “It’s been clear for a while that the way we communicate online is changing,” wrote Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg, announcing the news in a post on his public Facebook profile. “Most of us use social networks and feeds to discover interesting content and stay updated. But for a deeper level of interaction, messaging has become the center of our digital lives. It’s more intimate and private, and with encryption it’s more secure too,” he added. The feature may initially lead to some comparisons with Facebook Groups, a more private networking tool on Facebook that now reaches 1.8 billion users on a monthly basis, per Facebook’s most recent public data. Similar to Groups, WhatsApp Communities would allow organizations, clubs or schools to create networks for their members to interact and share news and updates. And like Facebook Groups recently added, Communities also support the ability to host sub-groups. For example, a volunteer organization could create a sub-group discussion for those involved with a particular project, like a food drive. A parents group could host sub-groups based on their kids’ ages. A school could include sub-groups for different grades or extracurricular activities. A club could host sub-groups dedicated to planning their various events and activities. And so on. But while Facebook Groups may see some overlap with WhatsApp Communities, the two are not designed for the same purpose. Facebook’s product is often used by larger, otherwise disconnected strangers who share a common interest. WhatsApp Communities, meanwhile, focus on more private and personal groups — including those where members may already be connected in other ways, including in the real world. Disrupt 2026: The tech ecosystem, all in one room Your next round. Your next hire. Your next breakout opportunity. Find it at TechCrunch Disrupt 2026, where 10,000+ founders, investors, and tech leaders gather for three days of 250+ tactical sessions, powerful introductions, and market-defining innovation. Register now to save up to $400. Save up to $300 or 30% to TechCrunch Founder Summit 1,000+ founders and investors come together at TechCrunch Founder Summit 2026 for a full day focused on growth, execution, and real-world scaling. Learn from founders and investors who have shaped the industry. Connect with peers navigating similar growth stages. Walk away with tactics you can apply immediately Offer ends March 13. Explains Head of WhatsApp Will Cathcart of the difference, “we’re phone number-based.” “When you’re interacting with people on WhatsApp, there’s a necessary comfort with exchanging your phone number with them. So that points towards communities where you know these people in real life,” he says. “Maybe you don’t have every phone number of every parent in your kid’s class, but you’re comfortable interacting with them in that way.” In Communities, users will also be able to see the phone numbers of the others who participate in the sub-groups with them, or when they engage with each other one-on-one. This makes the product feel more personal than something like Facebook Groups. Another key differentiator between Communities and Facebook Groups is that the latter includes groups that are public or discoverable on the platform. WhatsApp Communities are neither. The company says it will not allow users to search for or discover Communities on its service. You have to be invited to the groups to join them. To get started with Communities, admins will be able to link a pre-existing group chat to the new feature or create a new group from scratch. WhatsApp believes there are already a large number of group chats that will easily make the transition to the more structured Communities when the feature launches. “We don’t have a precise number, but when you talk to people in a lot of the countries where WhatsApp is popular, it is really prevalent that people are not, at this point, just using WhatsApp to talk to their family or their friends,” says Cathcart. “They’re using it to talk to their boss and co-workers. They’re using it if they have kids in schools.” “What we’re doing now is starting to build for organizational use cases with intention,” he says. Admin tools come to messaging To grow their groups, admins can add members to Communities individually or they can share an invite link. Helpfully, for clubs and other groups where members come and go, admins have the power to remove individual members from a Community as needed. Plus, only admins will have the power to share announcements to all Community members through the main announcement group (as it’s called), which will initially support “several thousands” of users. Community members are only able to chat in the smaller groups the admins have created or approved. WhatsApp will also limit forwards — a way to send messages that often leads to the spread of misinformation and spam. In Communities, messages that have already been forwarded will only be able to be forwarded to one group at a time, rather than the current forward limit of five. This, along with subgroups, could address the problem of overload that happens today in many group chats where important information gets missed amid the chatter and irrelevant content. Communities additionally bring other group management tools to messaging, including the ability for group admins to moderate the content. Admins will be able to remove errant or problematic messages or media from everyone’s chat. They’ll also be able to share files up to 2 GB to help groups collaborate and share information. And Communities will be able to host voice calls with up to 32 people for those times when it’s easier to talk live rather than text, the company says. Users, too, will have control over being added to Communities. In WhatsApp’s settings, users can already decide who can add them to a group chat; now those same settings will apply to Communities, too. Users can report abuse, block accounts and leave Communities when they no longer wish to participate. In Communities, users can silently leave a group, which doesn’t notify the other users as in traditional WhatsApp chats. While WhatsApp promotes its end-to-end encryption as another reason to use the new discussions feature, the company still has to overcome user hesitancy due to issues regarding its latest attempt at updating its privacy policies. The company faced backlash over its hard-to-understand policy update last year, which is still being examined by some markets’ anti-competition authorities and regulatory bodies, including in the EU and India. Cathcart says after WhatsApp added more clarity to its policy, a “large, overwhelming percentage of the user base” accepted the update. Anyone who refused just isn’t able to use the new functionality related to businesses. Communities, he notes, won’t require another policy update at this time. “This fits very closely with what we’ve been doing before. And from a data perspective, this is all end-to-end encrypted on the communications — [it] works very similar to how groups have worked,” he says. The new feature is not live today. It’s initially being launched into a limited test with select communities to gain further feedback ahead of a public rollout. WhatsApp has not said when the feature will reach the wider public, but notes some of Communities’ new functionality — like reactions, file-sharing, and 32-person calls — will roll out sooner.


--- [WhatsApp starts to roll out Communities feature globally: What is it ...] ---
Dhurandhar fame Ayesha Khan receives rape threats everyday? Actress makes shocking revelation Who are the Kurds? Is CIA weighing arming Iranian opposition along Iraq border? US-Israel-Iran conflict: US Consulate in Dubai hit by drone sparks fire, video emerges, watch Has Mojtaba Khamenei, late Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's son, been elected as Iran's new Supreme Leader? Happy Holi 2026: 20+ wishes, messages and quotes to share with your loved ones India vs England: Was Team India’s semi-final practice delayed by Lunar Eclipse? Here's the truth TECHNOLOGY The WhatsApp Communities roll out has been announced by Mark Zuckerberg in a Facebook post. WhatsApp has announced that it is finally rolling out the much awaited Communities feature for users. The WhatsApp Communities feature was in the works for quite a long time and almost every detail about it was revealed in the beta updates. The WhatsApp Communities roll out has been announced by Mark Zuckerberg in a Facebook post in which he wrote “Today we're launching Communities on WhatsApp. It makes groups better by enabling sub-groups, multiple threads, announcement channels, and more. We're also rolling out polls and 32 person video calling too. All secured by end to end encryption so your messages stay private.” What is WhatsApp Communities feature and how it works WhatsApp Communities feature allows users to add and manage multiple groups under a single umbrella. Community admins can reach members with important updates by sending announcements, and community members can stay connected by exploring and chatting in groups that matter to them. Members can receive updates sent to the entire community and easily organize smaller discussion groups on what matters to them. Your personal messages and calls in communities are always end-to-end encrypted. Also read: You can now control Apple iPhone and iPad just from your thoughts For example, Communities will make it easier for a school principal to bring all the parents of the school together to share must-read updates and set up groups about specific classes, extracurricular activities, or volunteer needs. New WhatsApp features Apart from WhatsApp Communities feature, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg has also announced that users will now be able to create polls with groups which can now have more than thousand participants. 1024 to be precise. The Facebook owned platform will also allow 32 WhatsApp to participate in a video call and once.


--- [WhatsApp announces Communities — and big changes to Groups] ---
WhatsApp announces Communities — and big changes to Groups WhatsApp has officially announced Communities — a major addition to its existing group chat and broadcast list feature set. It also said there would be several changes to how groups work on WhatsApp, regardless of whether they are part of a community. The Facebook-owned (now Meta) messaging platform also confirmed that its file size limit would increase to 2 gigabytes. It started testing this feature with users in Argentina at the end of March. News that WhatsApp was working on Communities first emerged in October last year. However, little was known beyond its name and link to WhatsApp Groups. In November, details started to emerge, including that admins would be able to create several group chats under one community. There would also be a main group that would act as a broadcast list that only admins can post to. WhatsApp has now finally confirmed Communities and released information about what to expect from the feature. “Communities on WhatsApp will enable people to bring together separate groups under one umbrella with a structure that works for them,” WhatsApp announced in a blog post on Thursday. “Communities will also contain powerful new tools for admins, including announcement messages that are sent to everyone and control over which groups can be included.” In a separate blog post, WhatsApp detailed the following features for Communities: - Conversations in Communities remain end-to-end encrypted. - Phone numbers will be visible to Community admins. - Your phone number will become visible to members of the same groups as you but otherwise remain hidden. - Admins can add existing groups to the Community and unlink groups. - Admins can remove individual members from the Community entirely. - Group admins will be able to delete inappropriate or abusive chats and media for all group members. - Users can control who is allowed to add them to a Community. - Communities will be private. No search or discovery option like Telegram. “To limit noise and overload, only Community admins will be able to send messages to all Community members — this is called the announcement group for the community,” WhatsApp stated. “We will initially support community announcements for several thousands of users.” WhatsApp said it continues to constrain message forwarding. “With the introduction of Communities, messages that have already been forwarded will only be able to be forwarded to one group at a time, rather than five, which is today’s forward limit,” it said. “We believe this will meaningfully reduce the spread of potentially harmful misinformation in community groups.” WhatsApp did not announce a launch date for Communities. However, it said the following changes to WhatsApp Groups would be rolling out “in the coming weeks”. Changes to WhatsApp Groups WhatsApp said it believes these new features for groups will help people share in new ways and reduce overload in larger chats: - Silently leave a group — Users will be able to leave groups without notifying everyone. - Reactions — Emoji reactions are coming to WhatsApp so people can quickly share their opinion without flooding chats with new messages. - Admin Delete — Group admins will be able to remove messages from everyone’s chats. - File Sharing — File sharing will support files up to 2GB. - Larger voice calls — One-tap voice calls for up to 32 people, with a revamped design.


--- [Sharing Our Vision for Communities on WhatsApp] ---
Update on November 3, 2022 at 4:00 AM PT: We’ve started to roll out Communities on WhatsApp globally and this will be available to everyone over the next few months. We’re also launching more features that will be helpful for Communities: the ability to create in-chat polls, 32-person video calling and groups with up to 1,024 users. Originally published on April 14, 2022 at 8:00 AM PT: Today we are excited to share our vision for a new feature we are adding to WhatsApp called Communities. Since WhatsApp launched in 2009, we’ve been focused on how we can help people have the next best thing to an in-person conversation when they want to talk to an individual or a group of friends or family. We also frequently hear from people who are using WhatsApp to communicate and coordinate within a community. Organizations like schools, local clubs, and non-profit organizations now rely on WhatsApp to communicate securely and get things done – especially since the pandemic forced us all to find creative ways to work together while apart. Given lots of feedback we’ve received, we think there’s more we can do to make it easier to help people manage these busy conversations among these kinds of groups. Here’s where Communities comes in. Communities on WhatsApp will enable people to bring together separate groups under one umbrella with a structure that works for them. That way people can receive updates sent to the entire Community and easily organize smaller discussion groups on what matters to them. Communities will also contain powerful new tools for admins, including announcement messages that are sent to everyone and control over which groups can be included. We think Communities will make it easier for a school principal to bring all the parents of the school together to share must-read updates and set up groups about specific classes, extracurricular activities, or volunteer needs. We’re also making a number of improvements to how groups work on WhatsApp — whether or not they are part of a Community. We think these will help people share in new ways and reduce overload in larger chats. These features are rolling out in the coming weeks so people can start trying them out even before Communities are ready. - Reactions – Emoji reactions are coming to WhatsApp so people can quickly share their opinion without flooding chats with new messages. - Admin Delete – Group admins will be able to remove errant or problematic messages from everyone’s chats. - File Sharing – We’re increasing file sharing to support files up to 2 gigabytes so people can easily collaborate on projects. - Larger Voice Calls – We’ll introduce one-tap voice calling for up to 32 people with all new design for those times when talking live is better than chatting. Communities are inherently private, which is why we will continue to protect messages with end-to-end encryption. This security technology has truly never been more necessary to protect people’s privacy and safety. Close knit groups — schools, members of a religious congregation, even businesses — very much want and need to be able to have secure and private conversations without WhatsApp monitoring their every word. While other apps are building chats for hundreds of thousands of people, we’re choosing to focus on supporting the groups that are part of our daily lives. It’s early days for Communities on WhatsApp and building the new features to support them will be a major focus of ours for the year to come. We can’t wait to get Communities in people’s hands and are looking forward to people’s feedback.


--- [WhatsApp announces Communities (Update: features rolling out globally)] ---
Affiliate links on Android Authority may earn us a commission. Learn more. WhatsApp announces Communities (Update: features rolling out globally) - The new features are rolling out to users, as of May 5, 2022. - WhatsApp has detailed its new communities feature coming to the app. - The company has also announced a bunch of other features, including the ability to share larger files, emoji reactions, and more. Updated, November 4, 2022 (11:47 PM ET): WhatsApp has announced today on its blog that it has begun rolling Communities out globally. The company says that the feature should be available to everyone over the next few months. Updated, May 5, 2022 (05:37 PM ET): WhatsApp has confirmed its new Communities on WhatsApp features are beginning to roll out to users with the latest update. The new features include emoji reactions and the ability to have groups that include up to 512 people. Another major upgrade is the ability to send files up to 2GB in size, up from the previous limit of 100MB. The company hopes these new features will foster more WhatsApp-based online communities, and bring some nice quality-of-life improvements. Original article, April 15, 2022 (12:21 AM ET): WhatsApp has officially acknowledged several upcoming features. The company wrote a blog post detailing all the new options coming to the chat app, including the communities feature, perhaps one of the biggest additions to the platform in years. According to WhatsApp, communities will encompass a collection of separate groups. They will allow organizations like schools, local clubs, and non-profits to come under one umbrella and get things done more efficiently. “People can receive updates sent to the entire community and easily organize smaller discussion groups on what matters to them,” the company wrote in a blog post. Admins of communities will get powerful tools to control which groups can be included. They will also be able to broadcast announcement messages to everyone in the community. Moreover, WhatsApp assures that chats within communities will be end-to-end encrypted. There’s no specific date for when communities will come on board the platform, but it shouldn’t be long now. Meanwhile, more immediate updates headed to WhatsApp include stuff we’ve been hearing about for the past couple of days. You’ll soon be able to react to messages using emojis. Group admins will be able to remove errant messages from everyone’s chats. The file-sharing limit will be increased to 2GB. And lastly, one-tap voice calls will now allow up to 32 people to talk to each other. Once again, There’s also no word on when all these new features will hit WhatsApp. We’ll update this article when we have more details. Thank you for being part of our community. Read our Comment Policy before posting.
