=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Former Directors | The Clayman Institute for Gender Research]
The Clayman Institute for Gender Research · Main content start · Shelley J. Correll · The Barbara D. Finberg Director, 2010-2019 · Schiebinger · Londa Schiebinger · The Barbara D. Finberg Director, 2004-2010 · Barbara Gelpi · Acting Director, 2001-2004 · Laura Carstensen · The Barbara D. Finberg Director, 1997-2001 · Iris Litt · Director, 1990-1997 · Deborah L. Rhode · Director, 1986-1990 · Judith Brown ·
URL: https://gender.stanford.edu/people/adrian-daub/former-directors

[Notable Moments: A Timeline | The Clayman Institute for Gender Research]
“We were instrumental in getting the university to publish salary information broken down by gender,” Director Deborah Rhode observed, “getting leadership to rethink its parental leave policy [which, at the time was nonexistent], and more systematically scrutinize policies and practices regarding gender, such as pay equity, child care, [and] promotion rates.”
URL: https://gender.stanford.edu/50/notable-moments-timeline

[Deborah Rhode - Wikiwand]
Rhode founded and led several research centers at Stanford devoted to these issues, including its Center on the Legal Profession, Center on Ethics and Program in Law and Social Entrepreneurship; she also led the Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Gender Research at Stanford. She coined the term "The 'No-Problem' Problem". Quick facts Born, Died ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Deborah_Rhode

[Deborah Rhode - EncycloReader]
Rhode founded and led several research centers at Stanford devoted to these issues, including its Center on the Legal Profession, Center on Ethics and Program in Law and Social Entrepreneurship; she also led the Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Gender Research at Stanford. She coined the term "The 'No-Problem' Problem".
URL: https://encycloreader.org/r/wikipedia.php?q=Deborah_Rhode

[Stanford University centers and institutes - Wikipedia]
In 2004, the new director, Professor Londa Schiebinger, a historian of science, formed a plan to create a series of research initiatives on gender issues, backed by a research fellowship program, that would attract scholars from Stanford and abroad. With the help of matching funds from the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanford_University_centers_and_institutes


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Former Directors | The Clayman Institute for Gender Research] ---
Main content start Former Directors Shelley J. Correll The Barbara D. Finberg Director, 2010-2019 Londa Schiebinger The Barbara D. Finberg Director, 2004-2010 Barbara Gelpi Acting Director, 2001-2004 Laura Carstensen The Barbara D. Finberg Director, 1997-2001 Iris Litt Director, 1990-1997 Deborah L. Rhode Director, 1986-1990 Judith Brown Acting Director, 1985-1986 Marilyn Yalom Director, 1984-1985 Diane Middlebrook Director, 1977-1979 Myra Strober Director, 1974-76 and 1979-84


--- [Notable Moments: A Timeline | The Clayman Institute for Gender Research] ---
Notable Moments: A Timeline Following are memorable moments (we couldn't keep it to just 50!) from the Clayman Institute's rich history of research, mentorship, evolution, and cross-disciplinary scholarship. First decade: 1974-1983 CROW opens its doors in Fall 1974 Fall 1974: The Center for Research on Women opens at Stanford with two rooms and a phone. Myra Strober is the first director. First CROW newsletter Winter 1975: CROW published its first newsletter, Vol. 1, No. 1 CROW expands with associates program and visiting and affiliated scholars Jing Lyman launches the CROW associates to build support within the larger community; and CROW creates the Visiting and Affiliated Scholars Program (learn about the program from Senior Scholars Karen Offen and Edith Gelles). Diane Middlebrook is second director Diane Middlebrook becomes CROW's second director, serving from 1976-79 Task Force on the Study of Women 1977: At a time when the number of college courses relating to women could barely fill a single page of a course guide, the Institute launched the Task Force on the Study of Women. Its work eventually led to the creation of the Feminist Studies Program at Stanford in 1981. Strober returns as director Myra Strober again serves as director, from 1979-1984 At home: Serra House 1979: CROW finds a permanent home in Serra House Feminist Studies founded Fall 1981: Stanford's Feminist Studies program begins with support from CROW Women Writing Poetry conference April 1982: CROW hosts the Conference on Women Writing Poetry in America, featuring Audre Lorde, Denise Levertov, and Louise Gluck. Technology of their time Summer 1982: Center buys a word processor and offers a cassette tape listening library National honor for CROW director Fall 1982: Myra Strober is invited to chair the National Council for Research on Women, with 28 research centers as members CROW-produced book earns award Fall 1982: Book detailing history of Victorian women's lives, prepared by CROW scholars, wins award CROW home finds permanent location Spring 1983: CROW moves briefly to the Old Chem building and then to its permanent home at Serra House (now Attneave House), which was moved by truck across campus to its current location Celebrating the 10-year anniversary Fall 1984: CROW celebrates its 10th anniversary with a champagne and hors d'oeuvres reception at the Stanford Museum. Second decade: 1984-1993 National publication Signs journal hosted by CROW 1980-85: National feminist studies magazine Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society edited at CROW "The Writer: A Passion for Her World" lecture series Spring 1986: CROW welcomed Cherrie Moraga; Adrienne Rich; Harriet Doerr; Jean Wakatsuki Houston; and Laila Abou-Saif. Marilyn Yalom becomes director Marilyn Yalom serves as director, 1984-85 CROW changes name to IRWG 1986: CROW changes name to Institute for Women and Gender. The change reflected an expansion of the Institute’s scope in response to evolving concepts—and vocabulary—regarding the study of women’s issues in the larger context of society. Faculty Women's Caucus 1986: IRWG founds the Faculty Women's Caucus to raise and publicize issues relating to Stanford women faculty. “We were instrumental in getting the university to publish salary information broken down by gender,” Director Deborah Rhode observed, “getting leadership to rethink its parental leave policy [which, at the time was nonexistent], and more systematically scrutinize policies and practices regarding gender, such as pay equity, child care, [and] promotion rates.” Fourth director is Judith Brown Judith Brown is director, 1985-86 Deborah Rhode serves as director Director Deborah Rhode serves from 1986-1990 Backlash writer finishes book at IRWG 1991: Writer Susan Faludi completes her popular book, Backlash, at IRWG. In addition to participating in the Visiting and Affiliated Scholars program during its development, Faludi would present the finished book to large associates groups around the country. 1990s begin with Iris Litt as director Director Iris Litt serves IRWG from 1990-97 100 Years of Stanford Women 1991: University President Donald Kennedy and spouse Robin Kennedy host IRWG's annual fundraiser in their home as part of a celebration or 100 years of Stanford women. U.S.-Japan Women's Journal 1991: Yoko Kawashima, a former affiliated scholar, joins the Institute as an editor-in-residence, in recognition of her 1988 founding of the U.S.-Japan Women's Journal. Third decade: 1994-2003 Graduate Dissertation Fellows program 1994: The Graduate Dissertation Fellows program begins. GDFs receive financial support while completing their dissertations and interdisciplinary community for their research. By 2024, the Institute had supported more than 100 GDFs and postdoctoral fellows. Finberg endows directorship 1997: A generous gift from longtime support Barbara D. Finberg (right, with Director Iris Litt) endows the directorship of IRWG. Laura Carstensen is director Director Laura Carstensen serves from 1997-2001 Focus on Aging 1997: IRWG theme focuses on aging and gender under the leadership of Director Laura Carstensen, who would go on to found Stanford's Center on Longevity. New website 1997: IRWG advertises its first website, on the original www-leland.stanford.edu address. Subscribe to the IRWG Newsletter 1997: An annual subscription to IRWG's printed newsletter goes for $15/year. 25th anniversary celebration 1999: Stanford President Gerhard Casper and Dr. Regina Caspar host a reception for the Institute's 25th anniversary Difficult Dialogues speaker series launches 2000: IRWG launches "Difficult Dialogues on Aging in the 21st Century" series IRWG welcomes Betty Friedan 2000: Difficult Dialogues event with guest speaker Betty Friedan, author of The Feminine Mystique Move to Humanities and Sciences 2001: The Institute moved from the Office of Research and Graduate Policy to the School of Humanities and Sciences, providing access to the School’s resources and networks. Director Barbara Gelpi Barbara Gelpi serves as director from 2001-2004 Next Difficult Dialogues 2002: The Institute continues its series with Difficult Dialogues on the Changing Nature of the American Family Fourth decade: 2004-2013 Londa Schiebinger named director Londa Schiebinger serves as ninth director from 2004-2010. Under Schiebinger, the Institute shifts its thematic focus to the role of sex and gender in science, medicine, and engineering research and development. Studies on women in academia and the tech sector 2008: The Institute publishes studies on "Dual-Career Academic Couples" and "Climbing the Technical Ladder" Gendered Innovations project 2009: The Institute launches the Gendered Innovations project, with Londa Schiebinger as founding director. Honoring our Founders 2009: The Clayman Institute launches its Honoring our Founders program with special events focused on the people who played an important role in creating a space for gender research at Stanford. Gender News is launched 2009: The monthly online publication Gender News is launched. Michelle R. Clayman endows Institute 2010: Capping off a successful fundraising campaign, the Institute is renamed the Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Gender Research, for its generous donor. Shelley Correll serves as director Shelley Correll serves as director from 2010-2019 Beyond the Stalled Gender Revolution 2010: Institute Director Shelley Correll chooses the research focus "Beyond the Stalled Gender Revolution: Reinvigorating Gender Equality in the 21st Century" Voice and Influence 2010: The Voice and Influence Program launches, offering an online curriculum designed to empower women and men to realize their professional potential, and help them create organizations where workers can excel, belong and thrive. The curriculum features education modules, including videos and discussion guides, with faculty from leading universities. (As of 2019, the program is hosted with the Stanford VMware Women's Leadership Innovation Lab.) First issue of upRising 2011: The Institute publishes its first issue of upRising, an annual gender research magazine Jing Lyman Lecture series 2011: The Institute re-launches the Jing Lyman Lecture series with an appearance by journalist Katha Pollitt Celebrating with Gloria Steinem 2012: The Institute celebrates the 40th anniversary of Ms. Magazine with keynote by Gloria Steinem Sheryl Sandberg delivers lecture 2013: Sheryl Sandberg delivers Jing Lyman Lecture Redesigning, Redefining Work 2013: Institute hosts the "Redesigning, Redefining Work Summit." The RRW Project and Summit address the need for research to support efforts to restructure workplaces so that they are more effectively aligned with the lives of today’s workforce and organizations are better able to harness diverse talent for their future success. Center for Women's Leadership 2014: Institute launches the Center for Women's Leadership Fifth decade: 2014-2024 Online Feminism Conference (#OFCon14) 2014: Hosted by the Clayman Institute, the Online Feminism Conference (#OFCon14) gathered feminists, in person and online, to discuss the challenges and possibilities of online feminism. Paula Giddings delivers lecture 2014: Author and professor Paula Giddings delivers Jing Lyman Lecture Breaking the Culture of Sexual Assault 2016-17: In a two-year symposium, the Institute launched a series of talks and discussions to address multiple facets of the topic in order to create best practices and novel solutions. Each quarter, we investigated a different aspect of the culture of sexual assault with programs designed to engage students, staff, faculty, and the community. Intersectionality scholar Kimberlé Crenshaw 2016: With her groundbreaking work in developing intersectionality, Jing Lyman Lecturer Kimberlé Crenshaw has refocused our understandings of gender and the connections between race, class, gender and social justice. Beyond Bias Summit 2017: Convened by the Clayman Institute’s Center for the Advancement of Women’s Leadership, the Beyond Bias Summit gathered members of the Corporate Affiliates Program, along with leading researchers, to advance knowledge and move toward workable solutions. Jing Lyman Lecture from Carla Harris 2017: Known for her path-breaking work as a leader, educator, and speaker who empowers and powerfully engages her audiences, business leader Carla Harris’ lecture addressed “Tools for Maximizing your Career Success.” Honoring our Founders continues 2017: The Honoring our Founders series continues, with events featuring Myra Strober and student founders Beth Garfield and Cynthia Russell. New lab established 2019: The Institute announces the establishment of the VMware Women's Leadership Innovation Lab, a continuation of the work started in the Center for Women's Leadership Daub named director 2019: Adrian Daub begins term as the 11th Barbara D. Finberg Director of the Institute New speaker series: Clayman Conversations 2019: Director Adrian Daub launches the event series as a way to bring together feminist scholars, activists, and writers to discuss contemporary issues through an intersectional lens. From the first event, "Whisper Networks: On the Feminist Function of Rumor," through the 10th event, "Criminalizing Pregnancy," the series covers a wide range of topics for online and in-person audiences. Heteropatriarchy in Academia series 2022: Stanford graduate students were invited to join us for a speaker series examining the presence of heteropatriarchy in academia. The series was motivated by a post-COVID era that exacerbated inequalities and laid bare the shortcomings of our educational institutions as it pertains to supporting and advancing women, people of color, LGBTQIA+/queer individuals, and gender non-conforming individuals in particular. From the Front Lines: Abortion Post-Roe 2022: Following a break from in-person events during the COVID pandemic, the Jing Lyman Lecture returns. Abortion providers discuss reproductive justice after Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization overturned Roe v. Wade: what has changed in the post-Roe world, and what has stayed the same? Anita Hill kicks off 50th anniversary year 2024: The Clayman Institute begins its 50th anniversary with very special guest Anita Hill, who encouraged guests to embrace hope and recognize progress in the relay race toward gender equality.


--- [Deborah Rhode - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Deborah Rhode - EncycloReader] ---
Deborah Rhode | | |---|---| | Born | Evanston, Illinois, U.S. | January 29, 1952 | Died | January 8, 2021 | (aged 68) | Academic background | | | Alma mater | Yale Law School | | Academic work | | | Institutions | Stanford Law School | | Main interests | Legal ethics, gender and the law, leadership and lawyering | | Notable works | Access to Justice In the Interests of Justice Justice and Gender Speaking of Sex Pro Bono in Principle and in Practice The Beauty Bias The Difference "Difference" Makes | | Notable ideas | "The 'No-Problem' Problem" | | Website | https://law.stanford.edu/directory/deborah-l-rhode/ | Deborah Lynn Rhode (January 29, 1952 – January 8, 2021) was an American jurist. She was the Ernest W. McFarland Professor of Law at Stanford Law School and the nation's most frequently cited scholar in legal ethics.[1][2][3] From her early days at Yale Law School, her work revolved around questions of injustice in the practice of law and the challenges of identifying and redressing it. Rhode founded and led several research centers at Stanford devoted to these issues, including its Center on the Legal Profession, Center on Ethics and Program in Law and Social Entrepreneurship; she also led the Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Gender Research at Stanford. She coined the term "The 'No-Problem' Problem". A prolific writer, she authored 30 books on subjects including legal ethics, gender and the law, and law and leadership; her major works include In the Interest of Justice, Justice and Gender, Speaking of Sex, Women and Leadership, Lawyers as Leaders, and The Beauty Bias. She was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and was honored repeatedly by the American Bar Association as well as by the White House as a "Champion of Change". Deborah Lynn Rhode was born on January 29, 1952,[4] in Evanston, Illinois, and grew up in Wilmette and Kenilworth.[5][6] At New Trier High School during the late 1960s, she was a nationally ranked debater, competing against eventual Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland.[5][7] She enrolled in Yale University in 1970 in the second class to admit women. Originally she wanted to work on poverty and had no interest in feminism, but an advisor gave her reading by Simone de Beauvoir that transformed Rhode's perception of the world.[8] The status of women as "unwanted minority" made an impression, for instance in university administrators who could not see any problem with describing the new student body as "a thousand male leaders and 250 women".[8] Rhode became a member of Phi Beta Kappa[4] and the Yale debate team, becoming its first female president (a role previously held by William F. Buckley Jr. and John Kerry).[7] She received her B.A., summa cum laude, in political science in 1974.[9] She then enrolled at Yale Law School and worked in the law school's legal clinic which she said left her "angry all the time" at the injustice she witnessed.[6] She and others in the clinic wrote a manual for low-income clients who could not afford attorney's fees for uncontested divorces—drawing the ire of the local bar association—but she also decided the practice of law was not sustainable for her and found her calling instead in legal academia.[6] Her first academic work was a study of this issue; she published a paper in the Yale Law Journal, co-authored with Ralph Cavanagh (later her husband), finding that clients in uncontested divorces did equally well with advice from law students as from attorneys.[6] Rhode became editor of the Journal and director of the moot court board.[7] She received her J.D. from Yale Law School in 1977.[9] After law school, Rhode clerked for Judge Murray Gurfein of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in 1977–78 and for U.S. Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall in the 1978–79 term.[9][10] She became friends with Merrick Garland, who clerked for William J. Brennan Jr. in the same year.[8] Following her Supreme Court clerkship, in 1979 Rhode joined the faculty of Stanford Law School as an associate professor, becoming the third woman on the faculty, after Barbara Babcock and assistant professor Carol Rose (Rose left at the end of Rhode's first year).[9][11][8] She remained an associate professor through 1984,[10] then became the second woman to gain tenure at Stanford Law School, after Babcock.[7][12] At Stanford, the overwhelmingly male environment spurred Rhode to teach the law school's first class on gender and the law;[11] it came in response to episodes such as a retirement party of the law school's dean that she attended in 1981, at which a stripper had been hired.[6] She was also the first to teach a course on leadership for lawyers, lamenting that so many attorneys ended up in political positions of power without having any preparation for it as part of their legal education.[13][6] Rhode served as a member of the Yale Corporation,[9] the governing body of Yale University from 1983 to 1989,[10] where she found that the gender issues she dealt with in the previous decade persisted. She tried to nominate Simone de Beauvoir, who had been so pivotal for Rhode, for an honorary degree from Yale, but the majority-male group resisted, questioning whether de Beauvoir had written her own work, saying it could have been written by "her husband".[8] Rhode was a president of the Association of American Law Schools, the founding president of the International Association of Legal Ethics, and the chair of the American Bar Association's Commission on Women in the Profession. She founded and led a number of research centers at Stanford, including the Center on Ethics where she was director from 2003 to 2007; Center on the Legal Profession; and Center on Ethics and Program in Law and Social Entrepreneurship.[9] She was also the director of Stanford’s the Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Gender Research.[9] During the Clinton administration, Rhode served as senior investigative counsel to the minority members of the U.S. House Committee on the Judiciary and advised them on presidential impeachment issues.[9] More recently Rhode was the vice chair of the Board of Directors of Legal Momentum (formerly the National Organization for Women's Legal Defense and Education Fund) and was a columnist for The National Law Journal.[9] Rhode received the American Bar Association's Outstanding Scholar Award; the American Bar Association's Michael Franck Professional Responsibility Award; the American Bar Foundation's W. M. Keck Foundation Award for distinguished scholarship on legal ethics; the American Bar Association's Pro Bono Publico Award; and the White House's 2011 Champion of Change Award for her work on access to justice.[9] Rhode's scholarship also focused on gender equality; she argued that the implicit demand for women to wear makeup at the workplace is a form of "gender subordination".[14] In 1991 article, she coined the term "The 'No-Problem' Problem" to describe the fundamental challenge, she argued, in advocating for women's rights was a problem of perception—the sense that a problem did not exist to need solving.[15] Rhode was an elected fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She was also the most-cited legal scholar in legal ethics, as found in 2007 and 2015 studies,[3][16] and was the third most-cited female legal scholar overall.[17] A 2012 study identified Rhode as one of the 50 most relevant law professors in the United States.[18] Rhode was the author of 30 books,[6] dealing with a range of subjects in the fields of gender and the law, legal ethics and other concerns of the legal profession. Rhode’s 1989 book Justice and Gender: Sex Discrimination and the Law was devoted to the exhaustive documentation of discrimination over the span of 200 years; the text was 321 pages long with another 107 pages of footnotes.[19][20] It was a subject she returned to repeatedly in the course of her career, probing discrimination, the reasons it persisted and the possible paths to change. In her 1997 book, Speaking of Sex: The Denial of Gender Inequality, Rhode dealt with the issue that women's gains made advocating for the inequities that remained more difficult. She argued that recognition of the persisting gender gap was a necessary precondition for further progress. A New York Times reviewer found the book "scrupulously researched, balanced, sobering and sober", though worried that its "focus... on hard research rather than easy sensationalism" might lose the audience.[21] Among Rhode’s novel solutions to some elements of gender discrimination was a proposal that discrimination on the basis of appearance should be subject to constitutional scrutiny, laid out in her 2010 book The Beauty Bias: The Injustice of Appearance in Life and Law.[22][23] Legal ethics and other aspects of the professional lives of lawyers figured significantly into her books as the object of critique and proposals for change. In 2000, Rhode published In the Interests of Justice: Reforming the Legal Profession. In a review for Legal Ethics, Barry Sullivan described Rhode's concern with the practice of law in the United States tackled in the book: that the legal profession "is insufficiently accountable to the public, that it falls far short of fulfilling its responsibilities to the society it ostensibly serves, that the best interests of its members are not well served by the current organisation and practices of the profession, that the membership of the profession is insufficiently diverse, and that the profession therefore requires radical reform."[24] Rhode drew praise as a prose stylist. In a review of her 2013 book Lawyers as Leaders, Daniel Reynolds wrote, "While the findings of social science can often seem cold and lifeless on the page, Professor Rhode manages to present them vividly: in every paragraph, in nearly every sentence, she offers telling examples or memorable quotations coloring the portrait of the successful leader and the failed one, too. From P.G. Wodehouse to Justice Thurgood Marshall, Erasmus of Rotterdam to Richard Nixon: reading Rhode is a rat-a-tat-tat of the mot juste, the perfect anecdote to be savored and saved for future use."[25] The book grew out of her course on the subject.[8] In 1976,[12] Rhode married Ralph Cavanagh,[6] a senior attorney and co-director of Natural Resources Defense Council's energy program with whom she had attended college and law school.[26] She was an amateur photographer, persuading Thurgood Marshall to sit for portraits.[12] Rhode died at her home on January 8, 2021, three weeks before her 69th birthday.[6] {{cite journal}} : Cite journal requires |journal= (help)


--- [Stanford University centers and institutes - Wikipedia] ---
Stanford University has many centers and institutes dedicated to the study of various specific topics. These centers and institutes may be within a department, within a school but across departments, an independent laboratory, institute or center reporting directly to the dean of research and outside any school, or semi-independent of the university itself.


