=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lilian Ngoyi, South African Nurse and Activist born]
She had, in 1955, traveled on an illegal journey to Lausanne, Switzerland, to participate in the World Congress of Mothers held by the Women's International Democratic Federation (WIDF). Accompanied by her fellow activist Dora Tamana, she stowed away on a boat leaving Cape Town under "white names," segregated seating on a plane to London.
URL: https://staging.aaregistry.org/story/lilian-ngoyi-south-african-nurse-and-activist-born/

[Lillian Ngoyi - Wikipedia]
With this in mind she had, in 1955, embarked on an illegal journey to Lausanne, Switzerland, in order to participate in the World Congress of Mothers held by the Women's International Democratic Federation (WIDF).
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lillian_Ngoyi

[Lilian Ngoyi - English Version | Genially]
Jun 11, 2024 · Lilian Ngoyi is invited to Lausanne to represent the FEDSAW World Congress of Mothers organized by the Women's International Democratic Federation (WIDDF). She was accompanied by fellow activist Dora Tamana.
URL: https://view.genially.com/6668345e7efc120014bf02c0/presentation-lilian-ngoyi-english-version

[Black History Month: Lilian Masediba Ngoyi (1911-1980)]
Oct 17, 2010 · The travels of Ngoyi and Tamana were made all the more remarkable when, back in South Africa, efforts were continually being made to monitor and strictly control African movement and mobility. As a result, the trip effectively asserted Ngoyi’s right, as a black woman, to travel and move freely.
URL: https://womenshistorynetwork.org/black-history-month-lilian-masediba-ngoyi-1911-1980/

[Lillian Ngoyi - Found a Grave]
With this in mind she embarked on an audacious (and highly illegal) journey to Lausanne, Switzerland, in 1955 to participate in the World Congress of Mothers held by the Women's International Democratic Federation (WIDF).
URL: https://www.foundagrave.com/grave/lillian-ngoyi/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lilian Ngoyi, South African Nurse and Activist born] ---
Lilian Ngoyi *Lilian Ngoyi was born on this date in 1911. She was a Black machinist, nurse, and South African activist. Lilian Masediba Matabane was born in Pretoria, South Africa. She was the only daughter of Annie and Isaac Matabane and a sister to three brothers, Lawrence, George, and Percy. Her grandfather, on her mother's side, was a member of the royal Mphahlele household who became a Methodist evangelist. Her mother worked as a washerwoman, and her father was a mineworker. She attended Kilnerton Primary School until Standard Two. In 1928, she moved to Johannesburg to train at City Deep Mine Hospital as a nurse. During this time, she met and married a van driver, John Gerard Ngoyi, in 1934. They had a daughter, Edith, but her husband died in a motor car accident in 1937. Afterward, she became a seamstress, working from home and in garment factories. From the 1950s onwards, she lived in Orlando, Soweto, with her mother and children. Having been drawn into politics via her work in the Garment Workers' Union of South Africa in the 1940s, Ngoyi joined the ANC Women's League in 1952. She was a widow with children and an elderly mother to support and worked as a seamstress. In 1954, she helped to create the Federation of South African Women (FEDSAW) and was elected to the national executive of the African National Congress; she was the first woman to be elected to national office in the organization. A year later, she became President of the Women's League. In August 1956, Ngoyi led a women's march along with Albertina Sisulu and others of 20,000 women to the Union Buildings of Pretoria in protest of the apartheid government's passed laws. Ngoyi was also transnational, recognizing the potential influence that international support could have on the struggle against Apartheid and the emancipation of black women. She had, in 1955, traveled on an illegal journey to Lausanne, Switzerland, to participate in the World Congress of Mothers held by the Women's International Democratic Federation (WIDF). Accompanied by her fellow activist Dora Tamana, she stowed away on a boat leaving Cape Town under "white names," segregated seating on a plane to London. She gained entry to Britain under the pretext of completing her course in Bible studies. She would visit England, Germany, Switzerland, Romania, China, and Russia, meeting women leaders engaged in left-wing politics, before returning to South Africa a wanted woman. Ngoyi spent a total of 15 years living under three five-year banning orders. This included being confined to her home, and banning orders included being forbidden to attend public gatherings, make speeches, or be quoted; even at her own home, she was not permitted to be with more than one person simultaneously. The first two banning orders were imposed in 1962 and 1967, and when the second order expired in 1972, she could meet colleagues and friends again and travel to Durban and Cape Town. In 1975, another banning order was imposed, which allowed her some communication with the outside world. Lilian Ngoyi died on March 13, 1980. Memorials and Honors The Koos Beukes Clinic at the Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital in Soweto has been renamed Lilian Ngoyi Community Clinic in her honor. In 2009, a residence hall at Rhodes University was renamed in her honor. Johannesburg was renamed Bree Street in Johannesburg after her in 2014.


--- [Lillian Ngoyi - Wikipedia] ---
Lilian Masediba Matabane Ngoyi, "Ma Ngoyi", OMSG (25 September 1911 – 13 March 1980) was a South African anti-apartheid activist. She was the first woman elected to the executive committee of the African National Congress, and helped launch the Federation of South African Women.
Prior to becoming a machinist at a textile mill, where she was employed from 1945 to 1956, Ngoyi enrolled to become a nurse. In 1962, she was given her first banning order and would not be permitted to leave her house in Orlando, Soweto for the rest of her life, except for a three-year period from 1972-1975.




--- [Lilian Ngoyi - English Version | Genially] ---
Want to create interactive content? It’s easy in Genially! Lilian Ngoyi - English Version Sophie Created on June 11, 2024 Start designing with a free template Discover more than 1500 professional designs like these: View Terrazzo Presentation View Visual Presentation View Relaxing Presentation View Modern Presentation View Colorful Presentation View Modular Structure Presentation View Chromatic Presentation Transcript Youth and first trade union experience Lilian Ngoyi was born in Pretoria in 1911 into a family of six children, his father a miner and his mother a clothes laundress. After studying to be a nurse, Lilian Ngoyi began working as a machinist in a garment factory (from 1945 to 1956). She joined The Garment Workers' Union of South Africa (GWU). This was a union representing workers in South Africa's garment industry. Founded in 1909, it was originally made up of white workers. It began to represent black and Indian workers in 1926, and 30 years later, they made up 60% of the union's membership. Protests and joining the ANC During the Defiance Campaign, a series of demonstrations and civil disobedience actions organized by the ANC against the apartheid laws of the newly elected National Party, Lilian Ngoyi joins the ANC. She also carried out one of her first protests against the apartheid regime with friends in the Rissik Street post office, where they went into the “Whites Only” section to send a telegram to the Prime Minister. After refusing to return to the non-white section, they were arrested by the police, but the charges were eventually dropped. Taking on political responsibility Thanks to the strength of her public speaking skills, she was appointed president of the ANC Women's League. This makes her the first woman elected to the ANC's executive committee. In 1954, she helped the foundation of the Federation of South African Women and became its vice-president. At the inaugural conference of the Federation of South African Women (FEDSAW), she declared: “Let's be brave: we've heard of men shaking in their pants, but who's ever heard of a woman shaking in her skirt?”. Travels in Europe and Asia Lilian Ngoyi is invited to Lausanne to represent the FEDSAW World Congress of Mothers organized by the Women's International Democratic Federation (WIDDF). She was accompanied by fellow activist Dora Tamana. Forbidden to travel and to have a passport because she was labeled as a “radically political black”, she managed to board a ship clandestinely under a “white name”. During this trip, she visited England, Germany, Switzerland, Romania, China and Russia, where she led protest rallies against apartheid. Through meetings with other acitivist women and these demonstrations, she became a transnational figure in the struggle against apartheid and understood the influence of international support in the South African struggle. Women's march and Treason trial On August 9, 1956, Lilian Ngoyi, along with other women from the Federation of South African Women, led demonstration with 20,000 women, the Women's March, outside the Union Buildings in Pretoria to protest against an apartheid law requiring women to carry an internal passport. She was one of the women carrying the 14,000-signature petition to the Strijdom government. The pass law was nevertheless enforced, before being repealed 30 years later, in 1986. In December 1956, she was arrested for high treason along with 155 other activists engaged in anti-apartheid activities. Many of them were members of the ANC or the South African Communist Party. The first trials began in 1958, and Lilian Ngoyi was released on bail in 1961. Militant ban This event marked the beginning of a succession of banning orders and censorship attempts aimed at silencing her. In 1960, she was detained for five months following the proclamation of a state of emergency following the Sharpeville massacre. She spent much of this period in solitary confinement. In 1962, her movements were restricted: she could no longer attend rallies and was placed under house arrest in her home in the Orlando district of Soweto. Her house arrest ended in 1972 but was renewed for a further 5 years in 1975. Suffering from heart problems, she died in 1980 at 68 years old.


--- [Black History Month: Lilian Masediba Ngoyi (1911-1980)] ---
FEDSAW Women’s Protests, Pretoria 1956. In 1954, Lilian Masediba Ngoyi took to the stage of the inaugural conference of the Federation of South African Women (FEDSAW) and stated to the gathered group of multiracial delegates: “Let us be brave: we have heard of men shaking in their trousers, but who ever heard of a woman shaking in her skirt?” As the cheers, applause and laughter subsided, Ngoyi, a textile worker and mother of three from Orlando, Johannesburg, concluded her speech in typical fashion: with the declaration that all South African women, regardless of their race or background, should be willing to die for the future of their children. Born into a poor family in 1911 in Pretoria, Lilian Ngoyi became one of the leading lights of anti-apartheid protest. In a political career that spanned three decades Ngoyi, a garment worker by trade, became the Secretary General of the ANC Women’s League (ANC-WL), the National Chairman of FEDSAW and the first female to be elected to office in the main body of the African National Congress (ANC). She would lead the members of FEDSAW to the doors of the Union Buildings in Pretoria on the 9th of August 1956, to present petitions protesting the pass laws on behalf of the 20,000 women from across South Africa who had gathered outside. Later that year she was arrested for high treason along with 155 other leading activists. An event that would mark the beginning of a succession of banning orders and censorship attempts aimed to silence her. Ngoyi at Union Buildings, FEDSAW Women’s Protests, Pretoria 1956. In her words and actions Lilian Ngoyi combined her identities as an African, woman, mother and worker to mobilize South African women in the fight against apartheid. For Ngoyi, the restrictions and limitations that apartheid laws placed on black women were at the heart of the system of white supremacy. Therefore, it was only natural that black women be in the vanguard of anti-apartheid resistance. She highlighted how the pass laws, Bantu Education, forced removals and other state sanctions, aimed at the separation of the races through the restriction of black movement, hit African women the hardest and were deliberately designed to erode the African family and deny a future for African children. Ngoyi dedicated her life to struggling against these oppressive measures and to securing a better future for her children and the children of South Africa. She mobilized a brand of militant motherhood that laid bare the oppressive nature of apartheid and allowed her to simultaneously address the specific plight of women in South Africa and the broader racial struggles against apartheid. As a result, the ‘women’s struggle’, and the struggle of every South African opposed to the policies of the minority Nationalist Government, became one. Lilian Ngoyi was also a transnational figure who recognised the potential influence that international support could have on the struggle against apartheid and the emancipation of black women. With this in mind she embarked on an audacious (and highly illegal) journey to Lausanne, Switzerland in 1955 to participate in the World Congress of Mothers held by the Women’s International Democratic Federation (WIDF). Accompanied by her fellow activist Dora Tamana, and as an official delegate of FEDSAW, she embarked on a journey that would see an attempt to stow away on a boat leaving Cape Town under “white names”, defy (with the help of a sympathetic pilot) segregated seating on a plane bound for London and gain entry to Britain under the pretext of completing her course in bible studies. With Tamana, she would visit England, Germany, Switzerland, Romania, China and Russia, meeting women leaders often engaged in left wing politics, before arriving back in South Africa a wanted woman. At Lausanne, Ngoyi presided over the 2nd session of the conference, giving its opening address. Standing in front of assembled women and mothers from almost every continent, she declared: “The Federation of South African Women…has joined hands with all organisations fighting for democratic rights, for full equality, irrespective of race or sex.” She detailed the hardships faced by South African women to a global audience and appealed for support in bringing freedom and democracy to the nation in the name of the women’s international peace movement. The travels of Ngoyi and Tamana were made all the more remarkable when, back in South Africa, efforts were continually being made to monitor and strictly control African movement and mobility. As a result, the trip effectively asserted Ngoyi’s right, as a black woman, to travel and move freely. By escaping the hold of the pass laws and making illegal border crossings these two black women struck at the heart of the doctrine of apartheid that sought to prevent the mobility of non-whites at all costs. As she traversed Europe, passing from London, through the iron curtain to the eastern bloc, Ngoyi commented on the absence of racism and the potential benefits of communism. She observed that the women she met were not black, white or coloured, but mothers, stating: “I was a woman and a mother, my colour was not my problem.” Through her travels, Ngoyi collapsed racial and geographical divides. She was part of a global motherhood that brought people together in the name of peace, freedom and democracy – regardless of race. As a result of her defiance and anti-apartheid organising Ngoyi was issued with her first banning order in October 1962. It lasted for 10 years and was renewed again in 1975 for a further 5 year period. In this time she was not allowed to leave Orlando or meet more than one person at a time (including family members). She was constantly monitored by the police and no news of her was allowed to appear in the press. Ngoyi’s physical isolation took an inevitable toll on her political activities and she struggled to earn a living using her skills as seamstress. Despite this, she remained outspoken both on African and women’s rights until her death in 1980. Lilian Ngoyi, by bringing together her concerns as an African and as a woman, promoted a militant black motherhood that would shape the struggle against apartheid laws in the 1950s. Reflecting on her life in 1972 she chose to look to her own mother to articulate the growing militancy of black women in South Africa that she herself represented: “My mother firmly believed our tears shall be wiped away in the next world. I believed we should start enjoying life here.” Nicholas Grant is a PhD candidate at the University of Leeds working on the transnational networks of black protest that existed between the United States and South Africa in the 1940s and 1950s. He is particularly interested in the role that black women played in forging these global ties and relationships and hopes that, through BHM, the fascinating lives of many of these under-researched female figures will become more widely known.


--- [Lillian Ngoyi - Found a Grave] ---
Lillian Ngoyi (Lillian Ngoyi) Lillian Ngoyi joined the ANC Women’s League in 1952; she was at that stage a widow with two children and an elderly mother to support, and worked as a seamstress. A year later she was elected as President of the Women’s League. On 9 August 1956, Ngoyi led a women’s march along with Helen Joseph, Rahima Moosa, Sophia Williams-De Bruyn, Motlalepula Chabaku, Bertha Gxowa and Albertina Sisulu of 20,000 women to the Union Buildings of Pretoria in protest against the apartheid government requiring women to carry passbooks as part of the pass laws. Lilian Ngoyi was also a transnational figure who recognised the potential influence that international support could have on the struggle against apartheid and the emancipation of black women. With this in mind she embarked on an audacious (and highly illegal) journey to Lausanne, Switzerland, in 1955 to participate in the World Congress of Mothers held by the Women’s International Democratic Federation (WIDF). Accompanied by her fellow activist Dora Tamana, and as an official delegate of FEDSAW, she embarked on a journey that would see an attempt to stow away on a boat leaving Cape Town under “white names”, defy (with the help of a sympathetic pilot) segregated seating on a plane bound for London and gain entry to Britain under the pretext of completing her course in bible studies. With Tamana, she would visit England, Germany, Switzerland, Romania, China and Russia, meeting women leaders often engaged in left-wing politics, before arriving back in South Africa a wanted woman. Lillian Ngoyi was known as a strong orator and a fiery inspiration to many of her colleagues in the ANC. She was arrested in 1956, spent 71 days in solitary confinement, and was for a period of 11 years placed under severe bans and restrictions that often confined to her home in Orlando, Soweto. Born - September, 25, 1911 - Pretoria, South Africa Died - March, 13, 1980 - South Africa - Orlando, Soweto Cemetery - Avalon Cemetery - Gauteng, South Africa
