=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[What does the MINVERSE Google Sheets formula do?]
The MINVERSE function in Google Sheets returns the inverse matrix of a given square matrix. The inverse matrix is such that when multiplied by the original matrix, it results in an identity matrix. This function is commonly used in linear algebra, such as solving systems of linear equations or finding determinants of matrices.
URL: https://checksheet.app/google-sheets-formulas/minverse/

[How To Use MINVERSE () Function in Google Sheets]
The MINVERSE formula can be used to take a matrix of m rows and n columns and return the inverse matrix. Specifically, it returns the inverse of the given matrix, which would be an n x m matrix.
URL: https://www.bettersheets.co/formulas/minverse

[How To Use MINVERSE Function in Google Sheets - Sheetaki]
So the syntax (the way we write) the DAYS function is as follows: Let’s dissect this thing and understand what each of these terms means: 1. =the equal sign is how we start any function in Google Sheets. 2. MINVERSE()is our MINVERSEfunction. It outputs the multiplicative inverse of the given square_matrix 3. square_matrix refers to the range or arr...
URL: https://sheetaki.com/minverse-function-google-sheets/

[MINVERSE Google Sheets Formula - Function, Examples, How to Use]
The MINVERSE function calculates the inverse of a given matrix, returning a new matrix that, when multiplied with the original, yields the identity matrix.
URL: https://www.formulabot.com/google-sheets/minverse-function

[MINVERSE - Google Docs Editors Help]
Returns the multiplicative inverse of a square matrix specified as an array or range. Sample Usage MINVERSE(A1:D4) MINVERSE({1,0,0,0;0,0,4,0;0,1,1,0;0,0,0,1}) Syntax MINVERSE(square_matrix) s
URL: https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3094253?hl=en


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [What does the MINVERSE Google Sheets formula do?] ---
MINVERSE TheMINVERSE function in Google Sheets returns the inverse matrix of a given square matrix. The inverse matrix is such that when multiplied by the original matrix, it results in an identity matrix. This function is commonly used in linear algebra, such as solving systems of linear equations or finding determinants of matrices. - How to use MINVERSE formula? - Examples of using MINVERSE formula MINVERSE formula not working?- Similar formulas to MINVERSE Usage Use the MINVERSE formula with the syntax shown below, it has 1 required parameter: - square_matrix (required): The input square matrix for which the inverse matrix is to be computed. The matrix must be a square matrix, i.e., the number of rows must be equal to the number of columns. Examples Here are a few example use cases that explain how to use theMINVERSE formula in Google Sheets. Solving systems of linear equations The MINVERSE function can be used to find the solution to a system of linear equations represented by a matrix equation. By multiplying the inverse of the coefficient matrix with the column matrix of constants, we can obtain the column matrix of variables. Finding determinants of matrices The MINVERSE function can be used to find the determinant of a square matrix. The determinant is calculated as the product of all the diagonal elements of the inverse matrix. Inverting transformations The MINVERSE function can be used to invert a transformation matrix. By multiplying the inverse transformation matrix with the coordinates of a point, we can obtain the coordinates of the point before the transformation was applied. Common Mistakes MINVERSE not working? Here are some common mistakes people make when using the MINVERSE Google Sheets Formula: Incorrect input format One common mistake is providing an input that is not a square matrix. MINVERSE can only be used on square matrices, so ensure that the input has the same number of rows and columns. Divide by zero error Another common mistake is trying to find the inverse of a matrix that is not invertible, i.e. it has a determinant of zero. This will result in a divide by zero error. Check that the input matrix has a non-zero determinant before using MINVERSE. Incorrect function name or spelling Make sure that you have spelled the function name correctly and that it is in all caps, MINVERSE. Check for typos or other errors in the function name. Incorrect argument type Ensure that the input to the MINVERSE function is a valid array. If the input is not an array or if it is an array with non-numeric values, the function will return an error. Memory error MINVERSE is a computationally intensive function and can cause a memory error if used on very large matrices. Make sure that the input matrix is not too large for your computer to handle. Related Formulas The following functions are similar to MINVERSE or are often used with it in a formula: - MMULT The MMULT formula in Google Sheets multiplies two matrices together and returns the resulting matrix. It is commonly used in linear algebra for matrix multiplication. - TRANSPOSE The TRANSPOSE formula in Google Sheets allows you to flip a table of data by turning rows into columns and columns into rows. This can be useful for reorganizing data or preparing it for use in other formulas. - RANK The RANK function returns the rank of a specified value within a dataset. The rank of a value is its size relative to other values in the dataset. The function can be used to determine the rank of a single value or an entire dataset. The rank can be calculated in ascending or descending order. This function is commonly used in data analysis to determine the relative position of a value within a set of values. Learn More You can learn more about the MINVERSE Google Sheets function on Google Support.


--- [How To Use MINVERSE () Function in Google Sheets] ---
Common questions about the MINVERSE formula include: 1. What does the MINVERSE formula do? 2. How do you use the MINVERSE formula in Google Sheets? 3. What is the syntax of the MINVERSE formula? The MINVERSE formula can be used to take a matrix of m rows and n columns and return the inverse matrix. Specifically, it returns the inverse of the given matrix, which would be an n x m matrix. It should be used when needing to solve systems of linear equations. The MINVERSE formula can be commonly mistyped as MINVERS, which would not be valid and would return an error. Some common ways the MINVERSE formula is used inappropriately include using it on matrices that are not square or attempting to use it on a matrix with no inverse. Common pitfalls when using the MINVERSE formula include using it on a matrix that is not invertible, using it on arrays that are not matrices, or referencing incorrect parameter types. Common mistakes when using the MINVERSE Formula include using incorrect data types for the parameters, attempting to use the MINVERSE formula on a matrix that is not invertible or not square, and mistyping the formula name. Common misconceptions people might have with the MINVERSE Formula include thinking the MINVERSE formula can be used on scalar values or on arrays that are not matrices.


--- [How To Use MINVERSE Function in Google Sheets - Sheetaki] ---
The MINVERSE function in Google Sheets is useful when you need to compute the multiplicative inverse of a square matrix. The square matrix can refer to either a given array or range in the worksheet representing the matrix to be computed. The rules for using the MINVERSE function in Google Sheets are as follows: - The function just requires one argument, the square matrix. It may come in the form of an array (e.g., [1,4,2,5]) or as a range (“A2:B4”). - The function then outputs the multiplicative inverse of the matrix as a range. - The multiplicative inverse of the matrix refers to a matrix that when multiplied to the original matrix produces an identity matrix. - The identity matrix is a square matrix with ones on the main diagonal and zeros elsewhere. Later, we’ll be showing an example to illustrate this property more clearly. Let’s begin with a quick demonstration. A group of tourists took a trip to an amusement park. They first rode the carousel, which priced tickets depending on age: $4 for adults and $2 for children. Overall, they spent $122 dollars. Afterwards, the tourists took the Ferris wheel, which cost $5 for adults and 3$ for children. All the Ferris wheel tickets cost the group $163.5. Given this, how many adults and children were in this tourist group? Using matrix multiplication and the multiplicative inverse we can solve this equation. Later in this guide, we’ll be showing the MINVERSE function in action as we try to solve the problem above. We’ll also be needing the MMULT function since that will allow us to perform matrix multiplication later. For now, let’s learn how to write the MINVERSE function ourselves in Google Sheets! The Anatomy of the MINVERSE Function So the syntax (the way we write) the DAYS function is as follows: =MINVERSE(square_matrix) Let’s dissect this thing and understand what each of these terms means: - = the equal sign is how we start any function in Google Sheets. - MINVERSE() is our MINVERSE function. It outputs the multiplicative inverse of the given square_matrix - square_matrix refers to the range or array we would like to find the inverse of. It must have an equal number of rows and columns. - The square matrix must be written properly as an array. For example, a 2×2 matrix where the top row is {2,3} and bottom row is {5,4} must be written as such: {2,3};{5,4} A Real Example of Using MINVERSE Function Let’s look into an example of the MINVERSE function being used in a Google Sheet spreadsheet. In the spreadsheet above, we have two unknown values, the number of adults and children. Mathematically, if we were to multiply the matrix of people (in blue) with the matrix of prices (in red), the product should correspond with the final sum (in purple). Formally, we can write this as Tourists*Prices = Sums . To isolate just Tourists, we must multiply the inverse of the Prices matrix with the Sums matrix. To get the values in the range D5:E6, we just need to use the following formula in cell D5: =MINVERSE(A5:B6) Afterward, we can use the MMULT function to get the product of the inverse we got and the SUMS matrix, as seen below. Using the MMULT and MINVERSE functions, we now know that there were 25 adults and 11 children on the trip. You can make a copy of the spreadsheet above using the link I have attached below. If you’re ready to play around with the MINVERSE function in Google Sheets, let’s try it out step-by-step! How to Use MINVERSE Function in Google Sheets In this guide, let’s try doing the same computation above, but now with arrays instead of a cell range as input. - To start using the MINVERSE function, select the cell we will first put our function’s output. In this example, we’ll start with cell A1. - Next, we must type the equal sign ‘=‘ to begin our function, followed by ‘MINVERSE(‘, the name of our function. - A tooltip box appears with info on the MINVERSE function. We may click on the arrow on the top-right hand corner of the box to minimize the pop-up if necessary. - Next, we must type the arguments of our function. In this case, MINVERSE only needs one argument, the square matrix. Given the same price problem earlier, we can write the price matrix like so: - Afterward, simply hit Enter on your keyboard to let the function evaluate. If we followed all the steps correctly, the MINVERSE formula should output the following matrix in our worksheet! This step-by-step guide shows how easy it is to find the multiplicative inverse of a square matrix! You can now use the MINVERSE functions in Google Sheets together with the various other Google Sheets formulas available to help you set up powerful and useful spreadsheets! Do subscribe to our newsletter to be the first to know about the latest Google Sheets guides and tutorials from us.


--- [MINVERSE Google Sheets Formula - Function, Examples, How to Use] ---
No content


--- [MINVERSE - Google Docs Editors Help] ---
Returns the multiplicative inverse of a square matrix specified as an array or range. Sample Usage MINVERSE(A1:D4) MINVERSE({1,0,0,0;0,0,4,0;0,1,1,0;0,0,0,1}) Syntax MINVERSE(square_matrix) square_matrix - An array or range with an equal number of rows and columns representing a matrix whose multiplicative inverse will be calculated. See Also TRANSPOSE : Transposes the rows and columns of an array or range of cells. MMULT : Calculates the matrix product of two matrices specified as arrays or ranges. MDETERM : Returns the matrix determinant of a square matrix specified as an array or range.
