=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[PSLV-C52/EOS-04 Mission - Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO)]
India's Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle PSLV-C52 injected Earth Observation Satellite EOS-04, into an intended sun synchronous polar orbit of 529 km altitude at 06:17 hours IST on February 14, 2022 from Satish Dhawan Space Centre, SHAR, Sriharikota. PSLV lifted off at 05:59 hours IST from the first launch pad at SHAR.
URL: https://www.isro.gov.in/mission_PSLV_C52.html

[ISRO’s Launch Vehicles - दृष्टि आईएएस]
Feb 19, 2022 · The Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) launched an Earth Observation Satellite (EOS-04) along with two other smaller satellites into space using a PSLV (Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle) rocket. This was the 54th flight of the PSLV rocket.
URL: https://www.drishtiias.com/daily-news-analysis/isro-s-launch-vehicles

[How does ISRO place satellites into space and what launch vehicles does ...]
Feb 18, 2022 · On February 14, the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) launched the year’s first space mission — an earth observation satellite, EOS-04, along with two other smaller satellites.
URL: https://www.financialexpress.com/life/science-what-are-isros-launch-vehicles-pslv-gslv-2438200/

[PSLV - Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO)]
This allowed the feat of launching 10 satellites into different orbits in 2008, successfully launched eight satellites into two different orbits in a single mission from the First Launch Pad in 2016 and PSLV-C37 is the 39th flight launched the Cartosat-2 series satellite and 103 co-passenger satellites.
URL: https://www.isro.gov.in/PSLV_CON.html

[What are ISRO's launch vehicles, and how are satellites placed into space?]
Feb 17, 2022 · On Monday (February 14), the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) launched its first space mission of the year. An earth observation satellite named EOS-04 along with two other smaller satellites were launched into space using a PSLV (Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle) rocket.
URL: https://indianexpress.com/article/explained/everyday-explainers/explained-isro-vehicles-satellites-7778759/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [PSLV-C52/EOS-04 Mission - Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO)] ---
PSLV-C52/EOS-04 Mission Home / Activities / Missions accomplished Feb 14, 2022 Back to ISRO Timeline India’s Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle PSLV-C52 injected Earth Observation Satellite EOS-04, into an intended sun synchronous polar orbit of 529 km altitude at 06:17 hours IST on February 14, 2022 from Satish Dhawan Space Centre, SHAR, Sriharikota. PSLV lifted off at 05:59 hours IST from the first launch pad at SHAR. This was the 80th launch vehicle mission from SDSC SHAR, Sriharikota; 54th flight of PSLV; and the 23rd flight of PSLV in XL configuration (6 strap-on motors). The satellite EOS-04 is realised at U R Rao Satellite Centre, Bengaluru. It is a Radar Imaging Satellite designed to provide high quality images under all weather conditions for applications such as Agriculture, Forestry & Plantations, Soil Moisture & Hydrology and Flood mapping. Weighing about 1710 kg, it generates 2280 W power and has a mission life of 10 years. More Details The vehicle also placed two small satellites a student satellite (INSPIREsat-1) from Indian Institute of Space Science & Technology (IIST) in association with Laboratory of Atmospheric & Space Physics at University of Colorado, Boulder and a technology demonstrator satellite (INS-2TD) from ISRO, which is a precursor to India-Bhutan Joint Satellite (INS-2B). Co-passenger satellites were successfully separated from the PSLV in a predetermined sequence. ISRO Chairman Shri S Somanath congratulated team ISRO for the precision with which the mission was accomplished.


--- [ISRO’s Launch Vehicles - दृष्टि आईएएस] ---
No content


--- [How does ISRO place satellites into space and what launch vehicles does ...] ---
On February 14, the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) launched the year’s first space mission — an earth observation satellite, EOS-04, along with two other smaller satellites. The space research agency used a PSLV (Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle) rocket to launch the satellites. This was the PSLV rocket’s 54th flight. SATELLITES AND LAUNCH VEHICLES Satellites don’t reach space on their own, but have to be carried by launch vehicles, or rockets, such as the PSLV. The rockets use powerful propulsion systems generating huge amounts of energy that overcome the Earth’s gravitational pull to lift heavy objects such as satellites into space. The payloads, or satellites, sit inside the rocket before being ejected once they reach near the intended orbit. Most satellites have small propulsion systems to carry small amounts of fuel as they encounter little drag, or force, in outer space. Satellites and rockets are both spacecraft — a generic term used for any object sent into space. Satellites carry instruments for scientific work in space. Their operational life can extend up to decades. The rockets, or launch vehicles, on the other hand, become useless after launch. Their sole job is to take the satellites to their intended orbit. Rockets have several energy-providing but detachable parts. These parts burn different kinds of fuels and power the rocket. Once the fuel is exhausted, the parts detach from the rocket. Only a small part of the original rocket goes to the satellite’s intended destination. Once the satellite is ejected, this last part either becomes part of space debris or burns off after falling into the atmosphere. LAUNCH VEHICLE TYPES PSLVs are not the only launch vehicle ISRO uses. The difference between the various kinds of launch vehicles is mainly in the power generated, the weight carrying capacity, and the distance they can travel into space. Everything boils down to the energy generated, which is a function of engine and fuel efficiency. Several satellites need to be deposited in the lower-Earth orbits, beginning from around 180 km from the surface and extending up to 2,000 km. Most communication satellites, Earth-observation satellites, and even the International Space Station — a full-fledged space that hosts astronauts — function in this space. Smaller, less powerful rockets that expend smaller amount of energy take the satellites to low-Earth orbits. However, some satellites are required to go deeper into space. For example, geostationary satellites have to be deposited in orbits about 36,000 km from the Earth’s surface. Planetary exploration missions also need rockets to leave them deeper in space. For such missions, more powerful rockets are used. In general, the trade-off is between the satellite’s weight and the distance that needs to be covered. The same rocket can deposit a smaller satellite deeper into space compared to a heavier satellite. ISRO LAUNCH VEHICLES ISRO uses two launch vehicles at present – the PSLV and the GLSV (Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle). But these also have several variants. The PSLV is ISRO’s most reliable rocket, with 52 successful launches out of 54 attempts. The GSLVs are much more powerful rocket and meant to carry heavier satellites deeper into space. Till date, ISRO has used 18 GSLV rockets for missions — four of these ended in failure. ISRO’s first rocket was simply called SLV, or satellite launch vehicle. It followed it up with Augmented Satellite Launch Vehicle or ASLV. These two rockets could carry small satellites that weighed up to 150 kg to lower-Earth orbits. ISRO used the ASLV till the early 1990s before the PSLV, which was first launched in 1994 and has since become the space research agency’s main rocket. Today’s PSLV is vastly improved and more powerful than the ones used in the 1990s. ISRO used the GSLV for the Chandrayaan-2 mission, and plans to use it for the Gaganyaan manned space mission. Its Mk-III version can carry satellites that weigh up to 4,000 kg to the geosynchronous transfer orbit, nearly 36,000 km from the Earth’s surface. It can also take 10,000-kg satellites to lower-Earth orbit. The Mk-III version has made ISRO self-sufficient for satellite launches. Prior to this, it had to depend on the European Arianne launch vehicle to transport heavier satellites into space. The Indian space research agency has also developed a launch vehicle particularly for small and micro-satellites — Small Satellite Launch Vehicle, or SSLV — aimed at rising global demand for such satellite launches. Through the SSLVs, ISRO aims to offer cost-effective launch services for satellites weighing up to 500 kg. ISRO’s first SSLV launch is scheduled for March, carrying the indigenous Earth observation satellite EOS-03 into space. REUSABLE ROCKETS Rockets in the future are meant to become reusable. A small part of the rocket will be destroyed during the mission, with the bulk of it re-entering the atmosphere and landing like an airplane. These can then be used for future missions. Reusable rockets will reduce cost and energy. It will also cut down space debris, which is becoming a problem due to the large number of launches. While fully-reusable rockets are yet to be developed, partially-reusable launch vehicles are in use already. ISRO has developed a reusable rocket, RLV-TD (Reusable Launch Vehicle Technology Demonstrator), which was successfully tested in 2016.


--- [PSLV - Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO)] ---
PSLV Home / Activities / PSLV The PSLV is capable of placing multiple payloads into orbit, thus multi-payload adaptors are used in the payload fairing. This allowed the feat of launching 10 satellites into different orbits in 2008, successfully launched eight satellites into two different orbits in a single mission from the First Launch Pad in 2016 and PSLV-C37 is the 39th flight launched the Cartosat-2 series satellite and 103 co-passenger satellites. More recently, on February 14th, 2022, PSLV C52 launched EOS-04, INS-2TD & InspireSat-1 into their designated orbits successfully PS4 is the fourth and final stage of pslv and it uses two liquid engines for propulsion. PS4 is responsible for the correct injection of PSLV's payloads into their respective desired orbits. PS3 is the third and penultimate stage of PSLV, and it uses a HTPB based propellant PS2 IS THE SECOND STAGE OF PSLV AND IS POWERED BY THE VIKAS LIQUID ENGINE, DEVELOPED IN THE EARLY 90S. PS1 is the first stage of PSLV and it provides the launcher the high thrust that is required for lift off. It uses the S139 solid rocket booster that contains 139 tonnes of HTPB. PSLV-XL uses 6 extended strap-ons of 12 tonnes each, the PSLV-CA (core alone version) does not use any strap-on motors, PSLV-DL uses 2 and PSLV QL uses 4. PSLV earned its title 'the Workhorse of ISRO' through consistently delivering various satellites to Low Earth Orbits. It can take up to 1,750 kg of payload to Sun-Synchronous Polar Orbits of 600 km altitude. Due to its unmatched reliability, PSLV has also been used to launch various satellites into Geosynchronous and Geostationary orbits, like satellites from the IRNSS constellation. The PS4 is the uppermost stage of PSLV, comprising of two Earth storable liquid engines. The third stage of PSLV is a solid rocket motor that provides the upper stages high thrust after the atmospheric phase of the launch. PSLV uses an Earth storable liquid rocket engine for its second stage, know as the Vikas engine, developed by Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre. PSLV uses the S139 solid rocket motor that is augmented by 6 solid strap-on boosters. PSLV uses 6,4,2 solid rocket strap-on motors to augment the thrust provided by the first stage in PSLV-XL, QL & DL variants respectively. However, strap-ons are not used in the core alone version (PSLV-CA). Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) is the third generation launch vehicle of India. It is the first Indian launch vehicle to be equipped with liquid stages. After its first successful launch in October 1994, PSLV emerged as a reliable and versatile workhorse launch vehicle of India. The vehicle has launched numerous Indian and foreign customer satellites. Besides, the vehicle successfully launched two spacecraft "Chandrayaan-1 in 2008 and Mars Orbiter Spacecraft in 2013"that later travelled to Moon and Mars respectively. Chandrayaan-1 and MOM were feathers in the hat of PSLV. The launch of PSLV-C48 marks the 50th Launch of PSLV. Besides, the vehicle successfully launched two spacecraft " Chandrayaan-1 in 2008 and Mars Orbiter Spacecraft in 2013"that later traveled to Moon and Mars respectively PSLV earned its title 'the workhorse of ISRO' through consistently delivering various satellites into low earth orbits, particularly the IRS Series of satellites Due to its unmatched reliability, PSLV has also been used to launch various satellites into Geosynchronous and Geostationary orbits, like satellites from the IRNSS Constellation The PSLV is capable of placing multiple payloads into orbit, thus multi-payload adaptors are used in the payload fairing. The payload performance of the vehicle and mission flexibility is evident from the challenging missions where multi-orbit and multi-satellite missions are accomplished. The long string of consecutive successes and multi-satellite launch capability has reinforced the status of PSLV as a reliable, versatile and affordable launcher in the global market More Details


--- [What are ISRO's launch vehicles, and how are satellites placed into space?] ---
On Monday (February 14), the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) launched its first space mission of the year. An earth observation satellite named EOS-04 along with two other smaller satellites were launched into space using a PSLV (Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle) rocket. This was the 54th flight of the PSLV rocket. Launch vehicles and satellites Satellites don’t go into the space on their own. They have to be carried there by launch vehicles, or rockets, like the PSLV. The rockets have powerful propulsion systems that generate the huge amount of energy required to lift heavy objects like satellites into space, overcoming the gravitational pull of the earth. Satellites, or payloads as they are often called, sit inside the rocket, and are ejected once they reach near their intended orbit in space. Most satellites have small propulsion systems and carry small amounts of fuel, because they encounter very little drag, or force, in outer space. Both rockets and satellites are spacecraft, which is a generic term used for any object that is sent into space. Satellites carry one or more instruments that do the scientific work for which they are sent into space. Their operational life sometimes extends up to decades. But rockets, or launch vehicles, become useless after the launch. Their only job is to take the satellites to their intended orbits. Rockets have several detachable energy-providing parts. They burn different kinds of fuels to power the rocket. Once their fuel is exhausted, they detach from the rocket and fall off, often burning off in the atmosphere due to air-friction, and getting destroyed. Only a small part of the original rocket goes till the intended destination of the satellite. Once the satellite is finally ejected, this last part of the rocket either becomes part of space debris, or once again burns off after falling into the atmosphere. Types of launch vehicles PSLV is not the only launch vehicle that ISRO uses. There are several kinds of rockets that are used. The difference is mainly in the power that they can generate, the weight they can carry, and the distance they can travel into space, all of which are related. It all comes down to the energy that is generated, which is a function of how efficient the engine and the fuel is. Several satellites need to be deposited only in the lower earth orbits, which starts from about 180 km from earth’s surface and extends up to 2,000 km. Most of the earth-observation satellites, communication satellites, and even the International Space Station, a full-fledged laboratory in space that hosts astronauts, function in this space. It takes smaller amount of energy to take the satellites to the low-earth orbits, and accordingly smaller, less powerful, rockets are used for this purpose. But there are other satellites which need to go much deeper in space. Geostationary satellites, for example, have to be deposited in orbits that are about 36,000 km from earths’ surface. The planetary exploration missions also need their rockets to leave them much deeper in space. For such space missions, much more powerful rockets are used. In general, there is a trade-off between the weight of the satellite that needs to be launched, and the distance it needs to be taken to. The same rocket can take smaller satellites much deeper into space compared to a heavier satellite. Launch vehicles used by ISRO ISRO currently uses two launch vehicles – PSLV and GLSV (Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle), but there are lots of different variants of these. PSLV is the most reliable rocket used by ISRO till date, with 52 of its 54 flights being successful. GSLV is much more powerful rocket, meant to carry heavier satellites much deeper into space. Till date, GSLV rockets have carried out 18 missions, of which four ended in failure. The first rocket developed by ISRO was simply called SLV, or satellite launch vehicle. It was followed by the Augmented Satellite Launch Vehicle or ASLV. These two could carry small satellites, weighing up to 150 kg, to the lower earth orbits. ASLV operated till the early 1990s before PSLV came on the scene. PSLV’s first launch was in 1994, and it has been ISRO’s main rocket ever since. Today’s PSLV, however, is vastly improved and several times more powerful than the ones used in the 1990s. GSLV carried the Chandrayaan-2 mission, and is slated to take the Gaganyaan manned space mission as well. Its Mk-III version can carry satellites weighing up to 4,000 kg to the geosynchronous transfer orbit, close to 36,000 km from earth’s surface. It can take 10,000-kg satellites to the lower earth orbits. Mk-III versions have made ISRO entirely self-sufficient for launching its satellites. Before this, it used to depend on the European Arianne launch vehicle to take its heavier satellites into space. ISRO has also developed a launch vehicle specifically for small and micro-satellites. It is called Small Satellite Launch Vehicle, or SSLV, and is targeted at rising global demand for the launch of such satellites. SSLV is meant to offer cost-effective launch services for satellites up to 500 kg. The inaugural SSLV launch is slated for next month. It is supposed to carry an indigenous earth observation satellite EOS-03 into space. Reusable rockets The future rockets are meant to be reusable. Only a small part of the rocket would be destroyed during the mission. The bulk of it would re-enter the earth’s atmosphere and land very much like an airplane, and can be used in future missions. Reusable rockets would cut down on costs and energy, and also reduce space debris, which is becoming a serious problem because of the large number of launches. Fully-reusable rockets are still to be developed, but partially-reusable launch vehicles are already in use. ISRO has also developed a reusable rocket, called RLV-TD (Reusable Launch Vehicle Technology Demonstrator) which has had a successful test flight in 2016. Newsletter | Click to get the day’s best explainers in your inbox
