=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Justhis - Wikipedia]
Heo Seung (Korean: 허승, born May 7, 1991), better known by his stage name Justhis (Korean: 저스디스), is a South Korean rapper. He released his first album, 2 Many Homes 4 1 Kid, on June 14, 2016. He is a member of the Korean hip hop crew IMJMWDP. After departing from GROOVL1N in November ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Justhis

[JUSTHIS Profile and Facts (Updated!) - Rapper]
JUSTHIS Profile and Facts: JUSTHIS / 저스디스 is an South Korean rapper whom debuted in 2015 with ‘ No One / 노원’. He’s currently under GROOVL1N. Rap Name: JUSTHIS / 저스디스 Birth Name: Heo Seung / 허승 / Hur Seung Birthday: 7th of May, 1991 Zodiac Sign: Taurus Height: 168 cm / 5’6″ Nationality: Korean IG 1: thisisjusthis
URL: https://kprofiles.com/justhis-profile-facts/

[INDIGO MUSIC - Music label founded by Swings]
JUSTHIS · He was the third member of Indigo Music. · His name is Heo Seung (허승). · He was born on May 7th 1991. · He is 168 cm. · He released his first album “2 ...
URL: https://www.tumblr.com/k-hiphop-trash/171668618188/music-label-founded-by-swings-on-april-21st

[Justhis | K Hip Hop Wiki | Fandom]
Justhis (저스디스), born Heo Seung (허승) is a South Korean rapper who debuted independently in 2015. 2 Many Homes 4 1 Kid (2016) 4 The Youth with Paloalto (2018) 2 Many Homes 4 1 Kid: Instrumentals & Remixes (2017) Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night II (2022) Qual N Tity: True Up (2012) Money Vs...
URL: https://khiphop.fandom.com/wiki/Justhis

[JUSTHIS Age, Birthday, Zodiac Sign and Birth Chart - Ask Oracle]
Justhis, whose real name is Heo Seung, is a South Korean rapper born on May 7, 1991. He debuted with his album '2 Many Homes 4 1 Kid' on June 14, 2016. As a member of the hip hop crew IMJMWDP, Justhis has contributed to the Korean hip hop scene and is known for his unique style and lyrical depth.
URL: https://www.ask-oracle.com/birth-chart/justhis/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Justhis - Wikipedia] ---
Heo Seung (Korean: 허승, born May 7, 1991), better known by his stage name Justhis (Korean: 저스디스), is a South Korean rapper. He released his first album, 2 Many Homes 4 1 Kid, on June 14, 2016. He is a member of the Korean hip hop crew IMJMWDP. After departing from GROOVL1N in November 2025, he continued his activities independently through ALL CAPS ENTERTAINMENT, a label he founded himself. The company was established on June 9, 2022, with its business registration formally reported on April 23, 2024.




--- [JUSTHIS Profile and Facts (Updated!) - Rapper] ---
JUSTHIS Profile and Facts: JUSTHIS / 저스디스 is an South Korean rapper whom debuted in 2015 with ‘No One / 노원’. He’s currently under GROOVL1N. Rap Name: JUSTHIS / 저스디스 Birth Name: Heo Seung / 허승 / Hur Seung Birthday: 7th of May, 1991 Zodiac Sign: Taurus Height: 168 cm / 5’6″ Nationality: Korean IG 1: thisisjusthis IG 2: thisisjusthis2 Twitter: THISISJUSTHIS FaceBook: thisisjusthis YT 1: THISISJUSTHIS YouTube 2: 허승 JUSTHIS Facts: – His MBTI is ESTP. – Born in Seoul, South Korea. – Nickname: the underground King. – Family: Parents and an older sister. – Joined Indigo Music in 2017. – He left the label Sept. 15 2022. – Joined RAVI’s label GROOVL1N on Sept. 15 2022. – He is a vegetarian. – A fan of the DC Comics. – Hasn’t smoked in two years, 2019. – His rap name comes from a dream he had. – Speaks Korean, English, and a bit of Japanese. Education: Cheongwon High School and Kukje Univesty of Arts (dropped out). – His phone might be an Galaxy Z Fold 3. – His watch is an Galaxy Watch Active2. – Both an Samsung and an Apple user; AirPods. – On his 2nd YT channel, he’s considering uploading his daily life. – Has a history of experiencing migraines. – Enjoys watching Rick and Morty. – During the SMTM777 semi finals, he featured on Kid Milli‘s MOMM. – He also featured on EK‘s Diablo in the quarterfinals on SMTM8. – Former producer on SMTM9 alongside GroovyRoom. – Him and GAEKO were featured on Gwangil Jo‘s Thorns on SMTM10. – He can do good impersonating of other rappers. – His rap style is known as being aggressive. – A member of the DOPPLEGÄNGEM crew. – Also a member of the crews; CommonCold and JUSTHIS & Paloalto. – The crew CommonCold was formed by Mad Clown. – The JUSTHIS & Paloalto crew is more of an project. – He’s a very trustworthy friend, according to DON MALIK. – According to Kid Milli, JUSTHIS’s the only member in the label whom can confront Swings when he’s angry. – One of his biggest inspiration in term of rap is Kanye West. – Fan of Kanye West, GARION, P-Type and E SENS. – Made an apperance on STRIT‘s YT channel in Nov. of 2019. – In June of 2020, he went on DF‘s Killing Verse. – Made an apperance on ‘GQ KOREA‘ in Jan. of 2021. – An apperance on the YT channel, Mobidic was made in Jan. of 2021. – Him, Kid Milli, NO:EL and YANGHONGWON released ‘IndiGO‘ in 2018. – Released an MV for ‘Take It’ in Feb. of 2021 with MUSHVENOM. – In Feb. of 2021, he was featured on Leellamarz‘s ‘TOO BAD‘. – Featured on Epik High‘s MV for ‘Face ID‘ with GIRIBOY, SIK-K. – nafla‘s ‘run!‘ was featured by JUSTHIS in Aug. of 2021. – JUSTHIS was featured on Skinny Brown‘s track, Make You Mine. NOTE: Please don’t copypaste the content of this page to other places on the web. If you want to use info from our profile, kindly put a link to this post. Thanks! – Kprofiles.com Profile Made by midgehitsthrice and ST1CKYQUI3TT ( Special thanks to Ian Fox, julyrose (LSX), Ash, Elisabeth ) Latest Release: Take it – ft. MUSHVENOM Do you like JUSTHIS? Do you know more facts about him? Feel free to comment down below. Thank you for your help!


--- [INDIGO MUSIC - Music label founded by Swings] ---
INDIGO MUSIC - Music label founded by Swings on April 21st 2017. - It’s part of IMJMWDP group. YOUNG B - He participated in Show Me The Money 4. During the cypher Seo ChoolGoo yielded the mic so he could rap, even though that meant that ChoolGoo himself wouldn’t have time to freestyle. - He participated in Show Me The Moeny 5, but was eliminated during the 1vs1 battle. - He is friends with NO:EL. - He is from Seoul. - He lives alone in a studio apartment, although his dog lives with his parents. - He attended Shindongshin Information Industry School. - According to B-NOM, he refers to Bumby as “Yaah Yoo TaeHyun!”. - He participated in School Rapper and he is the winner of the season. - In School Rapper he was in team Giriboy and Xitsuh. - He signed with Indigo Music, a label created by Swings. - He was born on January 12th 1999. - His real name is 양홍원 (Yang HongWon). - He is 173 cm. - He lives in Mapo-gu. - He has a younger sister. - He attended Seoul Macheon Elementary School and Ogeum Middle School. - He participated in SMTM4, SMTM5, SMTM6 and SMTM8. - He was part of Dickids Crew (disbanded) and says it was the best things he did in 2019. - His favourite alcohol changes with his mood, day and who he is drinking with. When drinking alone he chooses beer, which he likes best. - His favourite song out of all he’s released is “Khaki”, because it is about 3 years of his life. - His most popular dsong when performing is “Teen Titans”. - He’d like to work with all the artists on his label (which he has already done). - The rapper he wants to work with the most is Changmo, since he things he is an historic rapper. - He really likes NELL. - He debuted as an underground rapper in 2015. - Usually, when he likes an artist, he doesn’t get the feeling of working with them. - He was involved in a bullying controversy and wanted to apologise for it, but the victim didn’t want to be on the center of the issue. - He decided to change his stage name and only goes by his real name now. The reason for this is that he didn’t like the things associated with it and wanted to erase them. He oficially stoped using it with the release of “The End” on January 18th 2020. Now, when someone calls him Young B he won’t answer. - He said that in the past he should be beaten by a strong person like YunB. - He tried to copy Cjamm’s rapping style when he was younger. - A lot of new rappers copy his rapping style and his fashion. - He isn’t friends with CJamm due to the age gap, they have more of a father/son relationship. - His song “아침에” ft. BRYN (In The Morning) means a lot to him and he made a lot of money thanks to it. - He thinks about musician’s behaviour when listening to their music. - The first drug he was prescribed was “Brintellix”, that’s were the title of his song “TL” comes from. - He went to see a psychiatrist because his younger sister survived a suicide attempt. - He became addicted to negative comments. - His first full-length album is “Stranger”. KID MILLI - He has a few tattoos, including one on his hand. - Real name: Choi Won Jae (최원재). - He debuted on 2016 with his album “TN”. - He is 17j cm. - He likes to drink alcohol and his favourite drink is soju. - He hates tomatoes. - His favourite colour is beige. - He likes A$AP Rocky. - He joined Indigo Music in early 2017 after being recommended to Swings by NO:EL. - He prefers pork ribs over pork belly. - His favourite clothing brands are: Stone Islans, Raf Simmons, Undercover, Rick Owens and Marine Serre. - He has a cat named KyungDuk (경덕이). - He likes wearing long sleeved clothes because he thinks he looks cute. - He likes Justhis’ song “Gone” and Loopy and Nafla’s “Woke Up Like This”. - He likes anime and Japanese clothing brands since he was a kid. - He got interested in Japanese culture because his father used to travel a lot to Japan. - He was born on October 26th 1993. - Before being a rapper, he wanted to be a pro gamer. He participated in StarCraft’s semiprofessional tournament. - He wanted tobe a professional gamer when he was younger. - He visited Japan for the first time in 2015. - He likes the band Se So Neon. - He sold his BMW i8 in 2020. - He did spent 4000¥ in a maid cafe, as he states in “Homono”. - Some of his favourite animes are Kobayashi-san Chi no Maid Dragon and Seven Deadly Sins. - He broke up with his long term girlfriend while making his first full album, which is the reason it’s dark and emotional in some parts. - His album “Maiden Voyage III” was made during SMTM777. - He became interested in hiphop thanks to a friend who liked it. He began to pursue a music career more seriously after hearing Beenzino’s “If I Die Tomorrow”. - His first EP in Indigo Music was “Maiden Voyage II”. - He likes Japanese culture. This is reflected on his EP, especially with the song “Honmono” featuring Black Nut. In Japanese, “Honmono” means “real thing”, “genuine”, while in Korean is “geek”, “otaku” or “virtue”. - He appeared on Mic Swagger. - He used to run an online clothing store with his ex-girlfriend. - He’d prefer a girlfriend who is unfamiliar with hip hop over a big fan. - Artists CJamm and Kaney West have a big impact on him. - He is part of the crews COZYBOYS and WYBH (which he joined in October 2018). - He participated on SMTM4, but wasn’t picked during the evaluation. - He ended 3rd place in SMTM777 with team KoPal. - He was a judge in SMTM8 as part of 40 crew with Swings, Boycold and Mad Clown. - He was a mentor in HSR3 with Giriboy. - The news of him being a judge in SMTM8 were encountered by doubts as to wether he was qualified for it. - Lil Tachi caught his eye in HSR3. - He is not satisfied with his bodybuilt, so he hides under big clothes. Also, he wears them because they allow him to move easily on stage. - He was in Ravi’s Close Up Interview were he mentioned that he wanted to work out more. - He said he doesn’t want to spend any more money on jewellery since it’s a waste. - He used to wear a lot of layers and follow fashion trends in order to give of a particular image. Nowadays, he just wears whatever feels more confortable to him without following trends. - He sells a lot of clothes when he stops using them. - The name “Maiden Voyage” comes from a box of sneakers he bought abroad in a country he does remember. - He says he hates Swings sarcasm. - He said he would like to live a day on the day of some of IMJM artists to have: Swings Bentley (he already did this) Jvcki Wai’s unhealthy lifestyle, Giriboy’s house, NO:EL’s silverspoon life and CJamm’s prison life. - He stayed in Santa Monica Beach, LA, for about a month while working on his album “BEIGE 0.5”. - He would like to work with NIKE because it’s every artist’s dream. - He would like to experience something outside of music in the future. - He would like tobe a chef at some point. - He regrets not putting more effort on his MVs and wants to work harder on them in the future. - He thinks he is handsome only with a full face of make up. - He doesn’t take pictures with people when he isn’t feeling good. - He says he doesn’t like to go upside because people are scary to him since they start rumors and he would like tomstay away from them and be careful. - In March 2019 he said he would like to live as a person who doesn’t do musci for a while. - He appeared in Tiny Table cooking Sukiyaki. - He likes to meet with rapper Hiyadam when he is in Tokyo and hang out in bars, parties and clubs. He also said that if he could live his life for a day he would try to get along with japanses girls since he would be fluent I’m the langauage. - He likes to listen to various artists, particularly Korean. In the past, though, he used to avoid Korean music since he tended to get annoyed by it. - He doesn’t want to be forgotten, which is the reason he releases music very often. - After participating in SMTM he remained good friends with Loopy and Nafla and often jokes that he isMakit Rain’s member. JUSTHIS - He was the third member of Indigo Music. - His name is Heo Seung (허승). - He was born on May 7th 1991. - He is 168 cm. - He released his first album “2 many hoes 4 a kid” in 2016. - He received an offer from Show Me The Money (he says so in Mic Swagger’s freestyle). - He won the “Rookie of the year” category in the Korean Hiphop Awards 2017. - He was born may 7th 1991. - He has collaborated with artists like Mad Clown, Groovy Room, Double K and Doplamingo. - He was a judge on Show Me The Money 9 alongside with Groovyroom. Their team name was Guljeot and the members were: Mushvenom, Kundi Panda, Miranni and Munchman. - He appeared in SMTM before as a featuring artist in Kid Milli’s MOMM and EK’s Diablo. - He was involved in a diss battle between his friend 1llinit and VMC crew. Due to this he released the tracks Thisisjusthis and Thisisjusthis pt.2. - In SMTM he mentions that he gets excited and is quite good at diss battles since he has got some experience. - He uses Tom Ford’s “Out Wood” fragance and deodorant. - His favourite underwear brand is Tom Ford’s briefs and he owns them in every colour. - He takes a long time deciding which product he will use. He actually spent about 4 years trying different kinds of water until he settled with the brand Fiji. - He is a big fan of MF Doom and has a tattoo of his mask on his forearm. He also owns some of his merch such as a ring and 2 snapbacks. - He irons his clothes while watching tv. - He uses Airpods 1 or 2 since the pro model hurt his ears. - He is a fan of the technology brand Samsung. He owns a Samsung Galaxy flip which he bought as it was released and also uses a Samsung Galaxy watch. He mentioned that he even watche the flip phone release event with a friend and celebrated it as if it was a party. - When he is at home he uses a marble patterned silk mask by the brand Slip. When he is outside he uses a black one as it could get dirty. - He appeared with fellow Guljeot team members Mushvenom and Groovyroom in Jessi’s Showterview. He was contacted by Jessi shortly before the show to ask him to appear. - He said that his name JUSTHIS appeared to him in a dream. He was in a museum and under a portrait of himself he could read “JUSTHIS”. - There was a period of time, about 2 years, were he retired from music due to dark thoughts (most likly some kind of depression or anxiety). - He also likes Kanye West and has some tattoos on his honor, such as a beat character on his hand. - He often uses “Bring rap Justhis” when he starts rapping. - His rapping style is aggresive. JVCKI WAI - Her real name is Hong YeUn (홍여은). - She joined the label on February 2018. - She was born on the 5th July 1996. - She is 155 cm. - She lives in Seoul. - She can speak English. - She studied jazz music. - Her guilty pleasure is food and her favourite dish is spaghetti and meat. - She studies Spanish. - Her favourite Netflix show is “Hip Hop Evolution”. - Her favourite fruits are strawberries, cherries and oranges. - She studied at KoreanArt School and dropped out of high school. - Accoding to Kid Milli she has an unhealthy lifestyle (which he would like to live for a day). - If she could be an animal she would choose a parrot. - Her favourite candle scent is “black cherrie”. - Her favourite game is Cube Escape. - Her favourite fish is Betta. - She likes pineapple on pizza. - She picks beer over soju and whisky over wine. - Her favourite Disney Movie is “The Hunchback of Notre Dame”. - Before listening to hip hop she wanted to do rick music. - She describes her 18 year old self as a young, ignorant student. - She says doubt and emptiness are natural to her. - Whe she works on an album she thinks of it as if it were a movie. - She won the rap competition #GALmighty, hosted by Ugly Junction, at 18. - She was recommended by Kid Milli to join the label. - Her first EP “Exposure”, was produced by GRAYE. - She is the only female in Indigo Music. - She is no longer part of Indigo Music. She left in October 2019. NO:EL - His real name is 장용준 (Jang YongJoon). - He was born on May 30th 2000. - He is from Busan. - He is 174 cm. - His blood type is O. - He went to St. Paul Preparatory School. - He is friends with Young B. - He is shy. - His father is Jang JeWon, a politician member of the Korean National Assembly (Chairman of Busan City Hall). - He likes the band Oasis. - He participated in School Rapper. He was in team Mad Clown and during the first round he received a lot of praise from the producers, Swings even said that he would contact him to sign him in his label (although according to YongJoon this never happend). - Despite all the praises he got in the show, he only appeared in the first episode, from then onwards he was censored and he left a couple of episodes before the show ended. - He had to leave the contest due to a controversy that came out concerning Jang YongJoon. He allegedly asked a friend of his to beat his mother and told a girl that offered sex through Twitter that he would pay for it. - He participated in Show Me The Money 6. He was eliminated during the fire round. - He would have picked team CoDean. - His ideal type is a pretty girl. - He likes BlackPink and Red Velvet. - He is good friends with MC Gree. - He likes the clothing brand thisisneverthat. - He spends his money as he earns it. Specially in food. - He dropped out of school because it didn’t motivate him and he was tired of studying. - He says that he can imitate YoungB. - He is been a fan of rappers Yankie and Tablo for a while. He likes sentimental rappers. He likes the song “Thank You For Breathing” by Tablo because of his lyrics. - He would like to work with Beenzino. - He joined Indigo Music on March 14th 2018. - He debuted under Prima Music Group in 2017. - He owns a Mercedes Benz. - He is very shy with strangers. - He doesn’t like vegetables. - His favourite clothing brand is “thisisneverthat”. - His stage name has no special meaning. - He recomends Eonyang Bulgogi as something to eat in Busan. - He was involved in an accident were he was driving under the influence of alcohol and hit a motorcycle. He tried to bribe the driver of the motorcycle and lied to the police saying it was not him. He also sent someone else to take the blame for him but he was then caught and faces a one and a half year in prison. - He will serve as a social worker instead of serving in the military as an active soldier after receiving grade 4 in a physical exam. - He left Indigo Music on Sptember 25th 2020 by a mutual agreement by both parties. Facts in italics may be incorrect. If you know anything else or notice something wrong don’t doubt to let us know!


--- [Justhis | K Hip Hop Wiki | Fandom] ---
Justhis (저스디스), born Heo Seung (허승) is a South Korean rapper who debuted independently in 2015. Discography[] Studio albums[] - 2 Many Homes 4 1 Kid (2016) Collaborative albums[] - 4 The Youth with Paloalto (2018) Instrumental albums[] Extended plays[] Mixtapes[] - Qual N Tity: True Up (2012) - Money Vs. Love: Dream (MVLD) (2014) Singles[] As lead artist[] - "No One" (노원) (2015) - "Veni, Vidi, Bitch" (2015) - "Tru Rich" (2017) - "Thisisjusthis" (2018) - "Re: Tired." (2018) - "Momo" (2019) - "That Ain't Real" (2020) - "Thisisjusthis Pt. II" (2020) - "Show Me The Money 9 Special" (2020) - "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night" (2021) - "Sell The Soul (2021 Remix Version)" (2021) - "You" (2021) - "This Is My Life" (2022) - "SsEeOoUuLl Pt. II" (2024) - "Diss-a-point" (2024) - "GOAT" (2024) Collaborations[] - "Wash! Wash!" (세탁중) with Mad Clown (2017) - "Cooler Than The Cool" with Paloalto (2017) - "Brown Eyes View" with Paloalto (2017) - "119 Remix" with Various Artists (2018) - "G+Jus" (굴젓) with GroovyRoom, Mushvenom (2021) - "4 The Youth Freestyle & Remixes" with Paloalto (2021) Filmography[] Television shows[] - Show Me The Money 9 (2020) - Judge - Show Me The Money 11 (2022) - Judge


--- [JUSTHIS Age, Birthday, Zodiac Sign and Birth Chart - Ask Oracle] ---
No content
