=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Frederic Slavin House - Neutra Institute for Survival Through Design]
Frederic Slavin House For Frederic Slavin, Richard Neutra designed a long rectangular house that rises up and juts out from its steep hillside lot. The house offers its visitors a unique experience upon their entrance, as a path leads them beneath the house to a front door flanked by floor-to-ceiling windows.
URL: https://neutra.org/project/frederic-slavin-house/

[Why the famed Slavin House in Santa Barbara is still searching for a buyer]
Slavin House in Santa Barbara has it all: impeccable mid-century modern lines. An outdoor pool with an expansive ocean view. A star designer — Richard Neutra — who was “one of the most influential architects of the twentieth century,” ...
URL: https://www.sfgate.com/centralcoast/article/slavin-house-still-on-market-17307741.php

[Frederic Slavin House / Richard Neutra | Classics On Architecture Lab - ArchitectureLab]
The Frederic Slavin House, designed by Richard Neutra in 1956, is a notable residential building in Santa Barbara, CA. The long rectangular structure rises from its steep hillside lot, creating a striking visual impact. Visitors enter the house via a path that leads beneath the house to a front door flanked by floor-to-ceiling windows.
URL: https://www.architecturelab.net/frederic-slavin-house-richard-neutra-classics-on-architecture-lab/

[Siteline | This Richard Neutra House on the Riviera Will Rise Again]
August 23, 2021 | by Erik Torkells ••• Good news: Richard Neutra's Slavin house (1322 Dover Road) on the Riviera, which was mostly destroyed in a fire last May, will rise from the ashes: "Miraculously, the original Neutra building plans survived," report agents Molly and Randy Haden, who brokered the sale.
URL: https://www.sitelinesb.com/this-richard-neutra-house-on-the-riviera-will-rise-again/

[Slavin House, Santa Barbara, CA - the Pacific Coast Architecture Database]
Designers: Neutra, Richard J., Architect (firm); Richard Josef Neutra (architect) Dates: constructed 1958 · Brentwood, Los Angeles, CA · OpenStreetMap (new tab) Google Map (new tab) PCAD id: 719 · Pacific Coast Architecture Database (PCAD) — © 2005-Alan Michelson ·
URL: https://pcad.lib.washington.edu/building/719/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Frederic Slavin House - Neutra Institute for Survival Through Design] ---
Frederic Slavin House Frederic Slavin House For Frederic Slavin, Richard Neutra designed a long rectangular house that rises up and juts out from its steep hillside lot. The house offers its visitors a unique experience upon their entrance, as a path leads them beneath the house to a front door flanked by floor-to-ceiling windows. Once inside, the visitor proceeds up a set of stairs in order to reach the main living area. By positioning the entrance below the main floor, Neutra was able to run glass windows continuously along the house’s façade while still maintain the family’s privacy. The façade is enlivened by a break that sets the kitchen volume back from the rest, and a spider leg accentuates this shift. To accommodate the Slavins’ many children, Neutra and his team, including architect John Blanton, devised solutions for maintaining neat and quiet public areas such as a glass door mechanism for separating kitchen noises from the living areas. Quietness is also guaranteed by the technologically savvy design that placed all the ballasts for the florescent lighting in the basement to elude the hum of the fixtures. Adapted from Neutra – Complete Works by Barbara Lamprecht (Taschen, 2000), p. 310. Project Detail Year Built 1956 Project Architect Richard Neutra Client Frederic Slavin Location Santa Barbara, CA


--- [Why the famed Slavin House in Santa Barbara is still searching for a buyer] ---
Slavin House in Santa Barbara has it all: impeccable mid-century modern lines. An outdoor pool with an expansive ocean view. A star designer — Richard Neutra — who was “one of the most influential architects of the twentieth century,” according to the LA Conservancy. This legendary mid-century modern home is up for sale in California’s Central Coast, but even in the state’s breakneck real estate market, Slavin House is languishing. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Other rare gems are highly sought after, and snapped up for a premium before they even get a chance to hit the market. Yet there’s no signs of a new owner on the immediate horizon for 1322 Dover Road, asking $10.5 million. The placement of the home alone should draw interest without the marquee name attached. The property is seemingly suspended in midair, with panoramic views, and perched high above the Pacific. It’s set back from the street on a private nearly 1-acre parcel on the most desired road in the Riviera neighborhood — just a 10-minute walk downhill to Santa Barbara Bowl and the State Street commercial corridor. At night, the downtown lights twinkle before it. During the day, the home is flooded with natural light. And every sunset into the Pacific comes at you in something slightly better than CinemaScope. Advertisement Article continues below this ad So why is this Neutra not selling? ‘He was, in a word, impossible’ The architect himself had a storied reputation. Known for the homes he designed for wealthy clients, he was also the stereotype of a temperamental artist. Richard Neutra, Alex Ross wrote in a sprawling deep dive into the ego-driven, quirky and ever-more-recognizable mid-century icon in the Sept. 20, 2021, issue of the New Yorker, “is one of those artists, like Gertrude Stein and Mark Rothko, who present a fundamental contradiction between their personality and their work. The houses are tranquil and graceful; the man who made them could be pompous, overbearing, needy, exasperating.” Advertisement Article continues below this ad Don't let Google decide who you trust. “He was, in a word, impossible,” Ann Brown, the original owner of a 1968 Neutra in Washington, D.C., told Ross. But for all his hubris and personal foibles, Neutra’s work in recent years has been pushed into prominence, preserved and embraced. In the trendy Los Angeles neighborhood of Silver Lake, hipsters snap photos of the Neutra VDL, a converted residence with dramatic lines and comfy interior. The National Historic Landmark houses a nonprofit and features architectural and artistic exhibits, as well as installations and performances. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Issues with the Slavin House Neutra’s other homes have sold for even more than what the Slavin House’s owner is asking. In 2020, Tremaine House in Montecito was picked up in an off-market sale for a cool $12 million in 2020 by Franz von Holzhausen, the designer behind the 1997 Volkswagen Beetle. Today, he helms Tesla’s design team and is responsible for its fleet, including the brutalist Cybertruck. The Tremaine House fits in with the latter’s aesthetic. In sharp contrast to the low-slung and sprawling Spanish and Tudor and ranch house compounds that dot the Montecito hills and valleys, the Tremaine House is poured blocks of concrete, a medium Neutra had the foresight to use and protect the compound against the area’s inevitable fires and floods. The use of unfinished concrete in the interiors has now become a staple in contemporary architecture. The home is often described as a “stunning example” of Neutra’s work. Advertisement Article continues below this ad So, once more, why isn’t the Tremaine House’s counterpart, the one with the actual views, creating so much as a stir? “I don’t know, I don’t really have the answer,” Jim Carr, the Slavin House’s current owner as well as the real estate agent representing himself as the seller, told SFGATE. “Neutra’s considered by many as being up there in modern American history, him and Frank Lloyd Wright are No. 1 and No. 2. I don’t know why it sits.” The answer likely lies in the state of the home itself, which Carr is happy to address. The biggest issue: a fire at the home on May 8, 2021, that took out much of the original 1955 structure. Acting Santa Barbara Fire Department division Chief Mike DePonce told Noozhawk at the time of the incident that most of the Slavin House went up in smoke in the span of a single morning. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Perhaps more forebodingly, the fire also revealed the home was built in a precarious and difficult-to-access area. There were “pretty extensive hose lays to get up the hill to the structure,” DePonce said. “I can tell it was a challenging ... deployment for them,” he added. The good news is the original plans for the building survived the blaze. “Miraculously,” real estate agents Molly and Randy Haden said in an August 2021 statement following Carr’s acquisition of the burned-out Slavin House for $2.7 million, “the new owners ... have a passion for architecture, intend to restore and rebuild this local landmark home to its original glory.” Advertisement Article continues below this ad While Carr estimates the footprint of the entire property, including home, foundation, landscaping and pool is 50% or less intact, the actual building is 10% to 20% of what it was pre-blaze. Still, he sees the fire as more of an inconvenience in the big picture of the property’s significance. “The value is more in the way art is evaluated,” he says. “It’s not about how much the paint costs and paintbrush and canvas, the thing that makes it valuable is the artist who created it. There's an element of that conceivably or potentially in this property.” Carr’s assessment might not be too far off. Most mid-century gems, including the Neutra VDL and the Tremaine House, have undergone significant renovations and upgrades to be brought up to seismic and structural code as well as to be in line with current ADA standards. Advertisement Article continues below this ad As such, Carr says he’s currently spending “a long time, a really a long time …with the city to obtain a permit and demolish the burned-down [part of the] building.” He says he’s also working on obtaining the building permit and is, right now, committed to completing the restoration work should the right buyer not come to light. “I’m a real estate broker, and so I choose to advertise it for sale while I do this,” he says. “I’m pressing forward to build the house and … if somebody else just has to have it, then they can talk to me.” Paying a big premium for a fixer-upper Beyond the task of completing major work on the property and agreeing to restore the building to spec, there is a matter of price to consider. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Carr originally listed the building for $10 million on March 16. He then bumped the price up to $10.5 million on April 3. If he gets what he’s asking, the 3,580-square-foot main home would run the new buyer $2,933 per square foot — and that’s before the cost of renovations. To put that into perspective, the price per square foot in Manhattan, currently the most expensive in the world, is $1,611. Is Carr simply asking too much? Maybe. The market in Santa Barbara, like much of the rest of California, has spiked in the pandemic era. Because of the continued desirability of the area and low inventory juxtaposed with inflation and the uptick in interest rates, Santa Barbra is currently experiencing wild swings. Still, Carr is not far off from what real estate websites say the home is worth. The Zillow estimate currently values the home at $10,184,200. However, there’s at least one current mid-century comp in the neighborhood, albeit without the history and the architect, and it’s listed for considerably less. It’s also still fully intact. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Have we ruined mid-century modern? Beyond the fire and the price tag, there's the question of whether we’ve exhausted our appetite for mid-century modern, and how that, if anything, might inform the interest in the Slavin House. “I absolutely have opinions on this,” Melissa Warner Rothblum, a principal at Massucco Warner, an LA- and Seattle-based design firm with roots in San Francisco, tells SFGATE. “There can be questions in a potential owner’s mind: Does this house fit my needs and what’s happening now? And does this house feel too architecturally important? Advertisement Article continues below this ad “Right now — as they tend to — tastes are changing.” Rothblum says the current mid-century modern revival is losing steam after more than a decade. People are starting to move on. “I feel like five, six, seven years ago this kind of the cool thing to do,” she says. “The hip trendy thing was to have a that very brand of mid-century style in your home.” But now that style has been filtered and watered down. “You recognize it instantly,” Rothblum notes. “The tapered leg, the sheepskin throw, the neutral colors,” she continues. “People took mid-century and they made it kind of ranchy — it’s now really the norm. I think when it becomes too mainstream everywhere, every coffee shop, everything — it’s not exciting to your eyes anymore. Advertisement Article continues below this ad “It’s been a dark time and something that’s bright, that is nice and colorful — people are starting to look beyond what we’ve been seeing.” Rothblum says people are currently into “more color and pattern and layering.” “Now we’re moving from the 1950s and ’60s into the ’80s and ’90s in terms of decor. We’re seeing big round legs on things, bolder colors, brighter patterns. It's funny I feel like clients have us do walk-throughs asking what they can do with a space — and I haven’t ... I haven’t walked anything truly original mid-century in a while.” Advertisement Article continues below this ad ‘These projects can be scary’ Rothblum says interior standards are increasingly less rigid when it comes to refurbishing notable spaces like the Slavin House. That being said, she acknowledges those types of endeavors always end up on the difficult end of the spectrum. “Those projects can be scary,” she says, “Scary in a sense that any time you’re working on a home with historical significance you’re trying to understand what is the history of this home. Why did they do this? Why is something a little quirky and how does it make sense? It’s a mystery. Understanding the back story and doing a little more homework is part of it.” Current owner Carr agrees. And for now he believes the perfect buyer hasn’t surfaced on the Slavin House because, frankly, not everyone has the appetite for the amount of homework, paperwork and actual restoration — or even an appreciation for the home's simple, boxy style in the first place. Advertisement Article continues below this ad “For me, I don’t care what the house looks at from the outside,” he says. “I care what it looks like from the inside out — that’s why I like the 100% glass on this Neutra. But, I don’t think a glass house is attractive compared to a Tudor for example — there’s not much you can do. It can look like a 7-Eleven from the outside but the magnificence is on the inside you have the most unimaginable living, the beautiful view and it’s just remarkable — it’s a wonderful way to live.” But the question remains, whether the work is completed by Carr or an as-yet-unknown buyer who steps up; is the Slavin House lost to a fire and changing tastes, or can it find new life as a stunning example of mid-century modern in Santa Barbara? Advertisement Article continues below this ad “Of course,” Carr says. “It already is.” — 'Survival mode': It was once California's top pot-producing county. Now it's a bust. — Burned by LA, three all-star chefs brought Michelin to small-town California — Monaco billionaire said he was leaving Carmel. Instead, he's breaking ground. — 'Heartbreaking': Once-thriving California downtown is on the brink Get SFGATE's top stories sent to your inbox by signing up for The Daily newsletter here.


--- [Frederic Slavin House / Richard Neutra | Classics On Architecture Lab - ArchitectureLab] ---
Architects: Richard Neutra, John Blanton Year: 1956 Client: Frederic Slavin Location: Santa Barbara, CA The Frederic Slavin House, a residential building designed by Richard Neutra in 1956, is a significant architectural landmark in Santa Barbara, CA. The long rectangular structure dramatically rises from its steep hillside lot, offering a striking visual presence. Visitors access the house via a path beneath the house, leading to a front door flanked by floor-to-ceiling windows. Inside, a staircase ascends to the main living area, enhancing the spatial experience. Neutra’s design features continuous glass windows for panoramic views while maintaining privacy. The façade is distinguished by a break where the kitchen volume is recessed, highlighted by a spider leg design. Neutra and architect John Blanton devised solutions for the Slavins’ large family to ensure neat and quiet public spaces, including a glass door mechanism to separate kitchen noise from living areas. Technological advancements included placing all fluorescent lighting ballasts in the basement to eliminate fixture hum. The Frederic Slavin House, designed by Richard Neutra in 1956, is a notable residential building in Santa Barbara, CA. The long rectangular structure rises from its steep hillside lot, creating a striking visual impact. Visitors enter the house via a path that leads beneath the house to a front door flanked by floor-to-ceiling windows. Inside, a staircase ascends to the main living area, enhancing the spatial experience. Neutra’s strategic placement of the entrance below the main floor allowed for uninterrupted glass windows along the façade, maintaining the family’s privacy. The façade is characterized by a break where the kitchen volume is recessed, accentuated by a spider leg design. Neutra and architect John Blanton incorporated solutions for the Slavins’ large family to ensure neat and quiet public spaces, such as a glass door mechanism to separate kitchen noise from living areas. Technological advancements included placing all fluorescent lighting ballasts in the basement to avoid fixture hum. Richard Neutra, an influential mid-century modern architect, was renowned for his work with wealthy clients. His designs were tranquil and graceful, contrasting with his often temperamental personality. Neutra’s reputation for being overbearing and demanding did not overshadow his architectural genius. His work has gained renewed appreciation and preservation in recent years. A fire in May 2021 caused significant damage to the Frederic Slavin House, drawing attention to the challenges of preserving mid-century modern architecture. Efforts to restore the house highlight the ongoing value and importance of Neutra’s contributions to architectural history. Project Location Address: 1322 Dover Road, Santa Barbara, CA Location is for general reference and may represent a city or country, not necessarily a precise address.


--- [Siteline | This Richard Neutra House on the Riviera Will Rise Again] ---
••• Good news: Richard Neutra’s Slavin house (1322 Dover Road) on the Riviera, which was mostly destroyed in a fire last May, will rise from the ashes: “Miraculously, the original Neutra building plans survived,” report agents Molly and Randy Haden, who brokered the sale. “The new owners, who have a passion for architecture, intend to restore and rebuild this local landmark home to its original glory.” Vintage photos by Julius Shulman © J. Paul Getty Trust, Getty Research Institute, Los Angeles (2004.R.10). ••• In June, the city’s hotel tax revenue was up by 17 percent compared to 2019, which the city attributed to rates being up by 20 percent. In July, the revenues were 29 percent higher than in 2019—this time, because hotel rates were 35 percent higher. ••• Coming April 6 to the Santa Barbara Bowl: Ben Platt’s The Reverie Tour. Platt is an actor best known for Dear Evan Hansen and the recent series The Politician; judging from the song below, his new album, Reverie, is an ode to 1980s adult contemporary. Tickets go on sale August 27. ••• If you have fancy stuff you’d like to unload, Bonhams auction house will be in Santa Barbara on August 26 offering estimates on decorative art, silver, and Asian, African, Oceanic, Pre-Columbian, and Native American art. Email [email protected] to make an appointment. ••• I was on my way to LAX when I saw signage for Lobster Town USA on Santa Claus Lane. Alas, it’s a new art gallery and not a lobster shack (although apparently a restaurant by that name was once in the space). The art is intriguing, though. Below: Wesley Anderegg’s “Swimming for It.” ••• From Caltrans: “The California Transportation Commission today allocated more than $1.4 billion for projects to repair and improve transportation infrastructure throughout the state. […] Active Transportation Projects approved today include: $290,000 for the City of Santa Barbara to install 0.65 miles of new Class II buffered bike lanes as well as curb extensions at six intersections and 210 feet of sidewalk infill to improve safety for cyclists and pedestrians at Upper De La Vina Street.” The announcement goes on to specify the area as “on De La Vina Street from Alamar Avenue to Padre Street, on Padre Street from De La Vina Street to State Street, and the intersection of Alamar Avenue and Junipero Street.” ••• Thank you, Studio Willam Hefner, for one of the more amusing autocorrections I’ve seen lately…. Sign up for the Siteline email newsletter and you’ll never miss a post.


--- [Slavin House, Santa Barbara, CA - the Pacific Coast Architecture Database] ---
Choose Theme: Select theme to display preview image. Structure Type: built works - dwellings - houses Designers: Neutra, Richard J., Architect (firm); Richard Josef Neutra (architect) Dates: constructed 1958 PCAD id: 719
