=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Shinto: Periods of Mourning | Grieving | eCondolence.com]
There are at least twenty steps in the Shinto funeral process which take the body from preparation through the placement of the ashes of the body in their final resting place. Each step focuses on purification, preparing the spirit for the journey to the spirit world and cleansing the mourner from the weight of death and grief.
URL: https://www.econdolence.com/learning-center/religion-and-culture/shinto/shinto-periods-of-mourning

[Appreciating The Intricacies Of Shinto Funerals With Daken And Wolverine]
Nov 25, 2021 · During the Death of Wolverine arc, Logan’s son, Daken, carried out a traditional Shinto funeral for his father. Shinto funerals have twenty steps and I’m looking into each one as a way of seeing how grief is processed.
URL: https://yamatomagazine.home.blog/2021/11/25/appreciating-the-intricacies-of-shinto-funerals-with-daken-and-wolverine/

[What To Expect at a Shinto Funeral - Get Ordained]
Like many Japanese customs, Shinto funerals, called Sosai, are full of rites and rituals. In fact, there are twenty separate rituals that go into a proper Shinto funeral. Mixed with elements of Buddhism, these funerals allow the kami, or spiritual energy, of the deceased to move on to the next world.
URL: https://getordained.org/blog/what-to-expect-at-a-shinto-funeral

[Shinto: Funeral & Burial Customs - eCondolence.com]
The rituals that are involved in the twenty steps of funeral preparation are followed in order to ready the spirit of the deceased for the spirit world. A ...
URL: https://www.econdolence.com/learning-center/religion-and-culture/shinto/shinto-funeral--burial-customs

[Weddings and Funerals - Shintoism]
When a follower of Shintoism passes away a picture, flowers and sand for incense are brought to the funeral. Preparation is a vital step in Shinto ceremonies. When performing the burial it must be done traditionally according to century-old protocols. There are 20 steps when performing a funeral. Step 1: "Matsugo no mizu" - Washing the lips Step 2: "Yakan" - Washing the corpse Step 3: "Kiyu ...
URL: http://worldreligionsshintoproject.weebly.com/weddings-and-funerals.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Shinto: Periods of Mourning | Grieving | eCondolence.com] ---
Mourning the loss of a loved one is a very personal expression. Each individual demonstrates grief in a unique way, often indicative of the relationship that was shared with the deceased and family. Japan blends two strong spiritual traditions into personal life. The Shinto religion tends to emphasize the positive characteristics of life: weddings, birthdays, careers and children. The Buddhist religion guides the Japanese people through the struggles of life: suffering, evil in the world, and death. Over 85% of the funerals and mourning practices in Japan are conducted with strong Buddhist tradition. The Shinto faith has influenced the harsher side of mourning and death. Japanese mourning is a slow process that people experience together. The first response to tragedy and death is to take care of the immediate details and needs in a practical and efficient manner. After the needs are met, family and friends together can process the loss of a loved one. Shinto periods of mourning rely on rituals and traditions of the past to provide the proper pathway to guide someone through the difficult days of mourning and grief. Types of Services: Visitation, Funeral & Burial The traditions and customs of the Shinto faith lend themselves to rituals that guide both the spirit of the deceased and the surviving mourners through this transition of life. There are at least twenty steps in the Shinto funeral process which take the body from preparation through the placement of the ashes of the body in their final resting place. Each step focuses on purification, preparing the spirit for the journey to the spirit world and cleansing the mourner from the weight of death and grief. The twenty steps are detailed in the article “Shinto Funeral & Burial Customs” but some of the steps are focused specifically on the periods of mourning in Shinto. Kichu-fuda The kichu-fuda is a mourning custom which lasts one day. The wake itself, where family and friends is called tsuya, which literally means “the passing of the night.” The wake is held as soon after the death as is possible. During this time intense grief may be expressed and friends gather to offer support to the family. Mourners wear only black clothing from head to toe. Men will wear black suits with a white shirt and black tie. Women wear either black dresses or kimonos. A priest leads the ceremonial activities of the day, which may vary from sect to sect, but often includes chanting, singing and prayers. The family will also perform other rituals during this time of mourning. One tradition held during kichu-fuda is the koden, which is a gift of money given to the immediate family from friends and relatives to help with the costs of the funeral and to honor the deceased. The amount given will be dependent upon the relationship shared with the deceased and the financial circumstance of the guest. Guests are seated with the closest relatives and immediate family seated in the front. The priest leads in chanting as the family members each offer incense three times at the urn in front of the deceased. The guests will perform the same ritual in urns at other locations behind the family members’ seats. The wake ends once this entire process is completed. Many of the religion’s sects embrace the tradition of giving a gift to each of the guests in attendance. The closest relatives and friends often stay and keep vigil with the deceased overnight in the same room. Funeral Service The funeral service itself is called the kokubetsu-shiki and is held on the day following the wake. Most of the rituals are the same as those performed during the wake. Incense, prayers and chanting are offered, led by the local priest. During this time the priest will give the deceased a new name that will be used in the afterlife. This ceremony is called Tengoku. Tradition holds that the new name prevents the spirit of the deceased from returning if his name is called. The length and grandeur of the new name is dependent upon the virtue and character of the life of the deceased and the dedication and contributions of the family to the religion. At the close of the ceremony, friends and family may place flowers in the casket around the head and shoulders of the body before the casket is sealed. Some sects will also decorate the hearse with flowers and adornments. In some regions, the tradition is for the guests at the funeral service to nail the coffin shut using a stone. After the Cremation After the funeral service, the mourners go back to the deceased’s house to share a meal and to perform some rituals of purification. Each person will throw salt over his shoulder on the property to ward off evil spirits. Some sects will have the walkways and sidewalks leading to the front door sprinkled with salt for the mourners to walk on. The family of the deceased will be in a period of mourning for 49 days after the funeral. Once a week they will visit the grave to place fresh flowers and to burn incense. On the 3rd, 7th and 49th days they will have a short memorial service at the site, led by the Shinto priest. During these 49 days, the family cannot participate in any form of celebration or entertainment. Cemeteries Visiting the graves in Shinto tradition is both an obligation and a privilege for family and friends. Japanese graves and cemeteries are different than those in western cultures. After the cremation, some ashes of the deceased are given to the closest family members to be kept in family shrines in the home. The remaining ashes and bone pieces are placed in an urn and taken to the cemetery. Most Japanese graves are family graves consisting of a stone monument. The stone has places set aside for flowers, incense, water in front of the monument, and a chamber underneath for the ashes. The front of the stone has etchings of the family name and the members of the family. Often the names of living family members will be carved as well, with their names being listed in red. These tombstones or monuments can be very elaborate. The grave areas are maintained by the family as a demonstration of respect. The Shinto faith emphasizes the importance of ancestors and family. Maintenance of the grave and regular visitation reveres the deceased and tangibly expresses commitment to the religion. Fresh flowers are brought to the grave each week, unless circumstances absolutely prevent it. Friends can show honor and respect by assisting the family. Any visitor to the grave will bring incense and burn it during the moments spent at the site. Prayers and reflections not only express grief and mourning, but demonstrate respect for the deceased and the family. Comforting the Bereaved Friends and family can comfort the bereaved by participating in the funeral process, especially by attending the wake, the funeral service and the ceremonies at the home following the cremation. A presence at these events is a concrete way of showing the family that they are cared for and that the memory of the deceased is held in high esteem. If attendance at these events is not possible, sympathy cards or notes can express condolences for the loss and regret for not being able to attend the services. Flowers or gift baskets sent to the home are gestures that are always appreciated. Visiting the home of the family following the funeral is an appropriate way to offer comfort and support. Words of hope and encouragement make the bereaved feel that their loved one is remembered.


--- [Appreciating The Intricacies Of Shinto Funerals With Daken And Wolverine] ---
Everyone has their own way of coping with death, whether through carrying out their own personal rituals or spending time with loved ones. The passing of my grandad has made me think about the burial ceremonies from different cultures, with comics offering an insight into the various practices. After all, death is never constant in comics. But we still mourn characters if we’ve read about them for years. Japanese funerals are some of the most elaborate, so it seemed appropriate that Wolverine’s death would be honoured through a culture that shaped his life. During the Death of Wolverine arc, Logan’s son, Daken, carried out a traditional Shinto funeral for his father. Shinto funerals have twenty steps and I’m looking into each one as a way of seeing how grief is processed. Step 1 – Matsugo No Mizu (Washing The Lips) The first step in a Shinto funeral is known as the ‘washing the lips.’ This involves a relative wetting the lips of the dead, which acts as a symbolic gesture for the body having its last taste of water. The first step is performed as close to the time of death as possible. To start the funeral, Daken took Wolverine’s remains to a Shinto priest in Okinawa. Step 2 – Yukan (Washing The Body) The second step, called yukan, involves the body being washed. Yukan is done for practical and ceremonial reasons. Several family members can take part in washing the body. Step 3 – Kiyu Hokoku (Announcement Of Death) The third step is based around the family announcing to the spirit world that a person is dead. This is done through prayer and usually carried out at a family shrine. Step 4 – Makura Naoshi No Gi (Laying The Body Down) The fourth step of the ritual involves the body being set down with the head propped up on a pillow. Makura Noashi No Gi can be translated as ‘pillow decorations,’ with the body always facing north. Food offerings are given to the gods, while a sword or knife is placed beside the dead. Step 5 – Nokan No Gi (Placing In The Coffin) Step five is straightforward because the body is placed within a coffin. In Wolverine’s case, Daken chose to let the priest carry out his work alone. Step 6 – Kyuzen Nikku (Offerings For The Deceased) Kyuzen Nikku involves more food, though it’s different from step four because meals are offered to the dead. Traditionally, the offerings are the favourite meals of the deceased, made twice a day until the final resting place is given. Step 7 – Ubusuna Jinja Ni Kiyu Hokoku (Announcement Of The Return Of The Spirit) The seventh step focuses on the spirit returning to the local shrine. From Daken’s perspective, I imagine him believing his father’s spirit to be one of the most powerful forces in the world. Step 8 – Bosho Batsujo No Gi (Purifying The Ground) This step is meant to act as a purification ritual. A priest concentrates on purifying the earth that will be used as the grave site. The process is done through a combination of water and prayer. Step 9 – Kessai (Purifying The Self) Kessai involves the priest purifying himself in preparation for the funeral. This may be done by a priest pouring water over himself. Step 10 – Tsuya Sai (The Wake) The wake occurs at the half way point, with the family gathering together to remember the dead. Priests offer prayers and thank mourners for attending the funeral. Daken was the only one present at Wolverine’s wake and shared a drink with the priest. Step 11 – Senrei Sai (Transferring The Spirit) Senrei sai is about transferring the deceased’s spirit from the body into a wooden box. The box is held over the body, representing the separation. Step 12 – Settai (Refreshments) Settai involves mourners eating food that’s been prepared in a different location. This is done to avoid the contamination of death and the food could range from a small snack to a large meal. Step 13 – Shinsosai (Eulogy) The formal funeral service happens with shinsosai. The funeral room is purified, offerings are made to the gods and eulogies are carried out to honour the dead. Step 14 – Kokobetsu Shiki (Farewell) This step is focused on mourners saying goodbye to the deceased. A single file line is formed, with each mourner walking past the body to give a final farewell. Step 15 – Hakkyu Sai No Gi (Departure Of The Coffin) The coffin is prepared to travel to the grave site during the fifteenth step. A banner-decorated sword may be placed on the coffin as a way of letting the dead know that it’s time to move on. Daken chose to transfer his father’s remains in a small box, demonstrating a less elaborate approach. Step 16 – Soretsu (Funeral Procession) The funeral procession happens with the sixteenth step and the coffin is taken to a cemetery or crematorium. Step 17 – Hakkyu-Go Batsujo No Gi (Purification Of The House) This step is one of the most intimate parts of the entire ceremony. The home where the funeral has taken place is purified after the body has been removed. A new altar is set up inside the house. Daken’s family altar was made up of pictures of his mother and father side by side. Step 18 – Maisosai (Burial Rites) Burial rites are performed during the eighteenth step. The priest will pray and offerings are made on behalf of the deceased. Step 19 – Kotsusage (Removal Of The Bones) Perhaps the most intimate step, kotsusage involves the literal picking up of bones. A family member plucks the bones of a loved one with chopsticks and places them inside a vase. The bones come out of the crematorium ash. In a symbolic gesture, Daken picked up a claw fragment from his father and placed it inside a vase. Step 20 – Kika Sai (Coming Home) For the final step, ashes that haven’t been buried are brought home and placed inside the family shrine. The bereaved offers thanks to the people who’ve attended the funeral. Wolverine’s funeral highlights the peace that burial rituals bring to people. Shinto funerals are complex, reverent ceremonies that show another side of death.


--- [What To Expect at a Shinto Funeral - Get Ordained] ---
Like many Japanese customs, Shinto funerals, called Sosai, are full of rites and rituals. In fact, there are twenty separate rituals that go into a proper Shinto funeral. Mixed with elements of Buddhism, these funerals allow the kami, or spiritual energy, of the deceased to move on to the next world. Shinto is the oldest religion practiced in Japan; over 3.4 million people consider it their sole religion. The belief system mixes Buddhist practices with old traditions and has been passed down through generations. Here’s what happens when someone who practices Shinto passes away. Before the Funeral After a death has occurred, the family’s Shinto shrine and Buddhist altar are covered to keep the spirit of the deceased from entering them. A small table decorated with flowers, candles, and incense is put next to the bed of the deceased. The oldest son or oldest male relative is in charge of making funeral arrangements. The funeral is held as quickly as possible, with exceptions being made if family members have to travel a long way to be present or if it’s the second day of the six-day lunar cycle. The First Four Steps The first rite is the washing of the lips. A close relative will wet the deceased’s lips with water, giving them the last taste of it. The second step is washing the body. Many family members may be involved in this process. Step three is announcing the death. Family members announce the death to the spirit world through prayers. The next step involves “pillow decorations.” The deceased’s head is propped up on a pillow facing north. A knife or sword is laid next to the decedent. Offerings of food are made to the gods. The Next Four Steps For the fifth step, the deceased’s body is placed in the coffin. Step six involves food offerings to the deceased. Favorite meals are made twice a day until the body is cremated. In step seven, the family announces the return of the kami to the local shrine. This can be done over the phone. Step eight is when the local priest blesses the burial site. Steps Nine Through Twelve In the ninth step, the priest purifies himself to get ready for the funeral. This person will pray while ceremonially washing. Step 10 is akin to a wake. Mourners gather to offer their condolences. Priests pray for the deceased’s kami and for comfort for the family. For step 11, the priest holds a wooden tablet over the decedent’s body, saying prayers that will transfer the kami into the tablet. Step 12 sees food served to mourners. It’s typically prepared elsewhere so it’s not contaminated by death. Steps 13 through 16 Step 13 is the funeral service, held at home, in a funeral parlor, or in a community center, since death is too unclean for a shrine. The room is purified, offerings are made to the gods, and eulogies are given. Step 14 is the farewell ritual, where mourners pass the coffin to say goodbye to the deceased. They also offer prayers for the family. In step 15, the coffin is prepped to travel to the gravesite or crematorium. The coffin is decorated so the deceased will know it’s time to move into the next world. Step 16 is the funeral procession. Steps 17 through 20 In step 17, the home of the deceased is purified. The 18th step involves offering burial rites. Family and friends gather at the gravesite or crematorium. Step 19 is “picking of the bones,” where someone removes any bone fragments from the cremated ashes and puts them in a vase to be placed in an above-ground mausoleum. Step 20 is when ashes that aren’t buried are brought home and placed in the family shrine. As you can see, a lot of ceremonial rituals go into a Shinto funeral. This beautiful tradition helps the family say goodbye.


--- [Shinto: Funeral & Burial Customs - eCondolence.com] ---
Shinto is Japan’s oldest religion and has a presence in the modern Japanese civilization. Even more, many Japanese Buddhist sects add elements of Shinto beliefs and rituals to their practices. Shinto funeral customs are not written down, but are traditions that have been handed down through the centuries. Proper preparation for a Shinto funeral takes meticulous planning and execution as there are twenty specific ritual commands to be followed. The Shinto religious tradition insists that the ceremony be carried out in an exact manner. Families are not allowed to deviate by adding a personal touch. Once the Death Occurs Almost nine out of ten Japanese funerals are conducted as a blend of Buddhist and Shinto traditions, a practice that both religions would see as complementary. Most homes maintain a Buddhist altar and a Shinto shrine. When death occurs, the altar and shrine are closed and covered to keep the spirits of the dead out. A small table, decorated with simple flowers, incense and a candle is placed next to the bed of the deceased. While formal notifications of the death occur during the twenty steps of the funeral preparation, informal notice is given to civil authorities and the closest of family members. Typically Japanese Shinto followers have not participated in organ donation. Regulations restricted the donations to only be permitted from those whose donor was declared brain dead and with prior written consent of the donor and the approval of the donor’s family. Some areas are working now to significantly relax the laws. Funeral arrangements are typically made by the eldest son, or oldest male relative. It is expected for the funeral to be held as quickly as possible. Exceptions are made if relatives have to travel a distance to participate in the services. An ancient tradition honoring the six-day lunar cycle often discourages funerals from being held on the second day of the cycle. All other days are generally considered acceptable. Funeral Preparation The rituals that are involved in the twenty steps of funeral preparation are followed in order to ready the spirit of the deceased for the spirit world. A process of purification is necessary for the spirit to be able to move into the spirit world. The home of the mourners must also be purified to remove the contamination of death. Steps One through Four The first step in the funeral preparation is “matsugo no mizu,” the washing of the lips. A close relative wets the lips of the deceased, giving the body its last taste of water. This is to be performed as close to the time of death as is possible. The “yukan” is the second step and this literally means the washing of the corpse. Several family members may be involved in this practical and ceremonial washing. The third step is the announcement of the death, called “kiyu hokoku.” The family announces the death to the spirit world through prayer and memorialization at the family shrine. “Makura naoshi no gi” is the fourth step. The phrase literally means “pillow decorations” and the ritual involves placing the deceased in such a way that the head is propped up on a pillow, facing north. Offerings of food are to be made to the gods at this time. A sword or knife is placed by the side of the deceased. Steps Five through Eight The placement of the body of the deceased in a coffin is the fifth step, called “nokan no gi.” Step six is “kyuzen nikku,” or daily food offerings to the deceased. These food offerings are to be made twice a day until the body is given its final resting place. Traditionally the favorite meals of the deceased are prepared. The next step, number seven, is the announcement of the return of the spirit to the local shrine. This process is called “ubusuna jinja ni kiyu hokokuh” and can be made by a simple phone call to the shrine. The eighth step, “bosho batsujo no gi,” is the earth purification ceremony. The priests from the local shrine will purify the ground to be used for the grave site with water and prayer. Steps Nine through Twelve The ninth step is called “kessai” and is when the priest purifies himself in preparation for the funeral. This normally occurs through ceremonial washings and prayer. “Tsuya sai” is the tenth step and is considered the wake. Mourners gather to express condolences to the family and present their offerings to the gods, the shrine and sometimes, the family. At this time the priests offer prayers for the deceased’s spirit and prayers of thanksgiving and comfort for the mourners. The eleventh step is called “senrei sai” and literally means the transfer of the spirit. The priest transfers the deceased’s spirit from the body into a wooden tablet. The tablet is held over the body of the deceased while the priest offers ceremonial prayers. The twelfth step is called “settai” a word for refreshments. Food that has been prepared at a different location to prevent the contamination of death is served to the mourners. This food may be anything from a light snack to a substantial meal. Steps Thirteen through Sixteen Step thirteen is the actual funeral service and is called “shinsosai.” The room where the funeral will be held is purified, prayers and offerings are made to the gods, and eulogies honoring the deceased are given by the priests. The fourteenth step is “kokobetsu shiki,” the farewell ceremony. Mourners leave the funeral by walking, single file, past the deceased. The mourner is to say final goodbyes to the deceased, and offer prayers and word condolences to the family. “Hakkyu sai no gi” is the departure of the coffin and is performed in step fifteen. The coffin is prepared for travel to the grave site. A sword is placed on the coffin and banners are placed around it so that the deceased becomes aware that it is time to move on. The actual funeral procession that transports the coffin to the cemetery or crematorium is “soretsu” and is the sixteenth step. Steps Seventeen through Twenty The home where the funeral ceremony has taken place is purified in step seventeen, called “hakkyu-go batsujo nogi.” Priests and relatives work together to make offerings and prayers to cleanse the house after the body is removed. The funeral altar is removed and a new altar is set up inside the house. “Maisosai” is the eighteenth step and is the offering of burial rites. Family and close friends will gather at either the grave site or crematorium with the body. Offerings are made on behalf of the deceased and are placed with the coffin. Prayers are led by the priests. Step nineteen is called “kotsuage” and literally means the picking up of the bones. Bones are removed from the crematorium ash and are placed in a vase. The final step is called “kika sai” and means coming home. Ashes that are not buried are brought to the home and placed in the family shrine. The bereaved offers thanks to the people who have participated in the funeral. Prayers and offerings are given on behalf of the deceased. Final Resting State The bodies of all but the most elite Japanese are cremated. The Shinto tradition is very concerned with what happens to the ashes. Any bones that are left in any form are to be picked out of the ash material with chopsticks. One family member picks them out and passes them to another family member who in turn places them inside an urn. Some of the pure ash material is given to family and close friends for enclosure in the family shrine. The remaining ashes are put in the urn with the bones and are to be kept within an above-ground mausoleum.


--- [Weddings and Funerals - Shintoism] ---
Weddings When a Japanese couple get engaged, the may give his fiancee a ring, though the couple will exchange lucky gifts. A traditional Shinto wedding ceremony it is held at a shrine and lead by a Shinto priest. There are seven steps when performing a wedding ceremony. Step 1: "Shubatsu" - Purification Step 2: "Norito-Sojo" - Prayer - everyone rises an acknowledges the bride and groom by bowing Step 3: "San San Kudo" - Exchanging of Sake (rice wine) - bride and groom will take turns sipping out of a three different cups three times Step 4: "Seishi Sodoku" - Wedding Vow - the couple approaches the altar Step 5: "Tamagushi Hoten" - Presenting the Sakaki branch - represents the safe ceremony Step 6: "Yubi-Wa Kokan" - Exchanging of the rings Step 7: "Shizoku-Hai" - Guest drink Sake - celebration Men tend to wear a traditional kimono and women usually wears a white silk kimono called a "Shiromuka", this kimono has long sleeves and goes down past her knees as this symbolizes that she is single. When she is married then she will be able to wear kimonos that have short sleeves indicating that she is married. A wide head piece is often worn by the bride this is called "tsunokakushi", as it means horn of jealousy which the bride is trying to cover. Step 1: "Shubatsu" - Purification Step 2: "Norito-Sojo" - Prayer - everyone rises an acknowledges the bride and groom by bowing Step 3: "San San Kudo" - Exchanging of Sake (rice wine) - bride and groom will take turns sipping out of a three different cups three times Step 4: "Seishi Sodoku" - Wedding Vow - the couple approaches the altar Step 5: "Tamagushi Hoten" - Presenting the Sakaki branch - represents the safe ceremony Step 6: "Yubi-Wa Kokan" - Exchanging of the rings Step 7: "Shizoku-Hai" - Guest drink Sake - celebration Men tend to wear a traditional kimono and women usually wears a white silk kimono called a "Shiromuka", this kimono has long sleeves and goes down past her knees as this symbolizes that she is single. When she is married then she will be able to wear kimonos that have short sleeves indicating that she is married. A wide head piece is often worn by the bride this is called "tsunokakushi", as it means horn of jealousy which the bride is trying to cover. Funerals When a follower of Shintoism passes away a picture, flowers and sand for incense are brought to the funeral. Preparation is a vital step in Shinto ceremonies. When performing the burial it must be done traditionally according to century-old protocols. There are 20 steps when performing a funeral. Step 1: "Matsugo no mizu" - Washing the lips Step 2: "Yakan" - Washing the corpse Step 3: "Kiyu hokoku" - Announcement of the death Step 4: "Makura Naoshi Nogi" - Pillow of decoration, the deceased's head is pointed north Step 5: "Nokan Nogi" - Placing the deceased in the coffin Step 6: "Kyuzen Nikku" - Daily offering to the deceased - fruits, drinks, food (mainly what the person desired to eat) Step 7: "Ubusuna Jinja Ni Kiyu Hokoku" - Announcement of the return of the spirit Step 8: "Bosho Batsujio Nogi" - Earth purification at the grave site Step 9:"Kessai" - priest's purification - Washing themselves for the funeral Step 10: "Tsuya Sai" - The wake - mourners gather Step 11: "Sensrei Sai" - Transfer of the spirit - the priest moves the deceased from the body to a wooden box Step 12: "Settai" - Refreshments of food, drinks and hot meals at another location Step 13: "Shinsosai" - Funeral service Step 14: "Kokobetsu Shiki" - Farewell ceremony Step 15: "Hakkyu Sai Nogi" - Departure of the coffin Step 16: "Soretsu" - Funeral procession - transporting the coffin to the grave site Step 17: "Hakkyu-go Batsijo Nogi" - Purification of the house Step 18: "Matso Sai" - Burial rites Step 19: "Kotsuage" - Picking up the bones - ash bones are put into a vase Step 20: "Kika Sai" - Coming home - the ashes return home Koden is a tradition where mourners either friends or family, give a gift to the deceased's family. However, not all of the ashes are buried. During the Kokobetsu stage, some ashes are given to close family members to put in the home shrines. If the ashes are not passed down through the family, they will be returned to the grave. Shinto people believe that after death a person's spirit joins other spirits of the deceased. Also it is believed that the spirit of the human it to remain forever as a spirit like Kami. The spirits live in another world, this is mentioned in the Nihonshoki (chronicles of Japan) and the Kojiki (Ancient matters), though the Kami is still present in both worlds. Step 1: "Matsugo no mizu" - Washing the lips Step 2: "Yakan" - Washing the corpse Step 3: "Kiyu hokoku" - Announcement of the death Step 4: "Makura Naoshi Nogi" - Pillow of decoration, the deceased's head is pointed north Step 5: "Nokan Nogi" - Placing the deceased in the coffin Step 6: "Kyuzen Nikku" - Daily offering to the deceased - fruits, drinks, food (mainly what the person desired to eat) Step 7: "Ubusuna Jinja Ni Kiyu Hokoku" - Announcement of the return of the spirit Step 8: "Bosho Batsujio Nogi" - Earth purification at the grave site Step 9:"Kessai" - priest's purification - Washing themselves for the funeral Step 10: "Tsuya Sai" - The wake - mourners gather Step 11: "Sensrei Sai" - Transfer of the spirit - the priest moves the deceased from the body to a wooden box Step 12: "Settai" - Refreshments of food, drinks and hot meals at another location Step 13: "Shinsosai" - Funeral service Step 14: "Kokobetsu Shiki" - Farewell ceremony Step 15: "Hakkyu Sai Nogi" - Departure of the coffin Step 16: "Soretsu" - Funeral procession - transporting the coffin to the grave site Step 17: "Hakkyu-go Batsijo Nogi" - Purification of the house Step 18: "Matso Sai" - Burial rites Step 19: "Kotsuage" - Picking up the bones - ash bones are put into a vase Step 20: "Kika Sai" - Coming home - the ashes return home Koden is a tradition where mourners either friends or family, give a gift to the deceased's family. However, not all of the ashes are buried. During the Kokobetsu stage, some ashes are given to close family members to put in the home shrines. If the ashes are not passed down through the family, they will be returned to the grave. Shinto people believe that after death a person's spirit joins other spirits of the deceased. Also it is believed that the spirit of the human it to remain forever as a spirit like Kami. The spirits live in another world, this is mentioned in the Nihonshoki (chronicles of Japan) and the Kojiki (Ancient matters), though the Kami is still present in both worlds.
