=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Prof. Evelyn HU Receives the 2021 IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal]
May 10, 2021 · IAS Senior Visiting Fellow Prof. Evelyn HU, Tarr-Coyne Professor of Applied Physics and of Electrical Engineering at Harvard University, has been awarded the 2021 IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and the Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) for her “leadership in nanoscale science and engineering, and for seminal contributions ...
URL: https://ias.hkust.edu.hk/news-media/news/prof-evelyn-hu-receives-the-2021-ieeerse-james-clerk-maxwell-medal

[HKIAS Senior Fellow Professor Evelyn Hu received the 2021 IEEE/RSE ...]
Professor Evelyn Hu, HKIAS Senior Fellow, was honoured with the 2021 IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal. The award recognizes the leadership of Professor Hu in nanoscale science and engineering, and her seminal contributions at the intersection of semiconductor electronics and photonics.
URL: https://www.hkias.cityu.edu.hk/news-and-media/e-newsletter/issue-7/hkias-senior-fellow-professor-evelyn-hu-received-2021-ieeerse

[IEEE Award Recipients Who Are Making a Difference in Engineering]
The IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal is being presented to Evelyn L. Hu "for leadership in nanoscale science and engineering, and for seminal contributions at the intersection of semiconductor electronics and photonics."
URL: https://corporate-awards.ieee.org/article/2021-recipients_honored/

[IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal]
IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal These annual medal awards by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and the Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) were initially sponsored by Wolfson Microelectronics. Following Wolfson's acquisition in 2014 they were sponsored by Cirrus Logic.
URL: https://clerkmaxwellfoundation.org/html/ieerse_prizes.html

[IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal - Engineering and ...]
Feb 27, 2025 · About Medal The IEEE/Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) Wolfson James Clerk Maxwell Award, established in 2006, is named in honor of the 19th century Scottish mathematician and physicist James Clerk Maxwell. Maxwell laid the foundations of electromagnetic wave theory, radio propagation, microwave techniques, and radio communications.
URL: https://ethw.org/IEEE/RSE_James_Clerk_Maxwell_Medal


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Prof. Evelyn HU Receives the 2021 IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal] ---
Prof. Evelyn HU Receives the 2021 IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal IAS Senior Visiting Fellow Prof. Evelyn HU, Tarr-Coyne Professor of Applied Physics and of Electrical Engineering at Harvard University, has been awarded the 2021 IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and the Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) for her “leadership in nanoscale science and engineering, and for seminal contributions at the intersection of semiconductor electronics and photonics”. Established in 2006, the IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal is one of the highest IEEE awards given annually to recognize outstanding individuals with “groundbreaking contributions that have had an exceptional impact on the development of electronics and electrical engineering, or related fields”. The prize presentation was held during the 2021 IEEE Vision, Innovation, and Challenges Summit and Honors Ceremony in May. In the summit, Prof. Hu had shared her experience and insights in the pursuit of advancement in material science and quantum computing in a virtual chat (Link).


--- [HKIAS Senior Fellow Professor Evelyn Hu received the 2021 IEEE/RSE ...] ---
Professor Evelyn Hu, HKIAS Senior Fellow, was honoured with the 2021 IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal. The award recognizes the leadership of Professor Hu in nanoscale science and engineering, and her seminal contributions at the intersection of semiconductor electronics and photonics. Professor Evelyn Hu is currently the Tarr-Coyne Professor of Applied Physics and of Electrical Engineering at the John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences at Harvard University. She is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Academia Sinica of Taiwan, a recipient of an NSF Distinguished Teaching Fellow award, an AAAS Lifetime Mentor Award, a Fellow of the IEEE, APS, and the AAAS. She holds an honorary Doctorate of Engineering from the University of Glasgow and an honorary Doctorate of Science from Heriot-Watt University. Established in 2006, the James Clerk Maxwell Medal is one of the highest awards presented by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). It is awarded jointly by the Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) and the IEEE for groundbreaking contributions that have had an exceptional impact on the development of electronics and electrical engineering or related fields. The annual prize is named in honour of James Clerk Maxwell, the outstanding 19th Century Scottish mathematician and physicist.


--- [IEEE Award Recipients Who Are Making a Difference in Engineering] ---
Awards Recipients continuously make important contributions to science and technology, and IEEE is recognizing many of these great scientists, engineers, and educators in 2021 for their trailblazing accomplishments with IEEE Technical Field Awards (TFAs), Medals, and Recognitions. The IEEE TFAs are awarded for contributions to or leadership in specific fields of interest of the IEEE. IEEE is honoring the following women with TFAs in 2021: - The 2021 IEEE Biomedical Engineering Award, sponsored by the IEEE Circuits and Systems, IEEE Signal Processing Society, and the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Societies, is being presented to Katherine Whittaker Ferrara “for the integration of ultrasound and engineered vesicles in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer.” - The 2021 IEEE Leon K. Kirchmayer Graduate Teaching Award is being presented to Andrea Goldsmith “for educating, developing, guiding, and energizing generations of highly successful students and postdoctoral fellows.” This award is sponsored by the Leon K. Kirchmayer Memorial Fund. - Elisa Bertino is receiving the 2021 IEEE Innovation in Societal Infrastructure Award, sponsored by Hitachi Ltd. and the IEEE Computer Society, “for advancing the security and privacy of new-generation cellular networks.” - Cristiane A. Pimentel is receiving the 2021 IEEE Undergraduate Teaching Award “for encouraging women to pursue STEM careers, and developing industry-based projects for social justice.” This award is sponsored by the IEEE Education Society IEEE Medals and Recognitions are the highest awards that the IEEE presents on behalf of the Board of Directors and embrace significant and broad IEEE interests and purposes. The following awardees are being honored with Medals and Recognitions in 2021: - Kristina M. Johnson is receiving the 2021 IEEE Mildred Dresselhaus Medal “for leadership and technical contributions spanning academia, government, and business.” This award is being presented for the first time and is sponsored by Google LLC. - Ruzena Bajcsy is receiving the 2021 IEEE Medal for Innovations in Healthcare Technology, sponsored by the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, “for pioneering and sustained contributions to healthcare technology fundamental to computer vision, medical imaging, and computational anatomy.” - The IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal is being presented to Evelyn L. Hu “for leadership in nanoscale science and engineering, and for seminal contributions at the intersection of semiconductor electronics and photonics.” The medal is sponsored by ARM, Ltd. - The IEEE Robert N. Noyce Medal, sponsored by Intel Corporation, is being presented to Lisa T. Su “for leadership in ground-breaking semiconductor products and successful business strategies that contributed to the strength of the microelectronics industry.” Su is the first female recipient of the Noyce Medal. - Elisabeth Paté-Cornell is receiving the IEEE Simon Ramo Medal “for sustained leadership in developing theory and applications of probability risk analysis for the design and evaluation of complex engineering systems.” This medal is sponsored by Northrop Grumman Corporation. - Evelyn H. Hirt is receiving the IEEE Haraden Pratt Award, sponsored by the IEEE Foundation, “for steadfast service and leadership dedicated to the IEEE mission and members across all corporate, geographic, technical, and educational levels.”


--- [IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal] ---
David Flynn, David Jaggar, IEEE President Saifur Rahman, Mau-Chung Chang and Ingo Wolff at the 2023 RSE award ceremony. David Flynn and David Jaggar receiving their medals at the RSE in 2023 from HRH Princess Anne. Haug and Dupuis receiving their 2018 Medals at RSE from the IEEE President. Gerhard Sessler receiving his Medal at RSE in 2012 from HRH Prince Philip. Ted Hoff receiving his Medal at Royal Society of Edinburgh in 2011 from HRH Prince Philip. JCM Foundation formed in Scotland in 1977. Contact us. Donations Welcome! Privacy policy and cookies.


--- [IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal - Engineering and ...] ---
IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal From ETHW About Medal The IEEE/Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) Wolfson James Clerk Maxwell Award, established in 2006, is named in honor of the 19th century Scottish mathematician and physicist James Clerk Maxwell. Maxwell laid the foundations of electromagnetic wave theory, radio propagation, microwave techniques, and radio communications. The award was renamed the IEEE/RSE James Clerk Maxwell Medal in 2015. Award Recipients - Irwin M. Jacobs, 2007 - Andrew J. Viterbi, 2007 - Sir Timothy Berners-Lee, 2008 - A. Sangiovanni- Vinentelli, 2009 - Amar G. Bose, 2010 - Marcian E. Hoff, 2011 - Gerhard M. Sessler, 2012 - Richard Stephen Muller, Richard M. White, 2013 - David N. Payne, 2014 - Lynn Conway, 2015 - Geoffrey E. Hinton, 2016 - no award, 2017 - Thomas Bryn Haug, Philippe Raymond Dupuis, 2018 - David Flynn, David Jagger, 2019 - no award, 2020 - Evelyn L. Hu, 2021 - Ingo Wolff, 2022 - Mau-Chung Frank Chang, 2023 - Kam Lau, 2024
