=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ronnie Milsap - Wikipedia]
He recorded and released his debut album, Ronnie Milsap, on Warner Brothers in 1971. [2] In December 1972, Milsap relocated to Nashville after a chance meeting with country music star Charley Pride who was in the audience for a Milsap gig at the nightclub Whiskey A-Go-Go on Sunset Blvd. in Los Angeles. [9] .
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ronnie_Milsap

[Getting To Know…Ronnie Milsap - carolinacountry.com]
He then met country music legend Charley Pride, who encouraged him to move to Nashville and try country music. Milsap relocated there and in 1974 enjoyed two No. 1 singles, one of which won him his first Grammy. By the late '70s, he was one of country music's most popular performers, and in the '80s he successfully crossed to a pop market.
URL: https://www.carolinacountry.com/story/getting-to-know

[Alan Cackett - Ronnie Milsap – Part Two]
He had enjoyed two hit singles, released a fine country album in WHERE MY HEART IS and had the usually reserved Chet Atkins predict that the sensation of 1974 would be Ronnie Milsap. That was all within a year of moving to Nashville, and I don’t think even Chet appreciated just how right ...
URL: https://alancackett.com/ronnie-milsap-part-two

[Ronnie Milsap - Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum]
He then cut LPs for Warner Bros. and Reprise in 1971–’72. Milsap moved to Nashville in 1972 and performed at an industry hangout, the King of the Road. In 1973, he began a long association with RCA Records.
URL: https://www.countrymusichalloffame.org/hall-of-fame/ronnie-milsap

[Ronnie Milsap - Memphis Music Hall of FameMemphis Music Hall of Fame]
In the book Memphis Boys: The Story ... Moman’s enthusiasm for him was waning, Milsap began looking for opportunities elsewhere. “The day after Christmas 1972, I made the difficult decision to move to Nashville and begin a residency at the King of the Road hotel...
URL: https://memphismusichalloffame.com/inductee/ronnie-milsap/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ronnie Milsap - Wikipedia] ---
Ronnie Lee Milsap (born Ronald Lee Millsaps; January 16, 1943) is an American country music singer and pianist. He was one of country music's most popular and influential performers of the 1970s and 1980s. Nearly completely blind from birth, he became one of the most successful and versatile country "crossover" singers of his time, appealing to both country and pop music markets with hit songs that incorporated pop, R&B, and rock and roll elements. His biggest crossover hits include "It Was Almost Like a Song", "Smoky Mountain Rain", "(There's) No Gettin' Over Me", "I Wouldn't Have Missed It for the World", "Any Day Now", "Is It Over" and "Stranger in My House". He is credited with six Grammy Awards and 35 number-one country hits, fourth to George Strait, Conway Twitty, and Merle Haggard. He was selected for induction into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 2014.


--- [Getting To Know…Ronnie Milsap - carolinacountry.com] ---
No content


--- [Alan Cackett - Ronnie Milsap – Part Two] ---
Ronnie Milsap – Part Two After finally deciding to switch from a more rhythm and blues sound to sing country soul, Ronnie and his wife Joyce moved to Nashville. In April, 1973, he signed a recording contract with RCA. His first single for the label, I Hate You, was penned by Dan Penn, his previous record producer in Memphis. A soulful ballad with the country feel provided by unobtrusive steel and tinkling piano, this song gave Ronnie his first country hit, reaching a respectable number ten on the country charts in the summer of that year, His next release, That Girl Who Waits On Tables, a real tear-jerker with typical country lyrics, also reached the top ten, but Ronnie was hampered a little by his year-long contract with the King of the Road club. “That stint at the King of the Road did me a lot of good,” he explains, “but by the end of the year I was glad it was behind me. With five nights a week engagement, the only time I was able to get out of Nashville and do promotion or shows in other areas was at the weekend. Throughout that year I became really well-known in Nashville, but I was virtually a nobody in the rest of the country.” By the end of the year Ronnie’s reputation in Nashville was sky-high. His stints in clubs and bars had been a good character builder, and by now he was an assured, exciting performer who knew just how to build an act and send his audience away happy. He was blending country ballads, rock‘n’roll numbers, soul tunes and r&b ravers into an act that just about knocked the staid country music fraternity for six. He had enjoyed two hit singles, released a fine country album in WHERE MY HEART IS and had the usually reserved Chet Atkins predict that the sensation of 1974 would be Ronnie Milsap. That was all within a year of moving to Nashville, and I don’t think even Chet appreciated just how right this prophesy was to be! That first album for RCA turned out to be a treat for country fans. Produced jointly by Tom Collins and Jack Johnson, there was a slight Charley Pride feel apparent on several of the tracks, but Milsap rose above this with a commitment to the lyrics that has been sadly missing on much of Pride’s work during the past decade. Milsap proved that the feel for a country lyric is inbred. It cannot be manufactured, it is built into a singer from birth and has much to do with the area and where you grow up and the hardships suffered on the way. It appears that people who cannot see seem able to compensate with an uncommon amount of feeling; on this album Ronnie bares his soul on some stunning songs, must notably Where Love Goes When It Dies, Brothers, Strangers And Friends and You’re Stronger Than Me, the latter an old Hank Cochran song first recorded by the late Patsy Cline back in 1962. When his stint at the King of the Road ended in January, 1974, Ronnie’s career received a further massive boost when he was invited to join the Charley Pride Show. “The band that I had disintegrated because I had to travel as a single artist,” explains Ronnie. “I started working with Charley in January, and I played with him for about 15 months. I was also having to do other work in night clubs and package shows, because Charley doesn’t work a lot of days, and I need to work a lot.” “1974 was really my first year getting the taste of what working on the road is all about. I really enjoy it, working with Charley gave me the chance of seeing the world, meeting people and learning and promoting country music. That was the year we felt like we got hold of things and started having number one records. It really was a great beginning. Instead of playing a club of three or four hundred people, I was playing on the stage to six or seven thousand people.” Ronnie’s string of number one records began in March of that year with Pure Love, an Eddie Rabbitt song full of optimistic lyrics and a fine sing-along melody. He followed that with a new recording of Kristofferson’s Please Don’t Tell Me How The Story Ends, a song that he originally recorded for Warner Brothers in 1971. A slow-moving song performed with delightful delicacy by the excellent Milsap and the Nashville session men, with the sort of sympathetic arrangement that comes only from heaven; this time he had a number one country hit. The hat-trick of number ones for that year was completed by a stunning revival of Don Gibson’s (I’d Be) A Legend In My Time. Ronnie recalls that he’d listened to Don Gibson on a Knoxville radio station and sung just about every song Gibson ever did except ‘Legend In My Time.’ “Jack Johnson, my manager, suggested I do that song,” Ronnie recalls, “so we changed it around from ¾ to 4/4 and altered the melody around a little bit, by the time we finished with it, the song just about suited me perfectly.” Ronnie’s second album for RCA, PURE LOVE, showed quite a change from his label debut. There was still a strong country feel, but the strong fiddle and steel work of WHERE MY HEART IS was sweetened by strings and the vocal accompaniment, provided by members of The Joranaires and The Nashville Edition, was much fuller. It was still a good country album, but the smoother edges made it more acceptable for a wider audience. There is a happy nature to Ronnie Milsap that is not evident in most stars. His optimistic attitude and positive approach surfaces in his music; a style which crosses all boundaries and earned him awards as Entertainer of the Year and Male Vocalist of the Year. The latter award first picked up in 1974, less than two years after moving to Nashville. The first time I saw Ronnie in action was on his British debut as special guest on a Glen Campbell tour in the spring of 1975. At the time Ronnie was just about the biggest name in American country music, yet he was prepared to turn his back on lucrative work in America to try and establish himself in Britain. It certainly proved to be a wise move, as he has since emerged as a very popular name with British fans, enjoying quite healthy album sales. Ronnie’s act must have been quite a surprise for the staid, middle-of-the-road Campbell fans. Though he was backed by an orchestra, he also had with him a very tight rocking band, and alongside his hits up to that time (Pure Love, Legend In My Time, etc.) he threw in some fine soul and rock tunes. It was in complete contrast to Glen’s highly polished act. The audience went away happy. Doubtless back to their homes replete with plastic bathroom wall ducks and garden gnomes. For that’s the type of entertainment that Campbell serves up; flashy without much substance. But Ronnie made an impression, forcing well-dressed gentlemen to stand up and openly cheer, which was more than Campbell could achieve, or at that time needed to. Before the concert Ronnie was assured and totally lacking in any signs of nerves. “I’m going out there to do my thing,” he said. “I just hope they like it. There’ll be a little country, some ballad things and some up-tempo rock things. It’s what my show is all about, I can’t change it, because then it wouldn’t be me.” Since his move to Nashville, Ronnie has steadfastly refused to compromise with his music. He refuses to be tied down to any kind of style. His music has touched a wide range of people from country audiences to pop fans, as he has achieved his goal to make music that is universal in theme. “I like traditional country music, I like the new country music, I like rock‘n’roll, I like classical music,” he explains. “I guess my music has to reflect all of those. I don’t necessarily like any better than the other. It just depends on how I feel on a certain day. I guess it’s like reading a favourite book. One day a certain book will appeal to you more than it does the next day.” Throughout 1975 Ronnie maintained his stranglehold on the country charts. Too Late To Worry, Too Blue To Cry, an old Al Dexter song from the 1940s, which he included on his third RCA album, A LEGENED IN MY TIME, made the top five, followed by a happy, optimistic John Schweers’ song, Daydreams About Night Things, which gave Ronnie his fourth number one. That was followed by Hugh Moffatt’s superb ballad Just in Case, which made the top four. Also two of his old Warner Brothers recordings, She Even Woke Me Up To Say Goodbye and A Rose By Any Other Name, made the charts. A LEGEND IN MY TIME was named Album of the Year in 1975, although to be honest I feel the album won because Ronnie was on a winning streak, and not because it was a classic album. She Came Here For The Change and self-penned Country Cookin’ are among the highlights, but the creative climax comes with Ronnie’s definitive reading of I Honestly Love You. He showed with this album that he possessed the ability to become a major pop star as well as retaining his country audience. He is always quick to point out, though, that he has never gone out for crossover appeal in his recordings. “I don’t think any artist goes in the studio and says: ‘Hey, guys, we’re gonna cut a crossover record today,’” he says. “It just seems that the trends of country music have moved so far that country music has stretched out. The music is not only accepted in the United States, but is now accepted in Europe, it’s accepted in Australia, it’s accepted in Japan. Therefore I know people are seeking country music.” Ronnie first half-dozen albums for RCA kept the traditional country music feeling to the forefront. Songs like Borrowed Angel and Who’ll Turn The Lights Out (In Your World Tonight) from the album NIGHT THINGS and Looking Out The Window Through The Pain and You Snap Your Fingers from 20-20 VISION retained that traditional feeling, whilst the hit songs, What Goes On When The Sun Goes Down and (I’m A) Stand By My Woman Man, had a slightly more pronounced pop flavouring.” “In my mind, the two elements that change country music are the writers of country music songs and the fans of country music,” explains Ronnie. “They pretty much determine where country music is going is going. Things are different to how they were when I first started recording in Nashville. There used to be a lot of steel guitar and fiddle; now, instead of fiddles, you have maybe 20 violins and eight or ten singers. It’s a bigger sound, more urban than it used to be. But to me, as a singer, I feel that I’m still communicating.” If communicating can be measured in sales of records and concert success, then Ronnie is certainly on the right track. His album, RONNIE MILSAP LIVE, released at the end of 1976, demonstrated to those who had not caught this remarkable performer in concert, just how electrifying he is. In front of an audience seems to be Milsap’s natural habitat, and this album, recorded in Nashville, captured him at his best. His own road band was augment by top Nashville musicians like Charlie McCoy, Shane Keister, Jimmy Capps and Tommy Williams. He featured several of his hit recordings, plus a version of Kaw-Liga dedicated to Charley Pride, and a stunning reading of Honky Tonk Women, which acted as a fitting climax to a great show. This album was to act as the closing of one facet of the Ronnie Milsap career and the beginning of a new side, which previously had only been hinted at. A number one single, Let My Love Be Your Pillow, was lifted from the album, and that was followed by the single, It Was Almost Like A Song. A quality pop ballad co-written by Archie Jordan and Hal David, it utilised a full pop production, but still soared to the top spot on the country charts, as did the follow-up, the equally poppy What A Difference You’ve Made In My Life. Although this audience had broadened, Ronnie continued to avoid musical classification with each new work. In the 1977 CMA Awards he was named Entertainer of the Year, Male Vocalist and also won the Album of the Year award. He is determined to maintain his country following, yet he doesn’t want to let his music to stand still. “The main key is to be believable,” he says. “I know as a fan myself of certain artists, I listen to them sing, and I want to feel it’s a story or chapter out of their life. I want them to sing and not just read the words. The unique thing about country singers is that they usually sound like they’ve lived it.” “I still feel like I’m communicating in that fashion,” he continues, “although I’ve been fortunate to have a crossover record. I’m just happy that my music is crossing over. I gotta say that the people who come to my shows are sure they like it. They say: ‘Ronnie, I was never a country music fan, but if you’re singing country music, I love it.’ So with the music, we’re making new fans all over the world. I think that’s good for country music.” Whether a British country fan would accept an album like IT WAS ALMOST LIKE A SONG, or the follow-up, ONLY ONE LOVE IN MY LIFE, as country, is open to the kind of discussion that has been raging for years. In terms of creativity, polish, feeling, emotion and lyrical expertise, these albums can hardly be faulted. After a series of country-rooted albums, from which he had built a solid following, Ronnie has emerged into one of the strongest crossover artists of the past three years. One of the special voices in modern music (it is no longer sufficient to constrain him with the ‘country’ tag—he is completely the equal of say Barry Manilow or Burton Cummings as a musical interpreter and communicator of white American ideals), his albums fully demonstrate the new mood of thinking in Nashville with regard to country music and what is accpetable to the country fan. He has maintained a string of top-selling singles with songs life Only One Love In My Life, Let’s Take The Long Way Around The World, Nobody likes Sad Songs and Why Don’t You Spend The Night. They could hardly be termed standard country fare, being big production, dramatic ballads with full string sections, synthesisers and harmony voices building up a heavy chorus. The effect of these records is quite startling, it seems that at long last Milsap has found the perfect style of expression; a kind of unique blend of his classical music upbringing, his natural country roots and a strong feeling for contemporary music. He has taken his music uptown, but without losing feeling, exuberance or sight of what he had in mind. He has followed the same route as Charlie Rich, Glen Campbell and Ray Price but, unlike that trio, Ronnie has always maintained a strong control over his music. He is interested in experimenting with new sounds in the studio and has a great fascination for synthesisers, feeling that if used wisely they can enhance the music. A couple of years ago he realised another of his great ambitions when the building of his own recording studio, Ground Star Laboratory, was completed in Nashville. He is almost more enthusiastic about the studio than he is about his music. “A few people who have worked with me in the studio all got together and we designed our own place to work,” he explains. “We built a building in Nashville. It’s the most technical and electronically by far ahead of anything else in country. It’s comparable to a few things I’ve seen in Hollywood—a few I’ve seen in London.” The first record to emerge from the new studio was the IMAGES album, one of the artist’s most eloquent records. Included is one of my favourite Milsap performances, Nobody Likes Sad Songs, a superb Bob McDill/Wayland Holyfield song that deservedly made the top spot in the country charts in the spring of 1979. This is one of those albums where almost any track could have been lifted as a successful and commercial single. The overly romantic tunes include All Good Things Don’t Have To End, an optimistic outlook at finding a love; Archie Jordan and Richard Leigh’s subtle In No Time At All; the teary-eyed You Don’t Look For Love and the old country standard I Really Don’t Want To Know. The album’s great surprise is Milsap’s rendition of Get It Up, a high–energy, kick-it-out rocker that is a long way from his customary middle-of-the-road ballads. The blatantly funky-disco-rock strains of Get It Up certainly raised more than a few eyebrows in country music circles on both sides of the Atlantic. The song was released as the ‘B’ side of In No Time At All, a ballad that rose high on the country charts. Soon RCA discovered that Get It Up was gaining plays in discos and getting exposure on the rock radio stations. They wasted no time in pressing special 12-inch disco copies, and eventually it became Ronnie’s most successful record on the American pop charts. Sensibly, Ronnie made no attempt to follow his fluke success with anything remotely similar. Instead he released Bob McDill’s Why Don’t You Spend The Night, a highly commercial, big ballad affair that naturally made it all the way to the top of the country charts. Again it was recorded in Milsap’s own Ground Star Studio, the 40-track facility on Music Row. A dream come true for the singer, the studio allows him to be as well-versed in the technical aspects of his own recordings as he is in the creative end. He has already begun using his studio projects, having produced recordings by Darrell McCall, a man who has been around the country scene for more than 20 years, but never realised his potential. Perhaps, now with Milsap guiding him, that long awaited success will come McCall’s way. Milsap himself has undergone management changes during the past year in an effort to broaden his horizons even wider. He has changed management being handled now by Dan Cleary of the Los Angeles-based BNB Management. Milsap hopes that the change will bring him and his music even wider recognition—he even has ambitions to appear on TV, not just as a performer but also handling dramatic roles. “I’m the age now where I feel I can branch out and explore new directions without losing my country audiences,” Ronnie said when he was in Britain for his Wembley appearance in 1979. “I’m experimenting with synthesisers and other electronic instruments on my recordings, yet I’m still retaining that country feel that is there in the songs. I just cannot stand still, I get a little impulsive at times and maybe a little impatient because I want things to happen immediately—but it all takes time.” In the eight years that Ronnie has been in Nashville, things have certainly happened for him in a big way, and there doesn’t seem to be any slowing down in his run of hit singles, which are still the very lifeblood of a successful country music career. During the past year he has scored on the charts with Why Don’t You Spend The Night, Cowboys And Clowns, Silent Night (After The Fight) and Smokey Mountain Rain. His album, MILSAP MAGIC, is another superb example of what can be achieved by sensibly blending country and easy-listening styles into a compelling and rich musical blend. It ranks as his most uplifting, self-assuring work that displays Ronnie coming to terms with himself and his craft. The album’s delight is his moody reworking of She Thinks I Still Care, and that’s followed by a fine up-tempo beauty, My Heart, which is full of the optimism that embodies the character of Milsap himself. It is this optimistic approach to what he is doing that has enabled Ronnie Milsap to reach out and achieve so much in the music business. He has brushed aside the handicap of being blind, ignored those who said he couldn’t do it, and made his way to the very top by doing what he has always wanted to—making people happy with his music. First published in Country Music People, January 1981 His next release, That Girl Who Waits On Tables, a real tear-jerker with typical country lyrics, also reached the top ten, but Ronnie was hampered a little by his year-long contract with the King of the Road club. “That stint at the King of the Road did me a lot of good,” he explains, “but by the end of the year I was glad it was behind me. With five nights a week engagement, the only time I was able to get out of Nashville and do promotion or shows in other areas was at the weekend. Throughout that year I became really well-known in Nashville, but I was virtually a nobody in the rest of the country.” By the end of the year Ronnie’s reputation in Nashville was sky-high. His stints in clubs and bars had been a good character builder, and by now he was an assured, exciting performer who knew just how to build an act and send his audience away happy. He was blending country ballads, rock‘n’roll numbers, soul tunes and r&b ravers into an act that just about knocked the staid country music fraternity for six. He had enjoyed two hit singles, released a fine country album in WHERE MY HEART IS and had the usually reserved Chet Atkins predict that the sensation of 1974 would be Ronnie Milsap. That was all within a year of moving to Nashville, and I don’t think even Chet appreciated just how right this prophesy was to be! That first album for RCA turned out to be a treat for country fans. Produced jointly by Tom Collins and Jack Johnson, there was a slight Charley Pride feel apparent on several of the tracks, but Milsap rose above this with a commitment to the lyrics that has been sadly missing on much of Pride’s work during the past decade. Milsap proved that the feel for a country lyric is inbred. It cannot be manufactured, it is built into a singer from birth and has much to do with the area and where you grow up and the hardships suffered on the way. It appears that people who cannot see seem able to compensate with an uncommon amount of feeling; on this album Ronnie bares his soul on some stunning songs, must notably Where Love Goes When It Dies, Brothers, Strangers And Friends and You’re Stronger Than Me, the latter an old Hank Cochran song first recorded by the late Patsy Cline back in 1962. When his stint at the King of the Road ended in January, 1974, Ronnie’s career received a further massive boost when he was invited to join the Charley Pride Show. “The band that I had disintegrated because I had to travel as a single artist,” explains Ronnie. “I started working with Charley in January, and I played with him for about 15 months. I was also having to do other work in night clubs and package shows, because Charley doesn’t work a lot of days, and I need to work a lot.” “1974 was really my first year getting the taste of what working on the road is all about. I really enjoy it, working with Charley gave me the chance of seeing the world, meeting people and learning and promoting country music. That was the year we felt like we got hold of things and started having number one records. It really was a great beginning. Instead of playing a club of three or four hundred people, I was playing on the stage to six or seven thousand people.” Ronnie’s string of number one records began in March of that year with Pure Love, an Eddie Rabbitt song full of optimistic lyrics and a fine sing-along melody. He followed that with a new recording of Kristofferson’s Please Don’t Tell Me How The Story Ends, a song that he originally recorded for Warner Brothers in 1971. A slow-moving song performed with delightful delicacy by the excellent Milsap and the Nashville session men, with the sort of sympathetic arrangement that comes only from heaven; this time he had a number one country hit. The hat-trick of number ones for that year was completed by a stunning revival of Don Gibson’s (I’d Be) A Legend In My Time. Ronnie recalls that he’d listened to Don Gibson on a Knoxville radio station and sung just about every song Gibson ever did except ‘Legend In My Time.’ “Jack Johnson, my manager, suggested I do that song,” Ronnie recalls, “so we changed it around from ¾ to 4/4 and altered the melody around a little bit, by the time we finished with it, the song just about suited me perfectly.” Ronnie’s second album for RCA, PURE LOVE, showed quite a change from his label debut. There was still a strong country feel, but the strong fiddle and steel work of WHERE MY HEART IS was sweetened by strings and the vocal accompaniment, provided by members of The Joranaires and The Nashville Edition, was much fuller. It was still a good country album, but the smoother edges made it more acceptable for a wider audience. There is a happy nature to Ronnie Milsap that is not evident in most stars. His optimistic attitude and positive approach surfaces in his music; a style which crosses all boundaries and earned him awards as Entertainer of the Year and Male Vocalist of the Year. The latter award first picked up in 1974, less than two years after moving to Nashville. The first time I saw Ronnie in action was on his British debut as special guest on a Glen Campbell tour in the spring of 1975. At the time Ronnie was just about the biggest name in American country music, yet he was prepared to turn his back on lucrative work in America to try and establish himself in Britain. It certainly proved to be a wise move, as he has since emerged as a very popular name with British fans, enjoying quite healthy album sales. Ronnie’s act must have been quite a surprise for the staid, middle-of-the-road Campbell fans. Though he was backed by an orchestra, he also had with him a very tight rocking band, and alongside his hits up to that time (Pure Love, Legend In My Time, etc.) he threw in some fine soul and rock tunes. It was in complete contrast to Glen’s highly polished act. The audience went away happy. Doubtless back to their homes replete with plastic bathroom wall ducks and garden gnomes. For that’s the type of entertainment that Campbell serves up; flashy without much substance. But Ronnie made an impression, forcing well-dressed gentlemen to stand up and openly cheer, which was more than Campbell could achieve, or at that time needed to. Before the concert Ronnie was assured and totally lacking in any signs of nerves. “I’m going out there to do my thing,” he said. “I just hope they like it. There’ll be a little country, some ballad things and some up-tempo rock things. It’s what my show is all about, I can’t change it, because then it wouldn’t be me.” Since his move to Nashville, Ronnie has steadfastly refused to compromise with his music. He refuses to be tied down to any kind of style. His music has touched a wide range of people from country audiences to pop fans, as he has achieved his goal to make music that is universal in theme. “I like traditional country music, I like the new country music, I like rock‘n’roll, I like classical music,” he explains. “I guess my music has to reflect all of those. I don’t necessarily like any better than the other. It just depends on how I feel on a certain day. I guess it’s like reading a favourite book. One day a certain book will appeal to you more than it does the next day.” Throughout 1975 Ronnie maintained his stranglehold on the country charts. Too Late To Worry, Too Blue To Cry, an old Al Dexter song from the 1940s, which he included on his third RCA album, A LEGENED IN MY TIME, made the top five, followed by a happy, optimistic John Schweers’ song, Daydreams About Night Things, which gave Ronnie his fourth number one. That was followed by Hugh Moffatt’s superb ballad Just in Case, which made the top four. Also two of his old Warner Brothers recordings, She Even Woke Me Up To Say Goodbye and A Rose By Any Other Name, made the charts. A LEGEND IN MY TIME was named Album of the Year in 1975, although to be honest I feel the album won because Ronnie was on a winning streak, and not because it was a classic album. She Came Here For The Change and self-penned Country Cookin’ are among the highlights, but the creative climax comes with Ronnie’s definitive reading of I Honestly Love You. He showed with this album that he possessed the ability to become a major pop star as well as retaining his country audience. He is always quick to point out, though, that he has never gone out for crossover appeal in his recordings. “I don’t think any artist goes in the studio and says: ‘Hey, guys, we’re gonna cut a crossover record today,’” he says. “It just seems that the trends of country music have moved so far that country music has stretched out. The music is not only accepted in the United States, but is now accepted in Europe, it’s accepted in Australia, it’s accepted in Japan. Therefore I know people are seeking country music.” Ronnie first half-dozen albums for RCA kept the traditional country music feeling to the forefront. Songs like Borrowed Angel and Who’ll Turn The Lights Out (In Your World Tonight) from the album NIGHT THINGS and Looking Out The Window Through The Pain and You Snap Your Fingers from 20-20 VISION retained that traditional feeling, whilst the hit songs, What Goes On When The Sun Goes Down and (I’m A) Stand By My Woman Man, had a slightly more pronounced pop flavouring.” “In my mind, the two elements that change country music are the writers of country music songs and the fans of country music,” explains Ronnie. “They pretty much determine where country music is going is going. Things are different to how they were when I first started recording in Nashville. There used to be a lot of steel guitar and fiddle; now, instead of fiddles, you have maybe 20 violins and eight or ten singers. It’s a bigger sound, more urban than it used to be. But to me, as a singer, I feel that I’m still communicating.” If communicating can be measured in sales of records and concert success, then Ronnie is certainly on the right track. His album, RONNIE MILSAP LIVE, released at the end of 1976, demonstrated to those who had not caught this remarkable performer in concert, just how electrifying he is. In front of an audience seems to be Milsap’s natural habitat, and this album, recorded in Nashville, captured him at his best. His own road band was augment by top Nashville musicians like Charlie McCoy, Shane Keister, Jimmy Capps and Tommy Williams. He featured several of his hit recordings, plus a version of Kaw-Liga dedicated to Charley Pride, and a stunning reading of Honky Tonk Women, which acted as a fitting climax to a great show. This album was to act as the closing of one facet of the Ronnie Milsap career and the beginning of a new side, which previously had only been hinted at. A number one single, Let My Love Be Your Pillow, was lifted from the album, and that was followed by the single, It Was Almost Like A Song. A quality pop ballad co-written by Archie Jordan and Hal David, it utilised a full pop production, but still soared to the top spot on the country charts, as did the follow-up, the equally poppy What A Difference You’ve Made In My Life. Although this audience had broadened, Ronnie continued to avoid musical classification with each new work. In the 1977 CMA Awards he was named Entertainer of the Year, Male Vocalist and also won the Album of the Year award. He is determined to maintain his country following, yet he doesn’t want to let his music to stand still. “The main key is to be believable,” he says. “I know as a fan myself of certain artists, I listen to them sing, and I want to feel it’s a story or chapter out of their life. I want them to sing and not just read the words. The unique thing about country singers is that they usually sound like they’ve lived it.” “I still feel like I’m communicating in that fashion,” he continues, “although I’ve been fortunate to have a crossover record. I’m just happy that my music is crossing over. I gotta say that the people who come to my shows are sure they like it. They say: ‘Ronnie, I was never a country music fan, but if you’re singing country music, I love it.’ So with the music, we’re making new fans all over the world. I think that’s good for country music.” Whether a British country fan would accept an album like IT WAS ALMOST LIKE A SONG, or the follow-up, ONLY ONE LOVE IN MY LIFE, as country, is open to the kind of discussion that has been raging for years. In terms of creativity, polish, feeling, emotion and lyrical expertise, these albums can hardly be faulted. After a series of country-rooted albums, from which he had built a solid following, Ronnie has emerged into one of the strongest crossover artists of the past three years. One of the special voices in modern music (it is no longer sufficient to constrain him with the ‘country’ tag—he is completely the equal of say Barry Manilow or Burton Cummings as a musical interpreter and communicator of white American ideals), his albums fully demonstrate the new mood of thinking in Nashville with regard to country music and what is accpetable to the country fan. He has maintained a string of top-selling singles with songs life Only One Love In My Life, Let’s Take The Long Way Around The World, Nobody likes Sad Songs and Why Don’t You Spend The Night. They could hardly be termed standard country fare, being big production, dramatic ballads with full string sections, synthesisers and harmony voices building up a heavy chorus. The effect of these records is quite startling, it seems that at long last Milsap has found the perfect style of expression; a kind of unique blend of his classical music upbringing, his natural country roots and a strong feeling for contemporary music. He has taken his music uptown, but without losing feeling, exuberance or sight of what he had in mind. He has followed the same route as Charlie Rich, Glen Campbell and Ray Price but, unlike that trio, Ronnie has always maintained a strong control over his music. He is interested in experimenting with new sounds in the studio and has a great fascination for synthesisers, feeling that if used wisely they can enhance the music. A couple of years ago he realised another of his great ambitions when the building of his own recording studio, Ground Star Laboratory, was completed in Nashville. He is almost more enthusiastic about the studio than he is about his music. “A few people who have worked with me in the studio all got together and we designed our own place to work,” he explains. “We built a building in Nashville. It’s the most technical and electronically by far ahead of anything else in country. It’s comparable to a few things I’ve seen in Hollywood—a few I’ve seen in London.” The first record to emerge from the new studio was the IMAGES album, one of the artist’s most eloquent records. Included is one of my favourite Milsap performances, Nobody Likes Sad Songs, a superb Bob McDill/Wayland Holyfield song that deservedly made the top spot in the country charts in the spring of 1979. This is one of those albums where almost any track could have been lifted as a successful and commercial single. The overly romantic tunes include All Good Things Don’t Have To End, an optimistic outlook at finding a love; Archie Jordan and Richard Leigh’s subtle In No Time At All; the teary-eyed You Don’t Look For Love and the old country standard I Really Don’t Want To Know. The album’s great surprise is Milsap’s rendition of Get It Up, a high–energy, kick-it-out rocker that is a long way from his customary middle-of-the-road ballads. The blatantly funky-disco-rock strains of Get It Up certainly raised more than a few eyebrows in country music circles on both sides of the Atlantic. The song was released as the ‘B’ side of In No Time At All, a ballad that rose high on the country charts. Soon RCA discovered that Get It Up was gaining plays in discos and getting exposure on the rock radio stations. They wasted no time in pressing special 12-inch disco copies, and eventually it became Ronnie’s most successful record on the American pop charts. Sensibly, Ronnie made no attempt to follow his fluke success with anything remotely similar. Instead he released Bob McDill’s Why Don’t You Spend The Night, a highly commercial, big ballad affair that naturally made it all the way to the top of the country charts. Again it was recorded in Milsap’s own Ground Star Studio, the 40-track facility on Music Row. A dream come true for the singer, the studio allows him to be as well-versed in the technical aspects of his own recordings as he is in the creative end. He has already begun using his studio projects, having produced recordings by Darrell McCall, a man who has been around the country scene for more than 20 years, but never realised his potential. Perhaps, now with Milsap guiding him, that long awaited success will come McCall’s way. Milsap himself has undergone management changes during the past year in an effort to broaden his horizons even wider. He has changed management being handled now by Dan Cleary of the Los Angeles-based BNB Management. Milsap hopes that the change will bring him and his music even wider recognition—he even has ambitions to appear on TV, not just as a performer but also handling dramatic roles. “I’m the age now where I feel I can branch out and explore new directions without losing my country audiences,” Ronnie said when he was in Britain for his Wembley appearance in 1979. “I’m experimenting with synthesisers and other electronic instruments on my recordings, yet I’m still retaining that country feel that is there in the songs. I just cannot stand still, I get a little impulsive at times and maybe a little impatient because I want things to happen immediately—but it all takes time.” In the eight years that Ronnie has been in Nashville, things have certainly happened for him in a big way, and there doesn’t seem to be any slowing down in his run of hit singles, which are still the very lifeblood of a successful country music career. During the past year he has scored on the charts with Why Don’t You Spend The Night, Cowboys And Clowns, Silent Night (After The Fight) and Smokey Mountain Rain. His album, MILSAP MAGIC, is another superb example of what can be achieved by sensibly blending country and easy-listening styles into a compelling and rich musical blend. It ranks as his most uplifting, self-assuring work that displays Ronnie coming to terms with himself and his craft. The album’s delight is his moody reworking of She Thinks I Still Care, and that’s followed by a fine up-tempo beauty, My Heart, which is full of the optimism that embodies the character of Milsap himself. It is this optimistic approach to what he is doing that has enabled Ronnie Milsap to reach out and achieve so much in the music business. He has brushed aside the handicap of being blind, ignored those who said he couldn’t do it, and made his way to the very top by doing what he has always wanted to—making people happy with his music. First published in Country Music People, January 1981


--- [Ronnie Milsap - Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum] ---
Ronnie Milsap - Inducted2014 - Born January 16, 1943 - Birthplace Robbinsville, North Carolina Ronnie Milsap’s passionate vocals and rousing showmanship made him a favorite concert attraction for more than four decades. His command of country, country-pop, rock & roll, rhythm & blues, funk, pop, and classical music made the singer-keyboardist a formidable entertainer who defies narrow classification. Milsap is one of country’s most successful artists, with six Grammy awards for Best Male Country Vocal Performance, four Country Music Association awards, and thirty-five #1 hits. An exemplar of the country-pop sound of the late 1970s and early 1980s, the energetic and versatile performer kept scoring hits into the youth-driven country boom of the late 1980s and early 1990s. As of 2014, Milsap had six albums certified gold by the Record Industry Association of America (RIAA); Greatest Hits Volume 2 was platinum, and Greatest Hits double-platinum. North Carolina Boyhood and First Recordings Born blind into an Appalachian family named Millsaps, Milsap went to live with grandparents at age one. According to his 1990 autobiography, It Was Almost Like a Song, his mother regarded his blindness as divine punishment and asked his father to take Ronnie away. At age six, having heard gospel music at church and country music via radio, he entered the State School for the Blind in Raleigh, North Carolina. Despite harsh treatment, he blossomed musically, learning the school’s classical techniques while absorbing pop styles available on radio. Graduating in 1962, Milsap pursued music at Young Harris Junior College (he finished in 1964), and he released his debut single, “Total Disaster,” in 1963 on Atlanta’s Princess Records. He chose music over law school, and he was recording R&B-tinged pop for New York’s famed Scepter label by 1965; that year he enjoyed a minor hit with “Never Had It So Good.” A 1968 move to Memphis led Milsap to Chips Moman’s hot American Studio and a regular gig at “the jumping nightclub—T. J.’s.” Milsap played piano and sang on Elvis Presley’s “Kentucky Rain” (1970) and recorded briefly for Moman’s Chips label. He then cut LPs for Warner Bros. and Reprise in 1971–’72. Songs 00:00 / 00:00 00:00 / 00:00 00:00 / 00:00 Ronnie Milsap’s Chart Reign Milsap moved to Nashville in 1972 and performed at an industry hangout, the King of the Road. In 1973, he began a long association with RCA Records. Assisted by music publisher-producer Tom Collins, Milsap started charting with country fare including “I Hate You” and “That Girl Who Waits on Tables” (1973). He won a 1974 Grammy for his chart-topping rendition of Kris Kristofferson’s “Please Don’t Tell Me How the Story Ends.” Despite Milsap’s varied output, the #1 hits “Pure Love” (1974) and “Daydreams About Night Things” (1975) positioned him as a purveyor of positive, uptempo love songs. Hits continued in 1976 (when Milsap also joined the Grand Ole Opry) with “What Goes on When the Sun Goes Down” and the Grammy-winning “(I’m a) Stand by My Woman Man.” The singer cracked the pop charts in 1977 with “It Was Almost Like a Song” and other #1 country hits. CMA’s Male Vocalist of the Year in 1974, 1976, and 1977, he was the organization’s 1977 Entertainer of the Year. Milsap logged forty-two country Top Ten hits between 1976 and 1992, including “Back on My Mind Again” (1978–’79), “I Wouldn’t Have Missed It for the World “ (1981–’82), and 1981’s “There’s No Gettin’ Over Me” (another Grammy winner). The 1985 single “Lost in the Fifties Tonight (In the Still of the Night)”—which reinterpreted the 1956 Five Satins hit—displayed Milsap’s R&B roots and secured his fourth and fifth Grammys. Videos Image Gallery Taking Care of Business Milsap established his Ronnie Milsap Foundation for visually challenged persons in 1985 and maintained a grueling schedule of recording, television appearances, and touring. He built his own studio and organized a music publishing firm with business associate Rob Galbraith. And the hits kept coming. “Snap Your Fingers” (1987) reprised the 1962 Joe Henderson R&B hit, and a 1987 Milsap–Kenny Rogers duet, “Make No Mistake, She’s Mine,” earned a Grammy for these two champions of country-pop. Milsap followed the dance-pop of “Button Off My Shirt” (1988) with the hillbilly-hearted album Stranger Things Have Happened (1989). Even as country radio embraced line-dance fodder, Milsap notched hits through 1992, but he signed with Liberty Records and released True Believer (1993) with only modest success. By contrast, Just for a Thrill (Image Entertainment, 2004) a collection of pop standards, showed another side of Milsap, and in 2006 he renewed his RCA association with the Keith Stegall–produced My Life. In that same year, Milsap was selected as one of the inaugural inductees into the all-genre Music City Walk of Fame. A 2007 tour with George Strait and Taylor Swift kept Milsap’s name before the public, as did CD reissues of his RCA albums. In 2009 EMI Christian Music group released his two-CD set Then Sings My Soul: 24 Favorite Hymns and Gospel Songs. Milsap was elected to the Country Music Hall of Fame in 2014. In early 2019 he released The Duets, an album of collaborations with Strait, Willie Nelson, Dolly Parton, Little Big Town, Kacey Musgraves, and more. —Thomas Goldsmith Adapted from the Country Music Hall of Fame® and Museum’s Encyclopedia of Country Music, published by Oxford University Press Ronnie Milsap was the CMA’s Male Vocalist of the Year in 1974, 1976, and 1977 and its 1977 Entertainer of the Year. And he had forty-two country Top Ten hits between 1976 and 1992.


--- [Ronnie Milsap - Memphis Music Hall of FameMemphis Music Hall of Fame] ---
Despite the best efforts of certain gatekeepers and genre purists, music seems to have an aversion to remaining neatly inside of any one box. From Ray Charles’ 1962 masterpiece Modern Sounds in Country and Western Music to Lil Nas X’s recent megahit “Old Town Road,” the blending of seemingly disparate musical genres into a cohesive whole is one of America’s greatest cultural traditions. During the 1970s and ‘80s, Ronnie Milsap was a part of a small coterie of “country” musicians who helped push the boundaries of the genre into new and exciting directions by incorporating R&B, soul, and pop into his silky smooth sound. Like his contemporaries John Denver and Charlie Rich (himself an inductee into the MMHOF), Milsap’s rejection of country music orthodoxy helped him to become one of the genre’s most successful and innovative artists, racking up an incredible 35 number one hits and six Grammy awards during his legendary career. Although Milsap’s music is revered for its effortless elegance, his early life was anything but. Born in Robbinsville, North Carolina in 1943, Milsap came into the world nearly blind due to congenital glaucoma. According to his autobiography, his mother interpreted his disability as divine punishment. “I remember my uncle and my father telling me that my mother didn’t want me because I was blind. She thought being blind was a disgrace and a punishment from God…over your life, you learn to forgive everything,” he would say. Raised by his grandparents in the Smoky Mountains, Milsap was eventually sent to the Governor Morehead School for the Blind in Raleigh, North Carolina. It was here that he first discovered his love for music, embracing the various genres that he discovered from the radio. By the age of 7, his teachers began to take notice of his prodigious musical gifts and encouraged him to study classical music. He became proficient in several instruments, most notably the piano. Yet despite this support, the school was also notorious for its harsh disciplinary actions. At one tragic point in his childhood, Milsap was struck in the face by a house father, resulting in complete blindness. Around 1956, Milsap’s musical influences expanded even further… Around 1956, Milsap’s musical influences expanded even further with his introduction to the music of Elvis Presley. Inspired by this exciting new sound, he formed a rock band called the Apparitions with his fellow highschool classmates. Following graduation, the young pianist was offered a scholarship to Georgia’s Young Harris College’s law program. While in college, Milsap joined a popular local R&B band called the Dimensions that frequently played in the Atlanta area and with whom he released his first single “Total Disaster” in 1963. The following fall, Milsap made the fateful decision to leave college in order to pursue a full-time career in music. While working Atlanta’s club circuit, Milsap discovered that guitarist JJ Cale was in search of a keyboardist and was promptly hired for the job. In 1965, he signed with Scepter Records, who released “Never Had It So Good,” which climbed to #19 on Billboard’s R&B chart. Although he continued to release new music under the label for the next few years, none of his singles approached the success of his first song. In search of a fresh beginning and at the urging of producer Chips Moman, Milsap headed west to Memphis, the current hit-making epicenter of the musical universe. Prior to his move to the Bluff City, Milsap had already become acquainted with Chips Moman and the Memphis Boys, the celebrated rhythm section at American Studios. While at Scepter, he had been sent to American to record a single, making a lasting impression on the Memphis based team. One night while playing at the Playboy Club in Atlanta, Moman showed up unexpectedly. “He told me that he would get me session work at American, introduce me to music industry bigwigs, produce my next hit, and land me a job at T.J.’s, a very busy nightclub,” Milsap later recalled. After arriving in Memphis with his family in 1968, Milsap was rapidly integrated into American Studio’s ecosystem. As promised, he also began performing frequently at T.J.’s, a music-business hangout operated by Moman’s friend Herbie O’Mell. “There was nothing country about Ronnie and his band – it was blues, it was Beatles, it was strobe lights. He had the coolest band in Memphis,” remembered Reggie Young, American’s guitarist. For his part, Milsap remembers his residency at T.J. ‘s fondly and credits it with introducing him to some of music’s biggest names. “T.J.’s always attracted a lot of artists. We had a permanent gig there, six nights a week. Most any night you’d think, ‘Who’s gonna show up tonight?’.” During his stint, he recalls meeting Isaac Hayes, John Fogerty, and Dionne Warwick, but his most notable interaction was with his idol Elvis Presley. In January of 1969, just months after his chance encounter with the King, Milsap was tasked with playing with Presley during his recording session at American. At the time, Elvis was looking to re-energize his career and entrusted Moman and the Memphis Boys to make it happen. On the first day of recording, Milsap accompanied Presley on a new song entitled “Kentucky Rain.” “Oh, I was given total freedom”, Milsap recalled. “The only suggestion I got from Elvis was that he wanted to hear thunder roll on the piano. He made that comment, and beyond that, he didn’t say anything. He basically said, ‘Play what you feel’.” Milsap also contributed vocals to Presley’s “Don’t Cry Daddy” and “Gentle on My Mind.” Later, Milsap and his band were invited to play at Elvis’ New Year’s Eve Party at T.J.’s. “Elvis came over and talked about how much he loved ‘Kentucky Rain’ and how he appreciated me playing on it. I got to sit and talk with him…that was a dream come true.” In addition to his work as a session musician, Milsap also recorded a number of sides as a solo artist at American, none of which were commercially successful. Despite his well-earned reputation for having an uncanny ear for hits, Chips Moman could never figure out how to utilize Milsap’s unique voice. In the book Memphis Boys: The Story of American Studios, engineer Hayward Bishop recalled being taken aback by Moman’s response to Milsap’s song “Loving You’s a Natural Thing.” According to Bishop, Moman stated “I don’t think Ronnie has a commercial voice.” “I’m hearing that and thinking… it’s a daggone smash…maybe I should have trusted my own instincts more,” Bishop later said. Feeling that Moman’s enthusiasm for him was waning, Milsap began looking for opportunities elsewhere. “The day after Christmas 1972, I made the difficult decision to move to Nashville and begin a residency at the King of the Road hotel. I considered it my last chance to make it in music. I could never have gone to Nashville if I had not had that waiting engagement,” he said. Soon after moving to Nashville, Milsap had a serendipitous meeting with country star Charley Pride, who encouraged him to focus on country music. Needless to say, it proved to be valuable advice. Impressed by Milsap’s talents, Pride’s manager Jack Johnson started working with the singer, helping him to secure a deal with the RCA label. Recognizing his immense potential, the label quickly released the single “I Hate You.” While the song performed well, Milsap’s meteoric rise to fame was just around the corner. In 1974, Milsap began to make major waves within the industry thanks to the twin number one hits “Pure Love” and “Please Don’t Tell Me How the Story Ends.” His hot start was recognized by the Country Music Association, who named him Male Vocalist of the Year for 1974. He also took home the Grammy for Best Male Country Vocal Performance for “Please Don’t Tell Me How the Story Ends.” Between 1974’s “(I’d Be) A Legend in My Time” and 1979’s “Nobody Likes Sad Songs,” Milsap reached the top of the Billboard country charts an astonishing ten times, while also claiming the CMA’s Male Vocalist of the Year honors in 1976 and ‘77 (as well as that year’s award for Entertainer of the Year). As an added bonus, Milsap also became a member of the Grand Ole Opry, fulfilling a lifelong dream. It seems that Milsap’s unique combination of honky tonk, rock & roll, and R&B – paired with his gorgeous baritone – was exactly what the country music community was looking for. Although the immense successes he enjoyed during the 1970s was enough to make any artist enviable, the next decade would prove to be even more fruitful. During the 1980s, Milsap not only continued his dominance within country music, but also found crossover success within the world of adult contemporary, beginning with the smash hit “Smoky Mountain Rain.” Arguably his most popular song, Milsap credits the lessons he learned in Memphis with the success of the #1 hit. “We paid tribute to ‘Kentucky Rain’ by incorporating the same sound of thunder that Elvis used,” he said. “‘Smoky Mountain Rain’ became a huge hit for me, and it’s one of my most requested songs. I truly learned how to make records by working at American.” Overall, Milsap would reach the top of the charts another 23 times during the decade, including his Grammy-winning duet with Kenny Rogers “Make No Mistake, She’s Mine.” In the midst of his grueling schedule, the artist also found time to established his Ronnie Milsap Foundation for visually challenged persons. As the ’90s began, Milsap remained a reliable hitmaker, reaching the top ten another four times in 1990 and 1991. Milsap had firmly established himself as one of country music’s most consequential stars, helping to change the face of the genre forever. Following a relatively quiet period, Milsap reemerged in the 2000s with a series of new albums and public appearances. In 2006, Milsap was selected as one of the inaugural inductees into the all-genre Music City Walk of Fame in Nashville, and the next year he embarked on a tour with George Strait and Taylor Swift. On the eve of his 76th birthday, Milsap released the album The Duets, a collection that featured longtime compatriots such as Dolly Parton, Willie Nelson, and Billy Gibbons. His most recent album, A Better Word for Love, was released in April of 2021. “They say love will find a way. I know determination will,” Milsap is quoted as saying. He should know. Much like his friend and mentor Ray Charles, Ronnie Milsap’s life is a testament to the fact that musical genius isn’t always enough. Sometimes, it takes courage and tenacity as well.
