=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[State Sen. Virgil Smith released on bond - The Detroit News]
May 12, 2015 · In February 2004, he had an operating while impaired by liquor offense; in August of that year, he faced an operating while intoxicated offense. His license was revoked in 2004, Woodhams said.
URL: https://www.detroitnews.com/story/news/local/detroit-city/2015/05/12/virgil-smith/27173735/

[Sen. Virgil Smith Jr.'s ex-wife says she was punched, shot at ... - mlive]
Jun 25, 2015 · Smith has received prior citations for impaired driving and operating while intoxicated in 2004, for which his license was revoked and reinstated to a restricted status in 2007, according to a ...
URL: https://www.mlive.com/news/detroit/2015/06/sen_virgil_smith_jrs_ex-wife_s.html

[Virgil Smith Jr. - Wikipedia]
Virgil K Smith (born December 18, 1979) is a Democratic former member of the Michigan House of Representatives and Michigan Senate. Smith previously represented the 4th Senate district, which is composed of Allen Park, Lincoln Park, Southgate and the north side of Detroit.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virgil_Smith_Jr.

[State Sen. Smith held in shooting at car - The Detroit News]
May 11, 2015 · In February 2004, he had an operating while impaired by liquor offense; in August that year, he faced an operating while intoxicated offense. His license was revoked in 2004, Woodhams said.
URL: https://www.detroitnews.com/story/news/local/detroit-city/2015/05/10/virgil-smith-home-shots-fired/27089371/

[Virgil Smith avoided 3rd drinking-driving charge in 2010]
May 13, 2015 · Smith was convicted twice in 2004 of drinking and driving — first in February of operating a vehicle while impaired by liquor in Lansing and in August of operating while intoxicated offense in ...
URL: https://www.freep.com/story/news/local/michigan/detroit/2015/05/13/virgil-smith-impaired-driving/27246351/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [State Sen. Virgil Smith released on bond - The Detroit News] ---
State Sen. Virgil Smith released on bond Detroit — As state Sen. Virgil Smith Jr. sat in a holding cell Tuesday awaiting word on charges in a shooting incident involving his ex-wife, his colleagues in Lansing stripped him of committee and caucus duties. Just before 5 p.m. he was released from police custody at the Detroit Detention Center on Mound Road to calls in Lansing for his resignation from the Legislature. Smith, 35, was charged with felonious assault, malicious destruction of personal property $20,000 or more, domestic violence assault and battery and felony firearm after he was accused of shooting up the car of his ex-wife, Anistia Thomas, overnight Sunday while naked. He was arraigned by video before 36th District Magistrate Millicent Sherman and given a $25,000 bond. He paid 10 percent and was released. The charges prompted Senate Democratic and majority Republican leaders Tuesday afternoon to pressure Smith, D-Detroit, to consider resigning. "These are serious charges, and Sen. Smith should give serious consideration to whether or not he can still serve his constituents," said Amber McCann, spokeswoman for Senate Majority Leader Arlan Meekhof, R-West Olive. It takes a two-thirds majority or 26 of the Senate's 38 members to vote to expel a member and list the reason or reasons in the Senate journal, according to the Michigan Constitution. Republicans control 27 seats. On Tuesday, Senate Minority Leader Jim Ananich, D-Flint, stripped Smith of his committee assignments and relieved him of Democratic caucus duties, such as being the assistant Democratic whip. "We are responsible for ensuring the people of Michigan, and the people of the 4th Senate District, are represented by a senator who can serve them effectively," Ananich said in a statement. Smith had been the minority vice chairman of the agriculture, economic development and energy committees as well as a member of the banking and financial institutions panel. The Michigan Legislative Black Caucus urged the public and other lawmakers to withhold judgment on Smith, considering he has served as a state representative and senator "with distinction" since 2003. "The membership of the Michigan Legislative Black Caucus opposes violence and understands the seriousness of these allegations," the caucus said in a statement. "However, we would like to urge due process and equal protection in this matter as outlined in our 14th Amendment. "Like any other individual, Sen. Smith remains innocent until proven guilty." If he is convicted of the crimes he's accused of, it wouldn't necessarily lead to removal from office despite a state law meant to give lawmakers an option to remove a colleague who breaches the public's trust. "I'd caution people to reserve their judgment," fellow Detroit Democrat Bert Johnson said earlier Tuesday. "There will come a time when there will have to be some decisions made about actions here, when and if this thing takes a turn for the worse, but we're not there yet," he added. "This is a big, big thing, and it's trouble, but it deserves our patience and our due diligence." Smith is the son of Wayne County Circuit Judge Virgil Smith, who presides over the court's Juvenile Division. After police Monday sought charges against Smith, Wayne County Prosecutor Kym Worthy sent the warrant request back for further investigation. Police re-sent the warrant request Tuesday. "We asked for further work on the warrant and the information was received this morning," Worthy said in a statement. "We let the facts and evidence guide our charging decision and nothing else." Besides the charges he faces, Smith was ordered to have no contact with his ex-wife. Godfrey Dillard, Smith's attorney, called Thomas the "aggressor" in the incident. Dillard said during the brief arraignment hearing that Thomas "forced her way into (Smith's home)" and attacked him. "This case is going to come down to the complainant's word versus the defendant's word," Dillard said. He refused comment after the hearing. Dillard on Monday had asked Chief Wayne Circuit Judge Timothy Kenny to sign a writ authorizing Smith's early release from the Detroit Detention Center, but Kenny refused, three law enforcement sources confirmed. Kenny declined to comment, because he said the case might be assigned to him. Dillard did not return a phone call seeking comment. If convicted, Smith faces up to four years in prison on the felonious assault charges; a possible five years and $15,000 in fines for the malicious destruction of property charges. He could spend up to a year behind bars for the domestic violence charge and another two years for the felony firearms charge. Smith told police that shooting at Thomas' Mercedes-Benz GLA250 with a rifle was "the most stupid thing" in his life. In a Detroit Police report, Smith said Thomas "was banging on (the) bedroom window" of his home in the 18000 block of Wexford on the city's east side at about 1 a.m. Smith said he opened the front door, and Thomas "kicked the door open and pushed (past) him." Smith told police Thomas tried to attack a woman who was in his bed. He said he grabbed Thomas, they both fell backwards, knocking over a television. Smith told police he forced Thomas out of the house and she threw a chair at the windows. He then said he shot at her car. A second police report, containing Thomas' side of the story, said she was invited to stay the night at Smith's house, and, when she arrived a naked Smith and an unknown woman met them at the door. She told police she and Smith argued, he grabbed her and shoved her face first into the carpet. Smith then hit her four or five times in the face with his fists. Thomas said as she fled the house Smith followed her with a gun and fired at her. Police said a rifle of undisclosed make and model was recovered from the home, according to the report. They called it an automatic weapon, but that could not be confirmed. Smith filed for divorce in 2009, 59 days after the two were married. The marriage was annulled, according to court records. The couple has no children, according to the filing. Smith represents the 4th Senate District, from the city's north side, south to Allen Park, Lincoln Park and Southgate. He was re-elected in 2014 to a second four-year term. He previously served three terms in the Michigan House, following his father into politics. In 2000, he had an arrest for minor in possession of alcohol, according to Secretary of State spokesman Fred Woodhams. In February 2004, he had an operating while impaired by liquor offense; in August of that year, he faced an operating while intoxicated offense. His license was revoked in 2004, Woodhams said. It was fully reinstated in December 2008. ghunter@detroitnews.com (313) 222-2134


--- [Sen. Virgil Smith Jr.'s ex-wife says she was punched, shot at ... - mlive] ---
DETROIT, MI -- Anistia Thomas, the ex-wife of state Sen. Virgil Smith Jr., D-Detroit, said the politician slammed her head into the floor and a wall, punched her and shot at her the night she caught him in bed with another woman. Thomas took the stand in Smith's preliminary examination Thursday. Smith is charged with felonious assault, malicious destruction of personal property, domestic violence and use of a firearm in the commission of a felony after being accused of beating and firing a rifle at Thomas early May 10. Thomas said although Smith is her ex-husband, they'd reignited an intimate relationship and she drove to his home early in the morning of May 10 with the intent of spending the night. She wrote a text to Smith that said, "you are (expletive) up," before heading to Smith's home. After parking in the street, she went to an open side window and said, "Kai," Smiths middle name. Smith opened the side door and said "Tatiana is here," referencing the woman in his bed, identified in court as Tatiana Grant. Thomas said she walked to the bedroom, stripped the sheets off the naked woman and asked her if she was sleeping with Smith. Thomas denies forcing her way into Smith's home or attacking Grant. At this time, Thomas claimed, she was attacked by Smith. "From there, he pulled on me, we wrestled, he punches me in the face a few times," Thomas said. "After falling into the TV, he rammed my head into the floor." Thomas said Smith put his right arm into the back of her neck and she "basically stopped breathing." "He kept punching me throughout my body at that point ... " Thomas said. "He literally rammed my head into the wall by the doorway ... I fall down." Tatiana Grant, the woman in Smith's bed, also testified. She said Smith never punched Thomas and never slammed her head into the floor or wall. She saw him pulling her from behind and carrying her in an attempt to remove her from the bedroom. "No," Grant said when asked if she ever saw Smith assault Thomas. She said Smith forced her to her feet and pushed her out the side door into a railing, causing her to fall and hit her face on the concrete. "He comes out from the side door ... I see him holding a big gun," Thomas said. She said the gun was an AR-15 rifle Smith kept under his bed and previously told her could take off a person's limb. "He starts shooting it in the air ... " Thomas said. "He turns it toward me and starts shooting at me." Thomas ran to the home of a neighbor, also a friend of Smith. She called 911, but the neighbor took the phone from her after hearing she was using Smith's name and kicked her out of the house, locking the door behind. Thomas said she then ran to another house where she found help. Although Smith remains a member of the state Legislature, he was stripped of his leadership roles and committee assignments after the shooting incident. Smith served three years in the House of Representatives before being elected to the Senate in 2010. He was re-elected to the Senate in 2014 and represents the Fourth District, which includes portions of Allen Park, Detroit, Lincoln Park and Southgate. Smith has received prior citations for impaired driving and operating while intoxicated in 2004, for which his license was revoked and reinstated to a restricted status in 2007, according to a statement issued by Secretary of State spokesman Fred Woodhams. He was charged with operating a vehicle while being intoxicated in 2010, but the case was dropped for lack of evidence to prosecute. Michigan is among about 10 states with a full-time Legislature. Senators begin at a starting annual pay of about $71,000.


--- [Virgil Smith Jr. - Wikipedia] ---
Virgil K Smith (born December 18, 1979) is a Democratic former member of the Michigan House of Representatives and Michigan Senate. Smith previously represented the 4th Senate district, which is composed of Allen Park, Lincoln Park, Southgate and the north side of Detroit. From 2003 to 2008, Smith represented State House district 7, comprising the northern tier of Detroit.


--- [State Sen. Smith held in shooting at car - The Detroit News] ---
State Sen. Smith held in shooting at car Detroit — State Sen. Virgil Smith was in police custody Sunday after gunshots were fired at a vehicle outside his home early that morning, according to a police source who asked not to be identified. Smith, 35, was taken into custody at about noon Sunday, the source said. More than one blast from a shotgun was fired at a 2015 Mercedes-Benz outside Smith's home on Wexford Street on Detroit's north side around 1 a.m., Detroit Police Chief James Craig confirmed. The woman who owns the car, identified as Smith's girlfriend and ex-wife, was uninjured. The vehicle was hit at least once. "This is still an ongoing investigation," said Craig, who declined further comment. Police investigators searched the house Sunday afternoon and left carrying a black plastic bag with a long object. A spokesman for the senator did not respond to telephone calls and emails Sunday. Smith, D-Detroit, represents the 4th Senate District, from the city's north side, south to Allen Park, Lincoln Park and Southgate. He was re-elected in 2014 to a second four-year term after defeating former state Rep. Rashida Tlaib of Detroit in a hard-fought Democratic primary. He previously served three terms in the Michigan House, following his father, Virgil Smith Jr., into politics. In 2000, he had an arrest for minor in possession, according to Secretary of State spokesman Fred Woodhams. In February 2004, he had an operating while impaired by liquor offense; in August that year, he faced an operating while intoxicated offense. His license was revoked in 2004, Woodhams said. It was fully reinstated in December 2008. He currently has no points on his record. Staff Writers Chad Livengood, Lauren Abdel-Razzaq and Associated Press contributed.


--- [Virgil Smith avoided 3rd drinking-driving charge in 2010] ---
Virgil Smith avoided 3rd drinking-driving charge in 2010 State Sen. Virgil Smith, the Detroit Democrat facing felonious assault and domestic violence charges after his ex-wife told police he shot up her Mercedes early Sunday, was arrested on suspicion of drunken driving in 2010, but a prosecutor later threw the case out. It would have been Smith's third drinking-and-driving offense and he could have potentially been charged with a felony. But the Washtenaw County Prosecutor's Office — asked to step into the case after Wayne County Prosecutor Kym Worthy recused herself — found there was "insufficient admissible evidence" to charge Smith with drunken driving. The assistant prosecutor who reviewed the case found Detroit police did not administer standard field sobriety tests and didn't determine how much time had elapsed between when Smith had his last drink and when the initial breathalyzer test was conducted. According to the memo from Washtenaw County Assistant Prosecutor Konrad Siller, Smith registered a .154 on the portable breathalyzer, but less than half an hour later registered a .07 on a more accurate DataMaster blood-alcohol test given at the precinct station. Under state law, the threshold for drunken driving is a .08 blood alcohol level. A motorist can be charged with impaired driving at a lower blood alcohol level but there has to supporting evidence of visible impairment. "The admissible evidence against Virgil Kai Smith including speeding, failure to use a turn signal, the strong odor of intoxicants, an admission of consuming three shots of liquor, and that he twice leaned while walking to the rear of his vehicle," Siller said. "This evidence is insufficient to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Virgil Kai Smith was intoxicated or his ability to operate a vehicle was impaired." Eric Gutenberg, a Washtenaw County assistant prosecutor, said today that the 2010 decision not to authorize charges "was based on the report presented to our office. I'm not going to speculate on anything else." Wayne County Prosecutor Kym Worthy's office said today that Worthy handed the case over to Washtenaw County to avoid a potential conflict of interest, because Smith's father, Virgil C. Smith, was the chief judge of Wayne County Circuit Court. Detroit Police pulled Smith over the night of Jan. 21, 2010, after officers saw him accelerate rapidly after stopping at a red light at 7 Mile and Woodward and then fail to signal before making a lane change. They paced him driving at 55-60 mph in a 30 mph zone and stopped his car, according to a Siller's memo. The officers noticed a smell of alcohol on Smith's breath and noted that he leaned to the left twice as he walked to the rear of his vehicle, the memo says. Smith admitted to drinking "three shots of Hennessy" – a cognac – and officers performed a preliminary breath test that registered a blood alcohol level of .154. It wasn't clear why officers wouldn't have performed the field sobriety tests that Birmingham lawyer Issa Haddad, who specializes in drunken driving cases, said cops are well-trained to do. Haddad said that, based on the traffic infractions outlined in the memo and the high preliminary breath test reading, there would have been enough evidence to charge Smith. Smith's lawyer, Godfrey Dillard, couldn't be reached for comment. He has not returned phone messages left by the Free Press since news of the incident emerged. Smith was convicted twice in 2004 of drinking and driving — first in February of operating a vehicle while impaired by liquor in Lansing and in August of operating while intoxicated offense in Chelsea. His license was revoked because he had two drunken-driving convictions within seven years, according to the Michigan Department of State. Smith appealed his revocation in 2007 and was issued a restricted license; in December 2008 he regained full driving privileges. He currently has zero points on his driving record, according to the state. Following the weekend incident, the 35-year-old lawmaker has been stripped of his committee assignments by Senate leaders. He is free on bond on charges that also include malicious destruction of personal property $20,000 or more and possessing a firearm during the commission of a felony. Worthy's office said Smith's 35-year-old ex-wife Anistia Thomas came to his home on Wexford around 1 a.m. Sunday and found another woman there. Smith is accused of physically assaulting his ex and shooting at her 2015 Mercedes-Benz multiple times with a rifle. He is due back in court May 22 for a probable cause conference; a preliminary examination is scheduled for May 29. Smith was ordered to have no contact with his ex. Contact Matt Helms: 313-222-1450 or mhelms@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter: @matthelms.
