=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Penny Dreadful (TV series) - Wikipedia]
Penny Dreadful (TV series) ... Penny Dreadful is a horror drama television series created for Showtime and Sky by John Logan, who also acts as executive producer alongside Sam Mendes. The show was originally pitched to several American and British channels, and eventually landed with Showtime, [1] with Sky Atlantic as co-producer. [2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Penny_Dreadful_(TV_series)

[Vampire | Penny Dreadful Wiki | Fandom]
Vampires are monstrous creatures which feed upon the blood of living humans, and infect people to fill their ranks. The first vampire Dracula was a fallen angel, the brother of Lucifer. The pair were cast out of Heaven after a failed attempt to conquer God's throne. Lucifer fell in Hell, where he started feeding on the souls of the dead, and his brother fell to Earth, where he was cursed to ...
URL: https://penny-dreadful.fandom.com/wiki/Vampire

[Penny Dreadful (TV Series 2014-2016) - Full cast & crew - IMDb]
Kari Skogland. 1 episode • 2015. Toa Fraser · Toa Fraser. 1 episode • 2016 ... Vampire. (as Robert Nairne). 4 episodes • 2014. Sebastian Croft presenting Best ...
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2628232/fullcredits/

[Penny Dreadful: Season 1 (2014) - Cast & Crew — The Movie ...]
Vanessa Ives wages a personal battle against an evil demon determined to possess her; Sir Malcolm Murray tries to save his daughter from a fate worse than death; Ethan Chandler becomes enmeshed with a group of London vampire hunters and falls for a doomed local prostitute, even as his own mysterious past threatens to catch up with him; Dr. Victor Frankenstein must face the consequences of his ...
URL: https://www.themoviedb.org/tv/54671-penny-dreadful/season/1/cast

[Penny Dreadful Cast - Paramount Plus]
Personal demons prove more powerful than vampires, evil spirits and immortal beasts in this psychological thriller.
URL: https://www.paramountplus.com/shows/penny-dreadful/cast/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Penny Dreadful (TV series) - Wikipedia] ---
Penny Dreadful is a horror drama television series created for Showtime and Sky by John Logan, who also acts as executive producer alongside Sam Mendes. The show was originally pitched to several American and British channels, and eventually landed with Showtime, with Sky Atlantic as co-producer. It premiered at the South by Southwest film festival on March 9 and began airing on television on April 28, 2014, on Showtime on Demand. The series premiered on Showtime in the United States on May 11, 2014, and on Sky Atlantic in the United Kingdom on May 20, 2014. After the third-season finale on June 19, 2016, series creator John Logan announced that Penny Dreadful had ended as the main story had reached its conclusion.
The title refers to the penny dreadfuls, a type of 19th-century British fiction publication with lurid and sensational subject matter. The series draws upon many public domain characters from 19th-century Victorian Gothic fiction, including Dorian Gray from Oscar Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray; Mina Harker, Abraham Van Helsing, John Seward, Renfield, and Count Dracula from Bram Stoker's Dracula; Victor Frankenstein and his monster from Mary Shelley's Frankenstein; and Henry Jekyll from Robert Louis Stevenson's Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, showing their origin stories as an explorer searches for his daughter. Justine from Justine, or The Misfortunes of Virtue by the Marquis de Sade also appears.
A spin-off series, Penny Dreadful: City of Angels, aired from April 26 to June 28, 2020.


--- [Vampire | Penny Dreadful Wiki | Fandom] ---
| Vampire | | |---|---| | General Information | | | Description | Immortal predators hiding in the shadows on the fringe of human society. | | Appearances | | | Seasons | | | First Appearance | | | Last Appearance | Vampires are monstrous creatures which feed upon the blood of living humans, and infect people to fill their ranks. History[] The first vampire Dracula was a fallen angel, the brother of Lucifer. The pair were cast out of Heaven after a failed attempt to conquer God's throne. Lucifer fell in Hell, where he started feeding on the souls of the dead, and his brother fell to Earth, where he was cursed to feed on the blood of the living, and where he became the first vampire. He started creating other vampires after his own image. According to prophecy, if the original vampire corrupts Vanessa Ives' soul, turning her into a vampire, a new era of darkness will take over the world, thus starting the Apocalypse. That is why Mina was changed into a vampire by her master, so that she could draw Vanessa into the power of the first vampire.[1] Summary[] Vampires feed upon blood, and the discovery of large numbers of exsanguinated corpses is an obvious sign of when a pack of vampires has arrived in a city. Vampires tend to linger in places where death is prevalent; the first master vampire encountered in the series was sleeping beneath a pile of dead victims, while the second master was making a lair aboard a plague ship. Vampires appear to lead a very reclusive and sedentary lifestyle, and when not actively hunting and feeding, they are most often found sleeping or hiding away. Master vampires often surround themselves with those they have infected. Professor Abraham Van Helsing describes them as, "moving from city to city like a pack of wolves," and never staying long in one place for fear of discovery. Sir Malcolm Murray speculates that they must only exist in small numbers, given that they do stand out from the humans upon whom they prey. Vampires seem to be nocturnal in their habits, though it has not been demonstrated as to whether this is because sunlight can actually harm them, or simply because it is easier for them to hide their obviously inhuman appearance in the dark. Dracula can walk in the sunlight with no sign of discomfort, however it is not clear if this applies to all vampires or only him. Variants[] There is an apparent hierarchy among vampires. Dracula is reportedly the progenitor of the entire vampire line, and others also referred to as master vampires have been known to sire others of their ilk. The exact origins of these master vampires remain a mystery, although some clues point to Ancient Egypt. Generally, master vampires are the oldest and strongest of their kind, thus their blood is the most potent. Master vampires are very inhuman creatures; they possess entirely hairless bodies, blood-red eyes, mouths full of sharp fangs, clawed fingers and an "exoskeleton" layer of skin, beneath which their dark flesh is tattooed with occult hieroglyphs. Master vampires appear to have little need for human clothing, and both of the masters encountered in Season 1 have appeared naked. There are many more lesser vampires acting in service to one of the ancients. They are more human in appearance, and although they have the same blood-red eyes, these younger vampires have only a single pair of sharpened canine teeth instead of a full set of fangs. The female vampires in the show had long, white hair and were completely enthralled by their master, showing little in the way of human behavior. Most of them were quite bestial, with the exception being Mina Murray, who had normal hair, could retract her fangs and turn her red eyes back to normal. Known Vampires[] - Dracula - Mina Murray † - Master Vampire † - Unnamed master vampire † - Many unnamed female vampires † - Hannah Van Helsing † (referenced only) Powers and Abilities[] - Enhanced Strength: Master vampires are immensely strong; one of them swatted Ethan Chandler through the air with a casual swipe of its hand. Infected vampires may become stronger than they were as humans, but they do not appear to possess true supernatural strength. Dracula is especially strong, capable of casually lifting a grown man with one hand. - Enhanced Agility: Master vampires are very swift and agile, capable of scaling walls and leaping from windows. Infected vampires may possess this to a lesser degree. - Enhanced Endurance: All vampires are more resilient to injury than humans are. Master vampires in particular have been shown to take gunshots without so much as flinching. Infected vampires also seem able to recover from any wound that does not damage the head or heart. - "Hannah's Wink": Vampiric saliva contains an agent which prevents blood clotting, making it easier for them to feed. Abraham Van Helsing named this phenomenon in honour of his wife, who was infected by a vampire. - Mind Control: Master vampires can enslave humans with their blood, turning them into fanatical, psychotic familiars who likewise acquire a craving for blood and life. Dracula's abilities apparently extended to animals (wolves). - Shapeshifting: Mina Murray was able to change her appearance to hide her vampirism. Similarly, Dracula could (allegedly) assume multiple human guises to pass in human society and could even transform into a green mist. - Immortality: The glyphs on the master vampire's body are shown to belong to an ancient Egyptian dynasty, over 3000 year old. Weaknesses[] - Destruction of the brain or heart: Vampires can be killed by sufficiently grievous wounds to the head or heart, be it from blades or bullets. - Crucifix: Although vampires can stand to be in the presence of a crucifix, these symbols evidently have some deleterious effect upon them, as one master vampire chose to flee a confrontation in a room with a crucifix upon the wall, rather than stand and fight. - Demonic Influence: Vampires seem to be repulsed or weakened by the dark power that resides within Vanessa Ives. - Death of the Master: If a Master vampire is slain, all of the infected created by that vampire will also immediately die. Episode Appearance[] - Season 1 - S1, Ep01: Night Work - S1, Ep03: Resurrection - S1, Ep04: Demimonde - S1, Ep05: Closer Than Sisters - S1, Ep06: What Death Can Join Together - S1, Ep08: Grand Guignol - Season 3 - S3, Ep01: The Day Tennyson Died - S3, Ep02: Predators Far and Near - S3, Ep03: Good and Evil Braided Be - S3, Ep04: A Blade of Grass - S3, Ep06: No Beast So Fierce - S3, Ep07: Ebb Tide - S3, Ep08: Perpetual Night - S3, Ep09: The Blessed Dark


--- [Penny Dreadful (TV Series 2014-2016) - Full cast & crew - IMDb] ---
- Damon Thomas• 2015–2016 - James Hawes• 2014–2015 - Brian Kirk• 2015 - Paco Cabezas• 2016 - J.A. Bayona• 2014 - Coky Giedroyc• 2014 - Dearbhla Walsh• 2014 - Kari Skogland• 2015 - Toa Fraser• 2016 - Chris W. Kingsupervising producer (as Chris King) / co-executive producer (as Chris King)• 2014–2016 - Adrián Guerraproducer: Nostromo Pictures, Spanish Unit / producer: Nostromo Pictures - Spanish Unit / producer: Nostromo Pictures, Spanish• 2016 - Núria Vallsproducer: Nostromo Pictures, Spanish Unit (as Nuria Valls) / producer: Nostromo Pictures - Spanish Unit (as Nuria Valls) / producer: Nostromo Pictures, Spanish (as Nuria Valls)• 2016 - James J. Bagleyco-executive producer - Abel Korzeniowski• 2014–2016 - Michele Conroy• 2014–2016 - Christopher Donaldson• 2014–2016 - Geoff Ashenhurst• 2015–2016 - Aaron Marshall• 2014–2016 - Jaume Martí• 2014 - Karen Lindsay-Stewart• 2014–2016 - Frank Moiselle• 2014–2016 - Nuala Moiselle• 2014–2016 - Jonathan McKinstry• 2014–2016 - Gary McGinty• 2014–2016 - Colman Corish• 2014–2016 - Shane McEnroe• 2016 - Conor Dennison• 2014 - Tobias Frank• 2014 - Philip Murphy• 2014–2016 - Gabriella Pescucci• 2014–2016 - Cat Coogancrowd hair stylist / hair stylist: dailies (uncredited) / hairstylist: crowd daily (uncredited)• 2014–2016 - Greg Astlescompositing supervisor / compositing supervisor: Mr. X / senior digital compositor: Mr. X Inc• 2014–2016 - Carol Tormeya camera 2nd assistant camera / b camera 2nd assistant camera / first assistant camera: second unit• 2014–2016 Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content


--- [Penny Dreadful: Season 1 (2014) - Cast & Crew — The Movie ...] ---
Season 1 (2014) ← Back to season Series Cast 27 - Vanessa Ives (8 Episodes) - Ethan Chandler (8 Episodes) - Sir Malcolm Murray (8 Episodes) - Dr. Victor Frankenstein (8 Episodes) - Dorian Gray (8 Episodes) - John Clare / The Creature (8 Episodes) - Lily / Brona Croft (8 Episodes) - Sembene (8 Episodes) - Mina Harker (6 Episodes) - Madame Kali (2 Episodes) - Ferdinand Lyle (2 Episodes) - Proteus (2 Episodes) - Woman #1 (1 Episode) - Colonel Brewster (1 Episode) - Young Victor (1 Episode) - Cowgirl (1 Episode) - Somnolent Woman (1 Episode) - Vincent Brand (1 Episode) - Prostitute (1 Episode) - Lady Roxbury (1 Episode) - Police Sergeant (1 Episode) - Caroline (1 Episode) - Maud Gunneson (1 Episode) - Lady at the Séance (uncredited) (1 Episode) - Theatre Heckler / Rat-baiting Referee (1 Episode) - Girl Outside Church (1 Episode) - Ernest (1 Episode) Series Crew 16 Art - Production Design (8 Episodes) Costume & Makeup - Costume Design (8 Episodes) Production - Casting (8 Episodes) - Casting (8 Episodes) - Casting (8 Episodes) - Executive Producer (8 Episodes) - Executive Producer (8 Episodes) - Producer (8 Episodes) Sound - Original Music Composer (8 Episodes) Writing - Writer (8 Episodes)


--- [Penny Dreadful Cast - Paramount Plus] ---
Josh Hartnett Cast Timothy Dalton Eva Green Reeve Carney Harry Treadaway Billie Piper Rory Kinnear Patti LuPone Wes Studi Danny Sapani Christian Camargo Jessica Barden Shazad Latif Samuel Barnett Douglas Hodge Helen McCrory Simon Russell Beale Sarah Greene Olivia Llewellyn
