=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Germund Dahlquist - Wikipedia]
In 1965 he was elected into the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA). The software package COMSOL Multiphysics, for finite element analysis of partial differential equations, was started by a couple of Dahlquist's graduate students based upon codes developed for a graduate course at KTH.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Germund_Dahlquist

[Germund Dahlquist (1925 - 2005) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics]
Dahlquist received many honours for his outstanding contributions. He was elected into the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences in 1965. He was a plenary speaker at the International Congress of Mathematicians at Berkeley in 1986. The Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) named him their John von Neumann lecturer in 1988.
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Dahlquist/

[Germund Dahlquist - Grokipedia]
Dahlquist received numerous honors, including election to the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (1965), a plenary lecture at the International ...
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/germund_dahlquist

[Germund Dahlquist - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
In 1965 he was elected into the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA). The software package COMSOL Multiphysics, for finite element analysis of partial differential equations, was started by graduate students to Dahlquist based on codes developed for a graduate course at KTH.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/4552614

[Germund Dahlquist (January 16, 1925 — February 8, 2005) | World ...]
In 1965 he was elected into the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA). The software package COMSOL Multiphysics, for finite element analysis of partial differential equations, was started by a couple of Dahlquist"s graduate students based upon codes developed for a graduate course at Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/germund.dahlquist/2309936


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Germund Dahlquist - Wikipedia] ---
Germund Dahlquist (16 January 1925 – 8 February 2005) was a Swedish mathematician known primarily for his early contributions to the theory of numerical analysis as applied to differential equations.
Dahlquist began to study mathematics at Stockholm University in 1942 at the age of 17, where he cites the Danish mathematician Harald Bohr (who was living in exile after the occupation of Denmark during World War II) as a profound influence.
He received the degree of licentiat from Stockholm University in 1949, before taking a break from his studies to work at the Swedish Board of Computer Machinery (Matematikmaskinnämnden), working on (among other things) the early computer BESK, Sweden's first. During this time, he also worked with Carl-Gustaf Rossby on early numerical weather forecasts.
Dahlquist returned to Stockholm University to complete his Ph.D., Stability and Error Bounds in the Numerical Solution of Ordinary Differential Equations, which he defended in 1958, with Fritz Carlson and Lars Hörmander as his advisors. As part of this work he introduced the logarithmic norm (also introduced by Russian mathematician Sergei Lozinskii the same year).
In 1959 he moved to the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), where he would later establish what became the Department of Numerical Analysis and Computer Science (NADA) in 1962 (now part of the School of Computer Science and Communication), and become Sweden's first Professor of Numerical Analysis in 1963. He helped establish the Nordic journal of numerical analysis, BIT, in 1961. In 1965 he was elected into the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA).
The software package COMSOL Multiphysics, for finite element analysis of partial differential equations, was started by a couple of Dahlquist's graduate students based upon codes developed for a graduate course at KTH.


--- [Germund Dahlquist (1925 - 2005) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics] ---
Germund Dahlquist Quick Info Uppsala, Sweden Stockholm, Sweden Biography Germund Dahlquist's father was a minister in the Church of Sweden, the established Lutheran church in Sweden. Germund's mother was a poet, but also wrote a number of well-known hymns. Dahlquist entered Stockholm University in 1942 to begin his study of mathematics. The person who had the biggest influence on him was Harald Bohr who was teaching there having been forced to leave Denmark due to the German invasion during World War II. Björck, Gear and Söderlind write [1]:-Harald Bohr was remarkable not only as a mathematician, but also as a very humane and generous person. These are qualities that Dahlquist shared to a high degree. Bohr took the time to discuss mathematics with his young student and inspired Dahlquist's early interests, which centred on analytic number theory, complex analysis, and analytical mechanics. Dahlquist would later refer to the profound influence on his view of mathematics of that early time with Bohr.Dahlquist received a first degree from Stockholm University in 1949 having written a thesis On the Analytic Continuation of Eulerian Products which he published in 1952. Deciding against continuing to undertake research for his doctorate, he joined the Swedish Board of Computer Machinery as an applied mathematician and programmer. In 1951 a decision was taken that Sweden should build its own digital computer. Named BESK (Binary Electronic Sequential Calculator), the computer was modelled on the ideas put forward by John von Neumann and Herman Goldstine in their ideas for the EDVAC (Electronic Differential Variable Computer) which they produced in the late 1940s. BESK came into operation in December 1953 and Dahlquist used the machine to solve differential equations. This led him to a deep study of numerical analysis. He also joined a group using BESK to solve problems relating to weather forecasting. Their methods led to a speeding up of the process of reducing the data and in September 1954 they produced the first 24 hour forecast produced on the day in which the input data was collected. During this time Dahlquist wrote a number of papers such as The Monte Carlo-method (1954), Convergence and stability for a hyperbolic difference equation with analytic initial-values (1954), and Convergence and stability in the numerical integration of ordinary differential equations (1956). He submitted his doctoral thesis Stability and error bounds in the numerical integration of ordinary differential equations to Stockholm University in 1958, defending it in a viva in December. In the thesis he [1]:- .... introduced the logarithmic norm (also introduced independently by Lozinskii in 1958), which he used to derive differential inequalities that discriminated between forward and reverse time of integration. Dahlquist was now in a position to derive more realistic error bounds for problems that might not even be well-posed in reverse time. In such cases, the classic Lipschitz convergence analysis would have failed. Dahlquist was to use this idea throughout his research in stiff differential equations.His thesis advisor was Fritz Carlson but he also received strong support from Lars Hörmander. The thesis was published in the following year. From 1956 to 1959 Dahlquist had been head of Mathematical Analysis and Programming Development at the Swedish Board of Computer Machinery. Following the award of his doctorate in 1959 he was appointed to the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm. He spent the rest of his career at this institution where the Department of Numerical Analysis, an offshoot the Department of Applied Mathematics, was founded in 1962. In the following year Dahlquist became Sweden's first professorship in Numerical Analysis when he became the professorial head of the Department which at this stage had six members of the academic staff. In the same year of 1963 he published Stability questions for some numerical methods for ordinary differential equations, an expository paper on his fundamental results concerning stability of difference approximations for ordinary differential equations. In the same year he published A special stability problem for linear multistep methods which introduced -stability and became one of the most cited papers in numerical analysis. It was published in BIT, a journal which Dahlquist had played a major role in founding in 1961. He served as an editor of BIT for over 30 years. In 1969 a collaboration with Ake Björck led to the publication of Numeriska metoder (Numerical methods) published in Swedish:- This is a substantial, detailed and rigorous textbook of numerical analysis, in which an excellent balance is struck between the theory, on the one hand, and the needs of practitioners (i.e., the selection of the best methods - for both large-scale and small-scale computing) on the other. The prerequisites are slight (calculus and linear algebra and preferably some acquaintance with computer programming) so that some of the finer theoretical points (those at which numerical analysis becomes applied functional analysis, for example) are outside the scope of the book. However, the class of readers for whom the book is intended are admirably served.The importance of the book is easily seen from the fact that a German translation appeared in 1972 under the title Numerische Methoden, an English translation was published two years later under the title Numerical methods, and a Polish translation was published as Metody numeryczne in 1983. Several later editions and reprints of the various translations of the classic text continued to appear as well as a Chinese translation in 1990. The book Numerical Methods in Scientific Computing, Volume 1 by Germund Dahlquist and Ake Björck was published in September 2008. Björck writes in the Preface:- In 1984 the authors were invited by Prentice-Hall to prepare a new edition of [Numerical Methods]. After some attempts it soon became apparent that, because of the rapid development of the field, one volume would no longer suffice to cover the topics treated in the 1974 book. Thus a large part of the new book would have to be written more or less from scratch. This meant more work than we initially envisaged. Other commitments inevitably interfered, sometimes for years, and the project was delayed. The present volume is the result of several revisions worked out during the past 10 years. Tragically, my mentor, friend, and coauthor Germund Dahlquist died on February 8, 2005, before this first volume was finished. Fortunately the gaps left in his parts of the manuscript were relatively few. Encouraged by his family, I decided to carry on and I have tried to the best of my ability to fill in the missing parts. I hope that I have managed to convey some of his originality and enthusiasm for his subject. It was a great privilege for me to work with him over many years. It is sad that he could never enjoy the fruits of his labour on this book.Nick Higham, in a review of the book, writes:- This work is a monumental undertaking and represents the most comprehensive textbook survey of numerical analysis to date. It will be an important reference in the field for many years to come.In 1990 Dahlquist retired from the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, but remained very active in research. As an example let us note the publication of On summation formulas due to Plana, Lindelöf and Abel, and related Gauss-Christoffel rules in BIT in three parts (1997, 1997, 1999). Dahlquist writes:- Three methods, old but not so well known, transform an infinite series into a complex integral over an infinite interval. Gauss quadrature rules are designed for each of them. Various questions concerning their construction and application are studied, theoretically or experimentally. They are so efficient that they should be considered for the development of software for special functions. Applications are made to slowly convergent alternating and positive series, to Fourier series, to the numerical analytic continuation of power series outside the circle of convergence, and to ill-conditioned power series. [The second part] is mainly concerned with the derivation, analysis and applications of a summation formula, due to Lindelöf, for alternating series and complex power series, including ill-conditioned power series.The authors of [1] tell of two other aspects of Dahlquist's life outside of mathematical research, namely his work for Amnesty International and his love of music. Let us quote from their paper the delightful stories they recount regarding these two interests:- As an active member of Amnesty International during the 1970s, Dahlquist worked to help scientists who were politically persecuted, in some cases travelling to offer his encouragement and recognition in person. He used to tell the story of his intervention on behalf of a Russian mathematician who, in despair, had made a thoughtless public statement to the effect that the Soviet Union was "a land of alcoholics." Guriy I Marchuk, who had visited Stockholm University in the 1960s, was then president of the USSR Academy of Sciences and vice-chair of the USSR Council of Ministers. Dahlquist wrote to Marchuk pleading the dissident's case. After a long time with no response, two staff members of the Soviet Embassy called at Germund's office one day, bringing greetings from Marchuk and a package, that turned out to contain ... two bottles of vodka!Next the story regarding his love of music:- Germund had a keen interest in music, mainly classical but also jazz music. He would often happily sit down at the piano and entertain his colleagues with a few old standards, starting with "On the Sunny Side of the Street" and ending with "As Time Goes By." But his knowledge went much deeper. On one visit to the USA, with a few colleagues in a fine restaurant, Germund heard a female bar pianist whose music was obviously the highlight of the evening for him. When it was time to leave, Germund told the pianist how much he had enjoyed her stylish playing, adding that it had reminded him of one of his favourites, the great jazz pianist Art Tatum. The pianist was duly flattered, but it was Germund who was surprised when she answered: "Art Tatum was my father!"Dahlquist received many honours for his outstanding contributions. He was elected into the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences in 1965. He was a plenary speaker at the International Congress of Mathematicians at Berkeley in 1986. The Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) named him their John von Neumann lecturer in 1988. In 1995, on the occasion of his 70th birthday, SIAM established the 'Germund Dahlquist Prize' to be awarded biennially:- Awarded to a young scientist (normally under 45) for original contributions to fields associated with Germund Dahlquist, especially the numerical solution of differential equations and numerical methods for scientific computing.He was awarded the Peter Henrici Prize in 1999. The following announcement of the award appeared:- Yesterday, the Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zürich and Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics presented 'The 1999 Peter Henrici Prize' to Germund Dahlquist for his outstanding research and leadership in numerical analysis. He has created the fundamental concepts of stability, A-stability and the nonlinear G-stability for the numerical solution of ordinary differential equations. He succeeded, in an extraordinary way, to relate stability concepts to accuracy and proved the deep results which are nowadays called the first and second Dahlquist barrier. His interests, like Henrici's, are very broad, and he contributed significantly to many parts of numerical analysis. As a human being and scientist, he gives freely of his talent and knowledge to others and remains a model for many generations of scientists to come.He received honorary doctorates from Hamburg University (1981), Helsinki University (1994), and Linköping University (1996). References (show) - A Björck, C W Gear and G Söderlind, Obituary: Germund Dahlquist. - G Dahlquist, 33 years of numerical instability: Part 1, BIT Numerical Mathematics 35 (1) (1985), 188-204. - G Söderlind, Preface, BIT Numerical Mathematics 46 (2006), 453-454. Additional Resources (show) Other websites about Germund Dahlquist: Honours (show) Honours awarded to Germund Dahlquist Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update December 2008 Last Update December 2008


--- [Germund Dahlquist - Grokipedia] ---
Germund Dahlquist (16 January 1925 – 8 February 2005) was a Swedish mathematician renowned for his foundational contributions to numerical analysis, particularly in the stability theory for numerical methods solving ordinary differential equations, including the introduction of concepts like A-stability and the Dahlquist barriers.[1]Born in Uppsala, Sweden, to a Lutheran minister father and a poet mother who composed hymns, Dahlquist developed an early interest in mathematics influenced by Harald Bohr during his studies at Stockholm University, where he earned a first degree in 1949 with a thesis on the analytic continuation of Eulerian products.[1] He later joined the Swedish Board of Computer Machinery in 1949 as an applied mathematician and programmer, contributing to the development and operation of Sweden's first digital computer, BESK, which began functioning in 1953; there, he applied numerical methods to differential equations and weather forecasting, accelerating processes like 24-hour forecasts.[1] Dahlquist completed his PhD at Stockholm University in 1958 under Fritz Carlson, with his dissertation Stability and error bounds in the numerical integration of ordinary differential equations introducing the logarithmic norm for deriving realistic error bounds in stiff problems, published the following year.[1]In 1959, he joined the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) in Stockholm, where he helped establish the Department of Numerical Analysis in 1962 and became Sweden's first professor of numerical analysis in 1963, leading a team of six academics until his retirement in 1990 while remaining active in research thereafter.[1] His seminal 1963 paper A special stability problem for linear multistep methods defined A-stability, a key criterion for methods handling stiff equations, and became one of the most cited works in the field; he also co-founded the journal BIT in 1961, serving as editor for over 30 years.[1] Dahlquist's influential textbook Numerical Methods (1969, co-authored with Åke Björck) balanced theory and practice, translated into multiple languages including English (1974), and his later volume Numerical Methods in Scientific Computing (2008) provided a comprehensive survey of the discipline.[1]His broad impacts extended to nonlinear stability (G-stability), summation formulas, and applications in complex analysis, with post-retirement works like those on Plana-Lindelöf-Abel formulas published in BIT (1997–1999).[1] Dahlquist received numerous honors, including election to the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (1965), a plenary lecture at the International Congress of Mathematicians (1986), the SIAM John von Neumann Lectureship (1988), the Peter Henrici Prize (1999), and honorary doctorates from universities in Hamburg (1981), Helsinki (1994), and Linköping (1996); in 1995, SIAM established the biennial Germund Dahlquist Prize in his honor for advances in numerical solutions of differential equations.[1] Beyond academia, he actively supported Amnesty International in the 1970s to aid persecuted scientists and enjoyed classical and jazz music, often playing piano.[1] Early life and education Early life Germund Dahlquist was born on 16 January 1925 in Uppsala, Sweden.[1]His father served as a minister in the Church of Sweden, the established Lutheran church of the country.[1] Dahlquist's mother was a poet who also composed several well-known hymns, contributing to a household environment rich in literary and artistic expression.[1] These familial influences likely fostered his early intellectual curiosity, though specific details on his pre-educational development are limited in available records.[1] Education and early influences Germund Dahlquist entered Stockholm University in 1942 at the age of 17 to pursue studies in mathematics.[2]During his time there, he came under the profound influence of the Danish mathematician Harald Bohr, who had taken up a professorship at the university after fleeing Nazi-occupied Denmark. Bohr, brother of physicist Niels Bohr, engaged Dahlquist in stimulating discussions on analytic number theory, complex analysis, and analytical mechanics, shaping his early mathematical perspectives. Bohr's humane qualities and broad intellectual approach also left a lasting impression on Dahlquist, influencing his own balanced view of mathematical inquiry.[1]In 1949, Dahlquist earned his filosofie licentiat degree, equivalent to a master's level qualification in Sweden, with a thesis titled "On the Analytic Continuation of Eulerian Products." This work, which explored the extension of certain infinite products in the complex plane, was subsequently published in 1952.[3] Rather than proceeding immediately to a PhD in pure mathematics, Dahlquist opted to direct his efforts toward applied mathematical problems, marking an early pivot toward practical applications in computation and analysis.[2] Professional career Early career and computing involvement After completing his licentiat degree at Stockholm University in 1949, Germund Dahlquist joined the Swedish Board of Computer Machinery (Matematikmaskinnämnden) as an applied mathematician and programmer, marking his entry into practical computing applications.[1] This role involved developing computational methods during the early days of digital computing in Sweden, shifting his focus from pure mathematics toward numerical techniques essential for machine-based problem-solving.[1]In 1951, Dahlquist contributed to the BESK (Binär Elektronisk Sekvens Kalkylator) project, Sweden's first large-scale electronic digital computer, which was inspired by designs from John von Neumann and Herman Goldstine for the EDVAC.[1] The BESK became operational in December 1953, and Dahlquist utilized it extensively for solving systems of differential equations, an experience that deepened his interest in numerical analysis.[1] He also participated in a team applying BESK to meteorological computations, where accelerated data processing enabled the production of Sweden's first 24-hour weather forecast on the same day input data was received, achieved in September 1954.[1]From 1956 to 1959, Dahlquist advanced to head of Mathematical Analysis and Programming Development at the Board, overseeing algorithmic advancements for computing tasks.[1] During this period, he published several foundational papers on numerical methods, including "The Monte Carlo-method" (1954), which explored probabilistic simulation techniques; "Convergence and stability for a hyperbolic difference equation with analytic initial-values," published in Mathematica Scandinavica (1954); and "Convergence and stability in the numerical integration of ordinary differential equations," also in Mathematica Scandinavica (1956).[1][4][5] These works laid early groundwork for his later theoretical contributions, drawing directly from his hands-on computing experience.[1] Academic positions and department leadership In 1956, Dahlquist was appointed head of Mathematical Analysis and Programming Development at the Swedish Board of Computer Machinery, a position he held until 1959, where he oversaw early efforts in computational programming and analysis in Sweden.[1]Following his PhD, Dahlquist joined the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) in Stockholm in 1959, marking the beginning of his long tenure at the institution that would shape his academic leadership.[1]At KTH, Dahlquist founded the Department of Numerical Analysis in 1962 as an independent offshoot of the Department of Applied Mathematics, establishing a dedicated hub for the field in Sweden.[1][6]In 1963, he became Sweden's first professor of Numerical Analysis, assuming leadership of the newly formed department, which at that time comprised six members of the academic staff.[1][7]Dahlquist also played a major role in founding the journal BIT Numerical Mathematics in 1961 and served as its editor for over 30 years, fostering international collaboration in numerical methods.[1]He retired from KTH in 1990 but remained actively engaged in research thereafter, contributing to the ongoing development of numerical analysis.[1]Through these roles, Dahlquist's leadership laid the foundation for a robust Swedish community in numerical analysis, influencing generations of researchers at KTH and beyond.[7] Research contributions Stability in numerical methods for ODEs Germund Dahlquist's foundational contributions to stability in numerical methods for ordinary differential equations (ODEs) began with his doctoral thesis, where he developed tools for error analysis in initial value problems. In Stability and Error Bounds in the Numerical Integration of Ordinary Differential Equations (1958, published 1959), Dahlquist introduced the logarithmic norm, denoted μ(A) for a matrix A relative to a vector norm ∥⋅∥, defined as the infimum of m such that ∥I+tA∥≤emt for all t>0. This norm facilitates sharp error bounds via differential inequalities, distinguishing forward-time integration (where dtd∥e(t)∥≤μ(fy)∥e(t)∥ implies ∥e(t)∥≤∥e(t0)∥exp(∫μds)) from reverse-time integration, which captures decay and contractivity properties essential for backward stability. These bounds apply to both linear and nonlinear ODEs y′=f(t,y), improving upon standard norm estimates for stiff or nonnormal systems.[8][9]Building on this, Dahlquist addressed stability for stiff ODEs in his 1963 paper A Special Stability Problem for Linear Multistep Methods. Here, he introduced A-stability, requiring the stability region of a method to include the entire left half of the complex plane (Re(z)≤0), ensuring ∣R(z)∣≤1 for the stability function R(z) when applied to the test equation y′=λy with Re(λ)<0, regardless of step size h. This property guarantees bounded errors for asymptotically stable systems over unbounded intervals, even when hL≫1 (where L is the Lipschitz constant), making it critical for stiff problems in applications like chemical kinetics. Dahlquist showed that the trapezoidal rule achieves the minimal local truncation error O(h3) among A-stable linear multistep methods.[10]For nonlinear extensions, Dahlquist developed G-stability in his 1976 work Error Analysis for a Class of Methods for Stiff Nonlinear Initial Value Problems, generalizing A-stability to nonlinear ODEs via a positive definite matrix G. A method is G-stable if ∥yn+1∥G≤∥yn∥G (where ∥v∥G=vTGv), preserving contractivity and yielding global error bounds ∥yn−y(tn)∥G≤Chp for order p methods under Lipschitz continuity of f. This relates accuracy to stability by controlling error growth in stiff nonlinear systems without excessive damping of non-stiff components; notably, G-stability is equivalent to A-stability for linear multistep methods without common polynomial factors.[11]Dahlquist's barriers quantify fundamental limits on combining high order with stability. The first Dahlquist barrier (established in 1956 and detailed in his 1959 thesis) proves that no zero-stable linear multistep method of order p>2 can be strongly stable, as higher orders introduce parasitic roots outside the unit circle in the characteristic polynomial ρ(ζ), leading to oscillatory growth. The second Dahlquist barrier (1963) extends this to A-stability, showing no A-stable linear multistep (or explicit Runge-Kutta) method can exceed order p=2, proven via the Riesz-Herglotz theorem on the stability function's boundary behavior. These barriers imply that for stiff ODEs, methods like the backward differentiation formulas (BDFs) up to order 2 are optimal for balancing accuracy and stability.[12]These concepts apply directly to stiff differential equations and inequalities. The logarithmic norm and A-/G-stability enable error propagation analysis for systems with disparate eigenvalues, allowing implicit methods to use larger steps without instability. For differential inequalities like ∥y′∥≤μ∥y∥, they provide a priori bounds ensuring numerical solutions respect the exact solution's decay, crucial for proving convergence in variable-step algorithms. In his expository paper Stability Questions for Some Numerical Methods for Ordinary Differential Equations (1963), Dahlquist synthesized these ideas, clarifying stability hierarchies (zero-, relative-, and absolute-stability) and their implications for practical ODE solvers.[10][13] Other advancements in numerical analysis In the early stages of his career, Dahlquist contributed to the analysis of numerical methods for partial differential equations through his 1954 paper on convergence and stability in hyperbolic difference equations. This work examined the properties of finite difference approximations for hyperbolic PDEs with analytic initial values, establishing conditions under which solutions converge to the exact solution as the mesh size approaches zero, while ensuring numerical stability to prevent error amplification.[4] The paper laid foundational insights for reliable discretizations in wave propagation and similar problems, influencing subsequent developments in computational fluid dynamics.[1]That same year, Dahlquist explored probabilistic numerical techniques in his paper "The Monte Carlo-method," applying random sampling to approximate solutions of integral equations and differential problems on early computers like the BESK. This contribution highlighted the method's potential for handling high-dimensional or stochastic systems, particularly in applications such as weather forecasting simulations, where deterministic methods were computationally prohibitive.[1]Later in his career, after retiring in 1990, Dahlquist delved into advanced summation techniques, culminating in his three-part series "On summation formulas due to Plana, Lindelöf and Abel, and related Gauss-Christoffel rules" published in BIT Numerical Mathematics (1997, 1997, 1999). The series revived and extended historical formulas by Plana, Lindelöf, and Abel, transforming slowly convergent infinite series into complex contour integrals over infinite paths, and derived corresponding Gauss-Christoffel quadrature rules for accurate numerical evaluation. Part I focused on the Plana formula's construction and applications to positive series and Fourier expansions; Part II derived and analyzed the Lindelöf formula for alternating series and complex power series, including strategies for ill-conditioned cases; and Part III addressed Abel's formula alongside analytic continuation of power series beyond their radius of convergence. These methods provided practical tools for accelerating convergence in scientific computations involving asymptotic expansions and special functions.[14]Throughout his work, Dahlquist emphasized bridging theoretical rigor with practical implementation in scientific computing, as exemplified in his co-authored textbook Numerical Methods in Scientific Computing (2008), which integrates algorithm design, error analysis, and software considerations for real-world applications like optimization and data fitting. His approach advocated for methods that are not only mathematically sound but also efficient on digital hardware, influencing the development of reliable numerical libraries.[15] Publications Major books Germund Dahlquist's most influential contributions to numerical analysis education came through his collaborative textbooks, which emphasized a rigorous yet practical approach to the field. His seminal work, co-authored with Åke Björck, was the Swedish textbook Numeriska metoder (Numerical Methods), published in 1969. This comprehensive volume balanced theoretical foundations with practical applications, making it suitable for both large-scale and small-scale computing tasks. It assumed prerequisites in calculus, linear algebra, and ideally some knowledge of computer programming, positioning it as an accessible yet advanced resource for students and practitioners alike.[1]The book's impact extended globally through multiple translations and editions. A German edition, titled Numerische Methoden, appeared in 1972, followed by the English translation Numerical Methods in 1974, which was an extended and updated version published by Prentice-Hall. Subsequent translations included Polish (Metody numeryczne) in 1983 and Chinese in 1990. Various later editions and reprints of these translations ensured its enduring use in classrooms worldwide, solidifying its role as a cornerstone text in numerical methods education.[1]Dahlquist's final major book, also co-authored with Björck, was the posthumous Numerical Methods in Scientific Computing, Volume 1, published by SIAM in 2008. This monumental survey originated from efforts in 1984 to revise the 1974 English edition of Numerical Methods, but the rapid evolution of the field—particularly in computational tools and algorithms—necessitated a complete overhaul into a multi-volume project. Dahlquist's death in 2005 left the manuscript unfinished; Björck completed it by addressing gaps and updating content. Covering topics from interpolation and approximation to quadrature and root-finding, the volume serves as a key reference for modern scientific computing, integrating MATLAB examples to bridge theory and implementation. Its delayed publication underscores the challenges of keeping pace with disciplinary advances, yet it remains a vital resource for advanced study in numerical analysis.[1][15] Key research papers Germund Dahlquist's early research output included his pre-doctoral paper "Convergence and stability in the numerical integration of ordinary differential equations," published in Mathematica Scandinavica in 1956, which laid foundational groundwork for analyzing error propagation in numerical solvers for ODEs and has been cited over 500 times for its rigorous stability criteria.[16] This work built on his 1952 publication "On the analytic continuation of Eulerian products" in Arkiv för Matematik, marking his initial foray into complex analysis techniques applicable to numerical methods.[17]His doctoral thesis, "Stability and error bounds in the numerical integration of ordinary differential equations," submitted in 1958 and published in 1959 as Transactions of the Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, No. 130, expanded these ideas into a comprehensive framework for multistep methods, influencing subsequent developments in stiff ODE solvers and cited hundreds of times in numerical analysis literature.[1]In 1963, Dahlquist published two seminal papers: "Stability questions for some numerical methods for ordinary differential equations," in Proceedings of Symposia in Applied Mathematics, Vol. 15, which explored zero-stability and consistency for linear multistep schemes, and "A special stability problem for linear multistep methods," in BIT Numerical Mathematics, Vol. 3, addressing parasitic roots and their impact on high-order accuracy—both highly cited (over 300 and 1,000 times, respectively) for establishing key barriers in method design.[10] These contributions, disseminated through his co-founding editorial role at BIT, significantly shaped the field's focus on stability theory.[18]Later in his career, Dahlquist authored a three-part series on summation formulas in BIT Numerical Mathematics: Part I, "On summation formulas due to Plana, Lindelöf and Abel, and related Gauss-Christoffel rules" (1997), introduced unified derivations for infinite series acceleration; Part II (1998) extended these to error estimates; and Part III (1999) applied them to quadrature rules—collectively cited around 100 times for advancing series summation techniques in numerical analysis.[19][20][14]Dahlquist's journal publications evolved thematically from analytic continuation in the 1950s to stability analysis in the 1960s, and later to sophisticated quadrature and series acceleration methods, reflecting his enduring emphasis on precision in computational mathematics.[1] Awards and honors Major prizes and lectures Germund Dahlquist received numerous prestigious awards and invitations to deliver major lectures, recognizing his foundational contributions to numerical analysis, particularly in the stability of methods for ordinary differential equations (ODEs).[1]In 1986, Dahlquist was selected as a plenary speaker at the International Congress of Mathematicians (ICM) held in Berkeley, California, where he presented on numerical methods and computing.[21] This honor highlighted his influence in advancing stability theory for ODE solvers, a cornerstone of modern computational mathematics.[1]Two years later, in 1988, the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) named Dahlquist as its John von Neumann Lecturer, an accolade bestowed for outstanding contributions to applied mathematics and scientific computing.[22] His lecture underscored the practical impact of his stability concepts on numerical simulations across engineering and science.[1]Dahlquist was awarded the inaugural Peter Henrici Prize in 1999 by SIAM and ETH Zürich, specifically for his pioneering work on stability theory in numerical methods for ODEs and for his leadership in establishing numerical analysis as a rigorous discipline.[23][1]In recognition of his lifetime achievements, SIAM established the biennial Germund Dahlquist Prize in 1995, awarded to young scientists under the age of 45 for original contributions to the numerical solution of differential equations and associated computational techniques.[24]Dahlquist also received several honorary doctorates: from the University of Hamburg in 1981, the University of Helsinki in 1994, and Linköping University in 1996.[1][25][26] Academic memberships and recognitions Germund Dahlquist was elected as a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA) in 1965, recognizing his early contributions to numerical analysis and computational mathematics. This prestigious membership highlighted his role in advancing engineering sciences in Sweden, where he remained active until his passing.Dahlquist played a major role in the founding of the BIT Numerical Mathematics journal in 1961 and served as an editor for over 30 years, from 1962 to 1991. His long-term leadership helped establish BIT as a leading international forum for research in numerical methods, fostering collaborations across Europe and beyond.[1]In various academic recognitions, Dahlquist was cited as a model scientist for his broad and foundational impacts on the field, such as in the context of the Henrici Prize, which praised his comprehensive influence on numerical stability theory and method development. His leadership extended to shaping the international numerical analysis community, including his involvement in founding the Department of Numerical Analysis and Computing Science at KTH Royal Institute of Technology in the 1960s. Through these institutional roles, he promoted rigorous standards and interdisciplinary approaches in computational science. Personal life and legacy Personal interests and activism Dahlquist was actively involved in Amnesty International during the 1970s, where he advocated for persecuted scientists.[1] For instance, he intervened on behalf of a Russian dissident mathematician who had publicly criticized the Soviet Union as "a land of alcoholics" by writing a letter to Guriy I. Marchuk, then president of the USSR Academy of Sciences; after a delay, Soviet embassy staff delivered Marchuk's response along with two bottles of vodka.[1]Beyond activism, Dahlquist maintained a deep interest in music, encompassing both classical genres and jazz. He frequently played the piano to entertain colleagues, performing standards such as "On the Sunny Side of the Street" and concluding with "As Time Goes By."[1] His appreciation for jazz was evident during a visit to the United States, when he complimented a restaurant pianist whose style evoked his favorite, Art Tatum—only to learn she was Tatum's daughter.[1]Dahlquist's humane qualities, inspired by his early mentor Harald Bohr, manifested in his generous approach to mentorship and collaboration. Bohr, a Danish mathematician who fled to Sweden during World War II, influenced Dahlquist's ethical perspective on science, which he reflected through freely sharing his expertise with students and peers throughout his career at KTH Royal Institute of Technology.[1] Death and enduring impact Germund Dahlquist passed away on 8 February 2005 in Stockholm, Sweden, at the age of 80.His foundational contributions to the stability theory of numerical methods for ordinary differential equations (ODEs) continue to underpin modern solvers used in scientific computing and engineering simulations worldwide. Dahlquist's seminal work on stiff stability and A-stability criteria, developed in the mid-20th century, remains a cornerstone of the field, influencing algorithm design in software packages like MATLAB's ODE suite. Additionally, his textbooks, such as Numerical Methods co-authored with Åke Björck, serve as enduring educational resources, widely adopted in university curricula for their clarity and rigor in introducing stability concepts.In recognition of his lasting influence, the Dahlquist Prize was established by the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) in 1995 to honor young scientists (normally under 45) for original contributions to fields associated with Dahlquist, especially the numerical solution of differential equations and numerical methods for scientific computing, perpetuating his commitment to advancing the discipline.[1][24] Dahlquist's efforts also shaped Swedish institutions, particularly at the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) in Stockholm, where he helped build the numerical analysis department into a global leader in computational mathematics.Even after his retirement in 1990, Dahlquist remained active in mentoring and consulting, contributing to ongoing developments in numerical methods until his final years.[1]


--- [Germund Dahlquist - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Germund Dahlquist Germund Dahlquist (January 16, 1925 Uppsala - February 8, 2005Stockholm ) was a Swedishmathematician known primarily for his early contributions to the theory ofnumerical analysis as applied todifferential equation s.Dahlquist began to study mathematics at Stockholm University in 1942 at the age of 17, where he cites the Danish mathematicianHarald Bohr (who was living in exile after theoccupation of Denmark duringWorld War II ) as a profound influence. [http://www.siam.org/news/news.php?id=54 SIAM Obituary - Germund Dahlquist] ]He received the degree of licentiat from Stockholm University in 1949, before taking a break from his studies to work at the Swedish Board of Computer Machinery ( Matematikmaskinnämnden ), working on (among other things) the early computerBESK , Sweden's first. During this time, he also worked withCarl-Gustaf Rossby on early numerical weather forecasts.Dahlquist returned to Stockholm University to complete his Ph.D., "“Stability and Error Bounds in the Numerical Solution of Ordinary Differential Equations", which he defended in 1958, with Fritz Carlson andLars Hörmander as his advisors. [MathGenealogy|id= 20637] As part of this work he introduced thelogarithmic norm (also introduced by Russian mathematicianSergei Lozinskii the same year).In 1959 he moved to the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), where he would later establish what is now the Department of Numerical Analysis and Computer Science (NADA) in 1962, and become Sweden's first Professor of Numerical Analysis in 1963. [ [http://www.nada.kth.se/om/historik/index.html.en NADA History] ] He helped establish the Nordic journal of numerical analysis, BIT, in 1961. In 1965 he was elected into theRoyal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA).The software package COMSOL Multiphysics , forfinite element analysis ofpartial differential equations , was started by graduate students to Dahlquist based on codes developed for a graduate course at KTH.ee also * First and second Dahlquist barriers Honors and Awards * SIAM 1988 John von Neumann lecturer. *SIAM Germund Dahlquist Prize, established 1995, "Awarded to a young scientist (normally under 45) for original contributions to fields associated with Germund Dahlquist, especially the numerical solution of differential equations and numerical methods for scientific computing". *Three honorary doctorates, fromHamburg (1981),Helsinki (1994), and Linköping (1996).References Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Germund Dahlquist (January 16, 1925 — February 8, 2005) | World ...] ---
Career Dahlquist began to study mathematics at Stockholm University in 1942 at the age of 17, where he cites the Danish mathematician Harald Bohr (who was living in exile after the occupation of Denmark during World World War II) as a profound influence. He received the degree of licentiat from Stockholm University in 1949, before taking a break from his studies to work at the Swedish Board of Computer Machinery (Matematikmaskinnämnden), working on (among other things) the early computer BESK, Sweden"s first. During this time, he also worked with Carl-Gustaf Rossby on early numerical weather forecasts. As part of this work he introduced the logarithmic norm (also introduced by Russian mathematician Sergei Lozinskii the same year). In 1959 he moved to the Royal Institute of Technology (Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan), where he would later establish what is now the Department of Numerical Analysis and Computer Science (NADA) in 1962, and become Sweden"s first Professor of Numerical Analysis in 1963. He helped establish the Nordic journal of numerical analysis, Bureau International du Travail or ILO, in 1961. In 1965 he was elected into the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA). The software package COMSOL Multiphysics, for finite element analysis of partial differential equations, was started by a couple of Dahlquist"s graduate students based upon codes developed for a graduate course at Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan.
