=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Albert-László Barabási - Khoury College of Computer Sciences]
Jan 1, 2019 · A year later, he won the 2006 John von Neumann Medal for outstanding achievements in computer science. He joined the Academia Europaea in 2007, and in 2008 he received the C&C Prize from the NEC C&C Foundation. In 2009, APS named him Outstanding Referee, and the US National Academies of Sciences awarded him the Cozzarelli Prize.
URL: https://www.khoury.northeastern.edu/people/albert-laszlo-barabasi/

[Albert-László Barabási – Conference on Computational Physics 2024]
In 2009 the US National Academies of Sciences awarded him the 2009 Cozzarelli Prize. In 2011 Barabási was awarded the Lagrange Prize-CRT Foundation for his contributions to complex systems, awarded Doctor Honoris Causa from Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, became an elected Fellow in AAAS (Physics), and is a 2013 Fellow of the Massachusetts ...
URL: https://ccp2024.physics.auth.gr/albert-laszlo-barabasi/

[Albert-László Barabási | dynasnet.renyi.hu]
The US National Academies of Sciences awarded him the 2009 Cozzarelli Prize. In 2011 Barabási was awarded the Lagrange Prize-CRT Foundation for his contributions to complex systems, awarded Doctor Honoris Causa from Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, Universtity of West Timisoara, and University of Utrech.
URL: https://dynasnet.renyi.hu/researchers/albert-laszlo-barabasi

[Albert-László Barabási - Sunnylands]
He received the C&C Prize from the NEC C&C Foundation in 2008. In 2009, APS chose him Outstanding Referee and the US National Academies of Sciences awarded him the 2009 Cozzarelli Prize.
URL: https://sunnylands.org/person/albert-laszlo-barabasi/

[Taming Complexity: From Network Science to Network Control | SAGE Center for the Study of the Mind | UC Santa Barbara]
In 2009 APS chose him Outstanding Referee and the US National Academies of Sciences awarded him the 2009 Cozzarelli Prize. In 2011 Barabási was awarded the Lagrange Prize-CRT Foundation for his contributions to complex systems and awarded the Doctor Honoris Causa from Universidad Politécnica ...
URL: https://www.sagecenter.ucsb.edu/lectures/taming-complexity-network-science-network-control


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Albert-László Barabási - Khoury College of Computer Sciences] ---
Albert-László Barabási Robert Gray Dodge Professor of Network Science, University Distinguished Professor, Jointly Appointed with College of Science Research interests - Network science - Properties of sub-cellular networks in understanding human disease - Control theory Education - PhD in Physics, Boston University - MS in Theoretical Physics, Eötvös Loránd University — Hungary - BS in Physics and Engineering, University of Bucharest — Romania Biography Albert-László Barabási is the Robert Gray Dodge Professor of Network Science and a Distinguished University Professor at Northeastern University, based in Boston. He directs the Center for Complex Network Research and holds appointments in the College of Science and the Khoury College of Computer Sciences. In 2024, he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) for his work in network science. Outside of Northeastern, Barabási holds appointments in the Department of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women's Hospital in the Channing Division of Network Science. He is a member of the Center for Cancer Systems Biology at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. A Hungarian-born native of Transylvania, Romania, Barabási conducted the work that led to the discovery of scale-free networks in 1999. Following that, he proposed the Barabási-Albert model to explain their widespread emergence in natural, technological, and social systems, from the cellular telephone to online communities. Barabási has authored several books, including "Bursts: The Hidden Pattern Behind Everything We Do" (2010) and "Linked: The New Science of Networks" (2002); both are available in numerous languages. He also co-edited "The Structure and Dynamics of Networks" (2005). Barabási is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and has received many awards for his work. In 2004, he was elected to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. In 2005, he won the FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology. A year later, he won the 2006 John von Neumann Medal for outstanding achievements in computer science. He joined the Academia Europaea in 2007, and in 2008 he received the C&C Prize from the NEC C&C Foundation. In 2009, APS named him Outstanding Referee, and the US National Academies of Sciences awarded him the Cozzarelli Prize. In 2011, he was awarded the CRT Foundation's Lagrange Prize for contributions to complex systems and became an AAAS fellow in physics. In 2013, he became a Fellow of the Massachusetts Academy of Sciences, and in 2014, he won the Prima Primissima Award for his contributions to network science. Barabási's lab focuses on network science and its applications, exploring fundamental questions in complex systems using tools from network science, control theory, and statistical physics. The lab comprises three key segments; research on network biology explores the properties of sub-cellular networks and their applications to human diseases, the lab network control aims to understand the controllability of complex systems, and the group on science of success explores the network and non-network characteristics that contribute to the success of nodes, webpages, and scientific collaboration networks. Recent publications - Human-AI coevolution Citation: Dino Pedreschi, Luca Pappalardo, Emanuele Ferragina, Ricardo Baeza-Yates, Albert-László Barabási, Frank Dignum, Virginia Dignum, Tina Eliassi-Rad, Fosca Giannotti, János Kertész, Alistair Knott, Yannis E. Ioannidis, Paul Lukowicz, Andrea Passarella, Alex 'Sandy' Pentland, John Shawe-Taylor, Alessandro Vespignani. (2025). Human-AI coevolution Artif. Intell., 339, 104244. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.artint.2024.104244 - iGEM: a model system for team science and innovation Citation: Marc Santolini, Leo Blondel, Megan J. Palmer, Robert N. Ward, Rathin Jeyaram, Kathryn R. Brink, Abhijeet Krishna, Albert-László Barabási. (2023). iGEM: a model system for team science and innovation CoRR, abs/2310.19858. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.19858 - Hidden Citations Obscure True Impact in Science Citation: Xiangyi Meng, Onur Varol, Albert-László Barabási. (2023). Hidden Citations Obscure True Impact in Science CoRR, abs/2310.16181. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.16181 - Social AI and the Challenges of the Human-AI Ecosystem Citation: Dino Pedreschi, Luca Pappalardo, Ricardo Baeza-Yates, Albert-László Barabási, Frank Dignum, Virginia Dignum, Tina Eliassi-Rad, Fosca Giannotti, János Kertész, Alistair Knott, Yannis E. Ioannidis, Paul Lukowicz, Andrea Passarella, Alex 'Sandy' Pentland, John Shawe-Taylor, Alessandro Vespignani. (2023). Social AI and the Challenges of the Human-AI Ecosystem CoRR, abs/2306.13723. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2306.13723 - The Clinical Trials Puzzle: How Network Effects Limit Drug Discovery Citation: Kishore Vasan, Deisy Morselli Gysi, Albert-László Barabási. (2023). The Clinical Trials Puzzle: How Network Effects Limit Drug Discovery CoRR, abs/2301.10709. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2301.10709 - Mapping Philanthropic Support of Science Citation: Louis M. Shekhtman, Alexander J. Gates, Albert-László Barabási. (2022). Mapping Philanthropic Support of Science CoRR, abs/2206.10661. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2206.10661 - AI-Bind: Improving Binding Predictions for Novel Protein Targets and Ligands Citation: Ayan Chatterjee, Omair Shafi Ahmed, Robin Walters, Zohair Shafi, Deisy Morselli Gysi, Rose Yu, Tina Eliassi-Rad, Albert-László Barabási, Giulia Menichetti. (2021). AI-Bind: Improving Binding Predictions for Novel Protein Targets and Ligands CoRR, abs/2112.13168. https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.13168 - 3D Topology Transformation with Generative Adversarial Networks Citation: Luca Stornaiuolo, Nima Dehmamy, Albert-László Barabási, Mauro Martino. (2020). 3D Topology Transformation with Generative Adversarial Networks ICCC, 461-468. http://computationalcreativity.net/iccc20/papers/052-iccc20.pdf - Give more data, awareness and control to individual citizens, and they will help COVID-19 containment Citation: Mirco Nanni, Gennady L. Andrienko, Albert-László Barabási, Chiara Boldrini, Francesco Bonchi, Ciro Cattuto, Francesca Chiaromonte, Giovanni Comandé, Marco Conti, Mark Coté, Frank Dignum, Virginia Dignum, Josep Domingo-Ferrer, Paolo Ferragina, Fosca Giannotti, Riccardo Guidotti, Dirk Helbing, Kimmo Kaski, János Kertész, Sune Lehmann, Bruno Lepri, Paul Lukowicz, Stan Matwin, David Megías, Anna Monreale, Katharina Morik, Nuria Oliver, Andrea Passarella, Andrea Passerini, Dino Pedreschi, Alex Pentland, Fabio Pianesi, Francesca Pratesi, Salvatore Rinzivillo, Salvatore Ruggieri, Arno Siebes, Vicenç Torra, Roberto Trasarti, Jeroen van den Hoven, Alessandro Vespignani. (2020). Give more data, awareness and control to individual citizens, and they will help COVID-19 containment Trans. Data Priv., 13, 61-66. http://www.tdp.cat/issues16/tdp.a389a20.pdf - Understanding the Representation Power of Graph Neural Networks in Learning Graph Topology Citation: Nima Dehmamy, Albert-László Barabási, Rose Yu. (2019). Understanding the Representation Power of Graph Neural Networks in Learning Graph Topology NeurIPS, 15387-15397. https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2019/hash/73bf6c41e241e28b89d0fb9e0c82f9ce-Abstract.html


--- [Albert-László Barabási – Conference on Computational Physics 2024] ---
Biographical Information: Albert-László Barabási is the Robert Gray Dodge Professor of Network Science and a Distinguished University Professor at Northeastern University, where he directs the Center for Complex Network Research. He holds appointments in the Departments of Physics and Computer Science at Northeastern University as well as in the Department of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women Hospital, and he is a visiting professor at the Department of Network and Data Science at Central European University in Budapest. A Hungarian born native of Transylvania, Romania, he received his Master’s in Theoretical Physics at the Eotvos University in Budapest, Hungary and was awarded a Ph.D. three years later at Boston University. Barabási is the author several general audience books, like “The Formula: The Science of Success (2018)” "Bursts: The Hidden Pattern Behind Everything We Do" (2010), "Linked: The New Science of Networks" (2002) and of the textbooks Network Science (2020) and the monograph Science of Science (coathored with Dashun Wang). Barabasi's work lead to the discovery of scale-free networks in 1999 and proposed the Barabási-Albert model to explain their widespread emergence in natural, technological and social systems, from the cellular telephone to the WWW or online communities. Barabási is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and the recipient of the 2023 Julius Edgar Lilienfeld Prize of APS. He was awarded the FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology in 2005 and the John von Neumann Medal by the John von Neumann Computer Society from Hungary, for outstanding achievements in computer-related science and technology in 2006. He has been elected into the Hungarian Academy of Sciences (2004) and the Academia Europaea (2007). He received the C&C Prize from the NEC C&C Foundation in 2008. In 2009 the US National Academies of Sciences awarded him the 2009 Cozzarelli Prize. In 2011 Barabási was awarded the Lagrange Prize-CRT Foundation for his contributions to complex systems, awarded Doctor Honoris Causa from Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, became an elected Fellow in AAAS (Physics), and is a 2013 Fellow of the Massachusetts Academy of Sciences. Northeastern University *Robert Gray Dodge Professor of Network Science *Distinguished University Professor *Director, Center for Complex Network Research Harvard University *Lecturer in Medicine, Department of Medicine at Brigham and Women's Hospital Central European University *Visiting Professor, Center for Network Science Abstract: Network Science: From Abstract to Physical NetworksNetwork Science Institute and Department of Physics, Northeastern University Division of Network Medicine, Harvard University Department of Network and Data Science,Central European University. The architecture of a wide range of real systems, from the cell to the brain and communication systems, are best described as networks with complex topology. Network science has led to the realization that despite the diversity of these systems, the underlying networks emerge and evolve following simple but generic laws, that are best unveiled using the toolset of statistical physics. As a result, today network science is an indispensable tool from physics to medicine, and its applications, ranging from epidemic control during COVID to medical diagnostic tools affecting patients, directly impact our life. I will also explore the applications of the network science toolset to physical networks, like the brain or metamaterials, which are networks whose links are physical entities that cannot cross each other. Link physicality affects both the evolution and the structure of a network, in a way that is not captured by current graph-based approaches. Yet, the existence of an exact mapping between physical networks and independent sets allows us to derive the onset of physical effects and the emergence of a jamming


--- [Albert-László Barabási | dynasnet.renyi.hu] ---
Albert-László Barabási is a network scientist, fascinated with a wide range of topics, from unveiling the structure of the brain to treating diseases using network medicine, from the emergence of success in art to how does science really works. His work has helped unveil the hidden order behind various complex systems using the quantitative tools of network science, a research field that he pioneered, and lead to the discovery of scale-free networks, helping explain the emergence of many natural, technological and social networks. Albert-László Barabási spends most of his time in Boston, where is the Robert Gray Dodge Professor of Network Science at Northeastern University, and holds an appointment in the Department of Medicine at Harvard Medical School. But he splits his time with Budapest, where he runs an European Research Council project at Central European University. A Hungarian born native of Transylvania, Romania, he received his Masters in Theoretical Physics at the Eötvös University in Budapest, Hungary and Ph.D. three years later at Boston University. Barabási’s latest book is The Formula (Little Brown, 2018). He is the author of “Network Science” (Cambridge, 2016). "Linked" (Penguin, 2002), and "Bursts:" (Dutton, 2010) He co-edited Network Medicine (Harvard, 2017) and "The Structure and Dynamics of Networks" (Princeton, 2005). His books have been translated in over twenty languages. List of publications are available here. Barabási is a Fellow of the American Physical Society. In 2005 he was awarded the FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology and in 2006 the John von Neumann Medal by the John von Neumann Computer Society from Hungary, for outstanding achievements in computer-related science and technology. In 2004 he was elected into the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and in 2007 into the Academia Europaea. He received the C&C Prize from the NEC C&C Foundation in 2008. The US National Academies of Sciences awarded him the 2009 Cozzarelli Prize. In 2011 Barabási was awarded the Lagrange Prize-CRT Foundation for his contributions to complex systems, awarded Doctor Honoris Causa from Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, Universtity of West Timisoara, and University of Utrech. He is an elected fellow of AAAS a Fellow of the Massachusetts Academy of Sciences. He received the 2014 Prima Primissima Award for his contributions to network science by the Hungarian Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers and he is the recipient of the 2019 Bolyai Prize.


--- [Albert-László Barabási - Sunnylands] ---
Albert-László Barabási Albert-László Barabási is the Robert Gray Dodge Professor of Network Science and a distinguished university professor at Northeastern University, where he directs the Center for Complex Network Research, and holds appointments in the Departments of Physics and College of Computer and Information Science, as well as in the Department of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women Hospital in the Channing Division of Network Science, and is a member of the Center for Cancer Systems Biology at Dana Farber Cancer Institute. A Hungarian-born native of Transylvania, Romania, he received his master’s in Theoretical Physics at the Eötvös University in Budapest, Hungary and was awarded a Ph.D. three years later at Boston University. Albert-László latest book is Network Science (Cambridge University Press, 2016). He has also authored Linked: The New Science of Networks (Perseus, 2002), currently available in fifteen languages, Bursts: The Hidden Pattern Behind Everything We Do (Dutton, 2010) available in five languages, and is the co-editor of The Structure and Dynamics of Networks (Princeton, 2005). His work lead to the discovery of scale-free networks in 1999, and proposed the Barabási-Albert model to explain their widespread emergence in natural, technological and social systems, from the cellular telephone to the WWW or online communities. Albert-László is a Fellow of the American Physical Society. In 2005, he was awarded the FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology and in 2006 the John von Neumann Medal by the John von Neumann Computer Society from Hungary, for outstanding achievements in computer-related science and technology. In 2004, he was elected into the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and in 2007 into the Academia Europaea. He received the C&C Prize from the NEC C&C Foundation in 2008. In 2009, APS chose him Outstanding Referee and the US National Academies of Sciences awarded him the 2009 Cozzarelli Prize. In 2011, Albert-László was awarded the Lagrange Prize-CRT Foundation for his contributions to complex systems, awarded Doctor Honoris Causa from Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, became an elected fellow in AAAS (Physics), then in 2013 Fellow of the Massachusetts Academy of Sciences and in 2014 , the Prima Primissima Award for his contributions to network science by the Hungarian Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers.


--- [Taming Complexity: From Network Science to Network Control | SAGE Center for the Study of the Mind | UC Santa Barbara] ---
Taming Complexity: From Network Science to Network Control Description Albert-László Barabási is both the Robert Gray Dodge Professor of Network Science and a Distinguished University Professor at Northeastern University, where he directs the Center for Complex Network Research, and holds appointments in the Departments of Physics and Computer Science,as well as in the Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women Hospital, and is a member of the Center for Cancer Systems Biology at Dana Farber Cancer Institute. A Hungarian born native of Transylvania, Romania, he received his Masters in Theoretical Physics at the Eötvös University in Budapest, Hungary and was awarded a Ph.D. three years later at Boston University. Barabási's latest book is Network Science (Cambridge University Press, 2016). He has also authored Linked: The New Science of Networks (Perseus, 2002), currently available in fifteen languages, Bursts: The Hidden Pattern behind Everything We Do (Dutton, 2010) available in five languages, and is the co-editor of The Structure and Dynamics of Networks(Princeton, 2005). His work lead to the discovery of scale-free networks in 1999, and proposed the Barabási-Albert model to explain their widespread emergence in natural, technological and social systems, from the cellular telephone to the WWW or online communities. Barabási is a Fellow of the American Physical Society. In 2005 he was awarded the FEBS Anniversary Prize for Systems Biology and in 2006 the John von Neumann Medal by the John von Neumann Computer Society from Hungary, for outstanding achievements in computer-related science and technology. In 2004 he was elected into the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and in 2007 into the Academia Europaea. He received the C&C Prize from the NEC C&C Foundation in 2008. In 2009 APS chose him Outstanding Referee and the US National Academies of Sciences awarded him the 2009 Cozzarelli Prize. In 2011 Barabási was awarded the Lagrange Prize-CRT Foundation for his contributions to complex systems and awarded the Doctor Honoris Causa from Universidad Politécnica de Madrid. He is an elected Fellow in AAAS (Physics) and is a 2013 Fellow of the Massachusetts Academy of Sciences.
