=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[History of the Comrades Marathon - Wikipedia]
Twenty-year old Isavel Roche-Kelly was named the UCT Sportsperson of the Year for 1980. An unknown on the athletics scene, Roche-Kelly set the roads alight that year when she became the first woman to break the 71⁄2-hour barrier and win the Comrades Marathon in 7:18:00; well under the silver-medal cut-off of 7:30:00, and in the process ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_Comrades_Marathon

[Things you never knew you didn't know about UCT sport | UCT News]
Oct 11, 2004 · The centre cost some R3-million, including equipment. Twenty-year old Isavel Roche-Kelly is named the UCT Sportsperson of the Year for 1980. An unknown on the running scene, Roche-Kelly set the roads alight that year when she became the first woman to win a silver medal at the Comrades Marathon.
URL: https://www.news.uct.ac.za/article/-2004-10-11-things-you-never-knew-you-didnt-know-about-uct-sport

[UCT Memorial 10km Race – remembering Isavel Roche-Kelly | Western Province Athletics]
By Stephen Granger Merrilyn Smith, Isavel Roche-Kelly and Lindsay Weight were all extraordinary athletes who contributed substantially to South Africa's marathon and ultra-marathon legacy. All three ran for the University of Cape Town (UCT) and their lives are celebrated each year at the UCT 10km Memorial Race, run each year on a scenic, but hilly course from the Groote Schuur campus.
URL: https://wpa.org.za/uct-memorial-10km-race-remembering-isavel-roche-kelly/

[Road runners heading to UCT to remember road running legend]
May 3, 2024 · Stephen Granger - May 3, 2024 Isavel Roche-Kelly's record at the Comrades Marathon in 1981 earned her the trophy for the best sport perrformance of the year at UCT. Photo - UCT More than a thousand runners are expected to line up at the start of the annual UCT 10km Memorial Race in the University Middle Campus precinct early Sunday morning.
URL: https://spnafricanews.com/road-runners-heading-to-uct-to-remember-road-running-legend/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [History of the Comrades Marathon - Wikipedia] ---
4 captures 06 Jun 2025 - 05 Feb 2026 Jan FEB Mar 05 2025 2026 2027 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now Outlinks TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20260205172721/https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_Comrades_Marathon


--- [Things you never knew you didn't know about UCT sport | UCT News] ---
Monday Paper spoke to the registrar, Hugh Amoore, trawled through the rich pickings at Manuscripts and Archives, and found the following interesting titbits on recent UCT sporting history. Many may not know that UCT once had its own Flying Club. Launched in 1946 by RG Drummond, a WW2 pilot, the club made its biggest purchase in 1969 when it acquired a R12 000 four-seater Piper Cherokee 140B. That buy may have been essential after a 1967 crash-landing next to the Cape Town airport, involving one of UCT's other planes. In March 1960, university principal JP Duminy had to remind students of the prohibition against Sunday sport on campus after one or two breaches came to his attention. Dr Louis Babrow, the former Springbok rugby player, caused a stir in the late 1960s when he, as a member of UCT Council, moved to have boxing outlawed at the university, citing the dangers involved in the sport. Babrow incurred the wrath of many, including the UCT Boxing Club and the Cape Boxing Board of Control. "No harm comes to students who take part in boxing," said Mike Walker of the UCT club at the time. Race always cast a pall over sport in the country, of course. In 1975, two out of three UCT teams - spearfishing and underwater hockey - pulled out of a national student tournament at the University of Port Elizabeth after Trevor Abrahams, the coloured captain of the UCT spearfishing side, was barred from taking part. Abrahams remained tight-lipped as the UCT club went toe to toe with the South African Universities Sports Union. "Although I am the team captain, I still have to go back to UCT next year to do my BA honours degree and I would not like to prejudice my position by talking to the press," is all he shared with the Cape Times. The UCT sports centre opened in September 1977, about a decade after first being mooted. The centre cost some R3-million, including equipment. Twenty-year old Isavel Roche-Kelly is named the UCT Sportsperson of the Year for 1980. An unknown on the running scene, Roche-Kelly set the roads alight that year when she became the first woman to win a silver medal at the Comrades Marathon. She clocked 7:18:00, well under the silver-medal cut-off of 7:30:00, in the process shattering the women's record by more than an hour. Earlier that year she also became only the third women in Africa to complete a marathon in under three hours. Roche-Kelly died in an accident in Ireland, her country of birth, a few years later. Other Comrades winners hailing from UCT were David Levick in 1973 and Lindsay Weight in 1984. Professor Kevin Rochford, still with the School of Education, has amassed 15 Comrades finishes, including four in silver-medal winning times, in UCT colours since his first race in 1972. Registrar Hugh Amoore has completed six, winning two silvers. Over the years, a number of rugby-playing students have won the Jamison Cup as UCT sportsperson of the year. The likes of Keith Andrews, HO de Villiers, Chris Pope and Peter Whipp were all thus honoured, usually for donning Springbok colours while still studying here. In 1989, UCT's South African Tertiary Institutions Students' Congress (Satisco) protested the university's continued sporting clashes against teams from the South African Defence Force and the South African Police on campus. They prevailed, but a couple of clubs suffered the backlash as sports unions denied them any further home games. Against anyone. After months of talks, James Evans, chair of the UCT Sports Union, and Siseko Ntshanga, chair of UCT's South African Tertiary Institutions Sports Union (Satisu), sign a declaration of intent to create a unified sports body at UCT, in May 1992. A year later, in August 1993, the university launches its branch of the South African Students' Sports Union (Sassu), with Satisu's Thokozani Vilakazi and the Sports Union's Paula Robinson inking the document that heralded a new era for sport at UCT. UCT hosts a wet and muddy family rugby day in September 2004 to celebrate the university's 175th anniversary. In a special game - preceded by the unveiling of a plaque commemorating the occasion - UCT beats a touring Cambridge XV by 24-11 in a trademark waterlogged rugby pitch. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License. Please view the republishing articles page for more information.


--- [UCT Memorial 10km Race – remembering Isavel Roche-Kelly | Western Province Athletics] ---
25 Apr UCT Memorial 10km Race – remembering Isavel Roche-Kelly By Stephen Granger Merrilyn Smith, Isavel Roche-Kelly and Lindsay Weight were all extraordinary athletes who contributed substantially to South Africa’s marathon and ultra-marathon legacy. All three ran for the University of Cape Town (UCT) and their lives are celebrated each year at the UCT 10km Memorial Race, run each year on a scenic, but hilly course from the Groote Schuur campus. The first woman home wins the Merrilyn Smith Trophy and many of the country’s former greats have their names engraved on the trophy. Athletics South Africa Road Running Chairperson, Enoch Skosana, was at the finish of the Two Oceans Marathon, just a few metres away from the route of the UCT Memorial 10 km race. “When our universities promote sporting excellence, and running in particular, this leads to greater physical and mental well-being of its students,” reflected Skosana. “Hosting the Two Oceans Marathon and its own Memorial Race in a few weeks time are examples of this. “This year’s 41st edition of the race on Sunday 5 May especially celebrates the life of IsavelRoche-Kelly, one of South Africa’s most talented distance athletes ever. Now a household name at the Comrades Marathon, both through her record-breaking victories and her name on a Comrades Marathon medal, Roche-Kelly left the planet all too early on the threshold of achieving greatness as a cyclist. Just eleven months after embarking on her running career with a 500 metre jog around her residence at UCT, Roche-Kelly became the first athlete to run under 7 hrs 30 min for the Comrades Marathon (7 hrs 18 min), improving the previous record by over an hour. Just a year later she was back at Comrades – this time on the ‘up’ run and her time of 6 hrs 44 min bettered that record by over two hours, ensuring her place in Comrades history. After her second Comrades win, Roche-Kelly switched focus to the standard marathon, and just over three months later had improved Sonja Laxton’s national mark to 2:43:16 at Faure. She improved the record by a further minute with an astounding 2:42:27 on the hilly Winelands Marathon course two months later. Two weeks prior to the Faure marathon, she showed surprising speed by staying the pace at the national cross-country championships in Cape Town, to finish fourth, just seconds behind experienced track and cross-country athletes, Di Massyn, Beverley Malan and Rita Minnaar. Roche-Kelly’s unique spirit and positive view on life cobbled to her extraordinary athletics achievements made the diminutive Isavel a giant at the clubhouse and throughout the university, where she was named UCT sports star in 1980 and 81. Isavel won a USA sports scholarship but a nagging back injury put a premature end to her ambitions. She returned to SA in 1983, barely able to jog, but was determined to run the first UCT Runners Memorial race in memory of her friend and teammate, Merrilyn Smith, which proved to be her final race. Two years later, at just 25, Isavel was killed in a cycling accident in Ireland, while training to make the Irish Olympic team. “The fact that so many of the 24 winners of the Merrilyn Smith trophy are attending this event this year speaks to the esteem in which these three remarkable athletes are held,” continued Skosana. “And I understand that several are flying into Cape Town for the occasion. “Although Merrilyn Smith and Isavel Roche-Kelly competed before my time as competitive athlete, I was well aware of the exceptional achievements of Roche-Kelly. And I always admired the writing and commentary skills of Lindsay Weight, who of course was also a double Comrades Marathon champion. “The fact that former champions, such as these three, can still inspire our athletes today is encouraging and I encourage as many as possible to remember and celebrate their lives at the University of Cape Town Memorial Race next month.”


--- [Road runners heading to UCT to remember road running legend] ---
More than a thousand runners are expected to line up at the start of the annual UCT 10km Memorial Race in the University Middle Campus precinct early Sunday morning. The race, now in its 41st edition, remembers past member of the UCT Athletics Club who have died and especially celebrates the memories of three outstanding women athletes, Merrilyn Smith, Isavel Roche-Kelly and Lindsay Weight. Sunday’s race particularly focuses on the extraordinarily talented Roche-Kelly, who won the Comrades Marathon in record time, just 11 months after she started her running career. Many of the leading athletes in the province are expected to take part in Sunday’s race, drawn the both the challenges of the race’s hilly route through the Middle and Upper Campus and down into Newlands, and to show support for race, aimed at reducing student debt, particularly that linked to UCT athletes, and providing support for academic study to athletes struggling to support themselves at university. An additional attraction is the substantial prize money on offer, with R5000 at stake for the male and female winners with an additional R5000 and the Merrilyn Smith trophy on offer to the first woman home under 36 minutes. 2022 winner, Anel Terblance, is returning to the competitive fray following childbirth and will again be looking to stand on top of the podium, while Athletes’ Academy athlete, Deon-Lee Hendricks will be equally keen to join her following his win in 2022. A feature of the event will be the return of many of the past 24 winners over the 42 year history of the event, a number of whom will be flying into Cape Town for the occasion. A number who are living abroad cannot make it but have sent messages of support. “The UCT memorial run is honestly one of my favorite races,” said 1997 winner, Renee Scott, now living in Boulder, USA. “It does hold a special place in my heart having known so many of the athletes it honours. I wish I knew how many Merilynn Smith 10k races I have run. I made sure never to miss it when I lived in SA. Good luck to every runner participating today.” Pasty Sharples was the first winner of the Merrilyn Smith trophy in 1983. “Thanks for thinking of me and inviting me to the UCT, 10km Memorial Race,” said Sharples, now resident in Salt Lake City, Utah. “It is a wonderful idea to honor and celebrate the life of Isavel Roche-Kelly at the race. She was a very talented athlete, but I didn’t know her very well, because I left for the USA in 1980. Good-luck to all the runners on Sunday as they celebrate the life of Isavel Roche-Kelly.” Online entries through RacePass close at 17h00 today (Friday 3 May) and runners can enter at the Sweat Shop up to 14h00 tomorrow (Saturday) or 17h00 at the UCT Sports Centre. Entries will also be taken from 05h30 on race day on Sunday at the Kramer Building, Middle Campus.
