=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[About | Clyde Pinelands FC]
May 24, 2022 · Clyde Pinelands Associated Football Club (CPAFC) is the oldest non-amalgamated football club in South Africa having been formed in 1898, making us 121 years old to date. According to our records, our club was formed by a Scotsman named Daddy McCloud who was a member of either Clyde FC or Clydebank FC in Scotland.
URL: https://clydepinelandsfc.wordpress.com/about-2/

[Recreation in Pinelands Part 1 – Pinelands History]
The Clyde Pinelands Football Club applied to move in 1964 from Observatory to Julianaveld and was accepted as a Pinelands sporting club. It is the oldest non-amalgamated football club in South Africa, having been formed in 1898 by "Daddy" McCloud in Observatory who had been a member of the Clyde FC in Scotland.
URL: https://pinelandshistory.co.za/recreation-in-pinelands-part-1/

[GC91F3M Elsieskraal Power Walk 7 (Traditional Cache) in Western Cape ...]
Nov 12, 2020 · Clyde Pinelands Associated Football Club (CPAFC) is the oldest non-amalgamated football club in South Africa having been formed in 1898, making it over 120 years old. The club was formed by a Scotsman named Daddy McCloud who was a member of either Clyde FC or Clydebank FC in Scotland.
URL: https://www.geocaching.com/geocache/GC91F3M

[Clyde Pinelands Football Club Cape Town - WorldPlaces]
Clyde Pinelands Football Club-CPFC (formerly Clyde Pinelands Associated Football Club-CPAFC) the oldest non-amalgamated football club in South Africa having been formed in 1898, making us 120 years old to date (2018).
URL: https://south-africa.worldplaces.me/review/183495651-clyde-pinelands-football-club.html

[Clyde - soccer merch hub]
While Clyde FC is a Scottish professional club, the name “Clyde” appears in other parts of the world due to Scottish emigration. Clyde Pinelands AFC in Cape Town, South Africa, was founded in 1898 by a Scotsman (often cited as Daddy McCloud) who named the club after the famous Glasgow side.
URL: https://soccermerchhub.com/product-category/football-phone-cases/scotland/clyde/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [About | Clyde Pinelands FC] ---
24 May 2022 – (NOTE) This website site is not particularly up to date. However, please check the date against any posts in terms of its relevancy. Clyde Pinelands Associated Football Club (CPAFC) is the oldest non-amalgamated football club in South Africa having been formed in 1898, making us 121 years old to date. According to our records, our club was formed by a Scotsman named Daddy McCloud who was a member of either Clyde FC or Clydebank FC in Scotland. Since the birth of our club, our colours have remained maroon and white with a touch of gold. The club has managed to win every amateur title that there is in the Western Province as well as the National Club Championships – twice in the 1970’s! We have made it to the quarter finals of the South African equivalent of the “FA Cup” on two occasions. We currently have an ex-member in the South African National team and have produced numerous international players including the likes of Stewart Leary. When Cape Town City FC was formed in 1961, four members of Clyde were drafted into that team that was at the time, owned by Western Province. Cape Town City FC, under the prolific management of Englishman Frank Lord, went on to becoming one of the most dominant teams in South Africa, winning every national title available. Many of our members have gone on to play pro football in Europe for clubs such as Stoke City, SV Hamburg, Benfica and in the 1950’s we were an “unofficial feeder“ team for Charlton Athletic with no less than three Clyde boys playing for them at one time. We also supplied New York Cosmos with their first coach, Eddie Firmani who coached the likes of Pele, Johan Cruyff, Jomo Sono and Franz Beckenbaur while there. We also supplied the Captain for the SA Universities team that toured South America in the 1970’s playing 9 games, winning them all without conceding a goal. Household names like Gary France, Glen Jordons, Edwin Sauls, Clive Daries, Mike Brown, Alan Welsh, Rory Farrell, The Rosslee brothers, Sandy Alan, Colin Gie, Donald Gie, Barry Thomas, Mornay Pillay, the four Bywater brothers but to name a few, have all donned the Clyde colours over the years. As it is expected, the club went through a number of transitions crossing the racial lines on many occasions for the love of the game. At present the club serves all socio economic groups, all racial facets and both genders. We have put the love of soccer above colour, wealth and neighbourhood and we will continue to do so for eternity.


--- [Recreation in Pinelands Part 1 – Pinelands History] ---
The first sports club in Pinelands was the Pinelands Lawn Tennis Club which met for the first time in the home of Mr Brooks in October 1923. The first two courts had already been built next to the Police Camp. The third and fourth courts followed in 1924 and 1925. The practice wall built in 1927 still stands today. In 1937 the clubhouse was built and opened by Mr. Rose-Innes. In 1956 the Club with other sporting bodies explored the possibility of a central social club but a number of setbacks occurred, and the idea was abandoned. In 1959 the club turned down a proposal to move to a proposed Howard Centre recreational area, and instead installed all-weather courts on all 6 courts followed by flood lights in 1965. A further 2 courts were added. The idea of a Cricket Club was first discussed in 1926 and in 1934 the first meeting of the club was held. The members started work on the site of the disused brickfields ,slowly creating a cricket field. The clubhouse was erected in 1935 and the turf laid the following year. In 1948 the club was able to widen the field and build a cinder athletic track with the Pinelands Athletics club, renaming the area Pinelands Oval. A new Pavilion was built in 1961. In 1982 the club merged with the Pinelands hockey Club and created two hockey fields and in the process grassing over the athletic track. Pinelands had three Bowling Clubs. The first was the Pinelands Bowling Club which was established in 1927 under the guidance of Whitford Griffith. The first green was formally opened in 1929 and the clubhouse was built in 1930. This clubhouse was replaced in 1950. A second green was established in 1939 and a third in 1965. In 1955 a meeting held at the Pinelands Bowling clubhouse led to the Howard Bowling Club being established at the Howard Place Sporting Centre. The clubhouse was opened in 1957. However, by 2011 membership had dropped and the club entered into discussions with the Pinelands Bowling Club. The amalgamation took place in 2012. Also part of the amalgamation was the Pinewood Bowling club established originally as part of the Old Mutual sports facilities as the land was to be developed for affordable housing. Many uses were put forward for the Howard club land including shops, seven a side rugby, a community garden and Municipal offices. It is currently used by the municipality as offices. A Pistol Club was started in 1935 after a spate of burglaries including the Pinelands Bus Service driver being held up at gunpoint one night. Members were permitted to use the Police Camp next to the tennis courts for target practice The hockey club was established in 1937 by Sydney Sides. Garden Cities donated and prepared land on Steengroef Road as well as making one hundred pounds available for a pavilion. The pavilion was extended by the inclusion of a tea kiosk in 1957. The clubhouse burnt down in 1982 and in the same year the Hockey Club amalgamated with the Cricket Club to form the Pinelands Sport Club. To accommodate the Hockey Club, two hockey fields were constructed at the oval. The Pinelands Athletics Club was also established in 1937 when 21 residents met in a school hall and agreed to forming track and field club. Practises took place at 6 am on the Oval. In 1939 the Club successfully raised funds for a track to be laid around the Cricket field. The close co-operation with the Cricket Club was further cemented when the Athletics club made a donation towards the new cricket clubhouse in 1962. Over the years the club had outstanding successes with members not only becoming provincial and national champions but also being awarded Springbok colours. However, by the early 1970 the membership dropped to the point where an amalgamation with Celtic Harries was considered. However soon the membership started to go from strength to strength. In 1976 the club resolved to extend an invitation to all communities in Cape Town to join the club, which further strengthened membership. The growing interest in road running in the 80s also helped swell membership. A new track was established on the lower oval and a clubhouse was built in 1987. The Pinelands Amateur Boxing Clubwas formed in 1960 by Marcus Temple and soon won seven of the eleven interschool titles. The 50 members were trained by Marcus and three boxers from Maitland, all of whom had provincial titles. Training took place in the Pinelands Primary School Hall. The Clyde Pinelands Football Club applied to move in 1964 from Observatory to Julianaveld and was accepted as a Pinelands sporting club. It is the oldest non-amalgamated football club in South Africa, having been formed in 1898 by “Daddy” McCloud in Observatory who had been a member of the Clyde FC in Scotland. The club had to wait until 1973 before moving to its home at the end of Ringwood Drive on the old Pinelands dump site. Originally Ringwood Drive was to cross the site to link up with Links Drive. Over the years players have been selected for the national team and in the heyday of Cape Town City, a number of Clyde players were in their team. Other players have gone on to join professional clubs in Europe. From time to time many other sports clubs have been established for sports such as badminton, bridge, jukskei, croquet, chess, baseball (at Clyde Pinelands) and archery (behind the High School).


--- [GC91F3M Elsieskraal Power Walk 7 (Traditional Cache) in Western Cape ...] ---
No content


--- [Clyde Pinelands Football Club Cape Town - WorldPlaces] ---
No content


--- [Clyde - soccer merch hub] ---
Clyde Show Your Support for The Bully Wee: Clyde Football Club Merchandise For over 140 years, Clyde Football Club has remained one of the most resilient and storied names in Scottish football. Known affectionately as “The Bully Wee,” Clyde FC carries a legacy that spans from the banks of the River Clyde to historic triumphs in the Scottish Cup. Whether you are a lifelong supporter who remembers the days at Shawfield or a newer fan following the club through its current journey at New Douglas Park, showing your colors is a vital part of the matchday experience. At soccermerchhub.com, we understand that being a Clyde fan isn’t just about the ninety minutes on the pitch; it’s about a community that sticks together through thick and thin. Our curated collection of Clyde Football Club merchandise is designed to help you carry that spirit wherever you go, providing high-quality items that celebrate the red, white, and black. Navigating the world of football memorabilia can be difficult, especially for a club with such a complex and nomadic history. From the early days in 1877 to the legendary cup wins of 1939, 1955, and 1958, Clyde has always punched above its weight. Today, as the club looks toward a future that includes finding a permanent home and climbing back up the Scottish football pyramid, the demand for authentic-feeling fan gear has never been higher. We provide fans with the essentials they need to decorate their homes, protect their tech, and improve their own game on the pitch. Our selection is built on the pillars of durability and design, ensuring that every item you purchase serves as a long-lasting tribute to one of Scotland’s most historic institutions. Premium Clyde FC flags and Matchday Essentials There is nothing quite like the sight of a sea of white and red flags waving in the stands. For Clyde Football Club supporters, flags are more than just fabric; they are symbols of defiance and loyalty. Whether you are traveling to away fixtures or looking to hang a tribute in your home office or man-cave, our flags are manufactured to withstand the elements. We use high-denier polyester that ensures the colors stay vibrant even after a rainy afternoon in a Scottish winter. A well-placed flag is the ultimate statement of fandom, and for a club like Clyde, which has seen its fair share of stadium changes, carrying your colors with you is a way of maintaining the club’s identity no matter where they play. When choosing a flag, consider the grommet quality and the stitching. Our products feature reinforced edges to prevent fraying, making them ideal for both indoor display and outdoor use. For the fans who follow the team across the country, these flags are lightweight and easy to fold, fitting perfectly into a matchday bag alongside your scarf and program. Decorate Your Space with Clyde Football Club Posters and Stickers Your home should reflect your passion for the beautiful game. Our football posters featuring Clyde FC themes are a great way to celebrate the club’s history. From artistic renderings of the club crest to nostalgic nods to their historic Scottish Cup victories, a high-quality poster can transform a room. We use premium matte and gloss finishes that prevent glare, ensuring that the iconic red and white stands out. These posters are perfect for framing, providing a sophisticated way to display your loyalty to The Bully Wee. If you prefer a more versatile way to show your support, our football stickers are the perfect solution. These aren’t your average paper stickers; we offer vinyl-cut, weather-resistant decals that can be applied to laptops, water bottles, or even car windows. They are a subtle yet effective way to identify yourself as a Clyde supporter in your daily life. For younger fans, stickers are a fantastic way to customize school supplies, while older fans appreciate the durability of a decal that won’t fade or peel when exposed to the sun or moisture. Our stickers feature the classic Clyde crest, allowing you to bring a piece of the club to every environment. Protect Your Tech with Clyde FC Phone Cases In the modern era, our smartphones are always with us, making them the perfect canvas for showing off club pride. Our football phone cases are specifically designed for Clyde Football Club fans who want to combine style with protection. We offer cases for a wide range of iPhone and Samsung models, featuring sleek designs that incorporate the club’s colors and branding. These cases are made from shock-absorbent materials like TPU and polycarbonate, providing a dual-layer defense against drops and scratches. A phone case is a practical investment. Not only does it keep your device safe, but it also serves as a conversation starter among fellow football enthusiasts. The precision cutouts ensure that you have full access to all ports and cameras, while the slim profile means your phone remains pocket-friendly. Whether you’re checking the latest scores on Clyde TV or tweeting about the latest points deduction or transfer news, your phone will look the part in a dedicated Clyde FC case. Training and Gifting: soccer balls and Quality Assurance For those who prefer to be on the pitch rather than just watching from the sidelines, we offer high-quality soccer balls. Whether you’re practicing your headers or playing a five-a-side match with friends, having a reliable ball is essential. Our balls are designed with optimal air retention and a consistent flight path, making them suitable for various playing surfaces. Featuring designs that resonate with the club’s aesthetic, these balls are a great way for young fans to emulate their Clyde FC heroes during training sessions. When it comes to gifting, we pride ourselves on providing a seamless experience. We know that Clyde fans are spread across the globe—from Glasgow to Cape Town (where the Clyde Pinelands association shares a historic link). That is why we offer reliable shipping and a straightforward returns policy. If a product doesn’t meet your expectations or if you need a different size, our customer service team is here to help. We believe in the quality of our merchandise, using materials that are built to last, ensuring that your gift remains a cherished item for years to come. Frequently Asked Questions About Clyde Football Club Where is Clyde Football Club located? Clyde Football Club currently plays its home matches at New Douglas Park in Hamilton, through a ground-sharing agreement with Hamilton Academical. Historically, the club was based at Shawfield Stadium in Rutherglen and later at Broadwood Stadium in Cumbernauld. The club is actively exploring options for a new permanent stadium to return to its own home in the future. What happened to Clyde FC’s stadium? Clyde left their long-term home at Shawfield in 1986 and moved to Broadwood Stadium in 1994. However, after nearly 30 years at Broadwood, the club decided to move on following various lease and ownership complexities. They currently share facilities at New Douglas Park while they work on a long-term stadium solution that will provide the club with greater financial stability and a dedicated community base. Who owns Clyde Football Club? Clyde FC is a supporter-owned club. It is structured as a Community Interest Company (CIC), meaning that the fans have a direct say in the governance and future of the club. This model ensures that the interests of the supporters are always prioritized, which is particularly important for a club with such a dedicated and local following. What is the nickname of Clyde FC? Clyde Football Club is famously known as “The Bully Wee.” While the exact origins of the nickname are debated, it is a term of endearment that has been used for over a century. Some suggest it comes from the Victorian-era use of the word “bully” meaning “grand” or “fine,” combined with the club’s relatively small size compared to the Glasgow giants. Have any famous players played for Clyde FC? Yes, Clyde has a rich history of developing and hosting talented players. Legends like Harry Haddock, who earned several caps for Scotland, and Pat Nevin, who started his professional career at Clyde before moving to Chelsea, are notable examples. The club has always been known for its ability to scout and nurture talent within the Scottish leagues. What is the lowest football league in Scotland? The Scottish football pyramid consists of the SPFL (Premiership, Championship, League 1, and League 2) at the top. Below League 2 are the Highland and Lowland Leagues. Further down, there are various regional leagues like the West of Scotland Football League and the East of Scotland Football League. Clyde currently competes within the SPFL structure, striving to climb back up the divisions. Is there a connection between Clyde FC and Clyde Pinelands? While Clyde FC is a Scottish professional club, the name “Clyde” appears in other parts of the world due to Scottish emigration. Clyde Pinelands AFC in Cape Town, South Africa, was founded in 1898 by a Scotsman (often cited as Daddy McCloud) who named the club after the famous Glasgow side. While they are separate entities, they share a historic naming lineage.
