=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Amazon.com: Cindy Sherman: The Complete Untitled Film Stills: 9780870705076: Sherman, Cindy, Galassi, Peter: Books]
Oct 2, 2003 · The photobook that defined a generation: 69 black-and-white photographs in Cindy Sherman’s seminal cinematic style, made between 1977 and 1980 Cindy Sherman's Untitled Film Stills, a series of 69 black-and-white photographs created between 1977 and 1980, is widely seen as one of the most original and influential achievements in recent art.
URL: https://www.amazon.com/Cindy-Sherman-Complete-Untitled-Stills/dp/0870705075

[Cindy Sherman : The Complete Untitled Film Stills by Cindy Sherman (2003, Hardcover) for sale online | eBay]
The "Cindy Sherman: The Complete Untitled Film Stills 2003" hardcover book is a first edition published by the Museum of Modern Art. Featuring the iconic photography of Cindy Sherman, this book showcases her unique style and creativity through 164 pages of untitled film stills. With a large format size of 10.9 x 10 inches, this beautifully illustrated book in English explores Sherman's work in ...
URL: https://www.ebay.com/p/5974911

[Cindy Sherman: The Complete Untitled Film Stills]
Cindy Sherman's Untitled Film Stills, a series of 69 black-and-white photographs created between 1977 and 1980, is widely seen as one of the most original and influential achievements in recent art.
URL: https://www.abebooks.com/first-edition/Cindy-Sherman-Complete-Untitled-Film-Stills/30336413677/bd

[Cindy Sherman: The Complete Untitled Film Stills | MoMA]
... Sherman’s landmark series of 69 black-and-white photographs (1977–80), acquired in its entirety by the Museum in 1995. ... Cindy Sherman: The Complete Untitled Film Stills Cindy Sherman, 2003 Exhibition catalogue, Hardcover, 164 pages
URL: https://www.moma.org/calendar/exhibitions/253

[Cindy Sherman: The Complete Untitled Film Stills | Photography Book]
Cindy Sherman's Untitled Film Stills, a series of 69 black-and-white photographs created between 1977 and 1980, is widely seen as one of the most original and influential achievements in recent art. Witty, provocative and searching, this lively catalogue of female roles inspired by the movies crystallizes widespread concerns in our culture, examining the ways we shape our personal identities ...
URL: https://www.all-about-photo.com/photo-publications/photography-book/532/cindy-sherman-the-complete-untitled-film-stills


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Amazon.com: Cindy Sherman: The Complete Untitled Film Stills: 9780870705076: Sherman, Cindy, Galassi, Peter: Books] ---
Download the free Kindle app and start reading Kindle books instantly on your smartphone, tablet, or computer - no Kindle device required. Read instantly on your browser with Kindle for Web. Using your mobile phone camera - scan the code below and download the Kindle app. Follow the authors OK Cindy Sherman: The Complete Untitled Film Stills Hardcover – October 2, 2003 The photobook that defined a generation: 69 black-and-white photographs in Cindy Sherman’s seminal cinematic style, made between 1977 and 1980 Cindy Sherman's Untitled Film Stills, a series of 69 black-and-white photographs created between 1977 and 1980, is widely seen as one of the most original and influential achievements in recent art. Witty, provocative and searching, this lively catalogue of female roles inspired by the movies crystallizes widespread concerns in our culture, examining the ways we shape our personal identities and the role of the mass media in our lives. Sherman began making these pictures in 1977 when she was 23 years old. The first six were an experiment: fan-magazine glimpses into the life (or roles) of an imaginary blond actress, played by Sherman herself. The photographs look like movie stills--or perhaps publicity pix--purporting to catch the blond bombshell in unguarded moments at home. The protagonist is shown preening in the kitchen and lounging in the bedroom. Onto something big, Sherman tried other characters in other roles: the chic starlet at her seaside hideaway, the luscious librarian, the domesticated sex kitten, the hot-blooded woman of the people, the ice-cold sophisticate and a can-can line of other stereotypes. She eventually completed the series in 1980. She stopped, she has explained, when she ran out of clichés.Other artists had drawn upon popular culture but Sherman's strategy was new. For her the pop-culture image was not a subject (as it had been for Walker Evans) or raw material (as it had been for Andy Warhol) but a whole artistic vocabulary, ready-made. Her film stills look and function just like the real ones--those 8 x 10 glossies designed to lure us into a drama we find all the more compelling because we know it isn't real. In the Untitled Film Stills there are no Cleopatras, no ladies on trains, no women of a certain age. There are, of course, no men. The 69 solitary heroines map a particular constellation of fictional femininity that took hold in postwar America--the period of Sherman's youth and the starting point for our contemporary mythology. In finding a form for her own sensibility, Sherman touched a sensitive nerve in the culture at large. Although most of the characters are invented, we sense right away that we already know them. That twinge of instant recognition is what makes the series tick and it arises from Cindy Sherman's uncanny poise. There is no wink at the viewer, no open irony, no camp. In 1995, The Museum of Modern Art purchased the series from the artist, preserving the work in its entirety. This book marks the first time that the complete series will be published as a unified work, with Sherman herself arranging the pictures in sequence. - Print length164 pages - LanguageEnglish - PublisherThe Museum of Modern Art, New York - Publication dateOctober 2, 2003 - Dimensions9.74 x 0.81 x 10.82 inches - ISBN-109780870705076 - ISBN-13978-0870705076 Book recommendations, author interviews, editors' picks, and more. Read it now Similar items that may deliver to you quickly - Cindy Sherman: Centerfold (Untitled #96): MoMA One on One SeriesCindy ShermanPaperbackINR 921.64 shippingOnly 6 left in stock (more on the way). - Cindy Sherman: 2023Cindy ShermanHardcoverINR 1,099.34 shippingOnly 6 left in stock (more on the way). - Cindy Sherman: Anti-Fashion (Dutch Edition)Anne RuygtHardcoverINR 1,370.95 shippingOnly 8 left in stock (more on the way). - Cindy Sherman: PostcardsCindy ShermanCardsINR 987.93 shippingOnly 3 left in stock (more on the way). Customers also bought or read - Cindy Sherman: Centerfold (Untitled #96): MoMA One on One SeriesPaperbackINR1,058.83INR1,058.83INR 921.64 delivery Mon, Mar 30 - Ninth Street Women: Lee Krasner, Elaine de Kooning, Grace Hartigan, Joan Mitchell, and Helen Frankenthaler: Five Painters and the Movement That Changed Modern ArtPaperbackINR1,288.09INR1,288.09INR 1,332.28 delivery Mon, Mar 30 - Diane Arbus: An Aperture Monograph: Fortieth-Anniversary EditionHardcoverINR5,230.61INR5,230.61INR 1,440.93 delivery Mon, Mar 30 - Ways of Seeing: Based on the BBC Television Series (Penguin Books for Art)PaperbackINR614.12INR614.12INR 991.62 delivery Mon, Mar 30 - Ernst Haas: New York in Color, 1952-1962HardcoverINR2,807.28INR2,807.28INR 1,529.32 delivery Mon, Mar 30 - Alfred Stieglitz. Camera Work (Bibliotheca Universalis) (Multilingual Edition)HardcoverINR2,134.23INR2,134.23INR 1,235.61 delivery Mon, Mar 30 - Twilight: Photographs by Gregory CrewdsonHardcoverINR4,603.60INR4,603.60INR 1,332.28 delivery Mon, Mar 30 - Edward Steichen: Lives in PhotographyHardcoverINR6,076.75INR6,076.75INR 1,898.52 delivery Mon, Apr 6 - America and Other Myths: Photographs by Robert Frank and Todd Webb, 1955HardcoverINR4,290.56INR4,290.56INR 1,398.57 delivery Mon, Mar 30 - Henri Cartier-Bresson: The Decisive MomentHardcoverINR4,072.34INR4,072.34INR 1,154.58 delivery Mon, Mar 30 Editorial Reviews About the Author Cindy Sherman is a ground-breaking American photographer, born in 1954. She began her "Film Stills" series at the age of 23, gaining early recognition, and has followed it with remarkable experiments in color photography. Her art has won her wide recognition and praise, and been collected and exhibited by major museums throughout the world since 1980. A major retrospective exhibition of her work was shown at The Museum of Modern Art, New York; the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art; the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis; and the Dallas Museum of Art. Sherman is the recipient of a MacArthur Foundation "genius" award and a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Fellowship. She is represented by Metro Pictures gallery in New York. Product details - ASIN : 0870705075 - Publisher : The Museum of Modern Art, New York - Publication date : October 2, 2003 - Language : English - Print length : 164 pages - ISBN-10 : 9780870705076 - ISBN-13 : 978-0870705076 - Item Weight : 2.54 pounds - Dimensions : 9.74 x 0.81 x 10.82 inches - Best Sellers Rank: #1,562,251 in Books (See Top 100 in Books) - #274 in Individual Photographer Books - #888 in Photography Collections & Exhibitions (Books) - #5,396 in Individual Artists (Books) - Customer Reviews: About the authors Discover more of the author’s books, see similar authors, read book recommendations and more. Discover more of the author’s books, see similar authors, read book recommendations and more. Products related to this item Customer reviews - 5 star4 star3 star2 star1 star5 star89%10%0%0%1%89% - 5 star4 star3 star2 star1 star4 star89%10%0%0%1%10% - 5 star4 star3 star2 star1 star3 star89%10%0%0%1%0% - 5 star4 star3 star2 star1 star2 star89%10%0%0%1%0% - 5 star4 star3 star2 star1 star1 star89%10%0%0%1%1% Customer Reviews, including Product Star Ratings help customers to learn more about the product and decide whether it is the right product for them. To calculate the overall star rating and percentage breakdown by star, we don’t use a simple average. Instead, our system considers things like how recent a review is and if the reviewer bought the item on Amazon. It also analyzed reviews to verify trustworthiness. Learn more how customers reviews work on AmazonTop reviews from the United States There was a problem filtering reviews. Please reload the page. - Reviewed in the United States on May 2, 2006Format: HardcoverVerified PurchaseAt first glance, you might see ordinary, banal photos that resemble out takes from studio stills. Look deeper and you will see works of genius that expose a new way of seeing and exploring the inner self that have been highly influential in the art world. This book has the images that started it all for Cindy Sherman and for that reason, you should start with this book if you want to learn about this artist. Who will like this book? I think just about anyone with an interest in art or photography would consider this a "must have" book for their personal library. Nothing in this book would embarrass you if you gave it as a gift; it is edgy, but not to the point of weirdness. I just gave a copy to my 10-year-old daughter for inspiration and she really enjoyed it (though probably not at the level of an adult). If you are willing to look, this book will reward you. Like any great artist, she makes it look easy. Her singular vision is apparent in the location selection, "set" design, makeup and costuming. If you have ever tried to do this yourself, you will respect what she has accomplished. The end result is that Ms. Sherman reveals what she wants us to believe are her innermost thoughts and emotions. Like great cinema, these photos achieve true suspension of disbelief and challenge the viewer's own framework of emotional identity. In the end, we believe. Arguably, these are the best work ever done by Ms. Sherman. One complaint about her newer work is that it seems to continue to retread the same themes and variations. Sure, her newest works are bigger and colorful in keeping with the latest trends in photography -- personally, my favorites are the images in this book. There is a freshness I don't find in her later work. But this human story, like her imagery, will always continue to be explored by artists as long as there are humans to explore. - Reviewed in the United States on November 14, 2013Format: HardcoverVerified PurchaseI'm writing in late 2013. About 1-2 years ago The New Yorker critic (w/ whom I often agree) wrote a piece on Cindy Sherman that was mostly laudatory but dismissive of the film stills as immature and the least important part of her oeuvre and he implied that everyone who's anyone knows that. (That's not a direct quote but it captures the gist). My jaw dropped and I was like Excuse me??? I penned a nastyish letter to The New Yorker which they declined to print. Anyway, my point is this and I think it's sort of important: Great artists have to start somewhere, folks. Van Gogh did not hit a homerun every time. In my view the film stills are incredibly important. (And apparently MOMA agrees w/ me on that.) Why? These are her breakthrough. It's all here. In one volume. I'm inelegantly stating this, I know: The film stills are an important start to an important career. - Reviewed in the United States on November 13, 2016Format: HardcoverVerified PurchaseIf you have heard about Cindy Sherman for some time and feel a little curious about her photography, this is the book you need. Cindy Sherman resists stereotyping: she is hesitant to call herself a feminist. In fact, she is a radical post-feminist willing to break all cannons of feminization in media, film, and fine art. The book is magnificently produced in elegant black and white. I loved every bit of it! - Reviewed in the United States on October 28, 2016Format: HardcoverVerified PurchaseExcellent quality. My favorite of the 3 Cindy books I own. I'd have them all if I could afford it, but this is a great place to start if you already know you like her work. If your unsure, check out the Essentials. This is the official "Untitled Film Stills", not to be confused with her other untitled (lower case) film stills. - Reviewed in the United States on May 18, 2021Format: HardcoverVerified PurchaseA fine book if you like Sherman. - Reviewed in the United States on October 28, 2020Format: HardcoverVerified PurchaseGreat book! But Amazon should pack the books better since you guys sell so many books. Always arrived with some kind of bumps here and there/ - Reviewed in the United States on January 25, 2018Format: HardcoverVerified PurchaseI'm a long time Cindy Sherman admirer. Her untitled film stills are foundational to understanding and enjoyment of her work. I knew many of these from other sources, some from contemporary publications of the 70s like Rolling Stone magazine. Had to have the "complete set," :) - Reviewed in the United States on October 10, 2018Format: HardcoverVerified PurchaseBrilliant book with photos of her black and white period, and informative text; the pictures are also larger than you might find in other text. No Cindy Sherman fan should be without it. Top reviews from other countries - EmeReviewed in the United Kingdom on March 30, 2019 5.0 out of 5 stars Amazing condition Format: HardcoverVerified PurchaseA great book, delivered on time, no complaints! - Client d'AmazonReviewed in France on February 16, 2018 5.0 out of 5 stars Excellent ouvrage! Format: HardcoverVerified PurchaseExcellent ouvrage!une belle iconographie et une introduction en anglais par l’auteur qui met en perspective les différentes photographies. Un must have ! - 富士さんReviewed in Japan on May 25, 2014 5.0 out of 5 stars Cindy Sherman の傑作 Format: HardcoverVerified PurchaseCindy Sherman の傑作です。必見です！世界最高金額で（号あたり）落札される写真家です。 - javierReviewed in Spain on January 18, 2021 5.0 out of 5 stars Excelente edicion y fotografo Format: HardcoverVerified Purchaseun libro excelente de un excelente fotografo - Costanza GenoliniReviewed in Italy on June 19, 2019 5.0 out of 5 stars Lo consiglio Format: HardcoverVerified PurchaseLibro molto bello. Il pacco è arrivato in anticipo è perfettamente imballato.


--- [Cindy Sherman : The Complete Untitled Film Stills by Cindy Sherman (2003, Hardcover) for sale online | eBay] ---
Grade ToUP SynopsisCindy Sherman's Untitled Film Stills , a series of 69 black-and-white photographs created between 1977 and 1980, is widely seen as one of the most original and influential achievements in recent art. Witty, provocative and searching, this lively catalogue of female roles inspired by the movies crystallizes widespread concerns in our culture, examining the ways we shape our personal identities and the role of the mass media in our lives. Sherman began making these pictures in 1977 when she was 23 years old. The first six were an experiment: fan-magazine glimpses into the life (or roles) of an imaginary blond actress, played by Sherman herself. The photographs look like movie stills--or perhaps publicity pix--purporting to catch the blond bombshell in unguarded moments at home. The protagonist is shown preening in the kitchen and lounging in the bedroom. Onto something big, Sherman tried other characters in other roles: the chic starlet at her seaside hideaway, the luscious librarian, the domesticated sex kitten, the hot-blooded woman of the people, the ice-cold sophisticate and a can-can line of other stereotypes. She eventually completed the series in 1980. She stopped, she has explained, when she ran out of clich s. Other artists had drawn upon popular culture but Sherman's strategy was new. For her the pop-culture image was not a subject (as it had been for Walker Evans) or raw material (as it had been for Andy Warhol) but a whole artistic vocabulary, ready-made. Her film stills look and function just like the real ones--those 8 x 10 glossies designed to lure us into a drama we find all the more compelling because we know it isn't real. In the Untitled Film Stills there are no Cleopatras, no ladies on trains, no women of a certain age. There are, of course, no men. The 69 solitary heroines map a particular constellation of fictional femininity that took hold in postwar America--the period of Sherman's youth and the starting point for our contemporary mythology. In finding a form for her own sensibility, Sherman touched a sensitive nerve in the culture at large. Although most of the characters are invented, we sense right away that we already know them. That twinge of instant recognition is what makes the series tick and it arises from Cindy Sherman's uncanny poise. There is no wink at the viewer, no open irony, no camp. In 1995, The Museum of Modern Art purchased the series from the artist, preserving the work in its entirety. This book marks the first time that the complete series will be published as a unified work, with Sherman herself arranging the pictures in sequence., The photobook that defined a generation: 69 black-and-white photographs in Cindy Sherman s seminal cinematic style, made between 1977 and 1980 Cindy Sherman's Untitled Film Stills , a series of 69 black-and-white photographs created between 1977 and 1980, is widely seen as one of the most original and influential achievements in recent art. Witty, provocative and searching, this lively catalogue of female roles inspired by the movies crystallizes widespread concerns in our culture, examining the ways we shape our personal identities and the role of the mass media in our lives. Sherman began making these pictures in 1977 when she was 23 years old. The first six were an experiment: fan-magazine glimpses into the life (or roles) of an imaginary blond actress, played by Sherman herself. The photographs look like movie stills--or perhaps publicity pix--purporting to catch the blond bombshell in unguarded moments at home. The protagonist is shown preening in the kitchen and lounging in the bedroom. Onto something big, Sherman tried other characters in other roles: the chic starlet at her seaside hideaway, the luscious librarian, the domesticated sex kitten, the hot-blooded woman of the people, the ice-cold sophisticate and a can-can line of other stereotypes. She eventually completed the series in 1980. She stopped, she has explained, when she ran out of clichés. Other artists had drawn upon popular culture but Sherman's strategy was new. For her the pop-culture image was not a subject (as it had been for Walker Evans) or raw material (as it had been for Andy Warhol) but a whole artistic vocabulary, ready-made. Her film stills look and function just like the real ones--those 8 x 10 glossies designed to lure us into a drama we find all the more compelling because we know it isn't real. In the Untitled Film Stills there are no Cleopatras, no ladies on trains, no women of a certain age. There are, of course, no men. The 69 solitary heroines map a particular constellation of fictional femininity that took hold in postwar America--the period of Sherman's youth and the starting point for our contemporary mythology. In finding a form for her own sensibility, Sherman touched a sensitive nerve in the culture at large. Although most of the characters are invented, we sense right away that we already know them. That twinge of instant recognition is what makes the series tick and it arises from Cindy Sherman's uncanny poise. There is no wink at the viewer, no open irony, no camp. In 1995, The Museum of Modern Art purchased the series from the artist, preserving the work in its entirety. This book marks the first time that the complete series will be published as a unified work, with Sherman herself arranging the pictures in sequence., The photobook that defined a generation: 69 black-and-white photographs in Cindy Sherman's seminal cinematic style, made between 1977 and 1980 Cindy Sherman's Untitled Film Stills , a series of 69 black-and-white photographs created between 1977 and 1980, is widely seen as one of the most original and influential achievements in recent art. Witty, provocative and searching, this lively catalogue of female roles inspired by the movies crystallizes widespread concerns in our culture, examining the ways we shape our personal identities and the role of the mass media in our lives. Sherman began making these pictures in 1977 when she was 23 years old. The first six were an experiment: fan-magazine glimpses into the life (or roles) of an imaginary blond actress, played by Sherman herself. The photographs look like movie stills--or perhaps publicity pix--purporting to catch the blond bombshell in unguarded moments at home. The protagonist is shown preening in the kitchen and lounging in the bedroom. Onto something big, Sherman tried other characters in other roles: the chic starlet at her seaside hideaway, the luscious librarian, the domesticated sex kitten, the hot-blooded woman of the people, the ice-cold sophisticate and a can-can line of other stereotypes. She eventually completed the series in 1980. She stopped, she has explained, when she ran out of clichés. Other artists had drawn upon popular culture but Sherman's strategy was new. For her the pop-culture image was not a subject (as it had been for Walker Evans) or raw material (as it had been for Andy Warhol) but a whole artistic vocabulary, ready-made. Her film stills look and function just like the real ones--those 8 x 10 glossies designed to lure us into a drama we find all the more compelling because we know it isn't real. In the Untitled Film Stills there are no Cleopatras, no ladies on trains, no women of a certain age. There are, of course, no men. The 69 solitary heroines map a particular constellation of fictional femininity that took hold in postwar America--the period of Sherman's youth and the starting point for our contemporary mythology. In finding a form for her own sensibility, Sherman touched a sensitive nerve in the culture at large. Although most of the characters are invented, we sense right away that we already know them. That twinge of instant recognition is what makes the series tick and it arises from Cindy Sherman's uncanny poise. There is no wink at the viewer, no open irony, no camp. In 1995, The Museum of Modern Art purchased the series from the artist, preserving the work in its entirety. This book marks the first time that the complete series will be published as a unified work, with Sherman herself arranging the pictures in sequence.


--- [Cindy Sherman: The Complete Untitled Film Stills] ---
Cindy Sherman: The Complete Untitled Film Stills Sherman, Cindy Sold by A&D Books, South Orange, NJ, U.S.A. AbeBooks Seller since May 23, 2019 Used - Hardcover Ships from U.S.A. to India Quantity: 1 available Add to basketSold by A&D Books, South Orange, NJ, U.S.A. AbeBooks Seller since May 23, 2019 Quantity: 1 available Add to basketSIGNED. First edition, first printing. Fine clothbound hardcover in a Fine dust jacket with a hint of shelf wear and a hint of tanning to the spine. All dust jackets are protected by a clear mylar cover. BOOKS SHIP THE NEXT BUSINESS DAY, WRAPPED IN PADDING, BOXED. This series of photographs was created between 1977 and 1980 and considered one of the seminal art works of the late 20th century. Mimicking various female character types from 1940s and 1950s B-movies, Sherman created a pantheon of modern female archetypes which have become more readily identifiable than stills from the movies they vaguely resemble. While working on this book, Sherman added one more image from a roll thought to be lost. The series is now defined by 70 images and is presented here for the first time as a unified work. Included on Vince Aletti's list of Best Photo Books of 2003. Photographs, sequencing, and essay by Cindy Sherman. SIGNED BY SHERMAN on the half-title; no inscription. 164 pages; 70 full-page duo-toned b&w plates + 6 text illustrations; 11 x 9.75 inches. When the book was published MoMA hosted a book signing with Sherman and issued 500 numbered tickets for the event. LAID-IN is ticket #123. Due to size and weight, international and expedited shipping will be more than quoted. Seller Inventory # 21112 The photobook that defined a generation: 69 black-and-white photographs in Cindy Sherman’s seminal cinematic style, made between 1977 and 1980 Cindy Sherman's Untitled Film Stills, a series of 69 black-and-white photographs created between 1977 and 1980, is widely seen as one of the most original and influential achievements in recent art. Witty, provocative and searching, this lively catalogue of female roles inspired by the movies crystallizes widespread concerns in our culture, examining the ways we shape our personal identities and the role of the mass media in our lives. Sherman began making these pictures in 1977 when she was 23 years old. The first six were an experiment: fan-magazine glimpses into the life (or roles) of an imaginary blond actress, played by Sherman herself. The photographs look like movie stills--or perhaps publicity pix--purporting to catch the blond bombshell in unguarded moments at home. The protagonist is shown preening in the kitchen and lounging in the bedroom. Onto something big, Sherman tried other characters in other roles: the chic starlet at her seaside hideaway, the luscious librarian, the domesticated sex kitten, the hot-blooded woman of the people, the ice-cold sophisticate and a can-can line of other stereotypes. She eventually completed the series in 1980. She stopped, she has explained, when she ran out of clichés.Cindy Sherman is a ground-breaking American photographer, born in 1954. She began her "Film Stills" series at the age of 23, gaining early recognition, and has followed it with remarkable experiments in color photography. Her art has won her wide recognition and praise, and been collected and exhibited by major museums throughout the world since 1980. A major retrospective exhibition of her work was shown at The Museum of Modern Art, New York; the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art; the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis; and the Dallas Museum of Art. Sherman is the recipient of a MacArthur Foundation "genius" award and a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Fellowship. She is represented by Metro Pictures gallery in New York. "About this title" may belong to another edition of this title. All items are subject to prior sale. Please e-mail us to hold a book or books. Methods of payment: Paypal, personal check, money order, and major credit cards. For payments by check or money order, we will place items on hold for 7 days pending receipt of payment. Items will be shipped immediately upon clearance of funds. We take special care in the packaging and shipping of our books; they are guaranteed to be in the condition stated or a replacement or refund will be offered. Quotes for expedi... Overseas shipping rates are based on art books. Smaller items may ship for less than quoted. Please contact us for an estimate. | Order quantity | 21 to 36 business days | 6 to 14 business days | |---|---|---| | First item | US$ 90.00 | US$ 90.00 | Delivery times are set by sellers and vary by carrier and location. Orders passing through Customs may face delays and buyers are responsible for any associated duties or fees. Sellers may contact you regarding additional charges to cover any increased costs to ship your items.


--- [Cindy Sherman: The Complete Untitled Film Stills | MoMA] ---
Sherman’s landmark series of 69 black-and-white photographs (1977–80), acquired in its entirety by the Museum in 1995. Cindy Sherman: The Complete Untitled Film Stills Jun 26–Sep 2, 1997 MoMA Publications Artist Installation images In 2018–19, MoMA collaborated with Google Arts & Culture Lab on a project using machine learning to identify artworks in installation photos. That project has concluded, and works are now being identified by MoMA staff. If you notice an error, please contact us at [email protected]. If you would like to reproduce an image of a work of art in MoMA’s collection, or an image of a MoMA publication or archival material (including installation views, checklists, and press releases), please contact Art Resource (publication in North America) or Scala Archives (publication in all other geographic locations). MoMA licenses archival audio and select out of copyright film clips from our film collection. At this time, MoMA produced video cannot be licensed by MoMA/Scala. All requests to license archival audio or out of copyright film clips should be addressed to Scala Archives at [email protected]. Motion picture film stills cannot be licensed by MoMA/Scala. For access to motion picture film stills for research purposes, please contact the Film Study Center at [email protected]. For more information about film loans and our Circulating Film and Video Library, please visit https://www.moma.org/research/circulating-film. If you would like to reproduce text from a MoMA publication, please email [email protected]. If you would like to publish text from MoMA’s archival materials, please fill out this permission form and send to [email protected]. This record is a work in progress. If you have additional information or spotted an error, please send feedback to [email protected].


--- [Cindy Sherman: The Complete Untitled Film Stills | Photography Book] ---
Cindy Sherman's Untitled Film Stills, a series of 69 black-and-white photographs created between 1977 and 1980, is widely seen as one of the most original and influential achievements in recent art. Witty, provocative and searching, this lively catalogue of female roles inspired by the movies crystallizes widespread concerns in our culture, examining the ways we shape our personal identities and the role of the mass media in our lives. Sherman began making these pictures in 1977 when she was 23 years old. The first six were an experiment: fan-magazine glimpses into the life (or roles) of an imaginary blond actress, played by Sherman herself. The photographs look like movie stills--or perhaps publicity pix--purporting to catch the blond bombshell in unguarded moments at home. The protagonist is shown preening in the kitchen and lounging in the bedroom. Onto something big, Sherman tried other characters in other roles: the chic starlet at her seaside hideaway, the luscious librarian, the domesticated sex kitten, the hot-blooded woman of the people, the ice-cold sophisticate and a can-can line of other stereotypes. She eventually completed the series in 1980. She stopped, she has explained, when she ran out of clichas. Anastasia Samoylova: Atlantic Coast opens a vast, quietly unsettling portrait of the American East Coast — one in which nostalgia, dislocation and transformation are sewn into the landscape itself. In this new monograph, Samoylova retraces the route pioneered by Berenice Abbott in 1954, journeying from Florida to Maine to revisit the places Abbott once documented, and to observe what has become of them decades later. Her images — in vivid color and stark black and white — reveal the tension between myth and reality, between promises of progress and the traces of decay or displacement. Where once small towns and coastal communities had a certain stillness, Samoylova finds change carved into facades and roadside signs, into suburban sprawl and shuttered shopfronts. She frames these scenes with a photographer’s patience and a poet’s sensitivity — capturing abandoned diners, empty motels, decaying houses, ghostly intersections. At the same time, there is stubborn life: occasional portraits of people, wildlife, reminders that behind every sign of decline, someone, something endures. Her book does not simply document physical places. It traces the shifting contours of identity, belonging and memory in a nation where the open road has long symbolized freedom — and where that ideal has become tangled with consumerism, environmental degradation, and socio-economic upheaval. Through Atlantic Coast, Samoylova asks whether the “American Dream” remains intact, or if it has fractured along with the towns her car passes through. Reading this volume is to experience a slow, attentive journey — as a witness, as a traveller, as someone invited to reconsider what America has become. Her photographs linger, subtly unsettling the viewer’s assumptions about beauty, progress and decline. In its silence and restraint, the book whispers that memory, identity and place are fragile — and that every road carries stories worth listening to. Lisette Model presents a definitive exploration of one of the most influential photographers of the twentieth century, whose bold vision reshaped the way urban life and society were captured on film. This stunning hardcover features over 200 reproductions, ranging from her early Parisian portraits to the striking images of New York streets that defined her career. Model’s photographic journey began in Vienna and matured in France, where her keen eye for social observation developed. Early works, including portraits of idle elites in Nice, reveal her sharp sense of critique tempered by empathy. These images, at once confrontational and intimate, established her as a formidable observer of human behavior. After emigrating to the United States, Model brought this incisive approach to New York, producing iconic images such as the Coney Island Bather and the Cafe Metropole series, which juxtapose vitality, vulnerability, and the stark contrasts of city life. Her lens captured both the glamour and grit of her surroundings: the bustling streets of the Lower East Side, the grandeur of high-society gatherings, and the nuanced everyday gestures that reveal the inner lives of her subjects. Model’s distinctive framing, bold compositions, and unflinching attention to human detail created a visual language that remains influential to this day. This collection also includes lesser-known works from her travels along the U.S. West Coast and Venezuela, highlighting her continued exploration of character, form, and place. Insights from scholar Walter Moser contextualize her work within the broader trajectory of twentieth-century photography, illuminating her enduring impact as both an artist and a teacher. Lisette Model is more than a retrospective; it is an immersive journey into a world seen through a lens of unvarnished reality and poetic observation. It celebrates a photographer whose fearless engagement with her subjects, combined with her artistic rigor, forged a path for generations of street and documentary photographers, offering an essential resource for enthusiasts and scholars alike. Fred Herzog: A Color Legacy opens a fresh chapter on the streets of Vancouver and beyond, offering the public previously unseen images from the archives of a man whose eye for color and life defied the conventions of his time. Herzog’s work in the 1950s and 60s stands out because he chose Kodachrome — a decision nearly heretical when art photography still equated seriousness with black and white. What emerges through his Leica’s lens is a world awash in warm reds, neon signs, and the soft glow of streetlights — a world that feels alive, tactile, and tender. After emigrating from Germany to Vancouver in 1953 and working by day as a medical photographer, Herzog spent his evenings and weekends roaming the city streets. He captured storefronts, everyday people going about their lives, second-hand shops, Chinatown alleys, decaying cars, neon reflections — details often overlooked, but rich with character. He treated photography not as artifice but as observation, documenting modern urban life with precision and empathy. His photographs turned ordinary city scenes into a tribute to human presence and urban texture. The volume collects these rediscovered gems alongside his best-known photos, offering a more complete portrait of a photographer who stubbornly trusted color when many of his peers turned away. The images span Vancouver and also trace Herzog’s travels to the U.S., the Caribbean, Mexico and Central America, showing a restless spirit and a worldwide curiosity. Each frame is infused with intimacy, subtle humor, and a respect for the quotidian — light on one face, a reflection in a shop window, the curve of a car hood shimmering in rain. Fred Herzog: A Color Legacy is not just a homage to a photographer but a statement about memory, time, and beauty in the urban fabric. It reminds us how much of a city’s soul lives in small moments — a street sign, a storefront, a quiet onlooker — and how color, long seen as frivolous in serious photography, can reveal more truth than monochrome ever could. An essential introduction to the complexities of visual representation, this book offers a critical new framework for understanding and practicing photojournalism in a global digital context. Critical Photojournalism guides readers through a variety of ethical, technical and business skills, plus the mental health, self-care and safety considerations necessary to thrive in the field. Drawing on their extensive industry and teaching experience, the authors provide real-world advice on how to navigate the demands of the profession while addressing the impact that photojournalism has on society and ways that photojournalists can mitigate harm. Consideration is given to understanding and disrupting implicit bias and power structures in newsrooms, as well as issues around access, working in breaking news environments and balancing informed consent with varying media laws around the world. In accessible language, this book highlights the importance of collaboration and community engagement in contemporary photojournalism and encourages students to adopt a decolonial approach to their work. Readers will learn to balance the needs for accuracy and thoughtfulness with the priorities of a global, social-media-engaged audience. This is a key textbook for those seeking a nuanced introduction to visual journalism and/or a fresh approach to their craft. This book is supported by a website which can be accessed at www.criticalphotojournalism.com. The website includes a full-length bonus chapter on video and photojournalism, interviews with professional visual journalists, further tips and tools, and a glossary of key terms. Anastasia Samoylova is an American artist whose photographic practice is shaped by close observation and a deep attentiveness to place. Working between documentary and formal exploration, she photographs landscapes, architecture, and everyday scenes with a sensitivity to light, structure, and atmosphere. Since relocating to Miami in 2016, her work has increasingly focused on how environments—both natural and built—carry social, cultural, and emotional traces. We asked her a few questions about her practice and her way of seeing, to better understand the thoughts and experiences that shape her work—while allowing the images themselves to remain open and speak in their own time. Marijn Fidder is a Dutch documentary photographer whose work powerfully engages with current affairs and contemporary social issues. Driven by a deep sense of social justice, she uses photography to speak on behalf of the voiceless and to advocate for the rights of those who are most vulnerable. Her images have been widely published in major international outlets including National Geographic, CNN Style, NRC Handelsblad, Volkskrant, GUP New Talent, and ZEIT Magazin. Her long-term commitment to disability rights—particularly through years of work in Uganda—culminated in her acclaimed project Inclusive Nation, which earned her the title of Photographer of the Year 2025 at the All About Photo Awards. She is also the recipient of multiple prestigious honors, including awards from World Press Photo and the Global Peace Photo Award. We asked her a few questions about her life and work. Josh S. Rose is a multidisciplinary artist working across photography, film, and writing. His practice bridges visual and performing arts, with a strong focus on movement, emotion, and the expressive potential of the image. Known for his long-standing collaborations with leading dance companies and performers, Rose brings together authenticity and precise composition—a balance he describes as “technical romanticism.” His work has been commissioned and exhibited internationally, appearing in outlets such as Vogue, at the Super Bowl, in film festivals, and most recently as a large-scale installation for Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. A sought-after collaborator, he has worked with major artists, cultural institutions, and brands, following a previous career as Chief Creative Officer at Interpublic Group and the founder of Humans Are Social. We asked him a few questions about his life and work. Photographer Maureen Ruddy Burkhart brings a quietly attentive and deeply human sensibility to her exploration of the world through images. Shaped by a life immersed in photography, film, and visual storytelling, her work is guided by intuition, observation, and an enduring interest in the emotional undercurrents of everyday life. With a practice rooted in both fine art traditions and documentary awareness, she approaches her subjects with sensitivity, allowing subtle moments to emerge naturally rather than be imposed. Her series Til Death, selected as the Solo Exhibition for February 2025, reflects this long-standing commitment to photography as a space for reflection rather than spectacle. Drawn to moments that exist just outside the expected frame, Burkhart’s images suggest narratives without resolving them, leaving room for ambiguity, humor, and quiet connection. We asked her a few questions about her life and work. Winner of AAP Magazine #45 Travels, his series reflects this unique vision—capturing the spirit of place through subtle layers of light, color, and emotion. Whether traveling abroad or observing the rhythms of his own surroundings, Ydeen creates images that feel both grounded and enchanted, inviting viewers into a world where reality and reverie meet. Chinese-born photographer Julie Wang brings a poetic, contemplative sensitivity to her visual exploration of the world. Having lived for nearly equal parts of her life in China, Europe, and the United States, she approaches her subjects with the nuanced perspective of someone shaped by many cultures. This blend of distance, curiosity, and emotional resonance infuses her work with a quiet depth, allowing her to reveal the fragile beauty and subtle tensions that often pass unnoticed. American photographer Ghawam Kouchaki brings a sharply observant and introspective gaze to the streets of Japan’s capital. Based in Los Angeles, he approaches Tokyo with the distance — and curiosity — of an outsider, allowing him to uncover the city’s subtle contradictions, quiet tensions, and fleeting gestures that often go unnoticed. His series Tokyo no no, selected as the Solo Exhibition for December 2024, explores the hidden undercurrents of urban life: the unspoken rules, the small ruptures in routine, the poetic strangeness found in everyday moments. Through muted tones, instinctive timing, and meticulous framing, Kouchaki reveals a Tokyo that exists somewhere between reality and imagination — both intimate and enigmatic. We asked him a few questions about his life and work. Tommi Viitala, winner of AAP Magazine #44: Street, is a Finnish photographer celebrated for his striking and cinematic street photography. With a keen eye for atmosphere and composition, he captures fleeting urban moments that reveal the poetry of everyday life. His work often explores the tension between solitude and connection within contemporary cityscapes, blending documentary realism with artistic sensibility. Viitala’s photographs have been exhibited internationally and recognized for their strong visual storytelling and emotional depth. We asked him a few questions about his life and work. Robert Mack is a California-based visual artist, photographer, and filmmaker. His fine art photography and films have been exhibited widely in the United States and Europe, with major shows at the Baltimore Museum of Art and the Reiss-Engelhorn Museum in Mannheim, Germany. Both institutions hold his work in their permanent collections. Working across different media, Mack has built a career exploring the complexities of human presence and representation. In 1981, while living in Baltimore, he produced The Perkins Project: Not Guilty by Reason of Insanity, a rare photographic and film study inside Maryland’s hospital for the criminally insane. These stark yet compassionate black-and-white portraits remain one of his most powerful and controversial bodies of work.
