=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Shinya Yamanaka | Japanese Stem Cell Scientist | Britannica]
Yamanaka received multiple awards for his contributions to stem-cell research, including the Robert Koch Prize (2008), the Shaw Prize in Life Science and Medicine (2008), the Gairdner Foundation International Award (2009), the Albert Lasker Basic Medical Research Award (2009), and the Millennium Technology Prize (2012).
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Shinya-Yamanaka

[Shinya Yamanaka - Wikipedia]
Yamanaka has been listed as one of the 15 Asian Scientists To Watch by Asian Scientist magazine on May 15, 2011. [24][25] In June 2011, he was awarded the inaugural McEwen Award for Innovation; he shared the $100,000 prize with Kazutoshi Takahashi, who was the lead author on the paper describing the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shinya_Yamanaka

[Gladstone's Shinya Yamanaka Wins Prestigious Shaw Prize for Stem Cell Discoveries | UC San Francisco]
Jun 11, 2008 · The J. David Gladstone Institutes today announced that senior investigator Shinya Yamanaka, MD, PhD, also of Kyoto University and a UCSF professor of anatomy, has been awarded the prestigious Shaw Prize for his contributions in reprogramming adult skin cells to pluripotent, embryonic-like stem cells.
URL: https://www.ucsf.edu/news/2008/06/103219/gladstones-shinya-yamanaka-wins-prestigious-shaw-prize-stem-cell-discoveries

[New Shaw Prize computer science category honours more innovators who benefit society | South China Morning Post]
Past recipients include the Japanese stem cell researcher Professor Shinya Yamanaka, who received the 2008 Shaw Prize in Life Science and Medicine for his work that opened up new frontiers in regenerative medicine and personalised therapies.
URL: https://www.scmp.com/native/lifestyle/topics/innovations-humanity/article/3343053/new-shaw-prize-computer-science-category-honours-more-innovators-who-benefit-society

[Stem cell scientists win million dollar Shaw Prize | PET]
Pioneering stem cell scientists have been awarded a million dollar Shaw Prize, at a glittering ceremony in Hong Kong. British researchers Sir Ian Willmut and Professor Keith Campbell, share the life science and medicine prize with Japanese Professor Shinya Yamanaka. Sir Willmut and Professor Campbell are the researchers behind the world's first cloned mammal - Dolly the sheep. In his work ...
URL: https://www.progress.org.uk/stem-cell-scientists-win-million-dollar-shaw-prize/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Shinya Yamanaka | Japanese Stem Cell Scientist | Britannica] ---
Shinya Yamanaka - Who is Shinya Yamanaka? - What field of science is Shinya Yamanaka known for? - What important discovery did Shinya Yamanaka make? - What are induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells)? - How did Shinya Yamanaka's discovery change medical research? - What awards or honors has Shinya Yamanaka received for his work? Shinya Yamanaka (born September 4, 1962, Ōsaka, Japan) is a Japanese physician and researcher who developed a revolutionary method for generating stem cells from existing cells of the body. This method involved inserting specific genes into the nuclei of adult cells (e.g., connective-tissue cells), a process that resulted in the reversion of cells from an adult state to a pluripotent state. As pluripotent cells, they had regained the capacity to differentiate into any cell type of the body. Thus, the reverted cells became known as induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. Yamanaka and British developmental biologist John B. Gurdon shared the 2012 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for the discovery that mature cells could be reprogrammed. Yamanaka received an M.D. from Kōbe University in 1987 and a Ph.D. in pharmacology from the Ōsaka City University Graduate School in 1993. That year he joined the Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, San Francisco, where he began investigating the c-Myc gene in different strains of knockout mice (mice in which a specific gene has been rendered nonfunctional in order to investigate the gene’s function). In 1996 Yamanaka returned to Ōsaka City University, where he remained until 1999, when he took a position at the Nara Institute of Science and Technology. During this period his research became increasingly focused on stem cells. In 2004 he moved to the Institute for Frontier Medical Sciences at Kyōto University, where he began his landmark studies on finding ways to induce pluripotency in cells. Yamanaka again sought research opportunities in the United States and subsequently was awarded funding that allowed him to split his time between Kyōto and the Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease. Yamanaka became a senior investigator at the Gladstone Institute in 2007. In 2006 Yamanaka announced that he had succeeded in generating iPS cells. The cells had the properties of embryonic stem cells but were produced by inserting four specific genes into the nuclei of mouse adult fibroblasts (connective-tissue cells). The following year Yamanaka reported that he had derived iPS cells from human adult fibroblasts—the first successful attempt at generating human versions of these cells. This discovery marked a turning point in stem-cell research, because it offered a way of obtaining human stem cells without the controversial use of human embryos. Yamanaka’s technique to convert adult cells into iPS cells up to that time had employed a retrovirus that contained the c-Myc gene. This gene was believed to play a fundamental role in reprogramming the nuclei of adult cells. However, Yamanaka recognized that the activation of c-Myc during the process of creating iPS cells led to the formation of tumours when the stem cells were later transplanted into mice. He subsequently created iPS cells without c-Myc in order to render the cells noncancerous and thereby overcome a major concern in the therapeutic safety of iPS cells. In 2008 Yamanaka reported another breakthrough—the generation of iPS cells from mouse liver and stomach cells. - Japanese: - Yamanaka Shinya - Born: - September 4, 1962, Ōsaka, Japan (age 63) - Awards And Honors: - Nobel Prize - Subjects Of Study: - c-Myc gene - pluripotent cell - stem cell Yamanaka received multiple awards for his contributions to stem-cell research, including the Robert Koch Prize (2008), the Shaw Prize in Life Science and Medicine (2008), the Gairdner Foundation International Award (2009), the Albert Lasker Basic Medical Research Award (2009), and the Millennium Technology Prize (2012).


--- [Shinya Yamanaka - Wikipedia] ---
Shinya Yamanaka (山中 伸弥, Yamanaka Shin'ya; born September 4, 1962) is a Japanese stem cell researcher and a Nobel Prize laureate. He is a professor and the director emeritus of Center for iPS Cell (induced Pluripotent Stem Cell) Research and Application, Kyoto University; as well as a senior investigator at the UCSF-affiliated Gladstone Institutes in San Francisco, California and a professor of anatomy at University of California, San Francisco (UCSF). Yamanaka is also a past president of the International Society for Stem Cell Research (ISSCR).
He received the 2010 BBVA Foundation Frontiers of Knowledge Award in the biomedicine category, the 2011 Wolf Prize in Medicine with Rudolf Jaenisch, and the 2012 Millennium Technology Prize together with Linus Torvalds. In 2012, he and John Gurdon were awarded the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for the discovery that mature cells can be converted to stem cells. In 2013, he was awarded the $3 million Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences for his work.


--- [Gladstone's Shinya Yamanaka Wins Prestigious Shaw Prize for Stem Cell Discoveries | UC San Francisco] ---
This article is archived and only made available for historical reference. If you’d like to discover UCSF’s most recent advances in research, education and patient care, please visit the UCSF News Center. Archive: Gladstone's Shinya Yamanaka Wins Prestigious Shaw Prize for Stem Cell Discoveries The J. David Gladstone Institutes today announced that senior investigator Shinya Yamanaka, MD, PhD, also of Kyoto University and a UCSF professor of anatomy, has been awarded the prestigious Shaw Prize for his contributions in reprogramming adult skin cells to pluripotent, embryonic-like stem cells. He will receive half of the $1 million award. Cloning pioneers Ian Wilmut and Keith Campbell will split the other half of the prize for their landmark generation of the now famous sheep, Dolly. “Dr. Yamanaka’s discoveries have dramatically accelerated the pace of stem cell research and the development of this technology for regenerative therapies,” said Gladstone president Robert W. Mahley, MD, PhD. “We’re proud that our colleague has received this international honor.” Dr. Yamanaka and his Kyoto University laboratory demonstrated in 2006 that the addition of just four genes could convert adult mouse skin cells back to embryonic-like stem cells, which he called induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. The iPS cells could turn into all of the different cell types of the body and appeared to have the same properties as embryonic stem cells. Importantly, the pluripotent cells were made without the need to generate an embryo, obviating many of the ethical concerns around stem cell biology. Then in 2007, Dr. Yamanaka's laboratory created iPS cells from human skin cells in a similar fashion. Dr. Yamanaka’s discoveries have opened a new field of science and represent a quantum leap forward in stem cell biology. The Shaw Prize, established under the auspices of Mr. Run Run Shaw in November 2002, is an international award to honor individuals who are currently active in their respective fields and who have made outstanding contributions in the biomedical sciences and innovations in clinical medicine. “The landmark contributions by these scientists who are honored with the Shaw Prize have thereby ushered in a new era in stem cell research, with huge potential benefits to mankind.” said the Shaw Prize Foundation. The Shaw Prize consists of three annual prizes: Astronomy, Life Science and Medicine, and Mathematical Sciences, each prize bearing a monetary award of 1 million US dollars. The presentation will take place in Hong Kong, Tuesday, September 9, 2008.


--- [New Shaw Prize computer science category honours more innovators who benefit society | South China Morning Post] ---
New Shaw Prize computer science category honours more innovators who benefit society Expansion of prestigious annual award recognises field of study’s growing role in changing the way the world communicates Since its inception, the Shaw Prize has honoured individuals who have made recent groundbreaking contributions to modern civilisation through their academic and scientific work. It has enabled these scientists working in the fields of astronomy, life science and medicine, and mathematical sciences and their discoveries benefiting humankind to also inspire a new generation of innovators to make contributions to the world with their skills and talent. The prestigious annual international award was launched in 2002 by the late Hong Kong media mogul and philanthropist Sir Run Run Shaw, and first presented in 2004. Past recipients include the Japanese stem cell researcher Professor Shinya Yamanaka, who received the 2008 Shaw Prize in Life Science and Medicine for his work that opened up new frontiers in regenerative medicine and personalised therapies. Another notable laureate, British theoretical astrophysicist Professor Roger D Blandford, won the 2020 Shaw Prize in Astronomy for numerous contributions, in particular helping us understand one of the universe’s most powerful and mysterious phenomena – the theory that energy extracted by black holes is the source of electromagnetic radiation emitted from the centre of a galaxy. Last month, the Shaw Prize Foundation, which manages and administers the award, announced that computer science – the study of computation and information in all their forms – will be added as a fourth category. The nominations will begin this September, with the winner or winners of the inaugural Shaw Prize in Computer Science announced in May or June next year and presented at the award ceremony in October or November next year. Dr Raymond Chan, chair and council member of the foundation, believes the addition of this award reflects the evolving nature of scientific inquiry and is a timely and necessary move. “Our mission has always been to honour contributions that benefit humanity, and computer science is the foundation of today’s world-changing technologies,” he says. “It aligns with our core vision of recognising contributions to basic knowledge, while also being a key driver for breakthroughs in other fields – like [artificial intelligence (AI) computer system] AlphaFold’s impact on life sciences.” The program, developed by Google DeepMind, predicts a protein’s 3D structure from its amino acid sequence. The breakthrough, which can be used in applications including the better understanding of antibiotic resistance, was one of two discoveries honoured jointly with the 2024 Nobel Prize for chemistry. Although still a relatively young discipline, computer science has become essential to modern life. From healthcare and sustainability to communication and AI, it underpins countless technological transformations. However, the field remains under-represented in the global scientific awards landscape. “There is a recognised gap in major international awards dedicated solely to computer science, both in Asia and globally,” Chan says. “This prize helps to address that.” Leading the Shaw Prize in Computer Science selection committee is Professor Jennifer Tour Chayes, a mathematician turned computer scientist who is dean of the University of California, Berkeley’s College of Computing, Data Science, and Society, which Chayes helped to establish in 2023. It was the first new college at Berkeley in more than 50 years. Chayes entered the field of computer science later than most, at the age of 40, after a chance encounter opened her eyes to how the mathematics she was using in physics and statistics also applied to computation. That epiphany sparked a career shift that led her to American technology conglomerate Microsoft, where Chayes was its technical fellow and spent more than 20 years leading various research programmes and was founder and managing director of three interdisciplinary labs: Microsoft Research New England, New York City and Montreal. Since joining Berkeley in 2020, Chayes has led interdisciplinary research initiatives that connect computing with things such as medicine and climate science. For example, one of her recent collaborations uses generative AI to speed up the development of materials that can capture carbon dioxide from the air – a key technology in the fight against climate change. Working together with Berkeley chemist Professor Omar Yaghi, the winner of the 2025 Nobel Prize for chemistry, Chayes and her team use AI to design metal-organic frameworks and covalent organic frameworks – porous structures that act like super sponges, which are capable of trapping gases, such as carbon, or water directly from the air. “Every time we think of a new material, it would take Omar two to three years to make it,” she says. “Now, with generative AI [computer systems that can copy intelligent human behaviour and produce new content, especially text or images], we have shortened the process to about two weeks.” Early computer science focused on hardware and programming languages, but today it also encompasses disciplines such as machine learning, data science, systems design and ethics. “We’re entering an age of agents,” Chayes says, referring to autonomous AI systems. “It is very important to realise that human beings should be learning to interact in teams with AI agents – to co-evolve with them as a team.” Chan believes that advances in computer science will see the field of study continue to play a vital role in addressing major global challenges in areas including healthcare, climate and sustainable development. In medicine, for example, these emerging technologies will be used in diagnostics, with machine systems helping to detect early signs of diseases such as cancer and being used as tools to help screen and identify patients who need urgent care, especially when human resources are limited. He also believes that the new Shaw Prize in Computer Science, together with the existing categories, will “better represent the interconnected landscape of modern science”. “The Shaw Prize is dedicated to honouring those who push fundamental boundaries while keeping human benefit central to their work,” Chan says. “The prize itself opens doors to increased support from their institutions and collaborators. The foundation will also help amplify the visibility of their work and facilitate more meaningful connections for their research.” Above all, Chayes sees the addition of the computer science category as an opportunity to highlight contributions that have reshaped the field and encourage young scientists from all walks of life to become interested in the subject. “Computer science is an incredibly rewarding field where you can have a big impact and address some of the greatest questions in science,” she says, while offering advice to students considering the subject. “Believe in yourself and aspire to do great things, because even if you don’t quite meet those goals, the journey itself will be transformative.”


--- [Stem cell scientists win million dollar Shaw Prize | PET] ---
Pioneering stem cell scientists have been awarded a million dollar Shaw Prize, at a glittering ceremony in Hong Kong. British researchers Sir Ian Willmut and Professor Keith Campbell, share the life science and medicine prize with Japanese Professor Shinya Yamanaka. Sir Willmut and Professor Campbell are the researchers behind the world's first cloned mammal - Dolly the sheep. In his work, Professor Yamanaka has shown that adult cells, for example skin cells, can be 'reprogrammed' or induced into becoming pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells) . Like embryonic stem cells, iPS cells have the ability to become many different cell types in the body, and utilising them means embryos do not have to be used. Scientists worldwide are looking at ways in which stem cells can be used to treat many conditions, including spinal injury and Alzheimer's. The work taking place today is based on the ground-breaking studies done by all three winners of the prize. There are three categories of the prize, and the Shaw Prize for astronomy was presented to Professor Genzel for his proof that the Milky Way contains a super massive black hole at its centre. The award for mathematical sciences was shared by Professors Faddeev and Arnold for their work in mathematical physics, including mapping the motion of the planets around the sun. The Shaw Prize was established in 2002 by Run Run Shaw, a multi-millionaire Hong Kong film producer and philanthropist, and has been described as the Nobel Prize of the east.
