=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dragnet 1967 S 2 E 02 The Shooting Board Recap - TV Tropes]
First Aired- September 21, 1967 Sergeant Joe Friday and Officer Bill Gannon are working out of Homicide division. After a long 18 hour day of work trying to work on their case about a robbery where the store owner died, Joe goes to a laundromat to buy cigarettes near his apartment. When he arrives, he finds a burglar trying to steal from the coin box, and shots are fired. During the shoot-out ...
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Recap/Dragnet1967S2E02TheShootingBoard

["Dragnet 1967" The Shooting Board (TV Episode 1967) - IMDb]
The Shooting Board: Directed by Jack Webb. With Jack Webb, Harry Morgan, Art Balinger, Leonard Stone. After work Joe Friday goes by a laundromat to buy cigarettes. He interrupts a burglar stealing from the coin box, and shots are fired. The burglar dies, and Friday is investigated by the shooting board to see if it is a justified shot.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0565689/

[Dragnet (1967 TV series) season 2 - Wikipedia]
After a regular day shift, Friday visits a laundrette while off-duty to buy cigarettes, when he discovers a burglar stealing money from the business. When the burglar shoots at Friday, he fires back; the burglar is struck but escapes with his girlfriend and is later found dead.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dragnet_(1967_TV_series)_season_2

["Dragnet 1967" The Shooting Board (TV Episode 1967)]
At this point, Friday surprises a thief trying to slip-wire a coin changer. The surprised burglar fires first, missing Friday. Friday returns fire wounding this ...
URL: https://m.imdb.com/title/tt0565689/

[Watch Dragnet 1967 Online | Season 2 (1967) | TV Guide]
Episode 2 The Shooting Board Thu, Sep 21, 1967 30 mins After work Joe Friday goes by a laundromat to buy cigarettes. He interrupts a burglar stealing from the coin box, and shots are fired. The ...
URL: https://www.tvguide.com/tvshows/dragnet-1967/episodes-season-2/1060523051/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dragnet 1967 S 2 E 02 The Shooting Board Recap - TV Tropes] ---
First Aired- September 21, 1967 Sergeant Joe Friday and Officer Bill Gannon are working out of Homicide division. After a long 18 hour day of work trying to work on their case about a robbery where the store owner died, Joe goes to a laundromat to buy cigarettes near his apartment. When he arrives, he finds a burglar trying to steal from the coin box, and shots are fired. During the shoot-out, the burglar dies, and Friday is investigated by the shooting board to see if it was a justified shot. Just the Tropes, ma'am: - Always on Duty: Averted and played straight. Joe was off duty when he went into the laundromat to buy the cigarettes as he lived right down the street, however when he saw the burglar he identified himself as a police officer and fired his gun. This is Truth in Television as Police Officers are supposed to intervene in a crime even if they're technically off the clock. - It Began with a Twist of Fate: The whole plot kicks off because Joe went to get some cigarettes. However, the laundromat's cigarette machine is broken. - Bloodless Carnage: Joe hits Arthur in the back left shoulder yet no blood is shown on him, only on the floor. However, a Freeze-Frame does show blood on his back. - Brick Joke: One of the responding radio unit officers at the scene gives Joe the rest of his pack of cigarettes when he shows up. At the end when they finish their investigation, one of the detectives gives Joe a full carton of cigarettes and tells him to stay out of trouble. - Courtroom Episode: While not in court, it is before a board of police officers from internal affairs acting as judges along with a court reporter and other police officers as attorneys. - Fake Memories: Brought up when the investigation team and the board are unable to find the bullet the burglar fired. They think that Friday may have imagined the burglar shooting at him due to being tired and having an unusually long day at work. - Fight Scene: One of the few times the 1960s version has a fighting and shooting scene. With both the Arthur and Friday firing shots at each other along with the Arthur throwing objects at Friday. - Foregone Conclusion: As the main character, Friday will be back working with the police, as this is the second episode of the second season. The main tension is trying to figure out HOW the board rules and if he will have to face any type of discipline. - Hidden in Plain Sight: The missing bullet is behind a shelf. There was a mark under the shelf where the bullet hit that everyone thought was a carpenter pencil mark. The investigators examined the wall over 10 times before finding it. In fact, the investigators mention that Friday was only about an inch off to where he thought the bullet was. - Improbable Aiming Skills: The missing bullet the burglar fired is hidden behind a shelf. Both Gannon and the investigator said that it was a one in million shot the bullet hit there. - Instant Death Bullet: Averted, Friday does hit him, but he stops and walks back to his car with his girlfriend to drive away. His death is offscreen. - Killed Offscreen: Arthur Ashton, the burglar, dies off screen. - Must Have Nicotine: Why Friday went to the laundry store in the first place. - Noodle Incident: Friday tells his Captain that he appeared before the shooting board only one other time when he fired his gun, but it was different because his partner - presumably Gannon - and a bunch of witnesses were there. Nothing about the first time is brought up or shown again. - "The Reason You Suck" Speech: Instead of delivering such a speech, Friday is actually at the receiving end of one of these for once. It's a mild one but Capt. Brown reminds him that there's a reason for these inquiries - to try to maintain the public trust as much as possible and to be accountable to themselves and the public. - Red Herring: The police do find a gun nearby that Friday believes was Ashton's, but he had tossed into a barrel full of waste oil so there were no usable fingerprints and no way to tie it back to him. - The Runaway: Marianne Smith is a juvenile who ran away from home to be with Arthur. - Screaming Woman: Marianne Smith, Arthur Ashton's girlfriend, screaming MURDERER to Friday's face. - Sleep Deprivation: The night of the shooting, Friday had just been coming off an 18 hour work day when he encountered and shot the burglar. During the subsequent investigation other officers question if a lack of sleep could've affected Friday's perceptions. - What Happened to the Mouse?: The original case Friday and Gannon are working on before the shooting is forgotten about after Joe fires his gun off duty. However, the captain does say that he has been pulled off of all his investigations due to the board hearing. It is also implied that Gannon is still working on the case with another detective.


--- ["Dragnet 1967" The Shooting Board (TV Episode 1967) - IMDb] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [Dragnet (1967 TV series) season 2 - Wikipedia] ---
This is a list of episodes from the second season of the 1967 Dragnet series. The season was directed by Jack Webb.


--- ["Dragnet 1967" The Shooting Board (TV Episode 1967)] ---
No content


--- [Watch Dragnet 1967 Online | Season 2 (1967) | TV Guide] ---
No content
