=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Early Work Of Cindy Sherman: Williams, Edsel, The Glove Compartment, The Glove Compartment, AKA Gain Carlo Feleppa, Sherman, Cindy: 9780965402033: Amazon.com: Books]
This volume contains two early photographic series--"Bus Riders" and "Murder Mystery People"--by Cindy Sherman, shot in 1976, soon after she graduated from art school. It is accompanied by a CD of found sound-based music by The Glove Compartment, aka Gian Carlo Feleppa. Read more · Report an issue with this product or seller · Previous slide of product details · Print length · 40 pages · Language · English · Publisher · Glenn Horowitz Bookseller · Publication date · January 15, 2001 ·
URL: https://www.amazon.com/Early-Cindy-Sherman-Edsel-Williams/dp/0965402037

[Cindy Sherman by PAUL MOORHOUSE - Book: 9780847865802 | Rizzoli Bookstore]
Featuring 230 key works from Cindy Sherman's most celebrated photo series--including Untitled Film Stills, Centerfolds, Cover Girls, Fashion, and Society Portraits--this is the first book to address her work through the lens of portraiture and style in the era of social media and selfies. Cindy Sherman is among the most influential artists of her generation. Using herself as a model in a range ...
URL: https://www.rizzolibookstore.com/product/cindy-sherman-1

[Hysteric Two by Cindy Sherman: Very Good Hardcover (2001) 1st Edition | Aeon Bookstore]
SHERMAN, Cindy. Published by [Tokyo: Hysteric Glamour, 2001]., 2001 ... Seller: Skyline Books, Forest Knolls, CA, U.S.A.
URL: https://www.abebooks.com/first-edition/Hysteric-Two-Cindy-Sherman-Kitamura-Nobuhiko/31373827137/bd

[Cindy Sherman - Wikipedia]
Cynthia Morris Sherman (born January 19, 1954) is an American artist whose work consists primarily of photographic self-portraits, depicting herself in many ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cindy_Sherman

[Early Work of Cindy Sherman - Sherman, Cindy; Compartment ...]
Hardcover. Condition: As New. 1st Edition. This is the First Edition & Printing (the 2001 is the 2nd edition); with b&w phtotos by Cindy Sherman; limited edition publication of 1000 copies (unsigned) hardback edition, no dustjacket as issued; with 32 full page b&w photogaphic plates; published in conjunction with the exhibiton "Early Work of Cindy Sherman" held at Glenn Horowitz East Hampton ...
URL: https://www.abebooks.co.uk/9780965402033/Early-Work-Cindy-Sherman-Compartment-0965402037/plp


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Early Work Of Cindy Sherman: Williams, Edsel, The Glove Compartment, The Glove Compartment, AKA Gain Carlo Feleppa, Sherman, Cindy: 9780965402033: Amazon.com: Books] ---
Recently Visited Top Categories All Categories Top Categories Fiction Nonfiction Recently Visited Recently Visited Recently Visited Recently Visited Memberships Recently Visited Recently Visited Download the free Kindle app and start reading Kindle books instantly on your smartphone, tablet, or computer - no Kindle device required. Read instantly on your browser with Kindle for Web. Using your mobile phone camera - scan the code below and download the Kindle app. Customer Reviews, including Product Star Ratings help customers to learn more about the product and decide whether it is the right product for them. To calculate the overall star rating and percentage breakdown by star, we don’t use a simple average. Instead, our system considers things like how recent a review is and if the reviewer bought the item on Amazon. It also analyzed reviews to verify trustworthiness. Learn more how customers reviews work on Amazon


--- [Cindy Sherman by PAUL MOORHOUSE - Book: 9780847865802 | Rizzoli Bookstore] ---
Price $45.00 Featuring 230 key works from Cindy Sherman's most celebrated photo series--including Untitled Film Stills, Centerfolds, Cover Girls, Fashion, and Society Portraits--this is the first book to address her work through the lens of portraiture and style in the era of social media and selfies. Cindy Sherman is among the most influential artists of her generation. Using herself as a model in a range of costumes in invented situations, she plays with images created and popularized by mass media, popular culture, and fine art. Television, advertising, magazines, fashion, and Old Master paintings--they are all fair game. Whether using makeup, costumes, props, or prosthetics to manipulate her own appearance, or devising elaborate narrative tableaux, the entire body of forty years' work constitutes a distinctive response to contemporary culture. Cindy Sherman $45.00 Description Featuring 230 key works from Cindy Sherman's most celebrated photo series--including Untitled Film Stills, Centerfolds, Cover Girls, Fashion, and Society Portraits--this is the first book to address her work through the lens of portraiture and style in the era of social media and selfies. Cindy Sherman is among the most influential artists of her generation. Using herself as a model in a range of costumes in invented situations, she plays with images created and popularized by mass media, popular culture, and fine art. Television, advertising, magazines, fashion, and Old Master paintings--they are all fair game. Whether using makeup, costumes, props, or prosthetics to manipulate her own appearance, or devising elaborate narrative tableaux, the entire body of forty years' work constitutes a distinctive response to contemporary culture. Description Featuring 230 key works from Cindy Sherman's most celebrated photo series--including Untitled Film Stills, Centerfolds, Cover Girls, Fashion, and Society Portraits--this is the first book to address her work through the lens of portraiture and style in the era of social media and selfies. Cindy Sherman is among the most influential artists of her generation. Using herself as a model in a range of costumes in invented situations, she plays with images created and popularized by mass media, popular culture, and fine art. Television, advertising, magazines, fashion, and Old Master paintings--they are all fair game. Whether using makeup, costumes, props, or prosthetics to manipulate her own appearance, or devising elaborate narrative tableaux, the entire body of forty years' work constitutes a distinctive response to contemporary culture. ISBN 9780847865802 Publisher Publication Date August 27, 2019 Binding Hardcover Item Condition New Language English Pages 256 Keywords Photography | Individual Photographers | Monographs; Art | Individual Artists | Monographs; Photography | Collections, Catalogs, Exhibitions | General; Biography & Autobiography | General Categories


--- [Hysteric Two by Cindy Sherman: Very Good Hardcover (2001) 1st Edition | Aeon Bookstore] ---
From Aeon Bookstore, New York, NY, U.S.A. Seller rating 5 out of 5 stars AbeBooks Seller since November 26, 2020 Edition of 300. Well-bound and internally unmarked. Several slight tears to translucent paper cover, one to lower edge of front panel, 3/4". Altogether attractive example of this scarce Cindy Sherman collection. Seller Inventory # ABE-1670626680129 Title: Hysteric Two Publisher: Kitamura Nobuhiko / Metro Pictures Publication Date: 2001 Binding: Hardcover Condition: Very Good Edition: 1st Edition


--- [Cindy Sherman - Wikipedia] ---
Cynthia Morris Sherman (born January 19, 1954) is an American artist whose work consists primarily of photographic self-portraits, depicting herself in many different contexts and as various imagined characters.
Her breakthrough work is often considered to be the collection Untitled Film Stills, a series of 70 black-and-white photographs of herself evoking typical female roles in performance media (especially arthouse films and popular B-movies).




--- [Early Work of Cindy Sherman - Sherman, Cindy; Compartment ...] ---
Seller: EightDeerBooks, Morrison, CO, U.S.A. Hardcover. Condition: Fine. First edition, 1000 copies. Illustrations of 15 Bus Riders and 17 Murder Mystery People, both from 1976. Also includes a CD with sound by The Glove Compartment. Spine a little faded, bottom corner of front cover bumped. Seller Inventory # ABE-1712797977269 Seller: West Coast Bookseller, Moorpark, CA, U.S.A. Hardcover. Condition: New. Seller Inventory # R1-601L Seller: Jeff Hirsch Books, ABAA, Wadsworth, IL, U.S.A. Second printing. Hardcover. Published in conjunction with a show that ran August 18 through October 1, 2000. Foreword by Edsel Williams. Includes 15 black and white images from Sherman's "Bus Riders: series along with 17 black and white images from her "Murder Mystery People" series. All of these images had previously not published prior to this show. Includes a cd with music and sound by The Glove Compartment. A very fine copy in photo illustrated boards without dust jacket as issued. As new and still in the publisher's shrinkwrap. Seller Inventory # 211737 Seller: Southampton Books, Sag Harbor, NY, U.S.A. Hardcover. Condition: Like New. First Edition. First Edition, First Printing. Published by Glenn Horowitz Bookseller/D.A.P., 2001. Octavo. Hardcover; still sealed in shrink wrap. Book is like new.100% positive feedback. 30 day money back guarantee. NEXT DAY SHIPPING! Excellent customer service. Please email with any questions. All books packed carefully and ship with free delivery confirmation/tracking. All books come with free bookmarks. Ships from Sag Harbor, New York. Seller Inventory # 341829 Seller: Lost Horizon Bookstore, Santa Barbara, CA, U.S.A. Hardcover. Condition: Near Fine. Dust Jacket Condition: No dustjacket as issued. First edition. First edition. Hardcover. Octavo. Limited to 1000 copies. Forward by Edsel Williams. Includes CD. Includes "Bus Riders" and "Murder Mystery People.". Seller Inventory # 9151 Seller: Greenworld Books, Arlington, TX, U.S.A. Condition: good. Fast Free Shipping â" Good condition. It may show normal signs of use, such as light writing, highlighting, or library markings, but all pages are intact and the book is fully readable. A solid, complete copy that's ready to enjoy. Seller Inventory # GWV.0965402037.G Seller: ANARTIST, New York, NY, U.S.A. Hardcover without dustjacket as issued, unpaginated, very good condition; except moderate rubbing to covers; no internal marks. CD still attached in inside rear cover, appears unplayed. Seller Inventory # EaShNY85 Seller: A&D Books, South Orange, NJ, U.S.A. Hardcover. First edition, 2000, first printing. Near Fine hardcover with very light shelf wear; includes the CD which appears to have never been removed; no dj as issued. BOOKS SHIP THE NEXT BUSINESS DAY, WRAPPED IN PADDING, IN A BOX. The catalogue for an exhibition of early work by Cindy Sherman, held at the Glenn Horowitz bookstore, East Hampton, NY, August 18 - October 1, 2000. The book features 15 images from Sherman's 'Bus Riders' and 17 images from her 'Murder Mystery People', both series' shot in 1976 soon after she graduated from art school and none of which had previously been published nor exhibited. Photographs by Cindy Sherman; foreword by Edsel Williams; found sound-based music by The Glove Compartment aka Gian Carlo Feleppa. From an unnumbered first edition limited to 1000 copies. 40 pages; 32 full-page b&w plates; 6.25 x 9.25 inches. CD mounted to rear paste down. Seller Inventory # 19144 Seller: Black Cat Books, Shelter Island, NY, U.S.A. Hardcover. Condition: Good. No Jacket. Hardbound, no dust jacket. Seller Inventory # 96841 Seller: Black Cat Books, Shelter Island, NY, U.S.A. Hardcover. Condition: New. No Jacket. New. Shrink-wrapped. Hardbound, no dust jacket. Seller Inventory # 96838
