=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dreadbolt | Dc Microheroes Wiki | Fandom]
Real Name: Terrence Bolatinsky Alias: Dreadbolt Identity: Secret Alignment: Bad Gender: Male Hair: Blond, Eyes: Blue Occupation: Super-Villain First appearance: Teen Titans Vol 3 #56 (April, 2008) Dreadbolt (Terry Bolatinsky) is the son of Larry Bolatinsky (Bolt), who is a Blue Devil villain. Terry is now following in his father's footsteps by becoming a supervillain himself and joining the ...
URL: https://dc-microheroes.fandom.com/wiki/Dreadbolt

[Dreadbolt (Character) - Comic Vine]
Dreadbolt (Terry Bolatinsky) is the son of Larry Bolatinsky (Bolt), who is a Blue Devil villain. Terry is now following in his father's footsteps by becoming a supervillain himself and joining the ...
URL: https://comicvine.gamespot.com/dreadbolt/4005-50426/

[The Megalist of Comic Book Secret Identities - How To Love Comics]
Have you ever wondered who the secret identity of your favourite superheroes was? Well, worry no more with The Megalist of Comic Book Secret Identities! This list aims to answer your burning questions, such as "who is the secret identity of Green Arrow?", or any of your favourite superheroes. In 5 minutes you'll be an expert, thanks to this list. This megalist aims to be a living ...
URL: https://www.howtolovecomics.com/2016/04/20/secret-identities/

[Terrence Bolatinsky (New Earth) | DC Database | Fandom]
Terrence "Terry" Bolatinsky is the leader of the Terror Titans and the son of the supervillain Bolt, eventually inheriting his alias after killing him. This article is a stub. You can help DC Database by expanding it. This character has been primarily an enemy of the Teen Titans, the Titans, or any of the other various Titans incarnations.
URL: https://dc.fandom.com/wiki/Terrence_Bolatinsky_(New_Earth)

[Lawrence Bolatinsky (New Earth) | DC Database | Fandom]
Secret Society of Super-Villains member This character is or was a member of the Secret Society of Super-Villains, a cadre of super-villains who band together to accomplish feats no one super-villain can do alone, in any of its various incarnations. This template will categorize articles that include it into the " Secret Society of Super-Villains members " category.
URL: https://dc.fandom.com/wiki/Lawrence_Bolatinsky_(New_Earth)


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dreadbolt | Dc Microheroes Wiki | Fandom] ---
| Dreadbolt | | |---|---| | No Title | No information | - Real Name: Terrence Bolatinsky - Alias: Dreadbolt - Identity: Secret - Alignment: Bad - Gender: Male - Hair: Blond, Eyes: Blue - Occupation: Super-Villain - First appearance: Teen Titans Vol 3 #56 (April, 2008) History[] Dreadbolt (Terry Bolatinsky) is the son of Larry Bolatinsky (Bolt), who is a Blue Devil villain. Terry is now following in his father's footsteps by becoming a supervillain himself and joining the villainous team know as the Terror Titans. He attempted to recruit Teen Titans member Kid Devil to the Terror Titans but failed. When he declined, Terry and the Terror Titans attacked him with their full force. As the Terror Titans saga continued, Terry proved himself to be a strong minded and stoic leader, however, his visage was quickly seen through by his fellow teammates when The Persuader III mentioned that Terry hadn't killed anyone. As a trial to show him as the leader the Terror Titans need, Clock King force Terry to kill his father. Terry fought his father and ended up killing him, somehow managing to slice him in half or force him into a wall. The comic wasn't completely clear as to how Terry managed to kill him but he did, in fact, kill him. Now, Terry has become the new Bolt. Personality wise, Terry tends to be quiet. He takes orders fairly well but may not like what orders he is given. In Terror Titans #3, he has proven himself to be a vicious killer, much like the other members of the team. Along with the rest of his team, Terry goes to the arena to watch Ravager's match with Static. They are all suitably impressed by his skill, though during the match Angelica ( Disruptor) distracted him with talk about how the fight affected her. With her defeat, he and the rest of the team left the arena. Terry retires to his room. Terry begins drinking, mourning the loss of his father and wondering about his actions. He is interrupted by Angelica, who dressed in her underwear, begins drinking with him. The two discuss their place in the Terror Titans. After taking a few more shots, Angelica begins to seduce Terry. They end up using Clock King's technology to teleport to a beach where they presumbably sleep together. Afterwards, Angelica tries to convince Terry that Ravager is planning to kill Clock King, wanting her out of the picture. Immediately realizing her plan Terry rages at Disruptor, turning away from her and teleporting back to base.


--- [Dreadbolt (Character) - Comic Vine] ---
History Dreadbolt (Terry Bolatinsky) is the son of Larry Bolatinsky (Bolt), who is a Blue Devil villain. Terry is now following in his father's footsteps by becoming a supervillain himself and joining the villainous team know as the Terror Titans. He attempted to recruit Teen Titans member Kid Devil to the Terror Titans but failed. When he declined, Terry and the Terror Titans attacked him with their full force. As the Terror Titans saga continued, Terry proved himself to be a strong minded and stoic leader, however, his visage was quickly seen through by his fellow teammates when The Persuader III mentioned that Terry hadn't killed anyone. As a trial to show him as the leader the Terror Titans need, Clock King force Terry to kill his father. Terry fought his father and ended up killing him, somehow managing to slice him in half or force him into a wall. The comic wasn't completely clear as to how Terry managed to kill him but he did, in fact, kill him. Now, Terry has become the new Bolt. Personality wise, Terry tends to be quiet. He takes orders fairly well but may not like what orders he is given. In Terror Titans #3, he has proven himself to be a vicious killer, much like the other members of the team. Along with the rest of his team, Terry goes to the arena to watch Ravager's match with Static. They are all suitably impressed by his skill, though during the match Angelica (Disruptor) distracted him with talk about how the fight affected her. With her defeat, he and the rest of the team left the arena. Terry retires to his room. Terry begins drinking, mourning the loss of his father and wondering about his actions. He is interrupted by Angelica, who dressed in her underwear, begins drinking with him. The two discuss their place in the Terror Titans. After taking a few more shots, Angelica begins to seduce Terry. They end up using Clock King's technology to teleport to a beach where they presumbably sleep together. Afterwards, Angelica tries to convince Terry that Ravager is planning to kill Clock King, wanting her out of the picture. Immediately realizing her plan Terry rages at Disruptor, turning away from her and teleporting back to base. Powers & Abilities: Like all his fellow Terror Titans, to date at least, Dreadbolt's abilities come from his costume rather than genuine superhuman or metahuman powers. Terry's costume is modeled after his father's, the original Bolt, and grants him all the same abilities, such as flight, teleportation, and energy projection. He's currently the only member of the Terror Titans with flight capabilities so he can cover much more distance than the others and has been seen using this power to better supervise them during battle and even airlift his allies (was seen carrying Disruptor during their last fight with Disruptor). How he accomplishes flight is unknown, but it is likely someform of levitation or anti-gravity flight since his suit doesn't possess jet boosters, wings, or any other visible means of airborn transportation. Dreadbolt's teleportation ability enables him to make quick getaways as well as get the drop on his opponents during battle, and it was in fact this very power which he used to kill his father, teleporting him into a brick wall (half of Bolt's body was hideously fused with the wall while his son Dreadbolt was left completely unscathed). Dreadbolt's teleportation does have limits however, Terry himself has admitted that unlike the Clock King's "port charges" he cannot teleport other people with him, an inability which at one point forced him to choose between abandoning his teammates or saving himself when all the freed heroes victimized by the Darkside Club ganged up on them (he surprisingly chose to stay and fight with his team to the bitter end). His statement about his own limits, as well as the manner in which he killed his father, suggests that while Terry can infact take other people with him during his teleports, his passengers cannot come out intact. Terry's energy projection attacks appear to be electrical in nature and can be fired from his hands like bolts of artificial lightning or condensed in his fists for hand-to-hand combat. Dreadbolt can control the strength and voltage of these attacks so they can either stun or kill his enemies, even reduce them to charred skeletons. Dreadbolt's suit is presumably insulated/protected from his own electrical attacks, but his fight with his father and later the Bang Baby hero Static reveals that he can be harmed by electricity from outside sources. Terry's father was a special effects technician before he turned to a life of supervillainy, and taught his son everything he knew about the business so that he could run his special effects company in his place while he was off doing evil deeds. Based on this alone it can be assumed that Terry probably has the best understanding of how his costume and all its special features works out of all the Terror Titans, and he may or may not have made his own suit rather than been granted it by the Clock King, or at the very least he knew how to maintain it himself. He along with the rest of his team were given combat training by Ravager for a short time during her stay at the Darkside Club, and while most of this "training" involved all four of them getting their butts kicked by her on a regular basis she herself admitted that they were showing improvement, a fact best evidenced by how Terry and his team nearly overwhelmed Ravager after she set out to foil Clock King's master plan. Harley Quinn Sometime later, Bolt was recruited to join Task Force X, and sacrificed himself for his teammates in space. Personality Terry Boltlansky is adept at keeping a cool head under pressure and doesn't allow personal feelings to blind his judgment during combat situations (such as when he urged Disruptor to forget about her petty vendetta against Ravager right before entering into a battle so it wouldn't endanger the team, despite his own dislike for her), all of which are traits which led Clock King to selecting him to be leader of the Terror Titans (few can effectively lead a team consisting of normally distrustful & ill-tempered teenage psychopaths). Also, unlike most supervillain leaders Terry has shown a great deal of loyalty toward his fellow Terror Titans, especially after Clock King betrayed them all & he chose to fight with his team against a horde of angry heroes rather than bail and save himself. The only exception to this was when Ravager had Disruptor at her mercy & he stated he didn't care what Ravager did to her, saying they were all ultimately expendable. However, this was before Clock King betrayed them & Disruptor was the least popular member of their team to begin with, so its unlikely he would have shown similar callousness if Persuader or Copperhead had been in danger. Despite being team leader Terry was the last Terror Titan to commit an actual murder, taking his own dad's life to prove his worth & earn the team's respect. However, his first kill dwelled heavily on him at first, though in the end he confided to Persuader that in a way he was relieved his father was gone for he'd always made him feel inadequate & unwanted despite always having admired and wanting to be like him. Terry is a villain who's coldblooded to his enemies but supportive toward his friends.


--- [The Megalist of Comic Book Secret Identities - How To Love Comics] ---
21 captures 24 Apr 2016 - 14 Jun 2025 May JUN Jul 14 2024 2025 2026 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Common Crawl Web crawl data from Common Crawl. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20250614012447/https://www.howtolovecomics.com/2016/04/20/secret-identities/ Loader Please wait while your request is being verified...


--- [Terrence Bolatinsky (New Earth) | DC Database | Fandom] ---
Terrence "Terry" Bolatinsky is the leader of the Terror Titans and the son of the supervillain Bolt, eventually inheriting his alias after killing him. History Powers and Abilities Abilities Paraphernalia Equipment - Bolt Suit Related - 12 Appearances of Terrence Bolatinsky (New Earth) - 10 Images featuring Terrence Bolatinsky (New Earth) - Quotations by or about Terrence Bolatinsky (New Earth) - Character Gallery: Terrence Bolatinsky (New Earth) Footnotes | Titans Villain(s) This character has been primarily an enemy of the Teen Titans, the Titans, or any of the other various Titans incarnations. This template will categorize articles that include it into the "Titans Villains" category. |


--- [Lawrence Bolatinsky (New Earth) | DC Database | Fandom] ---
Former special effects artist Larry Bolatinsky became an assassin and criminal for-hire after designing a suit giving him the ability to teleport and fire energy blasts, calling himself Bolt. History Pre-Crisis He has been a member of the Suicide Squad, Killer Elite, The Society and the Injustice League. He would later be killed by his son, Terry Bolatinsky, who took up his supervillain legacy underneath the name "Dreadbolt" as a member of the Terror Titans. Clock King required that Terry kill his father as a rite of passage, and Terry teleported Bolt halfway through a wall.[1] Post-Crisis Bolt first appears in the Post-Crisis New Earth during the Identity Crisis storyline. Bolt arranged a deal with two young thugs Benny Addison and Travonn "Trey" Williams where he would purchase a Lex Luthor Wasuit from them, which is being housed in a crate. However, Bolt has no intention of paying them for the warsuit and intends to steal it from them. Bolt sits nearby the meeting location in a parked car and talks on the phone with the Calculator, paying him for information about the thugs and whatever heroes may be nearby. Calculator informs Bolt of their identities, and says that there is an 18% chance that they are armed. Calculator also informs him that the Elongated Man Ralph Dibny and Firehawk are nearby. Bolt decides to strike and teleports to the alley in front of the thugs in order to steal the warsuit. They angrily demand their money when they see him, and Bolt decides to brazenly tell them he plans on robbing them. Bolt's arrogant overconfidence in revealing his hand would be his undoing, as they actually were armed. They immediately pull out their guns and preemptively shoot him down. Bolt is heavily injured with numerous bullet wounds, and Benny panics and flees while calling for Trey to do the same, but Trey's conscience gets the better of him as Bolt desperately pleads for him to call an ambulance. Trey calls one, and assures Bolt that he will be fine.[2] Trey then flees the scene with Bolt.[3] Meanwhile, Dibny receives a call for help from his wife Sue who is being attacked at home, and as such cannot intervene to aid Bolt or apprehend the two thugs as he has Firehawk fly him home. Bolt survives his bullet wounds after being treated at St. John's Hospital in Opal City, but is still severely injured and bedridden. Bolt is visited by the Electrocutioner after the latter kills the hospital staff outside, and Bolt tells him where to find the thugs who shot him so that the Electrocutioner can give Lex Luthor back his warsuit.[3] Powers and Abilities Abilities Paraphernalia Equipment - Bolt Suit Notes - Although this character was originally introduced during DC's Earth-One era of publication, their existence following the events of the 1985–1986 miniseries Crisis on Infinite Earths remains intact. However, some elements of the character's Pre-Crisis history may have been altered or removed for Post-Crisis New Earth continuity, and should be considered apocryphal. - Lawrence Bolatinsky's last name was revealed on his memorial vault placard at the JLA Hall of Justice in Blackest Night #3. Trivia - Bolt has been known to keep his money in multiple bank accounts around the world. One of these, in Antigua, was "clipped" by the D.E.O. in 2004. Another, in Latvia, was drained of its funds in order to buy information from the Calculator.[2] Related - 81 Appearances of Lawrence Bolatinsky (New Earth) - 13 Images featuring Lawrence Bolatinsky (New Earth) - 1 Quotations by or about Lawrence Bolatinsky (New Earth) - Character Gallery: Lawrence Bolatinsky (New Earth) Footnotes | Secret Society of Super-Villains member | | Suicide Squad member | | Black Lantern Corps member | | Injustice League member |
