=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kameron Michaels | RuPaul's Drag Race Wiki | Fandom]
Kameron Michaels, a renowned American drag queen, gained fame as a runner-up on Season 10 of RuPaul's Drag Race. His exceptional lip-syncing skills made him the first contestant to survive three consecutive lip-syncs and to lip-sync six times in a single season. He also appeared in RuPaul's Drag Race Vegas Revue and returned as a Lip Sync Assassin in All Stars 6.
URL: https://rupaulsdragrace.fandom.com/wiki/Kameron_Michaels

[Drag Race Kameron Michaels on being masculine and quitting hairdressing | Metro News]
Jun 30, 2018 · Kameron Michaels lip synced six times in a row Picture: VH1) Kameron Michaels was RuPaul’s Drag Race season 10’s lip sync assassin, having survived four lip syncs in a row. Throw in the two ...
URL: https://metro.co.uk/2018/06/30/made-feel-ok-kameron-michaels-opening-drag-doors-masculine-people-7672986/

['RuPaul's Drag Race' season 10 finale: Kameron Michaels exit interview]
Kameron Michaels lip synced a record six times before claiming a runner-up spot on RuPaul’s Drag Race’s Season 10 finale. The soft-spoken queen, who middled throughout much of the competition, was able to knock out Asia O’Hara during round ...
URL: https://www.mic.com/articles/190067/rupauls-drag-race-season-10-finale-kameron-michaels-exit-interview

[r/rupaulsdragrace on Reddit: Fun Fact: Kameron Michaels (S10) and Trinity The Tuck (AS4) are the only queens to lip-sync 6 TIMES in one season! (list of lip-syncs in the comments)]
But does the Charlie Hides lip sync count. She could have done that in the old lady suit after a 5th of vodka and still won. ... But she didn't, and that's why it counts. ... It was like that moment you saw peppermint hike up that pink gown. It’s about to go down. ... Jujubee will hopefully snatch that title from trinity in all stars 5! ... Kameron is such an amazing lip-sync assassin.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/rupaulsdragrace/comments/gnhkt5/fun_fact_kameron_michaels_s10_and_trinity_the/

[RuPaul's Drag Race: Queens Who Have Lip Synced The Most]
Aug 13, 2020 · There's no denying that Kameron Michaels was the Lip Sync Assassin of Drag Race season 10, having won (or tied) every lip sync that she was a part of except for the very last Lip Sync For The Crown. Between her lip syncs on episodes 9, 10, 11, and 12, Kameron arrived at the finale undefeated. During the finale, Kameron won the seminal lip-sync, but lost to Aquaria on the final performance. All ...
URL: https://screenrant.com/rupauls-drag-race-queens-lip-synced-most/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kameron Michaels | RuPaul's Drag Race Wiki | Fandom] ---
Kameron Michaels is an American drag queen and performer from Nashville, Tennessee. He competed on Season 10 of RuPaul's Drag Race, where he placed as a runner-up. Kameron appeared in RuPaul's Drag Race Vegas Revue, where he is followed as he prepares to lead the "RuPaul's Drag Rave Live!" residency show, among other queens. He would later return as a Lip Sync Assassin in All Stars 6. He won his lip-sync against Ra'Jah O'Hara, revealing that the group chose to send home Eureka. Quick Answers What season of RuPaul's Drag Race did Kameron Michaels compete in? American drag queen Kameron Michaels participated in Season 10 of RuPaul's Drag Race, finishing as a runner-up. She also featured in RuPaul's Drag Race Vegas Revue and made a comeback as a Lip Sync Assassin in All Stars 6. Provided by: Fandom What is Kameron Michaels known for in the drag community? Kameron Michaels, a renowned American drag queen, gained fame as a runner-up on Season 10 of RuPaul's Drag Race. His exceptional lip-syncing skills made him the first contestant to survive three consecutive lip-syncs and to lip-sync six times in a single season. He also appeared in RuPaul's Drag Race Vegas Revue and returned as a Lip Sync Assassin in All Stars 6. Provided by: Fandom What was Kameron Michaels' role in RuPaul's Drag Race Vegas Revue? In RuPaul's Drag Race Vegas Revue, Kameron Michaels was followed as he prepared to spearhead the 'RuPaul's Drag Rave Live!' residency show. Following this, he returned to the franchise as a Lip Sync Assassin in All Stars 6, winning a lip-sync against Ra'Jah O'Hara. Provided by: Fandom Who did Kameron Michaels win his lip-sync against in All Stars 6? Kameron Michaels, the American drag queen from Nashville, emerged victorious in a lip-sync battle against Ra'Jah O'Hara during All Stars 6, leading to Eureka's elimination. Provided by: Fandom Why did Kameron Michaels choose the name 'Kameron'? The name 'Kameron' was chosen by Kameron Michaels, a contestant on RuPaul's Drag Race Season 10, for its androgynous nature, avoiding an overly feminine name. The surname 'Michaels' was selected for its robust sound and uniqueness among Nashville's drag queens, with no link to Chad Michaels. Provided by: Fandom Drag Name Origin[] He chose "Kameron" because it sounds androgynous, as he did not want an overly-feminine name. His last name has no association with Chad Michaels. Rather, he chose it because it sounded strong and no other drag queen in Nashville had taken the name.[2] Track Records[] | Statistics | USA Season 10 | |---|---| | Ranking: | 2nd/3rd Place (Runner-Up) | | Maxi Challenges Won: | 1 (Ep. 8) | | Mini Challenges Won: | 0 | | Times as Team Captain: | 0 | | Times in Bottom: | 3 (Eps. 9, 10, 11) | | Episode Eliminated: | Episode 14 | Memorable Quotes[] RuPaul's Drag Race Season 10[] - "Well I auditioned for Pit Crew, but this is gonna be way more fun!" (entrance quote) - "I'm one of the quiet ones, I hope somebody picks me." - "I'm the quiet one!" - "Bodybuilder Barbie!" - *deep voice* "Unless you're into that." - "Far too much sass, way too much ass." - (In a Southern accent) "She already catchin' an attitude! I know we just met, but I'm gonna get a little closer to you, because, I mmhm, I can't, my mama taught me better than that!" (during the Bossy Rossy challenge) - (In a Southern accent) "About 127 times! I'm sorry, Ross, can I, *huffs tucking panties* y'all makin' me nervous! *huffs tucking panties*" (during the Bossy Rossy challenge) - "Cher and cockroaches!" - "I believe that's doable." - "Eating all the beef, Ru." (as Chyna in the Snatch Game) - "She's interested in herself, and nobody else!" (describing her mermaid runway) - "She looks fishy and she knows it." - "I just feel naked!" - "I'm trying to be koi!" - "Little boy from Tennessee, meant for more, top four. Hey, you there, now pay attention to me! We've fought for our right to love and be who we be. We will not be silenced, and I won't sit down. I'm gay and proud, might not be loud, but I've found my sound! Kids called me names, tried to tear me down, but I had big dreams, bigger than my small town. Now, here I am, with mama Ru, American, just like you." (verse in American) Trivia[] - Kameron was heavily bullied by straight men at a young age. - When asked, no one from the Season 10 cast picked Kameron to win out of the Top 4. - Before Drag Race, Kameron worked as a hairdresser.[3] - He typically does fantasy and creature makeup and is known for being a "muscle queen". - Everything he wore in his promo look was given to him by production, except the jacket. He despised the shoes that they gave her for the shoot. - On the first episode of Season 10, he was nicknamed "the trade of Season 10" by Monique Heart. - Kameron Michaels is: - the first contestant in a regular season and third overall to survive three lip-syncs in a row. - the first queen to lip-sync a total of 6 times in one season, consecutively, later being followed by Silky Nutmeg Ganache. - Kameron is also the 6th queen to lip-sync for her life 3 times in a row after Jaidynn Diore Fierce, Latrice Royale, Milan, Akashia and The Vixen. - the first contestant to survive their third lip-sync and not be eliminated in the next episode. - the fourth queen to enter the competition with the surname "Michaels", after Morgan, Chad and Kenya. However, he is not related to any of them in terms of "Drag Family". - the only contestant to place joint 2nd/3rd in a season with a full Lip Sync for the Crown finale format, alongside co-runner-up Eureka. - He holds the record for second most lip-syncs wins in one season (5) and for lip-syncing in the most separate episodes (5, alongside BenDeLaCreme) behind Symone who has won 7 lip syncs in a single season, across 6 separate episodes. - Kameron was a contestant on RuPaul's Drag Race: Live in Las Vegas. Other contestants include Eureka O'Hara, Naomi Smalls, and Shannel. - Kameron was diagnosed with ADHD in 2023.[4] Gallery[] Videos[] External Links[] References[] | [] | Winner | Aquaria | |---|---| | Runners-Up | 2nd & 3rd: Eureka & Kameron Michaels • 4th: Asia O'Hara | | Other Contestants | 5th: Miz Cracker • 6th: Monét X Change (Miss Congeniality) • 7th: The Vixen • 8th: Monique Heart • 9th: Blair St. Clair • 10th: Mayhem Miller • 11th: Dusty Ray Bottoms • 12th: Yuhua Hamasaki • 13th: Kalorie Karbdashian-Williams • 14th: Vanessa Vanjie Mateo | | Host | RuPaul | | Judges | RuPaul • Michelle Visage • Carson Kressley • Ross Mathews | | Pit Crew | Jason Carter • Bryce Eilenberg |


--- [Drag Race Kameron Michaels on being masculine and quitting hairdressing | Metro News] ---
Kameron Michaels was RuPaul’s Drag Race season 10’s lip sync assassin, having survived four lip syncs in a row. Throw in the two performances in the final, and you can make that six – and even though the final battle ended up being a three-way due to Ru saving both Aquaria and Eureka, Kameron wasn’t phased. Speaking to Metro.co.uk, she said: ‘For me, I’m going to do what I do best. I lip synced six times in a row, I think that’s a record. So the final lip sync, it was like a Gladiator moment, let me into the arena, I’m ready to go, as usual. ‘But I did think it was clever, as it was Jessie J, Ariana and Nicki Minaj. Ohhh, there’s three of us and three parts of the song! Pretty clever.’ Kameron made it to the final lip sync after beating Asia O’Hara in a performance of Nasty by Janet Jackson – but this battle became even more of a talking point than the final face-off, due to Asia’s butterfly stunt going seriously wrong. She said: ‘Apparently there’s a meme of my face – I haven’t looked for that yet. I had no idea what happened. It was just another lip sync for me. I’m entertaining, my attention was on the audience, I’m not looking at her. The only thing I’m aware of is her presence in my peripheral vision, so I don’t bump into her. ‘So I had no clue what she was doing or what happened until the end of the show.’ Kameron may have made it all the way to being an alternate for eventual winner Aquaria, but she had a rocky road to the final – not only because of her multiple lip sync for your lifes, but due to the queens turning on her in the reunion show and accusing her of being arrogant. The 31-year-old said: ‘It was really shocking. I think you could see on my face how shocked I was, because I thought me and the girls had a really good relationship. As an introverted person, I don’t walk into a room and explain that I’m here, it’s not something that introverted people do. So I wasn’t aware that was affecting the girls. ‘So now I know some people might judge me for being introverted. But I’ve spoken to the girls and we’re fine now.’ Kameron – real name Dane Young – was nicknamed the trade of the season due to her gym-honed body and masculine out-of-drag persona, and her masculine boy image has apparently opened doors for many men who feel like they can’t do drag. She told us: ‘I think it’s a really important conversation to have. I’ve had so many guys that are reaching out into drag – maybe not performing, but just trying make-up – because I made them feel like it was OK. More Trending ‘Nobody should ever feel like they can’t do something. As long as it’s fun and they’re not hurting anybody, they should be able to do that, and if I’m the person who opened that door, then I’m happy.’ Kameron has never worked as a professional drag queen before, but after leaving hairstyling two weeks into Drag Race, she’s ready to make a living as Kameron. She said: ‘I’ve been performing before, but it was never a source of income for me before. I own a home in my city, and hairdressing gave me that. But talking to the other girls and them telling me I can be financially successful with this, I wasn’t very scared, I trusted them.’ RuPaul’s Drag Race season 10 is available to stream on Netflix. Got a showbiz story? If you've got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page - we'd love to hear from you. MORE: Kanye West can’t keep his eyes off Rihanna’s sexy dance moves – and Kim Kardashian is not happy


--- ['RuPaul's Drag Race' season 10 finale: Kameron Michaels exit interview] ---
‘RuPaul’s Drag Race’ season 10 finale: Kameron Michaels exit interview Kameron Michaels lip synced a record six times before claiming a runner-up spot on RuPaul’s Drag Race’s Season 10 finale. The soft-spoken queen, who middled throughout much of the competition, was able to knock out Asia O’Hara during round one of the finale’s lip syncs before facing off against Aquaria and Eureka for the crown. Mic spoke with Kameron Michaels about the elimination and what’s next for her drag career. Mic: Gotta begin by asking, how are you feeling this morning? Kameron Michaels: Absolutely incredible. Absolutely amazing. On top of the world. How were you feeling immediately after the finale taping, ‘cause there’s been a few weeks between filming and now? KM: I was very happy with my final performances. I was very happy with my onstage interview. It was a great final episode for me in terms of seeing Kameron coming out of her shell throughout the season. It was very heartwarming. Let’s talk finale. How did you prepare for a night that you knew was going to be so significant? KM: The crazy thing is we’ve been touring on the road. There’s been a lot of phone calls, a lot of emails, a lot of text messages to see who could make the costumes, the hair, the makeup, the jewelry, the nails, to make all that happen in time for the finale. It was very stressful and took a lot of meticulous planning to make that happen. You were one of the quieter queens during our one-on-one sitdowns during press week but observing you online recently, Kameron’s got a mouth on her. Has the show given Dane more confidence? KM: It’s given me more confidence because of the fans. Now that I am on my own, I feel free. It sucks that I didn’t realize my power while I was on set and that I couldn’t overcome the self-doubt that I had. For a while during the airing of the show, it seemed like you were consciously not posting boy pictures, and my sense was that that was in response to fan pushback. Can you elaborate on that? KM: I feel like I have an obligation to my fans now. I have to watch what I post because there’s a lot of young kids following me now. I feel like my Instagram page at the moment is very PG and I kinda think it needs to stay that way for a minute, maybe. That was one part of it. Then the other part is, you know, I was called “the trade of the season” and maybe subconsciously I was trying to prove that I don’t need to post a ton of boy pictures. I was doing drag far before I ever started working out and going to the gym and so I think I wanted people to pay more attention to my drag. And so yeah, I was avoiding boy pictures for a little while. Success on Drag Race is often predicated on a solid story arc for a queen, often centered on personal or professional growth. What do you think your arc was this season? KM: I think Kameron’s story was her coming out of her shell and learning to love herself. My recent stories have been talking a lot about introverts and how we deal with things. There’s a lot of self-doubt in that personality type and I think you see a lot of that play out on the show. Looking back at this experience, both the filming and the airing of the episodes, what was the high and what was the low? KM: I think the low for me was each time I lip synced I had to watch one of my sisters go home and feel partly responsible for that. I didn’t make the final decision. I just stood on stage and did what I was told to do. But it was never a good feeling to watch my sisters have to pack their bags and go home and that was always the low point for me. And then for a high point, the final four episode, filming that and realizing how much an iconic moment that was. It was a very, very long day filming that, a lot went into that episode, so in the moment I don’t think I got to appreciate it so much because we were trying to make sense of everything as best as we could. But that was a great feeling, being there with Eureka, Asia and Aquaria and getting to wear our final garments that we took the to show. A lot of the girls didn’t get to wear all their clothes and I got to wear every look that I brought and that’s a feat unto itself. How is the Kameron Michaels that first entered the workroom different than the Kameron Michaels I’m speaking to now? KM: She talks a lot. She is definitely more outgoing and more confident because I have to be, not only for myself but for the fans because I feel like I am a new personality type that hasn’t been seen on the show. And not seen. [Laughs] But yeah, I’m finding my confidence. I think when I walked into the workroom I was faking it. I think I was faking it and now I’m just doing it. What’s next for Kameron Michaels? KM: A lot of touring. A lot of gigs. I’m on the Werq the World Tour and then I’m on the 10s Across the Board tour. I’ll be all over the world doing that. And when I’m not doing that and have time to breathe and sit down I think people can expect some music from me about my journey on this season. It’s not being released right now. We wanted to release something for the finale, but I’m a perfectionist and until it reaches the point of perfection or at least to my standards I’m not going to release it, but it’s coming, it’s in the process. But I’ll find some time to be in the studio when I can be. Check out Mic’s exit interviews with week one’s eliminated queen Vanessa Vanjie Mateo, week two’s eliminated queen Kalorie Karbdashian Williams, week three’s eliminated queen Yuhua Hamasaki, week four’s eliminated queen Dusty Ray Bottoms, week five’s eliminated queen Mayhem Miller, week six’s eliminated queen Blair St. Clair, week seven’s eliminated queen Monique Heart, week eight’s eliminated queen The Vixen, week nine’s eliminated queen Monét X Change, week ten’s eliminated queen Miz Cracker and first eliminated top four finalist Asia O’Hara.


--- [r/rupaulsdragrace on Reddit: Fun Fact: Kameron Michaels (S10) and Trinity The Tuck (AS4) are the only queens to lip-sync 6 TIMES in one season! (list of lip-syncs in the comments)] ---
Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/rupaulsdragrace Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to rupaulsdragrace r/rupaulsdragrace • carlomartino Fun Fact: Kameron Michaels (S10) and Trinity The Tuck (AS4) are the only queens to lip-sync 6 TIMES in one season! (list of lip-syncs in the comments) Share Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 20, 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 2020 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2020 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation


--- [RuPaul's Drag Race: Queens Who Have Lip Synced The Most] ---
One of the best-known things about RuPaul's Drag Race is the iconic lip syncs that the queens provide every single season. On regular seasons, the Bottom Two contestants of the week battle each other out in a Lip Sync For Your Life. On All Stars, it is the top contestants of each given week that engage in a Lip Sync For Your Legacy. Given that many queens have returned to Drag Race time and time again, they were given several opportunities to showcase their lip-syncing abilities. Let's look back at the queens who have lip-synced the most. 14 Katya - 6 Katya competed on Drag Race season 7 and All Stars 2. On her original season, Katya lip-synced twice. Then, Katya went on to lip-sync four more times on All Stars. Overall, Katya has lip-synced six times in the RuPaul's Drag Race franchise. With that said, the queen has one of the worst lip sync track records on the show, having only won one of those six lip syncs. 13 Manila Luzon - 6 RuPaul's Drag Race season 3 runner-up and two-time All Stars contestant Manila Luzon has lip-synced six times throughout her many times on the show. All in all, Manila has won half of those lip syncs. First, Manila Luzon won a Lip Sync For Your Life on season 3 but lost the final Lip Sync For The Crown. Then, the queen had one lip-sync on All Stars 1, which she lost to Jujubee. Finally, Manila lip-synced three times on All Stars 4, accumulating two wins and one loss on that season. 12 Raven - 6 Between Drag Race season 2 and All Stars 1, Raven has had a rough ride on the show. With that said, the queen is known for winning every single lip-sync leading up to the finale, only to then ultimately lose the Lip Sync For The Crown twice. With four wins, Raven lost both times that she competed on a Lip Sync For The Crown. Nonetheless, it is still a very strong track record to have fought through six lip syncs on the show. 11 Alyssa Edwards - 6 Alyssa Edwards is one of the most beloved queens in RuPaul's Drag Race history. As a contestant on season 5 and All Stars 2, Alyssa had been a part of six lip syncs - including the famous "Shut Up And Drive" performance with Tatianna that is widely considered the best Drag Race lip sync of all time. Of those six lip syncs, Alyssa won four and lost two. 10 Kameron Michaels - 6 There's no denying that Kameron Michaels was the Lip Sync Assassin of Drag Race season 10, having won (or tied) every lip sync that she was a part of except for the very last Lip Sync For The Crown. Between her lip syncs on episodes 9, 10, 11, and 12, Kameron arrived at the finale undefeated. During the finale, Kameron won the seminal lip-sync, but lost to Aquaria on the final performance. All in all, the queen lip-synced six times on the show. 9 Detox - 6 Detox was a contestant on Drag Race season 5 and All Stars 2. Between those two seasons, the queen lip-synced six times on the show. Of that total, Detox won two lip syncs on season 5 and one on All Stars 2. On the other hand, the queen lost one lip-sync on her original season and lost two during her All Stars return. 8 Latrice Royale - 6 First, Latric Royale was a contestant on season 4, where she was crowned the Miss Congeniality. Then, the queen came back for seasons 1 and 4 of All Stars. Within those three seasons, Latrice Royale lip-synced six times and won (or tied) five times. The queen only lost the lip sync during her elimination on season 4 episode 11. 7 Kennedy Davenport - 6 Following her appearance as a Lip Sync Assassin on All Stars 5, Kennedy Davenport has also lip-synced six times on Drag Race. All in all, the queen has won three lip syncs and lost the other three, which makes her a formidable force when it comes to lip syncing on the show. 6 Shea Coulee - 6 Shea Coulee won the most maxi challenges on season 9 but wasn't able to defeat Sasha Velour on the Lip Sync For The Crown semifinals. However, the queen returned to All Stars 5 and won the season, accumulating quite a few more lip sync wins along the way. All in all, Shea has lip-synced six times on Drag Race and won five of them, having one of the most impressive track records in the history of the show. 5 Jujubee - 7 Before All Stars 5, Jujubee was the ultimate undefeated Lip Sync Assassin, having won all five lip syncs that she was a part of during Drag Race season 2 and All Stars 1. On All Stars 5, Juju lip-synced two more times: episode 3 and the finale. Unfortunately, the fan-favorite queen lost both of those lip syncs. Nonetheless, it is still very impressive that Jujubee has accumulated seven lip-syncs in the series. 4 BenDeLaCreme - 7 BenDeLaCreme has lip-synced seven times between Drag Race season 6 and All Stars 3. Of those seven lip syncs, Ben won four times and lost three times. This includes Ben's final lip-sync on All Stars 3, which she won but ultimately sent herself home. Nonetheless, BenDeLaCreme is part of a very select group of contestants to have lip-synced seven times on the show. 3 Shangela - 7 The legend of Shangela is that the queen has been on Drag Race more than anyone else. While that is not particularly true, Shangie has indeed lip-synced more than most other queens in the series. In total, Shangela has lip-synced seven times between her appearances on season 2, season 3, and All Stars 3. Of those seven lip syncs, Shangela only lost two, which were the lip syncs that got her eliminated from seasons 2 and 3. 2 Monet X Change - 8 Between Drag Race season 10, All Stars 4, and her appearance as a Lip Sync Assassin on All Stars 5, Monet X Change has lip-synced eight times on the show, putting her in second place on this ranking. Of those eight lip syncs, Monet won four times and lost three times, which is one of the strongest track records from queens on the show. 1 Trinity The Tuck - 9 The reigning lip sync queen of RuPaul's Drag Race is Trinity The Tuck, who lip-synced nine times on the series. First, Trinity lip-synced three times on season 9. Then, the queen returned for All Stars 4, where she lip-synced six times. Of those nine lip syncs, Trinity won (or tied) six times - which is more than any other queen in the history of the show.
