=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Janet Emerson Bashen - Wikipedia]
Janet Rita Bashen (née Emerson; born February 12, 1957) is an American entrepreneur, business consultant, and software inventor. Bashen is best known for patenting a web-based EEO software application, LinkLine, now known as Nalikah, to assist with equal employment opportunity investigations and claims tracking. Bashen is regarded as the first African American woman to obtain a web-based ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Janet_Emerson_Bashen

[African American history-makers in technology: Janet Emerson Bashen]
The Bashen Corp. became a leading human resources consulting firm that pioneered end-to-end equal employment opportunity (EEO) compliance administration services. The company struggled during its early years, but Bashen was able to make some major strides as a Black female president and CEO ...
URL: https://connectednation.org/blog/african-american-history-makers-in-technology-janet-emerson-bashen

[Janet Rita Emerson Bashen (née Emerson) • Edheads]
In January 2006, Bashen became the first African American woman to patent web-based EEO software (Nalikah, formerly known as LinkLine). In October 2002, Bashen Corporation was named one of America's entrepreneurial growth leaders by Inc. Magazine in its annual ranking of the nation's fastest-growing private companies, with an increase in ...
URL: https://edheads.org/text/janet-rita-emerson-bashen-nee-emerson/

[Biography of Janet Emerson Bashen, American Inventor]
Janet Emerson Bashen (born February 12, 1957) is an American inventor and entrepreneur and the first African-American woman to hold a patent for a software invention. The patented software, LinkLine, is a web-based application for Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) claims intake and tracking, claims management, and document management.
URL: https://www.thoughtco.com/janet-emerson-bashen-1991288

[Janet Emerson Bashen: African American Inventor]
Janet Emerson Bashen is the first African American female to hold a patent for a software invention. Her software, LinkLine, is a web-based application for EEO claims intake and tracking, claims management, document management and numerous reports.
URL: https://www.myblackhistory.net/Janet_Emerson_Bashen.htm


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Janet Emerson Bashen - Wikipedia] ---
Janet Rita Bashen (née Emerson; born February 12, 1957) is an American entrepreneur, business consultant, and software inventor. Bashen is best known for patenting a web-based EEO software application, LinkLine, now known as Nalikah, to assist with equal employment opportunity investigations and claims tracking. Bashen is regarded as the first African American woman to obtain a web-based software patent.


--- [African American history-makers in technology: Janet Emerson Bashen] ---
African American history-makers in technology: Janet Emerson Bashen Nashville, Tennessee (February 13, 2024) - To honor Black History Month, Connected Nation is paying tribute to some of the most influential African American innovators in technology. Janet Emerson Bashen is a female technologist, entrepreneur, and software inventor who knew from an early age that she wanted to use her voice to help make sure minorities and people of color receive equal rights, especially in the workplace. But this did not happen overnight. Bashen started her higher education journey at Alabama A&M but later moved to Houston, Texas. She picked up her schooling at the University of Houston, where she received a degree in legal studies and government. She continued her postgraduate studies at the University of Texas at Austin, McCombs School of Business, and Rice University’s Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Administration. After college, Bashen decided to go after her dreams and start her own company. In 1994, she established the Bashen Corp. from her kitchen table with little to no money, but a lot of ambition. The Bashen Corp. became a leading human resources consulting firm that pioneered end-to-end equal employment opportunity (EEO) compliance administration services. The company struggled during its early years, but Bashen was able to make some major strides as a Black female president and CEO and grow the business. In January 2006, she became the first African American female to hold a patent for software invention. Her software, Nalikah, formerly Linkline, is a web-based application for EEO claims intake and tracking, claims management, document management, and numerous reports. She was issued U.S. patent No. 6,985,922 for a “Method, Apparatus and System for Processing Compliance Actions over a Wide-Area Network.” The patent is just one of her lifetime accomplishments. In October 2003, Bashen was given the Pinnacle Award by the Houston Citizens Chamber of Commerce. She is also the recipient of the prestigious Crystal Award, presented by the National Association of Negro Business and Professional Women’s Clubs Inc., for achievement in business. Bashen is an amazing role model for anyone wanting to get into the human resource or tech space. She is committed to equal opportunity for all Americans and will not stop until she achieves it. Related Black History Month articles: - Connected Nation celebrates outstanding Geospatial Analyst Nii Aryee during Black History Month - Meet the African American tech leaders who are working to close the Digital Divide for minorities in America - Celebrating the role of Black churches in bridging the Digital Divide - How Technology Can Help Uplift Minorities in Higher Education - Celebrating Project Manager Tanisha Osborne during Black History Month


--- [Janet Rita Emerson Bashen (née Emerson) • Edheads] ---
Your access to this service has been limited. (HTTP response code 503) If you think you have been blocked in error, contact the owner of this site for assistance. If you are a WordPress user with administrative privileges on this site, please enter your email address in the box below and click "Send". You will then receive an email that helps you regain access. | Block Reason: | Access from your area has been temporarily limited for security reasons. | |---|---| | Time: | Wed, 4 Mar 2026 6:38:37 GMT | Wordfence is a security plugin installed on over 5 million WordPress sites. The owner of this site is using Wordfence to manage access to their site. You can also read the documentation to learn about Wordfence's blocking tools, or visit wordfence.com to learn more about Wordfence. Click here to learn more: Documentation Generated by Wordfence at Wed, 4 Mar 2026 6:38:37 GMT. Your computer's time: .


--- [Biography of Janet Emerson Bashen, American Inventor] ---
| Dec | JAN | Feb | | 14 | || | 2025 | 2026 | 2027 | History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently. There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at http://www.archivebot.com. ArchiveBot's source code can be found at https://github.com/ArchiveTeam/ArchiveBot.


--- [Janet Emerson Bashen: African American Inventor] ---
Experts in Medicine There is a well-documented trend of growth among black or African American female medical school graduates. Since 1986, the proportion of female graduates has increased 53%, and the proportion of male graduates has declined 39%. Janet Emerson Bashen is the first African American female to hold a patent for a software invention. Her software, LinkLine, is a web-based application for EEO claims intake and tracking, claims management, document management and numerous reports. Janet Emerson. Bashen was issued U.S. patent #6,985,922 on January 10 2006, for a “Method, Apparatus and System for Processing Compliance Actions over a Wide Area Network.” “My success and failures make me who I am and who I am is a black woman raised in the south by working class parents who tried to give me a better life by fostering a fervent commitment to succeed.” – Janet Emerson Bashen. Janet Emerson Bashen, formerly Janet Emerson, attended Alabama A&M until she married and relocated to Houston, Texas, where she now resides. Bashen’s educational background includes a degree in legal studies and government from The University of Houston, and postgraduate studies at Rice University’s Jesse H Jones Graduate School of Administration. Bashen is also a graduate of Harvard University’s “Women and Power: Leadership in a New World.” Bashen will soon be pursuing her LLM from Northwestern California University School of Law. Janet Emerson Bashen is the founder, President and CEO of Bashen Corporation, a leading human resources consulting firm that pioneered end-to-end EEO compliance administration services. Established in September 1994, Bashen built the business from her home office, which was little more than her kitchen table with no money, one client and a fervent commitment to succeed. Janet Emerson Bashen and Bashen Corporation are continually recognized nationally for their business achievements. In May, 2000, Bashen testified before Congress regarding the effect of the FTC opinion letter on third party discrimination investigations. Bashen, along with Texas Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, were key figures in the change in legislation. Janet Emerson Bashen maintains a very strong community commitment and is on the Board of Directors for the North Harris Montgomery County Community College District Foundation, and chairs the Corporate Advisory Board of the National Association of Negro Business and Professional Women’s Clubs, Inc., She is also a Board member of the Prep Program, a non-profit organization dedicated to preparing at-risk student athletes for college. In October 2002, Bashen Corporation was named one of America’s entrepreneurial growth leaders by Inc Magazine in its annual Inc 500 ranking of the nation’s fastest-growing private companies, with an increase in sales of 552%. In October 2003, Bashen was given the Pinnacle Award by the Houston Citizens Chamber of Commerce. Bashen is also the recipient of the prestigious Crystal Award, presented by the National Association of Negro Business and Professional Women’s Clubs, Inc., for achievement in business. Don't miss a single page. Find everything you need on our complete sitemap directory. Listen or read the top speeches from African Americans. Read more Read about the great African Americans who fought in wars. Read more African Americans invented many of the things we use today. Read more Thin jazz, think art, think of great actors and find them here. Read more Follow the history of Black Americans from slave ships to the presidency. Read more Olympic winners, MVPS of every sport, and people who broke the color barrier. Read more These men and women risked and sometimes lost their life to fight for the cause. Read more Meet the people who worked to change the system from the inside. Read more Visit my RedBubble page and use Michael Arnold Art to create greeting cards, T-shirts, mugs, and more. The variety and impressive numbers of mammals, birds and marine wildlife in Alaska draw visitors from all over the world. For some travelers, Alaska is wilderness, at least compared to what they may know from back home. The pristine wilderness of Alaska is, perhaps, the last vestige of thriving populations of North American wildlife. Where else can you see polar bears, bald eagles, blue and humpbacked whales, gray wolves, grizzly bears, orcas, lynx, moose, and hundreds of other rare and endangered species in their original and undisturbed natural habitats? Enjoy our website filled with original signed acrylic paintings by award winning Artist Michael Arnold. Located in Citrus County Florida, Michael Arnold is a the editor at the Citrus County Chronicle. When he's not busy being an editor, he is an avid artist who enjoys painting in a variety of styles. We hope you take the time to click on each image to see a larger view and to learn what the artist, Michael Arnold has to say about his paintings. As dog owners and people who care deeply for animals and wildlife, we wanted our Dog Encyclopedia to be a website that could empower pet owners to create the most positive, loving environment for their dogs. Dog Encyclopedia realizes that owning a dog is like adding a new member to your family. Floridian Nature has everything your are looking for in Florida nature. The wildlife of Florida is rich and varied, yet most of us are familiar with only a dozen or so species: the "well known endangered species such as manatees and panthers; those, like raccoons and squirrels, that have adapted to urban environments; the frightening alligators and black bears; and those like the armadillo who can't seem to cross the road. Yet they are just a few of the many animal species found in Florida.
