=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[John Lennon's psychedelic Rolls-Royce - Wikipedia]
Lennon and his wife Yoko Ono donated it to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum for a tax deduction in 1977, and it has been widely exhibited ever since. When sold in 1985, it was the most expensive automobile ever to be auctioned at that time. The limousine is now owned by the Royal British Columbia Museum in Victoria, British Columbia.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Lennon%27s_psychedelic_Rolls-Royce

[The Beatles' Rolls-Royce | Audiovisual Media Preservation Initiative]
The Beatles' Rolls-Royce John Lennon and Yoko Ono donated this iconic 1965 Rolls-Royce Phantom V touring limousine to the Smithsonian's Cooper-Hewitt Museum in 1977. Its decorative Romany-style floral painting by U.K. artist Steve Weaver originated through a collaboration with Lennon in early 1967, and the car became a zeitgeist symbol of psychedelic esprit. Lennon's artistic customization ...
URL: https://avpreservation.si.edu/beatles-rolls-royce

[John Lennon's psychedelic Rolls Royce Phantom V - Far Out Magazine]
Jan 11, 2023 · In 1977 Lennon donated the famous Phantom V to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum at the Smithsonian Institute to cover a teensy IRS problem. The Cooper-Hewitt Museum then sold the psychedelic car in 1985 for a whopping $2.3 million to a Canadian businessman, and since 1993 it has been in the Royal British Columbia Museum in Canada–still perfuming the ...
URL: https://faroutmagazine.co.uk/john-lennon-psychedelic-rolls-royce/

[John Lennon's psychedelic Rolls-Royce - Wikipedia]
Artist Steve Weaver embellished the car with elaborate, bright swirls and floral motifs in the psychedelic style associated with the Beatles in that era, and the vehicle became a sensation. Lennon and his wife Yoko Ono donated it to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum for a tax deduction in 1977, and it ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Lennon's_psychedelic_Rolls-Royce

[John Lennon's psychedelic Rolls-Royce in Victoria, Canada ...]
John Lennon of The Beatles purchased a Rolls-Royce Phantom V and in 1967 decided to have the car repainted bright yellow and decorated with Romany motifs. Artist Steve Weaver added a psychedelic touch and the vehicle became a sensation. Lennon and his wife Yoko Ono donated the car to the Cooper Hewitt Museum in 1977 and the car has been widely exhibited ever since. In this picture, the car is ...
URL: https://virtualglobetrotting.com/map/john-lennons-psychedelic-rolls-royce/view/google/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [John Lennon's psychedelic Rolls-Royce - Wikipedia] ---
John Lennon's psychedelic Rolls-Royce is an art car created in 1967 and later displayed in many museums.
After previously owning a used Rolls-Royce, John Lennon of the Beatles ordered a new bespoke Rolls-Royce Phantom V limousine in December 1964. Originally painted matte black, the car was delivered six months later in June 1965. When Lennon was in Spain filming How I Won the War in 1966, the car was damaged, including scuffing of its finish. Lennon decided to have the car repainted bright yellow and decorated with motifs from Romany decorative arts. Artist Steve Weaver embellished the car with elaborate, bright swirls and floral motifs in the psychedelic style associated with the Beatles in that era, and the vehicle became a sensation.
Lennon and his wife Yoko Ono donated it to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum for a tax deduction in 1977, and it has been widely exhibited ever since. When sold in 1985, it was the most expensive automobile ever to be auctioned at that time. The limousine is now owned by the Royal British Columbia Museum in Victoria, British Columbia.


--- [The Beatles' Rolls-Royce | Audiovisual Media Preservation Initiative] ---
The Beatles' Rolls-Royce John Lennon and Yoko Ono donated this iconic 1965 Rolls-Royce Phantom V touring limousine to the Smithsonian’s Cooper-Hewitt Museum in 1977. Its decorative Romany-style floral painting by U.K. artist Steve Weaver originated through a collaboration with Lennon in early 1967, and the car became a zeitgeist symbol of psychedelic esprit. Lennon’s artistic customization of such a proud symbol of British aristocratic materialism and privilege embodied his ironic flagrance of anti-authority and wealth, and the car was used frequently in the UK by fellow Beatles and other rocker pals prior to its relocation (with the Lennons) to New York City circa 1970. AVMPI Curator of Audiovisual Media Walter Forsberg has authored an authoritative forthcoming publication and photo portfolio about the vehicle's residence at the Smithsonian Institution from 1977 until its auction in 1985. Below are some photographic highlights: Image below: Cooper-Hewitt exhibition designer Robin Parkinson backs the car into the front doors of the museum's Carnegie Mansion entrance at East 91st Street in Manhattan, in 1977. The car was exhibited from October 3, 1978 through January 7, 1979 as the showpiece of the museum's Ornament in the 20th Century exhibition. Image below: Presidential daughter-in-law Caron Carter with Smithsonian Secretary S. Dillon Ripley in the National Museum of History and Technology (NMHT) parkade, July 11, 1978. Photo by Richard K. Hofmeister, SI Photo Services. Courtesy of Smithsonian Institution Archives, image #78-9907-18. Image below: Photo by Dane Penland, SI Photo Services, 1978. Courtesy of Smithsonian Institution Archives, image #80-10425.


--- [John Lennon's psychedelic Rolls Royce Phantom V - Far Out Magazine] ---
The most famous Rolls Royce in the world: John Lennon and his psychedelic Phantom V “Imagine no possessions”, John Lennon once sang, but there was one prized material item that proved particularly close to his heart. A Rolls Royce is already considered the pinnacle of road-going luxury, and when you delve into the winged brand, you find that a Phantom V is the pièce de résistance of motoring opulence. Only 517 of these smooth-rolling machines were ever made. Lennon committed what many petrolheads deem sacrilege when he pimped his elusive ride into the equivalent of a moving LSD tab. But Lennon is Lennon, and of those 517 Phantom Vs only one has a truly iconic place in history and the column inches to prove it. The mammoth vehicle was hardly subtle in the first place. It weighed in at 2.5 tonnes. With a 3.6-metre wheelbase and a 6.2L V8 engine roaring under the hood, the Phantom was a car usually reserved for traditional royalty. The British Royal family owned two of them, for the Queen and Queen Mother. Needless to say, Lennon chose a different tact when he purchased one in 1964. The famed ‘Smart’ Beatle chose to adorn his exclusive car with a kaleidoscopic swirl of groovy imagery. Years later, he would have the gall to call out the pressures of press intrusion – imagine the number of eyeballs he pulled towards himself cruising around the Wirral in this souped-up rider. However, comical contradictions aside, the car is somewhat of an oddity when you consider the legacy of the frontman and what he stood for. Granted, he was only 23 or 24 when he purchased the car at some point in 1964, and his ‘no possessions’ ethos was not fully formed, but it is, nevertheless, a world away from the humility that he would go on to preach. As it happens, possessions were actually at the heart of The Beatles’ early motivations. As Paul McCartney would reveal when he was asked about the supposed anti-materialistic tenets behind the band: “That’s a myth,” he countered in a New Yorker interview, “John and I literally used to sit down and say, ‘Now, let’s write a swimming pool’.” Lennon’s Rolls Royce purchase was still clearly during the phase when they were shaking off their working-class roots and grasping at the bounty that was falling in front of them with each new hit. In fact, when Lennon purchased his Mulliner Park Ward Phantom V, the near legally blind Beatle couldn’t even drive, and he wouldn’t pass his test until a year later, in 1965. Despite that, he was happy to shed a reported £11,000 on the vehicle (£178,669 in 2023). Initially, it was finished in Valentine’s black, which may well be the coolest colour name we’ve come across. Everything was black except for the radiator (though Lennon did ask for the radiator to be black but Rolls point-blank refused), even the wheels. The car then featured some incredible customisations, including black leather upholstery, a cocktail cabinet with fine-wood trim, a writing table, reading lamps, a seven-piece his-and-hers luggage set, and a Perdido portable television. However, when the ‘Fab Four’ got the ‘60s fully swinging, black fell out of favour – it was as though Lennon hoisted the car’s coolness with his own groovy petard. Around this time, Lennon mused, ‘what good was an expensive, lumbering mammoth, if it wasn’t in keeping with the zeitgeist?’ With that times a-changin’ mindset at the forefront of his thinking, the bespectacled Beatle reportedly submitted a seven-page list of expensive alterations to the garage. The changes included a backseat that could be converted into a double bed, a Philips Auto-Mignon AG2101 “floating” record player that stopped needless needle jumping, a radio telephone, and a cassette tape deck. Speakers were even mounted in the front wheel wells so that Lennon and whoever he was travelling with could broadcast their passing thoughts to the wider world via a microphone – as if he didn’t have enough sway as it was! As for the exterior, after using the car in Spain while filming Richard Lester’s How I Won the War, it needed a new paint job, and Lennon was decidedly bored of the all-black look. The Beatle commissioned a private paint job from coach makers J. P. Fallon Ltd. to be decorated like a Romany gypsy wagon—only more shagadelic ‘60s chic. Whether or not he had the famous ‘Furthur’ – the converted school bus that housed beat writers like Ken Kesey and Tom Wolfe on their wayward, cultural road trip around the US – in mind is unknown, but it certainly ended up looking like that. Artist Steve Weaver painted the red, orange, green and blue swirls, gorgeous floral side panels and even a Libra on the roof. It was a clear message that Lennon was not going to be one of the establishment’s playthings; he was his own man. He even went on to buy a second all-white Phantom V to match his ‘white period’ and cruised the streets like a giant gas-guzzling dove. But it’s the psychedelic incarnation that surmises the most iconic legacy. When the vehicle was shipped to the States in 1969, it became a rock ‘n’ roll plaything. In a symbolic show of Lennon’s burgeoning socialism, he was happy to lend the ride to the likes of Bob Dylan, The Rolling Stones, and The Moody Blues – some say that even sniffer dogs now refuse to approach the seats without hazmat suits on. But pithiness aside, beyond the mile counter, this car says a lot about the journey of pop culture. From its odd place in Lennon’s gnosticism to the colourful era-defining iconography, the car is an edifice of the strange ways of the counterculture revolution. So where is it now, you ask? In 1977 Lennon donated the famous Phantom V to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum at the Smithsonian Institute to cover a teensy IRS problem. The Cooper-Hewitt Museum then sold the psychedelic car in 1985 for a whopping $2.3 million to a Canadian businessman, and since 1993 it has been in the Royal British Columbia Museum in Canada–still perfuming the area with a whiff of famed herb. Never Miss A Beat The Far Out Beatles Newsletter All the latest stories about The Beatles from the independent voice of culture. Straight to your inbox.


--- [John Lennon's psychedelic Rolls-Royce - Wikipedia] ---
John Lennon's psychedelic Rolls-Royce is an art car created in 1967 and later displayed in many museums.
After previously owning a used Rolls-Royce, John Lennon of the Beatles ordered a new bespoke Rolls-Royce Phantom V limousine in December 1964. Originally painted matte black, the car was delivered six months later in June 1965. When Lennon was in Spain filming How I Won the War in 1966, the car was damaged, including scuffing of its finish. Lennon decided to have the car repainted bright yellow and decorated with motifs from Romany decorative arts. Artist Steve Weaver embellished the car with elaborate, bright swirls and floral motifs in the psychedelic style associated with the Beatles in that era, and the vehicle became a sensation.
Lennon and his wife Yoko Ono donated it to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum for a tax deduction in 1977, and it has been widely exhibited ever since. When sold in 1985, it was the most expensive automobile ever to be auctioned at that time. The limousine is now owned by the Royal British Columbia Museum in Victoria, British Columbia.


--- [John Lennon's psychedelic Rolls-Royce in Victoria, Canada ...] ---
John Lennon of The Beatles purchased a Rolls-Royce Phantom V and in 1967 decided to have the car repainted bright yellow and decorated with Romany motifs. Artist Steve Weaver added a psychedelic touch and the vehicle became a sensation. Lennon and his wife Yoko Ono donated the car to the Cooper Hewitt Museum in 1977 and the car has been widely exhibited ever since. In this picture, the car is displayed at the Royal British Columbia Museum in Victoria, British Columbia. Vehicle - Misc, Buildings - Museums Links: en.wikipedia.org By: tallturtle82
