=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Awards for Swiss filmmakers at European film festivals]
Nov 16, 2009 · At the 6th Seville European Film Festival, video artist Pipilotti Rist was awarded the Special Prize of the Jury President, British cinematographer and director Nicolas Roeg, for her feature film “Pepperminta” on November 14.
URL: https://www.swissfilms.ch/en/news/awards-for-swiss-filmmakers-at-european-film-festivals/2609

[Pipilotti Rist - Wikipedia]
Pipilotti Elisabeth Rist, birth name Elisabeth Charlotte Rist (born 21 June 1962 in Grabs) is a Swiss visual artist best known for creating experimental video art and installation art. Her work is often described as surreal, intimate, abstract art, having a preoccupation with the female body.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pipilotti_Rist

[Pipilotti Rist - Times Square NYC]
Jan 1, 2017 · In 2009, Rist was awarded the Joan Miró Prize for her wide-ranging creative activity and her outstanding contribution to the current artistic scene. For her first feature film, 'Pepperminta' (2009), in 2009 she received the President of the Jury's Extraordinary Award at Spain's 6th Seville European Film Festival and in 2010 she received the ...
URL: https://www.timessquarenyc.org/artists/pipilotti-rist

[Pipilotti Rist | The Artist]
For her first feature film, Pepperminta (2009), Rist won the Extraordinary Award from the President of the panel of judges of the sixth Seville European Film Festival in Spain, and in 2010 the Cutting the Edge Award from the Miami International European Film Festival.
URL: https://www.mca.com.au/pipilotti-rist/the-artist/

[Pipilotti Rist: Sip my Ocean | Australian Arts Review]
Nov 1, 2017 · For her first feature film, Pepperminta (2009), Rist won the Extraordinary Award from the President of the panel of judges of the sixth Seville European Film Festival in Spain, and in 2010 the Cutting the Edge Award from the Miami International European Film Festival.
URL: https://artsreview.com.au/pipilotti-rist-sip-my-ocean/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Awards for Swiss filmmakers at European film festivals] ---
Awards for Swiss filmmakers at European film festivals 16.11.2009 Film director Séverine Cornamusaz was honoured with no less than three awards for her fiction film debut “Coeur Animal” at the 58th Filmfestival Mannheim-Heidelberg, which ended on November 15. At the 6th Seville European Film Festival, video artist Pipilotti Rist was awarded the Special Prize of the Jury President, British cinematographer and director Nicolas Roeg, for her feature film “Pepperminta” on November 14. Further awards this past weekend went to Eric Bergkraut for his documentary film “Letter to Anna” in Compiègne and to Antonin Schopfer in Leeds for the short film “Déjà”. The Swiss-French-Serbian coproduction “Ordinary People” was the grand winner of the 19th Film Festival Cottbus with the Main Prize, amounting to 18,000 euros, as well as the Special Prize for Outstanding Actor. The international jury of the 58th Filmfestival Mannheim-Heidelberg awarded the film “Coeur Animal” with a Special Mention because: “Led by a promising director, exceptional actors manage to tell a seemingly archaic story so convincingly that it touches the audience’s heart.” The FIPRESCI jury awarded its prize to Séverine Cornamusaz’s first fiction film for: “its unflinching depiction of a man’s development from an instinctual brute to an emotional human being.” The Ecumenical Film Prize jury also honoured “Coeur Animal” with an award: “for its subtle and precise depiction of a process of humanisation.” The Special Prize of the Jury President, Nicolas Roeg, at the 6th Seville European Film Festival went to Pipilotti Rist for “Pepperminta”, her first film for the cinema, which was screened in the competition together with 15 other European films. Eric Bergkraut’s cinematic homage to Russian journalist Anna Politkowskaja, who was murdered three years ago, was honoured with the Audience Prize at the 8th Festival du Film de Compiègne. And at the 23rd International Film Festival in Leeds, the short film “Déjà” was awarded a Special Mention in the Silver Méliès Competition for short films. The international jury of the 19th Film Festival Cottbus awarded the Main Prize for Best Film to Serbian director Vladimir Perisic for the film “Ordinary People” (coproduction: Prince Film). In its statement, the festival’s international jury emphasised the “extraordinary artistic value of the film, including all the components of a really great work: a strong story, outstanding director’s and DP’s work, wonderful acting and the astonishingly refined construction of the film.” Zurich/Geneva, November 16, 2009 http://www.iffmh.de http://www.festivaldesevilla.com http://festivaldufilm.compiegne.fr http://www.leedsfilm.com http://www.filmfestivalcottbus.de The Special Prize of the Jury President, Nicolas Roeg, at the 6th Seville European Film Festival went to Pipilotti Rist for “Pepperminta”, her first film for the cinema, which was screened in the competition together with 15 other European films. Eric Bergkraut’s cinematic homage to Russian journalist Anna Politkowskaja, who was murdered three years ago, was honoured with the Audience Prize at the 8th Festival du Film de Compiègne. And at the 23rd International Film Festival in Leeds, the short film “Déjà” was awarded a Special Mention in the Silver Méliès Competition for short films. The international jury of the 19th Film Festival Cottbus awarded the Main Prize for Best Film to Serbian director Vladimir Perisic for the film “Ordinary People” (coproduction: Prince Film). In its statement, the festival’s international jury emphasised the “extraordinary artistic value of the film, including all the components of a really great work: a strong story, outstanding director’s and DP’s work, wonderful acting and the astonishingly refined construction of the film.” Zurich/Geneva, November 16, 2009 http://www.iffmh.de http://www.festivaldesevilla.com http://festivaldufilm.compiegne.fr http://www.leedsfilm.com http://www.filmfestivalcottbus.de


--- [Pipilotti Rist - Wikipedia] ---
Pipilotti Elisabeth Rist, birth name Elisabeth Charlotte Rist (born 21 June 1962 in Grabs) is a Swiss visual artist best known for creating experimental video art and installation art. Her work is often described as surreal, intimate, abstract art, having a preoccupation with the female body.
Rist's work is known for its multi-sensory qualities, with overlapping projected imagery that is highly saturated with color, paired with sound components that are part of a larger environment with spaces for viewers to rest or lounge. Rist's work often transforms the architecture or environment of a white cube gallery into a more tactile, auditory and visual experience.




--- [Pipilotti Rist - Times Square NYC] ---
Pipilotti Rist was born in Grabs in the Swiss Rhine Valley in 1962. Since emerging on the international art scene in the mid-1980s and 1990s with famous single channel videos such as 'I'm Not The Girl Who Misses Much' (1986) and 'Pickelporno' (1992), Rist has had numerous solo and group exhibitions and is one of the most celebrated video artists working today. In 2009, Rist was awarded the Joan Miró Prize for her wide-ranging creative activity and her outstanding contribution to the current artistic scene. For her first feature film, 'Pepperminta' (2009), in 2009 she received the President of the Jury's Extraordinary Award at Spain's 6th Seville European Film Festival and in 2010 she received the 'Cutting the Edge Award' by Miami International European Film Festival. Her recent solo exhibitions include: 'Pixel Forest' New Museum, New York NY (2016). ‘Dein Speichel ist mein Taucheranzug im Ozean des Schmerzes’ Kunsthaus Zürich, Zurich, Switzerland (2016); ‘Komm Schatz, wir stellen die Medien um & fangen nochmals von vorne an’ Kunsthalle Krems, Krems, Austria (2015); 'Pipilotti Rist. A la belle étoile', Henry Art Gallery, University of Washington, Seattle WA (2012); 'Eyeball Massage', Hayward Gallery, London, England (2011).Open My Glade (Flatten), 2000, video installation by Pipilotti Rist (video still)© Pipilotti Rist. Initially commissioned by Public Art Fund, New York. Courtesy the artist, Hauser & Wirth and Luhring Augustine.


--- [Pipilotti Rist | The Artist] ---
No content


--- [Pipilotti Rist: Sip my Ocean | Australian Arts Review] ---
Featuring dazzling environments that plunge viewers into colourful projections which explore the relationship between nature, the body and technology, the Museum of Contemporary Art Australia (MCA) presents a major new exhibition by pioneering Swiss artist Pipilotti Rist. Exclusive to Sydney as part of the Sydney International Art Series, Pipilotti Rist: Sip my Ocean presents the spectrum of the artist’s ground-breaking practice, from her early single-channel videos of the 1980s to her large-scale audio-visual installations and recent immersive environments. Her work is an ode to the heart and the intellect, to the big emotions that sustain us as human beings and to the beauty of the world and the universe around us. “Pipilotti Rist’s work was first shown at the MCA in 2001 in the exhibition Art/Music: Rock, Pop, Techno, and in 2014 her work featured in the 19th Biennale of Sydney: You Imagine What You Desire – captivating people who sat mesmerised in the gallery for hours,” said MCA Director, Elizabeth Ann Macgregor OBE. “We’re thrilled to continue our long-standing relationship with Rist for the Sydney International Art Series and to give our large and diverse audience the opportunity to see the most comprehensive exhibition of her work ever to be staged in Australia.” As one of the first generation of artists to grow up with televisions in their living rooms, Rist’s work references the history of new media, with her early videos presented on monitors and her recent works projected across ceilings, floors and walls. From the beginning Rist has been an innovator, readily engaging with advances in technology and new ways of making art. Her work reflects the symbiotic relationship between technology and biology, presenting both as an intrinsic part of human experience. Occupying the entire third floor of the Museum, along with breakout works on the second and floor. Key works from Rist’s career form this exhibition including her earliest most well-known dual-channel video projections Sip my Ocean (1996) and Ever is Over All (1997). The exhibition is choreographed as a sequence of different viewing experiences. Viewers are invited to sit down on oversized red sofas in Das Zimmer (The Room) (1994/2017); to walk through a magical forest of hanging lights in Pixelwald Motherboard (2016), and a maze of floating fabric in Administrating Eternity (2011); or to lie down and look up at 4th Floor to Mildness (2016), and rest on the floor cushion to watch Lobe of the Lung (2009). “Pipilotti Rist brings ideas and feelings together, and does so through the prism of video,” said Exhibition curator and MCA Senior Curator, Natasha Bullock. “Her imaginary worlds carve a unique vision, with all the attendant depth and weight of painting – an art form that has culturally sustained us, and our imaginations, for centuries. Rist, however paints with lights cameras and keyboards.” Pipilotti Rist was born in Grabs, Rhine Valley, Switzerland, in 1962. The second of five children, her given name is Elisabeth Charlotte Rist. When she left home at 19 she began introducing herself as Pipilotti. This was a combination of her childhood nicknames – Lotti, from her second name, and Pippi, after the children’s book character Pippi Longstocking, known for her quirky character and extraordinary strength. Rist studied at the University of Applied Arts in Vienna and Basel School of Design. She rose to prominence in the mid-1980s and 1990s with her single-channel videos, including I’m Not The Girl Who Misses Much (1986) and Pickelporno (Pimple Porno) (1992). Her work Ever Is Over All (1997) was awarded the Premio 2000 for outstanding achievement at the Venice Biennale in 1997. For her first feature film, Pepperminta (2009), Rist won the Extraordinary Award from the President of the panel of judges of the sixth Seville European Film Festival in Spain, and in 2010 the Cutting the Edge Award from the Miami International European Film Festival. In 2009, Rist was awarded the Joan Miró Prize by the Fundació Joan Miró, Barcelona for her outstanding creativity, and in 2012, was awarded the Harper’s Bazaar China Art Prize; in 2013 the Zurich Festival Prize; and in 2014 the Prix Meret Oppenheim. Rist’s works have been exhibited widely at institutions and festivals worldwide. Her recent solo shows include: Pipilotti Rist: Pixel Forest, New York (2016); Pipilotti Rist: Your Saliva is my Diving Suit in the Ocean of Pain, Switzerland (2016); Gentle Wave in Your Eye Fluid, China (2013); and Pipilotti Rist: À la belle étoile, Seattle (2012). Pipilotti Rist: Sip my Ocean Museum of Contemporary Art Australia, George Street, The Rocks (Sydney) Exhibition continues to 18 February 2017 Admission fees apply For more information, visit: www.mca.com.au for details. Image: Pipilotti Rist, Administrating Eternity, 2011, (installation view), Pipilotti Rist: Eyeball Massage, Hayward Gallery London, London, 2011, courtesy the artist, Hauser & Wirth and Luhring Augustine © Pipilotti Rist – photo by Linda Nylind
