=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[These 'Drag Race' queens won 4 maxi challenges (or more!)]
Jul 7, 2025 · Sharon Needles was the first queen in Drag Race herstory to win four maxi challenges. Throughout season 4, Sharon won the design challenge (episode 1), the commercials challenge (episode 3), the...
URL: https://www.out.com/gay-tv-shows/rupauls-drag-race-queens-with-4-wins-won-most-challenges

[MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of MANY is consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number. How to use many in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/many

[RuPaul's Drag Race: Every Queen Who Won 4 Maxi Challenges In ...]
Mar 20, 2021 · In all of RuPaul's Drag Race herstory, only four queens have managed to win four maxi challenges during a particular season. The first contestant to do so was Sharon Needles, who went on to win season 4.
URL: https://screenrant.com/rupauls-drag-race-queens-four-challenge-wins-list/

[MANY | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary]
We use the quantifiers much, many, a lot of, lots of to talk about quantities, amounts and degree. We can use them with a noun (as a determiner) or without a noun (as a pronoun). …
URL: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/many

[Four Challenge Wins - RuPaul's Drag Race Wiki | Fandom]
Contestants who won a total of four challenges in a single season.
URL: https://rupaulsdragrace.fandom.com/wiki/Category:Four_Challenge_Wins


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [These 'Drag Race' queens won 4 maxi challenges (or more!)] ---
Must win four or more challenges to get on this ride. RuPaul's Drag Race has proven over the years that winning is pretty great, but it isn't everything. Some of the most successful queens in the entire franchise haven't been crowned America's Next Drag Superstar, nor did they enter the Drag Race Hall of Fame. The series has even officially embraced "losing is the new winning!" as an official motto. Nonetheless, it's always exciting to find out just how talented a Drag Race competitor is — to the point of succeeding in several challenges within the same season. This list celebrates the queens who made herstory by winning four maxi challenges in a single season of the flagship U.S. season, as well as two "honorable mentions" for going above and beyond and winning an astonishing total of five maxi challenges. Discover which queens won four maxi challenges (or more!) within a single U.S. season of the franchise. RuPaul's Drag Race and RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars are both available for streaming on Paramount+. Sharon Needles won 4 maxi challenges on 'Drag Race' season 4. Sharon Needles on RuPaul's Drag Race season 4. Logo TV Sharon Needles was the first queen in Drag Race herstory to win four maxi challenges. Throughout season 4, Sharon won the design challenge (episode 1), the commercials challenge (episode 3), the improv challenge (episode 9), and the ball challenge (episode 11). Sharon Needles won Drag Race season 4. Shea Couleé won 4 maxi challenges on 'Drag Race' season 9. Shea Couleé on RuPaul's Drag Race season 9. VH1 She didn't come to play… she came to slay! The one and only Shea Couleé won four challenges on Drag Race season 9: the improv challenge (episode 4), the Rusical (episode 5), the commercials challenge (episode 9), and the ball (episode 11). Shea Couleé finished Drag Race season 9 as a top 3 finalist. RELATED: A guide to Ironheart, the MCU series starring Shea Couleé Gigi Goode won 4 maxi challenges on 'Drag Race' season 12. Gigi Goode on RuPaul's Drag Race season 12. VH1 Gigi Goode was a fierce competitor throughout season 12 of Drag Race. She reached the grand finale alongside Jaida Essence Hall and Crystal Methyd with four maxi wins under her belt: the ball challenge (episode 4), the Snatch Game (episode 6), the Rusical (episode 7), and the Las Vegas-themed Rumix challenge (episode 12). Gigi Goode finished Drag Race season 12 as a top 3 finalist. Symone won 4 maxi challenges on 'Drag Race' season 13. Symone on RuPaul's Drag Race season 13. VH1 Drag superstar and Out100 honoree Symone also won four challenges during her journey on Drag Race season 13: the first Rumix challenge (episode 2) an acting challenge (episode 4), the makeover challenge (episode 10), and the commercials challenge (episode 11). Symone won Drag Race season 13. Sasha Colby won 4 maxi challenges on 'Drag Race' season 15. Sasha Colby on RuPaul's Drag Race season 15. MTV Sasha Colby was crowned America's Next Drag Superstar after one of the most spectacular runs in Drag Race season 15. The G.O.D.D.E.S.S. of drag won the commercials challenge (episode 3), the ball (episode 9), the improv challenge (episode 10), and the Rumix challenge (episode 14). Sasha Colby won Drag Race season 15. RELATED: Sasha Colby is the ultimate mother, calls Chappell Roan her daughter at the VMAs Sapphira Cristál won 4 maxi challenges on 'Drag Race' season 16. Sapphira Cristál on RuPaul's Drag Race season 16. MTV During season 16, Sapphira Cristál became the first queen in herstory to win three consecutive maxi challenges in a flagship season of Drag Race. Overall, Sapphira won the talent show (episode 1), the Rumix challenge (episode 10), the comedy/presentation challenge (episode 11), and the interior design challenge (episode 12). Sapphira Cristál finished Drag Race season 16 as the runner-up. Plane Jane won 4 maxi challenges on 'Drag Race' season 16. Plane Jane on RuPaul's Drag Race season 16. MTV Plane Jane, who competed against Sapphira Cristál, also won four challenges in season 16. This marked the first-ever flagship season of Drag Race to feature two queens with four maxi challenge wins. The Boston queen won the talent show (episode 2), the Snatch Game (episode 8), the interior design challenge (episode 12), and the makeover challenge (episode 13). Plane Jane finished Drag Race season 16 as a top 3 finalist. Onya Nurve won 4 maxi challenges on 'Drag Race' season 17. Onya Nurve on RuPaul's Drag Race season 17. MTV Onya Nurve is the latest addition to the "four maxi challenge wins" club while competing on Drag Race season 17. The Cleveland-based queen won a singing challenge (episode 4), the Snatch Game (episode 7), an acting challenge (episode 11), and the stand-up comedy challenge (episode 12). It do take Nurve! Onya Nurve won Drag Race season 17. RELATED: Drag Race winner Onya Nurve has the crown and the vision Alaska won 4 maxi challenges on 'All Stars 2.' Alaska on 'RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars' season 2. Logo TV After finishing as runner-up in season 5, Alaska came back to All Stars 2 feeling ready to secure her place in the Drag Race Hall of Fame. In the lead-up to the grand finale, Alaska won four maxi challenges: the Snatch Game (episode 2), an acting challenge (episode 4), the stand-up comedy challenge (episode 5), the commercials challenge (episode 6). Alaska won Drag Race All Stars season 2. BenDeLaCreme won 5 maxi challenges on 'All Stars 3.' BenDeLaCreme on RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 3. VH1 BenDeLaCreme steamrolled the competition on All Stars 3 — breaking a new record of five maxi challenge wins over the course of the season. Unfortunately, sending that many girls home eventually prompted DeLa to quit the show, but her journey over the course of the season was still sickening! On All Stars 3 alone, DeLa won the variety show (episode 1), the Rusical (episode 2), the improv challenge (episode 3), the Snatch Game (episode 4), and the girl-groups challenge (episode 6). BenDeLaCreme placed 6th (after eliminating herself from the season) on Drag Race All Stars season 3. RELATED: BenDeLaCreme on the politics and perspectives of The Jinkx & DeLa Holiday ShowThe Jinkx & DeLa Holiday Show Trinity The Tuck won 4 maxi challenges on 'All Stars 4.' Trinity The Tuck on RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 4. VH1 Besides rebranding her original name (Trinity Taylor) to Trinity The Tuck, this queen had an excellent track record on All Stars 4. She won the variety show (episode 1), the Snatch Game (episode 3), the design challenge (episode 7), and the acting challenge (episode 9). In the end, Trinity won the season in a tie with Monét X Change. Even though this outcome was confusing at first, each of those two queens secured her spot in the Drag Race Hall of Fame. Trinity The Tuck won Drag Race All Stars season 4. Trinity The Tuck won 4 maxi challenges on 'All Stars 7.' Trinity The Tuck on RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 7, a.k.a. the all-winners season of Drag Race. Paramount+ The Tuck came back for the first-ever all-winners edition of Drag Race and competed with other legendary legends like herself. On All Stars 7, Trinity also delivered in maxi victories — winning the Snatch Game (episode 2), the ball (episode 3), the design challenge (episode 7), and the comedy roast challenge (episode 10). Trinity The Tuck finished Drag Race All Stars season 7 as a top 4 finalist. Jinkx Monsoon won 5 maxi challenges on 'All Stars 7.' Jinkx Monsoon on RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 7, a.k.a. the all-winners season of Drag Race. Paramount+ Nearly a decade after winning Drag Race season 5, Jinkx Monsoon also competed on All Stars 7 and, similarly to her Seattle drag sister BenDeLaCreme, won a whopping five maxi challenges. The "water off a duck's back" legendary legend won the Snatch Game (episode 2), the improv challenge (episode 4), the stand-up comedy challenge (episode 5), the commercials challenge (episode 9), and the comedy roast challenge (episode 10). Jinkx Monsoon won Drag Race All Stars season 7. RELATED: We were always right about Jinkx Monsoon — and the world is catching up Jimbo won 4 maxi challenges on 'All Stars 8.' Jimbo on RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 8. Paramount+ Following her fan-favorite status on Canada's Drag Race season 1 going home way too early on RuPaul's Drag Race UK vs the World, Jimbo became the first-ever queen from an international franchise to compete in the overall U.S. series. Jimbo literally dominated All Stars 8 by winning an acting challenge (episode 2), the commercials challenge (episode 4), the Snatch Game (episode 5), and the comedy roast challenge (episode 9). Jimbo won Drag Race All Stars season 8. Angeria Paris VanMicheals won 4 maxi challenges on 'All Stars 9.' Angeria Paris VanMicheals on RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 9. Paramount+ The winner of All Stars 9, Angeria Paris VanMicheals, entered the Hall of Fame after dominating the season and winning four maxi challenges. Overall, Angie won the Rumix (episode 1), the comedy roast (episode 6), an acting challenge (episode 7), and the final talent show finale challenge (episodes 11-12). Angeria Paris VanMicheals won Drag Race All Stars season 9. Plastique Tiara won 4 maxi challenges on 'All Stars 9.' Plastique Tiara on RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 9. Paramount+ All Stars 9 was a fabulous Ru-demption journey for many queens, such as season 11 star Plastique Tiara, who not only showcased her insane runway presentations but also her natural talents as an entertainer. Plastique won four challenges during this season: the ball challenge (episode 2), the commercials challenge (episode 5), the comedy roast challenge (episode 6), and the design challenge (episode 8). Plastique Tiara placed 4th-8th on Drag Race All Stars season 9 as one of five queens who weren't in the top 3. RELATED: Plastique Tiara surpasses Trixie Mattel, becomes most-followed Drag Race star Roxxxy Andrews won 4 maxi challenges on 'All Stars 9.' Roxxxy Andrews on RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 9. Paramount+ Roxxxy Andrews was another stellar competitor on All Stars 9 who gave Angie, the eventual winner, a run for her money. Roxxxy's track record included wins in the makeover/girl-groups challenge (episode 4), the commercials challenge (episode 5), the design challenge (episode 8), and the lip sync challenge (episode 10). Roxxxy Andrews finished Drag Race All Stars season 9 as a top 3 finalist. Ginger Minj won 4 maxi challenges on 'All Stars 10.' Ginger Minj on RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 10. Paramount+ Ginger Minj won four consecutive challenges on All Stars 10, otherwise known as the first-ever Tournament of All Stars. Overall, Ginger's wins included a design challenge (episode 7), a girl-groups challenge (episode 8), an improv challenge (episode 9), and the Snatch Game episode (episode 10).


--- [MANY Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 : consisting of or amounting to a large but indefinite number worked for many years the many advantages of an education 2 : being one of a large but indefinite number many a man many another student see also: plural in construction 1 : a large but indefinite number a good many of them 2 : the great majority of people the many Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [RuPaul's Drag Race: Every Queen Who Won 4 Maxi Challenges In ...] ---
No content


--- [MANY | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary] ---
many determiner, pronoun uk /ˈmen.i/ us /ˈmen.i/A1 I don't have many clothes. as many If there were as many women as there are men in parliament, the situation would be very different. as many as As many as (= the surprisingly large number of) 6,000 people may have been infected with the disease. as many again There are already twelve bottles of wine, so if I buy as many again (= another twelve bottles) we'll have enough. a good many A good many people who voted for her in the last election will not be doing so this time. a great many A great many books have been written on this subject. in as many She had five children in as many (= in the same number of) years and decided it was enough.


--- [Four Challenge Wins - RuPaul's Drag Race Wiki | Fandom] ---
Contestants who won a total of four challenges in a single season. Drag Race Franchise[] Sapphira Cristál, Season 16 Trinity the Tuck, Season 4 Trinity the Tuck, Season 7 Angeria Paris VanMicheals, Season 9 Bimini Bon Boulash, Season 2 Cheddar Gorgeous, Season 4 Stephanie "La Botota" Fox, Season 1 Other Franchises[] Muffy Fishbasket, Season 1 All items (42)
