=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Leonard P. Zakim - Wikipedia]
He and his wife Joyce had three children: Josh, Deena and Shari. Zakim was also co-founder of A World of Difference Institute, an anti-bias educational project formed in Boston in 1986. The project has been adapted in 29 other cities and six counties. [4]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leonard_P._Zakim

[Leonard P. Zakim Facts for Kids]
Leonard Paul "Lenny" Zakim (born November 17, 1953 – died December 2, 1999) was an important leader in civil rights and religious understanding in Boston. He was known for bringing different groups of people together. Lenny Zakim passed away in 1999 after a five-year fight with a type of ...
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Leonard_P._Zakim

[Body & Soul with Gail Harris - PBS]
Lenny Zakim lived long enough to see one more birthday with his wife Joyce, and their three children, Josh, Deena and Shari. He died on December 2, 1999 at the age of 46. Program Description Lenny ...
URL: https://www.pbs.org/bodyandsoul/212/lenny.htm

[Leonard Zakim's widow, Joyce Zakim and their children Deena, Shari ...]
BOSTON, MA - OCTOBER 4: Leonard Zakim's widow, Joyce Zakim (right) and their children (from left) Deena, Shari and Josh (not visible) listen to Bruce Springsteen performing "Thunder Road" at the Leonard P. Zakim Bunker Hill Bridge dedication ceremony October 4, 2002 in Boston, Massachusetts.
URL: https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/leonard-zakims-widow-joyce-zakim-and-their-children-deena-news-photo/1460352

[Son of late Boston ADL legend Leonard Zakim gets Dems' nod for Mass ...]
Jun 5, 2018 · Both Galvin, who has served six terms, and Zakim will be on the Sept. 4 primary ballot. Zakim touted his candidacy as a “bridge to progress” — a play on the bridge over the Charles River named...
URL: https://www.jta.org/2018/06/05/politics/son-late-boston-adl-legend-leonard-zakim-gets-dems-nod-mass-secretary-state


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Leonard P. Zakim - Wikipedia] ---
Leonard Paul Zakim (November 17, 1953 – December 2, 1999) was a Jewish American religious and civil rights leader in Boston. Zakim died in 1999 after a five-year battle with bone-marrow cancer. Boston's Leonard P. Zakim Bunker Hill Bridge was named in his honor.


--- [Leonard P. Zakim Facts for Kids] ---
Leonard P. Zakim facts for kids Leonard Paul "Lenny" Zakim (born November 17, 1953 – died December 2, 1999) was an important leader in civil rights and religious understanding in Boston. He was known for bringing different groups of people together. Lenny Zakim passed away in 1999 after a five-year fight with a type of cancer that affects bone marrow. The famous Leonard P. Zakim Bunker Hill Bridge in Boston was named in his honor, showing how much he meant to the city. Contents Who Was Lenny Zakim? Where Did Lenny Zakim Grow Up? Lenny Zakim was born in Clifton, New Jersey. From a young age, he became very interested in civil rights. This interest grew after he experienced anti-semitism (prejudice against Jewish people) when he was a boy. He wanted to make sure everyone was treated fairly. What Was Lenny Zakim's Education? Lenny went to American University in Washington, DC, where he earned his first degree. Later, he studied law at the New England School of Law and became a lawyer in 1978. After finishing law school, he moved to the Boston area and lived there for the rest of his life. How Did Lenny Zakim Start His Career? In 1978, Lenny worked on the campaign for Michael Dukakis, who was running to be the Governor of Massachusetts again. Even though the campaign didn't win, this experience was very important for Lenny. It helped him get involved in politics and meet people who would become important friends and partners in his work. In 1979, Lenny joined the Anti-Defamation League (ADL). The ADL is an organization that fights against hate and prejudice. He started as their New England Civil Rights director and later became the New England director for the entire organization in 1984. Lenny and his wife, Joyce, had three children: Josh, Deena, and Shari. Lenny Zakim's Work for Civil Rights What Was the A World of Difference Institute? Besides his work with the ADL, Lenny Zakim helped create something called "A World of Difference Institute." This project started in Boston in 1986. It's an educational program designed to teach people about fairness and how to fight against prejudice. This program became very popular and has been used in many other cities and areas across the country. What Was the Black-Jewish Seder? Lenny Zakim and the Reverend Charles Stith started an annual Black-Jewish Seder in Boston. A Seder is a special meal celebrated by Jewish people during Passover. This event brought together African American and Jewish communities to share a meal and learn about each other's cultures and histories. It became the largest Black-Jewish Seder in the United States and inspired similar events with Catholic, Protestant, and Jewish people across the country. How Did Lenny Zakim Bring People Together? Lenny was very good at using his connections with political leaders, religious leaders, and even sports stars to create community programs. One example is "Team Harmony," a large anti-racism event for teenagers that brought together 12,000 young people. During the last years of his life, while battling his illness, Lenny started the "Lenny Zakim Fund." This fund helps fight poverty and racism in Boston. Not long before he passed away, he organized a special trip for Catholic and Jewish leaders to Rome with his friend, Cardinal Bernard Law. During this trip, he even met Pope John Paul II. Lenny Zakim's Political Connections How Did Lenny Zakim Work in Politics? Lenny Zakim was a member of the Massachusetts Democratic State Committee, which is a group that helps guide the Democratic Party in Massachusetts. He continued to work on political campaigns, including those for Governor Dukakis. He was also a close friend and advisor to Steven Grossman, who led the Democratic Party in Massachusetts and later across the country. Lenny believed that personal relationships were key to making a difference. He once said, "I am a firm believer that relationships count more than institutions." He felt that when you know someone, you start to care about the issues important to them. Lenny Zakim and Cardinal Law His friendship with Cardinal Law was especially important. They were friends even before Law became a cardinal. In 1985, after Law became a cardinal, he gave his first sermon in Boston about fighting anti-semitism. In 1986, Lenny and Cardinal Law traveled to Poland together. They visited the Auschwitz concentration camp, a place where many Jewish people were killed during World War II. They spoke to Catholic groups there about the importance of fighting anti-semitism. Honors and Legacy What Awards Did Lenny Zakim Receive? Lenny Zakim received many awards for his work in human rights. For bringing together Catholics and Jews in Boston, he was honored by Pope John Paul II with the Knighthood of St. Gregory during his trip to Rome in November 1999. He also received the Urban League's Community Service Award and the Catholic Charities Medal. Brandeis University gave him an honorary degree for his leadership. The Leonard P. Zakim Bunker Hill Bridge The Leonard P. Zakim Bunker Hill Bridge is a major bridge in Boston that crosses the Charles River. It carries Interstate 93 and US 1. This bridge was completed in 2003 as part of a huge construction project called the Big Dig. It was named in Lenny Zakim's honor to remember his important work for civil rights and bringing people together. Other Tributes to Lenny Zakim Even in the world of technology, Lenny Zakim's name lives on. A special computer program called an IRC bot used by the World Wide Web Consortium (an organization that helps create internet standards) is named "Zakim." It's named after him because he gave a voice to people, and also after the bridge that connects communities.


--- [Body & Soul with Gail Harris - PBS] ---
Lenny's Story: Cancer and the Quality of Life Lenny Zakim Lenny Zakim's 45th birthday in November 1998 was one he wasn't sure he would live to see, because three years earlier he was diagnosed with multiple myeloma, an incurable malignancy of the bone marrow. At the time Body & Soul began filming his journey, Zakim had undergone a harrowing stem cell transplant and full-body radiation, but still had cancer. He was certain, however, that the complementary therapies he had incorporated into his battle with the disease had improved the quality of his days. An activist by vocation, Zakim found the energy to wage his own public awareness campaign so that more people could know of the full range of choices they have when faced with a diagnosis of cancer. "I had a really good life. And the diagnosis of cancer was the end of that life as I knew it. Being told you have cancer is still, I think, the three worst words you can hear in your entire life. When you're diagnosed with cancer, you are stripped of titles, you're stripped of previous power, ideas of power, illusions of control. Cancer is a disease that doesn't just affect your body, it affects your mind, it affects your soul, it affects your heart. It affects every relationship you have. "I think the biggest key to combinant therapies is that it's something you can do to get back your life. You can't just rely on the doctors. You can't just rely on your caregivers. You can't operate like that. "The problem was that I had not been given a menu of all the available choices. I had certain friends who said, you should try acupuncture or you should do this, and I wasn't close-minded to it. I just didn't do it. Then I went to see David Eisenberg at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. What David told me to do were very basic things. Exercise. Drink more water. Meditation. Acupuncture. Guided imagery. Massage therapy. "Nutrition I knew nothing about. No one told me that there are certain foods you should eat when you're on chemotherapy that will help you, that will make you less sick or less nauseous. There are lots of things you can do nutritionally to help you deal with the effects of hyperactivity you get from steroids and other things. "A support group. It's at least a critical part of what I call complementary therapy. The ability to talk to people who have been through what you have been through is a major boost. It doesn't alleviate your pain and it doesn't change your anxieties, but it makes you feel like you're not crazy. "The tendency of people who are in pain is to lay there, take pain killers, drugs, and wait for it to go away, and the tendency of many doctors is to give you all those pills and tell you to go to bed. What you learn through complementary therapies is that's not the best thing to do, and I learned that in dealing with this terrible disease and the feelings of depression and exhaustion and pain that you have, that exercise and meditation and acupuncture makes a significant difference. It doesn't make the cancer go away. It doesn't cure you from the cancer, but it helps you deal with the other stuff you're going through. "At all levels, I think the complementary therapy piece is your first real grab back at self-determination and empowerment. It gives you at least some sense that you can do stuff for yourself. You're not totally helpless. It doesn't change the emphasis or the reliance on your doctors and on the care, but it does improve and enhance your reliance on yourself. "To be told you have an incurable cancer means you've got to pull whatever strings you have. Some of it's prayer and faith. Some of it's very practical things like exercise and meditation and acupuncture. Certainly some of it's in the chemotherapy and radiation. I really believe it's a failure of Western medicine not to integrate all of this. We patients are doing it on our own, and we're lost out there. I really do want the day to come where I'm going to walk in there [the hospital] and they're going to give me that book that says, 'Okay, here's the resources of this hospital, and it includes yoga, meditation, etcetera,' because that's what they owe us." Lenny Zakim lived long enough to see one more birthday with his wife Joyce, and their three children, Josh, Deena and Shari. He died on December 2, 1999 at the age of 46. Program Description Lenny Zakim David Eisenberg, MD Ken Anderson, MD Michael Lerner, PhD Peter Churchill, LMT Help YourSelf Tell Me More Body & Soul is currently airing Monday-Friday at 7:00pm and 8:30pm on PBS YOU. home | program list | tell me more | links | reading list | who we are | how it began | talk to us | companion book | program videos


--- [Leonard Zakim's widow, Joyce Zakim and their children Deena, Shari ...] ---
Bruce Springsteen performs at the Leonar P. Zakim Bunker Hill Bridge Dedication BOSTON, MA - OCTOBER 4: Leonard Zakim's widow, Joyce Zakim (right) and their children (from left) Deena, Shari and Josh (not visible) listen to Bruce Springsteen performing "Thunder Road" at the Leonard P. Zakim Bunker Hill Bridge dedication ceremony October 4, 2002 in Boston, Massachusetts. The bridge is named in honour of Zakim, a civil rights leader who died of cancer in 1999. (Photo by Jacob Silberberg/Getty Images) PURCHASE A LICENCE How can I use this image? ₹14,000.00 INR DETAILS Restrictions: Contact your local office for all commercial or promotional uses. Full editorial rights UK, US, Ireland, Canada (not Quebec). Restricted editorial rights for daily newspapers elsewhere, please call. Credit: Editorial #: 1460352 Collection: Getty Images Entertainment Date created: 04 October, 2002 Upload date: Licence type: Release info: Not released. More information Source: Getty Images Europe Object name: 411538_02_springsteen


--- [Son of late Boston ADL legend Leonard Zakim gets Dems' nod for Mass ...] ---
No content
