=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mohinder Amarnath - Wikipedia]
In his book "Idols", Indian legend and compatriot Sunil Gavaskar described Mohinder Amarnath as the finest batsman in the world. Mohinder made his first test century at Perth at the WACA (the fastest and bounciest wicket in the world) batting against Jeff Thomson.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mohinder_Amarnath

[Mohinder Amarnath | ESPNcricinfo]
MOHINDER AMARNATH BHARDWAJ, or Jimmy as he prefers to be known, was born in Patiala on September 24, 1950. His father, Lala Amarnath, who scored India's first Test century, was employed in the retinue of the sports-loving Maharajah of Patiala to encourage the development of cricket within his ...
URL: https://www.espncricinfo.com/story/mohinder-amarnath-154462

[Mohinder Amarnath Profile - ICC Ranking, Age, Career Info & Stats | Cricbuzz.com]
Jimmy, as he was called, was known to be a brave person and scored his runs on the toughest of tracks. His first century came on the fastest pitch in the world - Perth, and he went on to score 10 more tons against the best of bowlers.
URL: https://www.cricbuzz.com/profiles/3827/mohinder-amarnath

[r/Cricket on Reddit: The curious case of Mohinder Amarnath.]
No snippet
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Cricket/comments/1ohbgbm/the_curious_case_of_mohinder_amarnath/

[Mohinder Amarnath Records, Test match, ODI, T20, IPL international batting bowling fielding records]
Mohinder Amarnath Records, Test match, ODI, T20 international batting bowling fielding records
URL: https://www.espncricinfo.com/cricketers/mohinder-amarnath-26225/tests-odi-t20-records


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mohinder Amarnath - Wikipedia] ---
Mohinder Amarnath Bhardwaj  (born 24 September 1950) is a former Indian cricketer and cricket analyst. He is the son of Lala Amarnath, the first post-independence captain of India. Mohinder was the vice captain of the Indian team that won the 1983 Cricket World Cup, where he was the player of the final. He was also a part of the Indian squad which won the 1985 World Championship of Cricket.
Mohinder is commonly mentioned by players and cricket pundits as the best Indian batsman against express pace. In 2009, he received the C. K. Nayudu Lifetime Achievement Award, the highest honour Indian board can bestow on a former player.




--- [Mohinder Amarnath | ESPNcricinfo] ---
Mohinder Amarnath On May 3, 1983, Mohinder Amarnath reached his 1,000 Test runs for the year Published: Apr 15, 1984, 12:00 AM On May 3, 1983, Mohinder Amarnath reached his 1,000 Test runs for the year. No-one has achieved that target by so early a date, and while it has to be admitted that he was enabled to do this feat by playing a plethora of Test cricket, it should be acknowledged that he could hardly have triumphed in more adverse circumstances than on Indian tours of Pakistan and the West Indies. Moreover, during the 1982-83 season Amarnath hit more runs - 2,355 at an average of 81 - than anyone else has ever done in a first-class season outside England. Still on the crest of a wave, he followed up by winning man-of-the-match awards in the World Cup semi-final against England and in the final against West Indies, when India achieved one of the game's most unexpected victories. Yet Amarnath, and India, merely had walk-on parts during the first two World Cup tournaments. And in England he had an even lower profile than elsewhere, since he had played only two Test matches there, both in 1979 and without distinction. So the half-year or so of personal success that the Indian enjoyed, as triumphant as any cricketer can have known, came as a surprise to most followers of the game in England. MOHINDER AMARNATH BHARDWAJ, or Jimmy as he prefers to be known, was born in Patiala on September 24, 1950. His father, Lala Amarnath, who scored India's first Test century, was employed in the retinue of the sports-loving Maharajah of Patiala to encourage the development of cricket within his north Indian state. From the start Lala was an influence upon his three sons, all of whom played first-class cricket (the oldest of them, Surinder, going on to represent India as a left-handed batsman). The father, renowned as something of a martinet, taught Mohinder to love cricket to the exclusion of all other games. Another paternal instruction was that any short ball was there to be hooked. Although Mohinder made his Test debut as a medium-pace in-swing bowler (like his father) against Australia in 1969, batting soon became his chief concern and the hook his forte. The stroke helped him to his first major success in Australia in 1977-78 during the World Series controversy, and again when India toured Pakistan and the Caribbean last winter. But the hook has been the reason behind not only his ups but his downs. Early in 1979, in a Test match against Australia in Bombay, Amarnath emerged in a solar topee (again in imitation of his father), tried to hook Rodney Hogg and fell on his wicket. Later that year, during India's tour of England, he was hit on the head half a dozen times and kept refusing to wear a helmet. The culmination came when he failed to pick up a ball from Richard Hadlee out of a dark background at Trent Bridge: he missed the ball and it fractured his skull. It was several months before Amarnath could play again; and then he found that the injury had damaged his eyesight. So as a temporary measure he wore spectacles, and as a permanent one he adopted an open-chested, crouched stance after the style of Jim Parks or the late Ken Barrington. But his courage had in no way been impaired. It was some time, however, before India's selectors called on Amarnath again. When England toured there in 1981-82 he was not chosen for any Test match, nor for India's return tour in the summer of 1982. Amarnath was then playing in Lancashire League cricket for Crompton (after four seasons with Lowerhouse) and, seeing that India's batting line-up had one or two vacancies, felt a renewed determination to prove himself at international level. He duly did so during India's visit to Pakistan in 1982-83. While Imran Khan harassed his colleagues, taking 40 wickets in the six-match series for fewer than 14 runs each, Amarnath scored three centuries and three fifties in his ten innings. In the West Indies immediately afterwards he carried on against Roberts, Marshall, Holding and Garner from where he had left off against Imran and Sarfraz. He was selected as the player of the series on either side after hitting 598 runs in his nine innings. The hook shot stood him in good stead while his team-mates tried vainly to contend with the imitation of body-line which Malcolm Marshall delivered from round the wicket. Few batsmen can claim to have withstood the four-man West Indian pace attack as it has been constituted in recent years: Geoff Boycott and the Australian Bruce Laird have succeeded defensively, Graham Gooch and Amarnath by aggressive means. This purple patch continued into the World Cup, where Amarnath scored 237 runs in eight innings (twice run out), and was an effective reserve seamer even though his run-up had dwindled to an amble. Since the competition followed a month after India's series in the Caribbean, he was by then well attuned to West Indian pace. Indeed this familiarity with the West Indies bowling is one reason that Amarnath gives for India's winning of the cup. The presence of good fielders and stroke-makers, not all that common in Indian sides of the past, was another factor, along with the slow pitches that prevailed. His bowling at Old Trafford, where the pitch had no grass and was very uneven was as important as his 46 (run out) when India chased a modest England total. In the final he stood firm while the West Indian bowling was at its most hostile and Srikkanth went for his ebullient shots at the other end. Together they shared the highest partnership of the match. Finally his amiable, almost apologetic medium pace finished off three of the last four wickets for 12 runs. However, and sadly, the man whom Imran Khan amongst others called the best player of fast bowling in contemporary cricket was brought down to earth during the latter half of the year. In the home series against Pakistan and in the first two Tests against West Indies, he was unable to reach double figures. Whether the reason was delayed shell shock or related to that inexplicable phenomenon known as form, the Indian god was found to have feet of clay.


--- [Mohinder Amarnath Profile - ICC Ranking, Age, Career Info & Stats | Cricbuzz.com] ---
Long before India knew of a man called Sourav Ganguly, Mohinder Amarnath owned the title “comeback king”. The career, which began in 1969, lasted 2 eventful decades and saw him achieve the highest of peaks and also sink to the lowest of troughs. Cricket ran in his blood; he is the son of India’s first post Independence captain Lala Amarnath, the brother of former Test cricketer Surinder Amarnath and also Rajinder Amarnath, a former first class cricketer. He started his career as a medium pace bowler who could bat, but finished as one of the best batsmen produced by India. After his debut series in 1969, he had to wait until 1975 to return to the side. He continued to be in and out of the side until the early 1980s, when he scaled new heights. In 1982-83, he played 11 away Tests against Pakistan and West Indies, and scored close to 1200 runs. Things got better in 1983, when he played a major part in India’s successful World Cup campaign. His all-round performances in the semi-final and the final saw him get back to back Man of the Match awards, apart from being declared the Man of the Series. However, the following year turned out to be quite contrary to the previous 2 seasons. In the 1984 West Indies tour of India, he managed only 1 run in 6 innings, a dismal show which got him the axe. However, he returned with a bang, coming back as a much improved batsman. To many of his peers and rivals, Amarnath was one of the best batsman of his times. Sunil Gavaskar described him as the finest batsman in the world, while Imran Khan called him the best batsman in the 1982-83 season. Jimmy, as he was called, was known to be a brave person and scored his runs on the toughest of tracks. His first century came on the fastest pitch in the world - Perth, and he went on to score 10 more tons against the best of bowlers. His batting skills coupled with accurate medium pace bowling made him one of the best all-rounders to come from India. Post retirement, Amarnath worked with a young Bangladesh side in the early 90s, but was axed after they failed to qualify for the 1996 World Cup. Interesting facts: Amarnath is the only Indian to be dismissed handling the ball. He is also the only Indian to be dismissed obstructing the field in ODIs. Amarnath, in his playing days, famously called the selectors “a bunch of jokers”. Little did he realise that he would become one later, as he is currently the selector for the North Zone. By Karthik Lakshmanan


--- [r/Cricket on Reddit: The curious case of Mohinder Amarnath.] ---
The curious case of Mohinder Amarnath. Few characters in cricket history are as colourful, as intriguing and at the same time as prolific as Mohinder "Jimmy" Amarnath. Like Shaun Pollock, cricket ran through his bloodline. Not only did he have Lala Amarnath for a legendary father, he also had a supremely talented but ill fated Surinder Amarnath for a sibling. Most of the sports' most ardent lovers remember him usually for his all-round heroics as his friend Kapil Dev's deputy in India's head tumbling triumph at the 1983 World Cup, others for his frequent run-ins with the cricket administration which saw him dropped from the side more often than pace icon Fred Trueman was from England. These are the facets of Jimmy Amarnath, the rebel. Now let's proceed to Jimmy Amarnath, the batsman. His test stats read 69 matches, 4378 runs@42.50 with 11 centuries. Here again, people only often tend to recall only his horror show of being reduced to 1 run in 6 innings against the West Indies pace juggernaut led by a peak Malcolm Marshall during the 1983-84 home series against Clive Lloyd's dominators. Upon looking at his overall numbers, the response would be "OK CUTE, BUT NOTHING SPECIAL", rarely few are aware of the most interesting aspect of Amarnath's profile as a batsman. Of his 69 outings, 37 tests were played on overseas pitches where Jimmy compiled 3008 runs in 63 innings at an average of 51.86 with 9 centuries. And even if his stats in Sri Lanka which was easily the weakest team of the time are excluded, he continues to boast of 2792 runs averaging 50.76 in 59 innings. The most compelling factor which makes Amarnath's overseas figures even more prolific is that majority of his best knocks came playing the highest quality of pace bowling ever witnessed on surfaces hostile to batsmen. His maiden test ton was registered during the 1977-78 tour of Australia against a peak Jeff Thomson at, well the WACA. His comeback to international cricket during the 1982-83 tour of Pakistan was marked with 584 runs@73 with 3 centuries, against Imran Khan who during the series reached the summit of his career as a bowler with 40 wickets to his name. This epic showing was followed by another blockbuster tour of the West Indies with the likes of Marshall, Garner and Holding at their peaks coupled with ageing but nevertheless accuracte Andy Roberts, drafting 598 runs@66.44 with 2 centuries apart from featuring a near superhuman display of 97 and 80 at Bridgetown after being felled by a bouncer from Holding. Even during the previous tour of the West Indies in 1976 when Lloyd unleashed Holding and Roberts onto the Indian line-up at Kingston as revenge for the preceding defeat inflicted by India at Port-Of-Spain(despite India being set 405 to chase in the 4th innings, Amarnath scored 85), Amarnath remained unflinched, scoring 39 and 60. Infact outside the subcontinent too where even THE best of all Asian batsmen fumble against the bounce,swing and seam, Amarnath notched up 1936 runs@48.40 in 41 innings with 4 centuries, 2 each coming in West Indies and Australia. The only nations where Amarnath didn't make a significant mark happened to be England (average of 30.43), New Zealand(average of 35.60) and shockingly his homeland of India where he could average only 30.44 with 2 centuries. When Amarnath was unjustly shown the door by the BCCI once and for all, he was, going by all metrics arguably India's most successful batsmen in overseas conditions. His overseas RPI(Runs Per Innings) was a highly respectable 47.76 aka a deviation of only 8% from his overseas average. His RPI outside the subcontinent was 47.22 aka a deviation of less than 5% from his average outside Asia. It was also his RPI in the WENA nations(W=West Indies as S=South Africa was under ban due to its Apartheid regime, but the West Indies attack which Amarnath faced in his time was far more destructive than either fielded by South Africa till date). He averaged in excess of 50 in 4 of the 6 nations he toured namely Pakistan, West Indies, Sri Lanka and Australia, including 63.36 for his 697 runs against the full-strength West Indies pace attacks in their own backyard. Yet, the sad tale is that Amarnath appeared in his 69 tests between his debut in the 1969-70 season and eventual retirement in the 1988-89 season, a duration between which India played 119 tests as a whole. It's also a sad fact that several underperforming players were retained at the expense of of Amarnath who was dropped for 23 tests on the trot in the earlier phase of his career and a shocking 27 during the late 70s cum early 80s. It's hard to imagine what Jimmy's career would actually read had he been retained for even half the number of tests he was dropped from. But one thing's pretty clear, Jimmy was Ken Barrington cum Allan Border put together when it came to touring and by the details of the strength of the bowling line-ups he faced in this regard, he can be considered perhaps next only to Sachin Tendulkar as India's best wrt overseas tests bearing in mind the recent revelations of Dravid's mediocre stats in RSA and Australia and Gavaskar never actually putting a strong display against the West Indies pace quartets contrary to myths or even Hadlee on the few occasions they faced each other during their prime.


--- [Mohinder Amarnath Records, Test match, ODI, T20, IPL international batting bowling fielding records] ---
Mohinder Amarnath India|Batting Allrounder INTL CAREER: 1969 - 1989 Most viewed players Browse other players South Africa All - Temba Bavuma - Quinton de Kock - Heinrich Klaasen - Keshav Maharaj - Aiden Markram - David Miller - Lungi Ngidi - Anrich Nortje - Kagiso Rabada - Rassie van der Dussen Alphabetically sorted top ten of players who have played the most matches across formats in the last 12 months Top Records Test Records ODI Records Combined Test, ODI and T20I records Top records are a selection of the records (from among those listed under the Test, ODI, T20I and Combined categories) in which the player is in the top ten. If the player has multiple entries in the top ten in any individual record list, one entry from that list is displayed, as selected by an algorithm, under Top records. In the categories outside of the Top records module, placements within the top 50 in any given record list are displayed. Medallion icon indicates milestone records. Terms of Use|Privacy Policy|Your US State Privacy Rights|Children's Online Privacy Policy|Interest - Based Ads|Do Not Sell My Personal Information|Feedback © 2023 ESPN Sports Media Ltd. All rights reserved
