=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Entire German submarine fleet out of action - UK Defence Journal]
Feb 16, 2018 · In January 2004, the then German Defence Minister Peter Struck announced further major changes to the German armed forces. A major part of this announcement is the plan to cut the German fighter fleet from 426 in early 2004 to 265 by 2015.
URL: https://ukdefencejournal.org.uk/entire-german-submarine-fleet-action/

[German Air Force - Wikiwand]
On 13 January 2004, the Minister of Defence, Peter Struck, announced major changes in the future of the German armed forces. A major part of this announcement was a plan to cut the number of fighter planes from 426 in early 2004, to 265 by 2015.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Bundesluftwaffe

[German Defense Minister Peter Struck lights up a pipe after a ...]
May 21, 2003 · Download this stock image: German Defense Minister Peter Struck lights up a pipe after a press conference in Berlin on Wednesday, May 21, 2003. Struck announced new general instructions for the future of the German Forces and the closing of nine military bases in Germany. (AP Photo/ Jan Bauer) - 2PF733C from Alamy's library of millions of high resolution stock photos, illustrations and vectors.
URL: https://www.alamy.com/german-defense-minister-peter-struck-lights-up-a-pipe-after-a-press-conference-in-berlin-on-wednesday-may-21-2003-struck-announced-new-general-instructions-for-the-future-of-the-german-forces-and-the-closing-of-nine-military-bases-in-germany-ap-photo-jan-bauer-image542897360.html

[Panavia Tornado]
On 13 January 2004, the then German Defence Minister Peter Struck announced further major changes to the German armed forces. A major part of this announcement ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panavia_Tornado

[German defense: reforms or cuts? (European Report).]
Jul 1, 2003 · On May 21, German Defense Minister Peter Struck announced new defense-policy guidelines for Germany. "Traditional national defense considerations can no longer determine the priority structures and capabilities of the armed forces," Struck said. "International conflict prevention and crisis management, including the fight against international terrorism, are going to be moved to the top of the ...
URL: https://www.thefreelibrary.com/German+defense%3a+reforms+or+cuts%3f+(European+Report).-a0105161230


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Entire German submarine fleet out of action - UK Defence Journal] ---
“It’s a real disaster for the Navy, it’s the first time in history that there will not be any submarine operating for months,” warns the president of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the German Parliament, Hans-Peter Bartels, in an interview published on Sunday in the Berlin weekly Bild am Sonntag. The problem, he explained, has worsened over time due to the German military not replacing out of date equipment. The German Navy lost its last submarine in October, as the rudder of its last Type 212A was severely damaged in a collision with a rock off the Norwegian coast while the rest of the fleet was out of service. It is also understood that none of the new frigates, the Type 125s, are able to enter into operational service due to defects and a similar situation is faced by auxiliary ships, Berlin and Bonn, which were sent to dry dock for a year and a half of repairs. In 2015, it was revealed that only 29 of Germany’s 66 Tornado jets are airworthy. Defence Minister Ursula von der Leyen then stressed that only six of the operational Tornado jets would be needed for the proposed German mission in Syria. German chief of staff General Volker Wieker said: “The state of our flying systems remains unsatisfactory” A defence ministry report obtained by German media blamed the problem on the “lack of availability of various spare parts”. The readiness of Germany’s armed forces has long been the subject of criticism. Technical problems grounded German military aircraft delivering weapons to Kurds fighting IS in northern Iraq and medical aid to West Africa during the Ebola outbreak. Defence cuts announced in March 2003 resulted in the decision to retire 90 Tornados from Luftwaffe service. This led to a reduction in its Tornado strength to four wings by September 2005. In January 2004, the then German Defence Minister Peter Struck announced further major changes to the German armed forces. A major part of this announcement is the plan to cut the German fighter fleet from 426 in early 2004 to 265 by 2015. The German Tornado force was reduced to 85, with the type expected to remain in service with the Luftwaffe until 2020.


--- [German Air Force - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [German Defense Minister Peter Struck lights up a pipe after a ...] ---
German Defense Minister Peter Struck lights up a pipe after a press conference in Berlin on Wednesday, May 21, 2003. Struck announced new general instructions for the future of the German Forces and the closing of nine military bases in Germany. (AP Photo/ Jan Bauer) Captions are provided by our contributors. RMID:Image ID:2PF733C Image details People in this picture: Peter StruckContributor: Associated PressImage ID: 2PF733CFile size: 8.2 MB (314.3 KB Compressed download)Releases: Model - no | Property - noDo I need a release?Dimensions: 2000 x 1425 px | 33.9 x 24.1 cm | 13.3 x 9.5 inches | 150dpiDate taken: 21 May 2003Photographer: Jan BauerMore information: This image could have imperfections as it’s either historical or reportage. Not available to licence for any broadcast or streaming service, video on demand, film, national newspaper or to create a NFT. This content is intended for editorial use only. For other uses, additional clearances may be required.


--- [Panavia Tornado] ---
The Panavia Tornado is a family of twin-engine, variable-sweep wing multi-role combat aircraft, jointly developed and manufactured by Italy, the United Kingdom and Germany. There are three primary Tornado variants: the Tornado IDS (interdictor/strike) fighter-bomber, the Tornado ECR (electronic combat/reconnaissance) SEAD aircraft and the Tornado ADV (air defence variant) interceptor aircraft.
The Tornado was developed and built by Panavia Aircraft GmbH, a tri-national consortium consisting of British Aerospace (previously British Aircraft Corporation), MBB of West Germany, and Aeritalia of Italy. It first flew on 14 August 1974 and was introduced into service in 1979–1980. Due to its multirole design, it was able to replace several different types of aircraft in the adopting air forces. The Royal Saudi Air Force (RSAF) became the only export operator of the Tornado, in addition to the three original partner nations. A training and evaluation unit operating from RAF Cottesmore, the Tri-National Tornado Training Establishment, maintained a level of international co-operation beyond the production stage. It is the only non-American-developed aircraft currently approved to carry United States nuclear weapons under NATO's Nuclear Planning Group.
The Tornado was operated by the Royal Air Force (RAF), Italian Air Force, and RSAF during the Gulf War of 1991, in which the Tornado conducted many low-altitude penetrating strike missions. The Tornados of various services were also used in the Bosnian War, Kosovo War, Iraq War, in Libya during the 2011 Libyan civil war, as well as smaller roles in Afghanistan, Yemen, and Syria. Including all variants, 990 aircraft were built.




--- [German defense: reforms or cuts? (European Report).] ---
No content
