=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Agostina Livia Pietrantoni - Wikipedia]
Agostina Pietrantoni (27 March 1864 - 13 November 1894) born Livia Pietrantoni, was an Italian religious sister of the Sisters of Divine Charity. [1] Pietrantoni worked as a nurse in the Santo Spirito hospital in Rome where she tended to ill victims in a tuberculosis ward before a patient murdered her in 1894. [2] Her canonisation was celebrated on 18 April 1999 in Saint Peter's Square.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agostina_Livia_Pietrantoni

[St. Agostina Pietrantoni - Nurse, Nun, and Martyr of Charity]
St. Agostina Livia Pietrantoni was born on March 27, 1864, in Pozzaglia Sabina, near Rieti, Italy, into a humble and deeply religious family. She was the second of eleven children, and from an early age, Livia demonstrated a compassionate nature and strong spiritual character.
URL: https://allsaintstories.com/saints/st-agostina-livia-pietrantoni

[Agostina Livia Pietrantoni (1864-1894) - biography - Vatican]
Agostina Livia Pietrantoni (1864-1894) virgin, Congregation of the Sisters of the Charity of Saint Jeanne-Antide Thouret photo A land... a family "Once there was, and there still is, but with a new face now, a village named Pozzaglia. In the Sabina hills... and there was a blessed house, a cosy little nest filled with childrens' voices, amongst which that of Olivia who was later called Livia ...
URL: https://www.vatican.va/news_services/liturgy/saints/ns_lit_doc_19990418_pietrantoni_en.html

[St. Agostina Petrantoni - Saints & Angels - Catholic Online]
Olivia Pietrantoni was born and baptized March 27th, 1864 Pozzaglia Sabina, Italy to Francesco Pietrantoni and Caterina Costantini, farmers. She was the second of eleven children. Olivia, later known as 'Livia', was confirmed at age four and received first Holy Communion c. 1876. From an early ...
URL: https://www.catholic.org/saints/saint.php?saint_id=7017

[Saint Agostina Petrantoni - Catholic Saint - Saint for a Minute]
Saint Agostina Petrantoni, also known as Agostina Pietrantoni or by her birth name Livia Petrantoni, was born on March 27, 1864, in Pozzaglia Sabina, Rieti, Italy. She was the daughter of Francesco Pietrantoni and Caterina Costantini, belonging to a humble farming family.
URL: https://www.saintforaminute.com/saints/saint_agostina_petrantoni


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Agostina Livia Pietrantoni - Wikipedia] ---
Agostina Pietrantoni (27 March 1864 – 13 November 1894) born Livia Pietrantoni, was an Italian religious sister of the Sisters of Divine Charity. Pietrantoni worked as a nurse in the Santo Spirito hospital in Rome where she tended to ill victims in a tuberculosis ward before a patient murdered her in 1894. Her canonisation was celebrated on 18 April 1999 in Saint Peter's Square.


--- [St. Agostina Pietrantoni - Nurse, Nun, and Martyr of Charity] ---
St. Agostina Livia Pietrantoni was an Italian nun and nurse martyred for her faith and compassion. Known for her selfless care of the sick and wounded, she was killed in Rome by a mentally unstable former patient. St. Agostina Livia Pietrantoni was born on March 27, 1864, in Pozzaglia Sabina, near Rieti, Italy, into a humble and deeply religious family. She was the second of eleven children, and from an early age, Livia demonstrated a compassionate nature and strong spiritual character. At the age of 22, she entered the religious congregation of the Sisters of Charity of Saint Jeanne-Antide Thouret, taking the name Sister Agostina. Her deep desire to serve others led her to the Hospital of Santo Spirito in Sassia, one of the oldest hospitals in Rome, where she worked primarily with tuberculosis patients. Sr. Agostina became well-known among her patients and fellow sisters for her unwavering cheerfulness, tireless service, and immense kindness. She brought comfort to the sick and dying with gentle care and spiritual support, often working long hours without complaint. Her dedication was so complete that even when faced with the harshness and danger of dealing with violent or mentally ill patients, she never wavered in her vocation. Tragically, her life was cut short when, on November 13, 1894, she was attacked and murdered by a former patient she had previously cared for. The man, mentally unstable and violent, stabbed her multiple times in a fit of rage. Her death was considered a martyrdom of charity, a testimony to Christian love taken to its fullest expression—laying down one’s life for others. Her martyrdom left a profound impact on the religious and medical communities in Rome and beyond. The faithful soon began to venerate her, and her reputation for sanctity continued to grow. Pope John Paul II canonized her on April 18, 1999, affirming her holiness as a woman who gave everything for Christ in the service of the most vulnerable.


--- [Agostina Livia Pietrantoni (1864-1894) - biography - Vatican] ---
| Agostina Livia Pietrantoni (1864-1894) virgin, Congregation of the Sisters of the Charity of Saint Jeanne-Antide Thouret photo A land... a family "Once there was, and there still is, but with a new face now, a village named Pozzaglia. In the Sabina hills... and there was a blessed house, a cosy little nest filled with childrens' voices, amongst which that of Olivia who was later called Livia and was to take the name of Agostina in the religious life." The very short life of Sister Agostina, which inspired Paul VI, the Pope who beatified her, to relate it in extraordinarily poetical terms, began and unfolded itself: "simple, transparent, pure, loving...but ended sorrowfully and tragically... or rather symbolically." 27th March 1864. Livia was born and baptized in the little village of Pozzaglia Sabina, at an altitude of 800 meters in the beautiful area which is bordered geographically by Rieti, Orvinio, Tivoli. She was the second of 11 children! Her parents, Francesco Pietrantoni and Caterina Costantini, were farmers and worked their small plot of land along with a few added plots which they leased. Livia's childhood and youth were imbued with the values of an honest, hard-working and religious family, in the blessed house in which "all were careful to do good and where they often prayed". This period was marked especially by the wisdom of Uncle Domenico who was a real patriarch. At the age of 4 Livia received the Sacrament of Confirmation, and around 1876 she received her first Holy Communion, certainly with an extraordinary awareness, judging by the life of prayer, generosity and sacrifice which followed it. Very early on, in the large family in which everyone seemed to be a beneficiary to her time and help, she learned from her mother Caterina the thoughtfulness and maternal gestures which she showed with such gentleness towards her many younger brothers and sisters. She worked in the fields and looked after the animals... Therefore, she barely experienced childrens' games... or school which she attended very irregularly, but from which she drew great benefit to the point of earning the title of "teacher" from her classmates. Work and... pride At the age of 7, along with other children, she began "to work", transporting by the thousand, sacks of stones and sand for constructing the road from Orvinio to Poggio Moiano. At the age of 12 she left with other young "seasonal workers" who were going to Tivoli during the winter months for the olive harvest. Precociously wise, Livia took on the moral and religious responsibility for her young companions. She supported them in this tough work far from their families, and proudly and courageously stood up to the arrogant and unscrupulous "bosses." Vocation and detachment Through her wisdom, her respect for others, her generosity, her beauty, Livia was a young attractive woman... and several young men in the village had their eyes on her. Their admiring looks did not escape mother Caterina's notice and she dreamed of marrying her daughter well. Yet what did Livia think? What was the secret of her heart? Why did she not make a choice? Why did she not make up her mind? "Malle daring by the voice which spoke to her inwardly, the voice of her vocation, she surrendered; it was Christ who would be her Beloved, Christ, her Spouse." To these in her family or in the village who attempted to dissuade her by saying she was running away from hard work, Livia replied: "I wish to choose a Congregation in which there is work both day and night." Everyone was certain that these words were genuine. A first trip to Rome in the company of her Uncle Fra Matteo ended in bitter disillusionment; they refused to accept her. However, a few months later, the Mother General of the Sisters of Charity of Saint Jeanne-Antide Thouret, let her know that she was expecting her at the Generalate. Livia understood that this time she was saying farewell for ever. With emotion she took leave of the village people, all the loved corners of her land, her favourite prayer places, the parish and the Virgin of Rifolta; she kissed her parents goodbye, received on her knees the blessing of Uncle Domenico, "kissed the door of her house, traced the sign of the cross on it and left hurriedly..." Formation and mission 23rd March 1886. Livia was 22 when she arrived in Rome at Via S. Maria in Cosmedin. A few months as a postulant and novice were enough to prove that the young girl had the makings of a Sister of Charity, that is of a "servant of the poor", in the tradition of Saint Vincent de Paul and Saint Jeanne-Antide. Indeed, Livia brought to the Convent a particularly solid human potential inherited from her family which guaranteed its success. When she received the religious habit and was given the name of Sister Agostina, she had the premonition that it fell to her to become the saint bearing this name. For Indeed she had not heard of any Saint Agostina! Sister Agostina was sent to the Hospital of Santo Spirito where 700 years of glorious history had led it to be called "the school of Christian charity." In the wake of the saints who had preceded her, amongst whom were Charles Borromeo, Joseph Casalanz, John Bosco, Camillus de Lellis, Sister Agostina made her personal contribution and in this place of suffering gave expression to charity to the point of heroism. Silence, prayer and goodness The atmosphere in the hospital was hostile to religion. The Roman question poisoned peoples' minds. The Capuchin fathers were driven out, the Crucifix and all other religious signs were forbidden. The hospital even wanted to send the sisters away but was afraid of becoming unpopular. Instead their lives were made "impossible" and they were forbidden to speak of God. But Sister Agostina did not need her mouth in order to "cry out for God" and no gag was able to prevent her life from proclaiming the Gospel! First in the childrens' ward and later in the tuberculosis ward, a place of despair and death, where she caught the mortal contagion of which she was miraculously healed, she showed a total dedication and an extraordinary concern for each sick person, above all for the most difficult, violent and obscene ones like "Romanelli." In secret, in a small hidden corner she had found for herself to reside, in the hospital, Sister Agostina commended them all to the Virgin and promised her many more vigils and greater sacrifices in order to obtain the grace of the conversion of the most stubborn ones. How many times she offered Joseph Romanelli to Our Lady! He was the worst of them all, the most vulgar and insolent, especially towards Sister Agostina, who was more and more attentive towards him and welcomed his blind mother with great kindness when she carne to visit him. He was capable of anything and everyone had had enough of him. When, after the umpteenth provocation at the expense of the women working in the laundry, the Director expelled him, from the hospital, he sought a target for his fury and poor Agostina was the victim he picked. 'I will kill you with my own hands." "Sister Agostina, you only Nave a month to 1ive!," were the threats which he had sent to her several times in little notes. Romanelli was not joking, in fact, and Sister Agostina put no limits either on her generosity for the Lord... She was prepared to pay the price of love with her own life, without fleeing or placing any blame. ...When Romanelli caught her unawares and struck her before she could escape, that 13th November 1894, her lips uttered nothing but invocations to the Virgin Mary and words of forgiveness. |


--- [St. Agostina Petrantoni - Saints & Angels - Catholic Online] ---
We ask you, urgently: don't scroll past this Dear readers, Catholic Online was de-platformed by Shopify for our pro-life beliefs. They shut down our Catholic Online, Catholic Online School, Prayer Candles, and Catholic Online Learning Resources essential faith tools serving over 1.4 million students and millions of families worldwide. Our founders, now in their 70's, just gave their entire life savings to protect this mission. But fewer than 2% of readers donate. If everyone gave just $5, the cost of a coffee, we could rebuild stronger and keep Catholic education free for all. Stand with us in faith. Thank you.Help Now > St. Agostina Petrantoni Facts Death: 1894 Beatified: Pope Paul VI on November 12, 1972 Canonized: Pope John Paul II on April 18, 1999 Author and Publisher - Catholic Online Printable Catholic Saints PDFs Shop St. Agostina Petrantoni Olivia Pietrantoni was born and baptized March 27th, 1864 Pozzaglia Sabina, Italy to Francesco Pietrantoni and Caterina Costantini, farmers. She was the second of eleven children. Olivia, later known as "Livia", was confirmed at age four and received first Holy Communion c. 1876. From an early age she worked in fields and tended animals. At age seven she began to work with other children who were moving sacks of stone and sand for construction of a road from Orvinio to Poggio Moiano. When she was twelve, she left for the winter months with other youngsters to work in the winter olive harvest in Tivoli. She refused offers of marriage and, believing she had a vocation to religious life, traveled to Rome with her uncle. Some had suggested that she sought religious life to escape hard work. To them she is said to have replied, "I wish to choose a Congregation in which there is work both day and night." But in Rome, she was turned away. A few months later, the Mother General of the Sisters of Charity of Saint Jeanne-Antide Thouret communicated that Livia was expected at the Generalate. She arrived in Rome, aged 22, on March 23, 1886. After postulancy and the novitiate, she received the name "Saint Agostina" and at that time had a premonition that she would indeed become a saint by that name. Sister Agostina was sent to Holy Spirit Hospital, which had served the sick for seven hundred years. The hospital was not, in fact, hospitable to religious. The Capuchins had been forced to leave, crucifixes and other religous articles were removed and banned, and the sisters were forbidden to speak of God. While working in the tuberculosis ward, Sister contracted the disease, but was miraculously healed. In the course of her work, Sister Agostina found a private corner of the hospital in which to pray the patients, including Joseph Romanelli, an adult male patient who harrassed her with obscenities and threatening notes. When his blind mother visited him on occasion, Sister made a point of welcoming her. Romanelli was eventually expelled from the hospital for harrassing women who worked in the hospital laundry. He continued to harrass Sister Agostina, sending threats of "I will kill you with my own hands" and "Sister Agostina, you have only a month to live." On November 13, 1894 Joseph Romanelli attacked Sister Agostina and killed her. As she was dying, she was heard only to utter words of forgiveness and invocations to Mary. St. Patrick: Man, Myth & Holiday Learn interesting facts and tidbits about the beloved St. Patrick. Join the Movement When you sign up below, you don't just join an email list - you're joining an entire movement for Free world class Catholic education. Our Important Lenten Message - Please Watch - Easter / Lent - 5 Lenten Prayers - Ash Wednesday - 7 Morning Prayers - Mysteries of the Rosary - Litany of the Bl. Virgin Mary - Popular Saints - Popular Prayers - Female Saints - Saint Feast Days by Month - Stations of the Cross - St. Francis of Assisi - St. Michael the Archangel - The Apostles' Creed - Unfailing Prayer to St. Anthony - Pray the Rosary Supreme Court Rebukes California Secrecy Policy on Student Gender Transitions, Affirming Parents’ Constitutional Rights Peace Must Silence the Weapons, Cardinal Parolin Tells Military Chaplains at Centenary Mass Sainthood Cause Investigated for Father Who Gave His Life to Save Son with Down Syndrome Copyright 2026 Catholic Online. All materials contained on this site, whether written, audible or visual are the exclusive property of Catholic Online and are protected under U.S. and International copyright laws, © Copyright 2026 Catholic Online. Any unauthorized use, without prior written consent of Catholic Online is strictly forbidden and prohibited. Catholic Online is a Project of Your Catholic Voice Foundation, a Not-for-Profit Corporation. Your Catholic Voice Foundation has been granted a recognition of tax exemption under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Federal Tax Identification Number: 81-0596847. Your gift is tax-deductible as allowed by law.


--- [Saint Agostina Petrantoni - Catholic Saint - Saint for a Minute] ---
Feast Day: November 13 Birth: March 27, 1864 Death: November 1, 13 Saint Agostina Petrantoni, also known as Agostina Pietrantoni or by her birth name Livia Petrantoni, was born on March 27, 1864, in Pozzaglia Sabina, Rieti, Italy. She was the daughter of Francesco Pietrantoni and Caterina Costantini, belonging to a humble farming family. From an early age, Agostina demonstrated a deep compassion for those in need and a strong desire to help the sick and suffering. At the age of twenty-two, Agostina began her nursing career at the Holy Spirit Hospital, located near the Vatican, in Rome. Her dedication to caring for the critically ill and contagious patients soon became evident, as she fearlessly exposed herself to dangerous diseases. Despite the risks, Agostina selflessly tended to those afflicted with typhus and malaria, always extending a healing touch and comforting presence. Agostina's unwavering devotion to serving the sick led her to make a life-altering decision. In 1887, she joined the Sisters of Charity, a congregation dedicated to the service of the sick and the marginalized. Embracing her new vocation, Agostina took the name Agostina as a sign of her commitment to the mission of the sisters. As a member of the Sisters of Charity, Agostina continued her tireless work in caring for the critically ill. Her selflessness and dedication knew no bounds, as she tirelessly served those suffering from tuberculosis in the hospital's TB ward. It was during her service in this ward that tragedy struck. On November 13, 1894, Agostina was confronted by a patient named Giuseppe Romanelli, who attempted to rape her. In an act of heroic virtue, Agostina resisted and defended herself, praying fervently for her attacker's conversion and forgiveness. Tragically, she was stabbed to death by Romanelli. Agostina's martyrdom testifies to her extraordinary faith and commitment to her beliefs. Her final moments were marked by her unwavering devotion to prayer and her deep desire for the salvation of her assailant's soul. Agostina's courage and forgiveness in the face of such a heinous act have inspired countless individuals. Following her death, Agostina was buried at the church of San Nicola di Bari in her hometown of Pozzaglia Sabina, Rieti, Italy. Recognizing her exceptional holiness and the witness of her life, Pope Paul VI declared her venerable on September 19, 1968. On November 12, 1972, Pope Paul VI beatified her, acknowledging her martyrdom and her virtues as a model of Christian discipleship. Saint Agostina Petrantoni's sanctity was further recognized when she was canonized on April 18, 1999, by Pope John Paul II. Her canonization serves as a testament to her courageous sacrifice, unwavering faith, and exemplary devotion to the service of others. Today, Saint Agostina Petrantoni is venerated as a patron saint of abuse victims, those suffering from poverty, and individuals ridiculed for their piety. Her life remains an inspiring example of selflessness, forgiveness, and unwavering dedication to God's call to love and serve others.
