=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Uchaan Arts : Artist - Arshad Sualeh]
Arshad Sauleh, born on 1971, in Srinagar, Kashmir, is a distinguished Indian artist known for his exceptional work in painting and calligraphy. He has gained international recognition, representing India at the 2002 International Exhibition of Quranic Paintings in Iran. His accolades include the Ram Mehar Malik National Award (2016) and a Merit Award from the State Academy of Art Culture and ...
URL: https://www.uchaanarts.com/artist-arshad-sualeh-502

[Arshad Sauleh - Wikipedia]
Arshid Sauleh represented India in the 2002 International Exhibition of Quranic paintings in Iran. He was honored by Ministry of Heritage and Islamic Guidance, Government of Iran to the tenth International Exhibition on Quranic Paintings. During Kashmir conflict · 2011-Merit Award by State ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arshad_Sauleh

[Arshad Sauleh - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Quiz Award on Silver Jublee Kashmiri Department, Kashmir University August & October. 2001-AIFACS Jury’s Special Appreciation for Plainting (Living Death). 2001- ..Harmukh..Award...by Harmukh..Kasur……Markaz..,. 2003- Certificate of Honour from Ministry of Heritage and Culture Islamic Republic of Iran. 2010-Merit Certificate & Cash Award by J & K Cultural Academy. 2011-Merit Award by State Academy of Art Culture and Language Srinagar.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Arshad-Sauleh

[Prominent Artist Arshad Sauleh Felicitated - Kashmir Observer]
Senior journalists Imdad Saqi, Raashid Rahil and fiction writer Shakeel ur Rehman presented him the award. ... Among other personalities who participated in the event include Ashraf Adil, Ashraf Nisar, Hameed Nasir, Muhammad Saqlain, Ali Hasnain and Masarat Ali. At present, Arshad is serving as the Head of Department, faculty of Arts, Government College of Education (IASE). ... Syed Mohammad Burhan has Masters in Mass Communications & Persian Language &Literature. He works as Special Correspondent at Kashmir Observer.
URL: https://kashmirobserver.net/2023/04/08/prominent-artist-arshad-sauleh-felicitated/

[Arshad Sualeh awarded for his outstanding work and lifetime experience - Only Kashmir]
Srinagar, Oct 24 (Only Kashmir): Kashmir based artist Arshad Sualeh has been conferred with prestigious master award of honour in the International Art Festival. organised by team Artistry International.
URL: https://www.onlykashmir.in/21279/arshad-sualeh-awarded-for-his-outstanding-work-and-lifetime-experience/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Uchaan Arts : Artist - Arshad Sualeh] ---
No content


--- [Arshad Sauleh - Wikipedia] ---
Arshad Sauleh (Urdu: ارشر صالح) is an artist and a radio broadcaster born in a Muslim family at Srinagar in the summer capital of Kashmir who has remained host/judge of several noted art exhibitions besides he is teaching art at Government College of Education in Srinagar.


--- [Arshad Sauleh - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Arshad Sauleh (urdu: ارشر صالح) is a noted and veteran contemporary artist of international repute and a radio broadcaster born in a Muslim family at Srinagar in the summer capital of Kashmir who has remained host/judge of several noted art exhibitions besides he is teaching art at Government College of Education in Srinagar. Sauleh is an inspired artist from his father and Iranian Artist. Arshad Sauleh was honored by his homeland and foreign country several times along with this he has received many awards for his artistic work. Arshid Sauleh has specialised in fugurative painting after completing his degree in fine arts from the Institute of Music and Fine Arts in 1992. Arshid Sauleh is also interested in singing Urdu songs and playing his accordion. Contribution and Awards Arshid Sauleh represented India in the 2002 International Exhibition of Quranic paintings in Iran.He was honored by Ministry of Heritage and Islamic Guidance, Government of Iran to the tenth International Exhibition on Quranic Paintings. During Kashmir conflict Arshad took huge risk when he painted the sufferings of people during that period. The people could relate the pictures to their personal events. In return he received the applause and praise. His paintings are seen at every corner of the valley from the Calendar to Ahdoo's bakery and even in the home of Chief Minister. Some of the achievements of Arshad Sauleh : 1990- Islamic Art Exhibition Kuwait.1992- Poster competition Family Planning Association.1995- All India Calligraphy Competition.1994-1997-Annual State Art Exhibition J & K Cultural Academy.1995- Perfect Health Mela In New Delhi Organization by Mool Chand Hospital.1996-State Level Art Exhibition AIFACS.1997-Exhibition of Art in Santoor Hotel.1998-All on the Spot Painting Completion in North Zone inter University Festival at Gurunanak University Amritsar.Annual National Art Exhibition by Doonai Mal Art Gallery New Delhi.1998-Art Exhibition by C.A.F Srinagar.1998-All India Art Exhibition by RENDZVOUR Chandigarh.2001-State Level Art Exhibition by AIFACS.2001-67th All India Art Exhibition by Indian Academy of Fine Arts Amritsar.2001- State Exhibition of Art by Cultural Academy.2001- Exhibition of Painting in New York (USA).2001-State Exhibition of Art by J & K Cultural Academy.2003- State Level Exhibition by AIFACS.2004-State Exhibition by Cultural Academy.2006-Annual State Exhibition by J & K Academy of Art Culture & Language.2006- 48th Annual National Exhibition of Art organized by Lalit Kala Academy New Delhi in National Gallery of Modern Art Mumbai.2007- Annual State Exhibition by J & K Cultural Academy.2007- Painting Exhibition in Jammu Festival by J & K Cultural Academy.2010-J & K State Exhibition by Cultural Academy.Camps: 1997-National Students Art Camp Hyderabad.1997-Artist Camp at Sonemarg Kashmir by DC Srinagar.2002,-All India young Artist Camp at Delhi by AIFACS.2002- Senior Artist Camp at Wastu Kala at Delhi by AIFACS.2006.-Regional painters Camp organized by Kala Kendra Jammu.2007-All India Painting Camp by J & K Cultural academy in Srinagar.2009-State Level Art Camp organized by J & K Cultural Academy in Kaka Kendra Jammu.2010-National Art Camp at Sanasar,Jammu by J & K Tourism.2011-All India Art Camp by Tata Steel at Jamshedpur, Jharkhand.Exhibitions: 1995-Solo Exhibition of Portrait and Still Life at I.M.A Srinagar.1998-Square Four Men Show of Painting and Sculpture at Srinagar.2001-Solo Exhibition of Quranic Painting by H.K.M at Srinagar.2001-Solo Exhibition by DSW Kashmir University.2002-Solo Exhibition by DSW Kashmir University.2007-Solo Exhibition of Quranic Painting by Iran Culture House Delhi.2002-Solo Exhibition of Paintings in Tehran(Iran) in 10th international Exhibition of Holy Quran State Level Exhibition by AIFACS.2002-Exhibition of Reproductions at Srinagar.2010-Exhibition of Painting in Kamni Auditorium New Delhi.2010-Exhibition of Paintings in ICCR New Delhi gallery by Cultural Academy Srinagar.2011-Participation in International Exhibition organized by Society For Development of Film And Art in Chandigarh.2011-All India Art Exhibition organized by Society for Development of Film And Art in Shimla.group show 2011-exhibition of paintings by India & Canada in Chandigarh .group show 2011-Indo Canadian art exhibition in RohtakAwards 1994-97-Merit Scholarship from Institute of Music and Fine Art Srinagar .Awards: 2002-State Award by AIFACS in New Delhi.2002-State Award by J & K Academy of Art, Cultural and Language.2008-State Award from J& K Academy of Art Culture and Language.1992,-Merit Certificate of Award on Poster Competition held by P.P.A.1997-Participation Award by Mrs Wani Devi (Daughter of former PM Shiri Narsimha Rao at National Student Art Camp Hyderabad.1998-Trophyand Certificate for Contribution to Art Fankar Cultural Organization.2000-Quiz Award on Silver Jublee Kashmiri Department, Kashmir University August & October.2001-AIFACS Jury’s Special Appreciation for Plainting (Living Death).2001- ..Harmukh..Award...by Harmukh..Kasur……Markaz..,.2003- Certificate of Honour from Ministry of Heritage and Culture Islamic Republic of Iran.2010-Merit Certificate & Cash Award by J & K Cultural Academy.2011-Merit Award by State Academy of Art Culture and Language Srinagar.2016 - Ram Mehar Malik National Award by Raskala Munch Safedun Rohtak Haryana.


--- [Prominent Artist Arshad Sauleh Felicitated - Kashmir Observer] ---
Srinagar- A literary event was held to honor Arshad Sauleh, an artist and an expert in Calligraphy and landscape on Saturday. The event was held on behalf of Aura Planet (New Delhi) which awarded “Ratan-e-Hind Award” to Arshad Sauleh .Writers, journalists and students participated in the event. Pertinently, this was the 4th International Annual Award edition which was awarded to the prominent artist. Speaking on the occasion, Arshad said that he has been involved in Art since his childhood. “My father had high-degree of aesthetic taste and aesthetic sensibility. He had realized that I had the talent to sketch and draw and he gave me freedom as I desired. I think there were instinctual forces within me which always forced me to paint and draw.” He said. As a self-taught artist in the beginning, he would draw landscape, portraits, figurative art, and symbolic landscape. His father did not leave any stone unturned and provided him with everything he needed to pursue his career. The award is presented in different fields of Arts. Sauleh was awarded for his prominent and valuable services in the art of calligraphy and landscape. Arshad has played a key role in keeping the ancient art of Kashmir alive and passing it on to the younger generation. Senior journalists Imdad Saqi, Raashid Rahil and fiction writer Shakeel ur Rehman presented him the award. Among other personalities who participated in the event include Ashraf Adil, Ashraf Nisar, Hameed Nasir, Muhammad Saqlain, Ali Hasnain and Masarat Ali. At present, Arshad is serving as the Head of Department, faculty of Arts, Government College of Education (IASE). Follow this link to join our WhatsApp group: Join Now Be Part of Quality Journalism | Quality journalism takes a lot of time, money and hard work to produce and despite all the hardships we still do it. Our reporters and editors are working overtime in Kashmir and beyond to cover what you care about, break big stories, and expose injustices that can change lives. Today more people are reading Kashmir Observer than ever, but only a handful are paying while advertising revenues are falling fast. | | ACT NOW | | MONTHLY | Rs 100 | | | YEARLY | Rs 1000 | | | LIFETIME | Rs 10000 | |


--- [Arshad Sualeh awarded for his outstanding work and lifetime experience - Only Kashmir] ---
Srinagar, Oct 24 (Only Kashmir): Kashmir based artist Arshad Sualeh has been conferred with prestigious master award of honour in the International Art Festival. organised by team Artistry International. He bagged the award for his outstanding work and lifetime experience. The award was given to Arshad Sualeh during the International Art Festival organised by team Artistry International at Ravindra Munch Gallery, Jaipur. The award was presented to Sualeh by Bollywood actors Anuradha Patel and Kanwaljeet Singh. The art exhibition was held at Ravindra Munch Gallery, Jaipur. It comprised of hundreds of painting exhibited by different artists from across the world. Hundreds of art lovers, including top officials and eminent artists, were present on the occasion. Pertinently, International Art Festival provided great opportunity for young budding talents to rub their shoulders with master artist across the world. This wonderful initiative was taken by Artissrty(Group of Masters) and Animesh Films Pvt. Ltd.(A Renowned Media and Film Production company) This International Art Festival showcased Master paintings, Art work by renowned painters/sculpture artist of the world. Meanwhile, Inspire Me and Civil Society for Justice and Development (CSJD) trustees including Mushtaq ul haq Ahmad Sikander, Tauseef Mir and Bilal Bashir Bhat have congratulated Arshid Sauleh for this award and wished him success in his future endeavors. Arshad Sualeh awarded for his outstanding work and lifetime experience The art exhibition was held at Ravindra Munch Gallery, Jaipur. It comprised of hundreds of painting exhibited by different artists from across the world. Hundreds of art lovers, including top officials and eminent artists, were present on the occasion. Advertisement Advertisement - Advertisement - Our Social Networks Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement
