=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Former Directors | The Clayman Institute for Gender Research]
The Clayman Institute for Gender Research · Main content start · Shelley J. Correll · The Barbara D. Finberg Director, 2010-2019 · Schiebinger · Londa Schiebinger · The Barbara D. Finberg Director, 2004-2010 · Barbara Gelpi · Acting Director, 2001-2004 ·
URL: https://gender.stanford.edu/people/adrian-daub/former-directors

[Shelley J. Correll - Stanford Graduate School of Business]
Sep 13, 2015 · Shelley J. Correll is professor of sociology and (by courtesy) organizational behavior at Stanford University, where she directs the Stanford VMware Women’s Leadership Innovation Lab and previously directed the Clayman Institute for Gender Research. Her expertise is in the areas of gender, workplace dynamics, and organizational culture.
URL: https://www.gsb.stanford.edu/faculty-research/faculty/shelley-correll

[Shelley Correll - Wikipedia]
Correll stepped down as director of the Clayman Institute for Gender Research after nine years [17] and was replaced by Adrian Daub. [18] She was introduced to Michelle Mercer during her tenure as director and was specifically appointed the Michelle Mercer and Bruce Golden Family Professor of Women's Leadership Director in 2019 as a "tribute of ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shelley_Correll

[Stanford University, Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Gender Research ...]
Correspondence files of the Directors of the Institute include those of Iris F. Litt, M.D., Barbara Gelpi, Laura Carstensen, and Ineko Tsuchida. Also included are over 800 audiocassettes of seminars, talks, conferences, and lectures, 1973-2004.
URL: https://oac.cdlib.org/findaid/ark:/13030/kt229035g3/dsc/

[Stanford University centers and institutes - Wikipedia]
In 2004, the new director, Professor Londa Schiebinger, a historian of science, formed a plan to create a series of research initiatives on gender issues, backed by a research fellowship program, that would attract scholars from Stanford and abroad.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanford_University_centers_and_institutes


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Former Directors | The Clayman Institute for Gender Research] ---
Main content start Former Directors Shelley J. Correll The Barbara D. Finberg Director, 2010-2019 Londa Schiebinger The Barbara D. Finberg Director, 2004-2010 Barbara Gelpi Acting Director, 2001-2004 Laura Carstensen The Barbara D. Finberg Director, 1997-2001 Iris Litt Director, 1990-1997 Deborah L. Rhode Director, 1986-1990 Judith Brown Acting Director, 1985-1986 Marilyn Yalom Director, 1984-1985 Diane Middlebrook Director, 1977-1979 Myra Strober Director, 1974-76 and 1979-84


--- [Shelley J. Correll - Stanford Graduate School of Business] ---
Shelley J. Correll Bio Shelley J. Correll is professor of sociology and (by courtesy) organizational behavior at Stanford University, where she directs the Stanford VMware Women’s Leadership Innovation Lab and previously directed the Clayman Institute for Gender Research. Her expertise is in the areas of gender, workplace dynamics, and organizational culture. Correll is committed to uncovering and removing the biases and barriers that limit women’s full participation in society. Her research on the “motherhood penalty” demonstrates how motherhood influences the workplace evaluations, pay, and job opportunities of mothers. Her current research uncovers how gender stereotypes and organizational practices limit the advancement and retention of women in technical jobs. Correll has published more than 30 articles on these topics. Correll’s research has received numerous awards, including the 2008 Distinguished Article Award, Sex and Gender section; from the American Sociological Association, the 2009 Rosabeth Moss Kanter Award for Excellence in Work Family Research; and recognition for Extraordinary Contribution to Work Family Research in 2018. With her colleagues, Correll is currently designing and evaluating “small wins” interventions to increase diversity and inclusion outcomes in modern workplaces. Her research has been profiled in The New York Times, The Atlantic, The Wall Street Journal, Harvard Business Review, and other leading media publications. Correll is an award-winning teacher and mentor. In 2016, she was awarded the SWS Feminist Lecturer Award and in 2017, the SWS Feminist Mentor Award, both from Sociologists for Women in Society. Correll has conducted executive seminars and management development programs internationally. She frequently teaches in Executive Education at Stanford Graduate School of Business, including in the first LGBTQ executive education program offered by a top business school. She is codirector of the Program for Women Leaders in Major League Baseball at Stanford Graduate School of Business. In addition to her teaching and research activities, Correll has been an active change agent in academia, having earned the Alice H. Cook and Constance E. Cook Award, Cornell University in 2008, for work to improve the climate for women at Cornell and elsewhere, and more recently, through her work as the Clayman Institute director. Under Correll’s directorship, the Clayman Institute received the 2019 President’s Awards for Excellence Through Diversity. Administrative Titles Academic Degrees - PhD, Stanford University, 2001 - MA, Stanford University, 1996 - BS, Texas A&M University, 1989 Academic Appointments - Michelle Mercer and Bruce Golden Family Professor of Women’s Leadership, Stanford University, 2019–present - Professor, Department of Sociology, Stanford University, 2012–present - Professor (by courtesy), Organizational Behavior, Stanford GSB, 2012–present - Barbara D. Finberg Director, Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Research on Gender, Stanford University, 2010–2019 - Associate Professor, Department of Sociology, Stanford University, 2008–2012 - Associate Professor, Department of Sociology, Cornell University, 2005–2009 - Codirector, Cornell NSF ADVNACE Center, Cornell University, 2006–2008 - Assistant Professor, Department of Sociology, Cornell University, 2003–2005 - Assistant Professor, Department of Sociology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 2001–2003


--- [Shelley Correll - Wikipedia] ---
Shelley Joyce Correll is an American sociologist. She is the Michelle Mercer and Bruce Golden Family Professor of Women's Leadership
Director at Stanford University. In 2026, Correll became the 117th president of the American Sociological Association.


--- [Stanford University, Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Gender Research ...] ---
Stanford University, Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Gender Research, Records, 1973-2015 Collection context Summary - Title: - Stanford University, Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Gender Research, records - Dates: - 1973-2015 - Creators: - Clayman Institute for Gender Research and Stanford University. Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Gender Research - Abstract: - Collection consists of records regarding the administrative affairs of the Institute and its programs such as conferences, classes, lectures (especially the Jing Lyman Lecture Series), and publications. Correspondence files of the Directors of the Institute include those of Iris F. Litt, M.D., Barbara Gelpi, Laura Carstensen, and Ineko Tsuchida. Also included are over 800 audiocassettes of seminars, talks, conferences, and lectures, 1973-2004. - Extent: - 155.25 Linear Feet - Language: - English . - Preferred citation: - [identification of item] Stanford University, Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Gender Research, Records (SC0705). Dept. of Special Collections and University Archives, Stanford University Libraries, Stanford, Calif. Background - Scope and content: - Collection consists of records regarding the administrative affairs of the Institute and its programs such as conferences, classes, lectures (especially the Jing Lyman Lecture Series), and publications. Correspondence files of the Directors of the Institute include those of Iris F. Litt, M.D., Barbara Gelpi, Laura Carstensen, and Ineko Tsuchida. Also included are over 800 audiocassettes of seminars, talks, conferences, and lectures, 1973-2004. - Biographical / historical: - The Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Gender Research at Stanford University supports research on women's changing economic and social roles and organizes educational programs that make such work accessible to the public. It was originally founded in 1974 as the Center for Research on Women and later known as the Institute for Research on Women and Gender. - Acquisition information: - Administrative transfers, 2004-2019. - Physical location: - Special Collections and University Archives materials are stored offsite and must be paged 48 hours in advance. For more information on paging collections, see the department's website: https://library.stanford.edu/libraries/special-collections. - Rules or conventions: - Describing Archives: A Content Standard Indexed terms - Subjects: - Women--Economic conditions. Women's studies. Feminism. - Names: - Clayman Institute for Gender Research Stanford University. Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Gender Research Stanford University. Center for Research on Women Stanford University. Institute for Research on Women and Gender Carstensen, Laura L. Gelpi, Barbara Charlesworth. Litt, Iris F. Tsuchida, Ineko. Tsuchida, Ineko. About this collection guide - Date Encoded: - This finding aid was produced using ArchivesSpace on 2025-03-24 12:46:30 -0700 . Access and use - Restrictions: - Director's search files and Policy Board files in Accession 2004-215 (Boxes 24 & 27) are restricted 75 years from date of creation. Materials are otherwise open for research use. Audio-visual materials are not available in original format, and must be reformatted to a digital use copy. - Terms of access: - All requests to reproduce, publish, quote from, or otherwise use collection materials must be submitted in writing to the Head of Special Collections and University Archives, Stanford University Libraries, Stanford, California 94304-6064. Consent is given on behalf of Special Collections as the owner of the physical items and is not intended to include or imply permission from the copyright owner. Such permission must be obtained from the copyright owner, heir(s) or assigns. See: http://library.stanford.edu/depts/spc/pubserv/permissions.html. Restrictions also apply to digital representations of the original materials. Use of digital files is restricted to research and educational purposes. - Preferred citation: - [identification of item] Stanford University, Michelle R. Clayman Institute for Gender Research, Records (SC0705). Dept. of Special Collections and University Archives, Stanford University Libraries, Stanford, Calif. - Location of this collection: - Stanford University Archives, Green Library557 Escondido MallStanford, CA 94305-6064, US - Contact: - (650) 725-1022


--- [Stanford University centers and institutes - Wikipedia] ---
Stanford University has many centers and institutes dedicated to the study of various specific topics. These centers and institutes may be within a department, within a school but across departments, an independent laboratory, institute or center reporting directly to the dean of research and outside any school, or semi-independent of the university itself.


