=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[American Classical Music Hall of Fame and Museum - Wikipedia]
The American Classical Music Hall of Fame and Museum is a non-profit organization celebrating past and present individuals and institutions that have made significant contributions to classical music —"people who have contributed to American music and music in America", according to Samuel Adler (co-chairman of the organization's first artistic directorate). [1] The project was founded in ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Classical_Music_Hall_of_Fame_and_Museum

[Chanticleer Inducted Into American Classical Music Hall of Fame]
The Board of Trustees of the American Classical Music Hall of Fame has announced that Chanticleer has been named one of five 2008 inductees into the Hall of Fame.
URL: https://www.chanticleer.org/press-releases/chanticleer-inducted-into-american-classical-music-hall-of-fame

[» Hall of Fame Inductees | Classical Music Walk Of Fame]
Hall of Fame Inductees 165 Inductees Since 1998 Order Inductees By: Show Only Inductee Type: OR Show Only Inductee Year:
URL: https://classicalwalkoffame.org/the-inductees/

[American Classical Music Hall of Fame and Museum Facts for Kids]
The American Classical Music Hall of Fame and Museum is a non-profit organization celebrating past and present individuals and institutions that have made significant contributions to classical music —"people who have contributed to American music and music in America", according to Samuel Adler (co-chairman of the organization's first artistic directorate). The project was founded in 1996 ...
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/American_Classical_Music_Hall_of_Fame_and_Museum

[Browse Inductees]
165 Inductees Since 1998. Order Inductees By: Name, Year, Type. Show Only Inductee Type: All Composer, Conductor, Ensemble, Educator, Performer, Organization.
URL: https://classicalwalkoffame.org/browse-inductees/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [American Classical Music Hall of Fame and Museum - Wikipedia] ---
The American Classical Music Hall of Fame and Museum is a non-profit organization celebrating past and present individuals and institutions that have made significant contributions to classical music—"people who have contributed to American music and music in America", according to Samuel Adler (co-chairman of the organization's first artistic directorate). The project was founded in 1996 by Cincinnati businessman and civic leader David A. Klingshirm and inducted its first honorees in 1998.
The organization's offices and exhibits are housed in the Hamilton County Memorial Building, next door to the Cincinnati Music Hall in the Over-the-Rhine neighborhood of Cincinnati, Ohio. The exhibits are not open to the public but are on view during some events at the School for Creative and Performing Arts in Cincinnati and via a virtual museum. "The Classical Walk of Fame", pavement stones engraved with names of American Classical Music Hall of Fame inductees, was opened in Washington Park outside the steps of the Cincinnati Music Hall in 2012. A mobile app allows park visitors to read biographies of the inductees, listen to samples of their music, and view related pictures. They can also play classical music through a mobile jukebox which activates the park's "dancing fountain".




--- [Chanticleer Inducted Into American Classical Music Hall of Fame] ---
CHANTICLEER INDUCTED INTO AMERICAN CLASSICAL MUSIC HALL OF FAME For Immediate Release FOLLOWING AWARD-WINNING 30TH ANNIVERSARY SEASON, CHANTICLEER WILL BE INDUCTED INTO AMERICAN CLASSICAL MUSIC HALL OF FAME AMERICA’S “ORCHESTRA OF VOICES,” DESCRIBED IN NEW YORKER AS “THE WORLD’S REIGNING MALE CHORUS,” WILL ATTEND PUBLIC INDUCTION CEREMONY AT CINCINNATI’S MEMORIAL HALL ON OCTOBER 9, AND WILL GIVE PERFORMANCE NEXT DAY AT CATHEDRAL OF SAINT PETER IN CHAINS The Board of Trustees of the American Classical Music Hall of Fame has announced that Chanticleer has been named one of five 2008 inductees into the Hall of Fame. The Grammy-winning twelve-male vocal ensemble will be inducted in a public ceremony that will take place at Cincinnati’s Memorial Hall, home of the American Classical Music Hall of Fame, on October 9. The following Day, Chanticleer will give a concert at the Cathedral of Saint Peter in Chains. The four other 2008 inductees to the Hall of Fame are opera singer Risë Stevens, Cincinnati Pops conductor Erich Kunzel, the Juilliard School, and 19th-century music educator Lowell Mason. Chanticleer’s 30th-anniversary season (2007-08) brought the group four major awards, beginning in December with the 2008 Musical America Award for Ensemble of the Year. The award was especially notable because it marked the first time a vocal ensemble had been so recognized. In May, Chanticleer’s long-time Music Director, Joseph Jennings, was recognized as one of ASCAP’s four 2008 Concert Music Honorees. In June, Chanticleer was honored at the National Performing Arts Conference in Denver with two awards: the inaugural Dale Warland Singers Commissioning Award and the Chorus America/ASCAP Adventurous Programming Award for the 2006-07 season. Chanticleer launched its 31st season in August with the release on Warner Classics of The Mission Road, a CD-plus-DVD recording, exploring the music of California’s vibrant mission period. A list of the group’s fall 2008 concerts follows. Additional information is available at Chanticleer’s website: www.chanticleer.org.


--- [» Hall of Fame Inductees | Classical Music Walk Of Fame] ---
The American Classical Music Hall Of Fame offers a complimentary smartphone application for playing inductee music through your phone and also through Washington Park’s PA system. Download Android Player Download Player On iOS No, thank you. Just take me to the website.165 Inductees Since 1998 ASCAP Adams, John Adler, Samuel Alsop, Marin American Guild of Organists Anderson, Marian Apollo's Fire Arroyo, Martina Ax, Emanuel BMI Babbit, Milton Baldwin Piano Company Barber, Samuel Bartok, Bela Beach, Amy Beaux Arts Trio Bernstein, Leonard Billings, William Bolcom, William Bookspan, Martin Boston Symphony Orchestra Boulanger, Nadia Brubeck, Dave Burleigh, Henry Cage, John Caldwell, Sarah Carter, Elliot Casals, Pablo Chadwick, George Whitefield Chanticleer Chicago Symphony Orchestra Chorus America Cincinnati Opera Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra Cleveland Orchestra Cliburn, Van Conlon, James Coolidge, Elizabeth Sprague Copland, Aaron Corigliano, John Crider, Paula Crumb, George DeLay, Dorothy Diamond, David Dvorak, Antonin Ellington, Duke Emerson String Quartet Fennell, Frederick Fiedler, Arthur Fisk Jubilee Singers Fleisher, Leon Fleming, Renée Foss, Lukas Gershwin, George Gingold, Josef Glass, Philip Goto, Midori Gottschalk, Louis Moreau (Melissa) Gould, Morton Graffman, Gary Griffes, Charles Tomlinson Guarneri Quartet Hancock, Gerre Handel and Haydn Society Hanson, Howard Heifetz, Jascha Herseth, Adolph Sylvester “Bud” Hillis, Margaret Hindemith, Paul Hitchcock, H. Wiley Horne, Marilyn Interlochen Center for the Arts Ives, Charles John Philip Sousa Band Joplin, Scott Juilliard School Julliard String Quartet Kernis, Aaron Jay Koussevitzky, Serge Kronos Quartet Kunzel, Erich LaSalle Quartet Larsen, Libby League of American Orchestras Levine, James Lewis, Henry Library of Congress Music Division Los Angeles Master Chorale Ma, Yo-Yo Maazel, Lorin MacDowell, Edward Mahler, Gustav Martino, Donald Mason, Lowell Mehta, Zubin Menotti, Gian Carlo Metropolitan Opera Milhaud, Darius Mitropoulos, Dimitri Mormon Tabernacle Choir Muti, Riccardo New York Philharmonic Noble, Weston Norman, Jessye Opera America Ormandy, Eugene Paine, John Knowles Perlman,Itzak Philadelphia Orchestra Phillips, Harvey G. Piatigorsky, Gregor Piston, Walter Polisi, Joseph Previn, Andre Price, Leontyne Rachleff, Larry Rachmaninoff, Sergei Reich, Steve Reiner, Fritz Reynolds, H. Robert Rorem, Ned Rudolf, Max Schippers, Thomas Schnabel, Artur Schoenberg, Arnold Schuller, Gunther Schuman, William Serkin, Rudolf Sessions, Roger Shaw, Robert Sills, Beverly Slatkin, Leonard Slonimsky, Nicolas Solti, Sir Georg Sousa, John Philip St. Louis Symphony Starker, János Steinberg, Michael Steinway & Sons Stern, Isaac Stevens, Rise Still, William Grant Stokowski, Leopold Stravinsky, Igor Szell, George Tanglewood Music Festival Thomas, Theodore Thomson, Virgil Tilson Thomas, Michael Toscanini, Arturo Tower, Joan United States Marine Band Varese, Edgard Wadsworth, Charles Walker, George Walter, Bruno Warfield, William Warland, Dale Watts, Andre Westminster Choir College Williams, John Zhang, Xian Zinman, David Zwilich, Ellen Taaffe von Stade, Frederica


--- [American Classical Music Hall of Fame and Museum Facts for Kids] ---
American Classical Music Hall of Fame and Museum facts for kids | The Hamilton County Memorial Building which houses the organization's offices and exhibits | | | Established | 1996 | |---|---| | Location | 1225 Elm Street, Cincinnati, Ohio | | Type | Classical music museum | The American Classical Music Hall of Fame and Museum is a special group that celebrates people and organizations who have done amazing things in classical music. It's like a hall of fame for musicians, composers, and groups who have made music in America or contributed to American music. A composer named Samuel Adler said it's about "people who have contributed to American music and music in America." This organization was started in 1996 by David A. Klingshirm, a businessman from Cincinnati. The first people were added to the Hall of Fame in 1998. Where to Find the Hall of Fame The main offices and some exhibits are located in the Hamilton County Memorial Building in Cincinnati. This building is right next to the Cincinnati Music Hall. While the exhibits inside aren't always open to everyone, you can sometimes see them during events at the School for Creative and Performing Arts in Cincinnati. There is also a virtual museum you can visit online. The Classical Walk of Fame In 2012, "The Classical Walk of Fame" was opened in Washington Park. This park is right outside the Cincinnati Music Hall. The Walk of Fame has special pavement stones with the names of people who have been added to the American Classical Music Hall of Fame. You can use a mobile app when you visit the park. This app lets you read about the people honored, listen to parts of their music, and see pictures. You can even play classical music through a mobile jukebox, which makes the park's "dancing fountain" move to the music! Honoring Great Musicians: Inductees Each year, new people and groups are chosen to join the American Classical Music Hall of Fame. These are individuals and organizations who have made a big impact on classical music. Here are some of the inductees over the years: 1998 Inductees - Marian Anderson - Samuel Barber - Leonard Bernstein - Elliott Carter - Aaron Copland - Duke Ellington - George Gershwin - Howard Hanson - Charles Ives - Scott Joplin - Serge Koussevitzky - John Knowles Paine - Leontyne Price - Fritz Reiner - Arnold Schoenberg - Gunther Schuller - Roger Sessions - Robert Shaw - Nicolas Slonimsky - John Philip Sousa - Isaac Stern - Leopold Stokowski - Igor Stravinsky - Theodore Thomas - Arturo Toscanini - United States Marine Band 1999 Inductees - Milton Babbitt - Béla Bartók - Amy Beach - George W. Chadwick - Charles Tomlinson Griffes - Jascha Heifetz - H. Wiley Hitchcock - Marilyn Horne - Music Division of the Library of Congress - Dimitri Mitropoulos - Max Rudolf - William Schuman - William Grant Still - Edgard Varèse - William Warfield 2000 Inductees - Elizabeth Sprague Coolidge - Leon Fleisher - Edward MacDowell - Metropolitan Opera - Eugene Ormandy - Walter Piston - Rudolf Serkin - Beverly Sills - George Szell - George Walker 2001 Inductees 2002 Inductees - John Cage - Pablo Casals - Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra - Dorothy DeLay - Lukas Foss - Louis Moreau Gottschalk - Handel and Haydn Society - Lorin Maazel - Gian Carlo Menotti - Darius Milhaud - Jessye Norman - Artur Schnabel - Leonard Slatkin 2003 Inductees - Boston Symphony Orchestra - Dave Brubeck - Morton Gould - James Levine - Steinway & Sons 2004 Inductees 2006 Inductees - Martin Bookspan 2007 Inductees - Cleveland Orchestra - Yo-Yo Ma - Donald Martino - Harvey G. Phillips 2008 Inductees - Samuel Adler - Chanticleer - The Juilliard School - Erich Kunzel - Lowell Mason - Risë Stevens 2009 Inductees - John Adams - James Conlon - League of American Orchestras - Midori Gotō 2010 Inductees - BMI - Marin Alsop - Joseph W. Polisi - William Bolcom - ASCAP - Emerson Quartet 2011 Inductees - Sir Georg Solti - John Corigliano - Philip Glass - Gregor Piatigorsky - Charles Wadsworth - Chorus America - Chicago Symphony Orchestra 2012 Inductees - Dale Warland - Beaux Arts Trio - Philadelphia Orchestra - Nadia Boulanger - Emanuel Ax - Opera America - Steve Reich - David Zinman 2013 Inductees - Aaron Jay Kernis - American Guild of Organists - Guarneri Quartet - Weston Noble - André Watts 2015 Inductees - Henry Lewis - Mormon Tabernacle Choir 2017 Inductees - Los Angeles Master Chorale - Larry Rachleff - Fisk Jubilee Singers - Margaret Hillis - Renee Fleming 2018 Inductees - Tanglewood Music Festival - Westminster Choir College - Ellen Taaffe Zwilich - Apollo's Fire - Ned Rorem - Janos Starker - Xian Zhang (conductor) 2019 Inductees - Henry Burleigh - Sarah Caldwell - Gary Graffman - Adolph Herseth - Interlochen Arts Academy - Kronos Quartet - LaSalle Quartet - H. Robert Reynolds - Michael Steinberg (music critic) - Joan Tower - Bruno Walter 2020 Inductees - Martina Arroyo - Baldwin Piano Company - Cincinnati Opera - Paula Crider - David Diamond (composer) - Josef Gingold - Gerre Hancock - John Philip Sousa Band - Libby Larsen - Riccardo Muti - Thomas Schippers - St. Louis Symphony See Also - List of music museums


--- [Browse Inductees] ---
The American Classical Music Hall Of Fame offers a complimentary smartphone application for playing inductee music through your phone and also through Washington Park’s PA system. Download Android Player Download Player On iOS No, thank you. Just take me to the website.165 Inductees Since 1998 ASCAP Adams, John Adler, Samuel Alsop, Marin American Guild of Organists Anderson, Marian Apollo's Fire Arroyo, Martina Ax, Emanuel BMI Babbit, Milton Baldwin Piano Company Barber, Samuel Bartok, Bela Beach, Amy Beaux Arts Trio Bernstein, Leonard Billings, William Bolcom, William Bookspan, Martin Boston Symphony Orchestra Boulanger, Nadia Brubeck, Dave Burleigh, Henry Cage, John Caldwell, Sarah Carter, Elliot Casals, Pablo Chadwick, George Whitefield Chanticleer Chicago Symphony Orchestra Chorus America Cincinnati Opera Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra Cleveland Orchestra Cliburn, Van Conlon, James Coolidge, Elizabeth Sprague Copland, Aaron Corigliano, John Crider, Paula Crumb, George DeLay, Dorothy Diamond, David Dvorak, Antonin Ellington, Duke Emerson String Quartet Fennell, Frederick Fiedler, Arthur Fisk Jubilee Singers Fleisher, Leon Fleming, Renée Foss, Lukas Gershwin, George Gingold, Josef Glass, Philip Goto, Midori Gottschalk, Louis Moreau (Melissa) Gould, Morton Graffman, Gary Griffes, Charles Tomlinson Guarneri Quartet Hancock, Gerre Handel and Haydn Society Hanson, Howard Heifetz, Jascha Herseth, Adolph Sylvester “Bud” Hillis, Margaret Hindemith, Paul Hitchcock, H. Wiley Horne, Marilyn Interlochen Center for the Arts Ives, Charles John Philip Sousa Band Joplin, Scott Juilliard School Julliard String Quartet Kernis, Aaron Jay Koussevitzky, Serge Kronos Quartet Kunzel, Erich LaSalle Quartet Larsen, Libby League of American Orchestras Levine, James Lewis, Henry Library of Congress Music Division Los Angeles Master Chorale Ma, Yo-Yo Maazel, Lorin MacDowell, Edward Mahler, Gustav Martino, Donald Mason, Lowell Mehta, Zubin Menotti, Gian Carlo Metropolitan Opera Milhaud, Darius Mitropoulos, Dimitri Mormon Tabernacle Choir Muti, Riccardo New York Philharmonic Noble, Weston Norman, Jessye Opera America Ormandy, Eugene Paine, John Knowles Perlman,Itzak Philadelphia Orchestra Phillips, Harvey G. Piatigorsky, Gregor Piston, Walter Polisi, Joseph Previn, Andre Price, Leontyne Rachleff, Larry Rachmaninoff, Sergei Reich, Steve Reiner, Fritz Reynolds, H. Robert Rorem, Ned Rudolf, Max Schippers, Thomas Schnabel, Artur Schoenberg, Arnold Schuller, Gunther Schuman, William Serkin, Rudolf Sessions, Roger Shaw, Robert Sills, Beverly Slatkin, Leonard Slonimsky, Nicolas Solti, Sir Georg Sousa, John Philip St. Louis Symphony Starker, János Steinberg, Michael Steinway & Sons Stern, Isaac Stevens, Rise Still, William Grant Stokowski, Leopold Stravinsky, Igor Szell, George Tanglewood Music Festival Thomas, Theodore Thomson, Virgil Tilson Thomas, Michael Toscanini, Arturo Tower, Joan United States Marine Band Varese, Edgard Wadsworth, Charles Walker, George Walter, Bruno Warfield, William Warland, Dale Watts, Andre Westminster Choir College Williams, John Zhang, Xian Zinman, David Zwilich, Ellen Taaffe von Stade, Frederica
