=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records, Additions]
The Cunningham Dance Foundation (CDF) was established in 1964 to support the company and advance Cunningham's work. The Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records additions hold administrative files, company management and technical files, development files, and repertory files, as well as publicity materials, programs, and photographs.
URL: https://archives.nypl.org/dan/18602

[Merce Cunningham - Wikipedia]
From 1971 until its dissolution in 2012, the company was based in the Westbeth Artists Community in the West Village; for a time Cunningham himself lived a block away at 107 Bank Street, with John Cage. On July 20, 1999, Merce Cunningham and Mikhail Baryshnikov performed together at the New ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merce_Cunningham

[Merce Cunningham Dance Company Legacy - numberanalytics.com]
Jun 14, 2025 · The company's legacy continues to be felt today, with many of Cunningham's works remaining in the repertory of dance companies around the world. The Cunningham Dance Foundation, established by Merce Cunningham in 2000, continues to support the preservation and promotion of Cunningham's work.
URL: https://www.numberanalytics.com/blog/merce-cunningham-dance-company-legacy

[Graham Foundation > Grantees > Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc.]
Cunningham passed away in his New York home on July 26, 2009. Founded in 1964, the Cunningham Dance Foundation (CDF) exists to support, sustain, and further the wide-ranging creative activities of Merce Cunningham: choreographer, teacher, and artist.
URL: http://grahamfoundation.org/grantees/3678-nearly-ninety-architecture-programming

[Item Details | Research Catalog | NYPL]
Merce Cunningham (1919-2009) was a dancer, choreographer, and founder of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company. The Cunningham Dance Foundation (CDF) was established in 1964 to support the company and advance Cunningham's work.
URL: https://www.nypl.org/research/research-catalog/bib/b20217399


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records, Additions] ---
Scope and arrangement The Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records, Additions hold administrative files, company management and technical files, development files, and repertory files, as well as press materials, programs, and photographs. Administrative files consist of Board of Directors material as well as financial ledgers, contracts, film and music documents, and the papers of CDF's archivist, David Vaughan. Company Management files document the technical logistics of touring a dance company. Development files hold grant applications, correspondence with individual donors, and materials related to galas and art sales which supported the company. Repertory files document the creation of individual dances. Press materials consist of clippings, flyers, newsletters, and press releases. Photographs include professional shots of dancers and individual dances, as well as slides and negatives documenting the company and CDF events. The Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records, Additions are arranged in seven series: - 1890-2011 The Cunningham Dance Foundation administrative files consist of Board of Directors material as well as contracts; financial ledgers; artist, film, and sound documents; and the papers of Merce Cunningham and CDF's archivist, David Vaughan. Board of Directors correspondence, arranged alphabetically, includes updates on ongoing projects, items of interest for individuals on specific committees (such as the Financial Committee), reminders to raise a yearly contribution, and resignation and acceptance letters. Board of Directors minutes, arranged by year, hold a record of each meeting, memos, and copies of financial and executive committee reports, as well as information about fundraising efforts. Board meetings covered the financial well being of CDF, election of new members, and strategies for growth. David Vaughan's files hold correspondence with current and past co-workers, lecture and study notes, writings, and notes compiled using information found in the archive. The notes include a dance-by-dance compilation of information relating to individual compositions by Cunningham. They consist of statements by Cunningham regarding the development or intention of the dance, remembrances of the dances by Vaughan and others, photocopies of articles and related published material, and quotes by Cunningham on the nature of dance in general. Vaughan's notes were ultimately used to compile his 1984 article, "The Choreography of Merce Cunningham: Chronology and Commentary" which is also held in these files. A limited selection of artist files hold correspondence and designs from visual artists and costume designers who worked with Cunningham. Such designs often preceded a dance – for example, Suzanne Gallo's file holds a fully formed design idea, including costumes, lighting, and sets with no particular dance attached. These files may also contain gallery loan information and summaries of the artist's work. Film files hold correspondence with collaborators on visual projects, video preservation documentation, transcripts and their translations, and video inventories. Sound files consist of correspondence with musical artists and composers, contracts, and scores produced for or used by Cunningham. There is also a small selection of late 19th/early 20th century published sheet music, some of which was used for Dime a Dance (1953). Since Cunningham did not choreograph specifically for music or vice versa, these materials were kept separately. There are also personnel files, financial ledgers, sample dance company contracts, and surveys. This series also contains a small selection of Merce Cunningham's personal files. These consist of incoming correspondence and "notes to Merce" from staff, presidential invitations and honorary degrees, and the Life Forms manuals for his dance creation software. There are also notes used by Cunningham to conduct classes, workshops, and rehearsal warm-ups. Electronic records in this series include files created while Elliot Caplan was the filmmaker in residence. These files include correspondence regarding screenings, personal appearances and lectures; reviews of his films; interview requests for Cage/Cunningham; and responses to requests for copies of his films or press kits. Michael Stier's electronic files hold correspondence regarding video licensing and distribution requests and inventories created during his time as CDF's film and video distribution coordinator. David Vaughan's records include drafts of Vaughan's histories of the company by year (1935-1996), video clips compiled for the CDF website, photographs of Cunningham and others, and some individual dance descriptions and biographical information on Merce Cunningham and other artists. There are also copies of the Board of Directors meeting minutes (1992-1999) which are accompanied by company budgets and some staff resumes. Arranged alphabetically by file type. Electronic records are currently unavailable. - 1945-2011 The company management files were created by the administrative staff and various road staff, including stage managers and technical directors. These materials document the logistics of moving a company to its various performances and locations each year. There is correspondence between event organizers, local staff, managers, and CDF staff. Correspondence details lighting, sound, and electrical needs; hotel bookings; rehearsal space rental arrangements; numbers of traveling crew and performers; and local fire codes. There are also loading lists, local contracts, tour itineraries, production schedules, and program mockups. For venues where the company performed regularly (such as City Center), there are close-out notes with suggestions for changes to be made in the next year with light rentals and scenery positioning, as well as reminders of quick fixes that worked. These files track the details of setting an individual dance or series of dances into a specific venue. Technical files include light plots, instrument schedules, structural drawings, light cues, line set schedules, channel hook-ups, and magic sheets. Magic sheets provided a quick visual reference to each channel and the fixture(s) it controlled. Most of the technical drawings contain production and venue information. Some technical files contain memos advising the house crew working at each venue as to the specific electrical needs of the company. Electronic records in this series are both company management and technical files, and include tour itineraries, correspondence from production managers to various venues, load-in lists, light cue sheets, and outlines of specific venue configurations. This series is arranged chronologically. Electronic records are currently unavailable. - 1965-2010 The Development files hold grant materials, individual donor files, and material relating to fundraisers and galas hosted by CDF. The grant files consist of grant applications, contracts, vouchers, reports, correspondence with grant-giving organizations and meeting minutes. The bulk of the files are grant applications with the National Endowment for the Arts and New York City's Department for the Development of Cultural Affairs. Individual donor files hold correspondence thanking non-corporate donors for one time or continuing gifts. These files primarily date from 2009 to 2011, during the height of the campaign to fund the Legacy Plan. Gala and fundraising files consist of correspondence, invitations, guest books, and planning notes related to CDF's other fundraising opportunities. These include gala performances, art shows and sales, and post-performance "meet and greet" receptions. These files also contain correspondence with artists who donated works to be sold or shown by CDF. Arranged alphabetically by file type. - 1953-2008 Repertory production files document the creation and packaging of individual dances. Created by Cunningham and collaborating artists and technicians, these files hold original light cues, photographs, costume designs, credit sheets, prop lists, cue sheets, universal stage diagrams, and correspondence with scenic designers. These files document the assembly of a dance up until the minute it is ready to go on the road. Event files often have little to no division between individual Events. For files relating to the mounting of dances at specific venues, users should consult Series II, Company management and technical files. Electronic records in this series consist of files used to compile the dance capsules. Pioneered by the Cunningham Dance Foundation before it closed, these digital capsules were created to preserve 58 works from the Cunningham repertory for study and setting the dances on other companies. The Events capsule contains files from many separate Events. The capsules include varying levels of detail in content. Dance capsule files may include a brief description of the dance, audio samples of music, scans of costume sketches, photographs, and set designs, lighting plots, video clips of the entire dance or just a portion, and choreographic notes. Organized into productions and events, productions are arranged alphabetically by title of piece. Electronic records are currently unavailable. - 1948-2009 The photographs series consists of professional prints, slides and negatives of dancers, artists, Cunningham, and individual productions and events. The individuals files are largely headshots, though photographs of Merce Cunningham also consist of unlabeled rehearsal, workshop, and performance shots. The productions and events images are either action shots of the dance in progress or full stage shots of the props and art used in tandem with each piece. There are also candid snapshots from galas and other CDF events, and photographs of posters, magazine covers, and other material related to CDF. Promotional photographs include images of the full company used for advertising. Photographs of the archive as it was housed at CDF before its move to the library are here. Electronic records in this series are 80 images taken of a Totem Ancestor revival. Arranged alphabetically by file title. Electronic records are currently unavailable. - 1950-2011 Series VI holds programs and accompanying ephemera documenting performances by the Merce Cunningham Dance Company and the Repertory Understudy group. The bulk of the materials date from 2003 to 2011, and contain some promotional materials interspersed with the programs. These items include venue calendars, ticket stubs, souvenir booklets, flyers, postcards, organizational publications, and invitations. A smaller selection of programs dating from 1950 to 2002 are also present, as well as materials representing the performances of Cunningham choreography by outside dance companies. This series also holds monographs, exhibition catalogs, and other materials showcasing festivals, lectures, art installations, tribute galas, and other events involving Cunningham and his collaborators (including John Cage, Charles Atlas, Bruce Nauman, Robert Rauschenberg and fashion house Comme des Garçons). Arranged chronologically. - 1940-2012 Press and publicity materials consist of advertising files, clippings, flyers, CDF newsletters, and press releases. Advertising files hold correspondence with dance magazines and other publications as well as design mockups. The clippings (both domestic and foreign) were kept by administrative staff throughout CDF's existence. Many of the clippings are photocopy reproductions. Press releases document new works, changes at the company, tour dates, and fundraising galas. CDF newsletters (2006-2008) were sent to donors, other dance companies, and various other supporters of Cunningham's work and provided updates on upcoming events and seasons, as well as articles by Cunningham himself. The flyers, used for advertisement on tour and when the company was in residence at City Center or another venue, advertise performance dates, ticket sale times, and workshops. Electronic records in this series are scanned clippings, 1989-1990. Arranged alphabetically by file title. Electronic records are currently unavailable.


--- [Merce Cunningham - Wikipedia] ---
Mercier Philip Cunningham (April 16, 1919 – July 26, 2009) was an American dancer and choreographer who was at the forefront of American modern dance for more than 50 years. He frequently collaborated with artists of other disciplines, including musicians John Cage, David Tudor, Brian Eno, and graphic artists Robert Rauschenberg, Bruce Nauman, Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein, Frank Stella, and Jasper Johns; and fashion designer Rei Kawakubo. Works that he produced with these artists had a profound impact on avant-garde art beyond the world of dance.
As a choreographer, teacher, and leader of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, Cunningham had a profound influence on modern dance. Many dancers who trained with Cunningham formed their own companies. They include Paul Taylor, Remy Charlip, Viola Farber, Charles Moulton, Karole Armitage, Deborah Hay, Robert Kovich, Foofwa d'Imobilité, Kimberly Bartosik, Flo Ankah, Jan Van Dyke, Jonah Bokaer, and Alice Reyes.
In 2009, the Cunningham Dance Foundation announced the Legacy Plan, a plan for the continuation of Cunningham's work and the celebration and preservation of his artistic legacy.
Cunningham earned some of the highest honours bestowed in the arts, including the National Medal of Arts and the MacArthur Fellowship. He also received Japan's Praemium Imperiale and a British Laurence Olivier Award, and was named Officier of the Légion d'honneur in France.
Cunningham's life and artistic vision have been the subject of numerous books, films, and exhibitions, and his works have been presented by groups including the Paris Opéra Ballet, New York City Ballet, American Ballet Theatre, White Oak Dance Project, and London's Rambert Dance Company.




--- [Merce Cunningham Dance Company Legacy - numberanalytics.com] ---
Merce Cunningham Dance Company Legacy Sarah Lee AI generated Llama-4-Maverick-17B-128E-Instruct-FP8 7 min read · June 14, 2025 Early Years The Merce Cunningham Dance Company was a pioneering force in modern dance, founded in 1953 by the renowned choreographer Merce Cunningham. To understand the company's legacy, it's essential to explore Cunningham's background and training. Merce Cunningham's Background and Training Merce Cunningham was born on April 16, 1919, in Centralia, Washington. He began his dance training at a young age, studying tap, ballet, and modern dance. Cunningham's early dance experience was shaped by his time with the Martha Graham Dance Company, where he performed from 1939 to 1945. During this period, he developed a strong foundation in modern dance techniques and collaborated with other influential artists. In the 1940s, Cunningham began to develop his unique choreographic style, which was heavily influenced by his collaborations with composer John Cage and visual artist Robert Rauschenberg. These collaborations would become a hallmark of Cunningham's work and a defining feature of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company. Formation of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company in 1953 The Merce Cunningham Dance Company was officially formed in 1953, with Cunningham as its artistic director. The company's early years were marked by a spirit of experimentation and innovation, as Cunningham and his collaborators pushed the boundaries of modern dance. The company's first performances were characterized by their use of unconventional music, costumes, and sets. For example, Cunningham's early work often featured music by John Cage, which was often aleatoric and challenging to traditional notions of melody and harmony. Early Collaborations with John Cage and Robert Rauschenberg Cunningham's collaborations with John Cage and Robert Rauschenberg were instrumental in shaping the company's early aesthetic. Cage's music and Rauschenberg's visual art influenced Cunningham's choreography, and the three artists frequently collaborated on new works. One notable example of their collaboration is the piece "Suite for Five" (1956-1958), which featured music by Cage, sets and costumes by Rauschenberg, and choreography by Cunningham. This piece showcased the company's innovative approach to dance and its willingness to experiment with new forms and styles. Innovative Choreography Cunningham's choreography was characterized by its use of chance operations and indeterminacy. This approach allowed for a high degree of flexibility and unpredictability in performance, as dancers were often given the freedom to make choices about their movements and actions. Cunningham's Use of Chance Operations and Indeterminacy Cunningham's use of chance operations and indeterminacy was influenced by his work with John Cage, who had developed a number of techniques for incorporating randomness and unpredictability into music composition. Cunningham adapted these techniques for dance, using methods such as coin tossing and random number generation to determine the sequence and structure of his choreography. The use of chance operations and indeterminacy allowed Cunningham to create complex and nuanced choreography that was both highly structured and highly flexible. This approach also allowed dancers to take a more active role in the creative process, as they were often required to make decisions about their movements and actions in the moment. Development of New Dance Techniques and Styles Cunningham's innovative choreography was accompanied by the development of new dance techniques and styles. Cunningham was known for his emphasis on the technical proficiency of his dancers, and he developed a number of exercises and training methods to help them achieve the level of technical skill required for his choreography. One of the key features of Cunningham's technique was its focus on the isolation and coordination of different body parts. Cunningham's dancers were trained to move with a high degree of precision and control, using techniques such as rapid-fire movements and intricate footwork. Notable Works Some of Cunningham's most notable works include: - "Suite for Five" (1956-1958) - "Rainforest" (1968) - "Un Jour ou Deux" (1973) - "Doubles" (1984) - "CRWDSPCR" (2015) These works showcase Cunningham's innovative approach to choreography and his willingness to experiment with new forms and styles. Collaborations and Legacy The Merce Cunningham Dance Company's collaborations with artists from various disciplines were a key aspect of its legacy. Cunningham worked with musicians, visual artists, and fashion designers to create new and innovative works that pushed the boundaries of modern dance. Collaborations with Artists from Various Disciplines Cunningham's collaborations with artists from other disciplines were characterized by their spirit of experimentation and innovation. For example, Cunningham worked with musicians such as John Cage, David Tudor, and Takehisa Kosugi to create new and challenging music for his choreography. Cunningham also collaborated with visual artists such as Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns, and Brice Marden to create innovative sets and costumes for his works. These collaborations often resulted in the creation of new and unexpected visual environments for the dance performances. Influence on Modern and Contemporary Dance The Merce Cunningham Dance Company had a profound influence on modern and contemporary dance. Cunningham's innovative choreography and his emphasis on technical proficiency helped to shape the development of modern dance in the second half of the 20th century. Cunningham's influence can be seen in the work of a wide range of choreographers, from William Forsythe to Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker. His emphasis on technical proficiency and his willingness to experiment with new forms and styles have inspired generations of dancers and choreographers. The Company's Continued Relevance and Impact Today Despite Merce Cunningham's passing in 2009, the Merce Cunningham Dance Company continued to perform and tour until its closure in 2012. The company's legacy continues to be felt today, with many of Cunningham's works remaining in the repertory of dance companies around the world. The Cunningham Dance Foundation, established by Merce Cunningham in 2000, continues to support the preservation and promotion of Cunningham's work. The foundation has made many of Cunningham's works available for licensing, and it continues to support the development of new choreography and dance performances. The Merce Cunningham Trust, established in 2012, is dedicated to preserving and promoting Cunningham's legacy. The trust has made a wide range of resources available, including videos, photographs, and other archival materials, to support the study and performance of Cunningham's work. Analysis of Cunningham's Legacy Cunningham's legacy can be analyzed through the lens of his innovative choreography and his collaborations with artists from other disciplines. His use of chance operations and indeterminacy, for example, can be seen as a precursor to the development of postmodern dance in the 1960s and 1970s. Cunningham's emphasis on technical proficiency and his development of new dance techniques and styles also had a profound impact on the development of modern dance. His dancers were trained to move with a high degree of precision and control, using techniques such as rapid-fire movements and intricate footwork. The graph below illustrates the influence of Cunningham's work on modern and contemporary dance. graph LR; A["Merce Cunningham"] -->|"influenced"| B["William Forsythe"]; A -->|"influenced"| C["Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker"]; B -->|"influenced"| D["Contemporary Choreographers"]; C -->|"influenced"| D; Mathematical Analysis of Cunningham's Choreography Cunningham's use of chance operations and indeterminacy can be analyzed using mathematical concepts such as probability theory and stochastic processes. For example, the probability of a particular movement or sequence of movements can be modeled using a Markov chain. \[ P(X_n = x_n | X_{n-1} = x_{n-1}, ..., X_0 = x_0) = P(X_n = x_n | X_{n-1} = x_{n-1}) \] This equation represents the probability of a dancer being in a particular state (x_n) at time n, given their previous states. Conclusion The Merce Cunningham Dance Company was a pioneering force in modern dance, known for its innovative choreography and collaborations with artists from other disciplines. Cunningham's use of chance operations and indeterminacy, as well as his emphasis on technical proficiency, helped to shape the development of modern dance in the second half of the 20th century. The company's legacy continues to be felt today, with many of Cunningham's works remaining in the repertory of dance companies around the world. The Cunningham Dance Foundation and the Merce Cunningham Trust continue to support the preservation and promotion of Cunningham's work, ensuring that his legacy will continue to be felt for generations to come. References - https://www.mercecunningham.org/ - https://www.britannica.com/biography/Merce-Cunningham-American-choreographer - https://www.theguardian.com/stage/2009/july/27/merce-cunningham-obituary - https://www.nytimes.com/2009/07/27/arts/dance/27cunningham.html - https://www.moma.org/interactives/exhibitions/2017/online/merce-cunningham/ FAQ What was the Merce Cunningham Dance Company? The Merce Cunningham Dance Company was a modern dance company founded by Merce Cunningham in 1953. What was Merce Cunningham's choreographic style? Merce Cunningham's choreographic style was characterized by its use of chance operations and indeterminacy, as well as its emphasis on technical proficiency. Who were some of Cunningham's collaborators? Cunningham collaborated with a wide range of artists, including musicians such as John Cage and David Tudor, and visual artists such as Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns. What is the Cunningham Dance Foundation? The Cunningham Dance Foundation is a non-profit organization dedicated to preserving and promoting Cunningham's work. What is the Merce Cunningham Trust? The Merce Cunningham Trust is a non-profit organization dedicated to preserving and promoting Cunningham's legacy. 0 Comments Related Posts Sustainable Architecture: A Science-Driven Approach This article explores the critical role of sustainability science in shaping the future of architect... Theater Journalism 101: A Beginner's Guide Theater journalism is a unique blend of art and criticism. It requires a deep understanding of the p... Mastering Sequencing in Choreography Sequencing is the backbone of choreography, dictating the flow and narrative of a dance piece. Effec... Mastering Ordinal Indicators in Digital Typography Ordinal indicators are a crucial aspect of digital typography, used to denote the order or ranking o...


--- [Graham Foundation > Grantees > Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc.] ---
- Nearly Ninety Architecture ProgrammingBenedetta Tagliabue Architect - GRANTEE Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc.GRANT YEAR 2009 Madlener House 4 West Burton Place Chicago, Illinois 60610 Telephone: 312.787.4071 info@grahamfoundation.org The Merce Cunningham Dance Company debuted Cunningham's final work Nearly Ninety at Brooklyn Academy of Music in April 2009. With a set designed by architect Benedetta Tagliabue, the work is a testament to Cunningham's continual innovation. Tagliabue's abstract, multi-level decor is strikingly original and represents an important contribution to the lexicon of contemporary stage design. By dissolving the boundaries between the visual and performing arts, the work makes a profound statement about the potential of architecture to inspire, engage and provoke. Cunningham Dance Foundation offers a host of educational initiatives and public programs related to set of Nearly Ninety, elucidating the work's design principles, construction, and creative methodology, and situating the work within the practice of contemporary architecture and performance. Benedetta Tagliabue was born in Milan and graduated from the University of Venice in 1989. In 1991, she joined Enric Miralles's studio, where she eventually became a partner. Her work with Miralles, whom she married, includes a number of high profile buildings and projects in Barcelona: Parque Diagonal Mar (1997–2002), Head Office Gas Natural (1999–2006) and the market and quarter Santa Caterina (1996–2005), as well as projects across Europe, including the School of Music in Hamburg (1997–2000) and the City Hall in Utrecht (1996–2000). Recently, she received an honorary doctor of arts degree from Napier University (2004), the RIBA Stirling Prize (2005), the Centenary Medal from Edinburgh Architectural Association, and the Spanish National Architecture Prize Manuel de la Dehesa, for the Scottish Parliament building (both 2005). Merce Cunningham (1919–2009) was a leader of the American avant-garde throughout his seventy-year career and is considered one of the most important choreographers of our time. Through much of his life, he was also one of the greatest American dancers. With an artistic career distinguished by constant innovation, Cunningham expanded the frontiers not only of dance, but also of contemporary visual and performing arts. His collaborations with artistic innovators from every creative discipline have yielded an unparalleled body of American dance, music, and visual art. Over the course of his career, he choreographed more than 150 works and more than 800 site-specific events, many of them in collaboration with his life partner, John Cage. Cunningham passed away in his New York home on July 26, 2009. Founded in 1964, the Cunningham Dance Foundation (CDF) exists to support, sustain, and further the wide-ranging creative activities of Merce Cunningham: choreographer, teacher, and artist. This consists primarily of touring the Merce Cunningham Dance Company (founded 1953), currently a group of seven men and seven women who perform the works of Merce Cunningham. Other major areas of focus include instruction in Cunningham technique (the Merce Cunningham Studio), dance education in elementary and secondary schools (educational outreach), support for young choreographers (Studio Performance Program for Young Artists), and preservation of Cunningham's history and legacy (Merce Cunningham Archives). New initiatives, such as the concert series Experiments in the Studio and the webcast series Mondays with Merce, seek to engage audiences by providing access to Cunningham's ongoing collaborations and creative activities. Copyright © 2008–2025 Graham Foundation. All rights reserved.


--- [Item Details | Research Catalog | NYPL] ---
Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records, Additions - Title - Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records, Additions, 1890-2012 (bulk 1964-2011). - Author - Format - Archival mix Available online Items in the library and offsite Displaying 1-20 of 458 items | Status | Container | Access | Call number | Item location | |---|---|---|---|---| | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 1 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 2 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 3 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 4 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 5 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 6 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 7 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 8 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 9 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 10 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 11 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 12 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 13 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 14 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 15 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 16 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 17 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 18 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 19 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | | Status Available by appointment at Performing Arts Research Collections - Dance. | Containerbox 20 | AccessSupervised use | Call number(S) *MGZMD 351 | Item locationPerforming Arts Research Collections - Dance | Details - Additional authors - Description - 141.69 linear feet (316 boxes, 41 tubes), 116.1 Gigabytes (11663 computer files) - Summary - Merce Cunningham (1919-2009) was a dancer, choreographer, and founder of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company. The Cunningham Dance Foundation (CDF) was established in 1964 to support the company and advance Cunningham's work. The Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records additions hold administrative files, company management and technical files, development files, and repertory files, as well as publicity materials, programs, and photographs. - Donor/sponsor - Subject - Genre/form - Call number - (S) *MGZMD 351 - Language - English - Access (note) - Collection is open to the public. Library policy on photography and photocopying will apply. Advance notice may be required. Electronic records are currently unavailable. - Terms of use (note) - The author/creator retains copyright of materials. For information on obtaining permission to publish, contact the Dance Division at dance@nypl.org. - Source (note) - Purchased from Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc., 1999. - Location of other archival materials (note) - Jerome Robbins Dance Division, The New York Public Library. - Provenance (note) - The records were assembled and arranged in part by company archivist David Vaughan. - Author - Cunningham Dance Foundation. - Location of other archival materials - Merce Cunningham Dance Company Choreographic records; Jerome Robbins Dance Division, The New York Public Library. - Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records; Jerome Robbins Dance Division, The New York Public Library. - Connect to: - Added author - Cunningham, Merce.
