=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ida Adamoff - Wikipedia]
Ida Adamoff (Russian: Ида Адамова, IPA: [ˈidə ɐˈdaməvə]: 26 June [O.S. 13 June] 1910 - 5 June 1993) was a French tennis player active in the 1930s. Adamoff reached the doubles final at the 1935 French Championships with Hilde Krahwinkel Sperling, losing to Margaret Scriven and Kay Stammers. [2] Her best singles performance at a Grand Slam tournament was reaching the third ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ida_Adamoff

[Biographies of Female Tennis Players - Tennis Forum]
Feb 20, 2013 · ADAMOFF, IDA (Ida Vartanovna Adamiantz-Adamoff) France Born 25 June 1910 in Moscow, Russia Died 05 June 1993. Buried in Cimetiere de Passy, Paris Married Claude Bourdet (1909-1996) in 1935. 2 sons, 1 daughter (Catherine) [Active 1929-1935, and 1938.] 1935 French doubles finalist with Hilde Sperling. Ida reached the last 16 in singles four times, yet never had success in breaking through to the ...
URL: https://www.tennisforum.com/threads/biographies-of-female-tennis-players.497314/

[Claude Bourdet - Biography - IMDb]
Claude Bourdet. Self: Hôtel Terminus. Claude Bourdet was born on 28 October 1909 in Paris, France. He was married to Ida Vartanovna Adamiantz-Adamoff. He died on 20 March 1996 in Paris, France.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/name/nm2635272/bio/

[Ida Vartanovna Adamiantz-Adamoff Bourdet... - Find a Grave]
Jun 5, 1993 · Vartanovna is interred with writer Éduoard Bourdet and his (second?) wife Denise Remon Bourdet. Russian tennis player. In 1931-32 she was second among all French tennis players. She took part in international competitions, twice winning the Open Championship of Spain.
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/13762237/ida_vartanovna-bourdet

[Ida ADAMOFF : Family tree by Base collaborative Pierfit ... - Geneanet]
Jun 5, 1993 · Discover the family tree of Ida ADAMOFF for free, and learn about their family history and their ancestry.
URL: https://gw.geneanet.org/pierfit?lang=en&n=adamoff&p=ida


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ida Adamoff - Wikipedia] ---
Ida Adamoff (Russian: Ида Адамова, IPA: [ˈidə ɐˈdaməvə]: 26 June [O.S. 13 June] 1910 – 5 June 1993) was a French tennis player active in the 1930s.
Adamoff reached the doubles final at the 1935 French Championships with Hilde Krahwinkel Sperling, losing to Margaret Scriven and Kay Stammers. Her best singles performance at a Grand Slam tournament was reaching the third round at the French Championships, in 1929, 1931, 1932 and 1935, and at the Wimbledon Championships in 1934. In 1931 she reached the quarterfinals of the mixed doubles event at Wimbledon with Enrique Maier.
In 1930 Adamoff won the singles title at the Championships of Spain and successfully defended her title in 1931. She defeated Cilly Aussem and Lucia Valerio at the Lenz Cup in Merano, Italy in October. In June 1931, she won the singles event at the Berlin Championships followed up in July with a victory at the Dutch Championships in Noordwijk where she beat Toni Schomburgk in the final. In 19,32 she won the Romanian and Italian Championships singles titles. In July 1933, Adamoff won the doubles title at the Dutch Championships with Mrs. Burke.
In 1930, she was ranked no. 2 in France behind Simonne Mathieu.
She married Claude Bourdet in 1935 and had two sons and a daughter.




--- [Biographies of Female Tennis Players - Tennis Forum] ---
No content


--- [Claude Bourdet - Biography - IMDb] ---
- Born - Died - Nickname - Lorrain - Claude Bourdet was born on October 28, 1909 in Paris, France. He was married to Ida Vartanovna Adamiantz-Adamoff. He died on March 20, 1996 in Paris, France. - SpouseIda Vartanovna Adamiantz-Adamoff(1935 - June 5, 1993) (her death, 3 children) - Commandeur de la Légion d'Honneur. - Compagnon de la Libération, the French Order established by Charles de Gaulle. - The Place Claude-Bourdet is named after him in the 13th arrondissement of Paris. - In 1950, he co-founded the news-magazine "L'Observateur". - He was arrested by the Gestapo and he was deported to various concentration camps, including Buchenwald. Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content


--- [Ida Vartanovna Adamiantz-Adamoff Bourdet... - Find a Grave] ---
Russian tennis player. In 1931-32 she was second among all French tennis players. She took part in international competitions, twice winning the Open Championship of Spain. Vartanovna is interred with writer Éduoard Bourdet and his (second?) wife Denise Remon Bourdet. Russian tennis player. In 1931-32 she was second among all French tennis players. She took part in international competitions, twice winning the Open Championship of Spain. Vartanovna is interred with writer Éduoard Bourdet and his (second?) wife Denise Remon Bourdet. Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/13762237/ida_vartanovna-bourdet: accessed ), memorial page for Ida Vartanovna Adamiantz-Adamoff Bourdet (25 Jun 1910–5 Jun 1993), Find a Grave Memorial ID 13762237, citing Passy Cemetery, Paris, Département de Paris, Île-de-France, France; Maintained by julia&keld (contributor 46812479). Add Photos for Ida Vartanovna Adamiantz-Adamoff Bourdet Fulfill Photo Request for Ida Vartanovna Adamiantz-Adamoff... Photo Request Fulfilled Thank you for fulfilling this photo request. An email has been sent to the person who requested the photo informing them that you have fulfilled their request There is an open photo request for this memorial Are you adding a grave photo that will fulfill this request? Oops, some error occurred while uploading your photo(s). Oops, something didn't work. Close this window, and upload the photo(s) again. Make sure that the file is a photo. Photos larger than 8 MB will be reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. All photos uploaded successfully, click on the <b>Done button</b> to see the photos in the gallery. General photo guidelines: Photos larger than 8.0 MB will be optimized and reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. Each contributor can upload a maximum of 5 photos for a memorial. A memorial can have a maximum of 20 photos from all contributors. The sponsor of a memorial may add an additional 10 photos (for a total of 30 on the memorial). Include gps location with grave photos where possible. No animated GIFs, photos with additional graphics (borders, embellishments.) You are only allowed to leave one flower per day for any given memorial. Memorial Photos This is a carousel with slides. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Use Escape keyboard button or the Close button to close the carousel. Quickly see who the memorial is for and when they lived and died and where they are buried. Show Map If the memorial includes GPS coordinates, simply click 'Show Map' to view the gravesite location within the cemetery. If no GPS coordinates are available, you can contribute by adding them if you know the precise location. Photos For memorials with more than one photo, additional photos will appear here or on the photos tab. Photos Tab All photos appear on this tab and here you can update the sort order of photos on memorials you manage. To view a photo in more detail or edit captions for photos you added, click the photo to open the photo viewer. Flowers Flowers added to the memorial appear on the bottom of the memorial or here on the Flowers tab. To add a flower, click the Leave a Flower button. Family Members Family members linked to this person will appear here. Related searches Use the links under See more… to quickly search for other people with the same last name in the same cemetery, city, county, etc. Sponsor This Memorial Remove advertising from a memorial by sponsoring it for <strong>just $10</strong>. Previously sponsored memorials or famous memorials will not have this option. Share Share this memorial using social media sites or email. Save to Save to an Ancestry Tree, a virtual cemetery, your clipboard for pasting or Print. Edit or Suggest Edit Edit a memorial you manage or suggest changes to the memorial manager. Have Feedback Thanks for using Find a Grave, if you have any feedback we would love to hear from you. This photo is larger than 20 MB. Please resize to less than 20 MB and try again. You may not upload any more photos to this memorial There was a problem uploading this image "Unsupported file type" Uploading... Waiting... Success Failed Duplicate photo Not image owner Photo status will not allow linking This photo has already been added to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial Invalid File Type Uploading 1 Photo Uploading 2 Photos 1 Photo Uploaded 2 Photos Uploaded Added by GREAT NEWS! There is 1 volunteer for this cemetery. Sorry! There are no volunteers for this cemetery. Continuing with this request will add an alert to the cemetery page and any new volunteers will have the opportunity to fulfill your request. Enter numeric value Enter memorial Id Year should not be greater than current year Invalid memorial Duplicate entry for memorial You have chosen this person to be their own family member. Reported! This relationship is not possible based on lifespan dates. 0% Complete Saved Sign in or Register Sign in to Find a Grave Sign-in to link to existing account There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. We’ve updated the security on the site. Please reset your password. Your account has been locked for 30 minutes due to too many failed sign in attempts. Please contact Find a Grave at [email protected] if you need help resetting your password. This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] Email not found Please complete the captcha to let us know you are a real person. Sign in to your existing Find a Grave account. You’ll only have to do this once—after your accounts are connected, you can sign in using your Ancestry sign in or your Find a Grave sign in. We found an existing Find a Grave account associated with your email address. Sign in below with your Find a Grave credentials to link your Ancestry account. After your accounts are connected you can sign in using either account. Please enter your email to sign in. Please enter your password to sign in. Please enter your email and password to sign in. There is a problem with your email/password. A system error has occurred. Please try again later. A password reset email has been sent to EmailID. If you don't see an email, please check your spam folder. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. Password Reset Please enter your email address and we will send you an email with a reset password code. or Registration Options Welcome to Find a Grave Create your free account by choosing an option below. or Ancestry account link To create your account, Ancestry will share your name and email address with Find a Grave. To continue choose an option below. or If you already have a Find a Grave account, please sign in to link to Ancestry®. New Member Registration Email is mandatory Email and Password are mandatory This account already exists, but the email address still needs to be confirmed. Resend Activation Email Your password is not strong enough Invalid Email You must agree to Terms and Conditions Account already exists Please check the I'm not a robot checkbox Internal Server error occurred If you want to be a Photo Volunteer you must enter a ZIP Code or select your location on the map You must select an email preference We have sent you an activation email Your new password must contain one or more uppercase and lowercase letters, and one or more numbers or special characters. We just emailed an activation code to Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account. cemeteries found in will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within miles of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within kilometers of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. Within 5 miles of your location. Within 5 kilometers of your location. 0 cemeteries found in . 0 cemeteries found. Add a cemetery to fulfill photo requests You can customize the cemeteries you volunteer for by selecting or deselecting below. Search above to list available cemeteries. Getting location… Loading... Loading... No cemeteries found Find a Grave Video Tutorials Default Language Translation on Find a Grave is an ongoing project. If you notice a problem with the translation, please send a message to [email protected] and include a link to the page and details about the problem. Thanks for your help! Preferred Language We have set your language to based on information from your browser. You can choose another language below: Welcome Back! Thanks for signing in. Your account will not be marked as inactive. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave. Your account has been reactivated. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . Sign out successful Return to the email you received and click on the link to contact us.


--- [Ida ADAMOFF : Family tree by Base collaborative Pierfit ... - Geneanet] ---
No content
