=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[List of lakes of Puerto Rico - Wikipedia]
List of lakes of Puerto Rico This is a list of lakes in Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico is an archipelago composed by an eponymous main island, the isle municipalities of Vieques and Culebra, as well as several cays.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_lakes_of_Puerto_Rico

[Geography of Puerto Rico - Wikipedia]
Puerto Rico has lakes (none of them natural) and more than 50 rivers. Most of these rivers are born in the Cordillera Central, Puerto Rico's principal mountain range located across the center of the island. The rivers in the north of the island are bigger and with higher flow capacity than ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geography_of_Puerto_Rico

[Puerto Rico Lakes | Puerto Rico & Caribbean Travel News]
Want to learn more about Puerto Rico lakes? Keep on reading for the full information. Puerto Rico is an unusual island in the Caribbean, in that it has an insane number of natural rivers, but not one natural lake. You would think with such a mountainous interior that lakes would abound, but in fact there is not. However, there are 15 lakes in Puerto Rico - all are man-made and are reservoirs ...
URL: https://caribbeantrading.com/lakes-puerto-rico/

[Geography of Puerto Rico Facts for Kids]
The island also has seven valleys and two flat coastal areas. The capital city, San Juan, is located on the northern coast. Puerto Rico has 47 major rivers and 26 lakes or reservoirs. One special place is Laguna Grande, a bioluminescent bay. This means the water glows at night because of tiny living things!
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Geography_of_Puerto_Rico

[Reservoirs in Puerto Rico - Encyclopedia of Puerto Rico]
Guajataca Lake by Norma Arbelo Irizarry | Wikimedia Commons Reservoirs are manmade lakes created for the main purpose of storing water for domestic or industrial use, for agricultural irrigation, for producing electricity and for controlling floods during extraordinary rain events. There are no natural lakes in Puerto Rico.
URL: https://en.enciclopediapr.org/content/reservoirs-in-puerto-rico/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [List of lakes of Puerto Rico - Wikipedia] ---
This is a list of lakes in Puerto Rico.
Puerto Rico is an archipelago composed by an eponymous main island, the isle municipalities of Vieques and Culebra, as well as several cays.


--- [Geography of Puerto Rico - Wikipedia] ---
The geography of Puerto Rico encompasses the geographical features of Puerto Rico, a archipelagic and island nation centered around a collective identity based on its land, history, ethnicity, culture, and language, and organized as a self-governing unincorporated territory of the United States. Located between the Greater and Lesser Antilles in the northeastern Caribbean, east of Hispaniola, west of Saint Thomas, north of Venezuela, and south of the Puerto Rico Trench, it consists of the eponymous main island and over 140 smaller islands, islets, and cays, including San Juan in the north, Vieques, Culebra, Palominos, and Icacos in the east, Caja de Muertos and Caracoles in the south, and Mona, Monito, and Desecheo in the west. 

Measuring 177 km (110 mi; 96 nmi) in length and 65 km (40 mi; 35 nmi) in width with a land area of 8,868 sq km (3,424 sq mi), the main island of Puerto Rico is the 4th largest in the Caribbean, 29th in the Americas, and 81st in the world, making it the 170th largest country or dependency by surface area. With 3.2 million residents, it is also the 4th largest in the Caribbean, 4th in the Americas, and 31st in the world, making it the 136th largest country or dependency by population.




--- [Puerto Rico Lakes | Puerto Rico & Caribbean Travel News] ---
Want to learn more about Puerto Rico lakes? Keep on reading for the full information. Puerto Rico is an unusual island in the Caribbean, in that it has an insane number of natural rivers, but not one natural lake. You would think with such a mountainous interior that lakes would abound, but in fact there is not. However, there are 15 lakes in Puerto Rico – all are man-made and are reservoirs for potable water. They have been formed by damming the main rivers to produce hydroelectric power and water for irrigation. Hydroelectricity accounts for less than 1% of the electricity generated, as most electric power uses petroleum as the energy source. After all of these years, I’m not 100% sure about what can and can’t be done on these lakes, but boating, fishing and kayaking are all common activities and there are often . If there are any rules, regulations, permits, limits, etc. that one should be aware of, we admit that we have no clue, so have at it until someone tells you otherwise. It may take a while to figure it out, and you may not want to go through the hassle, but each one has it’s own personality and are always worth a look-see…. Carraizo A reservoir located between the municipalities of Trujillo Alto, Caguas and Gurabo about 45 minutes to an hour from the Metropolitan area in San Juan. The lake is supplied by the waters of the Río Grande de Loíza, Río Gurabo, Río Cagüitas, Río Cañas and others streams in the area. This is a great lake for fishing and typically you will catch about 80% Peacock Bass and 20% Largemouth Bass. Cerillos Located about four miles (6 km) northeast of Ponce. The lake was finished in 1992 by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The main purposes of the reservoir are flood control, water supply, and recreation. There is a variety of fish available for fishing such as Largemouth Bass, Sun Fish, Catfish and Tilapias. Carite This lake is located near the Carite Forest in Cayey. Lago Carite is located in the municipality of Guayama. The lake was created in 1913 and serves as a reservoir for irrigation, and potable water. It can be used for fishing and recreation. Dos Bocas Dos Bocas is located in Arecibo. It is close to many other tourist attactions la Cueva del Ventana and Camuy Caves. On weekends there is a ferry boat that will take you to restaurants located on the shores for a nice lunch. Have done this several times and more information can be found in some of our previous postings: Guajataca Located between the municipalities of San Sebastián, Quebradillas, and Isabela; created in 1929. The lake receives flow from the Guajataca River and can be used for fishing. It is also the location of Camp Guajataca, the island’s main camping grounds of the Boy Scouts of America. The lake area is 10 degrees cooler than the rest of the island and provides year round recreational opportunities and outdoor activities including fishing for bass, tilapia and catfish, kayaking, nature watching and relaxing in general. Fishing can be good at Lake Guajataca, you can catch different typies of fresh water fish, such as, Peacock Bass (Tucunare), Large Mouth Bass (Lobina), Sunfish, Perch (Chopas), Catfish (Barbudo), Tilapias (Tilapias) and Threadfin Shad (Cetin sardina de agua dulce) the last being baitfish. La Plata Found in the town of Toa Alta, this lake has recreation areas and is available for kayaking and fishing or on a boat. Also, you can spend a day at one of the gazebos where there are barbecues. The recreation area is managed by the Departamento de Recursos Naturales and also has bathrooms and parking. Las Garzas Las Garzas can be found in the town of Adjuntas and was built between 1936 and 1941, You can kayak, and fish. It has a path in which you can cross over the Lake by a suspension bridge. Caonillas Found in the town of Utuado, this lake has recreation areas and is available for kayaking and fishing. Also, you can spend a day at one of the gazebos where there are barbecues. The recreation area is managed by the Departamento de Recursos Naturales (787) 814-7005 – and also has bathrooms and parking. This article was written by Captain Tim and the Crew of Caribbean Trading Company. Liked this article? Join the Crew and Start the Journey! Connect with Us for News, Events, Lifestyle, and all things Caribbean by joining our Newsletter – Click Here to Join or find us on Facebook or Instagram.


--- [Geography of Puerto Rico Facts for Kids] ---
Geography of Puerto Rico facts for kids | Native name: Borinquen (Taino) Nickname: La Isla del Encanto (The Island of Enchantment) | | |---|---| | Satellite image of Puerto Rico | | | Map of Puerto Rico | | | Geography | | | Location | Caribbean Sea | | Coordinates | 18°15′N 66°30′W / 18.250°N 66.500°W | | Archipelago | Greater Antilles | | Major islands | Spanish Virgin Islands (Vieques and Culebra) Mona Caja de Muertos Desecheo | | Area | 3,513 sq mi (9,100 km2) | | Area rank | 4th (Caribbean Islands) 81st (World Islands) 175th (World) | | Length | 178 km (110.6 mi) | | Width | 65 km (40.4 mi) | | Coastline | 501 km (311.3 mi) | | Highest elevation | 1,338 m (4,390 ft) | | Highest point | Cerro de Punta | | Administration | | | United States | | | Territory | Puerto Rico | | Largest settlement | San Juan (pop. 342,259) | | Demographics | | | Population | 3,205,691 (2023) | | Pop. density | 361.4 /km2 (936 /sq mi) | | Ethnic groups | White 80.5%, Mulatto 10.9%, Black 8.0%, Amerindian 0.4%, Asian 0.2% | Puerto Rico is an amazing island territory of the United States. It is located in the Caribbean Sea, east of Hispaniola and west of the Virgin Islands. The main island is about 178 kilometers (110 miles) long and 65 kilometers (40 miles) wide. It's the fourth largest island in the Caribbean Sea. The name Puerto Rico means "Rich Port" in Spanish. The native Taíno people called it Borinquen. Today, many people call it La Isla del Encanto, which means "The Island of Enchantment." Puerto Rico is made up of one main island and several smaller islands. These include Vieques, Culebra, Mona, Caja de Muertos, and Desecheo. Only Vieques and Culebra have people living on them. The main island of Puerto Rico is mostly mountainous. It has three mountain ranges: the Sierra Cayey, Sierra Luquillo, and Cordillera Central. The highest point is Cerro de Punta, which is 1,338 meters (4,390 feet) tall. El Yunque National Forest is home to one of Puerto Rico's most famous peaks, El Yunque. The island also has seven valleys and two flat coastal areas. The capital city, San Juan, is located on the northern coast. Puerto Rico has 47 major rivers and 26 lakes or reservoirs. One special place is Laguna Grande, a bioluminescent bay. This means the water glows at night because of tiny living things! Contents Exploring Puerto Rico's Landscape Puerto Rico's main island is mostly covered by mountains. It also has large flat areas along its northern and southern coasts. The most important mountain range is the Cordillera Central. This range runs through the middle of the island. It divides Puerto Rico into northern and southern parts. The highest point in Puerto Rico, Cerro de Punta, is found in the Cordillera Central. It stands at 1,338 meters (4,393 feet) high. Another important peak is El Yunque. It is the second highest peak in the Sierra Luquillo mountains. El Yunque is part of the famous El Yunque National Forest. How Puerto Rico Was Formed: Geology Basics Puerto Rico is made of old volcanic rocks. These rocks are about 190 million years old! They were formed from volcanoes and other deep earth processes. Later, younger rocks like limestone formed on top. Many caves and unique landforms called karst areas are found in these younger rocks. Puerto Rico sits on the edge where two giant pieces of the Earth's crust meet. These pieces are called the Caribbean Plate and the North American Plate. When these plates move, they can cause earthquakes and even tsunamis. These natural events are some of the biggest dangers on the island. The most recent big earthquake happened on October 11, 1918. It caused a tsunami that hit the coast near Aguadilla. Just north of Puerto Rico, in the Atlantic Ocean, is the Puerto Rico Trench. This is the deepest part of the entire Atlantic Ocean! It is about 1,754 kilometers (1,090 miles) long. At its deepest point, called the Milwaukee Depth, it goes down 8,380 meters (27,493 feet). That's like stacking more than 20 Empire State Buildings on top of each other! Puerto Rico's Natural Features Puerto Rico is located in the northeastern part of the Caribbean Sea. It sits between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean. This location was very important for the Spanish Empire long ago. It was a key stop for ships traveling to the Americas. The main island's landscape has three main parts. These are the mountainous region, the coastal plains, and the northern karst region. The mountainous region covers about 60% of the island's land. The island of Culebra is east of Puerto Rico. It has 28 smaller, uninhabited islands around it. Culebra is known for its beautiful, world-famous beaches. Puerto Rico's Climate: Always Warm! Puerto Rico is in the tropics, which means it's warm all year round! The average temperature is about 27°C (81°F). The seasons don't change much. The southern part of the island is usually a bit warmer than the north. The central mountains are always cooler. The highest temperature ever recorded was 41°C (105°F) in San Germán. The lowest was 4°C (39°F) in Aibonito. Puerto Rico has two main seasons. The dry season is from December to April. The wet season, when hurricanes can happen, is from May to November. Rivers and Lakes: Waterways of the Island Puerto Rico has more than 50 rivers. It also has many lakes, but none of them are natural. Most rivers start in the Cordillera Central, the main mountain range. Rivers in the north are generally larger and flow faster than those in the south. This is why the south is often drier and hotter. These rivers create 60 different watersheds across the island. The La Plata River is the longest, at about 74 kilometers (46 miles). The Loíza River is the largest by the amount of water it carries. Plants and Animals: Unique Life on the Island Puerto Rico is home to many unique plants and animals. As of 1998, scientists had found 239 types of plants, 16 birds, and 39 amphibians or reptiles that live only in Puerto Rico. Most of these are found on the main island. The most famous animal in Puerto Rico is the coqui. These are small frogs known for their loud "co-kee" sound. This sound is how they got their name! The El Yunque National Forest is a tropical rainforest. It is home to most of the coqui species. It also has over 240 types of plants and 50 bird species. One of these birds is the critically endangered Puerto Rican amazon parrot. Forests: Green Treasures of Puerto Rico Puerto Rico has beautiful forests. The Luquillo Experimental Forest is a great example. It has different types of forests based on temperature and rainfall. These include wet and rain forests at lower and middle elevations. Higher up, you find lower montane rain and wet forests. The Tabonuco forest is named after the tall tabonuco tree. These trees can grow over 30 meters (98 feet) tall! The Palo Colorado forest is found higher up the mountains. It's named after the palo colorado tree. In very wet areas, you can find palm forests, full of sierra palm trees. At the highest points, there's a dwarf forest. The trees here are very short, only about 3 meters (9.8 feet) tall. They are covered in mosses and other small plants. As you go higher in the mountains, the trees get shorter and there are fewer types of trees. Puerto Rico also has dry forests. These are different from the rainforests. They have plants that are good at living with less water. A Puerto Rican forester named Mario Javier Fernandez-Vega is creating new ways to manage these forests. His "Borincano Model" uses the island's natural features to help the forests grow. He often says, "Soy de aquí como el coquí" (I am from here just like the coqui). This shows his strong connection to the island. How Puerto Rico is Organized Understanding Puerto Rico's Municipalities Puerto Rico is a territory of the United States. It doesn't have states like the U.S. does. Instead, it has 78 main areas called municipalities. These municipalities are like counties or cities. Each municipality is divided into smaller areas called barrios. Every municipality has a mayor and a local government. They are elected by the people for a four-year term. A Look at History: How Municipalities Grew The first permanent municipality in Puerto Rico was San Juan. It was founded in 1521. Later, in the 16th century, Coamo and San Germán were also established. More municipalities were added over the centuries. By the 19th century, many new towns had been created. The last municipality, Florida, was founded in 1971. During Spanish rule, in the 1880s, Puerto Rico was divided into larger regional districts. These districts then contained the smaller municipalities. Puerto Rico's Important Location Puerto Rico's location has always been very important. Since the early 1500s, people have known how special it is. During the Age of Exploration, the Spanish called it La Llave de las Indias. This means "The Key to the Indies." Why was it so important? Because it was the closest European-settled land in the Americas to Europe and Africa. It also had open access to the Atlantic Ocean. Ocean currents and winds naturally guided ships to the island. This made it the first major stop on the way to the Caribbean, North America, Central America, and South America. Today, Puerto Rico's location is still very important for the United States. It was key during the building of the Panama Canal. It also helped protect the Western Hemisphere during World War II. Puerto Rico is sometimes called the "Gibraltar of the Caribbean." This is because it guards the entrance to the Caribbean Sea. Just like British Gibraltar guards the entrance to the Mediterranean Sea. Like Hawaii in the Pacific Ocean, Puerto Rico in the Atlantic Ocean helps the United States maintain its global presence. See also In Spanish: Geografía de Puerto Rico para niños


--- [Reservoirs in Puerto Rico - Encyclopedia of Puerto Rico] ---
Guajataca Lake by Norma Arbelo Irizarry | Wikimedia Commons Reservoirs are manmade lakes created for the main purpose of storing water for domestic or industrial use, for agricultural irrigation, for producing electricity and for controlling floods during extraordinary rain events. There are no natural lakes in Puerto Rico. Our reservoirs, except for the one in Fajardo, were built in the mountainous region to retain the maximum volume of water in the smallest possible space, which is why our artificial lakes are deep and have steep shores. They are also located in geologically stable areas for seismic safety. The first reservoir, Carite, was built in 1913. Along with those of Patillas and Guayabal, in Juana Díaz (1914), it was the first irrigation system for the southern coast. The water in the reservoir comes from rain and a river and its tributaries. During the course of the year, rainfall varies significantly, with a dry period that normally lasts from January to March or April, followed by intense downpours in May and June and a second period of intense rains from September through the end of the year. Reservoirs are the most important source of water on the Island. There are 36 main reservoirs owned by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, as well as several smaller private ones. Of the 36 public reservoirs, 21 are considered major ones because of their volume and variety of uses. Importance of reservoir conservation - Storage of water for domestic use and irrigation. - Generate electricity. - Help control flooding. - Provide a refuge and habitat for aquatic animals (fish, shellfish and turtles); some lakes are designated as wildlife refuges. - They are recreational sites for: • boating (kayaks, canoes and boats), • peace and relaxation. Recreational and sport fishing also takes place on the artificial lakes or reservoirs. At the Department of Environmental and Natural Resources (DRNA) hatchery in Maricao, bass and seabream are raised and introduced into the reservoirs. There is also fishing for catfish, tilapia and peacock bass in almost all of them. Threats to these resources Erosion of land in the watersheds of the reservoirs produces sediment that builds up and reduces the capacity for storing water. At the same time, the accumulated effects of contaminants, including nutrients, and the presence of invasive aquatic plants, such as water lilies, water lettuce and bloodberry. The presence of invasive animals, such as the suckermouth catfish, is another factor that affects the reservoirs, as it creates cavities that lead to erosion. Withdrawing water faster than the safe rate for the reservoir is also a threat to its useful lifespan. How do reservoirs affect other natural resources? Reservoirs can have negative impacts on native flora and fauna, because the dam interrupts the migration of larva and immature animals to the estuary and back to the mountains. Native fish species need to be in contact with the estuaries for their reproductive cycle and the reservoirs interrupt those connections by blocking the water where the fish live. However, there are measures that can be taken in design and management to minimize the impact. Protection The DRNA regulates some aspects of the reservoirs through special laws, such as the New Wildlife Act. The Environmental Quality Board also has regulations applicable to the water quality. It also protects this resource through projects such as reforestation of watersheds and the presence of rangers. References: Departamento de Recursos Naturales y Ambientales (DRNA). “Los embalses de Puerto Rico”, Hojas de Nuestro Ambiente, 2006. http://www.drna.pr.gov/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/Los-embalses-de-Puerto-Rico.pdf. Consulted 1/1/2021. Recursos de agua de Puerto Rico, Embalses, http://www.recursosaguapuertorico.com/Embalses-Principales.html. Consulted 1/1/2021. Published: August 17, 2014 Revision: Dr. Lizette Cabrera Salcedo, January 1, 2021
