=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Woodlands House School - Wikipedia]
Woodlands House School was established by Mrs Rup SP Singh (founder and principal) in 1966 under the foothills of the Takht-e-Sulaiman/Shankaracharya Temple. The school started with few students but her leadership attracted the people of J&K in general and that of Srinagar in particular. [2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Woodlands_House_School

[History - Woodlands House School]
Woodlands House School was the need of the hour as only a few English Medium Schools were functioning and a good number of students got enrolled in the school. Under her dynamic leadership our school moved forward in every sphere- academic, co-curricular and infrastructural.
URL: https://www.whssgrgupkar.com/history/

[Woodlands House School celebrates 'Foundation Day']
Sep 9, 2023 · SRINAGAR, SEP 09: It was a day of fun and learning for students of Woodlands House School Srinagar who performed different cultural programs to celebrate its ‘Foundation Day’ on Saturday Woodlands House School Srinagar is one of the pioneer schools of Kashmir which was established by founder Principal Rup SP Singh in the year 1966. Initially, the school started with a few students but her ...
URL: https://www.morningkashmir.com/woodlands-house-school-celebrates-foundation-day/

[About - Woodlands House School - whstrustpkl.com]
Woodlands House School was the need of the hour as only a few English Medium Schools were functioning and a good number of students got enrolled in the school. Under her dynamic leadership our school moved forward in every sphere- academic, co-curricular and infrastructural.
URL: https://www.whstrustpkl.com/about/

[Woodlands House School,Srinagar-overview]
Woodlands House School was established by our beloved Founder Principal Mrs Rup SP Singh in the year 1966 under the foothills of the world famous Takht-e-Sulaiman/Shankaracharya Temple.
URL: https://preprimaryschools.com/school/woodlands-house-school-8903


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Woodlands House School - Wikipedia] ---
Woodlands House School is a school in Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, India. Pupils range from pre-nursery stage to 12th grade. The school consists of a boys' wing and a girls' wing separately.




--- [History - Woodlands House School] ---
Late. Mrs. Rup S.P. Singh | Late. Mr. S.P. Singh Founders Woodlands House School was established by our beloved Founder Principal Mrs Rup SP Singh in the year 1966 under the foothills of the world famous Takht-e-Sulaiman/Shankaracharya Temple. Initially the school started with a few students but her dedication, devotion and hard work attracted the people of J&K in general and that of Srinagar in particular. The institution began to progress and within no time the curve of the roll started going up. Her work was recognized by the then Chief Minister, Late Bakshi Gulam Mohammad and later on by Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah who encouraged her to start her junior wing at Shivpora, Srinagar which later was converted to the Girls Wing. Woodlands House School was the need of the hour as only a few English Medium Schools were functioning and a good number of students got enrolled in the school. Under her dynamic leadership our school moved forward in every sphere- academic, co-curricular and infrastructural. She was full of keen insight and a balance of best qualities of head and heart. We are really proud of her leadership and guidance. Her role as a competent head of the prestigious institution is recognized equally by students and noble citizens of the state. She had adream of an ideal institution which serves as a corrective measure for students and an ameliorative factor for the society which she truly achieved during her tenure. She wished that students should be able to imbibe best social and moral values during their education in the school and after completion of their education they would serve as role models in the society. The result of which is that our students excel in different fields and bring laurels of success to the institution. Unfortunately our Founder Principal parted with us in the year 1995 and her son, Mr. Riki Singh, the Chairman/Principal of the school had to shoulder the responsibility of running and managing the school as per the expectations of the people. Following the footprints of our founder he leaves no stone unturned to make this institution a success.


--- [Woodlands House School celebrates 'Foundation Day'] ---
We strive to bring out best in every child, says Vice Chairperson SRINAGAR, SEP 09: It was a day of fun and learning for students of Woodlands House School Srinagar who performed different cultural programs to celebrate its ‘Foundation Day’ on Saturday Woodlands House School Srinagar is one of the pioneer schools of Kashmir which was established by founder Principal Rup SP Singh in the year 1966. Initially, the school started with a few students but her dedication, devotion and hard work attracted the people of J&K in general and that of Srinagar in particular. On Saturday, the school celebrated ‘Foundation Day’ where students performed different cultural events. The event was attended by school management, teachers, students, parents, and people from different walks of life. Mrs Amteshwar Singh, Vice Chairperson of the school said they held the 57th foundation day on Saturday. “The children held cultural programs after a long gap. We strive to bring out the best in every child. Our aim is all-round improvement of a child. We are concentrating on extracurricular activities so there is an improvement in the all-round personality of a child,” she said. Mrs Amteshwar said they encourage students to involve themselves in the broad co-curricular programmes. “We have also opened a sports hub here. We want children to engage in sports and cultural programs. The government schools should also hold such cultural events,” she said. Senior National Conference leader Nasir Aslam Wani was the chief guest on the occasion. “Woodlands House School has set up an example by providing education to children in Kashmir even in difficult times. We need many such schools in Kashmir,” Wani said. The day was also a reminder of the school’s great legacy and it was also the day when the students appreciated the school’s role in their lives. The parents had all praise for the school. “Both my children studied in this school and have now reached university level. I want to appreciate the entire staff for bringing out the best in my kids who are performing very well in higher studies,” said Farooq Ahmad, a parent. Teachers said the school aims to give every student the very best possible education in order to prepare them for life beyond school. The founder of the school had a dream of an ideal institution which serves as a corrective measure for students and an ameliorative factor for the society which she truly achieved during her tenure.


--- [About - Woodlands House School - whstrustpkl.com] ---
Late. Mrs. Rup S.P. Singh | Late. Mr. S.P. Singh Late. Mrs. Rup S.P Singh | Late. Mr. S.P Singh Woodlands House School was established by our beloved Founder Principal Mrs Rup SP Singh in the year 1966 under the foothills of the world famous Takht-e-Sulaiman/Shankaracharya Temple. Initially the school started with a few students but her dedication, devotion and hard work attracted the people of J&K in general and that of Srinagar in particular. The institution began to progress and within no time the curve of the roll started going up. Her work was recognized by the then Chief Minister, Late Bakshi Gulam Mohammad and later on by Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah who encouraged her to start her junior wing at Shivpora, Srinagar which later was converted to the Girls Wing. Woodlands House School was the need of the hour as only a few English Medium Schools were functioning and a good number of students got enrolled in the school. Under her dynamic leadership our school moved forward in every sphere- academic, co-curricular and infrastructural. She was full of keen insight and a balance of best qualities of head and heart. We are really proud of her leadership and guidance. Her role as a competent head of the prestigious institution is recognized equally by students and noble citizens of the state. She had adream of an ideal institution which serves as a corrective measure for students and an ameliorative factor for the society which she truly achieved during her tenure. She wished that students should be able to imbibe best social and moral values during their education in the school and after completion of their education they would serve as role models in the society. The result of which is that our students excel in different fields and bring laurels of success to the institution. Unfortunately our Founder Principal parted with us in the year 1995 and her son, Mr. Riki Singh, the Chairman/Principal of the school had to shoulder the responsibility of running and managing the school as per the expectations of the people. Following the footprints of our founder he leaves no stone unturned to make this institution a success.


--- [Woodlands House School,Srinagar-overview] ---
No content
