=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Abu Baker Asvat - Wikipedia]
The section of the R554 road linking Soweto to Lenasia was renamed Abu Baker Asvat Drive by the post-apartheid government. [27] A junior cricket tournament was instituted in Asvat's memory, in 2002. [28][27] He was awarded the Order of Luthuli in Silver by President Cyril Ramaphosa in 2021.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abu_Baker_Asvat

[Ramaphosa to Honour Late Dr. Abu Baker Asvat with Order of Luthuli in ...]
Oct 25, 2021 · The presidency has announced that President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the nomination of the late Dr. Abu Baker Asvat for the Order of Luthuli. Two gunmen killed Dr. Asvat in his Rockville, Soweto, surgery on 27 January 1989.
URL: https://faizelpatel.com/ramaphosa-to-honour-late-dr-abu-bakr-asvat-with-order-of-luthuli-in-silver/

[Posthumous honour for the 'People's Doctor'Abu Baker Asvat ... - IOL]
Nov 24, 2021 · Often referred to at the “People's Doctor”, Asvat is among 30 recipients expected to be recognised by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday. The National Orders are divided into categories and ...
URL: https://www.iol.co.za/thepost/news/2021-11-24-posthumous-honour-for-the-peoples-doctorabu-baker-asvat-gunned-down-in-his-surgery/

[National Orders: 32 heroes and heroines receive SA's top honour]
Apr 30, 2024 · President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday, 30 April bestowed National Orders to 32 recipients during a ceremony held at the Sefako M. Makgatho Presidential Guesthouse in Tshwane.
URL: https://www.thesouthafrican.com/news/national-orders-full-list-32-heroes-and-heroines-receive-south-africa-highest-honour/

[Posthumous honour for Asvat - PressReader]
Nov 24, 2021 · Often referred to as the “People’s Doctor”, Asvat was among 30 recipients recognised by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday. Asvat was awarded the Order of Luthuli in silver for his contributi­on to the lives of freedom fighters and the poor.
URL: https://www.pressreader.com/south-africa/post-south-africa/20211124/281535114254054


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Abu Baker Asvat - Wikipedia] ---
Abu Baker Asvat (/ɑsfat/) (23 February 1943 – 27 January 1989), also known as Abu Asvat 
 or Abu nicknamed Hurley was a South African medical doctor who practised in Soweto in the 1970s and 1980s. A founding member of Azapo, Asvat was the head of its health secretariat, and involved in initiatives aimed at improving the health of rural black South Africans during Apartheid.
In 1989, Asvat was shot dead in his clinic, and he died in the arms of his nurse, Albertina Sisulu. His death has been linked to that of Stompie Seipei four weeks earlier, with allegations that Winnie Mandela (whose personal physician Asvat was) paid for his murder as part of a cover-up of Seipei's killing, being presented to South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission.


--- [Ramaphosa to Honour Late Dr. Abu Baker Asvat with Order of Luthuli in ...] ---
Ramaphosa to Honour Late Dr. Abu Baker Asvat with Order of Luthuli in Silver The presidency has announced that President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the nomination of the late Dr. Abu Baker Asvat for the Order of Luthuli. Two gunmen killed Dr. Asvat in his Rockville, Soweto, surgery on 27 January 1989. In a statement, the Chancellor of Orders in the Presidency says Ramaphosa decided to honour the late Dr. Asvat with the Order of Luthuli in Silver for his enormous contribution to the lives of freedom fighters and the poor by generously providing medical care, which was desperately needed. “He was “the people’s doctor.” The Abu Baker Asvat Institutes Ali Osmany says they are truly pleased with the recognition of the late Dr Asvat’s extraordinary work. “We at the Abu Asvat Institute for nation building worked very hard for two years to make the submission to the Presidency for the selfless work done by Dr. Asvat and his contribution to community health throughout the impoverished masses all over the country. His inspirational leadership in getting people to volunteer for the health projects is unparalleled.” Ali says the late Dr. Asvat also served as a leader in the formation of AZAPO where he served in the health portfolio. “Among other sacrifices he was in the forefront of having schools open for all races as well as service to anti -apartheid sports. He served as President of the Transvaal Cricket Board as well as on the Junior Board.” The Awards Ceremony will be held at the Sefako Makgatho Presidential Guest House on 11 November 2021.


--- [Posthumous honour for the 'People's Doctor'Abu Baker Asvat ... - IOL] ---
Posthumous honour for the ’People's Doctor’Abu Baker Asvat gunned down in his surgery Dr Abu Baker Asvat Durban: Medical doctor and political activist Abu Baker Asvat, who was killed in his clinic in Soweto in 1989, will be honoured posthumously with a National Order – the highest award bestowed by the country. Often referred to at the “People's Doctor”, Asvat is among 30 recipients expected to be recognised by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday. The National Orders are divided into categories and comprise: - The Order of Mendi for Bravery for acts of bravery. - The Order of Ikhamanga for achievements in the creative fields of arts, culture, literature, music, journalism and sport. - The Order of the Baobab for distinguished service in the fields of business and the economy, science, medicine, and for technological innovation; and community service. - The Order of Luthuli for those who have served the interests of South Africa by making a meaningful contribution in any of the following areas: the struggle for democracy, human rights, nation-building, justice, peace and conflict resolution. - The Order of the Companions of OR Tambo, granted to foreign citizens who have promoted South African interests and aspirations through co-operation, solidarity, and support. Asvat will be awarded the Order of Luthuli in silver for his contribution to the lives of freedom fighters and the poor. Legacy His son, Akiel Asvat, said the award was recognition to his father's legacy. “The ideals that he lived his life by are perpetuated by the memory that lives inside those who were directly and indirectly influenced by his ideals. It is also a recognition for the Abu Asvat Institute that perpetuates and continues his legacy," said Akiel. “Often history does not remember those who were not aligned with the current governing party. However, being remembered is a real recognition of the work done by my father and others in bringing about change and liberation to the mind and hearts of many in South Africa.” He said the award was also a recognition that freedom was a collective effort. “It’s also befitting that Tom Manthata is being recognised at the same award as my father. My father was great friends with Mr Mathatha and worked effortlessly towards the same set of ideals." Akiel said his sister, Hasina Asvat, would receive the award on behalf of the Asvat family and that it would be kept in his father's Lenasia home. "He had many other recognitions of his work while he was alive and it will be kept alongside those. My father did not live his life for recognition or fame, but only to change the lives of others and to be an instrument of service to those with whom he came into contact." Shabeer Randera, a board director of the Abu Asvat Institute which motivated for the award, said the institute was pleased by the acknowledgement. “For him (Asvat), it was about the oppressed people and the attainment of freedom and human rights. In his lifetime, he was always occupied with practical solutions that he lived by rather than theoretical arguments. “While he was an avid advocate of black consciousness, he worked with people across the political spectrum, including the likes of Albertina Sisulu and Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. There is virtually nobody who has not touched profoundly by his work and beliefs.” Randera said this included members of political, religious and sporting organisations, health groupings, educational institutions, or the poor. Studies Asvat, born and raised in Vrededorp, Johannesburg, was exposed to politics while completing his medical studies in Karachi, Pakistan. “Because of apartheid quotas, he was not able to study in South Africa,” said Randera. He soon founded a student liberation organisation – the Azania Youth Movement aligned to the PAC. After obtaining his qualification, Asvat returned to South Africa and worked as an intern at Johannesburg’s Coronation Hospital (now the Rahima Moosa Mother And Child Hospital). But Asvat was fired after confronting alleged racism at the hospital. "He was dismissed for standing up for his rights and those of his colleagues of colour." This, said Randera, led Asvat to take over his brother's surgery in Soweto. There he tended to at least 100 patients a day. “He served the most downtrodden of our people in places like Chicken Farm, often treating people without receiving any payment.” During the 1976 Soweto uprising, Asvat treated children shot by the police, while residents from a nearby informal settlement guarded his surgery. Randera said Asvat soon became known as the “People's Doctor”. Shortly afterwards, he became the founding member of the Azanian People's Organisation (Azapo), a liberation movement. He served as its health secretariat and travelled to rural areas to provide health care to those unable to access it. "He set up crèches and mobile clinics and travelled widely throughout the country, including places like Brandfort and Penge in Mpumalanga, where the community, mostly employed by mines, were devastated by asbestos. He was active in all spheres of activity, ranging from his vocal leadership in the then Transvaal Cricket Board to education and health. "He always saw that people are whole human beings and one cannot simply treat a medical ailment without tackling the underlying social causes. As Azapo's secretary for health, he was responsible for, among other things, a handbook on health, published in a number of local languages and widely distributed among disadvantaged communities." In his latter years, Randera said, Asvat lived in Lenasia with his wife Zohra (who died this year) and his three children – Suleiman, Akiel and Haseena. “Zohra in her own right made an immense contribution to nation-building. She often accompanied Dr Asvat in his activities and supported his values and objectives. It was not unusual for Dr Asvat to bring in homeless and destitute people, who were evicted, into his home without any advance notice, or for that matter many veterans of the Struggle. Zohra always hosted these guests with the utmost dignity and respect.” According to SA History Online, in 1984 Asvat hired Albertina Sisulu to work as a nurse in his surgery after she was unable to practise due to her being banned by the apartheid government. They worked together to provide healthcare to the African community. In a biography of Asvat, the institute said several attempts were made on his life. In 1989, he was killed by two men, Zakhele Mbatha and Thulani Dlamini, who were pretending to be patients. He was shot twice and died in Sisiulu's arms. Mbatha and Dlamini were later arrested. “The assassins were convicted and given long sentences. One died recently and the other walks the streets having paid his debt to society. The court found that robbery was the motive for the murder. At the time, rumours abounded that Dr Asvat had come into dangerous knowledge about murderers parading as freedom fighters,“ said the institute. It said bus loads of people attended his funeral and sang Struggle songs. Shortly after the killing, Madikizela-Mandela was accused of being responsible for Asvat's death, said SA History Online. Several media outlets reported at the time that Asvat's killing was orchestrated by her as a cover-up for the Stompie Seipei kidnapping controversy. Mbatha and Dlamini, during the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, also testified that they were paid R20 000 to kill Asvat but they were not deemed credible witnesses. In 2018, a biography of Madikizela-Mandela by author Fred Brigland delved into accusations that she was behind Asvat's death. In an excerpt published by a media company, Brigland described how Asvat knew that his life was in danger and how he had driven home with a flat tyre and handed his wife a wad of cash in case something happened to him. SA History Online said Madikizela-Mandela always denied any connection to the killing. Randera said in 2018, Mandla Mandela, Nelson Mandela’s grandson with his first wife Evelyn Mase, called for Asvat's death to be probed but that nothing had come of it. "Regrettably no update has been received. It is highly unlikely that anything else will emerge in the near future," said Randera. Other award recipients for the Order of Luthuli for gold include anti-apartheid activists Thomas Manthata and Bertha Mkhize, both of whom have died. The silver will go to anti-apartheid activists Audrey Coleman, Max Coleman, Cikizwa Constance Maqungu and Hilda Mally Mokoena. Laura Mphahlwa, Zazi Kuzwayo, and Nikiwe Debs Matshoba will be honoured posthumously. The Post Related Topics:


--- [National Orders: 32 heroes and heroines receive SA's top honour] ---
National Orders | Full list: 32 heroes and heroines receive SA’s highest honour President Cyril Ramaphosa has bestowed National Orders to 32 recipients. The awards are the highest honour that can be given in South Africa. President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday, 30 April bestowed National Orders to 32 recipients during a ceremony held at the Sefako M. Makgatho Presidential Guesthouse in Tshwane. The awards are the highest honour that can be given in South Africa. Nineteen of the awards were made posthumously. The National Orders are the Order of Mendi for Bravery, the Order of Ikhamanga, the Order of the Baobab, the Order of Luthuli, the Order of Mapungubwe and the Order of the Companions of OR Tambo. “This year marks 30 years since we attained our freedom. This would not have been possible without the bravery, fortitude and noble acts of those the preamble of our Constitution recognises as having suffered for justice and freedom in our land. “The men and women we honour here today have played an invaluable role in giving birth to the free South Africa that we all enjoy today. Our nation owes each of them a great debt. “By bestowing these National Orders, we want to ensure that their contributions are recognised and spoken of by generations to come,” Ramaphosa said. The 32 recipients were as follows: The Order of Mendi for Bravery in Silver: - Ms MaWilliams Kekana - Mr Ignatius ‘Iggy’ Mthebule (Posthumous) - Mr Makhwezi McDonald Mtulu (Posthumous) - Mr Robert Anthony Basil Waterwitch (Posthumous) - Ms Coline Denise Williams (Posthumous) The Order of Ikhamanga in Gold: - Ms Nontando ‘Noni’ Helen Jabavu (Posthumous) - Dr Aggrey Klaaste (Posthumous) - Dr Muziwakhe ‘Madala’ Kunene The Order of Ikhamanga in Silver: - Mr Angus Gibson - Mr Emile Lester Jansen - Ms Saray N’kusi Khumalo - Ms Sophie Msoziswa Mahlangu - Dr Latozi ‘Madosini’ Mpahleni (Posthumous) - Mr Trevor Dundas Mweli Skota (Posthumous) The Order of the Baobab in Gold: - Ms Blanche Valeria La Guma (Posthumous) - Ms Zukiswa Patricia Matolengwe The Order of Luthuli in Gold: - Mr Mxolisi ‘Dicky’ Jacobs (Posthumous) - Mr Peter Cyril Jones (Posthumous) - Mr Benjamin Langa (Posthumous) - Mr Thobekile ‘Topsy’ Madaka (Posthumous) - Mr Siphiwo Mtimkhulu (Posthumous) - Prof Harry Ranwedzi Nengwekhulu - Mr Kenneth Hlako Rachidi (Posthumous) - Ms Annie Silinga (Posthumous) - Ms Nokuthula Simelane (Posthumous) The Order of Mapungubwe in Silver: - Prof Mulalo Doyoyo (Posthumous) The Order of The Companions of OR Tambo in Silver: - Mr Huub Bammens – The Netherlands - Ms Donna Katzin – United States of America - Mr Ken Luckhardt – Canada - Sir Nicholas Stadlen (Posthumous) – United Kingdom - Mr Fulco Van Aurich – The Netherlands - Ms Brenda Wall – Canada “They have, without exception, proffered worthy contributions to the development of our society so that we may not only aspire to, but actually become who we want to become. Indeed, they have contributed to our state of liberty. “We commend to you these noble men and women of our country, our continent and our common world, as recipients of the prestigious National Orders. We salute them, one and all,” Director-General in the Presidency Phindile Baleni, who is Chancellor of National Orders, said. Bookmark The South African website’s Elections 2024 hub for the latest news you need to know.


--- [Posthumous honour for Asvat - PressReader] ---
No content
