=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Isadora Duncan - Wikipedia]
Angela Isadora Duncan (May 26, 1877, or May 27, 1878 [a] - September 14, 1927) was an American-born dancer and choreographer, who was a pioneer of modern contemporary dance and performed to great acclaim throughout Europe and the United States. Born and raised in California, she lived and danced in Western Europe, the U.S., and Soviet Russia from the age of 22. She died when her scarf became ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isadora_Duncan

[Dancer Isadora Duncan is killed in car accident | September 14, 1927 | HISTORY]
eanwhile, her life was a tragic one, especially when it came to automobiles: In 1913, her two small children drowned when the car they were riding in plunged over a bridge and into the Seine in Paris, and Duncan herself was seriously injured in car accidents in 1913 and 1924. On the day she died, Duncan was a passenger in a brand-new convertible sportscar that she was learning to drive. As she leaned back in her seat to enjoy the sea breeze, her enormous red scarf (“which she had worn since she took up communism,” one newspaper reported) somehow blew into the well of the rear wheel on the passenger side.
URL: https://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/september-14/dancer-isadora-duncan-is-killed-in-car-accident

[The Death of Isadora Duncan - Moscow Screenplay Contest]
Isadora Duncan's Death In Paris On the night of September 14, 1927, in Nice, France, Duncan was a passenger in an Amilcar CGSS automobile owned by Benoît Falchetto, a French-Italian mechanic. She wore a long, flowing, hand-painted silk scarf, created by the Russian-born artist Roman Chatov, a gift from her friend Mary Desti, the mother…
URL: https://moscowscreenplay.wordpress.com/2019/07/12/the-death-of-isadora-duncan/

[1927 Isadora Duncan freak accident death... - RareNewspapers.com]
The scarf was hand-painted silk from the Russian-born artist Roman Chatov. The accident gave rise to Gertrude Stein's mordant remark that "affectations can be dangerous." Duncan was a passenger in the Amilcar automobile of a handsome French-Italian mechanic Benoît Falchetto, whom she had nicknamed ...
URL: https://www.rarenewspapers.com/view/580841

[Isadora Duncan's Chilling Final 8 Words Before Freak Scarf Accident]
The Final, Fateful Journey By September 1927, Isadora was 50 years old, financially struggling, and deeply depressed. On the 14th of that month, she was riding in an open-top car along the Promenade des Anglais in Nice, France. She was wearing a long, custom-made silk scarf from Russian designer Roman Chatov.
URL: https://britbrief.co.uk/entertainment/dance/isadora-duncans-final-words-before-tragic-death.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Isadora Duncan - Wikipedia] ---
Angela Isadora Duncan (May 26, 1877, or May 27, 1878 – September 14, 1927) was an American-born dancer and choreographer, who was a pioneer of modern contemporary dance and performed to great acclaim throughout Europe and the United States. Born and raised in California, she lived and danced in Western Europe, the U.S., and Soviet Russia from the age of 22. She died when her scarf became entangled in the wheel and axle of the car in which she was travelling in Nice, France.




--- [Dancer Isadora Duncan is killed in car accident | September 14, 1927 | HISTORY] ---
On September 14, 1927, dancer Isadora Duncan is strangled in Nice, France, when the enormous silk scarf she is wearing gets tangled in the rear hubcaps of her open car. (“Affectations,” said Gertrude Stein when she heard the news of Duncan’s death, “can be dangerous.”) Isadora Duncan was born in 1877 in San Francisco and moved to Europe to become a dancer when she was in her early 20s. She had always loved to dance—in her teens, she worked as a dance teacher at her mother’s music school—but Duncan was not a classically trained ballerina. On the contrary, she was a free-spirited bohemian whose dances were improvisational and emotional; they were choreographed, she said, “to rediscover the beautiful, rhythmical motions of the human body.” In contrast to the short tutus and stiff shoes that ballet dancers wore, Duncan typically danced barefoot, wrapped in flowing togas and scarves. Female audiences, in particular, adored her: In an era when classical ballet was falling out of favor with many sophisticated people (and when the scantily-clad dancers themselves were, more often than not, “sponsored” by wealthy male patrons), Duncan’s performances celebrated independence and self-expression.


--- [The Death of Isadora Duncan - Moscow Screenplay Contest] ---
Isadora Duncan’s Death In Paris On the night of September 14, 1927, in Nice, France, Duncan was a passenger in an Amilcar CGSS automobile owned by Benoît Falchetto, a French-Italian mechanic. She wore a long, flowing, hand-painted silk scarf, created by the Russian-born artist Roman Chatov, a gift from her friend Mary Desti, the mother of American film director Preston Sturges. Desti, who saw Duncan off, had asked her to wear a cape in the open-air vehicle because of the cold weather, but she would only agree to wear the scarf. As they departed, she reportedly said to Desti and some companions, “Adieu, mes amis. Je vais à la gloire!” (“Farewell, my friends. I go to glory!”); but according to the American novelist Glenway Wescott, Desti later told him that Duncan’s actual parting words were, “Je vais à l’amour” (“I am off to love”). Desti considered this embarrassing, as it suggested that she and Falchetto were going to her hotel for a tryst. Her silk scarf, draped around her neck, became entangled around the open-spoked wheels and rear axle, pulling her from the open car and breaking her neck. Desti said she called out to warn Duncan about the scarf almost immediately after the car left. Desti brought Duncan to the hospital, where she was pronounced dead. As The New York Times noted in its obituary, Duncan “met a tragic death at Nice on the Riviera.” “According to dispatches from Nice, Duncan was hurled in an extraordinary manner from an open automobile in which she was riding and instantly killed by the force of her fall to the stone pavement.” Other sources noted that she was almost decapitated by the sudden tightening of the scarf around her neck. The accident gave rise to Gertrude Stein‘s mordant remark that “affectations can be dangerous”. At the time of her death, Duncan was a Soviet citizen. Her will was the first of a Soviet citizen’s to be probated in the U.S. Duncan was cremated, and her ashes were placed next to those of her children in the columbarium at Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris. On the headstone of her grave is inscribedÉcole du Ballet de l’Opéra de Paris (“Ballet School of the Opera of Paris”). Los Angeles Times Obituary Isadora Duncan Born at San Francisco in 1880 San Francisco. Sept. 14. (AP) Isadora Duncan, who was killed today in Nice, is claimed by San Francisco as one of its native daughters. She was born here in 1880. In childhood play she devised dances and taught them to playmates. Later she became a dancing teacher in her mother’s school. Her first New York appearance was in Daly’s Theater in 1895, as a fairy in “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” After studying in Europe she appeared in London with a Shakespearean company in 1900, so inspiring Ellen Terry, herself a famous dancer, that she jumped to her feet as the dance ended and delivered an enthusiastic tribute to the younger dancer’s art. Miss Duncan’s expressed ambition was “to rediscover the beautiful, rhythmical motions of the human body; to call back to life that ideal movement which should be in harmony with the highest physical type; to awaken once more an art which has slept for 2000 year.” Returning to America after her 1900 London appearance, she was unimpressively received. She later came into international fame through a tour of Europe, winning praise of artists in many cities. In Russia she influenced the revival of the famed Russian ballet and founded dancing schools in European cities and New York, training a selected group of children called the Duncan girls. Miss Duncan was frankly scornful of puritanism. She was free from conventionality, and thereby became the object of many attacks.


--- [1927 Isadora Duncan freak accident death... - RareNewspapers.com] ---
Home > 1927 Isadora Duncan freak accident death... 1927 Isadora Duncan freak accident death... Item # 580841 Currently Unavailable. Contact us if you would like to be placed on a want list or to be notified if a similar item is available. September 15, 1927 TAUNTON DAILY GAZETTE, Massachusetts, September 15, 1927 * Isadora Duncan freaky death (1ST REPORT) * Creator of the modern dance This 14 page newspaper has one column headlines on 13: "MISS DUNCAN'S LIFE ENDED IN TRAGEDY" "Jerked from Auto by Scarf About Her Neck" which tells of the freak accidental death of the famed dancer involving one the scarfs she was best known for. Other news of the day including various advertisements. Light browning with little margin wear, but otherwise good. Complete with 14 pages, 17 1/2 by 22 inches. wikipedia notes: Duncan's fondness for flowing scarves was the cause of her death in a freak automobile accident in Nice, France, on the night of September 14, 1927, at the age of 50. The scarf was hand-painted silk from the Russian-born artist Roman Chatov. The accident gave rise to Gertrude Stein's mordant remark that "affectations can be dangerous." Duncan was a passenger in the Amilcar automobile of a handsome French-Italian mechanic Benoît Falchetto, whom she had nicknamed "Buggatti" (sic). Before getting into the car, she reportedly said to her friend Mary Desti and some companions, "Adieu, mes amis. Je vais à la gloire!" (Goodbye, my friends, I am off to glory!). However, according to American novelist Glenway Wescott, who was in Nice at the time and visited Duncan's body in the morgue, Desti admitted that she had lied about Duncan's last words. Instead, she told Wescott, Duncan said, "Je vais à l'amour" (I am off to love). Desti considered this too embarrassing to be recorded as the dance legend's last words, especially as it suggested that Duncan hoped that she and Falchetto were going to her hotel for a sexual assignation. When Falchetto drove off, Duncan's large silk scarf, a gift from Desti, and draped around her neck, became entangled around one of the vehicle's open-spoked wheels and rear axle. As The New York Times noted in its obituary: "Isadora Duncan, the American dancer, tonight met a tragic death at Nice on the Riviera. According to dispatches from Nice, Miss Duncan was hurled in an extraordinary manner from an open automobile in which she was riding and instantly killed by the force of her fall to the stone pavement." Other sources described her death as resulting from strangulation, noting that she was almost decapitated by the sudden tightening of the scarf around her neck. Category: The 20th Century


--- [Isadora Duncan's Chilling Final 8 Words Before Freak Scarf Accident] ---
The world-famous dancer Isadora Duncan uttered a chilling premonition just one day before her life was cut short in a bizarre and tragic accident. "I am frightened that some quick accident might happen to me," she told a journalist, a fear that would become a devastating reality within 24 hours. A Life Shadowed by Tragedy Born in San Francisco in 1877, Isadora Duncan grew up in poverty and would later be celebrated as the "mother of modern dance". Disillusioned with the American dance scene, she moved to London in 1899, where her career in Europe flourished. She drew inspiration from Greek art and became a muse for the art nouveau movement, captivating audiences and even the notorious occultist Aleister Crowley. Yet, behind the glamour, her life was marked by profound sorrow. In 1913, when she was 36, an automobile accident seriously injured her. That same year, her two young children, Beatrice, five, and Patrick, three, drowned in Paris when their car plunged into the River Seine. She would endure another car accident a decade later, and the cumulative grief from losing all three of her children took a severe toll on her mental health. The Final, Fateful Journey By September 1927, Isadora was 50 years old, financially struggling, and deeply depressed. On the 14th of that month, she was riding in an open-top car along the Promenade des Anglais in Nice, France. She was wearing a long, custom-made silk scarf from Russian designer Roman Chatov. A sudden gust of wind wrapped the scarf around the spinning wheels of the vehicle. The force was so violent that it pulled Isadora from the car, breaking her neck instantly. Witnesses reported her final, dramatic words as she rode along: "Adieu, mes amis, je vais à la gloire!" ("Farewell, my friends, off I go to glory!"). A Legacy of Brilliance and Sorrow Isadora Duncan's death was a shocking end to a life defined by both revolutionary art and relentless personal tragedy. Her influence on modern dance remains immense, but her story is also a poignant reminder of the strange and cruel twists of fate that haunted her until her last, prophetic breath.
