=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Wilbur Zelinsky - Wikipedia]
Zelinsky was born in Chicago to Russian immigrants Louis Zelinsky and Esther Mastoon. Zelinsky attended and graduated from Edwin G. Foreman High School. Zelinsky received his Bachelor's Degree from the University of California, Berkeley (UC Berkeley) in 1944, his Master's Degree from the University of Madison, Wisconsin, and returned to UC Berkeley for his PhD in 1953 where he was a student of ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wilbur_Zelinsky

[WILBUR ZELINSKY Obituary - Dominick T. Adamo Funeral Home]
He obtained his bachelor's degree with honors in geography from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1944 and, in 1946, his master's from the University of Wisconsin, Madison.
URL: https://www.adamofh.com/obituaries/wilbur-zelinsky

[A Tribute to Wilbur Zelinsky 1921–2013 - Project MUSE]
by H Zelinsky · 2015 — After four years as assistant professor of geography at the University of Georgia, Athens, he returned to UC Berkeley, where he earned his doctorate in 1953. In ...
URL: https://muse.jhu.edu/pub/23/article/951396/summary

[Remembering Wilbur Zelinsky – GEOGRAPHY EDUCATION]
This summer I had the good fortune of returning to my academic roots and spent a few weeks in Central Pennsylvania, remembering my graduate school days at Penn State. While there my wife and I went to a yard sale and noticed that the family ...
URL: https://geographyeducation.org/articles/older-articles/remembering-wilbur-zelinksy/

[Presidents of the AAG - AAG]
Demographer and cultural geographer Wilbur Zelinsky taught at Penn State University, where he developed numerous models of settlement and migration that are still taught, including the Theory of First Effective Settlement, which asserts that ...
URL: https://www.aag.org/presidents-of-the-aag/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Wilbur Zelinsky - Wikipedia] ---
Wilbur Zelinsky (December 21, 1921 – May 4, 2013) was an American cultural geographer. He was most recently a professor emeritus at Pennsylvania State University. He also created the Zelinsky Model of Demographic Transition.


--- [WILBUR ZELINSKY Obituary - Dominick T. Adamo Funeral Home] ---
WILBUR ZELINSKY December 21, 1921 -- May 4, 2013 Penn State Professor Emeritus of Geography Wilbur Zelinsky -- an internationally-renowned figure in the fields of American population, cultural, and social geography, who deeply influenced multiple generations of scholars in those disciplines and beyond throughout his lifetime -- died at his home in State College on May 4, 2013, with his daughters at his side. He was 91. Wilbur, known to many as Wolf, was born in Chicago, Illinois, December 21, 1921, the son of Russian immigrants Louis and Esther Mastoon Zelinsky. Academically gifted, he graduated as valedictorian of Chicago's Edwin G. Foreman High School, before continuing his education at Wright Junior College and the University of Chicago. While having entertained thoughts throughout his adolescence of translating his love affair with the English language into life as a poet, the artistic skill he exhibited as a child and his deep love of all things cartographic eventually led him to recognize and pursue his avocation as a geographer. He obtained his bachelor's degree with honors in geography from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1944 and, in 1946, his master's from the University of Wisconsin, Madison. After four years as assistant professor of geography at the University of Georgia, Athens, he returned to UC Berkeley, where he earned his doctorate in 1953. In the years both before and after the completion of his Ph.D., Wilbur engaged in a variety of academic and work pursuits, including positions as map draftsman for companies in Washington, DC, Chicago, and New York City during World War II; research and teaching assistant in geography at the University of Wisconsin; and in 1946, at the conclusion of the war, terrain analyst in occupied Germany for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. From the mid- to late 1950's, he worked as an industrial analyst for the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway in Detroit, Michigan, while simultaneously serving as an adjunct professor at Wayne State University. In 1963, after four years at Southern Illinois University, he was invited to join the geography department at Penn State, where he happily remained for the duration of his long and distinguished academic career. While the breadth and depth of his geographical interests were far-reaching, Wilbur is best known for his groundbreaking research and writings on the land that was closest to his heart, the United States. That focus resulted in a series of highly regarded books: A Prologue to Population Geography (1966); Nation into State: The Shifting Symbolic Foundations of American Nationalism (1988); The Cultural Geography of the United States (1973,1992); Exploring the Beloved Country: Geographic Forays into American Society and Culture (1994); and Not Yet a Placeless Land: Tracking an Evolving American Geography (2011). Of the several books he also co-authored, he was particularly proud of having spearheaded the production of The Atlas of Pennsylvania , a truly monumental undertaking involving many years' preparation, published in 1989. His large body of work also included well over 200 published journal articles, book reviews and notes, bibliographies, and research reports, including ones supported or commissioned by the National Science Foundation, the National Geographic Society, Encyclopedia Brittanica , and the National Endowment for the Humanities. Intellectually engaged to the end, at the time of his death he was immersed in yet another major research project, while a completed book manuscript awaited publication. Wilbur's contributions to the field of geography did not go unrecognized during his lifetime. In addition to serving on dozens of editorial and advisory boards and commissions, he was a frequent guest lecturer, both in this country and abroad. A recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship for geography and environmental studies in the social sciences in 1980, he garnered numerous other awards over the years: The Society for the North American Cultural Survey's Distinguished Service Award, The Pennsylvania Geographical Society Distinguished Scholar Award, the National Council for Geographical Education's Distinguished Mentor Award, and the American Geographical Society's prestigious Cullum Medal. His years of active involvement in the Association of American Geographers, serving in a multitude of capacities, culminated in his ascension to the presidency in 1972-3. The AAG further honored him with its Award for Meritorious Contributions to the Field of Geography in 1966, the John Brinckerhoff Jackson Book Prize in 1992 and, in 2006, the Presidential Achievement Award "for his long and distinguished career in geography, for the influence of his publications across a wide range of topics in human geography; and for his early and fervent support for the incorporation of more women into the discipline." As much as Wilbur lived and breathed geography, delighting in exploring all the questions that it posed to him over the decades of his career and inspiring countless colleagues and students along the way, it was far from the sum total of his world. His high energy and exuberance manifested itself in other spheres, as well -- as an aficionado of literature and the arts, groan-worthy punster, animal lover, world traveler, loving father and husband, and committed political and social progressive. A violinist, he played in both chamber groups and orchestras throughout his life, including the Nittany Valley Symphony, of which he was a founding member. And as any one who knew him can attest, he was Mozart's biggest, albeit often quite insufferable, fan. On July 5, 1944, Wilbur eloped with the former Gladys Epstein, who died in 1997. He was also predeceased by a sister, Miriam Shavel of Chicago, and the writer June Rachuy Brindel, a companion of many years. He is survived by two daughters, Hollis Zelinsky of State College and Karen Zelinsky Kite and husband, John of Pennsylvania Furnace, as well as close friends Judith H. Johnsrud and Leon Glicenstein, State College, and his cousin, Daniel Zelinsky and wife, Zelda, of Chevy Chase, Maryland. Anyone wishing to join in a celebration of the life of this remarkable man is cordially invited to a memorial service and reception to be held 10 a.m. Saturday, October 26, 2013, at Penn State's Pasquerilla Spiritual Center. Contact hzelinsky@gmail.com for more information. Memorial contributions in Wilbur's name may be made to Amnesty International (www.amnestyusa.org), Resist (www.resistinc.org), or PAWS (www.centrecountypaws.org), the local no-kill animal shelter founded by his late wife.


--- [A Tribute to Wilbur Zelinsky 1921–2013 - Project MUSE] ---
- A Tribute to Wilbur Zelinsky 1921–2013 - Markers: Annual Journal of the Association for Gravestone Studies - University of Minnesota Press - Volume 30, 2015 - pp. 11-13 - 10.1353/mrk.2015.a951396 - Article - Additional Information A Tribute to Wilbur Zelinsky 1921-2013 Hollis Zelinsky Editor’s Note: The following memorial is slightly adapted from one written by Wilbur Zelinsky’s daughter. Dr. Zelinsky, a long-time member of the Markers editorial board, authored articles that use gravestone studies as a geographer’s tool. A notable example of his gravestone scholarship is “The Gravestone Index: Tracking Personal Religiosity across Nations, Regions, and Periods,” Geographical Review 97, no. 4 (Oct. 2007). Penn State Professor Emeritus of Geography Wilbur Zelinsky— an internationally-renowned figure in the fields of American population, cultural, and social geography, who deeply influenced multiple generations of scholars in those disciplines and beyond throughout his lifetime—died at his homeinStateCollegeonMay4,2013,withhisdaughtersathisside. Hewas91. Wilbur, known to many as Wolf, was born in Chicago, Illinois, December 21, 1921, the son of Russian immigrants Louis and Esther Mastoon Zelinsky. Academically gifted, he graduated as valedictorian of Chicago’s Edwin G. Foreman High School, before continuing his education at Wright Junior College and the University of Chicago. While having entertained thoughts throughout his adolescence of translating his love affair with the English language into life as a poet, the artistic skill he exhibited as a child and his deep love of all things cartographic eventually led him to recognize and pursue his avocation as a geographer. He obtained his bachelor’s degree with honors in geography from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1944 and, in 1946, his master’s from the University of Wisconsin, Madison. After four years as assistant professor of geography at the University of Georgia, Athens, he returned to UC Berkeley, where he earned his doctorate in 1953. In the years both before and after the completion of his Ph.D., Wilbur engaged in a variety of academic and work pursuits, including AGS 11 positions as map draftsman for companies in Washington, DC, Chicago, and New York City during World War II; research and teaching assistant in geography at the University of Wisconsin; and in 1946, at the conclusion of the war, terrain analyst in occupied Germany for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. From the mid- to late 1950s, he worked as an industrial analyst for the Chesapeake & Ohio Railway in Detroit, Michigan, while simultaneously serving as an adjunct professor at Wayne State University. In 1963, after four years at Southern Illinois University, he was invited to join the geography department at Penn State, where he happily remained for the duration of his long and distinguished academic career. While the breadth and depth of his geographical interests were far-reaching, Wilbur is best known for his groundbreaking research and writings on the land that was closest to his heart, the United States. That focus resulted in a series of highly regarded books: A Prologue to Population Geography (1966); Nation into State: The Shifting Symbolic Foundations of American Nationalism (1988); The Cultural Geography of the United States (1973,1992); Exploring the Beloved Country: Geographic Forays into American Society and Culture (1994); and Not Yet a Placeless Land: Tracking an Evolving American Geography (2011). Of the several books he also co-authored, he was particularly proud of having spearheaded the production of The Atlas of Pennsylvania, a truly monumental undertaking involving many years’ preparation, published in 1989. His large body of work also included well over 200 published journal articles, book reviews and notes, bibliographies, and research reports, including ones supported or commissioned by the National Science Foundation, the National Geographic Society, Encyclopedia Brittanica, and the National Endowment for the Humanities. Intellectually engaged to the end, at the time of his death he was immersed in yet another major research project, while a completed book manuscript awaited publication. Wilbur’s contributions to the field of geography did not go unrecognized during his lifetime. In addition to serving on dozens of editorial and advisory boards and commissions, including the editorial board for Markers: Annual Journal of the Association of Gravestone Studies, he was a frequent guest lecturer, both in this country and abroad. A recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship for geography and environmental studies in the social sciences in 1980, he garnered numerous other awards over the years: The Society for the North American Cultural Survey...


--- [Remembering Wilbur Zelinsky – GEOGRAPHY EDUCATION] ---
This summer I had the good fortune of returning to my academic roots and spent a few weeks in Central Pennsylvania, remembering my graduate school days at Penn State. While there my wife and I went to a yard sale and noticed that the family was incredibly well-traveled. It turned out to be an estate sale and it represented a portion of the belongings of the great cultural geographer, Wilbur Zelinsky. I heard earlier through the Penn State geography department that he had passed away, but was startled to find myself discussing his legacy with his children (see his family obituary here). I was saddened to hear of his passing and feel amazingly fortunate to get an inside glimpse of his office space. The family was also eager to show some of his collection to someone who knew his academic reputation. They had always known that he was a well-respected academic but didn’t know how important he was to the field of geography It was amazing to see how he kept researching until the day he died, even leaving behind one unpublished article (his Curriculum Vitae is a prolific marvel). Some of the new cultural geographers have staked their claim to fame by minimizing the work of earlier geographers as being under-theorized and criticizing their framework for understanding culture. I had the opportunity to discuss this with him one day and he stood behind all the works that he wrote and didn’t see why his articles were always the ones cited when that was how an entire generation of cultural geographers approached culture in that manner. This was when I realized that young academics always make a name for themselves by standing on the shoulders of giants; some choose then to look down on their predecessors while others acknowledge that their work is dependent on those who came before. I also came to the realization that nobody will ever critique the work of someone that didn’t matter; Wilbur Zelinsky and his work left an indelible imprint on the discipline. Yes he did represent the old guard, but one that we would do well to remember. This picture that he kept on his filing cabinet is symbolic of the best elements of that generation (plus that is the most amazing magnet ever). He is meticulously documenting observations about the material landscape, using tried and true tools; he’s researching something that most might consider old-fashioned and have abandoned in the quest for something newer and shinier. This is vintage Wilbur Zelinsky in all the best connotations of the word. He studied the landscape like no other. It was a rare treat to hold his hand-typed doctoral dissertation. The pictures were all held in place by yellowing tape and chronicled the folk architecture of rural Georgia. Seeing the original signatures of his committee (including Carl Sauer) was such a thrill to see 60 years after the fact. Wilbur Zelinksy is still recognized as an emeritus professor at Penn State, even after his passing. Later this week, there will be a memorial service on the Penn State campus (Oct 26th-see details here). As a graduate student, I was always impressed at how many departmental events he attended and continued to attend student presentations at the AAG (who does that?). If he were discussing the future of the discipline, he would would be the one with the Golden Marshalltown, begging future geographers to not abandon work in the field. I wish I could have attended his memorial service, but wanted to at least alter my own personal spaces as I was leaving this estate sale (how could I NOT buy some little treasure?) to remember him. This hand-carved tray from India now has a home in my office and it’s a constant reminder to me that geographic research doesn’t just happen in offices surrounded by reading materials; it’s done by getting out there and exploring the landscape, making observations and critically analyzing the geographic context. That’s the legacy left behind by Wilbur Zelinsky.


--- [Presidents of the AAG - AAG] ---
Rebecca Lave Professor of Geography, Indiana University. Ph.D. University of California at Berkeley (Geography); M.C.P. Massachusetts Institute of Technology (City Planning with certificate in Urban Design); B.A. Reed College (Art History and Political Theory). Academic Appointments and Professional Experience: Professor of Geography, Indiana University (2020-present); Associate Professor of Geography, Indiana University (2014-2020); Assistant Professor of Geography, Indiana University (2008-2014); Department Chair (2018; 2019-2022); Director of Undergraduate Studies (2011-2019); Curriculum committee member, BA in Environmental Sustainability Studies (2016-2019); Member or chair of seven search committees in Geography, International Studies, and the Ostrom Workshop, and of ten ad hoc policy committees in Geography (2010-2021); Elected member, College of Arts & Sciences Policy Committee (2016-2019); College of Arts & Sciences Strategic Planning Committee (2016-2017); 21st Century Liberal Arts Curriculum Task Force (2014-2015); Senior Associate, Design, Community and Environment (1999-2005); Urban Planner, Goody, Clancy & Associates (1996-1998). Service to Geography and the AAG: Vice-President (2022-2023); Member and Co-Chair, AAG Honors Committee (2017-2019); Councilor-at-Large, Cultural and Political Ecology Specialty Group (2012-2014); Co-editor of two book series: Economic Transformations, Agenda Publishing (2016-present) and Critical Environments: Nature, Science and Politics, University of California Press (2012- present); Editorial Board of six Geography journals: Environment and Planning F (2021-present), Progress in Environmental Geography (2021-present), The Geographical Journal RGS/IBG (2019-present), Gender, Place and Culture (2018-present); The Annals of the American Association of Geographers (2016-present), and The Canadian Geographer (2013-present); Scientific Advisory Board member for the Integrative Science of Rivers International Conference (2021-2022) and “Contested Waterway: Governance and Ecology on the Lower Danube, 1800-2020” (2020-present); Panelist, NSF GSS; NSF ad hoc reviewer: Arctic System Sciences and Arctic Social Sciences, GSS, HEGS, Hydrology, and Science, Technology and Society programs; Reviewer for more than 45 journals and seven academic presses; Co-Founder of KOI: the University of Kentucky, Ohio State University, and Indiana University Graduate Student Workshop in Political Ecology; Co-Organizer of five workshops on Critical Physical Geography in the US and Europe, and a planned Pan-American workshop on Urban Critical Physical Geography in Spring 2023 in Mexico. Awards and Honors: Distinguished International Visiting Fellow, University of Sheffield (2023) and University of Cambridge (2019); Indiana University Trustees Teaching Award (2010, 2012, 2014, 2015); Indiana University Campus Catalyst Award for Excellence in Teaching Sustainability (2015). Research and Teaching: My research takes a Critical Physical Geography approach combining political economy, STS, and fluvial geomorphology. My previous projects focused on stream restoration, the political economy of environmental expertise, environmental markets, and the ways in which water policies shape fluvial systems in the US. My current work focuses on anthropogenic flooding in the US Midwest. I have published in journals ranging from Science to Social Studies of Science and am the author of two monographs: Fields and Streams: Stream Restoration, Neoliberalism, and the Future of Environmental Science (2012, University of Georgia Press) and Streams of Revenues: The Restoration Economy and the Ecosystems it Creates (2021 MIT Press; co-written with Martin Doyle). I have co-edited four volumes: the Handbook of Political Economy of Science (2017), the Handbook of Critical Physical Geography (2018), and two collections on Doreen Massey (2018). Over the last five years, I have given 29 invited talks and keynotes (including four at the invitation of undergraduate or graduate student organizations) at institutions in Aotearoa/New Zealand, Brazil, Canada, China, England, France, and the US. Teaching is one of my favorite parts of academia. My courses combine physical and human geography approaches to the environment, particularly in relation to environmental conservation, ecological restoration, multispecies relations, and water resources. I was my department’s Director of Undergraduate Studies for eight years and have won multiple teaching awards. Public Engagement and Synergistic Activities: I co-founded EDGI (the Environmental Data and Governance Initiative), an international network started in in response to the 2016 US presidential elections, which provoked deep fears about the loss of environmental data collected and held by the US government and about the rollback of environmental protections more broadly. I was the initial coordinator of EDGI’s website tracking team, which monitors, documents, and publicizes changes to tens of thousands of US federal agency webpages, particularly those related to climate change and environmental justice. Read her president's columns
