=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[BRENTWOOD HARRY GESNER THE STEBEL HOUSE - Modern Living LA]
The sunken living room is surrounded by an interior rock garden and a triangular fireplace which appears to pierce the ceiling as it rises towards the sky. The primary bedroom boasts 18ft high vaulted ceilings, expansive spaces, and a floor to ceiling built in bookshelf. Gesner was truly a one-of-a-kind architect with original and intriguing designs. The Stebel House, circa 1961.
URL: https://modernlivingla.com/mid-century-modern/brentwood-harry-gesner-the-stebel-house/

[Harry Gesner's Sensational Stebel House in Los Angeles Snags a Buyer]
The Stebel House in Los Angeles, designed by "maverick" architect Harry Gesner, just landed on the market for $3,497,900. And after a little more than a week, the home is now in "contingent" sale ...
URL: https://www.realtor.com/news/unique-homes/stebel-house-in-los-angeles-ca-snags-a-buyer/

[Son Describes His Architect Father's Creativity in Designing the Enchanting 'Stebel House' in Los Angeles]
Actor Zen Gesner, son of legendary architect Harry Gesner, spoke with Architectural Digest about his iconic Stebel House, an enchanting Los Angeles home built in 1961 that looks like it’s straight out of a fairy tale due to the series of connected ...
URL: https://laughingsquid.com/stebel-house-los-angeles/

[Watch Inside an Enchanting L.A. Home That Looks Straight Out of a Storybook | Unique Spaces | Architectural Digest]
Built in 1961 by Harry Gesner, one of Southern California’s most prolific architects, it comprises three A-frame structures that combine to create an enchanting triangular form that looks straight out of a storybook. Published May 30, 2024
URL: https://www.architecturaldigest.com/video/watch/unique-spaces-inside-an-enchanting-la-home-that-looks-straight-out-of-a-storybook

[harry gesner architect life & bio - a man ahead of his time | modern architecture & design blog | whipple russell architects]
The Stebel House: Built in 1961 in Mandeville Canyon, the house features surprising sharp angles in its gabled roofs, slanted walls, and windows, but is paired with a warm wood and brick interior. ... The Scantlin House: Built in 1965 on property now owned by the Getty Museum (who also now own the house), the home features jetliner Los Angeles views, floor to ceiling glass walls, a swimming pool that becomes an indoor living room pond, and textured rock walls.
URL: https://whipplerussell.com/blog/remembering-architect-harry-gesner-a-man-ahead-of-his-time


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [BRENTWOOD HARRY GESNER THE STEBEL HOUSE - Modern Living LA] ---
Brentwood Harry Gesner the Stebel House 1963 N MANDEVILLE CANYON ROAD, LOS ANGELES | $3,497,900 | 3 BD | 3 BA We sadly lost Harry Gesner just last year. Fortunately, there are some stellar examples of his unique modern architecture. His Malibu Sandcastle hit the market earlier this year. Now, we have the Stebel House. This A frame is truly something special. We’re reminded of architecture usually found in houses of worship. 20ft high ceilings in places allow for some stunning vertical views of the natural habitat outside. A gabled roof line meets designed geometry. The sunken living room is surrounded by an interior rock garden and a triangular fireplace which appears to pierce the ceiling as it rises towards the sky. The primary bedroom boasts 18ft high vaulted ceilings, expansive spaces, and a floor to ceiling built in bookshelf. Gesner was truly a one-of-a-kind architect with original and intriguing designs. The Stebel House, circa 1961. The late maverick Architect Harry Gesner, a true Southern California icon, created this unique Architectural expression in a by-gone era. Engineering mastery is on display with a beamed and bolted X-frame structure as foundation for a dramatic A-frame rafter design soaring 20ft high downstairs and a striking 18ft upstairs. Towering gables give the appearance of roof and walls as one. Strategically placed triangular windows allow natural light to flood in while highlighting the perfectly framed idyllic canyon and treetop views from every window. Completing his theme is a triangulated bonus room featuring clerestory windows nodding to classic midcentury modern aesthetics and design. Curvilinear walls are subtly incorporated in the dining room, kitchen and bar. A curved staircase separates the kitchen and bar, leading to the primary bedroom retreat upstairs, where it intrinsically emerges from the floor. In 2012, Gesner stated that he “still considers it to be one of the best houses of his career”. The sunken living room is a crowd pleaser, lending a laid back vibe to the space, while evoking a time when people entertained in style. The epicenter bar/music booth, rock gardens, tower fireplace and breathtaking views from the floor to ceiling window round out this surreal setting. Main level layout includes the great room flanked with one bedroom, a quarter bath and a full bathroom (was a Jack and Jill). Bedroom two on this level is staged as a cozy family/screening room, plus a flex space currently used as an office. Opposing end is a timeless kitchen with stainless steel appliances that opens to a fabulous period correct dining room. Through sliding glass doors to the backyard there’s a covered dining and bbq area. A world away and a great escape from city life. The awe-inspiring primary suite features an entire floor with a full bath, large dressing/extended wardrobe area, charming office/sitting area and a comfortable perch above the staircase to enjoy reading a book from your own floor to ceiling library. Outdoor balconies with expansive views on both ends to allow proper enjoyment of So-Cal’s year round indoor/outdoor elevated living. Gesner called the larger south-facing balcony “the breakfast deck.” Electric car charger installed. Cherished by the same family from new until stewardship was graciously passed on to the current owners a few years back. Through their tenure, the expansive lot – just shy of a half acre- has had functional service upgrades as well as being professionally landscaped to further extrapolate usability and a serene, park-like setting (swing included) with multiple vistas. Nature abounds with a variety of native plants and mature trees. There are multiple vantage points to enjoy the serene vistas. The interior and exteriors have had tasteful renovation, upgrades and restoration work to retain as much originality, integrity and character with respect to the original vision. A rare blue-chip investment opportunity in 90049 to live in and enjoy as-is, add to your portfolio as a high-end rental, or take to the next level, creating the trophy home of your dreams. Published: “Houses of The Sundown Sea; The Architectural Vision of Harry Gesner”. Watch Video. Brentwood Harry Gesner the Stebel House. Listing courtesy of J. Todd Michau, Keller Williams Hollywood Hills If you would like to know more about this amazing home, contact Brian Courville at 310-622-0312. Or, for additional Mid-Century Modern | Architectural homes, Spanish homes, Historic Los Angeles homes or Classic Los Angeles homes for sale reach us by email at: Brian Courville. If you are considering selling, contact us for a free no-obligation home valuation.


--- [Harry Gesner's Sensational Stebel House in Los Angeles Snags a Buyer] ---
Your request could not be processed. Please note that your reference ID is 89953682-c35f-4579-99d6-597de53ba546. If this issue persists, please contact unblockrequest@realtor.com with the above reference ID and any other pertinent details. We apologize for the inconvenience.


--- [Son Describes His Architect Father's Creativity in Designing the Enchanting 'Stebel House' in Los Angeles] ---
Son Describes His Architect Father’s Creativity in Designing the Enchanting ‘Stebel House’ in Los Angeles Actor Zen Gesner, son of legendary architect Harry Gesner, spoke with Architectural Digest about his iconic Stebel House, an enchanting Los Angeles home built in 1961 that looks like it’s straight out of a fairy tale due to the series of connected A-frame structures, the thickly wooded area around the home, and its close proximity to the city. Zen explained that the house was built solely from his father’s creativity for writer Sidney Stebel and his artist wife Jan. They found the land and sought out Gesner to design their home. He came up here with his machete …he cleared it out and then camped up here for about six days while he took his sketchpad and made renderings of what he would present to the Stebels as their home. Zen shared some of his father’s greatest inspirations. My father took inspiration from a lot of things. I’d say the primary thing was nature and the environment in which he lived. …And my father had spent a lot of time in Switzerland. He was an avid mountain climber and a skier, and he spent a lot of time around the Swiss chalets, so that influenced a lot of the design as well. Zen also talked about his father’s talent in taking ideas from one place in time and making it modern. And if you take the Stebel House here, which is modeled, if you blur your eyes a little bit, you see a Swiss chalet, but he found a way to take that conventional design in Europe and bring it into a mid-century new twist. In every one of his houses, you really feel a sense that it connects with something deeper, something primal, and I think it takes a true artist to really recognize that and be able to harness that feeling and put it into something like a house.


--- [Watch Inside an Enchanting L.A. Home That Looks Straight Out of a Storybook | Unique Spaces | Architectural Digest] ---
- Unique Spaces - Season 1 - Episode 19 Inside an Enchanting L.A. Home That Looks Straight Out of a Storybook Released on 05/30/2024 [gentle music] When you open the front door of this house, you really have the sense that you're walking into something special. It's almost like being a kid in a playhouse where everywhere you turn, there's something unexpected and something new. That is really a touchstone of my father's design, is making a livable space exciting for the people who live there. [birds chirping] My name's Zen Gesner. I'm the son of Harry Gesner, the architect of the Stebel House. Sidney Stebel, Sid, he was a really great writer and his wife Jan was a painter. My father met them in the most organic of ways. It was back in the late '50s. He had just finished a house called the Cole House and Jan and Sid Stebel started driving around and they spotted the house from Sunset Boulevard. They looked up and they saw this huge A-frame roof, and Fred Cole, the owner, wasn't there, so they just left a note tacked to his front door saying, Hey, we love your house. Can you please call us with the name of the architect? This is how they did it back in the old days before texts and emails and all that. My father loved the fact that he was a novelist, that Jan Stebel was an artist, and he loved the fact that they didn't have a lot of money. He saw that as a really great challenge to try to create something that was like the Cole House, which is pretty grand, in a smaller scale, on a very difficult lot. And in my father's normal tradition, when he was hired to do any home anywhere, he would find a way to spend as much time initially on the site to kind of get a feeling of how the wind was, where it came from, where the sun rose, where it set, the light during the day, all of these factors, including the trees, the rocks. He liked the idea of really fitting something into a natural area and not impose upon that area, but actually create out of it organically. [gentle music] He came up here with his machete, and if you can imagine, it was probably full of weeds and full of bushes, but he cleared it out and then camped up here for about six days while he took his sketchpad and made renderings of what he would present to the Stebels as their home. He came up with the idea of making perpendicular A-frames, and this is a really good vantage to see this. You can see this gable on this side is one A-frame, and that is the second A-frame on the second floor. Both of these A-frames afford different views. So from the bedroom, you have this view of this mountain side here and this A-frame on this side projects down Mandeville Canyon and you really get this incredible treetop view. [gentle music] It is almost like you are away in some mountainous area like Lake Arrowhead. And my father had spent a lot of time in Switzerland. He was an avid mountain climber and a skier, and he spent a lot of time around the Swiss chalets, so that influenced a lot of the design as well. [gentle music] My father took inspiration from a lot of things. I'd say the primary thing was nature and the environment in which he lived. The inspiration he also took from was life experiences. He fought in World War II. He was a scout. They went fighting from town to town across France and Germany, and he was constantly sketching churches. His sketches that he took from that really inspired, I think, a lot of the gothic shapes and some of the A-frame shapes that we see a lot. So I think, you know, when I see my father's architecture, I see a lot of his history in it as well as his love of nature, a lot of European influences, I see a lot of Native American influences. [gentle music] So this is a very classic example of a mid-century sunken living room, but my father always puts his own little twist on everything. So it's almost like there's a zen garden that goes around that's indoor and outdoor, and these windows are sculpted in such a way that you really don't even see the difference between indoor and outdoor. It's a sunken living room. You're really sitting in nature, and I think that's a stamp of my father's design. When you walk in this room, there's something that strikes you immediately right off the bat, and that's these enormous ceilings and how they all come to a point at the end of that beam. The high ceilings really kind of opens your mind subconsciously. [gentle music] This bar is so cool because it is absolutely sculpted into the center of the house, and what's really cool is in the renderings, my father actually did have these speakers embedded in the walls. What's awesome is that the current owner has rewired and reconfigured everything so these things work and they work great. Another very cool thing about this bar is the back wall is curved and it happens to be right at the center of the join between this A-frame and that A-frame, right in the middle. This is the soul of the house. [gentle music] My father loved small homes. The Stebel House really kind of redirected his focus on the fact that people don't need all that space. You can do so much with so much less. It was beautiful to him to see how things fit together and to have that exposed and not covered up with stucco or something over it, and it really gives people an idea of how everything fits together. He loved using reclaimed materials in a lot of his houses. The fireplace over here, for instance, my father always believed that a brick coming from something else had a life before it, a soul, and you're bringing all of that life into a new existence. [gentle music] The walkway from the parking area through to the front door, it's concrete, which also uses inlaid stone, using natural elements of the site and creating something that incorporated them into this design. [gentle music] My father was mischievous. He would leave things for the owners to discover over time, and my father has planted things throughout the house that are very cool, but you have to discover them. For instance, the stained glass. There's one that's in the dining area that is a beautiful piece of art, and if you look out of that, if you look through it, it's actually in the exact spot the sun rises. Every morning, it shines through that window and it casts its light and its color through the whole room. Downstairs, the bar hides this staircase, and in the spirit of discovery for anybody who's visiting, it really kind of appears out of nowhere. We are now in another A-frame with another 20-foot-high ceiling pointed towards this wooded area with this amazing framing of the window. Now, this may look like just a piece of art in its own, but I guarantee my father chose every one of these frames for a reason. It's like you're looking at these little framed pictures all blended together in a patchwork. Each one of these frames shows a different picture. This is like one of those artistic elements that my dad was so good at, that just, it's not shouting itself out there. It's actually something you have to discover. There's other whimsical things in this place that are so much in my father's spirit. This is an original chair hanging here in this really cool little reading nook. This bookcase was constructed by a friend of Sid Stebel who owned a paperback bookshop, and so the space between the shelves is meant for paperback books. So you'd have paperback books fitting perfectly and then you'd have an entire row of hardcovers that are slanted at a certain angle, and this entire bookshelf was just filled with books in every which way. [gentle music] And out this door is the breakfast deck. Very few of my father's houses actually had railings on the decks. I think he just didn't like the sight line. But, you know, as long as you don't have really young kids and you've got some sense of balance, this is really a comfortable place to be. In 2009, when my father was doing his book, Houses of the Sundown Sea, he had an enormous amount of fun seeing a lot of the houses that he had built back in the '50s and '60s pretty much for the first time since the point that they were built. And he mentioned that coming up to this one, the trees had grown so much, it was almost like he was discovering a time capsule because the house was so well preserved. So these trees, they keep it a bit like a time capsule. [gentle music] [birds chirping] Off the bedroom, this is the true sanctuary. This is where Stebel's desk was. And you can see the skylight, which gave light to his typewriter. And my father asked if he could bring the skylight down so that Sid could have a view from where he was working, and Sid was so dedicated to his writing that he wanted no distraction, and this skylight only purpose was to feed light down. Down here was the art studio where Jan would do her paintings. And once again, you see this incredible framing of the window, each one with a picture of its own. Because this studio space faces north, you have a much more consistent light. You have this diffused light. You don't have to deal with shadows and differences in light. For an artist, that's perfect conditions. [gentle music] The house actually looks like it was some sort of creature that's rooted into this hillside. It's actually the design and my father's architecture rooting this to the foundation of the house, and finding a way to do it which supports the integrity of the design and the safety elements, but also gives a unique way to play with light and the indoor-outdoor aspects. [gentle music] My father felt the Stebel House was one of the best accomplishments of his career because this house was a perfect example of him downsizing a design and making it work perfectly for the people living in it. Blending it with the environment, of course, the difficult landscape that this originally was, it fits. He just had a way of doing that, and I think he built his reputation of building hillside homes throughout Southern California in a way that felt right. The roof line goes straight down to the concrete foundation. This house is about as solid as you could ever get. If you're on the inside of the skeleton, you feel protected, you feel safe. Once again, it's a subconscious thing, but I think that design really pulls that together. [gentle music] You always hear of somebody being an original, okay? Some of the greatest artists are originals. They think outside the box of convention. My father was an original in the world of architecture. And if you take the Stebel House here, which is modeled, if you blur your eyes a little bit, you see a Swiss chalet, but he found a way to take that conventional design in Europe and bring it into a mid-century new twist. In every one of his houses, you really feel a sense that it connects with something deeper, something primal, and I think it takes a true artist to really recognize that and be able to harness that feeling and put it into something like a house that we live in, a perfect habitat for a novelist and an artist. [gentle music] [birds chirping] Inside A Grain Silo Transformed Into An Urban Oasis Inside a Musician's House With a Huge Built-In Amp Inside a Precisely Designed Lunar Lander Replica House Living in a Water Tower Converted into 3 Story Luxury Home Inside a Sand Dune Converted Into an Oceanfront Home Inside An Experimental Off-Grid Modern Cabin Inside An Architect's Retro Treetop Home Inside A Floating House Hidden In The Woods Inside A Sustainable Power Plant With A Ski Slope On Its Roof Inside A Nordic Sauna Designed To Blend In With Nature Inside a Breathtaking Desert Mansion That Looks Like A Fossil Inside A Mansion Built On The Edge Of An Abandoned Quarry Inside a Family Home Built Around a 12,000-Year-Old Boulder Inside a Futuristic Home with Detachable Rooms Inside a Glowing NYC Theater With Shape-Shifting Rooms Inside a Minimalist Capsule Home Overlooking the British Coastline Inside One of Frank Lloyd Wright’s Final-Ever Designs Inside The Home Frank Lloyd Wright Designed For His Son Inside an Enchanting L.A. Home That Looks Straight Out of a Storybook Inside a Modern Moving Home On Railroad Tracks Inside an Ultra-Modern Home Inspired By Ancient Ruins Inside an NYC Townhouse Made From 18 Shipping Containers Inside a Legendary Modernist Home Designed to Flow Like a Waterfall Inside a Breathtaking Cave Home Overlooking Mexico City Inside a California Home Made From the Mountain It Stands On Inside Frank Lloyd Wright’s Hidden Woodland Utopia How Frank Lloyd Wright Let Nature Shape His Homes Inside Frank Lloyd Wright’s Design Workshop Built From The Desert Inside a Woodland Home Built Over Water to Become One With Nature Inside a Semi-Buried Eco-Home in the Hills of Barcelona Inside a Hidden LA Greenhouse Full of the World’s Rarest Plants Inside a Dream Ski-In Ski-Out Retreat Designed for Cozy Winters


--- [harry gesner architect life & bio - a man ahead of his time | modern architecture & design blog | whipple russell architects] ---
Remembering Architect Harry Gesner - A Man Ahead of His Time Harry Gesner comes from a long line of inventors, adventurers, and artists, and his own life is an encapsulation of those all. He grew up in Santa Monica, surfed, skied, and downhill raced before any of these were mainstream sports, flew airplanes while still a teen, landed as a soldier on the beaches of Normandy during WWII (and nearly lost his legs there in battle), was a cartoonist in New York, turned down an offer to study with Frank Lloyd Wright, raided Ecuadorian tombs, married four times, designed Marlon Brando’s Tahitian island home (never built), and generally adventured his way through life, propelled by instinct and passion. His father encouraged him to form his own ideas, outside of the insulated bubbles and echo chambers of academia, and from an early age, Gesner set out to make his own way and find his own voice. Outside of a brief time auditing Frank Lloyd Wright’s classes at Yale University, Gesner’s education in architecture took place on the job, apprenticing directly with craftspeople, including stonemasons, carpenters, electricians, bricklayers, and plumbers. He personally curated this education by selecting only the most exciting and exceptional projects to work on, and with the skills he picked up, and his uniquely singular vision, went on to very quickly, within a few years, establish a career as a modern architect. Even as he gained success and notoriety, Gesner would continue to work hands-on on his projects, “I can build a house from scratch because I know all the trades. It gives you more breadth and scope as to what can be done with the tools and materials at hand. And that, in turn, gives me the inspiration to test the limits…” (1) Gesner’s unique style blends architectural elements from Old World Europe, the handcrafted rusticness of Tolkien’s Middle Earth, and a sleek, boundaryless California modernism. His houses are both hefty and substantial, and weightless, arching skyward, and invariably, nature is involved. Glenn Cooper Jans, the original owner of Gesner’s Wave House said of the home, “It was as if we lived within, not apart from, the forces of nature, and surged with her changing moods.” (2) Gesner’s interest in architecture began as a child, seeing houses being built on his paper route. Being an architect seemed like fun, and he started drawing and sketching his own designs. Decades before the trends of environmentally-friendly, sustainable, renewable, and green building, Gesner was creating in this way. He salvaged abandoned materials and gave them a new life in his own Sandcastle house, a beachfront Malibu property he designed and built for himself and his wife, Nan Martin. Old recovered telephone poles, repurposed marble slabs, and a high school gym floor were incorporated into the design. The house celebrates Gesner’s love of the circular shape, which he admired for its inherent simplicity, efficiency, and strength. A cylindrical lighthouse style tower rises from the center of the rustic beach home, while the ground floor is a modern glass walled wheel of open plan living. An enormous brick fireplace with curving hearth anchors the interior, and rounded floor to ceiling glass window walls look out on the sea and sky. Wraparound wooden decks outside stand just above the sand. A lifelong surfer who surfed until he was 90 years old, Gesner found inspiration and spiritual connection in the water. Immersed in the elements during daily surf sessions, he cultivated a deep respect for the ever changing rhythms, inherent wildness, and ingenuity of nature. Allowing it to be his guide, he spent hours on each project site before starting to design, observing the light, wind, temperature, views, angles of sunrise and sunset, and textures of the terrain. As they’re slightly different for each project, so was each house unique. There was never any formula, just an intent to follow the contours of the earth and the inspiration of the moment. His designs perch on steep slopes and hillsides, nestle within canyons, and stand on the shore, close enough to the water to be washed in waves during ocean storms. Many of the sites he worked on were considered inhospitable and unbuildable, but he welcomed the challenge, “I am especially concentrating on the environment—and working with the environment, rather than trying to change it. Most of my houses are built on difficult sites. I demand it, almost, that they find the most difficult situations—a mountain, a rock, a lake—and then design for it. So that it looks like it’s a part of that world. Why destroy nature? It’s the most beautiful thing we have, so why not work with it?” (3) In designing a beachfront property, he’d continue this process by also observing the site from the water. This was how he designed his iconic Wave House, one of his most acclaimed and well known designs. During a contemplative and insightful surf session, Gesner sketched ideas for the house directly onto his surfboard while bobbing in the ocean. This house sits just beyond his own Sandcastle home on the beach in Malibu, and has a striking design crowned with a trio of arcing roofs that appear as ocean waves paused just before they dip and fall, and curve into tubular barrels. The roof is covered in handcrafted round copper tiles, reminiscent of a fish’s scales. The iconic design of Gesner’s Wave House is said to have been the inspiration for the Sydney Opera House, which was designed by architect Jørn Utzon soon after. Gesner’s 1960s and 70s residential homes celebrated a James Bond aesthetic, and were designed for the entertaining lifestyle with sunken floors, indoor outdoor swimming pools, grotto landscaping, and eye-catching fire features. His Cole House, a Polynesian inspired Hollywood party home just above the Sunset Strip, built in 1958, originally featured double height beaded curtains that hung down the face of enormous glass window walls, and a swimming pool that could both reach indoors into the primary suite and shoot flames. Other iconic Los Angeles designs include: The Hollywood Boathouses: Built by Norwegian ship builders in the late 1950s, this series of residential homes stand on stilts, floating out over the edge of steep and narrow hillside lots. The Eagle’s Watch: Built in 1955 in Malibu, but destroyed by fire in 1993. Gesner rebuilt the striking design in 1997 using concrete and reinforced steel. The Encinal Beach House: Built in 1960, the house sits atop a rocky beach, not far from the Wave House and Gesner’s own Sandcastle in Malibu. The design features a stylized curving copper roof, warm wooden interior ceilings, and floor to ceiling glass walls in the main living area. The Triangle House: Built in 1960 in Tarzana, the spacious open plan design sits amongst trees and hillsides. The triangle shape of the house is echoed in the guest house, a mini version that sits across the patio. The Stebel House: Built in 1961 in Mandeville Canyon, the house features surprising sharp angles in its gabled roofs, slanted walls, and windows, but is paired with a warm wood and brick interior. The Scantlin House: Built in 1965 on property now owned by the Getty Museum (who also now own the house), the home features jetliner Los Angeles views, floor to ceiling glass walls, a swimming pool that becomes an indoor living room pond, and textured rock walls. The Flying Wing House: Built in the late 1970s in the Hollywood Hills, the house features soaring views, wooden ceilings, and exposed wooden pillars (the original client was the president of a lumber company who wanted to showcase his wares). The house was remodeled in 2014 by architect Dean Larkin. The Ravenseye House: Built in 1997 in Malibu, the house features triple height glass walls with cathedral-like peaked arches that frame ocean views. Gesner’s drive, creativity, inventive mind, and abundance of ideas didn’t slow down in his later years, “I am more creative now than I was in my earlier years. Now, it’s mental, not physical.”(4) His later life projects included Houses that Survive: off-grid poured concrete and wood homes designed to withstand tornadoes, hurricanes, wildfires, termites, earthquakes, etc; Autonomous Tents: portable, low impact, semi-permanent structures that can be constructed or dismantled within days, requiring no foundation or leveling of land, and which can last 100 years, but can also leave without a trace (what he called Informal Architecture); the conversion of his 1957 silver 190 SL Mercedes convertible into an electric car; and the invention of a working municipal recycling system that turns waste into composted soil and then into ethanol fuel. Gesner said he felt a part of the beauty around him when out in the ocean, and his homes are the same, extensions of their environment. They’re also reflections of him: celebrations of the wild and untamed Californian spirit. Harry Gesner passed away last month in Malibu, at the age of 97. (1) - https://atlargemagazine.com/features/the-beach-boy/ (2) - https://atlargemagazine.com/features/the-beach-boy/
