=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Pentagon to pay for soldier's gender transition surgery]
Nov 14, 2017 · In a first, the Pentagon will pay for an active-duty soldier’s gender transition surgery. First reported by NBC News, the infantry soldier, who identifies as a woman, was to undergo the surgery ...
URL: https://www.armytimes.com/news/2017/11/14/report-pentagon-to-pay-for-soldiers-gender-transition-surgery/

[Pentagon to pay for surgery for transgender soldier - NBC News]
Nov 14, 2017 · WASHINGTON — An active-duty service member underwent gender transition surgery Tuesday in the first such procedure approved under a waiver allowing the Pentagon to pay for the operation.
URL: https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/pentagon-oks-surgery-transgender-soldier-military-hospital-n820721

[U.S. Military Paying for Gender Reassignment Treatment for Troops]
Oct 3, 2016 · The Pentagon is now paying for gender reassignment treatment and, in some cases, surgery for United States service members. The policy, which took effect on 1 October 2016, could cost between $2.4 ...
URL: https://www.snopes.com/news/2016/10/03/military-gender-reassignment-treatment-troops/

[Pentagon Approves Gender-Reassignment Surgery for Service Member]
Nov 14, 2017 · WASHINGTON — The Pentagon approved a gender-reassignment surgery for an active-duty military member, defense officials said on Tuesday, four months after President Trump abruptly announced a ban ...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/14/us/politics/pentagon-transgender-surgery.html

[Pentagon will pay for transgender soldier’s reassignment surgery]
Nov 15, 2017 · The Pentagon confirmed Tuesday that it will pay for a soldier’s gender reassignment surgery for the first time, according to multiple reports.Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said in a statement ...
URL: https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/360409-pentagon-will-pay-for-transgender-soldiers-reassignment-surgery/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Pentagon to pay for soldier's gender transition surgery] ---
In a first, the Pentagon will pay for an active-duty soldier’s gender transition surgery. First reported by NBC News, the infantry soldier, who identifies as a woman, was to undergo the surgery on Tuesday. It would be the first operation of its kind to be approved under a waiver that allows the Pentagon to pay for the procedure. The soldier, according to NBC, received the Combat Infantryman Badge in Operation Anaconda in Afghanistan in 2003. Citing defense officials, NBC reported that Navy Vice Adm. Raquel Bono, head of the Defense Health Agency, approved the waiver request for the surgery on Monday. “This afternoon, an active-duty military member received a sex-reassignment surgery. Military hospitals do not have the surgical expertise to perform this type of surgery, therefore it was conducted in a private hospital,” Dana White, the Pentagon’s chief spokeswoman, said in a statement Tuesday evening. The service member had already begun a sex-reassignment course of treatment, White said. “The treating doctor deemed this surgery medically necessary, [so] a waiver was approved by the director of the Defense Health Agency,” she said. “The Supplemental Health Care Program will cover this surgery in accordance with the department’s interim guidance on transgender service members.” RELATED In July, President Donald Trump tweeted that the military would no longer “accept or allow transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the military.” The announcement came about nine months after former President Barack Obama’s administration allowed transgender individuals to serve openly for the first time. His administration also offered medical services for gender dysphoria treatments and gender reassignment surgery. RELATED In September, the Pentagon outlined how the department will navigate transgender issues until a decision is finalized on whether those service members will be allowed to continue serving. The Pentagon will present its new guidance to President Trump on Feb. 21 regarding how to implement his directed transgender ban. Charlsy is a Reporter and Engagement Manager for Military Times. Email her at cpanzino@militarytimes.com.


--- [Pentagon to pay for surgery for transgender soldier - NBC News] ---
WASHINGTON — An active-duty service member underwent gender transition surgery Tuesday in the first such procedure approved under a waiver allowing the Pentagon to pay for the operation. The patient is an infantry soldier who identifies as a woman, according to a source close to the service member. She got her Combat Infantry Badge in Operation Anaconda in Afghanistan in 2003, the source said. Vice Admiral Raquel Bono, head of the Defense Health Agency, which provides medical care to active-duty personnel, approved the waiver request for the surgery Monday, according to a Defense Department document. "This afternoon, an active-duty military member received a sex-reassignment surgery. Military hospitals do not have the surgical expertise to perform this type of surgery, therefore it was conducted in a private hospital," the Pentagon said in a statement after NBC News' initial report on the procedure. "Because this service member had already begun a sex-reassignment course of treatment, and the treating doctor deemed this surgery medically necessary, a waiver was approved by the director of the Defense Health Agency. The Supplemental Health Care Program will cover this surgery in accordance with the Department's interim guidance on transgender Service members." In August, President Donald Trump signed a memo to halt future funding for sex-reassignment surgery and also bar the Pentagon from accepting transgender recruits. Two organizations filed lawsuits challenging the move, and a federal judge blocked both bans last month. A RAND Corporation study last year found that allowing transgender people to serve openly in the military would "have minimal impact on readiness and health care costs." The study estimated there are between 1,320 and 6,530 active-duty members out of 1.3 million service members, and predicted that hormone treatments and surgeries would cost about $2.4 to $8.4 million a year — a tiny sliver of the Pentagon budget. CORRECTION (Nov. 14, 2017, 4:05 p.m.): An earlier version of this story misstated the location of the surgery. It is taking place at a civilian facility, not a military hospital.


--- [U.S. Military Paying for Gender Reassignment Treatment for Troops] ---
No content


--- [Pentagon Approves Gender-Reassignment Surgery for Service Member] ---
Supported by Pentagon Approves Gender-Reassignment Surgery for Service Member WASHINGTON — The Pentagon approved a gender-reassignment surgery for an active-duty military member, defense officials said on Tuesday, four months after President Trump abruptly announced a ban on transgender people serving in the military. The surgery is the latest setback to Mr. Trump’s effort to put a ban in place. Two weeks ago, a federal judge temporarily blocked the ban, ruling that the justification for it was suspect and most likely unconstitutional. Even before the ruling, officials at the Defense Department had been slow-walking Mr. Trump’s orders, telling transgender members of the military that they could continue to serve openly while the Pentagon decided how to handle the ban. In announcing the ban in July, Mr. Trump posted on Twitter that United States forces could not afford the “tremendous medical costs and disruption” of transgender service members. He said he had consulted with generals and military experts, but Jim Mattis, the defense secretary, was given only a day’s notice of the decision. The RAND Corporation, in a 2016 study, found that allowing transgender people to serve openly in the military would “have minimal impact on readiness and health care costs” for the Pentagon. It estimated that health care costs would rise $2.4 million to $8.4 million a year, representing an increase of 0.04 to 0.13 percent in spending. Citing research into other countries that allow transgender people to serve, the study projected “little or no impact on unit cohesion, operational effectiveness or readiness” in the United States. The sex-reassignment surgery is the clearest sign yet that Mr. Trump’s ban is a long way from being put into effect. Dana W. White, the chief Pentagon spokeswoman, said in a statement that the individual who underwent the surgery had already started a sex-reassignment course of treatment and that the individual’s doctor said the surgery was medically necessary. “Military hospitals do not have the surgical expertise to perform this type of surgery, therefore it was conducted in a private hospital,” Ms. White said in the statement. The Defense Health Agency, a division of the Pentagon, granted a waiver allowing the department to cover the cost of the surgery. The Pentagon’s health insurance program “will cover this surgery in accordance with the department’s interim guidance for transgender service members,” Ms. White said. A Defense Department official said that the service member who underwent the surgery, earlier reported by NBC News, identifies as a woman. She fought in Afghanistan. Two organizations representing transgender service members have taken the Trump administration to court over the ban. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter. Related Content Advertisement


--- [Pentagon will pay for transgender soldier’s reassignment surgery] ---
Pentagon will pay for transgender soldier’s reassignment surgery The Pentagon confirmed Tuesday that it will pay for a soldier’s gender reassignment surgery for the first time, according to multiple reports. Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said in a statement shared by a BuzzFeed News reporter that an active-duty military member received sex-reassignment surgery Tuesday in a private hospital. Pentagon confirms an active-duty military member received sex-reassignment surgery today, and it will pay for the procedure for the first time pic.twitter.com/4WQGnPDlhd — Jon Passantino (@passantino) November 14, 2017 “Because this service member had already begun a sex-reassignment course of treatment, and the treating doctor deemed this surgery medically necessary, a waiver was approved by the director of the Defense Health Agency,” White said. “The Supplemental Health Care Program will cover this surgery in accordance with the Department’s interim guidance on transgender Service members.” NBC News, which reported the story earlier on Tuesday, said the service member is an infantry officer who identifies as female. {mosads}In August, President Trump signed a memo to bar transgender people from enlisting in the military, and to stop the military from paying for gender reassignment surgery. He originally called for the ban on transgender troops in a series of tweets in July. A federal court partially blocked the ban last month, including the prohibition on using funds for gender reassignment surgery. Copyright 2026 Nexstar Media Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
