=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ratan Parimoo - Wikipedia]
–11 — Ratan Parimoo's Early Phase, (1956-1960), Sponsored by Marvel Gallery, Ahmedabad, Baroda, Mumbai. 2018 — CONCOURSE, 9th Annual Contemporary Art Show Exhibition of Kashmiri Muslim and Pandit Artists Srinagar (Kashmir). ... 2019 'Rabindranath Tagore Birth Centenary Medal' by Asiatic Society in Kolkata at 235th annual meet for contribution to human culture (2018). ... Gujarat State Lalit Kala Akademi...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ratan_Parimoo

[CHINAR SHADE : RATAN PARIMOO: A RENOWNED ARTIST AND ART HISTORIAN FROM KASHMIR]
(1) 1980 – Radhakamal Mukherji Memorial Lecture, U.P. State Lalit Kala Akademi, Lucknow. (2) 1983 – UGC National Lectures at Chandigarh, Santiniketan & Madurai. ... (4) 1990 – Somashekhar Memorial Lecture, Dept. of Archaeology, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad. (5) 1999 – Abanindranath Memorial Lecture, Calcutta. (6) 2005 – Raja Ravi Varma Death Centenary Lecture, Cochin. Parimoo has also been associated with many committees and institutions set up by government for promotion of art in the country.
URL: https://autarmota.blogspot.com/2016/04/something-about-kashmiri-artist-and-art.html

[What's the difference between 'a year' and 'the year'?]
Jan 26, 2017 · 'A year' can be any year without any specification. But 'the year' means a particular/specified year or the one which is already mentioned and thereby known. E.g: In a year there are twelve months. (means any year or all years) I was born in the year 2000. (in that particular year) Grammatically 'a/an' is known as indefinite article and 'the' is definite article. The indefinite article (a/an ...
URL: https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/370328/whats-the-difference-between-a-year-and-the-year

[Profile of a Pioneer: NS Bendre by Ratan Parimoo]
This show will have to be considered historically a a very significant one-man-show of an individual Indian painter heralding his maturity which is regarded now as an epochal moment of modern Indian art. Unfortunately this fact was not attempted to be highlighted during his only retrospective exhibition held in Bombay in 1974 to mark the occasion of the Lalit Kala Akademi’s Fellowship bestowed on him.
URL: https://criticalcollective.in/ArtistInner2.aspx?Aid=544&Eid=576

[Search | Ratan Parimoo Archive | Asia Art Archive]
Ratan Parimoo (b.1936) is an art historian and painter with several publications and seminars to his credit. He taught art history in the Faculty of Fine Arts and was Head of the Department of Art History & Aesthetics for 25 years. He was instrumental in establishing the Department of Art History & Aesthetics Archive in the college in 1966.
URL: https://aaa.org.hk/en/collections/search/archive/ratan-parimoo-archive


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ratan Parimoo - Wikipedia] ---
Ratan Parimoo is an Indian art historian from Kashmir, who has worked as an art educator, pedagogue, artist and former director of the Lalbhai Dalpatbhai Museum, Ahmedabad. Ratan Parimoo was one of the founder members of Baroda Group. In January 2025, he was honored with the Padma Shri, India's fourth-highest civilian award, by the Government of India.
He publishes on the arts of Ajanta, Ellora, Jain, Rajasthani, Pahari and Mughal paintings and drawings.  He authored Art of Three Tagores- From Revival to Modernity. He is married to  artist Naina Dalal.




--- [CHINAR SHADE : RATAN PARIMOO: A RENOWNED ARTIST AND ART HISTORIAN FROM KASHMIR] ---
He dared to study art when back in his native Kashmir, people would generally say,” fine, art is okay, but let us know what you are going to do in your life to earn a living. “Every type of art was looked down upon in orthodox Kashmiri society. It applied to theatre, painting, music and dance. However determined and resolute, at a young age of 15, Ratan Parimoo left Kashmir for Baroda to study painting. He left Kashmir when the wounds of the Tribal Invasion by Pakistan had just healed up and people had started breathing fresh air .It was 1951 and he was certainly not sure what future lay in store for him .Luckily, he came under the tutelage and mentorship of Prof N S Bendre, a renowned artist of the country who worked for more than 16 years at Maharaja Sayajirao University, Vadodara (1950-1966) as HOD painting. Bendre had a special liking for the people of the J&K state. He had worked as journalist and painter in the state for about 3 years (1936 to 1939). Triloke Kaul, well-known artist informs that for some time, Bendre stayed in the Nawa Bazaar house of Dr Shiv Ji .And Bendre would go out of his way to help budding artists from the state who came to Baroda. At Baroda , apart from Ratan Parimoo, two more prominent artist from Kashmir namely G R Santosh and Triloke Kaul were also trained by N S Bendre .Bendre had also done a series of Kashmir landscapes . After completing his graduation in Fine Arts from the Faculty of Fine Arts, M.S. University, Baroda in 1955, Parimoo did M A in (Fine) Creative Painting, Post Graduate Diploma in Museology from M.S. University, Baroda in 1957. He also obtained his graduate degree in History of Art from London University in 1963 and Ph.D. in Art history from M.S. University, Baroda in 1972. He received Commonwealth Scholarship to study Art History at the Courtauld Institute of the University of London from 1961 to 1963. In 1974, he was granted the prestigious Rockefeller Foundation Scholarship for his work on Buddhist Art. He has decorated the esteemed posts of- Lecturer in Art History, Faculty of Fine Arts, Baroda 1959; Reader and Head, Department of Art History and Aesthetics 1966; Professor in Art History and Aesthetics from the years 1966 to 1978; and also the Dean, Faculty of Fine Arts, Baroda from the years 1975 to 1981. He served as the Director of the L D Museum and N C Mehta Gallery in Ahmedabad from 2007 to 2019. Apart from being a teacher and a trained painter, Ratan Parimoo happens to be a highly respected art historian of the country. Having written hundreds of articles for national and international journals and delivered similar number of lectures on art and history of art, Dr. Parimoo has published more than 20 scholarly books on art and history of art. Some books authored by him can be listed as under:- 1.Paintings of the three Tagores, Abanindranath, Gaganendranath, Rabindranath – Chronology and Comparative Study (PhD Thesis), MS University of Baroda, Vadodara,1973. 2. Studies in Modern Indian Art, Kanak Publications-Books India, New Delhi, 1975. 3. Life of Buddha in Indian Sculpture, Kanak Publications, New Delhi, 1982. Enlarged edition, DK Printworld, Delhi, 2009. 4. Sculptures of Sheshashayi Vishnu, MS University of Baroda, Vadodara, 1983. 5. The Pictorial World of Gaganendranath Tagore, National Gallery of Modern Art, New Delhi, 1995. 6.Studies in Indian Sculptures, Essays in New Art History, Books & Books, New Delhi, 2000. 7. Studies on the Art of Raja Ravi Varma, Thrissur (Kerala), 2006. 8. NC Mehta Collection Vol I, Gujarati School and Jaina Manuscript Paintings, Ahmedabad, 2010. 9. The Art of Three Tagores, From Revival to Modernity, Kumar Gallery, New Delhi, 2011. 10. NC Mehta Collection Vol II, Rajasthani, Central Indian, Pahari and Mughal Paintings, Ahmedabad, 2013 11. Treasures from the Lalbhai Dalpatbhai Museum], Ahmedabad, 2013. 12.Gaganendranath Tagore, A Retrospective, an Exhibition Catalogue, Victoria Memorial Hall in collaboration with Rabindra Bharati Society, Kolkata, 2014. 13. From the Earthly World to the Realm of Gods, Kasturbhai Lalbhai Collection of Indian Drawings. Ahmedabad, 2019. Apart from authoring above books, Parimoo has also edited some scholarly books on art and history of art which are considered as reference material for research and further elucidation. Some books falling in this category could be listed as, ‘Vaiṣhnavism in Indian Art and Culture’, ‘Ellora Caves – Sculptures and Architecture’, ‘The Paintings of Rabindranath Tagore,( For Lalit Kala Akademi)’, ‘The Arts of Ajanta – New Perspectives’,’ Creative Arts in Modern India’, ‘The Legacy of Raja Ravi Varma – The Painter’, ‘Ellora Caves – Sculptures and Architecture’ and ‘Calligraphy and Art of Writing in Jain Manuscripts’. He has also presented more than 140 research based papers in various seminars across the length and breadth of the country and also written critical essays and articles on art and history of art that stand published on various magazines and journals within the country and outside . And Ratan Parimoo is one of the pioneering art historians of post-independence India whose work is internationally known and recognised for its deep research and honesty. Early art historians emphasized the European tradition, celebrating its Greek and Roman origins and the ideals of academic art. By the mid-20th century, a standard narrative for “Western art” was established that traced its development from the prehistoric, ancient, and medieval Mediterranean to modern Europe and the United States. Art from the rest of the world, labeled “non-Western art,” was typically treated only marginally and from a colonialist perspective. However, the immense sociocultural changes that took place in the 20th century led art historians to amend these narratives. Accounts of Western art that once featured only white males were revised to include artists of color and women. Interest in non-Western art increased, accelerating dramatically in recent years when Asia, with its abundant art treasure emerged as the focus. This led to the development of Art History as serious subject that had power to transform lives and build understanding across cultures. The Indian art historians in this changed scenario remained broadly confined to study and decimation of ancient and mediaeval art without studying the same in global context. Ratan Parimoo is the lone scholar artist who used the European procedural framework with Indian aesthetic theories of Rasa and Alamkara for the investigation and analysis of Indian art. A deep study of Buddhist, Puranic and regional texts enabled him to interpret and conduct serious study of Indian sculpture and painting. Parimoo was also one of the founder members of Baroda Group and has been instrumental in molding careers and languages of many would-be artists as well as showing liberalism in art whenever needed. His training in painting and emphasis on the inter-relationship of the arts, history, theories and research made his teaching incomparable. Parimoo was one of the youngest painters to respond to the 'abstract style' of the first modernist movements of the country after independence. .EXHIBITIONS It would fill many pages to list all the solo or group exhibitions that he attended in India and abroad. This journey began with his joining the National Exhibition of Lalit Kala Akademi in 1955 at a young age of 19. Therafter some important exihbitions in which he participated are as under:- (1) 1956,57,58,59 …Baroda Group of Artists Exhibitions in Bombay. (2) 1958 …First one-man show, Srinagar. (3) 1962 …South Asian Artists, Durham, U.K. (4) 1964, 65 and 75 …Joint shows with wife Naina Dalal, at Bombay, Delhi and I.P.C.L., Baroda. (5) 1972 …Retrospective Exhibition at Delhi, Rabindra Bhawan. (6) 1975, 1976 …Alumni Exhibition, Faculty of Fine Arts, Silver Jubilee, Bombay, and Baroda. (7) 1973, 75 …One-man shows at Bombay. (8) 1976 …One-man show in Delhi. (9) 1979 …One-man show in Ahmedabad. (10)1990 … Eight Baroda Artists Exhibition, New Delhi (11)1991-1992 …Artists Against Communalism, Delhi (12) 1992 …Birla Akademi of Art, Calcutta, Silver Jubilee Exhibition, West Zone. (13)1995 …Bharat Bhavan Biennale, Bhopal.1995 (14)1996 …Contemporary Indian Painting, Bombay Art Society, Bombay. (15) 1997…Major Trends in Indian Art, Lalit Kala Akademi, New Delhi. (16) 1999 …Retrospective Exhibitions, Jehangir Art Gallery, Cymroza Art Gallery (Bombay). (17) 2000 …Retrospective Exhibitions, Natarani Theatre, Ahmedabad & Welcome Hotel, Baroda. (18) 2002 …Allahabad Museum, Allahabad. Exhibitions-Auctions of OSIAN'S, Mumbai, curated by Shri Neville Tuli (19) 2001, February… India: The Passionate Detachment (20) 2002, July … India in Making, 1757-1950 (21) 2002, November… Masterpieces and Museum Quality Indian Modern and Contemporary Paintings. (22) 2005, February… Masterpieces and Museum Quality Indian Modern and Contemporary Paintings. (23) 2004 …Art for Vision (For Shankara Netralaya) LKA, New Delhi. (24) 2006… Parimini Shakla, Fifty years of Ratan Parimoo's Paintings (1956-2006), Baroda, Delhi. (25) 2008… Parimoo’s Chaurapanchashika: Iconography of A Nayika, Jehangir Art Gallery, Mumbai. (26) 2009 Parimoo’s Chaurapanchashika: Iconography of A Nayika, Habitat Centre, New Delhi. (27) 2010-11… Ratan Parimoo’s Early Phase, (1956-1960), Sponsored by Marvel Gallery, Ahmedabad, Baroda, Mumbai. (28) 2018… CONCOURSE, 9th Annual Contemporary Art Show Exhibition of Kashmiri Muslim and Pandit Artists Srinagar (Kashmir) He has also passed on his knowledge, expertise and skills to so many young and upcoming artists through various Art Camps that he attended within the country. AWARDS AND HONOURS For him, no award is greater than,’ love, respect and regard’ that he received all along his life from students, art lovers and artist community within his country. When he thinks about it, he feels satisfied and happy. However, as a recognition to his outstanding talent, many awards and honours have been conferred upon Ratan Parimoo. Some amongst these can be listed as under:- (1) Cultural Scholarship for Painting, Govt. of India 1957-59. (2) Commonwealth Scholarship to study in London for the years 1960-63. (3) First prize in Painting, Annual Exhibition, J & K. Cultural Academy in 1966 (4) Rockefeller 3rd Grant to study and travel to USA in 1974 (5) Jawaharlal Nehru Fellowship 1991-1993. (6) 2000 Gaurav Puraskar, Gujarat State Lalit Kala Akademi. (7) 2016 Raja Ravi Varma Chitrakar Sanman award, Megh Mandal Sansthan Mumbai. (8) 2019 ‘Rabindranath Tagore Birth Centenary Medal’ by Asiatic Society in Kolkata at 235th Annual Meet for Contribution to Human Culture (2018). He has also been invited as Guest Speaker in seminars within and outside the country. As Guest Speaker or on merit scholarship, he has visited Russia, Australia, France Germany, USA, UK and many other countries. His lectures in various seminars were reproduced in the shape of booklets and distributed to libraries and art institutions within the country and abroad. Specific mention needs to be made of his below lecture series:-- (1) 1980 – Radhakamal Mukherji Memorial Lecture, U.P. State Lalit Kala Akademi, Lucknow. (2) 1983 – UGC National Lectures at Chandigarh, Santiniketan & Madurai. (3) 1989 – Hindi Sahitya Parishad, Ahmedabad. (4) 1990 – Somashekhar Memorial Lecture, Dept. of Archaeology, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad. (5) 1999 – Abanindranath Memorial Lecture, Calcutta. (6) 2005 – Raja Ravi Varma Death Centenary Lecture, Cochin. Parimoo has also been associated with many committees and institutions set up by government for promotion of art in the country. Some important assignment that he discharged with honesty, dedication and transparency could be listed as under:- (1) 1981-1984 – Member, Executive Board, Lalit Kala Akademi, Delhi. (2) 1982 – Member, UGC Panel Art History / Museology. (3) 1982-1988 – Executive Secretary, Indian Association of Art Historians. (4) 1985 – Member, UGC Pay Scale Revision committee. (5) 1987 – Member, Central Advisory Board of Museums, Govt. of India. (6) 1993-1995 – Member, History of Science Panel, Indian National Science Akademi, New Delhi. (7) 1994-1997 – Member, UGC Panel for Art History / Fine Arts. (8) 1998-2000 – Art Purchase Committee, NGMA, Delhi. (9) 2003-2005 – Programme Advisory Committee, NGMA, Mumbai. (10) 2003- 2005 – Board of Studies, Jawahar Nehru University, New Delhi. Board of Studies, National Council of Educational Research and Teaching, New Delhi. (11) 2011 – Authentication Committee appointed by Archaeological Survey of India, New Delhi, to access the exhibition of 20 fake paintings of Rabindranath Tagore held at College of Arts and Crafts, Kolkata. (12) 2012-2014 – Member, Board of Studies, School of Art and Aesthetics, JNU. (13) 2014-2016 – Member, Acquisition Committee, NGMA, New Delhi. (14) 2015-2020 – Chief Advisor, Textbooks in Fine Arts for class XI and Class XII, National Council of Educational Research and Training. He was invited to lead the Lalbhai Dalpatbhai(LD) Museum in Ahmedabad (2007-2019) where he successfully reorganised the galleries of the LD Museum, the NC Mehta Collection and published three groundbreaking collection catalogues on Jain, Rajasthani, Pahari and Mughal paintings including the Kasturbha Lalbhai collection of Indian drawings originally from the world famous Tagore family collection. They are well acclaimed examples of Catalogue Raisonne on Indian Miniature Paintings. THE BARODA GROUP Also known as the Baroda Group of Artists, the Baroda School is an artist group founded in 1956 by NS Bendre, comprising artists associated with the Faculty of Fine Arts, MS University, Baroda (now Vadodara). The School marked a move away from the Revivalist inclinations of groups such as the Bengal School as well as the academic realism practised by European schools. Formation of Baroda Group of Artists was a historically significant moment for Modern Art in India. Prof N S Bendre played pivotal role in bringing a core group of artists together in 1956 for what came to be known as Baroda Group or Baroda School. Ratan Parimoo happens to be the founder member of the Baroda Group .It was in the Bombay exhibition of this Group that Ratan Parimoo exhibited his well known painting ‘Habba Kadal’.About the formation of Baroda Art Group in 1956, Ratan Parimoo writes this :- “The first Baroda Group of Artists formed in 1956, had a great emotional significance for my career as a young painter.It was some sort of a spontaneous announcement by the group to declare to the Modern Indian art movement ,’here we come ‘. Our meetings with Prof N S Bendre quite often at his university flat, were occasions for discussionon on art including many inquisitive questions our young minds were puzzled about. When the first exhibition of this group was held on 21st April , 1956, at the small gallery of Artists Aid Centre ,Rampart Row , only a small two page folder had been circulated about 13 painters and their 31 paintings .The pocket book size folder listed the following names :- (1) G R Santosh (2) Ratan Parimoo (3) K G Subramanyan (4) Prabha Dongre (5) Kumud Patel (6) Triloke Kaul (7) Shanti Dave (8) Vinay Trivedi (9) N S Bendre (10) Balakrishna (11) Jyoti Bhatt (12) Prafful Dave (13) Ramesh Pandya It had briefest introduction, “ You have been meetings us individually in different exhibition all over the country .We, who stay and work in Baroda now, present herewith our recent works’.The exhibition was inaugurated by the then famous novelist and campaigner for Modern Art, Mulk Raj Anand. The second exhibition was much larger, held in the main hall of Jahangir Art Gallery during April 1957, and inaugurated by *Walter Langhammer. The Times of India review of the first Exhibition in Bombay had hailed Prof. Bendre as the ‘moving spirit’ behind the serious though loosely termed Baroda Group. The distinguished critic Sham Lal (later editor Times of India) made his famous remark about our Bombay exhibition that some artists are ‘Bacon-ian, Braqie-ish, Gris-ly and merely Klee-ver ’. The third exhibition held at the Alliance Franchise during October 1958 was inaugurated by the then Director of USIS. The number of artists rose to 20 with inclusion of Vinod Shah, Haku Shah, Farookh Contractor, Bhupendra Desai and the two women artists, Kishori Kaul and Padmini Manerikar. Exhibitions were also organised at Ahmedabad in 1957 and in 1960 at Srinagar, J&K Akademi and at Bhavnagar. The fourth exhibition held at the Jehangir Art Gallery during 1959 comprised of the works of 29 artists with inclusion of Narendra Amin and Naina Dalal. The fifth exhibition was held in Jan 1961 at Roopa Art Gallery, Taj Mahal Hotel with inclusion of Jayant Parikh and Jeram Patel. ” LOVE FOR KASHMIR “For me, painting Kashmir more specifically its culture and life has always been satisfying. It fills the heart with a different charm and satisfaction” While being felicitated by the J&K Academy of Art Culture and Languages, he said this:- “No man forgets his roots; my paintings like Maej Kashir, Kashmiri Dancers, Habba Kadal, Fish Selling Women, Dal Lake, Kashmiri Family and Tongas reflect my inner emotions and nostalgia.” Born and brought up in Habba Kadal locality of Srinagar city, Ratan Parimoo has always remained connected with his roots. In 2022, along with Gauri Parimoo Krishnan, his daughter, he visited Kashmir and went to Habba Kadal locality to see his old family house on the banks of River Jhelum. He also visited Kheer Bhawani Temple, Tulamula and Martand Sun Temple during this visit. After this visit, he read a scholarly paper, “Revisiting the Martand Sun Temple of Kashmir“at the 6th Dr Devangana Desai Endowment Lecture Series. This paper was published in research journal ‘Neelamatam’ (Vol 14, Issue No 02, April-June 2022) published from New Delhi. He has drawn innumerable nostalgic sketches portraying life in Kashmir as he saw it during his childhood and youth. Sketches like , “A Kashmiri Balloon Seller“, “ The Fish selling Women “, Lunch Time in A Kashmiri Family “ , “ Kashmiri Women Husking Paddy “, “ Maar Canal ”, “Dal Lake “,”My Mohalla ( Purshyar Ghat )”,”Kashmiri Women At River Bank”and many more became quite popular. A popular book on art written by Dr Parimoo bears Badam-wadi or Badam-Waari as its title. Badam-wari is the name of the famous almond garden near Hari Parbat in Srinagar city.This garden is a part of Kashmiri culture and life .The spring festival (with full blooming almond trees) attracts Kashmiris of all shades to this garden. ( Habba Kadal by Ratan Parimoo) ( Kashmiri Women by Ratan Parimoo ) ( Fish Selling Women by Ratan Parimoo) ( Sketch My Mohalla by Ratan Parimoo) ( Sketch Maar Canal by Ratan Parimoo) As sensitive human being, he was privy to suffering and sorrows of women in the traditional Kashmiri society. These women were engaged in service, sacrifice and implementation of ruthless selflessness. They had to work from 6 a m till 11 p m. All these women cooked food, washed utensils, washed clothes, did house cleaning and other allied domestic work apart from maintaining family ties .They were the first to get up from sleep and the last to sleep in their families .Even if they were unwell, they followed this routine. A set of Pherans or Sarees, a sandal and a Dejhoor given by parents was their material possession in the family. They ate last of all and quite often there was little food left for them to eat. Their worry was to provide for all except their own self. They remembered Lal Vaaks and lyrical verses of Arinmal, Habba Khatoon and Rasool Mir. Tears trickled down their eyes when they sang some Leela of Krishen Joo Razdan or Parmanand. These women remembered everyone's birthday. They remembered the Shradha of every deceased member of their family. None knew when they were born. The conjugal bliss was unknown to them. For them, married life meant service, surrender, child bearing, sacrifice, compromise and self-neglect. They had no time to think beyond these things.Add to that, these hapless women faced perpetual hostility from their mothers in law. This was a common story of every women during those days .Remembering his mother, Ratan Parimoo writes this:- “As a kid, I have heard my mother, the grandmother, Kakien or my father’s mother, reciting “Indrakshi Namsa Deevi “every morning. I also remember as a child during the late 1940s the highly emotional chants let out by elderly Kashmiri women at Chakreshawer Temple, Hari Parbat “ Maejji Maejji “ and uttering ardent prayers concerning troubles plaguing their families at that point in time. I was named as Saeba. My mother was born as Kamla however she was named as Soomavati in her in law’s house. Remembering mother is impossible without bringing in the character of the elder mother (Kakien or my father’s mother) with whom she remained entangled through her married life. Kakien would often taunt Maej (my mother) for her parent’s family, what little they gave as dowry and what training she was given as a young girl to face the responsibilities after her marriage and assuming the role of a daughter in law. The heaps of humiliation flung at her, of which I am a witness, still haunt me. But she hardly complained, nor did it show on her beautiful face. It was in Baroda that my wife Naina ( Naina Dalal , a well-known artist ) and I discovered that Maej ( mother ) had developed acute diabetes . Her legs had become rickety and deformed and it was difficult for her to walk. She would also get into what doctors called diabetic coma. On many occasions, I observed that she was talking to herself in an incoherent manner. In the monologues, she would often repeat the taunts hurled on her by Kakien, something like, “That day you shouted at me for my dull headedness. … You accused me of being slow. You abused my parents, brothers and so forth.” Those days, the 1970s, acute diabetes could be managed by insulin injections. Thus we arranged a nurse to come in the morning and in the evening to administer insulin injections it was our second opportunity to live with my parents at Baroda, but under circumstances when both of them were sick.And once again father and mother expressed their keenness to return to Srinagar and stay with my bother Bhaijan. It was in 1978 that I received the news about Maej’s death.I reached Srinagar to join the mourning as well as the post cremation rites. The lady relatives gathered in our house were heard commenting that “Maej” had met with a fortunate death. She died before her husband and had thus escaped the humiliating status of widowhood. I could not help thinking ; perhaps a lucky death for a woman who otherwise was unlucky for whole of her life .She must not have been more than 60 years old .My current obsession nervously makes me aware of my guilt feelings towards my mother ( Maej ). She died so long ago and the thought pinches me so much that I hardly did anything for her as a grown up son with a good career to boast." Gauri Parimoo Krishnan, daughter of Ratan Parimoo, is a well known art historian and curator. She has authored more than 6 books on art and art history out of which two books cover works of Ratan Parimoo and Neena Dalal, her father and mother respectively. She has been honoured by Govt of Singapore for her role as curator of 'The Asian Civilizations Museum'. About influence of her parents, Gauri Parimoo Krishnan adds: “My parents believe in creativity and they have never shied away from following their artistic calling and not be dictated by external forces. They are gentle but resolute, I guess I have followed in their footsteps somehow. “ “I remember having been told that the name of our bridge was after Habba Khatoon, supposed to be the name of Yusuf Shah Chak’s queen. We may geographically identify east and west banks of Vitasta River and upstream (heri) and downstream (bona) localities. Importantly, the white masjid (Agha Hamam Mosque) side in the photograph uploaded by you is east side. Habba Kadal Bridge is located Soomayar yarbal (of course, Kashmiri word for ghat).Coming from west side the broad steps of the ghat were located on the right hand side of the bridge. The building on this side on the main road housed a post office on the ground floor and first floor was the office of what was perhaps called Yuvak Sabha. This spot became the venue of significant events during the year 1948, soon after Pakistani Kabaili raid a few months earlier. The climax of the invasion was when we in Srinagar had prepared one ‘phutuj’ per person to run away as the barbaric invaders had reached outskirts of our city according to my worried father’s instructions one unfortunate winter morning. (I was eleven and half year old). Later, we heard about the arrival of Indian army and air force, etc. In order to maintain the spirit of courage and keep the panic under control, the Kashmiri Pandit Yuvak Sabha office bearers became active and putting up loud-speakers on the first floor veranda, in the manner of All India Radio, daily news was boldly broad-cast every evening. Detailed information was given of how the invaders have been pushed back including the decision of cease-fire etc. ordered by the United Nations. I remember thousands of us, both older people and youngsters would eagerly assemble, full of hope and relief. I was accompanied by my brother Girdhari Lal two years older to me (whose son is the T.V. and theater actor, Lalit Parimoo). What is important, strangely, most people did not realize at that point in time, was how the communal harmony remained undisturbed almost persistently. Many of the Pandit names you have listed began their activism at that stage. I recall names like (as they were spoken) Krishna Hokh, Tika Tapyul, etc. (subject to confirmation). Now with reference to ‘heri’ and ‘bona’, (upstream and downstream) localities, Ganpatyar, was the ‘heri’ side, almost the uppermost limit of Pandit population), nearer to the first bridge, Amira Kadal. Ganpatyar was a sacred spot where was located the Ganesh icon especially worshipped by most Pandits during the Ganesh Chaturthi to Chaturdashi period. Habba Kadal, the 2nd bridge, was like the middle area, so that the lower most limit was Raghunath Mandir Ghat, which was nearer to Fateh Kadal (third bridge). The well-known Church Mission Society School was located between Raghunath Mandir and Fateh Kadal, where I was a student between 1946 and 1950 and wherefrom I completed my matriculation. At that time, Master Samsarchand Kaul (Geography) and Ishwar Kaul (Mathematics) were senior teachers. I was their favourite who selected me ‘all round best boy’ in the final year. The west side of Habba Kadal that is opposite side of the Agha Hamam Masjid was located Purshayar Yarbal. My house was located in the nearest lane, unofficially known as Parim Kocha. A cluster of more than half a dozen houses were occupied by Parimoo families. (Later we, children, came to know that there were Parimoo families in Rainawari also). Prominent among Purshayar Parimoos was my father Dr Amarnath Parimoo, who became a popular doctor, practicing at Habba Kadal between 1946 and 1965 and known by abbreviated name Amba Parim. (In Kashmiri language, Amarnath is pronounced as Ambarnath that is how my grandmother, Kakini, also addressed him). Muslim patients also had great faith in him referring him as Ama Parim (Ama is a Muslim name). They claimed that Amaparim has ‘shafa’ in his hands. A medical shop owner, Madhusudan, had hired a first floor hall of a small building at the western edge of the Habba Kadal bridge adjacent to Purshayar, which was used as Dr Amarnath Parimoo’s clinic. Long queues of patients were formed at the footpath below this clinic. His consultation fee was a small amount. Some years later Gopinath Parimoo, from among our immediate neighbours, also started a medicine shop nearby, to cater to the expanding number of patients. He was not a qualified doctor. On the other hand he was known to be close to some of the Muslim leaders of the National Conference. (Shiekh Abdullah’s party). Here it may be mentioned that during those years, besides active National Conference members, there were also active members of Communist Party as well as RSS (Rashtriya Swayam Sevak Sangh) cadre. As a schoolboy those days, I have witnessed Muslim members of National Conference physically beating Pandit men working for RSS, even outsides their own homes. On one side of Purshayar Yarbal was located a temple. The Ghat of this temple was filled with Pandits reciting Gayatri Mantra and performing ritual bath. The sunrise took place from the opposite riverbank, i.e., east side, so that everyone having a dip in the river would be facing this side. The children also followed this practice. The prominent issue of Kashmir problem was a burning issue among the adult Pandits, nick-named Bhatta – Gazette. Almost every Pandit blamed Jawa Nohr (Jawaharlal Nehru) for his unpardonable blunder. We had been told that Purshayar Yarbal was the most important Ghat after Ganpatyar right upto Fateh Kadal. However, no particular Hindu festival was ritually performed here. I remember, 10th and 12th day after-death rituals were performed at the Ghat after my father’s death in 1980. Purshayar was recognised Ghat for distribution of Government Ration Scheme, i.e.Dhanya (rice-grain or Shali). Purshayar, Habba Kadal became the postal address of my father and many other families in the vicinity of the Ghat and the temple. A row of shops (baazar) was in the lane along the temple compound, which included the famous Masala and Kiriyana shop of Prasad Kaul. Further down the baazar was a butcher shop where the Pandits would invariably halt after completing Puja at the temple. I was often assigned to buy mutton for my home at this shop. Some of the adult men would continue reciting Sanskrit Shlokas while the meat ordered by them was being cut by the butcher.From Habba Kadal, during those days, many Pandit and Panditani devotees walked early in the morning for as much as two hours to carry out the Parikrama (circumambulation) of Hari Parbat. Even though the route was via Muslim residential areas, the whole circuit was completed without any untoward incidents. My mother would often quite confidently take the river route to go to her parent’s / brother’s house, hiring a Shikara (Naav driven by a Muslim ‘haenz’, boatman) from Purshayar to Zaina Kadal and walk towards Maharaj Ganj. Occasionally when I accompanied her, I remember the Boatwala would stop the Naav near the ‘Kaeli hoond’, if we wish to offer Puja at the spot marked by Sindoor on the river side wall of Khanakah Maula (Shahamadan) located on east side of Vitasta between Fateh Kadal and Zaina Kadal. Going to Zaina Kadal was ‘bon vasun’ (descending) and returning to Habba Kadal was‘hyor khasun’ (ascending). So was going toward Ganpatyar and Amira Kadal. Most government offices were located on this side of Srinagar city. So, attending office was ascending to the office. Within Purshayar area were also located the homes of Dinanath Bhan ,Senior Journalist of Indian Express, father of Pankaj Bhan, editor MIRAAS, Chaman Lal Sapru (scholar of Hindi literature), and Motilal Kaul. The latter became prestigeous professor of English literature at Chandigarh. Due to his dark complexion, he was known by the nickname, ‘Mooti negative’. The hinterland of Purshyar area was known as Potbaazar, where lived my relative Trilokinath Vaishnavi, who wrote dramas and songs, now an obscure figure. (father of Shekhar Vaishnavi of Delhi). Trilokinath was given a chance to sing his songs during the interval period at the dramas staged at Sheetalnath. On the opposite side of Habba Kadal, that is the Masjid side, a lane alongside it was called Barbuzya Kocha. If one walked and passed some distance, one would locate the house of Pushkar Bhan, the playwnight of Machama and Zoona Dab. Kishori Kaul’s (the Kashmiri woman artist) home was a few houses before Ganpatyar (upstream from Habba Kadal). As kids of C.M.S. School, Fateh Kadal, we would cross the Habba Kadal bridge and walk via Sathoo Barbar Shah, pass by Sheetalnath, then along S.P. College campus reach the play grounds of Hedow Memorial School, where sports and games tournaments were held several times during a year for all the C.M.S. Schools of the Valley. I took the same route to attend 1st year classes at S.P. College during 1950-51, where I met Shashishekhar Toshakhani. (His father was professor of Philosophy). During those days, the most exciting news was recitation of Madhu Shala by Harivansh Rai Bacchan at a private house along the Sathoo road. And of course the many dramatic performances being held at Sheetalnath, were very stimulating. It was one of the centres of social and cultural awakening among the members of the Pandit community during those days. The earlier mentioned Soomayar Ghat situated diagonally opposite Purshayar (across Vitasta) and located on the east side of the bridge, was the venue of the annual Soomavati Amavasya festival, when married Pandit women would take ritual bath in the Vitasta river, for which a huge Shamiyana was set up under the east side of the bridge to provide privacy. Diametrically opposite this Ghat on the west side of the river, was a Ghat used by Muslims and nearby stood a Masjid, called Rishi Saebun. It was constructed in the traditional design of wooden architecture similar to the roofs of Shahamadan. Again, on our side of Habba Kadal but upstream were the houses of social reformer and musician Pandit Ved Lal Dhar Vakil (nickname Veda Vakil, whose son, Vish Pran Dhar was my schoolmate) and Motilal Kemu (theatre person). My elder brother Girdharilal and I were childhood buddies of Motilal Kemu. Nearer to Kani Kadal was the house of Triloke Kaul (painter). As a social reformer, I presume Ved Lal Dhar Vakil was also associated with the idea of Kahmiri Pandit ladies adjusting to Indian Saree as the routine dress replacing the traditional Kashmiri Pheran and Taranga.This movement was started by Pandit Kashyap Bandhu, a social reformer. In early 1948, when the Yagnyopavit ceremony of we three brothers was arranged during the peak season of emergency marraiges of girls (simultaneously with the Kabaili raid), in an old photograph, my mother is clad in Saree whereas my grandmother and other elderly ladies are dressed in the traditional Pheran and Taranga. Going back from Purshyar side to the east side, i.e. the white Masjid side of Habba Kadal, and walking on way downstream towards Fateh Kadal, one passed by Chinkral Mohalla, where existed the house of the painter, Ghulam Rasool Santosh. Further down was Bana Mohalla, a dense residential area of Pandit families. My relative Upendra Ambardar’s ancestral home was there. My father Dr Amarnath Parimoo’s mother’s (my grandmother Siddha Lakshmi) parental home was also in this locality. She used to worship the photograph of her father, Swami Kailas Kaul, who was known as an accomplished Yogi.Strangely, my father was usually reticent about him. I am for the first time mentioning this saintly name, but we never met his close relatives or a Shishya/ follower. Perhaps this announcement may attract some one’s attention.” THE ART OF RATAN PARIMOO Known as a post-World War II art movement, Abstract Expressionism was the first exclusively American genre of painting to reach worldwide influence. Forming in the 1940s in New York City, Abstract Expressionism artists helped turn the city into the new Western centre of the art world, which effectively went on to replace Paris. Abstract Expressionism was characteristically denoted by the great dedication to self-expression that artists communicated via their paintings. Emotions were evoked through gestural strokes and marks that were spontaneous and colorful in nature. These experimental techniques led Abstract Expressionism artists towards the development of action painting and colour field painting, as great areas of bright and pure colours were customarily used. Having been exposed to the work of artists like Wassily Kandinsky, Jackson Pollack, Mark Rothko, Willhelm De Kooning, Lee Krasner, Norman Lewis and Joan Mitchell , Ratan Parimoo was certainly influenced by the new wave in art known as Abstract Expressionism ; Abstract Expressionism ; he, however found wide scope in this new genre for expressing native subjects . And looking at the history of Modern Art in our country, one can safely put Ratan Parimoo amongst the pioneers of Abstract Expressionism in India. A careful look at Ratan Parimoo’s work reveals the influence of Willem De Kooning (1904-1997), the well-known Dutch-American abstract expressionist artist. The presence of geometric or biomorphic shapes and strong colours that give vent to raw emotions remained hallmark of his abstract expressionism. One can safely say that Parimoo’s fingers were correctly positioned to feel the pulse of Modern Abstract Expressionism that he almost pioneered in India. This form he adopted at a time when most of his contemporaries were preoccupied with figurative art. The skill in him made something impossible in this field. And he is the only artist who retained native sensibilities while dealing with form and colours .By mixing eloquent action painting procedures with his meticulous goal of perfection, Parimoo’s artworks were known for their superb originality and great intensity of feelings. As artist, Parimoo has managed to stitch on his canvas the contemporary aesthetic ideas with the rich Indian artistic heritage. For him, human form is not a priority to work upon .He worked on fusing key elements of Cubism, Surrealism, and Expressionism within his works. Sometime one feels that Parimoo’s work fully embodies the definition of Action Painting, as it appears to be a result of the encounter that occurred between himself and his materials. He is not bothered about marketing his work or even exhibiting it when he paints .That makes his work truthful, raw and honest.That is the reason for his paintings like, “The Vegetable Vendor “,”Kashmiri Tonga “,Monkeys “,”Donkeys returning Home”, “ Donkeys on The Hill “, “Habba Kadal “, “Kashmiri Folk Dance“, “Harni Mela “, Kashmiri Women Husking Paddy “ and many more becoming popular and well notices in the art circles . Some prominent creations of Parimoo include-- Woman with Matka, oil on board (Exhibited, National Exhibition of Art, LKA, New Delhi); Habba Kadal, oil on board, 1957 (Exhibited, Baroda Group of Artists, Mumbai); Lotus Valley, digital print (original with Air India, oil on board); Baroda Station I, oil on board; Marriage Procession, oil on canvas; Baroda Station II, oil on canvas; Still life with Kashmiri objects, oil on canvas; Kashmiri Family, oil on canvas; Rice Fields, oil on canvas; Kingdom of Cards, oil on canvas; Dal Lake, oil on canvas; Baroda Station III, oil on canvas; Baroda Zoo, oil on canvas; Tongas, oil on board; Composition (Scarlet Pearls), oil, sand, encaustic on board; Composition, encaustic on canvas; Bio-morphic Forms, oil on canvas; Fear, Despair, Death (Fear: Dragon's Visit), oil on canvas; Self Portrait as Icarus Transformed, oil on canvas; Sea of Eyes, oil on canvas; Dromedary as Nemesis, oil on canvas; Dromedary as Nemesis, oil on canvas; Penumbra, oil on canvas; Road of Nirvana, oil on canvas; Water Buffaloes, oil on canvas; Dance of Death II, oil on canvas; Mahishasuramardini, oil on canvas; Encounter with Nothingness, oil on canvas. ( Chabutara by Ratan Parimoo) ( At Baroda with G R Santosh, Triloke Kaul and other artists ) ( Untitled by Ratan Parimoo ) ( The Labourers by Ratan Parimoo) (The Grass Cutters by Ratan Parimoo) PARIMOO’S CHAURAPANCHASHIKA: ICONOGRAPHY OF A NAYIKA In a group of paintings exhibited in 2008 at the Jahangir Art Gallery in Mumbai, Ratan Parimoo unveiled Aishwarya Rai, the beautiful actress in various thesmes and variations as Nayika in the Indian tradition. The theme of “Parimoo's Chaurapanchashika: Iconography of a Nayika”, represented Parimoo’s adaptation of Leonardo da Vinci's Monalisa to view Aishwarya Rai as the the archetypal female who could also be compared metaphorically with well-known or familiar female characters from both European Art History and Indian Art History. Thus there was the juxtaposition with the image of Venus, of Apsara, of Radha, and also the personages of the paintings of the famous painter of of Kerala, Raja Ravi Varma, such as his Saraswati and portrait of Maharani. In this group, there are paintings wherein the artist shows himself gazing at Aishwarya Rai painted as Mona Lisa or Nayika in variations. About this series that was seen by thousands of art connoisseurs, Ratan Parimoo says this:- About Ratan Parimoo’s art, noted art critic Keshav Malik writes this:- “Parimoo’s images have sophisticated classical quality, rather than naïve or primitive modes of stylization. They are hardly ever random, or graffiti like sketches, their definitive drawn quality comparable to calligraphic scribbles. Schemata, logically meant as a method and a result of wanting to capture it all, an anti illusionistic strategy. One of the first painting in this style was “Habba kadal, A View of My Childhood Locality (Mohalla)”, which enabled the artist to transverse the space in imagination .A painting such as “The Lotus Valley (1957) “, uses linearity, two dimensionality and isometric views with gay abandon and has profusely textured surface.The use of multiple perspective is functional, enabling the maping of the topography. Attempt in representation of life, whether a topographical view or an interior space is always with a sense of editing and addition.Writing his meomories of a Kashmiri childhood, Parimoo says” Thus virtually I have walked, run, swam and rowed through the topography drawn in the painting”. This is what Gauri Parimoo Krishnan writes in the research journal Neelamatam (Issue 03-Volume 14- July –September 2023):- For being truthful, honest and bold, he may have been sidelined by the establishment. One fails to understand what more qualification and contribution is required to earn a Padma award which remains long overdue to him. Let me conclude this write-up with some lines from a poem of Nikola Vaptsarov , the well known poet from Bulgaria :- ‘History, will you mention us in your faded scroll?’ For the hardship and affliction we do not seek rewards, nor do we want our pictures in the calendar of years. Just tell our story simply to those we shall not see, Tell those who will replace us – We fought courageously. (Avtar Mota) FOOTNOTE Walter Langhammer, born in 1905 in the Austrian city of Graz, is considered one of the founding fathers of the most famous of India’s schools of modern oil painting, the “Bombay Progressives.” Founded after the partition of India in 1947, this group of young Indian artists had sought out Langhammer’s tutelage and drawn inspiration from the traditions of European oil painting to establish an independent artistic identity.When Langhammer fled for Bombay (known today as Mumbai) after the National Socialist annexation of Austria in 1938, he was already well-established as an artist. Among his teachers at the Vienna Academy of Fine Arts had been Ferdinand Andri, Hans Tichy, and Josef Jungwirth. Unlike his wife Kathe Urbach, Langhammer was not Jewish, but his political leanings, which occasionally found expression in the form of caricatures, were decidedly anti-Nazi. An Indian former student of Langhammers in Vienna, Shirin Vimadala, urged the couple to move to India and convinced the publisher of the Times of India to offer Langhammer a job as the paper’s first art director.. The Langhammers built a studio in their apartment and accommodated young Indian artists who sought a place to work. On Sundays, Walter and Kathe hosted a salon for artists and intellectuals in their home. Together with Rudolf von Leyden and Emmanuel Schlesinger, Langhammer helped introduce a generation of artists to an aesthetic that was fundamentally different from that of the Royal Academy of Art, which controlled art education in Indian schools. The salons discussed the work of Picasso and other modern European artists. Sayed Haider Raza, Langhammer’s protégé and a key figure among the Progressives, recalled how Langhammer critiqued his work and introduced him to the work of European artists like Raphael, El Greco, Monet, and Cézanne as well as Persian and Indian Rajput miniature painting. Raza credited Langhammer with helping him develop an awareness of form through the analysis of paintings. “You have to practically dissect the paintings,” Raza recalled Langhammer saying. “You must be able to say exactly what differentiates a Matisse from a Picasso or a Monet from a Cézanne.”By sharing his own artistic training as well as his relative wealth, Langhammer nurtured the young artists that would go on to form the Progressive Artists Group. He also helped his students make connections with European émigré intellectuals, industrialists, and physicians who became early patrons or champions of the Progressives, including the Times of India art critic Rudolf von Leyden. Sayed Haider Raza speaks fondly of Langhammer in his autobiography. Following his patronage Raza became close to Langhammer and was given his studio.’ You can use my studio during the day,’ said Langhammer who became his mentor. Raza would paint during the day and show him his works during evening. In 1947 Raza joined JJ School of Art and had enough money to pay for his education. When Raza left for Paris Langhammer gave him his overcoat and a pair of shoes. Langhammer was indeed more than a mentor, a veritable Samaritan to the Progressives. As his health declined, Walter returned with Käthe to Europe in early 60s, where he died in 1977 at the age of 72. CHINAR SHADE by Autarmota is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 2.5 India License. Based on a work at http:\\autarmota.blogspot.com\.


--- [What's the difference between 'a year' and 'the year'?] ---
# What&#39;s the difference between &#39;a year&#39; and &#39;the year&#39;?

When I should use "a year" and when I should use "the year."


## Accepted Answer

'A year' can be any year without any specification. But 'the year' means a particular/specified year or the one which is already mentioned and thereby known. 
E.g: In a year there are twelve months. (means any year or all years)
     I was born in the year 2000. (in that particular year)

Grammatically 'a/an' is known as indefinite article and 'the' is definite article.

The indefinite article(a/an) refers to things in general and the definite article(the) refers to a particular person or thing. This is the very basic rule pertaining to the use of articles. Actually, in English grammar, perhaps the uses of the articles are the most difficult/confusing topic.
For details on this subject, it is better to consult a good grammar like 'PRACTICAL ENGLISH USAGE' by Michael Swan.

'January is the first month of the year'- here 'the' is used in a sense of 'general plus known', as everybody knows what a year is and how many months are there in a year and what they are.
Sometimes 'the' is used with a singular countable noun to talk about things in general.
See a couple of examples from the above-mentioned grammar:
E.g: 'Schools should pay less attention to examination success, and more attention to the child.' (means all school children, not a particular child)
'The tiger is in danger of becoming extinct.'( means the whole tiger family, not any specific tiger.



--- [Profile of a Pioneer: NS Bendre by Ratan Parimoo] ---
As we look back at the eight decades of the twentieth century that have passed by, it will have to be conceded that the seminal phase of modern art activity in our country has been undoubtedly the decades of forties and fifties. Indeed these were also the peak years. The young Turks and the Progressive Artists’ Group which had been set up in Bombay during the mid-forties and the Bombay group of the early fifties have already been acknowledged as landmarks.But the point is that compared to many other art centres of the country the crucial development took place in Bombay, the most westernized metropolis of the country, for the new awareness was in essence a response to modern art movements of the west, that is ,trying to come out of the constricting role of the tradition and the feeling that we could be equals to anyone in the world. Was this feeling reflecting the spirit of the impending Independence from the imperial yoke which actually did happen in the year 1947 2 ? The new confidence that this epochal event gave to many of our countrymen is especially noteworthy. I think that date around 1950 would turn out to be significant in many walks of life as well as in the creative activity through the various arts in our country. It was a point of time when by the very thought of being free from the colonial stigma, many felt that we could achieve anything possible through human endeavor. It was like the return of our primeval self respect as a great creative nation. Narayan Shridhar Bendre was a part of this fervor that was going on in Bombay during the forties, in which many other individuals have played significant roles. But as this is a ‘tribute’ article, I am particularly focusing on N.S. Bendre’s place. Born eighty years ago and trained in the Indore school of landscape painting, he had travelled much throughout India and already earned a name as a fine landscape painter. Something of the spirit of Independence was in the air when the Faculty of Fine Arts was started at Baroda in 1950 by the newly established Maharaja Sayajirao University. High hopes have been pinned on Bendre’s joining the Faculty. Emissaries had been sent to him. We can poeticise that the new winds of adventure which were blowing in art activity in Bombay eventually reached and pollonized in Baroda by some of the Bombay based- individuals who became associated with the new art school such as V.R. Ambedkar and Bendre to follow. Bendre had been a hot favourite from the Bombay Art Society’s gold medal in the year 1937 which eventually went to Amrita Sher-Gil due to the tilting of Karl Khandalavala in her favour - he had been one of the members of the judging committee - Eventually, the gold metal was awarded to Bendre in 1941. It is yet another noteworthy fact that subsequently until almost the end of fifties, the Bombay Art Society’s gold medal remained the most coveted form of recognition aspired to by many modern artists of our country until the setting up of the National Lalit Kala Akademi in Delhi and its National Awards. Bendre’s career spans more than half a century which may be divided into three phases in which the sixteen years spent in Baroda are central, that is, between 1950 and 1966, when he returned to Bombay. Unfortunately, there is no full length study of his work so far. The small monograph brought out by Lalit Kala Academi which was incidentally the first in the series of such publications on modern Indian artists , although a fitting honour to him at that time, was published nearly 25 years ago and had only one page of written text. The Baroda Faculty of Fine Arts began with a clean slate and was completely free from any kind of conservative art school atmosphere, namely, tedious rendering from the Graeco - Roman antique plaster casts or laborious studies from the nude models, as they were supposed to be doing at the J. J. School of Art at Bombay, or some mechanical copies of stylized forms from Ajanta murals or subjecting water colour paintings to repeated ‘baths’, called the Bengal wash style, associated with Santiniketan. Although hours and hours of discussions must have gone on at the frequent staff meetings or Board of studies meetings among the artist-teachers and external experts at Baroda, yet there has been no recorded blue print of objectives or methods of art teaching. Therefore, there is no definite document of art education ascribable to Baroda. But much dependent on the day to day studio and classroom teaching. Yet, there was this difference that all the techniques and media were assembled in one campus and accessible to all. While one was doing head studies, or still lifes, one was actually thinking of one’s creative compositions even from the first year onwards. The present author was one of the earliest students of Bendre at Baroda and remembers the lesson during his second year which had continued for several weeks in learning how to stylise the human contours in quick sweeps as seen in the outlines of Jamini Roy’s paintings. Individual ‘creativity’ and thinking, as projected by the many revolutionary artists of the 19th and 20th century Europe, were almost unwritten slogans - an attitude inculcated also by the introduction of Art History of various world cultures in the teaching programme. For the first time there was an art institution which did not worry about trivial pedestrian art lessons but made ‘contemporary art in the making’ as the vision for the young students. Although Bendre had been privately conducting art classes in Bombay, his experiments in art education only matured in Baroda. And it may also be stated that it was here that he embarked on his serious explorations as a creative artist. Until then he had demonstrated tremendous facility in handling water colour medium, especially in the opaque manner, called “Gouache”, and in the use of pastels, in both of which he did landscape and figure studies in what could be called Impressionist/ Expressionist manner. That is, while revealing sensitivity for the Indian tropical light and sunshine, his brush work was too broad and bold for Impressionism. He had also established himself as a fine colourist. Obsessed with outdoor landscapes, he had painted them even in Kashmir. There, once after a narrow escape from a bus accident when he woke up from the shock, the first thing he cried for was his colour box. He was thus in his own way exemplary of what is called the ‘artistic temperament’, without taking recourse to any crazy gimmicks. The studios and buildings which gradually came upon the campus of the Baroda Faculty of Fine Arts during the nineteen fiftees were actually treated as artists’ studios kept open even after office hours, during holidays and vacations. It was here that one could watch Bendre at his own work after the teaching hours. This culminated in the memorable one man show he held in Bombayin1956. II Interestingly, Bendre’s work, beginning from the 1930s and continuing through the 1940s, largely aligns itself with the nineteenth century British artists who were fond of painting picturesque scenes from far off places in the exotic countryside as well as people of different ethnic caste types. This necessarily required wide travelling and this ‘wander lust’ took Bendre to many parts of India, even working on many jobs including the one in the tourist department of Kashmir. His selection of sites for his landscapes like Har Ki pauri, Hardwar, Banaras Ghats, Omkareshwar, near Indore (1932) are typical. Not only are these pilgrimage places, but they assume colourful configurations as multiple of pilgrims assemble there. Prior to these ‘pleine aire ‘ landscapes of Bendre, there is hardly an impressionist phase in any Indian painter in whose work one could observe the combining of atmospheric effects (generally of sunshine) with the break up of colour in terms of the spectrum. The so-called Indore school of landscape was characterised by opaque water colour applied in prominent brush strokes always subduing the hues and generally preferring wet monsoon effects. With the exaggeration of the hues and even the inclusion of the black colour which the Expressionist traits, Bendre rather successfully attempted a sort of telescoping of the late nineteenth century French Impressionist style with the German Expressionist style of the second decade of the twentieth century. Here the presence of Walter Langhammer and other central European emigres in Bombay since the 1930s is relevant. Langhammer brought into India the Austrian - born Expressionist painter, Kokoschka’s style of panoramic landscapes of the great European cities in pure hues. Similar hues of colour were employed by Bendre to replace the mellow colour scheme of the existing Indore school as if to usher the celebration of the Indian sunshine. Interestingly, the new approach was soon to be picked up by the young S.H. Raza toward the end of the 1940s. Such landscapes could be executed on coloured or toned paper with colour specs and brush strokes standing for human head, body, limbs or figures in movement since water colour was used in thick opaque strokes called ‘gouache’. The author as a young student was given a demonstration at the Banaras ghats during a study tour in 1953 when Bendre painted the surrounding landscape with coloured pasteles on tinted paper. This is another difference between the approach adopted by Bendre and the Impressionist method. The latter requires water colours to be handled in transparent washes. Simultaneously, Bendre also painted the extensive series of one figure studies also in gouache technique, depicting different ethnic Indian types in picturesque costumes which lend themselves to variegated colour juxtapositions: The old bearded man from Rajasthan, the large turbaned and dhoti-clad man from Kathiawad, the youthful vivacious village girl, etc., generally sitting in informal, natural postures. These are again like twentieth century versions of the company school ‘firka’ types of the nineteenth century British colonial India. Many of these individual figures were painted without treating the space around them or suggesting the appropriate environment. Only occasionally in some compositions such attempt was made as in “Two Female Figures” placed in an outdoor setting or “ Finishing Touch” (1947) in an interior setting. The latter is one of the many paintings in which his wife, ‘Mona’, has been the model for the idealized female type, (see also “Woman Musician” of 1968 in the cubistic style). Many of these single-figure studies by Bendre were regularly printed on the covers of the Illustrated Weekly of Indiaduring the 1940s. The immense popularity of his landscapes and studies of the above kind earned him dozens of prizes in various art exhibitions all over the country and he became nearly the most famous painter of the time. A whole array of prizes was listed in the brochure announcing his art classes which he conducted in Bombay during the late 1940s after returning in 1939 from Kashmir. ‘Vagabond’, a version in oils of the single-figure types, had won for Bendre his earliest prize in Bombay in 1934. And in 1941, the series of Banaras landscapes earned him the then topmost coveted national prize, the Bombay Art Society’s Gold medal, four years earlier awarded to Amrita Sher-Gil. He made a series of tempera paintings during and after a trip to Santiniketan around 1945, which show him as a master of line and draughtsmanship. It is significant that line had no place in the colouristic approach adopted by him so far. Use of line required adjustment of attitudes to nature and life as well as a reference to the traditional Indian painting. Here the impact of the preoccupation of such senior artists of Santiniketan and Bengal School in general such as Abanindranath Tagore and Nandalal Bose, may have to be acknowledged which has to be distinguished from the so-called Neo- Rajput School ushered in under the category of ‘Indian Art’ by such artists as Jagannath Ahivasi in Western India during the 1930s. In Bendre this is manifested in what may be called a sort of stylization, as in a painting entitled ‘Fair at Santiniketan’. Some of the works as a result of this adjustment are the commencement of his efforts to relate ‘naturalism’, ‘modernity’ and ‘traditional style’. I think this ‘will to stylize’ perhaps served as a bridge to the bolder experimentation with Cubistic language during the 1950s. One has also to consider here the travelling he embarked on particularly to the United Statesduring 1947/48 which enabled him especially to have a first hand acquaintance with the twentieth century modern Western Art. It appears then that things were happening very fast with him during these years which paved the way for his key phase in Baroda subsequently. The two elements of colour and the line remained predominant in Bendre’s work almost right through from 1950s onwards. Like several artists of his generation he too emerged as a master of wide ranging techniques and media, but few of developed such a broad outlook as he. His technical versatility still makes Bendre unique among the living artists of India and had been an asset to him as a teacher at Baroda. Having acquired just the right combination of desirable qualities for what was destined to be the most fruitful period of his life as an artist and art teacher, these reflected so effectively in the manner he implemented the complete freedom of approach to creative expression at Baroda Fine Arts Faculty. This has resulted in a breakdown of the inhibition to continue to stick to the rather limited traditional means thus enabling the artist to work with a wide variety of materials not hitherto used in this country. In this was, a whole field of new effects a large configuration has opened up which hasevenstaggered the artist himself posing him with new challenges. III Among his cubistic works are two distinct groups, one comprising human figures and the other still lifes. Those based on the human image appear as if the single figure ethnic or ‘firka’ studies of the 1940s painted in watercolours with colourful brushwork had been now repaintedin almost monochromatic but receding and protruding structural planes, in which by comparison with the former mode, now the space and figure were firmly interlocked. One is reminded of the transition towards cubism in the works of Picasso, Braque, Juan Gris and Mondrian. What interested Bendre most were spatial tensions and not cubistic distortions. Retrospectively, Bendre’s involvement with cubism can be linked with Gaganendranath Tagore’s works around 1920, Ramkinker Baij’s pictoral as well as sculptural work in Santiniketan and George Keyt, the Sri Lankan painter’s work during the 1940s. It appears that concurrently during the 1950s other painters like Jahangir Sabavala in Bombay and Ram Kumar in Delhi too got involved with cubistic language thus suggesting one of the significant trends in Indian painting during the mid twentieth century. Bendre’s cubistic works cannot be classified as analytical or synthetic like the original French developments. But they have a characteristic of their own because it is possible to observe in them an attempt to synthesise the simplicity of human form in Indian miniature paintings with the cubistic structure of receding and protruding planes. In that sense, these have a genuine Indian feel about them. Suitable with cubistic structure he used low key colours which have their own symphonic value like variations of greys or variations of brown. In some of his cubistic works he even introduced bright hues (normally avoided in standard cubism) which served for Bendre two purposes. One, the Indian type colour scheme, as yet another facet of Indian miniature painting, was brought into the pictorial construction. Two, the tonal modulation of the hue colours also suggested the Indian sunshine, thus establishing a clear link with his own pleine - aire paintings of the nineteen forties. One of the convincing examples is the comparison of a painting of ‘Cow and Calf’ of 1948 in the style of that period with the cubistic painting depicting a buffalow and a crane of 1957 and entitled ‘Complimentaries’. Both are in oils and similar compositional arrangement of cow rearing its head toward the calf as it eagerly leaps towards her teats much the same manner as the dark buffalo in the other painting turns its bulky horned head towards the slim white crane. In the cubistic painting, apart from geometricizing the cattle’s form, a receding plane like a foil is established amidst space behind it. Also in the foreground are the distinguishing elements incorporated and these make it different from the impressionistically modeled earlier paintings. One more group of paintings may be cited. The painting entitled ‘Wood Cutter’ of 1957 is a typical example of Bendre simplifying the natural form with slight elongation of proportions while the limbs are made rather tubular. Holding a bundle of branches, this youthful village woman suggesting a rural activity will remain consistent archetype of rural imageries even in his later post- Baroda paintings in which the focus in rather on romanticised yet structural alienation then on the pathos of the downtrodden and the under-privileged. Somehow this ambiguity of attitude to Indian life, otherwise his source of subject matter, has never been resolved by Bendre. The structural manner in which the various components were assembled in the above painting comprising the earlier type single - figure pave the way for the few cubistic devices introduced in the other painting of the same year entitled ‘Homeward’ where the youthful elongated walking figure carries a child on her shoulder. The tree behind indicates an environment that can be altered to go with the cubistic treatment of the space. Note also the colour contrasts in both the paintings like the blue complexion and the bundle of yellow branches. These paintings are also a happy revelation as to how narrow the gap is between some aspects of the cubistic language and Indian traditional pictorial practices. A group of paintings derived from the shepherds of barvads from Saurashtra, viz. ‘Shepherdess’ of 1956 and ‘ Saurashtra Family’ of 1958 are romanticized rural subjects, but only slightly geometricised into very compact cubistic compositions. Her dress especially the large odhni, and the long stick carried by her have been intelligently turned into receding and protruding planes involving spaces as well as parts of the figure. ‘Companions’ is more of a middle class household in which probably his own family members served as models, the mother combing the daughter’s hair as the typical Indian activity. The peculiar Gujarati cradle has been integrated ino the setting behind them. Examples of cubist paintings with colours modulated to give the sunshine effects, particularly on the dark Indian complexions, are the ‘Mother and Child’ in orange and purple hues and a group of three women entitled ‘Festive Mood’, in which green is used for shadows on the complexion, yellow for ‘planes’ in the sunshine together with ‘Indian’ colours for saris and blouses. Another variation in his cubistic figurative paintings was when he took themes from Indian sculpture like the ‘Thorn’, which is the famous posture of a devangana from Khajuraho temples. Here a female nude with many flexions of her torso and limbs almost arranged in spirals, (the tribhanga or controposto posture) fitted well with the cubistic approach of handling the figural form, but Bendre added the dimension of volumes and their interaction with space. The conical forms in space stand as cubist planes as well as provide the environmental setting of the mountain including the tree - a motif again derive from the Shalbhanjika imagery of traditional Indian sculpture. This painting of 1955 in tones of sepia or burnt amber was followed by another painting in similar colours entitled ‘Load’ which is in the collection of Bharat Kala Bhavan, Banaras University. It is an even more complex problem of the multiflexioned female nude body bent under the tension of a heavy load structurally enmeshed with receding and protruding planes, presumably derived from a labourer from the Himalayan region requiring the suggestion of the mountain environment which comes so easily in the cubist treatment of the surrounding space. It is possible to conjecture that these relatively monochromatic cubist paintings paved the way for those with complementary colours. The marrying of Indian sculpture with cubist traits had been more the forte of George Keyt. Bendre’s ‘still life’ groups in cubistic style of the late 1950s are among his most important paintings. This is myconsideredview, speaking retrospectively after a lapse of three decades. They will have to be recognised among the most significant bunch of masterpieces left by a twentieth century Indian painter since no Indian has done such masterly still-life paintings. The ‘Sun Flower’ is quite well known, published on the cover of his Lalit Kala monograph of 1957. Painted as early as 1955 it ushers his cubistic style already matured and very characteristic in its simplicity, though otherwise having complex elements like the variation in the relative size of the flowers. The petals of the yellow flowers. The petals of the yellow flowers are geometricized so also the green leaves intelligently turned into or merged with slanting planes serving as foils against the cog wheel like forms. The forms of the leaves echo those of the lower half of the painting derived from the contours of the flower vase. Simultaneously noteworthy is the experimentation with juxtaposing two sets of complementary colours, yellow and purple, orange and blue. The two paintings as two versions of the Kena flower of 1956 are accordingly quite instructive, as one is executed in a relatively stylized naturalistic approach and the other is cubistic structural version, that is in, the latter the union between nature and structure is perfectly obtained. The ‘Sun Flower’ was a rhythmic arrangement of squares and angles, whereas the Kena comprises rhythms of diagonals and curves with vertical emphasis. Perhaps the major masterpiece among the still life series is ‘The Parrot and the Chameleon’, for which Bendre actually arranged diagonally, but the circular form of its head is echoed by round mouths of the pots. The dead chameleom below repeats the greenish yellow colour of the parrot while its tail is coiled to conform to other circular objects. A variation of orange contrasts with green colour while purple and majenta have been used for what are to be understood as planes of shadows, not compatible with the European cubist practice. Bendre’s very rich corpus of cubist still lifes can certainly be considered a further contribution to international cubism by an Indian painter even if slightly belated. Some of these at the National Gallery of Modern Art, New Delhi, could be among the outstanding treasures of the nation, so also those at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Bombay. But there are many more which the author has witnessed as Bendre’s pupil during the nineteen fifties, like the “Parrot and the Chameleon”. The whereabouts of the other paintings must be explored as an art-historical project. These cubist exercises are among the highestpoint of creative endeavours of Bendre at Baroda. Quite appropriately he exhibited these at Baroda in a major one-man show in 1957 after working there since 1950. This show will have to be considered historically a a very significant one-man-show of an individual Indian painter heralding his maturity which is regarded now as an epochal moment of modern Indian art. Unfortunately this fact was not attempted to be highlighted during his only retrospective exhibition held in Bombay in 1974 to mark the occasion of the Lalit Kala Akademi’s Fellowship bestowed on him. Some further comments on Bendre's use of colour in his cubist paintings may be noted. These paintings are all done in oils revealing his command over the medium. His paint surfaces are, literally speaking beautiful with carefully blended tones and methodically applied colour-changes. He left nothing to change. There are no smudgy or murky patches. During the taeching lessons, also dealing with colour exercises, he would warn against the use of muddy coloursand, what he called, 'raw' colours, that is, the tone or the value of the pigment as it came out of the tube. His exploitation of both the structural and symphonic qualities of colours showed his range as a colourist, inventing new juxtapositions and nuances. Besides the predominantly Indian subject-matter, often the colour-schemes too were inspired by those used in the miniature paintings or observed from the Indian locale. He devised his own way of modeling with colour modulations and tones, particularly the Indian female complexion, for which he substituted Indian red or even blue, besides yellow ochre. He would mellow down or modify the colours to get the most satisfying matching. The muting would be done in such a way that the standard hues would look more like the reds, oranges and mauves of the typical Indian variety. At times the matching of the colour of the complexion, the sari framing the face and the background space would give the effect of Indian tropical light. No doubt it was possible, as, among his favourite subjects during his 'landscape' phase, were the fisher folk of Versova engaged in their activities in the gleamimg sunshine. As argued earlier, these cubo-figurative paintings alone could assure Bendre an important place in the 20th century Indian art. But he was not to stop here, always interested in fresh discoveries as he has been. He researches in colour took a new turn around 1958. At the same time, he gave the earlier preoccupation with Indian Subject-matter. He began experiments with drip paint, pouring thin liquid colours on canvas surface, allowing them to spread liquid colours on canvas surface, allowing them to spread out and merge at selected places. He brought into play his formidable sense of design and his sub-conscious creating strange forms and effects which are normally impossible to render consciously. But these were only transitory digressions to enable the mind to purge itself of thinking in terms of objects and in terms of subject - matter. Bendre's plunge into Abstraction may seem sudden. But his primary preoccupation with structure and reducing things to bare essentials already almost bordered on Abstraction and the next step to be taken was only logical. If one looks at Bendre's Abstract studies carefully (which were executed during the early nineteen - sixties but have almost been forgotten by now), one would not fail to observe the presence of certain Bendre-esque characteristic traits which are found in his paintings in the 1950s and even in those done earlier. He evolved a style which retains the earlier Cubist framework as in the 'Entwined' of 1962. With inexhaustible creative power he invented endless combinations of colours and shapes forming an equally varied number of arrangements worked out in all over patterns. The execution again was meticulous and clean with carefully blended tones and colours. The colours too retained their peculiarity. They have a certain coolness about them, the predominant being cold blues, purples and greens. And when he used warm colours like reds their saturation was changed to give them that coolness. They are repeated with endless subtleties and never in flat or definite areas. At the same time they are not devoid of some amount of volume and spatialrecession. Atplaces definite contours are visible which add a linear dimension to them. The effect on the observer is of effortlessness, ease, spontaneity and abandon. The Baroda phase work not only leads us to arrive at some assumptions regarding Bendre's personality as an artist, but also tells us how the trends in his own creative work effected his approach to his teaching. Although he was what I have called a 'typical' artist by temperament due to his carefree attitude and least involvement with worldly matters, his passion for Cubism and Abstraction is noteworthy. It was the inherently non-personal aspects of these stylistic vocabularies that fascinated him including the cold calculatedness of cubism. He rightly believed it to be the key movement of the 20th century, since even today most western critics agree that cubism had changed the concept of pictorial structure in the present century and that all subsequent pictorial movements, not the least the artists of the recent photo-realistic figurative movement, have had to come to terms with it. Bendre realised the two-fold intellectual problem involved in cubism - the reduction of the three dimensional world and the compression of it to conform to the two dimensional surface of the canvas. This required the emphasis on structure and simplicity, or bare essentials and avoidance of detail. The second intellectual possibility was due to Bendre's perception of similar quality in Indian miniature paintings, in particular, the compression of space and volume, the simplicity and space divisions. A corresponding feature in Bendre's personality has been the avoidance of sociological implications even when he paints the village scene, the shepherds of Saurashtra of the tribals of Gujarat and Maharashtra. There are no metaphorical aspects, no hints of phantasy. The term 'classicist' is quite appropriate to characterise his work as wellas personality. This justifies a comparison with the 17th century French painter, Nicholas Poussin, who in contrast to his contemporary Baroque painters, stands out as a 'classicist', due to impersonal approach, and preoccupation with volume and structure. IV No Doubt Bendre’s activity as an artist-teacher became a source of much inspiration. Within the next few years some of his Baroda students of the early batches began to mature. He watched everyone’s work as it was growing, and gave instructions accordingly. But his focus was on how one was able to evolve one’s own way of seeing things and ‘completing’ the painting. Often he would remark, “all right you have learnt the colour-scheme and the composition, but now how will you treat’ it, or ‘finish’ it”. This is where he wanted the student to think and strive. For all these separate visual problems he would set up exercises and conduct group sessions. At times, while scrutinizing a student’s work, exasperated or charged, he would spontaneously pick up brush and paint and give a few touches here and there to show how the whole painting could be “resolved” or enlivened. His proven versatility in many media had made him a figure for hero worship to the students, be it the execution of a head study in charcoal or life study or portraits in oils, besides compositions. His demonstrations were the most exciting occasions in the Painting Studios. The atmosphere would get electrified as he would begin demonstration of a life study. All students would crowd behind him climbing on stools and tables and with a beated breath would watch the last few touches given by the hand holding the brush like a magician’s astonishing wand. Some of us, as we became post graduate students, (and were given separate cubicles for work), would wait with intense expectancy for his arrival during the morning hours and would be hoping that he might glance even for a moment at the painting in progress on the easel. The sound of his approaching footsteps increased the pounding of our heartbeats. His approving nod was the joyous moment, his suggestion most laconically spoken, was taken as a great blessing. Besides the personal demonstrations and the already mentioned colour exercises, Bendre’s teaching strategy also included compositional exercises especially of shapes, textures and tones. One of the devices was to cut a photograph in four sections and then each of them was further cut up, which were passed on to different students. Whatever set of black and white shapes that one received, one had to rearrange them in equivalent colours and tones. Through such exercises one was able to relate to the works of Matisse (for colour) and to cubists for collage and abstraction. A course in copying from Indian miniature paintings and Ajanta murals too enabled us to observe the parallels between Indian and modern art. And at the post-graduate level, Bendre’s significant advice would be: “ Now that you know the compositional elements and the colour values, ask yourself what you wish to do and, find your own way.” During the nineteenth fifties, these must have been the first direct exercises in any art school in India to base the classroom teaching on what were then regarded as significant features of modern art. In his notes on the painting, ‘ Still Life with Parrot and Chameleon’, he has explained how he arrived at the cubistic transformation of the group of objects of which a photograph is also printed. He made a naturalistic drawing and a stylised drawing to reveal the change in which the shapes are modified to relate in compositional terms or spacing is readjusted to integrate the objects into structural terms while the fourth and the resolved stage is the finished painting itself in colour. This paper is almost like recording in words with appropriate images a lesson demonstrating the creative process which heads towards arriving at a clear style. In 1955 this would be among the few records of a distinguished art teacher’s methods simultaneously relevant to his own creative work. It was then that Bendre suggested to us to form the Baroda group of artists with a view to working together and exhibiting together. Many of us having completed our courses would not be dispersing and his suggestion was that we might set up some sort of artists’ community somewhere near baroda. Although this never materialized, some of us continued to study in Baroda under him with the help of National Cultural Scholarships which had just been instituted. And subsequently in the sixties some of us were inducted into the teaching staff enabling an artists’ community to grow in Baroda where there was none before. I think three consecutive exhibitions under the banner of the Baroda Group were held in Bombay between 1957 and ’59, which were well-received. I remember, Shamlal of The Time of India had used such suggestive adjectives as “Kleever”, “Grisly”, etc., in one of his reviews. It was also during these years that Bendre would discuss with us some of the complexIndianartists’ dilemmas. For example, what should be the approach of young modern Indian artists? How does one identify the modern elements in traditional Indian painting? How best can an artist use these as the basis for a synthesis of the two dichotomous modes? Baroda, indeed, had established that institutionalised art-training can be geared in such a manner that it is conductive to the growth of creativity, despite the still persisting skepticism about it. The ramifications of the Baroda School are far and wide not only in the field of painting, but also sculpture, printmaking, advertising and other disciplines including art history and art criticism. Even the objectives of the most recently acclaimed group of artists who like to be identified by a certain term, actually can be traced back to the early tears of the training at Baroda when rapid sketching based on direct observation of people at typically Indian and other daily activities was built in within the usual routine of classroom and home assignments. Western India, in spite of its more than a century old practice of institutionalised art education, has not developed the tradition of revering the genuinely great art teacher, not even Gladstone Solomon, the one time dynamic principal of the J. J. School of Art. This is unlike the Bengali fervour. Note the phenomenal reverence for such an art-teacher as Nandalal Bose, whose birth centenary was nationally celebrated a few years ago. It was symptomatic and appropriate that it was Santiniketan that bestowed on Bendre the Aban- Gagan award, the year it was instituted. Some years ago, in honouring with the Kalidas Sanman, Bharat Bhawan, Bhopal, did the right thing at the right time. In Gujarat , which had been an 'art-wilderness' during the early twentieth century, the late Ravishanker Raval (addressed as Kala guru) had kindled the flame of creativity through the limited example of traditional Indian painting. Several generations later, during the fifties and sixties scores of young artists from Gujarat and other parts of India (including Kashmir) received their first lessons from Bendre, and their creative urges were nurtured by him. He opened up the horizons of possibilities before them. There is also a "Santiniketan Connection" to the Baroda School represented by the contribution of the two other significant artist-teachers - Sankho Chaudhary and K. G. Subramanyan. V Bendre left Baroda in 1966 at the age of 56 and the work done in Bombay for the last 24 years could be called his post Baroda phase. He has continued to be active and almost consistently held one-man exhibitions every second year. The major change since his setting in Bombay has been his giving up of the involvement with abstraction and return to subjects derived from Indian life as before. Some traces of cubistic elements remained in the work up to around 1970 as seen in some of the works in the retrospective show of 1974. It sounded a logical continuity as in "Girl Drinking at a Stream" of 1970. But by the late 1970s, a significant change occured in Bendre's handling of the colour surfaces, which suggests that the post- Baroda phase can be again sub-divided into two, one up to around 1974, and the other post- 1974 which may be called the late period. The earlier of the two continues in a large measure the features of the Baroda phase while the later style recedes further way from them. Compared with the meticulous tonal transitions and tension-filled planes of the Baroda phase work, he now began to cover the surfaces with dots, not often of deliberately chosen hues, to give rise to questions if such dots were necessary or the particular colour was of the right value. And of course inevitably the surfaces lost their vitality. The mechanical manner in which the filling of dots is carried out most often serves to render tonal graduations or subdue an otherwise warm bright coloured surface, an unhappy result of our unnecessary labour. Only occasionally the earlier flashes of the mastery of colour can be noted in the juxtapositions. Similarly, only occasionally in the figure compositions, a complex abstract structure underlying the middle class household can be discerned. There is an uneasy feeling in a serious observer that the work is generally becoming enfeebled or trivial. Perhaps due to old age, a certain mellowing is understandable and, maybe, the painting activity is seen more as a personal plaything by the artist, notwithstanding the fact that these have achieved much popularity among a section of art lovers, particularly in Bombay. However, in comparison with the figurative subject matter, the landscapes of the late period are an exception. Firstly, one must remember Bendre's earlier mastery over landscape painting set in natural and outdoor vistas. Secondly, the dots technique can, in a landscape suggest textures of tree trunks, the foliage in the fields and the leaves of the trees and eveb the ruggedness of the earth. At times, the atmospheric effects of cloudy weather or approaching evening or twilight are suggested. Thus the pointllist colour is not all that incongruous for the landscape genre, although the colour dots do not often conform to the principles of colour as, by the late nineteenth century, French painter Georges Seurat. At times, instead of a casual type composition, Bendre manages to give structural compactness to the landscape to happily remind one of his great period of late nineteen fifties and sixties. Although characteristic of Bendre's temperament and personality, the attitudes of his late period were quite simplistically expressed when he wrote at the time of the 'Kalidas Samman'at Bhopal in 1984: "Other values arising out of the art form like panic, shock, satirical amusement, disgust, erotic emotions, political allusions, deliberate attempts to unbalance your vision are not to my liking". Serious observers of modern Indian art may feel quite put off by such a statement and may tend to dismiss Bendre's work based on the acquaintance of mostly the last decade's output as just competent and popular. Indeed, strangely, some, in spite of the oil technique, tend to resemble the feeble Bengal school kind of paintings (say, Abanindranath Tagore's 'Sinbad series ') of the earlier twentieth century, resembling their Pahari or Rajasthani revivals like the 'Swing'of 1984, published in the Bharat Bhavan booklet at the Kalidas Samman function. But Bendre's contribution is very abiding, as has been attempted in the above analysis between 1950 and 1966. The earlier work prepares for this epochal phase. In the late period, the fervour is feebled, but not many artists in the world have continued their youthful vigour in their work of the old age. The Baroda phase of Bendre is his most glorious period and also the most glorious period of modern Indian art. At that time, he was also one of the most dedicated and Published by the Lalit Kala Akademi 37, March 1991


--- [Search | Ratan Parimoo Archive | Asia Art Archive] ---
Ratan Parimoo Archive This archive covers a wide panorama of Ratan Parimoo’s research work, as well as documents on building an art history curriculum in the Faculty of Fine Arts in Baroda. The collection also includes published and unpublished texts on art, exhibition folders of the historical Baroda Group of Artists of which he was a member, and ephemera around conferences and seminars. Ratan Parimoo (b.1936) is an art historian and painter with several publications and seminars to his credit. He taught art history in the Faculty of Fine Arts and was Head of the Department of Art History & Aesthetics for 25 years. He was instrumental in establishing the Department of Art History & Aesthetics Archive in the college in 1966. This archive is part of The Baroda Archives. 36 Folders, 461 Records
