=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[And the winner is... | National Museum of American History]
1) The Miss Fun Fishing Award given to Phyllis Diller, 1973 · Comedian Phyllis Diller was crowned "Miss Fun Fishing" by Field and Stream magazine in 1973 "on the occasion of her selection as the first centerfold in the magazine's 78 year history."
URL: https://americanhistory.si.edu/explore/stories/and-winner

[A Centerfold for Laughing, Not Leering - The New York Times]
May 25, 1973 · It is Phyllis Diller, the first centerfold pin‐up girl for Field & Stream magazine. Nobody is sure, of course, but it is possible, quite possible, that Miss Diller is the first...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/1973/05/25/archives/a-centerfold-for-laughing-not-leering.html

[And the winner is... | National Museum of American History]
1) The Miss Fun Fishing Award given to Phyllis Diller, 1973 Comedian Phyllis Diller was crowned "Miss Fun Fishing" by Field and Stream magazine in 1973 "on the occasion of her selection as the first centerfold in the magazine's 78 year history." The magazine, known for being a source of tackle and trapping tips and not female centerfolds, used the photo shoot and award as a way to celebrate ...
URL: https://www.americanhistory.si.edu/explore/stories/and-winner

[“Miss Fun Fishing 1973” Trophy awarded to Phyllis Diller | Smithsonian Institution]
This trophy was awarded to Phyllis Diller when she was named "Miss Fun Fishing 1973" after posing nude for Field and Stream magazine. The award was presented "on the occasion of her selection as the first centerfold in the magazine's 78 year history." The trophy goes on to explain that "fishing and humor are two universally popular sources of entertainment for people of all ages ...
URL: https://www.si.edu/object/miss-fun-fishing-1973-trophy-awarded-phyllis-diller:nmah_1247690

["Miss Fun Fishing 1973" Trophy awarded to Phyllis Diller]
This trophy was awarded to Phyllis Diller when she was named "Miss Fun Fishing 1973" after posing nude for Field and Stream magazine. The award was presented "on the occasion of her selection as the first centerfold in the magazine's 78 year history." The trophy goes on to explain that "fishing and humor are two universally popular sources of entertainment for people of all ages ...
URL: https://www.americanhistory.si.edu/collections/search/object/nmah_1247690


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [And the winner is... | National Museum of American History] ---
The Division of Culture and the Arts at the museum collects a wide variety of awards and trophies. We have iconic awards such as Oscars, Olympic medals, and Grammys that most people will recognize instantly and which frequently appear in our exhibitions. However, we also collect awards and trophies that are less widely known. As an intern within the division, it has been my pleasure to explore and research the whole array of our awards for an upcoming exhibition on American culture. In doing so, I have developed some favorite items. So here it is: my list of the top six most intriguing awards within the museum's Division of Culture and the Arts! 1) The Miss Fun Fishing Award given to Phyllis Diller, 1973 Comedian Phyllis Diller was crowned "Miss Fun Fishing" by Field and Stream magazine in 1973 "on the occasion of her selection as the first centerfold in the magazine's 78 year history." The magazine, known for being a source of tackle and trapping tips and not female centerfolds, used the photo shoot and award as a way to celebrate two forms of American entertainment: comedy and fishing. Diller joked that she was chosen as the magazine's first centerfold because she "had the same dimensions as a striped bass," and the photo featured her wearing full-body fishing waders that covered her entire legs and torso. 2) Chevron World Challenge Trophy won by Tiger Woods, 2001, 2004, 2006, 2007 Prominently featuring a ceramic tiger guarding a golf ball painted like the Earth, this trophy is awarded to the victor of the Hero World Challenge, a golf tournament started in 1999 by golfer Tiger Woods to benefit his international charity, the Tiger Woods Foundation. This particular statue was given to Woods by the tournament organization to commemorate his first four victories in the tournament (2001, 2004, 2006, and 2007). Tiger Woods also won the tournament in 2011. The Hero World Challenge frequently changes its name based on which company is sponsoring it each particular year. When the museum acquired this trophy in 2009, the tournament was titled the Chevron World Challenge. However, it has also been titled the Williams World Challenge, the Target World Challenge, and the Northwest Mutual World Challenge throughout its history. 3) Esquire All American Band Clarinet Silver Award given to Barney Bigard, 1946 Jazz clarinetist Barney Bigard received this statue upon his selection for Esquire magazine's All American Band in 1946. A group of renowned jazz music experts voted on the members of the group, and winners performed in concert and produced an album together to be sold with a special edition of the magazine. The band was originally created in 1944 and performed as a way to boost the sale of war bonds for World War II. The silver figure upon the black base is Esquire's mascot, Esky, who is modeled after a comic drawn by E. Simms Campbell, the first black syndicated cartoonist and a prominent influence in the style of the magazine starting in the 1930s. 4) Best Howdy Doody Look-Alike Award won by William "Billy" Oltman, 1950 This trophy was awarded to William "Billy" Oltman in 1950 as a result of a promotional contest put on by NBC to find the child who looked the most like popular TV star puppet Howdy Doody. Oltman beat out 17,230 rivals for the title and was rewarded with this trophy, a chance to be on an episode of The Howdy Doody Show, and other prizes. 5) Mystery Writers of America Edgar Awards given to Luther Davis, 1964 and 1970 These two ceramic statues are styled after the great poet and father of the American detective story, Edgar Allan Poe. The statues are examples of the award given to the recipient of the Mystery Writers of America Edgar Award, the most prestigious award given to writers working in the genre of mystery. Writer Luther Davis received his first Edgar award in 1964 for his television program The End of the World and his second award in 1970 for his television movie Daughter of the Mind. The design of this iconic award has varied slightly over the years. The main detail that changes is the style of facial hair being sported by Poe's bust. 6) Tony Award bracelet won by June Lockhart, 1947 Actress June Lockhart received this Tony award in 1947 as "Most Promising Newcomer" for her performance in For Love or Money. Lockhart did not only excel in stage acting. She also became a well-loved television actress appearing in shows such as Lassie in the 1950s and Lost in Space in the 1960s. While the current Tony winners receive a silver medallion featuring comedy/tragedy masks mounted on a black base, early Tony recipients received awards such as engraved money clips and inscribed gold medallions on bracelets like this one before the official trophy was designed in 1949. Honorable mention goes to the yo-yo won by David Jarol for his victory in a 1952 City Championship Trick Competition. So, there you have it: one intern's opinion on the six most unusual awards in the museum's collections of entertainment and sports objects. Whether it's a ceramic bust of a deceased author or a silver cup with a large fish sprouting from its top, each of these distinctive awards and their recipients help tell the stories of American culture and represent what is important to us as the American people within their times. Heather Glady completed a curatorial internship in the Division of Culture and the Arts.


--- [A Centerfold for Laughing, Not Leering - The New York Times] ---
Supported by A Centerfold for Laughing, Not Leering May 25, 1973, Page 41Buy Reprints There she is, lounging seductively on one elbow, displaying a rhinestone choker, black waterproof waders, gold lame boots—and her $4,000 facelift. It is Phyllis Diller, the first centerfold pin‐up girl for Field & Stream magazine. Nobody is sure, of course, but it is possible, quite possible, that Miss Diller is the first 56‐year‐old facelifted grandmother who has ever graced centerfold. She also has a title: “Miss Fun Fishing of 1973.” “I posed for Playboy eight years ago,” the frizzy‐haired comedian said yesterday at a press conference intended to plug Field & Stream's June issue. “I did Playboy in the altogether; of course, they never ran it.” Looking properly sporty in an oversized safari jacket, tan boots and neckband with colorful fishing flies sewn to it, Miss Diller admitted that she really wasn't much of a fisherman. “I went deep sea fishing off Florida one time,” she recalled, “and I spent the entire time lying on the floor in the hold. I think I had a bad box lunch.” Miss Diller said she had posed for the centerfold for free, and that she hoped “we can hypo this into a poster.” It's not because she needs publicity, of course; her career has taken a “sharp upturn” since her recent facelift, she said. Miss Diller, who is married to Warde Donovan, a singer‐actor, and has five children, two stepchildren and one grandchild, erupted into her raucous “Ha‐Ha‐Ha” laugh when asked her family's reaction to the centerfold. “When I told my youngest [22‐year‐old] son, he said he planned on leaving the country. He didn't think he could face it.” The full‐color centerfold appears on pages 61‐62 of the 78‐year‐old magazine, in between articles on “Best Fishing Hotspots in Canada” and “Catch More Muskies!” “What could draw more attention to how much fun fishing is than Phyllis Diller?” said Jack Samson, the magazine's editor, when asked why she had been chosen. “We figured a lot of guys who run tackle shops might put the photo up on the wall.” Related Content Advertisement


--- [And the winner is... | National Museum of American History] ---
The Division of Culture and the Arts at the museum collects a wide variety of awards and trophies. We have iconic awards such as Oscars, Olympic medals, and Grammys that most people will recognize instantly and which frequently appear in our exhibitions. However, we also collect awards and trophies that are less widely known. As an intern within the division, it has been my pleasure to explore and research the whole array of our awards for an upcoming exhibition on American culture. In doing so, I have developed some favorite items. So here it is: my list of the top six most intriguing awards within the museum's Division of Culture and the Arts! 1) The Miss Fun Fishing Award given to Phyllis Diller, 1973 Comedian Phyllis Diller was crowned "Miss Fun Fishing" by Field and Stream magazine in 1973 "on the occasion of her selection as the first centerfold in the magazine's 78 year history." The magazine, known for being a source of tackle and trapping tips and not female centerfolds, used the photo shoot and award as a way to celebrate two forms of American entertainment: comedy and fishing. Diller joked that she was chosen as the magazine's first centerfold because she "had the same dimensions as a striped bass," and the photo featured her wearing full-body fishing waders that covered her entire legs and torso. 2) Chevron World Challenge Trophy won by Tiger Woods, 2001, 2004, 2006, 2007 Prominently featuring a ceramic tiger guarding a golf ball painted like the Earth, this trophy is awarded to the victor of the Hero World Challenge, a golf tournament started in 1999 by golfer Tiger Woods to benefit his international charity, the Tiger Woods Foundation. This particular statue was given to Woods by the tournament organization to commemorate his first four victories in the tournament (2001, 2004, 2006, and 2007). Tiger Woods also won the tournament in 2011. The Hero World Challenge frequently changes its name based on which company is sponsoring it each particular year. When the museum acquired this trophy in 2009, the tournament was titled the Chevron World Challenge. However, it has also been titled the Williams World Challenge, the Target World Challenge, and the Northwest Mutual World Challenge throughout its history. 3) Esquire All American Band Clarinet Silver Award given to Barney Bigard, 1946 Jazz clarinetist Barney Bigard received this statue upon his selection for Esquire magazine's All American Band in 1946. A group of renowned jazz music experts voted on the members of the group, and winners performed in concert and produced an album together to be sold with a special edition of the magazine. The band was originally created in 1944 and performed as a way to boost the sale of war bonds for World War II. The silver figure upon the black base is Esquire's mascot, Esky, who is modeled after a comic drawn by E. Simms Campbell, the first black syndicated cartoonist and a prominent influence in the style of the magazine starting in the 1930s. 4) Best Howdy Doody Look-Alike Award won by William "Billy" Oltman, 1950 This trophy was awarded to William "Billy" Oltman in 1950 as a result of a promotional contest put on by NBC to find the child who looked the most like popular TV star puppet Howdy Doody. Oltman beat out 17,230 rivals for the title and was rewarded with this trophy, a chance to be on an episode of The Howdy Doody Show, and other prizes. 5) Mystery Writers of America Edgar Awards given to Luther Davis, 1964 and 1970 These two ceramic statues are styled after the great poet and father of the American detective story, Edgar Allan Poe. The statues are examples of the award given to the recipient of the Mystery Writers of America Edgar Award, the most prestigious award given to writers working in the genre of mystery. Writer Luther Davis received his first Edgar award in 1964 for his television program The End of the World and his second award in 1970 for his television movie Daughter of the Mind. The design of this iconic award has varied slightly over the years. The main detail that changes is the style of facial hair being sported by Poe's bust. 6) Tony Award bracelet won by June Lockhart, 1947 Actress June Lockhart received this Tony award in 1947 as "Most Promising Newcomer" for her performance in For Love or Money. Lockhart did not only excel in stage acting. She also became a well-loved television actress appearing in shows such as Lassie in the 1950s and Lost in Space in the 1960s. While the current Tony winners receive a silver medallion featuring comedy/tragedy masks mounted on a black base, early Tony recipients received awards such as engraved money clips and inscribed gold medallions on bracelets like this one before the official trophy was designed in 1949. Honorable mention goes to the yo-yo won by David Jarol for his victory in a 1952 City Championship Trick Competition. So, there you have it: one intern's opinion on the six most unusual awards in the museum's collections of entertainment and sports objects. Whether it's a ceramic bust of a deceased author or a silver cup with a large fish sprouting from its top, each of these distinctive awards and their recipients help tell the stories of American culture and represent what is important to us as the American people within their times. Heather Glady completed a curatorial internship in the Division of Culture and the Arts.


--- [“Miss Fun Fishing 1973” Trophy awarded to Phyllis Diller | Smithsonian Institution] ---
No content


--- ["Miss Fun Fishing 1973" Trophy awarded to Phyllis Diller] ---
Object “Miss Fun Fishing 1973” Trophy awarded to Phyllis Diller Our collection database is a work in progress. We may update this record based on further research and review. Learn more about our approach to sharing our collection online. If you would like to know how you can use content on this page, see the Smithsonian's Terms of Use. If you need to request an image for publication or other use, please visit Rights and Reproductions.
