=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Anselm Kiefer’s vast studio complex and former home in southern France—likened to a 'human ant hill'—opens to the public - The Art Newspaper - International art news and events]
In 1992, having left Germany, Kiefer acquired La Ribaute, an old silk factory in Barjac. The site developed organically, comprising buildings, outdoor art installations, subterranean chambers and a five-level concrete amphitheatre.
URL: https://www.theartnewspaper.com/2022/05/30/anselm-kiefers-40-hectare-human-ant-hill-in-southern-france

[Exploring Anselm Kiefer’s Playground: La Ribaute, Barjac, France | TheCollector]
Anselm Kiefer acquired La Ribaute—an old silk factory in Barjac, France—in 1992. The almost 100-acre estate comprises buildings, outdoor art installations, subterranean chambers, tunnels, and a five-level concrete amphitheater. The artist lived at the site until 2007, when he relocated to a new studio space at Croissy-Beaubourg on the outskirts of Paris. Kiefer's Eschaton Foundation now ...
URL: https://www.thecollector.com/exploring-anselm-kiefer-playground-ribaute-barjac/

[Behind the scenes: Anselm Kiefer's studio at Barjac | Royal Academy of Arts]
Aug 17, 2014 · The artist Anselm Kiefer moved to Barjac, near Nîmes in the south of France, in 1992. Over time, his home and studio complex there - built on the site of an abandoned silk factory - expanded to include a series of extraordinary interventions in the landscape.
URL: https://www.royalacademy.org.uk/article/behind-the-scenes-anselm-kiefers

[Visit La Ribaute - Eschaton—Anselm Kiefer Foundation]
Over the course of several decades, Anselm Kiefer has transformed La Ribaute—a 40-hectare site located in the south of France near Barjac, north of Nîmes—into a uniquely immersive artistic environment, creating numerous installations, often at monumental scale.
URL: https://eschaton-foundation.com/visit-la-ribaute/

[Kiefer's World: Journey to Barjac - whitehotmagazine.com]
Sep 9, 2024 · Kiefer created a remarkable four-story amphitheater configured as an inverted ziggurat by pouring cement into shipping containers. Beneath the grass, Kiefer dug out two underground crypts and a series of tunnels which sometimes lead to staircases into the pavilions.
URL: https://whitehotmagazine.com/articles/kiefer-s-world-journey-barjac/6564


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Anselm Kiefer’s vast studio complex and former home in southern France—likened to a 'human ant hill'—opens to the public - The Art Newspaper - International art news and events] ---
Anselm Kiefer’s vast studio complex in Barjac in southern France, which has been likened to a “human ant hill”, has finally opened to the public after years of planning. Visitor numbers to the site, known as La Ribaute, will be capped. “The objective of the Eschaton-Anselm Kiefer Foundation, which runs La Ribaute, is to ensure access to the public—rather than mass tourism—over the years to come,” says Janne Sirén, the president of the foundation’s board of trustees, and also the director of the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, New York. “There is a lot of walking involved in visiting La Ribaute; it’s over 40 hectares,” he says. In 1992, having left Germany, Kiefer acquired La Ribaute, an old silk factory in Barjac. The site developed organically, comprising buildings, outdoor art installations, subterranean chambers and a five-level concrete amphitheatre. The artist lived at the 40-hectare site, 70km north-west of Avignon, until 2007, after which he relocated to a new studio space at Croissy on the outskirts of Paris. “There are several art installations in the landscape interconnected by paths as well as underground tunnels that the artist has designed,” says Sirén. “Barjac has continued to be a secondary studio, especially in the summer season. You might compare the foundation in concept to Marfa [the small city in Texas that has become an arts hub]; it’s an artist space now owned by a foundation, the purpose of which is to preserve it for posterity.” La Ribaute has grown, with more than 60 buildings and art areas, known as pavilions. “Mr Kiefer added his own touch with these art spaces; some of them have sculptures, some have paintings,” Sirén says. “In recent years, he has welcomed artists he feels kinship with to contribute permanent installations to the ecosystem of La Ribaute, starting with Wolfgang Laib in 2014. Monica Bonvicini, the latest contributor, will unveil her work in July.” Laurie Anderson and Valie Export have also provided works. The project reflects Kiefer’s “trans-national” approach, says Sirén. A project statement outlines how the Eschaton-Anselm Kiefer Foundation symbolises “Kiefer’s interest in the unity of Europe and the constant exchange between cultures”, encompassing three countries: Austria (the foundation headquarters), Germany (the artist’s birthplace) and France. “Extraordinarily generous” Admission to La Ribaute, open during the summer months, costs €25, though Barjac residents enter for free. “Mr Kiefer has been extraordinarily generous towards the foundation in providing not just the core physical asset but also extensive financial resources. The ticket revenue partially covers our operating costs and there are the usual fundraising routes, but this has all hinged on Mr Kiefer’s generosity in providing operational funding.” Kiefer has meanwhile taken over the immense Sala dello Scrutinio at the Palazzo Ducale in Venice, showing a series of paintings inspired by Italian masters such as Tintoretto and Andrea Vicentino (until 29 October). The enormous works incorporate zinc, lead, gold, clothes and parts of shopping trolleys. “My hope is that the works find a home where they can stay together as a magnificent ensemble,” says Sirén. A spokeswoman for Kiefer’s gallery, Gagosian, says that the future of the paintings is currently undecided.


--- [Exploring Anselm Kiefer’s Playground: La Ribaute, Barjac, France | TheCollector] ---
Anselm Kiefer acquired La Ribaute—an old silk factory in Barjac, France—in 1992. The almost 100-acre estate comprises buildings, outdoor art installations, subterranean chambers, tunnels, and a five-level concrete amphitheater. The artist lived at the site until 2007, when he relocated to a new studio space at Croissy-Beaubourg on the outskirts of Paris. Kiefer’s Eschaton Foundation now handles La Ribaute and welcomes visitors to the estate through guided walking tours. Anselm Kiefer and The Eschaton Foundation at La Ribaute The Foundation conducts its explorations of La Ribaute in French, English, and German on Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays from mid-April to the end of October (with a summer break). Tickets are available only online and sell out quickly. The regular tours last about two and a half hours and introduce the visitor to a curated selection from the 70-some artworks at La Ribaute. Full-day outings are also offered. Along with providing guided visits, the Eschaton Foundation is responsible for preserving La Ribaute and cataloging the contents of Kiefer’s archive. It also facilitates exhibitions, research, and publications to increase awareness and appreciation of contemporary art. Their website states: “The Foundation’s name, Eschaton, refers to life’s cyclical nature and the concept that creation and rebirth arise from ruins and are enabled through demise and destruction, a significant leitmotif in Anselm Kiefer’s artistic practice.” The term eschatology comes from Ancient Greek. Eschatologists study the end of things, like human history or the entire world. Kiefer’s fascination with eschatology is no surprise, considering his personal history. Who Is Anselm Kiefer? Anselm Kiefer was born in Germany on March 8th, 1945, exactly two months before World War II ended in Europe. The night of his birth, while he and his mother were safely away, his house and town were severely bombed. Growing up, he remembers playing in the rubble from the war. Kiefer earned his art degree in 1969 and immediately gained notoriety for his photographic series Occupations (Besetzung). In this series, Kiefer traveled to sites that had been key locations for the Nazi regime and photographed himself giving the sieg heil. He wanted to force a discussion about the Nazis, something he felt no one in Germany was talking about but needed to. The Germans, in general, were greatly offended by this work which seemed to be using Germany’s physical landmarks to reinforce a link between the country and Nazism. But that was not Kiefer’s goal. His intention was to keep the past from being forgotten. He didn’t want history to be buried or to let evil stay hidden around him. After completing his Occupations series, Kiefer moved from photography to mixed media paintings, incorporating glass, straw, wood, plants, and lead into large-scale works. Along with this shift in media, he began exploring how myth and history blur together, seeing myths as another way to understand history. He also studied the Kabbalah and traveled extensively. His creations—then and now—combine cosmological, mystical, literary, archeological, and theological perspectives. La Ribaute In 1995, Kiefer moved to La Ribaute and, over the next several years, created one of the most remarkable conglomerations of artistic expression anywhere. Before examining some specific works in Kiefer’s vast complex, let’s set the stage with this quote by Camille Morineau: “Visiting La Ribaute . . . whether in sunlight or in the shadow of the tunnels, I understood that against all expectation and all logic, it is the feminine that has triumphed—that if La Ribaute is an emblem for the transformation of the world, it has to be seen as, among other things but also primarily, a compelling invitation to put women at the center and thus a rather implacable demonstration of their power.” Exploring La Ribaute is like a treasure hunt. The physical results of Kiefer’s creative synapses—as he refers to them—are tucked away in the folds of these vast grounds, forming an ecosystem all their own. These enigmatic works impact the mind and senses in ways that often defy clear explanations. Women of Antiquity at La Ribaute The tour of La Ribaute begins in a large open courtyard in front of the 19th-century silk factory that came with the estate. The yard is bare except for a gathering of ghostly gowns standing erect and shouldering various objects to identify the women the dresses represent. Cast from wedding gowns, these fantom females reflect the idea of the divine feminine as found in Jewish mystical literature—shekhinah—the divine bride. In this sculpture series, Kiefer extols known and unknown women, especially those erased or snubbed by history. For example, the dress topped by a tower of bricks is called Phryne—an ancient Greek actress, art model, and courtesan. She was so successful and wealthy that she offered to rebuild the walls of Thebes, razed by Alexander the Great in 336 B.C.E. She insisted the walls include the inscription “destroyed by Alexander, restored by Phryne, the courtesan.” Unwilling to accept the idea that a female sex worker could rebuild what Alexander the Great had destroyed, the city fathers turned her down, and the walls remained in ruin. Like Phryne and her companions, other headless female ghosts pop up throughout the grounds, alone and in clusters, as reminders of the unequal treatment of women in many cultures, particularly strong women whose intellectual questioning and bold behavior are often considered unacceptable and a cause for silencing. One impressive grouping of these “ghost gowns” resides in a large greenhouse nestled in the landscape. These sculptures represent more women from antiquity, like Pandora, Lilith, and Sappho. Kiefer says his sculpture of Sappho is a “monument to all the unknown women poets.” Sappho’s white gown supports a stack of books—the guardians and disseminators of knowledge. And the books, so often used by Kiefer, are made of lead. According to the artist, lead is “the only material heavy enough to carry the weight of human history.” Lead is also important to Kiefer for its association with alchemy. Like medieval scientists who tried turning lead into gold, Kiefer uses art to transform human understanding. The ancient Greeks praised Sappho’s poetry but criticized her morals, saying she behaved like a man, meaning she was a lesbian. Even though her lyric poetry was esteemed in her day, very few of Sappho’s original words survive. Except for one complete poem and a handful of fragments, the rest disappeared by the Middle Ages, helped along by Pope Gregory VII, who ordered her books burned. Today, her writings are known almost exclusively through quotations from other authors’ works. Kiefer also commemorates Hypatia, an equally extraordinary woman from antiquity. She was a Pagan philosopher, mathematician, and astronomer who lived in 5th-century Egypt during great religious turmoil between Christians, Jews, and Pagans. Considered the leading mathematician and astronomer of her time, Hypatia is known to have written several treatises, none of which have survived. Despite her revered status as a scholar, Hypatia met a violent death at the hands of religious fanatics. Kiefer depicts Hypatia with an odd-shaped glass head. The shape is called the “melancholia cube,” after Durer’s 1514 woodcut Melancholia I, where this unique geometric form appears. It is an interesting choice for Hypatia’s attribute and a good example of the multi-layered meanings found in Kiefer’s images—meanings that defy linear explanations. Durer, like Hypatia, was enthralled with mathematics. He saw geometry as a primary building block of artistic creativity and laid the groundwork for descriptive geometry in his treatise on human proportion. In this sense, Durer’s geometric shape is a logical symbol for Hypatia, except for its connection to melancholia—the subject of the woodcut where this one-of-a-kind shape originated. In Durer’s time, artistic creativity was often associated with depression or melancholy. In this woodcut, Durer personifies this state of despair as Melancholia, an angel in a long flowing gown (like Hypatia’s). She holds a caliper against a tablet in her lap as if creating a carefully measured drawing from which she pauses to brood. Everything in the image is recognizable except for that odd-shaped cube. Is that what gives her pause? Is it the cube’s lack of symmetry that bothers her, symbolizing the artist’s inability to achieve perfection? Or does she see the cube, with its cut-off corners, as incomplete, causing her to ponder the unfinished state of human understanding? In any case, Kiefer has honored Hypatia’s brilliance with a mysterious geometric shape originally conceived by another genius—an artistic one of German descent, just like Kiefer. The Crypt of Samson at La Ribaute Like the Women of Antiquity Series, Kiefer’s Crypt of Samson also alludes to the powerful qualities of women. According to Deuteronomy 7:3, God forbade Israelites from marrying Philistines, but Samson married one anyway. The power she held over Samson’s passions was stronger than the will of God. And it was another woman, Delilah, who destroyed his superhuman strength. To access the Crypt of Samson at La Ribaute, you enter a round ribbed metal tube that forms a tunnel leading into an underground pillared room. The pillars reference the ones Samson grabbed to bring down the Philistine temple of Dagon in Gaza. Although the Bible only mentions two such supports for the temple roof, Kiefer chose to create a multi-pillared room. These spaces are known as hypostyle halls, primarily associated with ancient Egyptian architecture. I can’t help but think that Kiefer incorporated a hypostyle hall into Samson’s crypt as a reminder that the ancient Egyptians believed in the power of the divine feminine and worshiped many goddesses, including Isis, who, with her brother Osiris, was thought to have created civilization. Anselm Kiefer’s Women of the Revolution at La Ribaute Another underground space at La Ribaute houses an installation called Women of the Revolution, which pays homage to 19th-century women who impacted the French Revolution, like Madame de Staël (a writer and political theorist), whom Napoleon exiled for expressing her beliefs. In this installation, Kiefer represents the women as a series of black, draped beds (deathbeds) that he describes like this: “Dedicated to the Women of the Revolution, it contains lead beds with puddles of water stagnating in their hollow spots. . . The water is now out in the open and its surface, visible through the dust, is again like a skin, a membrane, a boundary between the inner and the outer; a metaphor for the tremendous power that women draw from deep within themselves in contrast to the superficial bluster and bragging of men.” A large photograph on lead dominates the back wall of the installation. It shows Kiefer in front of a watery landscape, inviting comparison with Wanderer Above the Sea of Fog, painted by the 19th-century German artist Caspar David Friedrich. Friedrich’s work is considered one of the masterpieces of the Romantic movement. It has been interpreted as an emblem of self-reflection or contemplation of life’s path, and the seascape is believed to evoke the sublime. It was also a painting appropriated for Nazi propaganda during World War II. By including a self-portrait resembling Friedrich’s masterpiece as part of his Women of the Revolution installation, Kiefer effectively steps into history himself—owning it as a German and a man, contemplating it like Friedrich’s Wanderer, and transforming it by making women the focus of the discussion as he’s done throughout La Ribaute.


--- [Behind the scenes: Anselm Kiefer's studio at Barjac | Royal Academy of Arts] ---
Behind the scenes: Anselm Kiefer's studio at Barjac By Amy Macpherson Published on 17 August 2014 In the lead-up to his major RA exhibition this autumn, we take a look inside the artist's huge "gesamtkunstwerk" in the south of France. The artist Anselm Kiefer moved to Barjac, near Nîmes in the south of France, in 1992. Over time, his home and studio complex there - built on the site of an abandoned silk factory - expanded to include a series of extraordinary interventions in the landscape. From excavations underground, to vast vitrine-like glasshouses and a group of towers built from concrete casts of shipping containers like those displayed in the RA courtyard in 2007, these combine to form a "gesamtkunstwerk" or total work of art. Known as La Ribaute, the site was the subject of a documentary by Sophie Fiennes called Over Your Cities Grass Will Grow, released in 2010. Kiefer has compared his studios to laboratories, and says they are also akin to refineries or mines. Although he now lives and works in Paris, Barjac continues to provide many of the materials for his work, such as the huge sunflowers that are grown there from seeds imported from Japan. It also acts as an exhibition venue, displaying sculptures, paintings and installations in some 50 different enclosures across the site. Far away from the pristine world of the art gallery, some of these are open to the elements - ants and butterflies make their way inside; water pools on a concrete floor, startled bats flap away from visitors in the maze of underground tunnels. The artist often allows the natural world to stage its own intervention in his work, and has described leaving canvases outside to weather in the wind, rain and sun. "Like no place else on earth, Anselm Kiefer's Barjac takes you inside the artist's head and under his skin," says Kathleen Soriano, who is curating our exhibition. "Wandering through this landscape, populated by his artistic creations, is an awe-inspiring experience revealing a contemporary yet almost ancient kingdom over which an abundant nature is slowly staking her claim, as Kiefer would hope she would." In the video above, narrated by the RA's Director of Artistic Programmes, Tim Marlow, we pay a visit to Barjac and discover some of the extraordinary work on display there. Anselm Kiefer is at the Royal Academy from 27 September — 14 December 2014.


--- [Visit La Ribaute - Eschaton—Anselm Kiefer Foundation] ---
La Ribaute is temporarily closed until next season. Our 2023 booking calendar will be made available online in the spring, prior to the start of next season. The Eschaton-Foundation’s guided tours offer visitors the opportunity to encounter a curated selection of Anselm Kiefer’s work at La Ribaute. Over the course of several decades, Anselm Kiefer has transformed La Ribaute—a 40-hectare site located in the south of France near Barjac, north of Nîmes—into a uniquely immersive artistic environment, creating numerous installations, often at monumental scale. La Ribaute is open seasonally, from May through October, with a break in August. All visits take the form of guided tours and are available in French, English and German. Reservations for guided tours must be made online and in-advance. For updated information regarding our 2023 season, please join the mailing list below.


--- [Kiefer's World: Journey to Barjac - whitehotmagazine.com] ---
Whitehot Magazine "The Best Art In The World" By KRISTINA ANDERSSON BICHER September 9, 2024 The “women” of La Ribaute – artist Anselm Kiefer’s jaw-dropping 100-acre studio estate in the village of Barjac in southern France – are everywhere. Cast as empty white dresses, numbering in the dozens, they serve as sentries, appear as ghosts, seem as queens, scholars, victims. They pay homage to certain historical figures and to women as a whole. As one approaches the 19th century former silk manufacturing complex that Kiefer purchased in 1992, one is “greeted” by five such women installed in a sort of semi-circular receiving line. Their forms were created in resin by casting 18th and 19th century-style dresses. Their finish is matte, chalky, such that they absorb light and thus appear even more three-dimensional. The dresses are largely short-sleeved with tight bodices and plentiful folds in their full skirts. Did I mention they are headless, limbless? It is jarring to see: women reduced to containers, and gendered containers at that. Filled with air or perhaps some conjured, lingering spirits. When walking the grounds, one espies two or three amidst a copse on a ridge, lending a spectral effect. Or when standing on the tiers of a concrete amphitheater, they appear as Evitas greeting an empty future/past. But I’ve gotten ahead of myself, no doubt due to an excess of enthusiasm from my visit. I’ve long been a fan of Kiefer’s work. And having seen both the phenomenal site-specific installation at the Doge’s Palace in Venice in 2022 and more recently the large-scale show Punctum at Gagosian in Chelsea and Kiefer’s work quasi-permanently installed at Mass MOCA, I put my name on a mailing list to receive notice when tours of the site opened up for 2024. It happened at 5 a.m. in the dead of winter that I received an email invitation with a warning that openings book quickly. I clicked on two tickets for June 2024 including a full-day guided tour in English of both the grounds and the studios. (By the way, the guide was superlative…more of a curator than a typical tour guide in terms of the depth of her knowledge and thoughtful presentation). Having opened to the public in 2022, the site known as La Ribaute and now part of the Eschaton Foundation is open three days a week during visiting season from mid-April to the end of October. Barjac residents can reserve a guided tour without cost at certain, defined dates. So now to return to the “women.” The tour guide noted that Kiefer believes the historical role of women, their influence and import but also their creative power, has been greatly underrecognized, thus inspiring the creation of these works. Handwritten script alludes to their names: Circe, Sappho, Cornelia, Rapunzel. And yet in looking at these sculptures, one can’t help but conclude that such power comes at a cost. In one haunting piece comprised of 17 figures – Die Frauen der Antike or The Women of Antiquity – installed in a bespoke greenhouse with white-washed windows, each figure is uniquely but distinctly encumbered. For example, the hem of one’s garment is weighed down with large boulders. Another’s gown is spiked with large shards of glass. Some sport a tangle of barbed wire where their heads might be. Others have oversized lead books in lieu of heads, which lends a different take on the expression “weight of knowledge.” In fact, these books seem crushing. ** What is one to make of La Ribaute? Indeed, what is one to call it? In addition to the land and the extant historic brick buildings, there are some 90 purpose-built (under Kiefer’s direction) pavilions of various sizes, sometimes in the form of corrugated steel hangers or glass greenhouses. All of the greenhouses and pavilions are considered installation pieces in their own right; some of the hangers seem to function as more traditional exhibition spaces for certain paintings. There is a vast field with some 16 concrete towers, in addition to other outdoor pieces including a sculpture composed of large wings at the crest of a rise. Kiefer created a remarkable four-story amphitheater configured as an inverted ziggurat by pouring cement into shipping containers. Beneath the grass, Kiefer dug out two underground crypts and a series of tunnels which sometimes lead to staircases into the pavilions. One crypt leads into a work comprised of lead beds, women’s names, and some water on each bed to suggest the “creative essence” of each woman. This installation, called Les Femmes de la Révolution or The Women of the Revolution (the work at Mass MoCA has the same title), felt similarly disquieting as the Women of Antiquity in so far as the signifiers of importance or power were far from how these attributes are typically represented. The crypt we visited was a marvel to behold, with a series of mud-covered pillars in addition to the floor, ceiling and walls. It felt so natural that it’s hard believe it was Kiefer who built it by excavation and careful planning. Thinking about the sheer work (and money) involved in creating this subterranean world in Barjac prompts another question about the “value” of art. These caves and tunnels cannot be monetized. It’s unlikely the amphitheater could be moved, let alone sold. So the excavation can be better seen as artistic process and internal, psychological exploration: an artist digging into the unconscious, the unknown, the unseen while physically carving a world below ground. It brings to mind a line by the poet Theodore Roethke: “I learn by going where I am to go.” La Ribaute could also be termed a farm of sorts. Said Kiefer, “Barjac is not just an enclosure, an exhibition space, a work environment or a laboratory. It is from its soil that I was able to extract most of my work materials.” These materials include hay, flowers, dirt, and wood ash. In fact, Kiefer came across a remarkable cultivar of sunflowers when he was in Japan, which he later grew from seed at La Ribaute; these became the basis for not only paintings but for casting elements for other works. This synthetic approach to artmaking is in consonance with Kiefer’s wide-ranging philosophical and spiritual concerns. His artistic explorations are lower-case ‘c’ catholic, as his oeuvre draws from sources such as the Kabbalah, ancient Egypt, Greek mythology, the Bible, and Norse mythology. Influences also include the poet Paul Celan who is especially important to Kiefer. There are references to Durer’s Melancholia, not only with his name painted but also representations of his famous polyhedron. Kiefer is an inveterate reader across multiple disciplines and indeed a polymath. And though his influences cycle through various phases, one senses less a person in search of the one real truth than someone who makes room for and indeed is excited by multiplicity. By way of biography, visitors to La Ribaute are informed that on the same night that Kiefer’s mother went into labor with him in 1945, his family’s village and home in Germany was bombed by Allied forces. Thus had he been born any later, he may not have been born at all. We were also informed that as a child, he was a natural builder, fascinated with the act of creation. But the flip-side of creation is destruction. And one can only imagine how the physical landscape of his German homeland looked when he was growing up and how that imprinted on him. For this visitor in particular, there seemed a greater artistic interest in destruction than creation. In fact, Kiefer’s monumental canvases with their epic depictions often seem to be recreating a devastated earth. With his layered, textured, mixed media approach, he seems to be building ruins out of ruins (dried and burned natural materials). Throughout the premises, especially in the sculptures, one sees ladders and staircases laid low, stacked on the ground or arranged in such a way that renders them without purpose or function. Their appearance perhaps suggests the futility of escape or its inherently fraught or fragile nature. The cement towers appear on the edge of toppling. It’s interesting to add here that the name in his foundation “eschaton” means “the final event in the divine plan; the end of the world.” While there is no indication that this is a personal or religious belief of Kiefer, I take it as further evidence of his intellectual interest in the cycles of creation and destruction that various mythologies and belief systems over time have grappled with. There is, of course, reflected in Kiefer’s work a palpable sense of German guilt over his country’s actions in WWII. Again according to the tour guide, it wasn’t until Kiefer was a teenager that he even learned of Germany’s role. His earliest work confronted this legacy head-on and met with resistance in his homeland. There is so much more that can be said about La Ribaute and the work there, enough to fill volumes. I would add here other works that were especially affecting and not previously mentioned such as the oversized books rendered in lead in various installation (ranging in weight from 100 to 900 pounds), cast resin poppies (alluding to Celan’s book of poems “Poppy and Memory”), airplane and boats, multiple rendering of sunflowers, a remarkable array of paintings including some citing NASA’s star identifications, and the incredible “Morgenthau Plan,” a simulated field of hay with a few bronze snakes buried within. What is the future of La Ribaute? Kiefer now works at his studio near Paris which is featured in Wim Wender’s recent documentary “Anselm” (which I highly recommend). Some in our tour group were a little confused as to whether the work here is for sale (no) or is this more of a museum (yes). Kiefer’s site-specific work has sometimes been brought here after it’s uninstalled. The plan appears to keep La Ribaute open to the public (on a guided basis only). The depth, scale, and sheer tactility of Kiefer’s enterprise here is powerful. A visit to Barjac is a profound immersion into the big questions about humanity. It is an experience felt in the body. Said Kiefer, “An artist stands in a river and all things pass through him.” WM Kristina Andersson Bicher is the author of She-Giant in the Land of Here-We-Go-Again (MadHat Press 2020) and Heat, Sob, Lily (forthcoming MadHat Press 2025), as well as the translator of Swedish poet Marie Lundquist’s full-length collection I walk around gathering up my garden for the night (Bitter Oleander Press 2020). Her poetry appears in such literary journals as AGNI, Ploughshares, Hayden’s Ferry, Plume, Denver Quarterly, Colorado Review, and Narrative. Her translations and nonfiction have appeared in The Atlantic, Brooklyn Rail, Harvard Review, Asymptote, and Writer’s Chronicle, among others. She holds an MFA from Sarah Lawrence College and is a student in the MA- Contemporary Art degree program at Sotheby’s Institute of Art. view all articles from this author
