=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[8th Miss World - 1958]
The 8th Miss World pageant was held on October 13, 1958, at the Lyceum Ballroom in London, United Kingdom, bringing together 20 contestants from Europe, the Americas, Asia, Africa, and first-time participant Brazil. The competition featured the format of swimsuit presentations, elegant evening gowns, and on-stage interviews.
URL: https://www.missworld.com/contestants/1958

[Miss World 1958 - Wikipedia]
Miss World 1958 was the eighth edition of the Miss World pageant, held at the Lyceum Ballroom in London, United Kingdom, on 13 October 1958. At the conclusion of the event, Charles Eade and Bob Russell crowned Penelope Coelen of South Africa as Miss World 1958. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miss_World_1958

[Miss World 1958 - Wikiwand]
Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective Articles Remove ads Remove ads
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Miss_World_1958

[Yd Jackson Miss World 1958 judge Crossword Clue - Wordplays.com]
Answers for Yd Jackson Miss World 1958 judge crossword clue, 5 letters. Search for crossword clues found in the Daily Celebrity, NY Times, Daily Mirror, Telegraph and major publications. Find clues for Yd Jackson Miss World 1958 judge or most any crossword answer or clues for crossword answers.
URL: https://www.wordplays.com/crossword-solver/Yd-Jackson-Miss-World-1958-judge

[Miss World 1958 - MISS WORLD HISTORY / HISTORIA DE MISS MUNDO]
THE FINALS.- The finals of the "Miss World 1958" contest was held at 8 pm on Monday, October 13th at the Lyceum Ballroom in London, organized, as always, by Mecca Dancing and produced on this occasion by Dennis Monger and Peter Webber. Although the contest lost the auspices of the Sunday Dispatch, its former editor, Charles Eade, continued to support the event and was once again present as ...
URL: https://rodriguezmatute.home.blog/2019/11/24/miss-world-1958/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [8th Miss World - 1958] ---
8th Miss World - 1958 8th Miss World - 1958 - October 13, 1958 - Lyceum Ballroom, London, United Kingdom - 20 participants - Master of Ceremonies: Bob Russell - Television Commentary: George Elrick - Music: British Air Force Band & Sydney Thompson Orchestra - Judges - Charles Jacobs - Photojournalist and editor of two major dance magazines, Oscar Santa Maria - Brazilian political figure and public representative, Cynthia Oberholzer - well-known South African model and fashion personality, David Cowan Dobson - respected Scottish painter and fine artist, Barbara Goalen - one of Britain’s first true supermodels of the 1950s, Charles Eade - Prominent editor and member of the Council of the British Commonwealth Press Union, Taina Elisabeth Elg - Hollywood actress and dancer of Finnish heritage who later won a Golden Globe, Stirling Moss - one of the greatest racing drivers in history, Formula One superstar and international sports icon, Princess Shakuntala Sharma - Pakistani royal figure and fashion designer, Claude Berr - Senior leader within the Miss Europe organization The 8th Miss World pageant was held on October 13, 1958, at the Lyceum Ballroom in London, United Kingdom, bringing together 20 contestants from Europe, the Americas, Asia, Africa, and first-time participant Brazil. The competition featured the format of swimsuit presentations, elegant evening gowns, and on-stage interviews. Notably, founder Eric Morley was absent from daily organization due to illness, with the production team stepping in to ensure the show ran seamlessly. When the evening concluded, Penelope Anne Coelen of South Africa was crowned Miss World 1958 by Charles Eade and Bob Russell, marking South Africa’s first Miss World victory and Africa’s second overall. Just 18 years old, the Durban-born secretary charmed judges with her honey-blonde beauty, graceful confidence, and effortless stage presence. The runners-up included France’s Claudine Oger as first runner-up and Denmark’s Vinnie Ingemann as second, alongside finalists from Sweden, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Claudine would later rise to international fame as actress Claudine Auger, forever remembered as Dominique in Thunderball. The contest also produced colorful media moments, from contestants arriving in national costumes to playful trends like miniskirts and even hula-hoop demonstrations, giving the press plenty of sparkle to report. "It's just wonderful. Just think - I was only Miss South Africa yesterday. Now I'm Miss World. And I feel on top of the world." Those were the words of 18-year-old Penny Coelen when she called home to Durban after winning Miss World in 1958. Following her reign, Coelen embarked on an international tour of television appearances and public engagements before later building a successful career in fashion and business, gracefully transitioning from crown to entrepreneurship. MISS WORLD - SOUTH AFRICA - Penelope Anne COELEN - 1st runner-up - FRANCE - Claudine OGER - 2nd runner-up - DENMARK - Vinnie INGEMANN - 3rd runner-up - SWEDEN - Gunilla Harriett Margareta WAGSTROM - 4th runner-up - HOLLAND - Lucienne STRUVE - 5th runner-up - UNITED KINGDOM - Eileen Elizabeth SHERIDAN Full list of contestants: - BELGIUM - Jeanne CHANDELLE - BRAZIL - Sonia Maria CAMPOS - CANADA - Marilyn Anne KEDDIE - DENMARK - Vinnie INGEMANN - FRANCE - Claudine OGER - GERMANY - Dagmar HERNER - GREECE - Mary PANOUTSOPOULOU - HOLLAND - Lucienne STRUVE - IRELAND - Susan RIDDELL - ISRAEL - Rachel SHAFRIR - ITALY - Elisabetta VELINSKY - JAPAN - Hisako OKUSE - MOROCCO - Jocelyne LAMBIN - NORWAY - Åse GJELDVIK - SOUTH AFRICA - Penelope Anne COELEN - SWEDEN - Gunilla Harriett Margareta WAGSTROM - TURKEY - Sunay USLU - UNITED KINGDOM - Eileen Elizabeth SHERIDAN - UNITED STATES - Nancy Anne CORCORAN - VENEZUELA - Ida Margarita PIERI


--- [Miss World 1958 - Wikipedia] ---
Miss World 1958 was the eighth edition of the Miss World pageant, held at the Lyceum Ballroom in London, United Kingdom, on 13 October 1958.
At the conclusion of the event, Charles Eade and Bob Russell crowned Penelope Coelen of South Africa as Miss World 1958. This is the first victory of South Africa and the second victory of Africa in the history of the pageant.
Contestants from twenty countries participated in this year's pageant. The pageant was hosted by Bob Russell.


--- [Miss World 1958 - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Yd Jackson Miss World 1958 judge Crossword Clue - Wordplays.com] ---
Forgot Password Forget your password? Have it sent to the e-mail address on file. Just enter your user name above and click 'Send My Password'. Forgot User Name Forget your user name? Have it sent to the e-mail address on file. Just enter your email below and click 'Send My User Name'. If the email address on file is no longer valid you must register again. If you're having trouble signing in read the FAQ. |


--- [Miss World 1958 - MISS WORLD HISTORY / HISTORIA DE MISS MUNDO] ---
By Julio Rodríguez Matute MORLEY BREAKS RELATIONS WITH MORECAMBE .- As I had already advanced in the 1957 Miss World article, at the end of that year the Director of Mecca Dancing, Eric Morley, had decided to withdraw from his support for the Morecambe’s “National Bathing Beauty Contest” where the representative of Great Britain was elected heading to Miss World. This happened because he did not agree on how the people of Morecambe organized this event. In addition, Charles Eade of the Sunday Dispatch had been promoted to Director of Associated Newspapers of the United Kingdom and had left office in the newspaper, and the new Director of the Sunday Dispatch had decided not to continue supporting these beauty pageants, so it would not sponsor any including Miss World. By the way, after this decision, the newspaper lowered its sales considerably and ended up joining the Sunday Express newspaper before its extinction. After the withdrawal of the Sunday Dispatch and Butlin’s from the Morecambe contest, Mecca Dancing did the same, and although the title of “Miss Great Britain” had been established by Morley to give greater status to the “National Bathing Beauty Contest” as its winner would represent the country in Miss World, and to avoid legal problems, he decided that the new contest he would organize would not be called “Miss Great Britain” but “Miss United Kingdom”, a title that no one had used until that moment. The former Morecambe Advertising Director, Harry Porter, had now gone to Blackpool, being the new Advertising Director of that city, so Morley decided to continue to count on his support and hold his new event in Blackpool. That was how the first edition of the “Miss United Kingdom” contest took place in that city on Thursday, August 28th, 1958, in clear competition to Miss Great Britain, which was held in those same days in Morecambe. The winner of the first edition of “Miss United Kingdom” was Eileen Elizabeth Sheridan. NATIONAL COMPETITIONS.- As every year, due to economic problems, some countries that chose their queens could not send their representatives to the British contest, as was the case of two Africans: Miss Egypt (Leila Saad) and Miss Ghana (Janet Ohene-Agyei Boateng). Although Miss Ghana received a trip to London as a prize like her predecessor did, the girl preferred to collect her prize in the month of May and no longer returned for the world pageant in the month of October. On June 12th, at the Tokyo Metropolitan Gymnasium, forty-eight participants gathered for the election of Miss Japan 1958, an event organized by the Sankei newspaper. This event would crown two winners, one for Miss Universe and the other for Miss World. The winner for Miss World was Hisako Okuse, 23, of Aomori Prefecture, in the north of the country. As in Ceylon and Honduras, the Miss Switzerland contest was not held this year. On the other hand, and after the success of the South American tour that was made by Miss World 1957, Marita Lindahl, Brazil decided to send for the first time a representative to the contest, Sonia María Campos, Miss Pernambuco and First Runner-up of Miss Brazil 1958, elected on June 19th of that year. Colombia had also planned to send a representative for the first time. Luz Marina Zuluaga was in charge, but after winning the Miss Universe title in Long Beach in July, she obviously could no longer participate in Miss World. Therefore, Brazil was the only country that debuted that year in the English competition. In Venezuela, the dictatorship of General Marcos Pérez Jiménez had just been overthrown and the country was not in the mood to hold a beauty contest. However, on July 14th, the Miss Venezuela contest was held unexpectedly in the pool area of the Avila Hotel in Caracas, where among only four contestants (the lowest number of applicants in the history of Miss Venezuela) Ida Margarita Pieri, 18, was crowned. She was sister of Miss Venezuela in Miss World 1956, and was chosen as the Venezuelan beauty queen of who was going to represent the country in both Miss Universe and Miss World. Meanwhile, on August 12th, “Miss Maple Leaf” was chosen in Toronto, Canada, whose 21-year-old winner Marilyn Keddie of Flin Flon, Manitoba, would go to Miss World after defeating 18 other competitors. Also, on August 29th of that year, the third edition of the Miss South Africa contest was held, resulting in the triumph of Miss Penelope Anne Coelen, at an event that was organized by a renowned newspaper in that country and that had just over 200 girls competing. In Poland, on September 6th of that year, a new beauty queen was crowned. The winner would go to Miss Universe the following year, and the First Runner-up to Miss World. The stir was so much on the crowning day that the public, not agreeing with the result, threw eggs and tomatoes at the newly crowned Miss Poland. The audience’s favorite was Krystina Zylówna, who came in second place, but who in the end did not get permission from the government to go to London to participate in the Morley’s contest. After the failure of Charlotte Sheffield in the Miss World edition of the previous year, the organizers of Miss USA decided to withdraw from the English contest, so they would no longer send the First Runner-up of their event to London. But, luckily for Morley, a new organization decided to organize a contest to send the winner to Miss World. It was the “Queen of United States” pageant, which was held at the Henry Hudson hotel in New York on September 18th, being won by a lady and mother of two children, Nancy Anne Corcoran, of Washington Heights, New York City. COMPETED TWICE AT MISS WORLD.- Belgium chose Michele Gouthals as her Miss in 1958, however, she did not go to Miss World. Instead, the Belgians again sent their 1957 queen, the 19-year-old blonde Jeanne Chandelle and measurements 37-23-37, to the Morley’s contest in London. The reasons could have been because the poor girl did not enjoy the contest of the previous year, because as soon as she arrived in the British capital she fell ill with the Asian Flu and could only recover for the final night of the event, so she should have obtained the approval of Morley, who let her participate again in his contest. A DISEASE GETS AWAY MORLEY FROM MISS WORLD .- In 1958, Morley’s work in Mecca was much heavier. In addition to being in charge of all promotions, including the “Come Dancing” television program since its creation in 1949, beauty contests and other competitions organized by Mecca Dancing, he was also responsible for the supervision of Mecca dance halls, not only in the United Kingdom but in other countries. There was so much pressure and having to organize everything directly, that stress had consequences for Morley’s health. At the end of September, the company sent him to Canada to discuss possibilities of opening dance halls in that country, so he made a ten-day tour of several Canadian cities. Upon his return to London at the beginning of October, Morley fell in bed with a high fever and spots on his face. He had to be admitted to the Queensgate Clinic with a severe attack of shingles, which bothered a nerve in his nose and could also have cost him the sight in his right eye. In view of what happened, his immediate boss of Mecca Dancing, Carl Heimann, discharged him for three months, even though Morley wanted to leave the clinic to set up the Miss World contest, which was about to take place. Then, Morley had no choice but to delegate functions to his Managing Director Walter Pickard. Similarly, Morley had the support of many people within Mecca Dancing to make the 1958 contest a success. His former secretary, Jean Gibbons, who at that time was Director of a subsidiary, also provided support. Pickard took care not only of the details of the final night of the contest, but also of the Coronation Ball held at the Cafe de Paris. To help Pickard with his job, Mecca Dancing brought the American Bob Russell back to help in the production of the event. To lower costs, this year the girls would not rehearse previously in the Lyceum Ballroom, but they would do it in loaned rooms and where the spaces of the Lyceum stage would be marked with tapes. Due to his illness, Morley could not be in charge of invitations to different countries and had to trust his directors blindly. That year, the participation of 25 countries was expected, but Miss Austria, Johanna (Hanni) Ehrenstrasser, won the 1958 Miss Europe contest weeks before and therefore could not participate in Miss World. The organizers had thought to send then to their queen of 1957, Elisabeth “Sissy” Schübel-Auer, but because of the rush, this plan did not materialize. While Morley spent his convalescence in Spain, the candidates for Miss World were about to arrive in London for the eighth edition of the contest. ARRIVING IN LONDON.- The Miss World 1958 contest was going to be held from October 5th to 14th in the British capital. Just on Sunday the 5th the arrival of beauty queens from 24 countries was expected. However, the first candidate to arrive was Miss Japan (Hisako Okuse) who arrived on Thursday, October 2nd, to adapt to the time change and also taking the opportunity to visit his excellency the Japanese Ambassador Kaisumi Onho before the beauty contest. The Japanese beauty wore a white kimono with red chrysanthemums during the visit to the official residence of the Ambassador at Kensington Palace Gardens. Subsequently, that same day, the young Asian woman attended an interview that was done at the BBC facilities and had dinner at a Japanese restaurant. On Friday, October 3rd, Miss Canada (Marilyn Anne Keddie) arrived in the British capital. She got off her plane at the London airport holding some maple leaves with a white gloved hand. Another gold brooch-shaped maple leaf was pinned to the neck of her dark blue suit. She gave journalists some press releases, each with a gold and metal maple leaf. “There is no doubt about the nationality of this girl,” said an airport official. Following her participation in Miss World, the Canadian, a 22-year-old modeling secretary and modeling instructor, said she would spend 14 days in Paris as part of her “Miss Maple Leaf” awards. On Sunday October 5th, it was the arrivals of Miss Belgium (Jeanne Chandelle), Miss Brazil (Sonia María Campos Batista), Miss Denmark (Vinnie Ingemann), Miss France (Claudine Oger), Miss Germany (Dagmar Herner), Miss Greece (Mary Panoutsopoulou), Miss Holland (Lucienne Struve), Miss Ireland (Susan Riddell), Miss Italy (Elisabetta Velinsky), Miss Morocco (Jocelyne Lambin), Miss Norway (Åse Gjeldvik), Miss Sweden (Gunilla Harriett Margareta Wagstrom) and Miss United States (Nancy Anne Corcoran) at the London airport . They were joined by Miss South Africa (Penelope Anne Coelen) who arrived at Victoria train station from Luxembourg. This year, the contestants were staying at the Westbury Hotel, in Mayfair, London. On Monday, October 6th, in the afternoon, the usual Press Presentation was held, this time at the Lyceum Ballroom, where the aspirants shown their figures in swimsuits and their elegance in cocktail dresses to the media. The group was joined by Miss United Kingdom (Eileen Elizabeth Sheridan) for a total of 17 contestants who posed that day in the line-up for photographers. In the absence of Morley, the press agent in charge of the Miss World 1958 contest was Cyril St. John-Murphy. For many of the contestants, it was obviously a difficult experience as they fought off nerves under the strain of stares and floodlights. But Miss Canada had little trouble with her first run. She had a warm, relaxed smile for the heavy applause that greeted her. Later, she explained: “Maybe it’s because I just love other people and I like being with other people.” So far as her chances are concerned: “I haven’t the faintest idea, I really haven’t.” As always, she wore a golden maple leaf pinned to her dress. On the other hand, Miss Denmark almost fell down the stairs when she appeared in a tiny miniskirt before the eyes of the surprised journalists. Behind her appeared Miss Morocco, with an even shorter miniskirt. Then, they showed up in swimsuits. Miss France, 17, claimed that she had been presented with 35, when in fact she claimed to be 36 in her bust, while Miss Greece and Miss Sweden could not believe they were wearing the same swimsuit! The applicants spent all afternoon with the reporters and even showed their skills in what was the latest fashion shout of the time, the hula-hula, invented precisely that year by Arthur K. “Spud” Melin and Richard Knerr. The skill was to dance with a large hoop around their waists. Journalists interrogated Miss United States, a 23-year-old redhead from New York and asked her what a married lady was doing in the contest. To which she replied: “There didn’t seem to be any rule against it,” “and besides I was ‘Miss Most Beautiful Legs’ at Palisades Park in 1957.” “I have two lovely children: Mary, 4, and John, 3,” Miss United States added. However, she was not the favorite of the media; the photographers opted for the sensual Miss Denmark, a platinum blonde with short hair and 20 years old, who wore a tiny bikini for them despite the prohibition of their use in the contest. She said she had decided to wear one to “give me a good start (in the competition).” Another favorite of the press that day was Miss Japan. Among the statistics gathered by the press of this contest, it was mentioned that the tallest candidate was Miss Italy with 5 feet 10 inches; the shortest were Miss Ireland and Miss Norway with 5 feet 4 inches; and the youngest of all was Miss France, who was 17 years of age. That same afternoon Miss Israel (Rachel Shafrir) arrived a little late and joined the group at the Lyceum Ballroom, but did not arrive in time for the group photo. The organizers of the Miss World received that day the bad news that Miss Luxembourg (Lydie Schmit) and Miss Finland (Pirkko Mannola) would not participate, the latter perhaps because she thought she would not have any chance of winning after the triumph of her countrywoman last year. On Tuesday the 7th, Miss Turkey (Sunay Uslu) arrived at the headquarters of the contest while on Wednesday the 8th it was learned that Miss Iceland (Hjordis Sigurvinsdóttir) and Miss Tunisia (Denise Orlando) canceled their trips at the last minute, according to their directors via telegram. The last candidate to arrive was Miss Venezuela (Ida Margarita Pieri) on the morning of Thursday, October 9th. That same day the American Bob Russell arrived in London to handle the finals of Miss World. CONTESTANTS BELGIUM Jeanne ChandelleBRAZIL Sonia Maria Campos BatistaCANADA Marilyn Anne KeddieDENMARK Vinnie IngemannFRANCE Claudine OgerGERMANY Dagmar HernerGREECE Mary PanoutsopoulouHOLLAND Lucienne StruveIRELAND Susan RiddellISRAEL Rachel ShafrirITALY Elisabetta VelinskyJAPAN Hisako OkuseMOROCCO Jocelyne LambinNORWAY Åse GjeldvikSOUTH AFRICA Penelope Anne CoelenSWEDEN Gunilla Harriett Margareta WagstromTURKEY Sunay UsluUNITED KINGDOM Eileen Elizabeth SheridanUNITED STATES Nancy Anne CorcoranVENEZUELA Ida Margarita Pieri NO SHOWS ICELAND Hjordis SigurvinsdóttirTUNISIA Denise OrlandoLUXEMBOURG Lydie SchmitFINLAND Pirkko MannolaGHANA Janet Ohene-Agyei BoatengEGYPT Leila SaadPOLAND Krystina ZylównaAUSTRIA Elisabeth “Sissy” Schübel-Auer WOUNDED IN A CAR CRASH.- On Tuesday, the contestants visited Mayor Denis Truscott at the Mansion House wearing their National Costumes and offering gifts brought from their respective countries. On Wednesday they spent the day visiting numerous tourist sites in the British capital and saw the changing of the guard at Buckingham Palace; and on Thursday they had the usual lunch after their visit to the House of Commons, invited as always by the Group Captain C.A. Wilcock. Wednesday was a relaxed day for the contestants. After their tourist walks, they had the rest of the afternoon free. Some decided to rest, others took advantage of visits to representatives of their countries in the city, such as Miss Canada who had a half-hour talk with George Drew, High Commissioner of Canada at his offices in London. On the night of that same day, Miss Japan was slightly injured in a traffic accident when she went to an interview for a Japanese journalist. Her car had a collision with another in Forest Hill. The girl, who was accompanied by one of the chaperones, suffered bruises on her shoulder after the crash, so she remained at rest the next day. On Friday, October 10th, the girls visited the Rank film studios in Pinewood, outside London, where they were received by the Director of the studios Mario Zampi and actor Kenneth More. This event, apart from Miss Japan, was not attended by Miss United States, because she got a cold, and Miss Morocco, also wasn’t feeling well. The weekend was rehearsal and rest; and early Monday they went to the Dimitri’s Beauty Salon in Kensington, to be ready for the big night. A cosmetics firm, in the person of D. A. Souray, handed each of the contestants a box with a shampoo as a gift. THE FINALS.- The finals of the “Miss World 1958” contest was held at 8 pm on Monday, October 13th at the Lyceum Ballroom in London, organized, as always, by Mecca Dancing and produced on this occasion by Dennis Monger and Peter Webber. Although the contest lost the auspices of the Sunday Dispatch, its former editor, Charles Eade, continued to support the event and was once again present as Chairman of the Judges panel. The opening of the contest was in charge of the trumpeters of the British Royal Air Force band, directed by A. W. Wilkins and with the authorization of the Air Council. After the words of rigor and the intonation of the National Anthem, the Master of Ceremonies, Bob Russell, presented the judges, composed this time by 10 members. They were: The photojournalist and editor of two dance magazines, Charles Jacobs (for the second consecutive year); former Brazilian politician Oscar Santa María; the South African model Cynthia Oberholzer; Scottish painting artist David Cowan Dobson; British model Barbara Goalen; the editor and member of the Council of the British Commonwealth Press Union, Charles Eade; American actress of Finnish origin Taina Elisabeth Elg; British Formula One car racer Stirling Moss (for the third consecutive year); Pakistan fashion designer Princess Shakuntala Sharma; and Claude Berr of the Miss Europe Committee (on his sixth year as a judge). Charles Eade, with eight years of experience as an scrutineer in the contest, would be the one who would tabulate them. In the absence of Eric Morley, Charles was the one who gave the parameters of choice to the rest of the judges: 1-FIGURE, 2-LEGS, 3-DEPORTMENT, 4- FACIAL BEAUTY, 5- CHARM and 6- PERSONALITY. And according to Eade, 50% of the score would have to do with the figure in a bathing suit. The 20 candidates paraded, as always, first in evening gowns and, later, in a one-piece swimsuit, in alphabetical order. In this last stage, as was tradition, they were stripped of elaborate capes by two models so that their figures could be shown to the judges and the audience. After these parades, Bob Russell interviewed each of the participants for a minute. At 9:45 p.m. the live broadcast by the BBC of the last half an hour of the contest started during the interview segment with comments from George Elrick. Once the contest was over, Russell was criticized by the English press for asking stupid questions to the beauties. For example, he started to flirt to Miss Sweden and told her that if she was not married, then if she stayed in London for three more days she would end up getting married … After the talk with Russell, the 20 contestants made their last group parade in their bathing suit. The intermission was in charge of the Sydney Thompson Orchestra. Subsequently, the first cut was made, from 20 girls to 6 finalists. The Master of Ceremonies released the names of the 6 lucky ones in alphabetical order, they were: Miss Denmark, Miss France, Miss Holland, Miss South Africa, Miss Sweden and Miss United Kingdom. The 6 finalists once again paraded and posed together in front of the judges for them to issue the final selection. While the votes were tabulated, Bob Russell dedicated a serenade to them. The judges then gave their verdict and the final result was announced by the Master of Ceremonies, as usual, in reverse order, while the 6 finalists waited backstage. Fifth, with a prize of £ 50, Miss Netherlands, Lucienne Struve, a 19-year-old model, from Rotterdam. In the fourth position, Miss Sweden, Gunilla Harriett Margareta Wagstrom, a 20-year-old secretary from Stockholm, who won a prize of £ 60. In third place Miss Denmark, Vinnie Ingemann, an 18-year-old dancer from Copenhagen with £ 75. In second place was Miss France, Claudine Oger, a 17-year-old student from Paris and winner of a £ 100 prize. There were two girls waiting backstage and the nerves became increasingly evident. THE NEW MISS WORLD.- Bob Russell then mentioned the name of the winner, Penelope Anne Coelen, Miss South Africa, an 18-year-old secretary of Durban, with honey-colored hair, hazel eyes, measurements 35-23-36 and 5 feet 7 and a half inches tall, who received scepter and crown of the hands of Charles Eade and Bob Russell himself, in the absence of Miss World of the previous year. She got a new design of crown, different that the one they used in recent years. The brand new “Miss World 1958” obtained a check for 500 pounds sterling, a huge bouquet of flowers and a sports car valued at 700 pounds more, which by the way, could be seen near the stage. This year the winner did not receive the usual silver rose-bowl after the Sunday Dispatch newspaper withdraw as sponsor of the event. Behind the proscenium was then Miss United Kingdom, Eileen Elizabeth Sheridan, a 22-year-old receptionist from Walton-on-Thames, who won sixth place, winning a prize of £ 25. Both the audience and the candidates themselves were very satisfied with the triumph of the South African girl. “We all expected Penelope to win, she’s very sweet, isn’t her?” Miss United Kingdom said after the coronation. “I can’t believe it, I am so happy,” said the excited winner to the media after her triumph at the Coronation Ball held later at the Cafe de Paris. The next morning, the beautiful South African woman received some members of the press in her room number 731 of the Westbury hotel, where she read congratulatory telegrams and received the expected call from her parents from Durban. “I feel on top of the world,” the beautiful South African told them excitedly. Asked by the press about what she would do with the 500 pound sterling prize, she said she would invest it in South African metal stocks, following her father’s advice. “I have already acquired some shares and I would like to buy some more. I am not interested in anything else,” Penny concluded, as she loved to be called. At noon she attended the press in a hotel lounge, where she arrived 5 minutes late, apologizing to those present. There she told the media that her hobbies were languages, sailing and playing tennis. Her ambition, she said, was to travel around the world. Coelen confessed that she had already won six other beauty titles since she was 13 but swore she would never go through the terror of competing again, and said it was “too stressful”, but that being a Miss World contestant was “something I would not have liked to lose”. In addition to English and Afrikaans, Penelope also spoke French and Zulu. While the South African winner attended the press at the hotel, the other candidates were preparing to travel back to their countries. Miss Belgium left a pending bill in her room of £ 11. Mr. Shackell and Mr. Murphy, of Mecca, tried to explain to her in a very limited French, that she had to pay the bill, but she did what she did not understand and left without paying. “The bill was for personal things she had bought and she thought we were claiming for more money,” Shackell said, so in the end they let her go and they had to pay the bill… On the afternoon of the same day, the two-seat car was handed over to the winner and with which she went shopping on the famous London Bond Street and the West End, causing a sensation on the road. The next day, Penny signed a contract for a television commercial for a renowned shampoo, visited the new N.S.U. Prince where the “Motor Show” was held, invited by Stirling Moss, and where she tested different vehicles presented at that fair; and then, on Friday, October 17th, she traveled to Paris to enjoy a 15-day trip, courtesy of the Miss Europe Committee. After her stay in Paris, she returned to London to participate in a fashion show and from there she traveled to the United States. Then, at the end of April 1959, the beauty returned to London aboard the Pendennis Castle ship to fulfill her own reign commitments. BIOGRAPHY.- Penelope Anne Coelen was born in Shepperton, Middlesex, England, on April 15th, 1940. She lived on the Cape, in Witbank, Pretoria, Swaziland, Benoni and Estcourt before her family finally settled in Durban. The beauty business always fascinated her, and while she was a high school student she sold cosmetics during school vacations. She won the Miss Sparletta, Miss Jantzen, Miss Landstem, Cape Beauty Queen, Miss Margate and, of course, Miss South Africa and Miss World contests. Before a talent scout noticed her, she completed a secretarial course and was employed as a typist by a Durban architect. She gained widespread international attention during her reign and received several lucrative modeling offers. Penny made her first visit to the United States on November 23rd, 1958 and was invited to participate in the “To Tell the Truth” television program produced and broadcast by CBS in New York City on November 25th of that year. . After her reign as Miss World 1958, she tried her luck in Hollywood with the help of James Garner, but failed in her screen test. She later returned to South Africa, managed her own clothing line and promoted beauty products, particularly perfumes. She married in 1960 with the rich sugar cane farmer Michel Rey of the province of Natal. After traveling the world and socializing with high society, the famous beauty struggled to adapt to life on a lonely farm without electricity or hot water. “I was a miserable newlywed and often wondered where I should travel, wondering what I was doing on a farm. I decided to burn my diaries of my time as Miss World, because I no longer wanted to live in the past”, she said. Now she regrets burning those diaries, since she would have liked to add them to her collection of memories of life, which include many magical moments “One of my best memories was in Austria. I was called to the balcony of the Schönbrunn Palace in Vienna. The full moon shone on the trees in the vast garden and a white carriage appeared. The dancers came out of the carriage and performed a magnificent ballet in the garden”. However, tragic memories punished Coelen-Rey. “What really made me step on land was when I lost my first child.” She did not give up and had five children thereafter. “I dedicated the first 15 years of my marriage completely to my children.” “I remember sewing nightgowns when they were little and then washing and drying army uniforms when my children came home on weekends. I still see myself hanging those uniforms on heaters to dry. ”At 35, the elegant blonde trained as a beauty therapist and opened the” Salon de Beauté” on the farm. After 14 years, she decided that it was time for a change again and this time, she joined the art of public speaking. She talked about beauty, home entertainment, health and fashion coordination. “It was incredibly stressful, because I was always terrified that I forgot what I wanted to say”. Then she changed to more artistic things. She enjoyed her vacation doing painting and spending time with artists while learning from them, which often became great friendships. “I like to meet and have friends. If I like someone, I invite to my house”, says Coelen-Rey, who treasures her friends around the world. She also raised racehorses and became an expert in gun shooting. When it was time to move from the farm, she converted her new home into a guest house, much to her husband’s dismay. The house was sold later and became Hotel Izulu, which recently closed. In general, her life was good, until the tragedy occurred in June 2004, when her son Nicholas had a strange polo accident. “There was a collision in the field that resulted in his horse stumbling and then falling on him. Nicholas suffered a brain stem injury and, although he can hear and understand everything and his brain is fully functional, communication is difficult”, she said. Coelen-Rey also said that unfortunately physically, he could not do anything for himself and was totally dependent on 24-hour nursing care. “His life has changed greatly in recent years”. There are times when we get depressed. We just have to accept it”, she said. She attended as a guest at the Miss World contests of 1975 and 2000, and today she remains an outstanding socialite in South Africa. On December 21st, 2016, she lost her son Nicholas Rey, a few days before he turned 52, due to health problems caused by the 2004 accident. She has five grandchildren and currently lives in Ballito, Kwazulu-Natal, 40 km north of Durban. Referring to her experience as Miss World, Penelope said she had not taken all the opportunities she had been offered after winning the title, but was sure she had done the right thing when she decided to get married. OTHERS WHO ACHIEVED FAME.- Meanwhile, Miss France dedicated herself to acting, got her first role in 1958 and gradually emerged as one of the most remembered actresses of that country. She married in 1959 with Film Director Pierre Gaspard-Huit with whom she made numerous films but got success in her career as an actress in her role as the Bond Girl “Domino” in the film “Thunderball” in 1965. Claudine changed at that time her last name Oger by Auger, with which she has been known since. She has a daughter named Jessica Claudine Brent. Claudine remained active in the films until 1997. She was widowed in 2008 by her second husband Pete Brent and currently resides in Great Britain. Other contestants this year who entered the movies career were the Italian Elisabetta Velinsky and the Turkish Sunay Uslu, recognized actresses during the 60s. Another famous that emerged this year, but not precisely in the arts was Lydie Schmit of Luxembourg, who withdrew from Miss World but was a recognized Politician of the socialist party of that country during the 70s and 80s and was Vice President of the Socialist International and member of the European Parliament until she died of cancer in 1988. MISS BELGIUM MISS BRAZIL MISS CANADA MISS DENMARK MISS FRANCE MISS GERMANY MISS GREECE MISS HOLLAND MISS ICELAND MISS IRELAND MISS ISRAEL MISS ITALY MISS JAPAN MISS MOROCCO MISS NORWAY MISS SOUTH AFRICA MISS SWEDEN MISS TURKEY MISS UNITED KINGDOM MISS UNITED STATES MISS VENEZUELA MISS VENEZUELA MISS VENEZUELA MISS JAPAN MISS SWEDEN MISS JAPAN and the Japanese Embassador to London MISS ISRAEL MISS SOUTH AFRICA MISS VENEZUELA 17 of the contestants at the Cafe de Paris during Press Presentation From left to right.: Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Holland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Morocco, South Africa, Sweden, United Kingdom and United States From left to right.: Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Holland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Morocco, South Africa, Sweden, United Kingdom and United States From left to right.: Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Holland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Morocco, South Africa, Sweden, United Kingdom and United States From left to right.: Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Holland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Morocco, South Africa, Sweden, United Kingdom and United States Japan and Brazil United Kingdom Norway, Greece, Denmark, Sweden and Israel United Kingdom France, Canada and South Africa United Kingdom, Sweden and Italy Sweden, France, Morocco, Norway, Germany, United States, Holland, Ireland, Canada, Greece, Italy, Belgium, United Kingdom, Japan, South Africa and Denmark Sweden, France, Morocco, Norway, Germany, United States, Holland, Ireland, Canada, Greece, Italy, Belgium, United Kingdom, Japan, South Africa and Denmark United States Denmark France, Canada and South Africa United Kingdom, Sweden and Italy United States. Brazil and Canada Brazil, Denmark and Morocco Brazil, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Holland, Ireland, Israel and Italy Italy Brazil Japan South Africa UK and Holland Japan Japan, UK, United States, Holland, France, Canada, Brazil, South Africa and Italy Japan, UK, United States, Holland, France, Canada, Brazil, South Africa and Italy Germany, Israel, Brazil, Denmark, South Africa and Holland MISS SOUTH AFRICA MISS VENEZUELA France and Italy Germany, Denmark, Italy, Morocco and Sweden South Africa The 20 contestants in their gowns South Africa and United Kingdom South Africa Estados Unidos United States and Venezuela The 20 contestants in their swim suits Bob Russell interviews Miss France Miss South Africa is the new Miss World South Africa The new Miss World from South Africa surrounded by her runner-ups from Sweden, France and Denmark The new Miss World from South Africa surrounded by her runner-ups from Sweden, France, Denmark and Holland The new Miss World from South Africa surrounded by her runner-ups from Sweden, France, Denmark and Holland Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa The new Miss World from South Africa surrounded by her runner-ups from France and Denmark Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa The new Miss World from South Africa surrounded by her runner-ups from Sweden, France, Denmark and Holland Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa The new Miss World from South Africa surrounded by her runner-ups from France and Denmark Miss Denmark congratulates the new Miss World Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa The new Miss World from South Africa surrounded by her runner-ups from Sweden, France, Denmark and Holland Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa The new Miss World from South Africa surrounded by her runner-ups from France and Denmark Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa The new Miss World from South Africa surrounded by her runner-ups from France and Denmark Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa The new Miss World from South Africa surrounded by her runner-ups from France and Denmark The new Miss World from South Africa surrounded by her runner-ups from France and Denmark Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa The new Miss World from South Africa surrounded by her runner-ups from France and Denmark The new Miss World from South Africa surrounded by her runner-ups from France and Denmark Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa along with the queens of 1951, 1953 and 1955 during Miss World 1975 Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa with the winners of 1953, 1988, 1998 and 1986 in London in 2000 Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa with Miss World 1966 Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa with a grandchild Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa with her husband Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa with Miss World 2014 also from South Africa Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa at the Miss South Africa contest of 2018 with Rolene Strauss, Demi-Leigh Nel- Peters, Margaret Gardiner and Anneline Kriel Miss World 1958, Penelope Anne Coelen from South Africa at the Miss South Africa contest of 2018 with Margaret Gardiner, Demi-Leigh Nel- Peters, Rolene Strauss and Anneline Kriel Thanks to Donald West, Daryl Schabinger and Michael Dos Santos
