=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mammoth Cave National Park - Wikipedia]
It was named a World Heritage Site on October 27, 1981; an international Biosphere Reserve on September 26, 1990; and an International Dark Sky Park on October 28, 2021. The park's mission is stated in its foundation document: The purpose of Mammoth Cave National Park is to p
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mammoth_Cave_National_Park

[Mammoth Cave National Park - GovInfo]
Kentucky is home to Mammoth Cave National Park. It was authorized as a national park in 1926 and fully established in 1941.
URL: https://www.govinfo.gov/features/mammoth-cave-national-park

[Mammoth Cave National Park | DarkSky International]
In recognition of these world-class resources, the Park has received two international designations. In 1981, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) designated Mammoth Cave as a World Heritage Site. The Park’s first organized efforts for astronomical and night sky programming began in 2017 and continues to this day.
URL: https://darksky.org/places/mammoth-cave-national-park-dark-sky-park/

[Mammoth Cave National Park certified as an International Dark-Sky Park]
The first National Park Service unit to receive the certification was Utah’s Natural Bridges National Monument in 2007. To learn more about Mammoth Cave National Park’s International Dark-Sky designation or to find out when the next ranger-led ...
URL: https://www.wbko.com/2021/10/28/mammoth-cave-national-park-certified-an-international-dark-sky-park/

[Mammoth Cave becomes recognized International Dark-Sky Park | Lexington Herald Leader]
The first place to receive certification was Natural Bridges National Monument in Utah. Since then, more than 100 parks have been added. Mammoth Cave is about 130 miles southwest of Lexington.
URL: https://www.kentucky.com/news/nation-world/national/article255353091.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mammoth Cave National Park - Wikipedia] ---
Mammoth Cave National Park is a national park of the United States in south-central Kentucky. It encompasses portions of Mammoth Cave, the longest known cave system in the world. The park's 52,007 acres (21,046 ha) are located primarily in Edmonson County, with small areas extending eastward into Hart and Barren counties. The Green River runs through the park, with a tributary called the Nolin River feeding into the Green just inside the park.
The cave system has formally been known as the Mammoth–Flint Ridge Cave System since 1972, when a connection was discovered between Mammoth Cave and the even longer system under Flint Ridge to the north. As of 2025, more than 426 miles (686 km) of passageways had been surveyed, over 1.5 times longer than the second-longest cave system, Mexico's Sac Actun underwater cave.
The park was established as a national park on July 1, 1941, after oft-contentious eminent domain proceedings whose consequences still affect the region. It was named a World Heritage Site on October 27, 1981; an international Biosphere Reserve on September 26, 1990; and an International Dark Sky Park on October 28, 2021.




--- [Mammoth Cave National Park - GovInfo] ---
Published: September 27, 2024 Kentucky is home to Mammoth Cave National Park. It was authorized as a national park in 1926 and fully established in 1941. This unprecedented 15-year process involved converting the settled areas into parklands and meeting congressional requirements. The park is known for its cave system, rich history, and diverse plant and animal life. This cave system has over 400 miles of exploration and mapping, and it preserves the habitat of several threatened and endangered species, including many bat species. Water dissolving carbonate rocks slowly created sinkholes, tunnels, and underground rivers to form this cave system. Read more about how the cave formed on the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) website and the types of passages on the National Park Service (NPS) website. Mammoth Cave National Park was designated a World Heritage Site in 1981, and in 1990 earned the title of United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) International Biosphere Reserve. The World Heritage Convention, adopted in 1972 and enacted in 1975, establishes World Heritage Sites and links the preservation of cultural properties with nature conservation. UNESCO encourages the identification, protection, and preservation of cultural and natural heritages worldwide and considers them outstanding values for humanity. World Heritage sites belong to all people regardless of their land location. (NPS) On October 28, 2021, the park was deemed an International Dark Sky Park. This certification, as described by the International Dark Sky Association (IDA), showcases the park as "land possessing an exceptional or distinguished quality of starry nights and a nocturnal environment that is protected specifically for either its scientific, natural, educational, cultural heritage or public enjoyment." Many cave formations that took thousands of years to grow are fragile, and a simple touch can cause damage. Over the years, some formations have been stolen by visitors for profit. The National Park Service encourages visitors to respect these caves and not touch the cave walls or formations. Some formations may take centuries to regrow. Additional Sources and Resources - View the Code of Federal Regulations - 36 CFR § 7.36 - Mammoth Cave National Park for codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the departments and agencies of the Federal Government. - Search the Serial Set Collection to explore early Senate and House Documents and Reports related to Mammoth Cave National Park. - Check out NASA's "Spot the Station" webpage to see when you can spot the International Space Station (ISS) from Mammoth Cave Park. - Explore the National Park Service's website to plan your visit and learn what you need to know before you go.


--- [Mammoth Cave National Park | DarkSky International] ---
Mammoth Cave National Park About Named for the enormity of its “mammoth” subterranean vaults and the unparalleled extent of its passages, Mammoth Cave National Park is the longest known cave system in the world with 412 miles surveyed to date. Today, Mammoth Cave comprises approximately 52,830 acres in Edmonson, Hart, and Barren counties in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. The Park, located within a day’s drive of half of the U.S. population, offers a wide range of recreational and educational opportunities amidst the diverse cave system, outstanding scenic rivers, hilly country, and abundant wildlife. The cultural and natural resources protected within this national Park are national treasures. In recognition of these world-class resources, the Park has received two international designations. In 1981, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) designated Mammoth Cave as a World Heritage Site. The Park’s first organized efforts for astronomical and night sky programming began in 2017 and continues to this day. The goals and objectives of these programs are to provide visitors a unique opportunity to view the night sky at Mammoth Cave, introduce the impacts of nighttime light pollution, and discuss ways we can minimize nighttime light pollution and protect the night sky. Mammoth Cave is also pioneering lightscape management and dark sky protection in south-central Kentucky. Awareness is here, but there are no existing ordinances in the surrounding counties or cities that specify luminaire style or type/color of light. Leading by example, Glasgow, KY, has begun replacing worn out street lamps with Verdeon LED roadway luminaires, with other communities following suit. Designated 2021 Category International Dark Sky Park Bronze Tier Address 1 Mammoth Cave Pkwy Mammoth Cave, KY 42259 Google Maps Contact Lillian Scoggins Website Tel.: +1 (270) 758-2149 Land Area 207 km2 Documents Weather Click here to find ideal environmental conditions for viewing the night sky at Mammoth Cave National Park (37.185989, -86.100363). Don’t forget to plan your trip during the new moon and astronomical twilight to enhance the viewing experience!


--- [Mammoth Cave National Park certified as an International Dark-Sky Park] ---
Mammoth Cave National Park certified as an International Dark-Sky Park MAMMOTH CAVE, Ky. (WBKO) - The National Park Service and the International Dark-Sky Association has announced Mammoth Cave National Park as an International Dark-Sky Park. This certification recognizes the exceptional quality of night skies and the opportunities to enhance visitor experiences through astronomy-based interpretive programming in the park. Mammoth Cave National Park is the first site in Kentucky to receive this designation. Mammoth Cave National Park received the certification after a rigorous application process that took several years and required strong community support from groups like the Great Onyx Job Corps Center and the City of Park City. The certification required an evaluation of over 700 outdoor light fixtures, retrofitting light fixtures to make them dark-sky friendly, developing a plan to manage outdoor lighting for future park projects, and demonstrating a commitment to promote the benefits of dark skies to park visitors and neighbors. Adopting IDA-compliant lighting systems provides economic benefits in addition to advancing preservation efforts. According to Bobby Bunnell, City Clerk & Treasurer, “The City of Park City has retrofitted the city’s entire street lighting system with Dark-Sky certified LED fixtures. This not only allowed the city to realize an almost 45% reduction in our monthly cost, but it generated a 65% savings of our monthly kWh energy usage. As the city promotes the Bell’s Tavern Park, which is the trailhead for the Mammoth Cave Bike & Hike Trail, we see our efforts to become a Dark-Sky community having an impact on our local tourism economy as well, as we look to promote possible Dark-Sky events locally and with Mammoth Cave National Park.” The IDA encourages communities and parks to take steps to ensure that future generations can observe the natural nightscape. “Mammoth Cave National Park’s Dark-Sky Park certification is an essential and valuable asset for recognizing and protecting dark skies as a natural, cultural, and historic resource,” stated Ruskin Hartley, Executive Director of IDA. In support of dark sky conservation and education at Mammoth Cave National Park, the park regularly presents ranger-led astronomy programs throughout the year to provide the public an opportunity to experience unfettered views of the starry night and evoke a new appreciation for the park’s dark sky environment. The park website also features a virtual Junior Ranger Night Explorer program where children can learn more about the skies above their national parks. The International Dark-Sky Places Program was founded in 2001 as a non-regulatory and voluntary program encouraging communities, parks, and protected areas around the world to preserve and protect dark sites through responsible lighting policies and public education. Each International Dark-Sky Place follows a rigorous application process that demonstrates robust community support for dark sky certification. The first National Park Service unit to receive the certification was Utah’s Natural Bridges National Monument in 2007. To learn more about Mammoth Cave National Park’s International Dark-Sky designation or to find out when the next ranger-led star party is scheduled, please visit the park’s International Dark-Sky Park page. Copyright 2021 WBKO. All rights reserved.


--- [Mammoth Cave becomes recognized International Dark-Sky Park | Lexington Herald Leader] ---
Want to stargaze? Kentucky park just got recognized for its ‘quality of night skies’ Kentucky officially has a site committed to stargazing. The International Dark-Sky Association recognized Mammoth Cave National Park for its “exceptional quality of night skies,” park officials announced Thursday. The park was deemed an International Dark-Sky Park. It’s the first site in Kentucky to get the designation, according to the National Park Service. “We hope that this designation will encourage the public to appreciate the vastness of not only the miles of deep underground passageways of Mammoth Cave, but also the beauty of the night sky above the park,” Mammoth Cave National Park Superintendent Barclay Trimble said in a news release. The application process to become an International Dark-Sky Park took several years. Park officials reviewed 700 outdoor lights to make them more “dark-sky friendly.” They also planned to reduce outdoor lighting for future projects. “The City of Park City has retrofitted the city’s entire street lighting system with Dark-Sky certified LED fixtures,” Bobby Bunnell, city clerk and treasurer, said in the news release. “This not only allowed the city to realize an almost 45% reduction in our monthly cost, but it generated a 65% savings of our monthly kWh energy usage.” The International-Dark Sky Places Program started in 2001. The first place to receive certification was Natural Bridges National Monument in Utah. Since then, more than 100 parks have been added. Mammoth Cave is about 130 miles southwest of Lexington. It encompasses 53,000 acres in south-central Kentucky and is home to the world’s longest cave system.
