=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lloyd Hopkins Field - Wikipedia]
Hopkins Field hosted American Legion teams from 1981 to 2015, and they returned in 2020. [2][6] Hopkins Field was also the home of the Bluff City Bombers in the Central Illinois Collegiate League from 1998 to 2004. [1][7] In January 2020 the city of Alton signed a 10-year lease with the River Dragons.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lloyd_Hopkins_Field

[Former Bluff City Bombers team joins Prospect League - Alton Telegraph]
U.S. hockey’s Joy Dunne recalls East Alton ties after Olympic gold vs. Canada and jumps back into Ohio State’s late-season push · Jackson Suhre (500 free) and Derek Ruehl (diving) medal at IHSA state, Edwardsville’s first · Sweet 16 status is at stake in boys basketball sectional semifinals ...
URL: https://www.thetelegraph.com/sports/article/bluff-city-bombers-played-alton-7-seasons-moving-18381388.php

[The good old days | Sports | advantagenews.com]
Feb 10, 2020 · On Aug. 11, 2004, baseball fans from the Alton area had reason to celebrate. The Bluff City Bombers captured their first and only Central Illinois Collegiate League championship after beating Twin City of Bloomington/Normal 3-1 in the second game of the best-of-three league finals at Lloyd Hopkins ...
URL: https://www.advantagenews.com/sports/the-good-old-days/article_a63d58f5-feb4-5d57-b3a9-d2b40a3d295e.html

[Dragons home opener against former Bluff City Bombers]
U.S. hockey’s Joy Dunne recalls East Alton ties after Olympic gold vs. Canada and jumps back into Ohio State’s late-season push · Jackson Suhre (500 free) and Derek Ruehl (diving) medal at IHSA state, Edwardsville’s first · Sweet 16 status is at stake in boys basketball sectional semifinals ...
URL: https://www.thetelegraph.com/sports/article/dragons-home-opener-former-bluff-city-bombers-18600366.php

[Dubois County Bombers - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
The Dubois County Bombers are a collegiate summer league baseball team located in Huntingburg, Indiana. The team plays in the Prospect League, which their former league, the NCAA sanctioned Central Illinois Collegiate League, was absorbed into. The Bombers were formed in 1998 by a group of investors led by Albany, NY - based financial software consultant John Bigness as the Bluff City Bombers ...
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/11667671


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lloyd Hopkins Field - Wikipedia] ---
Lloyd Hopkins Field is a baseball stadium in Alton, Illinois. Owned and operated by the city of Alton, it is the home field for the Alton River Dragons, a collegiate summer baseball team in the Prospect League, and for American Legion Baseball. Hopkins Field hosted American Legion teams from 1981 to 2015, and they returned in 2020. Hopkins Field was also the home of the Bluff City Bombers in the Central Illinois Collegiate League from 1998 to 2004.
In January 2020 the city of Alton signed a 10-year lease with the River Dragons. The deal called for upgrades to Hopkins Field, including the addition of a locker room, batting cages, a new scoreboard and video board, concession amenities, and seating for 1,800 people. Hopkins Field had been renovated in 2015 with updated dugouts and new batting cages, lights, siding, netting, fencing, and turf.


--- [Former Bluff City Bombers team joins Prospect League - Alton Telegraph] ---
ALTON - The Bluff City Bombers are returning to Alton. Well, at least the team formerly known as the Bluff City Bombers will return to Alton next summer. The DuBois County (Indiana) Bombers, who played in Alton as the Bluff City Bombers for seven summers from 1998 through 2004, have been admitted to the Prospect League and will face the current occupants of Lloyd Hopkins Field, the Alton River Dragons, next season. Advertisement Article continues below this ad "It's exciting to get two new teams in the league and one of them was once the Bluff City Bombers," said River Dragons general manager Dallas Martz. "I have heard a lot about the Bombers' time here from fans ever since we got to Alton." The Bombers, who were started locally by Jess Hopkins and Dave Hopkins, left for Indiana after winning their only Central Illinois Collegiate League championship in 2004. On Thursday, the DuBois County Bombers were admitted to the Prospect League for next season, along with Full Count Rhythm of Hendersonville, Tennessee. The Bombers and Full Count Rhythm, former Ohio Valley League teams, will replace the West Virginia Miners (sold to Dubois County) and the Quincy Gems (sold to Full Count). Advertisement Article continues below this ad "(The Bombers) have different owners from their time here, of course," Martz said. "But it will be kind of fun for the fans who remember their days playing in Alton." Bombers won the CICL championship in 2004, the left for Indiana four months later. Bluff City swept Twin City of Bloomington/Normal 3-1 in two straight games in the CICL's best-of-three league finals at Lloyd Hopkins Field, which became affectionately known as "The Hop" during the Bombers' tenure in Alton. Jess and Dave Hopkins were the Bluff City Bombers' general managers ther first four seasons. Jack Tracz took over as GM in 2002 and continued in that role after the team moved to Indiana. Advertisement Article continues below this ad While in Alton, the Bombers won 189 games and advanced to the CICL championship series four times, dropping three straight before the 2004 title. They Bluff City never had a losing season in Alton and went 22-22 their first season after being nine games under .500 at one point. The Bluff City Bombers featured their fair share of notable alums, including A.J. Van Slyke, the son of former Major Leaguer Andy Van Slyke as well as Nathan Culp. A.J. Van Slyke won the CICL MVP Award after leading the league in home runs, RBIs and batting average during the regular season. Culp, an Edwardsville High product, pitched for the University of Missouri and later was in the San Diego Padres farm system. The Bombers were in the race for the 2004 regular season title with two weeks left before losing six of eight games. After dropping the first game of the semifinal series against Danville, Bluff City rallied to win four straight games, including two against Twin City in the finals. Advertisement Article continues below this ad Since taking up residence in Indiana, the Bombers have created a loyal fan base. The team plays in historic League Stadium built in 1894. It was the "home" to the Rockford Peaches in the 1992 hit movie,"A League of Their Own." Dubois County's move marks a return to the Prospect League after having been a member from 2005-12. The Bombers were members of the Ohio Valley League from 2013-2023 and were 2021 OVL Champions. "For our organization and for our fans, this is a dream come true," said current Bombers owner and president Justin Knepp. "This will allow our team on the field to compete against the very best of the best every night." Advertisement Article continues below this ad The other new prospect league team, Full Count Rhythm, was founded by Full Count Ministries in 2020. it was a member of the Ohio Valley League for each of its three seasons. The 2022 and 2023 league champions, based in the Nashville, tennessee area partner with the City of Hendersonville Parks Department to host games at Drakes Creek Park.


--- [The good old days | Sports | advantagenews.com] ---
On Aug. 11, 2004, baseball fans from the Alton area had reason to celebrate. The Bluff City Bombers captured their first and only Central Illinois Collegiate League championship after beating Twin City of Bloomington/Normal 3-1 in the second game of the best-of-three league finals at Lloyd Hopkins Field. The Bombers won the series 2-0. That was the last time the Bombers played a game for Alton. Four months after winning the league championship, the Bombers moved east to Huntingburg, Ind., to become the DuBois County Bombers. Baseball will return to Alton in 2021 as the city was awarded a Prospect League franchise. The Prospect League is a collegiate wooden bat summer league that already has 12 teams throughout the Midwest. The Bluff City Bombers had a successful seven-year run in the CICL. In addition to their CICL title in 2004, the Bombers won 189 games and reached the league finals four times. They lost in the championship series three straight years before they finally came out on top in 2004. Bluff City never had a losing season. In its first season in 1998, the team finished 22-22 after going nine games under .500 at one point of the season. The Bombers won a franchise record 30 games in 2002 before falling to Decatur in the league finals. Bluff City's had five managers. In its final season, the team hired Chris Erwin to take over duties for Brian Lewis. Erwin, who came from Trinity Lutheran University in Seguin, Texas, headed a team that had strong seasons from A.J. Van Slyke and Nathan Culp. Van Slyke, the son of former St. Louis Cardinals outfielder Andy Van Slyke, earned CICL Most Valuable Player honors and won the Triple Crown award after leading the league in home runs, RBIs and batting average during the regular season. Culp, an Edwardsville High graduate, finished 7-0 on the mound. Culp pitched for Mizzou and ultimately the San Diego Padres system. The Bombers were in the race for the 2004 regular season title with two weeks left before losing six of eight games. After dropping the first game of the semifinal series against Danville, Bluff City rallied to win four straight games, including two against Twin City in the finals. Jess and Dave Hopkins started the Bombers and served as the general managers of the team for the first four seasons before Jack Tracz took over in 2002. Tracz continued GM duties after the Bombers moved to Indiana in the 2005 season. Follow AdVantage Sports on Facebook and #AdVsports on Twitter


--- [Dragons home opener against former Bluff City Bombers] ---
ALTON - While Opening Day is still a few months away, the Alton River Dragons' home opener is already raising a few eyebrows, particularly among longtime area fans. The former Bluff City Bombers, a onetime popular local Central Illinois Collegiate League team, will mark their return to Lloyd Hopkins Field for the Dragons home opener June 1. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The DuBois County (Indiana) Bombers, who played in Alton as the Bluff City Bombers for seven summers from 1998 through 2004, are new members of the Prospect League and will face the River Dragons, the current occupants of The Hop, in the home opener. Hopkins Field became affectionately known as The Hop during the Bombers' time playing there. "It's kind of neat," River Dragons general manager Dallas Martz said. "After four games on the road, the old Bluff City Bombers will be here for the home opener. "They were pretty popular during their time here. I have heard a lot about the Bombers' time here from fans ever since we got to Alton." Advertisement Article continues below this ad The Bombers, who were started locally by Jess Hopkins and Dave Hopkins, left for Indiana after winning their only Central Illinois Collegiate League championship in 2004. The River Dragons' 2024 schedule was released earlier this week and it includes another first - the team will play its first four games on the road, including back-to-back games at DuBois County against the Bombers prior to the home opener. The Dragons' season opener is set for May 28 in O'Fallon, Missouri against the rival Hoots. The following day, Alton will play at the Burlington Bees, followed by the two games at the Bombers May 30 and 31. Following the home opener against the Bombers, the river Dragons will play host to the Clinton LumberKings June 2 at Hopkins Field. Advertisement Article continues below this ad In September, the DuBois County Bombers were admitted to the Prospect League for next season, along with Full Count Rhythm of Hendersonville, Tennessee. The Bombers and Full Count Rhythm, former Ohio Valley League teams, will replace the West Virginia Miners (sold to Dubois County) and the Quincy Gems (sold to Full Count). "(The Bombers) have different owners from their time here, of course," Martz said. "But it will be kind of fun for the fans who remember their days playing in Alton." Earlier this week, the River Dragons announced the hiring of Noah Suarez and their new coach. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The 25-yeaar-old Suarez is also the baseball coach at Eureka College. Suarez replaces Steve Maddock, who was hired in September to replace Richard "Scotty" Scott as Dragons head coach. Madock, however elected to step down last month. Martz has been busy assembling next season's team. Among the players who have already signed are former Civic Memorial players Luke Parmentier and Bryer Arview, Dragons fan favorite Erik Broekemeier, Jackson Parrill and R. J. Larocco Others include Cole Schrank, Aidan Adams, Jordan Aguallo, Javier Alvarez, Joe Connolly, Kyler Athmer, Scott Detweiler, Jack Gazdacka, Ryan Grifelt, Eli Hill, Eli Hoerner, Dane Stevenson and James Theodore. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The River Dragons will play in the Prospect League's Western Conference, along with the Thrillville Thrillbillies, the Burlington Bees, Cape Catfish, the Clinton LumberKings, Illinois Valley Pistol Shrimp, Jackson Rockabillies, O'Fallon Hoots and the Springfield Lucky Horseshoes. Eastern Conference teams will include the Champion City Kings, Chillicothe Paints, Danville Dans, DuBois County Bombers, Full Count Rhythm, Johnstown Mill Rats, Lafayette Aviators, the Normal CornBelters and REX Baseball of Terre Haute.


--- [Dubois County Bombers - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Dubois County Bombers - Dubois County Bombers Founded in 1998 Huntingburg, Indiana Team logoLeague affiliations - Prospect League - Central Division - Central Illinois Collegiate League (1998-2008) Name - Dubois County Bombers (2005-present) - Bluff City Bombers (1998-2004) Team Colors - Navy Blue, Red, White, Grey Ballpark - League Stadium - Lloyd Hopkins Field Championships - League titles: 2 (2004, 2007) - Division titles: 3 (2000, 2001, 2002) Owner(s)/Operated By: John Bigness, Chris Barney, Mark Altstadt General Manager: John Bigness Manager: Brian Smiley Media: ' Website: dcbombers.com The Dubois County Bombers are a collegiate summer league baseball team located in Huntingburg, Indiana. The team plays in the Prospect League, which their former league, the NCAA sanctioned Central Illinois Collegiate League, was absorbed into. The Bombers were formed in 1998 by a group of investors led by Albany, NY-based financial software consultant John Bigness as the Bluff City Bombers, based in Alton, Illinois and playing at Lloyd Hopkins Field, the Bombers were immediate contenders; in their inaugural season of 1998, the Bombers finished second place in the Western Division and wrapped up the #3 seed in the CICL Tournament, losing to the fifth-seeded Decatur Blues in the first round. The next year, the Bombers again finished second in the West and again wrapped up a playoff berth (this time as the #2 seed. After defeating the Springfield Rifles 7-6 in the first round, the Bombers lost to the Twin City Stars and later the Quincy Gems in the following round, thus being eliminated. In their following four seasons, they won the Western Division title and were CICL Runners-Up, losing to the Danville Dans in 2000, 2001 and 2003 and the Decatur Blues in 2002, respectively. In 2004, the Bombers finally won the CICL Championship, defeating the Twin City Stars two games to none in the Championship Series. The next year, the Bombers' owners moved the team to Dubois County where they would play their home games at League Stadium. In their first year in Dubois County, the Bombers once again made it to the Championship Series, losing to the Quincy Gems two games to none. The following season, the Bombers lost to the eventual CICL champion Twin City Stars two games to one in the Semifinal series, marking the first time in team history that the Bombers failed to make the championship series. However, the next year would be a return to form; after winning the regular season title, the Bombers won their second CICL title, defeating the Dupage Dragons 5-2 in the championship game. In 2008 (the CICL's final season), the Bombers finished in second place in the CICL; however, since the playoffs reverted to a two-half format, the Bombers failed to make the playoffs that year, the first where they have failed to do so. External links Prospect League Western Division Danville Dans • Dubois County Bombers • Hannibal Cavemen • Quincy Gems • Springfield Sliders • Terre Haute RexEastern Division Butler BlueSox • Chillicothe Paints • Lorain County Ironmen • Richmond RiverRats • Slippery Rock Sliders • West Virginia MinersSports teams based in Indiana Baseball IL: Indianapolis Indians, ML: Fort Wayne TinCaps • South Bend Silver Hawks, AA: Gary SouthShore RailCats, FL: Evansville Otters, PL: Dubois County Bombers • Richmond RiverRats • Terre Haute Rex, GLSCL: Anderson ServantsBasketball NBA: Indiana Pacers, WNBA: Indiana Fever, D-League: Fort Wayne Mad Ants, IBA: Gary Splash, PBL: Indiana Diesels • Northwest Indiana Stars, ABA: Greencastle Golden Knights • Indianapolis Drive • Michiana Monarchs • Porter County PunishersFootball NFL: Indianapolis Colts, CIFL: Indianapolis Enforcers • Muncie River Monsters WFA: Indy Crash, WSFL: Indiana SpeedHockey Soccer College athletics (Division I)Ball State Cardinals • Butler Bulldogs • Evansville Purple Aces • Indiana Hoosiers • Indiana State Sycamores • IPFW Mastodons • IUPUI Jaguars • Notre Dame Fighting Irish • Purdue Boilermakers • Valparaiso CrusadersCollege athletics (Division II)Categories:- Amateur baseball teams in Indiana - Dubois County, Indiana - Prospect League teams - United States baseball team stubs - Prospect League Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.
