=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Invincible (2021) S01 E01 "It's About Time" - TV Tropes]
Martian Man then wraps himself around Omni-Man, leaving him open for the remaining Guardians to beat up. However, the Viltrumite manages to grab his core as it moves around his body and tears it out, killing him instantly.
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Recap/Invincible2021S01E01ItsAboutTime

[Destruction of Chicago | Invincible Wiki | Fandom]
Omni-Man and Invincible meet to fight a Kaiju, and team up to defeat it, when suddenly, the Immortal shows up, several helicopters record a video feed of the two fighting, which results in Omni-Man slaying the Immortal once more, but this time ...
URL: https://amazon-invincible.fandom.com/wiki/Destruction_of_Chicago

[r/Invincible on Reddit: [SHOW SPOILERS] Why Omni-Man did what he did in Episode 1]
Here's my theory based on the last episode of Invincible. I have not read the comics but I am intending to read them after the end of Season 1. Omni-Man killed the Guardians of the Globe because he is trying to reduce power scaling on Earth. Let me explain In the first episode, Mark finally gains his Viltrumite powers. This is on the same day that, at the end of episode 1, Omni-man mercilessly ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Invincible/comments/myd9v0/show_spoilers_why_omniman_did_what_he_did_in/

[Why Did Omni-Man Kill The Guardians? Invincible Episode 1 Twist Explained]
Apr 1, 2021 · By murdering all of the Guardians, Omni-Man/Nolan—who, of course, was posing as Earth's greatest hero—was weakening Earth's defense for his eventual planned takeover.
URL: https://www.menshealth.com/entertainment/a36004115/invincible-why-did-omni-man-kill-guardians/

[Murder of the Guardians of the Globe | Invincible Wiki | Fandom]
The Murder of the Guardians of the Globe is the overarching event of Invincible, where Omni-Man lured the Guardians of the Globe to a deathtrap within their base of operations, this was the first plan to further weaken humanity's defenses for his other plans. During the Guardians' downtime, each of the Guardians received a distress call to each of their emergency devices. This led them to ...
URL: https://amazon-invincible.fandom.com/wiki/Murder_of_the_Guardians_of_the_Globe


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Invincible (2021) S01 E01 "It's About Time" - TV Tropes] ---
After finally developing powers like his father, Omni-Man, 17 year-old Mark Grayson eagerly leaps into the world of superheroism — only to learn that it requires far more just than a name and a costume. Tropes: - Acceptable Breaks from Reality: One of the Mauler Twins throws a woman into the air by the head and Darkwing grabs her with his grappling hook. Realistically, she should've died from the whiplash both times, but since this is a happy superhero cartoon (or at least that's what they wanted you to think), she's fine. - Adaptation Amalgamation: The fight scene between the Guardians and Omni-Man uses elements from two different fights in the comic. - Adaptation Explanation Extrication: Downplayed. In the comic, Green Ghost's everyday life scene has him mention he's new to superheroing and sometimes forgets to use his tangibility powers, though this point doesn't come up again. This is omitted from the show for the female version, though it could also explain why she just didn't make herself intangible before Omni-Man killed her besides shock. - Adaptational Badass: Unlike the comic where Omni-Man kills the Guardians with no difficulty, they do not go down easily and he passes out from exhaustion and his injuries after the fight is over. - Adaptational Nice Guy: Zigzagged. The scene of Immortal casually chucking Bi-Plane into space is shortened, removing Immortal mocking him before killing him and Bi-Plane saying that his scheme is his last hoorah before he dies of terminal cancer. Either way, it's still a dick move. - Adaptational Wimp: Both the comic and cartoon version has Omni-Man slaughter the Guardians. In the cartoon, however, they put up more of a fight, and even land a few hits in before they all die. Unlike the comic, where he leaves when he does his deed, he passes out after his fight. - Adapted Out: - Immortal's "You! I never liked you." before being killed and Omni-Man responding with "The feeling was mutual." is removed, presumably because both are slightly Adaptational Nice Guys so to make what happens more emotional and sympathetic. - In the comic, Green Ghost and Martian Man had just got done defeating a monster and were about to return to their civilian lives before they were called back to base. Here, we actually get to see them in their civilian lives or off the job instead, with Green Ghost being a fashion photographer and Martian Man playing with a homeless girl. - Likewise, in the comic, War Woman was spending her morning with her girlfriend after they made love the previous night, only to be attacked by one of her mother's messengers. Her job as a wealthy CEO was only brought up in passing, whereas the show focuses on that instead and portrays her comic girlfriend as just one of her associates. - Angrish: One of the Mauler Twins response to being called a clone. - Audience Surrogate: We get a flashback of Nolan explaining to a younger Mark of what the Viltrumites are. - Bait-and-Switch: We're led to believe the sassy model wearing all-green is the Green Ghost, she's actually the photographer dressed in blue. - Bitch in Sheep's Clothing: Despite spending the entire episode seeming to be a good father and good husband who also happens to be a good superhero, the episode ends with Omni-Man massacring his own friends and some of the world's greatest protectors for reasons he refuses to divulge. Immortal thinks it must be mind control, because Omni-Man would never do this... would he? - Bloodier and Gorier: The fight between Omni-Man and the Guardians is a lot more explicit than the comics. In the few pages, Omni-Man kills them all with no effort. The cartoon has them more defiant, making the scene longer and their deaths more brutal. - Cruel and Unusual Death: All deaths of the Guardians of the Globe are portrayed very, very gruesomely, and serve to set the tone and expectation of what the show is going to be like. Starting in chronological order: - Red Rush is the first casualty among the Guardians of the Globe, getting grabbed by Omni-Man in the middle of throwing his punch before getting his head crushed between his palms. The moment before his death is played in slow-motion from his perspective and shows one of his eyes popping out of its socket while his fists have become broken from punching Omni-Man's chest too many times as he tries to break free. - Darkwing descends from above and attempts to attacks Omni-Man from behind, only for the latter to turn around and grab his leg before slamming him down on the floor two times, with the second slam causing his head to explode. - This is then followed up by Omni-Man tossing Darkwing's corpse at Green Ghost, who turns tangible and catches him. Unfortunately, she realizes too late that this leaves her wide open to Omni-Man, whose fist then goes through her skull before he uses her body as a meat shield against Aquarus' water jets. - Omni-Man then grabs War Woman's mace after punching her away, before swinging it at Aquarus whose face gets turned into fish paste as his lifeless body rolls up to Martian Man. - Martian Man then wraps himself around Omni-Man, leaving him open for the remaining Guardians to beat up. However, the Viltrumite manages to grab his core as it moves around his body and tears it out, killing him instantly. - After punching Immortal through his torso, Omni-Man grabs War Woman's head right as she throws her punch at him before twisting it 180 degrees around her neck, causing her to puke blood all over her cape before keeling over. - As the dying Immortal asks Omni-Man, "why...?", the latter silently delivers a swift karate chop to his neck, decapitating him. His head falls down onto the floor, with his shocked expression frozen in place. - Decoy Protagonist: The Guardians of the Globe seem like major characters, particularly due to each getting an Establishing Character Moment before they assemble at their base. Then they're all slaughtered. - Defiant to the End: Red Rush puts all his effort into punching Omni-Man's chest while his head is being crushed, his speed allowing him to hit with enough force to burn Omni-Man's uniform away through friction and bruise his chest significantly. Even as Red Rush breaks his hands, he refuses to stop. It's just not enough to stop Omni-Man. - Deliberate Injury Gambit: Red Rush is fast enough to evade Omni-Man and push his teammates out of the way of lethal blows, so Omni-Man simply waits for him to attack and grabs him in the brief moment between landing a hit and retreating. - Establishing Series Moment: For anyone unfamiliar with the comic book (or Robert Kirkman's other work), this first episode might make you think this is a bright and colorful Saturday morning cartoon. Then Omni-Man attacks the Guardians of the Globe in the episode's closing minutes, and the moment he slowly and graphically crushes Red Rush's skull into bloody paste is the moment you realize it isn't. - Et Tu, Brute?: While Omni-Man isn't a member of the Guardians of the Globe, he is still considered a good friend and ally to them, which is why his betrayal hits the entire team extra hard, including Immortal. - First-Episode Twist: It initially seems like this is a Young Justice (2010)-esque teenage superhero Coming of Age Story cartoon... then The Stinger happens and we get the Superman Substitute, the protagonist's own father, violently murdering all of the Guardians of the Globe in visceral detail. - Foreshadowing: - One of the security guards is talking to his co-worker about his stepson/adopted son and how even though he isn't his biological kid, he still loves him as if he were his own and that he's proud of him. - When Nolan tells Mark about the Viltrumites, he says that they go to "lesser-developed" worlds to "help" them. - Nolan has a rather unenthused and serious reaction to when Mark reveals that he got his powers. Debbie has to gently kick him on the leg to make him react more positively. This is because Mark gaining his abilities is imperative in Nolan's actual reason for being on Earth. - While talking with Debbie, Nolan suddenly gets upset and snaps at her, "Are you questioning me?". He apologizes immediately after when she calls him out on it. - In the same conversation, Nolan grimly says that Mark getting his powers "changes everything", is displeased that they came later than they should've for Viltrumites, and he wonders if it would've been better if he had never gotten them at all. Debbie thinks Nolan is speaking about being a hero, but we find out later that he's talking about something else. - While walking Mark through the basics of flying and fighting, Nolan suddenly hits Mark a lot harder than he was prepared for, leaving him collapsed on the ground wheezing in pain and confused shock at his father hurting him. For a brief moment, Nolan just stares blankly at Mark before a consternated expression crosses his face and he hesitantly claims that he misjudged his strength. - Martian Man's child friend, Nikki, asks to come with him back to the Guardians. He tells her no, because children shouldn't be involved in the superhero business. - A blink-and-you'll-miss one, but notice how in the Imagine Spot that one of the alien species don't feel too welcome with the Viltrumites. - Gorn: The Guardians' deaths are extremely graphic and violent, with organs getting smashed, gallons of blood splattering everywhere, limbs being twisted, and bodies getting punched through. This is a surprise given that the rest of the episode was rather safe, besides the fact that one of the Mauler Twins gets shot in the eye. - Groin Attack: Amber kicks Todd in the balls while his back is turned when he is about to beat Mark up for defending her. - Hero Killer: Omni-Man gathers the Guardians of the Globe at their base so he can kill them. - How Do I Shot Web?: Mark takes some time to figure out the physical effort of how to use his awakened powers, especially flight, as that one in particular doesn't have a non-superpowered equivalent that he's been doing all his life and therefore practicing. - I Take Offense to That Last One: After digging out of the ground in front of the White House, one of the Mauler Twins berates the other for the fact the other wanted to emerge from the outside rather than the inside and frames him as incompetent and calls him a clone, with the other being more upset at the latter. - Moe Greene Special: Steve manages to shoot one of the Mauler Twins in the eye, though this is a minor inconvenience and doesn’t do much to slow him down. - No-Sell: Mark creeps Todd out by letting him beat on him as long as he wants while not reacting to his punches. - Post-Victory Collapse: After killing the Guardians, Omni-Man falls limp from the injuries he sustained. - Prolonged Prologue: The show has a unique quirk in which the title drops the first time Invincible's hero name is said in the episode, but since Mark spends so long in this episode trying to come up with one it comes at the near end of the episode, with only the Guardians being interrupted from their personal lives to head back to HQ and being subsequently murdered by Omni-Man being left in the episode. - Prompting Nudge: When Mark makes his announcment at dinner that he's finally getting his powers, and Nolan doesn't act excited at first, simply asking him if he's sure, Debbie stealthy kicks Nolan under the table, prompting him to act more excited about how "great" that is and offer to train him. - Punch Catch: Of a sort. Omni-Man manages to stop Red Rush in his tracks during their fight by catching his wrist in the middle of a punch, but looking closely/in slow motion reveals that Red Rush actually connects the punch first, and Omni-Man grabs him as he's in the process of pulling back and running away. Omni-Man isn't so much anticipating the blow as he is using it to gain an opening. - Silent Credits: The credits contain no music following Omni-Man's attack on the Guardians. - This Is Gonna Suck: Omni-Man exploits Green Ghost's inability to be intangible while carrying people by tossing Darkwing's corpse at her. She gives off this expression at her fatal mistake before Omni-Man impales her head. - Sudden Soundtrack Stop: The music stops playing after Red Rush is killed, and the rest of the scene plays out without a soundtrack. Just the sounds of the Guardians being gruesomely killed. Not even the credits have any music. - Victory by Endurance: When Mark and Todd have a "rematch", Mark's new Viltrimite toughness lets him take the full brunt of his punches. After the third punch, Todd walks away. - Vomit Indiscretion Shot: When Red Rush rescues the various hostages and bystanders, he apologizes before they each start throwing up due to the sheer inertia experiencing his Super-Speed so suddenly causes. - Wham Shot: The Stinger shows the Guardians being recalled to HQ, only to then be attacked by Omni-Man. While Red Rush keeps everybody safe while dishing out some damage to him, Omni-Man manages to grab him... and then break his skull apart into a bloody mess with his bare hands, showing that this is not a clean, teenage superhero show. Fittingly, the music cuts off from this moment through the rest of the episode as Nolan continues his rampage against the Guardians. - What the Hell, Hero?: - While training Mark, Nolan punches him in the chest. Mark has never been hit like that before by his own father, if at all, and questions why he would do that. - Debbie gives this to both Nolan and Mark for their change in attitude. They both realize this and apologize. - Your Head A-Splode: Red Rush and Darkwing die from this by Omni-Man.


--- [Destruction of Chicago | Invincible Wiki | Fandom] ---
The Destruction of Chicago was the second overarching cataclysmic worldwide event in Invincible, which resulted in a all out fight between Omni-Man against Earth's Military government: The Global Defense Agency, then The Immortal (who came back to life), and finally Invincible. This signified the end of Nolan's Mission, and saw the beginning of various individuals distrust in both Omni-Man and Invincible. The Secret is out[] At Night Debbie, drunk, asks Nolan why he killed the Guardians of the Globe, Nolan doesn't give a straight answer, but notices she's drunk, which she chucks a bottle at him who catches it in time. Debbie breathing endlessly threatens Nolan walking upstairs. Nolan, in a fit of rage slams his fist on the wall. The next morning Debbie awakes with Nolan staring at window but notices her in a reflection. Debbie and Nolan talk about the ripped costume from the day the guardians were killed, Nolan gives half-assed assurance that he kept it so that Debbie could find someday, Debbie tries to get answers wanting to know who or what caused him to kill the Guardians? Nolan then says he will tell her in time, but instead Debbie tosses his suit at him, demanding him to leave, which he does but not before exclaiming that they will talk again soon. Debbie then tries to call Mark (but is unaware that his phone is gone), instead the GDA arrive to escort her away from the house. Omni-Man vs the Global Defense Agency[] Much later Nolan goes to a cliff to prepare a speech to Mark why he killed the Guardians, instead he returns back home, finding nothing but then a hears a sound. He grabs a hold of something, a soldier, of the Global Defense Agency, as Nolan grins saying: Cecil, and kills more guards. Another Guard that was thrown out of the house, for some odd reason reveals the location of her compatriots headquarters allowing Nolan to finally realize he was been spied on, by Donald and the others. Donald manages to get the residents out of the safehouse, however he did not survive the experience, which he gave Cecil a final salute before his death, Nolan believing him to be crazy wondering whom he was referring to? Cecil salutes his fallen friend, while Debbie saddened that Nolan died, but however that explosion was to merely distract as Nolan is able to withstand an implosion. This leads to Cecil taking more counter measures, such as the Hammer, and the ReAnimen, all from which were barely able to slow him down. Things get worse when Invincible and Atom Eve arrive to assist, and when Cecil is forced to use a Kajiu to attack Omni-Man. Parental Revelation[] Omni-Man and Invincible meet to fight a Kaiju, and team up to defeat it, when suddenly, the Immortal shows up, several helicopters record a video feed of the two fighting, which results in Omni-Man slaying the Immortal once more, but this time on live TV for the whole world to see and Invincible as well. Omni-Man, after killing The Immortal again, then takes the time to explain the truth about him and Viltrum to Invincible who electrocuted the Kaiju. Atom Eve is ordered to fall back as this was above her level. Nolan had not lied about Viltrum's existence, but had lied to Invincible about its true nature. He states that Viltrumites are a species of conquest and that they only became as strong and advanced as they are by weeding out and slaughtering the weakest among them. When only their strongest remained, they began to expand their empire to the stars, quickly conquering planet after planet. Planets that submitted would benefit from Viltrum's technological advancements, while those that resisted would be culled. However, their forces began to thin after so long, making it more challenging to conquer more readily defended planets. As such, they elected to change their strategies. Select Viltrumite soldiers would be sent to planets Invincibleed for conquest and would whittle their defenses covertly. Omni-Man was chosen to do the very same for Earth. He had waited until Invincible had demonstrated Viltrumite powers before setting the next stage of his plans into motion. Despite Omni-Man's reassurance that it is for the greater good, Invincible cannot shake the callousness of his plans, believing himself to be another human to rule over had his powers never manifested, even calling his father's love of him and Debbie into question. Omni-Man continues trying to explain delicately how long Invincible will live and how futile resisting the Earth's conquest is. Omni-Man then states that while he does love Debbie, he considers her a pet, a remark that sends Invincible over the edge. Invincible takes a firm stance against Omni-Man and vows to defend Earth from him and the rest of the Viltrumites. Omni-Man attempts one more time to talk his son down, but when it becomes clear that Invincible will not change his mind, Omni-Man relents, and the two engage. So be it[] A brawl breaks out between them, with Omni-Man having the clear advantage from the get-go. As the fight is taken to the sky, Cecil Stedman sends out jets in the hopes of distracting Omni-Man and enabling priceless seconds for Invincible to gain the upper hand. Invincible attempts to reason with his father, only to rebuff him. The jets arrive and target Omni-Man, dealing no damage to him whatsoever. Omni-Man takes his attention off Invincible and retaliates, destroying one jet. Invincible rushes to the pilot's aid, saving him from a fall to his death. The pilot expresses gratitude to Invincible, only for Omni-Man to effortlessly crush the pilot's skull to illustrate how meaningless Invincible's efforts are. Omni-Man continues to ridicule Invincible's love of human life before punching him with such force that sends him to a nearby city... Raw Strength at a price[] Around this time, a man meets up with his sister, to show his niece his powers, and then talks to his sister about current events. He decides to get coffee while the sister and daughter return to their apartment. Then the man is flung by an earthquake-level shockwave from Invincible who was punched hard. The results of the catastrophe traumatize Invincible, who quickly rushes to the aid of the people in the building he had crashed through. He desperately tried to reassure the occupants of the building that everything was going to be okay. However, his stress, alongside the structure's sheer weight and faltering integrity, resulted in the whole thing collapsing. Standing amidst the rubble, Invincible holds the severed arm of a mother whom he had attempted to save from the building. Spoils of War[] Omni-Man shows up, and the two argue once more. Omni-Man attempts to blame Invincible's insubordination for the loss of so many civilian lives, mockingly asking how many more need to die before he gives in. Omni-Man goes on about the worthlessness of human life and, when asked if Debbie's life is just as worthless, coldly replies that it is. Debbie overhears this and begins to break down. Invincible becomes enraged and attacks, accusing his father of lying, landing several blows, and catching Omni-Man off guard. Omni-Man quickly recovers, grabs Invincible's arm, tells him for the first time in his son's life Omni-Man is telling the truth, and hurls Invincible into the subway. Unknown to any them the man from before catches a glimpse of the event and sobs upon seeing Invincible drop the arm of his sister. Nolan once again forced Invincible to witness complete and total carnage by holding him in front of a moving train and allowing it to hit the both of them. Training Lesson[] The train is ripped in half, and the people inside are continually minced until Omni-Man stomps, sending the remaining cars careening in random directions. When the dust clears, Omni-Man caps the event off by placing his foot on a civilian trapped under a piece of rubble, squishing him like a bug as he reaches for his unresponsive daughter. Invincible attempts to strike his father again, but Omni-Man does not buckle a second time. He remains unaffected by the strike and retaliates by launching Invincible into the air and brutally pummeling the boy through the clouds. All the while he's doing this, he lectures Invincible, coldly remarking that raising him as a human was a mistake and that the current battle is the beginning of his proper education as a Viltrumite. Think Mark Think[] Omni-Man then sends Invincible across the country, and later into Mount Everest, where he makes a crater, and forces Omni-Man to nearly brutalize his son to death, to the point where even Omni-Man feels exhausted, claiming he is fighting to watch everyone around him die, and asks him what will he really have after all is said and done after 500 years? To which Invincible responds that he would still have him, leaving Omni-Man motionless and hesitant. He looks down at his hands and slowly realizes what he'd just done. Mark asks if Omni-Man is still there; Omni-Man gasps and doesn't respond. He becomes self-conflicted, emotional, and immediately flies away into space, crying. Aftermath[] Invincible remains on the mountain, where Cecil sends a chopper to rescue him and taken the GDA. During his rescue, it's revealed that William Clockwell, Art Rosenbaum, and Amber Bennett have all witnessed the events on the news and are devastated at the potential loss of their friend. The news reports go on to mention the extreme loss of life, only mitigated by the help of the Guardians of the Globe and Atom Eve. The report expresses concern about what could have caused the attack, not knowing the true motives behind Omni-Man's actions. After the world discovered Omni-Man's betrayal, humans and superheroes alike began to disown and hate him. Among his victims were The Immortal, Benjamin Taylor, Darkwing's successor, Theo, Green Ghost's spouse, and Scott Duvall, the man from before he saw it all and lost his sister in the chaos. Duvall initially directed his anger toward Omni-Man's son, Invincible, and attempted to press charges, even seeking a trial, but was denied. Frustrated, he devised a new plan. The city of Chicago was devastated, taking months to fully rebuild. This event forced many residents to lose their homes and jobs. Invincible and Debbie were also more than shell shocked, as Debbie entered into a depressive state over learning that the past twenty years of her married life was a lie, while Invincible began to worry over whether he would one day become like his father. Elsewhere..[] Omni-Man left Earth on a soul-searching journey through the universe. In his quest, he encountered a black hole where he contemplated ending his life. However, he came across a spaceship containing Thraxans heading towards the black hole. Omni-Man decided to save them and take them back to their homeworld, Thraxa. In return for his heroism, he was granted amnesty and a second chance at life, eventually becoming their Emperor. The Viltrum Empire, on the other hand, were more than furious that Omni-Man abandoned earth and began a galaxy wide search for him. When Allen returned to warn Invincible of Omni Man's true race, Invincible was already aware and notified him of Nolan's disappearance, claming that was the first time in ages that a viltrumite would leave their post considering it was mandatory, and afterwards Allen returned to Talescria and informed the Coalition of this message not only that but a power vaccum is emerging within the Viltrum Empire, something big, and the Coalition is arming to bolster as many planets asap to stop them. While the Coalition Council members found this prevalent and confusing, their leader, Thadeus was intrigued with this information, the tides of their war can fall into their hands. In the following months, Atom Eve would personally assist in rebuilding parts of the city, and got berated for it. Legacy[] "A year after the incident," Oliver Grayson, the second spawn of Omni-Man had Art design his costume to represent Omni-Man's design in almost every aspect. Oliver took the name "Kid-Omni-Man", so that he rebuild the persona of Omni-Man. Currently it is very neutral of what people think of Kid-Omni-Man's attire, but it can be assumed many despise it, but some do think of rather than a second chance. In the fall of 2024, a memorial was held by the Mayor of Chicago, and it is revealed that the death toll from the destruction is 2,341 people. However the following day, it would once be destroyed again, during the worldwide event known as the Invincible War. This event showcased 18 Invincibles decimating city upon city, and surpassed the former event's death toll to millions, almost billion. Chicago was seen on the third day briefly, where an eery Viltrum Mark Grayson was seen in downtown Chicago. Following the war, it was mentioned by a new caster of being destroyed once more, and possibly beyond repair and in a worse condition than the fight with Nolan and Mark. Victims[] - Various Global Defense Agency Soldiers - Hail Mary - The Immortal - Donald Ferguson (remains retrieved by Cecil) - Jessica Duvall - Gretchen Duvall - Gary - Curt - 2,341 residents of Chicago - Cruise Ship Residents - Unspecified Mount Everest Residents Sightings[] | Season 1 | |||||||||||| | 1. "It's About Time": | Absent | 5. "That Actually Hurt": | Absent | ||||||||| | 2. "Here Goes Nothing": | Absent | 6. "You Look Kinda Dead": | Absent | ||||||||| | 3. "Who You Calling Ugly?": | Absent | 7. "We Need To Talk": | Debut | ||||||||| | 4. "Neil Armstrong, Eat Your Heart Out": | Absent | 8. "Where I Really Come From": | Appears | | Season 2 | |||||||||||| | 1. "A Lesson For Your Next Life": | Absent | 5. "This Must Come as a Shock": | Absent | ||||||||| | 2. "In About Six Hours, I Lose My Virginity to a Fish": | Absent | 6. "It's Not That Simple": | Absent | ||||||||| | 3. "This Missive, This Machination!": | Absent | 7. "I'm Not Going Anywhere": | Absent | ||||||||| | 4. "It's Been a While": | Flashback | 8. "I Thought You Were Stronger": | Mentioned | | Season 3 | |||||||||||| | 1. "You're Not Laughing Now": | Absent | 5. "This Was Supposed To Be Easy": | Absent | ||||||||| | 2. "A Deal With The Devil": | Absent | 6. "All I Can Say Is I'm Sorry": | Flashback | ||||||||| | 3. "You Want A Real Costume, Right?": | Absent | 7. "What Have I Done?": | Absent | ||||||||| | 4. "You Were My Hero": | Absent | 8. "I Thought You'd Never Shut Up": | Absent | Trivia[] - It is been noted by Thaedus, that prior to Invincible's opposition towards his people, Viltrumites have not been at conflict with one another since the Great Purge. - Following this event, post Thraxa fight, Nolan no longer refers himself his "Omni-Man" persona, but only the heroes and humans of Earth still call him by that name, unaware of his civilan name Nolan Grayson. - It was noted by Angstrom Levy that many Invincibles across the Multiverse never fought Omni-Man in Chicago, and as result joined sides with Omni-Man or tried to and either were forcibly swayed, or died. - This event lead to the creation of Powerplex, the brother of a woman, and uncle of his niece from Chicago. The mother and daughter both died, which caused him to become a hated of enemy of Invincible. - Atom Eve's father, Adam Wilkins, who worked at a furniture company, loses his job and business because of Chicago's destruction. - This is the second city torn fights in the series. - Chicago would be destroyed again for the second time in the series.


--- [r/Invincible on Reddit: [SHOW SPOILERS] Why Omni-Man did what he did in Episode 1] ---
[SHOW SPOILERS] Why Omni-Man did what he did in Episode 1 Here's my theory based on the last episode of Invincible. I have not read the comics but I am intending to read them after the end of Season 1. Omni-Man killed the Guardians of the Globe because he is trying to reduce power scaling on Earth. Let me explain In the first episode, Mark finally gains his Viltrumite powers. This is on the same day that, at the end of episode 1, Omni-man mercilessly slaughters the Guardians of the Globe. We've seen them in action and people on the subreddit have broken down the fight and how the Guardians had a ton of cohesion, at least before facing a Viltrumite. Omni-Man barely wins, but falls unconscious. The show has demonstrated that Omni-Man was almost bested by the Guardians of the Globe. In Episode 2, Allen the Alien shows up. I know he's different from the comics, but the important part in the show is about how Allen the Alien focuses on a few things: Omni-Man was the last person to meet with him, Allen the Alien has scheduled visits, Earth is NOT on the list of things that Allen is visiting, and Allen judges how capable Earth is of defending itself. Invincible goes to face Allen, tells him wrong planet, and sends him on his way. The show has now shown that there are bigger powers at play outside of Earth, especially when the Flaxans attack. NOTE: After the Flaxans attack enough times, Omni-Man genocides their entire planet (or any kind of fighting ability they have) to completely remove the threat towards Earth, lending further credit to how he is intending to protect Earth, as he explained in the first episode about Viltrumites. Now, this post is getting long so I'll go more general: Throughout the show, Omni-Man is patronizing everything. Everything is weak compared to him, everything is not enough. Cecil and the government can only stall Omni-Man, they can't actually kill him, or they haven't gotten close yet or as close as the Guardians. I think all of this is leading to the conversation between Omni-Man and Invincible, where Omni-Man is going to give his son "the talk" for Viltrumites: Mark and his dad will have to play God and decide, if someone is to powerful, that they have to die because there is some ominous threat outside of Earth. I think it definitely has something to do with Battle Beast as well, as his appearance and strength are stronger than most solo characters in the show, maybe even Omni-Man. This is all under the idea of the short-term losses to prevent the long-term annihilation or subjugation of Earth (Urath, which may have been designated by Omni-Man when he first met Allen the Alien to throw some dumb people off the trail of Earth). While Omni-Man doesn't want to kill people, he also doesn't want the entire planet to fall. He doesn't explain this to anyone because things could escalate: the government could try contacting Allen the Alien or whatever he's associated with to assist or villains could contact Battle Beast or any other big baddies to come to the planet. This is my theory, but I could 100% be wrong. I wanted to post it here and hear what y'all have to say, if there's anything else you're thinking. I know the angle for people is using Omni-Man as a modern-day "imperialist" alien under the guise of helping people to connect to humanity's history of "helping" people when really colonizing, but I don't think that connects as well since Omni-Man clearly has a stake not only in his family, but also with the planet. The only caveat to that is that the former takes precedence over the latter. EDIT: Also I haven't read any other theories yet, if this has already been brought up by someone, would totally love a link/any additional evidence that supports this. TL;DR: Omni-Man is manually killing anyone with power creep when they to a certain level on Earth to prevent big baddies, who could be stronger than Omni-Man, from coming in and destroying/subjugating the planet. With Omni-Man as the strongest, Earth (or URATH) can fly under the radar.


--- [Why Did Omni-Man Kill The Guardians? Invincible Episode 1 Twist Explained] ---
The following story contains spoilers for the first episode of Invincible, and the way things eventually play out in the comic of the same name. - Amazon Prime Video's Invincible contains a stunning twist at the end of its first episode. - The twist was also included in creator Robert Kirkman's Invincible comics, but it came much later in the run. - Here's why Kirkman moved the twist up earlier for the TV series, and why Omni-Man did what he did. Between Marvel, D.C., and everything in between, it can be hard to stand out in the ever-expanding sea of superhero movies and shows. But Amazon Prime Video's new animated epic—unrelated to either of those two huge universes—is off to a good start. With an excellent cast including key players Steven Yeun, J.K. Simmons, Sandra Oh, Zazie Beetz, and Walton Goggins, Invincible had some built in credibility. But it's the gushingly-violent twist that comes at the end of the show's first episode that will have audiences continuing to click play to see what happens next. You see, the majority of the first episode follows a fairly traditional superhero formula. Yes, there are some jokes here and there, but we're initially dropped into a world where the Guardians of the Globe (superheroes modeled on the likes of Batman, Wonder Woman, The Flash, Wolverine, and others) are the protectors of the earth, and their ally, Omni-Man (Simmons, a parallel of sorts to Superman) is the greatest and most popular hero. After an initial battle finds Omni-Man saving the day (as usual), we're transported back to his home life. His son, Mark (Yeun) is a comic-obsessed 17-year-old still waiting for his hereditary powers to kick in—his father isn't from Earth, but rather the planet of Viltrum. And so Mark is expecting his powers to kick in at any given moment–and in the first episode, they do. Omni-Man (also known as Nolan) begins training Mark, who chooses the nickname "Invincible." It's all going pretty nicely and, honestly, a bit formulaically. But enjoy that feeling, because it doesn't last very long. By the end of the episode, a scene shows each of the Guardians of the Globe receiving a distress call, and returning to their headquarters. Arriving at the headquarters, the Guardians realize it has been a set-up, and in an ensuring fight that makes The Boys look like My Little Pony, Omni-Man beats the absolute living hell out of every single Guardian. With blood, guts, eyeballs, and brains everywhere, all of this world's Batman, Wolverine. Wonder Woman parallels are dead. Omni-Man remains, alive, on the ground. Audiences, at the same time, are left wondering one big thing: What the fuck? Why did Omni-Man kill the Guardians of the Globe in the comics? So, before we get too in-depth with all of this we need to make one thing clear: the twist of Omni-Man killing all of the Guardians of the Globe at the end of the first episode of Invicible does indeed happen in the source material comics. That being said though, the twist comes much later—several issues in. The series, of course, uses it to set up the primary mystery and intrigue of the series. Robert Kirkman, who wrote the Invincible comics and also runs the show, told The Wrap why he made the choice to move things around. “By moving that event up—in the comic book series, it happens much later—there isn’t this sense of, ‘Oh my gosh, when are people going to find out? And what are they going to do when they find out?’ Because everything just kind of rolls from there,” he said in an interview with TheWrap. “By having it move up, we do get an extra sense of like, ‘Oh my gosh, Debbie [Omni-Man’s wife, voiced by Sandra Oh] has no clue what’s going on with her husband. And how is she going to find out, if she finds out or when she finds out?’ It should build a lot of tension in the series and should be something that keeps you guessing episode to episode.” OK. But why did Omni-Man kill The Guardians? OK, OK. We'll see what happens in the show, and anything, really, could play out. When Omni-Man first attacks the Guardians in the climactic scene at the end of Episode 1, the heroes wonder if he's perhaps under someone's villainous control. And while things could always be different, the way Omni-Man/Nolan has behaved in the episodes following the bloody murders make it pretty clear that he knew exactly what he was doing. Since the show has already shown willingness to play with the source material—see the twist coming earlier, as described above—it's likely that Omni-Man's general motivation will remain the same. The key to why Omni-Man/Nolan did what he did lies in his heritage as a Viltrumite—a citizen of Viltrum, not Earth. In the comics, Viltrumites are known for conquering other planets as a way of expanding their own empire; however, at a certain point, a virus took almost all of them out. The remaining Viltrumites went to other planets and laid low, planning to destabilize the defenses of the planet they inhabited from the inside out, slowly plotting an eventual uprising and comeback. By murdering all of the Guardians, Omni-Man/Nolan—who, of course, was posing as Earth's greatest hero—was weakening Earth's defense for his eventual planned takeover. So Omni-Man/Nolan was, in turn, playing the long game on earth. He befriended the Guardians of the Globe, found a loving wife, and even had a son who shares his powers. And there, likely, is where the real crux of the series will come: will Nolan convince Mark to join him? Or will the two face off? We'll find out in the coming episodes of Invincible. But for now, if you wanted to know how Kirkman answered this question in his original comics, there's your answer.


--- [Murder of the Guardians of the Globe | Invincible Wiki | Fandom] ---
The Murder of the Guardians of the Globe is the overarching event of Invincible, where Omni-Man lured the Guardians of the Globe to a deathtrap within their base of operations, this was the first plan to further weaken humanity's defenses for his other plans. The Call to Arms[] During the Guardians' downtime, each of the Guardians received a distress call to each of their emergency devices. This led them to urgently return to Guardians HQ. Revelation[] As all of the Guardians discussed certain matters, Immortal questioned Darkwing was the last to arrive to this discrete meetup, and asked him why he signalled the alert. However, Darkwing revealed he was not responsible for signalling the alert, and the Guardians began suspect a trap. Red Rush noticed a shadowy assailant aiming to strike Immortal, but Red Rush saved him just in time. The assailant reveals himself as Omni-Man; War Woman shouts and is the first of the Guardians to attack Omni-Man. Darkwing, Aquarius, and Red Rush individually retaliate against the rogue superhero until Omni-Man catches Red Rush before killing him. In a combined attack, Martian Man restrains Nolan, while War Woman and Immortal begin to attack him. Omni-Man frees himself continues to progressively overpower and further slaughter them. Darkwing distracts Omni-Man from killing War Woman, and attempts to execute a dropkick attack, though this fails with Omni-Man grabbing his ankle to slam him against the floor, killing the dark superhero instantly. The Viltrumite then throws Darkwing's body at Green Ghost distracting her while she catches her colleague's corpse. Omni-Man utilizes the opening and strikes her in the head, driving his hand through her skull which also kills her in an instant. He uses her body as a shield against Aquarus's attack and, after dealing with War Woman's heavy strike, kills him with her mace. An enraged Martian Man once again traps and subdues Omni-Man briefly while the two remaining Guardians, Immortal and War Woman, pummel him, causing great damage to the Viltrumite. Eventually, Omni-Man rips Martian Man's core to pieces, punches a hole through The Immortal's stomach, and breaks War Woman's neck. The last Guardian to live, The Immortal stares at him, still conscious, yet weak, and decidedly asks him what drove him to commit the rampage. Omni-Man, without responding, decapitates him and heavily injured, collapses himself in exhaustion among the remains of his betrayed friends. A short moment after, Omni-Man falls unconscious from his injuries. Aftermath[] The GDA discovers the brutal aftermath and saved Nolan, while the Humans wouldn't know of the Guardians's demise until it was finally broadcasted online, a funeral took part where Omni-Man the last survivor makes a interesting eulogy on the death of his colleauges, and announces that he will lead humanity to a brighter future, and stronger day. Afterwards, Mark, Eve and Debbie took part in another funeral where Atom Eve mentions the GDA had to place the real corpses in a different section, possibly to avoid anything with the public. Cecil and Donald conducted an investigation along with Damien Darkblood. Nolan also remebered the clothes he wore to kill the guardians was in GDA custody and wanted it placed in his care pronto. For the next months to a year and a half, the GDA enlists Robot to bolster new Guardians of the Globe members, and eventually the GDA discover Nolan was the murderer, they would banish Damien as he was getting too involved with the case on the Guardians. Debbie would discover Damien's notes and with Art's help, upon taking Nolan's damaged super hero clothing, would eventually discover Nolan was the murderer all along. Showing his true colors along with the Immortal's sudden return to the world and his family, which prompt Omni-Man to kill the Immortal once again this time with the world watching, and resulting Invincible fighting Omni-Man causing major destruction to Chicago and other parts of the U.S. Soon after, the world disavowed Nolan. Some of his victims included The Global Defense Agency, The Immortal, Benjamin Taylor, Darkwing's successor, Olga, Red Rush's wife, Aquaria, Aquarus' wife, Nikki, Martian man's friend, and Theo, who was the spouse of Green Ghost, as well as War Woman's business partner, Connie, who became a member of The Order. Notable Survivors[] - The Immortal (brought back by the Maulers) - Black Samson (though not present during the death trap) - Omni-Man (fainted from the fight) Victims[] Sightings[] | Season 1 | |||||||||||| | 1. "It's About Time": | Debut | 5. "That Actually Hurt": | Absent | ||||||||| | 2. "Here Goes Nothing": | Absent | 6. "You Look Kinda Dead": | Absent | ||||||||| | 3. "Who You Calling Ugly?": | Absent | 7. "We Need To Talk": | Absent | ||||||||| | 4. "Neil Armstrong, Eat Your Heart Out": | Absent | 8. "Where I Really Come From": | Absent | Trivia[] - In the comics, the event is different than the series, where Omni-Man simply killed the Guardians before they could even perceive his movement, save for the Immortal, who saw the lightning-fast offensive and challenged the attacker to a fight. Upon spotting Omni-Man, Immortal attempted to engage in a brawl, stating he never liked him. - War Woman's neck was snapped by Omni-Man. - Red Rush and Aquarus' heads were smashed together. - Martian Man was disemboweled by Omni-Man. - Green Ghost was decapitated by Omni-Man. - Darkwing was punched in the stomach by Omni-Man. - Omni-Man stood over the Immortal's corpse and simply declared, "The feeling was mutual." - This event is the sole purpose of a lot of events within season that leads up to the big fight in Chicago. - Many fans speculate that if Red Rush continued to assist the Guardians defensively rather than engaging Omni-Man head on, they would've succeeded in defeating him. - When Season 1 first released, many critics and watchers of this episode became blown away by this event, believing the show to be merely a kids themed show at first. - In What Have I Done?, Nogogglesible easily defeated the second roster of Guardians of the Globe, most notably fighting heroes like Darkwing II, and others with similar fighting styles similar to how Omni-Man killed the original team. - Nogogglesible decapitated Immortal, like how he died against Omni-Man during their murder. - Nogogglesible grabbed hold of Darkwing II's ankle and slammed him against the floor, although this did not kill him instantly, unlike his predecessor. - Nogogglesible ripped Shapesmith in half, similar to how Omni-Man ripped Martian Man apart, though Shapesmith survived.
