=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Tadashi Nakayama (1912 - 1964) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics]
While with Brauer, he also met Cecil J Nesbitt, Brauer 's first doctoral student in Toronto, and Nakayama and Nesbitt collaborated on the paper Note on symmetric algebras (1938). In 1939 Nakayama published the first part of his paper On Frobeniusean Algebras in the Annals of Mathematics.
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Nakayama/

[Nakayama, Tadashi]
While with Brauer, he also met Cecil J Nesbitt, Brauer's first doctoral student in Toronto, and Nakayama and Nesbitt collaborated on the paper Note on symmetric algebras (1938). In 1939 Nakayama published the first part of his paper On Frobeniusean Algebras in the Annals of Mathematics.
URL: https://bookofproofs.github.io/history/20th-century/nakayama.html

[Note on Symmetric Algebras - JSTOR]
In studying the regular representations of algebras R. Brauer and one of the writers of the present note introduced recently the notion of symmetric algebras ;2 an algebra is called symmetric if there exists a hyperplane in the algebra which
URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/pdf/1968640.pdf

[Tadashi Nakayama (mathematician) - Wikipedia]
Tadashi Nakayama or Tadasi Nakayama (中山 正, Nakayama Tadashi; July 26, 1912, Tokyo Prefecture – June 5, 1964, Nagoya) was a mathematician who made important contributions to representation theory.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tadashi_Nakayama_(mathematician)

[Tadashi (or Tadasi) Nakayama (1912 - 1964) - Uni Bielefeld]
He was often in contact with Brauer and this gave him a decisive influence on his study. Brauer-Nesbitt published their first paper on modular representations in 1937, and then Nakayama published a paper on "Frobenius-Nakayama reciprocal law" in 1938.
URL: https://www.math.uni-bielefeld.de/~sek/collect/nakayama.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Tadashi Nakayama (1912 - 1964) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics] ---
Tadashi Nakayama Quick Info Tokyo, Japan Nagoya, Japan Biography Tadashi Nakayama's father was a leading scholar of Chinese classics. Tadashi was brought up in Tokyo where he first attended primary school and then entered the Musasi High School. His performance at this school was outstanding and, after graduating from the High School, he entered Tokyo Imperial University. There he was taught by Teiji Takagi who had done important work on algebraic number theory. However, perhaps even more of an influence on Nakayama than Takagi was his student Kenjiro Shoda who had studied in Germany with Issai Schur in Berlin and with Emmy Noether in Göttingen. In 1934 Nakayama had his first three papers published. Über das Produkt zweier Algebrenklassen mit zueinander primen Diskriminanten was written jointly with Shoda while the other two, Ein Satz über p-adischer Schiefkörper and Über die Definition der Shodaschen Diskriminante eines normalen einfachen hyperkomplexen Systems were single-authored papers but still influenced by Shoda.Nakayama graduated with his Rigakushi (diploma) from Tokyo Imperial University in 1935 and, in the same year, he was appointed as an assistant at Osaka Imperial University (now Osaka University). Shoda had been appointed as a professor in the Faculty of Science at Osaka University in 1933 so Nakayama's appointment there allowed them to easily continue their work together. In fact Nakayama published the book Local Class Field Theory in the year he was appointed to Osaka. He was promoted to assistant professor at Osaka University in 1937 having by this time twelve papers in print including a second one written in collaboration with Shoda. Experience abroad was important to leading Japanese mathematicians in this period and Nakayama followed this pattern spending time in the United States having been invited to the Institute for Advance Study at Princeton. Before Nakayama left for the United States he had been ill and had contracted tuberculosis. He had to have a medical examination before being allowed to go abroad but he persuaded the doctor who did the examination not to mention tuberculosis in his report. [After Nakayama's early death, many felt that this doctor was to blame for covering up his tuberculosis at a young age.] It was in September 1937 that Nakayama arrived in Princeton and there he met a number of leading algebraists such as Hermann Weyl, Emil Artin who had just emigrated to the United States, and Claude Chevalley who arrived in Princeton in 1938. Richard Brauer was by this time a professor at Toronto and he invited Nakayama to make two research visits to Toronto during his time in the United States, When he visited Brauer, he become inspired to work on group representations, publishing articles such as Some studies on regular representations, induced representations and modular representations (1938) and A remark on representations of groups (1938). While with Brauer, he also met Cecil J Nesbitt, Brauer's first doctoral student in Toronto, and Nakayama and Nesbitt collaborated on the paper Note on symmetric algebras (1938). In 1939 Nakayama published the first part of his paper On Frobeniusean Algebras in the Annals of Mathematics. It was in 1939, after spending two years in North America, that he returned to Osaka University. In 1941 he submitted the two parts of the paper On Frobeniusean Algebras (the second part was published in the Annals of Mathematics in 1941) for the degree of Rigakuhakushi (doctorate) which was conferred on him in that year. In 1942 he left Osaka to take up an appointment as an associate professor at the Nagoya Imperial University which had been founded in 1939. He was promoted to a full professor after two years at Nagoya University [1]:- During the difficult times of World War II he continued his pioneering works in mathematics.His second book, Lattice Theory, was published during the war years in 1944. By this time he had nearly 50 publications to his name including his first with Goro Azumaya. Together with Azumaya, Nakayama worked on the representation theory of algebras, particularly Frobenius algebras. They wrote three joint papers on their work and published the book Algebra. Theory of rings in Japanese in 1954. Masatoshi Gündüz Ikeda writes in a review:- This book ... is devoted to a systematic presentation of the theory of associative rings, a subject which has developed remarkably since the 1940's. The contents are divided into two parts. The first part, "general structural theory", written by the first author [Nakayama], consists of chapters 1-12 and is mainly concerned with the theory of rings without finiteness assumptions. The second part "algebras and representation theory", written by the second author [Azumaya], consists of chapters 13-17 and is mainly devoted to the theory of algebras and their representations.The first part of the book, written by Nakayama on the structure of rings, is similar to the famous text by Nathan Jacobson. Although the second part was written by Azumaya, it included much of their joint work on the representation theory of algebras. Nakayama spent further time on extended research visits. In 1948 and 1949 he was in the United States, at the University of Illinois, and, during 1953 and 1955, he spent time at Hamburg University in Germany, and spent a second period at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton. He received many honours for his achievements. For example, in 1947 he received (with his collaborator Goro Azumaya) a Chubu Nippon Bunka Sho in recognition of his research in the theory of infinite dimensional algebras. It was for his research on the theory of rings and representations that the Japan Academy of Science awarded him a Gakushi-in shou (Japan Academy Prize) in 1953 and, ten years later, he was elected a member of the Japan Academy. The obituary [1] lists six books and 122 papers written by Nakayama. This level of productivity is all the more remarkable when one realises that he achieved this despite severe health problems. As the tuberculosis became worse, he refused to give up his work and continued to come to the mathematics department at Nagoya University. He was so short of breath that chairs were placed on each floor so the he could rest while moving around the building. Even when he was eventually confined to bed he did not give up mathematics but read Grothendieck's work on algebraic geometry. He continued to publish research up to the time of his death, his last paper Class group of cohomologically trivial modules and cyclotomic ideals appearing in the journal Acta Arithmetica in 1964, the year in which he died from tuberculosis. Given these heath problems and the remarkable research achievements that he managed to keep up, it is all the more amazing that he was able to devote time to other matters [1]:- In addition to his scientific and educational activities great importance must be attached to the indefatigable labors which he expended for the development of the Mathematical Institute of the Nagoya University. Then he was one of the founders and the editor-in-chief of the 'Nagoya Mathematical Journal'. He was also an always enthusiastic and active member of the Mathematical Society of Japan, under whose auspices he often lectured in many towns of this country. His widespread activity also included his work as the cooperating editor of the 'Proceedings' of the Mathematical Society of Japan and 'Acta Arithmetica', and as a reviewer for the 'Mathematical Reviews' and for the 'Zentralblatt für Mathematik'.As to his character, we quote again from [1]:- He was a man of rare nobility of mind and great kindness whose life was consumed in incessant labors. His gracious spirit and his modest sympathetic and self-effacing personality will remain an unforgettable and shining example.Finally we mention that his name is well-known today among algebraists for 'Nakayama's lemma' is named after him. References (show) - Obituary: Tadasi Nakayama, Nagoya Math. J. 27 (1966) i-vii. Additional Resources (show) Other websites about Tadashi Nakayama: Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update March 2011 Last Update March 2011


--- [Nakayama, Tadashi] ---
Person: Nakayama, Tadashi Tadashi Nakayama was a Japanese mathematician who made important contributions to representation theory. Mathematical Profile (Excerpt): - Tadashi was brought up in Tokyo where he first attended primary school and then entered the Musasi High School. - However, perhaps even more of an influence on Nakayama than Takagi was his student Kenjiro Shoda who had studied in Germany with Issai Schur in Berlin and with Emmy Noether in Göttingen. - In 1934 Nakayama had his first three papers published. - Nakayama graduated with his Rigakushi (diploma) from Tokyo Imperial University in 1935 and, in the same year, he was appointed as an assistant at Osaka Imperial University (now Osaka University). - Shoda had been appointed as a professor in the Faculty of Science at Osaka University in 1933 so Nakayama's appointment there allowed them to easily continue their work together. - Nakayama published the book Local Class Field Theory in the year he was appointed to Osaka. - Experience abroad was important to leading Japanese mathematicians in this period and Nakayama followed this pattern spending time in the United States having been invited to the Institute for Advance Study at Princeton. - Before Nakayama left for the United States he had been ill and had contracted tuberculosis. - Richard Brauer was by this time a professor at Toronto and he invited Nakayama to make two research visits to Toronto during his time in the United States, When he visited Brauer, he become inspired to work on group representations, publishing articles such as Some studies on regular representations, induced representations and modular representations (1938) and A remark on representations of groups (1938). - While with Brauer, he also met Cecil J Nesbitt, Brauer's first doctoral student in Toronto, and Nakayama and Nesbitt collaborated on the paper Note on symmetric algebras (1938). - In 1939 Nakayama published the first part of his paper On Frobeniusean Algebras in the Annals of Mathematics. - Together with Azumaya, Nakayama worked on the representation theory of algebras, particularly Frobenius algebras. - The first part of the book, written by Nakayama on the structure of rings, is similar to the famous text by Nathan Jacobson. - Nakayama spent further time on extended research visits. - Finally we mention that his name is well-known today among algebraists for 'Nakayama's lemma' is named after him. Born 26 July 1912, Tokyo, Japan. Died 5 June 1964, Nagoya, Japan. View full biography at MacTutor Tags relevant for this person: Origin Japan Thank you to the contributors under CC BY-SA 4.0! - Github: - - non-Github: - @J-J-O'Connor - @E-F-Robertson References Adapted from other CC BY-SA 4.0 Sources: - O’Connor, John J; Robertson, Edmund F: MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive


--- [Note on Symmetric Algebras - JSTOR] ---
No content


--- [Tadashi Nakayama (mathematician) - Wikipedia] ---
Tadashi Nakayama or Tadasi Nakayama (中山 正, Nakayama Tadashi; July 26, 1912, Tokyo Prefecture – June 5, 1964, Nagoya) was a mathematician who made important contributions to representation theory.


--- [Tadashi (or Tadasi) Nakayama (1912 - 1964) - Uni Bielefeld] ---
| 1912, July | born in Tokyo | | 1935 | Graduated form Tokyo University. Assistant professor at Osaka University | | 1937 | Associate professor at Osaka University | | 1937 - 1939 | stayed at Princeton | | 1941 | Doctor of Science at Osaka University by the paper "On Frobenius algebras, I, II" | | 1942 | Associate professor at Nagoya University | | 1944 | Professor at Nagoya University | | 1947 | He won a prize called "Chunichi Bunkashou" together with G. Azumaya | | 1948 - 1949 | Illinois University | | 1953 | He won a prize, from the Japan Academy, called "Gakushi-in shou" (one of the most important prizes in Japan.) | | 1953 - 1955 | Hamburg University, Princeton | | 1963 | Member of the Japan Academy | | 1964 | Death in Nagoya | Tadasi Nakayama was born in Tokyo in July 1912. It is said that his father was an eminent scholar of Chinese classics. He graduated from Musasi high school under the old system and from the (Imperial) University of Tokyo. It is not clear who was his superviser at Tokyo University. He learned algebra by very carefully reading Kenjiro Shoda's book "Abstract Algebra" and he published some papers solving some problems posed in the book. Shoda, an uncle of an empress, was a mathematician who founded the department of Mathematics in Osaka University. He learned abstract algebra from E. Noether in Goettingen - Shoda was one of the Noether boys. In 1935 soon after the graduation of university he had a job as a Research Associate at the University of Osaka that was founded shortly before that. In 1937 he became an Associate Professor there. He stayed there for seven years until moving to the newly founded University of Nagoya in 1942 as an Associate Professor. Inbetween from September 1937 he stayed for two years at Institute of Princeton He was 25 years at that time and he was the first Japanese who stayed for a longer period at Princeton. At that time, he met Brauer, Artin, Nesbitt, and Chevalley. During that stay he visited Brauer in Toronto twice. He was impressed to see so many examples and calculations on representation theory in Brauer's office, and to know they were behind the beautiful theory. He was often in contact with Brauer and this gave him a decisive influence on his study. Brauer-Nesbitt published their first paper on modular representations in 1937, and then Nakayama published a paper on "Frobenius-Nakayama reciprocal law" in 1938. The influence on Brauer can also be seen when he started the study on Frobeniusean algebras in Princeton or in his paper on modular representations of symmetric groups published in 1940, in which beautiful theorems and conjectures were derived from complicated calculations. He once mentioned a conversation with Brauer, who told him that he (Brauer) wanted to quit studying algebra. When Nakayama asked what else he would like to do, Brauer replied: "Topology". In 1941 he got Doctor of Science at the University of Osaka with the papers "On Frobeniusean algebras, I, II". He was working at Nagoya University from 1942. In 1944 he became a full Professor at the University of Nagoya. Joint work with Goro Azumaya produced a lot of excellent results on representation theory of algebras. He published a book "Algebra II" with G. Azumaya, which includes in its second half (written by Azumaya) many of their joint results on Frobenius algebras, quasi-Frobenius algebras, and symmetric algebras. Nakayama wrote the first half on the structure of rings, which is similar to Jacobson's book. Before his travel to Princeton in 1937, he had already contracted tuberculosis. Of course, in those days, one had to undergo very strict physical examinations when going abroad. The reason why he passed the medical check was that he could get a doctor's report not mentioning his T.B.. (A rumour claims that the doctor was his relative.) Many people have regretted this report: If the doctor had reported correctly, then Nakayama would not have died so early. Before his death, there were chairs at each floor at the department of mathematics in Nagoya University so that Nakayama could take a rest. While he was ill (T.B.) in bed, he was learning Grothendieck's approach towards Algebraic Geometry. People say that he made the sickness worse through overwork. In 1947 he won the Price of Culture in the Middle Area of Japan with Goro Azumaya. He stayed at the University of Illinois from 1948 to 1949. In 1953 he won the Japan Academy Award. From 1953 to 1955 he stayed at the University of Hamburg and at the Institute of Princeton. In 1963 he became a member of Japan Academy. In 1964 he died by tuberculosis. Some papers:
