=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[New Space Policy Directive Calls for Human Expansion Across Solar System - NASA]
Credits: NASA President Donald Trump is sending astronauts back to the Moon. The president Monday signed at the White House Space Policy Directive 1, a change in national space policy that provides for a U.S.-led, integrated program with private sector partners for a human return to the Moon, followed by missions to Mars and beyond.
URL: https://www.nasa.gov/news-release/new-space-policy-directive-calls-for-human-expansion-across-solar-system/

[Fact Sheet: President Donald J. Trump Launches a New Age of American Space Achievement – The White House]
During his first term, President Trump issued seven groundbreaking Space Policy Directives instructing NASA to return American astronauts to the Moon, reforming our Nation's commercial space ...
URL: https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/12/fact-sheet-president-donald-j-trump-launches-a-new-age-of-american-space-achievement/

[Trump orders NASA to send American astronauts to the moon, Mars - CNBC]
U.S. Markets ... President Donald Trump signed Space Policy Directive 1 on Monday. He declared NASA must lead U.S. astronauts in "an innovative space exploration program." It has been 45 years to the day since Apollo 17 landed, the most recent mission to the moon. ... President Donald Trump signed Space Policy Directive 1 on Monday, directing NASA to return Americans to the surface of the moon and onward to Mars.
URL: https://www.cnbc.com/2017/12/11/trump-orders-nasa-to-send-american-astronauts-to-the-moon-mars.html

[Colonization of Mars - Wikipedia]
In 2017, president Donald Trump promised to return humans to the Moon and eventually Mars, and increased the NASA budget by $1.1 billion, to mostly focus on development of the new Space Launch System.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colonization_of_Mars

[President Trump’s FY26 Budget Revitalizes Human Space Exploration - NASA]
Increased commitment to human space exploration in pursuit of exploration of both the Moon and Mars. By allocating more than $7 billion for lunar exploration and introducing $1 billion in new investments for Mars-focused programs, the budget ensures America’s human space exploration efforts remain unparalleled, innovative, and efficient. Refocus science and space technology resources to efficiently execute high priority research. Consistent with the administration’s priority of returning to the Moon before China and putting an American on Mars, the budget will advance priority science and research missions and projects, ending financially unsustainable programs including Mars Sample Return.
URL: https://www.nasa.gov/news-release/president-trumps-fy26-budget-revitalizes-human-space-exploration/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [New Space Policy Directive Calls for Human Expansion Across Solar System - NASA] ---
President Donald Trump is sending astronauts back to the Moon. The president Monday signed at the White House Space Policy Directive 1, a change in national space policy that provides for a U.S.-led, integrated program with private sector partners for a human return to the Moon, followed by missions to Mars and beyond. The policy calls for the NASA administrator to “lead an innovative and sustainable program of exploration with commercial and international partners to enable human expansion across the solar system and to bring back to Earth new knowledge and opportunities.” The effort will more effectively organize government, private industry, and international efforts toward returning humans on the Moon, and will lay the foundation that will eventually enable human exploration of Mars. “The directive I am signing today will refocus America’s space program on human exploration and discovery,” said President Trump. “It marks a first step in returning American astronauts to the Moon for the first time since 1972, for long-term exploration and use. This time, we will not only plant our flag and leave our footprints — we will establish a foundation for an eventual mission to Mars, and perhaps someday, to many worlds beyond.” The policy grew from a unanimous recommendation by the new National Space Council, chaired by Vice President Mike Pence, after its first meeting Oct. 5. In addition to the direction to plan for human return to the Moon, the policy also ends NASA’s existing effort to send humans to an asteroid. The president revived the National Space Council in July to advise and help implement his space policy with exploration as a national priority. “Under President Trump’s leadership, America will lead in space once again on all fronts,” said Vice President Pence. “As the President has said, space is the ‘next great American frontier’ – and it is our duty – and our destiny – to settle that frontier with American leadership, courage, and values. The signing of this new directive is yet another promise kept by President Trump.” Among other dignitaries on hand for the signing, were NASA astronauts Sen. Harrison “Jack” Schmitt, Buzz Aldrin, Peggy Whitson and Christina Koch. Schmitt landed on the moon 45 years to the minute that the policy directive was signed as part of NASA’s Apollo 17 mission, and is the most recent living person to have set foot on our lunar neighbor. Aldrin was the second person to walk on the Moon during the Apollo 11 mission. Whitson spoke to the president from space in April aboard the International Space Station and while flying back home after breaking the record for most time in space by a U.S. astronaut in September. Koch is a member of NASA’s astronaut class of 2013. Work toward the new directive will be reflected in NASA’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget request next year. “NASA looks forward to supporting the president’s directive strategically aligning our work to return humans to the Moon, travel to Mars and opening the deeper solar system beyond,” said acting NASA Administrator Robert Lightfoot. “This work represents a national effort on many fronts, with America leading the way. We will engage the best and brightest across government and private industry and our partners across the world to reach new milestones in human achievement. Our workforce is committed to this effort, and even now we are developing a flexible deep space infrastructure to support a steady cadence of increasingly complex missions that strengthens American leadership in the boundless frontier of space. The next generation will dream even bigger and reach higher as we launch challenging new missions, and make new discoveries and technological breakthroughs on this dynamic path.” A piece of Moon rock was brought to the White House as a reminder of the exploration history and American successes at the Moon on which the new policy will build. Lunar Sample 70215 was retrieved from the Moon’s surface and returned by Schmitt’s Apollo 17 crew. Apollo 17 was the last Apollo mission to land astronauts on the Moon and returned with the greatest amount of rock and soil samples for investigation. The sample is a basaltic lava rock similar to lava found in Hawaii. It crystallized 3.84 billion years ago when lava flowed from the Camelot Crater. Sliced off a parent rock that originally weighed 8,110 grams, the sample weighs 14 grams, and is very fine grained, dense and tough. During the six Apollo surface excursions from 1969 to 1972, astronauts collected 2,196 rock and soil samples weighting 842 pounds. Scientific studies help us learn about the geologic history of the Moon, as well as Earth. They help us understand the mineral and chemical resources available to support future lunar exploration. For information about NASA’s missions, programs and activities, visit: -end- Jen Rae Wang Headquarters, Washington 202-358-1600 jenrae.wang@nasa.gov


--- [Fact Sheet: President Donald J. Trump Launches a New Age of American Space Achievement – The White House] ---
Fact Sheet: President Donald J. Trump Launches a New Age of American Space Achievement ENSURING AMERICAN SPACE SUPERIORITY: Today, President Donald J. Trump signed an Executive Order that sets a bold vision for an America First space policy, ensuring the United States leads the world in space exploration, security, and commerce. - The Order calls for Americans’ return to the Moon by 2028, and the establishment of initial elements of a permanent lunar outpost by 2030. - The Order directs the deployment of nuclear reactors on the Moon and in orbit, including a lunar surface reactor ready for launch by 2030. - The Order ensures our ability to detect, characterize, and counter the full range of security threats to U.S. space interests. - The Order spurs private sector innovation and investment by upgrading launch infrastructure and developing a commercial pathway to replace the International Space Station by 2030. - The Order directs the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology to coordinate National Space Policy efforts, and Federal departments and agencies to work together on the Order’s implementation, including streamlining procurement, implementing relevant space security strategies, and ensuring an appropriate workforce to accomplish these goals. SECURING AMERICA’S NATIONAL AND ECONOMIC INTERESTS: At a time when our adversaries are challenging American space leadership, President Trump is securing and defending vital American interests in, from, and to space. - Growing a vibrant commercial space economy through the power of American free enterprise will build prosperity and open new economic opportunities, such as high-paying aerospace manufacturing jobs here in America. - Enabling next-generation space capabilities will give Americans better positioning, navigation, and timing services for precision agriculture, more accurate weather forecasts for safe and predictable airline travel, and ubiquitous satellite-enabled communications for global broadband internet access. - Protecting critical space assets and activities is essential for military readiness and for defending America’s economic dominance. - Expanding human reach and American presence in space honors our pioneering legacy, ensures America remains at the forefront of space discovery and achievement, and drives innovation with spillover applications as far-ranging as memory foam, scratch-resistant lenses, cordless power tools, and heart pumps. BUILDING AMERICAN STRENGTH AND DRIVING ACHIEVEMENT: President Trump has demonstrated consistent leadership as a driving force for American strength and achievement in space. - In August 2025, President Trump signed an Executive Order to enable competition in the commercial space industry, ensuring the United States maintains its leading role in the commercial use of space. - President Trump promised that “We will lead humanity back to the moon, and the United States will be the first nation to land an astronaut on Mars.” - President Trump spearheaded the establishment of the Space Force, the first new branch of the Armed Forces since the creation of the Air Force more than 70 years ago. - The Space Force is critical to preparing the Department of War for evolving warfighting conditions and expanding our capabilities. - During his first term, President Trump issued seven groundbreaking Space Policy Directives instructing NASA to return American astronauts to the Moon, reforming our Nation’s commercial space regulatory framework, establishing cybersecurity principles for space systems, and much more. - In January 2021, President Trump issued an Executive Order promoting small modular reactors for National defense and space exploration. - In April 2020, President Trump issued an Executive Order to encourage space resource recovery and utilization.


--- [Trump orders NASA to send American astronauts to the moon, Mars - CNBC] ---
President Donald Trump signed Space Policy Directive 1 on Monday, directing NASA to return Americans to the surface of the moon and onward to Mars. The order declares NASA must lead U.S. astronauts in "an innovative space exploration program." The announcement continues the White House push to end dependence on Russia for manned launches, which began when the space shuttle program retired six years ago. "It marks an important step in returning American astronauts to the moon for the first time since 1972 for long-term exploration and use," Trump said during the signing. "This time we will not only plant our flag and leave our footprint. We will establish a foundation for an eventual mission to Mars and, perhaps, someday, to many worlds beyond." It has been 45 years to the day since Apollo 17 landed, the most recent mission to the moon. Former astronaut Buzz Aldrin noted in a tweet that Apollo 17 was the 6th time humans landed on the moon's surface. @TheRealBuzz The 6th time humans landed on the moon. Trump's declaration makes him the third president in the last 30 years to announce a return to the moon. On the 20th anniversary of the first moon landing, Apollo 11, President George H.W. Bush announced the National Space Council of the time would "report back" with "concrete recommendations" to reach "the Moon and Mars and beyond." In 2004, President George W. Bush unveiled a three-step vision for space exploration, saying the U.S. must "return to the moon by 2020." "With the experience and knowledge gained on the moon we will then be ready to take the next steps of space exploration: human missions to Mars and to worlds beyond," Bush said at NASA's headquarters in 2004. In October the National Space Council met for the first time since it was disbanded in 1993, led by Vice President Mike Pence, several White House officials and space industry executives. "America seems to have lost our edge in space," Pence said. "Rather than lead in space, too often we've chosen to drift and, as we learned 60 years ago, when we drift we fall behind." Boeing and SpaceX, both represented at the council meeting, play key roles in NASA's Commercial Crew program. The government organization selected the two companies to transport crew to the International Space Station, launching from the U.S. Both companies will seek major testing milestones in 2018, with both orbital and crewed flight tests. Pence said America "will win the 21st century in space." He identified the council as a way to build a coherent vision for U.S. policy and strategy in space.


--- [Colonization of Mars - Wikipedia] ---
The colonization of Mars is the proposed process of establishing permanent human settlements on the planet Mars. While most colonization concepts focus on settling, colonization is a broader ethical concept. International space law has limited colonization, and national space programs have avoided it, instead focusing on human mission to Mars for exploring the planet. The settlement of Mars would require the migration of humans to the planet, the establishment of a permanent human presence, and the exploitation of local resources. 
Despite the absence of crewed missions to Mars, there have been successful robotic missions to the planet. Public space agencies (including NASA, ESA, Roscosmos, ISRO, and the CNSA, among others) have explored colonization concepts, but have primarily focused on further robotic exploration of Mars and the possibility of crewed landings. Some space advocacy groups, such as the Mars Society and the National Space Society, as well as some private organizations, such as SpaceX, have promoted the idea of colonization. The prospect of settling Mars has been a recurrent theme in science fiction literature, cinema, and the arts.
Challenges to settlement include the intense ionizing radiation that impacts the Martian surface, and the fine, toxic dust that covers the planet. Mars has an atmosphere, but it is unbreathable and thin. Surface temperatures fluctuate widely, between −70 and 0 °C (−94 and 32 °F). While Mars has underground water and other resources, conditions do not favor power production using wind and solar; similarly, the planet has few resources for nuclear power. Mars's orbit is the third closest to Earth's orbit, though far enough from Earth that the distance would present a serious obstacle to the movement of materiel and settlers. Justifications and motivations for colonizing Mars include technological curiosity, the opportunity to conduct in-depth observational research, the possibility that the settlement of other planets could decrease the probability of human extinction, the interest in establishing a colony independent of Earth, and the potential benefits of economic exploitation of the planet's resources.




--- [President Trump’s FY26 Budget Revitalizes Human Space Exploration - NASA] ---
The Trump-Vance Administration released toplines of the President’s budget for Fiscal Year 2026 on Friday. The budget accelerates human space exploration of the Moon and Mars with a fiscally responsible portfolio of missions. “This proposal includes investments to simultaneously pursue exploration of the Moon and Mars while still prioritizing critical science and technology research,” said acting NASA Administrator Janet Petro. “I appreciate the President’s continued support for NASA’s mission and look forward to working closely with the administration and Congress to ensure we continue making progress toward achieving the impossible.” - Increased commitment to human space exploration in pursuit of exploration of both the Moon and Mars. By allocating more than $7 billion for lunar exploration and introducing $1 billion in new investments for Mars-focused programs, the budget ensures America’s human space exploration efforts remain unparalleled, innovative, and efficient. - Refocus science and space technology resources to efficiently execute high priority research. Consistent with the administration’s priority of returning to the Moon before China and putting an American on Mars, the budget will advance priority science and research missions and projects, ending financially unsustainable programs including Mars Sample Return. It emphasizes investments in transformative space technologies while responsibly shifting projects better suited for private sector leadership. - Transition the Artemis campaign to a more sustainable, cost-effective approach to lunar exploration. The SLS (Space Launch System) rocket and Orion capsule will be retired after Artemis III, paving the way for more cost-effective, next-generation commercial systems that will support subsequent NASA lunar missions. The budget also ends the Gateway Program, with the opportunity to repurpose already produced components for use in other missions. International partners will be invited to join these renewed efforts, expanding opportunities for meaningful collaboration on the Moon and Mars. - Continue the process of transitioning the International Space Station to commercial replacements in 2030, focusing onboard research on efforts critical to the exploration of the Moon and Mars. The budget reflects the upcoming transition to a more cost-effective, open commercial approach to human activities in low Earth orbit by reducing the space station’s crew size and onboard research, preparing for the safe decommissioning of the station and its replacement by commercial space stations. - Work to minimize duplication of efforts and most efficiently steward the allocation of American taxpayer dollars. This budget ensures NASA’s topline enables a financially sustainable trajectory to complete groundbreaking research and execute the agency’s bold mission. - Focus NASA’s resources on its core mission of space exploration. This budget ends climate-focused “green aviation” spending while protecting the development of technologies with air traffic control and other U.S. government and commercial applications, producing savings. This budget also will ensure continued elimination any funding toward misaligned DEIA initiatives, instead designating that money to missions capable of advancing NASA’s core mission. NASA will continue to inspire the next generation of explorers through exciting, ambitious space missions that demonstrate American leadership in space. NASA will coordinate closely with its partners to execute these priorities and investments as efficiently and effectively as possible. Building on the President’s promise to increase efficiency this budget pioneers a focused, innovative, and fiscally-responsible path to America’s next great era of human space exploration. Learn more about the President’s budget request for NASA: -end- Bethany Stevens Headquarters, Washington 771-216-2606 bethany.c.stevens@nasa.gov
