=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Circle Season 2 Spoilers! Terilisha Talks Savannah Drama and Joker Suspicions]
Even in Savannah’s absence and two new faces entering the Circle, Terilisha’s name still came with drama attached. She finished in last once more, and this time she would not survive the blocking from influencers Courtney Revolution and “River” (aka Lee Swift).
URL: https://parade.com/1197828/mikebloom/the-circle-season-2-terilisha-eliminated-spoilers/

[Terilisha | The Circle Wiki | Fandom]
Terilisha is a player and contestant on The Circle US (Season 2). Terilisha is playing as herself. TBA
URL: https://the-circle.fandom.com/wiki/Terilisha

['The Circle' Season 2 Spoilers: Terilisha Eliminated - Decider]
Apr 21, 2021 · If you thought the first four episodes of The Circle Season 2 were a wild ride, then you’re not ready for the hairpin turns that the game takes in this week’s batch.
URL: https://decider.com/2021/04/21/the-circle-season-2-blocked-chat-week-2-terilisha/

[The Circle: Season 2/ Episode 4 – Recap/ Review (with Spoilers)]
Apr 15, 2021 · The Circle: Season 2/ Episode 4 – Recap/ Review (with Spoilers) The Terilisha and Savannah war comes to an end, as one of them is blocked from The Circle. Also, yet another new addition to the game is shown – but it isn’t a cast member.
URL: https://wherever-i-look.com/tv-shows/the-circle-season-2-episode-4-recap-review-with-spoilers

[The Circle (American TV series) season 2 - Wikipedia]
^Note 1 : In Episode 1, before deciding who to block, Terilisha and Savannah had a chance to save a player each. Terilisha chose to save Jack "Emily", while Savannah chose to save Deleesa "Trevor".
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Circle_(American_TV_series)_season_2


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Circle Season 2 Spoilers! Terilisha Talks Savannah Drama and Joker Suspicions] ---
Warning! The interview below contains spoilers for episodes 5 through 8 of Netflix’s The Circle season 2, which aired in April. Please do not continue if you do not wish to be spoiled on who was blocked in those episodes. Substitute teacher Terilisha hoped to be a permanent part of The Circle season 2, ready to school her competition. She rose to the head of the class quickly, finishing in the No. 1 position in the first rankings and becoming an influencer alongside Savannah Palacio. After that, though, the math expert’s approval ratings began to fall into the negative. Though previously tight with Savannah, Terilisha grew wary of her, calling her a “frenemy” by the end of their blocking deliberation. And a comment thrown out the next day proved to be the spark that lit a powder keg between the two women. Terilisha and Savannah spent the next few days exchanging cross words and recruiting the other players to their cause. Terilisha fell from first to worst in the next ratings but was spared due to her “Girl Group” alliance with Chloe Veitch and “Emily” (aka Jack Atkins). Though she had won the battle, she could not win the war. Even in Savannah’s absence and two new faces entering the Circle, Terilisha’s name still came with drama attached. She finished in last once more, and this time she would not survive the blocking from influencers Courtney Revolution and “River” (aka Lee Swift). In her final visits, she paid a visit to close ally Chloe to warn her about Emily, falsely believing she was the anonymous “Joker” who wielded power over the past couple of days. Read on to hear Terilisha’s thoughts on her time in the game. And check out Parade.com throughout The Circle season 2 with the various players and catfishes alike. Related: The Circle Season 2: Everything You Need to Know Why did you decide to come onto The Circle? So two things. One: I absolutely love the show. And I just thought it was such a cool concept. Two: I thought I could win it! I have a competitive nature. I wanted to see if my personality could shine through enough to become the No. 1 influencer on the show. So when I saw myself as the first influencer on The Circle season 2, I was like, “Yep. Yeah.” To that point, what emotions were you feeling when you were ranked No. 1, especially considering the responsibility that comes with being an influencer? Honestly, pure joy. I didn’t think I’d be looked at as a threat. Because my personality in real life is if I see someone is cool or popular, I would want to be their friend. Because I feel the same way about myself! I figured that people would gravitate to me, and I could make friends. Savannah told me that blocking deliberation went on for a long time, and you walked out of it considering her your “frenemy.” What went down to make you feel that way about her? The biggest reason why I felt like she was a frenemy was that she actually did want Chloe gone. Even though they show her saying, “I want to protect her, and I want to protect our girls,” what she actually said was, “I want to protect her, but I’m afraid that Chloe will want to pay me back [for not saving her].” That was weird to me. That’s why I threw her under the bus to Chloe. I needed her on my side, and Savannah was absolutely correct. It’s a game to win. This is the game to be No. 1. I knew if the tables were turned—and they were—and it came down to Savannah and me, I would be saved. And that’s exactly what happened. It was unfortunate for Bryant, but that was just the casualty of that civil war. After Bryant’s elimination, you throw out a comment that you “definitely didn’t want to see him go.” Savannah takes that to mean you were pushing the blame onto her, which is the beginning of the conflict between you two. What did you think of her reaction to your comment? I meant it! You saw on the show that Bryant and I bonded in our conversation, and I really did not want to see him go. Unfortunately, doing the math, it was just the most logical decision. So I meant when I said that. That wasn’t shade; that was the truth. And she took it personally. When she said it was a mutual decision, I agree. But I was also speaking the truth. We agreed to a bargain, but she took it to a whole other level. Things come to a head in the Truth or Dare game, where you call Savannah the biggest player on the show, and she calls you the least trustworthy. What was your reaction to everything happening during that game? My mom always says, “When two people are arguing, and no one knows who the fool is, they both look like fools.” That, honestly, was my perspective. I thought it was pathetic; I really did. It was an attempt to throw me under the bus, and I honestly felt like there was nothing to defend. I know me, and I know how I was playing the game. And that wasn’t me. And I knew what she was doing was part of her game plan. It was ridiculous. It feels like The Twilight Zone even watching it back now. I’m looking at what she says, and I’m like, “That’s what you did!” To no surprise, you and Savannah end up now at the bottom of the ratings. Considering Chloe and Emily were the influencers, did you feel safe? I honestly felt pretty safe. I felt secure. Emily was the very first person I saved when I was given a chance, and I had good conversations with Chloe that made me feel like she had my back. But you never know. I knew from my time as an influencer; your mind can change. You can be persuaded; you can start weighing your odds and options. They could have said, “Oh, she was No. 1. Maybe we should knock her out.” But I did feel confident I would be saved. After Savannah’s blocked, you say you’re grateful for the opportunity now to show the “real” you. Did you feel you were able to do that, despite going shortly after? I was disappointed. The view of me was so tainted, as hard as I tried. But things spread like wildfire, and I feel like I, unfortunately, got burned in the situation. I didn’t realize Courtney was so out to get me. I tried to form a genuine connection, although I was seeing him as my biggest competition. But I only saw him as a threat because I actually liked him, and he was so popular. He never took the chance to really know me. So no, I don’t believe everyone got the opportunity to know the real me. Let’s talk about Courtney. Because to your point, you try to connect with him, and he is not having it behind the scenes. Did you realize that when you were speaking with him? No! I didn’t get that at all. He played the game; he did everything Savannah told him to do and play nice. Unfortunately, that’s all I can say. This is the result of listening to someone talking about someone they don’t like. I did actually like him, and she gassed him up to make it seem like I was out to get him. I think people forget to realize that that very first blocking only two days into the Circle. I hadn’t even had an opportunity to speak, to coordinate. This happens all the time in real life. People don’t like people based on what other people say. And then when they get to know them themselves, you realize they’re really cool. I wish Courtney had given me that faith and not just listened to someone that he knew did not like me. That didn’t make sense to me. Like, you are listening to someone who was blocked; they can’t get you to the finale! I would think that if it were the other way around, I would listen to myself and get to know someone to build my allegiances. You’re willing to knock me out, but you’re someone who’s not even in the game. That’s madness. Courtney was the Joker in this batch of episodes, but you were convinced that it was Emily. How did it feel when you thought one of your closest allies had sold you and Chloe out to the others? I was confused as hell! I genuinely was so confused. I believe after Savannah dropped her goodbye message, Emily made a comment to the likes of, “I want to be like Savannah when I grow up.” That made me believe that Savannah had visited Emily after she was blocked to ask why she blocked her. That was my thought process, so I did think it was Emily. But when I found out it was Courtney, it connected all the dots for me. In your final days, you were making close bonds with Trevor and Khat. If you stayed in the Circle, would you have been loyal to them? I want to be 100% loyal; I don’t say anything I don’t need to. If I say that I’ve got you, I’ve got you. I had every intention of working with them, Emily, Chloe, and River. Those were the ones that I had conversations with, and those were the ones that I was going to protect because we needed each other to get to the finish line and keep the family together. Speaking of River, how surprised were you that he and Courtney blocked you? I had no words; I was shocked. I believe we just had the “Southern Queens” chat, and that felt good to me. I felt we were all moving forward to try to win the game together. When I saw River and Courtney were influencers, I felt good. River was my “little brother.” I was absolutely shocked, especially considering how hard I went for River when he was up for elimination. After you’re blocked, why did you choose to visit Chloe and tip her off about not trusting Emily? For that exact reason! I like Chloe, despite what I may have said about her being boy crazy. I felt like Chloe had my back; I wanted to make the top five with her. I already had a conversation with Khat, so she knew where we stood. And River just wasn’t high on my priorities of people to talk to. I wanted Chloe to know she had to protect her back and let her know my suspicions, which unfortunately were incorrect. Finally, at the end of Episode 8, we saw Emily and Lance (aka Lisa) get blocked and have to play together under one catfish identity. If you and Savannah had to do the same thing, how do you think it would have gone? (Laughs.) I think we would have rocked it! I really do. I was so mad at her. But that would have given us another opportunity to win. So it would have been pushed that [expletive] right under the bridge. Like, come on, girl! $100,000 on the line, let’s get it! Next, read our chat with Savannah Palacio, who was eliminated second on The Circle season 2. About the author Mike Bloom TV Editor, Parade


--- [Terilisha | The Circle Wiki | Fandom] ---
Terilisha is a player and contestant on The Circle US (Season 2). The Circle[] Playing As[] Terilisha is playing as herself. Events[] TBA Ratings and Results[] | | Episode 1 | Episode 4 | Episode 6 | Episode 8 | Episode 10 | Episode 12 | Episode 13 | | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | Terilisha | 1st | 7th | 6th | Blocked (Episode 7) | Assumptions[] Her Assumptions[] Other Players Assumptions[] Trivia[] Social Media[] References[] | The Circle US (Season 2) Contestants | |||||||||||| |---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | |||||||||||| |


--- ['The Circle' Season 2 Spoilers: Terilisha Eliminated - Decider] ---
If you thought the first four episodes of The Circle Season 2 were a wild ride, then you’re not ready for the hairpin turns that the game takes in this week’s batch. Savannah left Courtney with a parting gift: a big ol’ spoon with which to stir the pot. And now that we know the power contained within the Inner Circle, the gameplay can only get more shocking. But, uh, let’s not forget week one and the reality TV fireworks that went off between Savannah and Terilisha! From ranking each other #1 in the first round to throwing snake emojis at each other in front of every other player, these two had a falling out unlike anything we’ve seen on this show before. It was, as they say on The Circle, fire emoji fire emoji mind blown emoji SEND. The Circle Exit Interviews: The First Week’s Evicted Players Look Back on All the Drama And because The Circle Season 2 plays for keeps, that public kerfuffle wrecked some reputations with the other players. We saw what happened to Savannah immediately after that explosive truth or dare game, and—SPOILER ALERT—Terilisha went next. Not even having her “little brother” River (a.k.a. 58-year-old Lee) as an influencer could save her from Courtney’s revenge. But don’t come for Courtney or Terilisha or Savannah. The game is meant to be played, and it is being played well! Read on for Decider’s exit interview with Terilisha, where she opens up about that infamous influencer chat and life as the leader of #TeamTerilisha. Ep. 7: Terilisha Decider: What led you to apply for The Circle? Terilisha: I watched season one. I loved season one and I wanted to see how far I could get. I wanted to see if I could make it, if I could be an influencer or if I could win the game. I’m pretty competitive, so it was right up my alley. Did you use your math background to your advantage? Did it help with strategy? No, I don’t think I thought of it at the time. But now that you say—yeah, yeah, definitely. It’s really crazy to think about what you thought [The Circle] would be like from watching Season 1 versus actually getting in the Circle and realizing the actual pressure of it all. This is a game where you have to be strategic and you have to be smart. How did you go about your rankings? Was it all heart, or all head? Heart and head. It was important to allow people chances. That’s why I saved Emily, because the same thoughts that Chloe had about her being aloof and tiptoeing, straddling the fence—they don’t show it, but those were my exact thoughts. I was like, you know what, let me give Emly a chance. Maybe there’s more to her, the same way I had with Bryant. Let me give them another opportunity. Let me see. So I thought with my heart. I was willing to give people chances. But as well I was being strategic. I was being technical as well because that’s why I wanted to get Courtney out. Usually in the influencer chats, the two players kind of just go through everyone and feel out the other person. But Courtney was the first person Savannah brought up, and you were like, “It’s him. I want him out.” What made Courtney target number one? I like Courtney! I liked him! So that’s what I kept saying. It’s like, he’s my biggest threat because he’s my biggest competition, because I genuinely liked him. He was popular in The Circle. He was so funny. So everything that you guys see [on the show], I could feel that through The Circle screen. I knew that Courtney was a top tier player, so I was like, let’s get him out first. He’s not the weakest link. Let’s unlink a strong link, that way I’ll make myself a stronger link. I don’t think some fans realize that, because there are two ways to play The Circle. You either want all your friends to make it to the end, or you want all your friends to go home because you know that if you like them for a reason, then they’re a strong player and therefore competition. I’m right there in the middle. Why would I give you, someone that’s popular, a chance to knock me down like that? The fans don’t see. They’re like, oh my god, I can’t believe you want to get rid of Courtney. I love Courtney, but I want him out of here. I think you may have been able to persuade any other player had they been an influencer with you, but you were with Savannah—and she’d just bonded over Courtney. Could you feel the mood start to shift in that chat? No, not when it came to Courtney. I just didn’t realize that they had such a strong connection. I just thought that she didn’t find him a threat, so that’s why I was like, wow, she doesn’t even she doesn’t feel he is a threat. So that’s why we moved on to the next person, which is River, which we both agreed, like, oh, he’s cool. Let’s keep him, but only if you keep Courtney. So that’s why I was like, okay. And I had to get him closer to me as my ally. That way I wouldn’t feel as threatened by him as a competitor. Everything really fell apart with Savannah during the Truth or Dare game, which resulted in some iconic reality TV moments that are already memes. What was going through your mind at that point? I was honestly pissed. I was playing the game, just like anybody else, truth or dare. So who do I think is the biggest game player? I simply said “Savannah,” because at the time from my perspective, that’s what I could see. I was in that influencer chat with her. I was in that #GirlGang chat with her so, I could see that. She really wanted Chloe gone despite what they show in that influencer chat. She wanted her gone. That’s why like, I’m done talking about Chloe [in the influencer chat]. So when it got to her truth, she just went so hard. I mean, I was like, wow, there is a foot on my neck right now with lies! Because it was, like I said, the other way around. I was shocked. #pathetic. I was like, wow, this girl is playing a dirty game! Are you a fan of reality television? No! I don’t even watch it, that’s the funny part. I watch The Challenge. That’s probably about it. I don’t watch anything else. Wow! I ask because being part of a major reality TV fight is kind of a badge of honor. Like, #TeamSavannah and #TeamTerilisha were blowing up on social media over the weekend. What has that been like? I feel the love. I feel like Beyonce. I feel like #TeamTerilisha are dual members of the Beyhive because they are not playing about me. I love it. I love it. It feels good to know that people have my back and people support me and people can see like, the real real. So it was cool. I can’t lie. It was cool to see all the love from literally all over the world. I’d have to hit the translate button on Twitter just to read the tweet. And I’m like, they love me in 89 other languages! It’s crazy. In week two, everyone gets to see you actually apologize for the negativity and try to get the conversation moving forward towards something positive. Are you excited for people to see that part of this story? Yes. I’m excited for people see that because the main thing people are saying from the teams, the Savannah side, is that Terilisha, she’s so negative and she’s the drama and she’s a bitch. So I think it’s important for me, and my redemption and my vindication to show that Terilisha really isn’t about the beef, isn’t about the drama. She really is trying to get to know people and level with people and be my genuine self. I’m excited that people get to see that and can see that the true drama was the person who left The Circle and kept the drama going with someone else. What Is the Inner Circle on ‘The Circle’? Oh, the Joker plot with Courtney! Courtney played that card so well, because he had everyone convinced that he was actually Emily. When you were blocked and chose to meet Chloe, were you hesitant about telling her all your intel? No. What I did with Chloe was the exact opposite of what happened with Courtney. I wanted Chloe to make her own decisions. However, I just told her what my feelings were and some of the doubts that I had. I just wanted her to get her head in the game because she was being so man-focused. And I was like girl, you’ve put the boo to the side. We got to get the bag at this point. So I just wanted her to get her head in the game and pay attention. But I did bring up Emily because if Emily was the Joker, I wanted her to know because they were so tight. I needed her to be careful because I wanted her to take it. I wanted her to win, so I needed Chloe to know my thoughts and my feelings, my fears. There were a lot of Texas queens in The Circle this season with you and Khat and Lee/”River.” Was there any bonding over that? Is there a #TeamTexas outside of The Circle? There is. Lee is probably the glue that keeps us together. He keeps our text messages rocking, we have a group text. And then Khat, that’s my girl. I literally talked to her yesterday. She’s just in game mode right now, so she’s in Turkey. But I’m ready for her to come home. Do you have any regrets about how you went out? No. Although I am blocked, I know it wasn’t because of me. I didn’t have bad gameplay. I was knocked out based on someone else’s inability to see who I was as a person. So that’s the confidence that I have going forth. I feel that’s the one takeaway from it. Yes, I’m so sad and so disappointed to be blocked, but I know that it wasn’t me. I didn’t throw anybody under the bus. I didn’t lie and cheat. I didn’t steal. I didn’t do anything dirty. I didn’t tell one lie in The Circle. So I feel good about that. Like, despite what some viewers think, that I was there for the drama. I played that game and I feel good knowing that I made it that far.


--- [The Circle: Season 2/ Episode 4 – Recap/ Review (with Spoilers)] ---
The Circle: Season 2/ Episode 4 – Recap/ Review (with Spoilers) The Terilisha and Savannah war comes to an end, as one of them is blocked from The Circle. Also, yet another new addition to the game is shown – but it isn’t a cast member. Spoiler Alert: This summary and review contains spoilers. Additionally, some images and text may include affiliate links, meaning we may earn a commission or receive products if you make a purchase. The Terilisha and Savannah war comes to an end, as one of them is blocked from The Circle. Also, yet another new addition to the game is shown – but it isn’t a cast member. | Episode Title | Lines Are Drawn | | Director(s) | Sam Campbell | | Writer(s) | Lee Gant | | Aired (Netflix) | 4/14/2021 | This content contains pertinent spoilers. Also, images and text may contain affiliate links, which, if a purchase is made, we’ll earn money or products from the company. Recap Damage Control – Savannah, Terilisha, Courtney, Chloe, Jack (Emily) After the battle between Terilisha and Savannah settles down, both seek to bolster their chances of surviving this round. But, despite Savannah reaching out to Chloe and Emily and Terilisha to Courtney, they both end up in the bottom two. It’s Hard To Say Goodbye My Love – Chloe, Jack (Emily), Savannah, Terilisha But, with Jack and Chloe as the influencers this round, with Chloe as the top voted, Savannah never stood a chance. Jack doesn’t like or trust Savannah and after Savannah not choosing Chloe to be safe from the first elimination, #GirlGang lost a member. So, she is eliminated for the sake of peace, despite Terilisha being the one who stirred the pot – and apparently doesn’t remember doing so when she had a private chat with Savannah. Um, What Is This? – Savannah, Courtney Which leads to Savannah deciding to see Courtney and having a good kiki. One that, surprisingly, leads to Savannah putting a target on Emily’s head. Though perhaps the bigger surprise is Courtney getting a prize from Savannah visiting him, since he is the person she felt most deserved to win. What is the surprise? Well, access to the “Inner Circle,” which has a whole lot of monitors but not until episode 5 will we learn what the “Inner Circle” provides. Review Highlights The Inner Circle Room I so badly hope it means seeing someone’s chats. You want to talk about shaking up the game? Imagine either seeing someone’s chats, hearing the audio from their rooms, something which seems, admittedly, a little invasive but game-changing. Because, otherwise, what else could there be? Choosing the games they’ll play? Messing with the voting system to protect themselves? I just want answers. On The Fence Honestly Wanting The Drama To Continue, But Understanding Why They Ended It We’ll, of course, get more drama, but I doubt anyone is going to be as confrontational as Savannah and Terilisha were to one another. After all, the proof is in the pudding – it put both in the bottom two, after being in the top two, and one got eliminated, and, let’s be honest, Terilisha could potentially be next. It isn’t like Jack and Chloe didn’t contemplate it, and you know revenge for Savannah could be a real thing. [ninja_tables id=”56609″] TV Shows We’re Covering This Season Images used for editorial and commentary purposes. All rights remain with their respective copyright holders.


--- [The Circle (American TV series) season 2 - Wikipedia] ---
The second season of the American reality competition streaming series The Circle began on April 14, 2021, on Netflix, and concluded on May 5, 2021. The season was announced in March 2020 when Netflix renewed The Circle for a second and third season. Michelle Buteau returned as host. 
Like the previous season, players compete against each other to become the most popular, but do not actually meet their competitors. Instead, they communicate through a specially designed app and are able to portray themselves in any way they choose.
On May 5, 2021, the season was won by DeLeesa St. Agathe, who had played the game as her husband, Trevor, and won the US$100,000 prize that came along with it. Chloe Veitch was the runner-up and won the Fan Favorite award and US$10,000.
