=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ultrasound - Wikipedia]
January 14, 2026 -InJuly 2015,The Economist reported that researchers at the University of California, Berkeley have conducted ultrasound studies using graphene diaphragms. The thinness and low weight of graphene combined with its strength make it an effective material to use in ultrasound communications.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ultrasound

[Now humans can navigate by sonar | University of California]
July 7, 2015 -Zettl, UC Berkeley postdoctoral fellow Qin Zhou and colleagues describe their graphene microphone and ultrasonic radio in a paper appearing online this week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Two years ago, Zhou built loudspeakers using a sheet of graphene for the diaphragm, and since then has been developing the electronic circuitry to build a microphone with a similar graphene diaphragm.
URL: https://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/news/now-humans-can-navigate-sonar

[Using sonar to navigate: Bats do it, dolphins do it, and now ...]
Two years ago, Zhou built loudspeakers using a sheet ofgraphenefor thediaphragm, and since then has been developing the electronic circuitry to build a microphone with a similargraphene...
URL: https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/07/150707134625.htm

[All weekly editions | The Economist]
Browse all the weekly editions fromTheEconomistbyyear. You’ve seen the news, now discover the story.
URL: https://www.economist.com/weeklyedition/archive

[Search for: when did The Economist report on researchers at ...]
Using CBPR principles to guide community-engaged research in Greenland provides a concrete and actionable way for students or early-careerresearchersto promote equitable relationships despite resource limitations.
URL: https://par.nsf.gov/search/term:when+did+The+Economist+report+on+researchers+at+the+University+of+California,+Berkeley+conducting+ultrasound+studies+using+graphene+diaphragms


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ultrasound - Wikipedia] ---
Ultrasound is sound with frequencies greater than 20 kilohertz. This frequency is the approximate upper audible limit of human hearing in healthy young adults. The physical principles of acoustic waves apply to any frequency range, including ultrasound. Ultrasonic devices operate with frequencies from 20 kHz up to several gigahertz.
Ultrasound is used in many different fields. Ultrasonic devices are used to detect objects and measure distances. Ultrasound imaging or sonography is often used in medicine. In the nondestructive testing of products and structures, ultrasound is used to detect invisible flaws. Industrially, ultrasound is used for cleaning, mixing, and accelerating chemical processes. Animals such as bats and porpoises use ultrasound for locating prey and obstacles.


--- [Now humans can navigate by sonar | University of California] ---
Robert Sanders, UC Berkeley University of California, Berkeley, physicists have used graphene to build lightweight ultrasonic loudspeakers and microphones, enabling people to mimic bats or dolphins’ ability to use sound to communicate and gauge the distance and speed of objects around them. More practically, the wireless ultrasound devices complement standard radio transmission using electromagnetic waves in areas where radio is impractical, such as underwater, but with far greater fidelity than current ultrasound or sonar devices. They can also be used to communicate through objects, such as steel, that electromagnetic waves can’t penetrate. “Sea mammals and bats use high-frequency sound for echolocation and communication, but humans just haven’t fully exploited that before, in my opinion, because the technology has not been there,” said UC Berkeley physicist Alex Zettl. “Until now, we have not had good wideband ultrasound transmitters or receivers. These new devices are a technology opportunity.” Speakers and microphones both use diaphragms, typically made of paper or plastic, that vibrate to produce or detect sound, respectively. The diaphragms in the new devices are graphene sheets a mere one atom thick that have the right combination of stiffness, strength and light weight to respond to frequencies ranging from subsonic (below 20 hertz) to ultrasonic (above 20 kilohertz). Humans can hear from 20 hertz up to 20,000 hertz, whereas bats hear only in the kilohertz range, from 9 to 200 kilohertz. The grapheme loudspeakers and microphones operate from well below 20 hertz to over 500 kilohertz. Graphene consists of carbon atoms laid out in a hexagonal, chicken-wire arrangement, which creates a tough, lightweight sheet with unique electronic properties that have excited the physics world for the past 20 or more years. “There’s a lot of talk about using graphene in electronics and small nanoscale devices, but they’re all a ways away,” said Zettl, who is a senior scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and a member of the Kavli Energy NanoSciences Institute, operated jointly by UC Berkeley and Berkeley Lab. “The microphone and loudspeaker are some of the closest devices to commercial viability, because we’ve worked out how to make the graphene and mount it, and it’s easy to scale up.” Zettl, UC Berkeley postdoctoral fellow Qin Zhou and colleagues describe their graphene microphone and ultrasonic radio in a paper appearing online this week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Radios and rangefinders Two years ago, Zhou built loudspeakers using a sheet of graphene for the diaphragm, and since then has been developing the electronic circuitry to build a microphone with a similar graphene diaphragm. One big advantage of graphene is that the atom-thick sheet is so lightweight that it responds well to the different frequencies of an electronic pulse, unlike today’s piezoelectric microphones and speakers. This comes in handy when using ultrasonic transmitters and receivers to transmit large amounts of information through many different frequency channels simultaneously, or to measure distance, as in sonar applications. “Because our membrane is so light, it has an extremely wide frequency response and is able to generate sharp pulses and measure distance much more accurately than traditional methods,” Zhou said. Graphene membranes are also more efficient, converting over 99 percent of the energy driving the device into sound, whereas today’s conventional loudspeakers and headphones convert only 8 percent into sound. Zettl anticipates that in the future, communications devices like cellphones will utilize not only electromagnetic waves — radio — but also acoustic or ultrasonic sound, which can be highly directional and long-range. “Graphene is a magical material; it hits all the sweet spots for a communications device,” he said. Bat chirps When Zhou told his wife, Jinglin Zheng, about the ultrasound microphone, she suggested he try to capture the sound of bats chirping at frequencies too high for humans to hear. So they hauled the microphone to a park in Livermore and turned it on. When they slowed down the recording to one-eighth normal speed, converting the high frequencies to an audio range humans can hear, they were amazed at the quality and fidelity of the bat vocalizations. “This is lightweight enough to mount on a bat and record what the bat can hear,” Zhou said. Bat expert Michael Yartsev, a newly hired UC Berkeley assistant professor of bioengineering and member of the Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, said, “These new microphones will be incredibly valuable for studying auditory signals at high frequencies, such as the ones used by bats. The use of graphene allows the authors to obtain very flat frequency responses in a wide range of frequencies, including ultrasound, and will permit a detailed study of the auditory pulses that are used by bats.” Zettl noted that audiophiles would also appreciate the graphene loudspeakers and headphones, which have a flat response across the entire audible frequency range. “A number of years ago, this device would have been darn near impossible to build because of the difficulty of making free-standing graphene sheets,” Zettl said. “But over the past decade the graphene community has come together to develop techniques to grow, transport and mount graphene, so building a device like this is now very straightforward; the design is simple.” The work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, the Office of Naval Research and the National Science Foundation. Other co-authors were Zheng, Michael Crommie, a UC Berkeley professor of physics, and Seita Onishi.


--- [Using sonar to navigate: Bats do it, dolphins do it, and now ...] ---
Using sonar to navigate: Bats do it, dolphins do it, and now humans can do it, too Graphene-based microphone, speaker yield lightweight ultrasonic receiver, transmitter - Date: - July 7, 2015 - Source: - University of California - Berkeley - Summary: - Bats have been using sonar to navigate and communicate for ages, and now humans can do the same, thanks to lightweight and efficient ultrasound microphones and loudspeakers developed by physicists. The devices owe their flat frequency response to graphene, which makes a stiff and responsive diaphragm far superior to those in today's ultrasound receivers and transmitters. Biologists can even slap one on a bat to record its nightly ultrasonic conversations. - Share: University of California, Berkeley, physicists have used graphene to build lightweight ultrasonic loudspeakers and microphones, enabling people to mimic bats or dolphins' ability to use sound to communicate and gauge the distance and speed of objects around them. More practically, the wireless ultrasound devices complement standard radio transmission using electromagnetic waves in areas where radio is impractical, such as underwater, but with far more fidelity than current ultrasound or sonar devices. They can also be used to communicate through objects, such as steel, that electromagnetic waves can't penetrate. "Sea mammals and bats use high-frequency sound for echolocation and communication, but humans just haven't fully exploited that before, in my opinion, because the technology has not been there," said UC Berkeley physicist Alex Zettl. "Until now, we have not had good wideband ultrasound transmitters or receivers. These new devices are a technology opportunity." Speakers and microphones both use diaphragms, typically made of paper or plastic, that vibrate to produce or detect sound, respectively. The diaphragms in the new devices are graphene sheets a mere one atom thick that have the right combination of stiffness, strength and light weight to respond to frequencies ranging from subsonic (below 20 hertz) to ultrasonic (above 20 kilohertz). Humans can hear from 20 hertz up to 20,000 hertz, whereas bats hear only in the kilohertz range, from 9 to 200 kilohertz. The grapheme loudspeakers and microphones operate from well below 20 hertz to over 500 kilohertz. Graphene consists of carbon atoms laid out in a hexagonal, chicken-wire arrangement, which creates a tough, lightweight sheet with unique electronic properties that have excited the physics world for the past 20 or more years. "There's a lot of talk about using graphene in electronics and small nanoscale devices, but they're all a ways away," said Zettl, who is a senior scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and a member of the Kavli Energy NanoSciences Institute, operated jointly by UC Berkeley and Berkeley Lab. "The microphone and loudspeaker are some of the closest devices to commercial viability, because we've worked out how to make the graphene and mount it, and it's easy to scale up." Zettl, UC Berkeley postdoctoral fellow Qin Zhou and colleagues describe their graphene microphone and ultrasonic radio in a paper appearing online this week in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Radios and rangefinders Two years ago, Zhou built loudspeakers using a sheet of graphene for the diaphragm, and since then has been developing the electronic circuitry to build a microphone with a similar graphene diaphragm. One big advantage of graphene is that the atom-thick sheet is so lightweight that it responds well to the different frequencies of an electronic pulse, unlike today's piezoelectric microphones and speakers. This comes in handy when using ultrasonic transmitters and receivers to transmit large amounts of information through many different frequency channels simultaneously, or to measure distance, as in sonar applications. "Because our membrane is so light, it has an extremely wide frequency response and is able to generate sharp pulses and measure distance much more accurately than traditional methods," Zhou said. Graphene membranes are also more efficient, converting over 99 percent of the energy driving the device into sound, whereas today's conventional loudspeakers and headphones convert only 8 percent into sound. Zettl anticipates that in the future, communications devices like cellphones will utilize not only electromagnetic waves -- radio -- but also acoustic or ultrasonic sound, which can be highly directional and long-range. "Graphene is a magical material; it hits all the sweet spots for a communications device," he said. Bat chirps When Zhou told his wife, Jinglin Zheng, about the ultrasound microphone, she suggested he try to capture the sound of bats chirping at frequencies too high for humans to hear. So they hauled the microphone to a park in Livermore and turned it on. When they slowed down the recording to one-tenth normal speed, converting the high frequencies to an audio range humans can hear, they were amazed at the quality and fidelity of the bat vocalizations. "This is lightweight enough to mount on a bat and record what the bat can hear," Zhou said. Bat expert Michael Yartsev, a newly hired UC Berkeley assistant professor of bioengineering and member of the Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, said, "These new microphones will be incredibly valuable for studying auditory signals at high frequencies, such as the ones used by bats. The use of graphene allows the authors to obtain very flat frequency responses in a wide range of frequencies, including ultrasound, and will permit a detailed study of the auditory pulses that are used by bats." Zettl noted that audiophiles would also appreciate the graphene loudspeakers and headphones, which have a flat response across the entire audible frequency range. "A number of years ago, this device would have been darn near impossible to build because of the difficulty of making free-standing graphene sheets," Zettl said. "But over the past decade the graphene community has come together to develop techniques to grow, transport and mount graphene, so building a device like this is now very straightforward; the design is simple." Story Source: Materials provided by University of California - Berkeley. Original written by Robert Sanders. Note: Content may be edited for style and length. Journal Reference: - Qin Zhou, Jinglin Zheng, Seita Onishi, M. F. Crommie, Alex K. Zettl. Graphene electrostatic microphone and ultrasonic radio. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 2015; 201505800 DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1505800112 Cite This Page:


--- [All weekly editions | The Economist] ---
No content


--- [Search for: when did The Economist report on researchers at ...] ---
Note: When clicking on a Digital Object Identifier (DOI) number, you will be taken to an external site maintained by the publisher. Some full text articles may not yet be available without a charge during the embargo (administrative interval). What is a DOI Number? Some links on this page may take you to non-federal websites. Their policies may differ from this site. - The Denali Ice Cores were collected from the summit of Begguya (Mt. Hunter), Denali National Park, Alaska in the summer of 2013. Sampling permits were granted by Denali National Park for the drilling and removal of the ice cores. Here, we use the Tescan II at the University of Maine to examine tephra particles recovered from the ice cores.more » « less - The Denali Ice Cores were collected from the summit of Begguya (Mt. Hunter), Denali National Park, Alaska in the summer of 2013. Sampling permits were granted by Denali National Park for the drilling and removal of the ice cores. Here, we use the Cameca SX100 at the University of Maine to examine tephra particles recovered from the ice cores.more » « less - In 2013, two parallel ice cores (commonly referred to as the Denali Ice Cores) were drilled to bedrock on the summit plateau of Begguya, Alaska (62.93 N 151.083 W, 3912 m asl; also known as Mount Hunter). A robust chronology has been developed using a combination of techniques including annual layer counting, sulfate peaks (volcanics), radiocarbon dating and the 1963 atmospheric nuclear weapons testing horizon. Here, we employed tephrochronology practices to isolate and document the presence of the Lena Ash Layer and White River Ash east (WRAe) volcanic eruptions within the ice. We separated tephra from the meltwater and analyzed them using SEM-EDS and EPMA methodologies. The data are not immediately conclusive, and work is still ongoing to understand the findings.more » « less - Tall fescue (Lolium arundinaceum) is an important forage and turf grass that covers 35 million acres (140,000 square kilometers) in the transition zone of the southeastern United States. Most tall fescue in the US is infected with a symbiotic fungus, Epichloë coenophiala, which confers biotic and abiotic stress tolerance for the plant but also produces toxic alkaloids that harm livestock. Although there has been prior evidence that the grass host can influence alkaloid production levels, these have never been precisely quantified. Here, we report on testing alkaloid concentration and relative fungal biomass on > 1000 genetically distinct tall fescue plants. We find that these two traits are weakly correlated, and that both show evidence of moderate to high influence by the host genome. Genome-wide associations find only a single marginally significant hit, however, implying that any genetic control by the host is spread among a large number of genes. These results indicate that the host plant exerts moderate influence on these endophytic traits, that the two are largely independent of each other, and that the host’s influence is likely due to a large number of genes of small effect. These results have relevance for breeding tall fescue for forage and turf production, and especially for optimizing the endophyte relationship for tall fescue management.more » « less - The rapid advancement of digital technologies has transformed education by introducing immersive tools such as virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR), which enhance learning through interactive and adaptive experiences. In construction, data-sensing technologies such as drones and laser scanners are increasingly used for site inspections, monitoring, and real-time decision-making. Training for these technologies often relies on VR simulations; however, traditional VR lacks hands-on realism, limiting users' ability to fully engage with these tools. Research suggests that embodied interaction, where users engage with tangible objects, can improve knowledge retention and task performance. However, its impact on mental workload remains underexplored. Workload, influenced by frustration, cognitive demands, and task complexity, can either enhance intuitiveness or increase strain. This study examines the effectiveness of immersive embodied interaction versus traditional VR in construction education and training. In a pilot study, 21 participants conducted drone-based site inspections under both conditions, with workload assessed using the NASA Task Load Index (NASA-TLX) survey. A paired samples t-test revealed a statistically significant reduction in workload in the embodied interaction condition (t(20) = -4.31, p < .001), indicating that participants experienced lower cognitive demands compared to the traditional VR method. These findings suggest that embodied interaction not only reduces workload but also enhances knowledge retention and task performance, reinforcing its potential as an effective training method in construction-related educational environments.more » « less - Incorporating the BEST methodology in experiments for measuring paramagnetic relaxation enhancementsBand-selective excitation short-transient (BEST) sequences are widely used for protein NMR experiments that start with amide proton magnetization, such as 1H-15N HSQC, 1H-15N TROSY, and multidimensional backbone assignment experi- ments, because the optimization of amide proton longitudinal relaxation afforded by the BEST methodology allows for much greater sensitivity when using short scan times. Here we show that the BEST methodology can be easily incorpo- rated in sequences for measuring proton transverse relaxation rates (1H R2), which are typically used to determine para- magnetic relaxation enhancements (PREs). The resulting BEST-HSQC-PRE and BEST-TROSY-PRE experiments afford similar or better sensitivity for measuring PREs compared to previous methods, provide equally accurate measurements of transverse relaxation rates (and therefore PREs), and allow shorter scan times to be used.more » « less - Abstract Genomes record past climatic impact on species’ range shifts, admixture, refugial isolation, and adaptative evolution. However, these processes are poorly understood in perennial herbaceous species forming a dominant group of temperate flora. We present a demographic history of the perennial herb woodland strawberry (Fragaria vescaL.) reconstructed from 200 genomes spanning most of its European range. Temporal population structure reveals a strong division into western and eastern genetic clusters along a longitudinal climatic gradient, with eastern core populations showing greater resilience during glaciations. Divergence patterns indicate that postglacial recolonization of western and eastern Europe occurred from distinct refugia in multiple waves. The current largest, admixed populations from the Mediterranean to northern Europe form a continuous chain maintained by east–west gene flow through Central Europe, with historical migration patterns indicating comparable connections during earlier interglacials. Our reconstruction of woodland strawberry’s climatic history with high temporal resolution reveals how the late Pleistocene core-periphery dynamics shaped its survival and genome evolution under climate change. The data points to populations that are essential for maintaining the long term genetic diversity of the species and opens new avenues to understand climatic adaptation of temperate flora.more » « less - Abstract Mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (MSC-EVs) have shown promising immunomodulatory properties; however, strategies to enhance their therapeutic potential remain limited. Here, we employed CRISPR activation of the gene TSG-6 in MSCs to evaluate the impact of elevated TSG-6 on EV cargo and immunomodulatory function in an in vitro macrophage model. CRISPR-mediated gene activation was confirmed by RT-qPCR, demonstrating more than an 1800 fold increase in TSG-6 mRNA compared to controls. EVs were isolated from TSG-6 overexpressing MSCs and thoroughly characterized by nanoparticle tracking analysis, transmission electron microscopy, and Western blot, confirming their typical size distribution, morphology, and surface markers. Small RNA sequencing of these EVs revealed 15 differentially expressed miRNAs relative to EVs from control MSCs. When THP-1–derived macrophages were stimulated with LPS and treated with TSG-6-overexpressing MSC-EVs (Standard dosage: 1000 particle/cell,n = 11; Alternative dosages: 500, 1000, or 2000 particles/cell,n = 6), a marked reduction in pro-inflammatory cytokine gene expression (IL-1β, CCL2, CXCL10, and TNF-α) and secreted protein levels (CCL2, TNF-α, CXCL1, and MIP-3α) was observed. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that CRISPR-based TSG-6 activation reprograms MSC-EV miRNA cargo (as well as their protein cargo, as previously shown), which can boost their anti-inflammatory effects. These findings underscore the promise of CRISPR-activation as a novel platform for boosting the bioactive properties of MSC-EVs and enhancing immunotherapeutic efficacy.more » « less - Physical reservoir computing leverages the intrinsic history-dependence and nonlinearity of hardware to encode spatiotemporal signals directly at the sensor level, enabling low-latency processing of dynamic inputs. Encoding delity depends on the separability of multi-state outputs, yet in practice it is often hampered by empirically chosen, suboptimal operating conditions. Here, we apply Bayesian optimization to improve the encoding performance of solution-processed Al₂O₃/In₂O₃ thin- lm transistors. By exploring a ve-dimensional pulse-parameter input space and using the normalized degree of separation for output state distinguishability, we demonstrate high- delity 6-bit temporal encoding corresponding to 64 output states. We further show that a model based on simpler 4-bit data can effectively guide optimization for more complex 6-bit tasks, substantially reducing experimental effort. Using a six-frame moving-car image sequence as a benchmark, we nd that the optimized 6-bit pulse conditions signi cantly enhance encoding accuracy, with 4-bit derived parameters performing comparably in terms of pixel errors. Shapley Additive Explanations (SHAP) analysis further reveals that gate-pulse amplitude and drain voltage are the dominant contributors to output state separation. This work establishes a data-driven strategy for identifying optimal operating conditions in reservoir devices and outlines a framework that can be transferred to diverse material platforms and physical reservoir implementations.more » « less
