=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Janice Burgess - Trivia - IMDb]
According to an interview with Investor's Business Daily, Burgess did not enjoy traveling "in art circles with collectors and high society," so she sought out a different career after college. She volunteered for a job at the public television station WQED, where she was put in charge of craft services.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/name/nm1333355/trivia/

[Janice Burgess (1952-2024) - Find a Grave Memorial]
Mar 2, 2024 · She volunteered for a job at the public television station WQED, where she was put in charge of craft services. In the early 1990s, Janice Burgess held positions at the Children's Television Workshop, including as an assistant travel coordinator for 3-2-1 Contact and project manager for Ghostwriter.
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/266051033/janice-burgess

[Janice Burgess | Paramount Wiki | Fandom]
She volunteered for a job at the public television station WQED, where she was put in charge of craft services. In the early 1990s, Janice Burgess held positions at the Children's Television Workshop, including as an assistant travel coordinator for 3-2-1 Contact and project manager for Ghostwriter.
URL: https://paramount.fandom.com/wiki/Janice_Burgess

[Janice Burgess, Creator of 'The Backyardigans' Has Passed Away At 72]
Reeling off her TV credits, he said, "Janice created THE BACKYARDIGANS and guided countless other shows for Nickelodeon, Sesame Workshop, Disney and Apple TV. Prior to her passing, Burgess had a decorated career, spanning 30 years, in the field of children's animation. In the early 90s, Burgess volunteered for a job at a local TV station, WQED, where she was put in charge of craft services ...
URL: https://prd.wbls.com/wbls-news/janice-burgess-creator-of-the-backyardigans-has-passed-away-at-72

[14 Facts About Janice Burgess - FactSnippet]
3. Janice Burgess frequently played in her backyard, and she later used those memories as inspiration for The Backyardigans. 4. Janice Burgess volunteered for a job at the public television station WQED, where she was put in charge of craft services. 5. Janice Burgess later became the vice president of Nickelodeon's Nick Jr. 6.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-janice-burgess.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Janice Burgess - Trivia - IMDb] ---
- In the early 1990s, Burgess held positions at the Children's Television Workshop, including as an assistant travel coordinator for 3-2-1 Contact and project manager for Ghostwriter. For the latter, she coordinated the efforts of a tie-in magazine and teacher materials with the content and goals of the television show. It was during this job that she was notified of an opening at Nickelodeon; Burgess joked that she interviewed for the job "about 11,000 times. - She created the Nick Jr. series The Backyardigans and worked as a writer and story editor for Nickelodeon's revival of Winx Club. Both shows were produced at the Nickelodeon Animation Studio. - She frequently played in her backyard, and she later used those memories as inspiration for The Backyardigans. "I really remember it as a wonderful, happy, safe place... you could have these great adventures just romping around. From there, you could go anywhere or do anything. - According to an interview with Investor's Business Daily, Burgess did not enjoy traveling "in art circles with collectors and high society," so she sought out a different career after college. She volunteered for a job at the public television station WQED, where she was put in charge of craft services. - Janice Burgess was an American television executive, screenwriter and producer for Nickelodeon. - Burgess joined Nickelodeon in 1995 as executive-in-charge of production. - Janice Burgess was given the opportunity to transition to a creative role by the senior vice president of Nick Jr, Brown Johnson. She asked Burgess to develop an idea for a new Nick Jr. show, and Burgess produced a pilot episode called "Me and My Friends" at Nickelodeon Studios Florida in 1998. The pilot was a live-action, full-body puppet show that featured music and dance. It was not picked up for a full series, but several months after the rejection, Brown Johnson asked Burgess to retool the concept. She liked the characters and music from Burgess's pilot and felt the show would work better in animation. - Burgess served as executive producer for The Backyardigans throughout its run of four seasons. The series received eight Daytime Emmy Award nominations, and Burgess won the 2008 Emmy for Outstanding Special Class Animated Program. - Planning to become an art historian, she graduated from Brandeis University in 1974 with a bachelor's degree in art history. Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content


--- [Janice Burgess (1952-2024) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
Janice Burgess was the creator of the children's television show "The Backyardigans" (2004-2013). She also worked on the "The Winx Club" and "Ghostwriter." She grew up in the Squirrel Hill neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and attended The Ellis School. frequently played in her backyard, and later used those memories as inspiration for The Backyardigans. "I really remember it as a wonderful, happy, safe place... you could have these great adventures just romping around. From there, you could go anywhere or do anything." loved musicals, and her mother frequently played a wide array of music. Planning to become an art historian, graduated from Brandeis University in 1974 with a bachelor's degree in art history. According to an interview with Investor's Business Daily, Burgess did not enjoy traveling "in art circles with collectors and high society," so she sought out a different career after college. She volunteered for a job at the public television station WQED, where she was put in charge of craft services. In the early 1990s, Janice Burgess held positions at the Children's Television Workshop, including as an assistant travel coordinator for 3-2-1 Contact and project manager for Ghostwriter. For the latter, she coordinated the efforts of a tie-in magazine and teacher materials with the content and goals of the television show. It was during this job that she was notified of an opening at Nickelodeon; Burgess joked that she interviewed for the job "about 11,000 times." She was hired as the executive in charge of production for Nick Jr., overseeing the development of Blue's Clues and Little Bill. Burgess later became the vice president of Nickelodeon's Nick Jr. division. While working as an executive, Burgess attended scripting and concept development meetings, where she enjoyed helping the creative teams with characters and storylines. Burgess was eventually given the opportunity to transition to a creative role by the senior vice president of Nick Jr, Brown Johnson. She asked Burgess to develop an idea for a new Nick Jr. show, and Burgess produced a pilot episode called "Me and My Friends" at Nickelodeon Studios Florida in 1998. The pilot was a live-action, full-body puppet show that featured music and dance. It was not picked up for a full series, but several months after the rejection, Brown Johnson asked Burgess to retool the concept. She liked the characters and music from Burgess's pilot and felt the show would work better in animation. Using the characters from "Me and My Friends," Burgess wrote a second pilot, which was produced at Nickelodeon's New York studio in 2001. The show, now fully computer-animated and renamed The Backyardigans, was greenlit for a full season of 20 episodes. Reflecting on the shift to animation, Burgess said, "Sometimes your first attempt is just not all that great. In this case, my second attempt was much better." The Backyardigans premiered on Nickelodeon on October 11, 2004. Burgess died on March 2, 2024, just a day after her 72nd birthday, while in hospice care in Manhattan after being diagnosed with breast cancer. Janice Burgess was the creator of the children's television show "The Backyardigans" (2004-2013). She also worked on the "The Winx Club" and "Ghostwriter." She grew up in the Squirrel Hill neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and attended The Ellis School. frequently played in her backyard, and later used those memories as inspiration for The Backyardigans. "I really remember it as a wonderful, happy, safe place... you could have these great adventures just romping around. From there, you could go anywhere or do anything." loved musicals, and her mother frequently played a wide array of music. Planning to become an art historian, graduated from Brandeis University in 1974 with a bachelor's degree in art history. According to an interview with Investor's Business Daily, Burgess did not enjoy traveling "in art circles with collectors and high society," so she sought out a different career after college. She volunteered for a job at the public television station WQED, where she was put in charge of craft services. In the early 1990s, Janice Burgess held positions at the Children's Television Workshop, including as an assistant travel coordinator for 3-2-1 Contact and project manager for Ghostwriter. For the latter, she coordinated the efforts of a tie-in magazine and teacher materials with the content and goals of the television show. It was during this job that she was notified of an opening at Nickelodeon; Burgess joked that she interviewed for the job "about 11,000 times." She was hired as the executive in charge of production for Nick Jr., overseeing the development of Blue's Clues and Little Bill. Burgess later became the vice president of Nickelodeon's Nick Jr. division. While working as an executive, Burgess attended scripting and concept development meetings, where she enjoyed helping the creative teams with characters and storylines. Burgess was eventually given the opportunity to transition to a creative role by the senior vice president of Nick Jr, Brown Johnson. She asked Burgess to develop an idea for a new Nick Jr. show, and Burgess produced a pilot episode called "Me and My Friends" at Nickelodeon Studios Florida in 1998. The pilot was a live-action, full-body puppet show that featured music and dance. It was not picked up for a full series, but several months after the rejection, Brown Johnson asked Burgess to retool the concept. She liked the characters and music from Burgess's pilot and felt the show would work better in animation. Using the characters from "Me and My Friends," Burgess wrote a second pilot, which was produced at Nickelodeon's New York studio in 2001. The show, now fully computer-animated and renamed The Backyardigans, was greenlit for a full season of 20 episodes. Reflecting on the shift to animation, Burgess said, "Sometimes your first attempt is just not all that great. In this case, my second attempt was much better." The Backyardigans premiered on Nickelodeon on October 11, 2004. Burgess died on March 2, 2024, just a day after her 72nd birthday, while in hospice care in Manhattan after being diagnosed with breast cancer. Inscription BELOVED DAUGHTER AND SISTER Family Members Sponsored by Ancestry


--- [Janice Burgess | Paramount Wiki | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [Janice Burgess, Creator of 'The Backyardigans' Has Passed Away At 72] ---
Janice Burgess, Creator of 'The Backyardigans' Has Passed Away At 72 The animation and childrens television world is in mourning, with news that The Backyardigans creator Janice Burgess has passed away at 72. While no cause of death has been immediately revealed, her passing was confirmed by fellow animation writer Fracaswell Hyman in social media posts. He shared an image of Burgess enjoying her time in a beach setting while revealing how he first met her back in the early 1990s. Hyman wrote, "Janice Burgess 1952-2024. I met Janice Burgess early in my career when I was head writer on GULLAH GULLAH ISLAND and she was assigned to be our Executive in Charge of Production." He continued, "This is the person the network sends to the set to make sure the money is not going to waste." He went on to praise Janice's "acid-tongued wit, flowing Hermes scarves and omnipresent cigarettes". He added, "Instead of an overseer, she became a friend. She recognized my magic before I did and made sure I was in the room and under consideration for many of the shows that came my way including LITTLE BILL and TAINA." Reeling off her TV credits, he said, "Janice created THE BACKYARDIGANS and guided countless other shows for Nickelodeon, Sesame Workshop, Disney and Apple TV. Prior to her passing, Burgess had a decorated career, spanning 30 years, in the field of children's animation. In the early 90s, Burgess volunteered for a job at a local TV station, WQED, where she was put in charge of craft services (food). She worked her way up to higher positions, eventually getting a job at the Children's Television Workshop. While at the Workshop, Burgess was told about an opening at Nickelodeon, where she really wanted to work. Burgess joined Nickelodeon in 1995 as an executive-in-charge of production. In her words, she interviewed for this job "about 11,000 times." In 1998, Janice was given the opportunity to pitch a live action-TV pilot at the request of her manager, Brown Johnson. She liked Janice's characters, but Brown didn't approve the show for production. Brown asked Janice to retool her idea into an animated show, and another pilot was made. Janice's animated pilot was approved for a first season of 20 episodes in 2003. Janice Burgess was the executive producer for the show, which continued to run for three more seasons. In 2006, she described her work on the show very positively: "making The Backyardigans has become sort of like an adventure that I go on with my friends. Of course, we get paid, but we do get to be carefree in our work, enjoy each other, hang around a lot, travel a little bit, and make up stuff." In addition to The Backyardigans, she oversaw hit shows such as Blue's Clues, Allegra's Window and Gullah Gullah Island. She also served as story editor on Winx Club and co-developed the series Bubble Guppies as well.


--- [14 Facts About Janice Burgess - FactSnippet] ---
Janice Burgess was an American television executive, screenwriter and producer for Nickelodeon. 14 Facts About Janice Burgess Janice Burgess was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where she grew up in the Squirrel Hill neighborhood and attended the Ellis School. Janice Burgess frequently played in her backyard, and she later used those memories as inspiration for The Backyardigans. Janice Burgess volunteered for a job at the public television station WQED, where she was put in charge of craft services. Janice Burgess later became the vice president of Nickelodeon's Nick Jr. Janice Burgess was eventually given the opportunity to transition to a creative role by the senior vice president of Nick Jr, Brown Johnson. Janice Burgess asked Burgess to develop an idea for a new Nick Jr. Janice Burgess served as executive producer for The Backyardigans throughout its run of four seasons. Janice Burgess drew inspiration from action films when writing episodes of the show, as she wanted to adapt high-stakes stories for a young audience. Janice Burgess was inspired by memories of playing in her own childhood backyard. The series received eight Daytime Emmy Award nominations, and Janice Burgess won the 2008 Emmy for Outstanding Special Class Animated Program. Janice Burgess worked as a writer, story editor, and creative consultant on the action-adventure series. Janice Burgess died in hospice care in Manhattan on March 2,2024, at the age of 72. Janice Burgess was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2018, six years prior to her death.
