=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Oak Spring Garden Foundation - Oak Spring Garden Foundation History]
Bunny's lifelong adventure in gardening took her far afield, but she was firmly rooted in the 4,000 acre Oak Spring estate in Upperville, Virginia that she shared with her husband Paul Mellon. The library, built close to her home in 1981 as a gift from Paul Mellon, was expanded in 1997 to contain her growing collection of books, manuscripts, and art on plants, gardens, and landscapes. Mrs ...
URL: https://www.osgf.org/history

[The Beauty of Oak Spring Farm - Garden & Gun]
Oct 23, 2012 · The list of compelling Southern homes is long, but there is perhaps none more intriguing than Oak Spring Farm, near Upperville, Virginia. The 4,000-acre estate and Thoroughbred horse farm was the retreat of the notoriously private Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, who died this past March at the age of 103.
URL: https://gardenandgun.com/articles/the-beauty-of-oak-spring-farm/

[Rachel Lambert Mellon - TCLF]
One of her most significant designs was that for her own private garden at her 4000-acre estate, Oak Spring Farms, near Upperville, Virginia. There, Mellon amassed an extensive collection of rare botanical prints and horticultural volumes, which now comprise the Oak Spring Garden Library.
URL: https://www.tclf.org/pioneer/rachel-lambert-mellon

[Rachel Lowe "Bunny" Lambert (1910-2014) - FamilySearch.org]
Her main residence, Oak Spring Farms, was a 4,000-acre (1,600 ha) estate in Virginia, that had its own 1-mile (1,600 m) long airstrip to accommodate her Falcon 2000. Mellon gathered a sizable collection of works by artist Mark Rothko, having purchased many of his 1950s works directly from his New York studio.
URL: https://ancestors.familysearch.org/en/LCTB-NTQ/rachel-lowe-%22bunny%22-lambert-1910-2014

[The Mellon Legacy - Virginia Living]
The couple traveled the world and maintained residences in Europe, North America and the Caribbean, but made their primary home a 4,000-acre estate near Upperville called Oak Spring Farm, where they entertained their glittering circle of the beau monde. As glamorous as their life in society was, the couple had a higher purpose.
URL: https://virginialiving.com/culture/the-mellon-legacy/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Oak Spring Garden Foundation - Oak Spring Garden Foundation History] ---
Oak Spring Garden Foundation History Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Image by Fred R. Conrad/NYT History OSGF is an operating foundation dedicated to sharing the gifts and ideas of Rachel "Bunny" Mellon. Its mission is to support and inspire fresh thinking and bold action on the history and future of plants, including the art and culture of plants, gardens and landscapes. Rachel Lambert “Bunny” Mellon developed a love of plants and gardens very early in her long life. At the age of ten, she began collecting botanical books. By the age of twelve she was an active gardener, inspired in part by the Olmsted Brothers, sons of Frederick Law Olmsted who managed the grounds of her father’s estate in Princeton, New Jersey. These early encounters with gardening, and also with books on gardens and landscapes, awakened Bunny Mellon’s relentless lifelong passion for plants; a passion that matured into a deep interest in the development of botanical knowledge and the principles of garden and landscape design in America and also in Europe. Through her studies she became a self-taught, but legendary, garden designer. Two of Mrs. Mellon’s iconic garden designs still grace the grounds of the White House: the recently refurbished Rose Garden and the East Garden, which was later renamed in honor of Bunny Mellon’s dear friend Jacqueline Kennedy. Bunny’s lifelong adventure in gardening took her far afield, but she was firmly rooted in the 4,000 acre Oak Spring estate in Upperville, Virginia that she shared with her husband Paul Mellon. The library, built close to her home in 1981 as a gift from Paul Mellon, was expanded in 1997 to contain her growing collection of books, manuscripts, and art on plants, gardens, and landscapes. Mrs. Mellon’s wish was that this collection should continue to be a resource for scholars after her death and in 1993 she established the Oak Spring Garden Foundation with the purpose of maintaining and sharing those collections. Beginnings When she passed away in March 2014 the direction from Mrs. Mellon’s Executors was that “Mrs. Mellon's principle purpose was to preserve her extensive collection of books, writings, maps, and designs, correspondence, sketches etc., relating to plants, flowers, fruits, vegetation, history etc.” They also noted that “The preservation of her gardens and home was never a factor in all of the planning and execution of her estate plan... the only consideration was the home of the Library as the centerpiece of her desire that her collection be made available for study, research and learning, at whatever location the Executors selected.” Mrs. Mellon's will gave her Executors complete discretion to determine where the collection should be held. Several locations away from Oak Spring were considered. We are all fortunate that it was possible to retain Mrs. Mellon’s collections at Oak Spring and to place those collections and the Library at the center of the varied programs of the Oak Spring Garden Foundation. As far as possible we strive to maintain the special spirit and unique attributes of Mrs. Mellon’s once much larger estate, but the primary focus of the Oak Spring Garden Foundation is that Mrs. Mellon's home, garden and estate be used for public benefit in supporting programs related to plants, gardens and landscapes, and especially for programs centered around the Library and its collections. The Transition to an Operating Foundation After Mrs. Mellon’s death many of the treasures that were once part of Mrs. Mellon’s home were dispersed. Mrs. Mellon provided for the distribution of many items to her family, as well as to museums and galleries. Other treasures had been deeded by her husband Paul Mellon to the National Gallery of Art and other organizations. Many remaining items among the contents of Mrs. Mellon’s several homes were sold at a major sale at Sothebys in the fall of 2014. The funds raised were used to meet financial obligations after her death and also to provide funds for the Gerard B. Lambert Foundation and the Oak Spring Garden Foundation. Support for the Oak Spring Garden Foundation ensured that Mrs. Mellon’s treasured library would not be moved elsewhere and could remain at Oak Spring to be used by visiting artists and scholars residing in the refurbished Main Residence, as well as in new visitor accommodation created at the nearby Broodmare Barn. From 2014, under the direction of Mrs. Mellon’s Executors and with the leadership of William Robertson IV, a long-time confidant of Mr. and Mrs. Mellon, restoration of the estate began to address the most urgent issues of deferred maintenance and the conversion necessary to support the public mission of the foundation, predominantly as a site for scholarly and artistic activities related to plants, gardens and landscapes. This conversion continued with the appointment of Sir Peter Crane FRS in the summer of 2016 who also began the initial development of a diverse roster of programs, including those designed to encourage the use of the library collections and make them more accessible to scholars and artists. Respecting Mrs. Mellon’s Legacy Fundamental to the programs at Oak Spring Garden Foundation’s is to share the gifts and ideas of Rachel “Bunny” Mellon. Given the sale of parcels that once comprised the broader Oak Spring estate and well as the distribution and sale of most of the treasures that were once part of Mrs. Mellon’s daily life, neither Mrs. Mellon nor her executors expected OSGF to maintain the property exactly as it was during its heyday. This would also have been impossible given the practical requirements of transitioning the property from a private home into a useful facility for visiting artists and scholars. Nevertheless, as far as possible, Mrs. Mellon’s home, garden, and estate are maintained through a continuing process that seeks to honor her sensibilities and spirit. As Mrs. Mellon wrote in her gardening journal, “Gardens like many beautiful things one thinks will never change – never cease to be what they are, never die – they follow the cycle of all living things, never remaining the same. Take notes to help remind those in later years of all they possessed so that they may imagine dreams and perhaps renew part of what has been.” The front entrance to the Main Residence was compromised by the sale of that part of the estate that once contained the main driveway. Restoring the approach to the front entrance of the Main Residence required the installation of a new road that also met local planning regulations. This has enabled vehicles to be routed away from the center of the site to recreate the pastoral landscape between the Main Residence and the Library enjoyed by Mrs. Mellon. Other interventions in and around the Main Residence have included the conservation of important works of art and items of furniture to secure their long-term future, installation of facsimiles of the art that once hung in the Main Residence, recreation of original fabrics to restore guest rooms in the Main Residence, and creation of a facsimile of the original Mill Reef statue that once stood at the Broodmare Barn. To further celebrate Mrs. Mellon’s sophisticated taste and accomplishments the Oak Spring Garden Foundation has also provided significant support for two books that celebrate Mrs. Mellon’s sophisticated taste and accomplishments; The Gardens of Bunny Mellon (2017) and Paul and Bunny Mellon: Visual Biographies - The Trompe l’oeil Paintings at Oak Spring, Virginia (2020). Support is also provided to support the work of several authors preparing books on diverse aspects of Mrs. Mellon’s legacy. New Facilities & Infrastructure In December of 2017, the Oak Spring Garden Foundation purchased the 440-acre parcel of land known as Rokeby Farm. This was the original tract of land that Andrew Mellon acquired in Fauquier County in the 1930s, immediately adjacent to the land on which the Oak Spring Garden Foundation was established. The acquisition more than doubled OSGF’s acreage and included several dozen additional buildings, many of which have now been renovated to provide accommodation for visiting artists and scholars. In lieu of building new structures on the property, something restricted by the conservation easements thoughtfully established by Mr. and Mrs. Mellon, adaptive reuse of some existing structures has allowed the creation of facilities to meet new office, meeting, accommodation, and security needs. The Apple House, originally built to sort and store apples from orchards across the once-4,000-acre property now serves as the main modern conference space with teleconferencing capabilities. The most historically significant buildings on the property – the Main Residence, Library, and display greenhouse – are all maintained in keeping with their original purposes to help share the special spirit created by Mrs. Mellon with participants in OSGF programs.


--- [The Beauty of Oak Spring Farm - Garden & Gun] ---
The list of compelling Southern homes is long, but there is perhaps none more intriguing than Oak Spring Farm, near Upperville, Virginia. The 4,000-acre estate and Thoroughbred horse farm was the retreat of the notoriously private Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, who died this past March at the age of 103. An art patron, philanthropist, and true grande dame, Mellon was known for her impeccable eye for beauty and especially her lifelong passion for landscape design (she redesigned the White House rose garden for her close friend Jacqueline Kennedy in 1961). Oak Spring became a laboratory for Mellon’s love of gardening as well as a repository for the world-class art, jewelry, furniture, and decorative objects she collected alongside her husband, the late financier Paul Mellon. This November, Sotheby’s will devote three separate auctions to the Mellon collection, encompassing some 2,000 items, including paintings by the likes of Picasso and Rothko and a rare pear-shaped blue diamond. But one of Mellon’s hallmarks was her love of objects both grand and humble. She collected what she found beautiful, and the Interiors auction, by far the largest of the three, includes such items as well-worn walking sticks, English horse engravings, and a vast array of ceramics, from hunt-themed punch bowls to antique tureens shaped like bundles of asparagus. As Mellon once said of her vision for Oak Spring: “Nothing should stand out. It all should give the feeling of calm. When you go away, you should remember only the peace.” Exhibitions of the auction items at Sotheby’s in New York begin October 31 with the Masterworks collection followed by Jewelry and Interiors on November 15. Proceeds from the sale benefit the Gerard B. Lambert Foundation, established by Mrs. Mellon in memory of her father to support horticultural and educational endeavors.


--- [Rachel Lambert Mellon - TCLF] ---
Pioneer Information Known as Bunny and born to a wealthy family, Mellon attended Miss Fine’s School in Princeton, New Jersey, and Foxcroft School (a girls’ preparatory school) in Middleburg, Virginia. Although she received no formal training in horticulture, it proved a lifelong avocation. Inspired by the work of Andre Le Nôtre and modern artists such as Piet Mondrian, the hallmark of Mellon’s gardens was her eye for detail, both in the plantings and the construction. At the request of Jacqueline Kennedy (to whom she was a confidant), and working with landscape architect Perry Wheeler, she redesigned the White House Rose Garden in 1961, and also worked on the White House East Garden (dedicated as the Jacqueline Kennedy Garden in 1965). She designed plantings for the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum in Boston, collaborating with the firm Kiley, Tyndall, Walker, and architect I.M. Pei. Her planting design can also be seen at the President John F. Kennedy Gravesite. One of her most significant designs was that for her own private garden at her 4000-acre estate, Oak Spring Farms, near Upperville, Virginia. There, Mellon amassed an extensive collection of rare botanical prints and horticultural volumes, which now comprise the Oak Spring Garden Library. She garnered many awards for her horticultural designs, including the Conservation Service Award from the Department of the Interior in 1966 for her work at the White House.


--- [Rachel Lowe "Bunny" Lambert (1910-2014) - FamilySearch.org] ---
Your web browser is not fully supported. Please update to the latest version to enjoy all that FamilySearch has to offer.


--- [The Mellon Legacy - Virginia Living] ---
Extreme wealth has always captured the American imagination. Among the great affluent class in Virginia, few have intrigued us more than the late billionaire philanthropist Paul Mellon and his wife Rachel “Bunny” Lambert Mellon. From horticulture and the arts to education and sport, we explore their legacy in Virginia. The Mellons in 1964 with Bunny’s daughter from her first marriage, Elizabeth Lloyd, attending a preview of the couple’s collection of English art at the Royal Academy in London. Photo by AP Photo Paul and Bunny Mellon, 1971. Photo courtesy of AP Images Paul Mellon Photo courtesy of National Gallery of Art Mrs. Peel and Paul Mellon at the Piedmont Hunt. Photo by Thomas Neil Darling, courtesy of the National Sporting Library and Museum TUCKED NEATLY ON A BOOKSHELF behind a pickled oak door at the Oak Spring Garden Library in Upperville are a few dozen rare volumes of children’s fairytales and drawings, among them Little Songs of Long Ago, illustrated by Henriette Willebeek Le Mair, and Language of Flowers by Kate Greenaway. They once belonged to the late heiress Rachel Lambert Mellon, known all her life as Bunny. It was fairytales like these that inspired in her a passion for books and her well-known affinity for the natural world. In a sense, her life was a fairytale. She was born in 1910 in Princeton, New Jersey to great wealth—her grandfather was the inventor of Listerine and her father served as president of the Gillette Safety Razor Co. In 1932, she married businessman Stacy B. Lloyd Jr. and for many years the couple enjoyed a close friendship with banking heir and billionaire Paul Mellon and his wife Mary Conover. Mary died from an asthma attack in 1946, and in the years following, Bunny divorced Lloyd and married Mellon in 1948. The couple traveled the world and maintained residences in Europe, North America and the Caribbean, but made their primary home a 4,000-acre estate near Upperville called Oak Spring Farm, where they entertained their glittering circle of the beau monde. As glamorous as their life in society was, the couple had a higher purpose. In his 1992 memoir Reflections in a Silver Spoon, Paul Mellon estimated that the couple had given more than $600 million to charitable causes. Paul passed away in 1999 at age 91, and Bunny Mellon continued the couple’s philanthropy until her own death 15 years later. Among the beneficiaries were many Virginia institutions—including the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, the Virginia Historical Society, Virginia Tech, Hampton University, the Nature Conservancy, Virginia State Parks and a long list of museums, libraries and conservation organizations. When Bunny Mellon died in 2014 at age 103, the Mellons’ combined legacy—the gifts they made to support the arts, horticulture, sport, education and scholarship—reflected their many and various passions and a deeply-held faith in philanthropy’s ability to change the world for the better. Bunny Mellon in her garden. WIDELY CELEBRATED AS A gardener, Bunny Mellon redesigned the White House Rose Garden in 1962 at the request of her friend Jacqueline Kennedy, and later, in 1965, the East Garden, which had been renamed in the First Lady’s honor. In 1996, when officials at the palace of Versailles in France sought to reconstruct the kitchen garden of Louis XIV, the Mellons provided financial support and Bunny offered counsel on the design. But as accomplished as she was as a horticulturalist, Bunny Mellon’s greatest legacy may be her library: she began reading and collecting books at a very young age and that inspired many of her other pursuits. Though she did not attend college after her graduation in 1929 from the prestigious Foxcroft School in Middleburg, Mrs. Mellon delighted in collecting and poring through rare books and manuscripts, especially those about botany and horticulture. In fact, her skill in aquiring academic material rivaled that of many scholars. By 1980, her collection had grown so large the couple had to build a separate library on the grounds of Oak Spring in order to house the works. Today Tony Willis is the librarian of the Oak Spring Garden Library, which comprises more than 18,000 books, manuscripts and other ephemera, some dating back as far as the 15th century. Willis refers to Paul and Bunny Mellon simply as “Mr.” and “Mrs.” He began working on the estate in 1980 as a young man and eventually became librarian. In the original wing of the library—it’s been expanded since it was built—Willis gestures toward a table in the center of the room. It is bathed in muted light filtering through shades drawn to shield priceless books and art from the sunlight. “This is where Mrs. would come to do work, read a book, drink a Coke,” he says, going on to explain that Mrs. Mellon found the many books and works of art—including a large painting by Mark Rothko, one of her favorite artists—comforting. “She found inspiration here. For someone like her who had a lot of money and a lot of objects, there were always a lot of people involved. This was her private refuge.” Oak Spring Garden Library, reader’s room. Photos by Jim Morris, courtesy of Oak Spring Garden Foundation Oak Spring Garden Library, main book room. Bunny Mellon’s beloved gardens provided another source of solace for the very private woman. It was a lifelong passion; she started transplanting wildflowers when she was just 6 years old and was designing gardens by the time she was 11. Her garden designs at Oak Spring remain intact today. Mary Potter crabapples are trained over an arched pergola. Tidy paths carry wanderers up and down terraces laid out with plots for edible greens, perennial flowers and trimmed boxwood. Though carefully planned, the feeling here is natural and effortless. That was Bunny Mellon’s mantra: “Nothing should stand out. When you go away, you should remember only the peace,” she told the New York Times in 1969. ART WAS A PASSION Paul and Bunny Mellon shared equally. In Reflections in a Silver Spoon Paul Mellon wrote about wealthy collectors he knew who substituted great works of art for friends, or sought immortality in gifting art to institutions. “I don’t think I have been collecting for any of these reasons,” he wrote. Paul Mellon enjoying Edgar Degas’ “Little Dancer, Aged Fourteen” (1879-1881) in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Gallery. Photo by Dennis Brack, courtesy of the National Gallery of Art Paul began supporting art institutions in the late 1930s when he played a central role in the creation of the National Gallery of Art. Although the National Gallery had largely been the vision of his father, Andrew Mellon—the successful businessman, ambassador to the U.K. and secretary of the treasury under three presidents—who died in 1937, Paul carried his father’s plan to fruition, donating money and works of art, including masterworks from Raphael, Titian and Vermeer among others. In 1992, the value of Mellon’s contribution was estimated to be more than $142 million. “As we look to the future, I hope that you will consider the National Gallery as your gallery, for as Americans, its collections and resources belong to each of you,” he said in 1983. Paul Mellon wrote in his memoir that his respect and admiration for great works of art came about “by a sort of mental osmosis.” His father, also a collector, owned and displayed paintings by artists such as George Romney and Sir Anthony van Dyck, and from a young age Paul appreciated the fine craftsmanship and strong emotion they evoked. Yale University, Paul Mellon’s alma mater (class of 1929), was a special recipient of his largesse, including gifts of a building, works of art from his comprehensive collection of British sporting art, and an endowment to create the Yale Center for British Art. The Mellons also gave significant support to the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, donating major gifts and some 1,800 works of art. The couple helped make possible the construction of the VMFA’s west wing in 1985, and Paul Mellon served as a trustee to the museum for more than 40 years, making him one of its longest-serving supporters. Among his many honors, he received five honorary degrees and more than a dozen prestigious awards, including the National Medal of Arts in 1985 and a National Humanities Medal in 1997. Paul Mellon insisted that using his means for the benefit of others was his life’s work; Bunny felt the same way. Throughout their lives the Mellons supported numerous charitable foundations, including several that they founded: the Old Dominion Foundation (now the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, named for Paul’s father) and the Gerard B. Lambert Foundation, in memory of Bunny’s father. “She liked to help people without everyone knowing it was her,” says Stacy B. Lloyd IV, Bunny’s grandson from her first marriage. “It was something she genuinely liked pursuing.” PAUL MELLON WAS ALSO A passionate aficionado of the sporting culture, giving to many equine-oriented projects and charities. His Rokeby Stables, situated in the rolling farmland surrounding Oak Spring Farm, produced dozens of prizewinning horses, including Sea Hero, winner of the 1993 Kentucky Derby. In 1989, Mellon was named an “Exemplar of Racing” by the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame in Saratoga, New York, and remains one of only five people in the thoroughbred horse racing industry to receive the honor. Paul and Bunny Mellon following Sea Hero’s 1993 win in the Kentucky Derby. Photo by Jim Morris, courtesy of Oak Spring Garden Foundation Bronze statue of Sea Hero on slate stone base at the National Sporting Library and Musuem by Tessa Pullan (English, b. 1953). Photo by Tessa Pullan, courtesy of the National Sporting Library and Museum In 1995, Mellon commissioned a bronze statue of Sea Hero to be installed in the boxwood garden at the National Sporting Library & Museum in Middleburg where, in 1999, he and Bunny would fund the construction of a new library building with a $1 million gift. The 2-ton, 8-foot-tall statue was installed in 2014. The Mellons commissioned other bronze statues of horses for NSLM, including one honoring the 1.5 million horses and mules killed in the Civil War. But the Mellons’ legacy is not confined to brick, mortar and bronze, says Melanie Mathewes, executive director of the NSLM. “There is more than one person who walks through our door on any given day who has memories of Paul Mellon. They worked with him and encountered him in Middleburg. He was an icon,” she says. “We who live in Northern Virginia have many reminders of Mr. Mellon,” wrote former director of the NSLM Peter Winants in 1999. Winants went on to tick off a long list of local places on which Mellon had left a lasting impression. Though Mellon preferred to think of himself as an amateur in all his pursuits, Winants felt otherwise: “Mr. Mellon wasn’t in the least amateurish in his many pursuits, and horses and horse sports were at the top of the list.” THE MAN WHO HAS HELMED the team responsible for carrying a special part of the Mellons’ legacy forward since July 2016 is Sir Peter Crane, president of the Oak Spring Garden Foundation, which Bunny Mellon established late in her life as a means of sharing the couple’s resources after her passing. And that legacy, says Crane, involves creating access for the public to the treasures the Mellons collected during their lives. “Our job is to benefit people,” says Crane, “and we’re charged with finding the best way to do that.” Crane, who served as director of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, knows just how special the resources that remain at Oak Spring are. “The library is full of the most incredible things, rare documents and copies of books,” he says. “These collections uniquely illuminate how our ideas have changed through time and how we ended up with the notions we have today.” Crabapple arbor at Oak Spring Farm. Photo by Jim Morris, courtesy of Oak Spring Garden Foundation Garden walkway at Oak Spring Farm. Photo by Jim Morris, courtesy of Oak Spring Garden Foundation Bunny Mellon in her greenhouse at Oak Spring Farm. Photo by Horst P. Horst/Condé Nast via Getty Images The basket house at Oak Spring Farm. Photo by Jim Morris, courtesy of Oak Spring Garden Foundation View of the apple hosue at Oak Spring Farm in Upperville. Photo by Jim Morris, courtesy of Oak Spring Garden Foundation Garden equipment house at Oak Spring Farm. Photo by Jim Morris, courtesy of Oak Spring Garden Foundation Garden and grounds at Oak Spring Farm. Photo by Jim Morris, courtesy of the Oak Spring Garden Foundation Garden and grounds. Photo by Jim Morris, courtesy of Oak Spring Garden Foundation Crane says that part of the foundation’s mission includes hosting on-site seminars and workshops that allow participants to be surrounded by the plants, books, architecture and art that inspired Paul and Bunny Mellon. The Oak Spring Garden Library remains as it was when the Mellons were living—open to scholars and researchers by appointment. But the digital age, says Crane, may help achieve the couple’s vision of making these resources available to all people; the library’s staff is presently working to digitize many works so they will be accessible online by the end of 2017. The fact that the Mellons’ lifetimes fell at the cusp of a digital age, preceded by a century of innovation that connected the far reaches of the world, gives their philanthropy all the more significance. Offering access to the Mellons’ gifts, says Willis, is a fitting tribute to benefactors who saw firsthand the transformative power of knowledge. “Mrs. was born in 1910, so she got to witness the development of all these new technologies that benefitted the world, in the medical field, with computers, everything, and that really pleased her,” he says. “She always felt that she was born at the right time in history.” This article originally appeared in our Feb. 2017 issue. For more information about the Oak Spring Garden Foundation and its programs, visit OSGF.org Inspired By Nature A new exhibit at the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts on view beginning Feb. 10 showcases Bunny Mellon’s stunning collection of objets d’art from celebrated French-born jewelry designer Jean Schlumberger. Click here to read more.
