=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Air Force Completes Transition of GPS Fleet to Upgraded Control System]
The Air Force completed a four-phase transition of the Global Positioning System ground segment to the new Architecture Evolution Plan on Sept. 14. AEP was delivered by the Space and Missile Systems Center's GPS Wing to the 50th Space Wing to replace the legacy 1970s-era mainframe computer at Schriever AFB, Colo.
URL: https://net127.com/2007/09/17/air-force-completes-transition-of-gps-fleet-to-upgraded-control-system/

[USAF evolves GPS architecture with $800 million upgrade to ground ...]
On September 14, Air Force crews at Schriever AFB, Colorado, completed the initial phase of an $800 million upgrade to the GPS operational control segment. Operators in the 2nd Space Operations Squadron (2SOPS) of the USAF 50th Space Wing migrated control of the GPS satellite constellation and ground monitoring facilities from a 1970s-era mainframe computer to a distributed IT infrastructure ...
URL: https://insidegnss.com/usaf-evolves-gps-architecture-with-800-million-upgrade-to-ground-control-segment/

[Schriever Airmen transition to new GPS control system]
SCHRIEVER AIR FORCE BASE, Colo. (AFPN) -- Space systems experts with the 2nd Space Operations Squadron here reached a crucial milestone in deploying the $800-million Architecture Evolution Plan ground control system Sept. 14. The transition from legacy to Architecture Evolution Plan, called AEP, was conducted seamlessly in real time without any data service interruption to users, said Lt. Col ...
URL: https://www.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/125668/schriever-airmen-transition-to-new-gps-control-system/

[U.S. Air Force: GPS Reaches Milestones Earns Awards]
September 2007: Architecture Evolution Plan implemented; GPS III purchase announcement On Sept. 14, the $800 million Architecture Evolution Plan, the first upgrade to GPS's ground control segment in 22 years, was implemented in real time without data service interruption to users. The upgrade was the first step in a modernization plan to make current and future GPS features available to ...
URL: https://gdmissionsystems.com/articles/2015/02/17/news_2-17-2015-gps-reaches-milestones

[The System — September 2007 - GPS World]
AEP on the Ground Advance to a New Architecture The U.S. Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) announced in late August that the long-planned upgrade of the GPS command and control system will occur during the second week of September, fulfilling a major program commitment for 2007. Dubbed the Architecture Evolution Plan (AEP), the upgrade will replace the entire GPS master control ...
URL: https://www.gpsworld.com/the-system-september-2007/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Air Force Completes Transition of GPS Fleet to Upgraded Control System] ---
Mon 17 Sep 2007 Air Force Completes Transition of GPS Fleet to Upgraded Control System Posted by glenn under SatelliteLos Angeles Air Force Base repoors: The Air Force completed a four-phase transition of the Global Positioning System ground segment to the new Architecture Evolution Plan on Sept. 14. AEP was delivered by the Space and Missile Systems Center’s GPS Wing to the 50th Space Wing to replace the legacy 1970s-era mainframe computer at Schriever AFB, Colo. SMC managed the development, integration and test with the Boeing Company, who led a joint Boeing-Lockheed Martin contractor team, to design and build the new system. The transition was executed by the 2nd Space Operations Squadron from the 50th Space Wing and the 19th Space Operations Squadron from the 310th Space Group. The ground segment provides command and control of the satellites and generates the navigation message for satellites to broadcast to users so they can determine their position on the earth. The new control segment is a critical part of an overall modernization plan to improve operations, sustainment, and overall GPS service. Lieutenant General Michael Hamel, Space and Missile Systems Center Commander and Program Executive Officer for Space, oversaw AEP development and preparations for the transition. “AEP will usher in a new era of continuously improving mission performance and provide a foundation to incorporate new capabilities in the future. The system enables upgrades for controlling the new GPS Block IIF satellites. In the future AEP will also provide a new security architecture supporting troops fighting the global war on terrorism. The new control segment is a key part of an overall modernization plan to improve operations, sustainment and enhance global GPS service.” Upon completion of the transition to AEP, the system will enter a multi-month operational evaluation period. Headquarters Air Force Space Command will accept this enhanced capability upon successful completion of the evaluation. Colonel Teresa Djuric, 50th Space Wing Commander is responsible for daily GPS operations and oversaw the transition. “The team that guided this operational transition from the legacy GPS ground segment to AEP set the standard for fielding space systems. The team executed the mission in a disciplined and accountable manner to ensure GPS users worldwide were unaffected by this ground segment transition - our Airman continue to perform this mission flawlessly.” Colonel Dave Madden, GPS Wing Commander, is preparing to field more capabilities using AEP. “While it’s never easy to field a new system, this Air Force team, along with contractors from Boeing, Lockheed Martin, and The Aerospace Corporation, executed the plan perfectly. This new system lays the foundation for GPS success, with a modernized infrastructure that will allow dramatic improvements of GPS capabilities supporting our military and civil users around the world.” GPS is the world’s premier space-based positioning, navigation, and timing system supporting land, sea, and airborne navigation for military and civilian users worldwide. The system is comprised of up to 32 satellites on orbit which broadcast a navigation message to users worldwide. The Space and Missile Systems Center, located at Los Angeles Air Force Base, Calif., is the U.S. Air Force’s center of acquisition excellence for acquiring and developing military space systems including GPS, military satellite communications, defense meteorological satellites, space launch and range systems, satellite control network, space based infrared systems, intercontinental ballistic missile systems and space situational awareness capabilities. SMC manages more than $60 billion in contracts, has an annual operating budget of $10 billion and employs more than 6,800 people worldwide. For GPS AEP acquisition and development questions, e-mail the Los Angeles AFB Public Affairs Office at: . For GPS AEP operational questions contact the Schriever AFB Public Affairs Office at Release Number: 010907 9/17/2007


--- [USAF evolves GPS architecture with $800 million upgrade to ground ...] ---
On September 14, Air Force crews at Schriever AFB, Colorado, completed the initial phase of an $800 million upgrade to the GPS operational control segment. Operators in the 2nd Space Operations Squadron (2SOPS) of the USAF 50th Space Wing migrated control of the GPS satellite constellation and ground monitoring facilities from a 1970s-era mainframe computer to a distributed IT infrastructure with advanced automated features. The 50th Space Wing, through the 2nd SOPS, performs the satellite command and control mission for the Global Positioning System. On September 14, Air Force crews at Schriever AFB, Colorado, completed the initial phase of an $800 million upgrade to the GPS operational control segment. Operators in the 2nd Space Operations Squadron (2SOPS) of the USAF 50th Space Wing migrated control of the GPS satellite constellation and ground monitoring facilities from a 1970s-era mainframe computer to a distributed IT infrastructure with advanced automated features. The 50th Space Wing, through the 2nd SOPS, performs the satellite command and control mission for the Global Positioning System. The upgrade, called the Architecture Evolution Plan (AEP), will add new digital communications and a new message format for telemetry, tracking, and control (TT&C) —uploading information and operational commands to the GPS satellites. A new capability to command satellites through Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN), will increase the number of available antennas for contacting satellites. The Air Force team, along with contractors from Boeing, Lockheed Martin, and The Aerospace Corporation, have been preparing for the transition to the new control segment since March 2006. “This is like changing the engine on a car while it is traveling 50 miles an hour down the road,” says Lt. Gen. Michael Hamel, commander of the Space and Missile Systems Center at Los Angeles AFB, California, where the GPS Wing is located. The upgrade also involved installing and activating the alternate Master Control Station at Vandenberg AFB, California, and upgrading the current GPS ground antennas. The addition of eight National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency facilities to the six GPS-dedicated monitoring stations around the globe will reportedly provide triple-redundancy tracking of satellites — that is, every satellite will be visible to at least three ground stations 99 percent of the time to quickly identify signal anomalies or outages. Groundwork for the Future AEP will lay the foundation for future improvements to the Operational Control Segment (OCS) to support new capabilities, such as those that will become available with the GPS Block IIF satellites. A further AEP upgrade next summer will enable support the new Master Control Station at Schriever to operate the IIFs, the first launch of which has been delayed until late in 2008. On August 27, under GPS Wing review, the first GPS Block IIF satellite successfully passed its Initial Integrated System Test (IIST) at the Boeing Spacecraft Development Center in El Segundo, California. Completion of the IIST signifies the spacecraft is ready to enter acoustic, separation, and thermal vacuum testing. A next-generation GPS control segment (OCX) is scheduled to be in place in the 2011–12 time frame to support the GPS III generation of satellites scheduled to launch beginning in 2013. Three industry teams led by Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, and Boeing are competing for the OCX contract, which is expected to be announced soon. A request for proposals to build the GPS IIIA satellites was issued earlier this year, with a decision now not expected before early 2008. Hope for Invisible Transition Rehearsed several times several times in advance, the Air Force used a phased approach with satellites transitioning to the new OCS one at a time. The new AEP message structure has been analyzed down to the bit, according to Air Force officials, and is functionally equivalent to the legacy message. It incorporates a new Kalman filter that will enable the system controllers to monitor and control more satellites and signals, including uploading navigation messages more frequently. The legacy TT&C architecture can only support about 31 satellites but will be able to handle up to 60 after OCX is complete in 2013, according to Col. David Madden, commander of the GPS Wing. According to the Air Force, in the event of an unforeseen anomaly during transition, the process is fully reversible at any time. The transition to AEP was originally scheduled to occur more than five years ago. But the task turned out to be more complicated than expected. The AEP makes use of a unique complex software system that is a wholesale replacement for the old one. Moreover, additional requirements were added and others changed over the course of development as the system and software matured, according to statements from the GPS Wing. Help for civilian GPS users Air Force officials expected that the transition would be transparent to GPS users. However, should problems appear that might be connected with AEP, civil users may contact the U.S. Coast Guard Navigation Center, telephone 703-313-5900, website <http://www.navcen.uscg.gov/>. Help for military GPS users Military users should contact the GPS Operations Center, telephone DSN 560-2541 OR commercial 719-567-2451, website <http://gps.afspc.af.mil/GPSOC/>.


--- [Schriever Airmen transition to new GPS control system] ---
LIEUTENANT GENERAL MICHAEL A. HAMEL June 17, 2005 Lt. Gen. Michael A. Hamel is Commander, Space and Missile Systems Center, Air Force Space Command, Los Angeles Air Force Base, Calif. General Hamel manages the research, development, acquisition and sustainment of space, missile, launch, command and control, and operational satellite systems. He is


--- [U.S. Air Force: GPS Reaches Milestones Earns Awards] ---
General Dynamics is providing the Network Communications Element (NCE), including the UHF Crosslink and Tracking, Telemetry and Command subsystems for the GPS III Satellites. (Photo Credit: Lockheed Martin) GPS has come a long way during the last 40-plus years. From its initial conception in the early 1960s, to the latest modernization efforts, GPS has achieved milestones and garnered recognition for its contributions to the betterment of humanity. Here are a few of the most notable GPS achievements and milestones. 1957-1978: GPS conceptualization and first satellite launch During the height of the Cold War, the Soviet Union dealt a major blow to U.S. morale with the launch of Sputnik in 1957. While Sputnik was a victory for the Soviets during the space race, it actually helped lead to the development of GPS. Scientists discovered the Doppler Effect, the thing that makes the timbre of a car horn change as the car passes by, could be applied to the radio signals being emitted from Sputnik. Essentially, they realized that satellites could be tracked from the ground by measuring the frequency of signals they emitted as they passed a fixed receiver location, and vice versa. In 1960, the first navigation satellite, TRANSIT IB, was put in orbit with the primary function of providing navigational and tracking aids for seagoing vessels, primarily submarines. The U.S. Navy’s launch of TIMATION satellites in 1967 and 1969 proved that a three-dimensional navigation system, using latitude, longitude and altitude, and highly accurate clocks, was possible. The TIMATION program was merged with the Air Force’s 621B program in 1973 in order to form the NAVSTAR GPS program, according to Encyclopedia Astronautica. On Feb. 22, 1978, the first of 11 NAVSTAR satellites was launched, paving the way for the current GPS constellation. September 1983: Korean Air Flight 007 shot down, President Reagan calls for civilian access to GPS On Sept. 1, Korean Air Flight 007 accidentally strayed into Soviet restricted airspace on its way from Alaska to South Korea. The Soviets shot down the passenger plane, killing all 269 people on board. On Sept. 16, President Ronald Reagan issued a statement condemning the act and calling for civilian access, free of charge, to GPS technology in order to prevent a similar event from occurring. The U.S. policy of offering GPS technology to civilians at no charge has remained in place. 1990-1991: Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm give GPS first combat test On Aug. 2, 1990, Iraqi forces began occupying Kuwait. Five days later, President George H.W. Bush ordered U.S. forces to Saudi Arabia and so began Operation Desert Shield. Desert Shield, and later Desert Storm, would mark the first time military forces used GPS technology in a combat situation. Allied troops relied heavily on GPS to navigate the Arabian Desert. April 1995: GPS achieves full operational capability GPS passed all its tests and on July 17, the Air Force issued a statement announcing that GPS had met the requirements for full operational capability. “FOC marks the successful completion of Department of Defense testing of the 24 Block II satellites now in orbit and confirmation of their operational capabilities,” the statement said. 1998: GPS inducted into the Space Foundation’s Space Technology Hall of Fame According to spacefoundation.org, the Space Technology Hall of Fame exists to honor individuals, organizations and technologies using space technologies to improve the quality of life for all humanity. The foundation included eight individuals and 10 corporations as a part of the technology’s induction into its Hall of Fame. May 1, 2000: Presidential directive calls for the immediate discontinuance of Selective Availability A statement from President Bill Clinton said, “The decision to discontinue SA is the latest measure in an on-going effort to make GPS more responsive to civil and commercial users worldwide.” Once deactivated, civilian signal accuracy improved by 10 times, paving the way for increased civilian use. Industries from shipping to fishing to transportation all began using GPS technology, and private companies begin to manufacture and market personal GPS products. December 8, 2004: National Executive Committee for Space-Based Positioning, Navigation and Timing is formed A presidential policy directive, forming the National Executive Committee for Space-Based Positioning, Navigation and Timing, ensures GPS remains equally influenced by military and civilian interests. The committee is co-chaired by the Secretaries of Defense and Transportation and is responsible for managing GPS. September 2007: Architecture Evolution Plan implemented; GPS III purchase announcement On Sept. 14, the $800 million Architecture Evolution Plan, the first upgrade to GPS’s ground control segment in 22 years, was implemented in real time without data service interruption to users. The upgrade was the first step in a modernization plan to make current and future GPS features available to users on the ground. The immediate benefit from AEP was the ability to tie the control system into the Air Force Satellite Control Network. Four days later, President George W. Bush issued a statement announcing the end to procurement of GPS satellites with SA capability. “This decision reflects the United States strong commitment to users of GPS that this free global utility can be counted on to support peaceful civil activities around the world,” the statement said. October 2011: GPS receives the IAF 60th Anniversary Award GPS was presented with the International Astronautical Federation’s 60th Anniversary Award on Oct. 4 as the space program that has been of biggest benefit to humanity. The IAF set up the award to “recognize an organization or key individual for a singular and successful project in the field of Space Applications, Space Science and Exploration, which could demonstrate through its implementation, that measurable benefit to humanity has been achieved,” according to iafastro.org. GPS was chosen as the winner because it is the “space program that touches and aids more humans every minute of every day in every corner of the globe.”


--- [The System — September 2007 - GPS World] ---
No audio available for this content. AEP on the Ground Advance to a New Architecture The U.S. Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) announced in late August that the long-planned upgrade of the GPS command and control system will occur during the second week of September, fulfilling a major program commitment for 2007. Dubbed the Architecture Evolution Plan (AEP), the upgrade will replace the entire GPS master control station, including both software and hardware, some of which dates back to GPS’s inception in the 1970s. The upgrade will, among other things, begin preparing the master control station to work with the latest generation of Block IIF satellites when they go into orbit; further work with the next-generation OCX, however, will be necessary for managing M-code and the new L5. “The delivery of SMC’s new GPS ground segment to the 50th Space Wing [will enable] transition of satellite operations from a 1970s-era GPS mainframe computer to a new server-based AEP ground segment,” said Lt. Gen. Michael Hamel, SMC Commander. “I am very proud of the team that has thoroughly tested the new system to ensure no change to the GPS signal during the changeover to the new system. The best analogy I could make is that this is like changing the engine on a car while traveling 50 miles an hour down the road.” Col. David Madden, GPS Wing Commander, added “The replacement of the legacy system to AEP is a benefit to both the warfighter and the civil community. AEP is designed to improve operations, increase efficiency, and provide a foundation for new capabilities as they become available. The replacement from the legacy mainframe system to a distributed architecture provides the capability to command and control the next generation of GPS satellites and lays the foundation for a new security architecture to support the warfighter in the field.” The AEP transition will take place over a period of four to six days; the total cost of the new ground control system amounts to approximately $800 million. The Air Force will not announce the exact date and time of transition, but will inform users 48 hours after completion. The upgrade features a new satellite control foundation that replaces the legacy system and adds new digital communications. This means installing and activating a new master control station at Schriever Air Force Base which includes new hardware and software to generate navigation messages, a new system for controlling satellites, and new capability to command satellites through the Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN). Adding the AFSCN will increase the number of available antennas for contacting satellites. The upgrade also involves installing and activating the alternate Master Control Station at Vandenberg AFB in California, and upgrading the current GPS ground antennas. Ground control at Schriever AFB will phase in a few satellites in the GPS constellation at a time; the process will be completely reversible if it encounters any problems. Before it begins, both old and new ground control systems will be synchronized in terms of positioning data, namely their reception of satellites’ timing and navigation signals, down to the millimeter level. GPS users should not notice the transition, according to the Air Force. The AEP will retain all of the legacy monitoring stations around the world currently utilized by the U.S. Air Force, as well as the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) monitoring stations around the globe originally added as part of the Legacy Accuracy Improvement Initiative. Additional NGA monitoring station sites are in the process of being brought online for future inclusion within the AEP. Galileo Tests; Rescue Role The test campaign using the large antenna at Chilbolton Observatory to analyze the navigation signals transmitted by GIOVE-A, the first Galileo satellite, has been successfully completed, the European Space Agency (ESA) announced in mid-August. Analysis of the satellite’s signals since January 2006, to verify their conformance with the Galileo system specification, has involved the Navigation Laboratory at ESA’s European Space Research and Technology Centre (ESTEC) in the Netherlands, the ESA ground station at Redu, Belgium, and the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (RAL) Chilbolton Observatory in the United Kingdom. Following signal analysis, operators have made some adjustments, re-programming the spacecraft’s navigation signal generation unit to compensate for changes to the signals introduced by the amplifier that boosts them for transmission to Earth and by a filter that protects adjacent frequency bands from interference. To achieve the correct solution, the calibrated Chilbolton station was used to receive the signals from GIOVE-A. ESA’s Navigation Laboratory processed the resulting data. The signal generator manufacturer, TAS (France), calculated the new settings for the unit. Finally, the satellite manufacturer, Surrey Space Technology Limited (SSTL), uploaded the new values to the payload using their ground station at Guildford, in the United Kingdom. According to ESA, “GIOVE-A is now transmitting optimized signals. Research and testing continues, and manufacturers are using the signals as they develop the receivers that users will need when Galileo enters operational service.” Global Search and Rescue. Once operational sometime after 2012, Galileo will improve the detection of emergency beacons, according to program representatives whoattended the annual Joint Committee Meeting of COSPAS-SARSAT, the international program for satellite-aided search and rescue. Galileo satellites will carry transponders to relay distress signals to search and rescue organizations. Galileo partners have committed to developing a search and rescue component as an integral part of Medium Earth Orbit Search And Rescue (MEOSAR), the future worldwide search and rescue satellite system. COSPAS-SARSAT already has systems operating in low-Earth orbit and geostationary orbit. The low-Earth orbit satellites can determine the location of emergency beacons using the Doppler effect as they pass overhead. However, there is a delay in relaying the distress signal because the satellites can only “see” a part of the Earth’s surface at any given time and a beacon is only detected when the satellite passes nearly overhead. Also, the satellites must store the location of the emergency and transmit it to a ground station once one comes into range, creating further delay. Search and rescue transponders on geostationary satellites can constantly view a large, fixed area of the Earth, eliminating the time delay in detecting distress signals. However, they cannot automatically determine the location of the distress beacon as the low-Earth orbit system does, but must rely on the beacon to use a navigation system to find its position and include it in the distress call. Emergency beacons require a direct line-of-sight to the geostationary satellites. There are some situations where this is impossible, such as near the Earth’s poles, where the satellites are too low in the sky, or when an accident occurs where surrounding terrain obscures the satellite. Future Improvements. To improve performance of the overall COSPAS-SARSAT system, plans are now being made to fly search and rescue payloads on future navigation satellites. The various navigation satellite constellations will each have about 20 to 30 satellites in medium-Earth orbit, providing global coverage, including at the Earth’s poles, and with multiple viewing angles to the satellites, eliminating terrain blocking. The Galileo search and rescue component will provide two services. The Forward Link Alert Service, backward-compatible with current COSPAS-SARSAT components and interoperable with all other planned MEOSAR elements, detects activated distress beacons and notifies the appropriate rescue body. A new Return Link Service will send a return message to the emergency beacon, notifying the emergency victims that their distress signal has been received and help is on its way. The Galileo In-Orbit Validation Programme, which will have four satellites fitted with search and rescue transponders, will demonstrate the Galileo MEOSAR services — although its flight timetable has yet to be finalized or announced. DOT Weighs NDGPS Future, Asks Public Input The U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) Research and Innovative Technology Administration (RITA) is preparing an assessment on the inland component of the Nationwide Differential Global Positioning System (NDGPS) that will determine its future. As part of that assessment, it is seeking public input from users of the system. The current expansion of the NDGPS has been placed on hold pending congressional review of the system’s funding; RITA’s assessment is part of that review. Differential GPS uses the fixed location of a reference station on the ground to improve the positioning resolution provided by civilian GPS satellite signals down to 1–3 meters. NDGPS facilities also monitor GPS satellites for anomalous behavior and issue integrity warnings when necessary. The NDGPS program is operated jointly with the DOT’s Federal Highway Administration, Federal Railroad Administration, and Office of the Secretary of Transportation; the Department of Homeland Security’s U.S. Coast Guard; the Departmentof Commerce’s National Geodetic Survey and Forecast Systems Laboratory; and the Department of Defense’s Air Force and Army Corps of Engineers. Begun in 1997, to date there are 37 operational NDGPS sites. Two additional sites are ready for construction and could be operational in a matter of months, according to the Coast Guard. As part of the assessment, RITA published a notice in the Federal Register addressing the current user requirements for the inland or terrestrial component of the NDGPS. This assessment is in preparation for making a recommendation to the National Space-Based Positioning, Navigation and Timing (PNT) Executive Committee, which oversees the entire GPS, on the need to continue to operate inland NDGPS and to make a decision on its future funding. If no transportation requirements or other federal user requirements are identified as a result of the needs assessment, and if there are no other federal or other funding sources willing to sponsor or partner in sponsoring NDGPS, the DOT will develop a decommissioning plan for NDGPS, according to RITA. The deadline for public comment is October 1, 2007. Comments may be submitted via the Internet at the Department of Transportation Web site. Instructions for other methods of submitting comments, including via postal service and fax, can also be found there in the docket management portion of the site. The Robots of DARPA The U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) has named 36 teams as semifinalists for its Urban Challenge to take place later this year. The DARPA Urban Challenge will feature autonomous ground vehicles executing simulated military supply missions in a mock urban area. It will take place November 3at an urban military training facility located on the former George Air Force Base in Victorville, California. The 36 semifinalists will compete in the Urban Challenge National Qualification Event (NQE), October 26–31. The top 20 teams from the NQE will move on to the Urban Challenge final event on November 3, and compete for cash prizes worth $2 million for first, $1 million for second, and $500,000 for third place. At the NQE and the final event, the robots must operate entirely autonomously, without human intervention, and obey California traffic laws while performing maneuvers such as merging into moving traffic, navigating traffic circles, and avoiding moving obstacles. DARPA conducted competitive site visits across the United States to select the semi-finalists. “The depth and quality of this year’s field of competitors is a testimony to how far the technology has advanced since the first Grand Challenge in 2004,” said DARPAdirector Tony Tether. Stanford University’s winning robot vehicle from the last DARPA Challenge in 2005, which ran across the Mojave Desert, consisted of a stock Volkswagen Touareg R5 thatincorporatesd measurements from GPS, a 6DOF inertial measurement unit, and wheel speed for pose estimation. Click here for the list of semi-finalists, along with other race information.
