=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ancient Olympic Games - World History Encyclopedia]
Mar 13, 2018 · A feat almost matched by Hermogenes of Xanthos, known as 'the horse' who won eight running events over three Olympics between 81 and 89 CE. Milon of Kroton won the wrestling competition five times from 532 to 516 BCE and the runner Astylos of Kroton won six crowns across the three Olympics of 488, 484 and 480 BCE.
URL: https://www.worldhistory.org/Olympic_Games/

[The History of Olympic Games - Gareth Machale]
Hermogenes of Xanthos, often known as “the horse,” who won eight running events during three Olympics between 81 and 89 CE, nearly accomplished the same feat. Between 532 and 516 BCE, Milon of Kroton won the wrestling tournament five times.
URL: https://garethmachale.com/the-history-of-olympic-games/

[A Dead Man Won This Horse Race - YouTube]
Despite dying mid-race, his body remained upright in the saddle, held in place as the horse continued running. Sweet Kiss crossed the finish line in first place, and the crowd initially celebrated ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b_Zhgmfg2r0

[LTI-CBE/imdb-small.csv at main · Pavan-gs/LTI-CBE · GitHub]
Eddie Deezen vacillates between ""Three Stooges"" slapstick and a bad Woody Allen imitation. Fatally flawed, ""Mob Boss"" is so derivative that boredom quickly overcomes comedy and the film drags on with car chases, hidden weapons in a restaurant bathroom, and numerous other nonsense.
URL: https://github.com/Pavan-gs/LTI-CBE/blob/main/imdb-small.csv

[styal/filtered-finepdfs-edu.eng · Datasets at Hugging Face]
We’re on a journey to advance and democratize artificial intelligence through open source and open science.
URL: https://huggingface.co/datasets/styal/filtered-finepdfs-edu.eng/viewer


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ancient Olympic Games - World History Encyclopedia] ---
No content


--- [The History of Olympic Games - Gareth Machale] ---
The History of Olympic Games The Ancient Olympic Games were athletic competitions conducted every four years in honor of Zeus, the main deity of the Greek religion, at Olympia, a sacred location in the western Peloponnese. From 776 BCE to 393 CE, athletes and spectators came from Greece and outside to participate in the games. The Olympic Games, which took place for 293 straight Olympiads, were ancient Greece's most significant cultural event. The Games were so important in ancient times that they even served as the foundation for the calendar. Origins of the Games Historically, sporting activities have been linked to burial rites, especially those of heroes and soldiers who have died in action, as in the case of Patroklos' games in Homer's Iliad. Particularly at Olympia, some legendary tales attribute the commencement of the Games to Zeus to commemorate his triumph over Kronos, while others claim the Games were started by the hero Pelops in honor of Oinomaos. It is hardly surprising that organized athletic tournaments would eventually be developed, just as they had been in the previous Minoan and Mycenaean civilizations, as sport, a healthy physique, and a competitive spirit were significant components of Greek education. In honor of Zeus, the first Olympics were staged starting in 776 BCE at the first full moon following the summer solstice, which fell in the middle of July. Koroibos of Elis took first place in the first and only competition, the stadium footrace. From that point on, every winner was noted, and each Olympiad was named after them, giving us the first precise chronology of the ancient Greek world. An Olympiad was the name of both the actual event and the time between the games. Athletes and as many as 40,000 spectators traveled from all across Greece to Olympia to compete in the Games during a three-month pan-Hellenic ceasefire. Later, additional competitions would be held in other holy locations, like Delphi, Isthmia, and Nemea, but the Olympian Games would continue to hold the top spot. The procession from Elis, the host city, to Olympia was headed by the Hellanodikai (judges), and when it arrived at Olympia, all competitors and officials took an oath to uphold the specified competition regulations and to participate honorably and respectfully. The sacrifice of 100 oxen, known as the hecatomb, to the altar of Zeus after the sports activities was the most significant religious ceremony of the day. The Spectators From Elis, spondophoroi were dispatched around all of Greece to announce the arrival of the Games. Visitors arrived from the islands of Ionia and Magna Graecia as well as the Greek mainland. To make it easier for competitors and spectators to move around and to honor the religious significance of the Games, a sacred truce (ekecheiria) was declared across Greece. The ceasefire initially lasted one month, but it was eventually increased to three. No one was to be hindered in their trip to the games from wherever they came from or whatever land they had to cross, including spectators, athletes, or theoriai (official missions representing individual cities). Warfare was also forbidden, and carrying arms was not authorized on the territory of Elis. The Olympia site must have been delightfully humming during a Games with large throngs of enthusiastic spectators camping in temporary campsites (accommodation for the guests was not given till later) and appreciating the abundance of beautiful statues and structures at the site. Food sellers, artisans, singers, poets, and philosophers all used the throng to their greatest advantage to advertise their products or thoughts. We do not know exactly how many spectators saw each game, but we do know that 45,000 men, slaves, and foreigners watched from the stadium's embankments where the main competitions were held. Through their raucous encouragement of the competitors and their post-event showering of flowers and laurel leaves on the winners, spectators actively engaged in the competitions. Although little girls were allowed in the crowd, women were not allowed to witness or participate in the festivities. The priestess of Demeter Chamyne was the sole exception to this prohibition. The Kallipateira case was a well-known exception to the men-only norm. She had trained her son Peisirodos, and when he triumphed in his race, the crowd saw his mother loosening her clothing and showing her sex. Due to her Olympic-winning ancestry, she was spared the death penalty; but, to prevent such incidents in the future, all trainers had to wear nothing but their underwear. The Athletes A professional trainer (gymnastes) or physical trainer (paidotribes) who knew how to best strengthen certain muscles, the optimum nutrition, and the proper quantity of exercises to be done oversaw athletes while they trained. The placement of a monument honoring the trainer at the location was a common way for their more accomplished athletes to express gratitude. Additionally, athletes had an aleiptes who massaged and oil-rubbed them both before and after exercise. To have total freedom of movement, the competitors competed nude. All free Greek men were eligible to participate in events, and the list of winners shows how truly Pan-Hellenic the Games were. In Roman times, the no-foreigner restriction for athletes was loosened. All-around winners were those who defeated their rivals. Records of the times and distances covered by champion athletes are nearly nonexistent since they were simply not thought to be significant; the goal was to place first among the best, not to break records. The Stadion Footrace The stadium footrace was the only competition throughout the first 12 Olympic Games, and it remained the most prestigious competition throughout the Games' existence. The race was conducted over one stadion, or length, of the stadium track, which is equivalent to 192 meters or 600 feet in ancient times. Heat winners advanced to the final. For the sake of fairness, athletes were paired up by lot, just as pairings were done for the other events. The final winner of the stadium would even donate his name to that specific Games, making him immortal. Competition Rules & Judges Athletes were required to arrive in Olympia for training one month before the Games and to certify that they had been in training for at least ten months. Participants were not allowed to be non-Greeks, slaves, murderers, anyone guilty of defiling temples, or anybody who had broken the truce. Cities, like Sparta around 420 BCE, may be included in the latter group. The Hellanodikai (or agonothetai), trained judges from Elis, oversaw the proceedings. They had several aides, including alytai (police officers), as well. There was just one judge throughout the first 49 Olympic Games, but over time, more judges joined him, and at one point, there were twelve judges overseeing all the activities. The position was once hereditary and permanent, but judges were eventually chosen from Elis by lot. Athletes who violated the regulations may be disqualified and fined by the Hellanodikai, who were granted special seats in the stadium and awarded their purple cloaks. The rulings of the Hellanodikai could never be overturned, but the judges may be penalized if an athlete successfully appealed, and they were also subject to review by a council of elders. Rules were seldom ever breached, and when they were, punishments ranging from exclusion to fines to whipping were meted out. Both the sanctuary and the offended athlete received fines. If a violator did not pay the fine, the city he represented would be banned from the following Games. Many of the zanes, or sculptures of Zeus, whose bases can still be seen at the location, were built using the money collected through fines. Olympic Prizes Each event winner received a victory crown (kotinos) made of wild olive leaves from the Hellanodikai as well as an olive branch (Kallistephanos) cut from the revered tree. The olive was significant since Hercules was thought to have initially planted the Olympian trees. A red woolen ribbon that was worn around the head or the upper arm was another possible award, particularly for chariot racers as the horse's owner was the one who earned the olive crown. After the Games, winners were greeted in their hometowns as heroes. The winners would often approach the city in a parade in a four-horse chariot and would be honored with lavish banquets as well as invitations to join the political elite and tax exemptions. Victories in the Games gave cities prestige as well, and as a result, they occasionally provided cash rewards for athletes, such as Solon's 500-drachma medal (a significant figure given one sheep cost one drachma at the time). Glory, renown, and, in a very genuine sense, historical immortality were the actual rewards for sportsmen. This was accomplished by fame while the person was still living, and it was continued after death through victory lists, individual sculptures, and victory odes. Famous Olympians Many outstanding athletes achieved fame and triumph in numerous Games. From 488 to 480 BCE, Kroton from southern Italy won three straight stadium competitions. The station, the diaulos, and the race in armor were the three events that Phanas of Pellene managed to succeed in the Olympics in 521 BCE. Even better, between 164 and 152 BCE, Leonidas of Rhodes won all three events in four straight Olympics. Hermogenes of Xanthos, often known as "the horse," who won eight running events during three Olympics between 81 and 89 CE, nearly accomplished the same feat. Between 532 and 516 BCE, Milon of Kroton won the wrestling tournament five times. Astylos of Kroton won six gold medals in the three Olympic games in 488, 484, and 480 BCE. Incredibly, from 328 to 292 BCE, Herodoros of Megara won 10 straight trumpet championships. Famous athletes from outside of the athletic world competed in the Games due to their fame. In 416 BCE, three chariot races were won by Alcibiades, a famous Athenian commander and statesman. The horse race was won by Philip II of Macedon in 356 BCE, and he continued his winning run in the chariot races of the Games in 352 and 348 BCE. In 65 CE, Nero, the Roman emperor, was known for winning every competition he took part in. These strong political figures even tried to capitalize on their achievement at Olympia by minting coins to mark the occasion. Kyniska was the first female to receive the crown of victory in 392 BCE. Women were not allowed to compete, but they were allowed to possess horses, and it was the owner of those horses who took home the olive crown award. Many more women followed Kyniska's example, and Spartan women in particular achieved success in the equestrian competitions at Olympia. End of the Games As additional structures were constructed on the site, more amenities were provided for the spectators, and the athletes' professionalism and event specialization increased, the Games persisted into the Hellenistic period. Despite significant modifications to tradition throughout the Roman era, such as Sulla's relocation of the 80 BCE Games to Rome, the Games remained popular and gained in stature under Hellenophile emperors like Hadrian. However, it was Emperor Theodosius who eventually ruled that all religious activities, including the Games, must cease. As a result, the final Olympics, which had previously been staged 293 times over more than a millennium, were held in 393 CE. The Olympic Symbol Pierre de Coubertin came up with the idea for the flag, which features a white backdrop and five different colored interlocking rings. The six colors of the flag—blue, yellow, black, green, red, and white—still have symbolic meaning today, over a century after they were first used. Five interlocking rings are a representation of the unity of the five continents and of the Olympic Games, which bring together athletes from all over the world. Conclusion In conclusion, the roughly 12-century-long Ancient Olympic Games, which were staged in Olympia in honor of Zeus, were a significant manifestation of Greek culture and athletics. Despite coming to an end in 393 CE, their influence continues today in the form of the five interlocking rings that stand for both world peace and the ongoing spirit of rivalry between nations.


--- [A Dead Man Won This Horse Race - YouTube] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [LTI-CBE/imdb-small.csv at main · Pavan-gs/LTI-CBE · GitHub] ---
We read every piece of feedback, and take your input very seriously. To see all available qualifiers, see our documentation.


--- [styal/filtered-finepdfs-edu.eng · Datasets at Hugging Face] ---
text string | id string | dump string | url string | date string | file_path string | offset int64 | token_count int64 | language string | page_average_lid string | page_average_lid_score float64 | full_doc_lid string | full_doc_lid_score float64 | per_page_languages list | is_truncated bool | extractor string | page_ends list | fw_edu_scores list | minhash_cluster_size int64 | duplicate_count int64 | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---| Lagarostrobos franklinni Huon Pine What is Huon pine? The Huon pine Lagarostrobos franklinii is a conifer and is endemic to Tasmania. It is the only member of the genus Lagarostrobos. Related species from the family Podocarpaceae, originating from the ancient supercontinent Gondwana, are found in Chile, Malaysia and New Zealand. How long does it live? The Huon pine is Australia's oldest living tree and is one of the oldest living organisms on earth. Individuals have been known to reach an age of 3,000 years. Fossil records from a tree found in the south-west of Tasmania were dated at 3,462 years. (Carder A., 1995). Only the bristle-cone pine of North America exceeds it in age. Growth rate and reproduction The Huon pine grows at the incredibly slow rate of between 0.3 – 2 mm per year in diameter. Despite such slow growth the tree may attain heights of 40 m and commonly reaches 20 m to 25 m in height. The foliage of the Huon pine consists of tiny scales closely pressed to the stalk. Huon pines produce pollen and seeds from small cones that are about 3 mm long. Male and female cones are produced on separate trees. A small number of trees produce both male and female cones, though this is quite rare. Reproduction occurs in 'mast years'. Every 5 – 7 years a mass seeding occurs. Seeds are dispersed a short distance around the tree except where they land in water and are transported downstream. Huon pines also reproduce vegetatively. They do this by layering. Tree branches reaching the ground start to root and establish themselves as a new tree, which eventually breaks away from the parent. Branches breaking off trees can also take root. Where does it grow? Huon pines are found in the west and southwest of Tasmania where they grow among river-bank rainforest and also in a few subalpine lake shore forests. They are usually killed by fire and are drought sensitive, so are restricted to cool, wet areas. Huon pines are often associated with rainforest species such as myrtle (Nothofagus cunninghamii), leatherwood (Eucryphia lucida) and sassafras (Atherosperma moschatum). In this way populations such as a forest stand at Mt Read, which have no female trees, continue to survive. It is believed that the Mt Read stand has been regenerating in the absence of female trees for more than 10,000 years, although no individual trees are more than 1,500 years old. Some of the most accessible sites to see Huon pines are: the Tahune Forest Reserve near Geeveston on the Picton River; the Arthur-Pieman River State Reserve near Corinna; the Teepookana Forest Reserve; the heritage landing on the Gordon River on the west coast; and near Newall Creek on the Mount Jukes Road south of Queenstown. Depar tment of Primary Industries, Parks, Water and Environment Use of Huon pine Huon pine has been prized as a timber since the early 1800s. One of the reasons for establishing a convict settlement at Sarah Island in Macquarie Harbour was to harvest Huon pine from the Gordon River. From 1822 until 1833 convict piners were forced to cut timber and float log rafts from the lower reaches of the river to the Sarah Island settlement. There they were pit sawn into frames and planks to build ships for the Government. Pining continued as a commercial operation after the convict era. Felled trees continued to be floated down the river to Sarah Island where they were picked up and taken to the mill at Strahan. Huon pine is one of the few native timbers that floats when green. From 1890 till the present day, the small port of Strahan, on Tasmania's west coast has been the main centre of pining. However, from 1850 until 1880, the Davey River settlement in the southwest, supplied the majority of the market. The rich creamy yellow wood is soft, durable, smooth, oily and light weight. The wood is very easy to work with and takes a high polish. Huon pine is probably the most durable of Australian timbers, and logs which apparently have lain on the ground for several hundred years are still being harvested and milled. The durability of the wood is due to the presence of the essential oil, methyl eugenol, which gives Huon pine its unique odour. The oil also has preservative qualities and deters insect attack. It has been said 'the only thing slower than a Huon pine's growth is its decay!' As a consequence it is recognised as an excellent timber for building boats, furniture, and for joinery and turning. Huon pine is still available as a sawlog for the production of crafts. Sources include areas flooded by Hydro Tasmania schemes and previously heavily cut-over areas, particularly the Teepookana State Forest near Strahan. The annual sawlog cut of 500 cubic metres per year from these sources is expected to last more than a century. Because it thrives in some of the roughest terrain, it has been more difficult to harvest than other Australian timbers. This has resulted in Huon pine traditionally being at least triple the price of common hardwoods, and, with its scarcity today, that has increased to a factor of six or seven. How much Huon pine is left? Estimates of the area of living Huon pine vary, but are in the order of 10,500 hectares. In addition there are about 800 hectares of standing, fire-killed pine. The current area of remaining pine is the remnant of a much wider original range that has been reduced by fire, inundation, logging and mining. Today most of the remaining stands are well protected within reserves, the majority within the World Heritage Area. Further information Kerr G. and McDermott H. (1999) The Huon Pine Story. A History of Harvest and Use of a Unique Timber. Mainsail Books, Melbourne. Contact Biodiversity Conservation Branch:DPIPWE 134 Macquarie Street, Hobart. 7000 Phone: (03) 6233 6556 Fax: (03) 6233 3477 March 2011 © State of Tasmania | <urn:uuid:fdf39c8a-50c6-4718-b403-c96da1606ed3> | CC-MAIN-2017-13 | http://parks.tas.gov.au/file.aspx?id=6575 | 2017-03-27T10:42:25Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2017-13/segments/1490218189471.55/warc/CC-MAIN-20170322212949-00223-ip-10-233-31-227.ec2.internal.warc.gz | 276,185,970 | 1,341 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.997522 | eng_Latn | 0.997738 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2791, 5841 ] | [ 3.265625 ] | 2 | 39 | Money and the money supply Contributed by the Central Bank of Seychelles as part of its Awareness Programme. Money is any object or record that is generally accepted as payment for goods and services and repayment of debts. This can include notes and coins, as well as electronic forms of money. There are many different currencies of money such as the US dollar, the UK pound and the Euro. In Seychelles, the Seychelles rupee is used. Nearly all money systems are based on what is known as fiat money. Fiat money does not have any value as a physical commodity but has value simply because the government has declared that it must be accepted as a form of payment within the country. As such, because the Government has declared the Seychelles rupee to be the domestic currency and as such has declared its value, the rupee is used as a form of payment within Seychelles. Money has been thought to have 3 main functions. Firstly, it acts as a medium of exchange. This simply means that it can be exchanged for goods and services. It therefore eliminates the need for barter which proved to be inefficient. Barter is the method of exchange whereby goods and services are directly exchanged for other goods and services. This is difficult because it requires a double coincidence of wants. For example, if money did not exist and a fisherman wanted fruit, he would have had to find someone that grew fruit and also wanted to exchange it for fish. The introduction of money removes the need to find someone who has what you want and wants what you have. Its second function is that it acts as a store of value. This means that its value should remain stable over time unlike, for example, a car which loses value over time. Thirdly, money can act as a unit of account. This means that it can be recorded that a certain amount of money exists without that money having any actual physical existence. This can be seen when payment is made by cheque. The number representing how much money is in the corresponding bank account decreases without requiring the money to be obtained in physical form for payment. Money must also be easily portable, durable and very difficult to counterfeit (since if people could produce it themselves it would lose value). That is why notes and coins have various security features to prevent counterfeiting, and are light, long-lasting and thus easy to transport. It also needs to be divisible. If only R500 notes existed, it would be very difficult to buy small items and that is why money is divided into notes and coins of lesser value. Money must also be in limited in supply in that there is a sole supplier, which in most countries is the central bank. The money supply is the total amount of money available in an economy at a particular point in time. A country's central bank can increase the money supply by, for example, "printing" money or by buying government bonds from the private sector. The central bank can decrease the money supply by, for example, selling government bonds or by encouraging commercial banks to hold more money deposits at the central bank. The latter can be achieved through market operations or minimum reserve requirements. However, the central bank does not have complete control of the money supply. Commercial banks can effectively create money by giving loans thus increasing the money supply. Loans increase the volume of deposits in the system, because not all money must be present in physical form, and by doing so increase the money supply. Growth in the money supply, however, will generally cause inflation. This is because an increasing money supply, when the supply of goods and services remains constant usually means that people will have more money to spend on goods and services. The resulting increase in demand for goods and services will drive up prices. There are several different measures of the money supply generally referred to by 'M' followed by a number, usually ranging from M0 to M3. In Seychelles we have M1, M2 and M3. M1 consists of the currency with the public and transferable deposits. M2 consists of M1 plus fixed term and savings deposits. M3 consists of M2 plus foreign currency deposits. Furthermore, within these measures there are components of money supply – transferable deposits, fixed deposits, foreign currency deposits and so on. These components and their variation over the past 10 years can be viewed in the graph below. | <urn:uuid:58679d7c-bd7f-4cea-bb3b-197f27765b8a> | CC-MAIN-2017-13 | http://cbs.sc/Downloads/publications/Money%20and%20the%20money%20supply_FINAL.pdf | 2017-03-27T10:52:00Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2017-13/segments/1490218189471.55/warc/CC-MAIN-20170322212949-00223-ip-10-233-31-227.ec2.internal.warc.gz | 57,149,437 | 892 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.999411 | eng_Latn | 0.999437 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 3202, 4455 ] | [ 3.515625 ] | 1 | 5 | This policy is based on statutory expectations from the New Curriculum 2014. Year groups have not been included, to allow the School flexibility in deciding appropriate methods for different groups of children. Mereworth Community Primary School Progression towards a standard method of Calculation January 2015 Introduction: The National Curriculum 2014 provides a structured and systematic approach to the teaching of calculation. At Mereworth Community Primary School, we have developed a consistent approach to the teaching of written calculation methods in order to establish consistency, continuity and progression throughout the school. Aims: Children should be able to choose an efficient method, mental, written or ICT (calculator) appropriate to the given task. By the end of Year 6, children working at Age Expected or Exceeding will have been taught, and be secure with, a compact standard method for each operation. General Progression: - Establish mental methods, based on a good understanding of place value - Develop use of empty number line to help mental imagery and aid recording - Use of informal jottings to aid mental calculations - Use partitioning and recombining to aid informal methods - Develop expanded methods into compact standard written form - Introduce expanded written methods Before carrying out a calculation, children will be encouraged to consider : - Can I do it in my head? (using rounding, adjustment) - The size of an approximate answer (estimation) - Could I use jottings to keep track of the calculation? - Do I need to use an expanded or compact written method? When are children ready for written calculations? Addition and subtraction: - Do they know addition and subtraction facts to 20? - Can they add three single digit numbers mentally? - Do they understand place value and can they partition numbers? - Can they add and subtract any pair of two digit numbers mentally? - Can they explain their mental strategies orally and record them using informal jottings? Multiplication and Division: - Do they know the 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11 and 12 times tables and corresponding division facts? - Do they understand 0 as a place holder? - Do they know the result of multiplying by 1 and 0? - Can they multiply two and three digit numbers by 10 and 100? - Can they double and halve two digit numbers mentally? - Can they use multiplication and division facts they know to derive mentally other multiplication and division facts that they do not know? - Can they explain their mental strategies orally and record them using informal jottings? These lists are not exhaustive but are a guide for the teacher to judge when a child is ready to move from informal to formal methods of calculation. It is also important that children's mental methods of calculation are practised and secured alongside their learning and use of an efficient written method for each operation. Point to note: The correct terminology should be used when referring to the value of digits to support the children's understanding of place value. E.g. Tens and Ones and 68 + 47 should be read 'sixty add forty' not 'six add four' Teachers should refer to the key vocab document for key vocabulary for each year group. Progression of Written Calculations Progression in Addition Stage 2 Develop pencil and paper methods for additions that cannot be done mentally 35 + 52 5 + 2 = 7 30 + 50 = 80 80 + 7 =87 (no formal layout, informal jottings) - Continue informal partitioning, reinforce use of empty number line. - Expanded written method, horizontal layout. (NO 'carrying'). Progression in Subtraction Stage 1 Understand the operation of subtraction and use the related vocabulary - Use of pictures and visual aids to record calculations - Record simple mental subtractions in a number sentence using – and = - Use jottings to support mental subtractions (empty numberline) - Develop use of vocabulary Children to decide how to set out numberlines i.e. the number of steps to use 34 - 27 Stage 2 Develop pencil and paper methods for subtractions that cannot, at this stage, be done mentally (two-digit numbers) 67 – 25 Counting on to find a difference Using multiples of 10 - Subtraction can also be recorded using partitioning to answer equivalent calculations that could then be carried out mentally 74 – 27 = 74 – 20 – 7 = 54 – 7 = 47 Children need to be introduced to the concept of the unknown number: 62 - = 27 Stage 3 Expanded written methods showing vertical layout but with no decomposition - Expanded decomposition - Extend to 3-digit number and hundreds to tens decomposition Once children are aware that tens or hundreds are brought across, they can cross numbers out and write the adjusted amount in each column, to make this method less time consuming Stage 4 Compact written methods involving decomposition - Provide examples where children deal with 0 as a place holder 503 – 278 Here 0 acts as a place holder for the tens. The adjustment has to be done in two stages. First the 500 + 0 is partitioned into 400 + 100 and then the 100 + 3 is partitioned into 90 + 13. - Extend written methods for subtraction, to include decimal numbers with up to 2 decimal places and larger numbers up to 10 000 - Choose the most efficient and appropriate method for each calculation Stage 5 Progression in Multiplication and Division Concepts in multiplication and division are very closely linked, and should be developed together Stage Progression in multiplication Progression in division | Foundation | Real life contexts and use of practical equipment to count in repeated groups of the same size: Count in twos, fives, tens | Share objects into equal groups Use related vocabulary | |---|---|---| | Stage 1 | Draw pictures to show equal sets: 3 sets of 3 make 9 2 sets of 4 make 8 Count in twos, fives and tens Identify patterns of 2s, 5s, 10s on a hundred square Solve practical problems that combine groups of 2s, 5s and 10s. | Draw pictures to show sharing and grouping: 9 shared between 3 How many groups of 4 in 8? Count in twos, fives and tens Solve practical problems sharing groups of 2, 5 and 10. | Stage 3 Learn additional multiplication facts and work on different ways to derive new facts from those that they already know - Know by heart multiplication facts for x2, x3, x4, x5, x6, x7, x8, x9, x10, x11 and x12. - Understand effect of multiplying by 10 - Recognise multiples of 2, 5 and 10 up to 1000. - Multiply a single digit by 1, 10, 100 - Double any multiple of 5 up to 50 - Derive related facts 7 x 5 = 35 5 x 7 = 35 355 = 7 357 = 5 Develop and refine written methods for multiplication, based on mental strategies: - Multiply a 2-digit number by a single digit number, multiplying the tens first - Using multiples of 10 (mentally) 4 x 30 = (4 x 3) x 10 = 120 - Use jottings to show stages of calculation e.g. (Tens Ones x Ones) 32 x 3 NB: It is important that children continue to use jottings to support mental calculations for multiplication and division, throughout KS2 Derive quickly division facts corresponding to 2, 5, and 10 times table - Continue to use empty number lines for division and introduce remainders. - Divide a 3-digit multiple of 100 by 10 or 100 - Understand effect of dividing by 10 800100 = 8 30010 = 30 - Halve any multiple of 10 up to 100 502 = 25 - Given three numbers such as 4, 5, 20; say or write four different multiplication and division statements. - Round remainders up or down depending on the context. - Solve division calculations by using multiplication strategies Develop and refine written methods for division, building upon mental strategies. - Divide a 2-digit number by a single-digit, by using multiples of the divisor Either: - Use informal jottings E.g.: 847= 70 + 14 7 10 + 2 =12 Or: use a method linked to the grid method for multiplication As the mental method is recorded, ask: ‘How many sevens in seventy?’ and: 'How many sevens in fourteen?' Or: Record mental division using partitioning: Stage 4 Develop the extended written method of the grid method Tens Ones x Ones Stage 5 Extend written methods, encouraging estimation first. Grid method (HTOnes x Ones) e.g. 246 x 7 1400 + 280 + 42 = 1722 Grid method (TOnes x TOnes) e.g. 62 x 36 This will then lead to a compact written method for multiplication; Develop use of short division method Short division - short division giving quotient as fraction e.g. 90 7 = 12 6 /7 - giving quotient as decimal - short division of numbers involving decimals (87.5 7) Short division method can be used when children are confident to divide two and three digit numbers by a single digit. Stage 6 Double digit multiplication 24 x17 Extend written methods for multiplication, encouraging estimation first. - continue to use grid method as an expanded written method - develop short multiplication - leading to multiplication of numbers involving decimals Pupils will be taught the more compact method of multiplication if and when the teacher feels they are ready for it. 27 35 x Long Division: Extend written methods, encouraging estimation first So2 8 12/15 or 28.8 15 ) 4313 2 For fractions guidance please visit: http://nrich.maths.org/2550/index?nomenu=1 Please contact the Maths Subject Leader for any clarification on any further methods to be used. | <urn:uuid:b95cae08-04df-49e6-91ee-0ff0908eeaed> | CC-MAIN-2017-13 | http://mereworth.kent.sch.uk/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/Calculation_Policy-2017-Mereworth-1.pdf | 2017-03-27T10:46:42Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2017-13/segments/1490218189471.55/warc/CC-MAIN-20170322212949-00222-ip-10-233-31-227.ec2.internal.warc.gz | 218,528,378 | 2,227 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.954291 | eng_Latn | 0.993604 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2595, 3285, 3618, 4476, 5361, 6194, 8085, 8740, 9251, 9431 ] | [ 4.40625 ] | 5 | 3 | Lesson: Two Carpets Essential Questions: Why are carpets important in Islamic cultures? What are the basic characteristics of West Asian carpet design? What are the similarities and differences between the Ottoman Turkish and Iranian carpets discussed in this lesson? Learning experience: Students will become familiar with two roughly contemporaneous carpets, one from Ottoman Anatolia and one from Iran. They will analyze their design and learn about some of the aesthetic priorities of the people who created them. Anticipatory set: In your house, your apartment, or your room: what kind of objects do you surround yourself with? Which are useful? Which are decorative? Which are both? Context: Carpets have been made for thousands of years throughout Central and West Asia. Flat-woven textiles (kilims—carpets without pile) were made in Turkey at least as early as 7000 BCE. The oldest surviving woolen pile carpet dates from the fifth century BCE, found in a burial site in the Altai mountains of southern Siberia. For pastoral nomadic inhabitants of the Eurasian steppe, carpets served as "floor coverings, prayer mats, tent decorations, canopies, as symbols of power, privilege and riches" (Abas 2004: 11). In the sedentary world of cities, towns, and farming villages, carpets were also more than floor covering. They were "an integral part of one's living arrangements, one which took the place of chairs, beds, and sometimes tables" (www: Erdmann). Carpets, in short were necessities, not merely decorations, and so were worth the great care that was lavished on them. Those belonging to the wealthy never remained in one place all the time. At the Seraglio in Constantinople, for instance, they were changed every three months. The ones removed were first expertly cleaned and then sent to a treasure chamber for safekeeping. In Persia there were special "carpet houses" where the valuable carpets that needed a rest were stored. They were looked after by the house's own permanent staff and the director (custodian) also decided which carpets should be used, where and on which occasion (www: Erdmann). An account of the visit of Byzantine ambassadors to the Abbasid dynasty's (750-1258) capital at Baghdad shows how carpets contributed to the display of royal wealth and power: The number of the carpets and mats. . .was twenty-two thousand pieces; these were laid in the corridors and courts, being spread under the feet of the nobles, and the Greek Envoys walked over such carpets all the way from the limit of the new Official Gate, right to the presence of the Caliph—but this number did not include the fine rugs in the chambers and halls of assembly. . .spread over the other carpets, and these were not to be trodden with the feet (Grabar 1978: 168). All three of the early modern Islamic empires—the Ottomans (1281-1924), the Safavids (1501-1739), and the Mughals (1526-1858)—developed thriving carpet industries. Carpet weaving was transformed from a minor craft based on patterns passed down from generation to generation into a statewide industry with patterns created in court workshops. In this period [1600-1800], carpets were fabricated in greater quantity than ever before. They were traded to Europe and the Far East where, too precious to be placed on the ground, they were used to cover furniture or hung on walls. Within the Islamic world, especially fine specimens were collected in royal households (www: Sardar 2003). Trade with Europe is reflected in the hundreds of paintings, both sacred and secular, where carpets appear. Such paintings are important to scholars, so much so that some carpet styles are labeled with the names of Western painters. Carpets such as the Ushak design (1) in this lesson "were being imported into Europe as early as the beginning of the sixteenth century" (Rogers 1995: 198). Although individual domestic weavers and nomad households simplified the process, workshop production required considerable division of labor. One source lists the products of seven crafts—spinning thread and dyeing fabric, for instance—that were necessary before weaving could begin (Wulff 1966: 195). Weaving itself was a complex process involving either a preparatory drawing or an actual knotted sampler. These indicated the sequence and density of knots. Sometimes a professional design caller was used to call out the knotting sequence (www: Ittig 1990). Women played a central role in carpet-making: In Anatolia and Iran, many women were employed as spinners, dyers, and knotters in a craft that tended to adhere to a strict gendered division of labor. While the precise assignment of tasks might differ from one locale to another. . .carpet making in general was a heavily feminized craft (Tucker 2006: 398). Carpet-making shared the same visual vocabulary as the rest of Islamic art: vegetal design ("arabesque") and geometric patterning. Moreover, one writer suggests that carpets were central to the development of this aesthetic: Carpets represented the most ancient and the most meaningful art form in the population that first embraced Islam. . .Long experience of carpet weaving gave tent dwellers skill and passion fortessellations [patterns made of interlocking parts fitting together with no gaps between them], interlaced patterns and the all-over covering of surfaces (Adapted from Abas 2004: 11). Carpet patterns, with their wealth of vegetal decoration, have been compared to gardens. Some carpets were even made to look like stylized gardens. The ruler of the last pre-Islamic dynasty to control Iran, the Sassanians (224-651), had a carpet called "The Spring Garden." It measured almost ninety feet to a side and was embroidered with precious stones and gold. Victorious Arab soldiers found it too heavy to carry away, so it was cut up and the pieces awarded as booty (www: Morony). The two carpets discussed here are different in style and visual impact. The Ottoman "Star Ushak" carpet is based on repetitions of an eight-pointed star design. The Safavid carpet has a central medallion surrounded by four lions and a calligraphic inscription. Both, however, encourage students to think critically about the importance of color and pattern in the arts of Islam. Rationale: Carpets embody important aspects of Islamic visual culture. Also, since they are an art form admired for centuries in both East and West, they introduce students to a world of beauty that, on one hand, is specific to Islam and, on the other, transcends cultural boundaries. Instructional resources: Two carpets, one from Turkey and one from Iran; four other carpets for comparison (1A, 1B; 2A, 2B); "Parts of a Carpet" (diagram); "Teacher's Background Sheet: Basic Carpet Terms." (A) "Star Ushak" Carpet Ushak, Anatolia 1450-1500 (B) "Star Ushak" Carpet Ushak, Anatolia 16 th -17 th century * Ushak was a carpet-producing center in northwestern Anatolia. * These designs are believed to have been royal commissions. * The multiple medallion design of (1) consists of an eight-pointed star repeating across the carpet's field. (1A) and (1B) are variations of this style. * The eight-pointed star of (1) is simple: two superimposed squares. * All three carpets are dominated by the deep blue of the star motifs and the red of the main field. The stars on all three are outlined in white. * "Surprisingly, few Ushak carpets survive in Turkey compared with the numbers found in Western Europe, particularly in Italy" (Rogers 1995: 198). * The stars of (1) and (1A) are filled with palmettes. * Encourage students to look closely. Notice the subtle touches of color—tiny areas of white, pale blue, and yellow on the flowers in (1), for instance. These are probably translations in knotted wool yarn of a painted master design. 2. Safavid Medallion Carpet Iran, Kashan, Safavid 16 th century (KHAL.2006.0048) Medallion Rug with a Field of Flowers (A) (Details) Iran, Safavid Probably Kirman 17 th century (B) The Sely Carpet Iran, Safavid Late 16 th century * The Safavid dynasty was an important era in the arts of Islam: The high point in Persian carpet design and manufacture was attained under the Safavid dynasty (1501-1739). It was the result of a unique conjunction of historical factors—royal patronage, the influence of court designers at all levels of artistic production, the wide availability of locally produced and imported materials and dyes. . .and commercial acceptance, particularly in foreign markets. . . Although there is no direct evidence that royal weaving workshops had yet been established [during the first century of Safavid rule], the influence of court designers on carpet weaving is clear. The two key design features of rugs in this period, the medallion design and figural elements, were borrowed directly from the arts of the book as practiced in the royal atelier (www: Walker). * The carpet has a central medallion surrounded by four lions. The lions symbolize Ali (c. 600-661), the first Shi'ite caliph. Called the "Lion of God," he was a son-inlaw of Muhammad and the person Shi'ites believe is the Prophet's true successor. Shi'ism was established as Iran's state religion under the Safavids. * Notice the pale blue stems of the vegetal scrolls in the main field and the use of gray in the border. * A calligraphic inscription surrounds the carpet's medallion and central field. * Carpet (2A) is a directional design. The medallion is couched in a garden-like spray of flowers. * Carpet (2B) is dominated by the medallion and the four spandrels. Notice the prominent use of white in the border and inner stripe. Procedure: Students will analyze and compare three Ottoman "Star Ushak" carpets (1), (1A), and (1B); and three Safavid medallion carpets (2), (2A), and (2B). * Internet homework assignment: The class will (1) read about the two basic features of Islamic design that inform carpet-making: "Plant Motifs in Islamic Art" (Victoria and Albert Museum) and "Geometric Decoration"(Museum With No Frontiers); and (2) read the brief thematic essay on "Carpets from the Islamic World, 1600-1800" from the Heilbrunn Timeline of Art History. Students will be assigned to give brief reports on each of these readings. * The class is divided into four groups. Groups can be assigned in advance of the homework assignment. * In class, students give their reports on the homework readings. The teacher goes over some of the basics of carpet history and design. * The teacher leads a whole class discussion about design formats and important motifs. * The whole class then compares and contrasts (1) The "Star Ushak" carpet with (2) the Safavid medallion carpet. * Each group reports. They compare and contrast carpets (1) and (2) with their respective related carpets. | Group 1 | Group 2 | Group 3 | Group 4 | |---|---|---|---| | (1) Ottoman “Star Ushak” Carpet | | (2) Safavid Medallion Carpet | | | Carpet (1A) | Carpet (1B) | Carpet (2A) | Carpet (2B) | Whole group reflection: Islamic carpets share decorative styles with architecture, the arts of the book, painting, ceramics, and metalwork. What special characteristics do carpets have that distinguish them from these other arts? Instructional modification: These activities may take more than one class session. Application: Using the internet, students assemble "collections" of carpets. They create PowerPoints discussing the background of their chosen carpets and the reasons for their choices. This can also be done in groups. Bibliography Abas, S. Jan. Islamic Geometrical Patterns for theTeaching of Mathematics of Symmetry. Ethnomathematics Digital Library, 2004. <http://www.ethnomath.org/resources/abas2001.pdf> Erdmann, Kurt. "Carpets East Carpets West." Saudi Aramco World. March/April 1965. <http://www.saudiaramcoworld.com/issue/196502/carpets.east.carpets.west.htm> Grabar, Oleg. The Formation of Islamic Art. Yale University Press, 1978. Ittig, Annette. "CARPETS iv. Knotted-pile carpets: Designs, motifs, and patterns." Encyclopedia Iranica, 1990. <http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/carpets-iv> Morony, M.G. "Bahar-e Kesra." Encyclopedia Iranica, 2011. <http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/bahar-e-kesra-the-spring-of-kosrow-tabari-fars-ezamestani-winter-carpet-balami-or-baharestan-spring-gar> Rogers, J.M. Empire of the Sultans—Ottoman Art from the Collection of Nasser D. Khalili.Muséed'Artetd'Histoire, Geneva/The Nour Foundation, 1995. Sardar, Marika. "Carpets from the Islamic World, 1600-1800." Heilbrunn Timeline of Art History. The Metropolitan Museum of Art. <http://www.metmuseum.org/toah/hd/crpt/hd_crpt.htm> Tucker, Judith. "Rescued from Obscurity: Contributions and Challenges in Writing the History of Gender in the Middle East and North Africa." In Teresa A. Meade and Merry E. Weisner-Hanks (eds.). A Companion to Gender History. Wiley- Blackwell, 2006. Verde, Tom. "Threads on Canvas."Saudi Aramco World. January/February 2010. <http://www.saudiaramcoworld.com/issue/201001/threads.on.canvas.htm#sbbeginner> Walker, Daniel. "CARPETS ix. Safavid Period." Encyclopedia Iranica. <http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/carpets-ix> Wulff, Hans E. The Traditional Crafts of Persia. The M.I.T. Press, 1966. Acknowledgements This lesson was created by Eve Eisenstadt, its academic content approved by Kristina Richardson, and the final lesson edited by Martin Amster. | <urn:uuid:c5a49c90-9755-43ef-8467-22daaf68dab1> | CC-MAIN-2017-13 | http://artsoftheislamicworld.qc.cuny.edu/Lesson%20Plans/Two%20Carpets.pdf | 2017-03-27T10:35:07Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2017-13/segments/1490218189471.55/warc/CC-MAIN-20170322212949-00226-ip-10-233-31-227.ec2.internal.warc.gz | 27,884,665 | 3,149 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.931211 | eng_Latn | 0.995885 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2779, 5704, 7556, 9624, 11859, 13392 ] | [ 4.1875 ] | 1 | 3 | Water & Pool Safety (800) 774-7237 Riverside County is dedicated to preventing unintentional injuries to children in our county. The paramedics, fire fighters, law enforcement personnel, and hospital staff who work in our county know all too well the tragic results of a child's death from drowning. Childhood drowning can be eliminated because we know that childhood drowning is 100% preventable. Make changes now, before a drowning happens. It could happen in your neighborhood or at your next gathering. Please don't wait. Read the following information. It could change your life. FACTS * Over 80% of all drowning and near-drowning incidents occur in backyard pools. * Drowning is the leading cause of unintentional or accidental injury-related death to children ages 1-4 years old in Riverside County. * There are over one million backyard pools in California without safety features because they were built before the Swimming Pool Safety Act of 1998. One could be in your neighborhood. * A submerged child can lose consciousness in less than two minutes – the time it takes to answer a phone – and sustain permanent brain damage in only 4 to 6 minutes. * Drowning is a quiet event. There is no splashing, no screaming, and no noise at all. * Shimmering and sparkling, water is a magnet for toddlers and young children. * Remember, it takes very little water for a child to drown. Less than one inch of water is all it takes to cover the mouth and nose of a toddler. * Children under the age of five have no fear of water and no concept of death. Water is associated with play. LAYERS OF PROTECTION FOR POOLS * Fence the pool * FENCE GATES: All gates to the pool or spa must be selfclosing and self-latching. * POOL COVERS: If a pool cover is used, make sure it has been approved as a safety device. * Shut the gate • Learn how to swim it's great! • FENCING: Enclose your pool with four-sided, non-climbable fencing at least 5 feet high. Isolation fencing around a pool or spa is the best protection. If possible, do not use your house as one of the four sides. * Take CPR * DOOR & WINDOW ALARMS: All windows and doors that lead to the pool area should have alarms that alert adults when they are opened. * Adults should always supervise (more on other side) * Keep proper supplies PREVENTION TIPS * Assign an adult Water Watcher to keep their eyes on the water at all times. * SUPERVISE! Never leave a child alone near a pool or spa, bathtub, pond, toilet, bucket of liquid, or any standing water. * Do not allow children to play near the pool or spa. * Empty wading pools immediately after use and store upside-down. * Keep toilets lids down. Install safety latches on the toilet lids to prevent toddlers from opening and playing in the toilet. * Bath rings are only bathing aids, not personal floatation devices. * American Academy of Pediatrics advises against swim lessons until the 4 th birthday. * Never rely on devices or swimming lessons to protect children without supervision. * Never drink alcoholic beverages before or during swimming or supervising children. BE PREPARED * Know your neighborhood and the homes your child visits. Is there a pool? Is it properly protected? If the children will be swimming, who will be supervising them? * Learn CPR & First Aid * Learn how to swim and learn proper rescue techniques. * Keep a portable telephone and emergency phone numbers nearby. * Keep rescue equipment at near the pool. Do NOT use air-filled swimming aids (such as water rings) in place of life preservers. These devices can give parents and children a false sense of security, which may increase the risk of drowning. IF A WATER EMERGENCY OCCURS * Check for breathing; clear mouth and nose of any obstructions * Pull the child from the water and place on his or her back * Instruct another adult to call for emergency help * Begin rescue breathing or CPR as needed until the child is revived or help arrives. SAFETY RESOURCES (800) 774-7237 or (951) 358-7171 Riverside County Children's Injury Prevention Network Riverside County Building & Safety Department rivcoips.org (951) 955-1800 or (951) 600-6245 Riverside/Corona (951) 955-6713 To report an unsafe pool call Code Enforcement: Perris/Hemet/Temecula (951) 600-6140 American Red Cross in Riverside County Pass & Desert Areas (760) 863-7180 (951) 656-4218 or (760) 773-9105 www.drowningpreventionalliance.com National Drowning Prevention Alliance Safe Kids Worldwide U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission www.cpsc.gov Safekids.org | <urn:uuid:76eadcb0-2e80-4a4a-aa2a-368fde87f2ec> | CC-MAIN-2017-13 | http://www.rvcfire.org/Documents/WaterSafetyFlyer.pdf | 2017-03-27T10:39:24Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2017-13/segments/1490218189471.55/warc/CC-MAIN-20170322212949-00227-ip-10-233-31-227.ec2.internal.warc.gz | 669,877,385 | 1,047 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.994999 | eng_Latn | 0.997397 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2298, 4542 ] | [ 3.25 ] | 1 | 7 | Introduction to the School Power Naturally Solar Learning Lab™ Virtual Array Tour: Lesson II in the Series TEACHER INFORMATION LEARNING OUTCOME After experiencing the second of four routes through the Heliotronics SunViewer™ software application, students are able to interpret data from and cite environmental advantages of their school's solar array system. LESSON OVERVIEW In this lesson, students continue to investigate the components and functions of a solar array system, and enhance that learning through interpretation of data that helps them answer the question, why choose solar? GRADE-LEVEL APPROPRIATENESS This Level II and III lesson is appropriate as an introduction to solar energy for students in grades 5–12. MATERIALS A computer or computer lab that has Heliotronics SunViewer™ software installed and receiving data from a Heliotronics Feynman™ data logger Protractors Sufficient copies of Student Handouts One and Two SAFETY No safety precautions are necessary for this lesson. ADDITIONAL SUPPORT FOR TEACHERS There are 64 School Power Naturally (SPN) lessons available for downloading at www.SchoolPowerNaturally.org. Some of the lessons that would mesh well with this solar array tour are listed below, along with a brief description of content. (Note: In addition to this new lesson (lesson II), three other new lessons that are closely related to lesson II are described in the Teaching the Lesson section.) * SPN Lesson #2, Our Dependence on Fossil Fuels (Through a simulation, students become aware of their dependence on fossil fuels.) * SPN Lesson #3, To Go Solar or Not to Go Solar (Through participating in a role-play of a community meeting, students decide on the feasibility of photovoltaics as an alternative source of energy.) * SPN Lesson #5, Energy Resources: Where Are They and How Do We Get Them? (Students learn, through models and interpretive skills, the nature of various energy resources, how they form, and the science that allows them to be discovered and extracted.) * SPN Lesson #6, Energy Solutions: A Brochure (Students communicate to others the benefits of photovoltaic systems as an alternative source of energy, as evidenced by brochures they develop.) * SPN Lesson #8, The Absorption of Solar Energy (Students interact with a simplified model of photosynthesis that explores the relationship between energy transfer and the chemical reactions that produce energy-containing foods in green plants.) * SPN Lesson #10, Solar Energy in New York (Students decide if increasing the amount of energy from photovoltaic systems would be a wise investment in New York State.) * SPN Lesson #19, What Is pH and Why Is It Important? (After using pH paper to test liquids and soluble solids, researching acid deposition, and checking DAS emissionsavoidance data, students explain the comparative relationship of fossil fuels and PV systems to acid deposition.) * SPN Lesson #20, Using Environmental Models to Determine the Effect of Acid Rain on an Ecosystem (After completing a reading on acid precipitation and pH, and conducting small-scale investigations of the effect of acid on ecosystems, students predict the environmental effects of acid precipitation.) * SPN Lesson #21, An Environmental Puzzle: The Carbon Cycle (Through completing readings on our ultimate energy source and completing a carbon dioxide puzzle, students are able to describe the operation of the oxygen–carbon dioxide cycle and relate the use of alternative forms of energy to maintaining levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.) * SPN Lesson #30, Chemical Consequences of Burning Fossil Fuels (Students are introduced to the chemical consequences of burning fossil fuels, as they complete chemical reactions such as forming acids, and show that fossil fuel combustion produces acid-forming oxides.) * SPN Lesson #31, Avoiding Carbon Dioxide Emissions from Burning Fossil Fuels (After performing stoichiometric calculations for various alkanes that comprise fossil fuels and working with the emissions-avoidance component of the school's DAS system, students cite quantitative evidence showing how nonfossil fuel sources help to reduce air pollution created by carbon dioxide.) * SPN Lesson #36, Fossil Fuels (Part II), The Geology of Oil: Topographic Mapping, Crustal Deformation, Rock Porosity, and Environmental Pollution (As part of this lesson, students use emissions-avoidance data supplied by the school's DAS system to evaluate the environmental cost of our dependence on petroleum-derived energy.) * SPN Lesson #37, Fossil Fuels (Part III), The Geology of Coal: Interpreting Geologic History (As part of this lesson, students use emissions-avoidance data from the school's DAS system to calculate the environmental cost of coal energy.) * SPN Lesson #38, Temperature and the Tomato (Students are provided experiences that help them predict whether given sets of conditions are conducive to tomato growth. As part of this lesson, they also relate energy production in tomato plants to energy production in photovoltaic panels.) * SPN Lesson #39, Where Do Plants Get Their Food? (In this lesson about the historical development of the scientific method, students replicate van Helmont's classic experiment, and describe the role of light in plant growth.) * SPN Lesson #40, A Photosynthesis Timeline (Students are led to understand that van Helmont's work was limited by the thinking of society at the time and the equipment available to him. They see that even though his conclusion was incorrect, his approach to science and his experiment showing that plants do not obtain food from the soil were significant contributions to our understanding of photosynthesis.) * SPN Lesson #42, Permit Trading (Through a simulation that involves infusing renewable energy resources into the "mix" for electricity generation by employing a "renewable portfolio standard," students explain market-oriented regulation and its impact on the transition to alternative energy sources.) * SPN Lesson #44, Prospects for a Sustainable Energy Future (After exposure to the term sustainable as defined by Thomas B. Johansson and José Goldemberg, students are able to cite criteria that characterize a sustainable energy system. They also evaluate the degree of support for sustainability in the recommendations of Johansson and Goldemberg in Energy for Sustainable Development. * SPN Lesson #45, Heat Pollution and Communities (Students examine the issue of thermal pollution in the broad context of environmental impact, and distinguish between opinions and claims as opposed to facts and data. As part of this lesson, they also collect and compare data from their school's and other schools' DAS systems, citing differences in waste heat amounts for contrasting environments.) TEACHING THE LESSON This is the second in a series of three tour lessons that make use of the Heliotronics SunViewer™ software application. (A fourth lesson makes use of inquiry teaching and learning, using the online School Power Naturally database [SunViewer.net™] developed by Heliotronics. This database presents and archives data from your school's solar array and that of other participating schools throughout New York State.) The first lesson in the series features a virtual array tour that includes screen shots and commentary. In this, the second lesson, the software application is used to facilitate navigation through, and understanding of, the second of four pathways—"Why Choose Solar?"—which provides students their first look at data from an operational photovoltaic array and prompts them to see how their solar array is having a positive impact on the environment. The third lesson features pathways 3 and 4 and includes a projected set of images and pages that relate to data display. In the fourth lesson, such things as portions of the software application that display real time and stored operational data are explored. Lesson I usually is completed before lesson II is begun. In advance, run copies of the Student Handouts for the students in your classroom. In some portions of this lesson, the information provided for teachers suggests that the students expand their learning using the Internet. Typically, ideas have been offered for criteria to be entered into search engines. When dealing with more advanced students, the teacher may not want to provide the search criteria, but rather allow the students to come up with their own. Search criteria in this section are identified with the following font style: SEARCH CRITERIA. The third lesson in the series explores such things as portions of the software application that display real time and stored operational data. The pathways "What Is It Doing?" and "How Well Is It Working?" are included in this lesson. If you did not launch the Heliotronics SunViewer™ software application as part of the initial tour, do so now. Find the SunViewer™ icon (see figure 1). Click the icon to launch the Heliotronics SunViewer™ software application. Watch the home page pop up (see figure 2): Locate the "end" button (see figure 3): You may click "end" to end the program now, or if you have time, follow the pathway suggested for this lesson. Note that you may end the program at any time by clicking the "home" button and then "end." For now, let's go on. We see that there are four buttons (see figure 4) on the home page: This lesson is limited to the "Why Choose Solar?" pathway (the other three pathways are for use in the other lessons in the series). So we will click the "Why Choose Solar?" button. This takes us to figure 5: The text boxes on the "Why Chose Solar?" page provide data on the electrical energy production of your solar array and the pollution that it prevents: * Cumulative system energy (energy production) * Carbon dioxide (pollution prevented) * Nitrogen oxides (pollution prevented). * Sulfur oxides (pollution prevented), and Since your school's solar array is producing some of the electricity used by your school, the school does not need to purchase that amount of electricity from the utility company. Therefore, the utilities' fossil fuel power plants do not need to produce quite as much electricity, and the noxious emissions from those plants are reduced by the amounts shown. Distribute Student Handout One, and have your students copy the data from the screen graphic (figure 5) onto the appropriate locations. Either carry out the following discussion now, or come back to it after you complete the "Why Choose Solar?" pathway of the tour. Guide the students by asking the following questions: Virtual Array Tour: Lesson II * How was the quantity recorded beside "Cumulative System Energy in Kilowatt-Hours" arrived at? (See figure 5.1 note, page 12.) Will the quantity increase, decrease, or stay the same over time? (See figure 5.2 note, page 12.) * How were the quantities for the next three items—carbon dioxide in kilograms, sulfur oxides in kilograms, nitrogen oxides in kilograms—determined? (See figure 5.3 note, page 12.) Have students solve the three items listed on page 3 of Student Handout One to determine how much carbon dioxide (as well as sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides) is saved by the production of one kWh of electricity from solar energy. (See item 3 below and figure 5.4 note, page 12.) Discuss with your students how electricity is typically produced in your area. Follow these steps as you lead the discussion: 1. Use brainstorming and a chart, chalkboard, or overhead projector to generate a list of possible methods by which your electricity is generated at the present time. A site that will provide teachers and students with a useful overview of energy generation types is http://www.powerfrontiers.com/index.html. Have the students list the generation types (e.g., "fossil fuel plants") in three columns—Conventional, Renewable, Other—on Student Handout Two. (See electricity production note #1, page 12.) 2. Using the list generated by the students, discuss which of these are available now and which are still being researched or are in pilot use. Strive to find out from students which are available in your area, which are not, and why. (See electricity production note #2, page 13.) 3. Have the students use the website http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-and-you/how clean.html to determine the current mix of energy sources for generating electricity for your zip code. 4. Have your students use the circle provided on Student Handout Two, along with protractors, to make a pie chart that represents your energy mix for generating electricity. For a review of pie charts, go to http://bdaugherty.tripod.com/KeySkills/pieCharts.html. (See electricity production note #3, page 13.) 5. Now have your students think about some other areas of the country that might be of interest to them, and also might have different proportions in their mix of energy sources. Use the website listed in step #3 above to learn more. Compare the mix that is present in your area with that of other areas and see if the students can explain the differences. For instance, proximity to Hoover Dam or to Niagara Falls could explain an increase of hydroelectricity in the mix and reduced emission of pollutants. (See electricity production note #4, page 13.) Now that the students have accumulated knowledge about electricity generation and the mix of energy resources for your region, you should be able to prompt them for the question, why choose solar?, and expect an enhanced response to the question,—percentage increases in the component alternative energies within the mix of resources used to generate energy lessens degradation of the environment. When you are ready to return to the tour, there are three graphics on this window that serve as buttons to choose from (see figure 6): Click the first graphic on the left (see figure 7): That choice results in the following window, which relates how global warming occurs and describes the long-term effects of solar warming (see figure 8): You may want to have your students research and report on the long-term effects of global warming (typically referred to as "global climate change") that are described in figure 8. Click "close," and then choose the second graphic as the one to click (see figure 9): Virtual Array Tour: Lesson II The window that comes up provides a narrative on emissions from automobiles (see figure 10): The narrative for figure 10 describes the typical emissions from an automobile. Help the students see that reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 4,800 kilograms through the use of solar energy is equivalent to taking one car off the road for a year. You might want to have the students record the cumulative amount of CO2 avoided by your solar array (go back to figure 5 to get this figure). A month from now, have them record the amount again and determine the difference to reinforce the positive environmental impact of using renewable solar energy. (See figure 10 note, page 14.) Click "close" to return to the previous window, and then select the third graphic to click (see figure 11): Clicking that graphic will bring up figure 12, "Plants and Carbon Sequestration": You might want to consider using the following SPN lessons, which deal with plants and carbon sequestration: * SPN Lesson #8, The Absorption of Solar Energy Temperature and the Tomato * SPN Lesson #38, * SPN Lesson #39, Where Do Plants Get Their Food? Click "close" and then "home" to end this tour. Invite the students into a classroom discussion about why this pathway is entitled "Why Choose Solar?" Some ideas that may help you guide the discussion follow: * The use of solar energy might impact climate change. * PV-generated electricity is usually two to three times more expensive than conventionally generated electricity. * Use of PV doesn't pollute. * PV systems are like flat-panel computer displays and other manufactured products, in terms of how production is related to expense: the more you produce, the less expensive each item becomes. * Some areas offer subsidies to help pay for solar energy. What are the arguments for and against this? See whether students can name some industries that are vital to the economy that have or are receiving subsidies. (See subsidy note #1, page 14.) BACKGROUND INFORMATION Virtual Tour Notes for the Teacher Figure 5.1 Note: A component of the photovoltaic array measures and records the amount of electrical energy produced by the solar array. Figure 5.2 Note: It is a cumulative amount so it will increase. Figure 5.3 Note: If students know the components of their solar array, they will realize that no component of the solar array directly measures and records quantities for these items. You might have to ask the students leading questions to get them to realize that, since the display states that these pollutants have been avoided due to electricity being generated by the solar array, the array's software must be able to mathematically estimate and record how much of each pollutant has been avoided. There is a direct relationship between the solar energy produced and the fossil fuels containing pollutants whose use has been avoided. Figure 5.4 Note: If, in figure 1 of Student Handout One, the "Cumulative System Energy in Kilowatt-Hours" reads 34,567, and "Carbon Dioxide in Kilograms" reads 12,904, how much carbon dioxide would be saved by the next kWh of solar energy produced? 34,567 kWh are equivalent to 12,904 CO2 kg 1 kWh is equivalent to x kg CO2 Solving the equation for x gives an answer of .37 kg of CO2 per kWh. Electricity Production Note #1: Older students should be able to come up on their own with lists that resemble the following: a. CONVENTIONAL (Fossil fuel plants heat water to spin turbines, which turn generators. Such plants also burn gas to turn turbines similar to those that power jet planes. These turbines, in turn, turn electrical generators.) i. Coal-fired power plant (COAL-FIRED POWER PLANT) ii. Oil-fired power plant (OIL, ELECTRICITY) iii. Gas-fired power plant (GAS ELECTRICITY GENERATION) iv. Gas turbine (COMBINED CYCLE GAS TURBINE) b. RENEWABLE i. Wind (ELECTRIC WIND TURBINE MW MEGAWATT) ii. Solar photovoltaic cells 1. Flat plate (GRID-CONNECTED PV) 2. Tracking (PV TRACKING ARRAYS) 3. Concentrating (PV CONCENTRATORS) iii. Solar thermal 1. Parabolic trough (PARABOLIC TROUGH) 2. Dish Stirling (DISH STIRLING) 3. Power towers (SOLAR POWER TOWER) iv. Biomass (BIOMASS POWER GENERATION) c. OTHER i. Nuclear (NUCLEAR POWER PLANT) ii. Geothermal (GEOTHERMAL POWER GENERATION) The classification of geothermal energy as "other" is debatable in that this kind of energy has been typically considered renewable. Discuss why the classification is debatable, asking questions such as the following: Where is the energy coming from? How does it renew? Can it be depleted? This likely will invite a discussion of physical geology. Electricity Production Note #2: For example, dish Stirling engines are being deployed in commercial quantities in California but not in the East. In the East, the diffuse irradiance from frequent cloud cover renders such engines uneconomical. But in the Southwest, sparse cloud cover yields direct sunlight that is readily concentrated using mirrors; abundant sunshine makes the use of these engines very effective. Electricity Production Note #3: Pie charts are circles sliced into segments whose areas represent proportions. Should you prefer not to work with protractors, have the students simply estimate and then check their estimates, or have them compare and correct each other's estimates. For instance, you might ask the question, approximately how much of our electricity is generated from nuclear energy? Then you could elicit that, for instance, 22% is a little less than one-fourth of the whole, and ask them to mark a little less than one-fourth of the circle as nuclear. Should oil and gas turn out to be 46%, which is a little less than half, they should make the oil and gas part a little less than half of the circle. Coal is likely to be most of the remaining part of the circle. Let's say that coal is 31%, which is a little less than one-third, so the coal wedge will be slightly less than one-third of the circle. Remind students to leave a little space for hydro, which might be 1%. If something is off, they can try again, adjusting the size of the wedges as necessary. Electricity Production Note #4: For example, students might look up the zip codes 97221(Portland, OR), 02173 (Lexington, MA), or 80002 (Denver, CO). Expect your students to come up with other sites to check, and have them use search engines to look them up. You might want to prompt students with questions such as: * Why does Portland have low CO2 emissions? * What is a city name that interests you and what is its zip code? * What are the relative proportions of the various power sources for that area? * How do the emissions for that area relate to the national average? Why is this so? Figure 10 Note: To determine the difference, subtract the two to determine how much CO2 has been avoided due to the power production from the solar array. Then have the students consider how many miles would have to be driven to produce that same amount of CO2. Subsidy Note #1 Against Subsidies: Subsidies skew the market. Some say "let the market decide" and feel that subsidies are harmful to the economy. This assumes that we have a free market that monetizes all aspects of a purchase decision. For Subsidies: In many cases, not all aspects of the purchase decision are monetized. For example, nuclear power producers only are required to insure for $500 million to cover accidents. In the unlikely event that a large accident were to occur, there could be $10s of billions in damages. Cleanup for larger accidents will be paid for by the federal government. So this risk is borne by the taxpayer even if they choose renewable energy that does not have this risk. In a fully monetized market, the nuclear power plant operator would be required to carry much more insurance and the cost of that insurance would be passed on to the ratepayer. And if someone chose a renewable energy source for their electricity, they would not need to pay for the insurance. Those who favor subsidies point out that it is impractical to monetize all aspects of the purchase transition so it is typically easier to frame things differently and build in subsidies designed to achieve objectives such as cost reduction of clean energy. The majority of infrastructure industries that are of vital importance to our economy have been or are being subsidized. Examples include electric, aviation, rail, banking, farming, the Internet, housing, forestry, and auto. SOURCE FOR THIS ADAPTED ACTIVITY This activity is based on the Heliotronics SunViewer™ software that was provided to SPNparticipating schools. LINKS TO MST LEARNING STANDARDS AND CORE CURRICULA Standard 1—Analysis, Inquiry, and Design: Students will use mathematical analysis, scientific inquiry, and engineering design, as appropriate, to pose questions, seek answers, and develop solutions. M1.1b: Identify relationships among variables including direct, indirect…. M1.1c: Apply mathematical equations to describe relationships among variables in the natural world. S1.1a: Formulate questions about natural phenomena. S3.1a: Organize results, using appropriate graphs, diagrams, data tables, and other models to show relationships. S3.2h: Use and interpret graphs and data tables. T1.2: Locate and utilize a range of printed, electronic, and human information resources to obtain ideas. Standard 4—Science: Students will understand and apply scientific concepts, principles, and theories pertaining to the physical setting and living environment and recognize the historical development of ideas in science. 4.1a: The Sun is a major source of energy for Earth. Fossil fuels contain stored solar energy and are considered nonrenewable resources. They are a major source of energy in the United States. Solar energy, wind, moving water, and biomass are some examples of renewable energy resources. 4.1b: Fossil fuels contain solar energy and are considered nonrenewable resources. They are a major source of energy in the United States. Solar energy, wind, moving water, and biomass are some examples of renewable energy resources. 4.1c: Most activities in everyday life involve one form of energy being transformed into another. For example, the chemical energy in gasoline is transformed into mechanical energy in an automobile engine. Energy in the form of heat is almost always one of the products of energy transformation. 4.1d: Different forms of energy include heat, light, electrical, mechanical, sound, nuclear, and chemical. Energy is transformed in many ways. 4.4d: Electrical energy can be produced from a variety of energy sources and can be transformed into almost any other form of energy. 4.5a: Energy can not be created or destroyed, but only changed from one form into another. 5.1d: The methods for obtaining nutrients vary among organisms. Producers such as green plants use light energy to make their food…. 6.1c: Matter is transformed from one organism to another and between organisms and their physical environment. Water, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, and oxygen are examples of substances cycled between the living and nonliving environment. 6.2a: Photosynthesis is carried on by green plants and other organisms containing chlorophyll. In this process, the Sun's energy is converted into and stored as chemical energy in the form of sugar…. 7.1e: The environment may contain dangerous levels of substances (pollutants) that are harmful to organisms. Therefore, the good health of the environment and individuals requires the monitoring of soil, air, and water and taking care to keep safe. 7.2c: Industry brings an increased demand for and use of energy and other resources including fossil and nuclear fuels. This usage can have positive and negative effects on humans and ecosystems. 7.2d: Since the Industrial Revolution, human activities have resulted in major pollution of air, water, and soil. Pollution has cumulative ecological effects such as acid rain, global warming, or ozone depletion. The survival of living things on our planet depends on the conservation and protection of Earth's resources. Standard 5—Technology: Students will apply technological knowledge and skills to design, construct, use, and evaluate products and systems to satisfy human and environmental needs. Standard 7—Interdisciplinary Problem Solving: Students will apply knowledge and thinking skills of mathematics, science and technology to address real-life problems and make informed decisions. 1.1: Make informed consumer decisions by seeking answers to appropriate questions about products, services, and systems, determining the cost-benefit and risk-benefit trade-offs; and applying this knowledge to a potential purchase. Produced by the Research Foundation of the State University of New York with funding from the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) www.nyserda.org Special thanks to Heliotronics, Inc. for their contribution in developing the content for this lesson Should you have questions about this activity or suggestions for improvement, please contact Bill Peruzzi at firstname.lastname@example.org (STUDENT HANDOUT SECTION FOLLOWS) Name__________________________________________ Date___________________________________________ Introduction to the School Power Naturally Solar Learning Lab™ Virtual Array Tour: Lesson II in the Series STUDENT HANDOUT ONE Background Information Your school, which participates in the School Power Naturally (SPN) program, has been provided: * a Solar Learning Lab™, which includes a solar array that generates electricity from sunlight * an educational data-monitoring system that monitors and displays the energy and power production of the solar array, the meteorological quantities that affect its output and the emissions avoided by use of the solar array * a site license for Heliotronics SunViewer™ educational data display software. In addition, archived data has been displayed on the Internet for viewing by anyone in the world. Your teacher has been introducing you to the Solar Learning Lab by conducting a virtual tour by means of the Heliotronics SunViewer™ software application. This lesson is a continuation of that tour. DEVELOP YOUR UNDERSTANDING Materials A computer or computer lab that has Heliotronics SunViewer™ software installed Protractors Sufficient copies of Student Handouts One and Two Procedures 1. When your teacher pauses in the tour and tells you to record the numbers displayed on the "Why Choose Solar?" screen graphic, use figure 1 on Student Handout One to do so. Then use those numbers to respond to the three other items on page 3 of Student Handout One. 2. When your teacher pauses in the tour and asks you to gather information to construct a pie chart, use Student Handout Two for that purpose. Your teacher will expect you to gather information on energy resources for generating electricity in your area and the percentages of that energy mix in order to construct the pie chart. Name__________________________________________ Date___________________________________________ WHY CHOOSE SOLAR? Avoiding Pollutants Figure 1 Use the array tour's figure 5 to fill in the blank areas on figure 1 above. Consider that recorded information in responding to these items: 1. 1 kWh is equivalent to _____kg CO2 Show your work here: Then, use the actual figures you recorded in figure 1 to complete items #2 and #3 below. Again, show your work. 2. 1 kWh is equivalent to _____kg sulfur oxides Work: 3. 1 kWh is equivalent to ______kg nitrogen oxides Work: Name__________________________________________ Date___________________________________________ STUDENT HANDOUT TWO WHY CHOOSE SOLAR? Renewable Energy What are the ways by which electricity is generated in your area at the present time? List the generation types (e.g., "fossil fuel plants") for your area in the three columns below: CONVENTIONAL RENEWABLE OTHER Fossil Fuel Plants Once you know how electricity is generated in your area, your teacher will help you determine the amounts for the energy mix that produces electricity in your area. Record those amounts below as percentages, arranging them from greatest to smallest. The energy mix percentages for your area are as follows: (Note: You may need more or less than five sources and percentages.) Source 1 and percentage: Source 2 and percentage: Source 3 and percentage: Source 4 and percentage: Source 5 and percentage: Lesson II: Student Handout Two 4 Using those percentages for your various energy sources, convert the circle below into a pie chart that displays the sources and their percentages: | <urn:uuid:c94443a4-863e-4d0d-ab8d-3b9e537007be> | CC-MAIN-2017-13 | http://heliotronics.com/educators/lessons/Virtual%20array%20tour%20lesson%20II.pdf | 2017-03-27T10:38:39Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2017-13/segments/1490218189471.55/warc/CC-MAIN-20170322212949-00230-ip-10-233-31-227.ec2.internal.warc.gz | 168,862,017 | 6,429 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.99503 | eng_Latn | 0.997374 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1578, 4794, 8020, 9088, 9633, 10668, 13729, 14073, 14373, 15161, 15909, 18263, 21092, 23631, 26661, 27533, 29373, 29661, 29951, 30883, 31032 ] | [ 4.4375, 4.25 ] | 3 | 21 | Ages of Famous Personalities Junior Level Part 1: Data Collection: You will be seeing photographs of twenty famous people. As you see the photos, record the names of each individual and your best estimate as to the person's age. If you do not know the person, take your best guess as to the age from observing the photo. Actual ages will be the age at the end of the current year. | Famous Personality | Estimated Age | |---|---| | 1 | | | 2 | | | 3 | | | 4 | | | 5 | | | 6 | | | 7 | | | 8 | | | 9 | | | 10 | | | 11 | | | 12 | | | 13 | | | 14 | | | 15 | | | 16 | | | 17 | | | 18 | | | 19 | | Name________________________________ Ages of Famous Personalities Junior Level Part 2: Analysis of the Data: 1. Using the grid below, prepare a scatter plot using the estimated age on the x-axis and the actual age on the y-axis. Be sure to label your axes and scale, and place a title on the graph. 2. Choosing two points, find the equation of the line of best fit (model equation) for your data. 3. If you had guessed all of the ages correctly, what would be the equation of the line representing these correct guesses? Name________________________________ 4. Based upon your scatter plot, did you, in general, overestimate or underestimate the ages? _____________________ Explain how you made this decision by examining the scatter plot. 5. a. What percent of your estimated ages were correct? b. What percent of your estimated ages were above the actual ages? 6. Interpolate: If you guessed that a person’s age was 26, what would the exact age be based upon your model equation from question #1? 7. Interpolate : If a person’s actual age was 37, what would have been the estimated age based upon your model equation from question #1? 8. Extrapolate: If a person’s estimated age was 80, what would have been the actual age based upon your model equation from question #1? 9. a. What is your age? __________ b. Based upon the your model equation from question #1, what would have been your estimated age? 10. a. Which personality had the greatest difference between the estimated age and the actual age? b. What is the AVERAGE of the differences between the actual ages and the estimated ages for all of the personalities? | <urn:uuid:87a92729-54ba-44ea-b45c-1224fbf23b3b> | CC-MAIN-2017-13 | http://mathbits.com/MathBits/PPT/Ages%20of%20Famous%20People%20JUNIOR%20wkst.pdf | 2017-03-27T10:42:48Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2017-13/segments/1490218189471.55/warc/CC-MAIN-20170322212949-00229-ip-10-233-31-227.ec2.internal.warc.gz | 229,425,657 | 585 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.999195 | eng_Latn | 0.999441 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 656, 1186, 2267 ] | [ 4.0625 ] | 1 | 9 | What you need to know about the MB! Scouts will operate in patrols. Patrols should be 4 to 8. Groups less than 8 will likely be combined with other smaller groups for labs. There are no formal MB prerequisites. As with all MBs, Scouts should review the MB book ahead of time. Leaders are encouraged to consider a general review as part of a scout meeting (or two) prior to the event. See the requirements below. Leaders should turn in Scout-completed Blue cards at check-in. You'll find following each requirement below: (b) If applicable, what scouts (and leaders) must know before the weekend and what they must bring with them (IN BOLDFACE); (a) A brief summary of what will happen during DDD (UNDERLINED); (c) If applicable, what activities scouts can do ahead of time to lighten their weekend load (IN ITALICS). The Engineering Merit Badge Requirements 1. Select a manufactured item in your home (such as a toy or an appliance) and, under adult supervision and with the approval of your counselor, investigate how and why it works as it does. Find out what sort of engineering activities were needed to create it. Discuss with your counselor what you learned and how you got the information. Under supervision from a DDD Instructor, scouts in patrols will dismantle a home appliance and discuss the engineering involved in its manufacture and its operation. We are working with a northeastern Ohio appliance manufacturer who is attempting to provide us with an adequate supply of the same appliance, so that all scouts can work on the same appliance. If that manufacturer is unable to fulfill that request, each patrol will need to bring a used appliance to dismantle (check with your scouting parents and your local resale shops). If that is necessary, we will identify the type of appliance that must be brought. In either situation, patrols must bring a basic toolkit: check back for a list of required tools. ____________________________________________________________________________ 2. Select an engineering achievement that has had a major impact on society. Using resources such as the Internet (with your parent's permission), books, and magazines, find out about the engineers who made this engineering feat possible, the special obstacles they had to overcome, and how this achievement has influenced the world today. Tell your counselor what you learned. Scouts will watch the PBS American Experience Video on the making of the Hoover Dam. Scouts will then hike to Dover Dam, where DDD Instructors who are members of the Corp of Army Engineers will discuss the construction of both dams. To lighten your Saturday load, troops may watch the DVD ahead of time. http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/americanexperience/films/hoover/player/ About an hour long - ideal for a scout meeting. It is available at most public libraries. ____________________________________________________________________________ 3. Explain the work of six types of engineers. Pick two of the six and explain how their work is related. 4. Visit with an engineer (who may be your counselor or parent) and do the following: a. Discuss the work this engineer does and the tools the engineer uses. c. Find out how the engineer's work is done and how results are achieved. b. Discuss with the engineer a current project and the engineer's particular role in it. d. Ask to see the reports that the engineer writes concerning the project. e. Discuss with your counselor what you learned about engineering from this visit. DDD Instructors/Engineers will present and discuss the information to satisfy these requirements. For those in Camp on Friday, this will be part of the Friday night session. For those unable to attend Friday night, this session will be presented at lunchtime on Saturday. ____________________________________________________________________________ 5. b. Make an original design for a piece of patrol equipment. Use the systems engineering approach to help you decide how it should work and look. Draw plans for it. Show the plans to your counselor, explain why you designed it the way you did, and explain how you would make it. Scouts will participate in a session where this requirement will be reviewed, and questions answered. On their own time, patrols will work on this requirement throughout the day. Scouts may approach any Instructor at the Dining Hall immediately prior to, or immediately after dinner, to show their plans and explain why they designed it the way they did, and explain how they would make it. Patrols are encouraged (but not required) to work on this prior to the DDD weekend. Patrols may come to the event with their plan fully completed. ____________________________________________________________________________ 6. a. Transforming motion. Using common material or a construction set, make a simple model that will demonstrate motion. Explain how the model uses basic mechanical concepts like levers and inclined planes to demonstrate motion. Describe an example where this mechanism is used in a real product. Led by Carl H. Hager Jr., Ph.D., Tribology Specialist, of The Timken Company, patrols will construct a model to demonstrate motion. ____________________________________________________________________________ e. Converting energy. Do an experiment to show how mechanical, heat, chemical, solar, and/or electrical energy may be converted from one or more types of energy to another. Explain your results. Describe to your counselor what energy is and how energy is converted and used in your surroundings. Lead by DDD instructors who are engineering students (and some who are Eagle scouts) patrol will make a Rube Goldbergesq device showing energy conversion. Check back to see if scouts must bring anything for this requirement ____________________________________________________________________________ 7. Explain what it means to be a registered Professional Engineer (PE). Name the types of engineering work for which registration is most important? 9. Find out about three career opportunities in engineering. Pick one and research the education, training, and experience required for this profession. Discuss this with your counselor, and explain why this profession might interest you. 8. Study the Engineer's Code of Ethics. Explain how it is like the Scout Oath and Scout Law. DDD Instructors/Engineers will present and discuss the information to satisfy these requirements. For those in Camp on Friday, this will be part of the Friday night session. For those unable to attend Friday night, this session will be presented at lunchtime on Saturday. | <urn:uuid:1caf1fd1-d8a5-48d3-9dad-37ff90bc99b1> | CC-MAIN-2017-13 | http://tuscazoar.org/DDW-2013_Engineering_MB_reqs.pdf | 2017-03-27T10:40:40Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2017-13/segments/1490218189471.55/warc/CC-MAIN-20170322212949-00232-ip-10-233-31-227.ec2.internal.warc.gz | 362,144,922 | 1,278 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.999484 | eng_Latn | 0.999604 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2390, 5069, 6637 ] | [ 3.484375 ] | 1 | 5 | AVIAN ETHOGRAM AND RESEARCH PROJECT AT THE ZOO Mildred Sears Funk Department of Biology Roosevelt University Chicago, IL 60605 INTRODUCTION This ethogram and behavioral research project will be enjoyable for you, if you are interested in animal behavior, and will also help you learn how to more closely observe behavior. Observational skills will be helpful in many careers (e.g., clinical psychology, medicine, law, public relations, to name a few) that require closely watching behavior, accurately describing it, and understanding it in its context. You will practice these skills in the first part of the exercise, constructing an ethogram (a listing and description of species behavior). In this exercise, you will choose a particular species and, together with another student, you will describe the species' activities. The second part of the project, the behavioral research, helps you gain a better understanding of how scientists use the "scientific method." Scientists get their information by observing, experimenting and analyzing. You will choose a research question about some behavior of interest that can be answered through more specific observations of one or two individuals of the species. After collecting and analyzing data, you will interpret the results for the class in a poster session in which you display and discuss your work. You need to actively participate, carrying out observations and designing your project and planning your time well. LEARNING OBJECTIVES You will: * On the basis of the observation, construct a research question * Practice skills of close observation and detailed description * Design an experiment to answer this research question * Graph experimental data and the research process on a poster * Explain what you did and why to the class and what you'd do differently next time MATERIALS Field notebook and pen or pencil for observations and diagrams Timepiece (a second-hand is helpful but not necessary) Optional: tape recorder, camera or camcorder, binoculars 2 2 METHODS Getting started on your subjects Choose an active species. Try to be unobtrusive and quiet because your behavior may affect the birds' activities. Stay close enough to see all the activities but not so close that you disturb your subjects by your proximity or staring at them or by any noise you make. They may flee or become immobile, neither of which is helpful for your data collection. They may become habituated to your presence after some time and then behave in their normal fashion even though aware of your presence. Describe the birds. Field guides in the library will be helpful. Diagram the habitat. After your description of the birds, you need to familiarize yourself with the behavioral repertoire of your chosen species. Observing for an ethogram gives you the time and a framework in which to gain understanding of the animals by noting what they do and how they do it. To get started, watch the birds for an hour and take notes of their different activities. In your field notebook, note the date and time, conditions such as weather, crowd numbers, etc. and then keep track of the time and behavior you see. This is called AD LIB sampling, an informal note-taking procedure of as many behavior patterns as you see. You will be trying to describe at least a dozen. One student can describe the actions and the other can write them down and time them. The behavior may be motoric (e.g., flying and climbing, or concerned with body maintenance [feeding and elimination, bathing and preening] or exploratory, such as searching or scanning, or social: affiliative (friendly) or agonistic (threatening), or other behavior. Talk to the keepers. When are the birds most active? Consult two or three articles in scientific journals about the natural history of the species you have chosen. Then you are ready to begin your ethogram. What is an ethogram? An ethogram is a catalogue of the different action patterns of your species such as those listed above. When you think you are familiar with many of the species behavior patterns that are repeated in their daily routine, start listing these patterns as you watch the animals. Try not to be subjective or label the patterns at the beginning. Use descriptive names. Pretend that you are describing your chosen species and its behavior to a Martian who has never seen the species. Write down careful descriptions of the movements so that others could read your descriptions and recognize those exact same movements. Exactly how was the movement done? Was there any sound? (EXAMPLE: Open beak thrust. One bird is opening its beak and thrusting it in the direction of another bird.) Is there any movement of the rest of the body toward the other bird? Any change in the eyes or in the plumage? Any sound? Any other movement that goes along with the open beak? The above behavior could be a begging movement by young or by a mate for food or it may be a threat display. What was the context of the behavior? Your label for a behavior does not describe the behavior. If you call a behavior a "threat behavior" that label does not tell us what the actions were; it tries to tell us something about the situation, it passes judgment on the action. One must exercise care in labeling behavior patterns. Sometimes the movements may belong also to a different pattern of behavior and then they may be done for different reasons. So, try to keep a human bias out of your observations in the beginning. Simply note that one bird is opening its beak at another and describe what happens. Later, you can label the behavior when you are more familiar with it and the context in which it is performed. Using your list of behavior patterns, you need to find out the frequency of those patterns in an hour's time. For this type of record, you will use FOCAL ANIMAL SAMPLING. You cannot record all activities of a group of animals at the same time, but you can get good behavior notes on one animal for a short period of time. Be sure you can identify the one subject --how does it differ from the rest? Choosing a time when the animals will most likely be active, simply note how the activity is done and when it changes. Again, write down date, time and conditions and then list behavior patterns and times. Abbreviations save time (feeding-FD), but provide a key to your abbreviations. Each person takes a turn at observing or recording activities until you have 3-4 hours of data so that you can calculate the time your subjects spend on the activities you have listed in their behavioral repertoire. The teacher should check your ethograms before you begin the research question part of the project. (No need to re-write all the descriptions if they are legible.) You may need a category for "Other" behavior, such as some activity done when your subject is out of sight. Be sure that all the behavior patterns you see will fit in one of your categories. How will you display the data? Using your data, make an activity chart with percentages of time devoted to each activity. Add up the time spent on each behavior during the time you watched your subjects. Then divide the number of minutes spent in an activity by the total number of minutes spent in all the observations to get the percent of time spent on each activity. Make a Pie Chart of the percentages of time spent in various activities so that the observer can quickly understand the interrelationships of the behavior patterns and their relative frequency in the daily routine of the subject (Figure 2). The percentages on the Pie Chart should add up to 100%. PERCENT OF T IME IN ACTIVITY So far, you have 1) chosen a species, 2) observed group activities, 3) observed individuals for a time budget analysis, and 4) made activity charts and graphs. Now you are ready for the Research Project. Research project: What is your hypothesis? Figure out a question about behavior you have seen that you can eventually answer through tallying more observations. What question do you want to study about your subject? These observations will be taken on one or two animals and you will be looking for "ALL OCCURRENCES OF A SELECTED BEHAVIOR", another sampling method. Familiarized with your chosen species, you should design a simple research question, one that you will be able to answer with several more hours of data collection on the behavior in which you are interested. This question should be framed as a hypothesis, a statement that predicts a set of observations. You should be able to test your hypothesis with a limited set of data. Here are some possibilities: (2) Another question might be comparative in nature: compare time spent on preening behavior (or other types of maintenance behavior) in two species. Null hypothesis: There is no difference in time spent preening in the ___ species and the ____species. Alternative hypothesis: There is a significant difference ................ Describe preening. What parts of the body are preened? Why do birds preen? When? Is there a precise timetable to preening? Do birds in your species allopreen (preen others)? Why would they do this? Does one species preen more often but for shorter periods? (1) The question might concern time budgets: Is feeding intensity the same at noon as in late afternoon? You will then suggest a tentative or "null hypothesis" to be tested: There is no difference between feeding intensity at noon and in late afternoon. The alternative hypothesis: There is a significant difference between feeding intensities at noon and in late afternoon. In such a study, you may also want to consider comparing the zoo birds to what you observe of feeding behavior at your backyard feeder. Find out some of the factors that determine how long a bird in the wild remains in one spot to feed. (3) There is no difference in vocal and motor activity between male and female (species) (5) Juveniles are more exploratory (or playful or aggressive, etc.) than adults. (4) Do juveniles stay closer to each other than to their parents? (There is no difference in proximity of the juvenile to the mother than in proximity to the other young.) (6) _____- (Parrot) species is left-footed (or right-footed) when feeding. Your hypothesis will be supported by your data or disproved. If it is rejected (still a result!), then the statement needs to be changed. Would more data be helpful? What is your new hypothesis? DISCUSSION The poster: How will you present the data? After you collect your data, tabulate your results. You should calculate a statistical measure to determine if your findings can reject your null hypothesis. For help on statistics see Zar (1984) or Hailman and Strier (1997) for a short text on research writing and planning. Graph your data. Do sketches or take pictures of the area and the birds. For the research project, you have (1) chosen your research question, (2) observed individuals to gather data, (3) analyzed that data. Now you are ready to design your poster. Your finished poster (22" X 28" is appropriate) should have 7 parts: (1) Title. (2) Abstract: a paragraph that summarizes your research question and findings. (3) Methods: describe subjects, what you did for the project, where, how often, when. (4) Results: what you found. Include ethogram: one or two sentences to describe each behavior. Draw the time budget graph and chart and give any other data. (5) Discussion: Conclusions. What would you do differently next time? (6) Brief natural history of subjects and bibliography of articles you read about your species. (7) Picture of birds and a diagram of the habitat. When you explain your poster to the class, you can tell them any other information you learned about your species in your research. Special Terms AD LIB (AD LIBITUM) sampling is an informal type of observation and note-taking; describing all the activity that is seen. This method is good at getting information on what leads up to an event and what happens during and after the event. It is a first step in finding out all you can about the activities of various subjects. FOCAL ANIMAL SAMPLING concentrates on getting all possible information about one subject's activities and how those activities are performed. SAMPLING ALL OCCURRENCES OF A SELECTED BEHAVIOR gives the viewer data on just the one behavior of interest to the observer. PIE CHART has each segment of the circle proportional to the frequency of a particular behavior. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS I thank Bob Shonk for the illustration of morphological terms for birds and Rebecca Popovich and Ben Messmer for use of the activity charts of a mammal. REFERENCES Altmann, J. 1974. Observational study of behavior: sampling methods. Behaviour 49:227-267. Hailman, J. P. and K. B. Strier. 1997. Planning, Proposing, and Presenting Science Effectively. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge. Washington Park Zoo and Minnesota Zoological Garden. 1947. Research methods for studying animal behavior in a zoo setting: Parts 1 and 2 {VHS}. University of Minnesota film and video catalogue. Zar, Jerrold. 1984. Biostatistical Analysis. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ. ADDITIONAL SOURCES Brooks, R. and K. Yasakawa. Laboratory exercises in animal behavior. K. Yasakawa: Department of Biology, Beloit College, Beloit, WI 53511. DeCoursey, P. 1994, July. A laboratory exercise: zoo ethograms. Paper presented at the Animal Behavior Society, Seattle, WA. SUGGESTIONS FOR INSTRUCTORS The main campus of Roosevelt University is located a short bus ride from Lincoln Park Zoo in Chicago. Lincoln Park Zoo offers free admission to the public so students can return to observe their chosen subjects whenever they want. If the zoo closest to your school does not have free admission, the instructor can very likely work out arrangements for a free pass for students for a limited time. This exercise could also be adapted for use in watching birds at bird-feeders or watching ducks on a pond or pigeons in a park. Expenditures for this project consist of transportation and posterboard, perhaps some photos of the animals and their enclosure. Students need to understand the time requirements of this exercise. Figuring on groups of 2, each pair should gather 3-4 hours of data to compile for the ethogram activities and then the same amount of time for the research question. They'll need to spend more time finding other information on their chosen species and putting the data and results together and deciding on statistics and the design of the poster. Students should understand that the time budget of a captive animal is not the same as that of a wild animal. This can be a part of a general discussion on zoos: benefits zoos offer (preservation of rare and endangered species, the chance to view these rare animals) and problems (captivity and boredom, excess animals, breaking up mated pairs in order to increase their reproductive potential, etc.). Methods of data gathering should be discussed. Would they prefer to keep a running count of all behavior of one animal or do a "behavior scan" every minute or 30 seconds and record what the animal is doing at that time? Interesting discussions could be based on which method is better for getting duration of a behavior or for getting unusual behaviors, or catching a stimulus for a behavior. This exercise can introduce the many ways of sampling behavior. See discussion in Altmann (1974). A helpful video on ethograms is from Washington Park Zoo (1947). Ethograms are often assigned in animal behavior courses and only that part of the exercise may be done if time is short. When only the ethogram is used in the short session, students may work individually. They try to get an exhaustive catalogue of behavior for their subject species and also locate resources on the natural history of that species. A semester offers sufficient time to combine the ethogram with the research question. This combined exercise is an easy and enjoyable way to acquaint the nonBiology major with scientific investigation. I find that the several parts of the project (the ethogram, research project, oral presentation, and the poster), also make it easier to grade. Students have enjoyed this research at the zoo and everyone seems very interested in the poster session at the end of the class. | <urn:uuid:1863c614-40c1-44d9-b3d2-d435b7c192f3> | CC-MAIN-2017-13 | http://www.wilsonsociety.org/wilsonsoc/wosmanual/5.AvianEthogram.pdf | 2017-03-27T10:39:07Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2017-13/segments/1490218189471.55/warc/CC-MAIN-20170322212949-00231-ip-10-233-31-227.ec2.internal.warc.gz | 738,120,405 | 3,512 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.988595 | eng_Latn | 0.998067 | [ "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2034, 2040, 3909, 6740, 7919, 11194, 12183, 13583, 13612, 16490 ] | [ 4.875 ] | 2 | 2 | Informational Texts in the Reading Workshop Dr. Frank Serafini Associate Professor – Arizona State University www.frankserafini.com Fiction or Non-Fiction Non-Fiction vs. Fiction is based on the relationship between reality and representation. However, fiction may contain factual information and non-fiction often contains narrative features. Narrative or Expository Narrative or Expository is based on the intent and structures of the text, not necessarily the "truth-value" of the information provided. Narrative Texts Characters / plot / setting Tells a story Creates suspense / tension Paragraphs and chapters Story language (narrative) Illustrations add meaning to the story Expository / Informational Texts Designed to inform, report, describe - not necessarily to tell a story Not based on plot, sequence of events Chapters end with summaries, not suspense Includes variety of structures and textual elements Turn page because of interest in topic, not suspense in story Specialized vocabulary and writing Illustrations present information Reasons for Reading Expository Texts in the Classroom Awakens curiosity Varies in complexity Better writing than textbooks Majority of standardized test passages are informational texts More in-depth information More up-to-date than textbooks Can be used as a model for research Majority of adult reading Improvements in Quality of Texts Selecting Expository Texts Accuracy of Content Authority of Authors Appropriateness Quality of Written Language Quality of Illustrations Well Organized - Accessible Multiplicity of Sources What Makes Expository Texts Challenging? Lack of Prior Knowledge with Concepts and Information Unfamiliar Text Structures & Organization Specialized Vocabulary Different Expectations for Reading Expository Texts How to Make Expository Texts Accessible Read aloud expository texts Provide time for students to explore expository texts Help students solve vocabulary challenges Understand the structures and components of expository texts Offer Lessons in Comprehending expository texts Exposing Readers to Expository Texts: Reading Aloud Review text before reading to understand possible challenges Connect readings to one another to build upon ideas and concepts Introduce necessary vocabulary Keep sessions short and focused Read Aloud as Advertisement Should always include opportunities for discussion Unit of Study: Expository Texts as a Genre Possible Objectives: Help students read expository texts for information (Understand Genre) Help students gather information for inquiry project (Understand Topic) Focus Units of Study Framework Exposure Exploration Experimentation Expository Texts – Exposure: Read, Share and discuss expository texts on a wide variety of subjects List things we Notice about Expository Texts and how we read them Make list of all the Types of Expository Texts we are reading Types of Expository Texts Concept Books Magazines, brochures, etc. Reference materials / Activity / Experiment Books Primary Source- Logs, Diaries Photo Essays Craft / Manuals / Recipes / How To Informational Storybooks / Biographies / Autobiographies Exploration: What Components Should We Call Readers' Attention to? Cover - Title Author's Notes - Introduction Sidebars - Information Boxes Headings, Italicized words Reading Guides Labels - Captions Diagrams - Maps - Graphs, etc Illustrations, Photography, Artwork Glossary Table of Contents / Index Exploration: Expository Text Structures (Ways of Organization Information) Descriptive Sequential Compare - Contrast Cause & Effect Question & Answer Blended Structures Descriptive Language Experimentation: Creating Expository Texts Experimentation: What inquiry projects can students engage in with expository texts? What types of texts can students use as mentor texts? What "modes of representation" can students use to share information? Sharing Inquiry Projects Student Published Reports Classroom Museum Science Fairs Picture Books for Reading Buddies Multi-Genre Writing Projects Multi-Media Presentations Informational Texts: Professional Resources Bamford, R. & Kristo, J (2000) Checking out non-fiction K-8 Hoyt, L. (1999) Revisit, Reflect, Retell. Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann Hoyt, L. (2002) Make it Real: Strategies for Success with Informational texts. Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann Hoyt, L., Mooney, M. & Parkes, B. (2003) Exploring informational texts: From theory to practice. Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann Hoyt, L. Snapshots: Literacy Mini-lessons up Close. Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann Moss, B. Teaching the Literature of Fact Harvey, S. Non-Fiction Matters. York, ME: Stenhouse Favorite Informational Text Authors Aliki - George Ancona - Seymour Simon - Gail Gibbons - Lois Ehlert - B. Barton David Adler - Jerry Palotta - Jean Craighead George - Ruth Heller - David Macauley - Patricia Lauber - Jim Arnosky - Jean Fritz - B. Maestro - Peter Sis Leonard Everett Fisher - B. McMillan - P. Patent - Diane Stanley - S. Tanaka James Cross Giblin - Joanna Cole - Joseph Bruchac - Russell Freedman Criteria for Analyzing Expository Texts Content: * up to date information * accurate * relevant to the reader * authentic sources * details * what research was used * author's qualifications for writing "facts" Writing / Style: * language used * "readability" * avoidance of stereotypes * multiple points of view / perspectives Organization: * table of contents * headings * index / glossary * sidebars * structural layout | <urn:uuid:fd790815-ea64-4b5c-b9c0-486c9304ab71> | CC-MAIN-2017-13 | http://frankserafini.com/workshop-handouts/exp-texts-2013.pdf | 2017-03-27T10:35:47Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2017-13/segments/1490218189471.55/warc/CC-MAIN-20170322212949-00231-ip-10-233-31-227.ec2.internal.warc.gz | 129,951,507 | 1,207 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.883309 | eng_Latn | 0.933931 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1405, 2932, 4138, 5565 ] | [ 3.53125 ] | 1 | 5 | COMMUNITY SERVICE REPORT FORM Complete this form after each community service or service learning project. Send a copy to the UW Extension office. 4-H Club: _____________________________________________________________________________________ Project: ___________________________________________________________________________________ Participants: ____________ Youth ____________ Adults 1. Hours (total # of volunteers x # of hours): ________________________ 2. Number of people benefiting from service: ________________________ 3. Duration of the project (start and end date) ________________________ 4. Service Learning consists of several components. Check and describe which you have done… _____ Investigation: Volunteers and youth investigate the community problems that they might potentially address. Describe how you determined the need_____________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________ _____ Planning and Preparation: Volunteers, youth and community members plan the learning and service activities, and address the issues needed for a successful project. Describe what you did to prepare before launching into the project. _______________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________ Who was involved in planning and preparation? ______________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________ Who were the community partners? _______________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________ _____ Action(Implementing the Service Activity): The "heart" of the project: engaging in the meaningful service experience that will help youth develop important knowledge, skills, and attitudes, and will benefit the community. What did youth do? Where did you do it? How did you go about it? Whom did you serve? What did you accomplish? What were your goals and learning objectives? ________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________ _____ Reflection: Activities that help youth understand the service learning experience and to think about its meaning and connection to them, their society, and what they have learned. Reflection is one of the most important parts of service learning. It’s when the volunteers think about their service and what it meant to them. What did they learn? Why did it matter? What will they do with what they learned? Tell us how your group reflected on their project. Here are some ideas for ways to reflect: group discussions paintings poems newspaper articles video tapes photographs bulletin boards portfolios scrapbooks art projects murals role playing journals puppet show collages essays sculptures drawings slide shows jingles guide for new volunteers How did participants reflect on the service? __________________________________________________________ What did youth learn? Did your group learn skills related to a 4-H project area? Did you learn "life skills" such as communication, problem solving, or concern for others? What else did you learn? _______________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________ Discuss the project with the beneficiaries of the service. How do they rate the project? It is important to know how the people you served felt about the project. Did they think it was effective in reaching a goal? Did you help others as you had planned? _____________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________ _____ Demonstration/Celebration: The final experience when youth, community participants and others publicly share what they have learned, celebrate the results of the service project, and look ahead to the future. How did you share the progress and results of your project? ____________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________ How did you celebrate your accomplishments? _______________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________ How did you promote or market your project to let the community know about your efforts: (Attach copies of photos and news stories) _________________________________________________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________________________ Report form adapted from University of Tennessee Extension 4-H http://www.utextension.utk.edu/4h/sos/resources/index.htm An EEO/AA employer, the University of Wisconsin-Extension provides equal opportunities in employment and programming, including Title IX and American with Disabilities (ADA) requirements. | <urn:uuid:3477721d-3c52-4cd3-a1a5-fee51cdcf7f6> | CC-MAIN-2017-13 | http://fonddulac.uwex.edu/files/2013/04/Community-Service-Report-Form.pdf | 2017-03-27T10:48:17Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2017-13/segments/1490218189471.55/warc/CC-MAIN-20170322212949-00232-ip-10-233-31-227.ec2.internal.warc.gz | 133,885,290 | 788 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.960606 | eng_Latn | 0.981957 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2606, 5551 ] | [ 3.3125 ] | 3 | 3 | Pardalotus quadragintus Forty-Spotted Pardolote What is a forty-spotted pardalote? One of the smallest and rarest birds in Australia, the forty-spotted pardalote belongs to a group known as 'diamond birds' because of their tiny, jewel-like appearance. Why is it endangered? The forty-spotted pardalote is only found in Tasmania (endemic) and is classified 'Endangered'. Its distribution is restricted to four locations in eastern Tasmania: Flinders Island, Maria Island, Tinderbox and Bruny Island. The only colonies of more than 100 birds are on Bruny and Maria Islands. The greatest threat to the forty-spotted pardalote is the destruction of its habitat and competition from other species such as noisy mynahs who enter the 'fortyspots' fiercely defended territory. Cats may also take adults and nestlings. What do they look like? Measuring about 9 - 10 cm, the body is light olive green with pale yellow around the eye and on the rump. The wings are black with distinctive white dots. There are no head markings. The call is a low pitched 'where..... where..... where..... where'. Other calls it can be confused with are the spotted pardalote which has a higher pitch ed 'me.. me' call and the black-headed honeyeater. They can be seen most often in the upper foliage of white gum where they live and feed, and may be found alone or in small groups. Binoculars are essential to catch a glimpse of these tiny birds and identify them correctly. Why are white gums important? Forty-spotted pardalotes live in dry eucalypt forests and woodlands only where white gum (Eucalyptus viminalis) occurs. This tree is the key to the birds survival. They feed on a variety of insects, and also lerps (a protective insect coating) and manna, a sugary secretion produced by the tree in response to insect attack. The birds are called 'foliage gleaners' because of the way they pick the insects from the leaves and branches. Identifying white gum White gum is a common species in dry eucalypt forests throughout eastern Tasmania. It has a rough bark collar on the lower trunk with a smooth white and grey streaked surface extending to the branches and canopy. Leaves are slender and usually 10 - 20 cm long. Considered a moderate sized tree it can grow to approximately 50 m in height and 1 - 2 m in diameter. Depar tment of Primary Industries, Parks, Water and Environment Other pardalotes Two other pardalotes also occur throughout Tasmania. Both are common and widespread and are similar in appearance and habit. The spotted pardalote has a spotted head and the striated pardalote has streaked head markings. Both species have vivid yellow throats, rumps and small patches of red. Neither species are considered rare and both are found on mainland Australia. What's being done? The Parks and Wildlife Service, with funds from the Australian Nature Conservation Agency, has established a recovery team of representatives. This team manages the habitats and populations of the forty-spotted pardalote — thereby increasing awareness about the threats to the birds and ways we can help save them. What can 'forty-spots' do for you? Having a 'forty-spot' colony nearby has its advantages — especially for farmers and gardeners. 'Forty-spots' eat a variety of insects and so are a great natural way to help control pests. How can you help? Fortunately we can help save the 'forty-spots'. If you have white gums growing on your property don't cut them down or remove old growth or dead spars — these trees provide food and nest sites for the birds. Plant white gums on your property to ensure food and homes for the future. A planting program is underway offering information and seedlings to people owning land near the colonies. Further information A video on the recovery program which shows rare footage of the bird and chicks is available from the Nature Conservation Branch. Contact Biodiversity Conservation Branch: DPIPWE 134 Macquarie Street, Hobart. 7000 Phone: (03) 6233 6556 Fax: (03) 6233 3477 November 2013 © State of Tasmania | <urn:uuid:13aed559-1a90-47c2-92a5-381f8a7621b9> | CC-MAIN-2017-13 | http://parks.tas.gov.au/file.aspx?id=6356 | 2017-03-27T10:46:39Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2017-13/segments/1490218189471.55/warc/CC-MAIN-20170322212949-00235-ip-10-233-31-227.ec2.internal.warc.gz | 270,360,548 | 912 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998767 | eng_Latn | 0.998747 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2376, 4055 ] | [ 3.578125 ] | 2 | 8 | Ages of Famous Personalities Name________________________________ Algebra 1 Level Supplies: Graphing Calculator, PowerPoint presentation Task: You will be seeing photographs of twenty famous people. As you see the photos, record the names of each individual and your best estimate as to the person's age. If you do not know the person, take your best guess as to the age from observing the photo. Actual ages will be the age at the end of the current year. | Famous Personality | Estimated Age | |---|---| | 1 | | | 2 | | | 3 | | | 4 | | | 5 | | | 6 | | | 7 | | | 8 | | | 9 | | | 10 | | | 11 | | | 12 | | | 13 | | | 14 | | | 15 | | | 16 | | | 17 | | | 18 | | | 19 | | | 20 | | 1. Using your graphing calculator, prepare a scatter plot using the estimated age on the x-axis and the actual age on the y-axis. Sketch the scatter plot on the grid at the right. Be sure to label your axes and scale. 2. Choosing two points, find the equation of the line of best fit (model equation) for your data. Points: ( , ) & ( , ) Slope: __________ Equation:____________________________________ 3. Using your graphing calculator, find the linear regression equation, the calculator’s line of best fit, for your data. _____________________________________________ 4. What is the correlation coefficient? ___________ What does it tell you about the fit of the calculator’s linear regression? 5. What is an appropriate domain for graphing age data in general? _______________________ 6. If you had guessed all of the ages correctly, what would be the equation of the line representing these correct guesses?___________________________________________________________ 7. Did you, in general, overestimate or underestimate the ages? ____________________________ 8. a. What percent of your estimated ages were correct?__________________________________ b. What percent of your estimated ages were above the actual ages?______________________ 9. Interpolate: If you guessed that a person’s age was 26, what would the exact age be based upon the calculator’s model equation? ______________________________________________ 10. Interpolate : If a person’s actual age was 37, what would have been the estimated age based upon the calculator’s model equation?____________________________________________ 11. Extrapolate: If a person’s estimated age was 80, what would have been the actual age based upon the calculator’s model equation?___________________________________________ 12. a. What is your age? __________ b. Based upon the calculator’s model equation, what is your estimated age? _____________ 13. a. Which personality had the greatest difference between the estimated age and the actual age? ___________________________________________________________________________ b. What is the AVERAGE of the differences between the actual ages and the estimated ages for all of the personalities? ________________________________________________________ | <urn:uuid:1aac6cdc-280f-4017-a55b-0ec375a471ba> | CC-MAIN-2017-13 | http://mathbits.com/MathBits/PPT/Ages%20of%20Famous%20People%20wkst.pdf | 2017-03-27T10:42:38Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2017-13/segments/1490218189471.55/warc/CC-MAIN-20170322212949-00233-ip-10-233-31-227.ec2.internal.warc.gz | 223,633,628 | 680 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998092 | eng_Latn | 0.998264 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1307, 3005 ] | [ 4.0625 ] | 2 | 7 | Ethnobotany Find these three plants in Tryon Creek State Park. Mark it on the map provided. Then learn more on the following page. Anwer the Questions. Western Red Cedar Oregon Grape Sword Fern Ethnobotany Western Redcedar that native people lived in. Because Cedar is a soft wood it is easily split and can be shaped for many uses. Can you think of another use that would allow native peoples to gather food? Remember the dependence that these people had on the river to provide food and transportation. Cedar trees were used for canoes, but how would you make a canoe out of this tree if you wanted to? The trees were usually burned on one side to bring the tree down to ground level where it was then hollowed out by ﬁre and ﬁnished by carving. Cedar was used to make many objects, from arrow handles to eating utensils. One of it's most amazing qualities of this tree is that it is rot resistant. When Lewis and Clark arrived in the Paciﬁc Northwest they were wearing clothing made from animal hides. As we all know, winter here is wet and those hides rot when exposed to continual rain and never get a chance to dry out. The native people living in this area used the bark to make ﬁbers which could be made into clothing that didn't rot. How would you go about making clothing from bark? Redcedar is a very easily identiﬁable tree. It has ﬂat needles that branch and fork from the central stem. The reddish-brown bark looks as if it is made up of many strips peeling up the trunk. Redcedar contains a chemical that makes it especially resistant to both rot and insect infestations. What do you think this tree was used for by the Native Americans who called it the "Tree of Life"? One of the main uses of this tree was to make planks for the traditional long houses Sword Fern used as shelf paper for drying racks for other wild plants like nut and berries. Traditional pit ovens were used in the area of the northwest and were used to slow cook or roast many foods. The fronds of the Sword Fern were used by native people to line the pit ovens and in between layers of food cooking in the pit oven. The ﬁddle heads, the young spring shoots, of the sword fern were collected and eaten. One of the most striking plants in the Paciﬁc Northwest forest is the Sword Fern. It is easy to identify by the long fronds with up to 100 alternating leaﬂets. The leaves stay green and ﬁrm all year long. Feel the fern. How does it feel? What would do you think you could use this plant for? The fronds of the sword fern were used for bedding much like straw was used to ﬁll mattresses. Fronds were Oregon Grape coast. The berries of the Oregon Grape were not eaten alone in large quantities but were more commonly mixed with sweeter fruits or were sometimes mashed and cooked into cakes or made into a juice. How do you make a piece of cloth a certain color? You dye it, but where does dye come from? Many dyes now are synthetically created in a laboratory, but many of these dyes originated from chemicals that were ﬁrst derived from plants. The inner bark of Oregon Grape is yellow and when the twigs were boiled in water, the water could then be used as a yellow dye for clothing and baskets. Do you know what the Oregon state ﬂower is? It is a very common ground cover with a distinct texture and leaf shape. Not only does it bear fruit but it also has the name of the state it represents in its name. ..Oregon Grape. Oregon Grape is easy to identify because of the waxy coating on its leaves and because of the teeth or jagged edges on the leaf sides. Since we call it Oregon Grape, we know that is bears grapes, but theses grapes do not taste like the grapes we get from the grocery store. The fruit of the Oregon Grape is neither as ﬂeshy nor as sweet as conventional grapes, but it was eaten as a food source by the native people of the Northwest | <urn:uuid:0f1ca7f5-3141-4127-8940-2e3500272ee1> | CC-MAIN-2017-13 | http://www.tryonfriends.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/Ethnobotany.pdf | 2017-03-27T10:41:28Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2017-13/segments/1490218189471.55/warc/CC-MAIN-20170322212949-00236-ip-10-233-31-227.ec2.internal.warc.gz | 725,705,145 | 902 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.989032 | eng_Latn | 0.999227 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 198, 3892 ] | [ 3.71875 ] | 2 | 1 | Year Level: 1 Term 4, Week 3 & 4 Emotional For the students to think about a problem relating to the catastrophe scale Social For the children to when sharing with others Cognitive For the students to identify kindness in their daily lives Language For the children to be specific when asking for help and use questions rather than statements. Physical For the children to be aware of consequences of dangerous behaviour such as pushing. | Learning objectives | | Children’s current | | Staff/School/ Community | |---|---|---|---|---| | | | interests | | interests | | Mathematics For the children to: -understand the difference between multiplication and division -revise addition -revise subtraction -revise place value English For the children to: -recognise the different ways poems are organised and published -become familiar with adjectives -recognise the different ways persuasive writing is organised and publish your own piece of writing Environmental For the children: - take responsibility when choosing the correct bins for their rubbish - to reuse paper wisely ie. get paper out of the scrap pile before getting a new piece Specialists Japanese: Practice their jikoshoukai (self introduction) ready for the Minato Ky visitors and to send to seesaw. To look at the Tanabata festival and write their wish to display in the classroom. To write a letter to give to the Minato Ku students and practice their jikoshoukai using the tellagami app Visual Arts: Explore ideas, experiences, observations and imagination and express them through subject matter in visual artworks they create Performing Arts: Explore roles, characters and dramatic action in dramatic play, improvisation and process drama Physical Education:Revise how to act in Sport Practice movement skills in gymnastics Health -Perform fundamental movement skills in different movement situations in indoor, outdoor and aquatic settings -Discuss the body’s reactions to participating in physical activities * Photographer and Reporter The children will demonstrate collaboration, conversation, negotiation and presentation skills when participating as either a photographer or reporter during investigation sessions. | - shops Halloween - basketball - Beanie Boos - books - cafe - craft - dragons - fairies and elves - flowers - gemstones - beading - Lego - Minecraft - movies - nippers - play dough - plays - post office - read - school - singing - Star Wars - tennis | | Tuesday 6th November -Melbourne Cup Day (no school) Monday 19th November -Bayside Swimming Begins | | | <urn:uuid:dd923b08-6025-40eb-a72d-8b79b1aac5c1> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | http://beaups.vic.edu.au/uploaded_files/media/1541380626year_1_soi_week_5_and_6_term_4.pdf | 2018-11-14T01:09:23Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00281.warc.gz | 33,513,602 | 538 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.994419 | eng_Latn | 0.994419 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2574 ] | [ 3.265625 ] | 1 | 0 | BEAUMARIS PRIMARY SCHOOL BULLYING POLICY (Student, Staff and Parent) Definition: A person is bullied when someone, or a group of people, deliberately upsets or hurts another person or damage their property, reputation or social acceptance on more than one occasion. There is an imbalance of power in incidents of bullying with the bully or bullies having more power at the time due to age, size, status or other reasons. Rationale: The school will provide a positive culture where bullying is not accepted, to ensure that all will have the right of respect from others, the right to learn or to teach, and a right to feel safe and secure in their school environment at all times. Aims: - To alert everyone within the school community about the signs and evidence of bullying and to ensure bullying is reported whether a person is a bystander or a victim. - To reinforce within the school community what bullying is, and the fact that it is unacceptable. - To ensure that all reported incidents of bullying are followed up appropriately. - To seek parental and peer-group support and co-operation at all times. Implementation: - Bullying may consist of physical harm, harassment, verbal insults or hurtful remarks, or actions designed to hurt somebody's reputation, social standing or to cause humiliation. Bullying may be carried out directly or indirectly and may include the use of digital technologies such as social network sites, websites or on-line chat rooms. - Our school has adopted a zero tolerance position on bullying. - We have adopted a four-phase approach to bullying. - Our school will combat bullying by providing a safe, secure and stimulating learning environment. 1. Primary Prevention: - Each classroom teacher to clarify with students the types of bullying, as well as the consequences and impact of bullying. - Professional development for staff relating to bullying, harassment and proven counter measures. - Community awareness and input relating to bullying, its characteristics and the school's programs and responses, complemented by clear processes for reporting suspected bullying. - Teachers will be trained in cybersafety. Cybersafety awareness programs will be provided for parents (biannually) and cybersafety will form part of each student's ICT curriculum. - The provision of programs that promote inclusiveness, resilience, life and social skills, assertiveness, conflict resolution and problem solving will form an integral part of our curriculum. In particular, assertiveness training and bystander training that builds skills in students to challenge and/or report unacceptable behaviour will be central to our curriculum. 2. Less Serious Incidents: - Parents are encouraged to contact the school if they suspect a bullying or behaviour problem. - All instances of suspected bullying or inappropriate behaviour must be responded to by staff. - The school will reinforce with students the importance of appropriately reporting incidents of inappropriate behaviour involving themselves or others, and it is imperative that staff respond appropriately and proportionally to each allegation consistent with the school's Student Code of Conduct, including the proper reporting and recording of the incident on our on-line behaviour tracker. - Parents are to be contacted if their child is alleged to have been bullied or experienced inappropriate behaviour, or if their child appears to have behaved inappropriately or bullied someone else. - Appropriate and proportional consequences may include a verbal apology, writing a letter of regret, completing a Think Paper, loss of privileges etc. 3. Serious Incidents: - Serious incidents and/or repetitive incidents of bullying or unacceptable behaviour must be reported, responded to by staff and documented. - All such incidents or allegations will be properly investigated and documented. Depending upon the nature of each incident, they may also be reported to police, reported to the Student Critical Incident Advisory Unit, and/or reported to the Department's Emergency and Security Management Unit. - Serious incidents are those that include physical assault, sexual assault, criminal activity involving theft or serious damage of property, serious threats, racial, religious or homophobic bullying etc. - The school may contact support professionals such as Welfare officers, Welfare coordinators or Councillors and/or Student Support Officers for assistance and support. - Both bullies and victims will be offered counselling and support. - Students and staff and parents identified by others as bullies will be informed of allegations. - All repetitive or serious incidents must be brought to the attention of the principal class members of the school. - Regional Office will provide support as appropriate, and the Principal will monitor the investigation and review the situation until matters are appropriately resolved. - The most appropriate staff member will contact parents of the targeted student. Principal class members will contact alleged bullies unless advised by police or other relevant authority not to do so. - Consequences of repetitive or serious incidents may include criminal charges, suspension, expulsion, loss of privileges, counselling, conciliation or any other consequences consistent with the school's Student Code of Conduct. - A management strategy for all parties will be developed in consultation with the students and parents involved. - Parents or community members who bully or harass or abuse staff will be provided with official warnings, and if necessary referred to the police, and/or have trespass restrictions placed upon them by the Principal consistent with the Summary Offences Act. 4. Post Incident: - conciliation meetings between all parties It is important that appropriate strategies are put in place after the incident has been resolved for all students involved. Appropriate strategies may include:- - ongoing monitoring of students involved. - follow-up meetings regarding each student's management strategy. - identification of an agreed key contact staff member for each student involved. - ongoing communication with parents. - reinforcement of positive behaviours and appropriate behaviour strategies. - counselling from appropriate agencies of support officers etc for both parties. - support and counselling will be offered in the event of malicious or fictitious claims. Evaluation: This policy will be reviewed as part of the school's review cycle. Support materials: http://www.education.vic.gov.au/about/programs/bullystoppers/Pages/students.aspx Ratified by School Council: 2016 To be reviewed: 2019 | <urn:uuid:f198dc81-8fc3-4219-9441-ab438e79a282> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | http://beaups.vic.edu.au/uploaded_files/media/2016_bullying.pdf | 2018-11-14T01:12:08Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00284.warc.gz | 44,603,911 | 1,216 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998369 | eng_Latn | 0.998395 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 3107, 6683 ] | [ 4.09375 ] | 2 | 4 | air cadet publication ACP 33 flight volume 1 - history of flight | Amendment List | | Amended by | Date Incorporated | |---|---|---|---| | No | Date | | | | 1 | | | | | 2 | | | | | 3 | | | | | 4 | | | | | 5 | | | | | 6 | | | | | 7 | | | | | 8 | | | | | 9 | | | | | 10 | | | | | 11 | | | | | 12 | | | | | 13 | | | | | 14 | | | | | 15 | | | | | 16 | | | | CONTENTS ACP 33 FLIGHT Volume 1................. History of Flight Volume 2 ................. Principles of Flight Volume 3 ................. Propulsion Volume 4 ................. Airframes Volume 1 History of Flight Chapter 1 ................ Lighter-than-Air Craft. Chapter 2 ................ Heavier-than-Air Craft. Instructors' Guide Uncontrolled copy not subject to amendment The first Hot-Air Balloon LIGHTER-THAN-AIR CRAFT Man takes to the air 1. For many years man had dreamed of flying through the air like the birds. It was not too surprising then that early attempts to fly tried to copy bird flight by using flapping wings. Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519) the Italian artist and inventor produced many designs for aircraft which relied on flapping wings. Fortunately he never built or tested any of his designs for they would never have worked - man's muscles are far too small to operate the massive wings that would be required to get him airborne. 2. It was not until the Montgolfier brothers built a hot air balloon in 1783 that man could realise his dream of getting airborne. The first balloon flight occurred at Annonay in France on 25 April 1783 where a 12m (39 ft) diameter un-manned balloon filled with hot air climbed to a height of 305m (1000ft) before the hot air in the envelope cooled and it began to descend. The Montgolfier brothers are said to The first Hydrogenfilled Balloon Why does a balloon fly? have been unaware that hot air alone was responsible for the balloon rising, believing that a special light gas was generated by burning a mixture of wool and straw below the open neck of the envelope. 3. In September 1783 a further demonstration saw the balloon lift a sheep, a duck and a cockerel - the first living creatures to become artificially airborne. Later in the same year Francois Pilatre de Rozier accompanied by the Maquis d'Arlandes made the first free flight in the balloon, remaining airborne for 25 minutes and travelling a distance of 9km. Free flight in a lighter-than-air craft had at last been realised. 4. Although this was the beginning of manned flight, it was also the end of the Montgolfier balloon; almost immediately superseded by a much superior and practical hydrogen-filled balloon developed by J Charles. In this balloon both Charles and his assistant made a free flight from the gardens of the Tuileries in Paris on 1 December 1783, covering a distance of 43km (27 miles) and witnessed by over 400,000 people. The Charles balloon was so well designed that the gas-filled balloons used to this day are essentially similar to it - the main difference being that modern balloons use helium gas which does not burn, instead of hydrogen. Why balloons fly 5. An inflated balloon displaces its own volume of air and so experiences a lifting force or upthrust. This upthrust is equal to the weight of air displaced. A helium balloon inflated to the size of a house would contain about 1 / 2 tonne of gas and would displace about 4 tonnes of air. Controlling the balloon in flight The difference between these two weights would be the lifting force on the heliumfilled balloon. If this lifting force is greater than the total weight of the balloon, including the gas, envelope and gondola or basket, then the balloon will float. 6. As the balloon ascends, the atmospheric pressure falls and the balloon expands. To prevent the balloon from bursting, its gas must either be released gradually or allowed to expand into spare envelope space. Hot-air Ballooning 7. Hot-air ballooning is now a very popular sport and many companies fly specially designed balloons to advertise their names. Heating up air causes it to expand and become less dense. When this lighter air fills the balloon envelope it provides lift by displacing the heavier air outside, in much the same way as hydrogen and helium gas but at a fraction of the cost. The air is heated using large propane gas burners attached below the open neck of the balloon and, while in flight, ignited in short bursts to replace the cooling air. In this way the balloon is able to maintain altitude. Making a balloon navigable 8. It was not long after the de Rozier's first flight in the Montgolfier balloon that the potential of such a vehicle used for military reconnaissance was seen. But there had to some way of steering it - a basic balloon is simply carried along by the wind. Early ideas of sails, oars and propellers proved useless. It had to be understood that if a lighter-than-air machine was to be steered, then there had to be a controllable force capable of propelling it independantly of the wind. From this realisation and Some advantages of airships Modern airships use helium gas over 100 years after Montgolfier's first flight, the first airship designs were produced. Engines were attached to provide independent forward motion and control was provided by using rudders to act on the airflow caused by this forward motion. Airships 9. Airships are not very common nowadays but in the early 1900s they were considered by many people to be the way forward for air travel. They were quiet and provided passengers with a high degree of comfort. Their ability to remain stationary relative to the ground while using very little fuel made them ideal for scientific and military work. Their size and lifting capacity enabled them to carry large cargoes relatively cheaply. Unfortunately, they were filled with hydrogen gas which made them extremely dangerous - hydrogen gas can be ignited with a tiny spark and will explode with tremendous force. 10. Because of this, there were many airship accidents and finally, when the passenger airship Hindenberg burst into flames at its moorings in 1937, many people lost confidence in them and the airship era was effectively over. Although helium gas was just becoming available as a completely safe alternative to hydrogen, it had unfortunately arrived too late. How are Airships controlled? 11. Modern airships are benefitting from a revival. They are made with strong lightweight materials and have powerful engines which make them highly manoeuvrable. Airship rising Airship descending 12. Inside the main balloon are two ballonets - inflatable air bags that keep the pressure of the helium gas slightly higher than atmospheric pressure. This prevents the balloon from over inflating as the airship rises, or sagging as it descends. Also, pumping air from one ballonet to the other trims the airship balance. 13. Airship rising. To get the airship to rise, valves release air from the ballonets into the atmosphere, reducing the weight of the airship and allowing the helium gas to expand - giving more lift. Fig 1-7 Pumps force air into the ballonets and the airship descends. 14. Airship descending. To make the airship descend, pumps force air into the ballonets, increasing the airship's weight and compressing the helium gas so that lift is reduced. Do not mark the paper in any way - write your answers on a separate piece of paper. Sample Questions 1. In which year did the Montgolfier brothers first fly their hot air balloon? a. 1673 b. 1783 c. 1883 d. 1973 2. Who first flew a man-carrying hydrogen-filled balloon? a. Leonardo da Vinci b. Montgolfier c. Charles d. de Rozier 3. What gas are modern airships filled with? a. Helium b. Hydrogen c. Butane d. Propane 4. An airship rises when: a. The ballonets empty and the helium gas expands. b. The ballonets empty and the helium gas is compressed. c. The ballonets are filled with air and the helium gas is compressed. d. The ballonets are filled with air and the helium gas expands. Features that make a kite fly Sir George Cayley's model glider HEAVIER-THAN-AIR CRAFT 1. It is believed that the first man-made flying object climbed skyward at least 3000 years ago on the end of a piece of string. The early Chinese people flew kites most probably as signalling devices or military banners heralding the approach of their armies. The technology of kite flying quickly spread throughout the world, with some kites almost certainly built large enough to lift a man used as a military observer. How does a kite fly? 2. The most important features of this typical kite are its shape, its tail and the way in which the string is attached. Together, they make sure that the kite flies at the correct angle to the wind. The weight of the kite is balanced by the force of the wind underneath it, and also by a less obvious force called lift, caused by the kite's shape. Lift is produced by the wind passing over the top of the kite creating an area of low pressure, and by the air underneath the kite, at a slightly higher pressure, lifting the kite upwards. Free flight 3. The next most obvious step forward in achieving flight in an heavier-than-air machine was to develop a kite which could fly without a line to the ground. In 1804 the English Baronet Sir George Cayley built what is generally considered to be the first model glider. It was little more than a broomstick, to which was mounted a kite shaped wing at one end and vertical and horizontal tail surfaces at the other; nevertheless it was capable of stable flight over many metres. Forerunner of the HangGlider 4. With this device Cayley was able to confirm that the principles of heavierthan-air flight were definitely possible. From this first model he evolved a glider that was capable of carrying a small boy, although there was no way of controlling this craft in flight. Lack of power 5. Also, around this time there were many men beginning to improve the construction of fixed-wing aircraft that could fly. Their main problem, however, was to find a reliable and light enough engine to provide the power they required. In June 1848, John Stringfellow from Chard in Somerset successfully flew his 10-foot wingspan model, powered by a tiny steam engine, across a long room in a disused lace mill. Attempts to make larger versions of steam powered craft were unfortunately unsuccessful. The problems of suitable engines dogged aviation pioneers for many years. 6. The more practical aviators however, accepted this lack of sufficient engine power and concentrated on improving airframe design. They experimented with lightweight construction and tried to discover practical methods of controlling the aircraft in flight. Nobody was more successful in this than the German Otto Lilienthal (1848-1896) who built extremely lightweight gliders enabling him to make many thousands of flights. His gliders were the forerunners of the modern hang-glider, designed so that the mass of the body could be moved to allow some degree of control. Despite many successful flights Lilienthal was killed in a flying accident on 9th August 1896, when he was 48 years old. The first controlled flight 7. In 1885 a German by the name of Gottlieb Daimler developed the world's first single cylinder internal combustion engine which produced a power-to-weight ratio far superior to any other form of engine available for aircraft propulsion - the long awaited power plant for aircraft had finally arrived. The beginning of controlled flight 8. On a cold Thursday morning on the 17th December 1903 Orville and Wilbur Wright rolled out their 'Flyer' for the first test flight. With Orville at the controls the Flyer flew a full 120 feet in controlled flight. Three other test flights followed, the last and the best of that day covering 260m (852 ft) and ending with the elevator being damaged as the Flyer landed. Later Orville wrote: "The course of the flight up and down was exceedingly erratic. The control of the front rudder (elevator) was difficult. As a result the machine would rise suddenly to about ten feet, and then as suddenly dart for the ground. A sudden dart, when a little over 120 feet from the point at which it rose into the air, ended the flight." 9. The important feature of these flights was that man had been airborne and in control of a powered heavier-than-air machine for the very first time. Bleriot crosses the Channel 10. With improvements to the design of the Flyer, by the end of 1908 and flying from Auvours in France, Wilbur Wright had made more than 100 flights, totalling in excess of 25 flying hours. His last flight of the year, on 31st December lasted 2 hours 20 minutes during which time he covered a distance of 77 miles (124 km) to set a new world record and win the Michelin prize. While Wilbur was busy in Europe, Orville was demonstrating the Flyer at Fort Myer in Virginia. These demonstrations attracted and thrilled many thousands of people who came from miles around to see an areoplane in flight. Tragically they ended after only a few weeks when the aircraft crashed, seriously injuring Orville and killing his passenger - Lt Thomas E Selfridge - the first man in the world to be killed in a powered aircraft accident. Louis Bleriot 11. Things were also happening much closer to home. On the 25 July 1909 a frail looking monoplane landed close to Dover Castle in Kent. The pilot was a Frenchman called Louis Bleriot and he had just completed the first crossing of the English Channel by a heavier-than-air machine. Bleriot's Type XI monoplane had taken 37 minutes to make the crossing, but had very nearly ended in failure when his 3 cylinder Anzani engine started to lose power as it overheated. Fortunately a shower of rain cooled the engine sufficiently to complete the crossing. Bleriot's monoplanes went on to achieve many important world firsts, including first over the Alps (1910), first London to Paris non-stop flight (1911), the first official carriage of airmail in Britain (1911) and almost inevitably, the first use of an aeroplane in war (1911). Man had finally realised his dream of mastering the skies. 1914 to 1939 A Maturing Industry 12. By the time war was declared in August 1914, the leading nations' armed forces had already established air arms. The stimulus of war accelerated the development of aeroplanes and engines and the industry expanded rapidly. Skirmishes between observation aircraft early in the war led to the development of more sophisticated gun technology such as the Fokker synchronised-gear machine gun, which ensures that bullets were fired between propeller blades. The SE5a was one of the most popular British fighters, which continued its career after the war. Bombing was adopted to a limited extent, with little military effect, but stimulated the design of much larger twin-engined aircraft. Some of these designs provided the basis for the first post-war airliners. 13. After World War One, new uses for aircraft were pioneered. The machine which made the biggest impact in 1919 was the Vickers Vimy bomber. A converted Vimy flown by Alcock and Brown made the first non-stop crossing of the Atlantic. This was the first of many feats which showed the growing potential of aviation. Between the two world wars a number of women broke records and made pioneering long-distance flights. Amy Johnson flew a Gipsy Moth when in 1930 she made the first solo flight from England to Australia by a woman. There was a growth in popular flying and flying clubs multiplied. The Moth was typical of the practicable, sturdy aircraft used for the purpose, and evolved into a whole family of de Havilland light aircraft including the famous Tiger Moth, which became the Royal Air Force's trainer in World War Two. The Schneider Trophy 14. Aeroplanes were pushed to ever greater speeds and altitudes. The Schneider Trophy was devised in 1912 to stimulate the development of sound, practicable transport aircraft – instead it produced a series of beautiful but freakish high-speed racers. The Birth of the Modern Airliner 15. Airliner development made great strides in the USA in the 1930s. Fast, allmetal monoplanes were developed by Northrop, Lockheed, Douglas and Boeing. Significant advances included the development of wing flaps (to improve low-speed 1939 to 1945 1945 to Present Day lift and reduce landing speed), variable pitch propellers and retractable undercarriages. From Pistons to Jet 16. In 1939, war again accelerated technological development in the aircraft industry. The Battle of Britain (1940) was a contest as much between engines as between aircraft. The Rolls-Royce Merlin engine, which powered both the Spitfire and Hurricane, represented the pinnacle of engineering design and production skill. 17. The most important development towards the end of the war was the jet. British and German teams raced to develop jet designs. In June 1944 Germany launched pilotless, explosive-carrying jet planes against Britain: the V-1, nicknamed the 'Doodle Bug' and 'Flying Bomb'. The first British fighter, the Gloster Meteor, entered service one month later in an effort to destroy the V-1s. In the late stages of the war Germany used the rocket-powered Messerschmitt Komet fighters to intercept enemy bombers. THE JET AGE The Birth of the Jet 18. The technology developed during World War Two transformed aviation in the subsequent years. The jet engine – with it speed capability and high power-toweight ratio – inspired new experimental ideas and shapes. The results included jet passenger services, supersonic flight and vertical take-off and landing. The First Jet Airliner 19. The world's first jet airliner was the de Havilland Comet 1, which flew in July 1949 and entered service in 1952. On long flights the Comet could have the journey time of piston-engined airliners. Smooth and quiet, its pressurised cabin enabled it to fly in all weather conditions. The most successful aircraft of this first generation of jet airliners was the swept-wing Boeing 707, which entered service in 1958. Bigger or Faster? 20. In the 1960s commercial aviation began to follow two different paths – one leading to greater passenger-carrying capacity, the other to greater speed. The Gossamer Condor wins the Kremer Prize British and French governments funded a supersonic transport project which eventually produced Concord – an aeroplane that can fly at twice the speed of sound, but has served with only two airlines, British Airways and Air France, because of its high operating costs. In the USA Boeing started planning for an entirely different approach: a huge airliner with 400 seats. The resulting 747 produced a second revolution in jet transport and made international travel an almost commonplace experience. 21. The design and development of aircraft have come a long way from those early days of Lilenthal and the Wright bothers. There is no doubt that powered flight has, in less than a century, transformed the world. Journeys have shrunk from weeks to hours and travel across the world has become a possibility for everyone. There will however, always be new challenges to meet and goals to aim for. In 1977 for example, Dr. Paul McCready's Gossamer Condor aircraft, powered and controlled by racing cyclist Bryan Allen, was flown in a figure-of-eight circuit around two pylons 0.8km (0.5 mile) apart. This was the first significant man-powered flight, and won the £50,000 Kremer Prize which had been so long in finding a home. Dr. McCready's Gossamer Albatross aircraft went on in 1979, to set the world distance record for man-powered flight. 22. Aviation pioneers will always be with us testing new designs and pushing the frontiers of technology to their limits. The progress made in aircraft design in the past 100 years has been breathtaking - who knows what the future holds! Do not mark the paper in any way - write your answers on a separate piece of paper. Sample Questions 1. Who is thought to have produced the first model glider in 1804? a. Wright brothers b. Sir George Cayley c. Louis Bleriot d. John Stringfellow 2. Otto Lilienthal is well known for: a. building controllable gliders considered to be the forerunner of the modern hang-glider. b. Developing the world's first single cylinder internal combustion engine. c. Flying non-stop from London to Paris for the first time. d. Building the first heavier-than-air powered aircraft large enough to carry a man. 3. Who was the first person to fly a powered aircraft across the English channel? a. Orville Wright b. Bryan Allen c. Wilbur Wright d. Louis Bleriot 4. The aircraft to win the Kremer prize was called: a. Gossamer Condor b. Wright's Flyer c. Gossamer Albatross d. McCready's Flyer Page 33.1.1-1 Para 1 INSTRUCTORS GUIDE Archimedes Principle Archimedes, a Greek mathematician, discovered why things float. It is believed that he formulated his principle, while lowering himself in to his bath. The story goes, that in his excitement he leapt out of the bath and ran to his workshop shouting Eureka (I have found it!) - completely forgetting to dress. His principle states: Any object immersed in a fluid (liquid or gas) experiences an upthrust (it appears to weigh less). The size of this upthrust is equal to the weight of the fluid displaced by the object. This means that an object will float in a fluid when it displaces it's own weight of fluid. For example: A 1000 tonne ship floats when it has displaced 1000 tonnes of water. A one tonne balloon will float when it displaces one tonne of air. From the earliest times man had aspirations to fly. By the beginning of the Sixteenth Century Leonardo da Vinci considered the problem of aviation in a more scientific spirit. By observation he learned much about the mechanics of the gliding and soaring flight of birds. He concluded that the long, narrow, slightly curved outstretched wings supported them because of the upward pressure of the air. In the centuries which followed many adventurous men killed or injured themselves by leaping off towers with flapping wings attached to their arms and legs. In the end it came to be realised that man's unaided muscles could never sustain him in controlled flight. CHAPTER 2 Page 33.1.2-1 Para 3 INSTRUCTORS GUIDE The Father of Aerial Navigation The English Baronet Sir George Cayley (1773-1857) did much to deserve the title "Father of Aerial Navigation". In 1804 he built what is generally regarded as the first successful model glider which he used to confirm the principles of heavier-than-air flight. He suggested the use of an internal combustion engine for powered flight and demonstrated that a curved aerofoil shape provides lift. He went on to demonstrate that biplane or triplane wings would provide maximum lift from a lightweight, robust structure. In the same year that Cayley died a French naval officer, Felix du Temple, flew the first model aeroplane powered by a clockwork motor. Seventeen years later he was flight testing a full-size man-carrying aeroplane powered by a steam-engine. Piloted by an unknown sailor, at Brest, this aircraft was the first in the world to achieve a short hop into the air, following it's launch down an inclined ramp. Page 33.1.2-2 Para 6 Making a paper glider Experiment with the effects of control surfaces on this model. Starting with an A4 sheet of paper Staple the folds together 33.1.2b NOTES Self Assessment Questions - Answer Sheet Chapter 1 Page 33.1.1-7 1. b 2. c 3. a 4. a Chapter 2 Page 33.1.2-7 1. b 2. a 3. d 4. a PIONEERS – AIRCRAFT HISTORY A Alcock, John Made the first transatlantic flight, 1919. Antoinette, Marie Witnessed early flight of the Montgolfier balloon, 1783. Arlandes, Marquis d' Made the first human flight, in a balloon, 1783. B Bedford, Bill Test pilot of first vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) jet aeroplane, 1961. Bleriot, Louis Made the first crossing of English Channel, 1909. Brown, Arthur Whitten Made the first transatlantic flight, 1919. C Cody, Leila Marie First woman to fly, 1902. Cody, Samuel Franklin Made the first powered flight in Britain, 1908. D da Vinci, Leonardo Made one of the first scientific studies of flight, c1500 Daedalus Greek mythological character who created wings for himself and his son Icarus. F Fokker, Anthony Developed the synchronised-gear machine gun for aircraft, 1915. Frost, Edward Purkis Experimented with ornithopters, c1900. H Harding, H J Early twentieth-century aeroplane enthusiast. Hill, Captain C T R Designed the Hill Pterodactyl, early 1920s. I Icarus Greek mythological character who flew too near the Sun. J Johnson, Amy First woman to fly solo to Australia, 1930. K King Louis XIV 1783. Witnessed early flight of the Montgolfier balloon, L Levavasseur, Leon French artist-designer who created the Antoinette, c1909. Lilienthal, Otto Foremost experimenter in flight in the nineteenth century. M Mitchell, Reginald Aircraft designer who created the Supermarine Spitfire and S6B, 1930s and 1940s. Montgolfier, Joseph Developed the first hot-air balloon, c1783. N Northcliffe, Lord Owner of the Daily Mail and aviation propagandist, c1906. P Pitts, Curtis Designed the Pitts Special Aerobatic Biplane 1944 R Roe, Alliott Verdon One of Britain's great pioneers of aviation, c1909. S Savage, Major Jack Pioneered the art of skywriting, c1922. Sayer, Gerry Test pilot of the first British jet aircraft, 1941. Short, Eustaceand Oswald Pioneers of balloon flight, c1900. W Watson-Watt, Robert Pioneered the use of radar in World War Two. Whittle, Sir Frank Developed Britain's first jet engine, 1930s. Wright, Orville and Wilbur First powered and controlled flight, 1903. | <urn:uuid:794476f4-26aa-4b24-b7f3-b5ee68964bc2> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | http://18f.co.uk/Training%20ACP's/First%20Class/ACP33%20Volume%201%20History%20of%20Flight.pdf | 2018-11-14T01:32:07Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00284.warc.gz | 1,546,790 | 5,992 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.930706 | eng_Latn | 0.998915 | [ "unknown", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "slk_Latn", "eng_Latn",... | false | docling | [ 65, 406, 755, 799, 1796, 3431, 5081, 6560, 7368, 8078, 9642, 11223, 12472, 14228, 16409, 18366, 19988, 20868, 22360, 23369, 23556, 23695, 24458, 25101, 25899 ] | [ 3.15625, 3.59375 ] | 5 | 0 | Point of Balance Point of Balance is a simple mathematical / engineering problem that is set, and can be solved, just by folding a square of paper. Ideally that paper should be white on one side and coloured on the other. Setting the problem Begin with your square arranged white side up. 1. Fold your square in half edge to edge in both directions, unfolding both times, to locate the centre of the square. 3. Fold the top edge onto the top point of the front layer whilst making sure that the new crease starts from the left hand corner of the square, which must remain sharp. 2. Fold the bottom point into the centre. 4. The two coloured triangles are the ends of two prisms of uniform density. The problem is to work out whether the top prism is balanced, or if it is not, which way it will fall. Take a guess before you try to work it out. Balanced? Right? Or left? Solving the problem In order to solve the problem we need to find the centre of mass of the top prism. If the centre of mass is directly above the top point of the bottom prism it will be balanced, if not it will fall either right or left. The centre of mass is the point at which the medians of the triangle Intersect. Any two medians will do. Medians are lines, or creases, drawn from one corner of a triangle to the centre point of the opposite edge. 6 2 crease forms between the centre of the left sloping edge and the right corner of the triangle marked in grey in picture 6. 6. The centre point of the left sloping top edge has already been found as this edge is bisected by one of the creases made in step 1. David Mitchell / Point of Balance 13 Copyright David Mitchell 2015 www.origamiheaven.com 13. The point where the creases made to mark the medians in steps 7 and 10 intersect is the centre of mass of the top prism. Dropping a line from this point shows that the centre of mass is to the left of the top point of the bottom prism and the top prism will therefore fall to the left. Note that this problem could be made slightly more difficult to solve by finding the centre of the square in step 1 by folding in half diagonally in both directions, in which case extra folds to locate the centres of the two edges of the top prism would be necessary. | <urn:uuid:c2c4ed0c-404c-457f-a5db-fbb5213db5e0> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | http://www.origamiheaven.com/pdfs/pointofbalance.pdf | 2018-11-14T00:41:02Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00282.warc.gz | 477,652,664 | 504 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.999453 | eng_Latn | 0.9995 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 875, 1633, 2250 ] | [ 3.171875 ] | 3 | 4 | Fridtjof Nansen (10 October 1861 – 13 May 1930) Fridtjof Nansen was a Norwegian explorer, scientist, oceanographer, statesman, diplomat and humanitarian. He led the team that made the first crossing of the Greenland interior in 1888, and made several expeditions to the Arctic (1888, 1893-96) and oceanographic expeditions in the North Atlantic (1900, 1910-14). For his relief work after World War I he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Peace (1922). At a glance… - Nansen was born at Store Frøen, near Oslo. His father Baldur Nansen was a prosperous lawyer who became Reporter to the Supreme Court of Norway; - Nansen's mother Adelaide Nansen was a strong-minded, athletic woman who introduced her children to the outdoor life and encouraged them to develop physical skills; - Nansen started skiing at the age of two years old and had strong athletic prowess, becoming an expert in skating, tumbling, and swimming; - He was a keen hunter and fisherman who possessed the physical endurance to ski fifty miles in a day and the psychological self-reliance to embark on long trips; - He chose to study zoology in the expectation that fieldwork would give him the chance of an outdoor life and enable him to make use of his artistic talents; - After 1896 his main scientific interest switched to oceanography; in the course of his research he made many scientific cruises, mainly in the North Atlantic, and contributed to the development of modern oceanographic equipment; - In the spring of 1920, the League of Nations asked Nansen to undertake the task of repatriating the prisoners of war, many of them held in Russia. Moving with his customary boldness and ingenuity, and despite restricted funds, Nansen repatriated 450,000 prisoners in the next year and a half; - In the final decade of his life, Nansen devoted himself primarily to the League of Nations, following his appointment in 1921 as the League's High Commissioner for Refugees - For the stateless refugees under his care Nansen invented the 'Nansen Passport', a document of identification, which was eventually recognized by fifty-two governments - In 1922 he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his work on behalf of the displaced victims of the First World War and related conflicts; - He continued to work with refugees until his sudden death in 1930, after which the League established the Nansen International Office for Refugees to ensure that his work continued. The Greenland crossing… In 1882 Nansen shipped on the sealer Viking to the east coast of Greenland, whose interior had never been explored. On this trip of four and a half months, Nansen first saw at a distance Greenland's mighty ice cap and was entranced. The idea of crossing it and in 1887, after the submission of his doctoral thesis, he finally began organising this project. Nansen rejected the complex organisation and heavy manpower of other Arctic ventures, and instead planned his expedition for a small party of six men with experience of outdoor life in extreme conditions, and who were experienced skiers. Supplies would be man-hauled on specially designed lightweight sledges. Much of the equipment, including sleeping bags, clothing and cooking stoves, also needed to be designed from scratch. On 3 June 1888 Nansen's party was picked up from the north-western Icelandic port of Ísafjörður by the sealer Jason. A week later the Greenland coast was sighted. After a number of setbacks, including violent storms, treacherous terrain, and a necessary change of course the team completed the crossing. They had accomplished it in 49 days, making 78 days in total since they had left the Jason; throughout the journey the team had maintained careful meteorological, geographical and other records relating to the previously unexplored interior. When they reached Godthaab, they were greeted by the town's Danish representative, whose first words were to inform Nansen that he had been awarded his doctorate, a matter that "could not have been more remote from my thoughts at that moment", said Nansen. "Never stop because you are afraid – you are never so likely to be wrong. Never keep a line of retreat: it is a wretched invention. The difficult is what takes a little time. The impossible is what takes a little longer." – Fridtjof Nansen | <urn:uuid:857b9da1-6f8d-497f-a305-14fd564ce569> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | https://nzaht.org/uploads/files/nansen-background-in59e82c91966e11.83796466.pdf | 2018-11-14T01:42:15Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00284.warc.gz | 707,673,952 | 925 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998771 | eng_Latn | 0.998641 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 3246, 4292 ] | [ 3.078125 ] | 1 | 3 | Environments and Ecosystems (STEM Principle: Science) By: Matt Paulson Your kids can learn best about the world's natural environments by going out and exploring them. Depending on where you are, you may be able to reach lots of different ecosystems, and helping your children identify them is a great place to start learning biology. In this lesson we'll talk about the ecosystem. The hikes you select may include a variety of ecosystems which you can point out along the way. Or one ecosystem may predominate, in which case you can delve into the various characteristics of that ecosystem as you hike. Ecosystem is a big word with a short meaning: it is all the plants and animals of an area that work together to make a place special. An ecosystem with lots of trees would be called a forest, and a dry one with very few plants is a desert. In Washington state there are many rainforests. In Hawaii, climbing up one of the mountain ranges offers a wide variety of microsystems with each elevation change. An ecosystem is comprised of several elements you and your junior scientists can look for while out on the trail. The first one we'll consider is water. Water is important to all life, and most ecosystems depend on how much water they get. Being near the ocean or a stream, for example, gives animals somewhere to drink and eat fish. The coastal environments also host birds, seals, otters, and other coastal animals. If you have a beach nearby, check it out together and see what you can find. Tip over rocks and see who lives underneath. Explore tide pools. Nature is all around, and even the little critters are fascinating if you explore their secret lives. If you're near a pond, lake or river, you will notice plants and animals which seem to thrive right near the water. This is called the riparian zone. Here, the roots of big trees like cedars and oaks hold the soil so that the water doesn't wash it all away. Animals like raccoons, frogs, and opossums make their homes here. Dense underbrush may also provide safe passage from the forest to the water for these animals. Trees need water to grow, and they can get it in many ways. Forests that are not near a water source collect it from rainwater. In dryer areas, plants need to rely more on moisture in the air. Dense forests tend to be home to big animals like bears, moose and reindeer. But the dryer areas will be home to smaller animals like deer, squirrels and rabbits. Why do you suppose this might be? Ask your scientist. Deserts exist in the rain shadow of mountains. Tall mountains capture rain before the air mass crosses over to the other side. Port Townsend and Port Ludlow in Washington state are in the rain shadow of the Olympic Mountains. This is a nice place to call home in the usually damp Pacific Northwest! In deserts, life adapts to the dryness. Lizards, snakes, and small rodents are all very good at conserving water, and rarely have to drink. The cactus is a common plant here, and it is very good at saving water. Next time you hike, think about the ecosystem you'll be visiting. Ask the kids to identify the type. Are you in a desert? The mountains? A forest? The riparian zone? Ask them what animals they think live here, and try to see some if you can! | <urn:uuid:5c73fd8d-b99e-402e-9443-b66623603695> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | http://www.outdoorohana.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/Environments-and-Ecosystems.pdf | 2018-11-14T01:03:07Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00284.warc.gz | 500,409,802 | 704 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.999439 | eng_Latn | 0.999439 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 3258 ] | [ 3.796875 ] | 1 | 1 | Edexcel AS and A level Geography Topic Booklet for Area of Study 1: Dynamic Landscapes, Topic 2: Landscape Systems, Processes and Change, Option 2B: Coastal Landscapes and Change Practical support to help you deliver this Edexcel specification Topic 2B: Coastal Landscapes and Change offers students the opportunity to investigate and interpret the coastal areas of the world. For teachers there are areas of cross over between the 2008 legacy specification Crowded Coasts and this topic should make planning easier because familiar case studies can to be used. For nonEdexcel teachers this means that there are already plenty of resources on the website, as well as elsewhere, to aid in the teaching of this topic. Students will study the development of coastal landscapes and how geomorphological factors influence the way they work. The interaction of winds, waves and currents will be studied and the impact of both terrestrial and offshore sediment sources. The sediment budget will help explain the distinctive landforms we see and the influence geology and lithology play. The study of a number of different coastal landscapes will help students appreciate the sheer variety that exists around the world and the reasons why such a variety develops. Finally students and teachers will investigate why these landscapes are increasingly threatened by physical processes and human activities, and the need for holistic and sustainable management of these areas in all the world's coasts. Study must include examples of landscapes from inside and outside the UK. Our specifications offer an issues-based approach to studying geography, enabling students to explore and evaluate contemporary geographical questions and issues such as the consequences of globalisation, responses to hazards, water insecurity and climate change. The specification content gives students the opportunity to develop an in-depth understanding of physical and human geography, to understand the complexity of people and environment questions and issues, and to become critical, reflective and independent learners. The AS and A levels in Geography are linear, and all assessments are at the end of the course. The AS Assessment will be at the end of the first year, and the A level Assessment will be at the end of the second year. The specification has been designed so that the content is clear and it is manageable for centres to deliver within the guided learning hours over a one-year (AS level) or two-year (A level) period. The guided learning hours are 180 for an AS level and 360, over two years, for an A level. This document provides a topic guide for teaching Coastal Landscapes and Change and can be adapted by centres to fit their own contexts and teaching styles. It has been produced as an example approach and is not intended to be prescriptive. The topic guides indicate resources that you can use to support your teaching. These are only suggestions and you are encouraged to use a wide range of resources to suit the needs of your own students. The advised teaching time for this topic is 24 hours with 6 hours of fieldwork; i.e. roughly 6 hours per enquiry question (EQ). This requires some blending together of the detailed content. Detailed information on fieldwork techniques, approaches and integration with the topic content is not provided here. Instead, support for fieldwork can be found in the separate fieldwork guide. In the guidance below, suggestions are made about contextualisation or stretch challenges that may be suitable for more able students, as well as expected lesson outcomes for those less able. Please note that these are suggestions only and not specific syllabus requirements. Each of the EQs and key areas is broken down into sections, beginning with a quick overview of the breadth of the enquiry question followed by a more detailed explanation of the key concepts and processes, examples of teaching strategies, guidance on integrating geographical skills, and a summary of the key terminology required. The structure is suggestive, not prescriptive. Synoptic linkages and case study nesting There are many opportunities to develop knowledge through place and context within this unit as well as areas where past case studies (from Crowded Coasts) may be used as well as others. Examples could include (but are not limited to): * Holderness * Jurassic Coastline * Formby Sand Dunes * Salt marsh development in the Blackwater Estuary * Towyn. These are examples which could be developed. However, there are others, both based within the UK and abroad, which have equal merit and should be used as appropriate. Our synoptic themes help students see 'the bigger picture' by encouraging them to make geographical links between topics and issues. To enable this, and support exam preparations, we have continued to signpost 'Players' (P), 'Attitudes and Actions' (A) and 'Futures and Uncertainties' (F) throughout the specification content. Synoptic links here can include deltas and work on the Nile and California (water security); flooding and poverty in areas such as Bangladesh; climate change and impacts of increased hydro-meteorological hazards (for example, tropical storms) in places such as the Philippines. Introduction Overview Students and teachers will investigate why these landscapes are increasingly threatened from physical processes and human activities, and the need for holistic and sustainable management of these areas in all the world's coasts. Study must include examples of landscapes from inside and outside the UK. The first area of this topic is built around the ideas associated with the physical processes that create coastlines. For some students the depth of information given can be quite taxing and hard to grasp. However, with differentiated resources and a variety of approaches this can be overcome. Hitting the basics here will bear fruit later in the course. The teaching should cover: - the littoral zone and dynamic change; - coastal classification based on geology, changes to sea level and inputs or outputs; - low- and high-energy coastlines; - concordant and discordant coasts; - coastal morphology and geomorphology. EQ1: Why are coastal landscapes different and what processes are causing these differences? Teaching approach over 6 hours | Lesson 1 (1hr) | | |---|---| | Lesson 2 (1hr) | | | Lesson 3 (1hr) | | | Lesson 4 (1hr) | | | | Lesson 5 and 6 | | | (2 hrs) | Lesson 1: The littoral zone Overview This lesson should introduce the key concepts of the littoral zone, building on what students may have learnt at GCSE. Students need to be able to describe and explain the factors that create the different landscapes around our coastline. This should then build into ideas of geology through the rock type which is important in determining much of our coasts. Images or maps can be used as differentiation tools. These can be annotated to some extent for the less able. Videos of the changing coastline may help visual learners develop an understanding of the temporal elements involved. Key concepts and processes - Why coastal landscapes are different and what processes are causing these differences. Students need to: o appreciate that the coastline consists of the backshore, nearshore and offshore zones; o recognise that the coastline is a dynamic and changing environment that can be altered rapidly; o understand that there are inputs and outputs within this system such as rivers and tides and the action of waves. Guidance on teaching The first area of this topic is built around the ideas associated with the physical processes that create coastlines. In terms of teaching, the littoral zone can be explored through both layered diagrammatic exemplification or cause and effect. Less able students might benefit from a more structured element with recourse to personal experience at the beach. Geological themes can be explored through pictorial evidence such as different landscapes being shown with students writing down 'hard' or 'soft' on miniwhiteboards or 'erosional' or 'depositional'. This will improve their ideas and confidence with visualising landscapes. Lesson 2: Geology Overview Students will need to develop an awareness of how geology impacts upon the coastline and its importance in coastal formation. There will be key terms which students are not familiar with and these will need to be reviewed to help students develop good geographical terminology. The introduction of basic geological maps, many of which can be found online, will be useful; suggestions are given below and throughout. Apps like iGeology can help students understand the complexities of geology in the UK though only a rudimentary knowledge is needed. More able students may wish to explore this area more through geological maps (bgs.ac.uk – has a UK geology viewer online, which can enhance understanding, as well as other great features to help students.) Several video websites offer alternative views of geology. However, rock hardness differentiation is key to a student's understanding because, in looking at one rock in relation to another, the softer of the two will always erode more quickly. Exemplification of this could be done via annotation/geological maps/OS maps and student investigation. Less able students may benefit from annotated photographs or slides explaining the rock types. There are some good videos on rock hardness – search by 'Mineral hardness test'. These can used to guide students in identifying rock hardness and in the classroom they can then test common rocks found in coastal locations (chalk, limestone, granite, clay, etc.) By numbering these, students should be able to understand the relationship between rocks and their hardness rating. Rocks can be collected or bought. Quarries or building companies will usually donate a small amount for educational purposes Lesson 3: Concordant and discordant coastlines Overview Within this lesson students will tackle the lithology of coastlines and how different layers of rocks create potentially different landscapes. Students will by now be able to begin to differentiate between rock hardness in terms of why certain rocks erode faster than others. Good examples here would be along the Devon coastline or where both concordant and discordant features are visible. You could begin to introduce different fieldwork skills such as field sketches and geological map reading. A simple understanding of how rocks are laid down over time may be included here through case studies, such as those around the Holderness coast, Devon coast or your chosen case study area. The websites maintained by Hull University are good for Holderness and Southampton University has produced resources on the Devon coast. Key concepts and processes - Geology can cause a variety of different coastlines and there are many different reasons, such as wave action and geomorphology, why they vary. Students need to: o understand concordant and discordant coasts and the reasons for their creation; o appreciate the impacts of erosion on these landforms and the landforms they can create; o understand the actions of both marine and terrestrial processes in the creation of these landforms. Guidance on teaching There are many areas which teachers need to impress upon students that go beyond the previous (2008) specification. Geological maps – both full and simplified versions – can be used and many are available from sources such as the app 'iGeology'. The distinction between concordant and discordant coastlines can be followed up by case-study led investigations, which may or may not be linked to areas students have visited or have yet to visit. Lesson 4: Geological structure and the impact on coastal morphology Overview Coastlines that can be termed submergent and emergent exist around the world and are the result of changes in eustatic and isostatic sea levels due in main to the processes of long-term climate change such as glacial and interglacial periods. There are excellent examples of this on the Dalmatian and Haff coastlines of Croatia and the Baltic coast of Germany respectively. Building on the idea of geology and submergent and emergent coasts students will be able to make use of different forms of GIS (Google Earth, Digimaps or similar software) as well as satellite imagery. Less able students could be given more exemplification of coastlines and ideas while more able students could develop their understanding by looking at progressively less obvious coastline types. The development of the two case studies of Dalmatian and Haff coastlines with good understanding of their formation will help. Key concepts and processes Students should be able to appreciate and understand the concepts of both submergent and emergent coastlines. Guidance on teaching As in many of the earlier lessons, testing the more able students should not be too difficult. The less able student can develop an awareness of how geology impacts on coastal morphology via photographic and physical evidence as well as through tests on key terms. Good exemplification should help in their knowledge development. The lesson plans give examples of this. Historically it is worth pointing out to students that changes in sea level are considerable during glacial periods and they have been both higher and lower than we see today. Annotated photographs of these features may help students identify why some submerge and others emerge. Good case-study analysis is very important to get information across. Examples of emergent coastlines include the west coast of North America, parts of the Swedish and Norwegian coasts as well as, closer to home, the Forth, Clyde and Tay valleys in western Scotland. Good examples of submergent coasts, and the rias and fjords they can create, include the Chesapeake Bay area of the eastern United States and Southampton Sound (UK). (The British Geographer website is a handy resource for some of this topic - http://thebritishgeographer.weebly.com/coastal-environments.html). Lesson 5 and 6: Hard and soft rock Overview Building on all the previous lessons, it is important that students get to grips with geological structure (jointing, dip, faulting, folding) and understand why it is an important influence on coastal morphology and erosion rates. If students failed to fully get to grips with the different concepts or it wasn't covered in depth in lesson 2 now is a key time to bring in the ideas of rock hardness (see 'Overview' lesson 2). In many cases students can find it hard to differentiate between what is considered to be a hard and a soft rock. In previous specifications it was enough to simply tell the students. Now, the relative hardness of rock is an intrinsic part of understanding the lithologies of the coastline, and the impact that this has on cliff profiles and the micro-features that can form as a result. Key concepts and processes - Lithology of rock can alter the recession rates. Students need to: o understand the context of hard rock in relation to softer rock and how this is a comparative relationship and relative to adjacent rock; o understand how different recession rates can have a variety of impacts on the coast; o appreciate that different recession rates can impact upon the landforms and features that are visible along the coast, such as headland erosion, stacks, caves and arches. Guidance on teaching There are several ways of explaining the concepts here and many websites that offer tests of rock hardness (the simplest being MOH scale of hardness). This should help students understand why some rocks erode quicker than others, even when both could be considered hard. It might be helpful for the teacher to show this via simple tests on sandstone, granite, and limestone (having a mild acid solution may also help show corrosion). It is important to show that theoretical coastlines, as drawn and revealed on websites and textbooks, are rare in reality. Students should understand that the principles of recession are almost unique in all areas and that formations caused by similar factors can often look different in different places. Less able students may struggle with the amount of different variables involved in causing recession and it might help to give small groups key terms and ask them to use these to build up a picture of a given coastline. For example, provide a picture of Holderness and ask students to add the variables they feel are most relevant (longshore drift, rock type, wave type etc.). Students can then be shown other coastlines and asked to do the same. The teacher could ask for justification by students and they could rank the key terms in order of what they feel is the most relevant to each coastline. Key vocabulary for EQ1 There are many key words in this section; here are just some of them. Resources fossilhub.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/03/2013_YorksCoast_part1.pdf – great resource on Geology of Yorkshire coastline. http://www.bgs.ac.uk/igeology/home.html - British Geological Survey website for app (Alternatively App stores). jncc.defra.gov.uk/pdf/gcrdb/GCRsiteaccount1943.pdf – another good source for geological information of Yorkshire coast (Robin Hoods Bay). http://mapapps.bgs.ac.uk/geologyofbritain/home.html - geology of Britain viewer excellent interactive resource for students and teacher. http://thebritishgeographer.weebly.com/ - good resource for students and teachers on all areas of geography. http://www.southampton.ac.uk/~imw/Torquay.htm - Southampton University pages on Torquay. http://www.hull.ac.uk/php/chsmjh/holdhome.htm - Hull University pages on Holderness. EQ2. How do characteristic coastal landforms contribute to coastal landscapes? Teaching approach over 4 hours Lesson 7: Wave types; erosion and refraction Overview There are two specific types of waves that students must be aware of: constructive and destructive. It is important they are aware of the different impacts these have on our coastline. Less able students should be able to differentiate between coastlines of deposition and recession via the use of photographs and, to a lesser extent, through beach profiles. Key concepts and processes o understand that there are different types of waves and that they have different impacts upon the coastline; - Destructive and constructive waves. Students need to: o appreciate that there are several different factors that create these wave types. - Recession and deposition. Students need to: o understand that wave type can create different landforms; why and how these are created and the various processes as well as impacts that they have. Guidance on teaching A simple technique to get students thinking of these different coastlines is to show a selection of different types (estuarine, salt marsh, cliff, beach, sand dunes, etc.) They can simply decide whether the coast is receding or growing. The factors that go into this can be explored and, crucially, the idea that waves can create as well as destroy the coast. More able students can then try to think of the factors for themselves or, in differentiated groups, they can either peer learn or annotate pictures given to the groups with the factors they believe are in operation. A case study on sand dune creation may help students in terms of their understanding of depositional coastlines or salt marsh creation. Geo factsheet 119 (September 2001) (http://www.geographylwc.org.uk/A/A2/a2prac/a119%20dunes.pdf) has some excellent information and has questions at the end to test student learning. Groups could work through these in groups to aid understanding at both the higher and lower student level. Types of erosion and refraction Overview There are four types of erosion (hydraulic action, corrosion, abrasion, attrition) that students need to be made aware of and these can be introduced either by PowerPoint or through the use of video. Student interaction could be achieved by having them act out the type of erosion so that every student can understand the processes involved. It is then important for students to understand the processes that create coastal landforms and these can be approached via a timeline process for less able students or an appreciation of erosion type by more able students. Key concepts and processes - The different types of erosion. Students need to: o appreciate that there are four different types of erosion that often work together and are part of the coastal system. - The processes that create landforms. Students need to: o understand that different erosion types have various impacts on landscapes and each can influence the type of landscape that develops depending on many physical factors. o recognise the key erosional type within each landform. o recognise that key influences such as frictional drag, refraction and shoaling help to dictate how wave action and erosion impact upon the coast. Guidance on teaching Types of erosion can be studied and understood by using 'Coastal Kung Fu' which can be found on the internet. This is an interactive way for students to appreciate the mechanisms at work. This can be built on by the use of good images researched from the internet or photographs which help to exemplify different erosion types at different coastlines. The bending of waves can help students understand how caves begin to form and therefore the way that headlands develop over time. This can be done via annotated diagrams and a recognition of frictional drag. Lesson 8: Sediment movement and landforms of deposition Overview How the movement of sediment occurs around our coastline, sediment cells and landforms of deposition. Students will consider the ideas of constructive waves and sediment cells and the variety of processes involved in the creation of the different landforms associated with deposition and transportation. Key concepts and processes - Dynamic equilibrium. Students need to: - Depositional processes. Students need to: o recognise that inputs into a sediment cell must equal the outputs for the cell to remain stable. o understand that constructive waves and landforms can cause deposition to occur. The action of waves and the ideas from previous lessons should be brought together for students to appreciate the complexity of these processes. o appreciate that the country can be split up into independent cells and that sediment cells act independently of those around them. - Sediment cells. Students need to: Guidance on teaching If students can understand the concepts of sediment cells and dynamic equilibrium, along with the ideas of wave refraction covered earlier, then this area should be straight forward. (Several themes can be carried over from Specification 2008). Blank maps, such as the one shown, allow students to practice their understanding of how deposition occurs. These can become progressively more complex to help both less able and more able students develop their understanding. Direction of Waves BEACH Figure 1 Lesson 9: Weathering and geomorphological processes Overview Students should look at the variety of subaerial processes that help to erode coastlines. There are several ways this can be developed using photographic examples ranging from plants growing on coastal rocks to rotational slump in places such as Happisburgh or Holderness. Key concepts and processes - The processes of geomorphology and weathering. Students need to: - Rock type. Students need to: o realise that there are several types of geological processes that can occur; recognise these and be able to apply them to different coastal environments. o understand that rock type can have a large influence on recession rates and the impact of weathering. o appreciate that subaerial process and cliff-foot processes work together to influence recession rates. - Forms of coastal erosion. Students need to: Guidance on teaching The British Geological Survey website the article on Holbeck Hall has an excellent slideshow which could be used for students to consider what caused the landslide. For less able students a list could be given and they could use this to help exchange ideas. The different types of slumping could be considered through pictorial evidence and students asked to consider all aspects to see if they can appreciate how each has occurred. Further extension work could be considered to include an understanding of how vegetation can bind a slope and prevent landslides as well as how both subaerial erosion and cliff-foot processes are in operation together. Key vocabulary for EQ2 Rock which is formed by the cooling of molten magma (e.g. | Metamorphic rock | Rock formed from other rocks that have been changed due to heat or pressure (E.g. Marble) | |---|---| | Basalt | The most abundant igneous rock found on the planet. | | Unconsolidated | Often loosely formed mass of soil, rock and other parts that is weak and easy to break (e.g. glacial till). | | Lithology | The general physical characteristics of rocks. | | Permeable | Allows liquid to pass through it. (e.g. sandstone). | | Impermeable | Will not allow liquid to pass through it (e.g. granite). | | Recession rate | The rate at which the land recedes (usually measured in mm to m per year). | | Temporal | Relating to time. | | Hydraulic action | Mechanical weathering caused by the force of moving water currents rushing into a crack in the rock face and forcing it apart. | | Attrition | The wearing away of material as it collides together continually. | | Corrosion | Erosion caused by the acidity within the water corroding the rock. | | Abrasion | A type of erosion caused by the process of scraping or wearing something away. | | Sediment cell | Cells within which the movement of sediment is functionally separated and discrete from the next. | | Dynamic equilibrium | The state at which inputs into a system equal outputs. | | Succession | The process of change in the species structure of an ecological community over time. | | Longshore drift | The movement of material along a coast by wave action, which approach at an angle to the shore but recede directly away from it. | | Tombolo | A bar of sand or shingle joining an island to the mainland | EQ3. How do coastal erosion and sea-level change alter the physical characteristics of coastlines and increase risks? Teaching approach over 5 hours | | Lessons 10 and | |---|---| | | 11 (2 hr) | | Lesson 12 (1hr) | | | Lesson 13 (1hr) | | Lessons 10 and 11: Sea-level change and increasing risks Overview Much of EQ 3 is aimed at allowing students to learn about the problems many areas of the world face due to both erosion and rising sea levels. Using case study information and key processes learnt earlier in the course, they should be able to begin to piece together not only what the issues are but an understanding of the solutions. Key concepts and processes - Eustatic and isostatic sea-level changes. Students need to: o appreciate that eustatic and isostatic change can impact upon coastal recession rates. - Impacts of sea-level changes on a micro and macro scale. Students need to: o have a clear understanding of these impacts on a small and large scale. Guidance on teaching Many students may well be aware of the problems and the causes of sea-level rise due to climate change. It is important that students appreciate these causes and that teachers build on this by introducing the ideas of long-term changes brought about by global cooling (ice ages) and warming (interglacial) periods. Less able students should appreciate that there is only so much water on the planet and that it is a closed system. Snow and ice can lock up much of the water in stores to be released when climate warms – this means that sea levels act as a barometer for the amount of water locked up in the system. Diagrammatical ideas, videos and images or maps of past sea levels should help to reinforce these ideas. More able students might begin to consider the implications of sea-level rise on a much larger scale. Maps could be used to plot new coastlines if sea levels were to rise 10m – 150m, showing the potential losses that could be caused due to land being inundated by the sea. Figure 2 Cities at risk: http://www.rrojasdatabank.info/statewc08093.3.pdf Lessons 12, 13 and 14: Coastal recession and human impacts Overview In these lessons students should aim to concentrate on the specific issues caused by physical factors and how they impact upon humans at different levels. This may be approached via a case study or indeed via specific impacts. Teachers will be able to draw on a whole bank of information available to them from textbooks relating to previous specification (Increasing Risks part of Crowded Coasts) as well as clearly defined case studies from various parts of the country (for example: Happisburgh, Holderness, St. Bees) and, on a global level, (Bangladesh, the Nile Delta, California). Key concepts and processes - The causes and impacts of storm surges. Students need to: o recognise that some areas of the world are more susceptible to the impacts of storm surges. o understand the physical causes of storm surges; - The causes and consequences of coastal flooding. Students need to: o understand the impacts of coastal flooding. o appreciate that different tides can cause sea levels to rise over the short term; - The impacts that climate change will have for coastal regions. Students need to: - o appreciate that some areas of the world are more vulnerable to sealevel rise than others and the reasons for this. The terms mitigation and adaptation. Students need to: o understand that these techniques are available to people; what the different techniques are and the costs associated with them. Guidance on teaching Teachers will need to be able to demonstrate to the students that specific problems exist with rising sea levels and the causes of these rises can be both eustatic and isostatic. These could be investigated by using student-led research on example areas such as the Nile Delta, Bangladesh, Holderness or the North Norfolk coastline. Posters or annotated pictures drawn by students may aid less able students to see the problems. For differentiation, students could give presentations on their own case-study research. Examples could include the Maldives, Bangladesh, the Philippines, and the south-west coast of the UK. More able students should be able to show the impacts and also explore the relative costs of these impacts in terms of level of development and strategies to modify the loss. For less able students, cost-benefit analysis or SWOT analysis may help with the learning of specific problems faced in different areas and enable comparisons between places within different regions to draw these out. On YouTube there are several chances to see films based on the experiences of people living through these problems (an internet search for the BBC's Look North's programme on Coastal erosion, Holderness or Cliffhanger based on Happisburgh offer excellent examples). Students could carry out role plays based on the roles of individual types or stakeholders within the case study. Allowing them to take on these roles may aid in the appreciation of the issues they face from different perspectives. Key vocabulary for EQ3 EQ4. How can coastlines be managed to meet the needs of all players? Teaching approach over 5 hours | Lesson 15 (1hr) | | |---|---| | | Lesson 16 & 17 | | | (1hr) | | Lesson 18 (1hr) | | | Lesson 19 (1hr) | | Lesson 15: Coastal recession and coastal flooding have serious consequences for affected communities Overview Building on case studies, students will need to appreciate that there are communities at risk and the implications for governments and different players in mitigating or adapting to the threats that they face. The main thrust of this is that students can understand the relationship between the impacts of storm surges and sea-level rise on countries at different levels of development. How people put themselves at risk and how risk can be managed. Key concepts and processes - The rise in the number of environmental refugees is set to rise. Students need to: o understand that here are many reasons why coastal refugees will increase; be aware of these and be able to look at the causes and the impacts. - The impacts of sea levels will vary. o appreciate that sea-level rise is not universal and that some areas will suffer from the impacts while others will not. Students need to: o appreciate that areas at different levels of development will cope differently. Guidance on teaching Case-study analysis of areas from different levels of development and the impacts they face can be done via news articles of different events. Events such as coastal flooding on Tuvalu, the Ganges Delta, UK storm surges (e.g. Storm Desmond) and mangrove removal in Thailand can be investigated in terms of students researching the variety of causes and impacts and then using these for comparative purposes. The impacts can be assessed in different ways such as social, economic and environmental impacts and evaluated in terms of level of development or Human Development Index indicators. Less able students should benefit from the hands-on approach and through personal/ group investigations. This could be teacher-led via statements which students have to decide are either true of false, and also what the implications are. This style of directed learning should help students identify key reasons and build their knowledge in steps. Alternatively students could be given a case-study sheet that has areas which they need to find (this can make a good homework exercise). Lessons 16, 17, 18 and 19: Coastal management Overview In these lessons students will research the variety of ways that we are able to protect our coastlines and how the decisions are made for each area. They will learn to undertake both a cost-benefit analysis and environmental impact assessment. These can be done using virtual fieldwork techniques by undertaking guided researching into the chosen area. More able students should be able to see the problems and the technique that is potentially correct for that area, while less able students may not be able to understand the value of protection other than building sea walls. This can be overcome by exercises such as role playing games. Key concepts and processes - Mitigation and Adaptation. Students need to: o understand that countries at different levels of development might use different techniques to deal with the impacts and those will include mitigation and adaptation. - Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) and Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). Students need to: o appreciate that often the technique used is decided upon using a CBA and an EIA. o know how to carry out both of these influential fieldwork techniques. Students need to: - Stakeholders in coastal impacts on communities. o appreciate that each of the different people involved in making decisions, as well as those on whom the decisions will have an impact, should have a say in the development of any management strategy. Guidance on teaching Often mitigation and adaptation are not completely understood by students and clarification of this early on is essential. For less able students it may be pertinent to refer back to these points time and again to make sure they understand the difference and which technique or policy falls under which banner. This could be done via persistent questioning or questions on techniques. Preventing the causes of sea-level rise are often complex and slow while adapting to the impacts is often cheaper and faster. In developed nations they can use both techniques while developing countries often rely on the simpler adaptation strategies which involve moving or using the environment to protect them. Often this is made more complex by those nations who exploit the resources found in coastal environments such as mangroves which, in turn, makes countries more vulnerable to the impacts. Students should understand the relationship between wealth and vulnerability as well as how this can impact on their capacity to cope. The relationship between ICZM and Shoreline Management Plan (SMP) is often misunderstood. Exploration and research on different case studies and ideas may well overcome this. However, students may take time to appreciate these relationships. There are many ways to deliver CBAs and EIAs many of which can be done via slides or visits within the school grounds. Understanding why these are important techniques will help later in their fieldwork. An understanding of the different players involved is often best approached via delivered debate in which students take on the roles of specific groups and argue researched causes. These can then be assessed through essay-based homework. An ICZM has been defined by the UK Government as: 'A process that brings together all those involved in the development, management and use of the coast within a framework that facilitates the integration of their interests and responsibilities. The objective is to establish sustainable levels of economic and social activity in our coastal areas while protecting the coastal environment. ICZM is essential to the ecosystem-based approach.' SMPs on the other hand are different. These are designed by the Environment Agency and local councils to consider the best ways to manage their coastlines. They identify the most sustainable approach to managing the flood and coastal erosion risks to the coastline in the short, medium and long term. Students should appreciate that management is broken down into cells so as to maintain dynamic equilibrium between areas. By using a players-based approach it is possible to integrate geographical skills and the ability to think geographically on a larger and wider scale. Key vocabulary for EQ4 Resources Websites of interest in this area: http://coastal.udel.edu/ngs/waves.html - Short article on shoaling, refraction and diffraction. http://www.rgs.org/OurWork/Schools/Fieldwork+and+local+learning/Fieldwork+tech niques/Coasts.htm - Fieldwork techniques by the Royal Geographical Society. https://www.bgs.ac.uk/landslides/holbeckHall.html - Article on Holbeck Hall landslide, Scarborough. http://apps.environment-agency.gov.uk/wiyby/134834.aspx - Environment Agency SMPs. https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/shoreline-management-planssmps/shoreline-management-plans-smps - SMP example list. | <urn:uuid:37544c30-8e33-463b-80b3-eacf2ff17ac1> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | https://qualifications.pearson.com/content/dam/pdf/A%20Level/Geography/2016/teaching-and-learning-materials/Edexcel2016_ASandAlevelGeography_Topic2B_CoastalLandscapesAndChange_TopicBooklet.pdf | 2018-11-14T00:41:15Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00285.warc.gz | 728,337,067 | 7,699 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.990721 | eng_Latn | 0.998027 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2517, 5261, 6873, 9338, 11562, 14134, 16858, 17760, 19368, 21626, 23140, 24715, 26361, 27194, 29100, 31482, 32022, 34585, 37082, 38126, 38737 ] | [ 2.234375, 3.9375 ] | 2 | 0 | Empowering Conversations with Your Child When we think about what makes people friends with each other, a number of things come to mind. For example, our friends like us and enjoy spending time with us, as we enjoy them. And what is it we mostly do when we are together with our friends? Mostly we talk and listen to each other. Conversations are the glue between people, the essential element in a strong relationship. Relationships wither without communication, and the very best form of communication is the conversation. Many parents fall into the trap of thinking that it is their job to talk and their child's to listen. Actually that's only half-right. It is also our job to listen and the child's job to talk. It's a wonderful thing when a parent and child can really talk to and hear each other. It is important that parents intentionally seek out conversations about sports with their athletes. Here are some suggestions for how to engage your child in a conversation about sports. 1 Establish Your Goal – A Conversation Among Equals: A conversation is something between equals. Kings didn't have conversations with their subjects. They told them what to do. Prepare yourself for a conversation with your child by reminding yourself that sports are her thing, not yours. Remember that you want to support her, to let her know that you are on her side. Your goal is not to give advice on how to become a better athlete. It should be to engage your child in a conversation among equals, one of whom (you!) is on the side of the other (her!). 2 Adopt a Tell-Me-More Attitude: Brenda Ueland penned one of the most important essays on relationships ever written, Tell Me More: "When we are listened to, it creates us, makes us unfold and expand. Ideas actually begin to grow within us and come to life." Adopt the attitude that you want your child to tell-you-more, ("I really want to hear what you have to say."), and then listen to what he has to say – even if you don't agree with it or like it – and you will begin to tap into what Ueland calls the "little creative fountain" in your child. If you are very tired, strained…this little fountain is muddied over and covered with a lot of debris…it is when people really listen to us, with quiet fascinated attention, that the little fountain begins to work again, to accelerate in the most surprising way. 3 Listen! In many instances you may know exactly what your child can do to improve. However, this is a conversation, remember? Your goal is to get your child to talk about her sports experience, so ask rather than tell. Save your tellings for another time. Ask Open-Ended Questions: Some questions lend themselves to one-word responses. "How was school today?" "Fine." Your goal is to get your child to talk at length, so ask questions that will tend to elicit longer, more thoughtful responses. "What was the most enjoyable part of today's practice/game?" "What worked well?" "What didn't turn out so well?" "What did you learn that can help you in the future?" "Any thoughts on what you'd like to work on before the next game?" Empowering Conversations with Your Child continued Also ask about life-lesson and character issues: "Any thoughts on what you've learned in practice this week that might help you with other parts of your life?" Even if you saw the entire game, the goal is to get your child to talk about the game the way she saw it, not for you to tell her what she could have done better. Show You Are Listening. Make it obvious to your child that you are paying attention through use of nonverbal actions such as making eye contact as he talks, nodding your head and making "listening noises" ("uh-huh," "hmmm," "interesting," etc.). Listening is one of the greatest gifts you can give your child! Ueland again: "Who are the people, for example, to whom you go for advice? Not to the hard, practical ones who can tell you exactly what to do, but to the listeners; that is, the kindest, least censorious, least bossy people that you know. It is because by pouring out your problem to them, you then know what to do about it yourself." 4 Let Your Child Set the Terms: William Pollack, MD, author of Real Boys: Rescuing Our Sons from the Myths of Boyhood, notes that children have different "emotional schedules" that determine when they are ready to talk about an experience. Forcing a conversation right after a competition (when there may be a lot of emotion) is often less successful than waiting until the child gives an indication that he is ready to talk. Boys may take longer than girls to talk about an experience, so look for prompts that a child is ready. And conversations don't have to be lengthy to be effective. If your child wants a brief discussion, defer to his wishes. If he feels like every discussion about sports is going to be long, he'll likely begin to avoid them. And don't be afraid of silence. Stick with it and your child will open up to you. Connect through activity. Sometimes the best way to spark a conversation is through an activity that your child enjoys. Playing a board game or putting a puzzle together can allow space for a child to volunteer thoughts and feelings about the game and how he performed. This is especially important for boys, who often resist a direct adult-style of conversation. Be patient and persistent. Don't expect a perfect empowering conversation the ﬁrst time. Stick with it even if you don't get the results you want at ﬁrst. They will come. 5 Enjoy: The most important reason why you should listen to your child with a tell-me-more attitude: Because then she will want to talk to you, and as she (and you) get older, you will ﬁnd there is no greater gift than a child who enjoys conversations with you. | <urn:uuid:081867aa-f602-4fb0-b8d2-e90e1c590bf9> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | http://files.leagueathletics.com/Text/Documents/3755/74083.pdf | 2018-11-14T00:54:43Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00288.warc.gz | 108,393,489 | 1,232 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.999403 | eng_Latn | 0.999421 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 3104, 5765 ] | [ 3.109375 ] | 6 | 6 | SEISMIC WAVES Seismology is the study of earthquakes and seismic waves that move through and around the earth. A seismologist is a scientist who studies earthquakes and seismic waves. Seismic waves can be defined as, "the waves of energy caused by the sudden breaking of rock within the earth or an explosion" 1 . They are the energy that travels through the earth and is recorded on seismographs. Types of Seismic Waves There are several different kinds of seismic waves, and they all move in different Body and surface waves Source: http://eqseis.geosc.psu.edu/~cammon/HTML/Classes /IntroQuakes/Notes/waves_and_interior.html ways. The two main types of waves are body waves and surface waves. Body waves can travel through the earth's inner layers, but surface waves can only move along the surface of the planet like ripples on water. Earthquakes radiate seismic energy as both body and surface waves. Recordings of seismic waves from earthquakes led to the discovery of the earth's core and eventual maps of the layers of the Earth's inside. Just as the prism below refracts light at its faces, seismic waves bend, reflect and change speed at the boundaries between different materials below the Earth's surface 2 . Body Waves Traveling through the interior of the earth, body waves arrive before the surface waves emitted by an earthquake. These waves are of a higher frequency than surface waves. P Waves The first kind of body wave is the P wave or primary wave. This is the fastest kind of seismic wave, and, consequently, the first to 'arrive' at a seismic station. The P wave can move through solid rock and fluids, like water or the liquid layers of the earth. It pushes and pulls the rock it moves through just like sound waves push and pull the air. Have you ever heard a big clap of thunder and heard the windows rattle at the same time? The windows rattle because the sound waves were pushing and pulling on the window glass much like P waves push and pull on rock. Sometimes animals can hear the P waves of an earthquake. Dogs, for instance, commonly begin barking hysterically just before an earthquake 'hits' (or more specifically, before the surface waves arrive). Usually people can only feel the bump and rattle of these waves. P waves are also known as compressional waves, because of the pushing and pulling they do. Subjected to a P wave, particles move in the same direction that the wave is moving in, which is the direction that the energy is traveling in, and is sometimes called the 'direction of wave propagation. S Waves The second type of body wave is the S wave or secondary wave, which is the second wave you feel in an earthquake. An S wave is slower than a P wave and can only move through solid rock, not through any liquid medium. It is this property of S waves that led seismologists to conclude that the Earth's outer core is a liquid. S waves move rock particles up and down, or side-to-side perpendicular to the direction that the wave is traveling in (the direction of wave propagation). Surface Waves Travelling only through the crust, surface waves are of a lower frequency than body waves, and are easily distinguished on a seismogram as a result. Though they arrive after body waves, it is surface waves that are almost entirely responsible for the damage and destruction associated with earthquakes. This damage and the strength of the surface waves are reduced in deeper earthquakes. Love Waves The first kind of surface wave is called a Love wave, named after A.E.H. Love, a British mathematician who worked out the mathematical model for this kind of wave in 1911. It's the fastest surface wave and moves the ground from side-to-side. Confined to the surface of the crust, Love waves produce entirely horizontal motion. Rayleigh Waves The other kind of surface wave is the Rayleigh wave, named for John William Strutt, Lord Rayleigh, who mathematically predicted the existence of this kind of wave in 1885. A Rayleigh wave rolls along the ground just like a wave rolls across a lake or an ocean. Because it rolls, it moves the ground up and down and side-to-side in the same direction that the wave is moving. Most of the shaking felt from an earthquake is due to the Rayleigh wave, which can be much larger than the other waves. Seismic Wave Speed Seismic waves travel fast, on the order of kilometers per second (km/s). The precise speed that a seismic wave travels depends on several factors; most important is the composition of the rock 3 . Temperature tends to lower the speed of seismic waves and pressure tends to increase the speed. Pressure increases with depth in Earth because the weight of the rocks above gets larger with increasing depth. Usually, the effect of pressure is larger and in regions of uniform composition, the velocity generally increases with depth, despite the fact that the increase of temperature with depth works to lower the wave velocity. References 1 http://www.geo.mtu.edu/UPSeis/waves.html 2http://www.colorado.edu/physics/phys2900/homepages/Marianne.Hogan/waves.ht ml 3http://eqseis.geosc.psu.edu/~cammon/HTML/Classes/IntroQuakes/Notes/waves_a nd_interior.html | <urn:uuid:74e8ab84-57fa-480e-b800-d830c484f4af> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | http://nidm.gov.in/easindia2014/err/pdf/earthquake/seismic_wav.pdf | 2018-11-14T01:03:25Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00286.warc.gz | 232,031,761 | 1,111 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.868594 | eng_Latn | 0.998431 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1411, 2259, 3583, 4301, 4948, 5176 ] | [ 4.125 ] | 2 | 1 | 10 Science Lesson Plan Lesson Title: History of the Periodic Table Content Descriptor Year Level: 10 The atomic structure and properties of elements are used to organise them in the Periodic Table (ACSSU187) Learning Outcomes / Target I will understand the development and refinement of the periodic table over time Real world connections in Learning Targets Mixing fuels together, working with different metals around binding agents or chemicals, hairdressers use chemicals to change hair colours etc… Other considerations – Indigenous students / medical/ students with disabilities Equipment Activity 1 : History of the periodic table info sheets, blank timeline (A3 size) – 5 copies Activity 2 : Chemical Equations Worksheet, Molymods Activity 3 : Element Flash Cards Task cards 1, 2, 3 (Details of the activities – printed, laminated and left on the tables for students) Exit tickets – printed and cut up Safety procedures and risk assessment N/A | Time | Lesson Sequence - What is ‘going on’ or happening in the classroom? What pedagogical strategies will you use to engage students? | What teacher will be doing/ saying? (questioning, movement etc) | Evidence of student learning- what will students be ‘doing’? | |---|---|---|---| | 00:00 | Welcome and settling • Use wait time and cueing with parallel acknowledgeme nt to settle class Revise last lessons content Learning target | “Good morning year 10, please take your seats” “Who can tell me what we did last lesson?” “Today’s learning target is… [read from board]” | Students to respond Students to copy learning target into their books | | Time | Lesson Sequence - What is ‘going on’ or happening in the classroom? What pedagogical strategies will you use to engage students? | What teacher will be doing/ saying? (questioning, movement etc) | Evidence of student learning- what will students be ‘doing’? | |---|---|---|---| | 00:10 00:15 | Explain to students that there are 3 stations and they must rotate through them throughout the lesson. Organise students into 3 groups | “Today our lesson will work a little differently. We will be rotating through 3 activities.” “If there is any silliness then the activity will stop and we will copy pages from the textbook for the remainder of the lesson” | Students to get into groups | | Time | Lesson Sequence - What is ‘going on’ or happening in the classroom? What pedagogical strategies will you use to engage students? | What teacher will be doing/ saying? (questioning, movement etc) | Evidence of student learning- what will students be ‘doing’? | |---|---|---|---| | 00:60 | Exit ticket questions: • Who is Mendeleev? | Checks students have packed up all equipment appropriately | Students to answer questions to get out of class | Post-Lesson Reflection History of the Periodic Table In this activity, you must use the text provided (orange cards) and create a timeline that details the history of the periodic table. Include dates and the names of any important people. History of the Periodic Table In this activity, you must use the text provided (orange cards) and create a timeline that details the history of the periodic table. Include dates and the names of any important people. Categorising the Elements In this activity, you must use the element cards provided and find a way to organise them into a table that makes sense. Once you are done, copy your table into your workbook and explain why you organised the elements the way you did. Categorising the Elements In this activity, you must use the element cards provided and find a way to organise them into a table that makes sense. Once you are done, copy your table into your workbook and explain why you organised the elements the way you did. Balancing Chemical Equations In this activity, you must copy the equations from the white card into your workbook and use the molymods to help you find a balanced solution. The rules for balancing equations are listed at the top of the sheet. If you need help raise your hand. Balancing Chemical Equations In this activity, you must copy the equations from the white card into your workbook and use the molymods to help you find a balanced solution. The rules for balancing equations are listed at the top of the sheet. If you need help raise your hand. | <urn:uuid:f0189a38-85d2-4626-b376-7e6cdba389aa> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | https://missmilliemillie.files.wordpress.com/2018/07/history-of-the-periodic-table_lesson-plan.pdf | 2018-11-14T01:14:27Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00286.warc.gz | 664,046,979 | 966 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.980334 | eng_Latn | 0.994286 | [ "eng_Latn", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 967, 2313, 2768, 2792, 3523, 4320 ] | [ 4.40625 ] | 1 | 0 | PHYSICS INTRODUCTION TO SIMPLE HARMONIC OSCILLATORS LAB ( CAPT STYLE!... work together, hand in individually!) For each section: (Be sure to indicate independent and dependent variables) Design the experiment to measure Write a procedure Make a prediction Make a data table Carry out the experiment and collect the data Note any problems and/or difficulties Graph all results Make general conclusions A) For a string pendulum: Find a mathematical relationship to predict the period of a pendulum. Find the determining factor (weight, length, angle <<15 degrees) Measure its distance, height, or velocity vs time. Measure time accurately (10 swings, then divide by 10) Once you have found the property that determines the period, find the exact mathematical relationship (linear, quadratic, etc...), so use at least three to seven points. (Hint: 0,0 is a point). Plot at least three points to decide the most direct relationship. Use data from regression equations and correlations to prove your results. Check your result with the theoretical relationship as described in your text. ** In at least one of your trials try to measure distance,height, velocity vs. time B) For a weight hanging off a spring, Find the determining factor (weight, spring size, initial distance). Measure its height, velocity, acceleration vs. time. Measure time accurately (10 swings, then divide by 10) Plot at least three points to decide the most direct relationship. Use data from regression equations and correlations to prove your results. Check your result with the theoretical relationship as described in your text. Once you have found the property that determines the period, find the exact mathematical relationship (linear, quadratic, etc...), so use at least three to seven points. (Hint: 0,0 is a point). ** In at least one of your trials try to measure distance,height, velocity vs. time C) Use a circular object to turn and measure displacement vs time. Try different rates and radii. Use your results to explain how this is simple harmonic oscillation. 1. In your own words, clearly state the problem you are going to investigate. Include a clear definition of the independent and dependent variables that will be studied. 2. Design an experiment to solve the problem. Your experimental design should match your statement of the problem, should control the variables, and should be clearly described so that someone else could easily replicate your experiment. Include a control if appropriate. Show your design to your teacher before you begin your experiments. 3. After receiving permission from your teacher, work with your partner to carry out your experiments. Your teacher's approval does not necessarily mean that your teacher thinks your experiments are well designed. It simply means that in your teacher's judgement your experiments are not dangerous or likely to cause an unnecessary mess. 4. While conducting your experiments, take careful notes. Make sure to use appropriate charts, tables, or graphs. Your notes will not be scored, but they will be helpful to you later as you work independently to write about your experiments and the results. You must keep your own notes because you will not work with your lab partner when you write your report. Directions for Writing Your Laboratory Report Working on your own, summarize your experiments and results. You may use your own notes that you took previously while working with your partner. You may wish to write a first draft of your lab report on scratch paper. Your report should include the following general sections: * A clear statement of the problem you investigated. Include a clear identification of the independent and dependent variables that were studied. * A description of the experiment you carried out. Your description should be clear and complete enough so that someone could easily replicate your experiment. * The results of your experiment. Tables, charts, and/or graphs should be used where appropriate and should be properly labeled. * Your conclusions from your experiment. Your conclusions should be fully supported by data, and include appropriate calculations and analysis. * Comments about how valid you think your conclusions are. In other words, how much confidence do you have in your results and conclusions? Any factors that contribute to a lack of confidence in the results or conclusions should be discussed. Also, include the ways that your experiment could be improved if you were to do it again. | <urn:uuid:00c56dbc-4202-453b-bd37-dd4de447f2d2> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | http://www.richtherrn.net/physics/sholab.pdf | 2018-11-14T01:36:25Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00286.warc.gz | 482,782,428 | 883 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.997037 | eng_Latn | 0.998614 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2067, 4535 ] | [ 4.40625 ] | 1 | 0 | Walker Books Classroom Ideas Guinea Pig Town and other Animal Poems *Notes may be downloaded and printed for regular classroom use only. Ph +61 2 9517 9577 Fax +61 2 9517 9997 Author: Lorraine Marwood ISBN: 9781922077424 ARRP: $16.95 NZRRP: $18.99 April 2013 Outline: A beautiful collection of poems about animals. Squawk! Snuffle! Bark! Roar! Feathers, fins, scales, claws. Running, hopping, crawling, soaring. All creatures are celebrated in this new collection of poetry by Lorraine Marwood. Author Information: Lorraine Marwood was born and raised in rural Victoria and has lived for most of her married life on a dairy farm with her husband and their six children. Lorraine now lives in a rural town with plenty of bush around. Lorraine is an award-winning poet who has been widely published in literary magazines across Australia, as well as magazines in the UK, USA, New Zealand and Canada. She has also published several children's novels and collections of poetry. She loves to take writing workshops and encourages others to write their own poems. Her titles with Walker Books Australia include A Ute Picnic and Other Australian Poems, Ratwhiskers and Me, Note on the Door and Other Poems about Family Life which recieved a Notable mention in the Children's Book Council of Australia Awards and Star Jumps, which was short-listed for the Speech Pathology Australia Book of the Year Awards 2010, Lower Primary Category; received a Notable mention in the Children's Book Council of Australia Awards, 2010; and won the Prime Minister's Literary Awards, Children's Fiction, 2010. For more information about the author, please visit her website: www.lorrainemarwood.com. How to use these notes: This story works on many levels. The suggested activities are therefore for a wide age and ability range. Please select accordingly. These notes are for: Example of: Themes/ Ideas: National Curriculum Focus:* Key Learning Areas: * Primary years 2-4 * English * Poetry * English * Ages 7+ www.walkerbooks.com.au/teachers * Australia * Animals 1 English content descriptions include: These notes were created by Steve Spargo. For enquiries please contact: email@example.com Walker Books Australia Locked Bag 22 Newtown, N.S.W., 2042 Notes © 2013 Walker Books Australia Pty. Ltd. All Rights Reserved Classroom Ideas Lorraine Marwood on Guinea Pig Town Inspiration comes in many forms. Here are some great moments that inspired some of the individual poems. * A visit to the rooftop gardens of a restaurant in London to see the flamingos and ponds. Of course a poem resulted from observation. * A castle in Scotland that had a narwhal tusk as the top of a long staircase, sent me off in a scurry to research the narwhal and its history. In fact once an observation, or an idea came to mind, I researched until I knew the characteristics of that animal and could weave them poetically in a poem. Often the characteristics of the animal itself gave me the entry into the format of the poem itself. For example, in the Cheetah poem on page 129, I use the animal's distinct markings and its characteristic speed to be the main focus the poem. Some poems become the embodiment of a little observed incident and poems that fall into this category are While on Holiday and An Incident. These two poems are based on actual fact and I'm sure many children and adults could recall such an incident – this is ideal material for a poem. See if you can find the acrostic poem in the collection or have a go at writing a two-word poem like Penguins in 2 on page 23. Strong nouns and verbs are the best to use in this poem. Two-word poems also make great read aloud poems. Of course many poems come from experience like Having words with our Puppy or Routine. Now there's a challenge, see if you can write a one-word to one-line poem. Following the pathway of an action like a dog's walk is a great way to do this. I love the diversity of ways to write poetry and the diversity of the animals we have been gifted in the world. For me, observation, comparison and research are the forerunners to writing a poem. I am armed with material to allow the tone and emotion of the poem to work its magic. My webite is www.lorrainemarwood.com My blog site: http://lorrainemarwoodwordsintowriting.blogspot.com.au www.walkerbooks.com.au/teachers 2 Discussion Questions and Activities Classroom Poetry Ask students to visit the school library and find a short poem that they like. Have students write this poem on a piece of paper and then fold it in half (make sure that they record the title of the poem and the book that they found it in). Then ask students to put their chosen poems into a hat or box at the front of the classroom. Throughout the week select random poems from the box and read aloud. Ask students to discuss why they like/ dislike this poem and what type of poem it is. Choose interesting words from the poem for further discussion. Discuss different forms of poetry with students. What style of poetry is used in Guinea Pig Town? Look at Lorraine Marwood's other titles: A Note on the Door, Ratwhiskers and Me and Star Jumps. How does this book differ? Reading aloud Locate the poetry section in your school or local library. Choose a poem that you like and practise reading it aloud. Read the poem aloud to your class and then explain what interested you about the poem. Ask students to choose a poem from Guinea Pig Town to recite to the class. After they have recited the poem ask them to share why they chose this particular poem. Ask groups of students to take turns reading a line each of a particular poem. When they have practised a few times ask the group to perform their poem to the class. How does a poem change with different voices reading it? www.walkerbooks.com.au/teachers 3 Ideas Discussing the book What is the purpose of a table of contents? Why would one be included in this book? Locate the contents then read the titles of the poems in your section of the book. Choose one title which intrigues you and write your own poem using that title. (You may like to use the words and phrases you have brainstormed as inspiration.) After you have written your poem, compare it with Lorraine Marwood's version. Was hers like you expected? How were the subjects, themes and poetic style similar and different to your poem? Look at the section titles in the contents ("Bird Screech Street", "Aussie Animal Avenue", etc.) and write a poem that would fit a section of your choice. You can either write in Lorraine Marwood's style or your own unique style. Create a collage or other visual representation of Guinea Pig Town. This should use pictures and found objects, font, colour and composition to reflect the main subjects and themes of the book. Display these in the classroom. Choose one poem and rewrite as if it were prose (ordinary grammatical structure). Compare the poem and your prose adaptation and use it as a base for a class discussion on the difference between poetry and prose. Write a poem about a pet that you own or someone else's pet that you know well. Think of interesting or funny things that this animal does to include in your poem. Write a book review on Guinea Pig Town. Discuss what you liked about it, reference books that are similar and recommend who you think would like the book. Research Lorraine Marwood and prepare a PowerPoint (or similar) presentation about her. Have a class "scavenger hunt" and see who is first to locate the language techniques and types of poems listed below. (You may like to work in pairs for this activity – and make sure you remember to write down the quotes and/or page numbers!) After completing this activity, use the quotes you've found to create a memory card game where you match up the following techniques with examples from the book. Language techniques * rhyme * rhetorical question (a question that doesn't really seek an answer) * repetition * pun (a play on words) * hyperbole (extreme exaggeration) * alliteration (where the first letters of words near each other are repeated for poetic effect) * direct speech (something someone says aloud) * onomatopoeia (where a word imitates the sound it represents) * simile (a comparison using "like" or "as") * metaphor (a comparison where one thing is said to be another) * first person ("I") * aural imagery (description which appeals to sound or hearing) * visual imagery (description which appeals to how something looks) * olfactory imagery (description which appeals to how something smells) * tactile imagery (description relating to the sense of touch) * italics * enjambment (where a sentence continues from one line to the next without punctuation) * ellipsis ( … ) * parentheses (brackets) * sentences made of one word * words written in CAPITAL LETTERS * three verbs (action words) in a row Other books by Lorraine Marwood Ratwhiskers and Me 9781921150395 AU$15.95/NZ$17.99 Star Jumps 9781921150722 Classroom ideas available AU$15.95/NZ$17.99 Classroom ideas available www.walkerbooks.com.au/teachers Types of poems * a prose poem (a poem set out as if it was not a poem, with the lines stretching all the way across the page) * a poem with stanzas * a poem written in a child's voice * a poem which uses different fonts (lettering) * a humorous poem * a sad poem A Ute Picnic and Other Australian Poems 9781921529771 AU$15.95/NZ$17.99 Classroom ideas available 4 A Note on the Door and Other Poems about Family Life 9781921720611 AU$15.95/NZ$17.99 Classroom ideas available | <urn:uuid:62166127-8d65-4e64-afa7-d329597ed572> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | https://www.walkerbooks.com.au/statics/dyn/1366004030203/Guinea-Pig-Town.pdf | 2018-11-14T00:59:08Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00289.warc.gz | 1,033,080,349 | 2,179 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.995251 | eng_Latn | 0.997582 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2347, 4384, 7489, 9615 ] | [ 4.5625 ] | 3 | 7 | Curriculum Guide for 5 th Grade English Sentences 15 days Curriculum Objectives – 5.3, 5.5, 5.6 Biblical Worldview Essential Questions What has God said in His Word that relates directly or indirectly to our speech? | Objectives | Methods | Resources | |---|---|---| | The students will • Identify sentences • Differentiate the four kinds of sentences • Compose a prayer using the four kinds of sentences • Recognize the subject and predicate of a sentence • Distinguish simple and complete subjects and predicates • Identify you as the subject of an imperative sentence • Recognize compound subjects and predicates • Recognize compound sentences • Identify sentence fragments and run-on sentences • Compose sentences avoiding sentence fragments and run- ons • Diagram simple sentences • Use context clues to understand unfamiliar words • Locate sentences in selected Bible passages | • Group work • Class games • Complete worksheets individually, in pairs, and as a class • Student writing • Board activities • Review games • Activities using overhead transparencies • Assign workbook pages • Scripture search | • Teacher’s text (HBJ Language, 1990 ed.) • Student text (HBJ Language) • Practice Workbook (instructional Fair, ed.) • Sentence strips – A Beka Books • Overhead projector transparencies • Review game materials • Teacher-made quizzes • Teacher-made test • Newspaper articles • Magazine articles • Restaurant menus • Church bulletins • Holy Bible • Index cards • Charts, posters • Hershey Kisses • Notebook paper • A Beka Books language charts | 14 Days Curriculum Objectives – 5.2, 5.5, 5.8 Biblical Worldview Essential Questions After God created the world, He said it was "good." What is still "good" about a fallen world? | Objectives | Methods | Resources | |---|---|---| | The students will • Identify nouns • Use exact nouns in writing • Differentiate singular and plural nouns • Locate nouns in selected Bible passages • Form irregular plural nouns • Differentiate common and proper nouns • Capitalize proper nouns • Locate names of God in Scripture • Determine abbreviations for nouns • Form possessives of singular and plural nouns • Examine three types of compound words • Identify words in Psalm 119 that refer to the Word of God | • Take tour around the school • Plural noun spelling bee • Assign workbook pages • Group discussion • Review games completing worksheets, individually, in pairs and as a class • Board activities • Highlighting scripture • Activities using overhead transparencies • Compound word search • People/Things on Parade activity | • Teacher’s text (HBJ Language, 1990 ed.) • Student ext (HBJ Language) • Practice Workbook (Instructional Fair Grammar, Gr. 5 and 6, 1990 ed.) • Pictures from magazines • Newspapers • Holy Bible • Notebook paper • Index cards – noun • Cereal boxes • Bulletin board paper – 8 ft. • Art supplies • Sentence strips – A Beka Books • Overhead projector • Transparencies • Review game materials • Teacher-made quizzes • Teacher-made test | Pronouns 12 Days Curriculum Objectives – 5.2, 5.5, 5.8 Biblical Worldview Essential Questions How does God describe himself in the Bible by using "I am?" Verbs 24 Days Curriculum Objectives – 5.2, 5.5, 5.8 Biblical Worldview Essential Questions Where can we find passages where God uses verbs in the Bible? | Objectives | Methods | Resources | |---|---|---| | The students will • Identify action and linking verbs • Use clear and exact action verbs in writing • Differentiate main verbs and helping verbs • Discuss the eternal nature of God • Recognize present, past, and future tense verbs • Spell verbs of all tenses • Determine correct subject-verb agreement • Identify forms of the verbs be and have • Distinguish synonyms and antonyms • Identify irregular verbs • Identify direct objects • Identify easily confused verbs • Identify contractions • Identify and use prefixes • Diagram sentences containing verbs • Locate verbs in selected Bible passages | • Group discussion • Complete worksheets, individually, in pairs, and as a class • Present mock TV newscast • Play “Simon Says” • Class games • Role play • Group work • Scan newspaper headlines • Window words activity • Fishing for contractions • Direct object scramble • Board activities • Review games • Activities using overhead transparencies • Scripture search | • Small red, blue, yellow dots for each student • 2” red, yellow, blue dots • Selected sentences • Class games • Construction paper • Scissors • Holy Bible • Coin labeled with H & M • Flashcards • Magazines • Newspapers • Index cards • A Beka Language charts • A Beka sentence strips • Teacher’s Text (HBJ Language, 1990 ed.) • Student Text (HBJ Language • Practice workbook – (Instructional Fair Grammar, Gr. 5 & 6, 1990 ed.) • Overhead projector • Transparencies • Teacher-made quizzes • Teacher-made test • Notebook paper | Adjectives 13 Days Curriculum Objectives – 5.2, 5.5, 5.6, 5.8 Biblical Worldview Essential Questions How does God use adjectives in the Bible to describe Himself to us? | Objectives | Methods | Resources | |---|---|---| | The students will • Identify adjectives • Understand that adjectives describe nouns and pronouns • Use clear and vivid adjectives in writing • Identify articles and demonstrative adjectives • Understand that articles and demonstrative adjectives tell which one about a noun • Identify proper adjectives • Understand that proper adjectives are formed from proper nouns • Use articles, demonstrative adjectives, and proper adjectives in writing • Identify adjectives that follow linking verbs • Understand that adjectives may appear in different places in a sentence • Identify adjectives that compare nouns • Understand that adjectives can be used to compare two or more people, places, things or ideas • Identify and use suffixes • Diagram sentences containing adjectives • Locate adjectives in selected Bible passages | • Group activities • Class games • Design greeting cards • Draw pictures of most/least favorite lunch • “hearing Things” activity • Board activities • Review games • Complete worksheets individually, in pairs, and as a class • Activities using overhead transparencies • Diagram sentences | • Cardboard box • Pens of various shapes, sizes and kinds • Hand-drawn map of classroom • Large coin • Magazines • Menus from different restaurants • Twist tie for each student • Index cards • Used greeting cards • Art supplies • Construction paper • Holy Bible • Teacher’s Text (HBJ Language, 1990 ed.) • Student Text (HBJ) • Practice workbook (instructional Fair, ed.) • A Beka Language charts • A Beka sentence strips • Overhead projector • Transparencies • Review game materials • Teacher made quizzes • Teacher-made test • Notebook paper | Adverbs 11 days Curriculum Objectives – 5.2, 5.5, 5.6, 5.8 Biblical Worldview Essential Questions What adverbs are used in the Bible to describe how sin affects us? | Objectives | Methods | Resources | |---|---|---| | The students will • Identify adverbs • Understand that an adverb describes a verb, adjective, or other adverb • Identify adverbs that are used to compare • Identify negatives • Understand that negative means “no” or “not” • Discriminate between similar adjectives and adverbs • Identify and use homophones and homographs • Design a flyer describing a special event • Discuss how one’s words and actions affect others for good or bad • Diagram sentences containing adverbs • Locate adverbs in selected Bible passages | • Class games • Play Bingo Blast • Design a flyer • Diagram sentences • Class discussion • Board activities • Make lists of homophones/homo graphs • Group work • Review games • Complete worksheets individually, in pairs, and as a class • Activities using overhead transparencies | • Index cards • Masking tape • Newspapers • Bingo markers • Kitchen timer • Art supplies • Construction paper • Holy Bible • A Beka Language charts • A Beka sentence strips • Teacher’s Text (HBJ Language, 1990 ed.) • Student Text (HBJ) • Practice workbook (instructional Fair, ed.) • Overhead projector • Transparencies • Review game materials • Teacher-made quizzes • Teacher-made test • Adjective/adverbs poster • Notebook paper | Prepositions, Conjunctions, Interjections 13 Days Curriculum Objectives – 5.2, 5.3, 5.5, 5.8 Biblical Worldview Essential Questions Where can we find examples of interjections, prepositions, and conjunctions in the Bible? How do these parts of speech help us understand what God is saying in the Bible? | Objectives | Methods | Resources | |---|---|---| | The students will • Memorize a list of common prepositions • Understand that prepositions relate nouns and pronouns to other words in a sentence • Identify prepositional phrases • Understand that a prepositional phrase includes a preposition, its object, and the words between them • Use vivid prepositions in writing • Determine whether a word is used as a preposition or as an adverb • Identify conjunctions and interjections • Understand that a conjunction connects words of groups of words in a sentence • Understand that interjections are words or groups of words that express strong feeling • Assess the importance of using self-control with our words • Identify and use word origins • Diagram sentences containing prepositions and conjunctions | • Play Charades • Diagram sentences • Draw/label park scene with characters and prepositions • ACSI visit story • Oral drill • Board activities • Bible search • Class games • Complete worksheets individually, in pairs, and as a class • Activities using overhead transparencies • Group discussion | • Photos from magazines/newspapers • Index cards • Conjunction cards • Slips of paper naming prepositional phrases • Illustrations for hiding in classroom • Stopwatch or timer • Holy Bible • A Beka sentence strips • A Beka language charts • Teacher’s Text (HBJ Language, 1990 ed.) • Student Text (HBJ) • Practice workbook (instructional Fair, ed.) • Overhead projector • Transparencies • Teacher-made quizzes • Teacher-made test • Notebook paper | Mechanics Wrap-up 25 Days Curriculum Objectives – 5.2, 5.3, 5.5, 5.6, 5.8 Biblical Worldview Essential Questions Where can we find examples of letters written in the Bible? | Objectives | Methods | Resources | |---|---|---| | The students will • Discuss value of good grammar in communicating with others • Identify correct punctuation for all kinds of sentences • Correctly use capital letters, punctuation, and abbreviations in writing sentences • Understand that commas are used to separate parts of sentences • Identify proper nouns and proper adjectives • Understand that proper nouns, proper adjectives and the pronoun I are always capitalized • Associate abbreviations and the words from which they are formed • Understand that most abbreviations begin with capital letters and are followed by a period • Recognize parts of a friendly letter • Identify the return address and receiver’s address on an envelope • Write a friendly letter and address an envelope • Identify parts of an outline • Locate different kinds of titles • Identify direct quotations and dialogue • Summarize dialogue in selected Bible passages | • Pantomime • Group activity • Outline a section/chapter from a textbook • Compile a comma booklet • Student writing • Act out comma rules • Board activities • Class games • Complete worksheets individually, in pairs, and as a class • Activities using overhead transparencies | • Abbreviation cards • Punctuation cards • Index cards • Magazines • Construction paper • Cancelled envelopes from various addresses • Friendly letter cut into puzzle pieces • Outline parts labeled on index cards • Yarn • Copy of reproducible – Mailbox, 4/5, 1997, pg. 55 • Art supplies • Envelopes • Unlined paper • Overhead projector • Overhead transparencies • Holy Bible • Teacher’s Text (HBJ Language, 1990 ed.) • Student Text (HBJ) • Practice workbook (instructional Fair, ed.) • Teacher-made test • Notebook paper • Friendly letter poster | Persuasive Paragraphs 13 Days Curriculum Objectives – 5.1, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.8, 5.9 Biblical Worldview Essential Questions How can persuasive writing affect a Christian's view of the future? | Objectives | Methods | Resources | |---|---|---| | The students will • Discuss harmful effects of smoking • Compare a Christian’s body to a temple • Read excerpts from Ramona and Her Father by Beverly Cleary • Analyze how effectively a write uses reasons to support opinions • Understand the different uses of business letters • Identify reasons that support an opinion • Recognize that writers of business letters use beginning and ending sentences to capture the reader’s interest • Brainstorm, select topic, gather and organize information for a persuasive paragraph in a business letter • Discuss tips on how to recognize propaganda techniques • Draft/revise a persuasive paragraph in a business letter • Proofread/publish a persuasive paragraph for capitalization, punctuation, grammar, and spelling | • Group discussion • Scan materials for information about smoking • Group and individual reading • Student writing • Proofreading written work • Brainstorming • Guest speaker • Board activities • Proofreading written work | • Leaflets, posters, etc. about smoking • Commercial clips • Ads from newspapers/magazines • Stationary/envelopes • Junk mail • Charts/posters • Ramona and Her Father by Beverly Cleary • Doctor or school nurse • Holy Bible • Teacher’s text (HBJ Language, 1990 ed.) • Student text • Notebook paper | Paragraphs of Comparison & Contrast 14 Days Time Allotted Curriculum Objectives – 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7, 5.8, 5.9 Biblical Worldview Essential Questions If you were God, what would you say to society about cultural differences? | Objectives | Methods | Resources | |---|---|---| | The students will • Recognize that paragraphs of comparison/contrast show similarities and differences • Evaluate things in order to compare and contrast them • Brainstorm, select topic, gather information, organize facts, draft, and revise paragraph • Analyze how writers change tone to fit audience purpose • Use conjunctions to combine two sentences into one compound sentence • Proofread paragraph for capitalization, punctuation, grammar, and spelling • Proofread paragraph to see if proper nouns have been capitalized • Proofread for correct use of apostrophes in possessive nouns • Discuss tips for giving and listening to an oral report • Research various cultures’ similarities and differences • Design a bulletin board depicting similarities and differences in various cultures • Practice listening and speaking in a response group • Prepare to explain to someone how they may be saved | • Group and individual reading • Conduct research using reference materials • Brainstorming • Compare/contrast selected Bible characters • Group work • Board activities • Proofreading written work • Group discussion • Student writing • Activities using overhead | • Reference materials • Library books • Art • Supplies construction paper • Holy Bible • Teacher’s text (HBJ Language, 1990 ed.) • Student text (HBJ Language) • Index cards • Notebook paper • Overhead projector | News Story 13 days Curriculum Objectives – 5.1, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.8, 5.9 Biblical Worldview Essential Questions How do you think God feels about our news today? If you were God, what would you do about some of the stories and words that are used in articles and songs today? | Objectives | Methods | Resources | Assessment | |---|---|---|---| | The students will • Read and respond to news stories • Analyze how effectively writers include details that provide enough information • Recognize that a news story gives facts about a newsworthy event • Discuss how the Bible is God’s Good News to man • Identify parts of a news story (headline, lead, and body) • Classify facts and opinions • Recognize that facts, not opinions, should be presented in a news story • Recognize that writers of news stories use precise words to tell exactly what happened • Brainstorm, select topic, gather information, organize facts, draft, and revise a news story • Discuss tips on how to interview • Identify and revise sentences to delete wordy language • Proofread for capitalization, punctuation, grammar, spelling, and correct use of quotation marks • Create a class newsletter using completed news stories | • Role play an interview situation with a partner • Examine newspapers • Invite a guest speaker to class • Group and individual reading • Brainstorming • Student writing • Group discussion • Proofreading written work • Board activities • Group work | • Newspapers/news magazines • Holy Bible • Reporter from local newspaper • Teacher’s text (HBJ Language, 1990 ed.) • Student text (HBJ Language) • Notebook paper | • Class newsletter • Oral responses • Participation in the creation of class newsletter • Individual news stories • Teacher-made rubric for news stories • Responses to questions in text • Responses during interview with partner | | <urn:uuid:7548078f-603b-4f45-ae1c-bb0a29d69654> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | http://dbcs.org/documents/Guides/LanguageArts/Language_Arts_5.pdf | 2018-11-14T01:23:49Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00289.warc.gz | 83,340,541 | 3,767 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.879492 | eng_Latn | 0.91476 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1564, 3024, 3182, 4888, 6771, 8226, 10087, 12043, 13571, 15235, 17080 ] | [ 4.28125 ] | 2 | 1 | Chinese New Year The Chinese people celebrate the start of each New Year with a fantastic f_________. Families get together and give each other p_________. The Chinese people dress up in a d_________ costume and dance in the street. The Chinese people let off very loud f_________. The bang is supposed to scare away g_________ and m_________. Chinese people feel that it is important to be part of a f_________ at the start of each new year. Word Bank dragon fireworks ghosts family presents monsters festival Chinese New Year The Chinese people celebrate the start of each New Year with a fantastic _________. Families get together and give each other _________. Some- times Chinese people celebrate the new year in the streets by having a _________. During the parade the people dance wearing a large costume of a _________ _________. The dragon appears to chase after a _________. The Chinese people let off _________, these are like the fireworks we have on bonfire night, they make a very loud bang. The bang is supposed to scare away _________ and _________. Chinese people feel that it is important to be part of a _________ at the start of each new year. Word Bank firecrackers Chinese dragon parade ghosts family presents monsters festival firestick Chinese New Year Answer the questions below in full sentences. Complete your answers as one piece of writing, do not number them. Check your work when it is finished for any mistakes. How do Chinese people celebrate the new year? What kinds of buildings close down over the new year period? What do the Chinese people dress up as when they are celebrating the new year? What kinds of fireworks do Chinese people let off at the new year celebrations? What kinds of spirits are they trying to frighten away by setting off these firecrackers? Where do the majority of the festival celebrations take place? Why is it so important for Chinese people to be part of a family at new year? What do you think you would enjoy the most about the Chinese New Year celebrations? | <urn:uuid:c72c2039-25d5-4a31-b9c3-d9b73e122955> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | http://www.primaryresources.co.uk/re/pdfs/chinesenewyear.pdf | 2018-11-14T00:54:53Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00288.warc.gz | 498,184,252 | 432 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998523 | eng_Latn | 0.999373 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 544, 1364, 2141 ] | [ 3.59375 ] | 2 | 4 | Kiddush is the first word in the . It means, "In the beginning." Each circle below represents one of the seven days of . Inside the circles are Hebrew words from . Use the English clues to locate each Hebrew word. Write the number of the day which contains that word in the blank next to the English clue. | <urn:uuid:03a22951-bcf5-476c-8650-b6f79873e1d8> | CC-MAIN-2018-47 | http://kavanahcorner.com/teacher_center/guides/kiddush.pdf | 2018-11-14T01:31:38Z | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2018-47/segments/1542039741569.29/warc/CC-MAIN-20181114000002-20181114022002-00289.warc.gz | 187,625,291 | 71 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.999125 | eng_Latn | 0.999125 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 310 ] | [ 3.1875 ] | 1 | 1 | Design and Technology Whole School Progression Document Design and Technology in the Early Years Nursery Throughout the year, children will develop their own ideas and will decide what materials they need to express them. Children talk to adults about what they want to create and adults skillfully model and offer suggestions to extend/support the children as required. Children have free access to materials and tools, such as scissors, glue, paper clips and fastenings that they may need to make their ideas. Skill | | Term 1 | | Term 2 | |---|---|---|---| | To show a preference for a dominant hand. To use one handed tools and equipment. To join materials. | | To use one handed tools and equipment. To join different materials and explore different textures. To explore different materials freely, to develop their ideas about how to use them and what to do. | | | To cut using tools. To join materials. To join materials in different ways. In weekly baking/cooking: To peel using tools to cut, spread, mix and peel food. | | To my imagination to build. To talk about my ideas. To cut using tools. To join materials. To join materials in different ways. To make a simple model In weekly baking/cooking: To peel using tools to cut, spread, mix and peel food. | | | As Designers, hold scissors and a hole punch correctly. As Designers, make snips with scissors. As Designers, use scissors to cut along a straight line. As Designers, join paper together using glue and tape. | | As Designers, hold scissors correctly. As Designers, use scissors and a hole punch correctly. As Designers, use scissors to cut out a shape. As Designers, join 3D containers and boxes together using glue and tape to create a model. | | Reception Reception will continue to access their continuous provision where they can independently use resources, practise skills and display knowledge and understanding of design and technology principles. Adults in the foundation stage unit will facilitate and model skills, as well as providing the resources, materials and equipment the children require. Adults will continue to model how to use resources, materials and equipment accordingly through allocated provision time. There will be some enhancement and focused teaching to ensure design and technology skills are being taught and implemented effectively. These adult-led projects will occur throughout the year and adults will teach by modelling the activity and provide support for the child to independently apply skills in their allocated provision time. In the EYFS, we often go with the child's interests and so children choose and select their own materials and resources, as well as identifying a product to create. Adults in the provision may also model and encourage skills/products to make , to move learning forward. Skill How does EYFS prepare for future learning in NC D&T Disciplines? | | Term 1 | | Term 2 | |---|---|---|---| | To develop their small motor skills so that they can use a range of tools competently, safely and confidently. To explore different materials freely, to develop their ideas about how to use them and what to do. To return to and build on their previous learning, refining ideas and developing their ability to represent them. | | To develop their small motor skills so that they can use a range of tools competently, safely and confidently. To return to and build on their previous learning, refining ideas and developing their ability to represent them. | | | To use my imagination to build. To talk about my ideas. To use my senses to explore different materials. To make models for specific purposes. To join materials in different ways. To choose the most effective materials, tools and techniques for a purpose. To explain my choices. To work with my friends. | | To hold mark making tools with increasing control. To plan and design a product. To talk about my ideas. To join materials in different ways. To explain my choices. To work with my friends. To choose the most effective materials, tools and techniques for a purpose. To choose techniques and apply them. To use cutting skills safely. To fold and join paper. | | | As Designers, understand that strong and stable models need to have bigger and heavier blocks/boxes at the bottom. As Designers, learn the skill of overlapping to make structures strong and stable. As Designers, investigate different joining techniques to allow paper to be secure (glue, tape, staple) and to move (treasury tag, split pin) | | As Designers -share their ideas about how they will make a part of their puppet move. -draw a design of a puppet with a moving part and identify tools and resources needed to make it. -using drawing, cutting and joining skills to make a puppet that has a moving part. -apply finishing techniques to their puppet. - learn about Margaret Knight, the first woman to design a paper bag. Learn that she was from America and went on to founder the Eastern Paper Bag Company. Learn to fold and glue paper to make a paper bag. | | | Join Build 3D Blocks Biggest Heaviest Bottom Strong Secure. Overlap Secure Move Glue Tape Staple Treasury tag Hole punch Split pin | | Join Move Cut Draw Design Hole punch Split pin Finishing techniques Paint Margaret Knight America Paper bag Fold Glue | | Design, Make, Evaluate I can develop my own ideas about which materials to use and what to make. Gain some experience of designing, making and evaluating products for a specified user and purpose. I can share the purpose in mind before I create my product, with a friend or adult. I can confidently share my creation, explaining the process I have used to create it. Progression in KS1 and KS2 Below is an outline of progression for the designing, making and evaluating process of D&T; as well as progression in technical knowledge. Underneath this progression plan, is a more in-depth breakdown of knowledge and skills for each year group in KS1 and phase cycle in KS2 with an overview of each project. Health and safety –Risk assessments are carried out prior to undertaking D&T activities. All health and safety policy and guidance are followed. | UKS2 | |---| | Understanding | | contexts, users and | | purposes | Generating, developing, modelling and communicating ideas Across UKS2 pupils should: * generate innovative ideas drawing on research * use a range of drawing skills, discussion, prototypes, pattern pieces and computer-aided design. | Food | |---| | preparation, | | | Autumnn | | Spring | |---|---|---|---| | Year 1 | | Food Preparing Fruit and Vegetables Why is a fruit salad a suitable snack for children? | | | | Why should I use scissors correctly and | | | | | safely? | | | | | Revisit previous learning and ensure all can | | | | | use scissors correctly | | | | | | Structures Why do we need bridges? | | | Textiles 2-D Shape to 3D Product Why is a small teddy bear a good toy for a child? | | Food Healthy and Varied Diet How do you make a healthy sweet snack? | |---|---|---| | Structures Shell Structures inc CAD How do gift boxes work? | | Food Healthy and Varied Diet cont... How do you make a healthy wrap? | | | Textiles | Food Celebrating Culture and Seasonality How do you make a healthy energy snack? | | | Combining Different Fabric Shapes | | | | Why might we need a wallet? | | | Mechanical Systems Gears or Pulleys Kapow – How can I make a toy vehicle move? | | Structures Structures CAD designs TBC | | | Term 1 | | Term 2 | |---|---|---|---| | Why should I use scissors correctly and safely? | Why should I use scissors correctly and safely? | | Food Preparing Fruit and Vegetables | | | | | Why is a fruit salad a suitable snack for | | | | | children? | | Reception: To use cutting skills safely. | | Baking skills in EYFS To peel using tools. To cut, spread, mix and peel food. | | | Continue to access activities where they can independently practice skills and display knowledge and understanding of design and technology principles. Adults will facilitate and model skills, as well as providing resources, materials and equipment the children require. Adults will continue to model how to use resources, materials and equipment accordingly through allocated curriculum time. | | To know where fruits and vegetables are grown. To know which parts of fruits we eat. To handle, smell and taste fruit. To know basic food hygiene practices. To know how to use simple utensils and equipment: peel, chop, and slice. To know how to prepare a fruit salad. | | | Recap Reception: Join Build 3D Blocks Biggest Heaviest Bottom Strong Secure. Overlap Secure Move Glue Tape Staple Treasury tag Hole punch Split pin | | Taste, texture, bitter, sharp, tangy, sour, juicy, leafy, smooth, hygiene | | | Year 1 Summer sliders and levers | | Y2 – human diet LKS2 – preparing food hygienically UKS2 – use a heated appliance | | | | Term 1 | | Term 2 | | | Textiles Templates and Joining Techniques | Structures Why do we need bridges? | Structures Why do we need bridges? | | | How do you turn a fabric into a hand puppet toy? | | | | EYFS – threading beads and laces. Gained some experience of designing, making and evaluating products for a specified user and purpose. | EYFS – use of construction kits | |---|---| | To thread a metal needle and tie a knot. To complete a running stitch. To know how to finish off. To know what buttons are used for. To fasten a button on a piece of fabric. To attach two pieces of fabric using a simple running stitch. | To know the parts of a bridge – foundation, deck, towers, cables. To know and discuss how to make structures strong and stable. To evaluate existing famous bridges. To know how to use drawings to show ideas. To know how to make joints. To know how to make towers/ foundations. To know what will make a structure weaker or stronger. To know how to test the strength and evaluate their bridge. | | Needle, thread, knot, seam, fabric | Freestanding, function, beam, weak, strong, stability, base, foundation, join, fix | | LKS2 – cutting fabric, seam allowance and a range of stitches UKS2 – create a bag with a fastening, more complex stitches | UKS2 – make a 3D construction frame | | | Term 1 | | Term 2 | |---|---|---|---| | Textiles 2-D Shape to 3D Product Why is a small teddy bear a good toy for a child? | Textiles 2-D Shape to 3D Product | Food Healthy and Varied Diet How do you make a healthy sweet snack? | Food Healthy and Varied Diet | | | Why is a small teddy bear a good toy for a child? | | How do you make a healthy sweet snack? | | Y2 – toy puppet unit learnt running stitch, threading needles, tying knots. | | Y1 - designing and making a healthy fruit salad PSHE and Science – healthy diets for wellbeing/growth | | | To evaluate existing products. To know the intended user and purpose. To draw ideas and choose a design. To add labels to their chosen design. To produce and use a template. To understand seam allowance. To know how to join two pieces of felt with an overhand or simple stitch. To evaluate the product and discuss possible improvements. | | To design and make a sweet dish, such as fairy cake or fruit tarts, for a target audience and for a particular purpose e.g., party, celebration. Pupils will begin by investigating a range of food products containing wheat and comparing seasonal food in other areas of the world. We will then investigate a range of sweet dishes and evaluate them against what is essential for a healthy and varied diet, using our knowledge of the eatwell plate. They will consider how ingredients can be swapped or altered slightly to cater for a healthy and balanced dish. Pupils will explore a variety of fairy cakes and fruit tarts and their texture and taste, recording their results on a table. Pupils will also explore the ingredients needed to make these sweet dishes and the recipe they follow. Pupils can choose a sweet dish to create from a variety of recipes for fairy cakes or fruit tarts. | | | Pattern, template, needle, thread, knot, stiffen, seam, allowance | | | | Prepares for UKS2 – create a bag with a fastening, more complex LKS2 - Healthy wrap Year 5 Mechanical Systems: Gears or Pull | | Term 1 | | Term 2 | |---|---|---|---| | | Structures | Food Healthy and Varied Diet How do you make a healthy wrap? | | | | Shell Structures How do gift boxes work? | | | | Year 1 Mechanisms Sliders and Levers unit with moving parts | | Y1 - designing and making a healthy fruit salad PSHE and Science – healthy diets for wellbeing/growth | | | To design and make a moving card/storybook, based on an imaginary storybook character and for a particular purpose. This topic will teach our children to bring stories to life. Children will begin by investigating, analysing and evaluating books and, where available, other products which have a range of lever and linkage mechanisms. Pupils will learn how to recreate some of these moving parts using a variety of tools and techniques before investigating different types of fonts and graphics. The children will design, create and evaluate their very own moving card/storybook with moving mechanisms. | | To design and make flatbreads/wraps for someone and for a particular purpose. Pupils will acquire the knowledge, skills and understanding about seasonal food in the UK and seasonal food around the world. Children will be able to differentiate between ingredients that are grown, reared, caught and processed and will combine these ingredients to make a meal with multiple processes and a variety of skills. When exploring food around the world, children will focus on creating flatbread/wraps and how the ingredients can be adapted according to and in line with the country they are made in (e.g. burrito, gyros, falafel tortilla wraps etc.) Pupils will create a design criteria and will adapt their design, ingredients and cooking method in line with the design criteria. Pupils will be expected to design, prepare and make a wrap containing meat/meat substitute filling, vegetables and relish/sauce. Pupils will evaluate their finished savoury meal against design criteria. | | | series circuit, fault, connection, toggle switch, push-to- make switch, push-to-break switch, battery, battery holder, bulb, bulb holder, wire, insulator, conductor, crocodile clip control, program, system, input device, output device user, purpose, function, prototype, design criteria, innovative, appealing, design brief | | texture, taste, sweet, sour, hot, spicy, appearance, smell, preference, greasy, moist, cook, fresh, savoury hygienic, edible, grown, reared, caught, frozen, tinned, processed, seasonal, harvested healthy/varied diet | | in… | | Term 1 | | Term 2 | |---|---|---|---| | Textiles Combining Different Fabric Shapes Why might we need a wallet? | | | Food | | | | | Celebrating Culture and Seasonality | | | | | How do you make a healthy energy snack? | | LKS2 – basic stitching techniques, threading a needle, fastening a row of stitches. | | LKS2 – healthy wraps and snacks | | Vocabulary stiffen, strengthen, reinforce, temporary, | | Term 1 | | Term 2 | |---|---|---|---| | Mechanical Systems Gears or Pulleys Kapow – How can I make a vehicle move? | Mechanical Systems Gears or Pulleys | Structures Structures CAD designs | Structures Structures | | | Kapow – How can I make a vehicle move? | | CAD designs | | Yr2 | | Yr 4 Structures | | | To design and make a controllable toy vehicle with gears or pulleys, for example a dragster, off-road vehicle, sports car, lorry etc. Pupils will begin by investigating, analysing and evaluating existing everyday products and existing or pre-made toys that incorporate gear or pulley systems. Year 5 will design, make and evaluate their toy vehicle with gears or pulleys against design criteria. Pupils will be encouraged to evaluate throughout and the final product in use, comparing it to the original design specification. Critically evaluate the quality of the design, the manufacture, functionality, innovation shown and fitness for the intended user and purpose. | | tbc | | Function, pattern, template, reinforce, seam frame structure, | <urn:uuid:dd55d7d9-6207-4b76-8933-507f2ad70cd3> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://sharlstonschool.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/8/2024/06/DT-Whole-School-Subject-Progression-1.pdf | 2024-10-08T19:03:44+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944253554.4/warc/CC-MAIN-20241008171352-20241008201352-00020.warc.gz | 457,669,900 | 3,805 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.923924 | eng_Latn | 0.996261 | [ "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "unknown", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 55, 2214, 5681, 5709, 6166, 6237, 6473, 6506, 6875, 7495, 9137, 10244, 12116, 14745, 14750, 15113, 16236 ] | [ 4.5625 ] | 1 | 0 | TOOTH DECAY PREVENTION Tooth Decay Prevention Tooth decay is a progressive disease resulting in the interaction of bacteria that naturally occur on the teeth and sugars in the everyday diet. Sugar causes a reaction in the bacteria, causing them to produce acids that break down the mineral in teeth, forming a cavity. Dentists remove the decay and fill the tooth using a variety of fillings, restoring the tooth to a healthy state. Nerve damage can result from severe decay and may require a crown (a crown is like a large filling that goes over the tooth to cap it, making it stronger by covering it). Avoiding unnecessary decay simply requires strict adherence to a dental hygiene regimen: brushing and flossing twice a day, regular dental check-ups, diet control and fluoride treatment. Practicing good hygiene avoids unhealthy teeth and costly treatment. Sealants The grooves and depressions that form the chewing surfaces of the back teeth are extremely difficult (if not impossible) to clean of bacteria and food. As the bacteria reacts with the food, acids form and break down the tooth enamel, causing cavities. Recent studies indicate that 88 percent of total cavities in American school children are caused this way. Tooth sealants protect these susceptible areas by sealing the grooves and depressions, preventing bacteria and food particles from residing in these areas. Sealant material is a resin typically applied to the back teeth (molars and premolars) and areas prone to cavities. It lasts for several years but needs to be checked during regular appointments and occasionally replaced. Fluoride Fluoride is a substance that helps teeth become stronger and resistant to decay. Regularly drinking water treated with fluoride and brushing and flossing regularly ensures significantly lower cavities. Dentists can evaluate the level of fluoride in a primary drinking water source and recommend fluoride supplements (usually in tablets or drops), if necessary. Diet Control The teeth, bones and soft tissues of the mouth require a healthy, well-balanced diet. A variety of foods from the five food groups help minimize and avoid cavities and other dental problems. Consumption of foods that contain sugars and starches should be decreased. These foods can include candies, cookies, chips and crackers. Healthier foods, such as vegetables, low-fat yogurt and cheeses, help promote stronger teeth. Dental Visits You should visit your dentist twice a year (about once every six months). In order to maintain a healthy smile, it is vital to have professional cleanings and regular check-ups. Your dentist will examine your teeth and provide an evaluation of existing dental problems and proposed treatment. If you have a dental emergency, you should call your dentist immediately. | <urn:uuid:edb2c142-39e6-4172-ba86-8e45a1728550> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://dentistry.uth.edu/dotAsset/9c824062-a386-4554-af16-738e5a1c0698.pdf | 2024-10-08T18:37:48+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944253554.4/warc/CC-MAIN-20241008171352-20241008201352-00020.warc.gz | 176,553,193 | 546 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.99845 | eng_Latn | 0.99845 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2801 ] | [ 3.890625 ] | 1 | 0 | Space Science Expert Complete the five steps to earn your Space Science Expert Badge. 1. Uncover the stuff you are made of: Explore the origin of dark matter/dark energy and why it continues to stump scientists even today. Take some time to think about what you are "made" of. What makes you unique? What gifts/skills do you have that could change the world? 2. Explore the brilliance of the stars: Explore the origin of constellations in this video and challenge yourself to create your own. Be sure to include a name for your constellation as well as a backstory for how it came to be. 3. Discover telescopes as light collectors: Check out this video about the science of telescopes to learn more about their role as light collectors. After you watch the video, challenge yourself to build your own telescope using materials you find outdoors or around your home. When your telescope is complete, take an evening walk after dark and scan the skies. 4. Find the light in the darkness: Check out this footage from NASA featuring upcoming 2020 missions. After you watch the video, challenge yourself to design/build a solution that will assist NASA on one of their upcoming missions. Share your creations with GSCWM by tagging us on social media! 5. Share your knowledge: Share your findings by creating a short video or writing a blog post about the mysteries of the night sky! | <urn:uuid:66e37fdf-393f-4bcd-820d-7b9f15cba990> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://www.gscwm.org/content/dam/gscwm-redesign/documents/virtual/Space%20Science%20Expert%20Badge%20Program%20(Senior).pdf | 2024-10-08T19:28:47+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944253554.4/warc/CC-MAIN-20241008171352-20241008201352-00020.warc.gz | 691,115,783 | 283 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.999024 | eng_Latn | 0.999024 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1379 ] | [ 3.203125 ] | 1 | 1 | BEEPS, CHIRPS & BLASTS Science and Engineering Education Center The University of Texas at Dallas Challenge Explore how bats use sound to communicate and to navigate their environments. Activity 1 ⚫clicker⚫bandana Select one "bat" and one "mosquito" (bat prey). In an open space, blindfold the bat with a bandana. Give the mosquito the clicker. Let the remaining learners stand as "obstacles" who are allowed to clap only when directly faced by the bat. The obstacles do not move. The mosquito can move to avoid the bat, but must make sounds frequently. The objective is for the bat to avoid the obstacles and tag the mosquito. Repeat the activity with different bats and mosquitoes. Activity 2 ⚫ 2– 4 balls with bells Go to an empty room (like a gym) or hallway. Holding to jingle bells, close your eyes and spin in a circle a few times. Keeping your eyes closed, stop and roll your bell in front of you. Listen how long it takes to hit the wall. Turn to the right and roll the other ball. Which wall is closer. How do you know? You just used echolocation! Activity 3 ⚫ Bandanas for all Most female bats give birth to one or two pups at a time. A pup is born without fur; it stays warm by clinging to its mother when it nurses or by sharing body heat with other pups as they roost together in a nursery colony. A female doesn't nurse just any pup. She locates her own pup by recognizing its unique call and scent. When she returns to the nursery colony after an evening flight, she calls her pup, listens for its call, and then sniffs her pup when united. In an open area, divide the learners into 2 groups: mothers and pups. Create mother and pup pairs and assign each pup a distinct call. Allow for practice time for the mothers to listen to their pups calls, then blindfold and spread out the mothers. Have the pups call for their mothers using the assigned call. Continue until each pair is united. Calls: 1) single hand clap, 2) 2 quick hand claps, 3)3 quick hand claps, 4) single snap of fingers, 5) 2 quick snaps of fingers, 6) 3 quick snaps of fingers, 7) single hand clap followed by a snap of fingers, 8) 2 hand claps followed by a snap of fingers. Science Scoop Bats are capable of making many different sounds. Pups often chirp, and roosting bats tend to squeak and squeal. Some bats emit warning calls, and others croak loudly during mating season. Bats also emit sounds too high in frequency for people to hear. They are created in the bat's larynx and emitted through the mouth or nose. Called echolocation, these ultrasonic clicks bounce off objects in a bat's path and return to the bat's ears. Many bats that eat insects have a piece of cartilage, or tragus, at the base of each ear thought to provide better sound definition. By echolocating, a bat can create an image of its completely dark environment. With this image, it can avoid obstacles and locate food. A bat flying and searching for insects might emit 10-50 ultrasonic sounds per second. A bat that has located an insect might emit 200 or more sounds per second! Science and Engineering Education Center The University of Texas at Dallas 800 W. Campbell Road, FA 31 Richardson, Texas 75080 www.utdallas.edu/seec email@example.com | <urn:uuid:0c1d9440-9dbf-477b-9e49-d3988f43a1e2> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://friscolibrary.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/78/2020/06/Beeps-Chirps-and-Blasts.pdf | 2024-10-08T17:50:28+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944253554.4/warc/CC-MAIN-20241008171352-20241008201352-00020.warc.gz | 235,200,551 | 770 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998843 | eng_Latn | 0.998843 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 3234 ] | [ 4.4375 ] | 1 | 3 | TEXT SET TOPIC: Black and Native American Perspectives During the American Revolution Grade Level Recommendation: Grades 4–5 Key Focus Areas for Design: Counternarratives Current Events Identity Language Perspectives Social Justice Topic: This text set is about Black and Native American perspectives during the American Revolution. Curriculum Connection: This text set can be done as is but is also suggested as a companion resource for any grades 4–5 curriculum unit that focuses on the American Revolution, such as: * Teachers College, Reading Workshop, Grade 4, Unit 3 * EL Education, Grade 4, Module 3 * Wit & Wisdom, Grade 4, Module 3 Context/Rationale/Reflections: In this unit, students build knowledge of the American Revolution, which often centers the dominant narrative of Loyalists vs. Patriots in published materials and resources. This narrative typically includes limited African American and Native perspectives (e.g., discussion of the enslavement of African Americans and the colonization of Native land). Important teacher notes for this text set * Consider language: Discuss with students using the term "enslaved" to acknowledge the humanity of enslaved people (see more from Anthony Bogues). Additionally, talk with students about Native peoples' language preferences (see more at Native Knowledge 360°), * Consider how to engage students in conversation about these topics, especially for students who relate to the identities centered in this text set. See Let's Talk: Facilitating Critical Conversations with Students (Learning for Justice) for support. Resources to build teacher background knowledge: Teaching Hard History, Learning for Justice (formerly Teaching Tolerance): In particular, see Objective 5, which centers on the roles that slavery, Native nations, and African Americans played in the Revolutionary War. An American Secret: The Untold Story of Native American Enslavement (NPR): Andrés Reséndez discusses the history of as many as five million enslaved Native Americans. A note for multilingual students: Text Sets are meant to support knowledge building! Support opportunities for student translanguaging while using this text set by encouraging students to write, discuss, and present in their home language(s), English, or a combination while they are learning. Text set authors: Educator authors—Tawna Jordan, Tanya Hill; Additional author—Tori Filler | Text/ Resource | Author/ Creator | Brief Description/Notes | Why use this resource? | |---|---|---|---| | The Untold Story of Black Patriots VIDEO | Kareem Abdul Jabar | 3-minute video centered on questioning why the dominant narratives about the American Revolution do not showcase the essential contributions or perspectives of African Americans. | Considers how which information is included or left out of historical retellings impacts our understanding of events. | | Excerpt from Stamped: Racism, Antiracism, and You SHORT TEXT | Jason Reynolds and Ibram X. Kendi | Book excerpt questions who was included in Thomas Jefferson’s notion of “all men are created equal.” | Expands on the narrative about Thomas Jefferson and freedoms. | | Created Equal (0:00–9:15 only) VIDEO (THEATER) | Colonial Williamsburg | A museum theater exploration of African American perspectives on the Declaration of Independence, including that “all men” were not really equal in the Founders’ eyes. | Complicates dominant narrative of the Founders/founding documents. | | Text/ Resource | Author/ Creator | Brief Description/Notes | Why use this resource? | |---|---|---|---| | Invasion of America INTERACTIVE MAP | Claudio Saunt | Interactive map demonstrating the seizing of tribal land from 1776–1867. | Expands on the idea that “the United States continued to take Indians lands by treaty and by force” (included in one of unit texts). | | Native Americans in Colonial America ARTICLE | National Geographic | Discusses native resistance to the seizing of tribal land and impact of disease and enslavement. | Counters the often-shared idea that Native Americans passively accepted colonizers or supported the seizing of their lands; explains the challenges that impacted their ability to engage in resistance. | Options for culminating experiences: * At the beginning of the unit, ask students to jot down things they may already think or believe about the American Revolution, in addition to surveying at least one family member, older sibling, or other member of the school community. Analyze the results of that initial survey as a class. After the unit/text set, ask students to create a "Did you know?" piece (e.g., writing piece, poster, podcast, presentation) to demonstrate some of their new understandings and reflect on which understandings from the initial survey were most present. Share these "Did you know?" pieces with families or school community members. * Create a student-accessible bulletin board with the guiding question prompt:"How does which information is included or left out of historical retellings impact our understanding? Whose perspective is included? Whose perspective is being left out?" Invite students to post onto the bulletin board their ongoing reflections to this question/reactions to other students' ideas and then to reflect at the end of the unit/text set. | <urn:uuid:021898b0-d401-4a81-803a-d5666ae869bf> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://learnwithsap.org/app/uploads/2024/08/TEXT-SET-TOPIC_-Black-and-Native-American-Perspectives-During-the-American-Revolution-Designers-Tawana-Jordan-Tanya-Hill-Tori-Filler.pdf | 2024-10-08T17:47:28+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944253554.4/warc/CC-MAIN-20241008171352-20241008201352-00020.warc.gz | 313,824,418 | 1,090 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.989288 | eng_Latn | 0.992074 | [ "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2414, 3470, 5307 ] | [ 4.65625 ] | 2 | 0 | Design and Technology Curriculum Intent At Holy Family R.C school we aim to provide all children with a broad and balanced curriculum which prepares them for life beyond primary education. We encourage children to use their creativity and imagination, to design and make products that solve and relevant problems within a variety of contexts, considering their own and other's needs, wants and values. Design Technology is an inspiring and practical subject. It can be found in many of the objects children use each day and is part of children's immediate experiences. It encourages children to learn to think and intervene creatively to solve problems both as individuals and as members of a team. At Holy Family R.C the design and Technology curriculum combines skills, knowledge, concepts and values to enable children to tackle real problems. It can improve analysis, problem solving, practical capability and evaluation skills. We aim to where ever possible, link work to other subjects such as mathematics, science, topic, art and computing. The children are encouraged to become innovators and risk takers. High quality design and Technology education makes an essential contribution to the creativity, culture, wealth and wellbeing of the nation. Aims At Holy Family R.C the curriculum for Design Technology aims to ensure that all pupils: * Develop the creative, technical and practical expertise needed to perform everyday tasks confidently and to participate successfully in an increasingly technological world. * Build and apply a repertoire of knowledge, understanding and skills in order to design and make high quality prototypes and products for a wide range of users * Critique, evaluate and test their ideas and products and the work of others * Understand and apply the principles of nutrition and learn how to cook Implementation Teachers need to plan the following: * A bank of vocabulary all children can master * A cycle of lessons for each subject, which carefully plans for progression and depth * Challenge questions for pupils to apply to their learning * Trips and visiting experts who will enhance the learning experience * A means to display and celebrate the pupils work Impact Our Design Technology curriculum is well thought out and is planned to demonstrate progression. If children are keeping up with the curriculum they are deemed to be making good or better progress. We measure the impact of our curriculum through the following methods: * A reflection on standards achieved against the planned outcomes; * A celebration of learning for each term which demonstrates progression across the school; * Pupil discussions about their learning; which includes discussion of their thoughts, ideas, processing and evaluations of work. | <urn:uuid:d0228a55-5975-48df-a409-fc8b1a1f381f> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://www.holyfam.bham.sch.uk/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/curriculum-dt.pdf | 2024-10-08T17:43:22+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944253554.4/warc/CC-MAIN-20241008171352-20241008201352-00019.warc.gz | 697,749,553 | 500 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.99592 | eng_Latn | 0.995579 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 874, 2778 ] | [ 4 ] | 1 | 1 | Writing: Kim's Weekend Instructions Kim wrote what she did over the weekend. For each day, she wrote one main idea, a few supporting details, and one detail that doesn't support the main idea. Circle the main idea for each day. Cross out the detail that doesn't support the main idea. Write about what you did over the weekend. Write down one main idea and two supporting details. ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________ | <urn:uuid:b34a2eeb-6695-45c2-b367-15ac1e4bc50d> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://www.tutor.com:443/cmspublicfiles/WWW/3rd_Grade_Writing.pdf | 2024-10-08T18:26:31+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944253554.4/warc/CC-MAIN-20241008171352-20241008201352-00024.warc.gz | 877,265,068 | 98 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.976367 | eng_Latn | 0.976367 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 779 ] | [ 3.546875 ] | 1 | 0 | 2 Year Old Child Important Points Diet: * After 24 months, whole milk is no longer recommended. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends 16-24 ounces of skim or 1% milk. Soy is only recommended if you are vegan. Other forms of "milk" don't have enough protein. * Children grow in spurts at this age and their body tells them whey they are hungry and when they are full. We are taught to over eat, so good rule to follow is to not use the statements to your child such as "just one more bite" or "if you do not finish your broccoli you will not get your ice cream". * Mealtime is the time to teach your child the kind of table manners and behavior you want them to learn. Behavior: * The hallmark of this age is STUBBORNESS! Try to be patient and firm. Give a couple of choices to give them some control but be firm. * Positive reinforcement is the most effective form of discipline. Spanking is never okay. * At this age, children often say "no" or refuse to do what you want them to do, teach and lead, have as few rules as necessary and enforce them. Potty Training: * You may introduce the concept of potty training, but most kids aren't able until 2 ½ or 3 years when they are aware and able to negotiate the clothes and pull ups. Have a relaxed approach and don't let them think it's important to you or they'll resist. Always let them poop in a diaper if they are scared. You want to avoid constipation and stool withholding. They all figure out it's not cool to poop in a diaper sooner or later! * Being dry at night isn't a training issue. Our brain makes a hormone at night to keep our kidneys from making urine until morning. This happens usually between 3 and 6 years. Wait until your child is dry for a few months before getting rid of the pull ups. * Praise your child for letting you know they are wet or soiled or if they tell you they need to use the potty. Safety: * Never leave a child alone in a bathroom with a filled bathtub and keep toilet seats down. * Keep your child facing backwards in their car seat until they meet the height or weight limit of the car seat (usually until 40 inches or 40 pounds). | <urn:uuid:d52e48f3-26a8-474e-8bbf-70158bdaa7dd> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://naustinpeds.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/2-Year-Old-Important-Points.pdf | 2024-10-08T19:23:34+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944253554.4/warc/CC-MAIN-20241008171352-20241008201352-00027.warc.gz | 390,918,079 | 489 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.999288 | eng_Latn | 0.999288 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2138 ] | [ 3.21875 ] | 1 | 1 | GEOGRAPHY AT INGOLDISTHORPE C of E VA PRIMARY SCHOOL Implementation We aim to implement geographical knowledge and skill sets by planning lessons that are informed and aligned with the national curriculum with strong cross curricular links between Geography and other curriculum subjects. All are laid out in our rolling curriculum plan that ensures progress and deepening of understanding throughout the duration of primary education. We have strong links to our local area to enhance local knowledge and provide us access to high quality school visits to locations such as local wetlands and beaches. Great consideration is given into the progression of children's learning in Geography as well as support for our SEND children to ensure an inclusive curriculum for all. We use a rich range of resources such as relevant reading materials, atlases, photographs, geographical tools, and access to technology for research purposes and to support learning. Outcomes are closely monitored to assess understanding, extend learning and ensure progress for all. Intent At Ingoldisthorpe, our Geography intent is to plan and teach engaging lessons that are informed and aligned with the national curriculum. Our aim is to equip pupils with a rich knowledge about diverse places, people, natural and human environments, together with a deep understanding of the Earth's key physical and human processes. To develop contextual knowledge of the location of globally significant places. To communicate geographical information in a variety of ways, including through maps, numerical and quantitative skills and writing at length. Children are equipped with transferable skills t support and progress their learning throughout their primary school education. Our progression maps | Geogra phy | EYFS | | | | |---|---|---|---|---| | | Africa Hot/C old places Map skills | Key knowledge: -where the hot and cold places are on globe/ conditions -what is climate change and how can we help -introducing maps and first atlas | Geography Skills & Field Work Atlases, large scale maps of the world, continents, Australia | Key knowledge: | | | | | | - How to use an atlas and read | | | | | | large scale maps | | | | | | -know the 7 continents | | | | | | -facts about Australia and the | | | | | | reason for bush fires. | | | | | | - the effect of climate change on | | | | | | the planet | | | | Key skills: -to recognise colours on maps mean different things -make own simple map | | Key skills: | | | | | | -Use an atlas and large scale map | | | | | | -Identify continents | | | | | | -draw a simple map of the local | | | | | | area using a key | | | | SEN/G&T: -visual resources, simplified instructions, adult support -details on maps – continents, use of a simple key | | SEN/G&T: | | | | | | -adult support, differentiated | | | | | | resources, visual resources | | | | | | -extend knowledge to countries | | | | | | and make comparisons. | | | | | | Extended vocabulary | | | Year 3/4 | | | Year 4/5 | | | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | Place knowl edge / map work Field work/l ocal study | Place | Key knowledge: | Ancient Egypt In depth study of countri es and location al knowled ge in the contine nt of Africa | Ancient | Key knowledge: -identify longitude/ latitude, equator, hemispheres, tropics/arctic circle, poles and differences in time zones -locate continents, countries, cities -use 6pt or 8pt grid references to locate places on maps, symbols / keys -map skills of Africa and locational knowledge | Key knowledge: | | | knowl | -Naming countries in Europe | | Egypt | | -identify longitude/ latitude, equator, hemispheres, | | | edge | -Identifying key Stone Age | | | | tropics/arctic circle, poles and differences in time | | | / map | sites/settlements | | In | | zones | | | work | -physical geography (countries, | | depth | | -locate continents, countries, cities | | | Field | counties, woodland, hills etc) | | study | | -use 6pt or 8pt grid references to locate places on | | | work/l | -Human geography (types of | | of | | maps, symbols / keys | | | ocal | settlement) | | countri | | -map skills of Africa and locational knowledge | | | study | The water cycle (evaporation, | | es and | | | | | | condensation, precipitation) | | location | | | | | | Key skills: | | al | Key skills: -to use maps, atlases, globes to describe countries and features, compasses -to build knowledge of world map -to build knowledge of grid referencing | | | | | -using digital maps and atlases | | knowled | | | | | | -using a key | | ge in | | | | | | -Using ordnance survey maps of | | the | | | | | | the local area | | contine | | | | | | -studying the local area | | nt of | | | | | | -knowing differences between | | Africa | | | | | | human and geographical | | | | | | | | features | | | | | | | | SEN/G&T: | | | SEN/G&T: -simplified maps, globes and differentiated work, peer or 1:1 work -8 point grid references, symbols, keys, scales and use of detailed ordnance survey maps, peer support | | | | | -adapted maps | | | | | | | | -adult and peer support | | | | | | | | -extending vocabulary – | | | | | | | | transpiration, ground and | | | | | | | | surface flow | | | | | SEND in Geography All of our learners are included in all of our lessons where appropriate, and adaptations are made to enable our learners to access the learning. All teachers at Ingoldisthorpe Primary School have extensive knowledge of their students and are able to make reasonable adjustments to enable children to participate and learn with their peers. Reasonable adjustments will be made in communication with parents and always at an appropriate stage for each specific child. Adjustments may include: * Adapted objectives and learning resources to meet a child's cognitive ability. * 1:1 session with a trusted adult * Small group sessions * Peer work * Support in class with an adult * Coloured and adapted visual resources * Hands on activities and sensory breaks where needed. Most able children in Geography At Ingoldisthorpe Primary School we set high expectations and ensure all pupils are provided with the opportunity to reach their fullest potential. Through our knowledge rich, topic-based curriculum and our extensive knowledge of all students, we are able to identify and foster the gifts and talents of all our children. Adjustments will be made to further challenge learners. Adjustments may include: * Additional writing and reasoning tasks * Opportunities to lead group tasks * Supporting peers in partner work * Communicate further understanding to the peers and adults * Use of further questioning Impact of Geography At Ingoldisthorpe, we obtain high outcomes in Geography that reflect our knowledge rich curriculum. The impact of our Geography curriculum is evidenced in the following: * High outcomes in end of topic teacher or child assessment. * High outcomes in our English lessons and other curriculum subjects, reflecting our strong cross curricular and transferring of skills and knowledge. * Children demonstrating use of key vocabulary in their talk evident when consolidating knowledge and revisiting prior learning. * Children's personal interest in geographical topics, evident in their choice of reading and library books also demonstrating a level of understanding and passion for the subject. * Children sharing their learning with pride in our weekly sharing assemblies. | <urn:uuid:18c6e110-bb86-4250-8f63-8ab97d1845df> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://www.ingoldisthorpeceprimary.com/_files/ugd/d3a904_288f517626774eed9e5b2f4fc19dac17.pdf | 2024-10-08T18:59:19+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944253554.4/warc/CC-MAIN-20241008171352-20241008201352-00025.warc.gz | 701,525,591 | 1,882 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.995658 | eng_Latn | 0.995628 | [ "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1751, 3047, 6180, 7614 ] | [ 3.5625 ] | 1 | 0 | Be a Good Steward of the Environment – Stop Plastic Pollution In his ground-breaking encyclical Laudato Si ("Praise be to You"), Pope Francis urged humankind to exercise better stewardship of the earth. Subtitled "On Care of Our Common Home," the pontiff's letter called for a radical "ecological conversion" on the part of people the world over, and especially disciples of Jesus Christ, to honor and save our earth from degradation. One way we can be better stewards of the earth is to fight plastic pollution. Cheap, capable of being made into any conceivable shape, strong and durable, plastic is the wonder product of the modern world. However, the victim of this technological success appears to be much of life on earth. Almost 80% of the plastic produced since the 1950s has been thrown away, either into landfill sites or into the general environment. Ending plastic pollution is the focus of Earth Day 2018, the annual event celebrated on April 22 world-wide to raise awareness of ecological dangers and demonstrate support for protection of the global environment. Items like plastic packaging, bags and bottles are thrown away every day, and end up in trash sites as well as in forests, creeks, rivers, seas, and oceans around the world. While some of these items are recycled, the growth of plastic consumption and its improper disposal currently outpace efforts to recycle and produce post-consumer plastic materials. But plastic is more than just litter. A petroleum product, plastic is nonbiodegradable. And in reality, most plastic does not ever disappear, but becomes long-lasting "plastic dust". When items like plastic bags break down, they readily soak up (and release) toxins that then contaminate soil and water, as well as harming animals that ingest plastic fragments. The increasing presence of plastic in our oceans poisons and ensnares marine life. Check your refrigerator. How much stuff in there is stored in plastic? Hazardous chemicals, some of which can disrupt human hormones, leach from some plastics that are used for food and beverage storage. Plastic is the basic material of a consumer world. Without it we wouldn't enjoy the same standard of living or convenience. But if we take the Holy Father's urgent pleas seriously, we should take seriously the issue of plastic contaminating and damaging our environment. For Christian stewards, it is a moral responsibility to confront this pollution. And become better stewards of the earth. Suggestions for Stopping Plastic Pollution A springtime walk on a lovely April day brings you into contact with the ubiquitous presence of plastic in our lives. From the crushed soda bottle lying at the side of the road to the plastic bags floating through the air like kites, plastic pollution is everywhere. It is not possible to be plastic free. But there are steps we can take to reduce consumption of plastic. Earth Day 2018 asks us to consider the Five Rs: Reduce, Refuse, Reuse, Recycle and Remove plastic in our everyday lives. Here are a few suggestions you can incorporate into your life immediately: * Keep reusable canvas bags in your car for shopping trips and commit to refusing plastic shopping and grocery bags. * Many stores have containers to recycle plastic bags, even newspaper wraps. Utilize them. * Carry a small set of simple utensils and a reusable straw so that you never have to use throwaway plastic utensils. * Encourage your school or college to look into utensils made with biodegradable components. Many Catholic schools have gone this route. * Store left-overs in reusable containers. * When shopping for gifts or toys, watch for excessive, wasteful plastic packaging. * Many cities are considering levying a fee for using plastic bags at stores. Urge your local government to consider this proposal to encourage reusable bags. Ireland reduced its plastic bag use by 95% almost overnight by placing a tax on plastic bags! * Visit www.earthday.org for more ideas and inspiration! | <urn:uuid:2d700097-d88a-4e0c-97d3-9f8d414f2560> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://www.stmarystars.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/Plastic.pdf | 2024-10-08T19:10:37+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944253554.4/warc/CC-MAIN-20241008171352-20241008201352-00031.warc.gz | 865,177,439 | 808 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.99846 | eng_Latn | 0.99846 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 3995 ] | [ 3.015625 ] | 1 | 1 | Rainforests In this topic children will be exploring more about the world of food and plants, thinking about where our food comes from and how we can grow our own foods. We will be using the traditional tales and thinking lots about the characters from these stories. This half term Phonics will be our key focus with children practising their Fred Talk as often as possible. In Literacy we will; Race Leys Infant School In Maths we will be learning about; Develop our writing of non- fiction and fiction. We will also look at the genre of poetry. We will develop our use of expanded noun phrases and the use of a range of conjunctions. We will also explore commas in a list and be more confident using a range of sentence openers and punctuation. We will continue to read daily in school in our RWI and comprehension groups. We will continue to develop our handwriting, including beginning to use joins and ensuring our presentation is something to be proud of. We will read and spell all of the year two common exception words. In Science we will be learning about; Plants We will observe and describe how seeds and bulbs grow into mature plants. Find out and describe how plants need water, light and a suitable temperature to grow and stay healthy. Make close observations of seeds and bulbs and classify them. Research and plan when and how to plant a range of seeds and bulbs. Look after the plants as they grow and make close observations and measurements of our plants growing from seeds and bulbs. In our PSHE learning we will; In PSHE we will learn about healthy me. We will be exploring self-motivation. Make healthier choices and understand relaxation. We will understand the benefit of healthy eating, nutrition, healthier snacks and sharing food. Extra Opportunities this half term… * Road Safety Projects * Careers Week More curriculum information can be found on the website In our D&T learning we will; recognise that sacred books contain stories which are special to many people and should be treated with respect. We will compare the Jewish and Christian stories of Creation and retell the story of David and Goliath and what it means for Christians. Fractions- Recognise, find, name and write fractions 1/3, ¼, 2/4 and 3/4 of a length, shape, set of objects or quantity. Write simple fractions for example, ½ of 6 = 3 and recognise the equivalence of 2/4 and ½. Time- We will compare and sequence intervals of time. Tell and write the time to five minutes, including quarter past/to the hour and draw the hands on a clock face to show these times. Know the number of minutes in an hour and the number of hours in a day. We will continue to use the four operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. We will problem solve and use reasoning to explain our calculations. In our Music learning we will; In our PE learning we will; develop our hit, catch run and our attack, defend, shoot skills by participating in a game with an opposing side, developing simple tactics and use them appropriately. Control a ball within a game setting and play a game with a set of rules. Begin to develop an understanding of attacking/ defending and become more independent peer coaches. create dances for music that we listen to. We will begin to compose music based on a piece that we have heard. We will listen to music from around the world and begin to recognise different styles and beginning to learn what a melody phrase is and draw a simple pattern to represent when the music goes up and down. We will say how music is used to represent an image (eg flying music) and recognise the sounds of some instruments. In our Art learning we will; develop our painting skills. Creating different effects with brushes. We will mix primary colours and apply own colours in work. In our Geography learning we will; enhance locational knowledge by locating the Amazon on a map and knowing the Amazon Rainforest is in the continent of South America. We will identify where rainforests are located in the world. We will develop our place knowledge by identifying physical and human features of the Amazon and compare features of Bedworth and the Amazon. We will improve our geographical and fieldwork skills by using world maps, atlases and globes (including digital mapping Google Earth) to identify continents and oceans. Learn the four points of a compass directions to describe a location of features and routes on a map. This Half Term’s school value is Fairness and Equality Year 2 Summer 1 st Term | <urn:uuid:018093c0-9166-45ca-8325-4de00df07d61> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://www.raceleysinfant.com/_files/ugd/a3ab03_a6250c3e869c440188449ef55c0e5b28.pdf | 2024-10-08T17:29:58+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944253554.4/warc/CC-MAIN-20241008171352-20241008201352-00031.warc.gz | 825,969,469 | 932 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998163 | eng_Latn | 0.998163 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 4549 ] | [ 3.90625 ] | 1 | 0 | Trainer Essentials: The Four Things that Learners Need When you deliver a workshop on water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) you want participants to remember and apply what you have taught. You can increase the chances that this will occur by providing participants with four things: 1) A safe learning environment 2) Connection to existing knowledge 3) Motivation 4) Practice When these needs are met participants are engaged and are more likely to remember and apply what they learn. Below is a brief summary of each of these needs and some suggestions on how to address them. A Safe Learning Environment A safe learning environment is one where participants feel a sense of belonging and acceptance, where they are comfortable sharing their views and perspectives, and feel respected. Creating a safe learning environment is the groundwork for all learning. To ensure that learning can take place, we need to identify potential sources of stress and create an environment where participants feel physically, emotionally and psychologically secure. Below are some suggestions of what you can do to reduce stress and create a safe learning environment: Address the physical needs of participants - Provide snacks and lunch – when participants are hungry they cannot focus on learning - Provide clean and safe toilets and invite people to use them whenever necessary - Ensure the participants are all able to hear and see information easily Address the emotional and psychological needs of participants: - Establish a group agreement at the beginning of the workshop that emphasizes respect for all participants - Communicate in a respectful, open and friendly manner - Organize and deliver information that addresses different learning styles and different speeds of learning - Encourage participants to share their knowledge and experience - Address disrespectful or discriminatory behaviour For more detailed information on creating a safe learning environment, see the Trainer Essential: Creating a Safe Learning Environment. Trainer Essentials: The Four Things that Learners Need Connection to existing knowledge The more points of connection we can find between new information and participants existing knowledge and experience, the more likely they are to retain and apply it. We create these connections by making information meaningful and relating it to what participants already know. The stronger the relevance and the connection to existing knowledge the better participants will retain the information. We often apply this principal when we give directions. We try to think of reference points that the person already knows. The more reference points we provide the easier it is for the person to understand and remember the directions. We can use a similar approach when we teach about a new concept in WASH. For instance, if you are teaching about water borne diseases, find out what water borne illnesses participants have experienced and what they did about them. You can then connect the content of the lesson directly to their personal experiences. Motivation Motivation is important to learning because motivated people learn better and faster (Standford Centre for Teaching and Learning, 1998). Motivated participants are also more likely to take action on what they have learned and incorporate it into their everyday lives. This is particularly crucial when teaching about water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH). In education, motivation is defined as anything that encourages the student to participate and learn (Bennett & Rolheiser, 2001). There are two types of motivation: intrinsic and extrinsic. Intrinsic motivation comes from within the learner. It is driven by interest in the topic, personal development or enjoyment, and does not rely on external pressures. When we make information interesting and relevant to the participants we can stimulate their intrinsic motivation. Extrinsic motivation comes from outside the individual. Grades, rewards and threats of punishment are common forms of extrinsic motivation. Ideally, you want all participants to be intrinsically motivated; however, this is not always possible. Somebody may not be interested in a certain topic until they have been exposed to it or understand its relevance to their life. Forms of extrinsic motivation, like competition, can be used to pique someone's interest in a topic and kindle their intrinsic motivation. To learn more on how you can motivate participants see Trainer Essentials: Motivation. Practice You know the saying: "Practice makes perfect". The more we try something the better we get, and the more we remember. During workshops we need to provide participants with meaningful opportunities to practice what we are teaching them. Meaningful practice connects new Trainer Essentials: The Four Things that Learners Need knowledge and skills to what learners already know. It also helps participants remember what they have learned. There are a number of activities that can be used, regardless of the topic, to add meaningful practice time to lessons including: - Think, pair, share - Group discussion - Participant presentations or demonstrations - Solving a case study problem - Doing hands-on activities and simulations - Role play For more ideas on activities that can be used to encourage meaningful practice see: Trainer Essentials: Active Learning. When you create a safe learning environment, connect participants to their past experience, build on their motivation and provide them with opportunities to practice you are helping them to learn and retain what you are teaching. Each of the needs takes time to fill, but it is time well spent, since it will ensure your message is understood and remembered. References Bennett, B., & Rolheiser, C. (2001). Beyond Monet. Toronto, Ontario: Bookations Inc. Standford Centre for Teaching and Learning. (1998). Capturing and Directing the Motivation to Learn. Speaking of Teaching. Retrieved from http://web.stanford.edu/dept/CTL/cgibin/docs/newsletter/motivation_to_learn.pdf CAWST (Centre for Affordable Water and Sanitation Technology) Calgary, Alberta, Canada Website: www.cawst.org Email: email@example.com Wellness through Water.... Empowering People Globally Last Update: March 2015 This document is open content. You are free to: - Share – to copy, distribute and transmit this document - Remix – to adapt this document Under the following conditions: Trainer Essentials: The Four Things that Learners Need - Attribution. You must give credit to CAWST as the original source of the document. Please include our website: www.cawst.org CAWST and its directors, employees, contractors, and volunteers do not assume any responsibility for, and make no warranty with respect to, the results that may be obtained from the use of the information provided. | <urn:uuid:b62276e3-8f70-471c-9227-9f3feb2536b3> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://cdn.sanity.io/files/r8bm187e/production/1740fb196d35b759000589d7372ac998bbb5f1e2.pdf?dl=DEWT_TE04_The%20Four%20Things%20that%20Learners%20Need_2015-03_en.pdf | 2024-10-08T17:46:51+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944253554.4/warc/CC-MAIN-20241008171352-20241008201352-00034.warc.gz | 140,580,839 | 1,306 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.991892 | eng_Latn | 0.99482 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2039, 4804, 6470, 6870 ] | [ 3.359375 ] | 1 | 0 | Geography Curriculum Map from September 2022 Through the study of geography, St Mary's children will have an understanding of the human and physical features of their local area and the wider world. They will be able to identify and name the countries and continents of the world, where to locate them and know how to care for it relation to the Equator and the 1,2,3 | | North and South Poles. | | | | | | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | | 3 | | | | | | | | Seasonal Changes – throughout the year (link to science) | | | | | | | Year 2 | | Passport and compass | | Mexico – (Human and Physical | | Geography of London | | | | direction – inc 7 | | geography – Place knowledge | | inc. ariel photographs | | | | | | contrasting non-European | | | | | | continents and oceans | | | | and mapping skills | | | | | | location) | | | | | | (Location knowledge, | | | | (Geographical skills and | | | | | | 2, 3 | | | | | | geographical skills and | | | | fieldwork) | | | | fieldwork) | | | | | | | | 1, 4 | | | | | | | | | | | | 4 | | LOWER KEY STAGE 2 | | | | | | | | Year 3 | Region of the UK (Lake | | Europe – in trade | | Rainforests | | | | District- Place knowledge) | | links (location knowledge) | | Skills- (Human Geography) | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | | | | | | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | 1,2,3 | | | Year 4 | | Rivers, Mountains and | | Earthquakes and | | Italy – In depth | | | | the Water Cycle | | Volcanoes (Physical | | European study- Place | | | | (Physical geography) | | geography) | | knowledge (additional | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | 1,2 | | | | | | | | | | learning location of Arctic and | | | | | | | | Antarctic Circles & 4 figure grid | | | | | | | | references) | | | | | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | Year 5 | | Counties and cities of | | Crystal Palace - Local | | North American Study – | | | | the UK, geographical | | geography inc. human | | Canada including | | | | regions, rivers and land | | geography | | Volcanoes and | | | | use activity inc. 6 figure | | 1,2,3,4 | | earthquakes. (Place | | | | grid (Location knowledge) | | | | knowledge, physical geography) | | | | | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | | | | | Year 6 | Physical geography – | Geography – Human | Rivers and Mountains | |---|---|---|---| | | climate zones, biomes, | geography economic | (Geographical skills) | | | | | 3,4 | | | vegetation. (Focus on | activity – trade links | | | | Tundra to arctic and world time | 1,2,3,4 | | | | zones.) | | | | | 1,3,4 | | | National Curriculum Key Skills for Geography | Skill Key | KS1 | Lower KS2 + (KS1) | |---|---|---| | 1. Locational knowledge | Name and locate the world’s seven continents and five oceans. Name, locate and identify characteristics of the four countries and capital cities of the United Kingdom and its surrounding seas. | Locate the world’s countries using maps to focus on Europe (including the location of Russia) and North and South America, concentrating on their environmental regions, key physical and human characteristics, countries, and major cities. Identify human and physical characteristics: Mountains and rivers. Identify the position and significance of the Equator, Northern Hemisphere, Southern Hemisphere, the tropics of Cancer and Capricorn, Arctic and Antarctic Circle. | | 2. Place knowledge | Understand geographical similarities and differences through studying the human and physical geography of a small area of the United Kingdom, and of a small area in a contrasting non-European county. | Understand geographical similarities and differences through the study of human and physical geography of a region of the United Kingdom and a region in a European country. | | 3. Human and Physical Geography | Identify seasonal and daily weather patterns in the United Kingdom and the location of hot and cold areas of the world in relation to the Equator and the North and South Poles. Use basic geographical vocabulary to refer to: Key physical features, including: beach, cliff, coast, forest, hill, mountain, sea, ocean, river, soil, valley, vegetation, season and weather. Key human features, including: city, town, village, factory, farm, house, office, port, harbour and shop. | Describe and understand key aspects of : Rivers, mountains, volcanoes and earthquakes, and the water cycle. Human geography including types of settlement and land use. | | 4. Geographical skills and fieldwork | Use world maps, atlases and globes to identify the United Kingdom and its countries, as well as the countries, continents and oceans studied at this key stage. Use simple compass directions (North, South, East and West) and locational and directional language (e.g. near and far; left and right) to describe the location of features and routes on a map. | Use maps, atlases, globes and digital/computer mapping to locate countries and describe features studied. | | <urn:uuid:09cdab4a-e8e2-46d8-bf3e-359fa7cf7378> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://files.schudio.com/st-marys-catholic-primary-school/files/CurriculumAmendmentsMar23/Geography_Curriculum_Map_from_September_2022_-_Jan_update.pdf | 2024-10-08T18:58:13+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944253554.4/warc/CC-MAIN-20241008171352-20241008201352-00033.warc.gz | 220,037,451 | 1,504 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.994692 | eng_Latn | 0.992938 | [ "eng_Latn", "unknown", "unknown" ] | false | docling | [ 330, 2289, 5024 ] | [ 4.46875 ] | 1 | 0 | Constipation What is constipation? Constipation is a very common pediatric issue that involves a decrease in the number of stools compared to a child's normal pattern, having large diameter stools, pain or discomfort with stooling, stomach cramping or pain, and/or straining and having a difficult time during bowel movements. With constipation, stools may occur daily or may be less frequent. What causes constipation? There are many causes of constipation. Changes in diet or insufficient fiber or fluid intake predispose your child to harder stools. If your child is ill and loses his/her appetite or has a change in his/her fluid intake they are more susceptible to constipation. Children may choose to withhold their stools for many different reasons such as if they have pain from hard or large stools or pain from a diaper rash, control reasons (this is common between 2-5 years of age particularly with potty training), distraction or preoccupation (not wanting to stop play for a bathroom break), or due to unfamiliar environments such as school or friend's houses). Constipation in infants less than 1 year old Newborn infants may have a bowel movement with every feeding (up to 8-10 times a day) while others may have only 3-4 bowel movements per day. In breastfed infants older than 2 weeks of age, bowel movements maybe as infrequent as one per week. This is normal, as long as the stool is still soft. All infants in the first few months of life may strain and grunt while trying to pass stool. This is called infant dyschezia and is normal as long as the stools are soft, the infant is feeding well and having appropriate wet diapers. If the stools become hard and infrequent, your baby has pain or difficulty stooling, and/or bleeding from the rectum your infant may be constipated. At this point, the baby should be checked in the office. How to treat constipation in infants less than a year old -Give pear or prune juice to infants greater than ***1 or 4 months of age. Begin with 1-2 tsp per day and increase by 1 tsp daily until you get soft stool or reach 2 oz of juice daily. -If the baby is older than 4 months, offer strained prunes or other high fiber foods such as oatmeal cereal, peaches, peas, pears, beans, or spinach. Begin with 1 tsp and increase to ½ jar daily. -In infants who are eating solids, limit carrots, squash, bananas, and apples as these may make constipation worse. How to treat constipation in older children (over 1 year old) -Make sure your child eats 5 servings of fruits and vegetables daily (fresh fruits are best, with peels on if appropriate). Make sure the foods you choose are size and texture appropriate for your child to avoid choking. -Increase fiber intake. Examples of good sources of fiber include: vegetables, fruits, beans, peas, whole grain breads and cereals. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends children 2-19 years of age eat a daily amount of fiber that equals their age plus 5 grams. The adult total daily fiber recommendation is up to 25grams and may also be used for children. -Decrease foods that cause constipation such as milk, ice cream, yogurt, cheese, and white breads and pastas. Children less than a year of age should be consuming no more than 16-24 oz of milk per day at a maximum and may need less depending on their degree of constipation. -Increase the amount of water your child drinks daily. -Make sure your child is getting enough exercise. The recommended daily amount is 1 hour per day 7 days a week. -Encourage your child to regularly sit on the toilet for approximately 5 minutes after each meal. Try to make this time pleasant and do not criticize or scold if the child is unable to go. -If you are toilet training but have started struggling with constipation, it is appropriate to stop training for a while and use diapers or pull-ups until the constipation has resolved. Medical Management of Constipation In addition to the above recommendations, we often utilize medication to aid in constipation treatment. One of the most common and safest medications is Miralax. We start with the doses below and titrate as needed every 3-5 days until your child has soft pudding-like stools 1-2 times a day. Your pediatrician will discuss the length of treatment and how to wean them off to prevent constipation reoccurrence. Give the dose of Miralax in 4-8 oz of water or juice. -Children under 5 years old: 1 teaspoon -Children 5 – 12 years old: 2 teaspoons -Children 12 years and older: 1 capful Do not use stool softeners, enemas, or other laxatives unless recommended by your pediatrician as they can be dangerous if not used properly. When to call your pediatrician for constipation Call your doctor now (night or day) if: - Your child looks or acts very sick - Persistent abdominal pain longer than 1 hour - Persistent rectal pain longer than 1 hour including persistent straining - Vomiting more than 3 times in the last 2 hours - Age less than 1 month of age and breastfed -Age less then 1 year of age with recent onset of weak cry, weak suck, or weak muscles Call your doctor within 24hours during office hours if: - You think your child needs to be seen - Age less than 2 months of age - Bleeding from anal fissures or tears Call your doctor during office hours if: - You have other questions or concerns - You are concerned your child may be constipated or blocked up - Your child is leaking stool - 3 or more days between bowel movements despite appropriate dietary changes (Exception to this includes breastfed infants older than 2 months of age and bowel movements are soft) -Constipation is a recurrent or persistent problem | <urn:uuid:6bdd68e1-1598-4968-b7f4-b650b89be2a5> | CC-MAIN-2020-16 | https://www.eastlouisvillepediatrics.com/client_files/file/Constipation-2018.pdf | 2020-04-07T00:38:56+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-16/segments/1585371662966.69/warc/CC-MAIN-20200406231617-20200407022117-00326.warc.gz | 895,314,365 | 1,257 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998618 | eng_Latn | 0.99872 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1656, 3072, 3515, 4909, 5667 ] | [ 3.328125 ] | 1 | 5 | SPRINGWELL COMMUNITY COLLEGE Anti-Bullying Policy This policy is based on the Department for Education guidance 'Preventing and Tackling Bullying. Advice for Headteachers, staff and governing bodies', July 2017 Introduction At Springwell Community College we aim to provide a safe, caring and friendly environment for all our students to allow them to learn effectively, improve their life chances and help them maximise their potential. We recognise there is a need to safeguard the welfare of all those within the college community and to encourage co-operation, tolerance and harmony. We have high expectations of all students and strive to create a climate in which all children can fulfil their potential. Bullying of any kind is unacceptable. If bullying does occur, all students should know that incidents will be dealt with promptly and effectively. Springwell Community College is a 'telling' college and anyone who knows that bullying is happening should be able to inform a member of staff in safety. As a college we: - Discuss, monitor and review our anti-bullying policy and practices on a regular basis. - Support all staff to promote positive relationships to prevent bullying and will intervene by identifying and tackling bullying behaviour appropriately and promptly. - Ensure that students are aware that all bullying concerns will be dealt with sensitively and effectively. We would expect students to feel safe in and out of college, including an understanding of the issues relating to safety, such as bullying. We also want them to feel confident to seek support from the college should they feel unsafe. Objectives This policy outlines what Springwell Community College will do to prevent and tackle bullying. The policy has been formulated in consultation with the whole college community with input from; members of staff, governors, parents/carers, students and other partners. We are committed to developing an anti-bullying culture whereby no bullying, including between adults or adults and children, will be tolerated. The policy will be reviewed and further developed on a regular basis. We seek to learn from good anti-bullying practice elsewhere and utilise support from the Local Authority and other relevant organisations where appropriate. Roles and Responsibilities The Headteacher has overall responsibility for the policy and its implementation, liaising with the governing body, parents/carers, the Local Authority and outside agencies. Through delegation, Student Progress Leaders have the general responsibility for handling the implementation of the policy. Student Progress Leaders are: - Miss Ness Fazil – Student Progress Leader, Year 7 - Miss Caroline Hoyle – Student Progress Leader, Year 8 - Mrs Carole Selby – Student Progress Leader, Year 9 - Miss Rae McAlpine – Student Progress Leader, Year 10 - Mr Mark Walker – Student Progress Leader, Year 11 Their responsibilities are: - Policy development and review. - Leading the college's peer led Anti-Bullying Ambassadors, "Springy Anti-Bullying Team" and Springwell Bully Busters. - Implementing the policy and monitoring and assessing its effectiveness in practice. - Managing bullying incidents alongside all college staff. - Reporting and recording bullying incidents. - Assessing and co-ordinating training and support for staff and parents/carers where appropriate. - Co-ordinating strategies for preventing bullying behaviour. - Managing the anti-bullying ambassadors within college and supporting weekly meetings The nominated governor with the responsibility for anti-bullying is: Mrs Sarah Swift. Definition of Bullying "Behaviour by an individual or a group, usually repeated over time that intentionally hurts another individual either physically or emotionally and involves an imbalance of power" (DfE 'Preventing and Tackling Bullying', July 2017). How does bullying differ from teasing/falling out between friends and other types of aggressive behaviour? - There is a deliberate intention to hurt or humiliate - There is a power in balance that makes it hard for the target to defend themselves - It is usually persistent Occasionally an incident may be deemed to be bullying even if the behaviour has not been repeated or persistent – if it fulfils all other descriptions of bullying. This possibility should be considered, particularly in cases of sexual, sexist, transphobic, racist or homophobic bullying and when students with disabilities are involved. If the target might be in danger then intervention is urgently required. What does bullying look like? Bullying can include: - Name-calling - Taunting - Mocking - Making offensive comments - Physical assault - Taking or damaging belongings - Producing offensive graffiti - Gossiping and spreading hurtful and/or untruthful rumours - Excluding people from groups - Imbalance of power between an individual and/or a group towards another individual and/or a group of people. - Cyber bullying – inappropriate text/instant message/website entries/social media communication - Sending of offensive or degrading images by mobile phone or the internet. Forms of Bulling covered by this policy There is no hierarchy of bullying, all forms should be taken equally seriously and dealt with appropriately. Bullying can happen to anyone. This policy covers all types of bullying including: - Bullying related to race, religion or culture. - Bullying related to Special Educational Needs or Disability (SEND). - Bullying related to appearance or physical/mental health conditions. - Bullying related to sexual orientation (homophonic or biphobia bullying) - Bullying of young carers, children in care or otherwise related to home circumstances - Sexist, sexual and transphobic bullying - Bullying via technology – 'cyber bullying' - Peer on peer abuse Although bullying can occur between individuals it can often take place in the presence (virtually or physically) of others who become the 'bystanders' or 'accessories'. Responding to bullying The college community will: - Create and support an inclusive environment which promotes a culture of mutual respect, consideration and care for others which will be upheld by all. - Work with staff and outside agencies to identify all forms of prejudice-driven bullying. - Actively promote systematic opportunities to develop student's social and emotional skills, including their resilience. - Provide a range of opportunities for students, staff and parents/carers to access support and report concerns. - Challenge practice which does not uphold the values of tolerance, non-discrimination and respect towards others. - Consider all opportunities for addressing bullying in all forms throughout the curriculum and supported with a range of approaches such as through displays, assemblies, tutor time, peer support, the anti-bullying team and Students Matter (see Appendix 3). - Regularly update and evaluate our approaches to take into account the developments of technology and provide up-to-date advice and education to all member of the community regarding positive online behaviour. - Train all staff (teachers, support staff and ancillary staff) to identify all forms of bullying and how to follow the policy on reporting and recording incidents. - Proactively gather and record concerns and intelligence about bullying incidents and issues so far as to effectively develop strategies to prevent bullying from occurring. - Actively create 'safe spaces' for vulnerable young people. - Use a variety of techniques to resolve the issue between those who bully and those who have been bullied. - Work with other agencies and the wider college community to prevent and tackle concerns. - Celebrate success and achievements to promote and build a positive college ethos. Reporting and Procedures Reporting Our college has clear and well-publicised systems to report bullying for the whole college community (including staff, parents/carers and students). This includes those who are targets of bullying or have witnessed bullying behaviours (bystanders). The systems for reporting bullying at Springwell Community College are: - Students can reported to any member of staff - Students can report to any member of the 'Springy AB team' - Staff and students can report to a Student Progress Leader or member of the Senior Leadership Team - Visitors can report to any member of staff - Bystanders report to any member of staff and members of the 'Spring AB team'. Procedures If bullying is suspected or reported the incident will be dealt with, immediately, by the member of staff who has been approached. All reported incidents will be taken seriously and investigated. This will involve all parties. The college will take the following steps: * Interview all parties separately. * Inform parents/carers. * Look at a range of responses appropriate to the situation: solution focussed, restorative approaches, circle of friends, individual work with target/perpetrator and referral to outside agencies if appropriate. * Refer to the Behaviour for Learning Policy and college sanctions and how these may be applied, including a hierarchical approach should the bullying persist. * Teachers/tutors will be kept informed. * Follow up, especially keeping in touch with the person who reported the situation. * Police involvement (if a crime has been committed). * Provide support for the target and the students identified as the bully. * When responding to cyberbullying concerns the college will take all available steps to identify the bully, including looking at college systems, identifying and interviewing possible witnesses and contacting service providers and the police if necessary. The police will need to be involved to enable the service provider to look into the data of another user. * Support anyone involved (See Appendix 2). Recording bullying Bullying incidents will be recorded by the member of staff who deals with the incident on a Bullying Incident Form (BIF – see Appendix 1). The completed BIF should be given to the relevant Student Progress Leader and a central record made. The information held will be used to ensure individual incidents are followed up. It will also be used to identify trends and inform preventative work in the college and development of the policy The information will be presented to the governing body, in an anonymous format, on a regular basis. Anti-Bullying Community As part of our on-going commitment to the safety and welfare of our students, we at Springwell Community College have developed the following strategies to promote positive behaviour and discourage bullying behaviour: - Restorative approaches - Involvement in SEAL including Anti-Bullying visits - Involvement in Healthy Schools (Healthy Schools Award 2017) - Celebration of national Anti-Bullying week and Safer Internet Day annually - A thorough and wide ranging PHSE curriculum - Specific curriculum input on areas such as cyber bullying and internet safety - Springy AB Team campaigns - Peer mentoring schemes - Parent/carer information events - Staff training and development for all staff (including stonewall training) - Counselling and mediation schemes. Links with other policies This policy links with a number of other college policies, practices and action plans including: - Behaviour and discipline policy - Complaints policy - Safeguarding and Child Protection policies - Confidentiality policy - e-Safety (Online Safety) and Acceptable Use policies (AUPs) - Curriculum policies such as PSHE and citizenship and computing - Mobile phone and social media policies - Searching and confiscation Links to Legislation There are a number of pieces of legislation which set out measures and actions for schools in response to bullying as well as criminal law. These may include: * The Education and Inspection Act 2006 * DfE (Independent School Standards) ( England) Regulations 2014 * The Equality Act 2010 Springwell Community College Bullying Incident Form This form is to be completed by a member of staff ONLY then forwarded to SCC Anti-Bullying Coordinator: email@example.com who will log the incident and refer as SCC AB policy where Bullying behaviour can be defined as: Deliberately hurtful, upsetting, frightening or threatening to other people Repeated often over a period of time Difficult for victims to defend themselves against Verbal Physical Cyber Racist H-Phobic Disability Aggressor/s (Name & Form) Joe Bloggs 8UJN Target/s (Name & Form) Neil Grett 8HYN d ( & ) h When (date/time) Monday 6 th Feb 2012 Breaktime Where (Location: classroom/bus/playground etc.) Inspire Breakout space Department: (if occurred in a lesson) N/A Details of Incident: NG reported that JB had been name calling him all lesson P2 English –SDX JB has been doing this everyday-calling him fat SDX had dealt with the matter and moved JB. On way out of POD – JB continued to call NG names and then pushed him over . ACTION TAKEN: LCC spoke to NG –checked that he was ok NHJ wrote BIF and forwarded it to AFJ SIGNED:NHJ DATE:6/2/12 CHO USE ONLY Copies to IWI HST SPL: FT: OTHER: Supporting those involved in bullying Students who have been bullied will be supported by: * Offering an immediate opportunity to discuss the experience with their teacher or a member of staff of their choice * Being advised to keep a record of the bullying as evidence and discuss how to respond to concerns and build resilience as appropriate. * Reassuring the student and providing continuous support * Restoring self-esteem and confidence * Working with the wider community and local/national organisations to provide further or specialist advice and guidance (see Appendix 3). Students who have bullied will be helped by: * Discussing what happened and establishing the concern and the need to change * Informing parents/carers to help change the attitude and behaviour of the child * Providing appropriate education and support * If online, requesting content be removed and reporting account/content to service provider * Sanctioning in line with school behaviour/discipline policy. This may include official warnings, detentions, removal of privileges, fixed-term and permanent exclusions. * Speaking with police or local services Supporting Adults Adults (staff and parents) who have been bullied or affected will be supported by: * Offering an immediate opportunity to discuss the concern with the designated lead and/or a senior member of staff/headteacher * Being advised to keep a record of the bullying as evidence and discuss how to respond to concerns and build resilience as appropriate. * Where the bullying takes place outside of the college site then the college will ensure that the concern is investigated and that appropriate action is taken in accordance with the behaviour and discipline policy * Reassuring and offering appropriate support * Working with the wider community and local/national organisations to provide further or specialist advice and guidance Adults (staff and parents) who have bullied will be helped by: * Discussing what happened with a senior member of staff and establishing the concern * Clarifying the college's official procedures for complaints or concerns * If online, requesting content be removed and reporting account/content to service provider * Instigating disciplinary, civil or legal action Specialist Organisations The following organisations provide support for schools and parents dealing with specific bullying issues including the social, mental or emotional affects caused by bullying. The Anti-Bullying Alliance (ABA): Founded in 2002 by NSPCC and National Children's Bureau, the Anti-Bullying Alliance ABA) brings together over 100 organisations into one network to develop and share good practice across the whole range of bullying issues. The ABA has also put together a fact sheet outlining the range of support that is available to schools and young people from the anti-bullying sector. The Diana Award: Anti-Bullying Ambassadors programme to empower young people to take responsibility for changing the attitudes and behaviour of their peers towards bullying. It will achieve this by identifying, training and supporting school anti-bullying ambassadors. Bullying UK: An organisation established through 'Family Live' charity that works to support the whole family. They provide this through our helpline, extensive advice on their website, befriending services, and parenting/relationship support group. Kidscape: Charity established to prevent bullying and promote child protection providing advice for young people, professionals and parents about different types of bullying and how to tackle it. They also offer specialist training and support for school staff, and assertiveness training for young people. The BIG Award: The Bullying Intervention Group (BIG) offer a national scheme and award for schools to tackle bullying effectively. Restorative Justice Council: Includes be st practice guidance for practitioners 2011. Cyber-bullying and online safety ChildNet International: Specialist resources for young people to raise awareness of online safety and how to protect themselves. Website specifically includes new cyberbullying guidance and a practical PSHE toolkit for schools. Digizen: provides online safety information for educators, parents, carers and young people. Internet Matters: provides help to keep children safe in the digital world. Think U Know: resources provided by Child Exploitation and Online Protection (CEOP) for children and young people, parents, carers and teachers. The UK Council for Child Internet Safety (UKCCIS) has produced a range of resources for schools, colleges and parents about how to keep children safe online, this includes advice for schools and colleges on responding to incidents of 'sexting.' LGBT Barnardos: through its LGBTQ Hub, offers guidance to young people, parents and teachers on how to support LGBT students and tackle LGBT prejudice-based bullying EACH: (Educational Action Challenging Homophobia): provides a national freephone Actionline for targets of homophobic or transphobic bullying and training to schools on sexual orientation, gender identity matters and cyberhomophobia. Metro Charity: an equality and diversity charity, providing health, community and youth services across London, the South East, national and international projects. Metro works with anyone experiencing issues related to gender, sexuality, diversity or identity Proud Trust: helps young people empower themselves to make a positive change for themselves and their communities through youth groups, peer support, delivering of training and events, campaigns, undertaking research and creating resources. Offers practical advice, resources (including lesson plans) and training to schools on Schools Out: LGBT equality in education. Stonewall: An LGB equality organisation with considerable expertise in LGB bullying in schools, a dedicated youth site, resources for schools, and specialist training for teachers. SEND Mencap: Represents people with learning disabilities, with specific advice and information for people who work with children and young people. Changing Faces: Provide online resources and training to schools on bullying because of physical difference. Cyberbullying and children and young people with SEN and disabilities: Advice provided by the AntiBullying Alliance on developing effective anti-bullying practice. Anti-bullying Alliance SEND programme of resources: Advice provided by the Anti-bullying Alliance for school staff and parents on issues related to SEND and bullying. Information, Advice and Support Service Network: Every Local area has an information, advice and support service, providing information, advice and support to disabled children and young people, and those with SEN, and their parents. Mental health MindEd: Provides a free online training tool for adults that is also available to schools. It can be used to help school staff learn more about children and young peoples mental health problems. It provides simple, clear guidance on mental health and includes information on identifying, understanding and supporting children who are bullied. PSHE Association – guidance and lesson plans on improving the teaching of mental health issues. Race, religion and nationality Anne Frank Trust: Runs a schools project to teach young people about Anne Frank and the Holocaust, the consequences of unchecked prejudice and discrimination, and cultural diversity. Educate Against Hate: provides teachers, parents and school leaders practical advice and information on protecting children from extremism and radicalisation. Show Racism the Red Card: Provide resources and workshops for schools to educate young people, often using the high profile of football, about racism. Kick It Out: Uses the appeal of football to educate young people about racism and provide education packs for schools. Tell MAMA: Measuring Anti-Muslim Attacks (MAMA) allows people from across England to report any form of Anti-Muslim abuse, MAMA can also refer victims for support through partner agencies. Anti-Muslim Hatred Working Group: Independent members of this group are representatives from the Muslim community and will assist and advice on all relevant issues. Sexual harassment and sexual bullying Ending Violence Against Women and Girls (EVAW): A Guide for Schools. This guide from the End Violence Against Women Coalition sets out the different forms of abuse to support education staff to understand violence and abuse of girls, warning signs to look for, and how to get your whole school working towards preventing abuse. Disrespect No Body: a Home Office led campaign which helps young people understand what a healthy relationship is. This website includes teaching materials to be used in the classroom. Anti-bullying Alliance: advice for school staff and professionals about developing effective antibullying practice in relation to sexual bullying. | <urn:uuid:eb046ed6-be0e-4f29-8903-865f1566898d> | CC-MAIN-2020-16 | https://www.springwellcc.org/images/springwell/policies/ABPolicy2019.pdf | 2020-04-07T00:39:49+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-16/segments/1585371662966.69/warc/CC-MAIN-20200406231617-20200407022117-00328.warc.gz | 1,151,451,614 | 4,291 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.995009 | eng_Latn | 0.996423 | [ "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 50, 2923, 5156, 8111, 11252, 12011, 13313, 15576, 18064, 20111, 22274 ] | [ 3.515625, 3.390625 ] | 2 | 0 | Evacuation Plans When community evacuations become necessary, local officials provide information to the public through the media. In some circumstances, other warning methods, such as sirens or telephone calls, also are used. Additionally, there may be circumstances under which you and your family feel threatened or endangered and you need to leave your home, school, or workplace to avoid these situations. The amount of time you have to leave will depend on the hazard. If the event is a weather condition, such as a hurricane that can be monitored, you might have a day or two to get ready. However, many disasters allow no time for people to gather even the most basic necessities, which is why planning ahead is essential. Evacuation: More Common than You Realize Evacuations are more common than many people realize. Hundreds of times each year, transportation and industrial accidents release harmful substances, forcing thousands of people to leave their homes. Fires and floods cause evacuations even more frequently. Almost every year, people along the Gulf and Atlantic coasts evacuate in the face of approaching hurricanes. Ask local authorities about emergency evacuation routes and see if maps may are available with evacuation routes marked. Evacuation Guidelines | Always: | If time permits: | |---|---| | Keep a full tank of gas in your car if an evacuation seems likely. Gas stations may be closed during emergencies and unable to pump gas during power outages. Plan to take one car per family to reduce congestion and delay. | Gather your disaster supplies kit. | | Make transportation arrangements with friends or your local government if you do not own a car. | Wear sturdy shoes and clothing that provides some protection, such as long pants, long-sleeved shirts, and a cap. | | Listen to a battery-powered radio and follow local evacuation instructions. | Secure your home: Close and lock doors and windows. Unplug electrical equipment, such as radios and televisions, and small appliances, such as toasters and microwaves. Leave freezers and refrigerators plugged in unless there is a risk of flooding. | | Gather your family and go if you are instructed to evacuate immediately. | Let others know where you are going. | | Leave early enough to avoid being trapped by severe weather. | | | Follow recommended evacuation routes. Do not take shortcuts; they may be blocked. | | | Be alert for washed-out roads and bridges. Do not drive into flooded areas. | | | Stay away from downed power lines. | | | <urn:uuid:31e56d80-783e-4aff-847b-72261afd41ca> | CC-MAIN-2020-16 | https://lewiscountywa.gov/media/attachment/4621/EvacuationPlans.pdf | 2020-04-07T01:09:42+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-16/segments/1585371662966.69/warc/CC-MAIN-20200406231617-20200407022117-00331.warc.gz | 559,870,020 | 522 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998302 | eng_Latn | 0.998302 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2536 ] | [ 3.59375 ] | 1 | 1 | Answer key – Lösungen Wochenplan – Englisch Klasse 5f – Frau Aydin Liebe Schüler, liebe Eltern, diese Lösungen sollten ausschließlich zur Kontrolle und Berichtigung der eigenen Fehler NACH der Bearbeitung der Aufgaben des Wochenplans genutzt werden. Bei Fragen stehe ich weiterhin per E-Mail zur Verfügung. Falls Ihr Kind bereits vor dem 3.4.20 mit der Bearbeitung des Wochenplans einschließlich der Extraaufgaben fertig sein sollte, dann sollte es Zusatzaufgabe Nr. 1 bearbeiten: ZUSATZAUFGABE Nr. 1 * Make a mind map about your favourite sport/your hobby: o What? Sport: go swimming, play tennis…my favourite: play handball Other hobbies: play the piano o When? At the weekend…On Mondays and Fridays o How is it? It's fun. It's great. I like it a lot. o With who? alone, with my friends… o What do I need? football boots, a shirt, a football, … * Write a text (about 50 words) about your favourite sport/hobby. Use your mind map. I like swimming/playing football/playing handball/…because it's fun. I play handball on Mondays…I need …to play handball. There…When… * Add a picture/photo of you and your hobby/sport (if you like). * Send it to my email address (aydin.asv(at)gmail.com) and I give you a feedback. ZUSATZAUFGABE Nr. 2 (optional) Eine weitere hilfreiche Internetseite zum Englischüben ist: https://www.englischhilfen.de/exercises_list/zeitformen.htm Dort erhalten die Schüler direkt eine Rückmeldung, ob ihre Antwort richtig oder falsch war. ZUSATZAUFGABE Nr. 3 (optional) Besonders interessierte und lesebegeisterte Schüler können auch eine der folgenden Lektüren mit dem Sprachniveau A1 lesen: z.B. https://www.klett-sprachen.de/the-secret-of-the-island/t-1/9783125309012, https://www.klett-sprachen.de/it-s-a-dog-s-life/t-1/9783125711914, https://www.klett-sprachen.de/thebrilliant-world-of-tom-gates/t-1/9783125782211 (fortgeschrittener) oder https://www.klettsprachen.de/in-search-of-a-missing-friend/t-1/9783125148130 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- TB p. 52 For example (zum Beispiel): I play… in my free time/ on Monday afternoon/ after school… TB p. 53 No. 1 a) 1. play football 2. play hockey 3. make models 4. play the guitar 5. collect stamps 6. go riding 7. go to dancing lessons 8. go swimming Answer key – Lösungen Wochenplan – Englisch Klasse 5f – Frau Aydin TB p. 58 No. 2 a) dancing, judo, guitar, comics, riding, swimming, tricks, stamps, badminton, models b) ⚫ go: dancing, riding, swimming… * play: the guitar, badminton… * do: judo, tricks… * make: comics, models * Collect: stamps, comics, models... c) EXTRA: inviduelle Lösungen WB p. 36 No. 1 Sports: The students... play football, go swimming, play hockey, go riding Hobbies: The students... play computer games, collect stamps, make models, play the guitar WB p. 37 No. 3 a) 1 dress, 2 boots, 3 shoes, 4 shorts, 5 socks, 6 jeans, 7 T-shirt b) ...white T-shirt, ...red shorts, ...football boots, ...his socks TB p. 54 The Kapoors at the sports shop a) You can buy football boots, socks, shorts, a cap, a sweatshirt, a shirt... in a sports shop. b) I can see Mrs Kapoor/ Ananda's mum and Ananda in the picture. They are in a sports shop. There are many shoes. There is a man too. He is a shop assistant. * Does Ananda like the red and white shoes? Yes, she does. * Looking at language: Beachte: | Hilfsverb (auxiliary) | Subjekt (subject) | Verb im Infinitiv (verb) | Objekt (object) | |---|---|---|---| | Do | I | want | Them? | | Do | you | like | the colour? | TB p. 139 GF simple present: a) yes/no questions + b) short answers Polly's questions: a) Does Sophie make models? Do Ananda and Dilip go swimming? Does Emily like music? b) (Does Jack like football?) – No, he doesn't. TB p. 59 No. 4 a) (Do you like them?) Do they fit? Do they look OK? Do you want them? Do I want them? b) (Does she like football?) Does he like football? Does it fit Ananda? Does he help in the family shop? Does she help in the shop too? TB p. 59 No. 5 Beachte: Do benutzt du am Anfang von Entscheidungsfragen (yes/no questions) bei I, you, we, they. Does benutzt du am Anfang von Entscheidungsfragen bei he/she/it. WB p. 37 No. 4 1. Do you play football? Yes, I do./ No, I don't. 2. Do you play tennis? Yes, I do./ No, I don't. 3. Do you play basketball? Yes, I do./ No, I don't. 4. Do you play hockey? Yes, I do./ No, I don't. 5. Do you play table tennis? Yes, I do./ No, I don't. WB p. 38 No. 6 1. (Does Ananda need hockey shoes? – Yes, she does.) 2. Do Ananda and her mum need a shop assistant? – Yes, they do. (Ananda and her mum = they) 3. Does size four fit? – Yes, it does. (size four = it) 4. Does Ananda like the colour? No, she doesn't. (Ananda = she) 5. Does she try on red and white shoes? – Yes, she does. 6. Do Ananda and her mum take T-shirts too? No, they don't. (Ananda and her mum = they) Answer key – Lösungen Wochenplan – Englisch Klasse 5f – Frau Aydin Answer key – Lösungen Wochenplan – Englisch Klasse 5f – Frau Aydin WB p. 38 No. 7 1. (Does Jack like sport?) 2. Does Sophie collect plates? (Sophie = she) 3. Do Dan and Jo go swimming? (Dan and Jo = they) 4. Does Prunella play hockey? (Prunella = she) 5. Do Dan and Jo make models? (Dan and Jo = they) EXTRA: TB p. 59 No. 7 For example (Zum Beispiel): * Does Ananda live in a flat? - Yes, she does. * Does Sheeba sleep in a basket? - Yes, she does. * Do the twins do sport? - Yes, they do. * Does Dan live in a basket? - No, he doesn't. * ... EXTRA: WB p. 38 No. 5 Yes, I do. No, I don't. 1. (Do you go to the shops?) 2. Do you listen to music? 3. Do you play the guitar? 4. Do you meet your friends? 5. Do you read comics in bed? TB p. 55 Prunella plays tennis * She can play with Uncle Henry. | Fragewort | Hilfsverb (Form von do) | Subjekt | Verb | |---|---|---|---| | What | does | Prunella | do? | | With who | does | Prunella | play tennis? | | How | does | Prunella | play? | | When | does | Prunella | play? | | Where | does | Prunella | play? | Answer key – Lösungen Wochenplan – Englisch Klasse 5f – Frau Aydin TB p. 140 GF simple present: c) questions with question words Polly's questions: * When does Uncle Henry come? * Where does Prunella play tennis? * What do you do in your free time? WB p. 39 No. 8 1. What do Hip and Hop eat? 2. Where do they play? 3. When do they sleep? 4. What do they drink? TB p. 61 No. 10 a) 1. Do you like sports? 2. What sports do you like? 3. Do you play for a team? 4. Where do you play? 5. When do you play? 6. Do you do other things in your free time? 7. What do you collect? 8. Do you like music? | <urn:uuid:cac8bbac-42b1-4fad-9484-a16b59454968> | CC-MAIN-2020-16 | http://ahnatalschule-vellmar.de/wa_files/englisch%205f%20(wochenplan%20losungen%20zusatzaufgaben).pdf | 2020-04-07T01:24:29+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-16/segments/1585371662966.69/warc/CC-MAIN-20200406231617-20200407022117-00332.warc.gz | 8,231,769 | 2,037 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.899139 | eng_Latn | 0.968832 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2341, 3807, 5002, 6074, 6674 ] | [ 3.328125 ] | 1 | 0 | Home Composting using Compost in tHe garden There are lots of different ways to use home-made compost in the garden. How we use the compost depends on how fine it is. After 3-6 months in a plastic composter or 1 year in a wooden box, the heap begins to cool down. At this stage, the compost is rough and fibrous, looking almost like manure. Use this for mulching. Composting goes through 2 stages: a hot fast stage and a much cooler longer one. After 1 year in a plastic bin and 2 years in a large wooden box, the cool composting process is finished and the compost looks like fine soil. use compost as a mulch * Plan to spread a mulch after rain, when the soil is moist. This stops evaporation. Rough compost is spread on the ground between vegetables, in a flower border or round shrubs or trees. This mulch will conserve moisture, prevent weeds growing and gradually feed the plants. When it rains, goodness from the compost will be washed down to the roots. The compost will continue to rot down and will add nutrient and structure to the ground. * If you're spreading compost in the veg garden or round shrubs or trees cover the damp ground with cardboard or a thick layer of newspaper. This will prevent weed seeds from germinating in the soil. * Spread a layer of compost on top of the card or paper to completely cover it. Keep the mulch approximately 3cm away from plant stems. Any seeds in the compost will germinate, but then die because their roots won't get down to the soil. * If you're spreading compost in an herbaceous border, carefully cover the damp soil between the plants with 5-8 cm of compost. Some, but not many, weeds may germinate without the cardboard underlay. dig compost into the soil Do not overfeed the soil as this would encourage excessive leaf growth at the expense of flowers. Spread 1 barrowload for every 10m². Adding compost will improve soil fertility and structure. If you are then planting small seedlings, use finished compost. More established plants will tolerate slightly rougher material. use in pots and containers Depending on the plant and your watering arrangements you may want to add grit or water retaining gel. Home-made compost releases nutrients more slowly than commercially produced composts, so it provides feed for plants over a much longer period. If potting a small plant, sieve the compost to remove any stick fragments or small stones. The surface of the compost may gradually sink but you can top it up with extra home made compost. This will provide fresh nutrient. potting mixes The proportions of compost and bulking agent depends on the size of the plant. Use: You can make excellent, free, seed sowing and potting compost, using your own compost and leafmould. You can use coir fibre or green waste instead of leafmould. Mix and sieve the ingredients. A 'Rotasieve' is ideal. * For seed sowing. 1 part compost: 2 parts leafmould * Final planting (tomatoes, peppers etc): pure compost. * Pricking out: 1 part compost: 1 part leafmould use as a fertiliser It is suitable for house plants too. Wormcast is the best for this. It is very rich and is used as a feed, especially for container grown plants. For more information on home composting or to contact us - www.askorganic.co.uk or 01450 860778 ASK Organic, in partnership with Scottish Borders Council, has a Home Composting Display within Woodside Plant Centre, by Ancrum, Jedburgh. For information on Waste and Recycling contact Scottish Borders Council Recycling Team on 0300 100 1800 or www.scotborders.gov.uk/recycling Text © ASK Organic. Illustration © Linda Lovatt. Printed by Meigle Colour Printers Ltd., Galashiels. | <urn:uuid:d5800f8b-bbe6-4942-8906-39443baed446> | CC-MAIN-2020-16 | http://askorganic.co.uk/composting/using%20compost%20in%20the%20garden.pdf | 2020-04-06T23:20:33+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-16/segments/1585371662966.69/warc/CC-MAIN-20200406231617-20200407022117-00332.warc.gz | 16,812,819 | 824 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.997951 | eng_Latn | 0.998449 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1498, 3677 ] | [ 3.53125 ] | 1 | 2 | Overview : Developing allies for social change campaigns, issues, and movements. A group of adolescents or adults who are interested in making change on a specific issue or in developing their skills to do so. Participants will explore the complexity of strategizing and become more optimistic about mobilization efforts through a realization that it is not necessary to win over the opposition to your point of view. Participants will uncover how tactics need to be planned in relation to whether they attract key allies. They will explore social forces and groups spread across a spectrum, ranging from those who are the most dedicated opponents to those who are the most active supporters, and assess where a group needs to do more research related to allies. : Perform the activity yourself, before facilitating. Familiarity with organizing is helpful. : Could be followed by Building Allies & Support: The Elevator Speech and One to Ones: An Organizing Tool : Handout, flip chart paper/or white board, pens/markers Spectrum of Allies Procedure INTRODUCTIONS (3 MIN) Presenters introduce selves, participants introduce self to neighbor. OPENING (3 MIN) In this session we will explore how to develop key allies for social change campaigns using a tool called the Spectrum of Allies developed by George Lakey from Training for Change. STEP 1: MODEL TOOL IN FRONT OF ROOM (10 MIN) Draw a line on flip chart paper Then draw a half-moon or half a pie with wedges (as on the handout). Don't distribute the handout yet. Ask for an example of an issue that people in the group might be working on. Suggest a demand we might have and ask who in society might be inclined to be most supportive, least supportive, and in the middle. Use the line to describe the idea that in most social change situations there is a struggle between those who want the change and those who don't. Those who want the change are represented by a point at one side of the line (say, on the left), and the opponents by a point at the other side. Explain that societies (or towns, or states) usually include a range of groups that can be put on a kind of spectrum from closest to the point of view of the advocates to farthest away, and draw a horizontal line to represent that. Give examples of different groups: "unions?" "Poor people's groups?" "Chamber of Commerce?" etc. As participants identify groups and their location on the spectrum, write them into the "pie." If people suggest groups that end up in two or three wedges, then tell them they need to break down the group into a more specific chunk (e.g. "the public" is way too large!). Do this only enough to make the idea clear. STEP 2: EXPLAIN BENEFITS OF TOOL (5 MIN) Give the good news: in most social change campaigns it is not necessary to win the opponent to your point of view, even if the powerholders are the opponent. It is only necessary to move some or all of the pie wedges one step in your direction. Pause to let the idea sink in and make sure it is understood. If we shift each wedge one step, we are likely to win, even though the hardliners on the other side don't budge. Then, if appropriate to the group, complicate the picture slightly: Sometimes polarization happens, and the wedges closest to the opponent move away from you and toward the opponent. You can still win, if enough of society takes a step in your direction. Let the group digest the good news for a bit. Let it sink in that activists often have the mistaken idea that they need to win everyone (inviting despair). Or that their whole attention needs to be on the powerholders (again inviting despair). When the organizers bring that basically optimistic attitude toward the task of mobilization, then it is a lot easier to get people on board. Also, the multiplicity of roles (because of the multiple kinds of actions that can reach folks at different points in the spectrum) gives everyone a way to plug into the campaign, rather than everyone having, for example, to lobby politicians or be dragged to jail. STEP 3: FILL OUT THE CHART (5 MIN) STEP 4: SMALL GROUP DISCUSSION (5 MIN) If a variety of issues are present in the group, ask them to form issue groups to compare notes. Discuss the following questions: - Who else could be added/ what's missing? - What could motivate movement for groups represented in each wedge? STEP 5: FULL GROUP DISCUSSION (10 MIN) Harvest the learning in the whole group on white board or flip chart paper through questions such as: - What would a big win look like, if you're using the spectrum of allies? - Could you make progress on an issue without moving the opponents at all? How? - What next steps (such as research) emerge from this exercise? - How could this tool be useful in your own life? CLOSING (5 MIN) Ask each participant to share one word about a feeling, thought, or intention for action they're leaving with. Ask participants to please complete the evaluation for this workshop. Pass out the basic chart (see handout) and invite everyone to fill in the wedges for their particular campaign/issue/movement. If your group does not have an issue, consider offering one as an example. 'Spectrum of Allies: Training for Change Tool" is adapted by Minnesota Campus Compact staff from TrainingForChange.org by George Lakey. We welcome your suggestions for improving this guide further for future trainings. We also welcome you to use it and adapt it for your own trainings, subject to the restrictions below. RESTRICTIONS OF USE * You may reproduce and distribute the work to others for free, but you may not sell the work to others * You may not remove the legends from the work that provide attribution as to source * You may modify the work, provided that the attribution legends remain on the work * Include a copy of these restrictions with copies of the work that you distribute. f you have any questions about these terms, please contact email@example.com or Minnesota Campus Compact, 2211 Riverside Ave S. #48, Minneapolis, MN 55454. Survey for "Spectrum of Allies" Workshop Thank you for taking time to attend this Civic Agency workshop. We are very interested in receiving your feedback. (Alternatively, you may also complete this survey online at http://tinyurl.com/ja28zek). If you have participants complete evaluations on paper, please scan them and send them to firstname.lastname@example.org. Your information Primary Role: Student, Faculty, Staff, Administrator, Community Organization Staff, AmeriCorps/VISTA Institution (College, University, Organization): Date: Please indicate how strongly you agree/disagree with the following about your experience with the Civic Agency workshop you participated in. I increased my confidence in my own ability to lead I gained useful leadership skills, strategies, or insights I learned about new leadership tools or resources I developed new or deeper connections with others I both learned from and contributed to the learning of others Other participants in the workshop helped me see things from a different perspective Please indicate how strongly you agree/disagree with each of the following statements about yourself before the workshop Strongly Disagree Strongly Agree 2016 Minnesota Campus Compact Spectrum of Allies; Evaluation |1 Please indicate how strongly you agree/disagree with each of the following statements about yourself now: I understand my own identities and cultures I understand how identities and culture matter in social/community change work I understand how I connect with social issues on a personal level I am aware of strategies for fostering collaboration in diverse groups I am aware of strategies for effectively leading others I am aware of strategies for developing an action plan for social/community change I believe I have power to address social/community issues Is there anything you would like to tell us about your experience with the workshop? After the Workshop Strongly Disagree Strongly Agree 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 2016 Minnesota Campus Compact Spectrum of Allies; Evaluation |2 | <urn:uuid:9a951f6b-66c7-4c26-b776-a75f8242b4f2> | CC-MAIN-2020-16 | http://mncampuscompact.org/wp-content/uploads/large/sites/30/2016/10/16-Spectrum-of-Allies.pdf | 2020-04-06T23:22:34+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-16/segments/1585371662966.69/warc/CC-MAIN-20200406231617-20200407022117-00333.warc.gz | 119,123,452 | 1,743 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.995581 | eng_Latn | 0.998432 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2683, 6055, 7325, 8211 ] | [ 3.46875 ] | 4 | 6 | A What's an addiction? Complete the text with these words to find it out: behaviour, compulsive, pleasurable, condition, problems, substance, relationships. Addiction is a ______________ that results when a person ingests a _______________ or engages in an activity that can be ______________ but the continued use of which becomes _______________ and interferes with ordinary life responsibilities, such as work or _______________, even health. Users may not be aware that their _____________ is out of control and causing _______________ for themselves and others. https://www.psychologytoday.com/basics/addiction (adapted) B Match the pictures with the right words from the box. 1. Food 2. Social Networks 3. Alcohol 4. Work addiction 6. Sexting 7. Texting 8. Body image 9. Mobile Phones 5. Smoking 10. Chocolate 11. Drugs 12. Video games 13. Shopping 14. Internet 15. Gambling 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 | <urn:uuid:36eb248c-7c68-4f79-96e6-fbd302c2686e> | CC-MAIN-2020-16 | http://www.europeanmediaeducationlab.com/uploads/4/7/5/9/47590033/addictions_ws.pdf | 2020-04-07T00:58:21+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-16/segments/1585371662966.69/warc/CC-MAIN-20200406231617-20200407022117-00333.warc.gz | 233,264,057 | 236 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.995697 | eng_Latn | 0.995697 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 923 ] | [ 3.015625 ] | 2 | 2 | Illinois Valley Community College Writing Center WRITING A THESIS A thesis statement identifies the main idea of your essay. The rest of the essay will be organized around supporting your thesis statement. Thesis statements are usually placed in the introduction to the essay, often appearing as the last sentence in the introductory paragraph. As you begin to draft your essay, it is a good idea to work with a tentative thesis statement. This statement will help focus your ideas, but may change as you research your topic and write your drafts. Review your tentative thesis statement and revise it accordingly as you work. Writers often find it helpful to draft their topic sentences before finalizing their thesis statement. Since your thesis statement should preview all your main ideas, look at each topic sentence to identify its main idea. Then, combine each of those main ideas in your thesis statement. However, avoid simply listing your ideas; instead, strive to show their relationship (the "big picture" of the essay). When writing about literature, name the author and title of the work in the thesis statement. Properly format titles (see our related handout). Characteristics of effective thesis statements: 1. Effective thesis statements clearly state the essay's main idea. Beyond simply stating your topic, your thesis statement should state what you will say about your topic. For example: - Although the stories "Night Shift" and "The Clarion Call" both use descriptive language, King and O'Henry differ greatly in the effect their language has on the reader. Here, we see that the topic is two stories, but also know that the writer will focus on how the language affects the readers. The authors and titles of the stories being discussed are also named. 2. Effective thesis statements communicate your essay's purpose. Depending on the assignment, your essay will likely have a specific purpose. For instance, some essays are informative while others are persuasive. Your thesis statement should convey your purpose to the reader. For example: - In order to prevent violence in schools, conflict resolution should be a mandatory class for all high school students. Here, it is clear to the readers that this essay will attempt to convince them of a certain point of view. 3. Effective thesis statements are clearly worded. Use specific wording in your thesis statement; avoid vague language, irrelevant details, and confusing terminology when introducing your essay's main point. The thesis statement should give an accurate preview of what you will discuss and indicate the essay's direction and scope. In this way, your essay and thesis statement will share a sharp focus. - While enacted with good intentions, immigration laws often create more problems than they solve. Here, the clear wording signals what will be discussed and highlights the focus of the essay. What to avoid when writing a thesis statement: 1. Announcements of intent: Statements like "I will discuss…" or "The thesis of this essay is…" are stylistically distracting and informal in tone. Sometimes this is called a "purpose statement." 2. Statements of fact: Simply stating a fact is a dead end that cannot be developed into an essay. For example, "Hybrid cars get better gas mileage than cars with standard gasoline engines" is a fact that has already been established and leaves the writer nowhere to go. 3. Thesis statement as the title: Titles are not detailed enough to properly preview your essay and communicate its purpose. Examples of effective thesis statements: - As research proves second-hand smoke poses danger to school-age children, smoking should be banned with 1000 feet of a school. This statement clearly states the main idea of the essay. - Students should be required to take a course on time management skills before graduating high school. This statement clearly conveys the essay's persuasive purpose. - Because community colleges have quality instructors, financial savings, and career-oriented classes, they are a better choice than a large university for many students. This statement clearly and concisely previews the main points of the essay. Examples of ineffective thesis statements: - Smoking is hazardous to your health. This statement simply states a fact; it cannot be developed into an effective essay. - This paper will discuss the consequences of poor time management for college students. The announcement of intent in this statement has an informal tone and distracts the reader. - When it comes to considering what type of institution to attend, it is beneficial to consider that community colleges have many positive attributes; these include (but are not limited to) instructors who are dedicated to their fields, financial savings to the student, and classes which are focused on careers. This statement has overly complex wording. | <urn:uuid:baa24d93-da6b-4bf3-97d5-ef1d47646f3b> | CC-MAIN-2020-16 | https://ivccwritingcenter.files.wordpress.com/2018/08/writing-a-thesis.pdf | 2020-04-07T01:39:22+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-16/segments/1585371662966.69/warc/CC-MAIN-20200406231617-20200407022117-00334.warc.gz | 529,885,834 | 921 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998628 | eng_Latn | 0.998676 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2908, 4905 ] | [ 3.578125 ] | 1 | 2 | CHILDREN'S UNIVERSITY SCOTLAND Summer Challeng 2019 Storyteller e e Get inspired Board game tycoon Head to your local library and find a nonfiction book that interests you – it could be about history, nature, science, design – pick something that sparks your interest and makes you want to learn more. Take notes while you read your non-fiction book. Then, use your imagination to make the information into an exciting comic book story (that still has all the correct facts!) Be more Kind This summer holiday, challenge yourself to ask others 'how can I help?' Whether you help a friend with a problem, a family member or neighbour with their chores, or find out if you can help your club or activity leader, or hold a bake sale for charity – there are lots of simple ways we can help others. However you choose to help, keep a journal of how your actions helped, and how it made you feel. How can you encourage others to be more kind? Crazy Golf Create your own crazy golf course with things found in the house or collected from the beach or forest. Make your course as easy or challenging as you like. How about including a moving obstacle? Challenge someone to a game and see what they think of your course. Don't forget to keep score! If you want to do this indoors or don't have space outside, why not try a mini table top version? Create smaller obstacles and use a marble and pencil as your ball and club. Find out about one sports person who inspires you. This could be a professional athlete, a local sporting hero, a friend or family member or your sports coach. Anyone who loves sport and inspires you! Make a fact file on this person. Find out about their sporting life, what inspires them to play their sport, how they got into their sport in the first place, and what they did to get where they are today. Why not send them a letter to tell them why they inspire you? Save the Planet One simple way we can help the planet is by making an effort to reduce, reuse and recycle the plastic we use. Organise a plastic pick-up for your family and/or friends at your local park or beach. shopping bags and help from an adult. Pick up any plastic you find and recycle it at the You'll need some gloves, reusable end. How does using less plastic help wildlife? Can you think of 3 ways we can encourage others to use less plastic? Ready, steady, bake! Set yourself a challenge and create your own signature cakes or biscuits! What flavour do you want them to be? Do you want to decorate them with a theme? Who do you want to share them with? Then, get baking! Write down the measurements and steps you took. What worked well about your bake, and what do you think you would do differently next time? Hint: Use a simple cake or biscuit recipe from a cookbook or BBC Food if you need some help. Invent a fun board game! Design your board and counters and use a fun theme that will spark others' imaginations. Write the rules to your game and ask some friends or family members to help you try it out. Ask them to tell you what they thought: what did they like about it, and what did they think could be better? Write 3 things you would keep the same, and three things you would do differently next time. Hint: be kind to the planet by making your game from clean, recycled materials if you can! Play A Word Gamee Each player takes it in turn to think of and say a word out loud. But there's just one catch – each player's word must not be connected to the last player's word at all. So, if player one says 'octopus', player two can't say any words linked to oceans, animals, aquariums or eight. How long can you and your fellow players play without using similar or connected words? Did you learn any new words by playing the game? Skills Diary Use Aspire to help you keep a skills diary for each week of the holidays. Look back over the activities you logged this week. Find out the skills you collected in each activity and make a note of all the skills at the end of each week. Set yourself a target each week to log one skill you didn't log last week (hint: our Activity Challenges are a fun, free way to collect lots of skill points at home). www.childrensuniversity.scot/get-in-touch Children's University Scotland (also known as CU Trust Scotland) is a registered Scottish charity (No. SC043974) Bedroom surveyor A surveyor's job is to measure a building or piece of land to understand the size, shape or boundaries of the space. Use a pencil and piece of paper to make a picture of a room in your house. The picture should be a simple line diagram drawn as if you are above the room looking down at the floor and furniture. You'll need to use a measuring tape or ruler to measure the length, width and depth of your room. Add features such as doors and windows and any furniture you have. Can you work out the area of the floor space left? Wonderful Whales Did you know – sperm whales hunt their prey by making clicking sounds? Scientists think that these clicks may be powerful enough to break human bones! Do some research online or in books about how sperm whales produce these clicking noises, and how this helps them to communicate and find food to eat. Try communicating with your friends with clicks by using Morse code Hint: try this YouTube video to learn the basics: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_IlZrZ9N4ig Useful Links1. Take part in the activities during the holidays, before or after school, at break times or on weekends. The challenge will be available until the autumn challenge is released in October.2. Log your credit on Aspire at www.CUS-Aspire.com. Check out our video if you need help using Aspire: vimeo.com/3227884233. Share your stories with us –we love to hear how you're getting on with our challenges! Email us: firstname.lastname@example.org write to us: Children's University Scotland, 44 King Street, Stirling, FK8 1AY. Children's University Scotland (also known as CU Trust Scotland) is a registered Scottish charity (No. SC043974) and is a company limited by guarantee. Word of the Day Learn a new word each day for a week in the summer holidays! Your words of the day can be as funny, silly or strange as you like – try to learn a brand new word, or find out the meaning of a word you've heard before but didn't quite know what it meant. Get creative and find a way to share your words of the day with others – it might be using arts and crafts, technology or even music to teach others your word of the day and its meaning. Try to find an opportunity to use your word of the day when you get back to school! Hint: start with the word 'discombobulate' if you're stuck. Make a Totem Totem poles are beautifully carved wooden sculptures. They come from Indigenous tribes in North America, where totems are used to share stories about their tribe. Discover the history of the totem pole online or in books. Then, try making your own. You will need: * Empty toilet or kitchen rolls * Coloured card or paper * PVA glue * Coloured pencils or pens What story does your totem tell? Design a Castl e e Do some research online, in your local library or at a Historic Scotland venue. Learn about one historic building from the past. Imagine you've been tasked with recreating this building in a modern style. Draw your design using any materials you like – why not try making a 3D model or collage? Label each part of the building, and write why you designed it the way you did. Why is it important to learn about and protect our historic buildings? Piñata Party A piñata is both a decoration and a game made of papier mâché. Learn about the history of the piñata, and then make your own to share with friends or family. You'll need to think about the materials you need, what kind of fun treats and prizes you want to fill your piñata with, and what your piñata will look like. Once you've created your masterpiece, ask family or friends to hit the piñata! While they have fun earning their piñata prizes, tell them what you've learned about the history of this fun tradition. | <urn:uuid:bcdce742-8950-44e4-b2d5-aa53e19b324d> | CC-MAIN-2020-16 | http://childrensuniversity.scot/media/1661/cus-summer-challenge-2019-fav.pdf | 2020-04-07T01:16:14+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-16/segments/1585371662966.69/warc/CC-MAIN-20200406231617-20200407022117-00333.warc.gz | 34,859,796 | 1,818 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998689 | eng_Latn | 0.998715 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 4337, 8076 ] | [ 3.703125 ] | 4 | 0 | English Texts: One Snowy Night, Non Chronological Reports on Polar Animals, The Snow Queen Reading: Children will take part in guided reading sessions and whole class reading sessions. Writing: Children will learning to write and adapt stories. They will also be learning to write letters and their own non-chronological report about an arctic animal. Grammar Year 2: Sentence types, Word classes, Apostrophes, Tenses, Suffixes Handwriting: Form lower-case letters of the correct size relative to one another. Start using some of the diagonal and horizontal strokes needed to join letters and understand which letters, when adjacent to one another, are best left unjoined Cursive – Journey to cursive scheme Geography Use world maps, atlases and globes to identify the United Kingdom and its countries, as well as the countries, continents and oceans studied. * Identify seasonal and daily weather patterns in the United Kingdom and the location of hot and cold areas of the world in relation to the Equator and the North and South Poles. * Understand geographical similarities and differences through studying the human and physical geography of a small area of the United Kingdom and of a contrasting nonEuropean country. History * Learning about different arctic explorers * Show an awareness of the past, using common words and phrases relating to the passing of time * Sort artefacts from 'then' and 'now' * Discuss the lives of significant individuals in the past who have contributed to national and international achievements and use some to compare aspects of life in different periods Robins Curriculum Music * Music Express units – * Water, Our Bodies, Animals, Pattern Computing * Create a topic- based e-book * Sequencing simple algorithms and programs PE * Invasion games skills (attacking and defending focus)/Basketball * Health and Fitness Polar Explorers Spring term RE & PSHE incl diversity RE-Families & Worship and Ceremonies PSHE- Happy and Healthy me, Me and my safety. Maths White Rose Maths Scheme Multiplication & Division, Statistics, Properties of shape, Fractions Science Living things and their habitats * Explore and compare the difference between things that are living, dead and things that have never been alive * Identify that most living things live in habitats to which they are suited and describe how different habitats provide for the basic needs of animals and plants, and how they depend on each other. * Identify and name a variety of plants and animals in their habitats, including micro- habitats. * Describe how animals obtain their food from plants and other animal Materials * Describe how the shapes of solid objects made from some materials can be changed by squashing, bending, twisting and stretching. * Identify and compare the suitability of a variety of everyday materials for particular uses DT Make a diorama: * Create products using levers, wheels and winding mechanisms. * Design products that have a clear purpose and an intended user. * Make products, refining the design as work progresses. Explore and use mechanisms such as wheels, axels, levers and sliders. Art Draw lines of different sizes and thickness. Colour (own work) neatly following the lines. Show pattern and texture by adding dots and lines. Show different tones by using coloured pencils. | <urn:uuid:43b16dd3-fc11-4005-9c33-eaf1c3e743e3> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | http://springfieldsfirstschool.org.uk/media/6420479/robins-topic-web-polar-explorers.pdf | 2022-05-29T09:08:52+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00316.warc.gz | 55,281,670 | 682 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.994818 | eng_Latn | 0.994818 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 3353 ] | [ 4.28125 ] | 1 | 1 | Facing Real Issues: Bullying 2013 NO BULL Documentary of the Year – 3rd Place Click above to view video Film by: A. Camille Howard Woodland Jr. Sr. High School Princeton, Maine "No one to talk to…" "No one to listen…" Identify some of the bullying behaviors demonstrated throughout the video and describe the impact that bullying behavior can have on a person. "Is misery the only company you keep?" "You're picked on, pushed around and called names…" Describe strategies that a bystander could use when seeing someone being bullied. Why might it be difficult for some teens to take action when they see bullying happen? Many students don't see bullying happen because they don't know what to look for. What help do you think we can give bullies to keep them from making victims out of people? "More than once I've attempted to reach out…" "I replay the scene over and over in my thoughts." How can adults help play a role in a bullying situation when you feel like you can't help out yourself? Don't Stand By: Take Action This is the final tagline in the video… What do these words mean to you? How do you define BULLYING? What is it? How is social media used to bully? Why is it difficult to "stand-up" for the target of a bully? How do you promote DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY? What actions have you taken? How can you implement in your school? Why is it important to be responsible when using all things digital? www.nobullchallenge.org The NO BULL Challenge Change Starts With You SPEAK UP – Let Your Voice Be Heard! NO BULL is committed to creating and inspiring youth-led films as a platform for dialogue on the most important issues of our time. The challenge to YOU… Get Involved! Make a PSA or short film Make a Statement! Take a Stand! Prizes include the coveted Noble Award, scholarships, custom oneof-a-kind signet ring designed by Balfour, video cameras and a trip to Sundance Film Festival. What is the NO BULL Challenge? The NO BULL Teen Video Awards Click above for highlights Individual students or teams create a 2-5 minute short film or 30-60 second PSA promoting digital responsibility in an effort to end bullying/cyberbullying Top 50 videos will be selected by public voting Nominees and Winners will be selected by judges panel You could win prizes like: Scholarship, one-of-a-kind NO BULL signet ring designed by Balfour, video camera, a trip to Sundance Film Festival and much more NO BULL your way to L.A.! Fundraise to attend the National Conference & Teen Video Awards! All involved students receive VIP invites! www.nobullchallenge.org Important Dates: December 13, 2013 Video uploads begin April 30, 2014 Video upload deadline May 5-16, 2014 Public voting period June 6, 2014 Nominees announced August 8-9, 2014 NO BULL Conference & Teen Video Awards Video Subject: Digital responsibility, Anti-bullying Video Lengths: Full: 2-5 minutes PSA: 30-60 seconds Eligible: Middle & High School Students, Ages 13-18 CHANGE MAKERS REACHING MILLIONS To get involved, visit: www.nobullchallenge.org NO BULL Challenge Partners: | <urn:uuid:c12b117b-3b33-4ef6-8619-51a6513cdb35> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://www.nobullchallenge.org/_files/ugd/f43b49_a706a4037cfe41f79c37b98920312d42.pdf | 2022-05-29T08:40:24+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00315.warc.gz | 1,040,293,138 | 771 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.955617 | eng_Latn | 0.997009 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 179, 366, 630, 805, 1009, 1114, 1458, 1933, 3002, 3113 ] | [ 3.53125 ] | 1 | 1 | SUNDAYSCHOOL FIRST TERMINAL EXAMINATION ARCHDIOCESE OF CHANGANASSERY 11.00 AM - 1.00 PM Mark : 75 05-10-2014 CLASS III Time: 2hr I. Select the correct word from the given list 10 1. The man who made the ark is ............................................... 2. The number of Jacob’s sons is ................................................. 3. The sign of God's covenant was the.................................................. 4. God came down from Mount Sinai and called ........................... up to the mount. 5. Abraham's earlier dwelling place is.................................................. Fill in the blanks 10 6. The descendants of Jacob are known as .................................................. 7. The saviour of mankind.................................................. 8 ................................................... is the place where the tower was built. 9. The land to which God led the Israelites is .................................................. 10. .................................................. help us show the right way in our journey to Heaven. Answer the following 4 11. Who tempted our first parents to act against the command of God? 12. Who are called Israelites? Answer the following questions in a word 10 13. Who is our Pope? 14. What is the name of your parish? 15. Who is the Patron Saint of the Archdiocese of Changanacherry? 16. Who is your Parish priest? 17. Who is the first saint of India? Moses , Rainbow, Noah, Haran, 12 V. Select the words and fill the columns 8 You are given several words some of them are to be deserted and others are to be accepted. List them in the appropriate columns. (God,Satan , Parents, Teachers , Good friends , bad words, good books , Bad films.) 19. What are the ways of life? 3 20. Write the name of three saints. 6 21. Choose the correct word from the word box and fill it. 8 Abel was a shepherd and .............................. was a farmer.Once Cain offered part of his produce as a ............................. to God ................... offered the young ones of his flock ................................ accepted the gift offerings of Abel .God did not accept the offerings of Cain. 22. Comment on this :-True or false. 1 1. I will ever live obeying God’s cmmandments. 2. I will call up on God in all my problem and suffering. Abel, Gift, God, Cain To be accepted To be deserted 2 VII. | <urn:uuid:355744b6-1ae5-4a77-87c7-6471df616d88> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | http://www.syromalabarcatechesis.com/assets/uploads/files/dXE5RlVRZVJlTzUxTUZzdWkzRXdhbVEzNzV3MWxOTmxmeFBTc0tGWWppRT0.pdf | 2022-05-29T09:36:09+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00320.warc.gz | 107,173,966 | 537 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.989666 | eng_Latn | 0.993464 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown" ] | false | docling | [ 1525, 2448, 2454 ] | [ 3.546875 ] | 1 | 0 | Digital Inclusion Project Quiz 1: Answers 1. List 3 functions you would expect to find on the Zoom menu bar. * Microphone - mute/unmute * Participants- * Video- start video/stop video * Share screen * more 2. What is the difference between 'Leave meeting' and 'End Meeting for All' in Zoom? Leave meeting - meeting has not stopped and can still continue even after you leave End meeting for all - only host can do this. This action will end meeting for everyone in meeting 3. Each person in the group to name 1 App that was already preloaded onto the Lenovo tablet when they received it. 4. List 3 ways to share information on Zoom * Chat * share screen * Audio 5. What symbol do you need to click on to send an email attachment? * Paperclip 6. a) What does cc and bcc stand for when sending an email?; and b) What is the difference between the two functions? * Carbon copy - to copy email to someone else, will be seen by the receiver in the To * Blind carbon copy - to copy email secretly to someone else. To not be seen by receiver in to section 7. What does the acronym www stand for? * World Wide Web 8. Each person in the group to give an example of something that would help them to decide whether a website or email was safe to use or could be trusted. 9. List 2 ways to increase the security on your tablet. * Screen lock * Encryption * Face recognition 10. What is the name of the website that of all UK government departments, many agencies and public bodies have been merged into? * Gov.uk 11. How would you make sure that your password is strong/secure * A combination of letters (upper/lower case), numbers and symbols 12. Which company now owns PayPal? * eBay The World Wide Web was the brain child of British computer scientist Tim Berners-Lee and Belgian scientist Robert Cailliau. Proposed and released to the world in 1990, the World Wide Web has revolutionized information sharing and ushered in a remarkable technological age. WWW is a system where hypertext documents can be accessed through an internet web browser. | <urn:uuid:2e4e0167-8f1e-4a7a-9774-3d860baef0a7> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://www.neighbourly-care.org/_files/ugd/0ff653_faa30282b359413f911f1f502bf2b1cc.pdf | 2022-05-29T08:15:17+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00319.warc.gz | 1,041,939,629 | 474 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998093 | eng_Latn | 0.998531 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1264, 2044 ] | [ 3.171875 ] | 1 | 0 | Name: Section: Score: _____/5 Art History Art of the Islamic World Directions: Read the following article on Art in the Islamic World and answer the thought questions at the end. What is Islamic Art? The Dome of the Rock, the Taj Mahal, a Mina'i ware bowl, a silk carpet, a Qur'an; all of these are examples of Islamic Art. But what is Islamic Art? Islamic Art is a modern concept, created by art historians in the nineteenth century to categorize and study the material first produced under the Islamic peoples that emerged from Arabia in the seventh century. Today Islamic Art describes all of the arts that were produced in the lands where Islam was the dominant religion or the religion of those who ruled. Unlike the terms Christian, Jewish, and Buddhist art, which refer only to religious art of these faiths, Islamic art is not used merely to describe religious art or architecture, but applies to all art forms produced in the Islamic World. Thus, Islamic Art refers not only to works created by Muslim artists, artisans, and architects or for Muslim patrons. It encompasses the works created by Muslim artists for a patron of any faith, including Christians, Jews, or Hindus, and the works created by Jews, Christians, and others, living in Islamic lands, for patrons, Muslim and otherwise. One of the most famous monuments of Islamic Art is the Taj Mahal, a royal mausoleum, located in Agra, India. Hinduism is majority religion in India; however, because Muslim rulers, most famously the Mughals, dominated large areas of modernday India for centuries, India has a vast range of Islamic art and architecture. The Great Mosque of Xian, China, is one of the oldest and best preserved mosques in China. First constructed in 742 CE, the mosque's current form dates to the fifteenth century CE and follows the plan and architecture of a contemporary Buddhist temple. In fact, much Islamic art and architecture was—and still is—created through a synthesis of local traditions and more global ideas. Islamic Art is not a monolithic style or movement; it spans 1,300 years of history and has incredible geographic diversity—Islamic empires and dynasties controlled territory from Spain to western China at various points in history. However, few if any of these various countries or Muslim empires would have referred to their art as Islamic. An artisan in Damascus thought of his work as Syrian or Damascene—not as Islamic. As a result of thinking about the problems of calling such art Islamic, certain scholars and major museums, like the Metropolitan Museum of Art, have decided to omit the term Islamic when they renamed their new galleries of Islamic Art. Instead, they are called "Galleries for the Art of the Arab Lands, Turkey, Iran, Central Asia, and Later South Asia," thereby stressing the regional styles and individual cultures. Thus, when using the phrase, Islamic Art, one should know that it is a useful, but artificial, concept. In some ways, Islamic Art is a bit like referring to the Italian Renaissance. During the Renaissance, there was no unified Italy; it was a land of independent city-states. No one would have thought of one's self as an Italian, or of the art they produced as Italian, rather one conceived of one's self as a Roman, a Florentine, or a Venetian. Each city developed a highly local, remarkable style. At the same time, there are certain underlying themes or similarities that unify the art and architecture of these cities and allow scholars to speak of an Italian Renaissance. Themes Similarly, there are themes and types of objects that link the arts of the Islamic World together. Calligraphy is a very important art form in the Islamic World. The Qur'an, written in elegant scripts, represents Allah's (or God's) divine word, which Muhammad received directly from Allah during his visions. Quranic verses, executed in calligraphy, are found on many different forms of art and architecture. Likewise, poetry can be found on everything from ceramic bowls to the walls of houses. Calligraphy's omnipresence underscores the value that is placed on language, specifically Arabic. Geometric and vegetative motifs are very popular throughout the lands where Islam was once or still is a major religion and cultural force, appearing in the private palaces of buildings such as the Alhambra (in Spain) as well as in the detailed metal work of Safavid Iran. Likewise, certain building types appear throughout the Muslim world: mosques with their minarets, mausolea, gardens, and madrasas (religious schools) are all common. However, their forms vary greatly. One of the most common misconceptions about the art of the Islamic World is that it is aniconic; that is, the art does not contain representations of humans or animals. Religious art and architecture, almost from the earliest examples, such as the Dome of the Rock, the Aqsa Mosque (both in Jerusalem), and the Great Mosque of Damascus, built under the Umayyad rulers, did not include human figures and animals. However, the private residences of sovereigns, such as Qasr 'Amra or Khirbat Mafjar, were filled with vast figurative paintings, mosaics, and sculpture. Cairo, Egypt Minarets of Al-Azhar Mosque, Cairo, Egypt (photo: Ahmed Al.BadawyThe study of the arts of the Islamic World has also lagged behind other fields in Art History. There are several reasons for this. First, many scholars are not familiar with Arabic or Farsi (the dominant language in Iran). Calligraphy, particularly Arabic calligraphy, as noted above, is a major art form and appears on almost all types of architecture and arts. Second, the art forms and objects prized in the Islamic world do not correspond to those traditionally valued by art historians and collectors in the Western world. The so-called decorative arts—carpets, ceramics, metalwork, and books—are types of art that Western scholars have traditionally valued less than painting and sculpture. However, the last fifty years has seen a flourishing of scholarship on the arts of the Islamic World. Arts of the Islamic World Here, we have decided to use the phrase "Arts of the Islamic World" to emphasize the art that was created in a world where Islam was a dominant religion or a major cultural force, but was not necessarily religious art. Often when the word "Islamic" is used today, it is used to describe something religious; thus using the phrase, Islamic Art, potentially implies, mistakenly, that all of this art is religious in nature. The phrase, "Arts of the Islamic World," also acknowledges that not all of the work produced in the "Islamic World" was for Muslims or was created by Muslims. Macaulay-Lewis, Elizabeth. "Art of the Islamic World." Khan Academy. Arts of the Islamic World, 2013. Web. 26 Oct. 2014. Thought Questions: Name: Score: _____/5 1. What type of art is actually categorized as Islamic Art? In the 19 th Century? Today? 2. Why is it so difficult to categorize Islamic art in only way? Explain why using an explanation of the Geographic and time factors. 3. How is the term “Islamic Art” similar to the term “Italian Renaissance” 4. What types of artistic patterns are most prevalent throughout the Islamic world? (list and explain 3 with examples. 5. For what reasons has Islamic art not been heavily studied in the past? | <urn:uuid:fdff15fa-bd2e-4b72-aff5-2a90261a2d83> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://www.mrtredinnick.com/uploads/7/2/1/5/7215292/art_of_the_islamic_world.pdf | 2022-05-29T08:43:19+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00317.warc.gz | 996,638,059 | 1,547 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998277 | eng_Latn | 0.998132 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 3538, 6791, 7330 ] | [ 4.34375 ] | 2 | 1 | STEM School Chattanooga 9 th Grade PBL Unit Plan Template Unit 1: Dynamics Learning Target Topics Art I: Plan and produce a work combining technologies, media, and processes of visual art with those of another discipline. Algebra I: Solve quadratic equations in one variable. Geometry: Apply geometric concepts in modeling situations; English I: Create/write narratives to develop experiences; Use digital media to enhance understanding and interest; Adapt speech to concept or task. Physical World Concepts: Investigate and analyze the kinematics and dynamics of projectile motion in a gravitational field.. World History: Research historical information; Write an expository report to explain the history of the chosen method. | Grade Level | 9th Grade | Unit Length | |---|---|---| | Unit Overview | | | | Unit Essential Issue | | | | Culminating Events | | | The following items will be assessed by the appropriate content area teacher: * Algebra I/Geometry: Correct use of the mathematical learning targets in the design and launch of the catapult in the Catapult Analysis Worksheet. * Physical World Concepts: The research and analysis of the physics of the machines and projectiles in the Catapult Analysis Worksheet. * English I: Use of the Weekly Prototype Videos and Final Documentary to document the building process, testing, and final design of the launching device. * Art: Form and balance in the model and aesthetics in the launching device design plan. * World History: Research, citation, and use of analysis of historical content in the research-based expository writing showing the history of their chosen launching device type. Common Assessment | | STEM PBL Rubric | | PBL Unit: _______________________ Student: _______________________ Date: ____________ | |---|---|---|---| | | Advanced | Proficient | Needs Improvement | | Math Components: Algebra I | ● Students will predict the angles for release point that is optimal to achieve a launch covering the longest distance. ● Prediction must be graphed and supported using mathematical evidence and terminology. | ● Students will create data tables for 4 different catapult launch angles, recording time and distance for each. ● Students will use technology to graph each launch and use data to determine maximum height and initial velocity. | | | Math Components: Geometry | ● Student can alter the scale of an existing catapult or trebuchet design. ● Completed design using TinkerCad. | ● Student can design to scale a catapult which satisfies specified physical constraints. ● Completed design using TinkerCad. | | | Science Components: Physical World Concepts | ● Students will quantitatively predict the effects on their machine in a different gravitational field in the advanced portion of the worksheet. ● Students will suggest improvements to their machine that would increase their range and discuss the effects those improvements would have on the variables in both dimensions. | ● Students will create a catapult suitable for launching a payload. ● Students will build the machine base using no automated parts or kits. ● Complete PWC Catapult Analysis of kinematics and gravity in 2 dimensions. ● A written description of the displacement, velocity and acceleration of the projectiles in both X and Y dimension. ● Students will qualitatively predict the motion of their machine in a different gravitational field. | | | Language Arts Components: English I | ● Video includes an analysis of the designs through reflections of results, adaptations, and predictions for the next prototype design. ● Videos will include personal interviews from team member(s) about roles, struggles, and/or successes. ● Videos are personalized and engaging, including analysis of learning through the processes. | ● Students will document the design and construction process, from first to final design, in the Weekly Prototype and Final Documentary Videos. ● Students will include testing, results, and next steps in the weekly prototype clips. ● Students will use speech and domain-specific vocabulary in | | Unit Learning Targets | | | the videos that is appropriate to the task and purpose. | |---|---|---| | Social Studies Components: World History | ● Accurately and effectively presents important details from reading materials to develop thesis or claim. ● Presents thorough and detailed information to effectively support and develop the focus, controlling idea, or claim. ● Integrates relevant and accurate disciplinary content with thorough explanations that demonstrate in-depth understanding. | ● Accurately presents details from reading materials relevant to the purpose of the prompt to develop thesis or claim. ● Presents appropriate and sufficient details to support and develop the focus, controlling idea, or claim. ● Accurately presents disciplinary content relevant to the prompt with sufficient explanations that demonstrate understanding. | | Art Components: Art I | ● Model must perform task effectively. ● Two or more different digital fabrication elements. ● Analyze the process of building the model as you use the fabrication processes in the documentary video. | ● Final model will be assessed on their use of form. ● Final model must be free- standing and visually balanced. ● Final model must have one element of digital fabrication. | Minimum Algebra: Requirement Components: be graded * Tables correctly labeled and graphs created using graphing technology Must be included to Geometry: * A two-dimensional orthographic design of the graph must be completed using TinkerCad. English I: * Weekly Prototype Video Clips must be completed each week and added to FlipGrid BEFORE advancing to the next prototype step. * Prototype and documentary videos must include ORIGINAL still images or live video of your launching device and processes. * Videos should be no more than 5 minutes long. PWC : * Machine must fit the size requirements mentioned in the pacing guide. Art: * Model must be sturdy and well put together within the size standards. World History: * Expository essay should be a minimum of 1.5 pages long. * Must have at least one primary and/or secondary sources. Algebra 1: * I can interpret complicated expressions by viewing one or more parts as a single entity. * I can interpret parts of an expression such as factors, coefficients and terms.. Geometry: * I can apply geometric concepts in modeling situations. * I can visualize relationships between two-dimensional and three-dimensional objects. PWC: * I can use kinematics in 2 dimensions to analyze motion. * I can discuss possible differences in motion due to differences in the gravitational field. English I: Vocabulary * I can create/write narratives to develop real or imagined experiences or events using effective techniques, well-chosen details, and well-structured event sequences. * I can make strategic use of digital media (e.g., textual, graphical, audio, visual, and interactive elements) in presentations to enhance understanding of findings, reasoning, and evidence and to add interest. Art: * I can plan and produce a work combining technologies, media, and processes of visual art with those of another discipline. * I can synthesize the use of expanded media, techniques, and processes to create a model form in a specific medium. * I can analyze and employ different types of media, techniques, and processes used to create various art forms. World History: * I can write an expository paper of substantive topics or texts, using valid reasoning and relevant and sufficient evidence. * I can gather information from multiple sources, assessing the usefulness of each source and integrating information into the text successfully, avoiding plagiarism and following a standard format for citation. | <urn:uuid:248e589e-54fd-4909-bdd4-6c87f8021880> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://12o0bm3c6wbf4bsp0w2f9cgc-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/12/Catapult-Cross-Curricular-Prject-Based-Learning-Unit.pdf | 2022-05-29T07:46:35+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00321.warc.gz | 122,828,641 | 1,563 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.983424 | eng_Latn | 0.990983 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 895, 4164, 6803, 7916 ] | [ 4.1875 ] | 1 | 1 | Curriculum Overview Subject: Biology Year Group: 10 Year 10 & 11 Biology is academically ambitious. Throughout Key Stage 4 (KS4) students will extend the powerful knowledge already developed in KS3. Each Lesson has a particular LORIC and Career focus reflecting the school's improvement plan. With a focus on Key Concepts, Apparatus and Techniques across all topics students will develop the subject disciplinary knowledge needed to scrutinise the world around them and communicate their findings effectively. Students will follow the AQA GCSE Biology specification and are required to undertake 10 required practical activities, developing analytical and rational thought processes through planning, experimentation and reflection. Developing extended science writing through the use of long written questions (LWQ) has been identified as a particular area of development. Interleaving questions at the beginning of every lesson allow students to spend time recalling previous learning so that practise makes permanent. Extended reading suggestions and external resources: KS4 Bitesize Science https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/subjects/z9ddmp3 Oak National Academy Lessons https://classroom.thenational.academy/subjects-by-key-stage/key-stage-4/subjects/biology Chase High Youtube Playlists https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSK4ImJfi5sPH4UBp7cZtyQ We actively encourage students to read and research about the wider Scientific word- Planet Earth and Perfect Planet both on BBC iPlayer are examples of where students can engage with Science from the safety and comfort of their own homes. Curriculum Overview Subject: Chemistry Year Group: 10 Year 10 & 11 Chemistry is academically ambitious. Throughout Key Stage 4 (KS4) students will extend the powerful knowledge already developed in KS3. Each Lesson has a particular LORIC and Career focus reflecting the school's improvement plan. With a focus on Key Concepts, Apparatus and Techniques across all topics students will develop the subject disciplinary knowledge needed to scrutinise the world around them and communicate their findings effectively. Students will follow the AQA GCSE Chemistry specification and are required to undertake 8 required practical activities, developing analytical and rational thought processes through planning, experimentation and reflection. Developing extended science writing through the use of long written questions (LWQ) has been identified as a particular area of development. Interleaving questions at the beginning of every lesson allow students to spend time recalling previous learning so that practise makes permanent Half term 2: Electrolysis test Half term 2: Energy changes test Half term 2: Effect of concentration and pressure LWQ End of Yr 10 PPE Extended reading suggestions and external resources: KS4 Bitesize Science https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/subjects/zs6hvcw Oak National Academy Lessons https://classroom.thenational.academy/subjects-by-key-stage/key-stage-4/subjects/chemistry Chase High Youtube Playlists https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSK4ImJfi5sPH4UBp7cZtyQ We actively encourage students to read and research about the wider Scientific word- Planet Earth and Perfect Planet both on BBC iPlayer are examples of where students can engage with Science from the safety and comfort of their own homes. Curriculum Overview Subject: Physics Year Group: 10 Year 10 & 11 Physics is academically ambitious. Throughout Key Stage 4 (KS4) students will extend the powerful knowledge already developed in KS3. Each Lesson has a particular LORIC and Career focus reflecting the school's improvement plan. With a focus on Key Concepts, Apparatus and Techniques across all topics students will develop the subject disciplinary knowledge needed to scrutinise the world around them and communicate their findings effectively. Students will follow the AQA GCSE Physics specification and are required to undertake 10 required practical activities, developing analytical and rational thought processes through planning, experimentation and reflection. Developing extended science writing through the use of long written questions (LWQ) has been identified as a particular area of development. Interleaving questions at the beginning of every lesson allow students to spend time recalling previous learning so that practise makes permanent. Extended reading suggestions and external resources: KS4 Bitesize Science https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/subjects/zpm6fg8 Oak National Academy Lessons https://classroom.thenational.academy/subjects-by-key-stage/key-stage-4/subjects/physics Chase High Youtube Playlists https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSK4ImJfi5sPH4UBp7cZtyQ We actively encourage students to read and research about the wider Scientific word- Planet Earth and Perfect Planet both on BBC iPlayer are examples of where students can engage with Science from the safety and comfort of their own homes. Curriculum Overview Year Group: 10 In Year 10 & 11 students complete a carousel of learning across topics in Biology, Chemistry and Physics. Throughout Key Stage 4 (KS4) students will extend the powerful knowledge already developed in KS3. Each Lesson has a particular LORIC and Career focus reflecting the school's improvement plan. The more cognitively challenging topics are scheduled later in the course to allow time for the development of the skills and knowledge to deliver them effectively. Topics are rotated out of sync with Single sciences so that resources are available to all students. With a focus on Key Concepts, Apparatus and Techniques across all topics students will develop the subject disciplinary knowledge needed to scrutinise the world around them and communicate their findings effectively. Students will follow the AQA Combined Science specification and are required to undertake 21 required practical activities developing analytical and rational thought processes through planning, experimentation and reflection. Developing extended science writing through the use of long written questions (LWQ) has been identified as a particular area of development. Interleaving questions at the beginning of every lesson allow students to spend time recalling previous learning so that practise makes C7 P8 P9 KS4 Bitesize Science https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/subjects/zp266yc Oak National Academy Lessons https://classroom.thenational.academy/subjects-by-key-stage/key-stage-4/subjects/combined-science Chase High Youtube Playlists https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSK4ImJfi5sPH4UBp7cZtyQ We actively encourage students to read and research about the wider Scientific word- Planet Earth and Perfect Planet both on BBC iPlayer are examples of where students can engage with Science from the safety and comfort of their own homes. | <urn:uuid:f7f231c4-5e7d-48ed-b9f5-ffd7e4f2c6f3> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://www.chasehigh.org/documents/Year-10-Science-KS4-Curriculum-Overview.pdf | 2022-05-29T08:56:18+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00320.warc.gz | 799,558,375 | 1,362 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.989939 | eng_Latn | 0.993935 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1025, 1595, 2626, 3335, 4362, 4932, 6270, 6795 ] | [ 3.46875 ] | 3 | 0 | C ELL C YCLE AND C ELL D IVISION CHAPTER 10 CELL CYCLE AND CELL DIVISION MULTIPLE CHOICE QUESTIONS 1. Meiosis results in in diploid organisms a. Production of gametes b. Reduction in the number of chromosomes c. Introduction of variation d. all of the above 2. At which stage of meiosis does the genetic constitution of gametes is finally decided a. Metaphase I b. Anaphase II c. Metaphase II d. Anaphase I 3. Meiosis occurs in organisms during a. Sexual reproduction b. Vegetative reproduction c. Both sexual and vegetative reproduction d. None of the above 4. During anaphase-I of meiosis a. Homologous chromosomes separate b. Non-homologous chromosomes separate c. Sister chromatids separate d. Non-sister chromatids separate 5. Mitosis is characterised by a. Reduction division b. Equal division 49 49 49 49 49 49 49 49 49 49 49 49 c. Both reduction and equal division d. Paining of homologous chromosomes 6. A bivalent of meiosis-I consists of a. Two chromatids and one centromere b. Two chromatids and two centromere c. Four chromatids and two centromere d. Four chromatids and four centromere 7. Cells which are not dividing are likely to be at a. G1 b. G2 c. Go d. S phase 8. Which of the events listed below is not observed during mitosis? a. Chromatin condensation b. Movement of centrioles to opposite poles c. Appearance of chromosomes with two chromatids joined together at the centromere. d. Crossing over 9. Identify the wrong statement about meiosis a. Pairing of homologous chromosomes b. Four haploid cells are formed c. At the end of meiosis the number of chromosomes are reduced to half d. Two cycle of DNA replication occurs 10. Select the correct statement about G1 phase a. Cell is metabolically inactive b. DNA in the cell does not replicate c. It is not a phase of synthesis of macromolecules d. Cell stops growing VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS 1. Between a prokaryote and a eukaryote, which cell has a shorter cell division time? 2. Which of the phases of cell cycle is of longest duration? 3. Name a stain commonly used to colour chromosomes. 4. Which tissue of animals and plants exhibits meiosis? 5. Given that the average duplication time of E.coli is 20 minutes, how much time will two E.coli cells take to become 32 cells? 6. Which part of the human body should one use to demonstrate stages in mitosis? 7. What attributes does a chromatid require to be classified as a chromosome? 8. The diagram shows a bivalent at prophase-I of meiosis. Which of the four chromatids can cross over? 9. If a tissue has at a given time 1024 cells, how many cycles of mitosis had the original parental single cell undergone? 10. An anther has 1200 pollen grains. How many pollen mother cells must have been there to produce them? 11. At what stage of cell cycle does DNA synthesis take place? 12. It is said that the one cycle of cell division in human cells (eukaryotic cells) takes 24 hours. Which phase of the cycle, do you think occupies the maximum part of cell cycle? 13. It is observed that heart cells do not exhibit cell division. Such cells do not divide further and exit ___________ phase to enter an inactive stage called ___________ of cell cycle. Fill in the blanks. 14. In which phase of meiosis are the following formed? Choose the answers from hint points given below. a. Synaptonemal complex ____________________________ b. Recombination nodules ____________________________ c. Appearance/activation of enzyme recombinase ____________________________ d. Termination of chiasmata ____________________________ e. Interkinesis ____________________________ f. Formation of dyad of cells ____________________________ Hints : 1) Zygotene, 2) Pachytene, 3) Pachytene, 4) Diakinesis, 5) After Telophase-I /before Meosis-II, 6) Telophase-I /After Meiosis-I. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS 1. State the role of centrioles other than spindle formation. 2. Mitochondria and plastids have their own DNA (genetic material). What is known about their fate during nuclear division like mitosis? 3. Label the diagram and also determine the stage at which this structure is visible. 4. A cell has 32 chromosomes. It undergoes mitotic division. What will be the chromosome number (N) during metaphase? What would be the DNA content (C) during anaphase? 5. While examining the mitotic stage in a tissue, one finds some cells with 16 chromosomes and some with 32 chromosomes. What possible reasons could you assign to this difference in chromosome number. Do you think cells with 16 chromosomes could have arisen from cells with 32 chromosomes or vice versa? 6. The following events occur during the various phases of the cell cycle, Name the phase against each of the events. a. Disintegration of nuclear membrane _________________________ b. Appearance of nucleolus c. Division of centromere _________________________ _________________________ d. Replication of DNA _________________________ 7. Mitosis results in producing two cells which are similar to each other. What would be the consequence if each of the following irregularities occur during mitosis? a. Nuclear membrane fails to disintegrate b. Duplication of DNA does not occur c. Centromeres do not divide d. Cytokinesis does not occur. 8. Both unicellular and multicellular organisms undergo mitosis. What are the differences, if any, observed in the process between the two? 9. Name the pathological condition when uncontrolled cell division occurs. 10. Two key events take place, during S phase in animal cells, DNA replication and duplication of centriole. In which parts of the cell do events occur? 11. Comment on the statement – Meiosis enables the conservation of specific chromosome number of each species even though the process per se, results in reduction of chromosome number. 12. Name a cell that is found arrested in diplotene stage for months and years. Comment in 2-3 lines how it completes cell cycle? 13. How does cytokinesis in plant cells differ from that in animal cells? LONG ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS 1. Comment on the statement – Telophase is reverse of prophase. 2. What are the various stages of meiotic prophase-I? Enumerate the chromosomal events during each stage? 3. Differentiate between the events of mitosis and meiosis 4. Write brief note on the following a. Synaptonemal complex b. Metaphase plate 5. Write briefly the significance of mitosis and meiosis in multicellular organism. 6. An organism has two pair of chromosomes (i.e., chromosome number = 4). Diagrammatically represent the chromosomal arrangement during different phases of meiosis-II. | <urn:uuid:9bfa521d-95bb-49fe-ad70-b41f2bd3fe3f> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://www.ncert.nic.in/pdf/publication/exemplarproblem/classXI/biology/keep410.pdf | 2022-05-29T07:45:26+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00321.warc.gz | 1,051,291,050 | 1,592 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.970099 | eng_Latn | 0.99413 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 857, 2044, 3827, 5262, 6610 ] | [ 4.375 ] | 2 | 14 | 3. UNDERSTANDING CONFLICT POSITION, INTEREST & NEED – PART 1. Target group: Group size: Youth Council members aged 11 - 18 Youth workers aged 18+ Duration: 60-90 minutes Resources: Tables might be useful collected magazines, headlines, photos 10-20 participants Type of activities: Drama exercises Personal sharing Active involvement Atmosphere needed: Safe space for sharing Special workshop note: This workshop is designed to work best when used with part two. However, both parts could be used alone, and could also be adapted according to your own group, the length of time available, etc. Before you start – make sure you have read the "Definitions and examples" chapter that you will find in the Handbook after part 2. of the workshop. Helping young people to discover what can cause conflict and introducing the terms "position", "interest" and "need". Learning outcomes: * Developing a clearer understanding of conflict. * Exploring how common conflicts are caused by different values. 42 Intro to the workshop (5 min) Welcome participants and explain the workshop, the aim and brief agenda. Energiser (10 min) Get participants into pairs using your own method or let them choose. Next, the pairs must face each other, palm-to-palm, and then try to push each other off balance without moving their feet. If either of them has to lift or move one of their feet off the floor then the person moving a foot loses. Swap pairs and see how this makes a difference. Debrief (5 min) Sometimes a conflict can feel a bit like this exercise: pushing and wrestling, one person winning and one losing! Definition of Conflict (15 min) One definition of conflict could be: "An active disagreement between people with opposing positions or principles." Brainstorm some words around the subject of conflict in small groups. Give a pack of a few words to each group and ask them to brainstorm the words and try to create some definitions. Allow a few minutes [or more if needed, depending on your participants] and then bring the groups together to compare their answers. Line up Exercise (15 min) Participants stand on an imaginary line on the floor. The line shows how much the statement is true about you. If you go to stand at one end of the line it means the statement is totally true 100%. At the other end 43 of the line, it means this is totally not true of me. Debrief each question in turn to identify some of the values involved. Use the sample statements provided in the "Definitions and examples" chapter. An even better idea is to create your own and choose ones that reflect the real live situations of the participants in your group. If you feel confident, you can ask for example situations from group members. Group debrief (5 min) Return to circle and debrief. One frequent reason for conflict is when two sides have different values, such as ideas about the "right" way to do something, personal beliefs, etc. Values are deeply personal, and we hold on to them very strongly. They can provoke very strong emotional reactions if they are challenged or "crossed" by someone or something. Pairs discussion (5 min) In pairs or small groups, discuss some of the values that mean a lot to you. Can you share any time that you had a disagreement with someone or a strong reaction to something that challenged your values? Bring everyone back together into the big group and ask if anyone would like to share one of the examples they were discussing. Ask one or two questions to explore each story further, for example, "How did you feel?", "How did you react?", "What did you say?", "Why did you do or say that?" Do not go too deeply into anything as this will be addressed more in the second part of this workshop. Brief introduction to the terms "position", "interest" and "need" (5 min) Introduce the idea and definitions of "position", "interest" and "need" (see further details in the chapter "Definitions and examples"). Use some of the stories and questions of the last exercise to help explain these terms. 44 Small group activity (20 min) Get participants into small groups and then give them examples of conflicts from magazine articles, news headlines or pictures/photos that you have prepared. Each small group should talk about what they think are the underlying values involved in each conflict. If you feel the group is confident enough then you could also start to talk about positions, interests and needs. Another idea would be to ask each small group to create a role play of a conflict suggested by the materials, and present it to the other groups. Final group debrief/evaluation (5 min) Write up the different values that participants have found at the heart of the various conflicts explored during the workshop. Ask some interesting, probing questions such as: "Is it always 'black and white' regarding who is right?" or "How might the conflicts be resolved?" or "What have you learned about conflicts, disagreements, fights, etc.?". 45 | <urn:uuid:f1f40931-4fbe-44ad-9a9c-29fae5a53c93> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | http://firstadrkit.org/workshops/3-Understanding_Conflict.pdf | 2022-05-29T07:34:40+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00321.warc.gz | 25,363,359 | 1,087 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998633 | eng_Latn | 0.999002 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1014, 2339, 4065, 5016 ] | [ 4.3125 ] | 1 | 3 | ОЛИМПИАДНЫЕ ЗАДАНИЯ 7-8 КЛАСС АНГЛИЙСКИЙ ЯЗЫК I READING (25 minutes) PART 1 Read about the illness Norovirus. Choose the correct question (A-M) for each paragraph (1-13). Questions: B) Should I go and see my doctor? A) How can I avoid dehydration? H) Should I eat anything? C) What if my children are infected? E) What are the signs that I am dehydrated? D) When should I see a doctor? I) How can I stop the disease spreading? J) How long should I stay at home? F) Should I take any medication? K) Can I get it again if I've already had it? G) What is Norovirus? L) What are the symptoms? M)What are the risks? 1. Norovirus is a common stomach bug. It is also called the Winter Vomiting Bug because it is more prevalent in winter. It is caused by a very small virus and it is easily passed on from one person to another. 3. Norovirus causes sickness and diarrhea. You may also feel headaches, abdominal pains, or you may have a high temperature. 2. If you recover from norovirus, there is no reason why you should not catch it again. The virus changes constantly, so your body cannot build up resistance. 4. Although unpleasant, norovirus is not dangerous. Most people make a full recovery within a couple of days. The biggest danger is from dehydration. 6. Obviously, you will feel thirsty and your mouth will be dry. You may get headaches or feel dizzy. Your urine will be dark and the quantity of urine small. 5. Drink plenty of water. You should drink more than usual to replace fluids lost in vomit and diarrhea. An adult should drink around 1.2 liters per day. 7. You can take Paracetamol or other pain-killers for any aches and pains, but there are 8. No. Because it is highly contagious, you risk passing it on to other people who are already in a weak state. Stay at home and rest. no drugs that eradicate the virus. 9. Take care to give them plenty of water or fruit juice. You can also use rehydration salts. Babies can drink milk as usual. Pregnant women needn't worry, as there is no risk to the unborn child. 11.Yes, but stick to foods which are easy to digest such as soup, bread, rice and pasta. Avoid spicy foods. 10.Only if your symptoms last longer than a few days, or if you are already suffering from a serious illness. 12.Wash your hands frequently, and avoid putting your fingers in your mouth. Be aware that the virus can also spread via towels and flannels, so don't share them. Keep all surfaces clean and disinfected, not just in the bathroom but in other areas too. 13. You will be infectious for a few days after your symptoms have passed, so avoid direct contact with people for at least 48 hours after your symptoms pass. Stay away from work and keep young children out of school. PART 2 Read the text about the climate in Madagascar on a travel website. Then choose True or False for the sentences after the text (14-23). Madagascar – When to go Madagascar has two seasons, a warm, wet season from November to April, and a cooler dry season between May and October. However, different parts of the country have very different weather. The east coast is hotter and wetter, with up to 4,000 mm of rainfall per year. In the rainy season, there are strong winds, and these can cause a lot of damage. Avoid visiting eastern Madagascar between January and March because the weather can make road travel very difficult. The dry season is cooler and more pleasant. The high, central part of the country is much drier and cooler. About 1,400 mm of rain falls in the rainy season, with some thunderstorms, but the summer is usually sunny and dry, but it can be cold, especially in the mornings, with freezing showers, and it may snow in mountain areas above 2,400 m, and even stay there for several days. The west coast is the driest part of the island. Here, the winter months are pleasant with little rain, cooler temperatures and blue skies. The summers can be extremely hot, especially in the southwest. This part of the country is semi-desert, and only gets around 300 mm of rain per year. 14. Madagascar has four seasons: spring, summer, autumn and winter. 15. There is more rain in January than in June. 16. The wet season is colder than the dry season. 17. It hardly ever rains in central Madagascar. 18. The wettest part of the island is the east. 19. January-March is a good time to visit eastern Madagascar. 20. The centre of Madagascar is the coldest part. 21. Snow sometimes falls in Madagascar. 22. The west coast has the best weather in December. 23. The north-east is hotter than the south-east. TRANSFER YOUR ANSWERS TO YOUR ANSWER SHEET. II USE OF ENGLISH (20 minutes) PART 1 Read the text and decide which answer (A, B, C or D) best fits each gap (24 – 34). Easter Island Easter Island is a small triangle of rock situated in the Pacific Ocean. It’s about 2,000 miles 24) ______ the nearest city. Easter Island is 25) ______ for its statues. Hundreds of these huge, stone faces can be 26) ______ all over the island. Who made them? How 27) ______ they move these giant pieces of rock? What happened 28) ______ the people who lived there? Studies show that people 29) ______ arrived on the island about 1600 years ago. They had a very advanced culture. They made many objects and they had their 30) ______ written language. However, the number of people on the island grew and grew 31) ______ it reached about 10,000 people. Soon there were too many people and there wasn’t 32) ______ food to eat. A terrible war started and 33) ______ of the statues were broken. When western explorers 34) ______ the island on Easter Day in 1722, the huge rock statues were the only sign that a great society had once lived there. 24 A) for B) from C) on D) by 25 A) important B) interesting C) famous D) fascinating 26 A) found B) located C) situated D) looked 27 A) have B) were C) had D) did 28 A) to B) with C) about D) for 29 A) once B) already C) just D) first 30 A) only B) own C) clever D) self 31 A) so B) until C) although D) because 32 A) many B) too C) some D) enough 33 A) few B) enough C) many D) lot 34 A) invented B) discovered C) sailed D) came PART 2 Complete the sentences (35-41) using the prepositions given in the box. There is one preposition you do not need. A) aside; B) away; C) in; D) on; E) out; F) up; G) up with; H) off. 35. I always put ______weight during the winter. 36. One thing I can’t put ______ is rudeness. 37. You shouldn’t put ______ the meeting with Mr. Brown. 38. Luckily the first brigade came quickly and put _______ the fire. 39. Every summer I put ______ my friends who come from Australia. 40. You can play with the toys as long as you put them ______ after you’ve finished playing with them. 41. I always put money _______ for the holidays. TRANSFER YOUR ANSWERS TO YOUR ANSWER SHEET. III WRITING (25 minutes) Read these two ways of telling the same story. Text A is a complete story and Text B is the beginning of the same story. Continue the story given in Text B. Write 100-150 words. Base your story only on the events mentioned in Text A. Do not copy the beginning given. TEXT A One day Robert Barnes was in his garden and was planting flowers. He heard a voice behind him. The voice said 'Leave us alone'. He turned around. There was no one there. He looked into the history of the house and found that the house had a long history. Many bad things happened there. TEXT B One beautiful sunny day last week, I was at home, just relaxing in my garden. I knew that spring was on its way, and I felt like planting some flowers. I started digging the hole. It was hot work, but I felt happy and optimistic. Suddenly, even though I was hot, and the sun was burning down on my back, I felt the air around me go cold. The hairs on my arms stood up. I stood there, spade in hand, knowing with a feeling of dread, that I was not alone… TRANSFER YOUR ANSWERS TO YOUR ANSWER SHEET. | <urn:uuid:6287aac0-d720-466c-af6b-b97744419017> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | http://tasks.olimpiada.ru/upload/files/tasks/88/2016/task-engl-7-8-Bryan-mun-16-7.pdf | 2022-05-29T09:16:45+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00326.warc.gz | 51,565,302 | 1,977 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.997937 | eng_Latn | 0.998802 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2249, 4552, 6154, 7936 ] | [ 4.28125 ] | 2 | 1 | RTI RTI/PBIS Continuum Description: Teach foundational social and emotional skills to all students. Strategies at this level are implemented with all children in a classroom or school. Strategies: Set and teach classroom and schoolwide behavioral expectations for all students (walking in hallways, keeping hands and feet to themselves); establish recognition and correction systems; collect data. % * 80 percent of students will master skills through this level of support. Description: Some students will require extra support in order to master the primary prevention skills and behaviors taught at the universal level. Strategy: Use small-group interventions aimed at teaching specific skill sets. % * 15 percent of students will need this level of intervention in addition to the universal programming. Description: A small subset of students will need more intensive interventions in order to move toward mastery of the universal skills and behaviors. Strategy: Create individual support plans that include individualized therapeutic supports. ≈ % * 5 percent of students will need this level of intervention in addition to the universal programming. PBIS Program NEW EDITION! SSP Description: The Second Step program is a Tier 1, universal, classroom-based curriculum that teaches foundational social-emotional and self-regulation skills to all students, Early Learning–Grade 8. Strategies: The Second Step program teaches specific skills that strengthen students' ability to learn, have empathy, manage emotions, and solve problems. With the ability to focus, listen, and stay calm and in control, students are better able to meet schoolwide behavioral expectations and benefit from learning. Description: Some schools use the Second Step program in small groups and have had measurable success doing so. Since the program is designed as a Tier 1 universal intervention, the best small-group interventions are those designed to complement the classroom program. Strategies: Typically these programs pre-teach Second Step lessons in the small group before they are presented to the whole class. This provides students in the small group with an introduction to lesson content before they encounter it in the whole-class setting. Description: Although the Second Step program is not a Tier 3 strategy, the Skills for Learning (for example, listening, focusing attention, and using self-talk) and calming-down and problem-solving skills taught in the program could inform Tier 3 interventions. | <urn:uuid:5b3b86f4-20e2-418f-bf14-9c698a699f52> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://www.delawarepbs.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/PBIS-RTI-Second-Step.pdf | 2022-05-29T07:36:27+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00324.warc.gz | 849,237,512 | 462 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.997339 | eng_Latn | 0.997339 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2519 ] | [ 3.25 ] | 2 | 1 | Unit: Disciplinary Literacy MSAD #54 Music Curriculum Grade: Grade 9-12 Band MLR Span: 9 - 12 MLR Content Standard: A: Disciplinary Literacy – Music Students show literacy in the discipline by understanding and demonstrating concepts, skills, terminology, and processes. *Assessment Notation and Terminology __________________ Listening and Describing 2.Students apply accumulated knowledge of musical notation, symbols, and terminology to perform music with greater complexity and variation including sudden dynamic contrasts. a.Read whole, half, quarter, eighth, sixteenth, and dotted notes and rests in 2/4, 3/4, 4/4, 5/4, 6/4, 6/8, 5/8 and 3/8, Cut time meter signatures. b.Read simple melodies in both the treble and bass clefs. c.Apply notation symbols for pitch, rhythm, dynamics, tempo, articulation, and expression _________________ 3.Students listen to, analyze, and evaluate music using their understanding of pitch, rhythm, tempo, dynamics, form, timbre, texture, harmony, style, and compound meter. Students will: Demonstrate a fluent controlled tone quality, control of varying dynamics, extended range and where appropriate, vibrato. Demonstrate the ability to make controlled changes in the tone quality of one's instrument based upon style, balance and ensemble size. Play with expression and technical accuracy a varied repertoire of instrumental literature. Percussion will show an ability to perform varied rudiments on the snare and proficiency on Auxilary percussion. Play the Major and Minor scales up to 4 sharps and 4 flats within the practical range of the instrument. Demonstrate a variety of tonguing techniques, with good control, at all ranges and at accelerated tempi. __________________________ Students will: Demonstrate a knowledge of the elements of music through listening. Demonstrate a knowledge of the elements of music through creative writing. Discuss listening examples and work to describe the musical elements. Foundations for Superior Performances-Warm-up and Techniques for Band By Williams and King Various concert band music ensemble pieces Various rhythm, notation and style books for written lessons Listen to various recording styles ______________________ Listen to various recording styles Listen to various live performances Unit: Creation/Expression MSAD #54 Music Curriculum Grade: Grade 9-12Band MLR Span: 9 - 12 MLR Content Standard: B:Creation, Performance, and Expression Students create, perform, and express through the art discipline. *Assessment | Creation/ Expression | MLR Performance Indicators | MSAD #54 Objectives | |---|---|---| | Style/Genre ________________ Composition | 1.Students perform music of various styles and genres that requires well- developed technical skills, attention to phrasing and interpretation and various meters and rhythms in a variety of keys, accurately applying the accumulated knowledge and skills of: proper posture and technique; musical notation; symbols; and terminology. _________________ 2.Students analyze and evaluate musical ideas expressed in their own compositions or the compositions of others. | Students will: Perform various styles of music through large and small ensembles. Demonstrate knowledge of phrasing, balance, musical notation, symbols, terminology, tempos, keys, and meters within the context of the genre performed in large and small ensembles ______________________ Students will: Describe specific music in a given aural example using appropriate terminology. Evaluate the quality and effectiveness of their own and others performances, compositions, arrangements, and improv. by applying specific criteria appropriate for the style of the music and offer constructive suggestions for improvement. | Develop criteria for evaluating the quality and effectiveness of music performances and apply the criteria to their own performances. Unit: Problem Solving MSAD #54 Music Curriculum Grade: Grade 9-12Band MLR Span: 9 - 12 MLR Content Standard: C: Creative Problem Solving Students approach artistic problem-solving using multiple solutions and the creative process. *Assessment Unit: Aesthetics MSAD #54 Music Curriculum Grade: Grade 9-12Band MLR Span: 9 - 12 MLR Content Standard: D: Aesthetics and Criticism Students describe, analyze, interpret, and evaluate art (dance, music, theatre, and visual arts). *Assessment | | MLR Performance Indicators PreK-2 | MSAD #54 Objectives | |---|---|---| | Aesthetics and Criticism | 1.Students analyze and evaluate Musical Forms a.Describe, analyze, interpret, and evaluate Music forms by applying grade span appropriate Music concepts, vocabulary, skills and processes as referenced in Standard A: Disciplinary Literacy. b.Analyze and evaluate varied interpretations of Compositions of music using evidence from observations and a variety of print and Listening sources. c.Demonstrate an understanding of the difference between a personal opinion and an informed judgment. d.Research and explain how music and musicians reflect and shape their time and culture. | Students will: 1.critique personal and group performances using planned evaluation. Develop criteria for evaluating the quality and effectiveness of music performances and apply the criteria to their own performances. a.fluency of the composition. b.flexibility of the composition. c.elaboration of the composition d.orginality of the composition 2.compare their critiques with those of other students. They will discuss in groups their findings. 3.discuss the effectiveness of multimedia critiques. 4.compare and contrast musicians of different genres and eras. | Unit: Connections MSAD #54 Music Curriculum Grade: Grade 9-12Band MLR Span: 9 - 12 MLR Content Standard: E: Visual and Performing Arts Connections Students understand the relationship among the arts, history, and world culture; and they make connections among the arts and to other disciplines, to goal-setting, and to interpersonal interaction. *Assessment _______________ Impact of the Arts on Lifestyle and Career _______________ Interpersonal Skills __________________ 4. Students explain how their knowledge of the arts relates to school-toschool and school-towork transitions and other career and life decisions including the recognition that the arts are a means of renewal and recreation. __________________ 5. Students demonstrate positive interpersonal skills and reflect on the impact of interpersonal skills on personal success in the arts. a.Getting along with others b.Respecting differences c.Working as a team/ensemble d.Managing conflict e.Accepting/giving/using constructive feedback _________________________ Students will: Do a creative writing project on how music may effect them in their future lives, in work and personal life. __________________________ Students will: Do a creative writing project on how they have been effected by music in their lives so far. Us the nine given samples to create and organize their presentation. ______________________ ______________________ f.Accepting responsibility for personal behavior g.Demonstrating ethical behavior h.Following established rules/etiquette for observing/listening to art i.Demonstrating safe behavior | <urn:uuid:8b49b815-ff92-4a12-b597-35cf51064e4c> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://www.msad54.org/sites/default/files/Grade9_12Band.pdf | 2022-05-29T09:20:48+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00324.warc.gz | 1,058,657,245 | 1,492 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.805214 | eng_Latn | 0.991636 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 287, 2311, 3768, 3903, 4152, 5655, 6019, 7083, 7269 ] | [ 4.625 ] | 1 | 3 | Mathematics Model Teaching Unit Pow wow Trails Created by: Angel Greenley Grade3 Stage 1 Desired Results Established Goals: Number Sense and Operation Mathematics Content Standard 1: A student, applying reasoning and problem solving, will use number sense and operations to represent numbers in multiple ways, understand relationships among numbers and number systems, make reasonable estimates, and compute fluently within a variety of relevant cultural contexts, including those of Montana American Indians. - 1.2 Estimation and Operations: Estimate sums, differences, products, and quotients when solving problems. Add, subtract, multiply (three-digit by two-digit factors), and divide (two-digit dividends by one-digit divisors) to solve problems. Demonstrate fluency with basic facts. IEFA Essential Understanding 1: There is great diversity among the 12 tribal Nations of Montana in their languages, cultures, histories and governments. Each Nation has a distinct and unique cultural heritage that contributes to modern Montana. IEFA Essential Understanding 3: The ideologies of Native traditional beliefs and spirituality persist into modern day life as tribal cultures, traditions, and languages are still practiced by many American Indian people and are incorporated into how tribes govern and manage their affairs. Understandings: Additionally, each tribe has its own oral histories, which are as valid as written histories. These histories pre-date the "discovery" of North America. - Pow wows are an important part of some Native American lifestyles. Essential Questions: - Some families travel many miles across the state to attend different pow wows. - What are the different reasons that families travel on the pow wow circuit? Students will be able to… - What is the history of pow wows in Native American culture? - calculate the miles traveled on the pow wow circuit. - locate different towns of Montana on the map. - pow wows are still in existence and that families use them as a time of gathering and sharing with other families and friends. Students will know… - pow wows are a source of competition and there are many different types of contests at each pow wow. Stage 2 Assessment Evidence Performance Tasks: - Students will complete a table that calculates the distance traveled on a particular pow wow circuit. Other Evidence: - Students will track the pow wow circuit on a map of Montana. Stage 3 Learning Plan Learning Activities: 1. Introduce the history of powwows and the different competitions held within a pow wow. Some American Indian families travel from pow wow to pow wow on what is called the "pow wow circuit" in Montana, using the time to camp and compete. 2. Today we are going to trace a circuit that will take us throughout the state of Montana. We will mark the places of the pow wows on a map, compute the miles traveled, the amount of gas used, and the total money spent on gas. Pow wows are typically held on the weekends, but people traveling the circuit do not go home between each celebration. Instead they travel from one town to the next. That is how we will find out the miles traveled. 3. Give students a map of Montana and introduce the circuit to be traveled. Ask students to locate each town on the map and trace the main highways between the cities. Start at your own town and travel from there. Students will need to fill in your town in the first cell of the table and the last stopping point of the table. 4. There are 3 options for finding the mileage – choose whichever one is appropriate for your class (or have different students use different methods) b. Have students use the internet and Google maps (www.google.com) and have them fill in the table on their own. a. Give the mileage information on a piece of paper c. Use a map and using the scale, figure the mileage on their own 5. Have students complete the table. As they find the mileage between each town, have them look at the map so they can see the distance on the map in relation to the mileage reported. Also, at each stop, have students choose one competition to research and give a brief description of the event. Each powwow needs to have different competitions, so that students become more familiar with the competitions. 6. Once students have found the mileage, go to the next step of computing the amount of gas used on the trip. 7. The final step is to compute the amount of money spent on gas using a rounded amount. (For students that need differentiation, you can change the price of gas.) Mathematics Grade 3 - Pow Wow Trails (continued) Materials/Resources Needed: - Your Guide to Understanding and Enjoying Pow Wows – available at http://www.opi.mt.gov/pdf/IndianEd/Resources/PowWows.pdf - Student worksheet - Map of Montana Mathematics Grade 3 - Pow Wow Trails (continued) Name: ______________________________________________________________________________ | Stopping Town | Total Miles Traveled | Subtotal of Miles Traveled | |---|---|---| | Bozeman | | | | Havre | | | | Billings | | | | Custer | | | | Arlee | | | The car you are traveling in gets 20 miles to the gallon. The gas tank holds 10 gallons. How many miles can you travel on one tank of gas? __________________________________________________________________ Gas costs $3.00 per gallon. What will the total cost of gas be for your powwow trip? ____________________ Explain how you got your answer. _____________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ Mathematics Grade 3 - Pow Wow Trails (continued) Answer Key: (answers are based on leaving from Great Falls, MT) | Stopping Town | Total Miles Traveled | Subtotal of Miles Traveled | |---|---|---| | Bozeman | 188 miles | 188 miles | | Havre | 301 miles | 489 miles | | Billings | 247 miles | 736 miles | | Custer | 55 miles | 791 miles | | Arlee | 422 miles | 1213 miles | The car you are traveling in gets 20 miles to the gallon. The gas tank holds 10 gallons. How many miles can you travel on one tank of gas? 200 miles Gas costs $3.00 per gallon. What will the total cost of gas be for your pow wow trip? Approximately $210.00 Explain how you got your answer. You need to get gas every 200 miles. When you fill a tank, it costs $30. There are 7 groups of 200 in the total miles, so you will need to fuel up 7 times. 7 x $30 = $210 Mathematics Grade 3 - Pow Wow Trails (continued) Dances: Men's Traditional Dance: A traditional dance where war parties dance out the story of the battle or hunters dance their story of tracking an enemy or prey. Men's Fancy Dance: Relatively new dance where dancers have colorful outfits Men's Grass Dance: Popular dance where the outfits feature a colorful fringe, replacing the grass dancers originally tucked into their belts. Sneak-up Dance: Follows the definite pattern of drum rolls. Dancers shake their bells and make gestures of either following or seeking out the enemy. The War Dance: Demonstration of dancing ability and is a major contest dance category Traditional Women's Dance: Consists of remaining stationary and bending the knee with a slight up and down movement of the body. Women's Fancy Shawl Dance: Outfit consists of a decorative knee-length cloth dress, beaded moccasins with matching leggings, a fancy shawl, and various pieces of jewelry. Jingle Dress Dance: The dress is made from cloth with hundreds of metal cones or jingles covering it. Team Dancers: Three or four members make up a team and they all dance in the same style. Owl Dance: Can be considered as the Indian version of the waltz. Round Dance (Friendship Dance): Dance of friendship and is performed by all ages. Everyone is encouraged to dance. The Crow Hop: Developed in the 1900s and done with a specific rhythm of the drum beat Intertribal Dance: Everyone is welcome to dance in the Intertribal Dance – even tourists. Dancers move around the arbor sunwise – clockwise. The Blanket Dance: Means of gaining contributions from the audience for certain causes. Dropped Eagle Feather Dance: To most Native Americans, the eagle feather is sacred. So when a feather falls from the dancer's outfit, the powwow must stop and a special ceremony must be performed. Honoring Veterans: Veterans are honored because they were willing to give their lives so people could live. Definitions were taken from Your Guide to Understanding and Enjoying Pow Wows which can be found at www.opi.mt.gov/IndianEd. | <urn:uuid:56800df9-bd11-42b6-8002-b52450bcf46f> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://www.nisnindigenousresourcehub.com/_files/ugd/e70d20_a239bfd6bfa34c48b16fdbf6f68802f0.pdf | 2022-05-29T09:01:13+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00323.warc.gz | 1,028,864,486 | 1,844 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.949555 | eng_Latn | 0.999398 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2203, 4557, 4801, 5700, 6540, 8643 ] | [ 4.59375 ] | 2 | 2 | Science Model Teaching Unit Rocks as Tools Created by Marne Oaas Kindergarten - Approximate Duration: 150 minutes Stage 1 Desired Results Established Goals Science Content Standard 1: Students, through the inquiry process, demonstrate the ability to design, conduct, evaluate, and communicate results and reasonable conclusions of scientific investigations. Science Content Standard 4 Benchmark 4.2: Describe and measure the physical properties of earth's basic materials (including soil, rocks, water and gases) and the resources they provide Essential Understanding 1: There is great diversity among the 12 tribal Nations of Montana in their languages, cultures, histories and governments. Each Nation has a distinct and unique cultural heritage that contributes to modern Montana. Understandings Essential Question s - How did people use rocks as tools long ago? - Rocks are non-living (Western science define rocks as being non-living, however living and non-living is not defined in the same way for Indigenous science. Some cultures view rocks as living). - Rocks have different textures, colors, weights, and uses as tools and structures. Students will be able to… - How do people use rocks as tools today? - classify rocks by attributes: flaky, crumbly, hard, soft, smooth, rough, colors, weight, etc. Students will know… - demonstrate the use of rocks as tools; for scraping, mashing, crushing, sanding, cleaning, staining, etc. - rocks have different textures, hardness, weight and uses. - rocks have a variety of uses. Stage 2 Assessment Evidence Performance Tasks - Students will play the Rock Counting Game - Students will collect, sort, and chart samples of rocks. Other Evidence - Students will participate in class activities, discussions, and ask appropriate questions. Science Kindergarten Rocks as Tools (continued) Stage 3 Learning Plan Preparations - Collect pictures of tools made from rocks. A good place to find some is: http://mhs.mt.gov/education/footlocker/Prehistoric.pdf, on pages 4 and 5; you may also want to check this footlocker out from the Montana Historical Society. You may also find some appropriate images and resources at http://mhs.mt.gov/education/footlocker/ancientteachings.asp. - Several weeks before beginning this lesson collect rocks you will need. You'll need a variety of assorted rocks. The teacher should crack open some rocks or find them split or cracked so the class can compare the inside to the outside. - Set up your "cooperative learning groups." Groups should be no larger than four students. - Assemble "Rock Counting Game," one for each cooperative learning group. Learning Activities Introduction: Read and discuss "Tunka-shila, Grandfather Rock" (Lakota [Sioux]-Great Plains story) or "Old Man Coyote and the Rock" (Pawnee-Great Plains story). Both Stories can be found in "Keepers of the Earth Native American Stories and Environmental Activities for Children" by Michael J. Caduto and Joseph Bruchac. Another option is a contemporary Crow story in the book I Am a Rock & My Name is Pop, distributed to all elementary school libraries by OPI. 1. Brainstorming activity: Ask and record answers from a discussion using the following questions as a guide. Record on a large poster or piece of paper. "Do you think rocks are living or non-living?" "What is a rock?" "How have people used rocks in the past?" "How do these Native American stories present rocks?" "How do we use rocks today?" "Are the rocks considered living or non-living within the stories?" 3. Vocabulary: With the students, make a list of words that describe rocks. Post the list in the classroom. 2. Extend the discussion on rocks as living or non-living things. Explain that in the Pend d'Oreille and Salish perspective, the Creator is present in all things. Everything has a purpose, and anything with a purpose is considered to be living. See pages 8 and 9 of "A Brief History of the Salish and Pend d'Oreille Tribes." (Available from the Salish & Pend d'Oreille Culture Committee.) 4. Display the gathered rocks and get student input on ways to describe the rocks. How are they the same or different? Discuss the properties of rocks (size, shape, texture, color). Referring back to the posted list. Give each child a brown lunch bag to bring to class 1-3 small (not too small) or medium-size rocks. They can also find rocks outside in the school yard. Add students' rocks to class collection. 6. Using a variety of objects (nails, plastic picks, cloth, small stiff brushes, etc.) let the students pick, poke, and explore the attributes of the rocks to determine if they are hard, soft, crumbly, smooth, rough, different on the inside when cracked open, etc. Add to the classroom list more ways to describe rocks. 5. Give each group of students a bin of rocks to explore and sort. They can sort by size, shape, texture, color. Have students chart and draw the sorted rock types, count, and label how many of each type they have in their container. Remind them to use the posted list as a reference. Walk around and monitor/discuss with the groups how they are sorting their rocks. Science Kindergarten Rocks as Tools (continued) 7. Rocks as Tools – students will brainstorm and discuss the use of rocks as tools. Have pictures or actual tools for students to view. Pass around the pictures of indigenous' tools made from rocks or project the Montana History Societies' website photos. What were the tools used for and what type of rock would be best for that use? Hammering, pestles, scraping, mashing, scrubbing, cutting, cooking, etc. 9. Students will classify the tools by how they would be used. 8. Students will pick a rock and decide how it could be used as a tool. If possible have the children actually use the rocks as tools to scrape, mash, pound, etc. 10. Optional: Continue exploring the American Indian Traditional uses of the environment by inviting a tribal representative to demonstrate ancestral skills and technology. Closing activity: Rock Counting Game(using pebbles as math tools) Materials: Five smooth pebbles. Paint a half moon shape on one side of each of four pebbles and a star shape on one side of the remaining pebble. Pea gravel and paper cups for keeping track of points. Play: Place the pebbles in a container (shoe box or a basket). Let one child at a time hold the basket and give it a shake. Then have the child count the number of shapes that turn up. Scoring: You can have a point system game by allotting one point for each moon and two points for the star. Children can use pea gravel placed in a paper cup to keep track of their points. Who Wins: After each child has five turns they count their pea gravel counters. The one with the most gravel wins. First one to a given number wins. Materials/Resources Needed - Large nails, plastic pick, cloth, small, stiff brushes, etc. - A good mix of rocks for student use - Plastic bins/boxes to hold sets of rocks - Keepers of the Earth Native American Stories and Environmental Activities for Children by Michael J. Caduto and Joseph Bruchac - Pictures of stone tools - I Am a Rock & My Name is Pop, distributed to all elementary school libraries by OPI. - Montana History Society "Prehistoric Life in Montana" resource trunk http://mhs.mt.gov/education/HandsonHistory.aspx - "A Brief History of the Salish and Pend d'Oreille Tribes" by the Salish-Pend d'Oreille Culture Committee of the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes, Salish-Pend d' Oreille Culture Committee, 81 Blind Barnaby Street, P.O. Box 550, St. Ignatius, Montana 59865 - Materials for one Indian counting game - 1 container for the smooth pebbles - 5 smooth pebbles: 1 with a star painted on one side, 4 with a moon painted in each side - A handful of pea gravel for scoring - 1 small container or paper cup for each player to put their pebbles in Science Kindergarten Rocks as Tools (continued) Extending the Lesson This basic lesson can be extended to include exploration of sand and soil/dirt found in local landscapes as a place-based connection. Students could grind stones together to see if they can make sand. They could also use sand to scrub cloth and other materials to see the effects. Students could try dyeing cloth with red dirt. The extension on soil/dirt could also introduce the concept of how soil/dirt is made from rocks and sand. | <urn:uuid:bc7d1207-0cdf-4d8a-8f72-1689ca028318> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://www.nisnindigenousresourcehub.com/_files/ugd/e70d20_93f4c30086604d4c934331a28f231120.pdf | 2022-05-29T09:06:02+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00328.warc.gz | 1,071,520,420 | 1,873 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.996714 | eng_Latn | 0.997326 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1807, 5152, 7889, 8395 ] | [ 4.96875 ] | 1 | 0 | RELATIONSHIPS AND SEX EDUCATION THANK YOU FOR ATTENDING THE PARENTAL CONSULTATION OF RSE Aims of this evening * is to help parent(s)/carer(s) develop an understanding of the RSE topics taught at PJS and how lessons progress appropriately at each year group. * to help parent(s)/carer(s) understand what typical activities their children will be participating in during RSE lessons. * for the positive reasons for delivering a high quality RSE curriculum to be understood, including safeguarding, body confidence and developing essential life skills. WHAT ARE THE LEGAL REQUIREMENTS * At Priory Junior School, we have been delivering appropriate SRE education for all year groups prior to the recent changes in the law (Sep 2020). * We are supported by an experienced PSHE specialist from the Cambridgeshire PSHE service which provides guidance and materials to use in the classroom. * From September 2020 it was made compulsory for all primary aged children to be taught relationships and health education. This prepares children for the changes they will experience as they enter adolescence, helps them to recognise healthy and unhealthy relationships and most importantly helps to keep them safe. * Sex Education remains a recommended part of the curriculum that primary schools should deliver but is not statutory. WHAT DOES THIS MEAN? * The guidance describes 'sex education' at primary schools as learning about 'human conception and birth'. * This links to the statutory teaching of reproduction in animals (including mammals) in Science. * In secondary schools, Relationships and Sex Education (RSE) and Health Education is statutory. * Parents may withdraw their children from the elements of statutory RSE defined by each primary/secondary school as 'Sex Education' but all children have the legal right to been taught about the concept of conception by their sixteenth birthday. WHAT HAS CHANGED WITH THE NEW LEGISLATION? * Areas of learning are now specified, previously coverage was up to the school. * All schools must teach a well-planned, developmental RHE and RSHE curriculum. It is no longer optional. * A student now has the right to opt back into 'sex education' three terms before their 16th birthday, over-riding their parents' views. LEARNING TOPICS IN PRIMARY SCHOOL * In Primary schools, Relationships Education will include learning about: * Families and people who care for me * Caring friendships * Respectful relationships * Online relationships * Being safe HEALTH EDUCATION * Health Education in both primary and secondary schools will include learning about: * Mental wellbeing * Internet safety and harms * Physical health and fitness * Healthy eating * Drugs alcohol and tobacco * Health and prevention * Basic first aid * Changing adolescent body WHY IS THE TEACHING OF RSE SO IMPORTANT? * There have been calls for RSE to be delivered in all primary and secondary schools for many years from a range of organisations: Woman Equalities committee, Education Select Committee, NSPCC and reports on Child Sexual Exploitation (Manchester, Rotherham). * Nationwide concerns over a range of serious issues have been included in this national curriculum with the aim of keeping children and young people safe. WELL TAUGHT RSE HAS THE EFFECT OF: - Making it more likely that abuse will be reported - Raising the age of first sexual activity - Making it less likely that young people will have an unwanted pregnancy - Making it less likely that young people describe their first sex as unwanted - Reducing the likelihood that young people will contract transmitted infection - The majority of parents support the teaching of RSE. WHY IS THE TEACHING OF RSE SO IMPORTANT? * The reproduction of animals (including that mammals grow within the mother's womb –year 2) forms a statutory part of Science in primary schools which may leave children with questions. * The PSHE Service promotes the teaching of key scientific vocabulary to help children communicate appropriately with those adults around them who are there to help keep them safe. * Developing children's understanding of puberty at an appropriate primary age will help to prepare them for bodily changes in adolescence and help to prevent anxiety/promote body confidence. * Teaching of body changes helps to promote understanding and equality between boys and girls. WHY IS THE TEACHING OF SEX EDUCATION SO IMPORTANT? * Children are naturally curious and want to find out answers. Through teaching SRE in primary schools the children can ask questions in a safe, respectful environment where the answers to their questions will be appropriately answered for their age group and any safety concerns addressed. * At PJS, lessons are appropriate for each year group in order to prepare them for their next steps in development. Clear guidance and planning is provided for the Cambridgeshire PSHE Service as to what should be taught in each year group. TIME TO HEAR YOUR OPINIONS… What essential skills do you want your child to have by the time they leave Priory Junior School? PJS AIMS OF RSE – DRAFT POLICY * Through the delivery of Relationships Education we intend to further our school's aims of providing a curriculum which is relevant to the needs of pupils, both now and in the future. It will enable pupils to develop knowledge, skills and attitudes which enhance their personal development and wellbeing. This will have a direct, positive effect on their progress and achievement in school. * All adults in school will work towards achieving these aims for Relationships Education. We seek to enable our children to: * develop interpersonal and communication skills * develop positive, personal values and a moral framework that will guide their decisions and behaviour * respect themselves and others, their views, backgrounds, cultures and experiences * develop respectful, caring relationships based on mutuality, reciprocation and trust PJS AIMS OF RSE – DRAFT POLICY * develop their ability to keep themselves and others safe, physically and emotionally, both on and off line * develop their understanding of a variety of families and how families are central to the wellbeing of children * recognise and avoid coercive and exploitative relationships * explore relationships in ways appropriate to their age and stage of development * value, care for and respect their bodies * build confidence in accessing additional advice and support for themselves and others. WHAT SHOULD YOU EXPECT FROM THE TEACHING OF RSE AT PRIMARY SCHOOLS * Every child has a right to feel accepted, valued and safe in school regardless of their gender, family background, religion, race or identity. * Every school should take steps to ensure that every child sees themselves and their families reflected in their school environment. * Primary schools should consider the needs of their pupils and ensure that the curriculum includes a progression of skills and ideas from Reception to Year 6. * A child will usually receive their regular PSHE lessons from a teacher who knows them and their families. WHAT SHOULD YOU EXPECT FROM THE TEACHING OF RSE AT PRIMARY SCHOOLS? * Children at primary schools are taught about human sexual reproduction as part of 'sex education'. There are many overlaps with national curriculum for science which includes teaching about sexual reproduction in animals. Parents can ask their child be excused from teaching about human sexual reproduction at primary. * Every child will be taught about their bodies and that they have the right to say what happens to their bodies as part of Relationships Education. This is to enable children to keep themselves safe from abuse and exploitation. * Every child will be taught about how their body and brain will change as they got older as part of Health Education. They will get timely information about puberty and how to manage it. WHAT SHOULD YOU EXPECT FROM THE TEACHING OF RSE AT PRIMARY SCHOOLS * Every child will explore attitudes, stereotypes and behaviour to build self-awareness and confidence. * Every child will explore how to ask trusted adults for help and how to be supportive to their peers. * The views of different faiths (and groups within them) and cultural groups can be explored alongside medical facts/science and the law in our country. * Pupils will learn to listen to and engage respectfully with people who hold different views to theirs'. * The views of different faiths on matters pertaining to families, relationships and health are also discussed in other subjects such as Religious Education. * No child will ever be singled out and asked to share their personal beliefs or family experiences. Instead broad statements will be used such as: " Some people believe …" * All children will be taught to respect others, to treat others equally and without prejudice. WHAT WILL NOT HAPPEN IN PRIMARY SCHOOL? * There is no teaching about sexual pleasure in primary school. * There is no teaching about sexual practices, other than human sexual reproduction as part of 'sex education'. * Teachers will not raise the profile of any family type, lifestyle, identity or sexuality over another. * Children will not be asked to share information about their families in class situation unless they want to. TIME FOR PARENTAL REFLECTION * Some statements will come up on the screen. For each statement decide where you fit on the continuum from strongly agree to strongly disagree. Middle would be neutral. * This activity is to help aid self-reflection on what is important to you as a family with regards to the teaching of RSE. * Please share your position on the continuum on that chat function. This is not compulsory but will help us as a school to understand families' viewpoints and values. SA= Strongly agree A= Agree SD= Strongly disagree D= Disagree N= neutral SA= Strongly agree A= Agree SD= Strongly disagree D= Disagree N= neutral SA= Strongly agree A= Agree SD= Strongly disagree D= Disagree N= neutral SA= Strongly agree A= Agree SD= Strongly disagree D= Disagree N= neutral EXAMPLES OF CONTENT AT PJS YEAR 3 -What are the scientific names for all external parts on the human body? -What are the physical differences between males and females? -Why should I value my own body and recognise its uniqueness? -What are the benefits of carrying out regular personal hygiene routines? -Who is responsible for your personal hygiene now? How will this change the future? -How might illness/disease be spread and how are you able to reduce this? EXAMPLES OF CONTENT AT PJS YEAR 4 - What are the main stages of the human lifecycle? - What does it mean to be 'grown up?' - What are your current responsibilities? - How might these responsibilities change in the future? - What are the responsibilities that parents/carers have for babies and children? - What have I learnt and how can I share it with others? EXAMPLES OF CONTENT AT PJS YEAR 5 - What are the names and functions of male and female sexual parts? - What terminology should I use in different situations? - What physical changes take place during puberty and how can I manage these? - Does everyone change at the same time? - How does the media, my friends and families effect my own attitude towards my body? - What is personal hygiene and why is this particularly important during puberty? - How can I keep myself safe and stop the spread of viruses? EXAMPLES OF CONTENT AT PJS YEAR 6 How am I responsible for the feelings and well- being of others? - Why is trust important in a marriage/established relationship? - How do emotions change during puberty and how can I express these positively? - What are the stages of the human life cycle and how is a baby made? - What does responsible parenting look like? - Are all families the same? EXAMPLES OF ACTIVITIES * Visual diagrams * Classroom discussions in a safe space * Question boxes * Generalisations will be challenged e.g., that all boys are taller than girls; that girls don't have short hair. * Group card sort activities (sorting male and female body parts) * Toiletries will be explored to promote hygiene. EXAMPLES OF ACTIVITIES * Lots of different children's books e.g., Dirty Bertie is used in lower year groups to promote the catch it, bin it, kill it message; character's feelings are explored in Piggybank where the responsibility of different family members is explored. * Case studies of made up scenarios are discussed and children provide advice for these fictional characters. * Older year groups are taught about appropriate/inappropriate vocabulary and the safe/sensible sharing of information learnt in class. * Examples of period products are shared * Videos of same age children discussing puberty experiences/concerns. * Exploration of myths. WHAT CAN I DO FOR MY CHILD? * Look out for topic plans or on school website for information about the school curriculum and what your child will be learning. * Ask to see the school's RSE policy and raise any questions you have. * If the school ask for parental voices as they develop or review their policy, offer your time and views. * Support your child's learning at home, by reading with them, asking their views on what they have learnt. * Be the trusted adult who offers their child unconditional love and non-judgemental support, so they know they can always come to you if they have worries or concerns about friendships or relationships as they grow up. | <urn:uuid:9deed003-ed8d-45bb-adcb-9b06f7e1b95c> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://www.priory.cambs.sch.uk/storage/secure_download/ZmVhK0NSeHJIOHlrbkFKaWhTeTdCZz09 | 2022-05-29T09:00:08+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00327.warc.gz | 1,070,678,639 | 2,722 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.871432 | eng_Latn | 0.99784 | [ "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "dag_Latn", "dag_Latn", "dag_Latn", "dag_Latn... | false | docling | [ 31, 552, 1323, 1896, 2265, 2498, 2794, 3252, 3672, 4370, 4955, 5083, 5958, 6489, 7105, 7913, 8875, 9309, 9803, 9881, 9959, 10037, 10115, 10580, 10943, 11452, 11843, 12173, 12828, 13494 ] | [ 3.59375 ] | 1 | 0 | Time: 3 Hours SCIENCE CLASS IX (THEORY) SAMPLE QUESTION PAPER-I Maximum Marks: 75 Multiple Choice Questions 1. On converting 25 °C, 38 °C and 66 °C to kelvin scale, the correct answer will be (a) 298 K, 311 K and 339 K (b) 298 K, 300 K and 338 K (c) 273 K, 278 K and 543 K (d) 298 K, 310 K and 338 K (1) 2. Choose the correct statement of the following (a) conversion of solid into vapours without passing through the liquid state is called vapourisation. (b) conversion of vapours into solid without passing through the liquid state is called sublimation. (c) conversion of vapours into solid without passing through the liquid state is called freezing. (d) conversion of solid into liquid is called sublimation. (1) 3. Rusting of an article made up of iron is called (a) corrosion and it is a physical as well as chemical change (b) dissolution and it is a physical change (c) corrosion and it is a chemical change (d) dissolution and it is a chemical change Which of the following are homogeneous in nature? (i) ice (ii) wood (iii) soil (iv) air (a) (i) and (iii) (b) (ii) and (iv) (c) (i) and (iv) (d) (iii) and (iv) 5. Following are a few definitions of osmosis Read carefully and select the correct definition (a) Movement of water molecules from a region of higher concentration to a region of lower concentration through a semipermeable membrane (b) Movement of solvent molecules from its higher concentration to lower concentration 16-04-2018 4. (1) (1) 6. 8. 9. 11. (c) Movement of solvent molecules from higher concentration to lower concentration of solution through a permeable membrane (d) Movement of solute molecules from lower concentration to higher concentration of solution through semipermeable membrane. Which among the following has specialised tissue for conduction of water? (a) Thallophyta (b) Bryophyta (c) Pteridophyta (d) Fungi (1) 7. Which of the following is not a criterion for classification of living organisms? (a) Body design of the organism (b) Ability to produce one's own food (c) Membrane bound nucleus and cell organelles (d) Height of the plant Which of the following is not important for individual's health? (a) Living in clean space (b) Good economic condition (c) Social equality and harmony (d) Living in a large and well furnished house Chromosomes are made up of (a) DNA only (b) protein only (c) DNA and protein (d) RNA only (1) 10. A particle is moving in a circular path of radius (r). The displacement after half a circle would be (a) Zero (b) π r (c) 2 r (d) 2 π r (1) In case of negative work the angle between the force and displacement is (a) 0° (b) 45° (c) 90° (d) 180° (1) 12. An object moving at a speed greater than that of sound is said to be moving at (a) infrasonic speed (b) sonic speed (c) ultrasonic speed (d) supersonic speed SAMPLE QUESTION PAPER-I (1) (1) (1) 157 13. Before playing the orchestra in a musical concert, a sitarist tries to adjust the tension and pluck the string suitably. By doing so, he is adjusting (a) intensity of sound only (b) amplitude of sound only (c) frequency of the sitar string with the frequency of other musical instruments 14. Ozone - layer is getting depleted because of (a) excessive use of automobiles (b) excessive formation of industrial units (c) excessive use of man-made compounds containing both fluorine and chlorine 15. To solve the food problem of the country, which among the following is necessary? (a) Increased production and storage of food grains. (b) Easy access of people to the food grain. (c) People should have money to purchase the grains. 16. Which one of the following nutrients is not available in fertilizers? (a) Nitrogen (b) Phosphorus (c) Iron (d) Potassium (1) Short Answer Questions 17. A student heats a beaker containing ice and water. He measures the temperature of the contents of the beaker as a function of time. Which of the following would correctly represent the result? Give justification for your choice. (1+1= 2) 158 EXEMPLAR PROBLEMS 18. An element is sonorous and highly ductile. Under which category would you classify this element? What other characteristics do you expect the element to possess? (½ + 1½ = 2) 19. What information do you get from the following figures about the valency, atomic number and mass number of atoms X, Y and Z? Give your answer in a tabular form. (1+ ½ + ½ = 2) 20. One electron is present in the outer most shell of the atom of an element X. What would be the nature and value of the charge on the ion formed if this electron is removed from the outer most shell? (1+1 = 2) 21. Cells of onion peel and RBC are separately kept in hypotonic solution, what among the following will take place? Explain the reason for your answer. (a) Both the cells will swell. (b) RBC will burst easily while cells of onion peel will resist the bursting to some extent. (c) a and b both are correct (d) RBC and onion peel cells will behave similarly. (½+1 ½ = 2) 22. Name the different components of xylem and draw a living component of it. (1 + 1 = 2) 23. Classify the following organisms based on the absence/presence of true coelom (i.e. acoelomate, pseudocoelomate and coelomate) Spongilla, Sea anemone Planaria, Liver fluke Wuchereria, Ascaris Nereis, Scorpion Earthworm, Birds Fishes, Horse (2) 24. Which cell organelle controls most of the activities of the cell? (2) 159 160 25. Draw well labelled diagrams of various types of muscles found in human body (2) 26. The following velocity-time graph shows the motion of a cyclist. Find (i) its acceleration, (ii) its velocity and (iii) the distance covered by the cyclist in 15 seconds. 27. A ball is dropped from a height of 10 m. If the energy of the ball reduces by 40% after striking the ground, how much high can the ball bounce back? (2) 28. Draw a graph for a wave representing wave disturbance and time for a sound changing from low pitch to high pitch, keeping the amplitude of the sound same. (2) 29. Why lichens do not occur in Delhi whereas they commonly grow in Manali or Darjeeling? (2) 30. Lichens are called pioneer colonisers of bare rock. How can they help in formation of soil? (2) 31. What is a GM crop? Name any one such crop which is grown in India. (1+1= 2) 32. If there is low rainfall in a village throughout the year what measures will you suggest to the farmers for better cropping? (2) 33. In agricultural practices, higher input gives higher yield. Discuss how? (2) Long Answer Questions 34. The mass of one steel screw is 4.11g. Find the mass of one mole of these steel screws. Compare this value with the mass of the Earth (5.98 × 10 24 kg). Which one of the two is heavier and by how many times? (1½+ 2½ + 1= 5) Or In photosynthesis, 6 molecules of carbon dioxide combine with an equal number of water molecules through a complex series of reactions to give a molecule of glucose having a molecular formula C 6 H 12 O 6 . How many grams EXEMPLAR PROBLEMS of water would be required to produce 18 g of glucose? Compute the volume of water so consumed assuming the density of water to be 1 g cm –3 . (4 + 1= 5) 35. Explain giving reasons (a) Balanced diet is necessary for maintaining healthy body. (b) Health of an organism depends upon the surrounding environmental conditions. (c) Our surrounding area should be free of stagnant water. (d) Social harmony and good economic conditions are necessary for good health. (1 + 1 + 1 + 2 = 5) Or Why is AIDS considered to be a 'Syndrome' and not a disease? (5) 36. (a) Explain the meaning of inertia with the help of an example. (b) Two balls of same size but of different materials, rubber and iron are kept on the smooth floor of a moving train. The brakes are applied suddenly to stop the train. Will the balls start rolling? If so, in which direction? Will they move with the same speed? Give reasons for your answer. Or (a) A ball of mass m is thrown vertically upward from the ground with an initial speed v, its speed decreases continuously till it becomes zero. Thereafter, the ball begins to fall downward and attains the speed v again before striking the ground. It implies that the magnitude of initial and final momentum of the ball are same. Yet, it is not an example of conservation of momentum. Explain why? (b) A bullet of mass 20 g is horizontally fired with a velocity 150 m s –1 from a pistol of mass 2 kg. What is the recoil velocity of the pistol? 37. (a) With the help of Second Law of Motion and the Universal Law of Gravitation derive an expression for acceleration due to gravity 'g'. (b) The weight of any person on the moon is about 1/6 times that on the earth. He can lift a mass of 15 kg on the earth. What will be the maximum, mass, which can be lifted by the same force applied by the person on the moon? (1+1+1+2=5) (a) Identical packets are dropped from two aeroplanes, one above the equator and the other above the north pole, both at height 'h'. Assuming all conditions are identical, will these packets take same time to reach the surface of the earth? Justify your answer. (b) It is seen that a falling apple is attracted towards the earth. Does the apple also attract the earth? If so, we do not see the earth moving towards the apple. Why? (2 + 1 + 1 + 1 = 5) 38. A motor car, with its glass totally closed, is parked directly under the sun. The inside temperature of the car rises very high. Explain why? (5) Or What are the causes of water pollution? Discuss how can you contribute in reducing the water pollution. ( 2½ + 2½ = 5) 1. (a) 2. (b) 3. (c) 4. (c) 5. (a) 6. (c) 7. (d) 8. (d) 9. (c) 10. (c) 11. (d) 12. (d) 13. (c) 14. (c) 15. (d) 16. (c) Short Answer Questions 17. The correct option is (d). Since ice and water are in equilibrium, the temperature would be zero. When we heat the mixture, energy supplied is utilised in melting the ice and the temperature does not change till all the ice melts because of latent heat of fusion. On further heating the temperature of the water would increase. 18. This element is a metal. Other characteristics that the element may possess are–lustre, malleability, heat and electrical conductivity. | Valency | Atomic No. | |---|---| | X 3 Y 2 Z 3,5 | 5 8 15 | SAMPLE QUESTION PAPER-I ANSWERS Multiple Choice Questions 20. + 1 21. (b), Onion peel has cell wall and RBC does not have cell wall 22. Hint—Xylem consists of tracheids, vessels, xylem parenchyma and xylem fibres. 23. Spongilla —Acoelomate Sea anemone—Acoelomate Planaria—Acoelomate Liver fluke—Acoelomate Wuchereria—Pseudocoelomate Ascaris—Psudocoelomate Nereis—Coelomate Scorpion—Coelomate Nucleus Cytoplasm Xylem parenchyma Earthworm—Coelomate Birds, Fishes and Horse—Coelomate 24. Hint— Nucleus 25. Nuclei Striations (a) Striated muscle Spindle shaped muscle cell Nucleus (b) Smooth muscle (c) Cardiac muscle Striations Nuclei 26. (a) Since velocity is not changing, acceleration is equal to zero. (b) Reading the graph, velocity = 20 m s -1 (c) s = area of the figure enclosed under v – t graph Distance covered in 15 s, s = u × t = 20 × 15 = 300 m Energy with which it struck the ground = 60% of the total energy ∴ Height to which the ball will bounce back 29. Hint— It is a bio-indicator and sensitive to SO 2 pollution from automobiles. Delhi has maximum number of automobiles, hence has a highly polluted environment. 30. Lichens release chemical substances to break the rocks into smaller particles and hence make soil. 31. Crop which has been developed by introducing new gene from any other source, to obtain the desired character, is called as genetically modified (GM) crop. Bt Cotton is an example of GM crop which is made insectresistant by introducing a new gene from a bacteria. 32. Farmers of low rainfall area will be suggested to (a) practice farming with drought resistant and early maturing varieties of crops. (b) to enrich the soil with more humus content as it increases the waterholding capacity and retains the water for longer duration. 33 . In agricultural practices, higher input gives higher yield, means higher money input raise the yield. Financial conditions of the farmers allows them to take up different farming practices and technologies. The farmer's purchasing capacity for input decides cropping system and production practices. 165 Long Answer Questions 34. One mole of screws weigh 2.475 ×10 24 g = 2.475×10 21 kg Mass of earth is 2.4×10 3 times the mass of screw The earth is 2400 times heavier than a mole of screw. Or 1 mole of glucose needs 6 moles of water 180 g of glucose needs (6×18) g of water 35. (a) Food is necessary for the growth and development of the body. Balanced the substances likes proteins, carbohydrates, fats, minerals etc which in diet provides raw materials and energy in appropriate amount needed for turn are essential for the proper growth and functioning of the healthy body. (b) Health is a state of being well enough to function well physically, mentally and socially and these conditions depend upon the surrounding environmental conditions. For example, if there is unhygienic conditions in surrounding area, it is likely we might get infected or diseased. (c) This is so because many water borne diseases and insect vectors flourish in stagnant water which cause diseases in human beings. (d) Human beings live in societies and different localities like villages or cities, which determines the social and physical environment and hence both are to be kept in harmony. Public cleanliness is important for individual health. For better living conditions lot of money is required. We need good food for healthy body and for this we have to earn more. For the treatment of diseases also, one has to be in good economic condition. EXEMPLAR PROBLEMS AIDS causing virus— HIV that comes into the body via, the sexual organs or any other means like blood transfusion will spread to lymph nodes all over the body. The virus damages the immune system of the body adversely. Due to this the body can no longer fight off many minor infections. Instead, every small cold can become pneumonia, or minor gut infection can become severe diarrhoea with blood loss. The effect of disease becomes very severe and complex, at times killing the person suffering from AIDS. Hence there is no specific disease symptoms for AIDS but it results in complex diseases and symptoms. Therefore, it is known as syndrome. 36. (a) Hint— Explain inertia with certain examples (b) Yes, the balls will start rolling in the direction of the displacement of the train. No, they will not move with the same speed, because their masses (inertia) are different. The lighter ball will move faster than the heavier ball. Or (a) Yes, it is not an example of conservation of momentum because momentum remains conserved when no external force is acting on the object. In this case, force of gravity is acting on the ball. 37. (a) Newton's Second Law of Motion F = m × a ; F = mg Universal Law of Gravitation Force applied to lift a mass of 15 kg, at the earth F = m g e .= 15 g e N Therefore, the mass lifted by the same force on the moon, (a) We know that the value of 'g' at the equator of the earth is less than that at poles. Therefore, the packet falls slowly at the equator in comparison to the poles. Thus, the packet will remain in air for longer time interval, when it is dropped at the equator. (b) The apple also attracts the earth with equal and opposite force (Newton's Third Law). ∴maga=mEgE As the mass of the apple is negligible when compared to the mass of earth, the acceleration produced in the apple will be much greater than that produced in the earth. 38. Infra-red radiations in sunlight pass through the glass and heat the interior of the car. The radiation emitted by upholstry and other inner parts of the car cannot pass out of the glass, so the heat trapped inside raises the temperature of the interior. This is because glass is transparent to infrared radiation from the sun having smaller wavelength than that emitted by the interior of the car which are of longer wavelength to which the glass is opaque. Or Water pollution can be caused by addition of (i) undesirable substances like fertilisers and pesticides or any poisonous substances. (ii) sewage directly entering a water body. (iii) hot water from the power plant that increases the temperature and reduces the dissolved oxygen in water thus killing the aquatic organisms. (iv) industrial effluents or radioactive substances in water body. We can take following measures to check water pollution (i) The sewer lines should not be directly connected to the water body. (ii) We should not throw our garbages or domestic wastes into the water body. (iii) Prevent dumping of toxic compounds in the water bodies. (iv) Washing of clothes should be avoided near water bodies as it adds a lot of detergents to it. (v) Plant trees near the banks of the river to check soil erosion otherwise erosion leads to siltation of water body. | <urn:uuid:ff4a3506-b70e-44a3-920a-eb91800afc85> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://www.ncert.nic.in/pdf/publication/exemplarproblem/classIX/science/ieep116.pdf | 2022-05-29T08:48:26+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00327.warc.gz | 1,023,491,379 | 4,221 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.919531 | eng_Latn | 0.993056 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1514, 2913, 4075, 5454, 7031, 8877, 9607, 10363, 11175, 12400, 13858, 15218, 17098 ] | [ 4.09375 ] | 5 | 0 | Name _________________________________________________ Date ________ Class Period______ Instructions: Read chapter XI Integration in W. W. Trent’s Mountaineer Education: A History of Education in West Virginia 1885-1957 (available on line at: http://www.wvculture.org/history/education/trent.html ) and answer the following questions. 1. From the authors introduction that describes his family what would you expect his view of integration to be?; What does he say about his views? 2. What did the author say about the African American teachers he supervised? What reason does he give to justify his description? 3. Who was William H. Saunders and what contribution did he make to education in West Virginia? 4. Who was John W. Davis and what happened at West Virginia State under his leadership? 5. When and where was the first free school for African Americans established in West Virginia? 6. What were the four "firsts" that West Virginia accomplished before any other southern state? 1. 2. 3. 4. 7. What other items did the author proudly add to his description? 8. On what date did Governor William C. Marland announce that West Virginia would follow the Supreme Court ruling on the Brown v. Board of Education case? How many days had passed before he made his announcement? 9. How did some people respond to the governor's announcement? 10. What happened on June 9, 1954, when the governor and W. W. Trent when to a meeting of southern governors in Richmond? 11. How were West Virginia's colleges progressing toward integration by November 1954? 12. In 1954-55 how many West Virginia counties had: ____ fully integrated; ____ partially integrated; ____ did not have any African American students ____ delayed action on integration 13. When did the West Virginia Education Association and the West Virginia State Teachers’ Association for Negro Teachers merge? 14. What does the NAACP stand for? What did this organization do to force Greenbrier County to integrate? 15. What happened at Matoaka High School and other local schools when school started in 1956? 16. Why did some African Americans ask for integration to be delayed in the Eastern Panhandle? 17. By what year was school integration mostly completed? | <urn:uuid:ba6fe50f-18d4-4b18-880a-ffaeffc54034> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | http://archive.wvculture.org/history/teacherresources/integrationexercise03.pdf | 2022-05-29T08:50:48+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00329.warc.gz | 5,116,872 | 466 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.997477 | eng_Latn | 0.997874 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1012, 1890, 2248 ] | [ 3.28125 ] | 1 | 0 | Curriculum Overview Subject: French Year Group: 7 There is an expectation that few students would have learned about an MFL in primary school, so instead of teaching them vocabulary straight away, teachers will focus on confidence-building. Students will be introduced to the French language through a lot of speaking activities during the first term. By the end of the year, students will have a better understanding of key points - what silent letters are and their regular appearance in every day vocabulary. Grammatical key terms are taught / revisited throughout. * • • • • • • • • • Extended reading suggestions and external resources: - Independent learning guide provided at the start of each term. - SMHW Cultural Capital: Drawing on the main differences in between the English and French languages; exploring a French home as well as different homes in other French-speaking countries; talking about the influence of French on the English language (cognates). Opportunity to take part in the house point challenge and to create an "ideal home" in whatever format they want, as long as all the rooms are labelled in French. Modern Foreign Languages Year 7 Assessment Criteria | | Bronze | Silver | Gold | |---|---|---|---| | Reading | I can recognise and read out a few familiar words and phrases. | I can understand and read out familiar written phrases. | I can focus on the main points from a short written text. | | Writing | I can write or copy simple words correctly. | I can write one or two short sentences to a model and fill in the words on a simple form. | I can adapt a few short sentences with support, using expressions which I have already learnt. | | Speaking | I can say and repeat single words and short simple phrases. | I can answer simple questions and give basic information. | I can ask and answer simple questions and talk about my interests. | | Listening | I can understand a few familiar spoken words. | I can recognise a range of familiar spoken phrases. | I can identify the main points from a short spoken passage made up of familiar language. | | <urn:uuid:d4657f48-779c-42e8-8ece-f85edcd98094> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://www.chasehigh.org/documents/Curriculum/Our-Subjects/French-Curriculum-Overview-Year-7.pdf | 2022-05-29T09:20:28+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00326.warc.gz | 788,487,457 | 440 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998681 | eng_Latn | 0.998251 | [ "eng_Latn", "unknown" ] | false | docling | [ 1140, 2095 ] | [ 3.40625 ] | 1 | 0 | FAMILY PHONICS WORKSHOP AIMS FOR THE SESSION Progression of phonics from Reception to Year 1 Phonics screening assessment end of Year 1 Resources for you to use at home WHAT IS PHONICS? Children are taught to read by breaking down words into separate sounds or 'phonemes'. They are then taught how to blend these sounds together to read and write the whole word. Children have a 20 minute phonics lesson each day and they are encouraged to use these strategies to read and write in other lessons. [x]We use a synthetic scheme called 'Letters and Sounds' as our teaching resource. Reading and Writing Phonics from the very beginning What is? CVC Segmenting and blending Decoding and encoding Digraph Trigraph Split digraph Phoneme Grapheme Tricky bit words Terminology Letters and sounds Phonic Phases- EYFS + Year 1 Phase 1 – environmental, instrumental, body percussion and rhyme Phase 2 – phonemes plus words Phase 3 – phonemes, digraphs and words Phase 4 – recap phase 2 and 3 with additional words Phase 5 - split digraphs and alternative sounds and graphemes Remember moving forward children need Reading and Writing Pure sound High Frequency Words Tricky bit words Alternative digraphs/trigraphs Reading and spelling of two syllable words Punctuation and letter joining ELG and ELG+ Writing ELG Writing ELG+ How is phonics taught in EYFS? Phoneme Spots Phoneme Frame Supporting Materials Year 1 Phonics- Phase 4 and Phase 5 Recapping Phase 4 and moving into Phase 5: During Phase 5: Learn new graphemes Introduced to split diagraphs Alternative pronunciations Phase 5: New Graphemes The children are introduced to 1 new grapheme everyday during Autumn term. Phase 5 What is a split digraph? tie Joe Phase 5 Alternative spellings of graphemes. Phase 5 Word Families- alternative spellings. KS1 Phonics Check WHY DO THE CHILDREN COMPLETE THE SCREENING? The aim of the check is to ensure that all children are able to read by the end of year two. This 'midpoint check' will ensure that we have a clear understanding of what the children need to learn in year 2 to ensure they do not fall behind. WHAT IS IN THE PHONICS SCREENING CHECK? [x] There will be two sections in this 40-word check and it will assess their phonics skills and knowledge. [x] There will be 8 practice words at the start. [x] Your child will read up to four words per page to their teacher. There will be 20 real words and 20 'alien words' WHO WILL COMPLETE THE CHECK? The children will complete the check one at a time in a quiet area of school. Miss Palmer will conduct all of the screening tests with the children. We will make it as low-key as possible – the children will not be informed it's a "test" – it only takes 5/10 minutes. WHEN WILL THE SCREENING TAKE PLACE? The phonics screening will take place during the week commencing 15 th June. If your child does not pass the phonics screening, they will be given extra Phonics support in school and re-checked in Year 2. Here is a video showing what children can expect to experience. HOW TO SAY THE SOUNDS [x]This is a helpful video showing all 44 phonemes https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BqhXUW_v-1s WHAT CAN I DO TO HELP MY CHILD? Useful Websites to use at home: [x] http://www.phonicsplay.co.uk go to Free Phonicsplay Parents page and access games and information to help you and your child. Phonics Apps [x] https://www.bbc.co.uk/bitesize/topics/zcqqtfr [x] Dinosaurs Eggs- *Hairy letters (additional cost) https://www.ictgames.com/dinosaurEggs_phonics/mobile/ *Read with phonic games *AGO Phonics Sound pad [x] Spooky Spellings-https://www.ictgames.com/mobilePage/spookySpellings/index.html Phonics Play Example RESOURCES TO USE AT HOME Phonic Family Games Reading Suitcase Reading for 5 minutes a day Family Phonics Sessions We will be holding two Family Phonics Sessions in school next week to give you the opportunity to experience a phonics lesson with your child. Thursday 5 th March Wednesday 4 th March Please sign up to the one session you would like to attend to secure your place (one adult per child). QUESTIONS? Please feel free to take any extra resources from the tables, sign out a phonics game, sign up to a phonics session or ask us any questions. Remember our door is always open! | <urn:uuid:de131bdf-2ec6-4b6f-acfa-9a8876eab6c7> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://www.elvingtonprimary.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/EYFS-and-Year-1-Parent-Phonics-Evening-PPT.pdf | 2022-05-29T09:00:02+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00326.warc.gz | 858,399,576 | 1,164 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.974703 | eng_Latn | 0.997299 | [ "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng... | false | docling | [ 23, 172, 587, 641, 789, 1091, 1312, 1353, 1415, 1437, 1613, 1713, 1768, 1814, 1862, 1881, 2171, 2488, 2787, 3097, 3216, 3719, 3741, 3836, 4153, 4165, 4342 ] | [ 3.578125 ] | 1 | 0 | 84 IOLOGY B , E XEMPLAR P ROBLEMS CHAPTER 15 PLANT GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT MULTIPLE CHOICE QUESTIONS 1. Ethylene is used for a. Retarding ripening of tomatoes b. Hastening of ripening of fruits c. Slowing down ripening of apples d. Both b and c 2. Coconut water contains a. ABA b. Auxin c. Cytokinin d. Gibberellin 3. The affect of apical dominance can be overcome by which of the following hormone: a. IAA b. Ethylene c. Gibberellin d. Cytokinin 4. Match the following: A. IAA B. ABA C. Ethylene D. GA E. Cytokinins i. Herring sperm DNA ii. Bolting iii. Stomatal closure iv. Weed-free lawns v. Ripening of fruits Options: a A – iv, B – iii, C – v, D – ii, E – i b A – v, B – iii, C – iv, D – ii, E – i c A – iv, B – i, C – iv, D – iii, E – ii d A – v, B – iii, C – ii, D – i, E - iv 5. Apples are generally wrapped in waxed paper to a. Prevent sunlight for changing its colour. b. Prevent aerobic respiration by checking the entry of O 2 c. Prevent ethylene formation due to injury d. Make the apples look attractive 6. Growth can be measured in various ways. Which of these can be used as parameters to measure growth a. Increase in cell number b. Increase in cell size c. Increase in length and weight d. All the above 7. The term synergistic action of hormones refers to a. When two hormones act together but bring about opposite effects. b. When two hormones act together and contribute to the same function. c. When one hormone affects more than one function. d. When many hormones bring about any one function. 8. Plasticity in plant growth means that a. Plant roots are extensible b. Plant development is dependent on the environment c. Stems can extend d. None of the above 9. To increase sugar production in sugarcanes, they are sprayed with a. IAA b. Cytokinin c. Gibberellin d. Ethylene 10. ABA acts antagonistic to a. Ethylene b. Cytokinin c. Gibberlic acid d. IAA 11. Monocarpic plants are those which a. Bear flowers with one ovary b. Flower once and die c. Bear only one flower d. All of the above 12. The photoperiod in plants is perceived at a. Meristem b. Flower c. Floral buds d. Leaves VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS 1. Fill in the places with appropriate word/ words. a. A phase of growth which is maximum and fastest is __________. b. Apical dominance as expressed in dicotyledonous plants is due to the presence of more ________ in the apical bud than in the lateral ones. c. In addition to auxin, a ________ must be supplied to culture medium to obtain a good callus in plant tissue culture. d. ________ of a vegetative plants are the sites of photoperiodic perception. 2. Plant growth substances (PGS) have innumerable practical applications. Name the PGS you should use to a. Increase yield of sugar cane. b. Promote lateral shoot growth. c. Cause sprouting of potato tuber. d. Inhibit seed germination. 3. A primary root grows from 5 cm to 19 cm in a week. Calculate the growth rate and relative growth rate over the period. 4. Gibberellins were first discovered in Japan when rice plants were suffering from bakane (the foolish seedling disease) caused by a fungus Gibberella fujikuroi. a. Give two functions of this phytohormone. b. Which property of Gibberellin caused foolish seedling disease in rice? 5. Gibberellins promote the formation of ______ flowers on genetically _____ plants in Cannabis whereas ethylene promotes formation of _______ flowers on genetically ______ plants. 6. Classify the following plants into Long-Day Plants (LDP), Short Day Plants (SDP) and Day Neutral Plants (DNP) Xanthium, Henbane (Hyoscyamus niger), Spinach, Rice, Strawberry, Bryophyllum, Sunflower, Tomato, Maize. 7. A farmer grows cucumber plants in his field. He wants to increase the number of female flowers in them. Which plant growth regulator can be applied to achieve this? 8. Where are the following hormones synthesized in plants a. IAA b. Gibberellins c. Cytokinins 9. In botanical gardens and tea gardens, gardeners trim the plants regularly so that they remain bushy. Does this practice have any scientific explanation? 10. Light plays an important role in the life of all organisms. Name any three physiological processes in plants which are affected by light. 11. In the figure of Sigmoid growth curve given below, label segments 1, 2 and 3. 12. Growth is one of the characteristic of all living organisms? Do unicellular organisms also grow? If so, what are the parameters? 13. The rice seedlings infected with fungus Gibberlla fujikuroi is called foolish seedlings? What was the reason behind it? SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS 1. Nicotiana tabacum, a Short Day Plant, when exposed to more than critical period of light fails to flower. Explain. 2. What are the structural characteristics of a. Meristematic cells near root tip b. The cells in the elongation zone of the root 3. Does the growth pattern in plants differ from that in animals? Do all the parts of plant grow indefinitely? If not, name the regions of plant, which can grow indefinitely. 4. Explain in 2-3 lines each of the following terms with the help of examples taken from different plant tissues a. Differentiation b. De-differentiation c. Redifferentiation 5. Auxins are growth hormones capable of promoting cell elongation. They have been used in horticulture to promote growth, flowering and rooting. Explain the meaning of the following terms related to auxins. a. auxin precursors b. anti-auxins c. synthetic auxins 6. The role of ethylene and abscissic acid is both positive and negative. Justify the statement. 7. While experimentation, why do you think it is difficult to assign any affect seen to any single hormone? 8. What is the mechanism underlying the phenomenon by which the terminal/apical bud suppresses the growth of lateral buds? Suggest measures to overcome this phenomenon. 9. In animals there are special glands secreting hormones, whereas there are no glands in plants. Where are plant hormones formed? How are the hormones translocated to the site of activity? 10. Many discoveries in science have been accidental. This is true for plant hormones also. Can you justify this statement by giving an example? Also what term is used for such accidental findings? 11. To get a carpet like grass lawns are mowed regularly. Is there any scientific explanation for this? 12. In a slide showing different types of cells can you identify which type of the cell may be meristematic and the one which is incapable of dividing and how? 13. A rubber band stretches and reverts back to its original position. Bubble gum stretches, but it would not return to its original position. Is there any difference between the two processes? Discuss it with respect to plant growth (Hint: Elasticity (reversible) Plasticity (irreversible)) 14. Label the diagram a. This is which part of a dicotyledonous plant? b. If we remove part 1 from the plant, what will happen? 15. Both animals and plants grow. Why do we say that growth and differentiation in plants is open and not so in animals? Does this statement hold true for sponges also? 16. Define parthenocarpy. Name the plant hormone used to induce parthenocarpy. 17. While eating watermelons, all of us wish it was seedless. As a plant physiologist can you suggest any method by which this can be achieved. 18. A gardener finds some broad-leaved dicot weeds growing in his lawns. What can be done to get rid of the weeds efficiently? 19. On germination a seed first produces shoot with leaves, flowers appear later, a. Why do you think this happens? b. How is this advantageous to the plant? 20. Fill in the blanks: a. Maximum growth is observed in ________ phase. b. Apical dominance is due to ____________ c. ___________ hormone initiate rooting d. Pigment involved in Photoperception in flowering plants is ______ LONG ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS 1. Some varieties of wheat are known as spring wheat while others are called winter wheat. Former variety is sown, and planted in spring and is harvested by the end of the same season. However, winter varieties, if planted in spring, fail to flower or produce mature grains within a span of a flowering season. Explain, why? 2. It is known that some varieties of wheat are sown in autumn but are harvested around next mid summer. a. What could be the probable reason for this? b. What term is used for this promotion of flowering under low temperature? c. Which plant hormone can replace the cold treatment? 3. Name a hormone which a. is gaseous in nature b. is responsible for phototropism c. induces femaleness in flowers of cucumber d. is used for killing weeds (dicots) e. induces flowering in long day plants | <urn:uuid:b3be19dc-22d6-40b8-8885-1e45eb5a7a67> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://www.ncert.nic.in/pdf/publication/exemplarproblem/classXI/biology/keep415.pdf | 2022-05-29T08:25:51+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00326.warc.gz | 1,056,111,671 | 2,161 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.928115 | eng_Latn | 0.996106 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 714, 1891, 3256, 4556, 6211, 7691, 8645 ] | [ 3.53125 ] | 4 | 4 | FACTFILE: GCE CHEMISTRY A2 5.1 MASS SPECTROMETRY Learning Outcomes Students should be able to: 5.1.1 recall the meaning of, and identify base peak, molecular ion peak, M+1 peak and fragmentation ions in a mass spectrum; 5.1.2 suggest formulae for the fragment ions in a given mass spectrum; 5.1.3 distinguish between molecules of the same RMM/mass using high resolution mass spectrometry; In a mass spectrometer a molecule is bombarded by electrons and positive ions are formed. A molecular ion is formed by loss of one electron. This ion is detected in the recorder of the mass spectrometer, and a peak is printed on the spectrum. M M e – A molecular ion is an ion formed by the removal of an electron from a molecule. A molecular ion peak is the peak produced by an ion formed by the removal of one electron from a molecule. This peak has the highest value of m/e and it gives the relative molecular mass of the molecule. Sometimes there is a small peak 1 unit to the right of the molecular ion peak – this is called the M+1 peak. It has low abundance. An M+1 peak is a peak produced by a molecular ion with an increased mass due to the presence of one carbon-13 atom. Other peaks are printed on the spectrum - this is due to bonds breaking in the molecule and the molecule breaking up, forming positively charged fragment ions which have different masses and so different peaks. A fragmentation ion is a positively charged ion produced when the molecular ion breaks apart. The base peak is the peak of greatest abundance in a mass spectrum. In a mass spectrum the y axis generally gives the abundance (usually %) – the more common a particular mass of a particle, the higher the abundance, and the higher the peak The x axis gives the mass/charge ratio (m/e or m/z) – in a spectrometer the ions formed have a 1 charge, hence the m/e is the same as the mass. The mass spectrum of pentan-2-one is shown above. The molecular ion peak is at 86 and the base peak is at 43. The other peaks are for fragment ions. There are two molecular ion peaks in the mass spectra of compounds containing a single chlorine atom. This is because chlorine exists as two isotopes, 35 Cl and 37 Cl. The mass spectrum of 2-chloropropane, CH3CHClCH3, has a peak at m/z ratio 78 due to the molecular ion [CH3CH 35 ClCH3] + containing an atom of 35 Cl. The peak at m/z relative abundance ratio 80 is due to the molecular ion [CH3CH 37 ClCH3] + containing an atom of 37 Cl. The ratio of the peaks is 3:1. This ratio reflects the relative abundance of the chlorine isotopes; 35 Cl: 37 Cl 3:1. High resolution mass spectrometry Low resolution mass spectra give masses to the nearest whole number. High resolution mass spectrometry measures masses to 4 or 5 decimal places. It can be used to distinguish between molecules. For example a low resolution mass spectrum which shows a molecular ion peak at 72, could be the mass spectrum for pentane, butanone or butanal, all of which have a relative molecular mass of 72. Using a high resolution mass spectrometer the molecular ion peak is at 72.0936. A more accurate value of relative molecular mass of the molecular ions can be worked out using precise relative atomic masses, as shown below. 1H= 1.0078 16O= 15.9949 12C= 12.0000 | pentane | C H 5 12 | 72.0936 | |---|---|---| | butanone | CH COCH CH 3 2 3 | 72.0573 | | butanal | CH CH CH CHO 3 2 2 | 72.0573 | The molecular ion peak indicates that the molecule is pentane. Revision Questions (ii) Suggest the formulae of the species responsible for the peaks at 31 and 57. (i) What is the m/z value of the base peak? 31 57 [2] [1] [1] (iii) Explain why there is a peak at 89. 2 Oxygen has three isotopes, 16 O, 17 O and 18 O. A sample was oxygen was analysed in a mass spectrometer and three groups of peaks were obtained. group P corresponding to the ion O 2 group Q corresponding to the ion O 2+ group R corresponding to the ion O + Which one of the following is the order on the mass/charge axis, from left to right, of the groups? A) P Q R B) P R Q C) Q P R D) Q R P 3 The structure and mass spectrum of succinic acid are shown below. H H Relative intensity i) Explain the term base peak. [1] [1] ii) Identify the base peak. iii) Suggest formulae for the following m/z values of the fragment ions. 45 100 4 Chlorine has two isotopes, chlorine-35 and chlorine-37. Which one of the following is the number of peaks found in the mass spectrum of chlorine gas? A 2 B 3 C 4 D 5 The mass spectrum of methanol is shown below. Which one of the following is the base peak? 5 [1] © CCEA 2020 [1] [1] [1] | <urn:uuid:c8572e98-4eea-4e39-946c-becd5f21508e> | CC-MAIN-2022-21 | https://ccea.org.uk/downloads/docs/Support/Fact%20Files%3A%20A2/2020/5.1%20Mass%20Spectrometry%20Factfile.pdf | 2022-05-29T08:19:31+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2022-21/segments/1652663048462.97/warc/CC-MAIN-20220529072915-20220529102915-00326.warc.gz | 201,280,406 | 1,244 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.977587 | eng_Latn | 0.994001 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1880, 3476, 3688, 4234, 4647 ] | [ 3.5 ] | 2 | 0 | Year 5: Egyptians Musical feature: Composition notation Creating compositions related to Ancient Egypt and experimenting with notating using hieroglyphs. Vocabulary Melody The combination of pitch and rhythm which forms a tune. Improvising Notation Motif Call and response Unison Verse Making up music as it is played or performed. Written symbols used to represent music. A short musical phrase that is often repeated. A musical technique that is similar to a conversation. One phrase of music acts as the 'call' and is 'answered' by a different phrase. Playing or singing notes at the same pitch at the same time. A repeated section of a song that usually features new lyrics on each repetition. Structure Major Minor Tempo Ensemble The overall organisation of a piece of music. Traditional pop music usually follows a verse, chorus, verse structure. A tonality where the music sounds happy or bright. A tonality where the music sounds sad or tense. The speed or pace of the music. A group of people who perform instrumental or vocal music. Notation Staff notation | One 1 | |---| | Two 2 | | Three 3 | Letter notation | <urn:uuid:4e980616-d297-4105-9a88-94eeda76911e> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://silverstoneprimary.org.uk/index.php?option=com_dropfiles&format=&task=frontfile.download&catid=287&id=1373&Itemid=1000000000000 | 2024-10-14T01:14:08+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944255355.53/warc/CC-MAIN-20241014005649-20241014035649-00164.warc.gz | 469,063,143 | 261 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.99825 | eng_Latn | 0.99825 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1151 ] | [ 4.0625 ] | 2 | 7 | Our Curriculum At Highweek Primary School, we deliver a curriculum underpinned by the 5Cs: Collaboration Connection Making Curiosity Creativity Challenge. We ensure that these five learning dispositions are at the heart of our curriculum. Introduction Every child is an individual. We aim to teach the National Curriculum in a way that recognises how children learn best so that they all have an opportunity to develop to their potential. The subjects of the National Curriculum are: English (including reading, writing, speaking and listening); Mathematics; Science; Art; History; Design & Technology; Music; Geography; Physical Education; Religious Education (not a national curriculum subject but required by law) The framework for the national curriculum at key stages 1 and 2 includes: * contextual information about both the overall school curriculum and the statutory national curriculum, including the statutory basis of the latter * aims for the statutory national curriculum * statements on inclusion, and on the development of pupils' competence in numeracy and mathematics, language and literacy across the school curriculum * programmes of study for key stages 1 and 2 for all the national curriculum subjects that are taught at these key stages. Parents whose religious beliefs may lead them to consider withdrawing their child from religious education lessons are invited to discuss the content and teaching of the curriculum with the Headteacher before making a final decision. Intent At Highweek Primary School we offer a broad, balanced and academically rigorous curriculum for all our learners. Our curriculum is shaped and defined to meet: * the needs of our children here at Highweek * the needs of our wider community * the values of our school * the location of our school. The curriculum is tailored to the needs of all children and is aspirational, engaging relevant, challenging, enjoyable and enriching. We are a very inclusive school and strive for all pupils' to make maximum progress from their starting points. Our curriculum provision has been developed with a clear intent to: * Provide a broad and balanced programme of study that meets the needs of all of our children. * Enable all of our children to make progress in their learning and achieve their full potential * Equip our children with the knowledge and cultural capital they need to succeed in life. * Support the acquisition of knowledge, vocabulary and language of learning. * Promote good behaviour and safety * Support children's spiritual, moral, social and cultural development We do this through the 5C's – Collaboration, Curiosity, Connection making, Creativity and Challenge Our Curriculum Aims at Highweek Primary School It is our aim that by the time the children leave Highweek Primary School to embark on the next stage of their education, they are equipped with academic attitudes, skills and knowledge, and have developed the personal attributes needed to enable them to become successful citizens of the future. Highweek children are encouraged to be active learners by being inquisitive, motivated and resilient learners. Our work around developing children into positive learners with a Growth Mindset, that embrace challenge, show great resilience and are able to reflect on their learning is at the forefront of our approach. This makes the school environment a dynamic and exciting place to be. The school puts high importance on sport and healthy lifestyles. We are committed to ensuring that pupils can access a broad range of provision and sports through our curriculum and extended school provision. We have a full time sports coach and a good range of facilities. Sporting activities are also set up at lunchtimes to encourage purposeful physical activity. Year 5 children support this in their leadership roles as playleaders, encouraging participation and collaboration. Daily Physical Activity (DPA) for all pupils supplements our PE curriculum. A Knowledge, Skills and learning Attitudes-based Curriculum Our curriculum is designed with knowledge, skills and learning attitudes at its heart to ensure that children develop a strong vocabulary base and understanding of the world. The curriculum promotes long term learning and we believe that progress means knowing more and remembering more. We have developed a curriculum inspired by current research on how memory works, to ensure that children are taught in a way in which they can remember the content in future years. Our subject curriculum is designed and delivered in a way that allows pupils to transfer key knowledge to longterm memory. It is sequenced so that new knowledge and skills build on what has been taught and pupils can work towards clearly defined end points. This is achieved by our teaching of how we become the best learners that we can be, focussing around the 5Cs: Collaboration, Connection Making, Curiosity, Creativity and Challenge. Our approach to teaching and learning is clearly defined and its components are set out in Highweek's Teaching and Learning Expectation and Standard document. Our Curriculum Drivers We have, developed a set of 'drivers' for our curriculum which we believe support us in meeting the needs of our pupils. Our curriculum drivers are Aspiration, Resilience, Learning Pit, Preview and Feedback. Our school drivers are at the heart of each topic and the themes develop coherently throughout the school year. We use these drivers alongside our values programme and weekly Growth Mindset themes underpin the development work we undertake in all areas of school life and to ensure that our curriculum offer is enriched and personalised to our children and their families. Implementation Curriculum Organisation: The curriculum in each year group at Highweek is taught through six exciting half termly topics. Children in the Early Years Foundation Stage are taught using the EYFS framework with an emphasis on developing key skills, knowledge and understanding through direct teaching and purposeful play. The statutory National Curriculum is taught across Key Stages 1 and 2. We use a variety of published schemes of work, national and County Syllabus' and planning resources and tools to ensure that all programmes of study are fully covered. Our curriculum is organised around subjects and, where feasible, relevant and efficient, subjects are integrated to make meaningful connections, whilst maintaining the integrity of each subject discipline. We use a 2 year rolling programme of planning to accommodate any mixed year groups in classes and to ensure that there is clear progression and depth of learning. Some subjects or aspects of subjects, such as Music and Art, require frequent re-visiting and continuous practice and are appropriately taught discretely on a daily or weekly basis. We plan work for each class to cover all areas in a balanced way. Some of the work is taught in separate subject lessons and some aspects are built around themes or topics, because for young children it can be very artificial to separate the work into different subjects. (For example; children can develop language skills through discussing a scientific experiment, use measurements when studying an aspect of Geography, or have to read instructions in Maths.) When using a thematic approach, we use a 'WOW' event, either a visit or experience, as a hook for learning, as part of the introduction or as a culmination of the theme. The learning in knowledge-led subjects, such as History, Geography and Science, is organised into units of work called projects and each one develops the knowledge, skills and understanding of the area under study in the subject. These are of varying length, depending on the content to be taught and learned. The projects are usually taught in blocks, so that pupils can fully immerse themselves in the project and see the results of their learning as the work progresses. Over the course of study, teaching is designed to help pupils to remember long term the content they have been taught and to integrate new knowledge into larger ideas. We use a variety of teaching methods including whole class lessons, group work and independent learning. Each has its place. We place high importance on developing pupils learning dispositions in order that they have an active curiosity in the curriculum and desire to learn and make good progress. We have realised that creating a Growth Mindset in both our children and staff is the key to creating happy, successful individuals who embrace challenge, celebrate their mistakes and learn from them and finally preserve and show resilience in all they do. Our curriculum incorporates developing these learning traits through our Achievosaurs in EYFS and then in Key stages 1 and 2 the use of Growth Mindset. This is core to how we deliver the curriculum at Highweek. Subjects and lessons are sometimes introduced to the class as a whole through discussion, dialogue or factual presentation. The end of a lesson can include a plenary during which the class can consider what they have learned and the progress they have made. The class may also come together for 'dialogue time' supporting personal, social development and citizenship. Other areas which bring the whole class together include for stories, music, P.E. and games, drama and dance. Themed-days are based around our curriculum priorities, such as Science or Art week and involve the school with an opportunity to work across year groups and classes capitalising on different teachers' expertise. From time to time, a day event - whole school, class or year group- will be organised to celebrate an occasion, promote an idea or consolidate learning, for example, World Book Day or Esafety, Sports Day, charity events such as Comic relief. Learning goes beyond the classroom, taking advantage of the locality and school grounds, and is enhanced by visitors with specific expertise and wide experiences. These include day trips, extracurricular clubs and residential visits. We call this our 11 before 11 Curriculum. Impact The impact of the curriculum is measured in progress made and attainments achieved and personal qualities acquired. The impact of our curriculum is seen in: * The progress our children make in relation to their starting points * High standards and expectations for each year group as they move through the school. * Quality learning experiences which are memorable, worthwhile and challenging. * Teaching which is rigorous, personalised, innovative and learning-centred. * Children that are curious, embrace challenge, engaged, resilient, questioning, resourceful, independent and collaborative. . * Children with high levels self-efficacy and belief, with well-formed characters, who have a thirst for learning and are aspirational for their futures and see learning as a route to maximising their life's chances. * Individuals who value and respect one another and demonstrate Highweek's values. Means of Measuring Impact: The curriculum is regularly reviewed, developed, monitored and evaluated by the Headteacher, Senior Leadership Team, external advisers and Governors, leading to improvements and innovation. Subject leaders take responsibility for ensuring coverage, progression and standards through long and medium-term planning, promoting the subject and developing the teaching methodology and securing high quality resources. They regularly monitor and evaluate learning, teaching and the curriculum. Planning is detailed, regular and collaborative and prepares teachers so they provide a coherent, personalised learning experience. Assessment is both formative and summative and progress and attainment are regularly tracked and followed up in termly Pupil Progress meetings. Our assessment policy sets out how we use assessment to measure impact. The school puts high importance on sport and healthy lifestyles. We are committed to ensuring that pupils can access a broad range of provision and sports through our curriculum and extended school provision. We have a full time sports coach and a good range of facilities. Sporting activities are also set up at lunchtimes to encourage purposeful physical activity. Year 5 children support this in their leadership roles as playleaders, encouraging participation and collaboration. Daily Physical Activity (DPA) for all pupils supplements our PE curriculum. EYFS On-going formative assessment is at the heart of effective early years practice. Teachers observe children as they act and interact in their play, everyday activities and planned activities, and learn from parents about what the child does at home (observation). They observe what children can do to help identify where the child may be in their own developmental pathway (assessment). They consider ways to support the child to strengthen and deepen their current learning and development (planning and interaction). Teachers will develop many other approaches in response to the children with whom they work and use the development statements to identify possible areas in which to challenge and extend the child's current learning and development (planning and interaction). Please see EYFS Curriculum policy 2021. Work at home From the earliest days in school parents are encouraged to share books with their children and later to hear them read as they become more able to read for themselves. Parents can also help by showing an interest in paintings and other work brought home. Older children will often request to take work home to finish or might sometimes be encouraged to do so. In addition to the above, "preview learning" is given to children with the aim of developing work in class and building a partnership between parents and the school. Preview learning is to allow children and parents to research topics and areas of the curriculum that they will next access, giving the children the opportunity to have a "head start" in their knowledge and understanding of that area, allowing the learning to move on at a quicker pace. The length of the preview learning will depend on the area of the curriculum. It can be set on a weekly basis, or one area can last several weeks. Preview learning is always celebrated throughout the school on display in the class room and corridors. This could include learning spellings and mental arithmetic skills such as tables. Curriculum information At the beginning of each term, parents are sent a newsletter explaining the work that their child will be covering and how they can help. Early in the autumn term parents are invited into school to meet the teacher and discuss the year ahead. Complaints Any complaints about the curriculum should be first brought to the school (class teacher and Headteacher). If a parent is not satisfied with the answers given there is a formal procedure to be followed, a copy of which is available from the Headteacher on request. Assessment and testing Assessment forms a daily part of our work. To help the children to learn we need to know what each child can do so that we can plan for the next stage. We are making assessments when we hear a child read, when they read what they have written, when they talk about their work, when we watch them in P.E. or when they are building a model and so on. Sometimes these assessments are recorded for later use. Often they are acted upon straight away, for example by asking a question to help a child understand an idea more clearly. Our effective feedback and marking policy demonstrates how we assess work. Teachers check pupils' understanding systematically, identify misconceptions accurately and provide clear direct feedback, in doing this they are able to adapt their teaching where necessary. Our Assessment Policy explains our processes and procedures in more detail. Special needs The school has a special needs policy written in the light of the national code of practise and approved by the governors. (It is available in school should parents wish to read a copy.) Every school has a minority of children with 'Special Needs'. That is, children who are in need of particular help or supervision if they are to make good progress and benefit from the whole curriculum. At Highweek we try to make sure that all children are working to their potential and get extra help if they need it. All classes have access to assistants who are employed largely to enable extra help to be given to individuals and small groups. We also discuss and consider the needs of children who show special abilities in particular areas of the curriculum. We include in our planning, activities designed to stretch the most able. Equality Statement This policy is compliant with the Equality and Cohesion Policy. This Policy is based on best practice to ensure a consistent and effective approach. The Governing Board and the Headteacher (Chair of Governors) have a particular responsibility to ensure that the processes are managed fairly, equitably, objectively and must not discriminate either directly or indirectly on the grounds of a person's race, sex, gender reassignment, sexual orientation, marriage or civil partnership, disability, age, pregnancy and maternity or religion or belief. Signed:…………………………………………Chair of Committee Date of review and adoption by Governing Board: 23 rd March 2021 Date for next review: March | <urn:uuid:adcd7870-6862-4df5-b6f6-402c217962d7> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://www.highweekprimary.co.uk/_files/ugd/7cadc2_3075743d26c64d5db82e8af7c63fb313.pdf | 2024-10-14T01:07:22+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944255355.53/warc/CC-MAIN-20241014005649-20241014035649-00164.warc.gz | 715,131,737 | 3,255 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.997704 | eng_Latn | 0.998158 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2059, 4781, 7494, 10443, 13294, 16095, 17444 ] | [ 3.59375 ] | 1 | 1 | This story is brought to you by Ririro.com for free. Our mission is to give all children in the world free access to a variety of stories. The stories can be read, downloaded and printed online and cover a wide range of topics, including animals, fantasy, science, history, diverse cultures and much more. Support our mission by sharing our website. We wish you a lot of fun reading! Ririro The windflower's story One day a little Windflower growing in a garden heard the Rosebush say to the Pansies, "What a quiet little creature the Windflower is! She seems to be a modest little thing, but she never stays here long enough to get acquainted; so I do not know whether she hides her ignorance by keeping quiet or is a deep thinker." "I think she is deep, Miss Rose," said the Hollyhock, near by. "You know I can see farther than anyone here, and it is my opinion that the Windflower is deep, and I think, too, she has a story." "A story!" cried the Pansies, turning up their pretty faces to the Hollyhock. "Oh, how interesting." "What do you mean by a story?" asked the Rosebush. "Oh, I mean she is deep and knows things of which we little dream. There is something between her and the Wind, but I cannot learn her secret." Rosebush held up her head, the Pansies turned their little faces around and looked at the modest little Windflower to see if they could read her secret. "I have no secret the world cannot know," said the Windflower. "All my family love the Wind; this all the world would know if they knew our history." Rosebush and the Pansies and Hollyhock began to question the little Windflower, and this is what she told them: "Oh, a long, long time ago some beautiful goddess grieved very much over the death of some one she dearly loved, and she created in memory of this friend a beautiful flower which she named Anemone. That is our real name." "Oh, how grand is sounds!" said the Rosebush. "Such a big name, too, for such a little flower." "Yes, it is big," replied the little Windflower, "but you see we had nothing at all to do with our name; the Wind fell in love with us and opened our blossoms—that is the way we happened to be named, I am told." "Oh, how interesting!" said the Rosebush, beginning to look with envy upon the little Windflower. "But you are a small family, I think," said the Rosebush. "I have seen very few of your kind in our garden." "No, we are a numerous and beautiful family," said the Windflower. "Oh, how conceited she is!" said the Rosebush in a whisper to the Pansies. "Think of calling herself beautiful. For my part, I think her white and purple quite plain-looking." But in spite of the low voice of the Rose the little Windflower heard her. "Oh, you are quite mistaken if you think I feel I am beautiful!" she said. "It is of our family I speak; you should see some of my sisters; they are wonderful, purple and so silky they are beautiful. "And other sisters are a beautiful blue. Oh, I am by far the plainest of our family. But the Wind has no favorites; he takes us all along with him, though, of course, my sisters that grow in mountain pastures go oftener with the Wind than others." "Oh, here comes that horrid breeze!" said the Rosebush. "He always spoils everything." And she gathered her petals closer to her and leaned back among the leaves. When she opened her petals to look around the garden "Why, where has the Windflower gone?" she asked. again the little Windflower was not there. "Oh, you missed it!" said the Pansies, nodding very knowingly. "That breeze came to tell the Windflower that the Wind would be along in a minute. We heard him, so we watched, and in a little while the Wind came and took the Windflower away with him. She went up high right over Hollyhock's head." Hollyhock, who had been gazing about, lowered his head. "She is out of sight," he told the Rosebush and the Pansies. "The Wind came this morning and whispered to her, but I could not hear what he said; but she opened wide her blossom and nodded." "Now, what do you suppose there is between the Windflower and the Wind?" asked Rosebush. "Just what she told us," said Hollyhock. "He is in love with the Windflowers." "I should prefer a more tender lover," said Rosebush. "I think him quite rude at times. The way he blows through our garden is far from gentle." "Some like strong lovers that can master them," said Hollyhock, lifting his head and standing very straight. "I suppose so," sighed the Rosebush; "but it is just as I have always said. You never can tell about the quiet, modest ones. Think of the little Windflower having such a story and flying away with the Wind. My, my! What a world!" | <urn:uuid:a393459a-cc10-4cc7-8483-fa2a67a67de5> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://ririro.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/The-windflowers-story_CompressPdf_1_2_CompressPdf-1.pdf | 2024-10-14T01:51:17+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944255355.53/warc/CC-MAIN-20241014005649-20241014035649-00164.warc.gz | 440,579,425 | 1,111 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.999538 | eng_Latn | 0.999764 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 384, 1535, 2912, 4109, 4675 ] | [ 3.140625 ] | 1 | 0 | SELF CARE LOOKING AFTER MY BODY BATHING INDEPENDENTLY Becoming independent in personal care is an important life skill that can give a young person a sense of pride and achievement. Even becoming independent in parts of the task can help a young person to feel engaged and confident in their developing self. Have a consistent routine for bathing your child including the time of day, what you use to wash your child, the order that you wash your child. Ensure your child is safe in the bath or shower. Have a non-slip mat on the floor. If your child has balance difficulties sitting down can be easier for him as he does not then have to balance and think about the steps of the task. Encourage your child to become independent with one aspect of washing first. For example you put the soap on the wash cloth then give it to your child to wash his body. Some children with very poor coordination and/or understanding might need you to guide their hand (this is called 'hand over hand' support). Once your child has mastered one step, introduce another aspect of the routine e.g. putting the soap on the wash cloth. Many children benefit from visual prompts of the steps of a routine such as showering. These are available from websites such as Do 2 Learn. Have the pictures in a place that the child can see them e.g. laminated and on the wall of the shower, and prompt your child to look at the next picture in the sequence rather than telling her what to do. Don't forget to praise your child for their successes and attempts at being independent. A sticker chart can be an effective way to keep your child focused on developing these skills. Page | <urn:uuid:bd8bf85b-c32a-450f-b410-5a105aeb06dc> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://bcuhb.nhs.wales/services/hospital-services/occupational-therapy/childrens-occupational-therapy/childrens-occupational-therapy-documents/bathing-independently/ | 2024-10-14T03:15:22+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944255355.53/warc/CC-MAIN-20241014005649-20241014035649-00169.warc.gz | 101,575,040 | 343 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998877 | eng_Latn | 0.998877 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1660 ] | [ 3.25 ] | 1 | 2 | Arithmetic Understanding and writing numbers, pp. 5, 6, 7 and 8 A. Natural numbers, pp. 5-6 | | Cycle One | | Cycle Two | | Cycle Three | Reminder | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | Numbers covered: less than 1000 | | Numbers covered: less than 100 000 | | Numbers covered: less than 1 000 000 | | | | p. 5, no. A-2 Counts collections (using objects or drawings) c. counts a collection by grouping or regrouping | | p. 5, no. A-2 Counts collections (using objects or drawings) c. counts a collection by grouping or regrouping d. counts a pre-grouped collection | | p. 5, no. A-2 Counts collections (using objects or drawings) c. counts a collection by grouping or regrouping d. counts a pre-grouped collection | | | | p. 5, no. A-4 Represents natural numbers in different ways or associates a number with a set of objects or drawings | | p. 5, no. A-4 Represents natural numbers in different ways or associates a number with a set of objects or drawings | | p. 5, no. A-4 Represents natural numbers in different ways or associates a number with a set of objects or drawings | | | | p. 6, no. A-5 Composes and decomposes a natural number in a variety of ways | | p. 6, no. A-5 Composes and decomposes a natural number in a variety of ways | | p. 6, no. A-5 Composes and decomposes a natural number in a variety of ways | | | | | B. Fractions (using objects or drawings), pp. 6-7 | | | | | | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | | Cycle One | | Cycle Two | | Cycle Three | Reminder | | p. 6, no. B-1 Identifies fractions related to everyday items (using objects or drawings) p. 6, no. B-2 Represents a fraction in a variety of ways, based on a whole or a collection of objects | | p. 6, no. B-2 Represents a fraction in a variety of ways, based on a whole or a collection of objects p. 7, no. B-3 Matches a fraction to part of a whole (congruent or equivalent parts) or part of a group of objects, and vice versa p. 7, no. B-6 Reads and writes a fraction p. 6, no. B-5 Distinguishes a numerator from a denominator p. 7, no. B-4 Identifies the different meanings of fractions (sharing, division, ratio) | | p. 6, no. B-2 Represents a fraction in a variety of ways, based on a whole or a collection of objects p. 7, no. B-4 Identifies the different meanings of fractions (sharing, division, ratio) | | | | Cycle One | | Cycle Two | | Cycle Three | |---|---|---|---|---| | | Second year of the cycle (Grade 4) p. 7, no. B-9 Matches a decimal or a percentage to a fraction | | p. 7, no. B-9 Matches a decimal or a percentage to a fraction | | | | p. 7, no. B-7 Compares a fraction to 0, or 1 Second year of the cycle (Grade 4) p. 7, no. B-10 Orders fractions with the same denominator | | First year of the cycle (Grade 5) p. 7, no. B-10 Orders fractions with the same denominator Cycle Three p. 7, no. B-11 Orders fractions where one denominator is a multiple of the other(s) p. 7, no. B-12 Orders fractions with the same numerator p. 13, no. D-1 Expresses a decimal as a fraction, and vice versa | | | C. Decimals up to . . . ,pp. 7-8 | | | | | | | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | Cycle One | | Cycle Two | | Cycle Three | | Reminder | | | Numbers covered: up to the second decimal place | | Numbers covered: up to the third decimal place | | As they move from one cycle to the next, students add to their repertoire of decimals studied, which they will use to perform the mathematical actions indicated in nos. C-1, C-2, C-3, C-5, C-6, C-7, C-8, C-9, C-10 and C-11 on pp. 7-8. | | | Decimals are not covered in Cycle One. | | | | | | | | D. Integers, p. 8 | | | | | | | | Cycle One | | Cycle Two | | Cycle Three | | Careful | | | p. 8, no. D-1 Second year of the cycle (Grade 4) Represents integers in a variety of ways (using objects or drawings) (e.g. tokens in two different colours, number line, thermometer, football field, elevator, hot air balloon) | | p. 8, no. D-1 Represents integers in a variety of ways (using objects or drawings) (e.g. tokens in two different colours, number line, thermometer, football field, elevator, hot air balloon) | | Grade 4 students are introduced to the concept of representing an integer using everyday situations that involve objects or drawings. Students are asked to represent, locate on a number line, compare and order positive integers (natural numbers) and their opposites as well as negative integers. They do not work with negative rational numbers (negative fractions and decimals). | | | Integers are not covered in Cycle One. | | | | | | | Meaning of operations involving numbers, pp. 9-10 A. Natural numbers, pp. 9-10 | | Cycle One | | Cycle Two | | Cycle Three | | Careful | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | Numbers covered: less than 1000 | | Numbers covered: less than 100 000 | | Numbers covered: less than 1 000 000 | | As they move from one cycle to the next, students add to their repertoire of natural numbers studied, which they will use to perform the mathematical actions indicated in nos. A-1 to A-6, p. 9. | | | p. 9, no. A-2 Uses objects, diagrams or equations to represent a situation and conversely, describes a situation represented by objects, diagrams or equations (use of different meanings of addition and subtraction) | | p. 9, no. A-2 Uses objects, diagrams or equations to represent a situation and conversely, describes a situation represented by objects, diagrams or equations (use of different meanings of addition and subtraction) | | p. 9, no. A-2 Uses objects, diagrams or equations to represent a situation and conversely, describes a situation represented by objects, diagrams or equations (use of different meanings of addition and subtraction) | | Using all these concepts of addition and subtraction is essential. Students should develop their own representations of these structures, but are not required to know what they are called. | | | p. 9, no. A-3 Uses objects, diagrams or equations to represent a situation and conversely, describes a situation represented by objects, diagrams or equations (use of different meanings of multiplication and division) N.B. (using objects and drawings) | | p. 9, no. A-3 Uses objects, diagrams or equations to represent a situation and conversely, describes a situation represented by objects, diagrams or equations (use of different meanings of multiplication and division) N.B. (using concrete objects, diagrams or equations) | | p. 9, no. A-3 Uses objects, diagrams or equations to represent a situation and conversely, describes a situation represented by objects, diagrams or equations (use of different meanings of multiplication and division) N.B. (using concrete objects, diagrams or equations) | | In Cycle One, students only use objects or drawings to represent situations (concepts s of multiplication and division). Only in Cycle Two do students begin to use equations to represent situations. Using all these concepts of multiplication and division is essential. Students should develop their own representations of these structures, but are not required to know what they are called. | | | | | | | p. 9, no. A-6 Translates a situation using a series of operations in accordance with the order of operations | | Order of operations is introduced in Cycle Three using simple sequences of operations with only one level of parentheses. | | | A. Decimals up to . . . ,p. 10 | | | | | | | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | Cycle One | | Cycle Two | | Cycle Three | | Careful | | | Numbers covered: up to the second decimal place | | Numbers covered: up to the third decimal place | | As they move from Cycle Two to Cycle Three, students add to their repertoire of decimals studied, which they will use to perform the mathematical actions indicated in nos.B-1 to B-4, p. 10. | | | Since decimals are not covered in Cycle One, | | | | | | | | they are not used to represent situations. | | | | | | | | | | | p. 10, no. B-4 Translates a situation into a series of operations in accordance with the order of operations | | Cycle Three students represent situations using simple sequences of operations (only one level of parentheses) containing decimals, but they do not use processes for written computation* to solve the sequence of operations. *They may use technology (calculator). | | | C. Fractions, p. 10 | | | | | | | | Cycle One | | Cycle Two | | Cycle Three | | Careful | | | | | p. 10, no. C-1 Uses objects, diagrams or equations to represent a situation and conversely, describes a situation represented by objects, diagrams or equations (use of different meanings of addition, subtraction and multiplication by a natural number) | | Students do not multiply and divide fractions until secondary school. | | | Fractions are not used to represent situations in Cycles One and Two. | | | | | | | | Integers | | | | | | | | | | | | | In elementary school, students simply develop their understanding of integers and learn to write them. | | | Integers are not used to represent situations in Cycles One, Two and Three. | | | | | | | Operations involving numbers, pp. 11, 12 and 13 A. Natural numbers, pp. 11-12 | | Cycle One | | Cycle Two | | Cycle Three | Careful | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | Numbers covered: less than 1000 | | Numbers covered: less than 100 000 | | Numbers covered: less than 1 000 000 | | | | p. 11, no. A-2 Builds a repertoire of memorized* addition and subtraction facts a. Builds a memory of addition facts (0 + 0 to 10 + 10) and the corresponding subtraction facts, using objects, drawings, charts or tables *terms less than 11 b. Develops various strategies that promote mastery of number facts and relates them to the properties of addition c. Masters all addition facts (0 + 0 to 10 + 10) and the corresponding subtraction facts | | p. 11, no. A-2 First year of Cycle Two (Grade 3) Builds a repertoire of memorized addition and subtraction facts b. Develops various strategies that promote mastery of number facts and relates them to the properties of addition c. Masters all addition facts (0 + 0 to 10 + 10) and the corresponding subtraction facts | | | | | | | Cycle One | | Cycle Two | | Cycle Three | |---|---|---|---|---|---| | | | p. 12, no. A-6 Builds a repertoire of memorized multiplication and division facts a. Builds a memory of multiplication facts (0 0 to 10 10) and the corresponding division facts, using objects, drawings, charts or tables b. Develops various strategies that promote mastery of number facts and relates them to the properties of multiplication c. Masters all multiplication facts (0 0 to 10 10) and the corresponding division facts | | p. 12, no. A-6 First year of the cycle (Grade 5) Builds a repertoire of memorized multiplication and division facts b. Develops various strategies that promote mastery of number facts and relates them to the properties of multiplication c. Masters all multiplication facts (0 0 to 10 10) and the corresponding division facts | | | p. 11, no. A-3 Develops processes for mental computation | | p. 11, no. A-3 Develops processes for mental computation | | p. 11, no. A-3 Develops processes for mental computation | | | | | p. 12, no. A-7 Develops processes for written computation (multiplication and division) | | p. 12, no. A-7 Develops processes for written computation (multiplication and division) | | | | Cycle One | | Cycle Two | | Cycle Three | Careful | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | p. 12, no. A-13 Using his/her own words and mathematical language that is at an appropriate level for the cycle, describes: a. non-numerical patterns (e.g. series of colours, shapes, sounds, gestures) b. numerical patterns (e.g. number rhymes, tables and charts) c. series of numbers and family of operations | | p. 12, no. A-13 Using his/her own words and mathematical language that is at an appropriate level for the cycle, describes: c. series of numbers and family of operations | | p. 12, no. A-13 Using his/her own words and mathematical language that is at an appropriate level for the cycle, describes: c. series of numbers and family of operations | | | Fall 2011 | B. Fractions (using objects or diagrams), p. 12 | | | | | | | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | Cycle One | | Cycle Two | | Cycle Three | | Careful | | | | | p. 12, no. B-3 Adds and subtracts fractions when the denominator of one fraction is a multiple of the other fraction(s) p. 12, no. B-4 Multiplies a natural number by a fraction | | The multiplication and division of fractions is not covered in elementary school. | | | Operations involving fractions are not covered | | | | | | | | in Cycle One. | | | | | | | | C. Decimals, p. 13 | | | | | | | | Cycle One | | Cycle Two | | Cycle Three | | Careful | | | Numbers covered: up to the second decimal place | | Numbers covered: up to the third decimal place | | As they move from Cycle Two to Cycle Three, students add to their repertoire of decimals, which they will use to perform the mathematical actions indicated in nos. C-1 to C-3, p. 13. | | | Operations involving decimals are not covered | | | | | | | | in Cycle One, because decimals are not | | | | | | | | studied in Cycle One. | | | | | | | | | p. 13, no. C-2 Develops processes for mental computation | | p. 13, no. C-2 Develops processes for mental computation | | In each cycle, students develop processes for mental computation using the numbers appropriate for their cycle. The computations must be “doable” using the mental computation strategies developed by the students. | | | | p. 13, no. C-3 Develops processes for written computation | | p. 13, no. C-3 Develops processes for written computation | | Even if students understand decimals up to the third decimal place and are able to write them, their answer must not go beyond the second decimal place when they perform computations that involve the addition, subtraction, multiplication and division of decimals. | | Mathematics Program Team 10 a | In Cycles One, Two and Three, integers are not used when performing mathematical operations. | | | |---|---|---| | Cycle One | Cycle Two | Cycle Three | Fall 2011 11 | <urn:uuid:4c8db689-eb06-4cb0-89ff-3c1ff0430740> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://domaine.recitmst.qc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/AnglaisCycle_-Arithmetique.pdf | 2024-10-14T01:14:51+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944255355.53/warc/CC-MAIN-20241014005649-20241014035649-00168.warc.gz | 188,032,683 | 3,976 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.972336 | eng_Latn | 0.895612 | [ "eng_Latn", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown" ] | false | docling | [ 1344, 2329, 3034, 4567, 7383, 9146, 10221, 11451, 12221, 14114, 14290 ] | [ 4.25 ] | 1 | 0 | | Diocese of Wheeling-Charleston | | |---|---| | CASE Unit Planner | | | Name of Teacher: Erika Maynard | Grade Level: 5th Grade | | Subject Area: Reading/Language Arts | Cross Curricular Opportunities: Social Studies, | | | Spelling | | Unit Title: Learn from the past, to have the ability to take action in the future! | Estimated Duration of Unit (between 2-9 weeks): | | | 5 weeks | Overview of Unit: Students will read the novel Number the Stars by Lois Lowry within cooperative learning groups. As students read the book within their designated groups, students will complete the job description of their assigned role. Every four chapters, students will rotate their responsibility (Discussion director, Travel tracer, Content connector, Vocabulary enricher, etc.) so as to increase understanding. A portfolio of the work completed will be compiled to serve as a review for the students to refer back to. Students will apply critical thinking skills to connect the story with what occurred during World War II and how the time period and setting impacts the novel. Literary elements, such as figurative language, will be addressed within the text. Students will take a deeper look at the history of World War II, the causes, and those involved. Timelines and maps will also be utilized to allow students to comprehend the time period and the places that were affected during the events of World War II. Primary sources, such as FDR's address to congress and quotes of Anne Frank, and propaganda elements will be reviewed as well. The novel allows for students to see a small glimpse into unfortunate circumstances of the Jewish community in Europe. Forms of Text (nonfiction/fiction): Number the Stars by Lois Lowry, The Diary of Anne Frank, Grandpa's Angel by Jutta Bauer, The Yellow Star: The Legend of King Christian X of Denmark by Carmen Agra Deedy, The Boy in the Striped Pajamas by John Boyne, War Boy: AWartime Childhood by Michael Foreman, The Churchill Factor: How One Man Made History by Boris Johnson, The Greatest Generation Speaks: Letters and Reflections by Tom Brokaw, World War II Eyewitness Books by Dorling Kindersley Teaching Strategies: Literature Circles, Student-led activities, Project-based, Direct Instruction, Researchbased, Cooperative groups, Technological skills, Hands-on activities, Critical thinking approach, Discussion, Read-alouds, and Vocabulary enrichment Catholic Identity Connections: The idea of equality is brought to life when discussing the topic of the Holocaust. Morals and the idea of treating others as one would want to be treated associated with Catholic Identity. The concept that we are all equal in God's eyes is another imperative element addressed throughout the duration of the unit. The idea of all people living together with one another in peace is an essential element. No one person is better than another. War is also another topic that enables students to show compassion for mankind. It allows the opportunity for students to discuss other alternatives, as opposed to instant violence. Assessment (authentic/published - summative/formative): Authentic, Summative, and Formative -- throughout the duration of the unit, comprehension activities are pulled from various resources: group work, discussion, PowerPoint presentations, and writing samples to name a few. These activities are generally completed in class, or for homework. Students are given a passage on a certain Lexile level and they are expected to be able to go within the text and find the correct answer. Students are then expected to write the correct answer in a complete sentence. Scholastic Newspapers are utilized as well. Students will be able to constantly recall information as we work through the unit. Each class will start with reviewing information taught the previous day. Being repetitive with facts and encouraging students to repeat the information allows for them to remember crucial details. At the end of each week, students will also take a teacher created spelling tests generated from cross-curricular terms and words utilized in all subject areas. Students will not only be responsible for knowing the appropriate spelling of each word, but the definition of each term as well. | Standard | Standards | Description of Activity | Resources | Date of | |---|---|---|---|---| | Number | | | | Completion | | ELA.5.SL.C1 | Engaged | To engage student interest in the upcoming unit, allow | | | | 3.1 | effectively in a | students to utilize the mini iPads, computers, | US War Monuments | | | | range of | Encyclopedias, and their textbook to examine war | | | | | collaborative | | | | | | | memorials with a partner. Students are encouraged to look | | | | | discussions (one- | | | | | | on-one, in groups, | at various monuments from the various wars and discuss | | | | | and teacher-led) | how these war memorials commemorate soldiers, our | | | | | with diverse | nation, and the community. Does this justify the sacrifices | | | | | partners, building | that were made? Once students have had a few minutes to | | | | | on other’s ideas | browse the web on their own and partake in discussion, | | | | | and expressing | | | | | | | give each pair a specific monument to look at and | | | | | their own clearly. | | | | | | | research. Students will then take turns telling a different | | | | | [Ongoing | | | | | | throughout the | partner about their monument and sharing what they | | | | | entire unit]. | have learned (smaller version of the Jigsaw method). | | | | | Draw on | | | | | ELA.5.R.C3. | | The class will then come together as a whole and share | | | | | information from | | | | | 3 | | their information, while pictures of the various war | | | | | multiple print or | | | | | | | memorials are displayed upon the Smart Board. As | | | | | digital | | | | | | informational | discussion ensues, have students compare memorials | | | | | sources, | from different wars. What materials are the monuments | | | | | demonstrating the | made of? Size of the monument? Surroundings? | | | | | ability to locate an | Inscriptions? Why do you think some wars have been | | | | | answer to a | | | | | | | better remembered than others? Do all of the memorials | | | | | question quickly or | | | | | | to solve a problem | seem to have fulfilled their purpose, are they | | | | | efficiently. | appropriate? | | | | | [Ongoing | | | | | | throughout the | Students will complete an Exit slip to share three things | | | | | unit] (CCSS RI.5.7) | | | | | | | they have learned and one thing they are still interested | | | | | | in learning. | | | | | Write opinion | | | |---|---|---|---| | ELA.5.W.C9 | pieces on topics or | | | | .1 | texts; supporting a | | | | | point of view with | | | | | reasons and | | | | | information. | | | | SS.5.E.4 | Assess the | Before getting started, refer back to the previous day(s) | | | | resources (e.g., oil, | discussion, specifically focusing on WWII. Talk about the | | | | land, gas, etc.) of | | WWII History Channel Short | | | | significance of the monument. | | | | the geographic | | | | | regions (e.g., | | WWII Timeline | | | | Within their cooperative learning groups, students will | | | | Midwest, Middle | | | | | East, etc.) of the | complete a KWL chart about WWII. Students will then | | | | United States and | watch a short video from the History Channel about the | | | | the world and | history of WWII and observe if any of their questions | | SS.5.G.2 explain their impact on global economic activities. Summarize the significance of large-scale immigration and the contributions of immigrants to America in the early 1900s, (e.g., the countries from which they came, the opportunities and resistance they faced when they arrived and the cultural and economic contributions they made to this nation, etc.). have been answered. Students will then review a timeline of events with WWII. The Britannica Kids site will provide a deeper insight to the chief occurrences during World War II. The related articles listed will be review as well. Students will be asked to pay attention to terms such as, Allies, Axis, surrender, invasion, evacuation, etc. (for spelling/vocabulary test purposes). ELA.5.R.C1. 5 ELA.5.W.C1 1.1 Determine two or more main ideas of an informational text and explain how they are supported by key details; summarize the text. (CCSS RI.5.2) Conduct short research projects that use several sources to build knowledge through investigation of different aspects of Using the Smart Board, students will observe and take notes on WWII. Students will learn the causes of World War II through acronyms. Students will make specific note of terms such as appeasement, fascism, totalitarianism, and dictatorship. The Axis powers: Germany, Italy, and Japan along with their rulers will be addressed. Hitler’s reign in Germany and his invasion of Poland was the lead cause of WWII. Hitler’s tactics were overwhelming to the nations and the Allies declared war on Germany. With all of the new vocabulary terms, each student will complete a vocabulary booklet complete with a definition and example of how to use the term or a picture. Students will share their work with one another to help build understanding (continuous activity that will be done throughout the duration of the unit to keep adding new World War II PowerPoint WWII Mapping Activity and SS.5.G.4 SS.5.G.9 ELA.5.R.C1. 6 a topic. (CCSS W.5.7) Measure distances in latitude and longitude using a scale on a variety of maps and globes, and transfer the concept of cardinal and intermediate directions to describe the relative location of countries by hemisphere and proximity to the equator. Display information on maps, globes, geographic models and in graphs, diagrams and charts (e.g., designing map keys and legends, etc.). Using an informational text, explain the relationships or interactions between two or more individuals, events, ideas or concepts in a historical, scientific or terms learned). Students will then complete the Map Activity assignment. Students will read the information at the top of the sheet independently, then with a partner, students will fill out the blank map to label the various countries involved in WWII and more specifically, the Axis and Allie members. Using the activity, discussion from the past few days, and any other resource students will complete the five questions with the mapping assignment on a separate sheet of paper. Displayed on the ELMO will be a map with the correct answers, students will check the work on their map to ensure they have completed it accurately. The questions completed will be done so in complete sentences, and students will share their answers with one another and later the whole class. When discussing WWII and Hitler's rise to power, the Holocaust is a solemn subject that must be addressed. Children recognize prejudices at an early age, but that can quickly turn into hate. Students will look up the term prejudice and explain what it means to them. Discussion should ensue. Why do certain prejudices exist? Can it lead to hate? Can this hate turn to violence? As Christians, how can we ensure this behavior doesn't occur? We should share messages of love and acceptance. We are called to love one another as He loves us. Questions Holocaust PowerPoint Holocaust Survivor Stories Holocaust Encyclopedia Copies of the story of the Holocaust (Holocaust Encyclopedia) will be read aloud in groups. Student-led discussion will occur, with higher-level thinking questions being presented. Examine how the Holocaust affected the world. Devise a plan to stop the atrocities. Explain how something like this could happen. With the Smart board, students will observe the Holocaust Power Point that gives a brief overview of the treatment of Jewish individuals in Europe during WWII. Because of intolerance for a specific religious group, terrible atrocities occurred during the duration of WWII. Students will answer the essay question at the end of the Power Point in paragraph form. Students will research the idea of victims, perpetrators, bystanders, and rescuers. What do these terms mean, and how do they apply to the Holocaust? In this instance, is being a bystander a bad thing? (Add these terms to the vocabulary booklet). Holocaust survivor stories will be read by students as well. Students will come together to share what they have read and create a whole class Venn Diagram. This will allow students to compare and contrast the stories that they have read. Anne Frank is a famous Holocaust survivor. Allow students to look up her quotes about happiness. Students will create a 3x5 essay explaining how one could have such a positive outlook on life with facing unbelievable adversity. Students will choose their own quote, explain what it means, and how they can apply it to their own life (this will be an ongoing assignment throughout the duration of the unit as well). The writing process will also be reviewed (with the document students will be given at the beginning of the year Writing Process Document | | defined in | to keep in their binders and continuously refer back to) to | | |---|---|---|---| | | objectives 1–3 in | reiterate expectation and proper writing tools. | | | | Text Types and | | | | | Purposes.) (CCSS | | | | | W.5.4) | | | | ELA.5.W.C | | | | | 10.2 | With guidance | | | | | and support from | | | | | peers and adults, | | | | | develop and | | | | | strengthen | | | | | writing as | | | | | needed by | | | | | planning, | | | | | revising, editing, | | | | | rewriting, or | | | | | trying a new | | | | | approach. | | | | | (Editing for | | | | | conventions | | | | | should | | | | | demonstrate | | | | | command of | | | | | Language | | | | | objectives up to | | | | | and including | | | | | grade 5.) (CCSS | | | | | W.5.5) | | | | ELA.5.R.C2. | Determine the | When explaining how something, such as the Holocaust, | Nazi Propaganda | | 4 | meaning of | could occur the idea of propaganda should be addressed. | | | | general academic | | Children of Genocide Script | | | and domain- | Students will analyze WWII posters from a variety of online | | | | specific words | collections. These posters will help students to understand | Children of Genocide Power Point | | | and phrases in an | how persuasion and propaganda differ and relate. How do | | | | informational | the ideas of propaganda relate to the Holocaust? Was this | | | | text relevant to | | | | | | one of Hitler’s methods to become elected? Students will | | a grade 5 topic or subject area. (CCSS RI.5.4) then read about Nazi propaganda from the Holocaust Encyclopedia. To ensure students fully understand the concept, students will create their own propaganda posters. Referring back to the terms of victims and bystanders, students will be assigned various parts to complete in Readers' Theater. The pieces are centered on children of genocide and their literal roles played. Before students carry out their parts, a Power Point will be reviewed to show students that the characters they are playing are actual individuals. It allows for the student to put a face with a name to make the experience more meaningful. The Power Point refers to the multiple instances of genocide that have occurred throughout the world, but the Holocaust will be specifically highlighted. Instances such as Rwanda and Darfur will be mentioned to stress the importance of learning from he past and being informed citizens. Being that is was a World War, students will learn about America's involvement. Peal Harbor will be the next topic of study. Students will take notes on the Power Point about Pearl Harbor, while questioning occurs. Students will refer to what they have learned in previous classes to help understand the reasoning behind this attack. Students will then pretend that they are a reporter and it is their job to describe the event to the American public. How will they be able to describe such an enormous loss? What information Pearl Harbor Power Point Pearl Harbor Information FDR's Message to Congress World War II Information | | | should they provide about the sinking of the USS Arizona? | |---|---|---| | ELA.5.R.C1. | Quote accurately | What about casualties? Students may work in pairs to come | | 4 | from an | up with a couple paragraphs describing the occurrence. | | | informational | | | | text when | Students will also analyze FDR’s message to Congress | | | explaining what | | | | | (review process of declaring war: see Constitution unit). | | | the text says | | | | | What does he mean by, “a day that will live in infamy?” | | | explicitly and | | | | | Why is this primary source document? Should America | | | when drawing | | | | | have gone to war with Japan? How does this carry over into | | | inferences from | | | | | the war that had been going on? | | | the text. (CCSS | | | | RI.5.1) | | | ELA.5.SL.C1 | Include | To conclude the study on WWII, in pairs, students will read | | 4.2 | multimedia | the closing information about the end of the war. Some of | | | components | the information provided will be a review to reiterate | | | (e.g., graphics, | several points made throughout the unit. | | | sound) and visual | | | | displays in | Referring back to the World War II Power Point, students | | | presentations | will discuss the cost of war (billions of dollars – discuss | | | when | | | | | place value) and the number of casualties several countries | | | appropriate to | | | | | faced. Why is this information important? What was the | | | enhance the | | | | | overall impact/affect of WWII on the United States, and the | | | development of | | | | | world? Students will also look at the pictures from these | | | main ideas or | | | | | years of war and discuss what the mean. What are they | | | themes. (CCSS | | | | | portraying? | | | SL.5.5) | | | ELA.5.W.C1 | Draw evidence | To enable students to have a deeper insight into the | | |---|---|---|---| | 1.3 | from literary or | occurrences of WWII and what was happening to the | | | | informational texts | | | | | | citizens of European countries, students will be placed into | | | | to support analysis, | | | | | | cooperative learning groups to read the novel Number the | | | | reflection, and | | | | | | Stars. Students will meet with their literature groups every | | | | research. | | | | | | couple of days to discuss their readings and complete the | | | ELA.5.R.C1. | Determine a | various activities assigned. To keep conversation and | | | 2 | theme of a story, | discuss occurring throughout the novel, each student will be | | | | drama or poem | given a job to carry out when the group meets (Discussion | | | | from details in a | director, Travel tracer). Each time the students meet, the job | | | | literary text, | will change. | | | | including how | | | | | characters in a | | Literature Circle Roles Sheet | | | story or drama | | | | | respond to | | | | | challenges or | | | | | how the speaker | | | | | in a poem | | | | | reflects upon a | | | | | topic; summarize | | | | | the text. (CCSS | | | | | RL.5.2) | | | | ELA.5.L.C15 | Demonstrate | Spelling words will come from the vocabulary booklet | Number the Stars Activities | | .1 | command of the | created during the unit study and vocabulary terms learned | (The above activities must be | | | conventions of | | | | | | from the novel. For example, sabotage, ration, and | purchased before use.) | | | Standard English | | | | | | devastating are just a few words used for the twelve to | | | | grammar and | | | | | | fifteen word lists. | | | | usage when writing | | | | | or speaking. | | | | | [Ongoing | Comprehension quizzes will be given after every few | | | | throughout entire | chapters are completed and discussed. | | | | duration of the | | | | | unit]. | | | | | | Students will take into consideration the atmosphere, | | | | | setting, and time. Why/How does this matter for the story? | | | ELA.5.R.C3 | Explain how an | | | | .4 | author uses | | | | | | Character analysis will occur, as well as literary element | | ELA.5.R.C1. 3 ELA.5.R.C3. 5 evidence to support particular points in an informational text, identifying which reasons and evidence support which point(s). (CCSS RI.5.8) Compare and contrast two or more characters, settings or events in a story or drama, drawing on specific details in the literary text (e.g., how characters interact). (CCSS RL.5.3) Integrate information from several informational texts on the same topic in order to write or speak about the subject knowledgeably. CCSS RI.5.9) ( review. The reasoning behind the title of the book will also be addressed. Predictions, tone, theme, conflict, climax, and mood are also parts that will be reviewed. Grammar will be brought into the lesson through DOL (Daily Oral Language (Color the Rainbow)/A teaching strategy that is carried out at the beginning of every class). Students will correct sentences that are generated from or about the book. Figurative language will be reviewed as well. The various activities (besides the quizzes), will be compiled into a portfolio for students to refer back to while the unit study continues and further on. Upon completion of the novel/unit study, students will complete a project of their choice from the approved list to show their understanding of this time period in history. If a student would like to do a different project, it must first be cleared by the instructor. Students will create a booklet with four pages. One page will be a facts and opinions page. The top half of the page will include five facts that the students have learned from the unit and the bottom half of the page will require five opinions that the student personally has about the WWII Unit Study Project | | Read and interpret | Holocaust, Nazis, Hitler, and Europe during the time period, | |---|---|---| | SS.5.G.8 | information from | etc. The remaining pages of the book will be filled with a | | | photographs, | | | | | diary entry, novel review, comic strip, etc. The students | | | maps, globes, | | | | | may focus solely on Number the Stars or do a compilation | | | graphs, models and | | | | | of the unit. The goal is for students to depict their | | | computer | | | | programs. | understanding and have the ability to share their finished | | | | product with their classmates. | | | | Work completed will be graded by a rubric. | | | | The final assessment will be a student created test. Every | | | | student must create a test based off of the information they | | | | have learned during the unit. The test must contain at least | | | | twenty questions (this will also be graded with a rubric). | | | | Students will then trade their test with a peer and once the | | | | test is returned back to them, they will grade it. | Differentiated Instruction Opportunities/Overview: Placing students in ability groups will allow for extensions and revisions of what is to be expected. For example, an extension could be having students create a five paragraph essay; while other groups construct a three paragraph essay. The same expectations are present; the only element of change is the required length. Multiple choice questions could have fewer options for some students, also additional tools can be provided to aid the students in finding the correct answer. When given the study guide, an adjusted version can be provided, or a list of the answers and the students must decide where to place them on the study guide. Extra time may also be given to complete assignments. Allowing pacing for certain reading material also provides a great way to differentiate instruction. Accommodations do not equal lower expectations. Teaching Strategies Checklist | X | |---| | X | | X | | X | | X | | X | | X | | X | |---| | X | | X | | X | | X | | X | | X | | X | | X | | Technology | | X | | X | | X | | X | | Differentiated Instruction | | X | | X | | X | | X | | X | | Assessment | | X | | X | | X | | X | | X | | X | | X | | X | Presentation | |---|---| | X | Journal | | X | Think, pair, share | | X | Summary | | X | Oral questioning | | | Analogy | | | PowerPoint, or movie maker | | Authenticity | | | X | Various activities | | X | Inquiry, research and evidence | | X | Evidence of time management and planning | | X | Problem solving strategies | | Summary of unit upon completion: | | | <urn:uuid:41907da2-e93e-43ec-8481-cff52b01c907> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://wvcatholicschools.org/download/Number-the-Stars-Unit.pdf | 2024-10-14T03:01:05+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944255355.53/warc/CC-MAIN-20241014005649-20241014035649-00171.warc.gz | 531,859,124 | 6,213 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998078 | eng_Latn | 0.998248 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "unknown" ] | false | docling | [ 3642, 6772, 7677, 9610, 11619, 13337, 14901, 16459, 18319, 20667, 22380, 24432, 24650, 25025 ] | [ 4.5625, 3.578125 ] | 1 | 0 | This document maps the SCARF lesson plans for Reception to Upper Key Stage 2 to the DfE statutory requirements for both Relationships and Health Education (RSHE). Lessons that are not part of the DfE's statutory guidance are included because they ensure a comprehensive PSHE programme. How the mapping works The left hand column has coded DfE topics and end-of-primary statements that are covered in whole or part by the SCARF lesson plans, which are listed in the middle column. You'll find the full 67 statements for these DfE codes on pages 2, 3 and 4. Rows with no codes indicate lesson plans that cover subjects which are not DfE requirements but which are included to ensure a complete PSHE programme, including SMSC and British Values. In the SCARF lesson plan column, 'half-termly unit' refers to the suggested groups of lessons that the SCARF curriculum has been organised into; this is for those schools that prefer a ready-planned, comprehensive PSHE and wellbeing curriculum. Our programme builder and flexible planning tools are available for schools that prefer a more tailored approach. DfE topics and related codes: *See also interactive version of all DfE topics and end-of-primary statements, grouped across all year groups. DfE Statutory Guidance Categories: Relationships Education (Primary) By the end of primary school pupils should know: | Families and people who care for me (FPC) | 1. that families are important for children growing up because they can give love, security and stability. 2. the characteristics of healthy family life, commitment to each other, including in times of difficulty, protection and care for children and other family members, the importance of spending time together and sharing each other’s lives. 3. that others’ families, either in school or in the wider world, sometimes look different from their family, but that they should respect those differences and know that other children’s families are also characterised by love and care. 4. that stable, caring relationships, which may be of different types, are at the heart of happy families, and are important for children’s security as they grow up. 5. that marriage represents a formal and legally recognised commitment of two people to each other which is intended to be lifelong. 6. how to recognise if family relationships are making them feel unhappy or unsafe, and how to seek help or advice from others if needed. | |---|---| | Caring friendships (CF) | 1. how important friendships are in making us feel happy and secure, and how people choose and make friends. 2. the characteristics of friendships, including mutual respect, truthfulness, trustworthiness, loyalty, kindness, generosity, trust, sharing interests and experiences and support with problems and difficulties. 3. that healthy friendships are positive and welcoming towards others, and do not make others feel lonely or excluded. 4. that most friendships have ups and downs, and that these can often be worked through so that the friendship is repaired or even strengthened, and that resorting to violence is never right. 5. how to recognise who to trust and who not to trust, how to judge when a friendship is making them feel unhappy or uncomfortable, managing conflict, how to manage these situations and how to seek help or advice from others, if needed. | | Respectful relationships (RR) | 1. importance of respecting others, even when they are very different from them (for example, physically, in character, personality or backgrounds), or make different choices or have different preferences or beliefs. 2. practical steps they can take in a range of different contexts to improve or support respectful relationships. 3. the conventions of courtesy and manners. 4. the importance of self-respect and how this links to their own happiness. 5. that in school and in wider society they can expect to be treated with respect by others, and that in turn they should show due respect to others, including those in positions of authority. 6. about different types of bullying (including cyberbullying), the impact of bullying, responsibilities of bystanders (primarily reporting bullying to an adult) and how to get help. 7. what a stereotype is, and how stereotypes can be unfair, negative or destructive. 8. the importance of permission-seeking and giving in relationships with friends, peers and adults. | | Online relationships (OR) | 1. that people sometimes behave differently online, including by pretending to be someone they are not. | Being safe (BS) Mental wellbeing (MW) Internet safety and harms (ISH) 2. that the same principles apply to online relationships as to face-to-face relationships, including the importance of respect for others online including when we are anonymous. 3. the rules and principles for keeping safe online, how to recognise risks, harmful content and contact, and how to report them. 4. how to critically consider their online friendships and sources of information including awareness of the risks associated with people they have never met. 5. how information and data is shared and used online. 1. what sorts of boundaries are appropriate in friendships with peers and others (including in a digital context). 2. about the concept of privacy and the implications of it for both children and adults; including that it is not always right to keep secrets if they relate to being safe. 3. that each person's body belongs to them, and the differences between appropriate and inappropriate or unsafe physical, and other, contact. 4. how to respond safely and appropriately to adults they may encounter (in all contexts, including online) whom they do not know. 5. how to recognise and report feelings of being unsafe or feeling bad about any adult. 6. how to ask for advice or help for themselves or others, and to keep trying until they are heard, 7. how to report concerns or abuse, and the vocabulary and confidence needed to do so. 8. where to get advice e.g. family, school and/or other sources. 1. that mental wellbeing is a normal part of daily life, in the same way as physical health. 2. that there is a normal range of emotions (e.g. happiness, sadness, anger, fear, surprise, nervousness) and scale of emotions that all humans experience in relation to different experiences and situations. 3. how to recognise and talk about their emotions, including having a varied vocabulary of words to use when talking about their own and others' feelings. 4. how to judge whether what they are feeling and how they are behaving is appropriate and proportionate. 5. the benefits of physical exercise, time outdoors, community participation, voluntary and service-based activity on mental wellbeing and happiness. 6. simple self-care techniques, including the importance of rest, time spent with friends and family and the benefits of hobbies and interests. 7. isolation and loneliness can affect children and that it is very important for children to discuss their feelings with an adult and seek support. 8. that bullying (including cyberbullying) has a negative and often lasting impact on mental wellbeing. 9. where and how to seek support (including recognising the triggers for seeking support), including whom in school they should speak to if they are worried about their own or someone else's mental wellbeing or ability to control their emotions (including issues arising online). 10. it is common for people to experience mental ill health. For many people who do, the problems can be resolved if the right support is made available, especially if accessed early enough. 1. that for most people the internet is an integral part of life and has many benefits. 2. about the benefits of rationing time spent online, the risks of excessive time spent on electronic devices and the impact of positive and negative content online on their own and others' mental and physical wellbeing. 3. how to consider the effect of their online actions on others and know how to recognise and display respectful behaviour online and the importance of keeping personal information private. 4. why social media, some computer games and online gaming, for example, are age restricted. | | 5. that the internet can also be a negative place where online abuse, trolling, bullying and harassment can take place, which can have a negative impact on mental health. 6. how to be a discerning consumer of information online including understanding that information, including that from search engines, is ranked, selected and targeted. 7. where and how to report concerns and get support with issues online. | |---|---| | Physical health and fitness (PHF) | 1. the characteristics and mental and physical benefits of an active lifestyle. 2. the importance of building regular exercise into daily and weekly routines and how to achieve this; for example walking or cycling to school, a daily active mile or other forms of regular, vigorous exercise. 3. the risks associated with an inactive lifestyle (including obesity). 4. how and when to seek support including which adults to speak to in school if they are worried about their health. | | Healthy eating (HE) | 1. what constitutes a healthy diet (including understanding calories and other nutritional content). 2. the principles of planning and preparing a range of healthy meals. 3. the characteristics of a poor diet and risks associated with unhealthy eating (including, for example, obesity and tooth decay) and other behaviours (e.g. the impact of alcohol on diet or health). | | Drugs, alcohol and tobacco (DAT) | 1. the facts about legal and illegal harmful substances and associated risks, including smoking, alcohol use and drug-taking. | | Health and prevention (HP) | 1. how to recognise early signs of physical illness, such as weight loss, or unexplained changes to the body. 2. about safe and unsafe exposure to the sun, and how to reduce the risk of sun damage, including skin cancer. 3. the importance of sufficient good quality sleep for good health and that a lack of sleep can affect weight, mood and ability to learn. 4. about dental health and the benefits of good oral hygiene and dental flossing, including regular check-ups at the dentist. 5. about personal hygiene and germs including bacteria, viruses, how they are spread and treated, and the importance of hand washing. 6. the facts and science relating to allergies, immunisation and vaccination. | | Basic first aid (BFA) | 1. how to make a clear and efficient call to emergency services if necessary. 2. concepts of basic first-aid, for example dealing with common injuries, including head injuries. | | | Reception | | | |---|---|---|---| | | DfE Statutory Requirements - | | SCARF Lesson Plan title & half-termly | | | end of primary statements | | unit | | | | | Me and My Relationships | | FPC1, FPC3, RR1, RR4, RR5, CF1 | | All about me | | | FPC1, FPC3, RR1, RR3,RR4 | | What makes me special | | | FPC1, FPC2, FPC3, CF1, RR1 | | Me and my special people | | | FPC1, FPC2, FPC4, FPC6, CF1, CF2, CF3, CF5, BS5, BS8, MW9 | | Who can help me? | | Reception | MW2, MW3, MW6, MW7, MW9, CF2, CF5, FPC6 | My feelings (2) | | |---|---|---| | | | Valuing Difference | | RR1, RR4 | I’m special, you’re special | | | CF1, CF2, CF3, RR1, RR4, RR5, BS6, MW3 | Same and different | | | FPC1, FPC2, FPC3, FPC4, RR1 | Same and different families | | Reception | | | | ● Talk about what makes their home feel special and safe; ● Be sensitive towards others. | |---|---|---|---| | CF2, CF3, RR2, RR3 | Kind and caring (1) | | ● Suggest ways in which we can be kind towards others; ● Demonstrate skills in cooperation with others. | | CF1, CF2, CF3, RR1, RR2, RR3 | Kind and caring (2) | | ● Show friendly behaviour towards a peer; ● Build relationships with others. | | | | Keeping Safe | | | | | | Overarching learning intentions across this unit: Children will be able to: ● Talk about how to keep their bodies healthy and safe; ● Name ways to stay safe around medicines; ● Know how to stay safe in their home, classroom and outside; ● Know age-appropriate ways to stay safe online; ● Name adults in their lives and those in their community who keep them safe. | | MW3, HP4, HP5, BS5 | What’s safe to go onto my body | | ● Name things that keep their bodies safe; ● Name things that keep their bodies clean and protected; ● Think about how to recognise things that might not be safe. | | HE3, HP3, PHF4, DAT1 | Keeping myself safe - what’s safe to go into my body (including medicines) | | ● Make safe decisions about items they don’t recognise; ● Talk about what our bodies need to stay well; ● Name the safe ways to store medicine and who can give it to children (adults). | | FPC1, BS5 | Safe indoors and outdoors | | ● Name some hazards and ways to stay safe inside; ● Name some hazards and ways to stay safe outside; | | BS3, BS5, BS6, BS7 RR8 | Listening to my feelings (1) | | |---|---|---| | OR3, BS2, BS5, BS6 | Keeping safe online | | | FPC2, FPC6, BS4, BS5, BS6, BS8 | People who help to keep me safe | | | | | Rights and Respect | | FPC1, FPC2, FPC3, FPC4 | Looking after my special people | | | | Reception | | | |---|---|---|---| | CF1, CF2, CF3, RR1, RR8, BS6 | | Looking after my friends | | | RR2, RR3 | | Being helpful at home and caring for our classroom | | | FPC1, RR3 | | Caring for our world | | | | | Looking after money (1): recognising, spending, using | | | | | Looking after money (2): saving money and keeping it safe | | | | | | Being My Best | | | Reception | | |---|---|---| | MW2, MW3, CF2, RR2 | | Bouncing back when things go wrong | | MW2, MW3, CF2 | | Yes, I can! | | HE1, HE2 | | Healthy eating (1) | | HE1 | | Healthy eating (2) | | PHF2, HE1, HP3, HP4, HP5 | | Move your body | | HP3, HP4, HP5 | | A good night’s sleep | | | Reception | | | | | |---|---|---|---|---|---| | | | | | ● Suggest ways to have a calm evening and bedtime routine. | | | | | | Growing and Changing | | | | | | | | Overarching learning intentions across this unit: Children will be able to: ● Understand that there are changes in nature and humans; ● Name the different stages in childhood and growing up; ● Understand that babies are made by a man and a woman; ● Use the correct vocabulary when naming the different parts of the body; ● Know how to keep themselves safe. | | | CAB1 | | Seasons | | ● Name the different seasons and describe their differences; ● Explain the changes that occur as seasons change; ● Talk about how they have grown in resilience. | | | CAB1 | | Life stages - plants, animals, humans | | ● To understand that animals and humans change in appearance over time; ● Use relevant vocabulary such as egg, seed, baby, grow, change, old, young (and the names for young animals); ● Make observations and ask questions about living things. | | | FPC2, FPC3, FPC4, FPC5, CAB1, BS3 | | | | ● Retell a story and respond to questions about it. ● Use the language and describe the different life stages of: baby, child, teenager, adult, older age. ● Talk about their own experience of growing up. | | | FPC1, FPC3, FPC4, RR1, CAB1 | | Where do babies come from? | | | | | | | | | | ● Explain that a baby is made by a woman and a man, and | | | | | | | grows inside a mother’s tummy. | | | | | | | ● Understand that every family is different. | | | Reception | | | | |---|---|---|---|---| | | | | | ● Talk about similarities and differences between | | | | | | themselves and others. | | FPC1, FPC3, FPC4, RR1, CAB1, HE1, HE3, HP3 | | Getting bigger | ● Talk about how they have changed as they have grown. ● Explain the differences between babies, children, and adults. ● Understand that we are all unique. | | | BS2, BS3, BS7, RR7, RR8 | | Me and my body - girls and boys | ● Name parts of the body (including reproductive parts) using the correct vocabulary. ● Explain which parts of their body are kept private and safe and why. ● Tell or ask an appropriate adult for help if they feel unsafe. | | | | KS1 Cycle A (23-24) | | | | |---|---|---|---|---| | | DfE Statutory Requirements - | | SCARF Lesson Plan title & half-termly | SCARF Lesson Plan Learning Outcomes | | | end of primary statements | | unit | | | | | | Me and My Relationships | | | RR2, RR3 | | Why we have classroom rules | | | | RR1, CF2, CF4, CF5 | | How are you listening? | | | | BS5, MW2, MW3, MW4, MW7 | | Thinking about feelings | | | | BS5, MW1, MW2, MW3, MW4, MW7 | | Our feelings | | | | MW2, MW3, MW6, MW7 | | Feelings and bodies | | | | CF1, CF2, CF3 | | Good friends | | | | | | | Valuing Difference | | | FPC3, FPC4, RR1, RR2 | | Same or different? | | | KS1 Cycle A (23-24) | CF2, CF3, CF4, RR5, RR6, MW8 | Unkind, tease or bully? | | |---|---|---| | RR3, RR5, BS1 | Harold’s school rules | | | CF2, CF3, CF4, RR2, RR3 | It’s not fair! | | | FPC1, FPC2, FPC3, FPC4, MW6 | Who are our special people? | | | FPC3, FPC4 | Our special people balloons | | | | | Keeping Safe | | HP3 | Super sleep | | | FPC6, CF2, CF3, CF4, RR5, RR6, BS5, MW8 | Who can help? (1) | | | FPC6, RR8, BS1, BS2, BS5, BS7, BS8 | Good or bad touches? | | KS1 Cycle A (23-24) | RR8,OR1, OR2, OR3, OR4 OR5, BS1, BS2, BS6, ISH1, ISH3, ISH5, ISH7 | Sharing pictures | | |---|---|---| | DAT1 | What could Harold do? | | | MW2 | Harold loses Geoffrey | | | | | Rights and Respect | | CF2, CF4, RR2, RR3, RR5 | Harold has a bad day | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Around and about the school | | | RR5 | Taking care of something | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory | Harold’s money | | KS1 Cycle A (23-24) | requirements) | | | |---|---|---| | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | How should we look after our money? | | | BFA1, BFA2 | Basic first aid | | | | | Being My Best | | HE1, HE2, HE3 | I can eat a rainbow | | | HE1, HE2, HE3 | Eat well | | | HP4, HP5 | Harold’s was up and brush up | | | HP5 | Catch it! Bin it! Kill it! | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Harold learns to ride his bike | | KS1 Cycle A (23-24) | CF2, CF5, RR1, RR3, RR5 | Pass on the praise! | | ● Demonstrate attentive listening skills; ● Suggest simple strategies for resolving conflict situations; ● Give and receive positive feedback, and experience how this makes them feel. | |---|---|---|---| | PHF4 | Inside my wonderful body! (OPTIONAL) | | ● Name major internal body parts (heart, lungs, blood, stomach, intestines, brain); ● Understand and explain the simple bodily processes associated with them. | | | | Growing and Changing | | | PHF1, PHF3, HP3, HP4 | Healthy me | | ● Understand that the body gets energy from food, water and air (oxygen); ● Recognise that exercise and sleep are important parts of a healthy lifestyle. | | CAB1 | Then and now | | ● Identify things they could do as a baby, a toddler and can do now; ● Identify the people who help/helped them at those different stages. | | FPC2, CAB1 | Taking care of a baby | | ● Identify things they could do as a baby, a toddler and can do now; ● Identify the people who help/helped them at those different stages. | | FPC6, CF2, CF3, CF4, RR5, RR6, BS5, MW8 | Who can help? (2) | | ● Explain the difference between teasing and bullying; ● Give examples of what they can do if they experience or witness bullying; ● Say who they could get help from in a bullying situation. | | | KS1 Cycle A (23-24) | | |---|---|---| | BS3, BS7 | | Keeping privates private | | | KS1 Cycle B (24-25) | | | | |---|---|---|---|---| | | DfE Statutory Requirements - | | SCARF Lesson Plan title & half-termly | SCARF Lesson Plan Learning Outcomes | | | end of primary statements | | unit | | | | | | Me and My Relationships | | | RR2 | | Our ideal classroom (1) | | | | RR3 | | Our ideal classroom (2) (OPTIONAL) | | | | MW2, MW3 | | How are you feeling today? | | | | MW2, MW9 | | Let’s all be happy | | | | CF1, CF2, CF3 | | Being a good friend | | | | RR5, RR6 | | Types of bullying | | | KS1 Cycle B (24-25) | RR5, RR6 | Bullying or teasing? (OPTIONAL) | | |---|---|---| | | | Valuing difference | | RR1, RR2 | What makes us who we are? | | | FPC1, FPC2, FPC3, FPC4 | My special people | | | RR2, MW3 | How do we make others feel? | | | CF3, MW7 | When someone is feeling left out | | | CF3, RR2, RR3, MW3 | An act of kindness | | | CF4, CF5 | Solve the problem | | KS1 Cycle B (24-25) | | | Keeping Safe | |---|---|---| | MW3, MW5, DAT1 | Harold’s picnic | | | BS1, BS3, BS5 | How safe would you feel? | | | BS1, BS3, BS4 | What should Harold say? | | | BS3, BS4, MW2, RR8 | I don’t like that! | | | BS1, BS3, BS5 | Fun or not? | | | BS1, BS2, BS3, BS5 | Should I tell? | | KS1 Cycle B (24-25) | | KS1 Cycle B (24-25) | | | |---|---|---|---| | | | | Being My Best | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | | You can do it! | | | MW3, PHF2, HE1 | | My day | | | HP5, HP6 | | Harold’s postcard - helping us to keep clean and healthy | | | HP4 | | Harold’s bathroom | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | | What does my body do? | | KS1 Cycle B (24-25) | PHF1, HE1, HP3 | My body needs… (OPTIONAL) | | |---|---|---| | BFA1, BFA2 | Basic first aid | | | | | Growing and Changing | | CF3 | A helping hand | | | MW2 | Sam moves house | | | CAB1 | Haven’t you grown? | | | BS2, CAB1 | My body, your body | | | BS2 | Respecting privacy | | | BS1, BS2, BS3, BS4, MW2 | Some secrets should never be kept | | | | LKS2 Cycle A (23-24) | | | | |---|---|---|---|---| | | DfE Statutory Requirements - | | SCARF Lesson Plan title & half-termly | SCARF Lesson Plan Learning Outcomes | | | end of primary statements | | unit | | | | | | Me and My Relationships | | | ISH4 | | As a rule | | ● Explain why we have rules; ● Explore why rules are different for different age groups, in particular for internet-based activities; ● Suggest appropriate rules for a range of settings; ● Consider the possible consequences of breaking the rules. | | FPC2, CF1, CF2 | | Looking after our special people | | ● Identify people who they have a special relationship with; ● Suggest strategies for maintaining a positive relationship with their special people. | | CF3, CF4, RR1 | | How can we solve this problem? | | ● Rehearse and demonstrate simple strategies for resolving given conflict situations. | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | | Tangram team challenge (OPTIONAL) | | ● Define and demonstrate cooperation and collaboration; ● Identify the different skills that people can bring to a group task; ● Demonstrate how working together in a collaborative manner can help everyone to achieve success. | | CF1, CF2, CF4, CF5, RR3 | | Friends are special | | ● Identify qualities of friendship; ● Suggest reasons why friends sometimes fall out; ● Rehearse and use, now or in the future, skills for making up again. | | RR1, RR2, RR3 | | ‘Thunks’ | | ● Express opinions and listen to those of others; ● Consider others' points of view; ● Practice explaining the thinking behind their ideas and opinions. | | | LKS2 Cycle A (23-24) | | | |---|---|---|---| | BS1 | | Dan’s dare | | | MW2, MW3, MW4 | | My special pet (OPTIONAL) | | | | | | Valuing Difference | | RR1, RR3 | | Respect and challenge | | | FPC1, FPC2, FPC3, FPC4, FPC6, RR7 | | Family and friends | | | MW5 | | My community | | | RR1, RR2 | | Our friends and neighbours | | LKS2 Cycle A (23-24) | FPC3, RR1, RR2, RR6, OR2, MW8, ISH5 | Let’s celebrate our differences | | |---|---|---| | RR1, RR2, RR3, RR5, RR6, RR7, OR2, MW8, ISH5 | Zeb | | | | | Keeping safe | | BS1, BS4, BS5, BS6, BS7, BS8 | Safe or unsafe? | | | BS4 | Danger or risk? | | | BS2, BS5 | The Risk Robot | | | OR3, OR4, OR5, ISH1, ISH3, ISH6 | Super Searcher | | | HE3, DAT1 | Help or harm? | | | HE3, DAT1 | Alcohol and cigarettes: the facts | | LKS2 Cycle A (23-24) | OR5, BS1, BS6, ISH2, ISH6 | Raisin Challenge (1) (OPTIONAL) | | |---|---|---| | | | Rights and Respect | | BS8 | Helping each other to stay safe | | | OR4, ISH6 | Recount task | | | MW5 | Our helpful volunteers | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Can Harold afford it? | | LKS2 Cycle A (23-24) | covered by DfE statutory requirements) | | | ● Understand that the amount people get paid is due to a range of factors (skill, experience, training, level of responsibility etc.). | |---|---|---|---| | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Harold’s environment project | | ● Define what is meant by the environment; ● Evaluate and explain different methods of looking after the school environment; ● Devise methods of promoting their priority method. | | | Let’s have a tidy up (OPTIONAL) | | | | | | Being My Best | | | HE1, HE2, HE3 | Derek cooks dinner! | | ● Explain how each of the food groups on the Eatwell Guide (formerly Eatwell Plate) benefits the body; ● Explain what is meant by the term 'balanced diet'; ● Give examples what foods might make up a healthy balanced meal. | | HP5, HP6 | Poorly Harold | | ● Explain how some infectious illnesses are spread from one person to another; ● Explain how simple hygiene routines can help to reduce the risk of the spread of infectious illnesses; ● Suggest medical and non-medical ways of treating an illness. | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Body team work | | ● Name major internal body parts (heart, blood, lungs, stomach, small/large intestines, liver, brain); ● Describe how food, water and air get into the body and blood. | | RR1, RR2, RR3 | For or against? | | ● Develop skills in discussion and debating an issue; ● Demonstrate their understanding of health and wellbeing issues that are relevant to them; ● Empathise with different viewpoints; ● Make recommendations, based on their research. | LKS2 Cycle A (23-24) | OR1 | I am fantastic! | | |---|---|---| | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Top talents | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Getting on with your nerves! (OPTIONAL) | | | | | Growing and Changing | | CF1, CF2, CF5, OR2 | Relationship Tree | | | BS3, BS7 | Body space | | | OR1, OR2, OR3, OR4, OR5, BS1, BS4, BS5, MW3, MW4, ISH3, ISH5, ISH7, RR8 | None of your business! | | | | LKS2 Cycle A (23-24) | | | |---|---|---|---| | | | | ● Understand and explain how to get help in a situation where requests for images or information of themselves or others occurs. | | BS2, RR8 | | Secret or surprise | ● Define the terms 'secret' and 'surprise' and know the difference between a safe and an unsafe secret; ● Recognise how different surprises and secrets might make them feel; ● Know who they could ask for help if a secret made them feel uncomfortable or unsafe. | | BS7, CAB1, CAB2 | | My changing body | ● Recognise that babies come from the joining of an egg and sperm; ● Explain what happens when an egg doesn’t meet a sperm; ● Understand that for girls, periods are a normal part of puberty. | | BFA1, BFA2 | | Basic first aid | ● See link to external resources for further information | | | LKS2 Cycle B (24-25) | | | |---|---|---|---| | | DfE Statutory Requirements - | | SCARF Lesson Plan title & half-termly | | | end of primary statements | | unit | | | | | Me and My Relationships | | RR2 | | Human machines | | | CF2, CF3, CF4, CF5, RR1, RR2, RR3, RR5, MW3, HE3 | | Ok or not ok? (1) | | | CF2, CF4, CF5, RR1, RR4, RR5, OR1, OR2, MW3, HE3 | | Ok or not ok? (2) | | | CF2, CF3, MW3, MW6, MW7 | | An email from Harold! | | | MW1, MW2, MW3, MW4 | | Different feelings | | | MW3, MW4 | | When feelings change (OPTIONAL) | | | RR1, RR6, MW8, ISH5 | | Under pressure | | LKS2 Cycle B (24-25) | | | | risky way might come from. | |---|---|---|---| | | | Valuing difference | | | CF1, CF2, CF3, CF4, CF5, RR1, RR2, RR3, RR5, OR2, OR4 | Can you sort it? | | ● Define the terms 'negotiation' and 'compromise'; ● Understand the need to manage conflict or differences and suggest ways of doing this, through negotiation and compromise. | | FPC3, CF4, CF5, RR1, RR2, RR3, RR5, RR6, BS1 | What would I do? | | ● List some of the ways that people are different to each other (including differences of race, gender, religion); ● Recognise potential consequences of aggressive behaviour; ● Suggest strategies for dealing with someone who is behaving aggressively. | | FPC3, CF3, RR1, RR2, RR5 | The people we share our world with | | ● List some of the ways in which people are different to each other (including ethnicity, gender, religious beliefs, customs and festivals); ● Define the word respect and demonstrate ways of showing respect to others' differences. | | RR7, OR5, ISH2, ISH5, ISH6 | That is such a stereotype! | | ● Understand and identify stereotypes, including those promoted in the media. | | FPC1, FPC2, CF1, CF2, RR1 | Friend or acquaintance? | | ● Recognise that they have different types of relationships with people they know (e.g. close family, wider family, friends, acquaintances); ● Give examples of features of these different types of relationships, including how they influence what is shared. | | CF5, RR8, BS1, BS3, BS5, MW4 | Islands | | ● Understand that they have the right to protect their personal body space; ● Recognise how others' non-verbal signals indicate how they feel when people are close to their body space; ● Suggest people they can talk to if they feel uncomfortable | LKS2 Cycle B (24-25) | | | | with other people's actions towards them. | |---|---|---|---| | | | Keeping Safe | | | OR4, BS4, BS5, ISH2, PHF3, HE1, HE3, DAT1, HP2 | Danger, risk or hazard? | | ● Define the terms 'danger', 'risk' and 'hazard' and explain the difference between them; ● Identify situations which are either dangerous, risky or hazardous; ● Suggest simple strategies for managing risk. | | CF5, RR4, RR6, OR2, BS1, BS6, MW4 | How dare you! | | ● Define what is meant by the word 'dare'; ● Identify from given scenarios which are dares and which are not; ● Suggest strategies for managing dares. | | CF3, CF5, RR4, RR6, OR3, DAT1 | Keeping ourselves safe | | ● Describe stages of identifying and managing risk; ● Suggest people they can ask for help in managing risk. | | OR5, BS1, ISH2, ISH6 | Raisin Challenge (2) | | ● Understand that we can be influenced both positively and negatively; ● Give examples of some of the consequences of behaving in an unacceptable, unhealthy or risky way. | | OR3, OR5, ISH3, ISH5 | Picture Wise | | ● Identify images that are safe/unsafe to share online; ● Know and explain strategies for safe online sharing; ● Understand and explain the implications of sharing images online without consent. | | DAT1, HP5 | Medicines: check the label | | ● Understand that medicines are drugs; ● Explain safety issues for medicine use; ● Suggest alternatives to taking a medicine when unwell; ● Suggest strategies for limiting the spread of infectious diseases (e.g. hand-washing routines). | | HE3, DAT1 | Know the norms (formerly Tell Mark II) | | ● Understand some of the key risks and effects of smoking and drinking alcohol; | LKS2 Cycle B (24-25) | | (OPTIONAL) | | ● Understand that increasing numbers of young people are choosing not to smoke and that not all people drink alcohol (Social Norms theory). | |---|---|---|---| | OR3, OR5, ISH3 | Traffic lights (OPTIONAL) | | ● Identify strategies for keeping personal information safe online; ● Describe safe behaviours when using communication technology. | | | | Rights and respect | | | PHF4 | Who helps us stay healthy and safe? | | ● Explain how different people in the school and local community help them stay healthy and safe; ● Define what is meant by 'being responsible'; ● Describe the various responsibilities of those who help them stay healthy and safe; ● Suggest ways they can help the people who keep them healthy and safe. | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | It’s your right | | ● Understand that humans have rights and also need to respect the rights of other; ● Identify some rights and also need to respect the rights of others that come with these rights. | | RR3, RR5, OR2, OR3, BS2 | How do we make a difference? | | ● Understand the reason we have rules; ● Suggest and engage with ways that they can contribute to the decision making process in school (e.g. through pupil voice/school council); ● Recognise that everyone can make a difference within a democratic process. | LKS2 Cycle B (24-25) | RR5, RR6, BS7 | Safety in numbers | | |---|---|---| | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Harold’s expenses (OPTIONAL) | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Why pay taxes? | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Logo quiz (OPTIONAL) | | | | | Being My Best | | RR1, RR2, RR4 | What makes me ME! (formerly Diversity World) | | | CF2, RR1, OR4 | Making choices | | LKS2 Cycle B (24-25) | PHF1, PHF2, HE1, HE2, HE3, HP3, ISH2, ISH3 | SCARF hotel (formerly Diversity World Hotel) | | |---|---|---| | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Harold’s Seven Rs | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | My school community (1) | | | BFA1, BFA2 | Basic first aid | | | | | Growing and Changing | | MW2, MW3, MW9 | Moving house | | | | LKS2 Cycle B (24-25) | | |---|---|---| | BS7, CAB1 | | All change! | | CAB1, CAB2 | | Preparing for changes at puberty (formerly Period positive) | | RR8, BS1, BS2, BS3, BS4, BS5, BS7, MW2, MW3 | | Secret or surprise? | | FPC3, FPC4, FPC5, CF1, CF2, CF4, CF5, RR1 | | Together | | | UKS2 Cycle A (23-24) | | | |---|---|---|---| | | DfE Statutory Requirements - | | SCARF Lesson Plan title & half-termly | | | end of primary statements | | unit | | | | | Me and My Relationships | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | | Collaboration Challenge! | | | CF2, CF3 | | Give and take | | | OR2, OR3, MW8 | | Communication (OPTIONAL) | | | CF1, CF2, CF3, CF4, MW1, MW2, MW3 | | How good a friend are you? | | | CF2, CF3, CF4, CF5, RR3, RR4, RR5 | | Relationship cake recipe | | | MW2, MW3, MW4, MW9, MW10 | | Our emotional needs | | | CF2, CF3, CF5, RR1 | | Being assertive | | UKS2 Cycle A (23-24) | | | | assertive behaviours; ● Understand and rehearse assertiveness skills. | |---|---|---|---| | | | Valuing Difference | | | CF1, CF2, CF3, CF4, CF5, RR1, RR2, RR3, RR4, RR5 | Qualities of friendship | | ● Define some key qualities of friendship; ● Describe ways of making a friendship last; ● Explain why friendships sometimes end. | | RR1, RR2, RR4, RR5 | Kind conversations | | ● Rehearse active listening skills; ● Demonstrate respectfulness in responding to others; ● Respond appropriately to others. | | RR1, RR2, RR3, RR4, RR5, RR6, RR7 | Happy being me | | ● Recognise some of the feelings associated with feeling excluded or ‘left out’; ● Give examples of ways in which people behave when they discriminate against others who are different from them; ● Understand the importance of respecting others, even when they are different from themselves. | | FPC3, CF3, RR1, RR2, RR4, RR5 | The land of the Red People | | ● Identify and describe the different groups that make up their school/wider community/other parts of the UK; ● Describe the benefits of living in a diverse society; ● Explain the importance of mutual respect for different faiths and beliefs and how we demonstrate this. | | RR1, RR2, RR6, RR7, OR2, OR3, OR4, OR5, BS1, ISH2, ISH3, ISH5, ISH6 | Is it true? | | ● Understand that the information we see online either text or images, is not always true or accurate; ● Recognise that some people post things online about themselves that aren’t true, sometimes this is so that people will like them; ● Understand and explain the difference sex, gender identity, gender expression and sexual orientation. | | | | | ● Give examples of how bullying behaviours can be stopped. | |---|---|---|---| | CF1, CF2, CF3, CF5 | It could happen to anyone (OPTIONAL) | | ● Identify the consequences of positive and negative behaviour on themselves and others; ● Give examples of how individual/group actions can impact on others in a positive or negative way. | | | | Keeping Safe | | | RR1, RR6, OR1, OR2, OR3, OR5, MW8, ISH4, ISH5 | Spot bullying | | ● Demonstrate strategies to deal with both face-to-face and online bullying; ● Demonstrate strategies and skills for supporting others who are bullied; ● Recognise and describe the difference between online and face-to-face bullying. | | OR1, OR2, OR3, OR4, OR5, BS1, BS4, ISH1, ISH2, ISH3, ISH5, ISH7 | Play, Like, Share | | ● Reflect on what information they share offline and online; ● Recognise that people aren’t always who they say they are online; ● Know how to protect personal information online. | | CF5 | Decision dilemmas | | ● Recognise which situations are risky; ● Explore and share their views about decision making when faced with a risky situation; ● Suggest what someone should do when faced with a risky situation. | | CF5, RR2, RR4, RR5, RR8, BS1, BS2 | Ella’s diary dilemma | | ● Define what is meant by a dare; ● Explain why someone might give a dare; ● Suggest ways of standing up to someone who gives a dare. | UKS2 Cycle A (23-24) | | Vaping: healthy or unhealthy? | | | |---|---|---|---| | BS1 | Would you risk it? | | ● Identify risk factors in a given situation (involving smoking) and consider outcomes of risk taking in this situation, including emotional risks; ● Understand the actual norms around smoking/alcohol and the reasons for common misperceptions of these. | | DAT1 | ‘Thunking’ about habit (OPTIONAL) | | ● Explain what a habit is, giving examples; ● Describe why and how a habit can be hard to change. | | DAT1 | Drugs: true or false? (OPTIONAL) | | ● Understand some of the complexities of categorising drugs; ● Know that all medicines are drugs but not all drugs are medicines; ● Understand ways in which medicines can be helpful or harmful and used safely or unsafely. | | ISH6, DAT1 | Smoking: what is normal? (OPTIONAL) | | ● Understand the actual norms around smoking and the reasons for common misperceptions of these. | | | | Rights and Respect | | | ISH6, PHF2, PHF3, HE1 | What’s the story? | | ● Identify, write and discuss issues currently in the media concerning health and wellbeing; ● Express their opinions on an issue concerning health and wellbeing; ● Make recommendations on an issue concerning health and wellbeing. | | OR4, ISH6 | Fact or opinion? | | ● Understand the difference between a fact and an opinion; ● Understand what biased reporting is and the need to think critically about things we read. | | MW5 | Mo makes a difference | | ● Explain what we mean by the terms voluntary, community and pressure (action) group; ● Give examples of voluntary groups, the kind of work they do and its value. | UKS2 Cycle A (23-24) | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Rights, respect and duties | | |---|---|---| | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Spending wisely | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Lend us a fiver! | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Local councils (OPTIONAL) | | | | | Being My Best | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | It all adds up! | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Different skills | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | My school community (2) | | | BS1 | Independence and responsibility | | UKS2 Cycle A (23-24) | ISH4 | Star qualities | | |---|---|---| | BFA1, BFA2 | Basic first aid, including Sepsis Awareness | | | DAT1 | Getting fit (ARCHIVED) | | | | | Growing and Changing | | MW2, MW3, MW4 | How are they feeling? | | | RR5, BS1, BS3, BS4, BS5, BS7, BS8 | Taking notice of our feelings | | | BS2, BS4, BS5, BS6, BS7, BS8 | Dear Ash | | | FPC6, BS2, BS3, CAB1, | Growing up and changing bodies | | | | UKS2 Cycle A (23-24) | | |---|---|---| | CAB2 | | | | BS7, CAB1 | | Changing bodies and feelings | | FPC2, FPC4, RR1, RR2, RR3, RR4, CAB1 | | Help, I’m a teenager…get me out of here! | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | | Dear Hetty (OPTIONAL) | | | UKS2 Cycle B (24-25) | | | |---|---|---|---| | | DfE Statutory Requirements - | | SCARF Lesson Plan title & half-termly | | | end of primary statements | | unit | | | | | Me and My Relationships | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | | Working together | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | | Let’s negotiate (OPTIONAL) | | | CF2, CF3, CF4, CF5 | | Solve the friendship problem | | | FPC1, FPC2, CF1, CF2, CF3, MW1, MW2, MW3, MW4, CAB1 | | Dan’s day (OPTIONAL) | | UKS2 Cycle B (24-25) | CF5, RR2, RR4, RR5, RR8 | Assertiveness Skills | | ● List some assertive behaviours; ● Recognise peer influence and pressure; ● Demonstrate using some assertive behaviours, through role-play, to resist peer influence and pressure. | |---|---|---|---| | FPC3, FPC4, FPC5, FPC6, RR1, RR5, RR8, BS3, BS4, BS5, BS7 | Don’t force me | | ● Describe ways in which people show their commitment to each other; ● Know the ages at which a person can marry, depending on whether their parents agree. | | RR5, RR6, BS1, BS2, BS3, BS4, BS5, BS6, BS7, BS8 | Acting appropriately | | ● Recognise that some types of physical contact can produce strong negative feelings; ● Know that some inappropriate touch is also illegal. | | | | Valuing Difference | | | CF2, RR1, RR6, BS1, MW3 | Ok to be different | | ● Recognise that bullying and discriminatory behaviour can result from disrespect of people's differences; ● Suggest strategies for dealing with bullying, as a bystander; ● Describe positive attributes of their peers. | | RR1, RR5, RR6, OR2 | We have more in common than not | | ● Know that all people are unique but that we have far more in common with each other than what is different about us; ● Consider how a bystander can respond to someone being rude, offensive or bullying someone else; ● Demonstrate ways of offering support to someone who has been bullied. | | RR1, RR2, RR3, RR5 | Respecting differences | | ● Demonstrate ways of showing respect to others, using verbal and non-verbal communication. | | RR1, RR2, RR5 | Tolerance and respect for others | | ● Understand and explain the term prejudice; ● Identify and describe the different groups that make up their school/wider community/other parts of the UK; | UKS2 Cycle B (24-25) | FPC1, FPC4, CF1, CF2, CF3, CF4, CF5, MW6 | Advertising friendships! | | |---|---|---| | RR1, RR2, RR6, RR7, ISH2, ISH6 | Boys will be boys? Challenging gender stereotypes | | | | | Keep Safe | | RR8, OR2, OR3, OR4, BS1, ISH4, ISH5 | Think before you click! | | | RR8, OR2, OR3, OR4, OR5, BS1, BS2, BS4, ISH1, ISH3, ISH4, ISH5, ISH7 | It’s a puzzle (OPTIONAL) | | | OR1, OR3, OR5, BS1, BS2, BS3, BS5, BS7, ISH3, ISH5, ISH7 | To share or not to share? | | UKS2 Cycle B (24-25) | MW1, MW3, MW4, MW5, MW6, MW7, MW9, MW10, HE3, DAT1 | Rat Park | | |---|---|---| | HE3, DAT1 | What sort of drug is…? | | | HE3, DAT1 | Drugs: it’s the law! | | | HE3, DAT1 | Alcohol: what is normal? | | | CF2, CF3, CF5, RR1, RR4, MW4, MW6, MW7, HE3, BS4, BS6, BS7 | Joe’s story (part 1) (OPTIONAL) | | | FPC1, CF1, CF2, CF3, CF4, RR5, OR1 | Joe’s story (part 2) (OPTIONAL) | | | | | Rights and Respect | | RR7, ISH6 | Two sides to every story | | UKS2 Cycle B (24-25) | RR8, OR1, MW1, ISH4, ISH6 | ‘Fakebook’ Friends | |---|---| | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | What’s it worth? | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Jobs and taxes (OPTIONAL) | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Happy shoppers | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Project Pitch (parts 1 & 2) (OPTIONAL) | | ● That they have different kinds of responsibilities, rights and duties at home, at school, in the community and towards the environment; ● Continue to develop the skills to exercise these responsibilities. | |---|---|---|---| | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Democracy in Britain 1 - Elections | | ● Why and how rules and laws that protect them and others are made and enforced; ● Why different rules are needed in different situations and how to take part in making and changing rules; ● Begin to understand the way in which democracy in Britain works. | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Democracy in Britain 2 - How (most) laws are made | | ● Why and how rules and laws that protect them and others are made and enforced; ● Why different rules are needed in different situations and how to take part in making and changing rules. | | | Community art (OPTIONAL) | | | | | | Being My Best | | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | This will be your life! | | ● Identify aspirational goals; ● Describe the actions needed to set and achieve these. | | Wider PSHE curriculum (not covered by DfE statutory requirements) | Our recommendations | | ● Present information they researched on a health and wellbeing issues outlining the key issues and making suggestions for any improvements concerning those issues. | | CF2, CF3, CF5, RR1, RR4, RR6, BS1, BS5, DAT1 | What’s the risk? (1) | | ● Identify risk factors in a given situation (involving alcohol); ● Understand and explain the outcomes of risk-taking in a given situation, including emotional risks; ● Understand the actual norms around smoking/alcohol and the reasons for common misperceptions of these. | UKS2 Cycle B (24-25) | FPC1, OR1, OR3, BS1, BS2, BS4, ISH6, CAB1 | What’s the risk? (2) | | ● Identify risk factors in a given situation; ● Understand and explain the outcomes of risk-taking in a given situation, including emotional risks; ● Recognise that some situations can be made less risky e.g. only sharing information with someone you trust. | |---|---|---|---| | BFA1, BFA2 | Basic first aid | | ● See link to external resources for further information | | MW1, MW5, MW6, MW7, ISH2, PHF2, PHF3, PHF4, HP1, HP3, HP4, HP6, BFA1, BFA2 | Five Ways to Wellbeing project | | ● Explain what the five ways to wellbeing are; ● Describe how the five ways to wellbeing contribute to a healthy lifestyle, giving examples of how they can be implemented in people's lives. | | | | Growing and Changing | | | RR1, RR2, RR4, RR6, OR2, MW3, ISH2, CAB1 | I look great! | | ● Understand that fame can be short-lived; ● Recognise that photos can be changed to match society's view of perfect; ● Identify qualities that people have, as well as their looks. | | RR1, RR4, RR7, OR1, ISH2, ISH5 | Media manipulation | | ● Define what is meant by the term stereotype; ● Recognise how the media can sometimes reinforce gender stereotypes; ● Recognise that people fall into a wide range of what is seen as normal; ● Challenge stereotypical gender portrayals of people. | | OR1, OR3, OR4, OR5, OR6, BS1, BS3, BS4, BS5 | Pressure online | | ● Understand the risks of sharing images online and how these are hard to control, once shared; ● Understand that people can feel pressured to behave in a certain way because of the influence of the peer group; ● Understand the norms of risk-taking behaviour and that these are usually lower than people believe them to be. | | FPC2, FPC6, MW2, MW4, | Helpful or unhelpful? Managing | | ● Recognise some of the changes they have | | | UKS2 Cycle B (24-25) | | |---|---|---| | MW6, MW9 | | change | | RR1, BS7, CAB1, CAB2 | | Is this normal? | | FPC3, FPC4, BS3, BS6, BS7, BS8, CAB1, CAB2 | | Making babies | | <urn:uuid:19496c6b-d3e3-4721-a24b-680e190dd022> | CC-MAIN-2024-42 | https://www.trealesceprimary.org/serve_file/19977740 | 2024-10-14T01:15:29+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2024-42/segments/1727944255355.53/warc/CC-MAIN-20241014005649-20241014035649-00175.warc.gz | 901,520,837 | 14,145 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.997987 | eng_Latn | 0.997146 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "... | false | docling | [ 1135, 4531, 8201, 10648, 11115, 11413, 12903, 13192, 13580, 13875, 15436, 16110, 16787, 17271, 17770, 18269, 19602, 19690, 20234, 20623, 20942, 20963, 21381, 21761, 23400, 23749, 24202, 24545, 26210, 26688, 27513, 28122, 29873, 31555, 32924, 3342... | [ 3.96875, 3.453125 ] | 2 | 0 | Numeracy and Problem Solving 2020-2021 At the Academy St Francis of Assisi we place an early emphasis on developing strong numeracy skills. These underpin the entire Mathematics curriculum and support students' learning in other areas such as Science, Design Technology, Computing and Geography. The Mathematics curriculum encourages students to make connections across mathematical concepts in order to develop fluency, mathematical reasoning and competence in solving increasingly sophisticated problems. ASFA 10 Key Concepts for all: Our aim is that all students will leave our Academy with solid understanding and application of the following topics and skills. We consider these to be key to whichever path our students decide to follow post-16. 1. Ratio and proportion 2. Geometric and spatial awareness 4. The equivalence of fractions, decimals and percentages 3. Measurement and the metric system 5. Using and reasoning with data 7. Written and mental methods for the four rules. 6. Place value 8. Calculating with fractions 10. Algebraic manipulation 9. Calculating with percentages ASFA numeracy and problem-solving strategy: * Strategies to utilise students' time in school, both in lessons and in additional intervention, in the most effective way, will be based upon evidence-based approaches. These include Education Endowment Foundation, Nuffield Foundation and students' identified barriers to learning upon entry and as they progress through school. * A consistent approach to numeracy and problem solving will be developed in mathematics lessons and across the wider curriculum. * Existing school assessment data and baseline GL data play a central role in this. Barriers Typically, students arrive well below national average in terms of their standardised aged scores. We have identified key barriers to mathematical and numerate application via GL analysis, internal assessment and have utilised our work with the SSIF Deeper Learning Project and MathsHub to identify specific areas of focus. Numeracy and Problem Solving 2020-2021 | | B6 | |---|---| | B7 | B7 | | B1, B2, B3, B4 | Small Learning Community Identified students to be taught by KS2/3 specialist in parallel with the rest of the cohort. Every Child Counts Intervention KS3 Lead to coordinate additional sessions for identified cohort. Curriculum Planning KS3 leads to coordinate the improvement of lessons in the shared area and monitor the delivery and impact. | There is a significant reduction in students identified as NSR measured using GL assessments at identified points across the year. Students demonstrate that they learn more, remember more, deepen their knowledge. They make progress at least in line with their peers nationally. P8 and SPI show a rapid closing of gap towards 0. | |---|---|---| | B3, B4, B5, B6, B7 | Numeracy Across the Curriculum Numeracy coordinator to with numeracy rich subjects to establish a consistent approach to the language and methods of mathematics. Numeracy coordinator to work with the whole staff on methods for problem solving to adopt a consistent approach. | There is consistency of language across the curriculum. Consistent approached to numeracy is evident across the school. Students are able to solve problems with more confidence and demonstrate resilience. | | B2, B5, B6 | Curriculum Planning Fluency is developed in all year groups and interleaving planned into the curriculum. | There is a coherent sequence of lesson planning from years 7-11 that enables students, as a minimum, to access their target grade. | | B5, B6 | SSIF Deeper Learning Project CPD programme for the whole maths team 2018-2020. MathsHub Project Developing a strategy based on examples and non-examples, a particular emphasis on geometry in the first instance. | Teachers confidently select genuine, nonroutine problem-solving tasks. Teachers know a range of strategies, which they can model effectively for pupils. They teach pupils to carefully and consciously choose the most appropriate strategy for the problem at hand. | | B5, B6 | Curriculum Design Problem solving task, anchor tasks, diagnostic questioning numerical fluency | Lessons are more consistently of a high standard and students improve their fluency and are more resilient when problem solving. | Numeracy and Problem Solving 2020-2021 have all been embedded in the lessons in our shared drive. Coaching Cycle Identified strengths and areas for development form the focus for our coaching problem. Baseline testing to inform planned recovery curriculum provision and targeted support * GL assessments used to generate SAS scores for students. * 'Small Learning Community' to target and support students identified as SEND via primary trained teacher. * Pearson KS3 baseline tests in Maths cross referenced with GL assessments. Catch Up Numeracy Strategy In addition to targeted planned support via National Tutor programme, and TeachFirst graduate mentor, the maths department have a transition programme to close the gap for those students who are not at the expected standard. Maths strategies include: * All class sets, based on GL and Pearson internal baseline testing. In class interventions identified with KS3 lead. Information used through a QLA identify individual and whole class strengths and areas of improvement. KS3 lead uses this to target students in class. * Recovery curriculum amended planning. Key focus on deliberate active practice of number, identified as main skill lacking post-lockdown this involves retrieval interleaving with planned curriculum. * November 2020-'Every Child Counts'. Teaching Assistant led programme to commence. NSR students. * Diagnostic questioning used to evaluate critical skills and knowledge, and to target support. * Interleaved starters evaluate students understanding and application of key prior knowledge * "Numeracy Ninjas" to be re-introduced in form time when appropriate and as lesson starters until that point. * Curriculum differentiated into 'Core Support' and 'Greater Depth' * All students rigorously monitored using testing to check progress throughout the year. * 1-1 CPD for every teacher by KS3 lead, targeted at identifying and providing bespoke support for students working below 100, age related expectation, below target. This is monitored after each unit. Numeracy Across the Curriculum * Maths and Science teachers to plan GCSE sessions based on numeracy/maths skills. * Maths and Geography teachers to jointly plan a unit of work that addresses common numerical misconceptions. * Common language adopted by Science, Technology, Geography, PE and Computer Science. * Posters created for subject areas with key subject specific terminology. In addition to the above students with SEND receive: * Immersion and targeted support though our 'Small Learning Community' and specialist teaching via our primary trained teacher. Small Learning Community curriculum is aimed at bridging the gaps in knowledge from Primary School. Students follow the same curriculum as other students but with a greater focus on imbedding key literacy and numeracy skills that may be lacking. Numeracy and Problem Solving 2020-2021 Appendix Key Terms 1. Add 3. Subtract 2. Sum 4. Difference 6. Product 5. Multiply 7. Divide 9. Decimal 8. Fraction 10. Numerator 12. Ratio 11. Denominator 13. Proportion 15. Increase 14. Percentage 16. Decrease 18. Descending 17. Ascending 19. Interest rate 21. Annual Percentage Rate (APR) 20. Depreciation | <urn:uuid:62323342-4236-4d3a-bc5a-cb22b051d7bd> | CC-MAIN-2021-39 | http://asfaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/Numeracy-and-Problem-Solving-strategy.pdf | 2021-09-19T20:16:51+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2021-39/segments/1631780056900.32/warc/CC-MAIN-20210919190128-20210919220128-00656.warc.gz | 5,402,680 | 1,520 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.760621 | eng_Latn | 0.995237 | [ "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2021, 4294, 7154, 7505 ] | [ 3.4375 ] | 1 | 0 | 100 things to know about Space By Alex Frith, Alice James and Jerome Martin, illustrated by Shaw Nielsen and Federico Mariani Usborne 978-1-4095-9392-8 A fun and informative book packed with 100 fascinating things to know about space, from how to escape a black hole to why astronauts learn wilderness survival skills. With bright, infographic-style illustrations, detailed facts on every page, a glossary and index and internet links to specially selected websites for more information. If you liked this you might also like... | Louie Stowell & Roger Simo | The Usborne Official Astronaut’s Handbook | Usbone | 978-1409590743 | |---|---|---|---| | DK | Space Exploration (Eyewitness) | DK | 978-0241013601 | | Tim Peake | Hello, is this planet Earth?: My View from the International Space Station (Official Tim Peake Book) | Century | 978-1780897158 | | Philip Reeve & Sarah McIntyre | Cakes in Space | OUP | 978-0192734907 | | Philip Reeve | Railhead | OUP | 978-0192742766 | Activities and things to talk about Scrambled! The letters in the words below have all been scrambled up – can you unscramble them to find six words to do with space? 1. MESCOT Objects in space made of ice, frozen gases and rock 2. TEC ELOPES You can look at the stars through this 3. L PIECES the Moon turns dark during one of these, when it lines up with the sun and the earth, and passes through the shadow cast by the earth 4. A STOAT RUN A person who travels in space 5. PROVE A SUN A huge explosion when a star runs out of energy 6. ADDER MOAN The galaxy nearest to the Milky Way Quiz Can you pick out the real answer in each of these – 100 Things About Space will help you get them right! 1. To be an astronaut you have to be able to speak: b. Martian a. Russian c. American 2. A tardigrade is: b. The toughest known outer space survivor creature a. Someone who climbs steps slowly c. A creature covered in tar 3. Comets are made from: b. Ice, frozen gases and rock a. Diamonds c. Methane gas 4. The first creatures sent from earth into space in 1947 were: b. Guinea pigs a. Mice c. Fruit flies 5. Why is there a piece of Velcro inside a space helmet? b. To scratch your nose a. To attach the helmet to the space suit c. To hold your drinking straw steady 6. How many earths would fit inside the sun? b. 800,000 a. More than a million c. 8,000 7. What is the temperature of earth's inner core? b. 600 degrees Centigrade a. 60 degrees Centigrade c. 6000 degrees Centigrade 8. What do you call the explosion of a star that has run out of energy? b. A supernova a. A superstar c. A starburst 9. The first sandwich in space was: b. Corned beef on rye a. Egg and cress c. Peanut butter and jelly 10. What is the Big Bang? b. A TV programme a. The noise of a star exploding c. The event which created time and space 11. What is spaghettification? b. Streamers of light in the sky a. Astronauts making spaghetti in a space craft c. An object getting drawn out into a string by the force of gravity in a black hole 12. The snow on Mars is: b. Square a. Diamond-shaped c. Black Favourite Fact What is your most amazing space fact from this book? See if you can find out even more about it and each create a two minute presentation or podcast to tell your friends all about it! Design a space suit! Have a look at the suits on pages 23 and 101 and make a list of all the things you have to think about to create a suit which will be useful and protect you. Can you think of any more things you might need, especially if you were trying out new adventures and explorations such as investigating black holes, or finding life on other planets! Make your space adventures as amazing as you like – and design a suit that is equally amazing! Be a researcher: the International Space Station There is a lot of information throughout this book about the International Space Station (ISS). See if you can find out 10 facts about it. You could also do your research from information books and the internet. Ten facts about the International Space Station 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. Make your own Board Game Have a go at the Space Race Board Game! (p44). You could also make up your own game about a journey into space, copying this layout and thinking up things that could happen on the journey. For example a successful lift-off; a near-miss with an asteroid; a safe landing on Mars; what to do if a line breaks and you are floating in space! Names and patterns of stars and constellations Stars and constellations are often named after people and creatures in legends. For example Orion is named after a hunter in Greek mythology. Can you find out about the legendary figures which these constellations are named after? Andromeda Centaurus Hydra Perseus And can you find out which animals these constellations are named after – probably because their pattern made people think of these creatures. Canis (Major and Minor) Cygnus Delphinus Ursa (Major and Minor) If you discover a comet Have a look at page 118 about how a comet is named. If you discovered a comet with an unknown orbit in June next year, what would it be called?! Going to Mars Find out as much as you can from this book about Mars and what it might be like if people could settle there – especially pages 52-55. Imagine a journey taking as long as 8 months and maybe surviving this journey in a deep sleep! Other space journeys could take even longer. The distances in space are truly mind-boggling! A space ship going at 80 miles an hour would take 124 days to get to the moon; and it would take more than a lifetime to reach even the nearest stars. In real life the Voyager 1 Space Station, launched in 1977, is now 11 billion miles from earth. Light travels 5,800,000,000,000 miles a year – and so to reach the galaxy Andromeda, which is 2 million light years away, it would take you 2 million years to get there, if you travelled at the speed of light! The storybook Cakes in Space (Philip Reeve & Sarah McIntyre) imagines what such a massive journey might be like. In the story it takes Astra and her family 199 years to get to a make-believe planet called Nova Mundi. It seems almost impossible to imagine how you would survive this! In the story they travel in special sleeping pods, fast asleep and their bodies are cooled down so that they don't age. Talk about how you would feel about this. You could also research cryonics, which is similar to what Astra and her family used. It's about keeping the bodies of animals or humans at a low temperature, in the hope that they can be revived at a future time. | <urn:uuid:577e0ca1-0ea0-422f-a748-b8ed77c242c7> | CC-MAIN-2021-39 | https://www.hayfestival.com/schools/downloads/100-Things-to-Know-About-Space-Chatterbooks-Resources.pdf | 2021-09-19T21:12:30+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2021-39/segments/1631780056900.32/warc/CC-MAIN-20210919190128-20210919220128-00657.warc.gz | 828,478,222 | 1,640 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998707 | eng_Latn | 0.999105 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1578, 2834, 4477, 6638 ] | [ 3.90625 ] | 2 | 1 | Discover Redwoods Lesson #1 Engage Step 1: Guided Questions Step 2: Watch Video Step 3: Neighborhood Tree Search If you did not receive a printed copy of the Journal, download the journal and save to your computer. From time to time, you will be asked to open up your Journal to do an activity. Go to #1 in your student journal to answer the Guiding Question. Click here to watch the "Redwoods" Storytime. Make sure to engage in the suggested movements and the various pause points below. o 3:34- Push forward with your hands and say "Resist fire" o 4:15- Put your hands above your head and make a slurping noise o 7:05- How many different animals live in the redwood canopy? (Answer: 8 are listed on this page) o 8:20- wave your arms back and forth and intertwine them like the branches of a redwood tree Walk around your neighborhood with an adult. Look for different trees and make observations about them, what patterns do you notice, how are they similar, how are they different. Collect a couple leaves from the ground and bring them home. Go to #2 in your student journal and complete the Neighborhood Tree Search activity Organization's Name and Webpage | <urn:uuid:2dee1b06-f7c9-4f50-ab66-029c7f04472c> | CC-MAIN-2021-39 | https://www.savetheredwoods.org/wp-content/uploads/curriculum/redwoods/Redwood_lesson_1_Engage.pdf | 2021-09-19T19:44:07+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2021-39/segments/1631780056900.32/warc/CC-MAIN-20210919190128-20210919220128-00659.warc.gz | 998,161,137 | 274 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.993386 | eng_Latn | 0.993386 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1173 ] | [ 3.21875 ] | 1 | 0 | Question 1 If you were to rotate ABCD 180° about the origin, what would the coordinate of A' be? A. (-5, 5) B. (-3, -5) C. (-5, 3) D. (-3, 3) Question 2 Triangle ABC is going to be translated. Where would A' position be at, if the translation was be (x, y) → (x + 3, y - 2)? A. (-1,3) B. (5,3) C. (5,8) D. (3,5) Question 3 Which rule would result in a translation of 2 units left and 3 units up? Question 4 Which rule would show a dilation with a scale factor of 4? Question 5 This shape is being reflected in the y-axis. The top left point (-4, 4) is point B. Where would B' be located at? A. (4, 4) B. (-4, 4) C. (3, 2) D. (4, 1) Question 6 ∆QRS contains the points: Q(4, 2) R(5, 1) S(3,7). If the triangle is reflected across the y-axis, what will S' be? A. S'(3, 7) B. S'(-3, 7) C. S'(-3, -7) D. S'(3, 7) Question 7 Are the following similar? Why or why not? A. Yes B. No, the corresponding angles are not equal. C. No, the ratios of the corresponding sides are not equal. Question 8 What is the scale factor from the smaller triangle to the larger triangle? A. 2 B. 3/2 C. 2/3 D. 1/2 Question 9 The ratio of the corresponding sides of two similar triangles is 3:5. What is the ratio of the perimeters of these triangles? A. 5:3 B. 9:25 C. 3:5 D. 6:10 Question 10 A. 3 inches B. 5 inches C. 90 inches D. 4 inches Question 11 Which of the following shapes appears to be congruent to this figure? Question 12 What is the length of BH? A. 6 B. 8 C. 10 Question 13 A circle has a center at (1, 1). The diameter is 6. Which of the following points is a point on the circle? A. (0,−1) C. (4,1) B. (−1,3) D. (3,3) Question 14 If the measure of arc ABC = 210°, what is the measure of ∠AOC? A. 150° B. 100° C. 210° D. 105° Question 15 What is the measure of ∠PTQ? A. 100° B. 140° C. 180° D. 120° Question 16 What is the measure of angle A? A. 34° B. 180° C. 112° D. 79° Question 17 What is x? Question 18 Alison is jogging on a circular track that has a radius of 140 feet. She runs along the track from point R to point N, a distance of 230 feet. Find to the nearest degree, the measure of minor arc RN. Question 19 A circle has the equation (x+2) 2 +( y+2) 2 =25 . Which of the following is a point on the line? A. (−6, 1) B. C. D. (−4, 2) (0, 2) (2, −2) Answer Key 1. B 2. B 3. B 4. D 5. A 6. B 7. C 8. D 9. C 10. D 11. D 12. C 13. C 14. A 15. B 16. D 17. C 18. C 19. A | <urn:uuid:3664ce18-47f0-4415-b5c1-6bbbafcf77a5> | CC-MAIN-2021-39 | https://tutorified-wp-bucket.s3-accelerate.amazonaws.com/2016/12/Pre-AP-Geometry-Unit-3-Measurement-in-Congruent-and-Similar-Figures.pdf | 2021-09-19T20:00:00+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2021-39/segments/1631780056900.32/warc/CC-MAIN-20210919190128-20210919220128-00661.warc.gz | 613,237,356 | 938 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.941996 | eng_Latn | 0.96764 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown" ] | false | docling | [ 281, 480, 891, 1312, 1449, 1785, 1964, 2339, 2457 ] | [ 3.203125 ] | 1 | 0 | Tuesday, 27 th April Ponovite sve lekcije iz oblasti Sport – Unit 6 (Udžbenik i Radna sveska). Utvrdićemo lekcije i zadatke koje ste obradili u prethodnom periodu. Zadaci za vežbanje: (zadatke možete odštampati i zalepiti u svesku ili možete da pišete samo rešenja; proverićemo na času) 1 Complete the sentences. Use the correct forms of there was or there were and many, any, a or an. In 1950 ... 1 ____________________ DVD players. 2 ____________________ river called the Thames in London. 3 ____________________ internet café in Paris. 4 ____________________ shops in New York. 5 ____________________ Harry Potter books. 2 Complete the sentences. Use the correct forms of was or were. 1 Zidane and Beckham played football. They ____________ wrestlers. 2 Michael Phelps ____________ an Olympic swimming champion. 3 When I was younger, my sports hero ____________ Abebe Bikila. 4 Table tennis ____________ in the Olympics until 1988. 5 Julia ____________ born in 1996. 3 Write the past simple affirmative form of the verbs. 1 do ________ 2 come ________ 3 watch ________ 4 swim ________ 5 go ________ 4 Complete the sentences using the past simple affirmative form of the words in the box do win play score run 1 He ________ a lot of goals for his country. 2 We ________ tennis yesterday. 3 Maria ________ five kilometres this morning. 4 They ________ their homework at 7.00 p.m. 5 He ________ the race. He's very happy! . | <urn:uuid:4bf4ad86-2604-44c8-9ee3-0f47280b990c> | CC-MAIN-2021-39 | http://starina.rs/materijal_za_nastavu/2020-2021/engleski/5/31eng5Revision%20Unit6.pdf | 2021-09-19T19:11:14+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2021-39/segments/1631780056900.32/warc/CC-MAIN-20210919190128-20210919220128-00661.warc.gz | 61,795,618 | 373 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.950754 | eng_Latn | 0.960999 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1124, 1466 ] | [ 3.421875 ] | 1 | 0 | Linking Verbs A linking verb connects the subject to a word or word group that identifies or describes the subject. The most commonly used linking verbs are the forms of the verb be. Other frequently used linking verbs are appear, become, remain, seem, turn, smell, taste, feel, look, and sound. EXAMPLES Tyler ismy best friend. [The verb is connects the subject Tyler to the noun friend, which identifies Tyler.] The ice-covered branches seem fragile and glasslike. [The verb seem connects the subject branches to the adjectives fragile and glasslike, which describe the branches.] EXERCISE In each of the following sentences, draw one line under the linking verb and two lines under the words that the verb connects. Example 1. This yogurt smells sour. 1. Mother felt ill this morning. 2. Shirley is the secretary and the treasurer of the class. 3. The bread on the counter smelled delicious. 4. Connie grew bored and restless toward the end of the movie. 5. Affie seemed confused by the directions that you gave him. 6. Are we still friends? 7. The new student looks familiar to me. 8. Are all deserts hot and dry? 9. The scout leader was proud of her troop. 10. What is the problem? 11. During this time of year, the weather often becomes stormy in the late afternoon. 12. My voice sounds hoarse from all that cheering at the game. 13. The salesperson seemed annoyed by the shoppers who crowded the store. 14. The captain of the ship remained calm and optimistic. 15. This fabric turned white from exposure to the sun. 16. Do you know whether the library is open on Saturdays? 17. The lights grew dimmer in the theater. 18. The tourists were curious about the mysterious cave. 19. A few of the tomatoes on the vines are already ripe. 20. I absolutely have to say that I think the costume for my character in the play looks ridiculous! Answer Keys: 1. Mother felt ill this morning. 2. Shirley is the secretary and the treasurer of the class. 3. The bread on the counter smelled delicious. 4. Connie grew bored and restless toward the end of the movie. 5. Affie seemed confused by the directions that you gave him. 6. Are we still friends? 7. The new student looks familiar to me. 8. Are all deserts hot and dry? 9. The scout leader was proud of her troop. 10. What is the problem? 11. During this time of year, the weather often becomes stormy in the late afternoon. 12. My voice sounds hoarse from all that cheering at the game. 13. The salesperson seemed annoyed by the shoppers who crowded the store. 14. The captain of the ship remained calm and optimistic. 15. This fabric turned white from exposure to the sun. 16. Do you know whether the library is open on Saturdays? 17. The lights grew dimmer in the theater. 18. The tourists were curious about the mysterious cave. 19. A few of the tomatoes on the vines are already ripe. 20. I absolutely have to say that I think the costume for my character in the play looks ridiculous! | <urn:uuid:00c796f2-fce4-4382-8edd-101ceaf8350e> | CC-MAIN-2021-39 | https://tutorified-wp-bucket.s3-accelerate.amazonaws.com/2021/05/Linking-Verb-Workssheet.pdf | 2021-09-19T19:12:58+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2021-39/segments/1631780056900.32/warc/CC-MAIN-20210919190128-20210919220128-00659.warc.gz | 622,968,835 | 657 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998601 | eng_Latn | 0.998488 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1847, 2946 ] | [ 4.09375 ] | 1 | 0 | IELTS LISTENING PRACTICE PAPER IELTS Listening Sample Section 1 https://ielts-up.com/listening/12.1.mp3 SECTION 1. QUESTIONS 1-10 Complete the notes below. Write NO MORE THAN TWO WORDS AND/OR A NUMBER for each answer. PLAN FOR SHARING ACCOMODATION Example: The discussion topic Answer: lease for next year The total rent: Peter £110 & Jim £ (1) Car parking: in the (2) A place to buy things: (3) , because Jim works there The fees they should share: (4) fees The appliances needed: - The landlord will provide the microwave - The (5) is needed in the kitchen - Peter will bring some dining room and living room furniture - Jim will buy a (6) at the store Location of the telephone: in the(7) Move-in date: (8) Watching the game together: (9) What Jim needs to do before the move-in: take(10) in the morning IELTS Listening Sample Section 2 https://ielts-up.com/listening/12.2.mp3 SECTION 2. QUESTIONS 11-20 Questions 11-12 Complete the sentences below. Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer. 11. The program is made for travelers to make 12. The program operates in cooperation with. . Questions 13-16 What is the internship stipulation of each country below? Choose FOUR answers from the box and write the correct letter, A-F, next to questions 13-16. Internship Stipulation A. home stay B. no summer program C. minimum time requirement D. formal report required E. specific time period F. agriculture Country 13. USA 14. Australia 15. South Africa 16. India Questions 17-20 Choose the correct letter, A, B or C. 17. What should you do to get the Global Traveling Certificate? A. Record activity every day. B. Formal report. C. Talk the experience with the assessor. 18. You can apply for the certificate A. only after you come back. B. while on the trip. C. before you leave. 19. When should you pay the final installment? A. The day before you leave. B. One month before you return. C. Before you can get your plane ticket. 20. Before your application, you need A. to take a health check. B. to attend the workshop. C. to meet people with whom you will work. IELTS Listening Sample Section 3 https://ielts-up.com/listening/12.3.mp3 SECTION 3. QUESTIONS 21-30 Complete the notes below. Write NO MORE THAN TWO WORDS AND/OR NUMBER for each answer. Topic Information source 21. check at the 22. Views on 23. interview the manager of 24. Practice of 25. find relevant information from the 26. How to deliver the plan: as an 27. Date of giving the presentation: on 28. Schedule of items due: First Phase: 29. Final Phase: Group30. IELTS Listening Sample Section 4 https://ielts-up.com/listening/12.4.mp3 SECTION 4. QUESTIONS 31-40 Complete the notes below. Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer. The Gherkin Building Commissioned by: 31. firm called Foster and Partners. The features of its appearence: - Its shape is like a 32. . - It can reduce the carbon 33. of the city. - It lets 34. pass through the building, both reducing heating costsand brightening up the workspace. - One false story claimes that the exterior of the building is partly made of 35. . Architectural concept: - links 36. with the workplace. - relies less on 37. for temperature control than other similar buildings. The features of its interior: - The atria that let fresh air pass through the interior are know as 38. . - There is a place for entertainment called the 39. at the top of the building. The future of urban planning and architecture: - It is likely that the entire 40. will be disigned with more similarly eco-friendly buildings in future. - A new building will be constructed aiming to produce zero waste and remove carbon dioxide from us as much as possible. | <urn:uuid:93c13041-d387-4ebd-8a47-97e4471902a1> | CC-MAIN-2021-39 | https://images.static-collegedunia.com/public/college_data/images/entrance/sample_paper/1621837972IELTS%20LISTENING%20PRACTICE%20PAPER%2017.pdf | 2021-09-19T21:13:30+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2021-39/segments/1631780056900.32/warc/CC-MAIN-20210919190128-20210919220128-00663.warc.gz | 370,535,729 | 952 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.98726 | eng_Latn | 0.995415 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 681, 1323, 1825, 2482, 2794, 3535, 3763 ] | [ 3.390625 ] | 1 | 0 | Year 5 Geckos We are now over half-way through the year and the Geckos should be very proud of the hard work, creativity and determination that they have put into all aspects of their learning. Our recent themes have included 'Viking Warriors' and 'Wild Frontiers', which have truly inspired the children. There has been a real focus on the Arts, with Year 5 preparing for the Art Award assessments that are coming up soon. A range of activities have included felting workshops with Christina Miller, making Viking Heads and Stone Age artefacts out of clay, as well as developing skills in drawing and using charcoals. These have been supplemented with some wonderful Home Learning projects that the children have produced for the Turner Contemporary Portfolio competition, many of which you can see displayed in the corridors outside Year 5. Events such as our Cosmetic Science STEM Enrichment Day, World Book Day and Science Week, to name just a few, have provided rich learning opportunities across the curriculum. In Mathematics, we have been learning about how to manipulate fractions, percentages and decimals to help us to solve a wide range of problems and develop our reasoning skills, making sure that calculations are supported with clear workings out. As well as this, we have consolidated our multiplication and division skills, speed and accuracy in these and application to problem solving. The use of our daily arithmetic sessions are really helping us to continue mastering the four mathematical operations, with an extra focus on how to apply these to fractions and decimals. The focus for English last term was how to write an effective persuasive text, which linked well to our theme, as the imitation stage addressed the question: 'Were the Vikings savages or civilised?' The Geckos enjoyed exploring a range of their own chosen persuasive questions, which they researched and planned with increasing independence. All children finished the term with the ability to write in a mature manner and we are looking forward to showing you more examples of these in the English books at the next Book Share. This term, the focus is on writing a 'Quest story', which links closely to our current class text, 'Wolf Brother' by Michelle Paver. The children have already been developing their mastery of descriptive writing through use of personification, similes and metaphors, as well as their use of direct speech, more powerful verbs, past tense forms and how to create effective flashbacks. | <urn:uuid:a9223742-4693-454a-a9b8-629991c31053> | CC-MAIN-2021-39 | http://www.sandgateprimaryschool.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Geckos-Class-Report.pdf | 2021-09-19T19:19:33+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2021-39/segments/1631780056900.32/warc/CC-MAIN-20210919190128-20210919220128-00662.warc.gz | 115,045,982 | 482 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998269 | eng_Latn | 0.998269 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2508 ] | [ 3.015625 ] | 1 | 0 | Addition Squares Directions: The first square is already done. Fill in the squares so the numbers in each row and column add to the numbers on the right and bottom. | <urn:uuid:c5fa4151-0142-4eb9-8a3d-217b722bfa00> | CC-MAIN-2021-39 | https://www.learn-with-math-games.com/support-files/addition-math-games-worksheet-1.pdf | 2021-09-19T20:36:42+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2021-39/segments/1631780056900.32/warc/CC-MAIN-20210919190128-20210919220128-00663.warc.gz | 882,687,275 | 37 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.999297 | eng_Latn | 0.999297 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 166 ] | [ 3.125 ] | 1 | 1 | Materials Needed o STEAM Journal o Learning Activity Butterfly Outlines o 6 different colored pencils, markers, crayons, etc. o Pencil or pen Grade Range K-2 3-5 6-8 Topics/Skills Traits, Biology, Phenotypes, Shapes, Patterns Learning Standards Biological Evolution Duration 15-20 minutes Prep Time 2 minutes Beautiful Butterflies Designing the Next Generation of Beautiful Butterflies Butterflies have beautiful and intricate designs and colors on their wings. They use the shapes, patterns and colors to send messages to other butterflies and to hide from predators. Can you design a new generation of butterflies? Activity Challenge Design a butterfly offspring that incorporates its parents' visible traits. Preparation 1. Gather materials and select a workspace. To Do 1. Color Butterfly A with two different colors. One butterfly must have blue. 2. Color Butterfly B with two different colors as well. 3. Now, butterfly A and B have distinct shapes and colors, choose any 2 shapes/patterns and 2 colors from butterfly A or B. 4. Draw and color Butterfly C with the chosen shapes/patterns and colors. Observations * Label the different parts of the butterfly including the antenna, eyes, head, thorax, abdomen, wings, and legs. * In your STEAM Journal, explain why you chose some pattern or color over another color for butterfly sees design. Think about a flowering bush, a street corner, or the side of a tree. What design and color of butterfly do you think would blend in best in any of those settings? Extensions * Attempt to identify and label the forewing, hindwing, proboscis, and wing veins. If the butterfly does not have those anatomical parts, then draw them in and label. * Cut out your butterfly offspring and make a tiny kite out of it. * Attempt to reproduce the blue color on your offspring with markers on plastic wrap by combining to colors that make blue. The Content behind the Activity Butterfly wing patterns and colors are passed down from generation to generation in genetic code called DNA. DNA is a biological messenger that tells cells how to specialize. The DNA in specialized cells contains the code for an organism's traits, such as wing colors, that can be observed and measured. Observable traits are called phenotypic traits. Phenotypic traits like color, pattern, and wing size are the expression of genetic messages in the DNA. Offspring in a generation will commonly display (express) one or more of the phenotypic traits of the parent organism. Butterfly A Butterfly B Butterfly C | <urn:uuid:44a2afdf-0353-4fae-bf95-024fd93bae4f> | CC-MAIN-2021-39 | https://2m9f1z15c8mny1dunw8i2do3-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/LAS-Beautiful-Butterflies.pdf | 2021-09-19T19:18:22+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2021-39/segments/1631780056900.32/warc/CC-MAIN-20210919190128-20210919220128-00664.warc.gz | 129,819,027 | 552 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.991682 | eng_Latn | 0.990816 | [ "eng_Latn", "unknown" ] | false | docling | [ 2518, 2556 ] | [ 4.28125 ] | 2 | 1 | The Reading Rocks Challenge The challenge is to read books from our Reading Rocks list. There is a different list for each year group. Chose a category, read or share a book that fits the category, record the title of the book, the author and the date you finished reading it. Certificates awarded for reading: 5 books – Asteroid Award 8 books – Comet Award 12 books – Meteor Award 18 books – Satellite Award When you have reached an award level bring your challenge record in to show your teacher and talk to them about the books you have read. Certificates will be given out in an assembly after your teacher has seen your record. We have provided some suggestions of books that you may consider reading at the bottom of the challenge record. These are for guidance only! Year 1 recommended reads - I Want My Hat Back by John Klassen - Flotsam by David Wiesner - A Bear Called Paddington by Michael Bond - Flat Stanley by Jeff Brown - I Can Only Draw Worms by Will Mabbitt - Beegu by Alexis Deacon - Giraffe's Can't Dance by Giles Andreae - Mog the Forgetful Cat by Judith Kerr - The Magic Finger by Roald Dahl - The Tiger Who Came to Tea by Judith Kerr Asteroid Award Meteor Award Comet Award Satellite Award Stratford-sub-Castle Primary School Reading Rocks Challenge! January – April 2021 Year 1 Name: ___________________________ A book that involves an adventure Date completed A book with animals Title: _________________________ Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A book with a blue cover Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A book with a one word title Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A book by Oliver Jeffers Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A book that features a prince or princess Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A book that features magic Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A book from the recommended reads list Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A book that has a dog in it Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A book recommended by your teacher Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ Author: _______________________ A book that features friendship Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A poetry book Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A book about Earth (non-fiction) Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A book with more than 20 pages Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A book recommended by a family member Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A book set in a hot place Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A book with no words Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ A book that has won an award Title: _________________________ Author: _______________________ Date completed | <urn:uuid:c90be41e-d2fd-4b0e-a7a1-bc9f4d0a44cb> | CC-MAIN-2021-39 | https://stratford-sub-castle.wilts.sch.uk/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/Reading-Challenge-Booklet-YEAR-1-January-2021.pdf | 2021-09-19T20:02:44+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2021-39/segments/1631780056900.32/warc/CC-MAIN-20210919190128-20210919220128-00666.warc.gz | 585,093,134 | 632 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.828078 | eng_Latn | 0.990372 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1354, 3138 ] | [ 3.390625 ] | 2 | 1 | Founded 1904 Registered Charity No 528912 Expressive Arts and Design Policy RIGHTS RESPECTING SCHOOL This policy is in accordance with the 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC) Article 28 Every child has the right to an education. Article 29 Education must develop every child's personality, talents and abilities to their full. Article 31: Every child has the right to relax, play and take part in a wide range of cultural and artistic activities. The child has A hundred languages A hundred thoughts A hundred hands A hundred ways of thinking Of playing, of speaking…" Loris Malaguzzi At Selly Oak Nursery School we believe that children express themselves in different ways and our role as adults is to facilitate their learning by planning activities around their preferred interests and learning styles. We observe children closely and take photographs to document their learning. We believe the expressive arts are a vehicle for learning. Children are encouraged to express themselves in many ways verbal and non-verbal. At Selly Oak the process of learning is valued as much as the final product. During child-initiated sessions, children are able to take part in activities where they can be innovative and where practitioners are available to support them and value their ideas. There are also adult initiated activities where practitioners model skills and knowledge and encourage children to use the techniques in work of their own. Throughout all nursery activities, children's own ideas are valued and incorporated. Children are encouraged to evaluate their own work saying what it is they like and suggesting ways that they could make their work even better. Children are encouraged to work in groups and alone. They are given opportunities to work on large and small scales, on different surfaces such as tables, the floor, at easels, both indoor and out. We aim to create a stimulating environment where resources are accessible to children. Children can explore and discover high quality resources that stimulate their senses and imagination in each area. For example, in the library there are book bags with different kinds 1 | Page of puppets to support children's interests. In the role-play areas there are dressing up clothes and artefacts from different cultures in the Discovery area, children will find natural materials of different textures, find out about life cycles of plants and animals, water, sand and exploratory play. They have opportunities to create their own stories through our small world fantasy boxes. They will discover mirrors and reflective materials and will be able to work with the light table, with transparent and non-transparent materials. Different forms of representation are encouraged throughout the nursery. There are small and large role-play areas, which are changed according to the interests of the children. There are writing areas and a moveable writing trolly with pencils, pens, felt-tips and chalk available. The creative room has a range of 2D and 3D materials; there are various paints, collage materials, junk modelling materials, clay, chalk, and dough. Children are encouraged to use a variety of puppets to express themselves and to make puppets of their own. Music and Dance. Music is well resourced enabling children to explore sound both alone and with others. We have a large hall, where there is plenty of space to combine the use of instruments with movement. We are also fortunate in having sturdy outdoor instruments made from recycled materials. Creativity through music and sound is encouraged both through adult directed play in which the children are taught listening skills and how to care for and use the instruments correctly and in child initiated sessions, indoor and out. Children have the opportunity on a daily basis to sing within their groups. We are fortunate to have an extensive library of tapes and cd's including traditional rhymes, classical music, music from a variety of cultures and dance music that are used regularly. We also use singing and music to enhance other curriculum areas such as Personal, Social and Emotional Development, Mathematical Development and Physical Development. It is the policy of the nursery to celebrate children's creativity by displaying children's own work using good quality backing materials and borders that enhance the child's efforts. Often photographs of the learning process are displayed. This helps parents and staff value the child's creativity and reflect on their learning. The nursery encourages children to participate in music, dance and drama with others. Children and their families are invited to share and participate in celebration events. We use various artists/dancers to influence the work of our children and enhance the curriculum and are given the opportunity to experience expressive arts within the community Agreed by Selly Oak Nursery School Governing Body on:- Signed …………………………………………………….. Dated ………………………………………………………. Review Date:……………………………………………. 2 |P a g e | <urn:uuid:5f3a6edd-f4e4-4821-863e-568305b24b2c> | CC-MAIN-2021-39 | https://www.sellyoak-nur.bham.sch.uk/Files/Download/8f1f1bd9-ee66-48e2-91a7-a8ed65ba125a/951ba1fe-cfca-4393-aac6-fe5f2e5691bc/Expressive%20Arts%20and%20Design%202016.pdf | 2021-09-19T19:31:33+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2021-39/segments/1631780056900.32/warc/CC-MAIN-20210919190128-20210919220128-00664.warc.gz | 1,025,489,740 | 969 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.998346 | eng_Latn | 0.998382 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2747, 5098 ] | [ 3.375 ] | 2 | 0 | July's Tasks – Watering and Weeding By Dawn Pettinelli, UConn Home & Garden Education Center Many parts of the Northeast have received lower than normal amounts of rainfall during June and July. Because of this, some towns have instituted water bans, restricting residents' usage of water on outdoor plantings. At the same time, our vegetable gardens are in full swing with early crops like broccoli, sugar snap peas and chard producing abundantly. Pepper, bean, cucumber and squash plants are flowering and green tomatoes are on the vine. To keep the garden growing, water is needed, either from Mother Nature or you. The only good thing about all this humidity is that plants transpire less, which means they are using less water. Not much less during these hot days, but a little less. Check your container plants daily. Plants in smaller containers need water almost every day while larger containers and window boxes might require waterings every other or even third day during humid weather. When watering containers, add enough so that you notice a few drips from the drainage holes. Stick a finger into the potting mix if you are unsure about adding water. If it feels moist about one-half inch down, it is likely okay for another day. Overwatering causes root rots and other diseases. Water when the potting mix feels dry to the touch but don't let the media dry out so much it pulls away from the sides of the pot. When this happens, any water added to the pot simply flows out the drainage holes. To rehydrate plants, place the pot in a tub with about 2 inches of water and leave until the potting mix is saturated. How often your gardens need to be watered depends on the weather as well as the amount of organic matter incorporated into your garden soil and whether or not a mulch is used. Organic matter acts like a sponge so soils with adequate amounts can hold more water. Mulches reduce the amount of water lost from the soil by evaporation. Most plants require about an inch of water per week and maybe a bit more during dry, hot weather. Use a rain gauge to determine how much water your garden receives either by precipitation or your sprinkler. Either stick a finger into the soil or use a trowel to see if water is needed. If more than the top half inch to inch is dry, it is time to water. Ideally, plants should be watered deeply once or twice a week. Soaker hoses or drip irrigation systems would be the most efficient way to water. It makes the most sense to install them at the beginning of the gardening season so consider this for next year. If using a sprinkler this year, try to not to irrigate in the middle of the day as much of the water will be lost to evaporation. Morning is best as the foliage has a chance to dry off before evening reducing the chance of diseases. A great competitor for the water you are giving your plants are weeds. Those sporadic rain showers we have been getting not only benefit our plants but encourage weed seed germination and growth. It is truly amazing how fast a crabgrass or purslane or pigweed can grow – seems like they double their size every 24 hours. This may be a bit exaggerated, but it seems to me that they grow a lot faster than my vegetables. The best time to weed is after a rain or watering when the soil is soft, and weeds can be pulled with ease. It's hard to spend a few hours weeding on these hot, muggy weekends. Try for 30 minutes or so after supper during the week. You will be pleasantly surprised with how much can get accomplished. There are dozens of weeding tools on the market. I tend to weed on my hands and knees and find the cobra head cultivator and dandelion weeder to work well for me. Others in my family like to stand and find long handled cultivators and hoes to suit their purpose. One might have to try a few tools to find one that matches their ergonomic requirements plus weeding needs. Do your best to supply your plants with adequate moisture throughout the growing season and to reduce competition for both water and nutrients from weeds. If you have questions about watering or weed identification or on queries on other gardening topics, feel free to contact us, toll-free, at the UConn Home & Garden Education Center at (877) 486-6271, visit our website at www.ladybug.uconn.edu or contact your local Cooperative Extension center. | <urn:uuid:6b59724c-78b5-4ea0-bfec-f3f77444fa2d> | CC-MAIN-2020-40 | http://www.ladybug.uconn.edu/index_296_3321978651.pdf | 2020-09-25T22:26:45+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-40/segments/1600400228998.45/warc/CC-MAIN-20200925213517-20200926003517-00682.warc.gz | 196,651,521 | 917 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.999252 | eng_Latn | 0.99929 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 2319, 4357 ] | [ 3.296875 ] | 1 | 1 | Article Guide: License to Drill: New rules for offshore drilling could threaten nearly all of America's coasts http://scienceovereverything.com/?p=3788&preview=true Part 1: What is offshore drilling? Directions: * Read the section of the article titled "What is offshore drilling?" o Underline in the text where the focus questions are addressed o Box vocabulary words or words that you have not seen before * Answer each focus question Focus questions 1. Where in the ocean does offshore drilling take place? __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ 2. How do offshore drills access crude oil and bring it to the surface? __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ 3. What part of the United States Government oversees offshore drilling? __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ Part 2: Environmental consequences Directions: * Read each understanding question * Read the section of the article titled "Environmental consequences". o Think about what you would need to know to answer that question o Box vocabulary words or words that you have not seen before * Answer each understanding question Understanding questions 1. What do you think poses a bigger environmental risk from offshore drilling, oil spills or regular operations? __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ 2. How can damage to a local ecosystem potentially harm humans economically? What are some social repercussions of a region losing its main source of income? __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ Part 3: Is offshore drilling worth it? Directions: * Read the section of the article titled “Is offshore drilling worth it?” o Box vocabulary words or words that you have not seen before * Discuss with a partner how you would address the extension questions. o Write a response to the extension questions 3. Imagine you were on the board of directors of an oil company. You and the other members are discussing if the company should start a new offshore oil drilling project. From a business stand point, would you be for or against building new offshore oil rigs? Cite at least two pieces of evidence for your argument. __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ | <urn:uuid:47981add-ce60-47a7-9f79-1e95b4b0db0c> | CC-MAIN-2020-40 | http://scienceovereverything.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Offshore-Drilling-Article-Guide.pdf | 2020-09-25T21:55:59+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-40/segments/1600400228998.45/warc/CC-MAIN-20200925213517-20200926003517-00682.warc.gz | 121,502,416 | 450 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.952563 | eng_Latn | 0.955134 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1532, 3462 ] | [ 3.8125 ] | 2 | 0 | Lesson Excerpt: American Heritage Themes Focus Students are to develop the meaning of the four themes of American Heritage. Write the words freedom, freedom unity, progress, and responsibility on the board. Ask students what they think each of the words means, and write their responses near the word. Activity 1. Have groups of students develop a frieze to illustrate one of the themes. Each group may demonstrate and/or explain to the class their illustration. 2. Have students working individually or in groups use copies of the templates, art paper, or poster boards to illustrate the meaning of one or more of the themes. Students could use words, sentences, paragraphs, pictures, or quotations from the handout or from other sources. Student should consider the meaning of the themes for Americans today. 3. Have students develop a bumper sticker to illustrate the meaning of one or more of the themes. Closure Remind students that freedom, unity, progress, and responsibility are themes from American history that are still important to Americans today. Resource: America's Heritage: An Adventure in Liberty High School Download the Free Lesson High School Lesson* *To download the entire American Heritage Themes lesson plan, you must sign up for a free membership with American Heritage Education Foundation. Activity Location America's Heritage: An Adventure in Liberty (ES-HS), American Heritage Themes Unit, pp. 21-27. High School version. Other Resources American Heritage Education Foundation Bookstore The Founding American Heritage Education Foundation | <urn:uuid:ea10c633-4ca2-47ef-b13b-801824566bcd> | CC-MAIN-2020-40 | https://thefounding.net/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/AH-AL-HS-AmericanHeritageThemes.pdf | 2020-09-26T00:32:02+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-40/segments/1600400228998.45/warc/CC-MAIN-20200925213517-20200926003517-00682.warc.gz | 658,562,149 | 307 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.990941 | eng_Latn | 0.990941 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1587 ] | [ 4.0625 ] | 1 | 0 | Problem Solver Solve addition and subtraction multi-step problems in contexts, deciding which operations and methods to use and why. Solve the problems. Raj buys 20 cupcakes priced £2.40 each and a chocolate cake priced £5.50. How much did he spend altogether? I got £48.50 for my birthday. I spent £8.67 on Saturday and £19.49 on Sunday. How much spending money have I got left? Mabel has 360 stickers. She shares them equally between four friends. Out of one of her friend’s share, she gives her sister 54 stickers. How many stickers does her friend have remaining? Maths | Year 6 | Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication and Division | Addition and Subtraction Multi-Step Problems | Home Learning Task: Problem Solver I think of a number. I divide it by 25 then multiply the answer by four. The answer is 128. What was my starting number? On Sunday, I spend 114 minutes on my art project, and 45 minutes on my numeracy homework. On Thursday evening, I spent a total of 111 minutes on my homework. What is the difference between the time I spend doing homework on Sunday and Thursday evening? Helena has £50. She buys eight CDs priced £4.60 each. How much money will she have remaining? Use a pencil and a paperclip as a spinner. Flick the paperclip to choose an answer for your problem. Create three two-step problems. 1) 2) 3) 27 1094 954 153 328 485 3284 95 Problem Solver Answers Problem Solver Solve addition and subtraction multi-step problems in contexts, deciding which operations and methods to use and why. Solve the problems. Maths | Year 6 | Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication and Division | Addition and Subtraction Multi-Step Problems | Home Learning Task: Problem Solver Sarah completed her marathon raising £551.20. She shares her raised money between her four chosen charities. Her mum insisted on giving £43 to each chosen charity as well. How much did each charity receive? I think of a number. I divide it by 25 then I subtract 45.5 The answer is 128. What was my starting number? Lex has £95.27. He wants to buy eight DVDs priced £8.67 each. How much money will he have left? Use a pencil and a paperclip as a spinner. Flick the paperclip to choose an answer for your problem. Create three two-step problems. 1) 2) 3) 4.5 10 343 594 148 6.8 6.90 209 701 I think of a number. I multiply the number by 100 then add 3.9. My answer is 7.85. What was my starting number? Each table in a classroom is 100cm long and 50cm wide. There are 16 tables in a classroom. What is the total area of the tables in the classroom in square metres? Ruby has 1.096l of juice. She shares it equally between eight cups. Her sister drinks two cups. How much juice does she have remaining? Problem Solver Answers Problem Solver Solve addition and subtraction multi-step problems in contexts, deciding which operations and methods to use and why. Solve the problems. Maths | Year 6 | Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication and Division | Addition and Subtraction Multi-Step Problems | Home Learning Task: Problem Solver I think of a number. I divide it by 25, add 14.56 then halve the answer. My answer is 14.28. What was my starting number? A bakery sells 19 types of muffins. They make seven of each type in every batch they bake. How many muffins does the shop bake in 40 batches? At the fabric shop, I bought 245.67 metres of orange fabric, 94.35 metres of yellow fabric and 294.05 metres of purple fabric. I have used 144.59 metres of orange fabric, 58.74 metres of yellow fabric and 59.97 metres of purple fabric. How many metres of fabric do I have left in total? Use a pencil and a paperclip as a spinner. Flick the paperclip to choose an answer for your problem. Create three two-step problems. 1) 2) 3) 61 9 549 271 369 204 4.5 1180 For breakfast, Helena bought a croissant for £1.86 and a glass of orange juice for £2.34. At lunch, Helena spent £4.70 on a sandwich and £1.09 on a bottle of water. How much more money did Helena spend on lunch than on breakfast? A carpet costs £7.80 per square metre and underlay costs £3.25 per square metre. A bedroom measures 4m by 3m. How much will it cost to lay underlay and carpet in the bedroom? 45.9 x 8 = - 83.24 Problem Solver Answers | <urn:uuid:a66827df-d345-4f2f-bfe3-6987b0ed15a1> | CC-MAIN-2020-40 | http://luttonstnicholasprimary.org/classes/workpacks/y6/june15/Problem%20Solver%20Home%20Learning%20Tasks.pdf | 2020-09-25T22:18:41+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-40/segments/1600400228998.45/warc/CC-MAIN-20200925213517-20200926003517-00683.warc.gz | 71,687,601 | 1,140 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.997675 | eng_Latn | 0.998014 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown" ] | false | docling | [ 731, 1400, 1424, 2153, 2772, 2796, 3665, 4286, 4310 ] | [ 4.1875 ] | 2 | 0 | Teaching Scissor Skills (Adapted from articles by Anne Zachry and Meredith Corporation) Cutting with scissors requires the skill of hand separation, which is the ability to use the thumb, index, and middle fingers separately from the pinkie and ring fingers. This can be challenging for a youngster with small hands. Although many 3- or 4-year-olds have the skills needed to snip and cut, scissor skills are not fully developed until around age 6. Select Good Scissors. Scissors come in a variety of sizes, so search for a pair that fits your child's hand. For an inexperienced cutter, select scissors with a blunt point, and give them a trial run to make sure the blades are sharp enough for cutting. Dull scissors can fold the paper instead of cutting it. Left-handed children should always use left-handed scissors. The upper blades on true lefthanded scissors are on the left side so that children can see the cutting line. Beware of scissors that are supposedly ambidextrous; although these can easily be held with the left or right hand, the upper blade is still on the right side, which makes it difficult for lefties to see the cutting line. Children with special needs, hand weakness, or coordination problems may need special or adaptive scissors to start, though many are able to progress to regular scissors over time. There are various types of adaptive scissors that work well for children with physical limitations. One is spring scissors, which automatically spring open after being squeezed closed. These are useful for a child with limited strength or coordination. Mounted tabletop scissors are suitable for children with one functional hand. "A pair of very small Benbow Learning Scissors, designed by an occupational therapist, can also make correct positioning easier," says Barbara A. Smith, M.S., an occupational therapist and author of From Rattles to Writing: A Parent's Guide to Hand Skills. Blunt-tipped Fiskar scissors are preferred by schoolteachers. "The reason I have come to love the Fiskar brand is that it works," says Carol Welch, a kindergarten teacher with 23 years experience. "As parents we often think 'safety scissors' are the best option for beginners, but all too often these scissors have dull blades, which makes it harder to cut. Children who try are often unsuccessful and they become discouraged or give up. Fiskar scissors actually cut the paper successfully in a short amount of time," she says. Stress Scissor Safety. Scissor safety is critical and should always be emphasized at the beginning of each cutting activity. Welch reveals her two "golden scissors safety rules" for her kindergarten class. 1. Scissors are only for cutting paper. Nothing else! (This includes shirts, crayons, fingers, hair, and lips.) If a child feels the need to cut something other than paper, he loses the privilege of having scissors until he is ready for another chance. If the problem happens again, the scissors are taken away. http://www.parents.com/toddlers-preschoolers/development/physical/teaching-preschoolers-to-usescissors/ http://drannezachry.com/ 2. Avoid walking with scissors. Discourage children from walking around the classroom while holding scissors. On the rare occasion that they must do so, the students know the proper way to hold them is with the blades closed, gripping the blade end in the hand, forming a fist around the blades, and leaving the handles exposed. The scissors should be held close to one's side when walking. By following this rule, there is no risk of children walking around while opening and closing the blades. Work on Fine Motor Skills First. Before teaching your child to use scissors, have him participate in some fun activities that will strengthen his hand and finger muscles and improve bilateral coordination. Tong activities are an entertaining option. Have your child use kitchen tongs to stack small blocks or to move cotton balls from one container to another. Or jump-start his fine motor skills with these activities: * Tear paper into small pieces to improve the ability to use both hands in a coordinated manner. * Spin a top to exercise the muscles in the thumb, index, and middle finger. * Punch holes on index cards with a handheld puncher to strengthen the hand muscles and improve bilateral skills. * Squeeze water out of squirt-toys in the bathtub so hand muscles get a workout. * Use an eye dropper filled with watercolor paints to challenge fine motor skill. * Finger puppet play is entertaining and addresses finger isolation and dexterity. * Place clothespins or kitchen clips on the edge of a paper plate to strengthen small hand and finger muscles and encourage bilateral skills. Steps to Perfect Scissor Development Start the Snipping Process. Once your child's hand muscles have strengthened and her bilateral and coordination skills have improved, introduce the scissors. Follow these simple instructions for holding scissors correctly. 1. Position the wrist so that the thumb is turned upward, the thumb joint resting inside the thumb loop. 2. Make sure the tip of the middle finger is inside the opposite loop. Some scissors have enough space for the middle and ring fingers to be positioned inside this loop. There may even be adequate space for both fingers. 3. Place the index finger outside the loop, in front of the middle finger serving as a "guide." 4. The ring finger and pinkie should be curled into the palm (unless the ring finger is inside the loop with the middle finger). "Many children need frequent help positioning the wrist correctly in the 'thumbs up' position," Smith advises. "A helpful strategy is to hold the paper above eye level or tape it to the wall so that the child is cutting upwards. Cutting in this position automatically positions the wrist correctly." http://www.parents.com/toddlers-preschoolers/development/physical/teaching-preschoolers-to-usescissors/ Showcase Your Own Skills. Teach your own scissor skills to your child. "Modeling, while sitting beside your child instead of across, is easier, especially for kids who are challenged with body position and space," says Sunita Murty-Gami, an occupational therapist and Clinical Coordinator for PediaStaff. Be sure to explain what you are doing at each step. For example, say, "Look, I am using my thumb to open and close the scissors." Provide a visual cue, such as, "The http://drannezachry.com/ scissor blades are opening and closing like a crocodile's mouth." If your child has a difficult time manipulating the scissors, there are "two-person" training scissors available in many craft stores or online. These are excellent because they have an extra set of loops. You can hold and manipulate the outside loops while your child holds the inside loops, allowing your little one to "feel" the movement of the blades opening and closing. Encourage Independent Cutting. Once your child can hold and manipulate a pair of scissors with ease, she is ready to cut on her own. She can start by snipping several colorful straws into small pieces. Thread a colorful piece of string or yarn through the pieces to make a bracelet or necklace. Once she has mastered snipping, offer her one-inch-wide strips of card stock, construction paper, or old file folders. The firmness of these materials makes cutting easier for a beginner because the paper doesn't flop around and the short width of the paper allows for cutting the strips in half with one snip. Never let the scraps of paper go to waste. "I often have a child snip pieces of green, yellow, and orange paper into small pieces to make leaves for a tree or sprinkles for an ice cream cone picture," Murty-Gami says. Have your child attempt to snip sequentially by cutting across a 4-inch piece of paper and progressing to an 8-inch piece. With practice, he will learn to cut on straight lines, curved lines, angled lines, and simple shapes with skill. The cutting lines should be thick and bold in the beginning; as your child's skills improve, progress to thinner lines. If your child has difficulty staying on the lines while cutting, make a practice sheet by outlining the cutting line with two thin strips of school glue. Once the glue dries, have your child cut on the line between the ridges of glue. If he veers off of the line, he will feel a bump as he cuts across the glue strip. After completing several practice sheets, the sensory feedback should help him understand how to stay on the lines. Encourage Scissor Skill Development. Don't worry if your child is a messy cutter at first. Kids progress at their own pace, so prepare his little hands with fun games and activities that challenge fine motor skills. Keep this development progression in mind as your kid begins using scissors: 1. The child begins to show an interest in cutting. 2. The child holds the scissors correctly. 3. The child opens and closes the scissors in a coordinated manner. 4. The child uses an entire hand to snip paper. 5. The child uses scissors to cut forward across a piece of paper with two or more consecutive snips. 6. The child cuts a piece of paper in half. 7. The child follows straight lines, with the scissors (not the paper) moving to stay on the line. 8. The child manipulates scissors and paper to cut out shapes with curves. 9. The child cuts squares. 10. The child cuts more complex shapes.Remember that using scissors efficiently is a complicated skill that improves with practice and, as we all know, practice makes perfect. Copyright © 2012 Meredith Corporation. http://www.parents.com/toddlers-preschoolers/development/physical/teaching-preschoolers-to-use- scissors/ http://drannezachry.com/ | <urn:uuid:a6a7e9ba-fe48-4276-bf68-93ba88167b26> | CC-MAIN-2020-40 | http://terriotherapy.com/PDF/schools/TeachingScissorSkills.pdf | 2020-09-25T22:47:59+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-40/segments/1600400228998.45/warc/CC-MAIN-20200925213517-20200926003517-00685.warc.gz | 126,023,705 | 1,997 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.99909 | eng_Latn | 0.999133 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 3105, 6416, 9677 ] | [ 4.71875 ] | 4 | 8 | STRANDS AND STANDARDS EQUINE SCIENCE-YEAR Course Description Students will be exposed to equine science and technology principles which include genetics, anatomy, physiology/nutrition, diseases, pests, and management practices. The scientific processes of observation, measurement, hypothesizing, data gathering, interpretation, analysis, and application are stressed. Career opportunities and educational preparation are examined. Learning activities are varied, with classroom, laboratory, and field experiences emphasized. Students will develop an understanding of the role of FFA in Agricultural Education Programs. Standard 1 Students will understand the history and organization of FFA. * Students will explain the mission and strategies, colors, motto, parts of the emblem, and the organizational structure of the FFA. * Students will explain how, when, and why the FFA was organized. * Students will recite and explain the meaning of the FFA Creed. * Students will explain the purpose of a Program of Activities and its committee structure. Standard 2 Students will discover opportunities in FFA. * Students will identify major state and national activities available to FFA members. * Students will describe how the FFA develops leadership skills, personal growth, and career success. Standard 3 Students will determine FFA degrees, awards, and Career Development Events. * Students will identify the FFA proficiency awards. * Students will explain the FFA degree areas. * Students will explain various team and individual Career Development Events. Performance Objective * Attend an FFA meeting. Students will understand the benefits of a Supervised Agricultural Experience (SAE) Program. Standard 1 Students will determine the benefits of an SAE. * Students will define supervised horticultural/agricultural experience. * Students will explain the importance of goals and career ladders. * Students will explain the benefits of supervised horticultural/agricultural experience programs. Standard 2 Students will determine the kinds of SAE programs. * Students will describe research/experimentation and exploratory SAE's. * Students will explain the difference between entrepreneurship and placement SAE's. * Students will explain the characteristics of a good SAE program and student responsibilities that are involved. Standard 3 Students will research possible SAE programs. * Students will identify skills needed for career success. * Students will identify career interest areas in agriculture. * Students will explain opportunities for SAE programs. Standard 4 Students will plan an SAE program. * Student will identify the parts of an annual SAE program plan. * Student will identify the steps in planning an SAE program. * Student will discuss the function of a training plan and/or agreement in an SAE program. Standard 5 Students will implement SAE programs. * Students will explain the types of financial records needed to support a chosen SAE program. * Students will discuss the importance of keeping records on an SAE program. * Students will identify standards to follow in keeping records on an SAE program. Performance Objective * Develop short and long rage SAE goals. * Develop short and long range leadership and personal development goals. * In an approved record book, record all transactions and activities on a SAE. Students will study career opportunities in equine science Standard 1 Students will present the general skills required for employment. Standard 2 Students will use resources and assess information Standard 3 Students will describe the educational opportunities available. Standard 4 Students will list three ways to gain experience in the horse industry. Standard 5 Students will identify eight careers and entrepreneurship opportunities in equine science. STRAND 4 Students will understand the history of the modern horse and the development of horse breeds, types, and classes. Standard 1 Students will describe the development of modern horses. Standard 2 Students will discuss the domestication of the horse. Standard 3 Students will identify historical trends of human utilization of horses. Standard 4 Students will describe the current horse industry. Standard 5 Students will describe the gait and movement of horses. Standard 6 Students will classify and describe equine as pony, light, draft, and long-eared. Standard 7 Students will list and describe equine breeds and their origins. Performance Objective * Correctly classify specific equine breeds. * Identify equine breeds. Students will analyze equine anatomy and physiology. Standard 1 Students will identify the external parts of the horse. Standard 2 Students will explore equine bodily systems. Standard 3 Students will describe the skeletal and muscular systems of the horse. Standard 4 Students will describe the digestive system of the horse. Standard 5 Students will describe the reproductive systems of the horse. Performance Objective * Identify the parts of the skeletal system. * Identify the parts of the digestive system. * Identify the parts of the reproductive system. * Identify the external parts of a horse. STRAND 6 Students will learn about equine nutrition and feeding management. Standard 1 Students will list and discuss basic nutrients. Standard 2 Students will identify feeds important to horses. Standard 3 Students will balance an equine ration. Standard 4 Students will list and describe equine nutritional disorders. Performance Objective * Develop a balanced equine ration. Students will explore concepts in equine health management. Standard 1 Students will list, identify, and describe equine diseases. Standard 2 Students will identify horse internal and external parasites. Standard 3 Students will properly care for hooves and explain hoof anatomy. Standard 4 Students will determine proper horse health management practices. * Teeth floating and aging * Vaccination program * Sanitation Performance Objective * Identify symptoms of equine diseases and parasites. STRAND 8 Students will understand horse genetics. Standard 1 Students will explore the fundamentals of genetics. Standard 2 Students will investigate horse coat color and markings. Standard 3 Students will explain the heritability of performance traits. Performance Objective * Predict the heritability of coat color, markings, and performance traits. STRAND 9 Students will explore horse reproduction and parturition. Standard 1 Students will describe the physiology of the reproduction tracts of stallions and mares. Standard 2 Students will summarize the estrus cycle and proper times to breed. Standard 3 Students will describe proper horse gestation management. Standard 4 Students will explore equine reproductive technology. * Embryo transfer * Artificial insemination * Cloning Standard 5 Students will discuss proper care during pregnancy and parturition. Standard 6 Students will describe the horse condition scoring system. Performance Objective * Develop a breeding schedule for a mare. STRAND 10 Students will study and utilize equine behavior training. Standard 1 Students will list and discuss horse behavioral categories. Standard 2 Students will demonstrate safe handling of horses. Standard 3 Students will explain imprinting. Standard 4 Students will identify abnormal horse behavior (vices). Standard 5 Students will discuss how to load and haul a horse and how to check the safety of a trailer. Performance Objective * Demonstrate the safe handling of horses. STRAND 11 Students will learn about equine facilities and equipment. Standard 1 Students will identify, discuss, and describe the usage of Western and English tack. Standard 2 Students will outline the transportation of horses. Standard 3 Students will investigate horse facilities and fencing. Standard 4 Students will discuss waste management. Performance Objective * Develop a waste management plan. STRAND 12 Students will know how to evaluate and select a horse. Standard 1 Students will summarize the considerations of purchasing a horse. Standard 2 Students will recognize the ideal horse conformation characteristics. Standard 3 Students will recognize conformation faults and predict potential unsoundness Standard 4 Students will present oral and written reasons in horse evaluation. Performance Objective Present oral reasons in horse evaluation. * Select a horse based on conformation characteristics. Skill Certificate Test Points by Strand | <urn:uuid:ccad4b0b-f9c9-43af-b17d-1a2b073f24c6> | CC-MAIN-2020-40 | https://schools.utah.gov/file/e926508e-913b-4dbb-a126-b02ecdbf7a85 | 2020-09-25T23:23:55+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-40/segments/1600400228998.45/warc/CC-MAIN-20200925213517-20200926003517-00683.warc.gz | 586,206,833 | 1,655 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.986896 | eng_Latn | 0.990176 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 529, 1621, 3384, 4602, 5609, 6730, 7638, 8618 ] | [ 3.84375 ] | 1 | 0 | be a safe food handler 1. Personal hygiene 2. Perishable food 3. Cross-contamination 4. Contaminated food 5. Danger zone 6. Thorough cooking 7. High-risk foods A) The transfer of harmful bacteria from one food to another. Harmful bacteria can also be transferred to food from another source, such as hands B) Foods that can become unsafe or spoil (go off) quickly if not refrigerated or frozen C) Keeping yourself clean D) Food that contains harmful bacteria E) Cooking food to a safe temperature through to the middle F) The range of temperatures at which most bacteria multiply rapidly: between 5 and 63º G) Foods that provide ideal conditions for pathogenic bacteria to grow | <urn:uuid:cc4c3f81-f423-4a9f-822b-d7eae6e89c74> | CC-MAIN-2020-40 | https://stcuthberts.com/media/4792/be-a-safe-food-handler-yr7-copy.pdf | 2020-09-25T23:50:18+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-40/segments/1600400228998.45/warc/CC-MAIN-20200925213517-20200926003517-00685.warc.gz | 614,319,196 | 162 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.992687 | eng_Latn | 0.992687 | [ "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 679 ] | [ 3.53125 ] | 1 | 0 | SCIENCE: The science program instills and reinforces a sense of curiosity and discovery in the investigation of the world. Students are encouraged to learn scientific principles, vocabulary, inquiry, experimentation, and reporting at the appropriate skill level for the age. Whole class/small group instruction, verbal and visual presentations, journal keeping, and making real world connections help this subject to come "alive" for the students. Overview: across the grades levels, introduces, refines, and masters the following: * Earth science * Geology * Astronomy * Water, weather and climate * Oceanography * Life Science o Cells, structure, function, processes * Plants o Animals o Ecosystems and the diversity of living things * Health o Body Organs * Physical Science * Matter * Motion and forces * Energy * Waves o Light * Electromagnetic Systems * Scientific Method * Lab Reports * Science Fair Sampling of topics covered: Grades 1 – 3 * Comparing and contrasting living and non-living things. * Understanding that there is interdependence among living organisms within a geographic area which calls for mutual care and nurturing within an environment, specifically the Arctic and rainforest. * Recognizing the similarity in familiar animals and plants. * Studying the life cycle of a plant · Introduce the five senses and their functions · Develop and understanding of proper nutrition and hygiene * Understand the necessity for personal safety · Looking at fossils that give evidence of prehistoric life * Recycling * Understanding that sun, water, and air are major factors in weather * Recognizing fair weather and storm clouds. * Understanding the movement of the major bodies in our solar system * Understanding the concept of rotation; why the sun appears to rise and set Grades 4 – 6 All of the above, as well as: * Classifying geologic eras. * Identifying the earth's surface and interior make-up. * Classifying rocks using characteristics of each type. * Studying volcanoes, earthquakes, movements of continents, creation of mountains. * Examining fossils, their type and formation. * Recognizing constellations, visible planets · Identifying the three states of water: solid, liquid, gas * Distinguishing between weather and climate * Understanding condensation, precipitation, evaporation, freezing, and melting * Understanding how clouds form * Comparing and contrasting the parts of plant cells and animal cells. * Describing how cells are organized. * Understanding that plants and animals go through predictable life cycles: growth, development, reproduction, and death. * Classify living things by kingdom, phylum, class, and order, family, genus, and species. Jr. High All of the above, as well as: * Executing the process of scientific inquiry and reporting, including clearly stating the purpose or question, planning the experiment, collecting the necessary materials, formulating a hypothesis, perform an experiment to test the hypothesis, executing the systematic and precise collection and reporting of date, and formulating conclusions based upon the data. * Encouraging students to take responsibility for their own learning. * Devising procedures for carrying out independent investigations within the framework of the Science Fair project. * Developing awareness of environmental issues and the global impact of human actions. * Learning the parts of and learning to use a compound microscope. * Using the microscope to identify and differentiate the parts of the cell. * Understanding the difference between self and cross-pollination. * Identifying the types of leaves and their classifications. * Comparing groups of organisms in terms of their diversity and analyze and compare the theories of Lamarck and Darwin. * Learning the levels of classification for: kingdom to species; living things; vertebrates, and invertebrates. * Analyze the effects of inertia in everyday experience. * In Newton, estimate the force needed to lift an object; measure the size of a force. | <urn:uuid:52e1bcfd-6bde-4ed8-9b75-631f3237e7c9> | CC-MAIN-2020-40 | https://stjohns-peabody.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/Science-Overview.pdf | 2020-09-25T22:01:16+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-40/segments/1600400228998.45/warc/CC-MAIN-20200925213517-20200926003517-00686.warc.gz | 641,931,027 | 803 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.982731 | eng_Latn | 0.986918 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 1605, 4026 ] | [ 4.46875 ] | 1 | 0 | This reflects your listening experience of social distancing during the Covid19 Pandemic of 2020 Listening Passport belonging to 3 Collect Write down all of the sounds you hear Select Describe some of your good sounds Personal notes Use this for your own notes or comments 4 6 – 17 18 – 33 34 – 38 We all have the power to change our own environment and the impact it has on us. When we change the way we look and listen at our surrounding then change will happen. This Listening Passport will help you. This is for you to use alone, with mates online or in a family setting. Upload your recordings to instagram using the hashtags #listeningpassport and #isolationsounds. Follow @thelisteningpassport. There are only a few simple instructions. Please follow the simple instructions for each section. There are examples given for each task . Your Listening passport will allow you to focus on your surroundings and environment. You will be asked to identify and describe the positive things you hear, see and feel around you. 5 Write down all of the sounds you hear Make note if it’s daytime or night, inside or out, and if you like the sound Like Eg. Birds in the garden. Outside. In a group. Summer. Daytime. Eg. Wash washer in kitchen Inside. Daytime. Eg. Feeding the goldfish Inside. Night time before bed. Eg. Clicking a jigsaw together Inside. Early morning. X X X X 6 7 Like Like Like 8 9 Like Like 10 Like Like 12 Like Like 14 Like Like 16 Inside Outside Inside With others Day Outside Alone Night Eg. The sound of Lego bricks being connected and played with. Inside With others Day Outside Alone Night 20 Inside With others Day Outside Alone Night Inside With others Day Outside Alone Night Inside With others Day Outside Alone Night 26 Inside With others Day Outside Alone Night Inside With others Day Outside Alone Night Inside With others Day Outside Alone Night Personal notes 34 36 38 But hark! joy – joy – strange joy. Lo! heights of night ringing with unseen larks. Music showering our upturned list'ning faces. Isaac Rosenberg | <urn:uuid:c503a05c-7f42-4d56-8921-79646e6b394f> | CC-MAIN-2020-40 | http://www.listeningpassport.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/listening-passport-public-03.pdf | 2020-09-25T21:39:39+00:00 | crawl-data/CC-MAIN-2020-40/segments/1600400228998.45/warc/CC-MAIN-20200925213517-20200926003517-00685.warc.gz | 188,623,226 | 539 | eng_Latn | eng_Latn | 0.992178 | eng_Latn | 0.992465 | [ "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "eng_Latn", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "unknown", "eng_Latn" ] | false | docling | [ 132, 1044, 1416, 1434, 1450, 1466, 1482, 1498, 1627, 1680, 1729, 1778, 1831, 1880, 1929, 1978, 1998, 2002, 2155 ] | [ 3.125 ] | 1 | 0 | Subsets and Splits No community queries yet The top public SQL queries from the community will appear here once available.
