=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Darsheel Safary - actor - biography, photo, best movies and TV shows]
Mar 9, 1996 · He took a break from acting to focus on studies. In 2016, he played the role of Abhay in the anthology series Yeh Hai Aashiqui. He then appeared in 2023 Hindi sports drama film, Hukus Bukus. and Gujarati film, Kutch Express (film).
URL: https://en.kinorium.com/name/1611416/

["Yeh Hai Aashiqui" Pyaar Mein 2nd (TV Episode 2016) - Darsheel Safary ...]
Cast & crew IMDbPro All topics Darsheel Safary: Abhay Pyaar Mein 2nd Yeh Hai Aashiqui Darsheel Safary credited as playing...
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt8172030/characters/nm2594301

[Darsheel Safary - Wikipedia]
Darsheel Safary (born 9 March 1997) is an Indian actor who appears in Hindi, Gujarati films and television. Safary made his film debut with the leading role of a dyslexic student in Aamir Khan 's directorial debut, the critically acclaimed drama Taare Zameen Par (2007), for which he won the Filmfare critic's Award for Best Actor.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darsheel_Safary

[10/10 For Guessing This Child Actor Who Shared Screen With ... - News18]
In 2016, he was offered the role of Abhay in the Vikas Gupta-created anthology series Yeh Hai Aashiqui. He then appeared in the 2023 Hindi sports drama film, Hukus Bukus and a Gujarati film, Kutch Express. Darsheel Safary is gearing up for the sports drama Sitaare Zameen Par, directed by RS Prasanna, and produced by Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao.
URL: https://www.news18.com/movies/10-10-for-guessing-this-child-actor-who-shared-screen-with-aamir-khan-in-his-debut-9102206.html

[Darsheel Safary - Wikiwand]
Mar 9, 1997 · He took a break from acting to focus on studies. [15] In 2016, he played the role of Abhay in the anthology series Yeh Hai Aashiqui. [16] He then appeared in 2023 Hindi sports drama film, Hukus Bukus. [15] and Gujarati film, Kutch Express (film). [15]
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Darsheel_Safary


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Darsheel Safary - actor - biography, photo, best movies and TV shows] ---
Born into a Gujarati Jain family, Safary made his acting debut in Taare Zameen Par (2007), playing the film's protagonist Ishaan Nandkishore Awasthi. Safary was discovered by script writer and creative director, Amol Gupte in late 2006 when he was looking for a male lead for Taare Zameen Par. After going through hundreds of auditions, Gupte found Safary at Shiamak Davar's dancing school, "Summer Funk". In choosing Safary, Gupte had a number of boys audition for a scene in which they would informally describe how they would "bunk" school after being given a few scenarios. He recalls, "It was a tough call. But Darsheel has the mischief in his eyes to be Ishaan. Everyone just naturally gravitated towards him." Safary's performance as a struggling dyslexic child was praised by film critics. He won several awards for his performance. Taran Adarsh from indiaFM called Safary a "Master" and stated his performance merited a special award. Rajeev Masand of CNN-IBN wrote, "Darsheel Safary steals your heart as Ishaan Awasthi. Darsheel is a revelation as an actor, he's spontaneous and lovable and carries this film completely on his shoulders". Other reviewers called Safary the "real star of the film" and his performance as "brilliant". In a 2007 interview, Safary stated that his career plans may include singing, dancing, becoming a businessman or jewellery designer. His second film Bumm Bumm Bole came in 2010 and according to some sources he was paid ₹ 3 lakh, the highest amount paid to any child actor at the time. He did two more films, Disney India's superhero film Zokkomon (2011) and Deepa Mehta's Midnight's Children (2012). In 2012, he participated in dance reality show Jhalak Dikhhla Jaa with Avneet Kaur as his dance partner, but was eliminated and came in seventh position. He took a break from acting to focus on studies. In 2016, he played the role of Abhay in the anthology series Yeh Hai Aashiqui. He then appeared in 2023 Hindi sports drama film, Hukus Bukus. and Gujarati film, Kutch Express (film).


--- ["Yeh Hai Aashiqui" Pyaar Mein 2nd (TV Episode 2016) - Darsheel Safary ...] ---
Menu All All Watchlist Sign in EN Fully supported English (United States) Partially supported Français (Canada) Français (France) Deutsch (Deutschland) हिंदी (भारत) Italiano (Italia) Português (Brasil) Español (España) Español (México) Use app Back Cast & crew IMDbPro All topics Darsheel Safary: Abhay Pyaar Mein 2nd Yeh Hai Aashiqui Darsheel Safary credited as playing... Abhay Photos 1 + Add photo More from this title More to explore Recently viewed You have no recently viewed pages Back to top


--- [Darsheel Safary - Wikipedia] ---
Darsheel Safary (born 9 March 1997) is an Indian actor who appears in Hindi, Gujarati films and television. Safary made his film debut with the leading role of a dyslexic student in Aamir Khan's directorial debut, the critically acclaimed drama Taare Zameen Par (2007), for which he won the Filmfare critic's Award for Best Actor.


--- [10/10 For Guessing This Child Actor Who Shared Screen With ... - News18] ---
10/10 For Guessing This Child Actor Who Shared Screen With Aamir Khan In His Debut After the success of Taare Zameen Par, Darsheel Safary went on to star in films like Bum Bum Bole, Zokkomon and Midnight’s Children. Darsheel Safary is a name synonymous with one of the highly-appreciated films, Taare Zameen Par. The child artist marked his Bollywood debut with this Aamir Khan film and stole everyone’s heart with his exceptional performance as a dyslexic child struggling with studies. While the film gained immense praise, his role as Ishan Nandkishore Awasthi is etched in everyone’s mind. Now, this young child artist is gearing up to become an actor and has a feature film in the pipeline. After the success of Taare Zameen Par, Darsheel Safary went on to star in films like Bum Bum Bole, Zokkomon and Midnight’s Children but later took a hiatus. The actor who impressed the audience as a child artist has now become an actor and has been starring in many Gujarati and Hindi films. He was also seen in a musical video titled Pyaar Naal which was sung by Vibhor Prashar and was released in 2020. Recommended Stories - Not Sara Ali Khan Or Tiger Shroff, This Actor Is The Richest Bollywood Starkid - Dulquer Salmaan Spills The Beans On His Next Lucky Baskhar: 'His Moral Compass Is Different' - Diljit Dosanjh Asks Fans To 'Dream Big' At His Second Show In Delhi: 'If I Can Make People Speak Punjabi...' - Vikrant Massey Meets Sri Sri Ravi Shankar As He Prepares For A Thriller Based On The Spiritual Leader's Life | See Here In an interview with the Hindustan Times, he opened up about his aspiration to explore films that are more around the subject of his debut film. He shared, “I want to do stuff which is in line with Taare Zameen Par, showcasing important aspects and emotions. I don’t want to break any image of sorts. This is what I’ve done and I’m proud of it. (Now) Let it stay for however long it wants. The idea is to try new things. Most of the films for guys my age are college and student-related. This is something absolutely out of the box." He has also participated in the dance reality show Jhalak Dikhhla Jaa with Avneet Kaur as his dance partner. He was eliminated and came in seventh position. Later, he took a break from acting to focus on his studies. In 2016, he was offered the role of Abhay in the Vikas Gupta-created anthology series Yeh Hai Aashiqui. He then appeared in the 2023 Hindi sports drama film, Hukus Bukus and a Gujarati film, Kutch Express. Darsheel Safary is gearing up for the sports drama Sitaare Zameen Par, directed by RS Prasanna, and produced by Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao. It is touted to be a spiritual sequel to Khan’s 2007 film Taare Zameen Par and is based on the Spanish film Champions. It will also star Aamir Khan and Genelia D’Souza. It is scheduled for a theatrical release on December 25, 2024.


--- [Darsheel Safary - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
