=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad - Wikipedia]
Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad (20 July 1907 - 15 July 1972) was an Indian politician who served as the prime minister of Jammu and Kashmir from 1953 to 1964. Bakshi was a founding member of the National Conference and rose to be the second in command to the principal leader Sheikh Abdullah.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bakshi_Ghulam_Mohammad

[Makers of Modern J&K: Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad]
Bakshi was released on health grounds in December. In June 1965 he made an announcement that he had decided to retire from politics. Bakshi's popularity, however, remained undiminished and in 1967 he was elected to the Lok Sabha on a National Conference ticket defeating the ruling Congress nominee, Ali Mohammed Tariq, by a big margin.
URL: https://shivangsatyagupta.com/makers-of-modern-jk-8/

[Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad Explained]
In 1967 Indian general election Bakshi was elected to the Lok Sabha from Srinagar Lok Sabha constituency on a National Conference ticket defeating the ruling Congress nominee, Ali Mohammed Tariq, by a large margin.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Bakshi_Ghulam_Mohammad/

[Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad - Reference.org]
In 1967 Indian general election Bakshi was elected to the Lok Sabha from Srinagar Lok Sabha constituency on a National Conference ticket defeating the ruling Congress nominee, Ali Mohammed Tariq, by a large margin.
URL: https://reference.org/facts/Bakshi_Ghulam_Mohammad/EIEb74vt

[8 politicians of Jammu and Kashmir you should know]
Apr 9, 2023 · In 1967 Bakshi was elected to the Lok Sabha on a National Conference ticket defeating the ruling Congress nominee, Ali Mohammed Tariq, by a big margin. He remained a member of the Lok Sabha till 1971.
URL: https://www.groundreport.in/states-kashmir-report/know-kashmiri-politicians/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad - Wikipedia] ---
Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad (20 July 1907 – 15 July 1972) was an Indian politician who served as the prime minister of Jammu and Kashmir from 1953 to 1964. Bakshi was a founding member of the National Conference and rose to be the second in command to the principal leader Sheikh Abdullah. He served as the deputy prime minister of the State of Jammu and Kashmir between 1947 and 1953, but disagreed with Abdullah's advocacy of independence for the state in 1953. He staged a 'coup' with the help of the head of state Karan Singh, resulting in the dismissal and imprisonment of Sheikh Abdullah. Bakshi was the longest serving prime minister, whose rule saw the formulation of the constitution of Jammu and Kashmir and a normalisation of relations of Jammu and Kashmir with the Indian government.


--- [Makers of Modern J&K: Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad] ---
Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad: The Architect of Development in J&K Jammu, April 23: Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad (1907–1972) also known for his developmental initiatives and fast track method, ruled the State of Jammu and Kashmir as Prime Minister for eleven years from 1953 to 1964. He succeeded Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah after Sheikh was dismissed from Prime Ministership in 1953. Bakshi’s rule is also called by some as golden era for his talent, hard work and helping nature with many calling him a silent helper. Political observers believe that Bakshi set Kashmir on the road to progress, pulling its people out of the depths of ignorance, hunger and backwardness. He gave a practical shape to the ideal of “Naya Kashmir”, remained steadfast on his principles and earned enormous fame and goodwill at home and outside Kashmir. Jammu and Kashmir made tremendous all-round progress under Bakshi. Targets were fixed and achieved or exceeded in all productive sectors while new avenues of development were identified and explored, they assert. The state got its first Medical College, an Regional Engineering college, two agricultural colleges, two polytechnics, an ayurvedic college as well as hundreds of new schools. Hospitals and dispensaries were set up throughout the state and hundreds of doctors were trained within the State or nominated to the best colleges in India. Roads were constructed and upgraded throughout the length and breadth of the State. The Jawahar Tunnel, considered a major technical achievement at the time, was constructed. The salaries of government servants were trebled and dearness allowance was introduced for pensioners. The State Public Service Commission was constituted. The Academy of Art, Culture and Languages was set up and the Tagore Hall was constructed. The first Multi-Storey Secretariat Building and Sports Stadium in the state were constructed. Bakshi was educated at C.M.S Tyndale Biscoe School. He started his career as a school teacher in far flung areas of Jammu and Kashmir like Skardu and Leh and later served in the Kashmir branch of the All India Spinners’ Association. In 1927 he joined Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah in the agitation for securing civic and political rights for the State’s Muslim population, which was then under the rule of the Dogra rulers, culminating in the formation of the Muslim Conference in 1930. Bakshi displayed a great talent for organization and capacity for sustained hard work during this period. He organised the students and workers and set up their unions. He was arrested several times during the freedom struggle including a sixteen-month term in Reasi sub-Jail. Within the National Conference party he earned the sobriquet “Khalid-e-Kashmir” after Khalid bin Walid, the great Muslim general. By 1938, people of all communities had joined the demand for responsible government, which had spread all over the State and the Muslim Conference’s name was altered to National Conference. Bakshi worked underground during this period, keeping a step ahead of the State Police. In 1946, during the “Quit Kashmir” movement, Bakshi escaped to British India when a warrant was issued for his arrest. He visited many places mobilizing public opinion in favour of the Kashmir agitation. After Mahatma Gandhi’s visit to Kashmir the warrant against him was withdrawn and he returned home after seventeen months exile. In October 1947, Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah was released from prison and made Prime Minister. Bakshi became Deputy Prime Minister and was entrusted with the Home portfolio. In 1948 during the Sheikh’s absence from the State to represent India’s case at the UN, Bakshi took over as the Chief Administrator. In August 1953, Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah was dismissed and arrested, and Bakshi became Prime Minister of the State and also President of the National Conference by majority vote of the State Cabinet. The famous Kashmir Conspiracy Case against Abdullah and others was started during his premiership. Bakshi proved to be an able administrator and is remembered as the “Architect of Modern Kashmir” because of his constructive work in the State. He had a unique knack of establishing a direct rapport with people at grass-root level land gained tremendous popularity among people of all regions. On the political front, Bakshi d to face a stiff challenge from the Plebiscite Front which was formed in 1955 but he remained in the saddle with a tight grip over the state machinery. In May 1963 the Congress lost three important Parliamentary by-elections, including a “prestige” contest in which a Union Minister was defeated. Perturbed at the reverses, the AICC, under the Kamaraj plan, decided that some Congress Union Ministers and State Chief Ministers should resign and give all their time to party work. The final selection was left to Jawahar Lal Nehru. After eleven continuous years of Prime Ministership, Bakshi was persuaded to offer just a token resignation in order to strengthen Nehru’s hand even though he did not belong to the Congress party. In a move that typifies the strange relationship between Kashmir and New Delhi, his resignation was accepted along with those of five State Chief Ministers and six Union Ministers, for this had been a clever ploy on the part of Nehru to strengthen his own position and remove leaders who could oppose his daughter succeeding him as leader of the Congress party. The eleven years of the Bakshi’s Premiership have been the longest continuous stint by any Prime Minister or Chief Minister and are generally acknowledged as a period of stability in the State’s post-independence history. Bakshi had steadfastly resisted any attempt to undermine Jammu and Kashmir’s special status within the Union of India. In 1964 Bakshi headed the opposition to the Government of Chief Minister Ghulam Mohammad Sadiq. In the late summer of the same year the majority of the legislators compelled him to move a vote of no-confidence against the Government but he was arrested and detained under the Defence of India Rules despite the support of the majority of MLA’s in the State Assembly which was prorogued by the Governor. Bakshi was released on health grounds in December. In June 1965 he made an announcement that he had decided to retire from politics. Bakshi’s popularity, however, remained undiminished and in 1967 he was elected to the Lok Sabha on a National Conference ticket defeating the ruling Congress nominee, Ali Mohammed Tariq, by a big margin. He remained a member of the Lok Sabha till 1971. He died in July 1972.


--- [Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad Explained] ---
No content


--- [Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad - Reference.org] ---
No content


--- [8 politicians of Jammu and Kashmir you should know] ---
Kashmir politicians: Jammu and Kashmir neither have political nor religious problems, but the only issue is the mixed reactions of the residents of the state over the annexure of the state with Pakistan. Hence, many political leaders had their own way of doing things and brought in their own respective governments to handle the ever ongoing crisis in the state. Following are the listings of some of the most famous and popular political leaders in the state of Jammu and Kashmir. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad He was a politician from the Jammu and Kashmir region, and was one of the most famous political leaders in Jammu and Kashmir. He represented National Conference party. He has served as the Deputy Prime Minister of the state of Jammu and Kashmir between 1947-1953 and as the Prime Minister of the state from 1953 to 1964. The transition from Deputy to the Prime Minister post involved a ‘coup’, resulting in the dismissal and imprisonment of Sheikh Abdullah, and remains controversial. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad was born in 1907 in the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir. He was educated at C.M.S Tyndale Biscoe School. He started his career as a school teacher in Jammu and Kashmir in areas like Skardu and Leh. He later served in the Kashmir branch of the All India Spinners’ Association. In 1967 Bakshi was elected to the Lok Sabha on a National Conference ticket defeating the ruling Congress nominee, Ali Mohammed Tariq, by a big margin. He remained a member of the Lok Sabha till 1971. Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah (5 December 1905 – 8 September 1982) was a Kashmiri politician who played a central role in the politics of Jammu and Kashmir, the northernmost Indian state. The self-styled “Sher-e-Kashmir” (Lion of Kashmir), Abdullah was the founding leader of the Jammu & Kashmir National Conference and the 2nd Prime Minister of Jammu and Kashmir. He agitated against the rule of the Maharaja Hari Singh and urged self-rule for Kashmir. He served as the 2nd Prime Minister of the Princely State of Jammu and Kashmir after its accession to India in 1947 and was later jailed and exiled. He was dismissed from the position of Prime Ministership on 8 August 1953 and Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad was appointed as the new Prime Minister. The expressions ‘Sadar-i-Riyasat’ and ‘Prime Minister’ were replaced with the terms ‘Governor’ and ‘Chief Minister’ in 1965. Sheikh Abdullah again became the Chief Minister of the state following the 1974 Indira-Sheikh accord and remained in the top slot till his death on 8 September 1982. Sheikh Abdullah was born in Soura, a village on the outskirts of Srinagar, eleven days after the death of his father Sheikh Mohammed Ibrahim. His father was a middle class manufacturer and trader of Kashmiri shawls. He was a descendent of a Hindu named Ragho Ram, who was converted to Islam in 1722 by the saint Rashid Balkhi and after conversion changed his name to Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah, as per Abdullah’s autobiography Atish-e-Chinar. As a student at Aligarh Muslim University, he came in contact with and was influenced by persons with liberal and progressive ideas. He became convinced that the feudal system was responsible for the miseries of the Kashmiris and like all progressive nations of the world Kashmir too should have a democratically elected government. Sheikh Abdullah and his colleagues were greatly influenced by the lectures of a Kashmiri polymath and lawyer Molvi Abdullah. Molvi Abdullah’s son Molvi Abdul Rahim, Sheikh Abdullah and Ghulam Nabi Gilkar were the first three educated Kashmiri youth to be arrested during the public agitation of 1931. Kashmir’s first political party the Kashmir Muslim Conference with Sheikh Abdullah as President, Chaudhary Ghulam Abbas as general secretary, and Molvi Abdul Rahim as Secretary was formed on 16 October 1932. Farooq Abdullah: (born 21 October 1937) is a politician and chairman of Jammu & Kashmir National Conference. He has served as the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir on several occasions since 1982, and as the union minister for New and Renewable Energy between 2009 and 2014. He is the father of former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir Omar Abdullah. Farooq Abdullah was born to the veteran statesman and National Conference leader Sheikh Abdullah and Begum Akbar Jehan Abdullah. He studied at Tyndale Biscoe School, and subsequently received his MBBS degree from SMS Medical College, Jaipur. He subsequently travelled to the UK to practice medicine. Abdullah was elected to the Lok Sabha unopposed from Srinagar Lok Sabha constituency in the 1980 General Election. He contested the Srinagar Lok Sabha seat again in the 2014 General Election, but was defeated by the People’s Democratic Party candidate Tariq Hameed Karra. In 2017, he won the closely watched by-poll for the Srinagar parliamentary seat by defeating Nazir Ahmed Khan from the People’s Democratic Party. Ghulam Nabi Azad He has led the Indian National Congress, successfully in the 2002 Assembly Election in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir, and was appointed as the Chief Minister of J&K. Ghulam Nabi Azad (7 March 1949) was the Minister of Health and Family Welfare. Presently, he serves as the Leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha. He was the Parliamentary Affairs Minister of India in the government of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh until 27 October 2005, when he was appointed as the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir. He led the party successfully in the 2002 Assembly election in Jammu and Kashmir. He was born in the village Soti of tehsil Gandoh (Bhalessa) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Doda district. He was born to Rahamatullah Batt and Basa Begum. He went to school in his village. He moved to Jammu and finished his bachelor’s degree from G.G.M. Science College in science. Subsequently, he completed a Master’s in Zoology from the University of Kashmir in 1972 Karan Singh Karan Singh is one of the most famous political leaders in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir, and has served as the President and Governor of Jammu and Kashmir. Singh is the son of the last ruler of the erstwhile princely state of J&K, Maharaja Hari Singh. Singh an Indian politician and philanthropist and poet is a senior leader of the Indian National Congress. Karan Singh was born in Cannes, France into the Dogra dynasty, which was the Dogra Rajput family that ruled the Kingdom of Jammu and Kashmir. Singh was educated at Doon School, Dehra Dun, and received a B.A. degree from Jammu and Kashmir University, Srinagar, and subsequently an M.A. degree in Political Science and a Ph.D. degree from Banaras Hindu University. He is a poet and authored poetry book too and his poems featured in the poetry anthology, The Dance of the Peacock: An Anthology of English Poetry from India, featuring 151 Indian English poets, edited by Vivekanand Jha and published by Hidden Brook Press Canada. Omar Abdullah Omar is a scion of one of the most prominent political family in J&K, is also one of the most popular political leaders in Jammu and Kashmir. He was appointed 11th and the youngest Chief Minister of J&K. His party was in coalition with Congress party. Omar Abdullah born 10 March 1970 one of the most prominent political families of Jammu and Kashmir, the Abdullah family. He is currently the Leader of opposition in Jammu & Kashmir legislative assembly (Member of the Legislative Assembly from Beerwah constituency of Budgam district.) He was a member of 14th Lok Sabha, representing Srinagar constituency of Jammu and Kashmir, India. He was the Union Minister of State for External affairs in Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s NDA government, from 23 July 2001 to 23 December 2002. He resigned from NDA government in October 2002 to concentrate on party work. Omar joined politics in 1998, as a Lok Sabha member, a feat he repeated in subsequent three elections and also remained the Union minister; he took on the mantle of National Conference from his father in 2002, though he lost his own seat of Ganderbal during the 2002 state assembly elections, and so did his party, the political mandate; four years later, he contested once again from the same seat and won in the 2008 Kashmir State Elections. Mufti Mohammed Sayeed One of the most powerful political leaders in Jammu and Kashmir, Mufti was elected as the Chief Minister twice. He was also the Home Minister of India from December 1989- November 1990. He is the founder of Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party. Mufti Sayeed was born on 12 January 1936 in Bijbehara town of Anantnag district to a family of clerics. He served twice as the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir, from November 2002 to November 2005 and again from March 2015 to January 2016. He was also Home Minister of India from December 1989 to November 1990. He founded the Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party in July 1999 to “persuade the Government of India to initiate an unconditional dialogue with Kashmiris for resolution of the Kashmir problem. He completed his basic studies in Srinagar and earned his law and postgraduate degree in Arabic from Aligarh Muslim University before entering politics. In 1989, within few days of taking office as the Union Minister for Home Affairs, his third daughter, Rubaiya, was kidnapped. She was released in exchange for the release of five militants. Sayeed also survived attacks on his life by separatists. On 24 December 2015, Sayeed was admitted to the AIIMS hospital in New Delhi. He suffered from neck pain and fever. His condition gradually deteriorated, and he was put on ventilator support. He died on 7 January 2016 due to multi-organ failure at about 7:30, according to provincial Education Minister and PDP Spokesman Nayeem Akhter. He was just five days short of his 80th birthday when he died. Reactions to this death came from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, national Home Minister Rajnath Singh at Delhi airport and the 14th Dalai Lama. He was buried at his ancestral burial ground in Bijbehera with state honours. Former Chief Ministers Omar Abdullah and Ghulam Nabi Azad were present at his funeral. Condolences also came from President Pranab Mukherjee, former prime ministerial candidate L. K. Advani, Ram Madhav, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, BJP Vice President Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, formers national Oil Minister Milind Deora, PDP member Rafi Mir and politicians Kalraj Mishra, Jitendra Singh and Ahmed Patel. Mehbooba Mufti She was former Chief Minister of the state of Jammu and Kashmir. Being the President of Peoples Democratic Party she is also the first woman Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir. She is no doubt one of the most famous and powerful political leaders in Jammu and Kashmir. She resigned on June 19 2018 after BJP withdrew support from the coalition government. She was the first woman to hold the office. Mehbooba Mufti is India’s second Muslim woman chief minister after Syeda Anwara Taimur of Assam. She is the president of the Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and was a member of the Indian parliament, representing Anantnag in the 16th Lok Sabha; before she was sworn in as the Chief Minister of J&K. She had previously represented Anantnag in the 14th Lok Sabha (2004–09) but did not contest the 2009 election for the 15th Lok Sabha. She is a supporter of Jamaat e Islami. She is the daughter of Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, born in 1959 in Akhran Nowpora. She earned her law degree from the University of Kashmir. Her sister Rubaiya Sayeed was kidnapped (1989 kidnapping of Rubaiya Sayeed) when their father was appointed India’s Home Minister in 1989 and released after a few days in exchange for some terrorists. The release of the militants was condemned by the opposition and many hardcore nationalist of India. You can connect with Ground Report on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Whatsapp and Subscribe to our YouTube channel. For suggestions and writeups mail us at GReport2018@gmail.com
