=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Why this county refused to lower flags after Orlando - USA TODAY]
Jun 18, 2016 · Flags across the United States no longer are flying at half-staff in honor of the victims of the Orlando gay nightclub massacre — but residents of one Alabama county won't notice a difference.
URL: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2016/06/18/alabama-county-flag-half-staff-obama-orlando-shooting-terror/86081848/

[Alabama county officials refuse to lower flag to honor Orlando shooting ...]
Jun 18, 2016 · Officials in an Alabama county refused to lower flags to half-staff to honor the victims of the Orlando mass shooting this week even after President Barack Obama and Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley ...
URL: https://www.cnn.com/2016/06/17/politics/alabama-county-refuse-lower-flag-orlando/

[Orlando shooting: Alabama county won't lower flags for Orlando victims ...]
Jun 18, 2016 · BALDWIN COUNTY, Ala. -- Despite an order from President Obama and Gov. Robert Bentley, one Alabama county has decided not to lower its flags to half-staff in honor of the 49 people killed in the...
URL: https://www.cbsnews.com/news/orlando-shooting-alabama-county-wont-lower-flags-for-orlando-victims/

[Alabama Official Refuses to Lower Flags to Half-Staff After Orlando ...]
Jun 18, 2016 · An Alabama county official refused to lower flags to half-staff this week in honor of the victims of the mass shooting at a gay club in Orlando, saying that doing so would signal a lack of resolve ...
URL: https://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/orlando-nightclub-massacre/alabama-official-refuses-lower-flags-half-staff-after-orlando-massacre-n594826

[Alabama county officials refuse to lower flags to honor Orlando ...]
Jun 16, 2016 · On Sunday, President Obama ordered all flags at public buildings be lowered at half-staff “ as a mark of respect for the victims ” killed and wounded at Orlando’s Pulse nightclub, but the ...
URL: https://www.nydailynews.com/2016/06/16/alabama-county-officials-refuse-to-lower-flags-to-honor-orlando-shooting-victims-claiming-it-doesnt-meet-the-test/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Why this county refused to lower flags after Orlando - USA TODAY] ---
Why this county refused to lower flags after Orlando Flags across the United States no longer are flying at half-staff in honor of the victims of the Orlando gay nightclub massacre — but residents of one Alabama county won't notice a difference. That's because the official in charge of flag-flying in Baldwin County never lowered them in the first place. "When the flag is at half-staff, our country’s head is figuratively held low, and quite frankly, I am not willing to hang my head down because of a terrorist attack against our people and our allies," Tucker Dorsey, the chairman of the county commission, explained on Facebook. Obama has ordered flags at half-staff more than any president in history "I am not willing to hang my head down because evil shoots up a church, school or movie theater. We need more than a gesture as a response. I want us, as Americans, to stand tall, courageously, and fight back against the forces of evil, and let’s fight like we intend to win." Dorsey, a Republican who previously refused to lower county flags after the terrorist killings in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif., also insisted the U.S. flag code does not include terrorist events or mass shootings among the reasons to lower the flag — despite orders from President Obama and Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley. The refusal set off a spirited debate on Facebook and Twitter that quickly spread nationwide. At first, Dorsey wasn't alone in his defiance. Cole County, Mo., also kept their flags flying high because "lowering it too much takes away from the honor," commissioner Jeff Hoelscher told the Jefferson City News Tribune. But after complaints were made, the commission reversed its decision on Tuesday. USA TODAY reported this week that Obama has ordered flags lowered to half-staff more than any president in history. Since 2009, he has issued 66 proclamations to fly the flag at half-staff, more than President George W. Bush's 58 and President Bill Clinton's 50.


--- [Alabama county officials refuse to lower flag to honor Orlando shooting ...] ---
Story highlights Baldwin County Commissioner Tucker Dorsey said the Orlando massacre doesn't meet the standards to lower the flag President Barack Obama ordered flags to be lowered following the Orlando massacre Officials in an Alabama county refused to lower flags to half-staff to honor the victims of the Orlando mass shooting this week even after President Barack Obama and Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley ordered flags to be lowered. Citing the U.S. Flag Code, Baldwin County Commissioner Tucker Dorsey told CNN’s Erin Burnett on “OutFront” Friday that while he is “certainly heartbroken in the face of tragedy,” the code states that the flag should only be lowered “for instances where there are the passing of individuals who have given significant distinguished service to our country.” Dorsey added that the code states that the flag is to be lowered on Memorial Day and to commemorate the deaths of government officials. In a Facebook post published Tuesday, Dorsey wrote that Baldwin County also didn’t lower the flags after the Paris terror attacks in November and the shooting in San Bernardino, California, in December by a married couple who pledged allegiance to ISIS. “I look at the terrorist events and I think about our flag and about how it identifies and characterizes the mood of the country,” Dorsey said. “When I think about, for instance, 9/11, I kind of picture the three firemen raising the flag in the rubble the next day after the event. That’s really how I feel about it.” When Burnett asked whether Dorsey believed the flag should be flown “high in the face of terror in order to fight back,” he responded, “That’s exactly my heart on the issue.” “I’m certainly broken-hearted, my family is broken up about it,” Dorsey added. “I’m also mad. I’m tired of us being attacked by extremists of certainly different kinds.” Baldwin County is located along the Mobile Bay and Gulf of Mexico shores and includes the popular tourist destination Orange Beach. Obama ordered the flags to be flown at half-staff Sunday following the mass shooting at Pulse gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, early Sunday that left 49 dead and 53 injured. “I realize that the President and governor may make the order, but I believe and interpret their order inconsistent with the adopted flag code,” Dorsey told the New York Daily News. The Orlando tragedy is the worst mass shooting in U.S. history. CNN’s Rachel Chason contributed to this report.


--- [Orlando shooting: Alabama county won't lower flags for Orlando victims ...] ---
Alabama county won't lower flags for Orlando victims BALDWIN COUNTY, Ala. -- Despite an order from President Obama and Gov. Robert Bentley, one Alabama county has decided not to lower its flags to half-staff in honor of the 49 people killed in the Orlando nightclub massacre. Tucker Dorsey, chairman of the Baldwin County Commission, said he had the right to make the decision, according to the U.S. Flag Code. "Once again I have to copy this post regarding lowering the flags because another follower of Islam decided to shoot up a bunch of innocents in a place where they didn't have the chance to defend themselves or flee," Dorsey began a Facebook post explaining the decision. "When are we going to acknowledge the truth? When will we stop the PC and identify the enemy?" Dorsey said flags in Baldwin County weren't lowered after the Paris attacks in November or December's mass shooting in San Bernardino. He said according to the Flag Code, "Lowering the flags to half-staff after mass shooting or terrorist event is not a valid circumstance or memorial." "I realize that the President and Governor may make the order, but I believe and interpret their order inconsistent with the adopted flag code," Dorsey wrote. "When the flag is at half-staff, our country's head is figuratively held low, and quite frankly, I am not willing to hang my head down because of a terrorist attack against our people and our allies," Dorsey said. "I am not willing to hang my head down because evil shoots up a church, school, or movie theater. We need more than a gesture as a response. I want us, as Americans, to stand tall, courageously, and fight back against the forces of evil, and let's fight like we intend to win." A county in central Missouri initially made a similar decision, but lowered its flags Tuesday. CBS affiliate KRGC reported commissioners in Cole County disagreed about the observance, with two commissioners saying lowering the flags too frequently would diminish the gesture. "Where do you draw the line: one, 10, 49 in this case? I think one life individually, even in a smaller group, we should mourn then," Eastern District Commissioner Jeff Hoelscher told KRGC. "There's people getting murdered every day, hate crimes whatever, so we should leave the flag at half-staff every day? I mean it's losing its value of being half-mast." Hoelscher remained firm on his stance, but was out-voted when Western District Commissioner Kris Scheperle changed his mind.


--- [Alabama Official Refuses to Lower Flags to Half-Staff After Orlando ...] ---
An Alabama county official refused to lower flags to half-staff this week in honor of the victims of the mass shooting at a gay club in Orlando, saying that doing so would signal a lack of resolve in the face of terrorism. Baldwin County Commissioner Tucker Dorsey said he wouldn't lower flags — despite directives from President Barack Obama and Alabama Gov. Robert J. Bentley — because the shooting that left 49 dead and more than 50 injured was not a "valid circumstance" for flying the flag at half-staff. The U.S. Flag Code says that flags must be flown at half-staff on Memorial Day and sets guidelines for how many days it should be lowered after the death of a government official. "First and foremost, my soul aches for the families of the innocents killed, and my family prays for them and the world. ... I realize that the President and Governor may make the order, but I believe and interpret their order inconsistent with the adopted flag code," Dorsey wrote in a statement. Dorsey, a Republican, said he also refused to lower the flags after the attacks in Paris and in San Bernardino. "When the flag is at half-staff, our country’s head is figuratively held low, and quite frankly, I am not willing to hang my head down because of a terrorist attack against our people and our allies," Dorsey wrote. "We need more than a gesture as a response. I want us, as Americans, to stand tall, courageously, and fight back against the forces of evil, and let’s fight like we intend to win." Obama on Sunday ordered that American flags across the U.S. be flown at half-staff following the shooting at Pulse nightclub, an order that expired at sunset Thursday. The attack was the deadliest mass shooting in the country's modern history. Related: 'An Act of Terror and Hate': Obama Condemns Orlando Massacre White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest was asked Wednesday how Obama, who has ordered the flag to be lowered to half-staff more than any other president, decides to make such a proclamation. "I think the lowering of the flag, and an order from the President of the United States to order the lowering of the flag, is a symbolic expression of national mourning," Earnest said. "I think that what we also see is that over the course of generations that symbolism is expressed in different ways."


--- [Alabama county officials refuse to lower flags to honor Orlando ...] ---
Flags across the country were lowered this week to mourn the 49 people who who were massacred in Orlando on Sunday in the worst mass shooting in U.S. history — except in one Alabama county where city officials refused to bring flags to half-staff. On Sunday, President Obama ordered all flags at public buildings be lowered at half-staff “as a mark of respect for the victims” killed and wounded at Orlando’s Pulse nightclub, but the Baldwin County commissioner didn’t think the tragedy merited the act of reverence. “I am of the opinion, by reading the flag code of the United States, that while my heart certainly goes out to the victims and their families … it doesn’t meet the test of the reason for the flag to be lowered to half-staff,” Commissioner Tucker Dorsey told a local NBC affiliate, after both Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley and Obama ordered the flags lowered. The city commissioner split hairs over the appropriate moment to participate in the symbolic gesture, citing the U.S. Flag Code which says the flag will be lowered only during Memorial Day and following the deaths of government officials. “I realize that the President and Governor may make the order, but I believe and interpret their order inconsistent with the adopted flag code,” Dorsey said in an emailed statement to the Daily News. Dorsey’s stubborness drew criticism for some who say the victims deserve to be honored. “Out of common courtesy and respect, it’s probably a good thing to do. It doesn’t hurt anything to lower the flag. It lets people be aware that something horrible happened,” Joe Hiti from Fairhope, Ala., told the local NBC affiliate. Others on social media blasted the county officials’ stubborness. “SHAME on Baldwin County. The Lord rebuke you. I am so humiliated to live in Alabama at this moment,” G. Dwayne Johnson fired off on Facebook. Baldwin County kept their flags flying high following the terrorist attacks in San Bernardino and Paris, a decision the commissioner explained was meant to symbolize courage in the face of violence. “When the flag is at half-staff, our country’s head is figuratively held low, and quite frankly, I am not willing to hang my head down because of a terrorist attack against our people and our allies,” Dorsey said. A Missouri county was the focus of outrage after officials disobeyed Obama’s orders to lower their flags, too. Cole County commissioners initially voted against lowering their flags on Monday, but swiftly changed their votes the next day following criticism, KOMU reported. “I didn’t think it should be lowered, because I think these are just victims of a heinous crime, whether it was a terrorist attack or not,” said Eastern District Commissioner Jeff Hoelscher, who voted against lowering the flag.
