=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[GSLV-F12/NVS-01 Mission - Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO)]
May 22, 2023 · GSLV-F12/NVS-01 mission is accomplished successfully on Monday, May 29, 2023. This Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV) mission deployed NVS-01 navigation satellite, weighing about 2232 kg, into a Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit.
URL: https://www.isro.gov.in/GSLV_F12_Landingpage.html

[NVS-01 - ISRO Satellite - satnow.com]
May 29, 2023 · NVS-01 was successfully launched by ISRO on May 29, 2023, using a Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV). It is part of the NavIC (Navigation with Indian Constellation) system, which is India's regional satellite navigation system designed to provide accurate position information services to users in India and the surrounding region. NVS-01 is equipped with an indigenous rubidium ...
URL: https://www.satnow.com/space-mission-details/isro/nvs-01

[ISRO's GSLV-F12 successfully places navigation satellite NVS-01 into ...]
Jun 23, 2023 · The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) on Monday, May 29, 2023, launched the GSLV-F12/NVS-01 mission from the second launch pad at the Satish Dhawan Space Centre SHAR, Sriharikota.
URL: https://www.thehindu.com/sci-tech/science/isro-launches-gslv-mission-to-deploy-the-nvs-01-navigation-satellite/article66906942.ece

[India launches first in new generation of navigation satellites]
May 29, 2023 · An Indian Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle lifted off Monday with the first in a new generation of upgraded regional navigation satellites designed to be interoperable with other...
URL: https://spaceflightnow.com/2023/05/29/gslv-f12-nvs-01-coverage/

[NVS-01 - Wikipedia]
NVS-01 is the first in the series of second generation navigation satellite and the ninth satellite in the Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (NVS), with an alternate name of, IRNSS-1J. It will augment the existing satellite and bolster the capability of the NavIC constellation by adding more robustness and new features. [3] ISRO already launched IRNSS 1A, 1B, 1C, 1D, 1E, 1F, 1G, 1H ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NVS-01


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [GSLV-F12/NVS-01 Mission - Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO)] ---
GSLV-F12/NVS-01 Mission Home May 22, 2023 GSLV-F12/NVS-01 mission is accomplished successfully on Monday, May 29, 2023. This Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV) mission deployed NVS-01 navigation satellite, weighing about 2232 kg, into a Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit. The vehicle lifted off at 10:42 hours IST from the second launch pad at SDSC-SHAR, Sriharikota and injected the satellite after about 19 minutes of flight. NVS-01 is the first of the second-generation satellites envisaged for the Navigation with Indian Constellation (NavIC) services. NVS series of satellites will sustain and augment the NavIC with enhanced features. This series incorporates L1 band signals additionally to widen the services. For the first time, an indigenous atomic clock will be flown in NVS-01. More Details


--- [NVS-01 - ISRO Satellite - satnow.com] ---
NVS-01 was successfully launched by ISRO on May 29, 2023, using a Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV). It is part of the NavIC (Navigation with Indian Constellation) system, which is India's regional satellite navigation system designed to provide accurate position information services to users in India and the surrounding region. NVS-01 is equipped with an indigenous rubidium atomic clock, which enhances the accuracy of the timing and positioning services provided by NavIC. NavIC covers the Indian subcontinent and extends up to 1,500 km around India, offering reliable navigation services to users in this region. The vehicle lifted off at 10:42 hours IST from the second launch pad at SDSC-SHAR, Sriharikota and injected the satellite after about 19 minutes of flight. This satellite incorporates L1 band signals additionally to widen the services.


--- [ISRO's GSLV-F12 successfully places navigation satellite NVS-01 into ...] ---
The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) on May 29 successfully placed the NVS-01 navigation satellite, weighing about 2232 kg, into Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit. This Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV) which placed the satellite, lifted off with a thunderous roar precisely at 10.42 a.m. from the second launch pad at the Satish Dhawan Space Centre SHAR, Sriharikota. ISRO said, “After a flight of about 19 minutes, the NVS-O1 satellite was injected precisely into a Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit. Subsequent orbit-raising manoeuvres will take NVS-01 into the intended Geosynchronous orbit.” Talking from the control room ISRO Chairman S. Somanath congratulated the team behind this mission and said GSLV has placed the satellite in the precise orbit. He further said, “This mission happened after the debacle that we had in the F10 mission where there was an issue in the cryogenic stage. I’m very happy about the corrections and modifications that we have done in this stage as well as the lessons that we learnt out of it to make our cryogenic stage more reliable.” He also mentioned that NVS-01 is the first in the series of five satellites. According to details provided by ISRO, the GSLV-F12 is the 15th flight of India’s GSLV and the 9th flight with indigenous cyro stage. This is the 6th operational flight of GSLV with indigenous cryogenic stage. The NVS-01 carried navigation payloads L1, L5 and S bands. Interestingly, for the first time, an indigenous atomic clock was flown in NVS-01. Later during a press meet, the Chairman said that the space agency is planning to launch the weather satellite INSAT-3DS with Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV). He also said that ISRO will have to complete the navigation satellite constellation by launching four more NVS series satellites. ISRO is also working on designing a new rocket that can carry much higher luggage and also upgrading the LVM3 rocket to lift up to 5.5 tonnes from the current 4 ton capacity. Mission Gaganyaan Noting that the next few months will be busy for team ISRO, Mr. Somanath said that in July ISRO will test the crew escape systems for the Gaganyaan project rocket. He said that the team is getting ready for the test vehicle mission. “We have to get the crew module and crew escape system. And by July we will integrate them with the rocket,” he noted. ISRO intends to do a test at an altitude of 14 km where systems would be destroyed. And this will be done to check how the crew can be saved in case of a mishap. The Chairman said that other systems for Gaganyaan are being tested at various centres of the space agency. The unmanned Gaganyaan mission is planned for early next year. Also Read | Navy, ISRO release training plan for Gaganyaan crew module Published - May 29, 2023 10:52 am IST


--- [India launches first in new generation of navigation satellites] ---
An Indian Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle lifted off Monday with the first in a new generation of upgraded regional navigation satellites designed to be interoperable with other countries’ global navigation networks. The GSLV Mk.2 rocket deployed the NVS 01 satellite into orbit to join India’s fleet of navigation spacecraft covering the Indian subcontinent and neighboring regions, augmenting coverage provided by global navigation satellite fleets operated by the United States, Russia, China, and Europe. The nearly 170-foot-tall (51.7-meter) rocket took off at 1:12 a.m. EDT (0512 UTC) from the Second Launch Pad at the Satish Dhawan Space Center, located on Sriharikota Island on the Bay of Bengal approximately 50 miles (80 kilometers) north of Chennai. Liftoff occurred at 10:42 a.m. local time at the launch site. The 27-hour countdown began Sunday. Ground crews filled the rocket’s second stage and four liquid-fueled boosters with storable hydrazine and nitrogen tetroxide propellants, according to the Indian Space Research Organization. In a reversal of the design of most launchers, the GSLV’s core stage burns pre-packed solid propellant, while its strap-on boosters consume liquid fuel. The GSLV’s cryogenic third stage received its load of super-cold liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen in the final hours of the countdown Monday ahead of liftoff of India’s fourth orbital launch of the year. The sole payload aboard the GSLV Mk.2 rocket was the 4,920-pound (2,232-kilogram) NVS 01 navigation satellite, an Indian-built spacecraft heading for a position in geostationary orbit more than 22,000 miles (nearly 36,000 kilometers) over the equator. The rocket’s hydrogen-fueled third stage injected the NVS 01 satellite into an on-target elongated transfer orbit, and the spacecraft will use its own propulsion to circularize its orbit in the coming weeks, ISRO said. NVS 01 is the first in a second-generation series of satellites for India’s domestically-developed regional navigation system, called Navigation with Indian Constellation, or NavIC. The network is also called the Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System. India launched nine first-generation navigation satellites from 2013 through 2018, with each one flying on the country’s smaller Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle. The second-generation NVS satellites are larger in size and mass, requiring use of the heavier GSLV. The GSLV Mk.2 rocket’s third stage released the NVS 01 satellite into orbit about 18 minutes after launch. Data from the rocket confirmed the GSLV Mk.2 placed its payload into a good orbit, according to S. Somanath, chairman of ISRO. ISRO confirmed the NVS 01 satellite unfurled its power-generating solar panels a few minutes after the spacecraft separated from the GSLV Mk.2 rocket. NVS 01 is heading for geosynchronous orbit at an inclination of about 5 degrees to the equator, where it will join the operational satellites that make up the Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System. ISRO said in 2021 the NVS 01 satellite will replace the the IRNSS 1G satellite, which suffered problems with its navigation payload. Six of India’s first-generation navigation satellites are currently providing positioning and timing services. One was lost in a launch failure in 2017, and two more encountered technical problems with their atomic clocks, which the satellites use to time-tag their L-band navigation signals to help measure distance between the spacecraft and a user on the ground. The new NVS satellites will debut a new Indian-made atomic clock design to replace the Swiss-made clocks on older satellites, and the new generation of spacecraft will incorporate a new L-band signal, called L1, alongside the existing L5 signal. In remarks after Monday’s launch, Somanath said the new-generation satellites have more secure navigation signals and will be more civilian-friendly. “This is one of five series of satellites in this new configuration that are to be launched,” Somanath said. “The launch of NVS 01 is an event which all of us in the navigation community have been looking forward to for quite some time because of two reasons,” said KVS Bhaskar, ISRO’s satellite director for Monday’s mission. “One is we are including the popular civilian band L1, and the inclusion of this band will make us interoperable with international operators. The second, and the most important reason, is we have included our very own indigenous atomic clock.” “We are going to make this NavIC system fully functional and operational for the benefit of this nation,” Somanath said. “There’s a huge amount of opportunity that is waiting for us to exploit in the future.” The launch Monday was the 15th flight of India’s GSLV Mk.2 rocket, which has been upgraded since its debut in 2001 to use more powerful engines and an Indian-built upper stage to replace the Russian unit used on the initial GSLV flights. It was also be the first launch of a GSLV Mk.2 rocket since a launch failure in 2021. Investigators probing the 2021 launch failure determined a leaky vent and relief valve on the GSLV Mk.2’s cryogenic third stage diminished pressure levels in the upper stage’s liquid hydrogen fuel tank. The third stage engine failed to ignite, and the rocket and its Earth observation satellite payload fell back to Earth. “I’m very happy that the corrections, the modifications, in the cryogenic stage that we have done in this phase, as well as the lessons that we learned out of it to make our cryogenic stage more reliable, have really made benefits,” Somanath said. Email the author. Follow Stephen Clark on Twitter: @StephenClark1.


--- [NVS-01 - Wikipedia] ---
NVS-01 is the first in the series of second generation navigation satellite and the ninth satellite in the Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (NVS), with an alternate name of, IRNSS-1J. It will augment the existing satellite and bolster the capability of the NavIC constellation by adding more robustness and new features. ISRO already launched IRNSS 1A, 1B, 1C, 1D, 1E, 1F, 1G, 1H and 1I. The satellite is intended to replace IRNSS-1G and augment the constellation of geosynchronous navigation satellites after IRNSS-1I.
