=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lori Vallow Daybell receives life sentences in Arizona over murder conspiracy convictions | PBS News]
PHOENIX (AP) — Lori Vallow Daybell was sentenced to life in prison Friday on two murder conspiracy convictions in Arizona, marking an end to a winding legal saga for the mother with doomsday religious beliefs who claimed people in her life ...
URL: https://www.pbs.org/newshour/nation/lori-vallow-daybell-receives-life-sentences-in-arizona-over-murder-conspiracy-convictions

['Doomsday mom' Lori Daybell given 2 life sentences in murder conspiracy trials - ABC News]
Daybell was found guilty of two counts of conspiracy to commit first-degree murder in two separate trials in Maricopa County this spring. She was sentenced to life in prison with the possibility of parole after 25 years for each conviction, to be served consecutively, the judge said. "You have not victimized just a single victim but many.
URL: https://abcnews.com/US/lori-daybell-sentencing-murder-conspiracy-arizona/story?id=124042485

[Lori Vallow Daybell receives life in prison for 2 Arizona murder conspiracy convictions | CNN]
Anthony, Idaho, Monday, July 31, 2023. The Idaho mother Vallow Daybell has been sentenced to life in prison without parole Monday in the murders of her two youngest children and a romantic rival.
URL: https://www.cnn.com/2025/07/25/us/lori-vallow-daybell-sentenced-arizona-murder

['Doomsday Mom' Lori Vallow Daybell gets 2 life sentences for Arizona ...]
Lori Vallow Daybell was sentenced on July 25 in Arizona for murder conspiracy and attempted murder. She was found guilty earlier this year of plotting the murder of her ex-husband, Charles Vallow ...
URL: https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/local/arizona/2025/07/25/lori-vallow-daybell-sentencing/85366403007/

[Lori Vallow Daybell sentenced to life in prison for murders of her 2 children and conspiring in the murder of her husband’s first wife | CNN]
Idaho mother Lori Vallow Daybell was sentenced Monday to life in prison without the possibility of parole after her conviction earlier this year in the murders of two of her children and for conspiring in the murder of her husband’s first wife.
URL: https://www.cnn.com/2023/07/31/us/lori-vallow-daybell-sentencing


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lori Vallow Daybell receives life sentences in Arizona over murder conspiracy convictions | PBS News] ---
By — Jacques Billeaud, Associated Press Jacques Billeaud, Associated Press By — Hannah Schoenbaum, Associated Press Hannah Schoenbaum, Associated Press Leave your feedback Share Copy URL https://www.pbs.org/newshour/nation/lori-vallow-daybell-receives-life-sentences-in-arizona-over-murder-conspiracy-convictions Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Tumblr Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Lori Vallow Daybell receives life sentences in Arizona over murder conspiracy convictions Nation Jul 25, 2025 5:46 PM EST PHOENIX (AP) — Lori Vallow Daybell was sentenced to life in prison Friday on two murder conspiracy convictions in Arizona, marking an end to a winding legal saga for the mother with doomsday religious beliefs who claimed people in her life had been possessed by evil spirits. Vallow Daybell, already serving life sentences in Idaho in the killings of her two youngest children and a romantic rival, was convicted at separate trials this spring in Phoenix of conspiring to murder her estranged husband, Charles Vallow, and her niece's ex-husband, Brandon Boudreaux. READ MORE: Idaho man sentenced to death for killing wife and girlfriend's 2 children in doomsday plot Vallow Daybell, who chose to represent herself in both Arizona cases even though she isn't a lawyer, used her final testimony to complain about jail conditions and the legal system. "If I were accountable for these crimes, I would acknowledge and let you know how sorry I was," she said. Judge says Vallow Daybell should never be released Judge Justin Beresky said Vallow Daybell has "shown blatant disregard for humanity," and he refuted her claim that she didn't get a fair trial in Arizona. "You should never be released from prison," Beresky said before handing down the sentence. "Eventually, the camera that you seek out, the media requests, will lessen over time and you will fade into obscurity." Authorities say Vallow Daybell carried out the plots with her brother Alex Cox, who acknowledged killing Vallow in July 2019 and was identified by prosecutors as the person who fired at Boudreaux months later but missed. Prosecutors said Vallow Daybell conspired to kill Vallow so she could collect on his $1 million life insurance policy and marry her then-boyfriend Chad Daybell, an Idaho author of religious novels about prophecies and the end of the world. They said Boudreaux suspected Vallow Daybell and Cox were responsible for Vallow's death. Maricopa County Attorney Rachel Mitchell said the trial was a long but necessary process to get justice for Vallow, Boudreaux and their families. Vallow Daybell will return to Idaho "knowing she didn't get away with her crimes committed in Maricopa County," Mitchell told reporters after the hearing. Nearly two years ago, Vallow Daybell was sentenced to life in an Idaho prison for killing her children, 7-year-old Joshua "JJ" Vallow and 16-year-old Tylee Ryan, and conspiring to murder Daybell's wife, Tammy. The children went missing for several months before their bodies were found buried on Daybell's property in rural Idaho. Daybell was sentenced to death for the gruesome murders of his wife, Tylee and JJ. Victims' family members shed tears during Friday's hearing Vallow Daybell appeared in court Friday in an orange jail uniform as family members called her "evil," "greedy" and a "monster" while describing their grief. The victims' family members sat in the jury box, passing around tissues. Vallow Daybell's only surviving child — her adult son Colby Ryan — described how he "had to fight to stay alive after the pain" of losing his siblings and Vallow, his stepfather who he referred to as his dad. Testifying by remote link, Ryan zeroed in on his mother, who has claimed the Arizona cases were family tragedies that shouldn't have ended up in court. "I believe that Lori Vallow herself is the family tragedy," Ryan said. Vallow's brother, Gerry Vallow, lobbed scathing comments at Vallow Daybell. "She wrote her own make-believe story, and she wrote it in blood," he said. "And she tried to kill Brandon when he started looking like the next available dollar sign." Charles Vallow was fatally shot in 2019 Vallow filed for divorce four months before he died. He said Vallow Daybell became infatuated with near-death experiences and claimed to have lived numerous lives on other planets. He told police she threatened to kill him and he was concerned for his children. Vallow was shot when he went to pick up his son at Vallow Daybell's home outside Phoenix, police said. Vallow Daybell's daughter, Tylee, told police the sound of yelling woke her up, and she confronted Vallow with a baseball bat that he managed to take from her. Cox told police he shot Vallow after he refused to drop the bat and came after him. Cox died five months later from a blood clot in his lungs. His self-defense claim was later called into question, with investigators saying Cox and Vallow Daybell waited more than 40 minutes before calling 911. Just before his death, Vallow and his wife's other brother, Adam Cox, planned an intervention to try to bring Vallow Daybell back into the mainstream of their shared faith in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Adam Cox, a witness for the prosecution, testified earlier in the trial that his sister told people Vallow was no longer living and that a zombie was inside her estranged husband's body. Prosecutor Treena Kay said Vallow Daybell twisted religion to justify her actions and dodged questions from Vallow's sons about how he died after informing them via text message. Someone shot at Brandon Boudreaux months later Almost three months after Vallow died, someone fired a shot at Boudreaux from an open window of a Jeep as he was driving up to his home in Gilbert, another Phoenix suburb. It narrowly missed Boudreaux, the ex-husband of Vallow Daybell's niece, Melani Pawlowski. Pawlowski had been attending religious meetings with her aunt and suggested to her husband that they stockpile food for the end of the world, Boudreaux said earlier in the trial. Boudreaux described in court Friday how the attempt on his life caused immense stress and made him fear for his family's safety. His sisters told the judge that their brother went into hiding with his children after the attack. Prosecutors tied the Jeep to Vallow Daybell and said she loaned it to Cox. The two bought a burner phone used to carry out the attack and tried to concoct an alibi for Cox to make it seem like he was in Idaho at the time, prosecutors said. "No one deserves to live a life of fear and trauma," Boudreaux said tearfully. He said he has forgiven Vallow Daybell so he can be a better person and father but that he wouldn't feel safe if she had freedom. After the sentencing, Boudreaux told reporters he's grateful that the justice system worked. Schoenbaum reported from Salt Lake City. A free press is a cornerstone of a healthy democracy. Support trusted journalism and civil dialogue. Donate now By — Jacques Billeaud, Associated Press Jacques Billeaud, Associated Press By — Hannah Schoenbaum, Associated Press Hannah Schoenbaum, Associated Press PHOENIX (AP) — Lori Vallow Daybell was sentenced to life in prison Friday on two murder conspiracy convictions in Arizona, marking an end to a winding legal saga for the mother with doomsday religious beliefs who claimed people in her life had been possessed by evil spirits. Vallow Daybell, already serving life sentences in Idaho in the killings of her two youngest children and a romantic rival, was convicted at separate trials this spring in Phoenix of conspiring to murder her estranged husband, Charles Vallow, and her niece's ex-husband, Brandon Boudreaux. READ MORE: Idaho man sentenced to death for killing wife and girlfriend's 2 children in doomsday plot Vallow Daybell, who chose to represent herself in both Arizona cases even though she isn't a lawyer, used her final testimony to complain about jail conditions and the legal system. "If I were accountable for these crimes, I would acknowledge and let you know how sorry I was," she said. Judge says Vallow Daybell should never be released Judge Justin Beresky said Vallow Daybell has "shown blatant disregard for humanity," and he refuted her claim that she didn't get a fair trial in Arizona. "You should never be released from prison," Beresky said before handing down the sentence. "Eventually, the camera that you seek out, the media requests, will lessen over time and you will fade into obscurity." Authorities say Vallow Daybell carried out the plots with her brother Alex Cox, who acknowledged killing Vallow in July 2019 and was identified by prosecutors as the person who fired at Boudreaux months later but missed. Prosecutors said Vallow Daybell conspired to kill Vallow so she could collect on his $1 million life insurance policy and marry her then-boyfriend Chad Daybell, an Idaho author of religious novels about prophecies and the end of the world. They said Boudreaux suspected Vallow Daybell and Cox were responsible for Vallow's death. Maricopa County Attorney Rachel Mitchell said the trial was a long but necessary process to get justice for Vallow, Boudreaux and their families. Vallow Daybell will return to Idaho "knowing she didn't get away with her crimes committed in Maricopa County," Mitchell told reporters after the hearing. Nearly two years ago, Vallow Daybell was sentenced to life in an Idaho prison for killing her children, 7-year-old Joshua "JJ" Vallow and 16-year-old Tylee Ryan, and conspiring to murder Daybell's wife, Tammy. The children went missing for several months before their bodies were found buried on Daybell's property in rural Idaho. Daybell was sentenced to death for the gruesome murders of his wife, Tylee and JJ. Victims' family members shed tears during Friday's hearing Vallow Daybell appeared in court Friday in an orange jail uniform as family members called her "evil," "greedy" and a "monster" while describing their grief. The victims' family members sat in the jury box, passing around tissues. Vallow Daybell's only surviving child — her adult son Colby Ryan — described how he "had to fight to stay alive after the pain" of losing his siblings and Vallow, his stepfather who he referred to as his dad. Testifying by remote link, Ryan zeroed in on his mother, who has claimed the Arizona cases were family tragedies that shouldn't have ended up in court. "I believe that Lori Vallow herself is the family tragedy," Ryan said. Vallow's brother, Gerry Vallow, lobbed scathing comments at Vallow Daybell. "She wrote her own make-believe story, and she wrote it in blood," he said. "And she tried to kill Brandon when he started looking like the next available dollar sign." Charles Vallow was fatally shot in 2019 Vallow filed for divorce four months before he died. He said Vallow Daybell became infatuated with near-death experiences and claimed to have lived numerous lives on other planets. He told police she threatened to kill him and he was concerned for his children. Vallow was shot when he went to pick up his son at Vallow Daybell's home outside Phoenix, police said. Vallow Daybell's daughter, Tylee, told police the sound of yelling woke her up, and she confronted Vallow with a baseball bat that he managed to take from her. Cox told police he shot Vallow after he refused to drop the bat and came after him. Cox died five months later from a blood clot in his lungs. His self-defense claim was later called into question, with investigators saying Cox and Vallow Daybell waited more than 40 minutes before calling 911. Just before his death, Vallow and his wife's other brother, Adam Cox, planned an intervention to try to bring Vallow Daybell back into the mainstream of their shared faith in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Adam Cox, a witness for the prosecution, testified earlier in the trial that his sister told people Vallow was no longer living and that a zombie was inside her estranged husband's body. Prosecutor Treena Kay said Vallow Daybell twisted religion to justify her actions and dodged questions from Vallow's sons about how he died after informing them via text message. Someone shot at Brandon Boudreaux months later Almost three months after Vallow died, someone fired a shot at Boudreaux from an open window of a Jeep as he was driving up to his home in Gilbert, another Phoenix suburb. It narrowly missed Boudreaux, the ex-husband of Vallow Daybell's niece, Melani Pawlowski. Pawlowski had been attending religious meetings with her aunt and suggested to her husband that they stockpile food for the end of the world, Boudreaux said earlier in the trial. Boudreaux described in court Friday how the attempt on his life caused immense stress and made him fear for his family's safety. His sisters told the judge that their brother went into hiding with his children after the attack. Prosecutors tied the Jeep to Vallow Daybell and said she loaned it to Cox. The two bought a burner phone used to carry out the attack and tried to concoct an alibi for Cox to make it seem like he was in Idaho at the time, prosecutors said. "No one deserves to live a life of fear and trauma," Boudreaux said tearfully. He said he has forgiven Vallow Daybell so he can be a better person and father but that he wouldn't feel safe if she had freedom. After the sentencing, Boudreaux told reporters he's grateful that the justice system worked. Schoenbaum reported from Salt Lake City. A free press is a cornerstone of a healthy democracy. Support trusted journalism and civil dialogue. Donate now


--- ['Doomsday mom' Lori Daybell given 2 life sentences in murder conspiracy trials - ABC News] ---
'Doomsday mom' Lori Daybell given 2 life sentences in murder conspiracy trials She was found guilty of conspiring to kill her fourth husband, Charles Vallow. Lori Daybell was sentenced to two life sentences in Arizona on Friday for conspiring with her late brother to kill her fourth husband, who was fatally shot in 2019, and her niece's ex-husband, who survived a failed drive-by shooting that same year. Daybell was found guilty of two counts of conspiracy to commit first-degree murder in two separate trials in Maricopa County this spring. She was sentenced to life in prison with the possibility of parole after 25 years for each conviction, to be served consecutively, the judge said. "You have not victimized just a single victim but many. You've shattered lives. You've undermined trust," Judge Justin Beresky, who presided over both trials in Phoenix, said before handing down the sentences, marking the culmination of a yearslong legal saga. "In the face of such profound damage, a long prison sentence is not merely a punishment, it is a necessary affirmation that our society values justice, protection and the sanctity of human life," he said. The so-called "doomsday mom" is already serving multiple life sentences after being convicted in 2023 in Idaho of murdering two of her children. Prosecutors in the Idaho trial argued that she and her current husband, Chad Daybell, thought the children were possessed zombies and murdered them in 2019 so that they could be together. She was also found guilty of stealing Social Security survivor benefits allocated for the care of her children after they went missing. Similarly, prosecutors in Maricopa County argued that she conspired with her brother to kill her estranged husband of 13 years, Charles Vallow, so she could get his $1 million life insurance policy and be with Chad Daybell, an author of religious fiction books whom she married four months after the deadly shooting. Prosecutors further said she invoked their "twisted" religious beliefs as justification for the murder and gave her brother "religious authority" to kill Vallow because they believed he was possessed by an evil spirit they referred to as "Ned." In the first of her Arizona trials, Lori Daybell argued that her brother, Alex Cox, shot Vallow in self-defense in her home in Chandler, Arizona, in July 2019. She was then found guilty in a second trial of scheming with Cox to kill Brandon Boudreaux, the ex-husband of her niece. Three months after Vallow's killing, Boudreaux called 911 to report that someone driving by in a Jeep shot at his vehicle outside his home in Gilbert, Arizona, missing his head by inches. Prosecutors said in a sentencing memorandum that Boudreaux continued to live in fear following the failed attempt on his life, wondering if Cox would "return to finish the job." Cox died from natural causes later in December 2019. Motives were money and sex, prosecutor says Lori Daybell, 51, did not take the stand or call any witnesses in either trial, in which she represented herself. In her closing statement, she argued that her family has been struck by tragedy and that she did not conspire to commit any crime. In remarks ahead of the sentencing, Maricopa County Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Treena Kay disputed Lori Daybell's repeated claims that this was a "family tragedy." "A family tragedy does not involve the intentional killing of a person," Kay said. "A family tragedy does not involve working with an accomplice to commit first-degree premeditated murder. And a family tragedy does not involve conspiring with others to kill." She said Lori Daybell's motives were the same ones usually seen in murder cases: money and sex, saying that the deaths of Vallow and Boudreaux would have financially benefited her and her niece, respectively. "Although this defendant denies it, her text messages and her own actions show that these were her motives," Kay said. Lori Daybell continued to maintain her innocence in remarks ahead of the sentencing. "I want everyone to know that I mourn with all of you. I am sorry for your pain. Losing those close to you is painful, and I acknowledge all of the pain, and I do empathize, I feel it, too," she said. "If I was accountable for these crimes I would acknowledge it." She claimed she was prevented from presenting her side in the trials, which the judge said was "not true." "When she says that she couldn't get a fair trial in Maricopa County, that is not the truth," Beresky said ahead of handing down the sentence. She also questioned the necessity of additional life sentences on top of the multiple life sentences she's serving in Idaho. "Now I will serve seven life sentences -- will that be enough? Will that be enough?" she asked. To that point, the judge said, "Justice demands not only recognition of the pain inflicted, but a firm response that upholds the dignity of every victim harmed by the actions of someone who has shown blatant disregard for humanity." He said she has "left a wake of destruction" across multiple states and the "amount of contemplation, calculation, planning, manipulation that went into these crimes is unparalleled in my career." "Your powers of manipulation are profoundly destructive, one that undermines trust, distorts truth and can erode the very foundations of healthy relationships and society," he said. "The impact of your manipulation has been devastating, insidious and far-reaching and perhaps still unknown." The judge said her two life sentences will run consecutive to the ones previously handed down in the Idaho trial. The sentencing hearing comes after failed attempts at getting new trials on both counts. After being convicted of conspiring to kill Vallow, she also unsuccessfully tried to remove Judge Beresky from the case, claiming he was biased against her. She frequently clashed with the judge while representing herself during the trials. During the second trial, Beresky at one point removed her from the courtroom after she became combative during discussions about her character. The judge had warned that if she referred to herself as having "great character," that could open the door for the state to introduce evidence to rebut that character, including regarding her previous convictions in Idaho. Both Lori and Chad Daybell were found guilty of first-degree murder for the deaths of her children in separate trials in Fremont County, Idaho. Joshua "J.J." Vallow, 7, and Tylee Ryan, 16, went missing months after Charles Vallow was killed. Their remains were found on an Idaho property belonging to Chad Daybell in June 2020 following a monthslong search. They were also found guilty of conspiring to kill Chad Daybell's first wife, Tamara Daybell, who died in October 2019 -- two weeks before Lori and Chad Daybell married in Hawaii. Chad Daybell was found guilty of murdering her. Lori Daybell is currently serving life in prison without parole, while Chad Daybell was sentenced to death for the three murders and now awaits execution on Idaho's death row. Emotional victim impact statements Several of Lori Daybell's relatives addressed the court ahead of the sentencing. In grief-stricken, at times angry remarks, they touched on the loss of Vallow as well as his nephew JJ, whom he and Lori Daybell had adopted, and Tylee, a child from Lori Daybell's third marriage. Her eldest son, Colby Ryan, from her second marriage, remembered Vallow as a generous man. "My father, Charles Vallow, cared for his family. He took care of our family, and he made sure we had a good life," Ryan said. He said his mother told him Charles Vallow had died from a heart attack, before he learned the truth, and spoke about the pain of losing his father and then his siblings. "I'm here to tell you the effect that this has had on me. In simple terms, each one of my family members was taken from us all in one swoop," Ryan said. Regarding his mother, he said it "must be a very sad life to smile your way through all the pain you've caused." "Rather than being able to acknowledge the pain that she has caused, she would rather say that Charles, Tylee and JJ's deaths were a family tragedy and not her evil doing," he said. "Quite frankly, I believe that Lori Vallow herself is the family tragedy." One of Vallow's sisters, Susan Vallow, said the day her brother died "changed my life forever." "My brother's death was a deliberate act of evil and self-seeking financial gain. Your greed has caused so much pain to this day," she said virtually. Kay Woodcock, another one of Charles Vallow's sisters and JJ's biological grandmother, read a letter she wrote from the perspective of JJ in court. "I can't be here to read this letter, because I am dead. I was murdered by the defendant Lori Daybell, or as I used to call her, mom," she read. "See, there are a whole lot of tragedies that have happened to my family, and all of them are the result of my mom's actions." Vallow "never would have let her hurt me, and I know he died protecting me," the letter said. "I should be 13 years old now, but I'm forever seven," she read. At the end of the letter, she screamed at Lori Daybell, "I trusted you!" before breaking down in tears. Her husband, Larry Woodcock, his anger visceral, called Lori Daybell a "narcissist, psychopath, delusional murderer." "You're nothing, murderess," he said. "I can't stand you." Following remarks by several members of his family, including his siblings and current wife, Boudreaux addressed how the attempted murder has impacted him. "The betrayal by someone connected to my family has left me battling overwhelming emotions over the years," he said, his voice shaky. "I felt fear, paranoia. I lived with constant vigilance, loneliness, regret, sadness, depression, anger, heartache and embarrassment." He said he has chosen to forgive Lori Daybell so he can be a better father, husband, son, neighbor and friend. "But I had never seen any remorse or acknowledgement from Lori," he said.


--- [Lori Vallow Daybell receives life in prison for 2 Arizona murder conspiracy convictions | CNN] ---
Phoenix, Arizona (AP) — Lori Vallow Daybell was sentenced to life in prison Friday on two murder conspiracy convictions in Arizona, marking an end to a winding legal saga for the mother with doomsday religious beliefs who claimed people in her life had been possessed by evil spirits. Vallow Daybell, already serving life sentences in Idaho in the killings of her two youngest children and a romantic rival, was convicted at separate trials this spring in Phoenix of conspiring to murder her estranged husband, Charles Vallow, and her niece’s ex-husband, Brandon Boudreaux. Vallow Daybell, who chose to represent herself in both Arizona cases even though she isn’t a lawyer, used her final testimony to complain about jail conditions and the legal system. “If I were accountable for these crimes, I would acknowledge and let you know how sorry I was,” she said. Judge says Vallow Daybell should never be released Judge Justin Beresky said Vallow Daybell has “shown blatant disregard for humanity,” and he refuted her claim that she didn’t get a fair trial in Arizona. “You should never be released from prison,” Beresky said before handing down the sentence. “Eventually the camera that you seek out, the media requests, will lessen over time and you will fade into obscurity.” Authorities say Vallow Daybell carried out the plots with her brother Alex Cox, who acknowledged killing Vallow in July 2019 and was identified by prosecutors as the person who fired at Boudreaux months later but missed. Prosecutors said Vallow Daybell conspired to kill Vallow so she could collect on his $1 million life insurance policy and marry her then-boyfriend Chad Daybell, an Idaho author of religious novels about prophecies and the end of the world. They said Boudreaux suspected Vallow Daybell and Cox were responsible for Vallow’s death. Maricopa County Attorney Rachel Mitchell said the trial was a long but necessary process to get justice for Vallow, Boudreaux and their families. Vallow Daybell will return to Idaho “knowing she didn’t get away with her crimes committed in Maricopa County,” Mitchell told reporters after the hearing. Nearly two years ago, Vallow Daybell was sentenced to life in an Idaho prison for killing her children, 7-year-old Joshua “JJ” Vallow and 16-year-old Tylee Ryan, and conspiring to murder Daybell’s wife, Tammy. The children went missing for several months before their bodies were found buried on Daybell’s property in rural Idaho. Daybell was sentenced to death for the gruesome murders of his wife, Tylee and JJ. Victims’ family members shed tears during Friday’s hearing Vallow Daybell appeared in court Friday in an orange jail uniform as family members called her “evil,” “greedy” and a “monster” while describing their grief. The victims’ family members sat in the jury box, passing around tissues. Colby Ryan, Vallow Daybell’s only surviving child who testified by remote link, described how he “had to fight to stay alive after the pain” of losing his father and siblings. Ryan zeroed in on his mother, who has claimed the Arizona cases were family tragedies that shouldn’t have ended up in court. “I believe that Lori Vallow herself is the family tragedy,” Ryan said. Charles Vallow was fatally shot in 2019 Vallow filed for divorce four months before he died. He said Vallow Daybell became infatuated with near-death experiences and claimed to have lived numerous lives on other planets. He told police she threatened to kill him and he was concerned for his children. Vallow was shot when he went to pick up his son at Vallow Daybell’s home outside Phoenix, police said. Vallow Daybell’s daughter, Tylee, told police the sound of yelling woke her up, and she confronted Vallow with a baseball bat that he managed to take from her. Cox told police he shot Vallow after he refused to drop the bat and came after him. Cox died five months later from a blood clot in his lungs. His self-defense claim was later called into question, with investigators saying Cox and Vallow Daybell waited more than 40 minutes before calling 911. Just before his death, Vallow and his wife’s other brother, Adam Cox, planned an intervention to try to bring Vallow Daybell back into the mainstream of their shared faith in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Adam Cox, a witness for the prosecution, testified earlier in the trial that his sister told people Vallow was no longer living and that a zombie was inside her estranged husband’s body. Vallow’s brother, Gerry Vallow, told the judge Friday that Vallow Daybell cheated on his brother with Chad Daybell while she was plotting to kill Vallow. She isn’t misunderstood, Gerry Vallow said. “She wrote her own make-believe story, and she wrote it in blood,” he said. “She tried to kill Brandon when he started looking like the next available dollar sign.” Someone shot at Brandon Boudreaux months later Almost three months after Vallow died, someone fired a shot at Boudreaux from an open window of a Jeep as he was driving up to his home in Gilbert, another Phoenix suburb. It narrowly missed Boudreaux, the ex-husband of Vallow Daybell’s niece, Melani Pawlowski. Boudreaux described in court Friday how the attempt on his life caused him heartache and worry about his family’s safety. Boudreaux’s sisters told the judge that their brother went into hiding with his children. “No one deserves to live a life of fear and trauma,” Boudreaux said tearfully. He said he has forgiven Vallow Daybell so he can be a better person but that he wouldn’t feel safe if she has freedom. Boudreaux has said Pawlowski aspired to be like her aunt. The two started attending religious meetings together in 2018. Soon after, Pawlowski said they should stockpile food for the end of the world. Prosecutors tied the Jeep to Vallow Daybell and said she loaned it to Alex Cox. The two bought a burner phone used to carry out the attack and tried to concoct an alibi for Cox to make it seem like he was in Idaho at the time, prosecutors said. This story has been updated with additional information.


--- ['Doomsday Mom' Lori Vallow Daybell gets 2 life sentences for Arizona ...] ---
'Doomsday Mom' Lori Vallow Daybell gets 2 life sentences for Arizona murder plots Miguel Torres Arizona Republic Updated July 25, 2025, 2:25 p.m. MT Lori Vallow Daybell, the so-called “Doomsday Mom,” was given two life sentences July 25 in a Maricopa County courtroom for plotting the murder of her fourth husband and trying to have her niece’s ex-husband killed. “It will take an act of God for you to go free,” Judge Justin Beresky said before sentencing her to consecutive terms of life in prison.


--- [Lori Vallow Daybell sentenced to life in prison for murders of her 2 children and conspiring in the murder of her husband’s first wife | CNN] ---
Idaho mother Lori Vallow Daybell was sentenced Monday to life in prison without the possibility of parole after her conviction earlier this year in the murders of two of her children and for conspiring in the murder of her husband’s first wife. Vallow Daybell received a sentence of life in prison for the murders of each of her children, 16-year-old Tylee Ryan and 7-year-old Joshua “JJ” Vallow, as well as for the conspiracy to commit murder in the death of Tammy Daybell, the first wife of her husband, Chad Daybell. Those sentences will be served consecutively, the judge ruled, with two additional life sentences and a sentence of 10 years for grand theft to be served concurrently. A jury in May found her guilty on all charges, including two counts of first-degree murder and three counts of conspiracy in the deaths of the children and Tammy Daybell, whose loved ones gave emotional testimony Monday underscoring the lasting toll of Vallow Daybell’s crimes. “Tylee and JJ brought so much light into this world,” Colby Ryan, Tylee and JJ’s older brother, said in a victim impact statement read by prosecutors Monday. “Tylee will never have an opportunity to become a mother, wife, or have the career she was destined to have. She’ll never be able to have the life she deserved,” Ryan wrote. “JJ will never be able to grow and spread his light with this world the way he did. He will never have a chance to grow up.” “I want them to be remembered for who they were,” he added, “and not to be just a spectacle or a headline to the world.” In determining the sentence, Judge Steven W. Boyce said he weighed the defendant’s lack of a prior criminal record – the “single most mitigating factor” in the case, he said – but noted she now stood convicted of “the most serious charges” and had shown no remorse. “Murder is the most serious offense, and the most unimaginable type of murder is to have a mother murdering her own children, and that’s exactly what you did,” he said, addressing Vallow Daybell. “You were involved in and guilty of conspiring to murder … Tammy Daybell, who had children of her own. And despite the jury convicting you with overwhelming evidence, you still sit here before the court today and said you didn’t do it.” Vallow Daybell on Monday denied having killed her children and cited religious texts and beliefs. She said she had spoken to Jesus, her children and her husband’s wife after their deaths and said they were “happy and extremely busy” in heaven. “Jesus Christ knows that no one was murdered in this case,” Vallow Daybell said. “Accidental deaths happen, suicides happen, fatal side effects from medications happen.” In his ruling, the judge said, “I don’t believe that any God in any religion would want to have this happen.” The children were last seen in September 2019, and Tammy Daybell died the following month; Vallow Daybell and Chad Daybell were married weeks later. In June 2020, law enforcement authorities discovered the remains of Tylee and JJ in Daybell’s backyard in Fremont County. He is to be tried separately in April 2024 on two felony counts of conspiracy to commit destruction; alteration or concealment of evidence; and two felony counts of destruction, alteration or concealment of evidence. He has pleaded not guilty. “I miss my sister every day. I will grieve her … for the rest of my life. I will always remember that,” Samantha Gwilliam, Tammy Daybell’s sister, said during her own victim impact statement at the Fremont County Courthouse. “As for you, I choose to forget you. And as I leave this courtroom today, I choose to never think of you again,” Gwilliam said, addressing Vallow Daybell. The May 2021 indictment against the couple said they “did endorse and espouse religious beliefs for the purposes of” justifying or encouraging the killings of Tammy Daybell and the children. At trial, prosecutors portrayed the couple as having apocalyptic religious beliefs, believing themselves religious figures who had a system of rating people as “light” or “dark,” East Idaho News reported. Boyce said he believed the state’s case that Vallow Daybell murdered her children to “remove them as obstacles and to profit financially,” calling it “the most evil and destructive path possible.” And she justified their killings “by going down a bizarre, religious rabbit hole,” Boyce said. “And clearly you are still down there.” ‘What did Lori deprive the world of?’ Vallow Daybell pleaded not guilty, and while her attorney Jim Archibald acknowledged his client’s interest in religion during the trial – particularly the “end of times” – he said she was a “kind and loving mother.” “Some people could care less about biblical prophecies; some people care a lot about it. Thankfully in this country we get the freedom to choose,” Archibald said in his own opening statement, according to East Idaho News. Vallow Daybell was also convicted of grand theft for, according to the indictment, collecting Social Security benefits on behalf of her children after their deaths. Prosecutors said she didn’t report her children missing in order to keep collecting the money, East Idaho News reported. In the wake of the verdict, Vallow Daybell’s attorneys filed a motion for a new trial, court records show. The state objected, and the court ultimately denied the motion. The case – which was featured in a true crime Netflix documentary – began unfolding in late November 2019, when relatives asked police in Rexburg, Idaho, to do a welfare check on JJ because they hadn’t talked to him recently. Police didn’t locate him at the family’s house but were told by Vallow Daybell and Daybell he was staying with a family friend in Arizona, according to authorities. When police returned the next day to serve a search warrant, Vallow and Daybell were gone. They were found months later in Hawaii, in January 2020, while the search for the missing children was unfolding back home. By that time, Tylee and JJ had been dead for months, according to prosecutors. Madison County prosecutor Rob Wood said Monday that Tylee was believed to have been killed between September 8 and 9, 2019, and JJ between September 22 or 23. Kay Woodcock, JJ’s grandmother, testified that her regular phone calls with her grandson dropped off after the death of Vallow Daybell’s ex-husband, Charles Vallow, East Idaho News reported. The last conversation she had with JJ was on August 10, 2019, Woodcock said, when she spoke to him during a short call that lasted less than a minute. She attempted over the next few months to contact her grandson, but never got any response from Vallow Daybell, she said. During the trial, a lot of information was shared about JJ’s death, Woodcock testified Monday. “Today, I want to share how he lived,” she said, recounting how her grandchild, who was born 10 weeks prematurely, triumphed in his seven years, reading at a middle school level by the time he was 4 years old. “I continually wonder what he would have become. What type of man would he be? What did Lori deprive the world of?” Vallow Daybell’s ex-husband was seen in body camera footage released by Arizona police telling authorities as early as January 2019 that he could not get in touch with the children. Their marriage had rapidly deteriorated, he said, adding, “she thinks she’s a resurrected being and a god.” Correction: A previous version of this story gave the wrong age for Tylee Ryan. She was 16 at the time of her death. CNN’s Camila Bernal, Sarah Moon, Eric Levenson, Emma Tucker, Ashley R. Williams and Steve Almasy contributed to this report.
