=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Music for the Connoisseur | WNYC | New York Public Radio, Podcasts ...]
Broadcasting live from New York City on 93.9 FM and AM 820 and available online and on the go. On July 2, 1946, David Randolph began a series of weekly broadcasts on WNYC called Music for the...
URL: https://www.wnyc.org/articles/music-connoisseur

[David Randolph - Wikipedia]
David Randolph (December 21, 1914 - May 12, 2010) was an American conductor, music educator and radio host. He is best known as the music director from 1965 through 2010 of the St. Cecilia Chorus (known now as The Cecilia Chorus of New York) and as the host of Music for the Connoisseur, later known as The David Randolph Concerts, a WNYC ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Randolph

[Music for the Connoisseur; Satire in Music; Part 1; WNYC]
David Randolph explores satire in music. In 1946, David Randolph began a series of weekly broadcasts called "Music for the Connoisseur," later known as "The David Randolph Concerts," on New York City's radio station WNYC. For his fourth broadcast, on July 23, 1946, he surveyed the subject of "Humor in Music," thus "inventing" the type of radio broadcast devoted to a single musical subject with ...
URL: https://americanarchive.org/catalog/cpb-aacip-80-17qnksf3

[David Randolph (Conductor) - Short Biography]
May 12, 2010 · In 1946, he began a series of weekly broadcasts called "Music for the Connoisseur," later known as "The David Randolph Concerts," on New York City's radio station WNYC.
URL: https://www.bach-cantatas.com/Bio/Randolph-David.htm

[Peace at Last! (2022 Convention Song) | Original Songs | Lyrics]
(CHORUS) To the ends of the earth, There’ll be peace at last For all eternity. From the valleys below To the mountaintops, All creation will see Peace at last.
URL: https://www.jw.org/en/library/music-songs/original-songs/peace-at-last-2022-convention-song/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Music for the Connoisseur | WNYC | New York Public Radio, Podcasts ...] ---
It looks like there's an issue with JavaScript in your browser. For a better experience, we recommend that you enable JavaScript. Go to https://www.whatismybrowser.com/guides/how-to-enable-javascript/ to learn more.


--- [David Randolph - Wikipedia] ---
David Randolph (December 21, 1914 – May 12, 2010) was an American conductor, music educator and radio host. He is best known as the music director from 1965 through 2010 of the St. Cecilia Chorus (known now as The Cecilia Chorus of New York) and as the host of Music for the Connoisseur, later known as The David Randolph Concerts, a WNYC classical music radio program nationally syndicated in the United States.

The author and neurologist Oliver Sacks wrote of him: His passion for the every aspect of the music was evident. He often gave historical glosses on a particular instrument or musical theme, and he never omitted to say that Handel drew much of his most beloved “religious” music from the bawdy Italian love songs of his time. There was no such thing as “religious” music, Randolph felt, any more than there was “military” music or “love” music; there was only music put to different uses, in different contexts. This was a point which he brought out with great eloquence in his beautiful book, This Is Music: A Guide to the Pleasure of Listening, and he would often mention it before a performance of his annual Christmas Oratorio or the great Passions he conducted at Easter. He would mention it, too, when conducting his favorite Requiem Masses by Brahms, Verdi, or Berlioz—all of whom, he would remind the audience, were atheists (as he himself was). The religious imagination, he felt, was a most precious part of the human spirit, but he was convinced that it did not require particular religious beliefs, or indeed any religious belief.


--- [Music for the Connoisseur; Satire in Music; Part 1; WNYC] ---
Music for the Connoisseur; Satire in Music; Part 1; WNYC - Series - Music for the Connoisseur - Episode - Satire in Music - Segment - Part 1 - Title - WNYC - Producing Organization - WNYC (Radio station : New York, N.Y.) - Contributing Organization - WNYC (New York, New York) - The Walter J. Brown Media Archives & Peabody Awards Collection at the University of Georgia (Athens, Georgia) - AAPB ID - cpb-aacip-80-17qnksf3 If you have more information about this item than what is given here, or if you have concerns about this record, we want to know! Contact us, indicating the AAPB ID (cpb-aacip-80-17qnksf3). - Description - Episode Description - The episode focuses on music that was composed to be satirical, and Randolph explains what it means for music to be satire. Randolph introduces each piece and explains what it is satirizing. The first song comes from the Harry Janos Suite by Zoltan Kodaly, and it is the piece that tells the story of Harry Janos's battle with Napoleon. The next piece is composed by Bela Bartok, and the following pieces are the Stravinsky Royal March and Ragtime. The next section of music is also by Stravinsky, Great Chorale. The next piece is from Randall Thomson's Americana, a section called God's Bottles. The following pieces come from the Facade Suite by William Walton: purely orchestral versions followed by versions with vocals of the Yodelling Song, Scotch Rhapsody, Polka, Tango, Tarantella, Waltz, and Popular Song. - Series Description - "Music rarely performed, rare recordings and sprightly comment by David Randolph constitute the format for 'Music for the Connoisseur', WNYC's weekly music series for music lovers who take their music seriously. Frequently rare recordings heard on this series are unprocurable at this time, or are foreign importations of which only one disc is now in this country. Mr. Randolph, who is Music Consultant to the Columbia Broadcasting System, has a zest for music of this nature which communicates itself to the listeners, a fact attested to by the heavy volume of appreciative mail received on this series."--1947 Peabody Awards entry form. The program begins with David Randolph introducing the program. - Description - David Randolph explores satire in music. In 1946, David Randolph began a series of weekly broadcasts called "Music for the Connoisseur," later known as "The David Randolph Concerts," on New York City's radio station WNYC. For his fourth broadcast, on July 23, 1946, he surveyed the subject of "Humor in Music," thus "inventing" the type of radio broadcast devoted to a single musical subject with commentary. The broadcasts were later heard nationwide on the 72-station network of the National Association of Educational Broadcasters. These broadcasts, which won four Ohio State University Awards as "The best programs of music and commentary in the nation," continued for 33 years and resulted in invitations from 23 publishers to write a book. - Broadcast Date - 1947-10-07 - Asset type - Episode - Topics - Music - Media type - Sound - Duration - 00:13:56.640 - Credits - - Host: Randolph, David Performer: Sitwell, Edith Producer: Randolph, David Producing Organization: WNYC (Radio station : New York, N.Y.) - AAPB Contributor Holdings - WNYC-FM Identifier: cpb-aacip-25a3303c1a7 (Filename) Format: Data CD Generation: Master Duration: 01:00:00 - The Walter J. Brown Media Archives & Peabody Awards Collection at the University of Georgia Identifier: cpb-aacip-b516f99bf52 (Filename) Format: Grooved analog disc - WNYC-FM Identifier: cpb-aacip-71755f22f55 (Filename) Format: 1/4 inch audio tape Generation: Master Duration: 01:00:00 If you have a copy of this asset and would like us to add it to our catalog, please contact us. - Citations - Chicago: “Music for the Connoisseur; Satire in Music; Part 1; WNYC,” 1947-10-07, WNYC, The Walter J. Brown Media Archives & Peabody Awards Collection at the University of Georgia, American Archive of Public Broadcasting (GBH and the Library of Congress), Boston, MA and Washington, DC, accessed March 4, 2026, http://americanarchive.org/catalog/cpb-aacip-80-17qnksf3. - MLA: “Music for the Connoisseur; Satire in Music; Part 1; WNYC.” 1947-10-07. WNYC, The Walter J. Brown Media Archives & Peabody Awards Collection at the University of Georgia, American Archive of Public Broadcasting (GBH and the Library of Congress), Boston, MA and Washington, DC. Web. March 4, 2026. <http://americanarchive.org/catalog/cpb-aacip-80-17qnksf3>. - APA: Music for the Connoisseur; Satire in Music; Part 1; WNYC. Boston, MA: WNYC, The Walter J. Brown Media Archives & Peabody Awards Collection at the University of Georgia, American Archive of Public Broadcasting (GBH and the Library of Congress), Boston, MA and Washington, DC. Retrieved from http://americanarchive.org/catalog/cpb-aacip-80-17qnksf3


--- [David Randolph (Conductor) - Short Biography] ---
| Born: December 21, 1914 - New York City, New York, USA Died: May 12, 2010 - Manhattan, New York City, New York, USA | | The American conductor and teacher, David Randolph, received his B.S. from the College of the City of New York, where he planned to be a physicist until meeting up with higher mathematics. Having scored in the 98th percentile on a musical aptitude test, he changed his major to music, which had always been one of his loves. He received his B.S. in 1936, and proceeded to get his Master of Arts degree at Teachers College, Columbia University in 1941. From 1943 to 1947 David Randolph was a Music Specialist (assistant director) for the United States Office of War Information. In 1947 he became the Music Annotator for the Columbia Broadcasting System, writing the broadcast scripts for concerts by the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, the Philadelphia Orchestra, and all other classical music presentations on the network. In 1946, he began a series of weekly broadcasts called "Music for the Connoisseur," later known as "The David Randolph Concerts," on New York City's radio station WNYC. For his fourth broadcast, on July 23, 1946, he surveyed the subject of "Humor in Music," thus "inventing" the type of radio broadcast devoted to a single musical subject with commentary. The broadcasts were later heard nationwide on the 72-station network of the National Association of Educational Broadcasters. These broadcasts, which won four Ohio State University Awards as "The best programs of music and commentary in the nation," continued for 33 years and resulted in invitations from 23 publishers to write a book. His book, This Is Music, was described by The New York Times as "One of the Best of the Year." He also edited The David Randolph Madrigal Series. In 1943 David Randolph organised his own five-voiced madrigal group, The Randolph Singers, which he conducted until 1972. They toured, gave concerts in Town Hall, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, and Carnegie Recital Hall, made many recordings, and was the subject of a full two-hour "Today" show on NBC-TV. In 1948, Randolph married the contralto of the group, Mildred Greenberg, who can be seen in the center box at all of his Carnegie Hall concerts. He was the host of the program "Lincoln Center Spotlight," heard weekly on radio station WQXR; host for "Young Audiences," a series of 39 programs on the CBS Television network; and appeared as a guest on the Metropolitan Opera Intermission broadcasts. He has been a regular guest critic on WQXR's "First Hearing." David Randolph was the conductor of the original Masterwork Chorus & Orchestra from its founding in 1955 until his resignation on January 1, 1993. With them, he developed a specialty as a conductor of George Frideric Handel's Messiah. His much-acclaimed interpretation of that beloved masterpiece became a seasonal tradition in New York City, eventually resulting in as many as seven sold-out performances a season and a world record. Since 1965 he has been the conductor of The St. Cecilia Chorus and Orchestra. From 1981 he also led the Masterwork Chamber Orchestra. His 1997 Carnegie Hall performances with The St. Cecilia Chorus and Orchestra brought that record number to 170 performances. David Randolph taught conducting at the Dalcroze School (1947-1950), was professor of music at the State University of New York College at New Paltz (1970-1972), at Fordham University (1972-1973), and at Montclair State College (from 1973). |


--- [Peace at Last! (2022 Convention Song) | Original Songs | Lyrics] ---
Peace at Last! (2022 Convention Song) Download: 1. Like an island of calm In dark stormy seas, God’s people are living in peace. With our eyes of faith, We see beyond the clouds And know that the storm soon will cease. (CHORUS) To the ends of the earth, There’ll be peace at last For all eternity. From the valleys below To the mountaintops, All creation will see Peace at last. 2. When the new world is here, All will be one On earth and in heaven above. And the peace we’ll know We’ve never known before— A world ruled by justice and love. (CHORUS) To the ends of the earth, There’ll be peace at last For all eternity. From the valleys below To the mountaintops, All creation will see Peace at last. (CHORUS) To the ends of the earth, There’ll be peace at last For all eternity. From the valleys below To the mountaintops, All creation will see. (CHORUS) To the ends of the earth, There’ll be peace at last For all eternity. From the valleys below To the mountaintops, All creation will see Peace at last, Peace at last!
