=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Timeline of Campaign 3 - Critical Role]
Sep 1, 2025 · In Zephrah, Otohan 's echoes attack Keyleth, killing Orym 's husband Will [17] and his father-in-law Derrig. [18] According to Birdie, she and Oleander enter Exandria, leaving Fearne with Morrigan. Their daughter Fearne believes that this happened ninety years before the campaign. [2][8] 839 PD
URL: https://criticalrole.miraheze.org/wiki/Timeline_of_Campaign_3

[Orym | Critical Role Wiki | Fandom]
Orym is an Air Ashari halfling fighter and member of the Crown Keepers and later Bells Hells. He is played by Liam O'Brien. Orym is 3 feet and 3 inches tall,[33] slender, with ropey muscles and fine features.[34] He has a short shock of brown hair less than an inch long.[35] He has a full-sleeve tattoo of swirling winds and clouds on his right arm stretching up onto his chest, and a tattoo of ...
URL: https://criticalrole.fandom.com/wiki/Orym

[Orym - Critical Role]
Feb 8, 2026 · Orym is played by Liam O'Brien. Orym's husband Will and father-in-law Derrig were killed in 837 PD in an attack on Keyleth perpetrated by Otohan Thull and her Gray Assassins. Five years later, Keyleth sent Orym to Marquet to investigate a lead on the attack, ultimately leading him to join the newly formed Bells Hells.
URL: https://criticalrole.miraheze.org/wiki/Orym

[Timeline of Bells Hells - Critical Role Wiki]
837 PD: Orym witnessed an attack on Keyleth in Zephrah. [19] It was unsuccessful, though a few Ashari died in the attack, [20] including Orym's husband Will [21] and beloved father-in-law Derrig.
URL: https://criticalrole.fandom.com/wiki/Timeline_of_Bells_Hells

[Will - Critical Role]
Will was born in Zephrah to his parents named Nel and Derrig some time before 813 PD. [2][3] Circa 837 PD, Will and his father Derrig were killed during the assault on Zephrah of Otohan Thull 's and her echoes, known as Gray Assassins, [4] who made use of the rare kind of toxin, preventing any attempts of Will's and Derrig's resurrection. [5][6]
URL: https://criticalrole.miraheze.org/wiki/Will


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Timeline of Campaign 3 - Critical Role] ---
Timeline of Campaign 3 Campaign 3 of Critical Role takes place in 843 PD (Post-Divergence), beginning in the month of Brussendar. The following is a timeline of the campaign, placed in the context of the main Exandrian timeline. It includes a number of significant events that take place before "The Draw of Destiny" (3x01). Pre-campaign events [edit | edit source]Brussendar mid-600s PD - Deanna Leimert is killed at a Midsummer festival.[1] 753 PD - According to their daughter Fearne Calloway, Birdie and Oleander Calloway enter Exandria, leaving Fearne with Morrigan. Birdie believes that this happened six years before the campaign.[2] Duscar 810 PD - In Whitestone, Laudna is killed and her body hung in the Sun Tree by Delilah Briarwood as a threat against Vox Machina.[3] Misuthar 812 PD - Bertrand Bell accompanies Vox Machina into Pandemonium.[4] around 814 PD or 815 PD - Imogen was born[5] about 823 PD - "A couple of decades" before Campaign 3, the people of Hishari performed a "reckless" ritual, destroying the village. Ashton Greymoore, a "very young" member of the village, was subsequently found wandering near Bassuras in Marquet and was put into the Greymoore State Home.[6][7] 831 or 832 PD - Birdie and Oleander Calloway meet in the Feywild.[8] 833 PD - Imogen Temult begins having recurring dreams of a red storm.[9] between 831 and 836 PD - Fearne Calloway is born in Exandria during a Ruidus flare.[10][11] 836 PD - While traveling through the ruins of Aeor, the Mighty Nein repair the Aeormaton Devexian. Devexian goes to find his other Aeormaton associations, ultimately resulting in Aeormatons being reintroduced to Exandria as they come online over the next few years.[12][13][14] - Ruidus first appears in the Feywild. It is quickly hidden from view by the Unseelie Court. At some point after this, Birdie and Oleander witness Otohan Thull and Ludinus Da'leth working with members of the Unseelie Court to build a device related to Ruidus. Birdie and Oleander steal the Moontide Crown from the device.[15][16] 837 PD - In Zephrah, Otohan's echoes attack Keyleth, killing Orym's husband Will[17] and his father-in-law Derrig.[18] - According to Birdie, she and Oleander enter Exandria, leaving Fearne with Morrigan. Their daughter Fearne believes that this happened ninety years before the campaign.[2][8] 839 PD - Deanna Leimert is resurrected by a cleric of Pelor at the request of her husband, almost two hundred years after her death.[19] Years before 843 PD - The Nobodies are hired to steal from Jiana Hexum's home in Jrusar. Ashton Greymoore suffers a fatal head injury. The rest of the Nobodies leave Jrusar.[20] 840 to 841 PD - Imogen and Laudna begin traveling together.[21] Thunsheer 843 PD - A couple months before "The Draw of Destiny" (3x01) (set on 18 Brussendar), the Rayia family hires the Division of Public Benefit to clear out creatures from a silver mine near Evishi. Almost every member of the group, including Dancer, is killed.[22] - About a week later, the Rayia hires Ashton Greymoore to investigate what happened. Ashton finds Fresh Cut Grass as the only survivor. They bury the others and return to Jrusar.[23] late Thunsheer or Unndilar 843 PD - After having been previously driven out of Uthodurn after a dispute with Oltgar, Chetney Pock O'Pea is bitten by a werewolf and contracts lycanthropy a couple months before "Heart-to-Heartmoor" (3x17) (specifically the night set on 1 Sydenstar).[24][25] - Some time after, he was found by members of the Claret Orders. Though they initially tried to kill him, they did not because he could exercise some control over his lycanthropy.[25] Unndilar 843 PD - About one month before "The Draw of Destiny" (3x01) (set on 18 Brussendar), Imogen and Laudna arrive in Jrusar.[26] - A handful of weeks before "Growing Bonds and Teasing Threads" (3x06) (set on 23 Brussendar), mysterious assailants kill Balan and Zeyar Lumas and severely wound their bodyguard Oshad Breshio. Shortly after, Oshad's friend Jarett Howarth notices similarity between this attack and the one on Keyleth. This ultimately causes Keyleth to send Orym to Jrusar to investigate.[27] - "Not but three months" before "Axiom Shaken" (3x43) (set on 8 Fessuran), the Cerberus Assembly forcibly takes over an excavation site from members of the Grim Verity at the Aydinlan Seminary to begin building a Malleus Key.[28] Brussendar 843 PD - About one month before "Hidden Truths" (3x26) (set on 15 Sydenstar), Dancer is seen alive in Bassuras.[29] Campaign events [edit | edit source]References are to the start of the day. Where possible, this is when midnight or a new day is said to occur. Otherwise, this is when a long rest is completed. The date of the first day in "The Draw of Destiny" (3x01) was determined by counting days backward from "A Taste of Tal'Dorei" (3x25), stated to take place on 14 Syndenstar and the twenty-eighth day of the campaign.[30] Brussendar 843 PD [edit | edit source]18 Brussendar[31] - Three groups of visitors to Jrusar—Imogen Temult and Laudna; Fresh Cut Grass and Ashton Greymoore; and Fearne Calloway, Orym, and Dorian Storm—defeat a group of animated objects in the street. - Bertrand Bell suggests that they would work well as a single group and offers to introduce them to Ariks Eshteross, a benefactor searching for help from talented adventurers. 19 Brussendar[32] - The now-singular party proves themselves to Eshteross. - As a further test, Eshteross asks them to investigate thefts from his textile warehouse. They discover evidence of brumestone smuggling and, at dusk, shadow the warehouse manager, Danas, to the smuggler Dugger. Dugger escapes, but Eshteross considers their findings a success and begins an ongoing professional relationship with the party. - Late in the night, Bertrand is killed by Dugger in an alley. Simultaneously, Imogen has a nightmare in which she sees Bertrand. 20 Brussendar[33] - Holiday: Elvendawn, or Midsummer - While it is still dark, the party looks for and finds Bertrand's body. They take him to Eshteross' manor, and Eshteross begins arrangements to send the body to Whitestone. - During the day, the party discovers Dugger's connection to the Hubatt Corsairs, who further point them to Dugger's home. There, the party kills Dugger. 21 Brussendar[34] - The party checks in with the Hubatt Corsairs. - Eshteross tasks them with investigating mysterious disappearances at the Dreamscape Theater. In the course of their successful investigation, they meet Cyrus Wyvernwind and Chetney Pock O'Pea. - Chetney, impressed by their ability, contracts them to find Gurge Kisgregg. 22 Brussendar[35] - The party discovers that Gurge was kidnapped at the request of Vali Dertrana and taken to the Moon Tower. They discover a secret room beneath Vali's office in the Moon Tower and agree to return after midnight to investigate further. - Ashton visits Jiana Hexum, who suggests she has a job for them in Heartmoor Hamlet. - At midnight, the party encounters Ira Wendagoth in his lab beneath Vali's office. They successfully rescue Gurge, but Ira destroys the Moon Tower and escapes. - After taking a long rest through the morning, the party meets with Eshteross and deduces that Ira and Vali are working for Armand Treshi. Estheross plans to begin working against Treshi at the upcoming Chandei Quorum ball. - They speak with Oshad Breshio in the afternoon about similarities between the recent murder of the Lumas twins and a years-ago attack on Keyleth in Zephrah. - Chetney purchases an overpriced chisel set from Tuyen Otwana. - Imogen discovers a study by Kadija Sumal on her recurring dreams that involved her mother, Liliana Temult, as a subject. 24 Brussendar[38] - The party buys clothes for the ball, then magical items and supplies at the Trove of Marwa. 25 Brussendar[39] - They speak with Ela Lumas about her sons' research interests, as they were the last to borrow Kadija's study from the library; Ela points them to Roe Estani, a friend and academic present at their murder. - Imogen has a nightmare in which she sees the Lumas twins. 26 Brussendar[40] - The party makes masks for the ball. 27 Brussendar[41] - The party meets with Estheross to discuss the details of attending the ball. Eshteross tasks them with replacing Treshi's personal ring with a magical tracker during the party. 28 Brussendar[42] - The party and Estheross attend the ball. They successfully swap Treshi's ring and interrupt Emoth Kade as she stole from the private rooms of partygoers. - Cyrus, attending the ball as an accomplice to Emoth, is nearly arrested by the Green Seekers for the destruction of the Moon Tower. - The party is named Bells Hells. 29 Brussendar[43] - Shortly after midnight, Eshteross sends Cyrus and Dorian to be smuggled to Tal'Dorei via skyship. - During the day, the party is intercepted by the Green Seekers, and the two groups work together to capture Emoth in the Shade Mother's lair in the mines beneath the city. - Imogen falls asleep curled around a shard of the gnarlrock found in the lair. She has another dream, one in which she is holding the gnarlrock and is comforted by it. 30 Brussendar[44] - Bells Hells meets with Jiana Hexum, who contracts them to compete in a wager with Evon Hytroga in Heartmoor Hamlet. - They leave Jrusar for the Heartmoor. 31 Brussendar[45] - A day of uneventful travel. - During a night watch, Laudna tells Orym that she died as a warning to Vox Machina in 810 PD. Sydenstar 843 PD [edit | edit source]1 Sydenstar[46] - A day of uneventful travel through stormy weather. - During night watches, Imogen and Fresh Cut Grass connects to one another's memories by mutually casting Detect Thoughts and Orym tells Chetney about Will, his late husband killed in the attack on Keyleth. 2 Sydenstar[47] - A day of uneventful travel as they pass into marshland. - During a night watch, Bells Hells encounters a bloody fey lure. 3 Sydenstar[48] - Bells Hells arrives in Heartmoor Hamlet. - They prepare for the heist at the museum and speak with Estani about Lumas twins. - After nightfall, they view Ruidus through Estani's telescope and see storms on its surface similar to the storms in Imogen's nightmares. - Imogen has another nightmare. She runs into the storm and encounters an unidentifiable woman and other figures inside it. 4 Sydenstar[49] - Bells Hells further prepares for the heist, then gathers at the museum to begin the heist at midnight. 5 Sydenstar[50] - Bells Hells and The Verdict compete to steal an earring from Evon's museum, and Bells Hells wins the wager. - They take their long rest throughout the morning. - In the afternoon, Chetney has a tense meeting with Zadro Ichlen, Estani warns of the Grim Verity, then the party begins their return to Jrusar. - Days of uneventful travel. - Reading the letters he stole from Evon, Ashton learns that the boxes he was hired to steal from Jiana long ago are from Wildemount, then sent to someone else through Jiana as an intermediary. 9 Sydenstar[54] - Bells Hells report their success to Jiana, who releases Ashton from their debt. - They meet with Eshteross and learns that Treshi fled to Bassuras in disgrace; they agrees to pursue him there. - Chetney speaks with Ajit Dayal to learn how to find the Gorgynei. - In the night, Chetney terrorizes Tuyen for overcharging her wares. At some point between "The Shade Mother" (3x16) and "Promise and Potential" (3x22), Dorian reached Kymal and reunited with the Crown Keepers. They completed a mission in The Maiden's Wish casino and floated away on a floating plank.[55][56] They were initially headed north toward Kraghammer, but later changed their direction to Zephrah.[57] 10 Sydenstar[58] - Bells Hells boards the Silver Sun, a skyship in Eshteross' employ. 11 Sydenstar[59] - The Silver Sun is attacked by skirath. 12 Sydenstar[60] - A day of uneventful travel. - Imogen confides in Laudna her concerns about the gnarlrock. Laudna, under Delilah's control, breaks the gnarlrock and apparently absorbs its magic. 13 Sydenstar[61] - The party battles a dusttra early in the morning. - They arrive at Bassuras in the evening, where they rent a room at the Raha Den. - Holiday: Morn of Largesse - The party wanders the streets of Bassuras and meets Dusk after saving them from a band of cutthroats. - The group, together with Dusk, has lunch at the Taste of Tal'Dorei. - They track Armand's ring to the Bank of Renewal bazaar and scouts the Seat of Disdain. - Dusk speaks with their master Zathuda about their mission to eliminate the Calloways. - Imogen has another nightmare, this time more clearly seeing a gray-haired woman in armor. 15 Sydenstar[63] - Holiday: Highsummer - The party is confronted by members of the Paragon's Call regarding their scouting of the Seat of Disdain the prior day. - Ashton, Chetney, and Imogen visit All-Minds-Burn. - Dusk, Fearne, and FCG visit Esmer, and FCG learns Dancer may still be alive. - Laudna and Orym spot Treshi as they continue to stake out the Seat of Disdain. - The party convenes at Imahara Joe's and puts a down payment on two crawlers for a potential Deathwish Run before moving to the Undercarriage for a night's rest. 16 Sydenstar[64] - Half of Bells Hells, led by Ashton, talks with Ratanish and convinces him that they are interested in working with Paragon's Call. They are introduced to Otohan Thull, who has them prove themselves to her in a Deathwish Run; Imogen recognizes Otohan as the woman in her dream. - The race was held at dusk. After eliminating all other competitors, Bells Hells wins. - Chetney quietly tells Dusk he believes them to be hunting Fearne's parents. 17 Sydenstar[65] - Fearne is reunited with Birdie Calloway. Dusk reveals their true form, reintroducing themselves as Yu Suffiad. Yu agrees to give Birdie a month to finish the Veilscatter Scope so that she, Oleander Calloway, and Ira can view Ruidus at the Apogee Solstice, and Birdie agrees to return the Moontide Crown to the Unseelie Court afterward. - Birdie and Bells Hells leave Bassuras to see the scope at the "Calloway Hideaway". - Through the scope, Imogen and Orym see a lattice around Ruidus and a city on its surface. - Ira steals the Moontide Crown from the scope and escapes. - Fearne confronts her parents about feeling abandoned. 18 Sydenstar[66] - Over Sending, Dancer tells Fresh Cut Grass she never wants to see them again. The stress causes Fresh Cut Grass to shut down, then attack Chetney. The group realizes that the creature that killed the Division of Public Benefit in the previous Thunsheer was Fresh Cut Grass. - After returning to Bassuras, Bells Hells speaks to Dancer and learn more about how she repaired Fresh Cut Grass and about her relationship to him. She agrees to speak briefly to him but cannot at this time forgive him for the attack. - The party goes to Imahara Joe, where they ask him to open up Fresh Cut Grass to try to see what caused him to go haywire. Joe also tells them about D, the merchant that sold FCG's body to Dancer, and about The Care and Culling from the Age of Arcanum. - The group is settled into the barracks at the Seat of Disdain. Ashton recognizes the boxes Paragon's Call is moving are those that they were hired to steal of Jiana Hexum long ago. Chetney locates Treshi within the building. - During a sandstorm, Artana Voe and her allies attack Paragon's Call at the Seat of Disdain. Bells Hells takes advantage of the cover to capture Armand Treshi and escape, but are waylaid by Otohan Thull, who single-handedly kills Orym, Fearne, and Laudna, and goads Imogen into triggering a psionic awakening, then vanishes. The party is able to Revivify Orym and Fearne, but lack the resources to resurrect Laudna. - The party returns to Imahara Joe for a place to hide from Paragon's Call, where they regroup and interrogate Treshi. 19 Sydenstar[67] - Imogen Sends to Xandis, telling them they're ready for pick-up, as well as to Ariks Eshteross to warn him about Otohan and to ask for help in resurrecting Laudna. - The Silver Sun arrives and the party embarks back towards Jrusar. 20 Sydenstar[68] - The Silver Sun runs into a sandstorm, during which the party falls off the ship and encounters a creature in the sand, but manage to escape. 21 Sydenstar[69] - The Silver Sun hits a tailwind, regaining a day lost to the previous sandstorm. 22 Sydenstar[70] - Clear skies as the ship passes into the Oderan Wilds. 23 Sydenstar[71] - The skyship arrives in Jrusar at sunset. - Bells Hells checks in with Eshteross, then delivers Treshi to Orlana Seshadri. Imogen and FCG delve into Ashton's memories, and nearly get trapped in his mindscape. 24 Sydenstar[72] - Bells Hells meet with Keyleth to see about resurrecting Laudna. Keyleth transports them via Plants to Whitestone. - Keyleth secures the group an audience with Percival de Rolo, who reluctantly summons Pike Trickfoot to perform the resurrection. She senses that Delilah's and Laudna's souls are merged and stops the ritual. - With Vex'ahlia de Rolo's help, Pike casts a spell to send the spirits of Bells Hells to the plane where Delilah's and Laudna's souls linger. - After navigating a twisted mirror of Whitestone, Bells Hells defeats the shade of Delilah. - Laudna is successfully resurrected. - Imogen has a dream, and Fresh Cut Grass accompanies her through Shared Dream. Imogen sees Eshteross pass into the storm. The storm clears, and they see that they are on the moon. 25 Sydenstar[73] - Bells Hells returns to Jrusar. - They discover that Eshteross was killed by Otohan. Chetney acquires several letters, including one granting them ownership of the Silver Sun. Orym recognizes a toxin used by Otohan to prevent resurrection, used in the attack that killed Will and Derrig, in Eshteross' blood. - Orlana, Bells Hells, and the Green Seekers make interment arrangements for Eshteross. Orlana contracts Bells Hells to find Otohan. 26 Sydenstar[74] - Bells Hells meet with Xandis to discuss travel to Yios. The ship finishes repairs while the party does some shopping. 27 Sydenstar[75] - The party embarks on the journey, projected to take 9 days. - Clear skies and safe travels. 28 Sydenstar[76] - The ship reaches the Hellcatch Valley. 29 Sydenstar[77] - The ship encounters a sandstorm and loses a day of travel. 30 Sydenstar[78] - Clear skies in the day. - Ruidus flare: Imogen has a dream and sees her mother. The flare triggers Chetney's werewolf transformation, who attacks Fearne and Orym but is subdued. - Imogen wakes up as the flare ends, and she Sends to Liliana, who responds. - Uneventful days of travel. Fessuran 843 PD [edit | edit source]1 Fessuran[81] - The ship passes by Bassuras, during which they are hit by a squall and lose a day of travel. 2 Fessuran[82] - Bells Hells are attacked by a flock of cockatrices and a chimera that they were fleeing from. 3 Fessuran[83] - Holiday: Harvest's Close - The ship passes the Kaal Mountains and reaches the Gloomed Jungles of Aeshanadoor. As they enter a thunderstorm, the ship slows and flies lower. - They find an abandoned watchtower, which they descend into he jungle and call the Gorgynei. After an hour, several lycanthropes arrive, lead by Annaline. The Gorgynei take the party to their secret village, Barinak. 4 Fessuran[84] - Annaline and several other Gorgynei lead Bells Hells through the jungle towards Zha'Vrollo. 5 Fessuran[85] - The party arrives at Zha'Vrollo. Inside the Gorgynei and Chetney make an offering to a statue of Serataani and set up camp. - Chetney meditates at the statue until nightfall and has a vision of Sahyaadon. His trial begins as he transforms into a empowered werewolf and attacks the rest of the party. They defeat his empowered form, the trial a success. 6 Fessuran[86] - Imogen Sends to Xandis to pick them up on the Silver Sun, arriving at mid-day. They continue travel towards Yios, passing over Qoreo. 7 Fessuran[87] - The ship travels safely throughout the day, arriving to Yios at sunset, where they spend the night gambling at the Lakecap Skyport and Lounge. 8 Fessuran[88] - The party tours the city, led by Landon Kreshawl. As they arrive at the Aydinlan Seminary, FCG is attacked by Shithead. - As Ashton follows another lead, the rest of Bells Hells is taken by Carolle to the home of Ebenold Kai. They break in and chase the spooked Ebenold and Baryn Vestisho through a Teleportation Circle to Ryn's laboratory on the Elemental Plane of Fire. There, they learn the truth about Ruidus, Predathos, and the two destroyed gods Ethedok and Vordo. - They return to Yios, where they are attacked by members of the Ruby Vanguard. They capture one, Tuldus, and learn about the group and its intent to release Predathos. - The party meets up with Ashton at the Seminary. While there, FCG and Laudna meet professor Vitro Isham and learn more about aeormatons, and Imogen and Fearne meet Kadija Sumal to discuss the Omen Archive, where Ludinus Da'leth interrupts and steals the archive. The party meets up with Ryn, who Plane Shifts the party to the Feywild. - They arrive in the Harrowcall Fens, where Fearne leads them to Ligament Manor to meet Morrigan. They spend the night there. - Imogen attempts to purposefully dream. FCG casts Shared Dream on her to allow themselves and Laudna to go with her. She successfully contacts Liliana, who is at the Tishtan excavation, who casts Imogen out of the dream. 9 Fessuran[89] - Morri gives some gifts and advice to the party, who set out towards Sun's Shadow. - Upon entering the Sablecast Grounds, Bells Hells are briefly accosted by a group of centaurs and sneak into the Shiver Keep. They successfully destroy the Malleus Key, but the explosion draws the attention of Zathuda. He pursues them on Gloamglut, but Bells Hells evades him long enough to pass through the gate to the Taloned Highlands. 10 Fessuran[90] - The party travels through the jungle towards Gelvaan. At night FCG casts Shared Dream on Imogen, bringing Chetney and Laudna. She successfully finds Ryn at the Tishtan excavation, who has been petrified. As they wake up, Otohan Thull notices Chetney and FCG, dealing psychic damage to them as they wake. 11 Fessuran[91] - The party arrives in Gelvaan, where Imogen speaks with her father Relvin. - Xandis picks the party up on the Silver Sun and begin traveling towards Bassuras. They reach out to multiple people via Sending to find allies for their upcoming attack on the Malleus Key at the Tishtan excavation. 12 Fessuran[92] - Travel continues unabated. FCG reaches out to Pike Trickfoot. 13 Fessuran[93] - The ship enters the Hellcatch Valley. Fearne and Ashton learn about how flying the skyship works. FCG reaches out to D. 14 Fessuran[94] - The Silver Sun hits a dust storm, losing a sail and a day of travel. 15 Fessuran[95] - The ship arrives at Bassuras midday, disembarking at the Calloway Hideaway. They convene with Ira Wendagoth and buy supplies and magic items in town. Ira joins them as they take off towards the Tishtan excavation. 16 Fessuran[96] - The ship encounters a magically empowered dust storm triggered by the coming solstice, taking damage and losing a day of travel. 17 Fessuran[97] - The party encounter another milder dust storm, and is pursued by an ember roc. Fearne Polymorphs it into a goldfish, where it is lost in the storm. 18 Fessuran[98] - Clear day of travel. Keyleth contacts the party via the Message Bloom given to Orym by Thrascuur, telling them that she's bringing aid to the fight. 19 Fessuran[99] - The ship avoids an arcane storm. 20 Fessuran[100] - The beginning of the Apogee Solstice[101][fn 1] - The Battle of the Red Center - The party plans how to destroy the Malleus Key at the Tishtan excavation site, where they meet Beauregard Lionett and Caleb Widogast, who are planning the same thing. The party infiltrates the site and destroys more arcane batteries. - The Ruby Vanguard capture Beau and Caleb. Ludinus Da'leth uses a Luxon beacon within the Key to accelerate time forward by several hours.[fn 2]Ira Wendagoth and Xandis attempt to crash the Silver Sun into the Key, absconding via Dimension Door. Ludinus Da'leth casts Wall of Force, nullifying the impact of the crashing ship. - Keyleth arrives with the Ashari, but she is hit by a Power Word Stun from Ludinus and attacked by Otohan Thull, causing the Champion of Ravens to arrive and defend her. Liliana Temult casts a spell that compresses him into a lens, which is placed in the Key. - Ludinus activates the Key, firing a beam of energy towards Ruidus. Everything goes white, and Bells Hells find themselves separated into two groups. - Chetney, Fresh Cut Grass, Fearne, and Imogen (henceforth "Team Wildemount") wake up in the Crystalsands Tundra at dawn and begin traveling towards Uthodurn. They are attacked by a frost salamander but are rescued by Deanna Leimert and FRIDA, who were on their way back to Uthodurn from Eiselcross. - Orym, Ashton, and Laudna (henceforth "Team Issylra") wake up in the Spectrum Gorge in the middle of the night. They run into three others that had been inexplicably teleported as well, Deni$e Bembachula, Bor'Dor Dog'Son, and Prism Grimpoppy. The group are attacked by hostile, carnivorous plants, then camp for the night. - Team Wildemount continues towards Uthodurn unimpeded, then makes camp. Chetney has a conversation with Deanna but runs off as he notices the full moon of Catha. - Imogen dreams to see what's happening with Ruidus and sees that all of Exandria's ley lines are being funneled towards the red moon, a similar energy coming from Ruidus to Exandria. - FRIDA pursues Chetney and is attacked. The party converges as Chetney realizes he lost control, and he runs into the forest. - Team Issylra awakes and make their way towards the town of Hearthdell, which Orym saw from the trees the night before. Arriving at dusk, they speak with Elder Joan Abaddina, who promises to help the party if they aid her in routing a group of Bastions and Judicators out of the town. - At night party confronts Flameguide Kiro at the Sunrise Sanctuary, where a fight breaks out as their parley is unsuccessful. In the fight Kiro is killed, Prism summons a barlgura to fight the judicator, and an angel joins the battle. Bor'dor deals the killing blow to the angel, after which Abaddina summons the forest to destroy the temple. They spend the night at Abaddina's home, the Knotburrow. - Chetney returns in the morning and apologizes for turning and injuring FRIDA. The party reaches Uthodurn near sunset. They go to the Vellum Steeple and speak with Scribewarden Ressia Uvesic, where they learn that several permanent enchantments in the city, and possibly across Exandria, have been disabled. They inform Ressia about the events of the Apogee Solstice. - Umudara, Sentinel Beast of Veluthil, awakens from stone within the Grandcast Citadel and goes on a rampage. King Imathan Talviel and Queen Simone Fruunast escape and the Glassblades quarantine the Grand Disk. Bells Hells sneak into the Disk and Citadel and manage to calm Umudara, then lead him through the city to the surface. The celestial bull begins making his way south towards the Savalirwood. - The party retires to Deanna and FRIDA's house. FCG uses Shared Dream to enter FRIDA's dream. - Team Issylra, with Abaddina's help, Scry on Team Wildemount as they approach Uthodurn. Deni$e Scrys on Dariax, who is with Dorian. Bor'dor tries to Scry on his brother Jesper but sees only an empty cabin. - At Abaddina's suggestion, they begin traveling towards the Irriam Canyon to meet Hevestro, an archdruid who may be able to send them to the other party. She conjures an eidolon in the form of a wind cougar to show them the way. - At night Orym and Ashton have a talk about meditation, Prism experiments with rune magic, and Bor'Dor tests the extent of his magic. - Team Wildemount goes to the D&O Toy Emporium and meet its owners, Oltgar Dradegon and Drixlitch Ovana, who hire them to clear the shop of pymon firebugs that got loose after the recent mass-dispel event rendered their cages non-magical. They also defeat the craskkalid Drix kept as a pet, and find evidence of Drix using child labor in Shadycreek Run to build his toys and plans to have Oltgar killed and transfer full ownership of the shop to him. Chetney reconciles with Oltgar, showing him Drix's plans and telling him to quit the Emporium and go make toys somewhere else. - The party attend court at the Grandcast Citadel, where they inform the diarchs of their experience at the Malleus Key during the Apogee Solstice and Ludinus Da'leth's involvement and make plans for an expedition to Molaesmyr. - Team Issylra continues travel, finding a petrified githzerai skeleton inside an overgrown crater wearing a magic ring. - Team Wildemount acquires some cliffneck goats from the Gruffside Livery, then begin traveling through the Flotket Alps towards Molaesmyr. - Team Issylra continues traveling, of the forest and into a grassland. Prism attempts to Scry on Bor'Dor's brother but sees only the cabin they saw before. Later she tries to Scry on Ludinus Da'leth, but it is blocked. They arrive at Irriam Canyon the next day. - Note: At this point six days are skipped on Team Issylra's end. Team Wildemount checks on the group immediately upon arriving in Jrusar on 5 Quen'pillar and finds the group is resting overnight at Hevestro's shrine; to match the events in time, Team Issylra's events continue on 4 Quen'pillar.[114][fn 3] 26 Fessuran[116] - Team Wildemount continues traveling uneventfully. 27 Fessuran[117] - Team Wildemount is caught in a blizzard, losing a day of travel as they get lost. 28 Fessuran[118] - Team Wildemount is ambushed by a pair of frost giants, but manage to escape by sliding their goats down the mountain. They reach the Ivory Lake, where they construct a raft. FCG Communes with Avandra for the first time. 29 Fessuran[119] - Team Wildemount abandons their goats and sail their raft into the Savalirwood. At night they are attacked by a bog wretch, as well as a group of pixies. Quen'pillar 843 PD [edit | edit source]1 Quen'pillar[120] - Team Wildemount continue sailing down the Boreal Omen River. 2 Quen'pillar[121] - Team Wildemount is sprayed by a cursed miasma from a geyser as they float down the river, sapping some vitality from Fearne and Deanna. - They arrive in the ruins of Molaesmyr where they battle a group of hostile ghosts, run and hide from the Wolf-King, and climb into the ruined Gildhollow Tower. - They collect old notes left behind by Ludinus in a Bag of Holding and are attacked by an amorphous flesh creature. They defeat the creature, which metamorphoses into another form which they escape from into the Savalirwood. There they camp in a large abandoned nest. - They read Ludinus's notes. They find construction notes on a device that siphons energy from fey sources; notes indicating Ludinus' interest in Ruidus and the gods unwillingness to discuss it; and discussion of a crystal beneath Molaesmyr that Ludinus theorized could help him connect with the entities of Ruidus. - Imogen and FCG delve into FRIDA's memories, finding an ancient memory of FRIDA defending the Factorum Malleus in Aeor. - FCG casts Divination to speak with Avandra, confirming that the rest of Bells Hells may be reached from Jrusar. She tells them that Exandria faces destruction at the hands of Predathos and calls on FCG to come to aid. Deanna receives a similar vision from Pelor. - Imogen uses the Staff of Dark Odyssey, found in Ludinus' Bag of Holding, to attempt to teleport the group to Jrusar, but it goes awry and they end up in Vol'antim. The aarakocra guards escort the group out of the city into the forest below, where they rest for the day. - Team Issylra arrives at Irriam Canyon, where they enter Hevestro's shrine and find it empty with a large magic-amplifying crystal. Evithorir, a dark fey, confronts the party who they defeat and rescue Hevestro. - Deni$e confronts Bor'Dor's shifty behavior, where he reveals he's a member of the Ruby Vanguard who was present at the Malleus Key. He attempts to kill the party and flee, but is killed by Laudna. - Team Wildemount attempt to teleport to Jrusar again, successfully this time. Due to time zone differences between Wildemount and Marquet, they arrive in very early morning of 5 Quen'pillar while it is still dark. They check for the rest of the party at the Soot and Swill, then at the Spire by Fire Inn. - Team Issylra discusses what to do next, and Prism Scrys on Dariax for Deni$e, seeing he's in Westruun. Hevestro uses Transport via Plants to teleport Deni$e to Westruun. Prism Scrys on Team Wildemount and sees them in Jrusar, and Hevestro Transports the party there. - Both parties reconvene at the Spire by Fire, where they catch up on their respective adventures. The party then splits up again: Deanna, FRIDA, and Prism go to research at the Starpoint Conservatory and eventually Vasselheim, while Bells Hells make plans to go to Zephrah. - Bells Hells split up for the day: FCG and Ashton see Milo Krook, who Ashton gives his hammer to be enhanced; Imogen and Laudna see Zhudanna, share a kiss, and see an illusion of Ludinus Da'leth making a speech; Chetney, Fearne, and Orym speak to Ajit Dayal, Chetney is captured by a bounty hunter hired by Tuyen Otwana but escapes, and the party goes to the Duskmaven temple in town and experience a vision of Vax'ildan still transformed into the lens of the Malleus Key. They reconvene and discuss faith in the gods, and FCG Scrys on Liliana Temult, where he sees her and Ludinus walking on the surface of Ruidus. 5 Quen'pillar[126] - Ashton picks up his hammer from Milo, which he had infused with the crystals from the Verdant Tomb. Fearne Scrys on Ira Wendagoth and sees him also on Ruidus, speaking telepathically with a Reilora. 6 Quen'pillar[127] - Imogen Teleports the party to Zephrah using the staff. They speak with Keyleth, who is still wounded, about what happened during the Battle of the Red Center. She tasks them to recover a volunteer party who went to the Grey Valley to find blue perennem flowers and hasn't come back for 3 days. - Maeve transports the party to the Grey Valley via Plants. They find some flowers and battle a devourer that killed three of the Ashari party, turning two of them into wights. - Bells Hells find the lost Ashari party at Iridon Bastion, which had been taken over by demons. The party slays the demons, with the aid of a cambion named Teven Klask. Chetney takes a sword from the demon's leader, which FCG Identifies as Graz'tchar, the Luminary Blade. - While they camp in a cave, Imogen has a dream where she is on Ruidus and has a conversation with Liliana. FCG Communes with Avandra. 7 Quen'pillar[128] - The party Teleports back to Zephrah, where they heal Keyleth's wounds using a potion made from the flowers. Keyleth speaks with Bells Hells, discussing everything that has happened and what to do next. - Orym and Ashton get new outfits while Laudna, Chetney, and Imogen take a skysail joyride. 8 Quen'pillar[129] - The party along with Keyleth Teleports to Yios to find Dancer, who they saw there via Scrying the previous day. They convince her to help fix Ludinus Da'leth's harness, and she asks they go to Imahara Joe for help. - While there, Shithead returns and attacks FCG. Fearne interrogates him and learns that the bird's name is Gargo and that he wants revenge on FCG for something he did to his previous master. FCG then uses Destroy Undead to kill Gargo. - Keyleth transports the party via Plants to Bassuras. She splits from the group while they go to Joe's, who they find is being held captive by Paragon's Call. They dispatch the gang, including killing General Ratanish, and rescue Joe and his friend Verna. They discuss what it'll take to fix the harness. - Ashton and Imogen go to the All-Minds-Burn palace and run into Shady Sally, one of the Nobodies. Ashton asks for both groups' help, and Justi Pross takes them to meet the All-Minds-Burn hivemind, who offers its aid in exchanging for seeding an extension of it on Ruidus. - They meet back up with Keyleth, who transports the party via Plants again to Slival in the Shattered Teeth to meet with Jirana, where they rest for the night. Keyleth then took Joe, Dancer, and Verna to Whitestone so they could meet Percival de Rolo and get his help in fixing the harness. 9 Quen'pillar[130] - Holiday: Hazel Festival - While keeping watch, FCG befriends a swarm of Dolabos, who tell the party that if they build a bonfire it would summon their protector, Toriz. The party do so and are attacked by a Bari Mondolo, which is scared off shortly afterward by Toriz, a giant frog that contains the home of Jirana. The party converse with her and she tells them more about the Shattered Teeth and how to reach Evontra'vir of the Kalutha island. She gives them the compass of Captain Urlu Novos, a ghost pirate who may be bargained with to sail them to the island. - The party interrogate the corpse of Ratanish via Speak with Dead, then use the compass to summon the Crimson Abyss. After a battle and parley with the ghost pirates, the party secure passage to Kalutha after trading Graz'tchar to Novos. - Ashton gets a scar and the party get matching tattoos from Vedallo. - In an attempt to steal back Graz'tchar, Fearne convinces Novos to let her sleep in his quarters. This draws the jealousy of Cyrillia. 10 Quen'pillar[131] - FCG casts Shared Dream to try to help Laudna contact Delilah, but is unable to fully connect. - Cyrillia confronts Fearne, who convinces Cyrillia to act on her feelings for Novos. 11 Quen'pillar[132] - Bells Hells hold a thank you party for the Crimson Abyss crew. - The ship arrives at Kalutha. The party battles a basalt caecilian in a cliffside cave, then travel into the jungle, crossing a river along the way. - An hour after making camp, Laudna and Orym are attacked by lesser shadows, which FCG defeats with Destroy Undead. 12 Quen'pillar[133] - Continuing travel, the party encounters a path adjacent to a river leading towards the mountains. On that path they find multiple hunting traps before being caught by an Aishio hunting party. The party gives the hunters the woe steel items they found in the cave, but the hunters offer no further aid before leaving. - Bells Hells reach a large, deep chasm between the mountains in the center of the island. They jump in and at the bottom find the tree Evontra'vir. - Evontravir tells Ashton that his father was Efterin, who used the primordial spark of Ka'Mort to perform the ritual that made Ashton what he is. The Tree of Atrophy told the party that they must stop Ludinus and are in the position to do so. Finally, they tell the party about the primordial spark of Rau'shan on the island of Igthuldus. - Evontravir senses that the party is being Scried upon opens a portal for them to escape to Igthuldus. The party climbs down the crevice into the Chynes Maw. There Ashton and Fearne dove into a lava lake and retrieved the shard of Rau'shan. - Ludinus Da'leth appears accompanied by Ruby Vanguard and a pair of reilora. Bells Hells fight them off, revealing that Ludinus is a Simulacrum. - After a brief mishap, the party Teleports to Whitestone. At the castle, the assembled artificers, Percival de Rolo, and Allura Vysoren have completed the repairs on Ludinus' harness, the Quintessence Array. They attend a meeting with Allura, Percy, keyleth, Vilya, and Ebenold Kai, where Bells Hells plan to perform a scouting mission to the surface of Ruidus via the Malleus Key. After attending to business in the city, the party retire at the castle. 13 Quen'pillar[134] - Around midnight, Laudna, Imogen and Fearne snoop around the castle, where they find Delilah's hidden abandoned lab. They fight ghosts of former castle servants, then are met with Delilah's shade, who tells them that they need her to keep Laudna alive, and to feed her power to aid the fight against Predathos. - The party goes sledding on the freshly fallen snow, Imogen visits The Zenith, Orym picks up potions and pastries, and Ashton and Fearne converse at the Heart of Whitestone. The party then reconvenes with Allura, Percy, and Cassandra de Rolo and discuss the upcoming infiltration of the Malleus Key. - The party goes to the Ziggurat beneath Whitestone, where Ashton uses the Quintessence Array to absorb the shard of Rau'shan. He nearly falls apart from the interacting power of two primordial shards, but thanks to continuous healing and the Ring of Temporal Salvation he survives, but the shard rejects him and re-emerges shortly after. - Furious at Ashton's decision, the party scatters for the day. Fearne throws rocks at the Castle Whitestone windows with Chetney, visits the Altar of the Raven, then camps in the woods. Laudna also retreats to the woods back to her burned cabin and councils with Delilah. - The party reconvenes. Ashton apologizes for what they did and promises not to leave the party if they're allowed to stay. The group decides they need time to settle and go to the Feywild, where time can pass faster so as not to delay the mission. They ask Allura Vysoren to Plane Shift them there, who decides to accompany them to the Ligament Manor. - 1st day in the Feywild - The party arrives in the Manor, where they find that Birdie and Ollie are also with Mori. FCG starts planning team building exercises and scavenger hunts, with his memory of it to be wiped by Mori. Birdie reveals to Fearne that her real father is Sorrowlord Athion Zathuda. - The party begins their trust exercises, starting with an exercise in telling the truth to find the Monocle of True Essence in a ravine. They continue with a communication exercise, guiding blinded members of the party one at a time across winding bridges over a chasm while avoiding thunder wasps, and are awarded the Scarf of Intrusive Intent. They finish with a trust exercise, in which they search a fey ruin for three parts of an ivory branch staff while two of their members are (allegedly) replaced by sabotaging doppelgangers. - Following this, Fearne decides to use the Quintessence Array to absorb the shard of Rau'shan, doing so successfully. Then, by shaking hands with Ashton, their shard of Ka'Mort also activates. - Chetney makes a deal with Morri, asking to be the most famous toy-maker in Exandria. In exchange he must bring her a piece of Predathos. While the others are asleep, Orym makes a secret deal with Morri, ensuring the party returns from Ruidus alive in exchange for his future service to the hag. - Imogen intentionally dreams of Ruidus, bringing Laudna and Orym with FCG's Shared Dream. There she willingly connects with Predathos. - 2nd day in the Feywild[137] - The party has breakfast and then Allura Plane Shifts them back to Exandria. - The party arrives to the Exandrian Accord's encampment to the west of the Malleus Key in the Hellcatch Valley. There they met with Qi Mandozi, Tofor Brotoras, Groon, Percy, and Keyleth and discussed their plan to infiltrate Ruidus. While Allura and Qi make an illusory distraction, Keyleth uses Wind Walk to take Bells Hells to the Malleus Key. The party sneaks their way to the base of the Malleus Key, then charges into to the Bloody Bridge, attracting the attention of Reiloran guards. - They arrive on the surface of Ruidus in another encampment. After a scuffle they manage to blend into the crowd disguised as other Ruby Vanguard members before hiding in a tent and turning back into mist via Wind Walk. While resting in a mountain cave, Imogen connects with Predathos and has a vision of all the connected Ruidisborn, and learns the direction of the city they previously saw from the telescope. - Continuing on toward the evening, they come across the village of Razora and meet a bormodo named Dono, who introduces to the elder Barthie. Barthie tells them about society on Ruidus. They are interrupted by Willmaster Edmuda, breaking out a massive fight. The Willmaster and two of the Ruby Vanguard, Petrov Godo and Verdo, are captured. They use the Quintessence Array to disable Edmuda's power and interrogate her, and convinced the others that Edmuda was a turncoat. As Fearne and FCG escort Petrov and Godo to the caravan, they run into Otohan Thull, who attempts to capture them. FCG warns the rest to flee and Banishes himself and Fearne temporarily, where they transformed via Wind Walk. They meet up with the rest and fly away. - As a storm approaches, they fly into a ravine and find a submerged tunnel. Fearne casts Water Breathing and they swim inside and eventually surface and find a subterranean ruin of a Founding-era elven settlement that was pulled from Exandria when Ruidus was created. They find a portal where the water is rushing from, which Fearne swims through while Wild Shaped into a sea slug, and finds herself in a lake surrounded by lush forest. The rest follow and find themselves back in Exandria. - On the lakeshore they find the abandoned village of Ria'Doin, confirming they're in Issylra. While resting for the night, Orym finds that Sending works again. He and Imogen send messages to Keyleth and Caleb Widogast, and Imogen receives a message from Jester Lavorre. As Orym tries to contact Dorian, half the party become magically compelled to return to the lake. The witches, uncharmed, follow them and battle a bed of undead kelp, freeing them. Exhausted, they return through the portal back to the Ruidian cave to finish their rest. - Dorian receives Orym's message but is unable to respond. In the wilderness of Tal'Dorei, the Crown Keepers have been lying low. Lolth takes command over Opal, forcing her to fight her friends and take up Lolth's cause as her champion. Cyrus Wyvernwind is killed in the fight. The Crown Keepers disband as Dorian and Dariax travel to Zephrah, Morrighan Ferus departs to shepherd Cyrus' sprit, and Fy'ra Rai becomes Melora's champion to stay by Opal's side in shared cause. - The party travel through a bane worm tunnel, then break through to the surface. Imogen detects the direction towards Kreviris, which they begin to travel towards. After a few hours Ruidus flares twice. - FCG and Imogen Send to Ira Wendagoth and Zhesh respectively, persuading the latter to meet in the city, then enter Kreviris through the Tyrens A watchpost. Once inside they're accosted by Imperium reilora, which they dispatch. They go to The Jagged Edge Glassworks and speak with Zhesh, to tells them how to find the Volition. While waiting for dusk, the shop is searched by Imperium agents with slithers, but they narrowly avoid being caught. - The party finds the Volition's hideout and meets their leaders Rashinna and Gaz Tomo, as well as reunite with Ira. They learn that the Volition are planning to assassinate Liliana, and Imogen speaks to her in her dream, trying and failing to convince her to abandon the Vanguard. - Dorian and Dariax continue towards Zephrah. - The party plan what missions to go on. Fearne, Ashton, and FCG join Ira to blow up tunnels dug by the Vanguard. Imogen, Laudna, Chetney, and Orym are made invisible by Ivanas to infiltrate the Colloquium of Candescence and find the Volition spy Evoroa. - In the chaos following the mine detonation, the Volition attempt and fail to assassinate Liliana. She finds and confronts Imogen, who convinces her she was unaware. The party is briefly met by the Weave Mind before they reconvene and ascend toward Caeluma Kreviris. - In the tunnels toward the surface, they are attacked by Otohan Thull, who nearly kills the party. As Imogen Sends to Liliana for help, a berserk Fresh Cut Grass pulls a heroic sacrifice, exploding himself and killing Otohan. Liliana Teleports them to the Bloody Bridge, where they cross over and sneak out of the Tishtan site. - Dorian and Dariax arrive in Zephrah at dusk. Dorian leaves Dariax at an inn and meets with Keyleth, who takes him to the Hellcatch Valley to reunite with Bells Hells. The party rests for the night at the Exandrian Accord's encampment. 17 Quen'pillar[142] - In the early morning, Fearne is woken by a sugar glider, who leads her out of the encampment. Orym is woken and follows her. The sugar glider leads her to Athion Zathuda, who attempts to convince her to join him and awaken her Ruidusborn nature by unleashing living reflections of Fearne to attack her. Fearne and Orym barely fends them off, and Zathuda leaves on Gloamglut. - The party discusses with Keyleth what to do next, considering going to Aeor to follow Ludinus. Keyleth contacts Archivist Seth Domade, who comes to discuss travel to Aeor, as well as capturing an archmage of the Cerberus Assembly. He then Teleports them to Zadash. - There he takes them to the Chastity's Nook, where they capture Astrid Becke, in the process revealing that Seth is actually a disguise for Essek Thelyss. They inquire her about Ludinus and the Assembly. - The party shops for new clothes and magic items from The Invulnerable Vagrant, then spend a craft night at the Lodge of the Eclipse. Essek inspects Ashton's head and informs them of the nature of dunamancy. - In the night Laudna attempts to steal Otohan's sword, Ishta, from Orym in his sleep. A scuffle breaks out that results in a heated argument over the ethics of wielding the sword. In the end Chetney gives Laudna Scream Needle, Otohan's dagger, as a half-measure, which she absorbs to feed Delilah. The party eventually reconciles. 18 Quen'pillar[143] - After collecting their new outfits, Essek attempts to Teleport the party, but a long series of mishaps ensue. First they teleport outside of Lyrengorn in Tal'Dorei then outside of the Fortress of the Dead Jarl in Eiselcross. They're attacked by frost giant zombies, and Essek Teleports them again to escape, this time to the top of an unknown mountain. After Essek shows Imogen an image of the intended destination in his mind, Imogen Teleports them yet again with the Staff of Dark Odyssey, this time to another unknown location, likely the Vesper Timberland. - Essek performs a trance for a long rest and Teleports again to a sheer mountain slope, then yet again, finally arriving at the intended destination outside of Aeor's ruin. They sneak past a group of hibernating ice trolls, and descend into Aeor, retracing the steps Essek took years ago through the Praesidis Ward and into the Genesis Ward. - They discover a several Ruby Vanguard outposts that were beset by visions from a demon, Dominox, who is imprisoned in the Nox Engine. Fearne invokes per pact to summon Teven Klask, and they encounter a minotaur paladin of Asmodeus, Braius Doomseed, who joins the party. - They encounter Dominox and a battle ensues, during which Ludinus Da'leth appears and opens a Gate so Dominox can be pushed back to his home plane, where Teven slays the demon. - Ludinus shows the party the Occultus Thalamus, granting them a vision of Aeor's downfall. After a conversation, Ludinus recognizes Delilah Briarwood's presence in Laudna and coax her out before Teleporting away. Bells Hells battle and defeat Delilah's shade, after which Essek Teleports them to his home in Rexxentrum. - The party perform a ritual to embed Dominox's soul anchor and trap Delilah within it, successfully doing so. As they celebrate, Braius told them about his backstory, and he paints a portrait of the party. 19 Quen'pillar[144] - After Essek examines the dunamancy in Ashton's head, he Teleports the party to the Exandrian Accord's westside encampment, only to find it has been destroyed by the Ruby Vanguard. Imogen Sends to Keyleth and Teleports the party to her location in Vasselheim, where they meet with the Accord's leaders in the Platinum Sanctuary. They tell the gathering about their visit to Ruidus and Ludinus's plans to show the world the downfall of Aeor. - The meeting adjourns and Keyleth takes the party to the Birthheart, where Orym communes with Melora and Seedling exaults as a Relic of the Red Solstice. The party stays the night in the Birthheart, where they discuss plans for how to attack the Malleus Key, then play "Zone of Truth or Spin the Bottle". 20 Quen'pillar[145] - The party goes to the Trial Forge to meet with several members of the Accord to further discuss plans of attack. There they form a plan to have a three-pronged assault against the Malleus Key, the Weave Mind, and the Hallowed Cage. - The plan is presented to and approved by the gathered Accord in the Platinum Sanctuary, after Bells Hells convince the assembled of their loyalty and capabilities. - Dorian is reunited with his father, Zeru Wyvernwind, and the two speak. Zeru lends Dorian his sword, Gambolcleft. - Bells Hells goes to the home of Waylon Amaredda, a fan of Chetney's work, and spends the night there. Before going to bed, Imogen via Sending arranges to meet Ira Wendagoth at Ligament Manor. 21 Quen'pillar[146] - Keyleth Plane Shifts the party to the Feywild. The party arrives in the Manor, with Ira arriving shortly after. Morrigan conjures spectral flying steeds for the party to ride to the Amethyst Gulch Sierras. They ambush the meeting between Zathuda and Ludinus Da'leth's simulacrum at the Shrine of Golden Gifts in Pravenier. Zathuda is knocked out in the battle and the simulacrum is destroyed, as is the temple. - The temple rebuilds itself and the Arch Heart presents themselves to the party. They tell them that they believe that the gods should be chased away from Exandria, the Ruidusborn of the party becoming vessels of Predathos to do so. They gift the Ring of Remembrance to Imogen. - As they debate how to trick the Unseelie into believing that the Ruby Vanguard turned on them, Zathuda attempts to escape but is killed. Fearne manages to calm Gloamglut, and the party returns to Ligament Manor. - Morrigan uses her Loom on Zathuda and turns him into a living tapestry. Fearne asks him about the Hallowed Cage, and Bells Hells discuss the Arch Heart's plan before resting for the night. 22 Quen'pillar[147] - Dorian uses the Quintessence Array to consume the Harp of Valor, after which Morrigan Plane Shifts the party back to Vasselheim. They go to Raven's Crest and meet Lieve'tel Toluse and the Trust of Winters. The party then steps into the temple's pool of blood to commune with The Raven Queen. - After running into Xandis and reconvening with Allura, the party split up. Chetney, Imogen, Braius, and Orym go shopping, purchasing diamond dust from Cidrick Gillsman. Dorian goes to the various soldiers' encampments to carouse and spread the word of Bells Hells. Ashton goes with Fearne and Launa to commune with Ka'Mort within the earth titan. - They meet Leeta and Maeve, who transports the party Via Plants to the Ashari base camp at Lake Umamu. The Mighty Nein teleport there and the two parties meet, having a dinner before they travel through the portal to Ruidus. - Both parties Teleport to the basement of The Jagged Edge, where Caleb casts the Nein-Sided Tower. Inside they eat a Heroes' Feast of deserts. After various conversations, during which Dorian and Orym admit their feelings for each other, the party rests for the night. - Around Midnight, Vox Machina set out to gather the rest of their party. Keyleth and Vex meet Pike and Grog at a bar in Vasselheim, where they discuss how difficult it'll be to find Scanlan. They visit the Fire Ashari's camp and ask if Cerkonos wants to join them, who gladly does so. Keyleth then transports them Via Plants to Whitestone, arriving around dawn due to time zone differences. - They meet Percy at Castle Whitestone an further discuss finding Scanlan. Reluctantly, Pike Sends him a message, who tells them he's in Xhorhas. Keyleth scries on Dr. Dranzel and finds them in the Barbed Fields, then Transports them Via Plants to him, finding him and his band the Silver Saddles have been True Polymorphed into centaurs for their tour, and convince Scanlan to join them. They Transport via Plants back to Vasselheim and rest for the night. 23 Quen'pillar[148] - As the parties plan to sneak into Vaterra Kreviris, Ashton and Orym use the Quintessence Array to consume Dusk Hunger and Ishta respectively. While under Seeming the parties saw Ryn's petrified body on display. Caduceus freed her with Greater Restoration, though she panicked and Dimension Doored away. - The party meets up with Gaz Tomo in Vaterra Kreviris, where he tells them that the Volition is planning a bombing on the Arx Creonum. They ask him if they can accelerate this plan, and after speaking with Rashinna, he agrees. Imogen and Jester Send to Allura, telling her to mobilize the Exandrian Accord's assault on the Malleus Keep. Bells Hells and the Mighty Nein split up, the Hells going to the Hallowed Cage while the Nein go to the Arx Creonum. - Vox Machina meet with Lieve'tel Toluse, who joins them for the assault. High Hierophant Ophera and Keyleth delivered a pair of speeches to the gathered armies of the Exandrian Accord. As they receive the Nein an Hells' message the party boards the Key Breaker, captained by Xandis, which is teleported above the Malleus Keep. - The party rescued the crew of a nearby skyship that was disabled by a dispelling blast, including Taskhand Verin Thelyss who they had met shortly before, then descended to the battlefield below, landing slightly off-course to the outskirts of the Malleus Key. - As Vox Machina approaches the Key, they battle and defeat Ozo Cruth, and through a combination of Liev'tel using Divine Intervention to remove the Luxon beacon and Keyleth casting Earthquake, the Malleus Key is destroyed, ending the perpetual Apogee Solstice and freeing Vax'ildan from his imprisonment. - Rallied forces of the Accord begin traveling towards the portal to Ruidus located in Issylra, while Vox Machina return to Whitestone with Vax. - As the Malleus Key assult begins, the Nein climb an assencion cable to the Arx Creonum. A massive explosion detonated by the Volition destroys a large portion of the fortress. - The Nein and Gaz Tomo battle their way across the battlements and into the Arx Creonum. The Nein search through he fortress's halls before eventually finding the Penta-throne. - The Mighty Nein face the Weave Mind in the Penta-throne, battling and ultimnately slaying the reiloran hive mind. - As the Arx Creonum explodes, Bells Hells travel down a tunnel towards the Hallowed Cage. Inside they find a colony of myceit who lead them down a small tunnel slide, where Ashton deposits the All-Minds-Burn Brood Pit. Fearne convinces the myceit hive mind to allow the Brood Pit to flourish. References [edit | edit source]Notes: - ↑ Before settling on 20 Fessuran to be the day of the Apogee Solstice, Matt on several occasions noted 21, 22, or 23 Fessuran to be that chosen day.[102][103] - ↑ Because it is unknown how many hours passed, events after this note may have occurred after midnight on 21 Fessuran. - ↑ Matt previously indicated on the morning that Team Issylra left for Jrusar that Team Wildemount had arrived in Molaesmyr the prior night, which occurred on 3 Quen'pillar.[115] - ↑ The precise timelines of the party split do not line up exactly, but we know they both arrived in Jrusar on the same day. References: |


--- [Orym | Critical Role Wiki | Fandom] ---
Orym is an Air Ashari halfling fighter and member of the Crown Keepers and later Bells Hells. He is played by Liam O'Brien. Description[] Appearance[] Orym is 3 feet and 3 inches tall,[33] slender, with ropey muscles and fine features.[34] He has a short shock of brown hair less than an inch long.[35] He has a full-sleeve tattoo of swirling winds and clouds on his right arm stretching up onto his chest, and a tattoo of Ruidus cradled within a crescent Catha on his right shoulder,[36] and more recently, a flaming bell tattoo in his left shoulder blade.[37] Originally, he wore green armor with a leaf theme[38] over brown leather, with well-worn sashes with ivy and flower patterns around his waist, and his boots were brown leather with green stone rings laced into his shin guards. His shield was adorned with ivy.[39] Just before the party traveled to Aeor, he altered his appearance slightly. His hair had grown out longer and was now wavy, and he wore newly-purchased antique Zephyr Armor dyed a dark brown and with a shoulder pauldron made from a piece of FCG's body; on his left boot is a jade piece identical to the one Fearne had on her own outfit. Tiny fey spider vines grew over his armor, symbolizing his connection with Nana Morri.[40] In every version of his outfit Orym wears a green sash of Ashari design, to remind him of his home in Zephrah.[41] Orym looks a lot like his mother, Alma, and the resemblance becomes even stronger when they smile.[42] According to Allura Vysoren, after his months with Bells Hells he looked much more confident than he had earlier in his life.[43] Personality[] Orym is generally serious, dutiful and level-headed. He considers himself responsible for "babysitting" his friends' antics, and makes efforts to protect them in combat.[44][45] Orym prefers to leave complicated, dangerous matters in the hands of more experienced figures whom he trusts.[46][47] According to his mother, his stoic but curious and active traits were present from his childhood.[48] Orym is uncomfortable with getting involved in crime or "fucking people over", believing there's more to the world than corruption and temptation.[49] Dariax considered him to be the most moral member of their group.[50] Liam stated that Orym's "kind heart" was his favorite part of the character, and that he wanted to make a character that held onto kindness as much as he could, as long as he could.[51] When around 837 PD Keyleth was attacked in Zephrah by mysterious individuals who appeared out of nowhere and evaporated when killed,[52] Orym wanted to forget and come to peace with his unsettled memories that felt unresolvable and would haunt his life. However, when similar attackers assaulted the Lumas twins in Marquet and he was asked to investigate, he was frustrated that all the leads were growing cold and was inspired to pursue them to try to make it right.[53] Orym seems to be a man of deep convictions and goodness who wants to do the right thing, protect the people he loves, and see the best in others in a morally gray world. Liam characterized Orym as the straight man of his adventuring groups and as one who seems set to lead but views himself as one who follows, and he felt that Orym is the closest to Lawful Good of any character he has ever played.[54] Even if he feels inadequate to meet the expectations that his friends have of him, his sense of responsibility and affection towards them makes him take charge anyway as the perceived leader and moral compass.[55] Biography[] Background[] Orym was born in the Air Ashari community of Zephrah, the son of a local midwife[56] and a man surnamed Tarrintel; however, the halfling's biological father left, so his son does not use his last name,[57] and never bothered to look for him.[58] Orym grew up there with his mother, who taught him about wood carving.[59] She described him as a "sweet little boy", although stoic and very physically active. He was curious and frequently got into trouble, and he admitted he'd gotten pretty high up in the town's central tree.[60] They were in close contact with another local family of half-elves: the father, Derrig, was a bodyguard for The Voice of the Tempest, and trained Orym, teaching him "to write on the air";[61] the mother, Nel, was an herbalist, and with one of her triplet daughters, Maeve (who would become a druid),[62] taught the halfling some basic magical healing,[63] although he didn't excel in that area as much as in his physical training, proving to be fast and athletic.[64] Of that family, however, the one Orym grew the closest was Will, the youngest son of Derrig and Nel: they were both of similar age, trained together, and eventually both of them joined the Tempest Blades, serving as guards in Zephrah; during that period of time, Orym was more in contact with the Keyleth, the leader of the Air Ashari, as well as her legendary companions, the members of Vox Machina, whose conversations the halfling fighter overheard.[65][66] Orym and Will grew even closer and fell in love, initiating a relationship that later became a marriage after Will proposed.[67] During their four-year marriage[68] Orym remained close to Will's family, being fond of all of them, but spent the most time with Leeta due to them training together under Derrig,[69] whom he saw as a father figure[70] in the absence of his own biological father.[71] Circa 837 PD,[72] Orym witnessed an attack on Keyleth in Zephrah. It was unsuccessful, though a few Ashari died in the attack,[73] including Orym's husband Will[74] and beloved father-in-law Derrig.[75] The guards were able to fell some of the assailants, but the bodies melted away into nothing before their eyes;[76] due to a special toxin in the weapons of the attackers, none of the fallen Ashari could be resurrected, and Orym lost Will and Derrig forever. Orym stayed in Zephrah less than a year after that, during which he helped train some of the new Tempest Blades, including a human called Julian,[77] until Keyleth encouraged him to leave and travel, in order to escape his memories.[78] During his later adventures, Orym's goal was to find those responsible for the death of his husband and the attack on his community. The first of the Crown Keepers Orym met, apparently, was Fearne Calloway.[79] Exandria Unlimited Prime[] At the beginning of Exandria Unlimited Prime Orym remembered waking up as a group a day or so ago on the road outside Emon, but didn't remember anything about the week prior. He remembered being at Thordak's Crater and seeing footprints leading out toward where the Scar of the Cinder King is located. The others were also missing memories of the same week.[80] When the group found the Circlet of Barbed Vision aboard the Blightstar at the behest of Poska, both Orym and Dorian Storm became nauseous near it. Later, when Opal was seriously wounded in a battle, Orym stepped in front of her to protect her. When the fight was over, Orym found multiple crates and barrels holding refined residuum, about half of which were from his hometown of Zephrah. He talked the group into taking some of it to the Fire Ashari so they could get word back to the Air Ashari about it.[81] When the group realized that the Circlet was one of the Vestiges of Divergence, Orym suggested showing it to the Fire Ashari as well. When they arrived, he did tell the Ashari about the residuum, but Opal and Dorian stopped him before he could mention the Circlet. Later, he agreed that keeping it was probably a good idea.[82] When the group was kidnapped by Poska on their way out of town and realized they had inadvertently endangered Shaun Gilmore with their overheard conversations, Orym used their gifted magic one-way one-use box to send a warning to Gilmore.[83] At Byroden, Orym was taken under the wing of the wife of the War Ringer, Ruby Lee Beckfort, who swept him off and fed him pie in an attempt to fatten him up. His participation in the Gem of Byroden Pageant was limited to being the target for an axe-throwing Cinna Brightbow.[84] Back on the road, Orym confronted Dorian when he offered to carry the Circlet for a while and was able to do so without feeling his former nausea. Orym forced Dorian to give it back to Dariax,[85] and kept a close eye on him thereafter.[86] Thrascuur, the tetrarch of the city of Niirdal-Poc, gifted Orym with a seed and told him to make it grow.[87] When the party left, a very young feline girl tried to give them a letter to deliver to Umejii, but the group was suspicious. Orym followed her out, spoke to her and learned her name, and promised to deliver the letter.[88] During the party's final battle, Orym again defended a prone Opal against Myr'atta Niselor. He joined the others in their decision to stay together for at least a while longer as they continued their search for Umejii.[89] Campaign Three: Bells Hells[] Arc 1: Destiny's Call[] Following the events of Exandria Unlimited Prime, the party returned to Byroden. Subsequently, Keyleth sent Orym on a mission to Marquet to investigate an attack there similar to the shadow assassin attack on Zephrah, and telling him that his friends Fearne and Dorian could be helpful. Keyleth used Transport via Plants to sneak them to the skyship port in Emon, from which they traveled to Jrusar.[90] They soon found themselves responding to a mysterious attack of animated objects in the streets, fighting alongside Ashton Greymoore, Fresh Cut Grass, Imogen Temult, and Laudna, and they attracted the attention of Bertrand Bell, who promised to make introductions to high-placed people in the city.[91] Given that their mission was to find Oshad Breshio,[92] Orym hoped that an introduction to someone who knew a lot of people in Jrusar would be helpful. He later confided in Eshteross that Orym was looking for Breshio, also known as "The Anger", on behalf of the Ashari in Zephrah. Lord Eshteross knew that Breshio was a bodyguard assigned to the mahaan house Lumas, which had recently been attacked. Orym confided that something similar had happened where he came from, and he had been sent to Jrusar by Keyleth to see if there was a connection.[93] Orym eventually shared with the party the specific details of why he was looking for Breshio: that the attack on House Lumas in Jrusar was very similar to the attack on Keyleth in Zephrah.[94] When Laudna showed the party her handmade dead rat with a raven skull named Pâté de Rolo, Orym recognized the de Rolo name as a friend of Keyleth's.[95] In the party's first major investigation together, an invisible Orym was sent alone inside the darkened warehouse.[96] Later, he was lowered on a rope down the first of the shade creeper holes they discovered, learning it was 1200 feet deep by dropping the borrowed Coin of Delving. When Dorian gave his brother Cyrus his borrowed sending stone, Orym gave Dorian his own corresponding stone so he could stay in contact with Cyrus.[97] Lord Eshteross eventually arranged for Orym to meet with Ginang Ela Lumas, the Matriarch of Mahaan House Lumas, and with Oshad Breshio. Orym told the Ginang about the attack in Zephrah six years earlier, which was very similar to the recent one on her family, and told her he was seeking those responsible. She took them to Oshad Breshio, still recovering from his wounds, where Orym explained that Jarett Howarth had told the Ashari of the attack on the Lumas twins. The twins were scholars and researchers of planar contacts, celestial bodies, and the crystal fauna of the Heartmoor. They were in Heartmoor Hamlet with Roe Estani, a friend and retired astronomist from Yios in Aeshanadoor, when they were attacked by three masked figures dressed in black-stained leather armor and wielding poisoned weapons, who cut down the twins before they could be stopped. When killed, the attackers melted into sludge. Oshad suggested Estani might know more.[98] During the battle against the Shade Mother, Orym used his brand-new Rope of Climbing to pull the Shade Mother's tail into the grinding gears of the mine augur, holding her there and severely limiting her ability to attack, but losing the rope in the process.[99] On the way to Heartmoor Hamlet, Orym chased a four-foot-long timber rabbit with a glimmering pink stone in its jaws and eventually managed to sneak up and snatch the stone from its mouth. He gave it to Imogen when he rejoined the party.[100] Midway in their travels through a stormy day, a bolt of lightning hit a nearby tree. When Orym took the glowing blue-petaled flower in the center of the freshly-split tree, a bolt of lightning leaped from it to hit him.[101] Later, Chetney asked Orym about his moon tattoo, and Orym explained it was to help him remember his husband, Will, who was killed six years ago in the attack on Zephrah by dark leather-clad assassins that he is in Marquet to investigate.[102] Arc 2: Sand and Shadows[] Once in Heartmoor Hamlet, both Imogen and Orym were eager to visit Estani, and learned that he and the Lumas twins were out walking when three dark masked and hooded figures dropped from a tree and attacked, killing the twins. Oshad Breshio, the twins' bodyguard, managed to kill one which discorporated into black liquid, but the other two escaped. Estani and the twins had become friends via correspondence about their shared interest in astronomical solstices and specifically in the red moon Ruidus. Estani showed them the place of the attack on the twins, a small park nearby. Orym investigated the tree the attackers came from, finding a hint of a dried tar-like substance in the branches.[103] During the heist in the Twilight Mirror Museum, Orym was lowered on a rope down to rescue a trapped Chetney, who had assumed his wolf form trying to survive the acid in the bottom of the pit. While they were being pulled upward, the badly wounded Chetney succumbed to his Order of the Lycan bloodlust and attacked Orym before being healed enough to regain control.[104] Roe Estani later told the party about Grim Verity, a hundred-year-old collective of collegiate scholars "uncovering conspiratorial secrets of history to a borderline blasphemous degree by theological standards." The Lumas twins were members. If Bells Hells go to the Aydinlan Seminary in Yios, they should find Ebenold Kai and deliver to her a sealed letter which he gave to Orym.[105] Once back in Jrusar, while everyone else was asleep Orym used the sending stone to tell Dorian where the party was going and that Dorian was missed. Dorian replied that he's missed them all, too.[106] Chetney gave Orym two of the wooden gifts promised to each of the party in return for their help: a small bowl in the shape of a crescent moon, and a wooden box carved with images of flowers and of the two moons.[107] During the voyage to Bassuras, the party was attacked by skirath. Orym killed one of them but was attacked in retaliation by the other and pushed off the skyship. Laudna saw it happen and cast Feather Fall on him but the boat continued to sail away. Imogen suddenly floated upward, Flying for the first time to reach the slowly tumbling Orym and take him back to the ship.[108] In Bassuras, Orym noticed the rift between Imogen and Laudna. He approached Imogen, and she shared that Laudna and she had had a falling out. Imogen was upset that Laudna was so friendly with Dusk. Orym assured her that the estrangement wouldn't last forever, and that she'd done amazing things for all the others. She shouldn't get down on herself and she should talk to Laudna.[109] The night before the Deathwish Run, Orym told Dusk he'd never seen fighting technique such as she employed and asked her to spar with the wooden toy swords he'd bought earlier. They battled, each disarming the other and then recovering, but Orym won. He told her that her fighting style seemed fey, and she asked him for some pointers. How about tonight? Embarrassed, he told her it was complicated and he only liked guys, but she could keep the sword.[110] During the Deathwish Run, Orym leaped into one of the competitors' vehicles and booted the driver out, taking it over. He expended the blue rose he found while traveling to the museum heist to cast a cone of lightning on the Paragon's Call crawler, their sole remaining rival in the race, sending the driver flying to impale himself on the back of Chetney and Laudna's crawler. He and his passenger Dusk were able to successfully complete the race. That evening, he was able to read the lips of the various conversations in the inn, including when Chetney offered to help Dusk capture the Calloways in return for a share of the bounty.[111] When the group met Birdie, Fearne's mother, at Imahara Joe's store the next day, Dusk revealed their identity as a changeling agent of the Unseelie Court. Birdie unsuccessfully tried to escape by becoming invisible, and Orym moved behind Dusk and pressed his sword into the small of their back as a precaution; the fey agent's response was to take the form of an attractive male half-elf, reminding the halfling of their romantic proposal; Orym reacted by stabbing them with his sword. After "Dusk" introduced themself as Yu Suffiad, both they and Birdie tried to gain the trust of Fearne and her group, and Orym managed to disarm Yu; later he attempted to use the remaining Bead of Imprisonment[112] on Yu but failed, destroying the bead. After Bells Hells managed to have a relatively fluid conversation with Birdie and Yu, Yu agreed to give he Calloways a month before interacting with her and her husband again. Before returning their sword to Yu, Orym used it to cut the changeling's sleeves, causing them to tease the fighter again with the face of a half-elf who Orym again rejected.[113] After Yu left, Bells Hells went with Birdie (during their walk Orym was on guard to make sure no one was following them or looking suspicious) to meet Hondir, a goblin ally of Birdie. From him they got information about the Grim Verity and how some strange shadowy assassins had begun to hunt its members. Orym suspected that they were the same assassins who had attacked Keyleth and killed Will, although the goblin couldn't tell him why those assassins would attack Zephrah.[114] Bells Hells left Bassuras to visit the Calloway Layaway, taking Hondir with them since he didn't feel safe in town.[115] Orym noticed a figure standing on the mesa they were approaching, and as they reached the other end of a bridge, they were intercepted by the Fist of the Ruiner, who demanded payment in exchange for letting them through safely. Rather than agree, Imogen used one of the explosives they had to attack the thieves (after mentally alerting Orym and FCG to move out of the blast range). The two groups battled, with Orym jumping on top of the other automaton to try and take down one of the criminals. After the chaos of combat (in which Imogen's magic caused collateral damage to both her own team and others) they managed to kill some of their attackers, while others fled; it was Orym who remembered that Gruumsh had been responsible creating the desert that covers much of Marquet, and that his might was surely the cause of the Fist of the Ruiner's name. When they finally reached the Calloway Layaway Fearne was reunited with her father, Oleander Calloway, and he told Bells Hells how he and his wife had come to Exandria and how they had spied on and robbed the Unseelie Court. Orym inquired about the identity of some mortal emissaries at a meeting the pair had witnessed, confirming that one of them was Otohan Thull. When Imogen tried to look at Ruidus through the Veilscatter Scope built by Ira Wendagoth she was able to make out a strange energy barrier around the red moon, but she was unable to examine the surface of the satellite. Orym, who had had more success looking through a telescope before, helped her by looking himself, and with the magical boost of his Sentinel Shield he was able to make out a city on the surface of Ruidus, immediately pulling his friend closer to the telescope so she could see it too. When the Nightmare King asked them what they had seen, Imogen did not mention the city in her description; Ira looked through the telescope himself, and after being satisfied he extracted the Moontide Crown from the apparatus and disappeared. during that conversation Orym remembered the description of the elf accompanying Otohan in his meeting with the Unseelie fey, and deduced that it could be Ludinus Da'leth, leader of the Cerberus Assembly. When Ira finally left, the battle master took the Weave Lens that Fearne had given to her parents from the telescope, giving it to Ashton, who broke it to see if it was magical or not (Laudna mended it after that, but they weren't sure if the item retained magic). After questioning the Calloways and pondering their future plans, Orym and Imogen left the lair for a bit, and the halfling told her that they should go to Yios soon, encouraged her to take more of a leadership position in their group, and to trust her instincts when it comes to Otohan and her dreams; he also asked her to send a message to Keyleth on his behalf, informing her of the progress of his quest. Later, Orym used his sending stone to check in with Dorian: they both missed each other. That night, Orym noticed Fearne taking two shards of gnarlrock and placing them in Laudna's dollhouse and Imogen's pouch. When Laudna discovered hers the next morning, Orym surreptitiously mentioned to Imogen the location of the second shard. After Fresh Cut Grass tried to contact Dancer a second time (having received a puzzling response the day before), their old associate's reaction left them in a catatonic state that turned murderous when Chetney punched them looking for a reaction. A quick but intense battle between Bells Hells and a feral version of their cleric ensued, but the aeormaton was rendered unconscious, and Orym removed their buzzsaw arm and strung them upside down by a rope hanging from the ceiling before letting Fearne heal them. FCG seemed confused, not remembering what had happened, and when Imogen read his mind she found memories of the aeormaton listening to several of their friends, including Orym speaking fondly of Will. Ashton mentioned that anyone in the group except Orym could have lost control like that, though then both Ashton and Orym agreed that the group as a whole should try to be better together. After a brief conversation the halfling lowered the still-hanging FCG, and although the cleric tried to give Orym his weapons, he returned them, again stressing the need that if anything like this happened again, the rest of the group had to help containing the unstable person. During this conversation, Orym was noticeably dismayed, even becoming irritated when Imogen openly declared her willingness to kill other members of the group if it meant protecting the rest. When Bells Hells returned to Bassuras, Orym, Ashton, and Imogen met with Dancer after FCG gave his buzzsaw arm to Orym. They persuaded her to meet with FCG outside. FCG learned from Imahara Joe that he might have been created as a murder bot, but both Orym and Joe reassured him that what mattered was what he wanted to become. While the group traveled to Paragon's Call keep, the Seat of Disdain, Orym noticed Artana Voe pass them on the street and Orym doubled back to speak to her. She said she was just in town visiting a friend, and Orym took the news of her presence back to the group.[116] During the attack on the Seat of Disdain, Orym was part of the group that successfully retrieved Armand Treshi from his cell and held him in the portable hole. When they encountered Artana attempting the same thing, Orym persuaded her to join them although she vanished when Imogen apparently betrayed her to Ratanish. During the ensuing battle against Otohan Thull outside the citadel's gate, Orym's first action was to step in front of Imogen. He realized the echoes summoned by Otohan were the shadowy assassins that had attacked Zephrah and killed Will. Otohan attacked his mind and was able to learn from him that the group was working with Ariks Eshteross. When Ashton was knocked unconscious at the onset of battle, Orym's healing potion restored him, but Orym was attacked by Otohan and knocked unconscious, looking at the sky past her shoulder and thinking of his husband and his father. Fearne was able to bring him back with Cure Wounds, but even before he could rise, Otohan attacked again, telling him "We've met before" as her final stab killed him. As he died, the sending stone paired to Dorian Storm fell from his hand, and he experienced a really heavy sense of failure, at the same time knowing he was going to see Will and Derrig again.[117] Bells Hells, left with one fewer possible Revivifies available than slain members, used a coin toss to decide between bringing back Laudna or Orym. The coin's decision went to Orym, who was in a place of peace: the cherry blossoms and sweet breezes of Zephrah. He turned to see Will just as he heard Fearne's words calling him back and saw a shaft of light coming down toward him from above. Will told him he wasn't done yet, and Orym choked out, "I really wish I could stay." They embraced, and telling him to go, Will threw him up toward the shaft of light. Orym opened his eyes to see Fearne's anxious face. She told him Laudna was dead.[118] Afterward, when the group questioned Armand Treshi, Orym uncharacteristically stabbed him through the foot when they believed he knew more than he was saying, telling him, "We're having a bit of a raw day, Armand. We just lost one of our own, as you can see. And I'm the peaceful solution guy in this group. So why don't you just start fucking talking right the fuck now?"[119] During the travel back to Jrusar, Orym suggested Keyleth as a possible source of aid in resurrecting Laudna. He shared with the group that both his husband Will and his father-in-law Derrig were killed in the attack on Zephrah by the shadow assassins and unable to be resurrected, for unknown reasons.[120] Finally it was the Voice of the Tempest who came to help Bells Hells, taking them with her magic to Whitestone, and revealing that the reason they couldn't resurrect Will and Derrig was that the assassins had used a toxin that countered that kind of magic; fortunately, that didn't seem to be the case in Laudna's murder. While Keyleth was with them, Orym resumed his old ways as her bodyguard, and before bidding farewell, he and his friends revealed to the archdruid the various discoveries they had made at Marquet. During negotiations with the de Rolos Orym used his knowledge of Vox Machina and their adventures to try to persuade them to help Laudna, despite the fact that the possibility that Delilah Briarwood could return along with (or instead of) Laudna greatly unsettled Percival de Rolo. After a failed resurrection attempt by Pike Trickfoot they went to her home, where they discovered that they could spiritually send Laudna's friends to the place where her soul resided to rescue her from Delilah; as part of the preparations, Orym borrowed an enchanted sword from Vex'ahlia de Rolo. In Delilah's dark domain Orym helped his friends as they traveled, and they ended up meeting Delilah Briarwood by the dark Sun Tree, where Laudna's spirit was held. A battle ensued between the adventurers and the necromancer, during which Orym tried to climb the tree (with Ashton's help) to rescue Laudna, but to no avail; one of Delilah's attacks sent him back to the Material Plane, but thanks to Imogen the mission was a success, and Pike cast Raise Dead to successfully resurrect Laudna. During the ritual Orym appealed to Laudna's spirit to return, making poppies as offerings which were placed in Laudna's hair. Arc 3: The Solstice Approaches[] That evening, Orym told Percival about the residuum smuggling occurring through Paragon's Call and the Cerberus Assembly in Marquet. Percy kept most of the party's residuum but entrusted Orym with a small portion for emergencies. Bells Hells then returned to Jrusar, discovering that their ally, Lord Ariks Eshteross, had been killed in their absence. Orym identified the same toxin that was used when Otohan killed Will and Derrig. After Bells Hells contacted Orlana Seshadri and she sent the Green Seekers to find them, Chetney decided to open Eshteross' letter for Seshadri, despite Orym's opposition. When Bells Hells departed for Yios on the Silver Sun Orym began the voyage remarkably excited, but on the third day he almost fell overboard (for the third time in his adventures with Bells Hells) and was saved by his safety rope. Shortly later in the journey he witnessed Ruidus turning Chetney into a wolf, so the halfling fighter took it upon himself (with Fearne's assistance) to confront him, making sure the werewolf did no irreparable damage until his gnomish side regained control, ending up with scars across his right eye from Chetney's claws before they were done. Later, Orym used his sending stone to update Dorian about the group and tell him that he missed him, and had a brief but honest conversation with Ashton, in which the earth genasi reminded him that he could ask for help whenever he needed to, which Orym answered by hugging him.[121] Orym helped defeat several cockatrices and a chimera before they reached the Gloomed Jungles. After Bells Hells met there with the Gorgynei and travelled with them to Zha'Vrollo, Chetney went through Sahyaadon's trial to improve his control over his lycanthropy. As part of the trial the gnome was transformed into a bigger and more terrifying incarnation of his wolf form, and Orym and the rest of the group had to fight him while the blood hunter tried to regain control. The halfling fighter made great efforts during that combat, including an attempt to appeal to Chetney's woodworker mind by showing him a wooden wolf Orym had been carving. When the challenge was finally over and only Orym and Fearne remained in the chamber, Orym noticed the faint scent of Will, his husband, and when he approached the Wildmother's statue in the room he put his own sword in the scabbard she was holding. Vines grew from its hilt and it acquired a faint green glow, becoming magical.[122] The next morning, before the Silver Sun came to pick them up, Orym practiced with his blessed sword, having a brief chat with Uther about how important weapons deserved their own name; he also talked to Chetney, showing him the new magic of the sword and the carved wolf, that the gnome accepted after criticizing the halfling's carving technique and offering him advice and tools; he ended up naming his sword Seedling, the Wayward Pilgrim. After arriving to Yios Bells Hells went to a casino for a last night of fun before starting their mission in the city. While talking with Landon Kreshawl, a guide who wanted to offer them his services, the party lied and said that they were performers, and Orym supported this by starting a choreography using Seedling and its vines. Later, when they were in their room, Imogen left casting Invisibility and Fly, and only the fighter noticed, although the sorcerer reassured him, telling him that she would be right back (and so she did). The next day, after Bells Hells fought Shithead, an undead bird that was chasing Fresh Cut Grass (during the fight Orym used Seedling to cast Grasping Vines on the creature), they went to the Aydinlan Seminary, and after asking a few questions, they ended up leaving with Carolle, a receptionist FCG enchanted so she would guide them to Ebenold Kai's home. On their way there the group tried to gain Carolle's friendship and trust so that, when the Fast Friends spell ended, she would not feel hostility towards them; as part of the strategy, Orym offered to pay for the woman's lunch, giving her 5 platinum before they went their separate ways. After Orym and Chetney, hidden with Invisibility, investigated Professor Kai's house, they found him hiding in a basement with Dr. Baryn Vestisho, who used first a magical skull to blind and frighten Orym, and then a Spell Scroll to flee. Bells Hells (minus Ashton) followed them through the magical circle created by the spell (Imogen had to grab the still scared Orym) and were transported with them to the Elemental Plane of Fire, where, after Orym gained their trust with Roe Estani's presentation letter, they spoke with the two members of the Grim Verity and Planerider Ryn, exchanging information about Ruidus and the events connected to it. Bells Hells, after discovering that Otohan and the Cerberus Assembly had bigger plans involving the red moon and building machines in different planes, declared themselves willing to try and sabotage any plans that would affect Ruidus and endanger Exandria. Since one of their options was to travel to the Fey Realm, at Fearne's insistence and after getting a vague description of the hag, Imogen cast Sending to speak to Morri Calloway, who assured them that she could help them. Imogen told the druid that Morri's voice sounded warm, but telepathically told Orym that it was really scary. After Ryn sent them back to Ebenold's house, the adventurers discovered that three intruders were using an air elemental to explore the house and find the basement. The party tried to confuse the newcomers into thinking they were having a party with adult content, and Orym contributed by acting like their bouncer; however, the farce eventually ended, and a brief battle ensued: Orym attacked first, casting Grasping Vines against the enemy mage, and then moving through the battlefield protecting his friends; during the battle he stated that if he survived the encounter it was a proof that the gods were, indeed, watching, and soon after he managed to knock the enemy rogue unconscious. After combat the group escaped taking the mage for questioning, loading him on Fearne's back (transformed into a horse). When they found a place with enough privacy the adventurers interrogated Tuldus (for that was the mage's name) after Orym had tied his hands and taken his components away, using Imogen's telepathy and FCG's Fast Friends, discovering key information about him, his organization and his leader; during the process Orym asked him what all of that had to do with Zephrah, getting a reaction from Tuldus that Imogen also registered with her mind. At the end of the interrogation the adventurers decided to contact Ryn and start planning their next step; when FCG expressed their wish to stay behind (since they had just arrived to the city, and there was a professor that could help them understand their own nature better) Orym stressed the risks of that course of action and the consequences if they didn't stop the plans involving Predathos. Through the Sending spell Imogen agreed with their barbarian friend to meet again in the Aydinlan Seminary, so they went there (leaving Pâté watching over Tuldus). Ashton showed up covered in food and explained his absence, after which Bells Hells divided into three groups: Chetney, Orym, and Ashton would stay at the entrance of the educational center (while the barbarian updated them even further on his adventures in Yios); Laudna and a still stressed FCG would visit Vitro Isham, expert in automatons; and Imogen and Fearne would visit Kadija Sumal, an ally of the Grim Verity and the professor who had worked with Liliana Temult. The three members of the group in the entrance eventually saw Ludinus Da'leth passing by (being identified by Orym), and watched him walk away with two members of the Ruby Vanguard before teleporting away; the three friends, worried about the rest of the group, rushed to find the rest (after Ashton helped Orym intimidating Carolle into not giving them trouble), and they all ended up meeting at Sumal's office, discovering that the Martinet of the Cerberus Assembly had talked with Imogen and Fearne after cursing Professor Sumal and stealing documents from her. After such an encounter, and seeing that Kadija had been left in a very fragile state, they decided to call Ryn, who came and confirmed that she would seek help for the professor and would take care of the still spellbound Tuldus (relieving Pâté of his role); during the conversation Orym made a brief joke about Exandria being flat (a belief FCG had), which caused Ashton to hit him so he wouldn't encourage that idea. As promised, the Planerider transported Bells Hells to the Feywild in that very office. The group appeared in the Harrowcall Fens, near the home of Fearne's grandmother. The faun, excited to be back in her childhood plane, began leading her friends around, and when they were kept up by some music-loving flowers and an animated tree that tried to bar their way, the fighter and his friends managed to keep going by singing and entertaining the plants; while crossing the marshland, after having seen hundreds of those fey flowers screaming at them to show "appreciation" for having sung for them, both Orym and Ashton expressed how intense the Fey Realm was seeming to them in the very short time they had been there. However, they managed to successfully reach the Ligament Manor, the home of the Fatestitcher. They were welcomed by the strange hag, who, after hugging her granddaughter, offered them a cocktail. The group stayed at the mansion for the rest of the day, and Fearne caught up with her grandmother, who, despite her sinister appearance, was very welcoming; the druid introduced Orym to the hag as her best friend. After visiting the garden (where Orym stated to Imogen that he wasn't judging the creepiness of the place, since they were on a mission) Bells Hells went to their quarters, where they talked about the information they had about Ludinus and the Vanguard (they decided to continue their plans about stopping them, and Orym was particularly determined, since they had caused the deaths of Derrig and Will) and, having seen that Ruidus was visible in the fey sky, FCG decided to cast Shared Dream on Imogen, Laudna and himself; to help the sorcerer fall asleep Orym (after listening to a description of it) Druidcrafted several flowers trying to recreate a specific type that Imogen liked a lot in Gelvaan, and while the halfling's creations weren't identical to the original, they did match Imogen's hair, which was a nice detail. The next day, before saying goodbye to Morri, Orym asked her advice about how to interact with the Unseelie. On the way to Sun's Shadow the adventurers met a patrol of three nomadic centaurs who tried to capture them to sell them to the Unseelie Court; however, Bells Hells (after a brief attempt to flee in which Orym used Seedling's magic to try to slow his enemies) managed to knock two of them unconscious and kill the third and the animated tree they had summoned. Once they managed to access the Shiver Keep (after a brief problem with Ashton and sentient ground) Orym and Laudna, combining Invisibility and Spider Climb, went forward, finding Otohan Thull arguing with Sorrowlord Zathuda by the Malleus Key; the fighter was able to read the lips of both individuals, understanding their conversation before they both left. As the rest of Bells Hells reunited with their friends, they set out to sabotage the machine that was summoning Ruidus in the Fey Realm. Orym, Laudna and Fearne (the latter in the form of a slow loris) managed to get into the structure itself, where they inspected its components to see how they could damage the machine, leaving dynamite inside (whose wick Orym lit with his Druidcraft) before leaving. One of the eremads finally took notice of the intruders, and a brief confrontation ensued in which the mortals emerged victorious, and during which Orym defended Imogen, who was being attacked by one of the fey monsters. Not long after, the Malleus Key was destroyed; however, the sound brought Zathuda back on his draconic mount, Gloamglut, and the adventurers tried to flee. While they were running through the Sablecast Grounds woodland Orym's high perception helped the group orient themselves. When facing Terrosh, the portal guardian, Orym offered oil to compensate for Imogen's failed first attempt of payment to use the portal, which the strange fey being accepted, sending him through it to Exandria, crossing a silent waterfall in the Taloned Highlands near Imogen's hometown. Orym took a bath in the river and before walking away, the group briefly talked about what to do with the two dead Unseelie guards in their portable hole; although the halfling proposed to bury them, they ended up sending the corpses through the portal as "snacks" for Terrosh. That night Orym took an interest in FCG's well-being, and the cleric confirmed that although the last few days had been very stressful, they liked having the guidance they felt Avandra was giving them through her coin, stating that they were now more interested in seeing what the future holds, instead of focusing on the past; the aeormaton was also interested in what gave Orym purpose, justice for his husband and father-in-law. The next day Bells Hells kept traveling to Gelvaan, where their skyship would find them, but the journey was hard for Orym, who ended up somewhat exhausted. Later the fighter contacted Keyleth (via Imogen) to inform her of his current situation and that of the assassins; the Voice of the Tempest responded by telling her of her own interest in Terrah and raising a possible connection between the problems there and the plans of the Ruby Vanguard; Orym briefly talked to Chetney about the Elemental Plane of Earth when Chetney asked about it. That night, when Imogen's dream revealed that their ally, Ryn, had been petrified in the Tishtan ruins, Orym spoke out against recklessly going there. When the party arrived at Imogen's village and they met with Relvin, Orym asked the sorcerer if she wanted them to leave, but she dismissed the idea. Despite the initial tensions, the father-daughter reunion proved relatively productive, and when the Silver Sun arrived Orym and his friends left Gelvaan in dramatic fashion. While on their way to the Tishtan excavation site ruins Bells Hells checked their potential allies. Orym, using his sending stone, contacted Dorian, who informed them that the Crown Keepers had their own concerns in their corner of Exandria, particularly about Opal's condition. That night, the fighter showed his support for Imogen, telling her that if he had a daughter he would want that child to be like her. With FCG's casting of Shared Dream, Orym and Fearne were sent into Imogen's dream with her, looking for her mother. After the dream conversation with Liliana, Imogen had doubts about whether what Ludinus was planning could be good, and Orym reminded her that Will and Derrig had been killed for that project; this, along with Ashton's eloquent endorsement, reaffirmed the need to oppose the release of Predathos; Orym later commented to Fearne that if necessary, if Imogen turned on the group he would distract her while the druid tried to neutralize her. Later in the journey, after noticing that the ley lines were more and more visible in the sky, Orym contacted Dorian again to ask him if the phenomenon was also visible where he was, and the bard confirmed it. When Bells Hells arrived to the Calloway Layaway, Orym, Ashton and Imogen went to Bassuras, spending an immense amount of money on different materials and magical items. When they finally took off again with the Silver Sun, the halfling contacted Dorian a third time, asking him to find a safe place underground if necessary. When their skyship faced arcane wind (produced by the ley lines), FCG's unstable spell created an electrical shield around Captain Xandis that produced dangerous lightning bolts for everyone else; Orym prayed to the Wildmother and attempted to use his blessed sword Seedling as a lightning rod, but this caused that area of the ship to explode, forcing a landing in order to make repairs (the fighter's sword wasn't damaged, although it was really hot after conducting so much electricity). When they resumed their journey, and after a brief encounter with an ember roc that Orym located thanks to his high perception, the adventurers finally had a quiet day of travel, during which the Ashari's seed (a gift to him from Thrascuur in Niirdal-Poc) showed signs of life. After a brief discussion about what to do with the seed, Fresh Cut Grass identified it and confirmed that they had to plant it to receive a message; upon doing so, Keyleth (through a blue and purple flower) informed them that she had been dealing with an Ashari cult allied with the Ruby Vanguard in Terrah, and thus she was interested in joining forces with Bells Hells to take on Ludinus. This gave hope to the group as a whole, and Orym theorized that his sister-in-law, Leeta, might accompany Keyleth as her lead guard. On the night before the last day of the voyage before the solstice, the Air Ashari meditated a bit and spoke with Imogen, who asked how he felt about the new connotations of Ruidus, to which Orym replied that despite everything, the red moon still had a positive meaning associated with himself and Will; the halfling also expressed his trust in Imogen as he hugged her, after which he went to rest. The next morning, after reaching an agreement on the plans and leaving the crew of Silver Sun in a safe place, Bells Hells divided: FCG, Fearne, Ira (whom they did not trust) and Xandis would stay in the skyship to crash it into the Malleus Key (magically escaping before impact), while the rest of the group disguised themselves to infiltrate the enemy ranks; Orym briefly wondered if the crawler they were going to use was small enough for the portable hole, but it wasn't. While they were saying goodbye, the halfling hugged Fearne and she asked them to run if something went wrong; the fighter also told Fresh Cut Grass he hoped Avandra favored them, a sentiment the aeormaton reciprocated. After a short journey (during which, as Keyleth had told Imogen, they located a tree and Orym marked it carving the Ashari symbol with his blade, so his people would be able to reach through) the adventurers reached the Tishtan ruins, where thanks to Imogen's confidence they were able to get in smoothly; however, a little further in they were stopped since some of them (including Orym) looked suspicious, which led to a battle during which the Air Ashari fought skillfully. Shortly after they met Beauregard Lionett and Caleb Widogast, two allies of Ryn who also wanted to stop Ludinus; during their conversation Orym was initially tense and protective, since he was able to read that their new allies were definitely stronger than them, but it didn't take long for him to trust them more, even taking an interest in "dunabis" when the wizard mentioned it. Shortly afterwards FCG contacted Orym, and the fighter informed them about the situation, commenting that they could use the aeormaton's mechanical insight, which led to Fearne and the cleric reuniting with the rest of Bells Hells. As they descended into the ruins Fresh Cut Grass took control of the Warder his friends had defeated, and while he and most of Bells Hells were hiding inside Imogen walked past the automaton with Orym posing as a captured enemy; at one point there was a tense moment when they ran into General Ratanish, but he didn't recognize them, and Orym smartly used Druidcraft to smash red berries against his skin and look like a bloody prisoner (although the half-giant ended up kicking him regardless). They were stopped again by a dragonborn exaltant who did not trust Imogen, so a brief battle ensued from which Bells Hells emerged victorious, with Orym being the one who killed the exaltant hitting them in their good eye; after that, the halfling found out the dragonborn was carrying a locket of a little girl, and he took it with him. While hiding from Otohan Thull, the fighter ate the magical danish FCG had given to him, in case he needed the extra health. Because of the sabotage happening within the excavation, Ludinus decided to rush his plans with the Malleus Key, rallying his forces (and the captured Caleb and Beau) while delivering a speech, during which Orym tried to approach FCG (who was trapped inside the Warder body next to Ryn's statue), being briefly stopped and shushed by one of Ludinus' enthralled followers, which led to Orym knocking that person unconscious. While trying to use Seedling to free Fresh Cut Grass, Orym was seen by Liliana Temult, who began mentally restraining him but stopped when Imogen started telepathically talking to her. Later, the Voice of the Tempest arrived, and was immediately ambushed by Otohan Thull; Orym tried to defend his leader by destroying the device that allowed the leader of Paragon's Call to summon her echoes, prompting Fearne, Little Mister and Imogen to help with their magical attacks, leaving the machine severely damaged, but not destroyed.[123] After the Malleus Key activated, Bells Hells were sent far away, and Orym, Ashton and Laudna appeared at a cliffside, in an area with geysers, from which the beam of red energy hitting Ruidus was visible, although very far away. Arc 4: Separated[] Orym immediately tried to contact Caleb Widogast and Dorian with his sending stones, failing in both attempts. The three friends started climbing the cliff, led by Orym, who was using Laudna's immovable rod and some rope to assist the group; he almost immediately encountered "Mona", a dwarven woman who had been sent there as well, but from Tal'Dorei. She joined the group, and together they reached the edge of the cliff and entered a forest. Soon after, after spotting a fire, Orym approached it, finding there a very scared half-elf, Bor'Dor Dog'Son, who tried to attack him with a crossbow but failed; the halfling's calm demeanor explaining the situation allowed the group to approach safely, and when a sixth person, Prism, came there as well, the fighter maintained the same attitude, although he called out to the woods in case there was someone else there. When three plant monsters attacked the group, Orym helped protect Bor'Dor, and later he was swallowed by one of the shambling mounds, although he was saved by Prism's Dimension Door, cast through her sentient spellbook, Dynios. Later in the night, during their watch, Orym and Deni$e talked for a bit, discovering that her hated ex-boyfriend was, in fact, Dariax Zaveon. The halfling shared his own good opinion about the sorcerer, and Deni$e admitted she still liked him; she also complimented the fighter's style, and when noticing that he was a romantic, asked about his love life, which led Orym to explain that he had no one. The next morning, with more light, they were able to identify the Ascendant Bridge Mountain (which Orym had spotted the previous night), revealing they were in Issylra; the new group decided to stay together and travel to the nearest town or city. While following the Outerwalk Road Orym and Laudna found and fixed one of Deni$e's nails respectively; the halfling also joked with Ashton about how they hadn't slept "like a rock". Later, when noticing the intensity of the magic around them, Orym checked by casting Druidcraft, creating a surprisingly vibrant daisy with a fragrant smell. When the group arrived at Hearthdell, the fighter and Deni$e helped Laudna look more alive, using the rogue's makeup while the halfling created some flowers to give some color to her complexion. Later, when they were in the Innovar Apothecary, Orym bought a lot of healing salves for the group. When Bells Hells met Elder Joan Abaddina, Orym Druidcrafted a big white flower to win the goliath's trust, and later, to prove he and his friends were trustworthy, he allowed her to use magical pink spores to inspect some of his past experiences. That night, following the elder's advice, the group went to a secret meeting in the Fairfroth Brewery, where the villagers were planning how to drive out the followers of the Dawnfather who were occupying Hearthdell. Following Bor'Dor's idea, he and Orym went to the Sunrise Sanctuary with beer and tobacco to gain the bastions' trust and convince them that their forces should move to Marquet to face Ludinus instead of oppressing these villagers. Initially the plan went as expected, even though Orym noticed that their allies weren't too stealthy moving in the shadows near the temple; however, when Flameguide Kiro (the temple's missionary leader) tried to take them inside for questioning, even wondering about the relationship between Orym and Ludinus, the halfling alerted their allies to attack using their agreed signal, "That's unfortunate", after which he knocked down one of the bastions and pointed his sword at Kiro, insisting that they resolve this matter as soon as possible.[124] During the battle Orym managed to throw Kiro to the ground using Seedling's vines; however, shortly after he and Ashton ended up paralyzed by her Hold Person until she lost concentration after being attacked by Prism. He then both attacked his enemies and held Kiro's attention while defending his own teammates. After the Flameguide was killed by Bor'Dor, her dying prayer summoned a Dawnborn Angel which used its Fiery Castigation to hold the fighter in golden fiery chains, but Orym still managed to attack the Judicator. Once released, the halfling and Deni$e climbed onto the barlgura that Prism had summoned. Together they felled the angel where Bor'Dor finished it off with Inflict Wounds. After collecting some of the treasures and documents from the temple the building itself (now empty) was destroyed by Elder Abaddina and her Demithore eidolons. Despite the happiness of the people of Hearthdell, Orym felt morally conflicted for the first time in a long time having faced the forces of one of the Prime Deities; he and Laudna shared concerns, and the halfling expressed that he was glad to have met her. When Bells Hells returned with Elder Abaddina to her cottage, they spoke for a bit about religion, spirituality, and how it all connected to Predathos and the elemental eidolons; Prism showed academic interest in better understanding all this, although when she discovered that Orym had been widowed because of the plans to free Predathos, she realized why the matter was so delicate for the halfling (in fact, Orym ended up leaving, not in the mood for such conversations). Before going to sleep Bor'Dor went with the fighter, who had perched in a tree outside the Knotburrow, and they chatted a little about religion and the purpose of their group there; he also praised the Ashari's smooth talk and how much fun it had been to use the laxatives with the bastions. Orym spent the night in the tree, barely resting. The next morning Joan kept her promise and allowed Bells Hells to use her scrying well three times, and using Orym's box (made by Chetney) she confirmed to Bells Hells that the other half of their team were still alive near Uthodurn. After the party decided to travel to the Irriam Canyon to ask the Archdruid Hevestro for help in returning to their respective homes, Orym and his friends left Hearthdell, with a wind eidolon as their guide at the Air Ashari's request. While traveling through the Serratus Wilderness Ashton decided he wanted to try meditating to connect with the elements and focus a bit more on his past. Orym tried to guide them through the process with his words and gave them a hand massage; the halfling brought Bor'Dor as well, who helped by casting Calm Emotions on the barbarian. The following day Bells Hells found a strange crater full of flowers, and Orym decided to approach while Druidcrafting more flowers, offering one to Prism. Laudna sent Pâté with her friends, and when they discovered that there was a petrified skeleton in the ground the warlock cast Wither and Bloom to clean the terrain (apologizing to Orym for ruining the beautiful flora), while the rest of the team inspected the strange remains. Orym adorned Pâté by putting flowers in his empty eye sockets, which caused a tingle, but he thanked the adventurer. That night, after listening to Dynios talking to Prism about her self-confidence, Orym asked if the pages of the spellbook were legible, and Dynios made it clear that the halfling was not allowed to read them, which caused the aforementioned to try to press a flower with the book which Dynios spat out, indignant. During his watch, Orym noticed several entities that approached the camp, and when he woke up Prism, she confirmed they were friendly local spirits, encouraging him to enjoy the moment. She cast Bigby's Hand for him to dance on top of with the eidolons, practicing the movements of the Zeph'aeratam. The next day the group attempted (and failed) to Scry on Ludinus, and they talked a bit about their plans to face him and Predathos, although, after hearing Bor'Dor's concerns, Orym admitted that any sane person wouldn't want to be on that mission. Before going to bed, Orym prayed in front of his blessed sword to the Wildmother, asking for her help. During his morning exercise upon waking up the Ashari noticed that Deni$e was up to something. When the adventurers reached the Irriam Canyon, Prism Enlarged Mother so Orym could use her as a hang glider to descend (while the rest of the group did so using Laudna's Feather Fall); although the raven had some difficulty carrying the fighter, the magic strengthening her allowed her to do so successfully, allowing Orym to observe the terrain from a high position and to locate the blue flora they were looking for. At the bottom Orym kept focusing on a large creature camouflaged as a flowery hill, and after his group entered the cave, he was looking for signs that someone lived there, eventually noticing a smiling face in the ceiling.[125] He alerted the others, and during the ensuing battle with the creature, Evithorir the Taker, he was the first to notice an elven figure held within the shadow entity. Pinned to the wall by Evithorir's Shadow Spear, Orym still was able to use Seedling's distance attack to hit the dark fey for significant damage, then use the sword's Grasping Vines to pull the shadowy humanoid figure from within the creature where it fell at his feet. Once free, Orym used Bait and Switch to protect Hevestro. Once Evithorir was defeated, Orym told Hevestro they needed long-distance transportation.[126] During the confrontation with Bor'Dor, Orym grabbed the unconscious Prism and pulled her away while feeding her a healing potion to bring her back to consciousness before using Bait and Switch to raise her Armor Class, then shielding her. When Laudna confronted the defeated and grappled Bor'Dor, Orym at first watched completely silently, but as she tried to decide what to do, she looked up to Orym, and he nodded slightly, as a sign of approval, which led to the warlock ending Bor'Dor's life with Wither and Bloom. Afterwards, Orym lingered by the body, then pulled out the locket he took in remembrance and respect from one of the slain Ruby Vanguard at the Malleus Key and tossed it onto the body, accepting that they are at war. After that he stayed apart from the rest of his companions, reflecting on what had just happened and the people he had lost because of that conflict, making the determination to avenge whatever the cost.[127] The next morning, after seeing through Prism Scry that Dariax was in Westruun, Orym used his sending stone to try to contact Dorian, but the magic of the object failed. Deni$e suddenly remembered she stole one of the "Wanted" posters for all the Crown Keepers (including those missing) in Tal'Dorei and showed it to Orym, confirming that Poska and her Nameless Ones were still looking for them (and also wondering why Orym was named "Nancy" in the flyer); the fighter was slightly horrified about that information, and asked to keep the paper. Before the rogue left Orym told her to tell his friends that they were missed, and also offered her one last time to stay and help saving the world. After that, the rest of Team Issylra was then transported back to Jrusar.[128] Orym used his sword's vines to prevent Mother and Prism from falling down the cliff of the Lucent Spire. The shadow elf stayed with them, talking about possible destinations, and while speaking with her Orym asked about the training of members of the Cobalt Soul (since the other member he had met, Beauregard, was particularly strong-looking). When the group was traveling in a gondola with a gnome courier they tried asking him about the current situation in the city, and Orym tried to calm him down, since he was very nervous and intimidated; later, when they were arriving to the Spire by Fire Inn Orym was looking for the Green Seekers, but he didn't see them. When they found Team Wildemount Orym immediately ran and hugged Fearne, and the two groups started speaking and sharing anecdotes; the halfling told his faun friend about Deni$e and her relationship with Dariax, and showed a great interest in FRIDA, as they were the second aeormaton he had ever met. Later, he requested Deanna to cast Scrying and check if Keyleth was okay, giving her the remnants of the Message Bloom seed his leader had used to communicate with the Ashari. Deanna confirmed that the Voice of the Tempest was back in Zephrah, still alive, but weakened by her wounds, then used Mending on the seed before returning it to Orym so he could keep a single object instead of its pieces. Later Orym suggested that FRIDA, Deanna and Prism could leave to research Predathos and the gods and send Bells Hells any useful information found, while the main group went back to the Tishtan excavation site. When FCG showed some hesitation, since that would mean leaving FRIDA on their own, the halfling pressured them to make a decision soon. Eventually the two groups exchanged farewells, during which Prism declared that the Air Ashari was now her best friend, thanking him for the experiences they had shared, and exchanging a promise with FCG that she would keep FRIDA safe and he would keep Orym safe. The fighter and the wizard bumped fists, and Prism Enlarged Orym to show the image she had of him. Orym was delighted by that last surprise, working out with his temporarily Medium-sized body (which looked more pretentious than usual for his friends).[129] Arc 5: Race to the Moon[] Once the seven original members of Bells Hells were left alone, Orym's Enlarged state ended, and the group continued to share the information and discoveries they had made on their respective trips; however, Laudna was particularly irritated by how apparently enjoyable Team Wildemount's adventure had been, complaining about it. Seeing that the warlock urgently needed to relax a bit, the party agreed to put off their plans (to visit Zephrah and talk to Keyleth, as Orym requested) until the next morning and take the rest of the day to rest and make preparations. Orym, Chetney and Fearne went to the Dayal Hall to speak with Ajit in order to get information about the current situation in Jrusar, and also ask him some question about their own discoveries; Orym was particularly interested in knowing more about the eidolons, but he didn't get new information. Once they left, the three adventurers decided to visit the temple of the Duskmaven in the Smolder Spire to check how the clergy was doing during the solstice, but before they arrived, Chetney started following a captivating scent that made him lose control, running wild until he reached an alley where a dwarf trapped him in a silver net that restrained and hurt the lycanthrope. Fearne and Orym fought to free him, with the latter trying to neutralize the bounty hunter, who ended up neutralizing the halfling with a Charm Person spell, thus making him behave friendly towards the attacker. Fearne and Little Mister saved Chetney and the bounty hunter ran away using Misty Step, but Orym, still charmed, noticed him in a rooftop nearby and asked him his name, which made him flee. Once that conflict ended, they continued their way to the temple, and when they reached it, one of the priests talked to them, interacting with Orym and inviting the group to drink from a waterfall inside the building. The water caused the three adventurers to enter a state of meditation during which the Duskmaven sent them a vision of the Malleus Key, still working, and the Champion of Ravens screaming inside his spherical prison. Once the vision was over, the priest told them that they would need faith to succeed in their mission, and before leaving, Orym sprinkled his shield with some water from the temple. When Orym, Fearne and Chetney returned with their friends they told the rest of Bells Hells about their incident with the dwarf and the new information they had collected, including the vision, and argued about how important faith was in their mission; Orym admitted he had always believed in the mortal people around him, but defended that there were gods that had done much good for the world, and they shouldn't be forgotten because of the animosity towards other deities. The group had to stay one extra day, during which Orym tried (and failed) to talk to Caleb Widogast using his sending stone. The following morning Bells Hells Teleported to Zephrah, with Imogen using Orym's shield to focus on their destination. When they arrived they were attacked by several Ashari with skysails, but one of them was Maeve, who recognized her brother-in-law; he immediately hugged her, and she guided them to Keyleth's house, where they were greeted by Leeta, the Master of Defense, who after greeting Orym as well brought them to the Voice of the Tempest. The halfling fighter asked to his leader about her condition and the most recent events, telling her about their own adventures, and offering the group's assistance to help her recover; Imogen mentally asked Orym if they should tell her about the vision regarding the Champion of Ravens, but he chose instead to assure Bells Hells' loyalty to Keyleth despite some personal ties with their enemies (Imogen's blood relation to Liliana). Both the archdruid and the battle master were angry about the current situation, but the former expressed concern about the pressure over the latter's shoulders. After agreeing to travel to the Grey Valley to retrieve Blue Perennem flowers to heal Keyleth (and potentially rescue the first team sent with that task, which included Orym's third sister-in-law, Baernie), the halfling took his friends to visit his mom, Alma (he was offered to also visit his mother-in-law, Nel, but he decided he wanted to do so after returning home with Baernie). The halfling's mother was delighted, and invited them inside, cooking for them, talking about the situation in Zephrah, showing them Orym's childhood home and some of his toys, some of which had been made by Chetney (that, along with a couple of compliments exchanged between the local midwife and the toymaker, made Orym pay special attention to the gnome while they were there). After that Orym and Ashton visited Torth, the local blacksmith, and left commissioned new equipment to pick up after returning from their mission. With Maeve's Transport via Plants Bells Hells arrived in the Grey Valley, where Orym helped guide his friends across the desolate terrain. Eventually he located a small group of the flowers they were looking for, but also a devourer-like demon that, when detected by Chetney as well, attacked the group. It summoned several undead to assist it (including Turan and Fira, two Ashari that Orym recognized) making him worry about Baernie's well-being. The halfling fought fiercely, defending his friends and attacking the enemies until all of them were defeated. When the combat was over he interacted briefly with the soul of an elf that had been trapped inside the devourer's ribcage, which confirmed that they were going in the right direction before vanishing; he also took the weapons of his fellow Ashari and buried their bodies in a dignified way. While the group was resting Orym talked to them for a bit about Keyleth and her Aramenté, which led FCG to ask if the halfling could undergo it too; later, when they discussed divinity the fighter stated that regardless of their individual opinions about the gods, all of them were in agreement about Ludinus being bad. As Bells Hells traveled through the valley they spotted a cloven hill with a structure inside the cleft. Fearne fruitlessly rummaged through her belongings for the spyglass she had stolen from Xandis, and Orym eventually confessed that he had secretly returned it. Although Fearne admired the fact that her friend had managed to steal something from her, in retaliation she only pretended to assist him with Guidance when he was scanning the terrain.[130] After a brief fight with some vrocks the party reached the Iridon Bastion, which had been taken by demons that had killed some people and captured the rest in cages. Orym immediately jumped to reach one of the cages, assisted by Laudna's Feather Fall and his own Gust, and during the battle he fought valiantly and helped defend his friends (particularly Imogen, who was badly hurt). When their enemies were defeated Orym reunited with Baernie, his sister-in-law, who was among the prisoners with a dislocated shoulder; she was very happy to see him, and brought the halfling up to date on what had happened there.[131] Before going to bed the two of them commented how peculiar Bells Hells were, and the following morning the siblings-in-law talked about visiting Derrig and Will with the rest of the family when they returned to Zephrah. The group decided to travel using Imogen's staff, and since they were too many people (including the three rescued Ashari and the two survivors from the Iridon Bastion) they decided to put some people inside the portable hole; however, when Orym volunteered to go inside the hole his friends rejected it, and he stayed outside to be with Baernie and help Imogen focus the magic on their destination. When they returned to Zephrah they brought the flowers to the herbalists so they could prepare the antidote; they reunited with Leeta, and shortly after with Nel, who was very happy to see her son-in-law. Orym took FCG with him to check on Keyleth during her healing process in case she needed additional help, but she recovered successfully. After that Keyleth went to the balcony and commended the hard work of Orym and his team, as well as the sacrifices of those who had died fighting for their people; the halfling showed his shield (that used to belong to Derrig) and dedicated (somewhat hesitant) a few words to the crowd, which cheered enthusiastically. After all that Bells Hells finally had the chance to meet with Keyleth in private, talking about the conflict with Ludinus and their future plans. Orym revealed to the Voice of the Tempest the vision he and his friends had had of the Champion of Ravens, and asked her for advice about what to do next; he also tried to defend his group's reputation when they started behaving chaotically, but the Ashari leader didn't mind the chaos. The archdruid thanked the fighter for all he had done for her, calling him her friend, and assuring him that he honored Derrig and Will with his behavior; she also granted him a title, "Savior Blade of the Tempest", which got the rest of Bells Hells excited; they even proposed getting matching tattoos to celebrate.[132] Orym (after confirming that Torth the blacksmith would need more time to have his commissioned armor ready) decided to visit his mother-in-law, Nel, and Fearne and FCG went with him. The herbalist was happy to see them, asked the fighter's friends about his deeds, and agreed to visit the tombs of her husband and son with them; during that conversation she spoke to Orym about their family, and particularly about Derrig, which made the halfling cry a little. Orym paid his respects in the memorial platform where Derrig and Will had their tombs, expressing how much he missed them and how they motivated him. After that he returned with his friends, expressing how much he appreciated them. Later, after finally retrieving his new armor (for free, since he had become a local hero and that was his uniform), he and his friends went to a bar, the Airy Eyrie, to celebrate, and he paid for everything; while they were there the adventurers complimented Orym's new look and spoke for a bit about the gods (the Ashari talked about his own experience with the Wildmother); he also praised Chetney for his toymaking skills, telling him that his favorite toy (a wooden swordsman) had been made by the gnome. After that they returned to Orym's family home, where they spent the night (after partying a little bit longer with Alma); before going to bed he also tried to contact Caleb Widogast with his sending stone, without success. The following day Bells Hells traveled to Yios with Keyleth in order to find Dancer. When she revealed she needed Imahara Joe's help to fix Ludinus Da'leth's harness for them, the group started looking for a tree, being attacked by Shithead on their way there; Orym used Seedling to defend FCG, but the undead bird evaded its vines, being permanently killed by the cleric's Destroy Undead. After that, the fighter and his friends were transported to Bassuras with Keyleth's magic.[133] After they arrived, Orym noticed three skyships, one of them under attack, and asked an elderly woman about it, who told him the ships had been there a day and a half. After that the the group went to Imahara Joe's, discovering Joe and his friend Verna being held by General Ratanish and six members of Paragon's Call. A battle ensued and Orym managed (after one failed attempt) to manipulate a crawler and detonate its core to kill a dragonborn enemy. When the spellcaster allied with Paragon's Call (a desert warden druid) took the form of a giant eagle to fly away with Joe and Verna, Orym and Ashton managed to reach them, and the former grabbed Verna preventing her from taking too much fall damage. The combat ended when Ratanish, who had been Banished by FCG at the very beginning, returned to the Material Plane, being mercilessly attacked; Orym disarmed him and made him fall to the ground, leaving him exposed for Ashton, who crushed the goliath's chest with his hammer. After that, the mercenaries' bodies were looted while the halfling stood guard at the window. Later they spent some time discussing the harness and its properties in Hondir's abandoned home, and when they reunited with Keyleth she sent Orym and her friends to Slival.[134] There, he and Imogen (using the latter's twinned Fly spell) rose above the fog to scout, noticing another flying creature in the distance; when they were back with the rest of Bells Hells, the halfling expressed his concern about that monster. The following morning, following the petition of the dolabos that FCG had met during their watch, the adventurers went to a volcanic hill to lit a bonfire for them, and while they were doing that Orym stayed vigilant, noticing Bari Mondolo and warning Chetney (who initially didn't understand the fighter's gestures). When the monster attacked the old gnome Orym went to help him, but ended up badly hurt himself; luckily, Bari Mondolo was scared away by Toriz and Jirana, and the Air Ashari got the chance to recover inside of the giant toad-like creature, while the adventurers were speaking with the old galapa.[135] In the shore, after using Speak with Dead to interrogate the desert druid warden and General Ratanish, Bells Hells summoned Captain Urlu Novos and his Crimson Abyss, and Orym was the first to see the vessel approaching noiselessly. The undead pirate sent his crew to kill them, and a battle ensued. The fighter started by protecting Fearne, but soon focused on boarding the ship, fighting the crew there with remarkable agility, until eventually a deal was made and Captain Novos agreed to provide transportation in exchange for his old compass and Graz'tchar. Bells Hells spent some time with the crew of the Crimson Abyss, and Orym requested one of Scanlan Shorthalt's songs to Sanjay, a skeleton who played the violin.[136] While they were on board Ashton wanted to get a tattoo, and Orym helped them convince Vendallo to do it; he also suggested that Bells Hells should get a team tattoo, and they ended up agreeing on a design: a flaming bell. At some point, when the halfling noticed that Cyrillia wasn't in the crows nest, he climbed up there and stole her spyglass; during the dance party before the adventurers left the ship the navigator did notice her missing tool, but since she was in a good mood (thanks to Captain Novos) she didn't give it too much importance, and Orym spent the time in that celebration using Seedling's vines for limbo, and teaching some of the skeletons to dance. In Kalutha Orym investigated the beach they arrived at before going towards a cliff with several caves, which he managed to climb, although with difficulty. There the group was attacked by a basalt caecilian, and the halfling helped defeat the monster, after which he inspected its lair, recognizing remains of metal pieces as woe steel, a rare material he had read about.[137] When the adventurers were crossing a river, the Air Ashari used one of Seedling's vines to help Ashton and Laudna, who were still in the water; that night, he and the warlock were attacked by shadow creatures, but after the entities left they were able to rest and fully recover from the necrotic damage. The following morning, when the group was approached by Aishio hunters, Orym was the first to notice them, and he used the charm they had found to avoid unnecessary hostilities with the locals. When they found Evontra'vir, Orym cast Gust to help Ashton so the Tree could use their Pipe of Remembrance; later, the halfling shared his concern about mortals being harmed by the conflicts of divine entities.[138] After Bells Hells were sent to Igthuldus they found a crack in the stone and, despite the space being very narrow, Orym managed to move through it thanks to his size and nimbleness, scouting ahead, and even founding the remains of a person of orcish blood. With some difficulty, the whole group managed to access a chamber with several magma mephits and a pool of melted rock. There, Ashton and Fearne managed to retrieve the spark of Rau'shan (destroying the mephits in the process), after which the group started wondering what to do with it; it was during this discussion that Orym noticed a light, as Ludinus, two members of the Ruby Vanguard, and two Reilora appeared.A battle ensued, during which the halfling cleverly used the terrain in his favor, using Seedling's vines to throw one of the guards into the pool of magma, and later killing the Reiloran Juggernaut there, casting Gust to leave the corpse trapped in the half-solid rock surface. Since Ludinus had Fearne as a hostage (with his Telekinesis spell) Orym went immediately to help his friend, attacking the archmage with daggers. Eventually the faun got released, and Ludinus, alone and mostly defeated, jumped into the lava (revealing he was, in fact, a Simulacrum).[139] After Bells Hells Teleported to Whitestone they visited Percy's workshop in in the castle to retrieve the newly repaired Quintessence Array, and on their way there Orym checked on FCG, since they had being harmed by the magic of the Staff of Dark Odyssey. In the castle, the Air Ashari was recognized by Allura Vysoren, who was also working on the arcane harness, and she praised him, since he looked more confident than he used to. After they confirmed the Array worked, they started talking about the shard of Ka'Mort and the spark of Rau'shan and how to use them, and the halfling pointed out that, since the Emperor and Empress had been mates, perhaps whoever received the power of the spark of elemental fire could activate the power of elemental earth inside Ashton. In the following meeting in the war room, when their allies were asking about Bells Hells and their capacities, Orym assured them that his group could go on a mission precisely because they were easy to go unnoticed; he also got the chance to speak with Keyleth, who delivered Alma's regards to her son and asked her Savior Blade to be careful with Imogen and Liliana Temult, although he told the Tempest that he trusted his friend completely. After that conversation the adventurers talked briefly about seeking allies among the followers of the Betrayer Gods, and Orym noticed some movement, discovering Gwendolyn de Rolo, claiming to be the the queen of the castle, and explaining that since she was slightly taller than him, he should obey her. The fighter brought her to her friends, thinking she might enjoy their company, and she did for a bit, until she sensed Delilah's hatred through Laudna and got scared. Orym ended up going with Ashton and Chetney to the Altar of the Raven, to see if they could communicate with the goddess of fate. After the halfling made an offering Druidcrafting some snowdrops, they went to a basement under the temple where they encountered Othinon the tombkeeper and five empty sarcophagi; after a brief conversation they put themselves inside the sarcophagi (with the gnome and the halfling sharing one). The three of them had a shared vision of the Raven Queen, and although it was scary and disturbing, it ended with the feeling that they were noticed, and oddly appreciated. Bells Hells reunited in front of the Sun Tree, and after that, the whole group returned to the castle to rest. In the morning, Orym woke up quite cheery, and expressed to Fearne how glad he was to have her in her life, giving her a surprise present: the spyglass he had stolen from Cyrillia; she then confessed that she had been petty denying him some Guidance as revenge for him stealing her previous spyglass (which belonged to Xandis), but he didn't give it importance. Later, when asked about his motivations as an adventurer, the Air Ashari explained that he was fighting for a brighter tomorrow for the people of Exandria, even if the adventure had started with the deaths of just two people (Derrig and Will). Bells Hells played in the snow for a bit, and using a wooden sled, Orym and Chetney won a brief competition against Fresh Cut Grass and Ashton. When the locals started approaching to play too, Orym advised some children to value their playing time (which led to one of them calling him "old man" and Ashton attempting to throw a snowball to defend their friend). After that Orym visited the local expansion of Gilmore's Glorious Goods and bought some potions; he also visited the Slayer's Cake and ordered some baked goods for the meeting that would happen later that same day (which caused FCG, when they found out, to be annoyed because they were usually the one baking). Bells Hells went to the ziggurat under the castle to use the harness in a controlled environment. While the rest of the team was distracted (thinking Fearne was about to absorb the power of Rau'shan), Ashton did it instead, after kissing Fearne. After some seconds it became evident that the elemental power of the Emperor was too much, and it started destroying the genasi's body. Their friends came together and started using magic to help them survive the process (with Orym combining Grasping Vine and Gust to help separate the Quintessence Array from the barbarian's body). However, Ashton survived, facing instead the wrath of their scared friends.[140] Orym followed Fearne for a bit when she, furious at Ashton, left the rest of the party; however, when he saw that Chetney was with her the Ashari decided to return with the rest of the group, staying with them and observing their interactions with Ashton stoically, exercising to keep himself busy instead of saying everything that was in his mind. After a tense night the group reunited, and after a reconciliation (during which Orym and Chetney hugged), Bells Hells (with Allura) traveled to Ligament Manor to spend some time together and recover after their fight, to be ready for their next mission.[141] Orym decided to speak with Ashton in private; he expressed his concern for the genasi's most recent actions, but told them they had a soft heart and should be focusing their energy on their battles ahead. During the following conversations with Bells Hells (during which it was revealed that Sorrowlord Zathuda was Fearne's biological father), the Ashari tried to keep his friends focused. When the scavenger hunt organized by Fresh Cut Grass and the Fatestitcher started, Orym participated in the different exercises: he made confessions during the phase about honesty (admitting how lonely he always felt, especially at night, how he was worried about Chetney being his dad, how he had planned for ways to neutralize each member of Bells Hells, and how conflicted he felt about missing Dorian), he guided Chetney very effectively during the phase about communication (and he asked for Imogen and the gnome to guide him in return when he offered to do the same blind walk to compensate for Ashton's failed attempt, in which the fighter did succeed, despite knowing the time was limited and the platform was crumbling behind him), and he managed to get one of the three ivory branches while confirming his friends' identities in the phase about trust (by asking them questions and using the Monocle of True Essence, although it turned out that there were no doppelgangers among them). After the trials Bells Hells spoke for a bit and although they all seemed to agree about Orym being the sanest of them, they also asked how he felt about them (Imogen also wondered how could they make him feel less alone); the halfling assured them that, despite everything, he was glad to have them as his chosen family. Fearne decided she was ready to take the shard and after some preparation in the garden (during which Orym gave her his Potion of Heroism), the Quintessence Array began to absorb the spark of Rau'shan. The faun took a lot of damage, but with her friends' help she managed to survive; however, Orym had to keep FCG away from her because during the process of channeling Ashton's health into her, they became too stressed and attacked the group.[142] While Ashton and Fearne were away playing with their new powers Chetney kept talking about his intention of making a deal with Morri, and Orym pointed to the charred bones of those who had disappointed Morri, as a form of warning. Later, when the whole group was together again, FCG cast Shared Dream to go with Imogen to Ruidus, and after they woke up, Orym was concerned about the sorcerer, who had taken a little bit longer to return to her body, and had expressed the tentantion she had felt about the red moon. When everyone else was asleep, the Ashari went looking for Morri, being surprised by her despite his remarkable senses, and they spoke about Bells Hells' mission, making a deal: Morri would grant Orym assistance during that mission, ensuring that every single member of the adventuring party returned from their mission alive, and only in that specific circumstance would Orym become a new servant and companion for the Fatestitcher (who was very interested by him, having a touch of divinity with him, presumably from the Wildmother).[143] The following morning Allura brought them back to Exandria safely, appearing near the Red Center the same day they had left. They had a meeting with some allies, during which Orym spoke in favor of his team, and particularly in favor of Fearne and Imogen, who were there to help despite being Ruidusborn. Keyleth decided to escort them as close to the excavation site as possible, after which Orym helped Fearne find their way to their destination.[144] When they arrived at the ruins, the adventurers tried to interfere with their enemies' plans on the way to Bloody Bridge, and when they encountered two reilora who didn't believe Imogen and her friends were part of the Vanguard (despite their performance pretending to capture Chetney as an intruder), there was a confrontation in which Orym reacted immediately, using Grasping Vines to pull one of the enemies away so that Ashton could shove it over the edge of the pit. The adventuring party killed two more reilora in order to rescue a prisoner, after which they continued making their way, while the halfling fighter tried to locate where Planerider Ryn's petrified body was; later, he activated a trap glyph by mistake, and started the process of petrification, which FCG stopped by casting Greater Restoration. When they were closer to the Malleus Key and its red beam the adventurers, knowing people in the excavation were increasingly alert, used a diversion, and Fearne and Laudna helped detonate two bombs Imogen Catapulted into the air. A brief battle with reilora and members of the Vanguard ensued, during which the members of Bells Hells touched the Bloody Bridge one by one; Orym and Ishto were thrown down a rooftop by a Thought Eater, but after that both kept going, and while the paladin focused on fighting, Ashton grabbed Orym and Fearne and threw them into the red beam before following them, leaving only Chetney and Imogen behind. Eventually the entire group reached the Moon of Ill Omen.[145] Arc 6: Ruidus Reconnaissance[] The adventurers spent some time trying to avoid the enemies in the area, but eventually they managed to leave and turned into clouds to fly above the surface of the red moon, with Orym and Chetney leading the way, spending some time moving with a herd of buffalo-like creatures until they found a cave to hide. There Imogen tried to connect with the God Eater and woke up very startled; Orym tried to tell her that she should exploit that ability to the advantage of the group, although Laudna expressed her discomfort feeling that the fighter was pressuring her girlfriend too much. Later Laudna tried to use her familiar to find the juggernaut they had trapped inside the bag of holding, and although Pâté failed, they ended up accessing the corpse of the warrior, which had suffocated inside the bag, and FCG dismembered it to take it out (although they kept the head and the arms). Bells Hells continued traveling in cloud form until they found a Ruidian village inhabited by some Imperium-aligned Reilora, as well as an entirely different sentient species, the bormodos. The adventurers revealed themselves to one of the latter, Dono, and Imogen managed to convince him not to scream, despite the surprise; Orym and Chetney, however, remained in cloud form.[146] After they gained Dono's trust he agreed to introduce them to Elder Barthie, so they traveled to his home (on the way there Orym examined some of the local reilorans from a distance, determining they weren't as powerful as him), and only there did all members of Bell Hells recover their physical form. After some initial cautiousness about their potential connection with the Ruby Vanguard Barthie agreed to speak with them and exchange information about Ruidus and Exandria, and Orym used his Druidcraft to create flowers of different colors to show how they looked in the planet. Shortly after a battle ensued when Willmaster Edmuda and her allies appeared. Orym initially tried to protect Barthie from potential attacks, but then focused on the combat and displayed new powers by casting Hex on the Willmaster; however, when he was trying to hit her, the reiloran leader used her own psychic powers to control nearby villagers and force them to act as meat shields protecting her from Orym's blade. Her shrikes took the chance attack the halfling, but he resisted the damage, and after Edmuda fell he focused his Hex and efforts on a young but powerful Exaltant, knocking him unconscious, and doing the same with another soldier that was trying to flee, after grabbing them with Seedling's vines.[147] While the group interrogated their prisoners, Orym analyzed one of them: a mysterious hooded elf, learning that he was a powerful foe, although not as sturdy as Orym. When a Dominated Ashton attacked Imogen, Orym jumped to protect her and attacked Ashton, forcing him to regain control. The group used the Quintessence Array on Edmuda to leave her powerless for a day, granting Orym a temporary boon: the ability to cast Dominate Person once. He used it immediately to force the Willmaster to answer their questions. Bells Hells were planning to kill Edmuda by completing the process with the harness that would grant Orym a permanent boon; however, they were interrupted and fled. In the lost underground proto-elven city they found, Orym suggested Fearne could investigate a portal by taking the form of a salmon.[148] During a night watch in the abandoned village of Ria'Doin found through the portal, Orym tried to use one of his sending stones and unexpectedly successfully contacted Caleb Widogast. Knowing they now had potential allies and there was hope, Orym suddenly hugged Imogen. Shortly afterwards, he tried to use his other sending stone to contact Dorian (telling him that he missed him and that he should go with Keyleth), but received no response and started behaving strangely, believing he had heard the bard outside. Drawn to the lake by a mysterious kelp creature, Orym regained control and freed himself, although the tendrils captured him again when he was trying to take the skull of one of the monster's victims. He cast Misty Step for the first time to appear next to Ashton and help them too. The next day the group traveled to Kreviris, and on their way there, Orym (who already had left some Ashari symbols as a trail) left the remains of his Message Bloom as a sign for any potential allies Keyleth decided to send after them with Imogen's Magic Mouth cast on it with verbal information.[149] As they were approaching Kreviris the adventurers encountered a strange furred tadpole, but when FCG used Speak with Animals he was unable to communicate with it; the adventurers, after learning those creatures were carnivorous, decided to be cautious and moved away floating on top of a rock Imogen was moving with Telekinesis, with the subtle assistance of Orym casting Gust. Bells Hells stopped in one of the outposts of Kreviris, Tyran A, and while they were getting some water without raising suspicion Orym, pretending to be inexperienced and nervous, accompanied one of the guards, who revealed that the Volition had completely destroyed an outpost on the nearby mountain, and that if they attacked again the halfling would have to run away. They continued, and after chatting for a bit with a couple of Ruidian children in the Clutch, a humble neighborhood, the adventurers were stopped and interrogated by a group of reilora riding avadons, but that conversation led to combat. Orym Hexed one of the enemies but was aggressively attacked in response, and FCG had to Banish the reilora; despite this, the Exandrians managed to kill all the enemies, with the fighter finishing a juggernaut himself. Orym noticed that an old reilora had been watching the fight from a window, so Laudna sent Pâté to intimidate the civilian and make them stay quiet. They found the Jagged Edge and they met with Zhesh and Jidoh, and the former told them how to meet someone connected to the Volition. The adventurers then hid in the cellar, where they were planning their next move, while debating about how life would be for some of the Ruidians if they traveled to Exandria, to which Orym responded that it would probably cause some political issues in the planet.[150] When an Imperium patrol visited the shop Bells Hells stayed in the cellar, hidden by Laudna's Darkness, while slithers looked for them burrowing through the walls and the floor. One of the creatures found Imogen and tried to devour her, so while Fearne distracted the Ruidian forces FCG and Orym attacked the monster, with the halfling dealing the final blow with his sword, freeing Imogen. When it was safe to come out the adventurers stayed with Zhesh for a while longer, and acquired new gear made of Ruidian glass; Orym got a new sword, and in order to pay for it he and Fearne Druidcrafted strawberries for the glassmith, which she really enjoyed. When the adventuring party left and managed to locate the safe house of the Volition, they had to deal with Amido, who didn't really trust them; after they convinced him to let them in, Orym showed gratitude by Druidcrafting blueberries for him. When they met Rashinna of the Golden Hammer, leader of the rebels, and she demanded to speak to the adventurers' own leader, the Ashari pushed Imogen forward, encouraging her to act as such.[151] After they were accepted as allies, and they found out that Ira Wendagoth had been there, working with the rebels, Bells Hells exchanged information with Rashinna about the potential missions they could join. The adventurers spent the last hours of the day talking about it among them, and sharing their opinion about the gods, during which Orym remembered the story about the most recent ascension to godhood, when Vecna became a deity. The following morning, when Rashinna was asking about the missions and their members, Orym, Chetney, Imogen and Laudna decided to investigate the disappearance of Evoroa, a scientist. Although Chetney refused, the rest of that team accepted the offering of Ivanas (an elderly reilora mystic) and received the benefits of the Invisibility and See Invisibility spells. Before they left Orym reminded his friends that they all had to survive and return to Exandria and share the information they had learned in the Moon of Ill Omen.[152] The team moved through the streets of Vaterra Kreviris without being seen, noticing there was a lot of activity and even music, and that some of the Ruidians seemed to be preparing to move out of the city; while they were there Orym noticed there were several winged creatures around, but he was unable to determine if they were patrolling or just living there. When they reached the Prime Pillar they decided to access through one of the balconies; shortly after they discovered that Gona, Evoroa's cytaa, was in one of their satchels, and the small creature offered to help them. They kept moving, avoiding Ruidians and members of the Ruby Vanguard, until they reached an arcane laboratory in which Evoroa was being kept (unconscious and floating in liquid inside a glass compartment); the roar of an explosion (caused by the other half of Bells Hells) caused some of the reiloran scientist to evacuate the facilities, but two stayed behind, so the adventurers attacked them. After Imogen used Psychic Lance against the mystic, Orym Hexed them and killed them with his sword, attacking the shrike immediately after and making them fall to the floor; although the last reilora lived long enough to free a young vidulch that attacked the adventurers, the Ashari finished them off, although he was also attacked by the insectoid monster shortly after. When the battle was over Orym used his weapon to free Evoroa, and after looting the laboratory (Orym used that time to examine a judicator's body the scientists had been dissecting) the halfling took the rescued Bormodo in his arms, and Imogen hid the whole group with Invisibility, so they left the building the same way they had entered, just in time to see an angry Liliana Temult flying in the distance.[153] Orym and his group continued moving with Evoroa (with him trying to guide them back to the safe house of the Volition), losing their invisibility after the Prime Pillar released an abjurative wave, but recovering it when Imogen recast the spell for everyone but herself. After a brief but harmless encounter with Liliana they were stopped by the Weave Mind themselves, who, through illusory manifestations, talked to the group, addressing even the invisible ones; Orym, feeling threatened, called on Nana Morri's help under his breath. The mystics disappeared after noticing resistance in the group, and shortly after, the other half of Bells Hells arrived. Together again, the group followed Evoroa's instructions to locate the tunnels that would lead them outside Vaterra Kreviris. Laudna noticed (thanks to her orb) that Otohan was near, and despite their efforts, the Legend of the Peaks (first noticed by Orym) reached Bells Hells, and a battle ensued. Orym moved immediately and used his new glass blade to attack the enemy, focusing on her backpack, knowing it was the source of her echoes; however, he was pushed away by her Telekinetic Control. Otohan was fighting fiercely, killing Chetney very quickly (although he was Revivified by FCG moments later) and trying to attack Imogen too. Orym used Misty Step and Bait and Switch to protect the sorcerer who, using her Telekinesis, followed the Ashari's plan and left the backpack unusable. The adventurers continued attacking, and their enemy unleashed her Exaltant Fury, becoming even more powerful; when she was getting weaker, due to her wounds, she drank a potion and used her renewed energy to knock Orym unconscious; Fresh Cut Grass then healed their friend, who continued fighting, remembering Derrig and Will. Increasingly exhausted, Orym drank a potion, but Otohan knocked him unconscious once more. The battle was over when a very stressed but determined FCG sacrificed himself by detonating his own core with Guiding Bolt, killing both himself and Otohan in the process; when Orym woke up he healed himself a bit with a potion Chetney gave him, and then helped Fearne while she collected some of the cleric's metal remains. After that, the group, devastated, took Otohan's corpse and left with Evoroa.[154] After Liliana met with the group and spoke with them, agreeing to help them but not abandoning her side of the conflict (which led some of the adventurers to distrust her, and Orym to insist that Ludinus Da'leth's plans would lead to a bad future), she transported them to the Bloody Bridge, allowing them to return to Exandria. In the Red Center Imogen and Orym tried to find Planerider Ryn's statue, confirming it had been moved, and the group left the excavation; as they passed next to spikes filled with religious war trophies the Ashari noticed a cloak of the Changebringer and took it with him. As they walked back to their allies' camp they talked a little about FCG's sacrifice and the Ruby Vanguard and their plans. When Ashton reflected on the latter, commenting that with the horrible means their enemies were using the end must at least be worth it from their perspective, this angered Orym, who took one of Otohan's blades and reminded the party that his father and his husband were dead, after which he walked away. Shortly after Imogen checked on him, and the fighter confirmed he wasn't doing well, and that despite not feeling a need for revenge, he was really trying to honor Derrig and Will with their mission, and now Fresh Cut Grass was gone and he was going to miss them too. After he assured her that he would follow the group after calming down, Imogen left her friend alone, and he used one of his sending stones to speak to Dorian, telling him where they were, asking if he could get there, and telling the bard how much he missed him;[155] Dorian answered telling him he would be there. Indeed, when Bells Hells finally arrived together to the camp they found out Dorian had traveled there with Keyleth. As soon as Orym saw both of them, he hesitated very briefly before running towards the bard and jumping to hug him, being joined immediately by Fearne, and they both greeted their friend warmly. He also spoke with the Voice of the Tempest for a bit, who told him how very proud she was of the work he had done, although admitting she had feared for the safety of his adventyring party. All of Bells Hells were very happy to see Dorian again, and saddened to know that Cyrus was dead. Orym, worried, gave his condolences to the bard. They spent time together speaking and drinking.[156] When the group went to sleep Orym watched them all for a while before losing consciousness himself. However, a little before dawn he woke up prematurely when he heard Fearne moving; Although she told him not to worry, and that she was just going for a walk, he followed her stealthily, watching her leave the encampment guided by a sugar glider, entering the desert. There she witnessed a meeting between the druid and her biological father, Sorrowlord Athion Zathuda, who had come to her with the intention of recruiting her to become the vessel of the God Eater. When Fearne rejected his offer, the Unseelie captain used a mirror to send dark reflections of herself against her, to which Orym came out of hiding to defend her (although not before using his sending stone to alert Dorian and ask for help). The Ashari fighter dedicated a brief prayer to the Fatestitcher, alerting her that her granddaughter was in danger, and then started attacking the shadowy echoes, trying to keep them away from his friend. At one point Fearne, who had been using the spark of Rau'shan, deactivated her elemental powers to cause a fiery explosion, and although she destroyed half of their enemies, one managed to knock her unconscious; Orym, however, used a healing potion to help her, and the druid, with Little Mister's help, dealt with the last two dark reflections. Sorrowlord Zathuda then reappeared with his draconic mount, and veiledly threatened Orym's safety, causing Fearne to step between them; the Unseelie warrior, however, ended up leaving with Gloamglut, and shortly after the rest of Bells Hells arrived, and brought Orym and Fearne back so they could rest and recover. The following morning Bells Hells went to a meeting (being received very soon after Orym mentioned to a guard that the Savior Blade and his circle had arrived) to share with Keyleth and her allies all they had learned during their most recent mission. After the adventurers were assigned a new mission (to continue gathering information and get the two Ruidusborn away from an area where the enemies could capture them), Keyleth started to leave, and Orym followed her for a bit to say goodbye and assure her that despite their rough attitude as of late, he trusted all members of Bells Hells; the Voice of the Tempest told him that she knew, but also mentioned that she expected him to act if any of the adventurers strayed from the right path. After that, the adventuring party, accompanied by Archivist Seth Domade, Teleported to Zadash, where they found Astrid Becke, one of the archmages of the Cerberus Assembly; the wizard tried to escape, and the adventurers stopped her, with Orym shooting vines to one of her hands to difficult somatic components in her spellcasting.[157] After questioning Astrid, Dorian and his friends left to go shopping, ordering new outfits to withstand the cold; Orym asked to incorporate FCG's metal shoulder pad with the blades of grass to his own. At The Invulnerable Vagrant, Dorian noticed that Orym was very interested in a set of antique Ashari-made Zephyr Armor, and the bard offered all his money so that they could afford it and the halfling would be happy, and Orym thanked him when they were leaving. That night at The Lodge of the Eclipse, Orym enjoyed the establishment's burlesque shows before going to the room. However, while the others were part of a crafting session, he asked Chetney for Otohan's main blade, Ishta, and went outside. In the street, he started his Zeph'aeratam routine wielding the sword until he stopped, exhausted, since the weapon was bigger than the one he normally wielded; he sheathed it and hung it on his back anyway, next to Seedling. The Air Ashari then felt the Wildmother's presence making Ishta a bit lighter for him, as one single cloud in the clear night caused rain to fall over him, refreshing him. Instead of ruining the moment with words, Orym just decided to experience the moment in silence. Shortly after he was joined by Fearne, who thanked him for helping her in the encounter against the Sorrowlord, and by Dorian, with whom they talked about their old adventures back in Tal'Dorei; after Fearne left them alone (not very subtly), Dorian attempted to ease Orym's general concern, telling him that he did not need to try to save everyone and using himself as an example: without the fighter's help, he had managed to survive and return to his side. Later that night, Orym was awakened feeling necrotic energy hurting him in pitch black Darkness; he instinctively attacked the threat, revealing it had been Laudna who, extremely paranoid after seeing Ishta in his back, was trying to get the sword to destroy it, convinced it was a sentient weapon that would curse its wielder. After she failed to cast Phantasmal Force on Orym, they started arguing about Ishta, and the warlock justified her actions, criticising the fighter for wielding a weapon with such sinister symbolism and dangerous potential; he, however, responded by stating that even though he was willing to be convinced of that, he didn't trust the situation after being attacked in his sleep. Following Ashton's advice, Laudna assured them that she had never meant to hurt Orym with her magic. She, however, still argued with Orym a bit longer, and pointed out that even if the Ashari said he only had his weapons to defend himself, in their brief battle he had hurt her more with his sword than she had hurt him with a spell. After Fearne Identified Ishta and Chetney used his Grim Psychometry, they both told the group that although the weapon had indeed a dark history, they couldn't determine if it was cursed and/or sentient. Orym argued that even if the sword was creepy, he wasn't the only one with something like that, mentioning Chetney's bloody apron and Laudna's powers, and admitting in front of everyone his deal with the Fatestitcher to keep Bells Hells safe. Chetney, after realizing that Laudna felt determined to obtain the blade even though Orym felt entitled to decide its fate, offered a solution: the gnome gave Scream Needle (Otohan's secondary weapon) to the warlock so that she could destroy a symbol of her killer like she wanted, but he argued that since Orym had suffered much more loss because of Ishta, he had more of a right to keep it. Laudna agreed and left the room followed by Imogen, taking Scream Needle, but not Orym's new weapon.[158] After this incident Orym felt a bit bad about Laudna, and when Dorian asked they talked about Delilah and the Ashari mentioned the incident with Bor'Dor back in Issylra. When Imogen and Laudna finally returned, Orym tentatively asked the warlock if he had hurt her too much, and apologized for attacking her. Then, following Dorian's previous advice, he left Ishta on the floor for Chetney to put back into the bag, and declared that it was just an item, and that he valued Laudna more than a new weapon. The adventurers had a brief conversation about trust, in which Laudna said she would try to share everything about her patron with them, but also asked Orym if it would be alright to use her power only on evil enemies. After that everyone went to sleep, but the halfling couldn't, and stayed up all night; he checked his new Zephyr Armor and decided to take it to the Emerald Curtain to have it dyed and incorporated into the final design of his new gear. In the morning, although he was exhausted, Orym joined his friends as they got the new outfits, and when he got his he noticed some fey vines growing over it, making him feel that his connection with the Fatestitcher was still present. As they were preparing to leave, they decided to use the Quintessence Array so Orym could absorb the power of a ring of protection, becoming a little bit healthier and compensating his exhaustion for the day. After several failed attempts, due to the strange magic surrounding Eiselcross, Essek managed to Teleport the group to a valley under the control of the Kryn Dynasty, and guided the adventurers through a cavern connected with the Aeorian ruins; as they were moving forward they noticed several sleeping creatures that Orym identified as ice trolls, but they managed to leave them behind without waking them up. While exploring the buried remains of the ancient floating city they encountered an undead creature that seemed frozen in time as it tried to crawl; when the Air Ashari examined it closely, however, he determined that the living corpse was still moving, but so slowly that it was almost imperceptible. The kept going, eventually reaching the Genesis Ward, where they found a tent full of dead Ruby Vanguard members. Orym stayed outside while some of his friends examined the bodies, and after a while he heard an echoing sound of grinding stone, slowly approaching; he warned the group, and they all hid, as a huge monstrous figure appeared with a big statue-like hammer.[159] They engaged in combat and Orym tried to trip the monster, unsuccessfully, and was heavily hit by his hammer as he moved away; shortly after, when the creature was attacking Dorian, it leaned down and grappled the halfling with its toothy torso maw. After that, Orym's friends kept attacking, trying to avoid hitting their friend. The Air Ashari, while chewed by the enemy, noticed that it was trying to siphon magical power from him, but since he wasn't a traditional spellcaster he was immune to that ability. He ended up Misty Stepping out of the mouth and running through the creature's arm, slashing with Seedling and attacking several times, revealing the bone under its skin, and killing him; the whole group was very impressed and praised him, adding magical effects to make the fighter feel cooler as he came back to them. During their hour-long rest, hidden in a tower, Essek showed them how the local monsters interacted with each other, and Orym noticed the strange strand-like goo hunting creatures from the ceiling. The group kept going, and when they reached a pothole, Dorian carried Orym so they could fly down together while the halfling scanned the area, cautious about potential dangers, noticing yellow eyes in the darkness. As they kept exploring the tunnels, with Orym perceiving even the faintest sounds, Essek briefly mentioned his partner, and the Ashari, showing interest, asked about them: the wizard shared that said partner was a man called Bren, who was a talented spellcaster and teacher. Eventually they all reached a room filled with chains and corpses, the most recent of which belonged to members of the Ruby Vanguard. After learning that something called "Dominox" had killed those people, Fearne summoned Teven Klask to ask for help, and the devil explained to Bells Hells how dangerous Dominox was, as a grand demon; after hearing that, Orym wondered if the apogee solstice had been involved in his release. When Chetney was affected by Dominox's influence, seeing terrible visions of his alleged victims, Orym approached and touched his shoulder, but the werewolf sensed it as an attack and slashed in retaliation, hitting the fighter's own shoulder, but regaining control a few moments later. When the group expressed their concern about being controlled by the demon again, Orym was confident he would be safe, so he let Dorian cast Motivational Speech on those he deemed more vulnerable; despite his efforts, the bard himself ended up being mentally influenced by Dominox.[160] After that Orym was very concerned, warning his friends to be careful knowing what's real what isn't; indeed, shortly after Imogen got their own visions, but she immediately knew the person that was talking to her wasn't her mother, but Dominox. After that, the halfling told the group they should discover what was Ludinus doing in the ruins. They kept exploring, arriving to a new room in Orym heard breathing inside a closet, and after Dorian confirmed it was a person by knocking rhythmically and getting a similar answer (which made the fighter facepalm) they met Braius Doomseed, a minotaur paladin that was in Aeor to kill Ludinus, so they accepted him as an ally. When they reached the engine room they were looking for, from the outside they could see the Grand Demon of Loathing himself, who had taken the form of a young girl, and talked to him for a bit, offering to free him in exchange for security for themselves and harm for Ludinus. When they went in it became clear that the demon was impatient about getting free and about them not leaving him behind; Dominox focused on Chetney when he tried to reach a door, and when he saw Laudna and Orym approaching too and the Ashari failed to Gust the door open he attacked. Laudna's Animate Objects spell did let them open it shortly after, and Orym got startled when the object grew an eye. Inside there was a brass hallway in which they saw Ludinus himself; the archmage rushed in their direction telling them they had to stop Dominox, expressing his intention to help. Orym, feeling overwhelmed, decided to drink his potion of speed and attack Dominox many times, although he was moving so extremely fast he missed some of the hits and accidentally crashed against the wall, after which the grand demon attacked him, leaving him almost unconscious. When Ludinus cast Gate and announced that they should make Dominox go through the portal to the Abyss so they could permanently kill him, Orym, despite the tension, sensed that the archmage was telling the truth. Indeed, eventually Teven was able to permanently destroy the Grand Demon of Loathing by killing him in the other side of the portal; Orym, trying to use that chance, attacked Ludinus to push him to the Abyss too, but the wizard, understanding what he was trying to do, ended his spell and closed the portal. Ludinus told the group that he wanted to talk to them, and they followed him; Orym was frustrated and very wounded, so Fearne offered to carry him, and while she was doing it Braius healed him a bit (he also asked if Orym was single, to which the halfling responded by pointing out the extreme difference in size between the two). They arrived to the Occultus Thalamus, where the archmage, after explaining some of his past witnessing the destruction caused by the gods, showed them what the device contained: the memories and history of Aeor and its destruction.[161] Arc 8[] They watched it together, after which the adventurers argued with Ludinus about their very different conclusions regarding the gods. When the archmage defended that gods imposed their will over others, Orym remarked that historically mortals had always done that too, and that freeing Predathos to destroy the gods was a bad solution, since it was not guaranteed that the Red End would not damage Exandria as well and the people living there; to this Ludinus responded by recommending that he commune with the entity the next time they visited Ruidus. At one point Ludinus commented that in his previous interactions with Bells Hells he had only defended himself against their attacks, to which Orym responded angrily, reminding him that he had also ordered the attack on Zephrah and was responsible for Otohan's kills; the entire group agreed with that argument, but the wizard apologized and brushed it off, using Thull's overzealotry as an excuse. Eventually Ludinus left after causing Delilah to manifest and react to a magic item the archmage produced, causing her to manifest in spectral form, still connected to Laudna. A battle started, and although Orym was still too tired he tried to persuade Laudna, leaving his shield and sword in the floor so that she would see him. The warlock, however, had less control than her patron, who cast Blade of Disaster and used it to knock the halfling unconscious; Dorian immediately ran towards him and cast Cure Wounds, but the necromancer hurt Orym again moments later with Horrid Wilting. The Dorian grabbed his friend and cast Dimension Door, leaving him beyond the range of attacks for the rest of the fight. After the battle was over Ashton went to Orym and gave him a healing potion to wake him up. They talked for a bit, and eventually Essek decided to bring them to his house in Rexxentrum, to do a bit of research and find a way to help Laudna with her issues with her warlock patron. While they were there, Orym spoke with her and told her he felt bad for her and for the situation, since they had had no time to give her proper help to deal with Delilah; she then admitted that during the fight a part of her hoped that it was Seedling the weapon that would stop her, although after a few moments both of them agreed that they didn't want that to happen. They also spoke with Essek, noticing one of his portraits and identifying Caleb Widogast as his mysterious partner, and Beauregard as his close friend. When the drow asked for assistance to work with the soul anchor that used to contain Dominox, the Air Ashari, who had no arcane capabilities, decided to focus on the garden instead.[162] After he returned, during the ritual to help Laudna seal Delilah inside the Pinion of Service the warlock asked him to be ready to use his sword if something went wrong, but he assured her that it wouldn't be necessary, summoning poppies as he cast Hex to weaken Delilah; as he did so, a warm breeze went through the room, as Melora made her presence known, helping with the ritual. Later, when the adventurers were celebrating after succeeding in their task, Orym revealed to the group that the Wildmother had been present and seemed to want Laudna to be free, although that also made Imogen nervous, since she wasn't comfortable with powerful invisible entities watching her and her girlfriend. The group debated about the gods, and when Orym mentioned that the Prime Deities ahd created the Divine Gate and chosen exile to protect mortals, Ashton wasn't satisfied, since that made them powerful figures choosing the most convenient punishment for themselves; in response, the Air Ashari stated that regardless of their individual opinions on the gods, they still had to deal with Ludinus, who was causing a lot of damage on a large scale, and they didn't have time to get philosophical about it. The following day, before leaving, Orym used his sending stone to let Caleb know they were with his boyfriend in their home, that everything was alright, and that they intended to visit Keyleth next; the wizard answered by praising his partner and asking them not to touch his belongings while they were in the house. Essek brought Bells Hells back to the camp near the Red Center, but they found it destroyed, with enemy forces walking around killing survivors, and Gloamglut flying over them, but after confirming Keyleth and her allies were in Vasselheim, the drow Teleported them there. As they walked through the Dawn City to attend a meeting they learned about the Dark Bloom, a burst of undead activity affecting the local catacombs, and Orym asked if that necromantic influence had somehow affected the remains of the Earth titan nearby; a local guard, old enough to remember the primordial moving decades before, clarified that luckily that hadn't been the case. As they continued making their way they noticed the Abundant Terrace nearby and the Air Ashari took a moment to pray to Melora. Eventually they reached the Platinum Sanctuary, where many important political figures had gathered, and Orym, from Fearne's shoulder, started guiding the group trying to find their allies, being eventually found by Grog Strongjaw and Pike Trickfoot.[163] During the meeting Bells Hells shared the information they had about Ruidus, Ludinus, and his most recent plans, and after Evoroa spoke Orym assured the people there that gaining the Ruidians as allies would be a good thing, although some were still uncertain about it and about Bells Hells' objectivity. After they left the fighter told Keyleth that he had felt the presence of Melora during their adventures, so she guided the group to the Abundant Terrace. There, near the sacred Birthheart, Orym Druidcrafted some flowers and reflected on how each flower existed in part thanks to the gods (although Ashton replied that the flowers had existed before the arrival of the deities and would continue to do so if they disappeared, causing the halfling to think about his knowledge of Exandria prior to the Founding). While he was there, Seedling started to shine, so he took it and after saying that he wanted to speak with the Wildmother, kneeled and used the tip of the weapon to touch the space between two roots, being enveloped by a cocoon of roots, ivy, and flowers. He appeared in a moonlit forest in which the face of Melora was looking at him, and his own body was made of plants. He explained to the goddess what they had seen in the recording of the fall of Aeor, and how Ludinus intended to use it against the gods; following signs, he walked until he found a dark part of the forest with a crumbling statue, and after stating that he wanted to protect the gods to maintain the balance in the world, used his natural magic to produce growth where the statue had fallen. After he said he didn't understand the threat that was Predathos, the Wildmother showed him a representation-like vision of the moment in which the Red End arrived to Exandria, like a red fallen star, and how the primordials and the deities sealed it using a big island that they sent to space; during the vision Orym felt an unnatural maddening hunger, and he started to shout and cry feeling like something had changed or broken inside him, being comforted by Melora. He then told her that he saw most gods as imperfect like the mortals that loved the world, and she encouraged him to protect them so that they could all protect Exandria. Then the spirit of Will (also made of plants) appeared to greet his husband, promising him that they would see each other again, but also asking him to be happy even without him. When the cocoon opened and Orym woke up, in the same position he was before, he told his friends about his vision, and confirmed to Braius that he trusted the goddess that showed it to him; however, when the minotaur recommended him to give Melora some of his faith to receive some of hers, the Ashari answered that he preferred to be her partner and ally, rather than her follower. Shortly after he realized that Seedling had become more powerful, and two golden gems were now part of it, like eyes guiding its strikes. Before going to bed they talked about their plans and Orym suggested that they could disturb the Bloody Bridge from Ruidus instead of attacking the Malleus Key, until he remembered there was nothing to attack in the red moon connected to the energy beam; when Dorian asked him about his impression of the Wildmother, he said that she had good intentions. They played Truth or Spin the Bottle, and Laudna had to kiss Orym, doing so very awkwardly before hugging him. When they went to bed Orym stayed awake for a while looking at Dorian (who had been speaking about repressed feelings and grief during the game). The next morning Bells Hells attended a meeting in the Trial Forge to make plans to present to the rest of the emissaries in the Platinum Sanctuary; since they woke up later than expected they arrived a bit late, and Julian (Orym's former student and fellow Tempest Blade) let them know that they were waiting for them inside.[164] After a brief meeting there they started making their way back to the Platinum Sanctuary and Imogen told them about her most recent vision, in which her mom told her about Ludinus' plans in a ley nexus and in the Fey Realm. When they reached the meeting place Orym scanned the room to see if there was someone suspicious there; he notice a man that looked like Dorian, and after some questions the bard confirmed it was probably his father, Zeru Wyvernwind. As the meeting progressed, potential missions were laid out, and Bells Hells were presented as the right agents to send against Ludinus and the Ruby Vanguard, but some of those present began to question their capabilities and loyalties. Orym assured that time was of the essence and that they would be honored to help, but even then the adventurers were asked to speak about themselves and their skills and value; Braius mentioned that the Wildmother had recently visited Orym, so the fighter showed Seedling to the audience, and its new gold gems shone, impressing the people there. Shortly after, when Dorian cast Find Greater Steed, summoning the legendary Coriolis to prove his own power, the Air Ashari was left amazed by the display. After Keyleth gave Bells Hells new titles and Highbearer Vord ended the meeting, Dorian was found by his father, Zeru, and they had a conversation about Cyrus, Dorian's new responsibilities, and how he would try to survive their next mission. After the ruler of the Silken Squall walked away Orym followed him and offered his condolences for Cyrus' death, after which he assured him that he should be proud of his youngest son. When he told him that Dorian had saved his life, Zeru asked him to return the favor by protecting him on the mission, after which he left. The fighter returned to the group as Highbearer Vord was giving Braius a new armor, and shortly after Keyleth spoke with the group, and they shared with her the information that Liliana had shared with them. When Imogen asked the archdruid if she trusted her, she responded by explaining that since Orym did, so would she. After that Bells Hells visited the home of Scalebearer Waylon Amaredda, who was a huge fan of Chetney, and when Orym mentioned that he had some toys made by the blood hunter, Waylon eagerly asked if he would consider selling them to him, but the Ashari was fond of those toys. When he noticed how happy and emotional Chetney was about the situation, Orym told him that sometimes it took a while for artists to get the recognision they deserved.[165] That night the adventurers spoke about their next step, and decided to travel to the Fey Realm, and meet with Ira at Ligament Manor. The next day Keyleth, after giving them some money, sent them to the Feywild. When they arrived to Ligament Manor, Fearne's grandmother, Morrigan, was very happy to meet the bard, and completely infatuated by Braius. After Ira arrived and they spoke for a bit, the Fatestitcher gave Bells Hells and Ira spectral steeds to reach Pravenier, and before they left Orym thanked her for her help during their mission; the hag replied that she was sorry that it had not been enough to keep them all safe (referring to FCG's death), acknowledging that she was not all-powerful, and reminding the halfling that their mission was not yet over. When the group reached the ruins Orym climbed its walls, noticing a group of people in the distance. Bells Hells started exploring, trying to be stealthy, and although there was a moment in which Orym tripped, Ashton caught him before he fell. When the adventurers and Ira started attacking and killing the guards brought by the Unseelie, Orym Misty Stepped and killed one of them keeping them inside the area of Silence they were using to stay unnoticed. When Bells Hells were done, they focused on the building in which Ludinus and Zathuda were meeting with the Unseelie, and the Air Ashari used his keen sense of hearing to listen to the conversation (in which Ludinus complained about the Unseelie's lack of involvement, but requested that his court prepare to assist in the upcoming battle when they attack the Malleus Key), after which he and his friends started planning on how to deal with them.[166] When the fight began Orym approached the Forcecage that Dorian had cast around Fearne to protect her, and then, when she was trying to persuade the Unseelie emissary that Ludinus was a traitor who had killed many fey, the Air Ashari positioned himself to protect the emissary, Cashadoor, telling him to listen to Fearne; he also took the chance to Hex Zathuda. Since the Simulacrum of Ludinus had been destroyed the people in the temple had the chance to speak privately, and the Sorrowlord expressed the interest of the Unseelie Court to follow the plans of the Ruby Vanguard until the moment was right for them to betray them and allow Fearne to seize the power of Predathos; Orym asked the emissary what was the position of their court, learning that they wanted to move away from the nature the gods had imposed, and that Fearne's hesitance about her role in the plan was rather disappointing. When they started fighting again in the nearly collapsing temple Orym used Grasping Vine to grab the emissary and preventing Gloamglut to leave with him, knocking him unconscious, and when the fey dragon tried to attack the halfling the tail hit one of the pillars of the building; Orym failed to grab Gloamglut with his vines, and attacked it, but shortly after the dragon fled before the Shrine of Gilded Gifts collapsed, trapping Imogen, Braius, and Zathuda inside. Orym and Ashton started moving rocks immediately to rescue them, but the temple was magically reconstructed by the god honored there. The Arch Heart sent them to their realm in Arborea, presenting themself in front of Bells Hells, and after Orym told him about Ludinus Da'leth's plans, the god exposed a plan of their own to them (to seize the power of Predathos and control it before anyone else, in order to force the gods to leave the world so that they could be together and mortal life could prosper on its own). Orym was concerned about the risks, and even though the Arch Heart assured them that mortals were like specks for the Red End, the Air Ashari argued that he had killed many ants simply by not noticing he was stepping on them; he also stuck Seedling into the table, declaring that other gods seemed to be more willing to fight, and that it was confusing to receive new divine messages with contradictory ideas. After the Arch Heart granted them a boon Bells Hells were sent back to their temple,[167] where Orym immediately noticed the Unseelie guards in the entrance, distracted by the Nightmare King's magic. Bells Hells decided to use Ira's Modify Memory to make their prisoners believe Ludinus had attacked them, but the attempt was only partially successful, so they ended up killing one of the guards and, after Orym read the emissary's lips as they prepared to flee, knocking him and Kamal (the last guard) unconscious, with the halfling hitting Cashadoor in the head with Caleb's sending stone while Dorian was holding him. Orym spent some time on the roof of the temple, trying to see if he could see Gloamglut, without success; after that, he joined his friends' next attempt tricking the Unseelie, organizing a staged fight in which the adventurers fought the treacherous Ludinus (Braius in Disguise). When Sorrowlord Zathuda tried to run away using that distraction he was knocked unconscious by Chetney and died just as Gloamglut was trying to rescue him, succumbing to his most recent injuries, caused by Orym. Although he felt sick after causing Fearne's father's death, his friend stayed on task, and used her own blood to calm the fey dragon down. After Morrigan appeared in bird form to bring them back to her domain, Fearne and Imogen rode Gloamglut, who grabbed Braius, Orym, and Chetney before taking flight. Back in Ligament Manor, Orym was still thinking about parents, so he stayed silent for a long time, while Morri used her Loom to transform Zathuda into a sentient tapestry they could interrogate; during the conversation, however, the Air Ashari asked if Ludinus had any weakness beyond his hubris, and Zathuda answered that that was precisely the thing they should focus on. When they were going back to the garden Laudna walked closer to Orym and asked him if he was ok, and he told her that he wasn't, but it didn't really matter; the warlock responded by commenting how they had to make a lot of difficult choices, but that she supported him. After solving the problem with the Unseelie prisoners (Cashadoor was turned into a bush by Morri and Kamal was sent back with a mission and his memories Modified) the adventurers decided to stay in Ligament Manor that night, and had a conversation about their next plans: Orym was very stressed, and complained that although whatever route they took would lead them to Ludinus as the final foe to overcome, all their plans and approaches were based on theories, intuitions, and biased opinions, and he did not want to leave the world at risk and dependent on a coin toss; after hearing that, Ashton blurted out that it was good that they no longer had someone on the team who trusted a toss of a coin, after which he walked away. Shortly after that Orym, exhausted after the long day and the complex conversations, leaned on Dorian's hip, the bard began to play with his friend's hair, and covered him a little with his cloak. Before going to bed some of the adventurers went to a hot tub, but they left when Bompers (a furry alligator) muddied the water.[168] The next morning, during breakfast, Orym stayed silent most of the time, examining Zathuda's weapon; that led the group into a conversation about which items should they keep and which should they absorb with their harness to get more power. They wondered if Orym should use Ishta, and although Laudna assured him that she would be ok with it, now that Delilah wasn't influencing her mood, the halfling declared he preferred Seedling, given its ties with his family and the Wildmother. After Morri sent them back to Vasselheim they went to the Raven's Crest to commune with the Matron of Death; there they were told they had to get inside a pool of blood and voluntarily "drown" in order to speak with the goddess of death. Braius asked if the ritual would cause them to become servants of the goddess, but he was told it wasn't the case; Orym hesitated, and Braius told him that if he wanted to stay outside, he would stay with him. The fighter decided to make an offering first, cutting his own palm with Seedling and dropping some of his own blood into the pool before jumping in holding the tail of the minotaur, and followed by Fearne. They woke up in the presence of the Raven Queen, but she was cold and distant, and told them to go home; after they insisted (with Orym appealing to her as a figure that had been both mortal and deity and could help them maintain the balance in Exandria), the goddess of fate showed them different people that had been crushed by destiny, and one of them was Opal. After Imogen made a powerful statement about the virtues of Bells Hells (which included describing Orym as a noble protector), the Matron of Ravens decided to test if the adventurers would be able to do what was necessary, and made the images of Opal, Liliana Temult, and Vespin Chloras attack them. During the battle Liliana Reversed Gravity and only Orym and Chetney resisted the effect; while the gnome fought Opal the Ashari Hexed her and disarmed her, and shortly after, since he was confident that she wasn't his real friend, knocked her unconscious, making her disappear. The fight continued for a bit longer, and although Orym was attacked by Vespin's magic, he managed to defeat Liliana by cutting her in half, as he called for Imogen so she could focus. When they proved they worth Orym noticed that the Raven Queen had shrinked to a humanoid-like size, and she approached, finally agreeing to speak with them, revealing that, like the Arch Heart, she didn't want to destroy the Divine Gate and cause a second Calamity. She answered the adventurers' questions, and revealed some of her experiences as both a mortal and a goddess, including her relationship with her divine predecessor; after asking her about her lingering feelings for the previous god of death, Orym mentioned Predathos, and the Matron admitted that the other gods had told her little, and only recently, explaining to the adventurers that the Red End was tied to the place where the rest of the main pantheon came from. Later, when they were talking about turning one of the Ruidusborn into the vessel, Orym asked if it would be possible to undo the bond with Predathos, and the goddess told him that anything was theoretically possible. After Chetney asked for a boon, she gave them a magical mask, and in the final moments of conversation, the Matron of Ravens confessed to Orym that she missed mortality in a way, and that she was very aware of what had sacrificed when she became a deity. Shortly after that, the goddess of death sent them all back to her temple.[169] When they left, the group encountered Captain Xandis, who grabbed Orym and hugged him. While Bells Hells were talking about what to do in the city, Orym wondered if they should start saying goodbye to their loved ones. They met with Allura, where Orym mentioned that setting their plan in motion had come at a great cost and told her that her wife was a lucky woman. Before leaving Vasselheim, Orym, Braius, Imogen, and a Charmed Chetney bought gems and diamond dust from a shady shopkeeper. After returning to the Platinum Sanctuary they met with Leeta and Maeve, Orym's sisters-in-law, who greeted him warmly; Maeve used Transport via Plants to take them to the Zephran outpost in Ria'Doin, and her brother-in-law praised her spellcasting, noticing she had improved. The druid stayed for a bit, informing Orym that both of their mothers were ok, and that Baernie was keeping an eye on them; when the halfling took a moment to remember Derrig, Maeve pointed out that like him, he didn't always share his feelings, and he responded that even then he loved his family deeply. They hugged, and Maeve told Orym that as soon as he came back she wanted to get drunk with him to hear about his adventures. Later, Orym asked Imogen to Send a message to Alma and she did so happily (with his mother telling him to be careful and promising him an apricot pie when he came back home), after which she and the halfling said how much they appreciated each other. When the Mighty Nein arrived, Orym was the only member of Bells Hells to greet them normally, with the others posing to try to look cool.[170] During dinner, Bells Hells shared some information about their most recent interactions with the gods, and mentioned Orym's connection with the Wildmother. When they were ready to cross the portal in Lake Umamu, Orym said goodbye to Leeta and Maeve, being formally announced by the former (he added a Gust to make her look cooler) and hugged by the latter. When they arrived on Ruidus, Orym and Fjord were conscious of the need for the party to stay quiet. They Teleported to a basement in Kreviris and spent the night in Widogast's Nascent Nein-Sided Tower, where Caleb, noticing Orym was very silent taking care of Seedling, told the halfling that he too had been trying to contact him with the sending stone the last weeks; he also commented that he should talk to his friends if there was something worrying him, but Orym argued he didn't want to bother them. Later, when they all went to bed, Dorian knocked on Orym's door and sat on his bed, wanting to talk to him; the halfling, who had been trying to gather the courage to go see him too, admitted he had feelings for his friend, but that he was out of practice and didn't want to be a distraction or a burden, especially in such complicated times. Dorian, in turn, pointed out there had been important events keeping them apart, but Orym was the reason he was in the adventuring party; he recognized he had never felt the way he did with Orym, and asked him only to stay with him that night and comfort him for once. The fighter agreed, and the bard fell asleep while holding him in his arms; Orym stayed awake a little bit longer, telling himself that the situation was fine, before he eventually fell asleep too.[171] The next morning, after breakfast, the two groups discussed their upcoming plans, and Orym, concerned about schedule, had to confirm with Caleb first that the same time had passed inside and outside the tower. Before leaving they also decided to use the harness a couple of times, and after playing Rollies Orym ended up absorbing the magical power from Ishta; during the process he kept looking at Laudna, and she nodded in approval. As they walked through Kreviris disguised as Ruidians, Orym noticed a shrine with Exandrian elements, including the petrified Planerider Ryn, so they stopped briefly and rescued her before continuing to their destination.[172] While they waited for the Mighty Nein to leave with the Volition, the two groups debated potential plans for Predathos if Bells Hells succeeded on their mission, and Orym confessed to Fjord that the same way the people in that room weren't in agreement, the gods weren't in agreement either. Beau and Orym encouraged Dorian to make a toast with Caduceus' tea, and when Orym raised his own cup he called the group "Nein Hells" combining their names. Orym later noticed Imogen and Laudna talking about their upcoming mission, reading their lips to discover that Imogen wouldn't run away, no matter what happened. After the Mighty Nein left, Orym took Dorian aside, and after asking for permission he kissed him for about ten seconds, forgetting about all the problems around them for that time; then he told him that if they were still alive the next day and Dorian wanted, he would like to figure out what there was between them, with Dorian agreeing enthusiastically before kissing him again.[173] Shortly after Imogen informed the group that she had had a vision of Ludinus harming Liliana with his own Quintessence Array, so they left, moving through Kreviris as Orym watched out for them. They headed to the heavily guarded entrance to one of the tunnels and pretended to be a group of Ruidians who had captured an escaped Exaltant, Fearne; Imogen's charisma, combined with the faun's performance and Orym's Bountiful Luck, allowed them to gain access. Once they were inside the tunnel they were attacked by three avadons; two were pushed inside the portable hole, and although Orym hurt the third, it attacked Fearne, and Braius shoved that monster inside the hole too. Shortly after they encountered myceits that became their guides after Orym gained their trust with fruits (that they used to paint their bodies instead of eating them). Eventually they located the structure of the Prime Pillar and the place where Ludinus was absorbing Liliana's power; they had a moment of preparation, during which Dorian summoned Coriolis for Orym to ride into battle; the halfling thanked him by kissing his cheek. He, Imogen, and Chetney led the charge; during the battle Orym stayed in the air with Coriolis, although moving across its body and wings and even clinging to reach his enemies from up there. At one point he made eye contact with Braius and was momentarily fascinated as the paladin hit one of their enemies to remove them from the psychic ritual that protected Ludinus. When one of the Exaltants distracted Coriolis using Hypnotic Pattern Orym jumped down and helped Ashton face another foe. Shortly after Dorian trapped Ludinus inside a Forcecage, ending the fight and saving Liliana, and as a precaution Orym mounted Coriolis again and prepared to defend her and Imogen in case anything else happened.[174] The group talked to Ludinus for some minutes, and during the conversation he tried to inquire about Orym's motivations. The Ashari avoided answering, and declared that the wizard's evilness was predictable, similar to so many other figures in history, even if his actions had a greater scale; when Ludinus praised his honesty, Orym simply said "Go fuck yourself". Eventually the wizard got out of the Forcecage and they all raced towards the Hallowed Cage, with Orym immediately using one of Seedling's vines to take the staff from Ludinus. A new battle ensued, and the archmage unleashed a powerful Ravenous Void that pulled them all towards it; he also hit both Orym and Chetney with a Lightning Bolt, but despite the magical effects in the area the fighter managed to move using vines and his own Misty Step. Eventually they left Ludinus weak enough for Imogen to Stun him, and Orym wrapped him in vines before killing him with his sword; as he was dying, the wizard asked them to complete his mission, but the halfling simply watched his last moments. The group rested for a bit, using that chance to debate about what to do next;Orym initially proposed to collapse the cave, but after understanding the risks of someone coming again he decided to simply listen to his friends, not knowing what to do. When they noticed the corpse of their enemy had disappeared, they started suspecting he might be alive in a new body somewhere else, so they decided to go inside the Hallowed Cage themselves. There, they met the "shadow" of Predathos, in the vague luminous form of a reiloran child, asking them to wake them and free them so they could feed. They had a tense conversation during which Orym, who was moving at the same time Predathos did, asked why couldn't it return to its home, since people in Exandria feared its existence; the God Eater responded that it was willing to do so, but it had to feed first. Predathos kept approaching Imogen and Fearne, and Orym and Chetney tried to put themselves between them; however, the Ashari was slightly most cautious and didn't tried to interact with it (when the gnome did he was thrown against a wall). Shortly after that the Red End got inside Imogen to use her as a vessel.[175] As their battle against the Red End started, Dorian inspired Orym, and he, after wiping away a tear, Misty Stepped to the shoulder of the entity's new body, touching its face and addressing Imogen, urging her to take control because he trusted her; shortly after Predathos tried to hit him, but it missed. The fighter, after drinking his Potion of Invulnerability, kept calling his friend while attacking the back of the monster's neck; after casting Hex, he continued doing so, hitting many times in just a few seconds. At one point Predathos used Telekinetic Vacuum to yank Orym in the air, but Laudna saw it and cast Feather Fall so that her friend would land safely; after that he kept attacking the enemy. When Laudna used the Mask of the Matron Bells Hells were pulled from combat for a few moments, speaking with the Raven Queen and telling her about Predathos and the potential solutions to deal with it; eventually it was suggested that the gods could hide in Exandria as mortal avatars to avoid Predathos, although in order to convince them of that the adventurers would have to contain the God Eater first to convince the pantheon. After receiving boons from the Matron of Ravens, the fight resumed, and with renewed power the adventurers kept attacking Predathos, with Orym sharing his Bountiful Luck with Braius to help him hit the target. Dorian destroyed its form with Chromatic Orb, but when they thought they were done, the Hallowed Cage started shaking, and the actual body of the Red End started emerging from the ground.[176] As the battle entered a new phase Orym, after being protected from an attack by Braius, jumped on the head of Predathos and stabbed it between the eyes, although when he saw crystals reforming to protect it, he reacted pessimistically (by shouting that they were "kind of fucked"); after that Predathos moved its head throwing the hafling in the air and swallowed him, but he immediately got out with Misty Step. The fight continued, and Orym was concerned seeing his friends getting hurt but being unable to help them all; when Fearne was barely recovering after being knocked unconscious he went to her, gave her a potion, and stood in front of her protectively, and attacking from a distance with Seedling. When Dorian was knocked unconscious, the Ashari stopped concentrating on the Hex he had cast on Predathos, and instead used a vine to move the bard towards him, healing him with a potion as he told him that they needed him, just to be knocked unconscious himself by a claw. Dorian then cast Mass Cure Wounds to help everyone, waking Orym up. Eventually Imogen defeated the God Eater with a thunderous Meteor Swarm, and absorbed its remaining energy. The Hallowed Cage started crumbling, so the adventurers fled with Liliana, trying to heal themselves at the same time; Orym used the restorative properties of Seedling, while cautiously watching the area in case Ludinus was still around somehow. They ended up being rescued by Planerider Ryn, who Teleported with them to the secret portal to Exandria; as they were preparing for the spell and the number of people it could transport Dorian agreed to go inside the portable hole for a few seconds (despite how filthy it was) because he could hold his breath indefinitely if necessary, and that intrigued Orym. In the tunnels they found a holy army ready to fight them, and Orym and Chetney immediately explained that the situation had changed and Predathos had been defeated, advicing them to turn around; there was some tension when an angel detected the presence of Predathos inside of Imogen, but after some divine assistance and some persuasion/intimidation they were allowed to pass. When they returned to Exandria, Orym asked Ryn to stay with them for a bit longer and she accepted; together they were escorted through a Transport via Plants spell and arrived to Vasselheim.[177] Shortly after Caleb contacted Orym via sending stone and the halfling told him that they were already in Exandria, asking him to come back with his group as soon as possible. With the help of the Matron of Ravens and her priestesses, Bells Hells were transported to an extraplanar space in which they had a meeting with the gods to explain their plans and the idea of them becoming mortals with the Rites of Catatheosis created by the goddess of death. During the conversation Orym reminded them that Predathos would get out of Imogen one way or the other and there would be people wanting to use it for nefarious purposes, so instead of waiting for that to happen and be dethrone, the gods should walk Exandria with their creations, in equilibrium, writing a new chapter of their stories instead of closing the book. The gods ended up agreeing, and the Matron used her ritual with Ashton's dunamantic head as a focus, which killed him. As he was falling Bells Hells moved in his direction trying to catch him, and Orym went with Fearne transformed in a shoebill, casting Gust to support her flight; the Ashari managed to grab the barbarian for a moment, enough for Chetney to use Banishment on him. When the body reappeared Caleb Widogast ended up using Telekinesis to catch Ashton, and although at first no one knew how to heal him (Orym wanted to use Seedling, but it didn't work on a dead person), the wizard resurrected him with Essek's help. Ashton leaned on the halfling, exhausted, and when they showed embarrasment for telling their friends that they loved them, Orym laughed and told them they couldn't take it back. After Imogen released Predathos on Heaven's Stair Mountain and the entity left the planet, unable to find suitable prey, Bells Hells encountered Deanna Leimert and FRIDA, and learned that Opal was also around, and in control of her own actions again. When Orym finally saw the warlock near some guards he ran towards her (calling her "ma" and causing her to answer "Nancy", as it was their private joke) and told the soldiers she was with his group; the Crown Keepers then had a warm reunion. Bells Hells attended a meeting in the Platinum Sanctuary to talk about what to do with the Ruidians and helped convince people to be open about the idea of them visiting Exandria and Exandrians visiting Ruidus. Later, when Braius expressed his concern about Asmodeus finding him in the future, Orym and the rest showed him support (with the halfling suggesting that he should train just in case), receiving a portrait as a thanks. In the following days Orym met with Ryn and after guiding her to a garden, he suggested to pray together; although the wizard wasn't religious, she agreed, and with Seedling with them, they started: Orym talked to Melora, wondering if she had already been born and hoping they could walk together in the future; Ryn, on the other hand, talked about her many travels as a way to keep herself focused during the "prayer". As she was doing so the Ashari allowed his sword to restore the wizard's lost arm, Druidcrafting some vines to guide the regeneration, and when he was done and Ryn noticed, she thanked him and ruffled his hair with her new arm. After that Bells Hells, following Orym's suggestion, went on a trip to Jrusar to remember their origins and show FRIDA some of the places they visited with FCG (they even suggested trying to find the Coin of delving Orym lost there, since it belonged to the cleric); at one point during their week there Dorian and the fighter had a conversation on a gondola, admitting they had had too much stuff in their minds lately, and agreeing to explore their relationship one day at a time, since the bard was no longer certain about anything (after establishing that they kissed). They, along with Fearne and Opal, visited Zephrah together, reuniting with Dariax and Deni$e, and spending some time together. While Maeve started to organize a big family dinner following Orym's suggestion, he and the Crown Keepers visited the Voice of the Tempest. She hugged Orym, happy to see him, and when he told her he wanted to serve her as an emissary of sorts, since he liked the life on the road and wanted to keep it (calling it an Aramenté of his own), Keyleth agreed; she also expressed her approval about Orym and Dorian dating. They wished each other happiness and then they all drank together for a bit, and at Dorian's request, the Voice of the Tempest used her official stamp to declare that the Crown Keepers had completed their mission (since she was the one who originally sent them to Jrusar and contributed to the formation of Bells Hells).[178] "Tag Team at the Teeth – The Misty Ascent" (Sx97) and "Tag Team at the Teeth – Beyond the Shroud" (Sx98)[] Months after the Rites of Catatheosis, and after avoiding angry religious people from Vasselheim for some time, Bells Hells and the Mighty Nein (who had given them protection) traveled to the Shattered Teeth after they learned that Ludinus might be hiding there. However, when the Nein Heroez arrived to Evaterena, a magical mist surrounding the island split the group while they were still on the ship, leaving half of them in the physical half of the island, while the others were sent to the spiritual half. Orym was among the latter, and noticing the missing people and the strange environment he decided to try his sending stone to talk to Dorian and check if the enchantment worked (and also tell him they would probably take longer to come home); it didn't, which caused Braius to ask (like he had been doing for the last two weeks) if the halfling was single. They met Ethel Rivergold, a local bard with confusing memories that told them that they were in some sort of spirit realm; during that conversation Orym paid attention to him, determining the goliath was stronger than him. They started walking together, and Caduceus used True Seeing on Orym so that he could scout for them more effectively; he did, somewhat overwhelmed, and when Beau joined him and he noticed her impressive shoulders, he asked her to work out with him if they survived that mission. Later, when Caduceus saw Fearne interacting with a spirit bunny, promising to help and being threatened if she was lying, Orym and Imogen mentioned that Fearne always considered she was being honest, something that Caduceus (who already had trouble reading the faun) found concerning. Orym was able to perceive many spiritual entities thanks to Clay's spell, and even detected some souls trapped in that realm. Since Fearne was still feeling the effects of a spirit snake's venom, he tried to encourage her and give her strength. When they reached a cave they had to fight some ghosts, with Orym using his Bountiful Luck to help Ethel react faster as he attacked with Seedling; Caduceus cast Holy Weapon on the halfling, although the fight ended before the halfling had the chance to benefit from it. They then reached the area beneath the local mountain, partially destroyed, and there they found the source of the corruption and magical effects of the island: the spiritual form of the fractured titan. A new battle ensued, and Orym immediately attacked and Hexed the enemy, as he whispered to Melora that her family was making her proud; he also blocked a powerful blast of energy with his shield. Caduceus left the Holy Weapon active a little longer, ending it to cause a blast that ended up not being too effective against that radiant being; even without the additional damage Orym kept attacking and trying to keep the titan's attention on him, although its Consuming Corona was weakening him. However, they ended up defeating it. With that, the island returned to normal (fusing physical and spiritual), and when the rest of the adventurers arrived with a goliath bard of their own, so did the two Ethels, revealing their/his identity as the Spirit of Evaterena, an embodiment of the island itself (as that happened Caleb and Orym commented how strange it was for the goliath to have a conversation with himself). After that, Ethel offered the adventurers to celebrate by drinking from strange shoe-like mugs, and they agreed, with Caleb casting his Widogast's Nascent Nein-Sided Tower so that they could do so in presence of all his cats. "Oaths & Ash – Indianapolis Live Show 2025" (Sx100)[] After completing their mission, the Nein Hells discovered that Ludinus's secret cottage was floating above Evaterena. They had a brief debate over how they should deal with the archmage, before Imogen brought them all to the floating hideout; Orym was the first notice their enemy, but being suspicious of him threw a vine towards him, revealing that his actual body wasn't there. Ludinus (through the illusion) spoke with them for a few minutes, expressing his pleasure at the beginning of a new era and his intention to live on to learn more about it; he also warned them about something going on with the Fatestitcher, and recommended that they visit her with Dorian. Bells Hells traveled to the Fey Realm, and after Orym used his sending stone to tell Dorian to be ready to be summoned, they stealthily reached Ligament Manor, where an Unseelie Delegate was speaking to Morri about the fate of Fearne's soul, since several forces had a claim on it. That led to a tense debate about the subject, during which Orym was very focused on making sure Fearne was safe; the fighter stayed with Imogen and Ashton, and at one point asked them if they thought Fearne could solve the conflict by playing some sort of game. The discussion ended when Teven Klask kidnapped Fearne to make sure the Nine Hells had a full claim on her soul, so her group agreed to go rescue her, and before they left Orym reminded those still in Ligament Manor that they weren't done with them. Bells Hells were sent to Diabolos, and while traveling through the wastes, Braius lifted Orym up so he could scan the area, noticing Fearne's pellets; however, the energy of that infernal realm started affecting the halfling, making him remember Bor'Dor's death before a lightning bolt struck the area, partially hitting both Orym and Braius. They arrived to the Enclave of Infernal Edict, where Fearne was being subjected to a ritual, and a battle ensued. Orym slapped Dorian's ass and encouraged him before going after Teven. The champion told him that it was just business before trying to stomp him, but the fighter dodged it and managed to push both Teven and Arbitrator Zakruthir off their tower; Orym went after the latter, since he was reading the scroll for the ritual, but the fiend threw it to Teven, who flew up with it and kept reading. In response, Orym and Dorian attacked the devil at the same time (despite the flames he produced in response), leaving him weak enough for Chetney and Laudna to kill him moments later. After taking the scroll, Orym teamed up with Braius to kill Malphazu, with the halfling cutting the tendons in his legs and the minotaur hitting the gargantuan devil on the head and tearing off his horns. With some difficulty, the adventuring party managed to rescue Fearne, and they brought her back to Ligament Manor. There, Orym gave his friend the magical scroll, which she immediately ate, causing her soul to be freed from most claims. Retirement[] Orym divided his time between his work in Zephrah, his relationship with Dorian, and his responsibilities in Ligament Manor with Fearne and Morri. He initially was willing to serve the Fatestitcher as promised, although hoping that the hag would be less severe with her granddaughter, Nana Morri surprised him by appearing with her lantern and telling him that the deal they had made had been stupid and unreliable (since she had no ability to guarantee anything on the Moon of Ill Omen) so he was free to come and go as he wished.[179] Relationships[] Alma[] Alma is Orym's mother, a midwife from Zephrah. She and her son love each other very much, and he considers her a very good mother,[180] describing himself as a "mama's boy". The fighter tries not to worry Alma despite having to expose himself to danger during his missions. Will[] Will was Orym's half-elf husband. He was another of Keyleth's guards, and died in the attempt on her life. Orym's moon tattoos are in remembrance of Will, as the two moons represent the pair of them: "big moon, little moon". Will was the son of Derrig, Keyleth's guard in "Dalen's Closet" (Sx47).[181] Orym considered the years previous to his wedding, with the whole process of falling in love with Will, as the most peaceful period of his life. After that they were a passionate couple that "defiled" all the hills in Zephrah.[182] Keyleth[] In Exandria Unlimited Prime, Orym alluded to having worked for Keyleth in Zephrah a long time ago;[183] he also says she had told him about the people of Emon and that she was exactly right about them.[184] He later said he was aware of Keyleth and her possession of a Vestige, and that made him conscious of the danger and unlikelihood of stumbling upon a Vestige himself.[185] Keyleth was the one who sent Orym, Fearne, and Dorian to Marquet.[186] Keyleth feels bad for putting so much pressure on Orym's shoulder, but after so long, and given the fighter's many deeds under her service, she considers him a friend. They have both experienced the loss of their most dear loved one. In recognition of this, Keyleth reminded Orym that he was not alone and that the strength of his people will rally behind them. She urged him to find the strength to take the first step forward, and gave him the title "Savior Blade of the Tempest".[187] Although he is honored, the halfling actually feels pressured by the title, considering it too big for him.[188] Although Orym was originally just one of many bodyguards, in recent times Keyleth has become very involved in the progress of both him and his group, being very proud of their successes, but also very fearful of the dangers they face. Fearne Calloway[] Fearne Calloway and Orym have contrasting personalities: she with a chaotic fey nature and he soberly making a conscious effort to do good and not screw people over. Despite Orym's worrying about the trouble Fearne will get herself and the party into, they are attentive to each other and get along well. Orym entrusted Fearne, along with Dorian, with knowledge of the attack on Zephrah, and both Fearne and Dorian accompanied Orym to Jrusar.[189] After Dorian left Marquet, Fearne remained as Orym's closest friend. They both took care of each other, and when he was in danger, she prioritized his well-being. After Orym caused the death of Fearne's biological father he felt extremely remorseful, considering it a "very deep sin" that could potentially affect his friendship with the druid.[190] Dorian Storm[] Orym expressed alarm about Dorian holding onto the Circlet of Barbed Vision, which inadvertently hurt his feelings; Dorian was more concerned about ensuring that their party collectively kept stewardship of the evil artifact, rather than using the artifact for personal gain.[191] However, by the time of Campaign Three, Dorian considered Orym their small group's leader.[192] Orym supports Dorian in his musical endeavors[193] and entrusted both him and Fearne with knowledge of the attack on Zephrah.[194] After Dorian left Marquet Orym kept talking to him through sending stones, reminding him how much he and Bells Hells missed the bard. During a team-building exercise about honesty Orym admitted that he still missed Dorian, and although sometimes he felt that was okay, sometimes he felt that it wasn't.[195] After losing FCG during their mission to Ruidus, Bells Hells returned to Marquet, and Orym, filled with grief, used his sending stone to contact Dorian, admitting how much he missed him and asking him to come to them.[196] Orym knows he has feelings for the bard, but is shy about it, and believes they are not reciprocated; moreover, since Dorian left the Ashari has kept in his head a happy version of him that he remembered fondly, and now he faces the actual man, much sadder and angrier.[197] Even with that contrast, the two of them still care about each other, and try to make the other happy. After some days traveling together, before a big mission Dorian went to see Orym, and they both admitted to have feelings for each other, with Dorian spending the night with Orym simply so he could hug him and give him comfort.[198] The following day they both agreed that if they survived their adventure they wanted to explore their potential relationship, and shared two kisses.[199] After their mission was over they explored their relationship calmly and became a couple. Imogen Temult[] Orym believes Imogen is intelligent, wise, well-meaning, and has the potential to be great, but is carrying a lot of baggage. He has seen her give in to her dark side and sees that she is powerful and coming into her own. Remembering Opal and Dorian's struggles with the corrupting influence of power, he hopes that he can act as a buffer against things that might cause her to tumble into darkness.[200] In more recent times he still maintains that idea, but he also has reluctantly warned Fearne about being prepared to stop Imogen, if necessary. Although Orym still trusts and defends his friend, he isn't afraid of pressing her if he believes it will benefit their mission.[201] Despite that, he allows himself to show how pressure affects him in front of the sorcerer, even hugging her without a warning after getting good news (being able to communicate with their allies via Sending).[202] Ashton Greymoore[] Orym and Ashton complement each other well in combat. Outside of battle, the barbarian has always expressed that Orym is the best of the group, to which other members of Bells Hells have agreed; however, Ashton has also spoken privately with Orym, expressing concern about the pressure their friend regularly faces, and the fighter has responded to that concern with affectionate gestures such as hugs; in fact, despite his general rejection of physical contact, Ashton has tolerated it on several occasions when it came from Orym, and the halfling has always tried to be careful whenever such contact occurred. After Ashton almost died trying to absorb the power of Rau'shan, Orym kept his opinion about it to himself for an entire day, but when he finally spoke to the barbarian he was gentle and efficient with his words, reassuring them and even kissing their forehead.[203] Character information[] Notable items[] - Seedling, the Wayward Pilgrim.[204] A well-made shortsword[205] brought with him from Zephrah, a gift from Will.[206] The sword was enchanted by Seraatani in the Gloomed Jungles,[207] later being further enhanced to become the first known Relic of the Red Solstice.[208] (requires attunement) - Sentinel Shield[209][210] given to him by Derrig[211] as a normal shield that was enchanted in Emon[212] - Boots of Striding and Springing[213][214] (requires attunement) - Two sending stones, one paired with one held by Dorian Storm[215], and the other by Caleb Widogast[216] - Refined residuum stolen from the Nameless Ones[217] - Dugger's dagger[218] - Dugger's shortsword[219] - Little burlap sack, contents unknown[220] - Gold and silver pin shaped like an arced bow with four-pointed stars from Ela Lumas[221] - Carpentry tools[222] - A wooden box with a big and little moon engravings[223] - Potion of Possibility, from a crate stolen from Paragon's Call[224] - "Wanted" poster showing images of all of the Crown Keepers, given to him by Deni$e Bembachula[225] - Cloak bearing the symbol of the Changebringer, taken as a memento after FCG's death[226] - Zephyr Armor[227] (requires attunement) - Shard of Ruidian glass taken from the core of the red moon[228] - A portrait of him painted by Braius[229] Former items[] - Rope of Climbing,[230] used to restrain the Shade Mother and abandoned as the group fled[231] - Horn of Silent Alarm, bought by Orym in Trove of Marwa;[232] given to Chetney Pock O'Pea the next day[233] - Blue Chromatic Rose[234], expended during the Deathwish Run[235] - Bead of Imprisonment, from Green Seeker Olly, unused against Emoth Kade;[236] expended unsuccessfully by Orym against Yu Suffiad[237] - +1 shortsword, loaned by Vex'ahlia[238] and apparently returned to her[239] - Locket portraying a little girl, taken from the corpse of a green dragonborn Ruby Vanguard exaltant[240], tossed on Bor'Dor Dog'Son's body with the words, "We're at war."[241] - Spyglass[242] stolen from Cyrillia[243] and given to Fearne[244] - Potion of Heroism[245], given to Fearne who consumed it before absorbing the shard of Rau'shan.[246] - A Taste of Tal'Dorei toy sword, given to Elder Barthie[247] - Message Bloom seed gifted to him by Thrascuur[248], used to receive a message from Keyleth that she would be coming to help the party in the battle to destroy the Malleus Key.[249] Orym kept the seed's fragments and after Deanna used it to Scry on Keyleth, she Mended them before returning it.[250] The seed was left by the side of the trail with a message using Magic Mouth so that Keyleth or other allies would know the party was traveling on to Kreviris[251] - Ruidian glass shortsword[252], traded to The Invulnerable Vagrant for several items including the Zephyr Armor[253] - Custom Zephran leather armor[254], presumably removed when the party purchased the Zephyr Armor - Ishta, the Summit Blade[255], which Chetney put in the Bag of Holding after Laudna attempted to steal it to absorb for Delilah Briarwood.[256] It was later destroyed in the Quintessence Array to enhance Orym's abilities.[257] - Ring of protection[258], absorbed by him using the Quintessence Array in order to gain two additional maximum hit points[259] - Potion of speed, consumed[260] - Potion of Invulnerability, given to him by Fearne,[261] consumed[262] Abilities[] Orym's Passive Perception at level 9 was 31, and at level 13 rose to 33.[263][25] After the end of the campaign while Bells Hells was traveling through the Shattered Teeth, he had a +15 to Perception skill checks.[264] After absorbing the power of Ishta Orym gained a new permanent ability to deal an additional 1d6 force damage each time he hits a prone enemy with a melee attack.[265] Halfling abilities[] - Brave - Halfling Nimbleness - Lucky - Subrace: Stout[266] - Stout Resilience Ashari magic[] Due to his background Orym has access to two nature-based cantrips: Feats[] - Observant[270] - Skill Expert[271] - Tough[272] - Fey Touched[273] - Bountiful Luck[276] - Fighting Initiate (Dueling)[277] (temporarily, from the Matron of Raven's boon) - Shield Master[278] Proficiencies[] - Skills: Athletics,[279] Acrobatics,[280] History,[281][282] Insight,[283] Intimidation,[284] Persuasion [285] - Expertise: Perception[286] - Tools: Carpenter's Tools[287] Fighter abilities[] - Fighting Style: Superior Technique[288] - Bait and Switch[289] - Second Wind[290] - Action Surge (once per rest) - Martial Archetype: Battle Master - Combat Superiority - Student of War - Maneuvers - Additional Maneuvers - Additional Superiority Die - Know Your Enemy (with 1 minute observation, learn information about a creature's stats vs. his own) - Relentless - Extra Attack (2x) - Indomitable (2x per long rest) Maneuvers[] As an 13th-level Battle Master with the Superior Technique fighting style, Orym knows eight combat maneuvers and has six Superiority Dice,[291] five of which are d10s and one is a d6. He may replace one maneuver he knows with a different one whenever he learns a new maneuver[292] or when he gains an Ability Score Improvement,[293] so he may no longer know all of these maneuvers. - Bait and Switch,[294] from Fighting Style - Disarming Attack[295] - Feinting Attack[296] - Goading Attack[297] - Pushing Attack[298] - Riposte[299] - Trip Attack[300] - Zephran Heart[301], allows a dice roll to add to a saving throw During Exandria Unlimited Prime, he temporarily learned two additional maneuvers through magical boons:[302][303] Daggerheart abilities[] For "Oaths & Ash – Indianapolis Live Show 2025" (Sx100), which was played using the Daggerheart game system, Orym had the following characteristics, skills. and abilities: - Level: 8 - Class: Warrior - Subclass: Call of the Brave[306] - Domains: Blade and Bone - Abilities - Experiences Behind the scenes[] In development since the end of Campaign One in 2017,[315][54] this character was originally built as a halfling druid/monk multiclass from Zephrah and was the widowed husband of Riegel, another member of the Ashari, sent by Keyleth's father Korrin "to be of aid to her in her grief".[316] Later, Liam created Derrig in the Dalen's Closet one-shot to set up Orym.[317] He also played a druid/monk called Oldwin Tarrintel in Stream of Annihilation: Tower of the Curator, using both the mechanical concept of the original character and the surname of Orym's biological father. Orym became Liam's initial character concept for Campaign Three. He was brought into Exandria Unlimited Prime for further development.[318] He set out to create a character who was close to a normal person, one who did not start off tangled in challenges like fighting gods or fate, and wished to see where the character would go if he was "really centered and in a good place when he started".[54] Moreover, he wanted to explore the idea of a character with a loving and stable family, even if it wasn't perfect, compared to his previous characters with traumas related to their parental figures.[319] The cast usually knows little about one another's characters before a campaign begins, but Orym is an exception. Because Orym is connected to Marisha Ray's Campaign One character Keyleth, she knows "pretty much everything" about Orym because Liam checked in with her while developing the character to avoid encroaching on any ideas she had about Keyleth.[54] Though he had the option to choose another character for the campaign, Liam chose to continue playing Orym. Liam was offered the opportunity to reroll Orym's stats under the same rules as other characters in Campaign Three and prior campaigns—using the rolled method in the Player's Handbook with a homebrewed rule that if the sum of the scores was less than 70, they could reroll the scores—but chose to keep his Exandria Unlimited Prime stats.[318] Even before Campaign Three started, Liam played games and watched movies with swordfighting to take inspiration for his own character's moves and style.[320] Appearances and mentions[] - Exandria Unlimited Prime, every episode - Campaign Three, every episode except: - Absent in "Far From The Others" (3x52), "Ripples" (3x53), "Treacherous Toys" (3x54), "Hope Within History" (3x55), "By Goat or By Boat" (3x56), "The Sorrow of Molaesmyr" (3x57), and "Escape From The Past" (3x58), "Downfall: Part One" (3x99), "Downfall: Part Two" (3x100), "Downfall: Part Three" (3x101), "Assault on the Malleus Key" (3x113), "Fight for the Bloody Bridge" (3x114), "The Weave Mind" (3x116) - "Fractures" (3x78) [DM] - Specials Quotations[] - "I know that you are wrong. I know that there's more in this world. I know that temptation and corruption and imperfection is rampant in this world, but that's not all there is."[321] - "I am not becoming a criminal. I am babysitting."[322] - (about Will) "You know what, though? The time we had was real good, and I'm not going to lie, I mean, most nights, I miss him, but the time we had was real good."[323] - (explaining his tattoo) "[Will] was... half-elven, and big moon, little moon."[324] - "Power is power. What you do with it is up to you."[325] - FCG: You know you want to protect your Voice of the Tempest. You have that mission. Orym: Yes. FCG: And you want to do right by the name of your husband and his father. Orym: That is my prime directive, yeah. FCG: Is that enough for you? Orym: For right now it is. FCG: What happens if you succeed? Orym: Well, that's the question mark. I don't know what comes next.[326] - (after Bor'Dor's death) "We're at war."[327] - "Little things sometimes get overlooked."[328] - FCG: What's the happy ending for you? Orym: Tomorrow. That there be a tomorrow. And spending time with you. All of you. I'm so grateful to have you in my life now, in this moment, when everything's going to shit. Do I wish I had my husband back? Yeah, every day. Every day. But he'd want me to live and he'd want me to fight. Not for my city, but for all cities.[329] - "For the longest time I walked under the moons. Now I think it's time to spend some time in the sun. Under the clear blue sky."[330] Trivia[] - His name could be a variation of the Hebrew Oren, meaning "pine tree". Pine is one of the scents Chetney Pock O'Pea associates with Orym.[331] - Orym is considered Neutral Good, although this was a spur of the moment addition from Liam.[332] - Orym has the record of the highest Passive Perception in any campaign of Critical Role with a 33. - After Bells Hells met his mother Alma and tried her carrot bran muffins, Orym joked that they caused his amazing Perception since carrots are commonly but falsely believed to improve vision.[333] - According to the official character lineup, Orym is the smallest member of the group. - On an episode of 4-Sided Dive, Liam O'Brien described an imaginary coat of arms for Orym: a sword flanked by two moons.[334] - Orym is the second main character in any campaign who was a widow when he was introduced, the first one being Yasha Nydoorin. - He is the second member of the Air Ashari played by Liam, following Derrig, who is also a Battle Master Fighter. Orym is also the third of Liam's characters to have a connection to Keyleth, following Vax'ildan and Derrig. He and Vax also share one aspect of their childhood, since both were raised mainly by their mothers in the absence of a neglectful father. - Liam is the player with the most characters who are members of the Air Ashari, surpassing Marisha, their creator, by one. - He shares his fighter subclass with his father-in-law, Derrig. Also, they both have full sleeve tattoos.[335] - Orym's official playlist referenced his late husband before the reveal in "Heart-to-Heartmoor" (3x17). "My Lover" by Birtalker was captioned "Not a day goes by...". "Les Coeurs Jumeaux" (The Twin Hearts) by Concrete Blonde features lyrics about missing a loved one and wishing to see them again. The song was simply captioned "Ink", linking the song's sun and moon themes to Orym's tattoo of the two moons of Exandria. - Liam's dice for Orym include a large white d20 representing Catha, the big moon, and a small red d20 representing Ruidus, the little moon.[336][337] - The animation on his Campaign Three stat card features falling cherry blossom petals, a nod to his hometown of Zephrah and its cherry trees.[338] - Orym's martial movements, almost balletic in nature, are called the Zeph'aeratam.[339] His former Zephran brothers and sisters in arms are called the Tempest Blades.[340] - Liam created the lore behind the Tempest Blades after he asked Marisha Ray about the military tradition of the Air Ashari and she encouraged him to develop the idea himself.[341] - Orym considers he has good parents.[342] Since his biological father surnamed Tarrintel left the family very early, Orym consistently refers to his father-in-law Derrig as his father. - After the deaths of Will and Derrig, Orym's sister-in-law Leeta took Derrig's position as Keyleth's bodyguard.[343] - In an interview, Liam hinted that Orym and Derrig's family in Zephrah could be larger than what was mentioned in the stream.[344] - The reason behind Orym's spellcasting seems to be a flavored adaptation of the abilities granted by the Ashari background,[345] that allows the people of Zephrah to create gentle puffs of wind and, in some cases (one in ten people, roughly), grants them the ability to cast Gust of Wind.[346][347] - When Prism Grimpoppy noticed Orym's connection to nature he commented that his own mother had some affinity with it,[348] suggesting that she has some notions of druidic magic like many other Ashari. A possible explanation is that his mother is a descendant of the halflings of the Lotusden Greenwood, known for their nature-based magic. That subrace was believed to be Orym's for a while before he was confirmed to be a stout halfling. - The "big moon little moon" relational analogy that represents Orym's late husband and him also occurred with another of Liam's characters, Caleb Widogast, in "Refjorged" (2x76) of Campaign Two: The Mighty Nein. Caleb explains that Beauregard Lionett "is like the big moon and I am like the small moon behind the big moon" when carrying on a ruse that Beauregard specializes in lunar research for the Cobalt Soul at the Vellum Steeple.[349] - After he was widowed, one of Orym's most peaceful and relaxing moments was his visit to Byroden with the Crown Keepers, enjoying the local festival and its pies.[350] - His favorite pie flavor is blueberry.[351] - His home back in Zephrah is a halfling-sized cottagecore in the side of a cliff, with many pots with flowers and a sign with a painting of a swaddled baby.[352] - Orym is the only of Liam's main characters with a living mother and a happy childhood.[353] - Four of Orym's childhood wooden toys (including an eagle with jointed wings, two adventurer-like figures, and a pegasus)[354] were made by Chetney long before they met.[355] Orym's favorite toy was actually one of the wooden adventurers, the swordsman.[356] - Anjali Bhimani felt that Orym would be the best character from Exandria Unlimited Prime to have as a roommate because he is "quiet, respectful, honest, accommodating, and [...] doesn’t take up a lot of space" and that "if someone broke in late at night, little murder man would SO be on the case before I even woke up".[357] - Liam revealed that his backup character for Orym is a dwarven artificer astronaut member of the Grim Verity, with a combination of spell and magical armor that works essentially as a space suit.[358] - Orym holds the record with the most How do you want to do this? in Campaign Three so far with 19 total. - Orym, like many other Ashari, isn't actively religious despite having multiple interactions with gods through his adventures. He personally sees the deities as part of a massive ecosystem in which they have a role to play, and if they disappeared, it would cause more harm than good.[359] - When asked about the broken deal between Morrigan and Orym, Matt explained that she was always willing to grant boons as payment for Fearne's safety, and when Orym offered his servitude in exchange for the safety of all members of Bells Hells on Ruidus, the hag played along in case she got the chance to collect, even though she had no way to guarantee that.[360] Art gallery[] For more images, see Category:Images of Orym. External links[] - Exandria Unlimited Playlist: Orym (August 4, 2021) - Bells Hells Playlist: Orym (April 28, 2022) Notes[] References[] | Art: - ↑ Official art of Orym, 2025 update, by Linda Lithén (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Official art of Orym, 2024 update, by Hannah Friederichs (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official art of Orym, 2023 update, by Hannah Friederichs (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official Portrait of Orym in Campaign 3, by Hannah Friederichs (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official Portrait of Orym in Exandria Unlimited Prime, by Hannah Friederichs from "The Nameless Ones" (E1x01). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official full-body portrait of Orym in Exandria Unlimited Prime, by Hannah Friederichs (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official full-body portrait of Orym in Campaign Three, by Hannah Friederichs (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official art of Orym, 2023 update, by Hannah Friederichs (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official art of Orym, 2024 update, by Hannah Friederichs (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official art of Orym, 2025 update, by Linda Lithén (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym playing with chickens as a baby, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym's family, by Taylor Weltzer (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of the attack on the Voice of the Tempest, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym leaving Zephrah, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym, by Matthew Wawn (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym in the warehouse, by Iida Onni (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym with the blue flower, by Maddy Marshall (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of the standoff with Yu, by Lap Pun Cheung (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Will and Orym, by Toby Sharp (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym guarding Keyleth in Derrig's footsteps, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym and Ashton, by Maddy Marshall (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym gaining Seedling, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym's message to Dorian, by LYuenger (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Orym vs Otohan, by Kamille Areopagita and Kevin Areopagita from "A Gathering of Heroes" (3x76). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of the Demithore Valley, by @MiddiMidori (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym giving Laudna flowers, by Maddy Marshall (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym and the spirits, by Maddy Marshall (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym declaring war, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Prism's farewell attempt, by Elaine Tipping (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Prism casting Enlarge on Orym, by ElesirArt (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Leeta, Maeve and Orym, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Alma hugging her son (and the artist's reaction), by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym and FCG in the Iridon Bastion, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym in the balcony, by Cha Cha Rae (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym talking to Will, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym and Fearne in front of Will's sword, by Pyromeekorai (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym giving Ashton a "gift", by Cha Cha Rae (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym vs the Reilora, by @MiddiMidori (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym's challenge, by Jake Wennik (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym casting Hex, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym Druidcrafting fruit, by Elaine Tipping (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym with Ishta, by Elaine Tipping (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym Sending to Dorian, by Melissa Hahn (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym greeting Dorian, by noxarcanaart (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym accepting Ishta, by Cris Trinci (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Laudna studying Ishta while Orym sleeps, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Dorian carrying Orym, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym and Will's brief chat, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Dorian comforting Orym, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Dorian with Orym, by Odd (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym healing Dorian, by Crystel Astuhuaman (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of the adventurers being distracted, by Elaine Tipping (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Alma and her son, by Taylor Weltzer (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Will and Orym, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Will and Orym, Keyleth and Vax, by BrittaJJ26 (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym missing Dorian, by Taylor Weltzer (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym and Dorian's kiss, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym hugging Imogen, by Elaine Tipping (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Ashton and Orym, by Cha Cha Rae (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym, by Clara (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym, by Joshua Esmeralda (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym, by Ksenia Berndl (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym's extremely perceptive eyes, by Taylor Weltzer (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym's Hex, by TheFakeNerdGirl (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym, the Savior Blade, by Odd (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym's coat of arms, by @MiddiMidori (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym's childhood, by Jenny Dolfen (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym, by Cael Lyons (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Orym, by Jordan Black (source). Used with permission. | |


--- [Orym - Critical Role] ---
Orym | Orym | ||||||||||||| |---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | Exandria player character | ||||||||||||| | Basic information | ||||||||||||| | Actor | Liam O'Brien | |||||||||||| | Race | Stout Halfling[1] | |||||||||||| | Class | Fighter (Battle Master) | |||||||||||| | Pronouns | he/him | |||||||||||| | Biographical information | ||||||||||||| | Full name | Orym[2] | |||||||||||| | Titles | Savior Blade of the Tempest[3] | |||||||||||| | Also known as | Nancy (by Opal)[4] | |||||||||||| | Age | 36 or 37 (Campaign 3; 843 PD)[5] | |||||||||||| | Languages | Common, Halfling | |||||||||||| | Places | Zephrah, Lucidian Coast (hometown) | |||||||||||| | Family | ||||||||||||| | Partner | Will (late husband)[9] | |||||||||||| | Occupation | Guard (formerly)[10] | |||||||||||| | Affiliations | ||||||||||||| Status | ||||||||||||| | Mechanical information | ||||||||||||| | Creature type | Humanoid | |||||||||||| | Alignment | Neutral Good[12] | |||||||||||| | Level | 15 | |||||||||||| | ||||||||||||| | Stats reference | [13] See also his level page. | |||||||||||| Appearances | I need all of you to try to be better together than you are alone. Because we are in a spot that nobody else is in, and nobody is seeing all this shit the way we are right now. So we're either better together and solve it, or it all goes off the rails and it all falls apart. — Orym, rallying Bells Hells.[14] Orym is an Air Ashari halfling fighter. He formerly guarded Keyleth, the Voice of the Tempest of Zephrah, as a Tempest Blade. He later joined the Crown Keepers adventuring group, then adventured with Bells Hells. Orym is played by Liam O'Brien. Orym's husband Will and father-in-law Derrig were killed in 837 PD in an attack on Keyleth perpetrated by Otohan Thull and her Gray Assassins. Five years later, Keyleth sent Orym to Marquet to investigate a lead on the attack, ultimately leading him to join the newly formed Bells Hells. Deeply loyal to his new friends and his family in Zephrah, Orym balances his immediate plans for finding the Gray Assassins with the broader goals of the party. Description [edit | edit source]Appearance [edit | edit source]Orym is 3 feet and 3 inches tall,[15] slender, with ropey muscles and fine features.[16] He has a short shock of brown hair less than an inch long.[17] He has a full-sleeve tattoo of swirling winds and clouds on his right arm stretching up onto his chest, and a tattoo of Ruidus cradled within a crescent Catha on his right shoulder.[18] He wears green armor with a leaf theme[19] over brown leather, with well-worn sashes with ivy and flower patterns around his waist, and his boots are brown leather with green stone rings laced into his shin guards. His shield is adorned with ivy.[20] While Orym stayed in Zephrah, Fanny Z made him a new outfit. Almost full brown leather bodysuit without a sleeve on his right hand to make the cloud tattoo visible and free up his sword arm. There are also gaps in his left hand and gaps along his ribcage to let air in and keep him light. The suit is 15 or 20% heavier than the former.[21] While on board the Crimson Abyss, Orym got a tattoo of a flaming bell on the back of his left shoulder blade.[22][23] Before heading to Aeor, Orym (along with the rest of BH) ordered new cloth elements at the Emerald Curtain in Zadash. FCG's piece was embedded onto his Zephyr Armor armor as the left pauldron.[24] Portrait gallery [edit | edit source]- Official full-body portrait of Orym in Exandria Unlimited, by Hannah Friederichs.[art 5] - Official full-body portrait of Orym in Campaign 3, by Hannah Friederichs.[art 6] - Official art of Orym, by Hannah Friederichs.[art 7] - Official art of Orym, by Hannah Friederichs.[art 8] Personality [edit | edit source]Orym is generally serious, dutiful[25] and level-headed. Orym prefers to leave the initiative in complicated, dangerous matters in the hands of more experienced figures whom he trusts.[26][27][28] He often considers himself responsible for "babysitting" his friends' antics, and makes efforts to protect them in combat.[29][30][31] Liam characterized Orym as the straight man of his adventuring groups and as one who seems set to lead but views himself as one who follows, and he felt that Orym is the closest to Lawful Good of any character he has ever played.[32] Orym is uncomfortable with getting involved in crime or "fucking people over", believing there's more to the world than corruption and temptation.[33] Orym doesn't share his feeling much, instead keeping them to himself and soldiering along.[34] Dariax considered him to be the most moral member of their group.[35] Bells Hells similarly often see him as "the good one".[36] When around 837 PD Keyleth was attacked in Zephrah by mysterious individuals who appeared out of nowhere and evaporated when killed,[37] Orym wanted to part or come to peace with his unsettled memories that felt unresolvable and would haunt his life. However, when similar attackers assaulted the Lumas twins in Marquet and he was asked to investigate, he became frustrated that all the leads were growing cold and was inspired to pursue them to try to make it right.[38] Orym regularly practices the balletic sword forms of the Air Ashari, called the Zeph'aeratam, as a somewhat meditative practice.[39] Biography [edit | edit source]Background [edit | edit source]Orym was born in 806-807 PD[5] to a member of the Air Ashari Alma and her brief partner with Tarrintel as his surname, which Orym does not use.[7] He married Will and developed a close personal relationship with his husband's side of the family, coming to consider the family to be his own and his sisters-in-law to be his own sisters.[40] His mother taught him about wood carving,[41] and he learned some fundamentals of magical healing from Derrig's wife, Nel, and his daughter, Maeve, specifically how to stabilize a wound with Druidcraft.[42] Orym had C-Pop-made wooden toys growing up.[43] Orym served as a guard when he lived in Zephrah, as part of the Tempest Blades.[44] There, he overheard conversations with Vox Machina.[45][46] He did not excel at learning the Air Ashari's druidic magic, but proved to be fast and athletic.[47] Circa 837 PD,[48] Orym witnessed an attack of Gray Assassins on Keyleth in Zephrah. It was unsuccessful, though a few Ashari died in the attack,[49] including Orym's husband Will.[50] The guards were able to fell some of the assailants, but the bodies melted away into nothing before their eyes.[51] Orym left Zephrah within a year of Will's death.[52] At the beginning of Exandria Unlimited Orym remembered waking up as a group a day or so ago on the road outside Emon, but didn't remember anything about the week prior. He remembered being at Thordak's Crater and seeing footprints leading out toward where the Scar of the Cinder King is located. The others were also missing memories of the same week.[53] When the group found the Circlet of Barbed Vision aboard the Blightstar at the behest of Poska, both Orym and Dorian Storm became nauseous near it. Later, when Opal was seriously wounded in a battle, Orym stepped in front of her to protect her. When the fight was over, Orym found multiple crates and barrels holding refined residuum, about half of which were from his hometown of Zephrah. He talked the group into taking some residuum to the Fire Ashari so they could let the Air Ashari know about it.[54] When the group realized that the Circlet was one of the Vestiges of Divergence, Orym suggested showing it to the Fire Ashari as well. When they arrived, he did tell the Ashari about the residuum, but Opal and Dorian stopped him before he could mention the Circlet. Later, he agreed that keeping it was probably a good idea.[55] When the group was kidnapped by Poska on their way out of town and realized they had inadvertently endangered Shaun Gilmore with their overheard conversations, Orym used their gifted magic one-way one-use box to send a warning to Gilmore.[56] At Byroden, Orym was taken under the wing of the wife of the War Ringer, Ruby Lee Beckfort, who swept him off and fed him pie in an attempt to fatten him up. His participation in the Gem of Byroden Pageant was limited to being the target for an axe-throwing Cinna Brightbow.[57] Back on the road, Orym confronted Dorian when he offered to carry the Circlet for a while and was able to do so without feeling his former nausea. Orym forced Dorian to give it back to Dariax,[58] and kept a close eye on him thereafter.[59] Thrascuur, the tetrarch of the city of Niirdal-Poc, gifted Orym with a seed and told him to make it grow.[60] When the party left, a very young feline girl tried to give them a letter to deliver to Umejii, but the group was suspicious. Orym followed her out, spoke to her and learned her name, and promised to deliver the letter.[61] During the party's final battle, Orym again defended a prone Opal against Myr'atta Niselor. He joined the others in their decision to stay together for at least a while longer as they continued their search for Umejii.[62] Following the events of Exandria Unlimited, the party returned to Byroden. Subsequently, Keyleth sent Orym on a mission to Marquet, telling him that his friends Fearne and Dorian could be helpful. Keyleth used Transport via Plants to sneak them to the skyship port in Emon, from which they traveled eventually to Jrusar.[63] They soon found themselves responding to a mysterious attack of animated objects in the streets, fighting alongside Ashton Greymoore, Fresh Cut Grass, Imogen Temult, and Laudna, and they attracted the attention of Bertrand Bell, who promised to make introductions to high-placed people in the city.[64] Given that their mission was to find a person,[65]Oshad Breshio,[66] Orym hoped that an introduction to someone who knows a lot of people in Jrusar would be helpful. After spending a few days with them and being asked by Imogen, Orym told the party the specific details of why he was looking for Breshio.[67] Orym provided an update, by way of Imogen's Sending, on his mission to Keyleth while the party was outside Bassuras after he had learned the details of the Gray Assassins from Hondir.[68] He was killed in the fight against Otohan Thull, but resurrected immediately after by Fearne.[69] After the party returned to Jrusar, Orym suggested contacting Keyleth again to see if she could help bring back Laudna, and she agreed to do so, bringing Bells Hells to Whitestone.[70] He participated in Laudna's successful resurrection ritual.[71] Orym urged the group to tell Orlana Seshadri everything they had found regarding Eshteross's death and to leave town quickly to avoid endangering others.[72] After they did so, a few days after he and the rest of Bells Hells boarded the Silver Sun en route to Yios, he was attacked by Chetney, who had lost control of his lycanthropy during a Ruidus flare, but was able to fight him off.[73] After Chetney's trial in Zha'Vrollo, Orym sensed the faint scent of Will coming from the statue of Serataani.[74] He approached the statue and placed his sword within the empty sheath, from which vines were growing.[75] The statue glowed briefly, and the vines grew around his hand. When he withdrew his sword he saw the hilt was now decorated with ivy and the blade enchanted.[76] Orym thanked Serataani, although he did not understand why he had been granted this boon.[77] Orym joined Laudna in investigating the Malleus Key in the Feywild.[78] Upon returning to the Material Plane, he updated Keyleth on Bells Hells' findings. She responded that she was dealing with an issue in Terrah.[79] A few days later, she contacted him via his Message Bloom to tell him that she had quelled the cult activity there, and believed it to be connected to the Ruby Vanguard's plot, and would bring the Ashari to the Tishtan excavation site at his word.[80] When the party arrived, Orym marked one of the haggardoe trees so she could use it for her arrival.[81] During the ritual, Orym repeatedly attacked Otohan's backpack, nearly destroying it.[82] He was then teleported, along with Laudna and Ashton, to an unknown location.[83] There, they met up with Bor'Dor Dog'Son, Deni$e Bembachula, and Prism Grimpoppy and determined they were in the Demithore Valley in Issylra.[84] Orym, along with Bor'Dor, attempted to peacefully ask the missionaries of the Dawnfather to leave Hearthdell when Abaddina asked them to free the town in exchange for Scrying on their missing companions.[85] However, it was unsuccessful, and a fight broke out, which ultimately destroyed the Sunrise Sanctuary. Orym expressed his sadness over this to Laudna.[86] He became extremely uncomfortable with Abaddina's sympathies towards Ludinus Da'leth, and chose to stay outside her home that night rather than rest indoors.[87] While he was out there, Bor'Dor came and spoke with him about what had happened.[88] After Bor'Dor revealed he was a member of the Ruby Vanguard, during the ensuing fight, when Laudna was considering killing Bor'Dor, Orym nodded towards her.[89] After Bor'Dor's death, Orym threw aside the locket he'd taken from a worker at the Malleus Key, and declared "we're at war" to himself.[90] Upon their return to Jrusar, Orym expressed a desire to visit Zephrah after Deanna's Scry revealed Keyleth was still badly injured.[91] He then went along with Fearne and Chetney on several errands, the final of which was a stop at the temple of the Raven Queen. All three of them had a vision of the lens made from the Champion of Ravens screaming endlessly.[92] They relayed this to the rest of the party before leaving for Zephrah. There, Orym spoke with Maeve and Leeta before Bells Hells met with Keyleth. She asked the party to go to the Grey Valley to collect blue perennem flowers, which would cure the Gray Assassin's toxin that was preventing her from healing, as well as to if possible rescue the team of Ashari who had left several days prior on the same mission.[93] Orym admitted to Keyleth that he was deeply angry about the actions of the Ruby Vanguard, and she validated his anger.[94] In the Grey Valley, while collecting the flowers, the party was attacked by several undead of the Ashari party whom Orym recognized,[95] but were able to save Baernie and two other Tempest Blades from the fallen Iridon Bastion where they were imprisoned by the demons that had overtaken it.[96] Back in Zephrah, Orym was recognized by Keyleth after she was successfully healed, and briefly addressed the gathered Air Ashari.[97] Keyleth named him "Savior Blade of the Tempest" for his service.[3] He then went to see Nel, and visited Derrig and Will's graves along with Nel, Fearne, and FCG.[98] Following Bells Hells' time in the Shattered Teeth, they returned to Whitestone. Keyleth pulled him aside after a larger council and told him to keep an eye on Imogen, due to her ties to Liliana.[99] He then went with Chetney and Ashton to the Altar of the Raven and experienced a vision, this time of climbing chains that broke from the Matron of Ravens, freeing her.[100] After Ashton's attempt to absorb the shard of Rau'shan the following day, Orym joined the rest of Bells Hells in traveling to the Fey Realm. During the honesty trial, he admitted to missing Dorian greatly.[101] After the trials, and Fearne's successful absorption of the shard, Orym secretly made a bargain with Morri, offering his service to her in exchange for all of Bells Hells returning safely from their mission.[102] While on Ruidus, after Imogen communed with Predathos and expressed hesitancy, Orym encouraged her to continue trying, admitting he was pressuring her because it was important to the mission.[103] He offered to be the one to uses the Quintessence Array on Edmuda in order to depower her before questioning, and gained a use of Dominate Person, which he used to aid the interrogation.[104] That night, after their time in Razora, while in Ria'Doin following their discovery of the portal, the two of them took watch together and Orym, after trying his sending stone to Caleb Widogast, found that it was working again.[105] Once Imogen had contacted Keyleth as well, Orym embraced her and then attempted to contact Dorian, but was interrupted by the thought there was a sound outside.[106] He, Chetney, Ashton, and FCG were all drawn into Lake Umamu by a shadowy entity, and after breaking free, Bells Hells all decided to return to Ruidus and rest there instead.[107] In Kreviris, Orym continued his protection of the party, killing the slither attacking Imogen when they were in the storeroom of the Jagged Edge,[108] and pushing Imogen forward as the leader after the party reached the headquarters of the Volition.[109] He also, after learning many people on Ruidus were curious about the taste of fruit, Druidcrafted fruits for Zhesh and Amido as thanks for their assistance.[110][111] When he learned that the Volition planned to assassinate Liliana, Orym encouraged Imogen to go on the mission as it was her last chance to save her mother.[112] He then chose to go on the infiltration mission to rescue Evoroa.[113] Following the party's encounter with Otohan as they escaped Kreviris, Orym was highly critical of Liliana and her motives.[114] After the party returned to Exandria, and they continued their discussion, Orym became emotional and, after stabbing Ishta into the ground and telling the party that Liliana and the Vanguard were not right, walked away.[115] Imogen caught up with them and the two spoke, finding common ground and grieving FCG's death together.[116] After Imogen returned to the party as they made their way to the western encampment, Orym called Dorian on his sending stone and asked him to come to the site.[117] Dorian told him he would be there, and arrived in time to greet Orym and the rest of Bells Hells.[118] Early that morning, Fearne was lured away by Zathuda, and Orym tailed her. There, Zathuda made Fearne fight her forlarren self, and Orym helped her in the fight, reviving her at one point with a potion of healing.[119] The party accepted a mission from the Exandrian Accord to find out what Ludinus was doing in Aeor, and left with Essek Thelyss for Zadash.[120] There, Orym purchased Zephyr Armor with funds given to him from Dorian.[121] Later, at the Lodge of the Eclipse, he asked Chetney if he could take Ishta, and brought the sword with him to a nearby park, where, after some reflection on the harm it had done, performed the Zeph'aeratam with it. As he did, it rained on him despite the sky being clear, and he felt the presence of the Wildmother with him.[122] Fearne and Dorian found him and spoke with him, and after a supportive exchange with Dorian he returned to the party's room.[123] That night, while Orym was sleeping, Laudna, encouraged by Delilah telling her the sword was cursed, attempted to steal the sword and cast Darkness and Wither and Bloom to do so. Orym attacked, and after Laudna lost concentration on Darkness and was revealed, he took back the sword.[124] After a tense argument during which the rest of the party woke up, and Fearne and Chetney did not sense a curse on the sword, Chetney offered Laudna Scream Needle instead on the condition that Orym be allowed to keep Ishta and use it to kill Ludinus.[125] Despite getting permission from the party and Laudna herself, Orym declined to keep the sword and Chetney put it in the bag of holding.[126] Orym was one of the Hells members who openly despised Ludinus, telling him "there wasn't much they needed to talk about". Orym also added: His malice is predictable. People have been spilling garbage from their mouths like yours for eons. There's nothing new about you other than the scale, Da'leth.[127] Orym dealt the final blow on the Ludinus, but the Hells later found out that Ludinus might have means to resurrect himself in a different body.[128] Relationships [edit | edit source]Keyleth [edit | edit source]In Exandria Unlimited, Orym alluded to having worked for Keyleth in Zephrah a long time ago;[129] he also says she had told him about the people of Emon and that she was exactly right about them.[130] He later said he was aware of Keyleth and her possession of a Vestige, and that made him conscious of the danger and unlikelihood of stumbling upon a Vestige himself.[131] Keyleth was the one who sent Orym, Fearne, and Dorian to Marquet.[132] Chetney Pock O'Pea [edit | edit source]Fearne Calloway [edit | edit source]Fearne Calloway and Orym have contrasting personalities: she with a chaotic fey nature and he soberly making a conscious effort to do good and not screw people over. Despite Orym's worrying about the trouble Fearne will get herself and the party into, they are attentive to each other and get along well. Orym entrusted Fearne, along with Dorian, with knowledge of the attack on Zephrah, and both Fearne and Dorian accompanied Orym to Jrusar.[133] Imogen [edit | edit source]Dorian Storm [edit | edit source]Orym expressed alarm about Dorian holding onto the Circlet of Barbed Vision, which inadvertently hurt his feelings; Dorian was more concerned about ensuring that their party collectively kept stewardship of the evil artifact, rather than using the artifact for personal gain.[134] However, by the time of Campaign 3, Dorian considered Orym their small group's leader.[135] Orym supports Dorian in his musical endeavors[136] and entrusted both him and Fearne with knowledge of the attack on Zephrah.[137] Orym attempted to contact Dorian via Sending stone shortly before his death.[138] He contacted Dorian about a week later to update him on Bells Hells' progress, and told him that he missed him.[139] Will [edit | edit source]Will was Orym's half-elf husband. He was another of Keyleth's guards, and died in the attempt on her life. Orym's moon tattoos are in remembrance of Will, as the two moons represent the pair of them: "big moon, little moon". Will was the son of Derrig, Keyleth's guard in "Dalen's Closet" (OSx34).[140] Character information [edit | edit source]Notable items [edit | edit source]- Boots of Striding and Springing[141][142] - Seedling[143] - Sentinel Shield, given by Derrig, made magical by Gilmore[144][145] - Zephyr Armor[146] - Ring of protection[147] - Refined residuum stolen from the Nameless Ones[148] - Message Bloom seed gifted to him by Thrascuur.[149] Used by Keyleth to deliver a message, whereupon it bloomed and was destroyed.[80]Mended by Deanna Leimert as a non-magical object. - Dugger's dagger [150] - Dugger's shortsword[151] - Little burlap sack, contents unknown[152] - Gold and silver pin shaped like an arced bow with four-pointed stars from Ela Lumas[153] - Carpentry tools[154] - Sending stone, paired with one held by Dorian Storm[155] - Sending stone, connected to one held by Caleb Widogast[156] - A wooden box with a big and little moon engravings (carved and gifted by Chetney)[157] Former items [edit | edit source]- Rope of Climbing,[158] used to restrain the Shade Mother and abandoned as the group fled[159] - Horn of Silent Alarm, bought by Orym in Trove of Marwa,[160] given to Chetney Pock O'Pea the next day[161] - Blue Chromatic Rose,[162] expended during the Deathwish Run.[163] - One Bead of Imprisonment, received from Fearne at one point between "A Race for the Prize" (3x27) and "Dark Portents" (3x29) inclusive,[164] used unsuccessfully on Yu Suffiad[165] - Captain Xandis' spyglass[166] stolen from Fearne[167] to return it to Xandis.[168] - Magical +1 gladius (shortsword), given to him by Vex'ahlia. Likely returned as promised[169] - Wooden wolf, carved by Orym to be a gift for Chetney (Liam ordered a wooden figurine of a wolf to give Travis, but he felt it looked much nicer than Orym would have managed to craft).[170] - Ruidian glass shortsword. Traded to Pumat Sol for a discount.[171] Daggerheart items [edit | edit source]- Seedling - Zephyr Armor - Sentinel Shield Abilities [edit | edit source]Halfling abilities [edit | edit source]- Brave - Halfling Nimbleness - Lucky - Subrace: Stout[1] - Stout Resilliance Feats and other abilities [edit | edit source]- Observant[172] - Skill Expert: (+1 Charisma, Proficiency: Persuasion, Expertise: Perception)[173] - Tough[174][175] - Fey Touched[176] - Bountiful Luck[177] - Essence of Ishta: Hitting a prone enemy with a melee attack deals 1d6 extra force damage.[178] Fighter abilities [edit | edit source]- Fighting Style: Superior Technique[179] - Bait and Switch[180] - Second Wind[181] - Action Surge (once per rest) - Martial Archetype: Battle Master - Combat Superiority - Student of War - Know Your Enemy[182] - Improved Combat Superiority - Relentless Presence - Extra Attack (3 attacks per action) - Indomitable (2 uses) Maneuvers [edit | edit source]As a 15th-level Battle Master with the Superior Technique fighting style, Orym knows eight combat maneuvers and has seven Superiority Dice,[fn 1] which are d10s. He may replace one maneuver he knows with a different one whenever he learns a new maneuver[183] or when he gains an Ability Score Improvement,[184] so he may no longer know all of these maneuvers. - Bait and Switch,[185] from Fighting Style - Disarming Attack[186] - Feinting Attack[187][fn 2] - Goading Attack[188] - Pushing Attack[189] - Riposte[190] - Trip Attack[191] - Zephran Heart (add Superiority Die roll to Strength checks and saves, Dexterity saves)[192][193] During Exandria Unlimited, he temporarily learned two additional maneuvers through magical boons:[194][195] Proficiencies [edit | edit source]| Proficiency | Source | Ref. | |---|---|---| | Acrobatics | Fighter or Background | [198] | | Athletics | Fighter or Background | [199] | | History (Expertise) | Fighter or Background. Expertise from unknown custom source.[200] | [201] | | Intimidation | Fighter or Background | [202] | | Perception (Expertise) | Fighter or Background. Expertise from Skill Expert. | [203][204] | | Persuasion | Skill Expert | [205] | | Carpenter's tools | Battle Master (Student of War) | [206] | Spells [edit | edit source]| Spell | Level | Notes | Ref. | |---|---|---|---| | Druidcraft | Cantrip | [207] | | | Gust | Cantrip | [208][209] | | | Hex | 1st | Fey Touched | [176] | | Misty Step | 2nd | Fey Touched | [210] | Daggerheart abilities [edit | edit source]Heritage [edit | edit source]- Ancestry: Halfling - Luckbringer - Internal Compass Experiences [edit | edit source]- Eyes and Ears - Tiny Dancer Warrior abilities [edit | edit source]- No Mercy - Attack of Opportunity - Combat Training - Subclass: Call of the Brave - Courage - Battle Ritual Domain cards [edit | edit source]As a warrior, Orym has access to the Blade and Bone domains. | Name | Domain | Level | Type | Ref | |---|---|---|---|---| | A Soldier's Bond | Blade | 2 | Ability | | | Strategic Approach | Bone | 2 | Ability | | | Tactician | Bone | 3 | Ability | | | Deadly Focus | Blade | 4 | Ability | | | Boost | Bone | 4 | Ability | | | Wrangle | Bone | 8 | Ability | Behind the scenes [edit | edit source]In 2016, Liam played in a one-shot on Geek & Sundry with Taliesin and Felicia Day, DM'd by Ivan Van Norman, called "#SlothAndSundry Critical Role w/ Sid the SLOTH!", in which he played a halfling warlock named Orym Tarrintel.[211] Tarrintel became the surname held by the biological father of Orym from Campaign 3.[7] Liam left Tarrintel's backstory as a blank slate for Matthew Mercer, in case he wanted to develop and integrate it into Campaign 3.[212] Orym of the Ashari has been in development since 2017, "since at least the end of Campaign 1",[213][32] initially built as a halfling druid/monk multiclass from Zephrah and was the widowed husband of Riegel, another member of the Ashari. Liam planned for Orym to appear as backup character, succeeding Liam's main character, Vax'ildan, and aid Keyleth in her grief for Vax.[214] Orym became Liam's first choice character concept for Campaign 3. Beforehand, he was brought into Exandria Unlimited for further development.[215] Liam set out to create a character who was close to a normal person, one who did not start off tangled in challenges like fighting gods or fate, and wished to see where the character would go if he was "really centered and in a good place when he started".[32] Though the cast usually knows little about one another's characters before campaign begins, Orym became an exception. Marisha Ray knew "pretty much everything" about Orym, because Orym was connected to her Campaign 1 character Keyleth, and Liam checked in with her while developing the character to avoid encroaching on any ideas she had about Keyleth.[32] Though he had the option to choose another character for the campaign, Liam chose to continue playing Orym. Liam was offered the opportunity to reroll Orym's stats under the same rules as other characters in Campaign 3 and prior campaigns—using the rolled method in the Player's Handbook with a homebrewed rule that if the sum of the scores was less than 70, they could reroll the scores—but chose to keep his Exandria Unlimited stats.[215] Orym's third official art features visible signs of his bargain with Morrigan. Hannah Friederichs, the official artist, noted that Orym's hair was looser and tousled, the color of his tattoos had shifted from black towards green, and vines were growing out of his veins.[fn 3]. Hannah also noted a general increase in the number of vines growing across Orym's body, and that those vines were "spidery" and meant to have a "dark fae energy".[216] Appearances and mentions [edit | edit source]- Exandria Unlimited, every episode - Campaign 3, every episode except: - "Far From The Others" (3x52), mentioned only - "Ripples" (3x53), mentioned only - "Treacherous Toys" (3x54), mentioned only - "Hope Within History" (3x55), mentioned only - "By Goat or By Boat" (3x56), mentioned only - "The Sorrow of Molaesmyr" (3x57), absent - "Escape From The Past" (3x58), mentioned only - Downfall ("Downfall: Part One" (3x99), "Downfall: Part Two" (3x100), and "Downfall: Part Three" (3x101)) - "Assault on the Malleus Key" (3x113) - "Fight for the Bloody Bridge" (3x114) - "To the Arx Creonum" (3x115) - "The Weave Mind" (3x116) - One-shots - "The Mighty Nein Reunion: Echoes of the Solstice" (OSx55), mentioned only, unnamed Quotations [edit | edit source]- "I know that you are wrong. I know that there's more in this world. I know that temptation and corruption and imperfection is rampant in this world, but that's not all there is."[217] - "I am not becoming a criminal. I am babysitting."[218] - (about Will) "You know what, though? The time we had was real good, and I'm not going to lie, I mean, most nights, I miss him, but the time we had was real good."[219] - (explaining his tattoo) "[Will] was... half-elven, and big moon, little moon."[220] Trivia [edit | edit source]- Orym is the second main character in any campaign who was widowed prior to their introduction, the first one being Yasha Nydoorin. - He is the second member of the Air Ashari played by Liam, following Derrig, who is also a Battle Master Fighter. - Orym is also the third of Liam's characters to have a connection to Keyleth, following Vax'ildan and Derrig. - He and Vax also share one aspect of their childhood, since both were raised mainly by their mothers in the absence of a neglectful father. - Orym is also the third of Liam's characters to have a connection to Keyleth, following Vax'ildan and Derrig. - Anjali Bhimani felt that Orym would be the best character from Exandria Unlimited to have as a roommate because he is "quiet, respectful, honest, accommodating, and [...] doesn't take up a lot of space" and that "if someone broke in late at night, little murder man would SO be on the case before I even woke up".[221] - Orym's official playlist referenced his late husband before the reveal in "Heart-to-Heartmoor" (3x17). "My Lover" by Birtalker was captioned "Not a day goes by...". "Les Coeurs Jumeaux" (The Twin Hearts) by Concrete Blonde features lyrics about missing a loved one and wishing to see them again. The song was simply captioned "Ink", linking the song's sun and moon themes to Orym's tattoo of the two moons of Exandria. - The "big moon little moon" relational analogy that represents Orym's late husband and him also occurs with another of Liam's characters, Caleb Widogast, in Refjorged of Campaign 2: The Mighty Nein. Caleb explains that Beauregard "is like the big moon and I am like the small moon behind the big moon" when carrying on a ruse that Beauregard specializes in lunar research for the Cobalt Soul at the Vellum Steeple.[222] - The animation on his Campaign 3 stat card features falling cherry blossom petals, nodding to his hometown of Zephrah and its cherry trees.[223] - The reason behind Orym's spellcasting is currently unknown. A possible explanation is that he has the Magic Initiate feat, having two cantrips and potentially one druid spell; another explanation is that it is a flavoured adaptation of the abilities granted by the Ashari background, that allows the people of Zephrah to create gentle puffs of wind and, in some cases (one in ten people, roughly), grants them the ability to cast Gust of Wind.[224][225] - Currently, Orym has the highest passive perception of any main player character throughout any campaign at 33(10 + 13 perception bonus + 5 from Observant + 5 from Sentinel Shield). At 2nd place is Vex's passive perception of 30 (10 + 15 from perception bonus + 5 from Observant). External links [edit | edit source]- Exandria Unlimited Playlist: Orym (August 4, 2021) - Bells Hells Playlist: Orym (April 28, 2022) References [edit | edit source]Footnotes: - ↑ Battle Master maneuvers. - ↑ Without and with the Boots of Striding and Springing. Explanatory footnotes: - ↑ Seven maneuvers and five Superiority Dice from his subclass, and one maneuver and one Superiority Die from his fighting style. - ↑ Orym hasn't used Feinting Attack since "The Tunnels Below" (3x15) at 3:03:53. Having gained Trip Attack at level 6 using Martial Versatility, it is presumed he switched this maneuver out. - ↑ Hannah stated that the vines growing out of Orym's veins were inspired by Liam's comments in "4-Sided Dive: Feat Fetishes" (4SDx21), 4-Sided Dive at 32:34 Art: - ↑ Official Portrait of Orym in Campaign 3, by Hannah Friederichs (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official art of Orym, by Hannah Friederichs (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official art of Orym, by Hannah Friederichs (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official Portrait of Orym in Exandria Unlimited, by Hannah Friederichs from "The Nameless Ones" (E1x01). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official full-body portrait of Orym in Exandria Unlimited, by Hannah Friederichs (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official full-body portrait of Orym in Campaign 3, by Hannah Friederichs (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official art of Orym, by Hannah Friederichs (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Official art of Orym, by Hannah Friederichs (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law.


--- [Timeline of Bells Hells - Critical Role Wiki] ---
This is a timeline of all events in which the members of Bells Hells, the adventuring party of Campaign 3, participated. Dorian Storm, Fearne Calloway, and Orym met in late 842 PD, and adventured together as part of the Crown Keepers. In Brussendar 843 PD, those three members traveled to Jrusar and almost immediately joined together as part of a larger party with Bertrand Bell, the pair of Ashton Greymoore and Fresh Cut Grass, and the pair of Imogen Temult and Laudna. Bell was murdered the next day. Two days later, the party admitted Chetney Pock O'Pea as a member. By the end of Brussendar, Dorian had to leave town to help his brother escape from trouble, but he returned to the party in Quen'pillar. The next day, Fresh Cut Grass died and was not resurrected. Two days later, Braius Doomseed joined the party. Before Campaign Three[] - The Age of Arcanum: The Aeormaton that eventually took the name Fresh Cut Grass was created.[1] - ~443 PD: Chetney Pock O'Pea was born.[2] - ~752 PD: Bertrand Bell was born.[3][4] - 790 PD: Matilda Bradbury,[5][6] who would later go by the name Laudna, was born near Whitestone.[7] - 810 PD: Matilda was killed by the Briarwoods.[7] She was made to resemble Vex'ahlia and hanged from a tree as a message to Vox Machina. - Misuthar 812 PD: Bertrand Bell joined a mission to retrieve Grog Strongjaw's soul from the plane of Pandemonium.[8] - ~815 PD: Imogen Temult was born.[9] - 816 PD: Brontë Secondsun Wyvernwind, who later took the stage name Dorian Storm, was born.[10] - ~819 PD: Ashton Greymoore was born.[11][12] - ~823 PD: The Hishari village where Ashton resided was destroyed.[11] - After a period of wandering, he was found and put in the Greymoore State Home.[13] - 829 PD: Fearne Calloway was born[14] on Exandria under the flashing light of Ruidus and was soon taken to the Feywild, where the red moon began to appear.[15] - 833 PD: Imogen started having dreams of a red storm.[18] - 837 PD: Orym witnessed an attack on Keyleth in Zephrah.[19] It was unsuccessful, though a few Ashari died in the attack,[20] including Orym's husband Will[21] and beloved father-in-law Derrig.[22] - Less than a year later, Keyleth offered her encouragement to Orym as he left Zephrah.[23] - 838 PD: Dancer purchased Fresh Cut Grass from a vendor called "D" in a traveling caravan.[24] - 839 or 840 PD: Fresh Cut Grass was repaired enough to gain consciousness.[25] - "Years" before 843 PD: Ashton and the rest of the Nobodies attempted to rob Jiana Hexum's estate.[26] Ashton suffered a grievous injury and Milo Krook revived Ashton by pouring a Potion of Possibility directly into the open head wound.[27] - 841 PD: Laudna met Imogen while traveling through Gelvaan.[28][29] - Around early Horisal 842 PD: Brontë left the air genasi.[30] - Sydenstar 842 PD: Brontë, going by the stage name Dorian Storm, began playing gigs in Emon.[31] - Quen'pillar or Cuersaar 842 PD: Fearne traveled from the Feywild to Exandria through Artagan's gate in the Verdant Expanse.[32] - ~Early Quen'pillar 842 PD: Dorian Storm began adventuring.[33] - Likely mid-Quen'pillar 842 PD: Orym visited the edge of Thordak's Crater, presumably on his way to visit the Fire Ashari stationed nearby around the Scar of the Cinder King.[34] He met Dariax around that time.[35] There they, along with Dorian, Fearne, and Opal, were involved in a fight with an elemental creature of fire, appearing like a woman with fiery wings. - Fearne conjured Little Mister from the still-smoldering soil.[36][37] - One week later, probably late Quen'pillar 842 PD: Dariax, Dorian, Fearne, Orym, and Opal woke up together on the road outside the city walls of Emon, unsure of how they got there and without memories of the week leading up to then. Rather than investigate this, they decided to attend the Everdawn, a long-lasting rager.[38][39][40] Exandria Unlimited Prime[] | Date Timestamp at Start of Day | Event | |---|---| | Probably late Quen'pillar 842 PD "The Nameless Ones" (E1x01) at 6:24 | Dariax, Dorian Storm, Fearne Calloway, Opal, and Orym took a job from the mysterious Poska, stole a dark circlet from a ship whose crew had been slaughtered, and fought off an attempt by shadowy attackers to reclaim the relic.[41][42][43] They fled the city, fighting two of the Nameless Ones along the way. | | T + one day "The Oh No Plateau" (E1x02) at 1:24:48 | The party sought help at Flamereach Outpost, witnessed the sudden creation of an ashen mesa nearby, and found an elemental rune atop the mesa. Lorkathar sent them to ask Shaun Gilmore, a runechild sorcerer, for insight. | | T + two days "A Glorious Return" (E1x03) at 6:36 | The party recovered from the exhaustion they suffered on the ashen mesa. | | T + three days "A Glorious Return" (E1x03) at 7:07 | The party dodged Nameless Ones on their way to Gilmore's Glorious Goods. There they used their looted platinum to shop for assorted items. Gilmore said materials available from the ruins of Qoniira could help him decipher the rune. As the party left the city, their carriage was hijacked by Poska and many Nameless Ones, but Fearne magically charmed Poska to ensure their escape. | | T + two weeks and three days "By the Road" (E1x04) at 18:03 | The party left the road in the Verdant Expanse and found their way to the gate that Fearne had used to traverse from the Feywild to the Material Plane. There they fought a dark version of Fearne and were joined by Fy'ra Rai. | | T + four weeks, probably late Cuersaar 842 PD "By the Road" (E1x04) at 2:54:14 | The party arrived in Byroden, where they participated in a festival and pageant. | | T + four weeks and one day "A Test of Worth" (E1x05) at 11:15 | The party began traveling through a strip of the Mornset Countryside toward the Rifenmist Jungle. | | T + unknown time "A Test of Worth" (E1x05) at 57:54 | In the first night in the jungle, Dorian had a dream in which he made a deal to restore his memories of the missing week. Gilmore's vardo turned back to travel to Emon.[44] | | T + two months and ~14 days, probably early Horisal 843 PD "A Test of Worth" (E1x05) at 1:38:36 | After traveling on foot in the increasingly impassable jungle, the party found an obelisk with familiar-looking runes. There they subdued a giant fey crocodile, passing Melora's trial. | | T + two months and ~18 days "The Gift Among the Green" (E1x06) at 7:19 | The party found its way to Niirdal-Poc, received guidance and gifts from Tetrarch Thrascuur, and fought off an attempt by Myr'atta Niselor's elves to abduct Opal. Fy'ra Rai had a vision of her sister still alive, and separated from the party to find her.[45] | | T + two months and ~19 days "Beyond the Heart City" (E1x07) at 48:43 | Overnight, Dariax made a connection with the Observer. The party navigated well as they traveled toward Niirdal-Sarqet in search of Umejii. | | T + two months and ~20 days "Beyond the Heart City" (E1x07) at 1:26:59 | The party reached the ruin at Niirdal-Sarqet, where they deciphered the message on a floating cube, gained new powers, and defeated a group of golems. Myr'atta Niselor showed up and summoned from the soil a huge being with Ted's essence, forcing her to fight the party. Opal gave in to the temptation to equip the Circlet of Barbed Vision and the party defeated Myr'atta, then freed Ted's spirit. The party decided to tentatively call itself the Crown Keepers. | Between Exandria Unlimited Prime and Campaign Three[] - Misuthar or Dualahei 843 PD: Dariax Zaveon parted ways with Orym.[46] - Mid-Thunsheer 843 PD: - The Rayia family[47] hired the Division of Public Benefit to clear unknown monsters out of the family's silver mine near Evishi in the Oderan Wilds.[48] The adventurers camped outside the cave to rest for the night, with FCG going into a stasis not far from the group. On the following morning, he awoke from the stasis to find the other party members had been viciously attacked and were all presumably deceased. - About a week after the Division of Public Benefit was hired, Ashton Greymoore was hired to find out what happened, and he discovered FCG and the grisly scene.[49][50] - Early Unndilar 843 PD: Chetney Pock O'Pea was transformed into a werewolf.[51] - Late Unndilar or early Brussendar 843 PD: Imogen Temult and Laudna arrived in Jrusar.[52][53] - Days before 17 Brussendar 843 PD: Keyleth sent Orym on a mission to Jrusar to investigate an attack there similar to the shadow assassin attack on Zephrah, and telling him that his friends Fearne and Dorian could be helpful. Keyleth used Transport via Plants to sneak them to the skyship port in Emon, from whence they traveled to Jrusar.[54] Campaign Three: Bells Hells[] | Date Timestamp at Start of Day | Event | |---|---| | 17 Brussendar 843 PD "The Draw of Destiny" (3x01) at 13:08 | Three groups—Imogen Temult and Laudna, Fresh Cut Grass and Ashton, and the trio of Fearne Calloway, Orym, and Dorian Storm—responded to a disturbance caused by animated objects in Jrusar, after which Bertrand Bell offered to make introductions to Lord Ariks Eshteross, who seeks talent. | | 18 Brussendar "The Draw of Destiny" (3x01) at 3:36:26 | The combined group proved themselves to Lord Eshteross, who tasked them with investigating thefts at a textile warehouse. They discovered evidence of brumestone smuggling and followed the manager to Dugger, who escaped. The party reported their partial success to Eshteross, securing an ongoing relationship. Dugger found a drunk Bertrand Bell in an alley and killed him, leaving the body for the party to find in the early morning hours. | | 19 Brussendar "On the Trail of a Killer" (3x04) at 1:00:29 | The party had Lord Eshteross send Bertrand's body to Vox Machina at Whitestone. They investigated Dugger, learning of his connection with the Hubatt Corsairs, and contacted the Corsairs who told them where Dugger's home was. There, they battled and killed Dugger, and played a truth-telling drinking game that evening. | | 20 Brussendar "Growing Bonds and Teasing Threads" (3x06) at 1:14:55 | The party visited the Hubatt Corsairs and Lord Eshteross before going to the Dreamscape Theater and encountering Cyrus Wyvernwind and Chetney Pock O'Pea. | | 21 Brussendar "A Woodworker's Quandary" (3x08) at 2:13:52 | The party began investigating the issues in the Smolder Spire while trying to locate Gurge Kisgregg for Chetney. | | 22 Brussendar "Ghosts, Dates, and Darker Fates" (3x10) at 2:05:10[55] | At midnight the party encountered Ira Wendagoth, the Nightmare King, who abandoned the fight with the party upon learning Fearne's identity. After resting, they spoke with Oshad Breshio and obtained access for Imogen to the library of the Starpoint Conservatory. | | 23 Brussendar "Make It Fashion" (3x12) at 0:34:58 | The party bought clothes for the upcoming ball and adventuring supplies at the Trove of Marwa. | | 24 & 25 Brussendar "Make It Fashion" (3x12) at 3:20:42 | Imogen investigated more at the Starpoint Conservatory's library and spoke with Ela Lumas. Laudna bought a Bloodwell Vial at the Trove of Marwa, then joined the rest of the party at the Krook House to make masks for the ball. | | 26 Brussendar "Make It Fashion" (3x12) at 3:47:37 | The party met with Lord Eshteross the day before the ball and learned they needed to replace Armand Treshi's ring with a tracker ring during the festivities. | | 27 Brussendar "Make It Fashion" (3x12) at 4:32:12[56] | The party attended the ball, successfully switching Armand's ring. They interrupted a heist by Emoth Kade and rescued Cyrus Wyvernwind from being arrested for his part in it. | | 28 Brussendar "In Too Deep" (3x14) at 4:36:51 | Lord Eshteross helped smuggle Cyrus out of town via skyship after midnight, with Dorian accompanying his brother. In the morning, the party met and joined with the Green Seekers to capture Emoth Kade from the lair of the Shade Mother. | | 29 Brussendar "Heart-to-Heartmoor" (3x17) at 0:26:30 | The party bought horses and began the journey toward the Heartmoor, finding a Feywild shard along the way. | | 30 Brussendar "Heart-to-Heartmoor" (3x17) at 2:44:50 | The party continued their journey. That night, Laudna shared with Orym some of the details of her death on the Sun Tree in late Cuersaar 810 PD. | | 31 Brussendar "Heart-to-Heartmoor" (3x17) at 3:14:22 | The party continued their journey through a storm. That night, Imogen and FCG telepathically shared their memories and emotions. | | 1 Sydenstar 843 PD "Heart-to-Heartmoor" (3x17) at 3:37:42 | The party continued their journey uneventfully through a jungle becoming less lush and more marsh-like. Orym shared some information about his husband, Will, who was killed in the attack on Zephrah in 837 PD. | | 2 Sydenstar "Heart-to-Heartmoor" (3x17) at 3:49:18 | The party continued their journey uneventfully. That night, they encountered a carnivorous plant with a fairy-like lure. | | 3 Sydenstar "A Hungry Jungle" (3x18) at 1:37:57 | The party reached Heartmoor Hamlet, met with Evon Hytroga and Estani, and shopped. That night, the party viewed Ruidus through Estani's telescope, and Imogen had another nightmare. | | 4 Sydenstar "Omens Above" (3x19) at 3:30:53 | After spending the day in preparations, the heist on the Twilight Mirror Museum began about midnight. | | 5 Sydenstar "Omens Above" (3x19) at 3:46:32 | The heist continued through the post-midnight hours. Bells Hells successfully burgled the earring, winning Jiana's wager. They took a long rest during the morning and in the afternoon set out for Jrusar. | | 6 Sydenstar "Fight at the Museum..." (3x21) at 3:24:31 | Travel was uneventful. | | 7 Sydenstar "Fight at the Museum..." (3x21) at 3:36:48 | A heavy fog descended, but travel was uneventful. | | 8 Sydenstar "Fight at the Museum..." (3x21) at 3:37:42 | At sunset, the party reached Jrusar. | | Early Sydenstar 843 PD "Exandria Unlimited: Kymal, Part 1" (E2x01) and "Exandria Unlimited: Kymal, Part 2" (E2x02) | In Exandria Unlimited: Kymal, a group of adventurers succeeded in erasing the former name of the Raven Queen from a statue.[57][58][59] | | 9 Sydenstar "Promise and Potential" (3x22) at 0:39:08 | The party visited Jiana Hexum and Lord Eshteross, shopped, and learned more about Ashton's past. | | 10 Sydenstar "To The Skies" (3x23) at 0:36:53 | The party took off from Jrusar toward Bassuras via skyship the Silver Sun. | | 11 Sydenstar "To The Skies" (3x23) at 1:59:16 | The party killed an attacking pair of skirath hunters. | | 12 Sydenstar "To The Skies" (3x23) at 3:54:00 | Still on board, Laudna asked to inspect Imogen's piece of gnarlrock, inadvertently allowing Delilah Briarwood to shatter it. | | 13 Sydenstar "The Hellcatch Valley" (3x24) at 0:11:57 | The party battled a dusttra early in the morning, and arrived at Bassuras in the evening, where they rented a room. | | 14 Sydenstar "The Hellcatch Valley" (3x24) at 2:06:46 | The party wandered the streets of Bassuras and met Dusk after saving them from a band of cutthroats. That night, Imogen had another dream during a flare of the red moon Ruidus. Dusk was contacted by Sorrowlord Zathuda, checking on her progress to recover the Moontide Crown and deal with the Calloways. | | 15 Sydenstar "Hidden Truths" (3x26) at 0:48:13 | Esmer told the party that Dancer was still alive. The party confirmed Armand Treshi's presence in the stronghold of Paragon's Call and bought a crawler. Imahara Joe told them that the Calloways were frequent customers, and that FCG was a pre-Divergence Aeormaton that Dancer bought, not built. | | 16 Sydenstar "A Race for the Prize" (3x27) at 2:02:50 | The party returned to the Seat of Disdain and agreed to compete in the Deathwish Run that evening. They won the race and were offered employment with Paragon's Call. That evening, Chetney asked Dusk if he could help her and share in the bounty he was convinced she was pursuing to kill Fearne's parents. Dusk denied this. | | 17 Sydenstar "The Deathwish Run" (3x28) at 4:12:26 | Birdie Calloway and Fearne reunited. Dusk revealed her true identity as Yu, a changeling assassin working for the Unseelie Court who agreed to wait a month. The party visited Hondir of the Grim Verity and traveled outside town to meet Oleander Calloway and Ira Wendagoth. Ira completed the Veilscatter Scope and absconded with the Moontide Crown. | | 18 Sydenstar "Breaking Point" (3x31) at 2:43:18 | Fresh Cut Grass reached his stress limit and attacked the party, later remembering nothing of the attack. The party returned to Bassuras, met with Dancer and Imahara Joe, joined Paragon's Call, and captured Treshi, but in an attack by Otohan Thull as they escaped, Orym, Fearne, and Laudna were killed. Fearne and Orym were Revivified. | | 19 Sydenstar "What Dreams May Come" (3x34) at 3:25:53 | The party contacted Lord Eshteross to warn him about Otohan and request his aid with Laudna. Mid-morning, the skyship Silver Sun arrived and picked up the group. | | 20 Sydenstar "Pyrrhic Return" (3x35) at 1:15:15 | The Silver Sun was caught in a sandstorm. | | 21 Sydenstar "Pyrrhic Return" (3x35) at 2:10:48 | A second sandstorm blew the skyship toward Jrusar, shaving a day from the journey. | | 22 Sydenstar "Pyrrhic Return" (3x35) at 2:14:00 | An uneventful travel day as they left the Hellcatch Valley behind and crossed The Rift into the Oderan Wilds. | | 23 Sydenstar "Pyrrhic Return" (3x35) at 2:14:34 | The party reached Jrusar at sunset, visited Lord Eshteross, and took Treshi to Orlana Seshadri. Imogen and FCG attempted to explore Ashton's memories further but became trapped there before finally breaking free. They slept at the Spire by Fire Inn. | | 24 Sydenstar "Pyrrhic Return" (3x35) at 4:18:58 | Keyleth arrived in Jrusar and was shown Laudna's body. She immediately transported the party to Whitestone, where they were able to separate Delilah's soul from Laudna's. Pike succeeded in casting Raise Dead to bring Laudna back to life. | | 25 Sydenstar "A Dark Balance" (3x38) at 2:42:36 | The party did some shopping in Whitestone before returning via tree to Jrusar and discovering the body of Ariks Eshteross in his home. | | 26 Sydenstar "The Momentum of Murder" (3x39) at 1:38:21 | The party did more shopping to allow repairs to be completed on their skyship. | | 27 Sydenstar "The Momentum of Murder" (3x39) at 2:39:54 | The party set off on the skyship journey to Yios in the early afternoon. Travel was uneventful. | | 28 Sydenstar "The Momentum of Murder" (3x39) at 2:46:35 | Travel was uneventful. | | 29 Sydenstar "The Momentum of Murder" (3x39) at 2:48:21 | The skyship began travelling over the Hellcatch Valley. A dust storm overtook the ship, adding a day to their journey, but the party used ropes to remain aboard. | | 30 Sydenstar "The Momentum of Murder" (3x39) at 2:56:07 | The day went by without issue. That night, Ruidus flared, causing Imogen to vividly dream of her mother, and Chetney to uncontrollably transform into werewolf form and attack Orym and Fearne. Imogen used Sending to contact her mother and learned she was alive. | | 31 Sydenstar "Compulsions" (3x40) at 0:48:42 | Travel was uneventful. | | 32 Sydenstar "Compulsions" (3x40) at 0:50:11 | Travel was uneventful. | | 1 Fessuran 843 PD "Compulsions" (3x40) at 0:51:02 | The skyship passed over Bassuras, and high winds added a day to the journey. | | 2 Fessuran "Compulsions" (3x40) at 0:54:06 | The skyship encountered and battled a chimera. | | 3 Fessuran "Compulsions" (3x40) at 2:04:09 | The skyship reached the Kaal Mountains and the Gloomed Jungles of Aeshanadoor, where the party landed and met the Gorgynei. | | 4 Fessuran "Call of the Wild" (3x41) at 0:21:27 | The party traveled through the Gloomed Jungles with the Gorgynei. | | 5 Fessuran "Call of the Wild" (3x41) at 1:16:46 | The party reached the Temple of the Savage Heart, Zha'Vrollo. Chetney underwent his trial by Sahyaadon and Orym's heirloom sword became enchanted. | | 6 Fessuran "The City of Flowing Light" (3x42) at 0:09:10 | The party traveled via their skyship toward Yios. | | 7 Fessuran "The City of Flowing Light" (3x42) at 1:01:07 | The party continued their journey, arriving in Yios after sunset and spending the night at the Lakecap Skyport and Lounge. | | 8 Fessuran "The City of Flowing Light" (3x42) at 3:20:02 | The party traveled to the Aydinlan Seminary where they were threatened by a mysterious flying creature. They visited the Elemental Plane of Fire and met with Planerider Ryn and Ebenold Kai, then returned to Yios, captured Tuldus and learned of the existence of the Ruby Vanguard and Ludinus Da'leth's plan to release Predathos and kill the gods. They encountered Da'leth, who recovered parts of the Omen Archive. Ryn transported them to the Feywild where they visited Morri Calloway, Fearne's grandmother, destroyed the Malleus Key being built there, and escaped back to Exandria, arriving the same day they had left. | | 9 Fessuran "An Exit Most Fraught" (3x48) at 2:06:24 | The party traveled on foot through the Taloned Highlands toward Gelvaan. | | 10 Fessuran "An Exit Most Fraught" (3x48) at 3:14:58 | The party arrived in Gelvaan where Imogen spoke with her father. They boarded their skyship bound for the Hellcatch Valley, obtained Ira Wendagoth's promised help via Sending, and Imogen spoke during a shared dream with her mother Liliana. | | 11 Fessuran through 15 Fessuran "The Aurora Grows" (3x49) at 2:13:13 | During their voyage northeastward, the party continued to contact allies. FCG Sent to "D" and received encouragement. The party arranged to pick up a bomb from Imahara Joe at the Calloways' hideaway. The Silver Sun passed over Bassuras, parked at the hideaway, and three Bells Hells went into town buying magical items and healing potions. The visible shifting ley lines became brighter. | | 16 Fessuran through 19 Fessuran "The Aurora Grows" (3x49) at 4:01:24 | The skyship encountered several arcane storms on the way to the Tishtan excavation site and the Exandrian Malleus Key, delaying them. Orym received a message from Keyleth that she and several more Ashari were coming to help them stop the Ruby Vanguard's plans. | | 20 Fessuran "The Aurora Grows" (3x49) at 4:58:38 | The Silver Sun began its final day's journey before the Solstice. At the construction site, Bells Hells encountered Caleb Widogast and Beauregard Lionett on a similar mission of destruction, but the two were neutralized and captured. When Keyleth arrived, Ludinus Da'leth cast Power Word Stun on her, and Otohan repeatedly attacked, bringing her to the brink of death when Vax'ildan intervened. He was magically compressed into a spherical lens and placed within the Malleus Key, completing it, and Ludinus activated it despite its significantly damaged state. In a flash of white magical energy, those present were transported to separate locations. Orym, Laudna, and Ashton arrived near the Spectrum Gorge of central Issylra, and met and joined with Deni$e Bembachula, Bor'Dor Dog'Son, and Prism Grimpoppy. The Battle of the Red Center continued in the excavation site. | | 21 Fessuran "The Apogee Solstice" (3x51) at 4:29:44 | FCG, Chetney, Imogen, and Fearne arrived at dawn the following day in the Crystalsands Tundra of Wildemount and began traveling toward Uthodurn. They met and joined F.R.I.D.A. and Deanna Leimert that evening after battling a frost salamander. Meanwhile, Team Issylra spent the day in travel along the Outerwalk, reaching Hearthdell near sunset where they met Elder Abaddina and took part in an assault on the Sunrise Sanctuary by the oppressed pagan villagers. | | 22 Fessuran "Far From The Others" (3x52) at 2:12:30 | Team Wildemount continued traveling to Uthodurn. That night, Imogen dreamed of a punctured Ruidus lattice and Reilora swarming at the Malleus Key site. The full moon Catha transformed Chetney into werewolf form and he attacked F.R.I.D.A. Team Issylra Scryed on Team Wildemount, Dariax, and Dorian before beginning their journey to Hevestro, a powerful archdruid. The first day of travel was mostly uneventful. | | 23 Fessuran "Ripples" (3x53) at 0:12:42 | Team Wildemount reached Uthodurn and had an encounter with the sentinel beast Umudara. Team Issylra encountered a githzerai skeleton and Orym danced with forest spirits. | | 24 Fessuran "Treacherous Toys" (3x54) at 0:57:35 | Chetney and Team Wildemount met Oltgar Dradegon and dealt with his new partner, Drixlitch Ovana, then met the king and queen of the Diarchy and ordered new clothes. In Issylra, Laudna talked to Bor'Dor about Imogen, Prism Scryed on the empty cabin of Bor'Dor's brother, and Orym prayed to the Wildmother. | | 25 Fessuran "Hope Within History" (3x55) at 3:20:00 | Team Wildemount bought flot goats and headed out of Uthodurn toward Molaesmyr. The weather remained good and travel was uneventful. Team Issylra reached the crystal-filled shrine, battled and defeated Evithorir and freed Hevestro, and discovered Bor'Dor's true past before killing him. | | 26 Fessuran "By Goat or By Boat" (3x56) at 0:15:20 | For Team Wildemount, travel was uneventful. Hevestro transported Deni$e to Dariax Zaveon's location in Westruun and the rest of Team Issylra to Jrusar. | | 27 Fessuran "By Goat or By Boat" (3x56) at 0:18:03 | For Team Wildemount, a blizzard delayed the journey by a day and exhausted Imogen and Chetney. | | 28 Fessuran "By Goat or By Boat" (3x56) at 0:23:23 | Team Wildemount encountered frost giants, reached the Ivory Lake, and built a raft. | | 29 Fessuran "By Goat or By Boat" (3x56) at 1:19:42 | Team Wildemount set off via raft down the Boreal Omen River toward Molaesmyr, encountering a bog wretch along the way. | | 1 Quen'pillar 843 PD "By Goat or By Boat" (3x56) at 3:27:34 | After traveling through the night, the day was uneventful for Team Wildemount. | | 2 Quen'pillar "By Goat or By Boat" (3x56) at 3:29:58 | Team Wildemount reached Molaesmyr and found Ludinus' former tower, his research notes, and a staff that could cast Teleport. They killed an attacking hatemonger and escaped into the Savalirwood, where they explored FRIDA's memories of defending the Factorum Malleus in Aeor prior to its destruction. | | 3 Quen'pillar "Escape From The Past" (3x58) at 3:29:53 | Team Wildemount attempted a Teleport to Jrusar, which failed, sending them to an unknown birdfolk community on Wildemount, and possibly back in time as well. They overnighted to allow the staff to recharge. | | Party Reunion date (either 26 Fessuran or 4 Quen'pillar)[fn 1] | Team Wildemount successfully Teleported to Jrusar. Team Issylra arrived immediately afterward on the same day, either 26 Fessuran or 4 Quen'pillar.[fn 1] The two groups caught up, and their new friends split off to do independent research. Laudna and Imogen kissed for the first time, while Chetney, Fearne, and Orym had a vision of the Matron of Ravens. The party discovered Ludinus and Liliana were on Ruidus. | | Party Reunion +1 (either 27 Fessuran or 5 Quen'pillar) "A Path of Vengeance" (3x65) at 3:46:22 | The staff hadn't regained sufficient charges to teleport, so they spent another day in Jrusar. Fearne Scryed on Ira Wendagoth meeting with a corporeal reilora on Ruidus. | | Party Reunion +2 (either 28 Fessuran or 6 Quen'pillar) "A Path of Vengeance" (3x65) at 4:02:45 | The party Teleported to Zephrah, where a still-wounded Keyleth sent them to gather curative blue perennem flowers from the Grey Valley. They battled demons and rescued a missing Zephran party. Chetney found a mysterious sentient sword, and Fearne entered into a pact with a Champion of Asmodeus. | | Party Reunion +3 (either 29 Fessuran or 7 Quen'pillar) "For The Tempest" (3x68) at 0:54:17 | The party Teleported back to Zephrah and delivered the flowers, allowing the compounding of a cure for Keyleth's wounds. She met with the party while they discussed their next steps. | | Party Reunion +4 (either 1 or 8 Quen'pillar) | The party and Keyleth Teleported to Yios and met with Dancer, destroyed the attacking undead bird Shithead, and Teleported to Bassuras. There, they rescued Imahara Joe and Verna from Paragon's Call and Ashton received the Brood Pit from the All-Minds-Burn being. Keyleth sent Bells Hells to Slival in the Shattered Teeth to meet with Jirana. | | Party Reunion +5 (either 2 or 9 Quen'pillar) "Mist and Whimsy" (3x71) at 1:50:30 | The party encountered Jirana when her home and protector Toriz intervened in a battle with the Bari Mondolo. They had a long conversation and Jirana transported them to the shore where the party summoned the ghost ship Crimson Abyss and its skeletal crew. After a battle, they convinced the pirates to transport them to Kalutha. | | Party Reunion +6 through +7 "Kindling the Spirits" (3x73) at 2:14:31 | Travel aboard the Crimson Abyss was mostly uneventful. The group kindled romance between the captain and first mate after Fearne gave the captain some of her warmth. | | Party Reunion +8 (either 5 or 12 Quen'pillar) "Kindling the Spirits" (3x73) at 2:15:03 | Bells Hells threw a party for the pirates. They landed on Kalutha and battled a basalt caecilian, and began traveling toward the nearest of the three mountains. | | Party Reunion +9 (either 6 or 13 Quen'pillar) "Roots Between Worlds" (3x74) at 1:25:27 | The party reached and spoke to Evontra'vir, the Tree of Atrophy, who explained some of Ashton's history and destiny, and transported them to Athos Peak where they recovered the spark of Rau'shan, Emperor of Fire and battled a simulacrum of Ludinus Da'leth. They Teleported to Whitestone, where they joined a war council, met Allura Vysoren, and agreed to scout out Ruidus. That night, the women explored the castle and confronted the spirit of Delilah Briarwood. | | Party Reunion +10 (either 7 or 14 Quen'pillar) "The Promise and the Price" (3x77) at 2:04:09 | Bells Hells explored Whitestone. With Fearne's help, Ashton used Ludinus Da'leth's harness to absorb the power of Rau'shan's shard, suffering the consequences before the shard reformed outside him. Bells Hells had uncomfortable confrontations and conversations. | | Party Reunion +11 (either 8 or 15 Quen'pillar) | Along with Allura Vysoren, the party traveled to the Fey Realm for much-needed relaxation, downtime, and team-building exercises. Fearne successfully absorbed the shard. The group spent a night in the Fey Realm, but Nana Morri collaborated in Allura's Plane Shift to transport them to the Malleus Key on the same day they had left Exandria. Fighting their way, the party traveled the Bloody Bridge to Ruidus where they explored, met potential allies, and had an encounter with Otohan Thull. While traveling toward Kreviris, they found the ruins of a proto-elven city and a hidden portal leading to Issylra. | | Party Reunion +12 (approximately either 9 or 16 Quen'pillar) "Doorways to Darker Depths" (3x86) at 3:12:25 | The party completed a long rest and reached Kreviris. There they connected with Zhesh, a potential ally in the Volition, a resistance movement against the ruling Kreviris Imperium, and met with Rashinna, the leader of the Volition. They agreed to go on a mission or missions the next day with the group. Meanwhile, on Exandria, the Spider Queen forced her champion Opal to attack the other Crown Keepers, and minions killed Cyrus Wyvernwind, but Opal managed to send Dorian away to go see Orym.[60][61] | | Party Reunion +13 (approximately either 10 or 17 Quen'pillar) "Divisive Portents" (3x89) at 2:35:09 | The party divided into two: Team Infiltration (Chetney, Orym, Imogen, and Laudna) investigating the disappearance of a Volition ally, the scientist Evoroa; and Team Detonation (Fearne, Ashton, and FCG) joining Ira Wendagoth in an attempt to destroy Imperium construction near the Prime Pillar supervised by Fearne's father Athion Zathuda. Both missions succeeded; however, Otohan Thull intercepted the party trying to flee and in the ensuing battle FCG was killed in a suicide explosion that also killed Otohan. Liliana Teleported them to the Bloody Bridge and they returned to Exandria where Dorian rejoined the party. That night, Zathuda confronted Fearne and his minions almost killed her attempting to awaken her as an Exaltant and potential Vessel to release Predathos. | | Party Reunion +14 (approximately either 11 or 18 Quen'pillar) "Where The Red Fearne Glows" (3x94) at 2:07:38 | The party met with Keyleth and left with Essek Thelyss to question Astrid Becke and buy new clothes in Zadash. That night, Laudna attempted to take Otohan's sword from Orym, leading to an uncomfortable confrontation. | | Party Reunion +15 (approximately either 12 or 19 Quen'pillar) "Shadows New and Old" (3x96) at 1:02:04 | Essek Teleported the party to Aeor after several failed attempts, and the party began their journey through the ruined city to the Genesis Ward, retracing the path of the Mighty Nein. They found and joined forces with Braius Doomseed, a minotaur formerly posing as a member of the Ruby Vanguard while working against Ludinus' plans. They fought and defeated Dominox, an ancient demon, and encountered Ludinus Da'leth, who showed them visions of the time of the fall of Aeor from the Occultus Thalamus. Following another Teleport to Rexxentrum, with Essek's help they were successful in binding Delilah Briarwood's spirit to a soul anchor implanted in Laudna, where she provided power but was unable to control her. | | Party Reunion +16 (approximately either 13 or 20 Quen'pillar) | The party Teleported first to the Hellcatch Valley, and upon finding the military post there abandoned, to Vasselheim, where they were brought before a council of the greatest rulers of Exandria. | | Party Reunion +17 (approximately either 14 or 21 Quen'pillar) "The Cradle's Convocation" (3x104) at 3:52:14 | Bells Hells attended a smaller meeting of Exandrian leaders to plan the attack to disrupt Ludinus's plan to release Predathos, and were then accepted by the full Accord as their strike force to deal with Ludinus's attempt to reach Predathos physically on Ruidus. Vox Machina was assigned to deal with the Malleus Key in the Hellcatch, while the Mighty Nein were to attack the Weave Mind. The attacks were to begin in one week. | | Party Reunion +18 (approximately either 15 or 22 Quen'pillar) "Unseelie Interrupted" (3x106) at 0:28:42 | Bells Hells traveled to the Feywild and interrupted a meeting between the Unseelie Court, Sorrowlord Zathuda, and a simulacrum of Ludinus Da'leth. After they met with the Arch Heart, who urged them to free Predathos, Zathuda was killed while trying to escape and made into a sentient tapestry by Morrigan. | | Party Reunion +19 (approximately either 16 or 23 Quen'pillar) "A Test of Fate" (3x109) at 0:12:11 | In the morning, Morrigan transported them back to Vasselheim in Exandria and they communed with the Matron of Ravens in her temple, and Ashton visited the dead Primordial in town. The party was Teleported to Lake Umamu and where they joined the Mighty Nein. They all Teleported to Kreviris and spent the night in Caleb's Tower. Meanwhile, Keyleth and Vex'ahlia rounded up the rest of Vox Machina, finding that Scanlan Shorthalt was now True Polymorphed into a centaur. | | Party Reunion +20 (approximately either 17 or 24 Quen'pillar) "The Assembling of Legends" (3x112) at 0:15:52 | Bells Hells and the Mighty Nein found and restored Planerider Ryn, then met with the Volition and informed Allura Vysoren to have the Exandrian Accord begin their assault on the Malleus Key as soon as possible. Vox Machina succeeded in destroying the Key and releasing Vax'ildan from his prisoning orb. The Mighty Nein invaded the Prime Pillar of Kreviris, battled, and destroyed the Weave Mind, while Bells Hells traveled to the Hallowed Cage where they confronted and defeated Ludinus Da'leth, then faced Predathos. After the creature's eventual defeat, Imogen accepted its diminished form as its vessel and the party were transported to Vasselheim, where the gods agreed to become mortal. Predathos was released and fled in frustration at finding no sustenance. | After Campaign Three[] | Year(s) | Event | |---|---| | ~The first few months of the new age | The events of "Total Party Kill: Chicago Live 2025" (Sx95) take place.[62] Bells Hells was fleeing from several unhappy worshippers of the gods when a divine glyph exploded around them and a judicator stomped toward the party. As several of them succumbed to the glyph's magical effect, Fearne disappeared into a deadly game show with members of Vox Machina and the Mighty Nein. She soon returned from the pocket dimension. | | More than two weeks later, the events of "Tag Team at the Teeth – The Misty Ascent" (Sx97) and "Tag Team at the Teeth – Beyond the Shroud" (Sx98) take place.[63] While under the protection of the Mighty Nein and sailing with them to the Shattered Teeth in search of Ludinus Da'leth, the parties were split: as their ship approached land, Braius, Fearne, Imogen, and Orym were separated into a different dimension from Ashton, Chetney, and Laudna. | Footnotes[] - ↑ 1.0 1.1 The timelines of the two parties don't match up. There are at least two possible explanations: either Team Wildemount's failed Teleports sent them backwards in time, or the magic of the Solstice transported those it affected not only to random physical locations but also to random times, moving Team Issylra a few days into the future. References[] | Art:


--- [Will - Critical Role] ---
Will | Will | ||||| |---|---|---|---|---|---| | Exandria non-player character | ||||| | Basic information | ||||| | Race | Half-elf[1] | |||| | Pronouns | he/him | |||| | Biographical information | ||||| | Also known as | Big moon (by Orym)[1] | |||| | Age | At least 24 (in 837 PD) | |||| | Languages | Common, Elvish[presumed] | |||| | Places | Zephrah, Tal'Dorei (hometown) | |||| | Family | ||||| | Partner | Orym (husband)[1] | |||| | Occupation | Guard[1] | |||| | Affiliations | Air Ashari (member) | |||| | Mechanical information | ||||| | Creature type | Humanoid | |||| Appearances | Will[1] was a half-elven member of the Air Ashari, the son of Derrig, and the late husband of Orym. Biography [edit | edit source]Background [edit | edit source]Will was born in Zephrah to his parents named Nel and Derrig some time before 813 PD. [2][3] Circa 837 PD, Will and his father Derrig were killed during the assault on Zephrah of Otohan Thull's and her echoes, known as Gray Assassins,[4] who made use of the rare kind of toxin, preventing any attempts of Will's and Derrig's resurrection.[5][6] When Orym was killed by Otohan Thull, he saw a vision of Will before being Revivified. In the vision Orym gave Will a hug and asked him to say hi to Derrig, before Will pushed him back to the world of the living.[7] Orym visited Will and Derrig's graves when he was in Zephrah. He told Will that he saw him nightly in his dreams, and that he enjoyed seeing him while he was dead, despite the circumstances, before telling him he'd see him soon.[8] During Orym's communal with the Wildmother, she sent Orym the feeling of hope and determination. In this vision, Will joined Orym, and the two held hands. Orym told Will that he could handle this, and that he'll see him soon.[9] Relationships [edit | edit source]Orym [edit | edit source]Orym was Will's husband. They had been married for 4 years by the time Will died.[10] Orym's moon tattoos are in remembrance of Will, as the two moons represent the pair of them: "big moon, little moon".[1] Notable items [edit | edit source]Appearances and mentions [edit | edit source]- One-shots - "Dalen's Closet" (OSx34), mentioned only (first mentioned) (unnamed) - Campaign 3 - "Heart-to-Heartmoor" (3x17), mentioned only - "Dark Portents" (3x29), mentioned only - "Blood and Dust" (3x33), mentioned only - "What Dreams May Come" (3x34), in a vision - "Pyrrhic Return" (3x35), mentioned only - "A Desperate Call" (3x36), mentioned only - "A Dark Balance" (3x38), mentioned only - "Compulsions" (3x40), mentioned only - "Call of the Wild" (3x41), mentioned only - "The City of Flowing Light" (3x42), mentioned only - "Night at the Ligament Manor" (3x46), mentioned only - "An Exit Most Fraught" (3x48), mentioned only - "The Aurora Grows" (3x49), mentioned only - "Somewhere Out There" (3x59), mentioned only - "Crisis of Faith" (3x61), mentioned only - "Aid of the Tempest" (3x66), mentioned only - "For The Tempest" (3x68), mentioned only - "Nice" (3x69), mentioned only - "The Promise and the Price" (3x77), mentioned only - "Fractures" (3x78), mentioned only - "Broken Roads" (3x92), mentioned only - "The Cradle's Convocation" (3x104), vision Trivia [edit | edit source]- Orym's official playlist referenced Will before the reveal in "Heart-to-Heartmoor" (3x17). "My Lover" by Birtalker was captioned "Not a day goes by...". "Les Coeurs Jumeaux" (The Twin Hearts) by Concrete Blonde features lyrics about missing a loved one and wishing to see them again. The song was simply captioned "Ink", linking the song's sun and moon themes to Orym's tattoo of the two moons of Exandria. - Brian W. Foster asked if Derrig's son Will is named "after TV's Wilfred Ale?" and Liam agreed.[12] References [edit | edit source]- ↑ 1.01.11.21.31.41.51.61.7 "Heart-to-Heartmoor" (3x17) at 3:40:52. - ↑ "A Desperate Call" (3x36) at 1:03:38. Orym refers to Derrig as his father-in-law - ↑ Liam revealed that Derrig's wife's name was Nel, as stated in "Dalen's Closet" (OSx34) at 56:06. See Liam's tweet confirming Derrig's wife's name. - ↑ "Blood and Dust" (3x33) at 3:14:33. - ↑ "Pyrrhic Return" (3x35) at 2:51:33. - ↑ "A Desperate Call" (3x36) at 24:27. - ↑ "What Dreams May Come" (3x34) at 1:05:57. - ↑ "Nice" (3x69) at 46:17. - ↑ "The Cradle's Convocation" (3x104) at 2:34:50. - ↑ Liam's Critical Role Fireside Chat, 50:00 - ↑ "The City of Flowing Light" (3x42) at 30:23. - ↑ "Talks Machina #125: Up To A Tangled Web and Dalen's Closet" (TM2x77) at 1:09:54. Art: - ↑ Screenshot of Will, by Kamille Areopagita and Kevin Areopagita from Campaign 3 animated opening. This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law.
