=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Intro - Sagg Eco Village Kashmir]
Sagg Eco Village De-stress > Heal > Rejuvenate > Recreate! Sagg Eco Village is a regenerative farm, a cultural retreat and a lifestyle research venture located on the Harmukh Foothills overlooking Sindh and Nigeen Valleys in Ganderbal, Kashmir! We design, develop and promote regenerative recreational, educational and lifestyle services, spaces, products and programs in a unique blend of ...
URL: https://www.saggecovillage.earth/intro/

[Visit Sagg Eco Village in Kashmir, An Eco-Cultural & Educational Farm]
Fayaz Ahmad Dar, a social entrepreneur, started as an assistant homeopathic dispensary and moved to various fields afterward. Later, he became an administrative and project officer for USIEF, United States-India Educational Foundation. He gave up his job in 2009, pursued his course in the US, and finally moved to Kashmir. He understood the conditio...
URL: https://www.indianholiday.com/blog/sagg-eco-village-kashmir/

[SAGG ECO VILLAGE KASHMIR - Campground Reviews (Bagh Mahanand, India)]
SAGG Eco Village Kashmir, Bagh Mahanand: See 7 traveler reviews, 59 candid photos, and great deals for SAGG Eco Village Kashmir, ranked #1 of 1 specialty lodging in Bagh Mahanand and rated 5 of 5 at Tripadvisor.
URL: https://www.tripadvisor.com/Hotel_Review-g32869462-d17693204-Reviews-SAGG_Eco_Village_Kashmir-Bagh_Mahanand_Ganderbal_District_Kashmir_Jammu_and_Kashmir.html

[Sagg eco village - About, Contacts, Location & Map]
Sep 20, 2023 · About us sagg eco village is a regenerative farm cum cultural retreat center located on the Harmukh Foothills overlooking Sindh and Nigeen Valleys in Ganderbal, Kashmir! We design, develop and promote recreational, educational and lifestyle services, spaces, products and programs in a unique blend of natural cultural and contemporary ethos.
URL: https://www.ecohubmap.com/company/business/sagg-eco-village/l1p1n1ca

[This eco-village in Kashmir wants to give tourists a taste of the local ...]
Nov 20, 2022 · Kashmir’s first eco-village, popularly known as Sagg, is located in a multi-ethnic rural environment in the Harmukh foothills in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district, 40 kilometres from Srinagar.
URL: https://www.moneycontrol.com/news/trends/travel-trends/sagg-an-eco-village-in-kashmir-wants-to-give-tourists-a-taste-of-local-culture-traditions-lifestyle-9568521.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Intro - Sagg Eco Village Kashmir] ---
Sagg Eco Village builds integrative and regenerative lifestyles and communities through ecological entrepreneurship- - Designing, developing and promoting recreational, educational and lifestyle services, spaces, products and programs for individuals, families and communities, - Coaching, consulting and speaking services and programs for individual, group and institutional transformation, - Transforming health, farming, education, parenting, work and environment, and - Creating a movement by training and 10,00,000 ecopreneurs by 2030. We prepare and sell healthy foods and lifestyle products based on natural ingredients, traditional recipes and hand crafted processes. We provide transformational education, work and leadership capacity building and consulting programs to individuals, groups and organizations in Kashmir and beyond. We provide coaching and consulting services and programs based on cutting edge scientific discoveries and time tested success methodologies on ecological entrepreneurship, the entrepreneurial mindset and sustainable development for individual, group and institutional transformation. We continuously strive to find simple and synergistic ways of interaction amongst peoples and, between people and nature, and look forward to welcoming you!


--- [Visit Sagg Eco Village in Kashmir, An Eco-Cultural & Educational Farm] ---
Why Should You Visit Sagg EcoVillage? If you wish to escape the polluted cities and spend a few days relaxing in the lap of nature, Sagg eco-village is your place to be. Located on the Harmukh foothills, the village overlooks Sindh and Nigeen Valleys in Ganderbal, a town in Kashmir. Stay in this regenerative farm cum cultural retreat that design, develop, and promote recreational, educational, and lifestyle services. In addition, they have many programs you can partake in, including natural, cultural, and contemporary ethos. Enjoy your time here as the village hosts solo, family, and group recreational stays, expeditions, events like parties, meetings, mental health programs, workshops for students, youth, parents, farmers, and entrepreneurs; treks, walks, bike rides, and other exciting activities. Moreover, special recreational camps are held for children and families with female guides to help and walk you along the village. Also, the beauty of the village is breathtaking, which manifests in the warm-hearted people of Kashmir and their cordial hospitality, which is a major stress-buster. It is also called the “Hidden Gem of Kashmir.” Additionally, you can learn about organic farming for fresh produce and ways of zero-waste, promoting sustainable tourism in Sagg village.Kashmir Tour Packages The Story Of Sagg Eco Village Fayaz Ahmad Dar, a social entrepreneur, started as an assistant homeopathic dispensary and moved to various fields afterward. Later, he became an administrative and project officer for USIEF, United States-India Educational Foundation. He gave up his job in 2009, pursued his course in the US, and finally moved to Kashmir. He understood the conditions that people were living in Kashmir. So he decided to share his experiences to guide them. And eventually, he founded a non-profit initiative named Mool Sustainability Research and Training Centre. He collaborated with many NGOs and researched to understand the youth’s needs. ‘Needs Assessment of Youth’ was the first research project where he engaged with students from Kashmir, Jammu, and Ladakh educational institutions. He needed to understand and give them solutions. He envisioned a society we all wanted to reside in and made efforts for it. Additionally, He discussed self-sufficiency, dignity, sustainability, equality, and inclusivity without practical initiatives. And that is how Sagg eco-village was born. Fayaz bought a piece of land in 2013, barren and abandoned. Even basic facilities like electricity and water were luxuries here, and the area was covered in thorns and rocks. It took around 3 years to set the village up and open the ecological entrepreneurial venture, a great display of Kashmiri culture and heritage. But steadily, volunteers transformed what we now call Sagg Village Kashmir, an eco-cultural, recreational, and educational farm and camping facility.What You Can Do At Sagg Village On Your Kashmir Tour? Sagg Village facilitates natural farming and traditional food preservation methods. You can take these classes and learn organic farming methods. The village produces products that are completely organic and healthy to consume. Sagg promotes the zero-waste concept and, thus, practices composting, organic farming, etc. It comprises poultry, meat, vegetables, and fruits. Also, Sagg sells products like Kashmiri wuer (a traditional blend of herbs and spices), dried apples, lotus stem, pickles, and jams. Learn to make Kashmir handcrafts based on eco-friendly processes from natural and pure ingredients. The village also conducts trekking and mountaineering expeditions for those who want to indulge in adventure activities in Kashmir, including locally-bred horses. Kids can enjoy camps that are organized especially for them and enjoy bonfire nights and barbecue parties. They can also learn eco-building methods and take part in seminars. Apart from recreational activities, Sagg Village hosts social gatherings and workshops based on composting, entrepreneurship, food processing, handicrafts, upcycling, eco-therapy, art therapy, and mud-therapy sessions. You can walk around the village with a guide and learn more about sustainability. Spring, among other festivals in Kashmir, is celebrated enthusiastically at Sagg Village, where families and individuals visit from nearby areas for a day or two to enjoy traditional music and food. On other days, local children and women get free entry.Jammu Kashmir Tour Packages


--- [SAGG ECO VILLAGE KASHMIR - Campground Reviews (Bagh Mahanand, India)] ---
No content


--- [Sagg eco village - About, Contacts, Location & Map] ---
About us sagg eco village is a regenerative farm cum cultural retreat center located on the Harmukh Foothills overlooking Sindh and Nigeen Valleys in Ganderbal, Kashmir! We design, develop and promote recreational, educational and lifestyle services, spaces, products and programs in a unique blend of natural cultural and contemporary ethos. Emerging as the best offbeat recreational destination in Kashmir, Sagg Eco Village hosts and facilitates individual, family and group recreational stays, events and expeditions including nomadic home stays, parties, meetings, retreats, treks, walks, bike rides, etc. Called the Hidden Gem of Kashmir, Sagg Eco Village facilities include Nomadic Mud Huts, Village Hostel and Camping, Garden Cafe, Indoor and Outdoor Recreational Spaces for all age groups, separate male and female washroom blocks that include composting & flush toilets, and hot & cold showers. We organize special recreational camps and expeditions for children and families in which our female guides also participate. contact location Watlar wuder, lar, ganderbal kashmir


--- [This eco-village in Kashmir wants to give tourists a taste of the local ...] ---
Kashmir’s first eco-village, popularly known as Sagg, is located in a multi-ethnic rural environment in the Harmukh foothills in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district, 40 kilometres from Srinagar. Overlooking the Sindh and Nigeen valleys in Ganderbal and nestled in the snow-capped Himalayas, Sagg (nurture) is a regenerative farm and cultural retreat launched in 2012 and finally opened for the public in 2016. Fayaz Ahmad Dar, the founder of Sagg, transformed 12 kanals (1.5 acres) of barren land into an eco-village. “Coming from a farming background I had fascination towards farming. After getting a sense of what kind of development people want, I decided to create an ecological entrepreneurial venture on a barren land and eventually I became successful,” says Dar, 45. Inside the Sagg one can see the mud houses, organic farms and utensils made of clay. The benches and chairs inside the village are made of wicker and wood. The village reflects Kashmir's culture, tradition and lifestyle which has mostly faded from elsewhere during the past three decades. Dar along with some young people transformed the land into a picturesque mix of traditional mud houses and decor made of cane and wood. “In order to create a sustainable and eco-friendly village, we produce organic foods, vegetables, fruits and poultry. We have also managed to grow organic apples,” Dar tells Moneycontrol. Hailing from the Wahidpora hamlet in Ganderbal, Dar invested all his savings and also borrowed money from his friends and relatives to start the eco-village. “So far I have invested around Rs 2 crore... On an average we are able to generate monthly Rs 3-5 lakh which is an indication of success.” Dar adds that in addition to potential financial rewards the public response in terms of appreciation and positive feedback has been a huge source of motivation for him. His wife Lubna Rafiqi who looks after the overall operations of Sagg says that on daily basis 50-60 people visit Sagg who rejuvenate and relax in Kothas (mud houses) besides enjoying the traditional dishes prepared by the chefs using organic and natural ingredients. Sagg also sells traditional herbs and spices, organic honey, dried fruits and vegetables, pickles, jams and a wide variety of handicraft products. Every day both Dar and Rafiqi work together in the village. “We both work in Sagg to provide ecological entrepreneurship coaching, training young minds, holding consulting programmes with people from all walks of life,” adds 32-year-old Rafiqi. Dar terms Sagg an educational, recreational and eco-cultural farm with camping facilities, as well as recreational stays for individuals and groups. “I do not want Sagg to be a museum but I always wanted to create a venture which would take care of the environment, quality of life, which would revive culture with modern conveniences. For example, inside a mud house in Sagg people are using the internet.” Sagg charges Rs 50 per person as entry fee, while an overnight stay at the village costs Rs 500 per person. Dar’s sister Dr Shaheena Parveen, a trained psychologist who works as a creative facilitator at Sagg for programmes, development, facilitation and outreach, says: “We also collaborate with individuals, institutions, and organisations for participatory capacity-building in health, education, environment, parenting, work and farming.” Discover the latest Business News, Sensex, and Nifty updates. Obtain Personal Finance insights, tax queries, and expert opinions on Moneycontrol or download the Moneycontrol App to stay updated! Find the best of Al News in one place, specially curated for you every weekend. Stay on top of the latest tech trends and biggest startup news.
