=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Brodie Smith (ultimate) - Wikipedia]
He also won two National Club Championships, first in 2012 with Austin's Doublewide, and again in 2014 with Denver's Johnny Bravo. He has played professionally with the AUDL's Indianapolis AlleyCats, Chicago Wildfire, Dallas Roughnecks, and Jacksonville Cannons.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brodie_Smith_(ultimate)

[2014 Denver Johnny Bravo Roster - Livewire - Ultiworld]
Jun 11, 2014 · 2014 Denver Johnny Bravo Roster June 11, 2014 by Charlie Eisenhood in Livewire, News Here is the 2014 Denver Johnny Bravo roster. Check it out below and help them get to Worlds! Coach: Bob Krier Andrew Mangan Austin Gregersen Bart Watson Brett Matzuka Brodie Smith Craig Forshee Dennison Bechis Evan Padget Henry Konker Hidde Snieder Hylke ...
URL: https://ultiworld.com/livewire/2014-denver-johnny-bravo-roster/

[Brodie Smith | Game Shows Wiki | Fandom]
Brodie rose to prominence as a premier ultimate player at the University of Florida, where he won two USA Ultimate College Championships, in 2006 and 2010. He also won two National Club Championships, first in 2012 with Austin's Doublewide, and again in 2014 with Denver's Johnny Bravo.
URL: https://gameshows.fandom.com/wiki/Brodie_Smith

[Brodie Smith (ultimate), Date of Birth, Place of Birth - Born Glorious]
Brodie rose to prominence as a premier ultimate player at the University of Florida, where he won two USA Ultimate College Championships, in 2006 and 2010. He also won two National Club Championships, first in 2012 with Austin's Doublewide, and again in 2014 with Denver's Johnny Bravo.
URL: https://www.bornglorious.com/person/?pi=18217345

[Brodie Smith | Booking Agent | Talent Roster | MN2S]
He also won two National Club Championships, one in Austin with Doublewide in 2012 and the other in Denver with Johnny Bravo in 2014. In the past, he was a member of the AUDL’s Dallas Roughnecks, Chicago Wildfire, Indianapolis AlleyCats, and Jacksonville Cannons.
URL: https://mn2s.com/booking-agency/talent-roster/brodie-smith/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Brodie Smith (ultimate) - Wikipedia] ---
Brodie Smith is a former American Ultimate Disc League player, and current professional disc golf player and YouTube personality best known for his frisbee trick shot videos.
Brodie rose to prominence as a premier ultimate player at the University of Florida, where he won two USA Ultimate College Championships, in 2006 and 2010. He also won two National Club Championships, first in 2012 with Austin's Doublewide, and again in 2014 with Denver's Johnny Bravo. He has played professionally with the AUDL's Indianapolis AlleyCats, Chicago Wildfire, Dallas Roughnecks, and Jacksonville Cannons.
Brodie achieved internet fame in 2011 when his Frisbee Trick Shots video became popular on YouTube. As of July 2018, his channel has over 2 million subscribers and 300 million total video views. Clips of Brodie's trick shots have been featured on ESPN's SportsCenter "Top Plays" segment numerous times and other major media outlets, including the Huffington Post. He has a sponsored line of merchandise produced by DiscStore.com
He appeared in the 28th installment of The Amazing Race alongside Ultimate teammate and friend Kurt Gibson, finishing 5th.
As of 2020 he is a professional disc golf player on the DGPT (Disc Golf Pro Tour). He is currently signed to Discraft.




--- [2014 Denver Johnny Bravo Roster - Livewire - Ultiworld] ---
June 11, 2014 by Charlie Eisenhood in Livewire, News Here is the 2014 Denver Johnny Bravo roster. Check it out below and help them get to Worlds! Coach: Bob Krier Andrew Mangan Austin Gregersen Bart Watson Brett Matzuka Brodie Smith Craig Forshee Dennison Bechis Evan Padget Henry Konker Hidde Snieder Hylke Sneider Ian Toner Jack McShane (C) Jackson Kloor Jake Juszak* Jesse Roehm Jimmy Mickle Joshua Ackley (C) Kurt Gibson Matt Farrell Nick Lance Owen Westbrook Phil Sun* Ryan Farrell (C) Ryan Morgan Sean Keegan Stanley Peterson Tim Morrissy Will Lokke *Worlds Roster only Practice Players: David Wheeler Jeremy Harker Mark Rauls Matt Bubernak Roy Matthews IV Todd Wolma Tristan Voss


--- [Brodie Smith | Game Shows Wiki | Fandom] ---
| Brodie Smith | | |---|---| | Name: | Brodie Smith | | Born: | August 29, 1987 | | Birth Hometown: | Jacksonville, Florida | | Occupation: | Ultimate Disc League player Disc golfer Trick shot performer | Brodie Smith (born August 29, 1987) is a former American Ultimate Disc League player, and current professional disc golf player and YouTube personality best known for his frisbee trick shot videos. Brodie rose to prominence as a premier ultimate player at the University of Florida, where he won two USA Ultimate College Championships, in 2006 and 2010. He also won two National Club Championships, first in 2012 with Austin's Doublewide, and again in 2014 with Denver's Johnny Bravo. He has played professionally with the AUDL's Indianapolis AlleyCats, Chicago Wildfire, Dallas Roughnecks, and Jacksonville Cannons. Brodie achieved internet fame in 2011 when his Frisbee Trick Shots video became popular on YouTube. As of July 2018, his channel has over 2 million subscribers and 300 million total video views. Clips of Brodie's trick shots have been featured on ESPN's SportsCenter "Top Plays" segment numerous times and other major media outlets, including the Huffington Post. He has a sponsored line of merchandise produced by DiscStore.com He appeared in the 28th installment of The Amazing Race alongside Ultimate teammate and friend Kurt Gibson, finishing 5th. As of 2020 he is a professional disc golf player on the DGPT (Disc Golf Pro Tour). Ultimate career[] High school[] Brodie was introduced to Ultimate at Nease High School in Ponte Vedra, Florida where he began playing in games after cross country practice. College[] Brodie Smith began playing on the Ultimate team at the University of Florida in 2006. That spring, the team won their first National College Championship. In 2007 the UF team finished 3rd and in 2008 finished as the runner up, but In 2009, they were eliminated in the Regional Qualifier. In 2010, the UF men's team won their second National Championship victory in 5 years. Professional[] Brodie Smith began his professional ultimate career with the AUDL playing for the Indianapolis Alleycats in 2011. In 2013, Brodie signed with the Chicago Wildfire. Brodie then suffered from tearing his ACL and his meniscus. He was unable to play in the 2014 and 2015 season. In 2016, Brodie signed with the Dallas Roughnecks. In 2017, Brodie came back home to Florida and signed with the Jacksonville Cannons. Flying Disc Trick Shots[] Brodie's first trick shots video, Frisbee Trick Shots, was released in 2011 on YouTube as a compilation video of trick frisbee throws around Gainesville, Florida and the University of Florida campus. As of December 2015, the video has generated over 5 million views. In the video, Brodie is seen completing throws into trash cans and other targets in increasingly difficult situations. The final shot involves him throwing a disc into a trash can from top of the University of Florida football stadium. Personal life[] On April 6, 2018, he proposed to girlfriend, Kelsey Lowrance. They were married on March 3, 2019. Brodie has performed trick shots all over the world, including competing in a Japanese game show, with the goal of using his skills to promote awareness for Ultimate as a sport. Some of them are uploaded to his own account on Instagram and in his fan page: @brodiesmith21fans His trick shot videos have also led him onto the national media stage with multiple appearances on ESPN Sports Center's Top Plays. Brodie has also created several videos together with YouTube trick shot performers Dude Perfect.


--- [Brodie Smith (ultimate), Date of Birth, Place of Birth - Born Glorious] ---
Brodie Smith (born August 29, 1987) is a former American Ultimate Disc League player and YouTube personality, best known for his frisbee trick shot videos. Brodie rose to prominence as a premier ultimate player at the University of Florida, where he won two USA Ultimate College Championships, in 2006 and 2010. He also won two National Club Championships, first in 2012 with Austin's Doublewide, and again in 2014 with Denver's Johnny Bravo. He has played professionally with the AUDL's Indianapolis AlleyCats, Chicago Wildfire, Dallas Roughnecks, and Jacksonville Cannons. Brodie achieved internet fame in 2011 when his Frisbee Trick Shots video went viral on YouTube. As of July 2018, his channel has over 2 million subscribers and 300 million total video views. Clips of Brodie's trick shots have been featured on ESPN's SportsCenter "Top Plays" segment numerous times and other major media outlets, including the Huffington Post. He has a sponsored line of merchandise produced by DiscStore.com He appeared in the 28th installment of The Amazing Race alongside Ultimate teammate and friend Kurt Gibson, finishing 5th.


--- [Brodie Smith | Booking Agent | Talent Roster | MN2S] ---
Brodie Smith is a professional disc golfer and YouTube personality best known for his frisbee trick shots. He is a former member of the American Ultimate Disc League. Smith became well-known after winning two USA Ultimate College Championships at the University of Florida in 2006 and 2010. He also won two National Club Championships, one in Austin with Doublewide in 2012 and the other in Denver with Johnny Bravo in 2014. In the past, he was a member of the AUDL’s Dallas Roughnecks, Chicago Wildfire, Indianapolis AlleyCats, and Jacksonville Cannons. Smith rose to internet stardom in 2011 after his video of Frisbee Trick Shots went viral on YouTube. His channel has over 2.2 million followers and 375 million cumulative video views. Smith’s trick shots have been highlighted multiple times on ESPN’s SportsCenter “Top Plays” section, as well as other prominent media publications such as the Huffington Post. DiscStore.com has a sponsored line of items for him. Smith finished fifth in the 28th episode of The Amazing Race alongside Ultimate colleague and buddy Kurt Gibson. He has done trick shots all over the world, even on a Japanese game show, with the purpose of promoting Ultimate as a sport through his abilities. Smith has also collaborated on multiple videos with Dude Perfect, a YouTube trick shot performer. Smith became a professional disc golf player on the DGPT (Disc Golf Pro Tour) in 2020.
