=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jallianwala Bagh massacre - Dharmapedia Wiki]
1984: The story of the massacre also occurs in the 7th episode of Granada TV's 1984 series The Jewel in the Crown, recounted by the fictional widow of a ...
URL: https://en.dharmapedia.net/wiki/Jallianwala_Bagh_massacre

[Paul Scott & Jewel in the Crown - Central Oregon Community College]
Jan 8, 2007 · Based on Paul Scott's Raj Quartet; 14 episodes originally broadcast in 1983 (Granada Television, 1984). "Episode 1: The Jewel in the Crown" ( ...Missing: Jallianwala | Show results with:Jallianwala
URL: http://web.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/ScottPaul/scott/scott.htm

[Downton Abbey's Jallianwala Bagh Reference | PDF - Scribd]
1984: The story of the massacre also occurs in the seventh episode of Granada TV's 1984 series The Jewel in the Crown, recounted by the fictional widow ...
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/704603623/National-memorial-event-in-the-UK

[Jallianwala Bagh massacre - Reference.org]
1984: The massacre is recounted in the seventh episode of Granada TV's 1984 series The Jewel in the Crown, told by the fictional widow of a British officer who is haunted by the inhumanity of it and who tells how she came to be reviled because she ignored the honours to Dyer and instead donated money to the Indian victims.
URL: https://reference.org/facts/Jallianwala_Bagh_Massacre/1oB6p3mc

[Jallianwala Bagh massacre]
Television. 1984: The massacre is recounted in the seventh episode of Granada TV's 1984 series The Jewel in the Crown, told by the fictional widow of a ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jallianwala_Bagh_massacre


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jallianwala Bagh massacre - Dharmapedia Wiki] ---
Jallianwala Bagh massacre | Jallianwala Bagh Massacre | | |---|---| | Jallian Wala Bagh Memorial | | | Location | Amritsar, [INDIA] | | Coordinates | Lua error: callParserFunction: function "#coordinates" was not found. | | Date | 13 April 1919 17:37 (5:30 p.m.) | | Target | Crowd of nonviolent protesters, along with Baisakhi pilgrims, who had gathered in Jallianwala Bagh, Amritsar | Attack type | massacre/incident | | Deaths | 379–1000[1] | Non-fatal injuries | ~ 1,100 | | Perpetrators | British Army unit under the command of Colonel Reginald Dyer | No. of participants | 50 | The Jallianwala Bagh massacre, also known as the Amritsar massacre, took place on 13 April 1919 when a crowd of nonviolent protesters, along with Baishakhi pilgrims, who had gathered in Jallianwala Bagh, Amritsar, Punjab, were fired upon by troops of the British Indian Army under the command of Colonel Reginald Dyer. The civilians had assembled to participate in the annual Baisakhi celebrations, a religious and cultural festival for Punjabi people. Coming from outside the city, they may have been unaware of the imposition of martial law. The Jallianwalla Bagh is a public garden of 6 to 7 acres (28,000 m2), walled on all sides with five entrances.[2] On Dyer's orders, his troops fired on the crowd for ten minutes, directing their bullets largely towards the few open gates through which people were trying to flee. The British government released figures stating 379 dead and 1,200 wounded.[1][3] Other sources place the number of dead at well over 1,000.[4] This "brutality stunned the entire nation",[5] resulting in a "wrenching loss of faith" of the general public in the intentions of the UK.[6] The ineffective inquiry and the initial accolades for Dyer by the House of Lords fuelled widespread anger, leading to the Non-cooperation Movement of 1920–22.[7] On Sunday, 13 April 1919, Dyer was convinced of a major insurrection and he banned all meetings; however this notice was not widely disseminated. That was the day of Baisakhi, the main Sikh festival, and many villagers had gathered in the Bagh. On hearing that a meeting had assembled at Jallianwala Bagh, Dyer went with fifty Gurkha troops to a raised bank and ordered them to shoot at the crowd. Dyer continued the firing for about ten minutes, until the ammunition supply was almost exhausted. Dyer stated that 1,650 rounds had been fired, a number apparently derived by counting empty cartridge cases picked up by the troops.[8] Official British Indian sources gave a figure of 379 identified dead,[3] with approximately 1,100 wounded. The casualty number estimated by the Indian National Congress was more than 1,500, with approximately 1,000 dead.[4] Dyer was initially lauded by conservative forces in the empire, but in July 1920 he was censured and forced to retire by the House of Commons.[9] He became a celebrated hero in Britain among most of the people connected to the British Raj,[10] for example, the House of Lords,[11] but unpopular in the House of Commons, which voted against Dyer[clarification needed] twice.[12] The massacre caused a re-evaluation of the army's role, in which the new policy became minimum force. The army was retrained and developed less violent tactics for crowd control.[13] Some historians consider the episode a decisive step towards the end of British rule in India.[14] Background Defence of India Act During World War I, British India contributed to the British war effort by providing men and resources. Millions of Indian soldiers and labourers served in Europe, Africa, and the Middle East, while both the Indian administration and the princes sent large supplies of food, money, and ammunition. However, Bengal and Punjab remained sources of anticolonial activities. Revolutionary attacks in Bengal, associated increasingly with disturbances in Punjab, were significant enough to nearly paralyse the regional administration.[15][16] Of these, a pan-Indian mutiny in the British Indian Army planned for February 1915 was the most prominent amongst a number of plots formulated between 1914 and 1917 by Indian nationalists in India, the United States and Germany. The planned February mutiny was ultimately thwarted when British intelligence infiltrated the Ghadarite movement, arresting key figures. Mutinies in smaller units and garrisons within India were also crushed. In the scenario of the British war effort and the threat from the militant movement in India, the Defence of India Act 1915 was passed limiting civil and political liberties. Michael O'Dwyer, then the Lieutenant Governor of Punjab, was one of the strongest proponents of the act, in no small part due to the Ghadarite threat in the province.[17] Rowlatt act The costs of the protracted war in money and manpower were great. High casualty rates in the war, increasing inflation after the end, compounded by heavy taxation, the deadly 1918 flu pandemic, and the disruption of trade during the war escalated human suffering in India. The pre-war Indian nationalist sentiment, revived as moderate and extremist groups of the Indian National Congress, ended their differences to unify. In 1916, the Congress succeeded in establishing the Lucknow Pact, a temporary alliance with the All-India Muslim League. British political concessions and Whitehall's India Policy after World War I began to change, with the passage of Montagu–Chelmsford Reforms, which initiated the first round of political reform in the Indian subcontinent in 1917.[18][19][20] However, this was deemed insufficient in reforms by the Indian political movement. Mahatma Gandhi, recently returned to India, began emerging as an increasingly charismatic leader under whose leadership civil disobedience movements grew rapidly as an expression of political unrest. The recently crushed Ghadar conspiracy, the presence of Mahendra Pratap's Kabul mission in Afghanistan (with possible links to then nascent Bolshevik Russia), and a still-active revolutionary movement especially in Punjab and Bengal (as well as worsening civil unrest throughout India) led to the appointment of a Sedition committee in 1918 chaired by Sidney Rowlatt, an English judge. It was tasked to evaluate German and Bolshevik links to the militant movement in India, especially in Punjab and Bengal. On the recommendations of the committee, the Rowlatt Act, an extension of the Defence of India Act 1915, was enforced in India to limit civil liberties.[17][21][22][23][24] The passage of the Rowlatt Act in 1919 precipitated large scale political unrest throughout India. Ominously, in 1919, the Third Anglo-Afghan War began in the wake of Amir Habibullah's assassination and institution of Amanullah in a system strongly influenced by the political figures courted by Kabul mission during the world war. As a reaction to Rowlatt act Muhammad Ali Jinnah resigned from his Bombay seat, writing to viceroy a letter, "I, therefor, as a protest against the passing of the Bill and the manner in which it was passed tender my resignation..................a government that passes or sanctions such a law in times of peace forfeits its claim to be called a civilized Government".[25] In India Gandhi's call for protest against the Rowlatt Act achieved an unprecedented response of furious unrest and protests. The situation especially in Punjab was deteriorating rapidly, with disruptions of rail, telegraph and communication systems. The movement was at its peak before the end of the first week of April, with some recording that "practically the whole of Lahore was on the streets, the immense crowd that passed through Anarkali was estimated to be around 20,000."[26] In Amritsar, over 5,000 people gathered at Jallianwala Bagh. This situation deteriorated perceptibly over the next few days. Michael O'Dwyer is said to have been of the firm belief that these were the early and ill-concealed signs of a conspiracy for a coordinated uprising around May, on the lines of the 1857 revolt, at a time when British troops would have withdrawn to the hills for the summer. The Amritsar massacre, as well as responses preceding and succeeding it, was the end result of a concerted plan of response from the Punjab administration to suppress such a conspiracy.[27] Prelude to the massacre Many officers in the Indian army believed revolt was possible, and they prepared for the worst. In Amritsar, more than 15,000 people gathered at Jallianwala Bagh. The British Lieutenant-Governor of Punjab, Michael O'Dwyer, is said to have believed that these were the early and ill-concealed signs of a conspiracy for a coordinated revolt around May, at a time when British troops would have withdrawn to the hills for the summer. The Amritsar massacre, as well as responses preceding and succeeding it, have been described by some historians as the end result of a concerted plan of response from the Punjab administration to suppress such a conspiracy.[27] James Houssemayne Du Boulay is said to have ascribed a direct relationship between the fear of a Ghadarite uprising in the midst of an increasingly tense situation in Punjab, and the British response that ended in the massacre.[28] On 10 April 1919, there was a protest at the residence of the Deputy Commissioner of Amritsar, a city in Punjab, a large province in the northwestern part of India. The demonstration was to demand the release of two popular leaders of the Indian Independence Movement, Satya Pal and Saifuddin Kitchlew, who had been earlier arrested by the government and moved to a secret location. Both were proponents of the Satyagraha movement led by Gandhi. A military picket shot at the crowd, killing several protesters and setting off a series of violent events. Later the same day, several banks and other government buildings, including the Town Hall and the railway station, were attacked and set on fire. The violence continued to escalate, culminating in the deaths of at least five Europeans, including government employees and civilians. There was retaliatory shooting at crowds from the military several times during the day, and between eight and twenty people were killed. On 11 April, Miss Marcella Sherwood, an English missionary, fearing for the safety of her pupils, was on her way to shut the schools and send the roughly 600 Indian children home.[11][29] While cycling through a narrow street called the Kucha Kurrichhan, she was caught by a mob, pulled to the ground by her hair, stripped naked, beaten, kicked, and left for dead. She was rescued by some local Indians, including the father of one of her pupils, who hid her from the mob and then smuggled her to the safety of Gobindgarh fort.[29][30] After visiting Sherwood on 19 April, the Raj's local commander, Colonel Dyer, issued an order requiring every Indian man using that street to crawl its length on his hands and knees.[11][31] Colonel Dyer later explained to a British inspector: "Some Indians crawl face downwards in front of their gods. I wanted them to know that a British woman is as sacred as a Hindu god and therefore they have to crawl in front of her, too."[32] He also authorised the indiscriminate, public whipping of locals who came within lathi length of British policemen. Miss Marcella Sherwood later defended Colonel Dyer, describing him "as the 'saviour' of the Punjab".[31] For the next two days, the city of Amritsar was quiet, but violence continued in other parts of the Punjab. Railway lines were cut, telegraph posts destroyed, government buildings burnt, and three Europeans murdered. By 13 April, the British government had decided to put most of the Punjab under martial law. The legislation restricted a number of civil liberties, including freedom of assembly; gatherings of more than four people were banned.[33] On the evening of 12 April, the leaders of the hartal in Amritsar held a meeting at the Hindu College - Dhab Khatikan. At the meeting, Hans Raj, an aide to Dr. Kitchlew, announced a public protest meeting would be held at 16:30 the following day in the Jallianwala Bagh, to be organised by a Dr. Muhammad Bashir and chaired by a senior and respected Congress Party leader, Lal Kanhyalal Bhatia. A series of resolutions protesting against the Rowlatt Act, the recent actions of the British authorities and the detention of Drs. Satyapal and Kitchlew was drawn up and approved, after which the meeting adjourned.[34] The massacre At 9:00 on the morning of 13 April, the traditional festival of Baisakhi, Colonel Reginald Dyer, the acting military commander for Amritsar and its environs, proceeded through the city with several city officials, announcing the implementation of a pass system to enter or leave Amritsar, a curfew beginning at 20:00 that night and a ban on all processions and public meetings of four or more persons. The proclamation was read and explained in English, Urdu, Hindi and Punjabi, but few paid it any heed or appear to have learned of it later.[35] Meanwhile, the local CID had received intelligence of the planned meeting in the Jallianwala Bagh through word of mouth and plainclothes detectives in the crowds. At 12:40, Dyer was informed of the meeting and returned to his base at around 13:30 to decide how to handle it.[36] By mid-afternoon, thousands of Sikhs, Muslims and Hindus gathered in the Jallianwala Bagh (garden) near the Harmandir Sahib in Amritsar. Many who were present had earlier worshipped at the Golden Temple, and were passing through the Bagh on their way home. The Bagh was (and is) a large, open area of six to seven acres, roughly 200 yards by 200 yards in size, and surrounded by walls roughly 10 feet in height. Balconies of houses three to four stories tall overlooked the Bagh, and five narrow entrances opened onto it, several with locked gates. During the rainy season, it was planted with crops, but served as a local meeting-area and playground for much of the year.[37] In the center of the Bagh was a samadhi (cremation site) and a large well partly filled with water and about 20 feet in diameter.[37] Apart from pilgrims, Amritsar had filled up over the preceding days with farmers, traders and merchants attending the annual Baisakhi horse and cattle fair. The city police closed the fair at 14:00 that afternoon, resulting in a large number of people drifting into the Jallianwala Bagh. It was estimated that about 20,000 to 25,000 people had gathered in the Bagh by the time of the meeting. Dyer sent an aeroplane to overfly the Bagh and estimate the size of the crowd.[37] By this time, both Colonel Dyer and Deputy Commissioner Irving, the senior civil authority for Amritsar, were well aware of the meeting, but took no actions to prevent it or send police to peacefully disperse the crowds. This would later be a serious criticism levelled at both Dyer and Irving. An hour after the meeting began as scheduled at 16:30, Colonel Dyer arrived at the Bagh with a group of ninety Gurkha soldiers. Fifty of them were armed with .303 Lee–Enfield bolt-action rifles; 40 with khukris. It is not clear whether Dyer had specifically chosen troops from that ethnic group due to their proven loyalty to the British or that they were simply the non-Sikh units most readily available. He had also brought two armored cars armed with machine guns; however, the vehicles were left outside, as they were unable to enter the Bagh through the narrow entrances. The Jallianwala Bagh was surrounded on all sides by houses and buildings and had few narrow entrances. Most of them were kept permanently locked. The main entrance was relatively wide, but was guarded heavily by the troops backed by the armoured vehicles. Dyer—without warning the crowd to disperse—blocked the main exits. He 'explained' later that this act "was not to disperse the meeting but to punish the Indians for disobedience."[38] Dyer ordered his troops to begin shooting toward the densest sections of the crowd. Firing continued for approximately ten minutes. Cease-fire was ordered only when ammunition supplies were almost exhausted, after approximately 1,650 rounds were spent.[8] Many people died in stampedes at the narrow gates or by jumping into the solitary well on the compound to escape the shooting. A plaque, placed at the site after independence states that 120 bodies were removed from the well. The wounded could not be moved from where they had fallen, as a curfew was declared, and many more died during the night.[citation needed] The number of deaths caused by the shooting is disputed. While the 'official' figure given by the British inquiry into the massacre is 379 deaths, the method used by the inquiry was corrupt. In July 1919, three months after the massacre, officials were tasked with finding who had been killed by inviting inhabitants of the city to volunteer information about those who had died.[39] This information was incomplete due to fear that those who participated would be identified as having been present at the meeting, and some of the dead may not have had close relations in the area.[40] When interviewed by the members of the committee, a senior civil servant in Punjab admitted that the actual figure could be higher.[41] Since the official figures were obviously flawed regarding the size of the crowd (15,000–20,000), the number of rounds fired and the period of shooting, the Indian National Congress instituted a separate inquiry of its own, with conclusions that differed considerably from the British Government's so-called inquiry. The casualty number quoted by the Congress was more than 1,500, with approximately 1,000 being killed.[42] The British Government tried to suppress information of the massacre, but news spread in India and widespread outrage ensued; details of the massacre did not become known in Britain until December 1919. Aftermath Colonel Dyer reported to his superiors that he had been "confronted by a revolutionary army", to which Major General William Beynon replied: "Your action correct and Lieutenant Governor approves."[43] O'Dwyer requested that martial law should be imposed upon Amritsar and other areas, and this was granted by Viceroy Lord Chelmsford.[44][45] Both Secretary of State for War Winston Churchill and former Prime Minister H. H. Asquith however, openly condemned the attack. Churchill referring to it as "monstrous", while Asquith called it "one of the worst outrages in the whole of our history".[46] Winston Churchill, in the House of Commons debate of 8 July 1920, said, "The crowd was unarmed, except with bludgeons. It was not attacking anybody or anything… When fire had been opened upon it to disperse it, it tried to run away. Pinned up in a narrow place considerably smaller than Trafalgar Square, with hardly any exits, and packed together so that one bullet would drive through three or four bodies, the people ran madly this way and the other. When the fire was directed upon the centre, they ran to the sides. The fire was then directed to the sides. Many threw themselves down on the ground, the fire was then directed down on the ground. This was continued to 8 to 10 minutes, and it stopped only when the ammunition had reached the point of exhaustion."[47] After Churchill's speech in the House of Commons debate, MPs voted 247 to 37 against Dyer and in support of the Government.[48] Cloake reports that despite the official rebuke, many Britons "thought him a hero for saving the rule of British law in India."[49] Rabindranath Tagore received the news of the massacre by 22 May 1919. He tried to arrange a protest meeting in Calcutta and finally decided to renounce his British knighthood as "a symbolic act of protest".[50] In the repudiation letter, dated 30 May 1919 and addressed to the Viceroy, Lord Chelmsford, he wrote "I ... wish to stand, shorn, of all special distinctions, by the side of those of my countrymen who, for their so called insignificance, are liable to suffer degradation not fit for human beings."[51] Gupta describes the letter written by Tagore as "historic". He writes that Tagore "renounced his knighthood in protest against the inhuman cruelty of the British Government to the people of Punjab", and he quotes Tagore's letter to the Viceroy "The enormity of the measures taken by the Government in the Punjab for quelling some local disturbances has, with a rude shock, revealed to our minds the helplessness of our position as British subjects in India ... [T]he very least that I can do for my country is to take all consequences upon myself in giving voice to the protest of the millions of my countrymen, surprised into a dumb anguish of terror. The time has come when badges of honour make our shame glaring in the incongruous context of humiliation..."[52] English Writings of Rabindranath Tagore Miscellaneous Writings Vol# 8 carries a facsimile of this hand written letter.[53] The Hunter Commission On 14 October 1919, after orders issued by the Secretary of State for India, Edwin Montagu, the Government of India announced the formation of a committee of inquiry into the events in Punjab. Referred to as the Disorders Inquiry Committee, it was later more widely known as the Hunter Commission. It was named after the name of chairman, Lord William Hunter, former Solicitor-General for Scotland and Senator of the College of Justice in Scotland. The stated purpose of the commission was to "investigate the recent disturbances in Bombay, Delhi and Punjab, about their causes, and the measures taken to cope with them".[54] The members of the commission were: - Lord Hunter, Chairman of the Commission - Mr. Justice George C. Rankin of Calcutta - Sir Chimanlal Harilal Setalvad, Vice-Chancellor of Bombay University and advocate of the Bombay High Court - Mr W.F. Rice, member of the Home Department - Major-General Sir George Barrow, KCB, KCMG, GOC Peshawar Division - Pandit Jagat Narayan, lawyer and Member of the Legislative Council of the United Provinces - Mr. Thomas Smith, Member of the Legislative Council of the United Provinces - Sardar Sahibzada Sultan Ahmad Khan, lawyer from Gwalior State - Mr H.C. Stokes, Secretary of the Commission and member of the Home Department[54] After meeting in New Delhi on 29 October, the Commission took statements from witnesses over the following weeks. Witnesses were called in Delhi, Ahmedabad, Bombay and Lahore. Although the Commission as such was not a formally constituted court of law, meaning witnesses were not subject to questioning under oath, its members managed to elicit detailed accounts and statements from witnesses by rigorous cross-questioning. In general, it was felt the Commission had been very thorough in its enquiries.[54] After reaching Lahore in November, the Commission wound up its initial inquiries by examining the principal witnesses to the events in Amritsar. On 19 November, Dyer was called to appear before the Commission. Although his military superiors had suggested he be represented by legal counsel at the inquiry, Dyer refused this suggestion and appeared alone.[54] Initially questioned by Lord Hunter, Dyer stated he had come to know about the meeting at the Jallianwala Bagh at 12:40 hours that day but did not attempt to prevent it. He stated that he had gone to the Bagh with the deliberate intention of opening fire if he found a crowd assembled there. Patterson says Dyer explained his sense of honour to the Hunter Commission by saying, "I think it quite possible that I could have dispersed the crowd without firing but they would have come back again and laughed, and I would have made, what I consider, a fool of myself."[55] Dyer further reiterated his belief that the crowd in the Bagh was one of "rebels who were trying to isolate my forces and cut me off from other supplies. Therefore, I considered it my duty to fire on them and to fire well".[54] After Mr. Justice Rankin had questioned Dyer, Sir Chimanlal Setalvad enquired: Sir Chimanlal: Supposing the passage was sufficient to allow the armoured cars to go in, would you have opened fire with the machine guns? Dyer: I think probably, yes. Sir Chimanlal: In that case, the casualties would have been much higher? Dyer: Yes.[54] Dyer further stated that his intentions had been to strike terror throughout the Punjab and in doing so, reduce the moral stature of the "rebels". He said he did not stop the shooting when the crowd began to disperse because he thought it was his duty to keep shooting until the crowd dispersed, and that a little shooting would not do any good. In fact he continued the shooting until the ammunition was almost exhausted.[56] He stated that he did not make any effort to tend to the wounded after the shooting: "Certainly not. It was not my job. Hospitals were open and they could have gone there."[57] Exhausted from the rigorous cross-examination questioning and ill, Dyer was then released. Over the next several months, while the Commission wrote its final report, the British press, as well as many MPs, turned hostile towards Dyer as the extent of the massacre and his statements at the inquiry became widely known.[54] Lord Chelmsford refused to comment until the Commission had been wound up. In the meanwhile, Dyer, seriously ill with jaundice and arteriosclerosis, was hospitalised.[54] Although the members of the Commission had been divided by racial tensions following Dyer's statement, and though the Indian members had written a separate, minority report, the final report, comprising six volumes of evidence and released on 8 March 1920, unanimously condemned Dyer's actions.[54] In "continuing firing as long as he did, it appears to us that General Dyer committed a grave error."[58] Dissenting members argued that the martial law regime's use of force was wholly unjustified. "General Dyer thought he had crushed the rebellion and Sir Michael O'Dwyer was of the same view", they wrote, "(but) there was no rebellion which required to be crushed." The report concluded that: - Lack of notice to disperse from the Bagh in the beginning was an error. - The length of firing showed a grave error. - Dyer's motive of producing a sufficient moral effect was to be condemned. - Dyer had overstepped the bounds of his authority. - There had been no conspiracy to overthrow British rule in the Punjab. The minority report of the Indian members further added that: - Proclamations banning public meetings were insufficiently distributed. - Innocent people were in the crowd, and there had been no violence in the Bagh beforehand. - Dyer should have either ordered his troops to help the wounded or instructed the civil authorities to do so - Dyer's actions had been "inhuman and un-British" and had greatly injured the image of British rule in India. The Hunter Commission did not impose any penal or disciplinary action because Dyer's actions were condoned by various superiors (later upheld by the Army Council).[59] The Legal and Home Members on the Viceroy's Council ultimately decided that, though Dyer had acted in a callous and brutal way, military or legal prosecution would not be possible due to political reasons. However, he was finally found guilty of a mistaken notion of duty and relieved of his command on 23 March. He had been recommended for a CBE as a result of his service in the Third Afghan War; this recommendation was cancelled on 29 March 1920. Demonstration at Gujranwala Two days later, on 15 April, demonstrations occurred in Gujranwala protesting the killings at Amritsar. Police and aircraft were used against the demonstrators, resulting in 12 deaths and 27 injuries. The Officer Commanding the Royal Air Force in India, Brigadier General N D K MacEwen stated later that: I think we can fairly claim to have been of great use in the late riots, particularly at Gujranwala, where the crowd when looking at its nastiest was absolutely dispersed by a machine using bombs and Lewis guns.[60] Assassination of Michael O'Dwyer On 13 March 1940, at Caxton Hall in London, Udham Singh, an Indian independence activist from Sunam who had witnessed the events in Amritsar and was himself wounded, shot and killed Michael O'Dwyer, the British Lieutenant-Governor of Punjab at the time of the massacre, who had approved Dyer's action and was believed to be the main planner. Dyer himself had died in 1927. Some, such as the nationalist newspaper Amrita Bazar Patrika, also made positive statements. The common people and revolutionaries glorified the action of Udham Singh. Much of the press worldwide recalled the story of Jallianwala Bagh and alleged Michael O'Dwyer to have been responsible for the massacre. Singh was termed a "fighter for freedom" and his action was referred to in The Times newspaper as "an expression of the pent-up fury of the down-trodden Indian People".[61] In Fascist countries, the incident was used for anti-British propaganda: Bergeret, published in large scale from Rome at that time, while commenting upon the Caxton Hall assassination, ascribed the greatest significance to the circumstance and praised the action of Udham Singh as courageous.[62] The Berliner Börsen Zeitung termed the event "The torch of Indian freedom". German radio reportedly broadcast: "The cry of tormented people spoke with shots." At a public meeting in Kanpur, a spokesman had stated that "at last an insult and humiliation of the nation had been avenged". Similar sentiments were expressed in numerous other places across the country.[63] Fortnightly reports of the political situation in Bihar mentioned: "It is true that we had no love lost for Sir Michael. The indignities he heaped upon our countrymen in Punjab have not been forgotten." In its 18 March 1940 issue Amrita Bazar Patrika wrote: "O'Dwyer's name is connected with Punjab incidents which India will never forget." The New Statesman observed: "British conservativism has not discovered how to deal with Ireland after two centuries of rule. Similar comment may be made on British rule in India. Will the historians of the future have to record that it was not the Nazis but the British ruling class which destroyed the British Empire?" Singh had told the court at his trial: I did it because I had a grudge against him. He deserved it. He was the real culprit. He wanted to crush the spirit of my people, so I have crushed him. For full 21 years, I have been trying to wreak vengeance. I am happy that I have done the job. I am not scared of death. I am dying for my country. I have seen my people starving in India under the British rule. I have protested against this, it was my duty. What a greater honour could be bestowed on me than death for the sake of my motherland?[64] Singh was hanged for the murder on 31 July 1940. At that time, many, including Jawaharlal Nehru and Mahatma Gandhi, condemned the action of Udham as senseless but courageous. In 1952, Nehru (by then Prime Minister) honoured Udham Singh with the following statement, which appeared in the daily Partap: I salute Shaheed-i-Azam Udham Singh with reverence who had kissed the noose so that we may be free. Soon after this recognition by the Prime Minister, Udham Singh received the title of Shaheed, a name given to someone who has attained martyrdom or done something heroic on behalf of their country or religion.[citation needed] Monument and legacy A trust was founded in 1920 to build a memorial at the site after a resolution was passed by the Indian National Congress. In 1923, the trust purchased land for the project. A memorial, designed by American architect Benjamin Polk, was built on the site and inaugurated by President of India Rajendra Prasad on 13 April 1961, in the presence of Jawaharlal Nehru and other leaders. A flame was later added to the site. The bullet marks remain on the walls and adjoining buildings to this day. The well into which many people jumped and drowned attempting to save themselves from the bullets is also a protected monument inside the park. Formation of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee Shortly following the massacre, the official Sikh clergy of the Harmandir Sahib(Golden Temple) in Amritsar conferred upon Colonel Dyer the Saropa(the mark of distinguished service to the Sikh faith or, in general, humanity), sending shock waves among the Sikh community.[65] On 12 October 1920, students and faculty of the Amritsar Khalsa College called a meeting to demand the immediate removal of the Gurudwaras from the control of Mahants. The result was the formation of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee on 15 November 1920 to manage and to implement reforms in Sikh shrines.[66] Regret Although Queen Elizabeth II had not made any comments on the incident during her state visits in 1961 and 1983, she spoke about the events at a state banquet in India on 13 October 1997:[67] It is no secret that there have been some difficult episodes in our past – Jallianwala Bagh, which I shall visit tomorrow, is a distressing example. But history cannot be rewritten, however much we might sometimes wish otherwise. It has its moments of sadness, as well as gladness. We must learn from the sadness and build on the gladness.[67] On 14 October 1997, Queen Elizabeth II visited Jallianwala Bagh and paid her respects with a 30‑second moment of silence. During the visit, she wore a dress of a colour described as pink apricot or saffron, which was of religious significance to the Sikhs.[67] She removed her shoes while visiting the monument and laid a wreath at the monument.[67] While some Indians welcomed the expression of regret and sadness in the Queen's statement, others criticised it for being less than an apology.[67] The then Prime Minister of India Inder Kumar Gujral defended the Queen, saying that the Queen herself had not even been born at the time of the events and should not be required to apologise.[67] Winston Churchill, on 8 July 1920, urged the House of Commons to punish Colonel Dyer.[47] Churchill succeeded in persuading the House to forcibly retire Colonel Dyer, but Churchill would have preferred to see the colonel disciplined.[48] In February 2013 David Cameron became the first serving British Prime Minister to visit the site, laid a wreath at the memorial, and described the Amritsar massacre as "a deeply shameful event in British history, one that Winston Churchill rightly described at that time as monstrous. We must never forget what happened here and we must ensure that the UK stands up for the right of peaceful protests". Cameron did not deliver an official apology.[68] Artistic portrayals - 1977: A Hindi language motion picture called Jallian Wala Bagh was released. The film was written, produced and directed by Balraj Tah. Associate producer was Amarjit Singh Madan. The film is about the life of Udham Singh who assassinated Michael O'Dwyer in 1940. The film was partly filmed in the UK notably in Coventry and surrounding areas.[69] - 1981: Salman Rushdie's novel Midnight's Children portrays the massacre from the perspective of a doctor in the crowd, saved from the gunfire by a well-timed sneeze. - 1982: The massacre is depicted in Richard Attenborough's film Gandhi with the role of General Dyer played by Edward Fox. The film depicts most of the details of the massacre as well as the subsequent inquiry by the Montague commission. - 1984: The story of the massacre also occurs in the 7th episode of Granada TV's 1984 series The Jewel in the Crown, recounted by the fictional widow of a British officer who is haunted by the inhumanity of it and who tells how she came to be reviled because she defied the honours to Dyer and instead donated money to the Indian victims. - 2002: In the Hindi movie The Legend of Bhagat Singh directed by Rajkumar Santoshi, the massacre is reconstructed with the child Bhagat Singh as a witness, eventually inspiring him to become a revolutionary in the Indian independence movement. - 2006: Portions of the Hindi movie Rang De Basanti nonlinearly depict the massacre and the influence it had on the freedom fighters. - 2009: Bali Rai's novel, City of Ghosts, is partly set around the massacre, blending fact with fiction and magical realism. Dyer, Udham Singh and other real historical figures feature in the story. - 2014: The British period drama Downton Abbey makes a reference to the massacre in the eighth episode of season 5. The characters of Lord Grantham, Isobel Crawley and Shrimpy express their disapproval of the massacre when Susan MacClare and Lord Sinderby support it. - 2017: Hindi language movie Phillauri references the massacre as the reason the spirit of the primary character portrayed by Anushka Sharma cannot find peace as her lover lost his life in Amritsar and was unable to return to their village for the wedding. See also - Vidurashwatha - British Raj - Massacre of Chumik Shenko - Indian independence movement - List of massacres in India - Bloody Sunday, A day of IRA assassinations in Ireland and revenge attacks by the Royal Irish Constabulary on a crowd at Croke Park and on prisoners at Dublin Castle. - Mahatma Gandhi - Jinnah References - ↑ 1.0 1.1 "1919 Jallianwalla Bagh massacre" [archive]. Discover Sikhism. Retrieved 7 June 2016. - ↑ Report of Commissioners, Vol I, II, Bombay, 1920, Reprint New Delhi, 1976, p 56. - ↑ 3.0 3.1 Nigel Collett (15 October 2006). The Butcher of Amritsar: General Reginald Dyer [archive]. A&C Black. p. 263. ISBN 978-1-85285-575-8. - ↑ 4.0 4.1 Brian Lapping, End of Empire, p. 38, 1985 - ↑ Bipan Chandra etal, India's Struggle for Independence, Viking 1988, p.166 - ↑ Barbara D. Metcalf and Thomas R. Metcalf (2006). A concise history of modern India [archive]. Cambridge University Press. p.169 - ↑ Collett, Nigel (2006). The Butcher of Amritsar: General Reginald Dyer. pp. 398–399. - ↑ 8.0 8.1 Nigel Collett (15 October 2006). The Butcher of Amritsar: General Reginald Dyer [archive]. A&C Black. p. 262. ISBN 978-1-85285-575-8. - ↑ Manchester, William. The Last Lion: Winston S Churchill, Visions of Glory (1874–1932). Little, Brown. p. 694. - ↑ Derek Sayer, "British Reaction to the Amritsar Massacre 1919–1920", Past & Present',' May 1991, Issue 131, pp 130–164 - ↑ 11.0 11.1 11.2 Jaswant Singh (13 April 2002). "Bloodbath on the Baisakhi" [archive]. The Tribune. Retrieved 16 March 2013. - ↑ Manchester, William. The Last Lion : Winston Spencer Churchill, Visions of Glory (1874–1932). Little, Brown. p. 694. - ↑ Srinath Raghaven, "Protecting the Raj: The Army in India and Internal Security, c . 1919–39", Small Wars and Insurgencies, (Fall 2005), 16#3 pp 253–279 online [archive] - ↑ Brain Bond, "Amritsar 1919", History Today, Sept 1963, Vol. 13 Issue 10, pp 666–676 - ↑ Gupta, Amit Kumar (September–October 1997). "Defying Death: Nationalist Revolutionism in India, 1897-1938". Social Scientist. 25 (9/10): 12. doi:10.2307/3517678 [archive]. JSTOR 3517678 [archive]. - ↑ Popplewell, Richard J. (1995). Intelligence and Imperial Defence: British Intelligence and the Defence of the Indian Empire 1904–1924 [archive]. Routledge. p. 201. ISBN 0-7146-4580-X. - ↑ 17.0 17.1 Popplewell, Richard J. (1995). Intelligence and Imperial Defence: British Intelligence and the Defence of the Indian Empire 1904–1924 [archive]. Routledge. p. 175. ISBN 0-7146-4580-X. - ↑ Majumdar, Ramesh C. (1971). History of the Freedom Movement in India. Vol. II. Firma K. L. Mukhopadhyay. p. xix. ISBN 81-7102-099-2. - ↑ Dignan, Don (February 1971). "The Hindu Conspiracy in Anglo-American Relations during World War I". The Pacific Historical Review. 40 (1). University of California Press: 60. doi:10.2307/3637829 [archive]. - ↑ Cole, Howard; et al. (2001). Labour and Radical Politics 1762–1937. Routledge. p. 572. ISBN 0-415-26576-2. - ↑ Lovett, Sir Verney (1920). A History of the Indian Nationalist Movement. New York: Frederick A. Stokes Company. pp. 94, 187–191. ISBN 81-7536-249-9. - ↑ Sarkar, B. K. (March 1921). "The Hindu Theory of the State". Political Science Quarterly. 36 (1). The Academy of Political Science: 137. - ↑ Tinker, Hugh (October 1968). "India in the First World War and after". Journal of Contemporary History. 3 (4). Sage Publications: 92. JSTOR 259846 [archive]. - ↑ Fisher, Margaret W. (Spring 1972). "Essays on Gandhian Politics: the Rowlatt Satyagraha of 1919 (in Book Reviews)". Pacific Affairs. 45 (1). University of British Columbia: 129. doi:10.2307/2755297 [archive]. - ↑ Wolpert, Stanley (2013). Jinnah of Pakistan. Karachi, Pakistan: Oxford University Press. p. 62. ISBN 978-0-19-577389-7. - ↑ Swami P (1 November 1997). "Jallianwala Bagh revisited" [archive]. The Hindu. Archived from the original [archive] on 28 November 2007. Retrieved 7 October 2007. {{cite web}} : Unknown parameter|deadurl= ignored (help) - ↑ 27.0 27.1 Cell, John W. (2002). Hailey: A Study in British Imperialism, 1872–1969. Cambridge University Press. p. 67. ISBN 0-521-52117-3. - ↑ Brown, Emily (May 1973). "Book Reviews; South Asia". The Journal of Asian Studies. 32 (3). University of British Columbia: 523. - ↑ 29.0 29.1 Ferguson, Niall (2003). Empire: How Britain Made the Modern World. London: Penguin Books. p. 326. ISBN 0-7139-9615-3. {{cite book}} : Cite has empty unknown parameter:|titlelink1= (help) - ↑ Collett, Nigel (2006). The Butcher of Amritsar: General Reginald Dyer. Hambledon Continuum: New Edition. p. 234. - ↑ 31.0 31.1 Banerjee, Sikata (2012). Muscular Nationalism: Gender, Violence, and Empire [archive]. p. 24. - ↑ Talbott, Strobe (2004). Engaging India : Diplomacy, Democracy, and the Bomb. p. 245. - ↑ Townshend, Britains Civil Wars. p137 - ↑ Collett, The Butcher of Amritsar p. 246 - ↑ Collett, The Butcher of Amritsar p. 252-253 - ↑ Collett, The Butcher of Amritsar p. 253 - ↑ 37.0 37.1 37.2 Collett, The Butcher of Amritsar p. 254-255 - ↑ Collett, The Butcher of Amritsar: General Reginald Dyer p 255-58 - ↑ Hunter Report, p116-117. - ↑ Nigel Collett (2007). The Butcher of Amritsar: General Reginald Dyer. Hambledon and London. p. 263. - ↑ Hunter Report, p117 - ↑ "Amritsar Massacre – ninemsn Encarta" [archive]. Archived from the original [archive] on 1 November 2009. {{cite web}} : Unknown parameter|deadurl= ignored (help) - ↑ Nigel Collett, The Butcher of Amritsar: General Reginald Dyer (2006) p. 267 - ↑ Derek Sayer, "British Reaction to the Amritsar Massacre 1919–1920", Past & Present, May 1991, Issue 131, p.142 - ↑ Nigel Collett, The Butcher of Amritsar: General Reginald Dyer (2006) p. 372 - ↑ Derek Sayer, "British Reaction to the Amritsar Massacre 1919–1920", Past & Present, May 1991, Issue 131, p.131 - ↑ 47.0 47.1 "Hansard (House of Commons Archives)". Hansard: 1719–1733. 8 July 1920. - ↑ 48.0 48.1 Manchester, William (1988). The Last Lion: Winston Spencer Churchill, Visions of Glory (1874–1932). Little, Brown. p. 694. - ↑ J. A. Cloake (1994). Britain in the Modern World [archive]. Oxford University Press. p. 36. - ↑ Rabindranath Tagore; Sisir Kumar Das (January 1996). A miscellany [archive]. Sahitya Akademi. pp. 982–. ISBN 978-81-260-0094-4. Retrieved 17 February 2012. - ↑ "Tagore renounced his Knighthood in protest for Jalianwalla Bagh mass killing" [archive]. The Times of India. Mumbai: Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. 13 April 2011. Retrieved 17 February 2012. - ↑ Kalyan Sen Gupta (2005). The philosophy of Rabindranath Tagore [archive]. Ashgate Publishing, Ltd. pp. 3–. ISBN 978-0-7546-3036-4. Retrieved 17 February 2012. - ↑ Rabindranath Tagore; Introduction By Mohit K. Ray (1 January 2007). English Writings of Rabindranath TagoreMiscellaneous Writings Vol# 8 [archive]. Atlantic Publishers & Dist. pp. 1021–. ISBN 978-81-269-0761-8. Retrieved 17 February 2012. - ↑ 54.0 54.1 54.2 54.3 54.4 54.5 54.6 54.7 54.8 Collett, Nigel (2006). The Butcher of Amritsar: General Reginald Dyer. Amritsar (India): Continuum International Publishing Group. pp. 333–334. ISBN 9781852855758. - ↑ Steven Patterson, The cult of imperial honor in British India (2009) P. 67 - ↑ Nick Lloyd, The Amritsar Massacre: The Untold Story of One Fateful Day (2011) p. 157 - ↑ Collett, The Butcher of Amritsar p. 337 - ↑ Cyril Henry Philips, "The evolution of India and Pakistan, 1858 to 1947: select documents" p.214. Oxford University Press, 1962 - ↑ Winston Churchill (8 July 1920). "Winston Churchill's speech in the House of Commons" [archive]. Retrieved 14 September 2010. - ↑ "Royal Air Force Power Review" [archive] (PDF). 1. Spring 2008. Retrieved 24 October 2010. {{cite web}} : CS1 maint: postscript (link) - ↑ The Times, London, 16 March 1940 - ↑ Public and Judicial Department, File No L/P + J/7/3822, Caxton Hall outrage, India Office Library and Records, London, pp 13–14 - ↑ Government of India, Home Department, Political File No 18/3/1940, National Archives of India, New Delhi, p40 - ↑ CRIM 1/1177, Public Record Office, London, p 64 - ↑ Ajit Singh Sarhadi, "Punjabi Suba: The Story of the Struggle", Kapur Printing Press, Delhi, 1970, p. 19. - ↑ Indian critiques of Gandhi – Google Books [archive]. Books.google.com. 2003. ISBN 978-0-7914-5910-2. Retrieved 1 February 2011. - ↑ 67.0 67.1 67.2 67.3 67.4 67.5 Burns, John F. (15 October 1997). "In India, Queen Bows Her Head Over a Massacre in 1919" [archive]. New York Times. Retrieved 12 February 2013. - ↑ "David Cameron marks British 1919 Amritsar massacre" [archive]. News. BBC. 20 February 2013. Retrieved 20 February 2013. "Not our finest hour: David Cameron to visit Amritsar massacre site but won't make official apology" [archive]. News. Daily Mirror. 20 February 2013. Retrieved 20 February 2013. "Jallianwala Bagh killings shameful, says David Cameron" [archive]. News. Daily News and Analysis. 20 February 2013. Retrieved 20 February 2013. - ↑ Jallian Wala Bagh [archive] at the Internet Movie Database Further reading - Collett, Nigel (2006). The Butcher of Amritsar: General Reginald Dyer. - Draper, Alfred (1985). The Amritsar Massacre: Twilight of the Raj. - Hopkirk, Peter (1997). Like Hidden Fire: The Plot to Bring Down the British Empire. Kodansha Globe. ISBN 1-56836-127-0. - Judd, Dennis (1996). "The Amritsar Massacre of 1919: Gandhi, the Raj and the Growth of Indian Nationalism, 1915–39", in Judd, Empire: The British Imperial Experience from 1765 to the Present. Basic Books. pp 258– 72. - Lloyd, Nick (2011). The Amritsar Massacre: The Untold Story of One Fateful Day. - Narain, Savita (1998). The historiography of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, 1919. New Delhi: Spantech and Lancer. 76pp. ISBN 1-897829-36-1 - Swinson, Arthur (1964). Six Minutes to Sunset: The Story of General Dyer and the Amritsar Affair. London: Peter Davies. External links - British Parliament [archive] debate on this incident. - An NPR interview [archive] with Bapu Shingara Singh – the last known surviving witness. - Churchill's speech [archive] after the incident. - Amritsar Massacre at Jallianwala Bagh [archive] Listen to the Shaheed song of the Amritsar Massacre at Jallian Wala Bagh. - Amritsar Massacre as a turning point in the British Raj [archive] – Description and analysis of the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre. - Pages with script errors - CS1 errors: unsupported parameter - CS1 errors: empty unknown parameters - CS1 maint: postscript - EngvarB from March 2014 - Articles with invalid date parameter in template - Use dmy dates from March 2014 - Pages with broken file links - Wikipedia articles needing clarification from March 2017 - Articles with hatnote templates targeting a nonexistent page - All articles with unsourced statements - Articles with unsourced statements from February 2014 - Articles with unsourced statements from March 2013 - Conflicts in 1919 - Mass murder in 1919 - 1919 in British India - Protests in British India - Massacres in India - Massacres committed by the United Kingdom - Amritsar - Political repression in British India - Military scandals - Hindu–German Conspiracy - 1919 in India - History of Punjab, India - Massacres of Sikhs - Indian independence movement - April 1919 events


--- [Paul Scott & Jewel in the Crown - Central Oregon Community College] ---
Paul Scott (1920 - 1978) & Jewel in the Crown (1966) Vol. 1 of the Raj Quartet. Rpt. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1998. Webtip: This and other ENG 103 webpages are being updated regularly; to ensure that you see viewing the latest version in your internet browser, click "Refresh" (Explorer) or "Reload" (Netscape) at the top of your browser screen. Short Cuts: 1. SYNOPSES of the 4 novels in the Raj Quartet & Staying On 2. Historical Fact vs. Historical Fiction 3. RESOURCES for FURTHER STUDY: WWW Links & Print Sources 4. STUDY GUIDES for Jewel in the Crown My thanks to Dr. John Lennard for his corrections, suggestions, and recommended sources; and to Prof. Eva Braun for sharing her articles on the Raj Quartet. These additional resources will be incorporated in Spring 2003. (-C.A. Sept., 2002). Revised URL: http://web.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/ScottPaul/scott/scott.htm 1. SYNOPSES of the 4 novels in Scott's Raj Quartet & of his 5th novel Staying On The four novels of Paul Scott's Raj Quartet present mostly imaginary characters in mostly real places against the backdrop of actual historical events. While each novel (arguably) stands alone, the four novels taken together are "thick with connected people and interwoven events," transpiring in different places--fictional but realistic "places like Pankot and Mirat" and "really real places like New Delhi and Bombay" (Brann 183, 185). An unnamed narrator (variously referred to as the "traveler" or "stranger") "has objective oversight" of various characters' "retellings that scramble time and multiply perspectival accounts" (Brann 185). Eva Brann likens the structure of the Raj Quartet to the fractal, a concept from mathematics and physics: "A fractal is a geometric pattern whose smaller parts . . . mirror the whole, so that the large picture descends into all its detail, while each part repeats the whole on an ever-increasing scale. Thus the 'imperial embrace' of England and India recurs in the strained intercourse between Mayapore's British cantonment and Indian native quarter, and again in Daphne [Manners]'s and Hari [Kumar]'s impediment-ridden love, and, at its basest, reappears in [Ronald] Merrick's attempt at an intimate domination of his prisoner [Hari Kumar]. These configurations in the Jewel [in the Crown] repeat themselves in the subsequent novels [of the Raj Quartet], the historical situation and the people reflecting each other . . ." (185). Eva Brann maintains that the "Raj novels are among the greatest prose fictions of this and of the nineteenth century" known for its "many fine realistic novels" (187). The 15-hour Granada television adaptation Jewel in the Crown tells the interlocked stories of the Raj Quartet in chronological order and achieves a fascinating dramatization by focusing on key “characters, the tensions between them and their developing situations. The historical context is brilliantly conveyed by newsreel clips so patently pro-British that they serve as a parodic commentary . . .” (Moore 211). But it is well to emphasize what is “largely lost in the process of adaptation”: “the texture of testimony, its intimation of character, the doubts about the truth and reality of observations” (Moore 211) central to the experience of reading Paul Scott’s novels. See The Making of The Jewel in the Crown URL: http://www.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/eng339/coursepack/makingJewel.htm Vol. 1: Jewel in the Crown (1966) focuses on "an interracial love affair between Daphne Manners and Hari Kumar [AKA: Harry Coomer], and the repercussions of the rape of Daphne in the Bibighar Gardens in Mayapore [fictional city in India] on August 9, 1942. It is a moment when the [British] Raj feels (once again) threatened by the disturbances consequent on Gandhi's 'Quit India' campaign. Hari Kumar is arrested . . . and interrogated by a personage who will haunt the [Raj] Quartet, District Superintendent of Police Ronald Merrick. The 'imperial embrace' in which Britain and India are locked has become personal" (Brann 182).Vol. 2: The Day of the Scorpion (1968): "In this novel an old Raj family comes newly on the scene, the Laytons of Pankot, an imaginary hill station [in India]. Now an army captain, [Ronald] Merrick, a self-made man of the lower middle class, begins to insinuate himself subtly and fatally into the [Layton] family. We learn in a searing session with the incarcerated Hari [Kumar] what [the Laytons] do not know, that Merrick has tortured and molested him. Susan, the younger Layton sister, driven by a sense of her own nothingness, marries one Teddie Bingham, a colorless and conventional officer in the prestigious Pankot Rifles. Merrick, though he loses . . . [his left arm above the elbow] in trying, unsuccessfully, to save Teddie's life, is indirectly the cause of Teddie's death in the jungle. Sarah Layton, the older sister, comes to the fore as the morally fine-tuned mainstay of the family" (Brann 182).Vol. 3: The Towers of Silence (1971) "takes its name from the Parsee towers where the bodies of the dead are left to be picked clean by vultures. . . . These towers are in Ranpur, [India,] where Barbie Batchelor is confined to a sanitarium in her final madness. This torrentially loquacious, inwardly silent, awkwardly illumined old missionary is the principal figure of the third book. She is locked in grotesque and unequal battle with the local Anglo-Indian society which is growing brittle under the firestorm of troubles, the absence of its men [fighting in World War II], the danger of Japanese invasion [of India], the indifference of the home island [England], and above all the withdrawal of the spirit of the 'time-expired' Raj they are doomed always to represent. At the end of the book, Barbie and [Ronald] Merrick meet, and Barbie goes mad" (Brann 182-183). Barbie dies in August 1945, as the atomic bomb is dropped on Hiroshima.Vol. 4: A Division of the Spoils (1975) derives its title from Isaiah 53.12 and Proverbs 16. 18-19. "A Division is by far the longest book because in it, as the Raj winds down, all the pending affairs, personal and political, are wound up. It recounts in personal terms the humbling and hasty decamping of the British: the precipitant demission of power to a country fiercely bent on division; the travails of an honorable Muslim Congressman, Mohammed Ali Kasim, and his sons, one of whom has deserted to the Berlin-directed Indian National Army; the quandary of the Nawab of the small fictive princely state of Mirat, left in the lurch by the lapse of British Paramountcy; the suicide of a dysentery-debilitated and maladapted British officer; the prowling of the haunted [Ronald] Merrick . . . . The new man on the scene is Sergeant [Guy] Perron, an alumnus of a posh public school called Chillingborough [which Hari Kumar--as Harry Coomer--also attended when he lived in England] . . . . it was he who returned in 1945 . . . to be an observer of India on the eve of Independence; this assignment soon turns into a personal inquiry into the truth behind the hushed-up story of Lieutenant-Colonel [Ronald] Merrick's death in Mirat" (Brann 183). The tragic consequences of India-Pakistan Partition are dramatized in a horrific train massacre.Post-Raj Quartet: Staying On (1978), featuring "Tusker" and Lucy Smalley (minor characters in the Raj Quartet), won the prestigious Booker Prize. This "melancholy comedy . . . . takes place exactly a quarter century after Independence and the end of A Division [of the Spoils]" as "both a complement and a sort of comic culmination. Raj arrogance has now been replaced with Indian corruption in the shape of Mrs. Bhoolaboy, the man-mountain of peccancy, manager-proprietor of the old Smith's Hotel in Pankot" (Brann 186). The Smalleys, "unpromising nobodies" in the Raj Quartet, "'stay on,' hang on, in Pankot and as their circumstances decline, they themselves gain in human poignancy. "The afterlife of the Laytons," including Guy Perron and Sarah Layton, is also told (Brann 186). Works Cited Brann, Eva. "Tapestry with Images: Paul Scott's Raj Novels." [Critical Discussions.] Philosophy and Literature 23 (1999): 181-196. Moore, Robin. Paul Scott's Raj. London: Heinemann, 1990. 2 . HISTORICAL FACT VS. FICTION in Jewel in the CrownPaul Scott on History vs. Fiction: "On the face of it, The Jewel in the Crown is about an English girl called Daphne Manners who falls in love with an Anglicized Indian called Hari Kumar. In the opening stages of the Indian rebellion of 1942, Miss Manners is criminally assaulted by a gang of hooligans. The district superintendent of police [Ronald Merrick] promptly arrests Hari Kumar and five other boys of a similar type whom he finds drinking illicit liquor in a hut not far from the scene of the crime. They are, as a matter of fact, innocent, and the Indians are convinced of that. Rumours of their torture and defilement add fuel to the fire of the riots that bring the Indian population and the British raj into a violent confrontation. These riots are widespread throughout the country. Their cause is political. "Here is a blend of fact and fiction. The riots are real. The historical and political scene are factual. The dramatic situation of the criminal [p. 55 / p. 56] assault, the arrests, the treatment of the prisoners, is imaginary. But it is based very broadly on fact. [Cora's emphasis added.] "In 1919 in Amritsar, at the onset of some earlier troubles, in the Punjab, an Englishwoman, a Mission School Superintendent, was dragged off her bicycle by a gang of hooligans, and beaten up. Six men were arrested at random. The lane in which the assault took place was sealed off by orders of one Brigadier-General Dyer, a triangle was erected in the lane and the six men who had been arrested were brought there from jail, and whipped, for what was called an infringement of prison regulations. Thereafter, any Indian who lived in the lane was made to crawl on his hands and knees along it to get to his front door. Presently there occurred the affair of the shooting by the Gurkha troops, led by General Dyer, of a crowd of unarmed Indian civilians in an enclosed space called the Jallianwallah Bagh. The crowd had collected there in defiance of Dyer's orders prohibiting public meetings. They were not, however, warned to disperse but simply fired on. Women and children were among those killed. There was no way out of Jallianwallah Bagh except over the walls. The troops were blocking the only exit. "This revolting episode has, as you may imagine, never been forgotten by India. The riots in the Punjab in 1919 were sparked off by the passing of what was called the Rowlatt Acts - a measure taken by the British to extend into peacetime certain wartime measures taken to protect the realm. They included the right to imprison without trial. It as an extraordinary thing to do, considering the aid given the British by Indians of all kinds during the Great War [i.e. World War I]. In 1917, Dominion status for Indian had been formally declared by the British as their intention. It seemed like a reward for Indian co-operation during the war effort [World War I]. At this period, Mr Gandhi was urging young Indians in London to support the war effort. The [Indian] Congress Party was lined up in co-operation too. But the behaviour of the British Government after the war, in taking these further repressive measures, which the Indians saw as a crude ruse to prohibit free speech, alienated Gandhi, the Congress Party, and Indians in general. Hence the riots of the Punjab [of 1919]. Hence General Dyer and Jallianwallah Bagh. "At the time, he British in India hailed Dyer as a saviour, a man who had nipped the revolution in the bud with a military version of gun-boat diplomacy. At home [in the United Kingdom], however - when all was said and done, India was ruled by us, over here, through the House of Commons - we were alarmed at this mid-Victorian attitude persisting on into the post [p. 56 / p. 57] Great-War decade. Dyer was eventually had up on the carpet, and, quite properly, retired. He was ill from a disease of the brain which later killed him. The memsahibs of India collected L 26,000 to help keep the wolf from the old general's door. Here we have an interesting human and political situation. History is often made by ill people. But mostly the story illustrates the fact that human action is subject to the pressures exerted by the collective conscience. It is this collective conscience that gives history its forward impetus, what I call its [history's] moral drift. "Now all these things were in my mind before I began to formulate the images that go to make up the work I called The Jewel in the Crown. . . . fictional images are a combination of the writer's experience, imagination, knowledge and creative impulse. Those things I have just outlined come under the heading of knowledge. By knowledge I don't just mean the assimilation of facts, but that assimilation plus one's attitude to them. The facts I have outlined exist in a state of reality. They happened. I interpret them one way, you may interpret them in another way. You knowledge, as a writer, therefore, is probably quite different from mine. But my knowledge is part of my tone of voice. I must be aware of this. I must be constantly on the alert for the weaknesses in my interpretation of facts, which means I must try to see things - in this case, from Dyer's point of view - from the point of view of the ladies who collected L 26,000, and from the point of the view of the unfortunate men and women and children whose sufferings roused them emotionally, perhaps, to take an intensely narrow and persoanl view which in urn led them to take unjust or unworthy actions, themselves. And when I've done all that, I must still come out with a firm opinion. Northing is worse for a novel than for the novelist to see all sides of a question and fail to support one. You must commit yourself. Submit yourself to an inquisition, but, at its close, commit yourself. Stick your neck out. Your novel will then say something" (Scott, "Method" 55-57).Shelley Reece on Paul Scott's theory of history: In his letters, essays, and fiction, Scott gave prominence to Ralph Waldo Emerson's essay "History" - particularly Emerson's statement that "'Man is explicable by no less than all his history'" (qtd. in Reece 9). "Scott has Barbie Batchelor [in The Towers of Silence, vol. 3 of the Raj Quartet] discover this sentence in a book of Emerson's essays" and uses Batchelor's trunk of relics to symbolize the weight and continuity of "personal and universal" history each person must carry. "In this way, each person is implicated in what Scott calls 'the moral drift of history': each person contributes to that history day-by-day in each action. The background of history and the foreground of fiction are intertwined in an inseparable way for Scott. . . . Each civilian and soldier, English or Indian, contributes to the history of the raj. The relationship between each person's work and life becomes paramount, for in that way, each human being in Scott's work contributes to that moral drift and Scott's history becomes part of the history it records. If fiction can become an agent of humanity's moral imagination in a period of political flux, then possibly Scott's fiction is the closest a reader might come to engaging in moral dialogue during a time of uncertainty, that time in whi8ch Scott believed the English people have lived since 1945 . . ." (Reece 9-10). Criticism "Defence of India" War-time Law "The Raj Quartet embodies a criticism of the repressive Defense of India law, which could imprison on suspicion of sedition, and takes as its historical starting point the arrest of Congress Party leade4rs on August 9, 1942, for voting support of Mohandas Gandhi's exhortation to the British, in the midst of war with Japan to 'Quit India, and leave her to God or to anarchy.' The rioting which followed the arrests leads in The jewel in the Crown to the roadside attack on the devoted Edwina Crane, supervisor of Protestant schools in the Mayapore district, the murder of her companion, Mr. Chaudhuri, resident teacher at the school in Dibrapur, and the gang rape of Daphne Manners, the unconventional English niece of Lady Ethel Manners, in the Bibighar Gardens immediately after she and Hari Kumar (former Harry Coomer), an English public-school-bred Indian, have made love. Hari is arrested as a suspect, and although Daphne refuses to cooperate with the authorities, the Defense of India laws provide District Superintendent of Polic Ronald Merrick with a handy device for incarcerating indefinitely his rival for her affection" (Weinbaum 90). This law's injustice is dramatized again in The Day of the Scorpion (vol. 2 of the Raj Quartet), when "the arrest and imprisonment of Congress Party leader Mohammed Ali Kasim, a man of uncompromising principles who favors Indian independence," is depicted (Weinbaum 90).Works Cited Reece, Shelley C. Introduction. My Appointment with the Muse: Essays, 1961-75. By Paul Scott. London: Heinemann, 1986. 1-10. Scott, Paul. "Method: The Mystery and the Mechanics (1967)." My Appointment with the Muse: Essays, 1961-75. Ed. Shelley C. Reece. London: Heinemann, 1986. 51-69. Weinbaum, Francine S. Paul Scott: A Critical Study. Austin: Univ. of Texas Press, 1992. 3. RESOURCES FOR FURTHER STUDY WWW Links Masterpiece Theatre (PBS Online): The Jewel in the Crown Based on Paul Scott's Raj Quartet; 14 episodes originally broadcast in 1983 (Granada Television, 1984). "Episode 1: The Jewel in the Crown" (introduced by Alistair Cooke). http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/masterpiece/archive/76/76.htmlEditorial Reviews of The Jewel in the Crown (v. 1 of the Raj Quartet, by Paul Scott) Amazon.com: http://www.amazon.com/ Search: Books; Keywords: Paul Scott, Jewel in the CrownIndia Timeline 3: The British Raj (late 17th - early 20th c.) http://www.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/hum210/tml/IndiaTML/indiatml3.htm India Timeline 4: Independence of India & Pakistan (20th c) & India Timeline Sources http://www.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/hum210/tml/IndiaTML/indiatml4.htm part of Cora Agatucci's HUM 210 Asian Timelines of Literary & Cultural History Table of Contents: http://www.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/hum210/tml/asianTML.htmPrint & Database Sources Ackerman, Karl. Rev. of Paul Scott: A Life of the Author of the Raj Quartet, by Hilary Spurling. Smithsonian 23.11 (Feb. 1993): 133 (2pp). EBSCOHost Academic Search Elite 2000, Article No. 9302020222. [COCC Library: Full Text] Brandt, George W. "The Jewel in the Crown (Paul Scott - Ken Taylor): The Literary Serial; or the Art of Adaptation." British Television Drama in the 1980s. Ed. George W. Brandt. Cambridge, UK & New York: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1993. 196-213. [ORBIS - PN1992.65 .B682 1993 ] Brann, Eva. "Tapestry with Images: Paul Scott's Raj Novels." [Critical Discussions.] Philosophy and Literature 23 (1999): 181-196. Childs, Peter. Paul Scott's Raj Quartet: History and Division. ELS Monograph Series No. 77. Victoria, B.C., Canada: English Literary Studies, University of Victoria, 1998. [ORBIS PR6069.C596 R343 1998 ] Fisher, Marlene. Rev. of Paul Scott: A Life of the Author of the Raj Quartet, by Hilary Spurling. World Literature in Review 65.4 (Autumn 1991): 713 (2pp). EBSCOHost Academic Search Elite 2000, Article No. 9610180404. [COCC Library: Full Text] Gorra, Michael Edward. After Empire: Scott, Naipaul, Rushdie. Chicago: Univ. of Chicago Press, 1997. [ORBIS PR888.I6 G67 1997] ---. "Writing On." Rev. of Paul Scott: A Life of the Author of the Raj Quartet, by Hilary Spurling. New Republic 20 May 1991: 47(4pp). EBSCOHost Academic Search Elite 2000, Article No. 9105202860. [COCC Library: Full Text] Liebregts, P. T. M. G. "'Mingling on the Lawn': The Impossibility of Contact in the Work of Paul Scott." [Conference: Shades of Empire in Colonial and Post-Colonial Literatures, Eds. C. C. Barfoot and T. D'haen; Oct 1990, Leiden, The Netherlands.] DQR Studies in Literature 11 (1993): 35-50. OCLC FirstSearch 1992-2001, PapersFirst CN002924948. Mahoney, Blair. Rev. of The Raj Quartet: The Jewel in the Crown, by Paul Scott. Contemporary South Asia 8.2 (July 1999): 261 (2pp). EBSCOHost Academic Search Elite Article No. 2642347. [COCC Library: Full Text] The Making of The Jewel in the Crown: The Masterpiece Theatre Series based on Paul Scott's Raj Quartet. Granada Television. New York: St. Martin's Press, 1983. [ORBIS PN1992.77.J38M35 1984] See also ENGL 339 Online Course Pack: The Making of The Jewel in the Crown URL: http://www.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/eng339/coursepack/makingJewel.htmMoore, Robin. Paul Scott's Raj. London: Heinemann, 1990. [ORBIS PR6069.C596 R3435 1990 ] "The world, to a large extent, learns its history of the [British] Raj [in India] from the works of Paul Scott. It is necessary [therefore] to discover his sources and examine the conclusions that he drew from them" (Moore 6). Parini, Jay, ed. World Writers in English. New York: Scribners (forthcoming in 2003? - check again!) Paterson, Martin. Imperialism, Insularity and Identity: The Novels of Paul Scott. Ph.D. Thesis: Univ. of York, U.K., 1993. [ ORBIS ] Rao, K[anatur]. Bhaskara. Paul Scott. Twayne's English Author Series No. 285. Boston: Twayne-G. K. Hall, 1980. [ORBIS PR 6069 .C596 Z85 ] Rubin, David. After the Raj: British Novels of India Since 1947. Hanover: Univ. Press of New England, 1986. Scanlon, Margaret. Traces of Another Time: History and Politics in Postwar British Fiction. Princeton, NJ: Princeton Univ. Press, 1990. [ PR888 .H5 S3 1990 ] Scott, Paul. My Appointment with the Muse: Essays, 1961-75. Ed. Shelley C. Reece. London: Heinemann, 1986. [ORBIS PR6069.C596 A16 1986 ] [Contents essentially the same as given below for On Writing and the Novel] ---. On Writing and the Novel: Essays. Ed. Shelley C. Reece. New York: Morrow, 1987. [ ORBIS PR6069.C596Z466 1987 ] [Content Description: "Imagination in the novel -- Aspects of writing -- Meet the author : Manchester -- Method : the mystery and the mechanics -- The architecture of the arts : the novel -- Enoch Sahib : a slight case of cultural shock -- The Yorkshire post fiction award -- After Marabar : Britain and India, a post-Forsterian view -- Literature and the social conscience : the novel -- A writer takes stock -- Notes for talk and reading at Stamford Grammar School."] Spurling, Hillary. Paul Scott: A Life of the Author of the Raj Quartet. London: Hutchinson, 1990; New York: W. W. Norton, 1991. COCC Library PR6069.C596 Z857 1991 or PR6069.C596Z ] ---. "Paul Scott: Novelist and Historian." Adventures with Britannia: Personalities, Politics and Culture in Britain. Ed. William Roger Louis. London: I. B. Tauris; and Austin: Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center, Univ. of Texas at Austin, 1995. 25-39. [ORBIS DA 16 .A3 1995] Strobl, Gerwin. The Challenge of Cross-Cultural Interpretation in the Anglo-Indian Novel: The Raj Revisited. Salzburg English & American Studies, V. 3. Lewiston, NY: Lampeter, Mellen, 1995. [ORBIS PR830.I6 S8 1995] Swindon, Patrick. Paul Scott. Writers & Their Work, No. 278. Windsor, Berkshire: Profile Books, 1982. [ORBIS PR6069.C596Z858 ] ---. Paul Scott: Images of India. New York: St. Martin's, 1980. [ORBIS PR6069.C596 Z86 1980] Tedesco, Janis, and Janet Popham. Introduction to the Raj Quartet. Lanham, MD: Univ. Press of America, 1985. [ORBIS PR6069.C596R3437 1985] Weinbaum, Francine S. Paul Scott: A Critical Study. Austin: Univ. of Texas Press, 1992. [ORBIS PR6069.C596 Z94 1992 ] 4. STUDY GUIDES for Jewel in the Crown Paul Scott & Jewel in the Crown URL of this webpage: http://web.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/ScottPaul/scott/scott.htmPart One: "Miss Crane" - online Jewel Study Guide 1: http://web.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/ScottPaul/scott/JCsg1.htmPart Two: "The MacGregor House" - online Jewel Study Guide 2: http://web.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/ScottPaul/scott/JCsg2.htmPart Three: "Sister Ludmila" - online Jewel Study Guide 3: http://web.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/ScottPaul/scott/JCsg3.htmPart Four: "An Evening at the Club" - online Jewel Study Guide 4: http://web.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/ScottPaul/scott/JCsg4.htmPart Five: "Young Kumar" - online Jewel Study Guide 5: http://web.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/ScottPaul/scott/JCsg5.htmPart Six: "Civil and Military" - online Jewel Study Guide 6: http://web.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/ScottPaul/scott/JCsg6.htmPart Seven: "The Bibighar Gardens" - online Jewel Study Guide 7: http://web.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/ScottPaul/scott/JCsg7.htmDRAFT timeline: http://web.cocc.edu/cagatucci/classes/ScottPaul/scott/drafttimeline.htm You are here: Paul Scott & Jewel in the Crown Copyright � 1997-2007, Cora Agatucci, Professor of English Humanities Department, Central Oregon Community College


--- [Downton Abbey's Jallianwala Bagh Reference | PDF - Scribd] ---
Downton Abbey's Jallianwala Bagh Reference On December 25, 2021, Jaswant Singh Chail attempted to assassinate Queen Elizabeth II at Windsor Castle to seek revenge for the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre in India. In his video posted to Snapchat, he said it was revenge for deaths in the 1919 massacre and later discrimination. He was arrested before entering the castle and sentenced to 14 years in prison after pleading guilty to treason charges. Downton Abbey's Jallianwala Bagh Reference


--- [Jallianwala Bagh massacre - Reference.org] ---
No content


--- [Jallianwala Bagh massacre] ---
The Jallianwala Bagh massacre (IPA: [dʒəlɪjãːʋaːlaː baːɣ, baːɡ]), also known as the Amritsar massacre, took place on 13 April 1919. A large crowd had gathered at the Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar, Punjab, British India, during the annual Baisakhi fair to protest against the Rowlatt Act and the arrest of pro-Indian independence activists Saifuddin Kitchlew and Satyapal. In response to the public gathering, Brigadier-General Reginald Dyer surrounded the people with Gurkha of Nepalese origin and Sikh infantrymen of the Indian Army. The Jallianwala Bagh could only be exited on one side, as its other three sides were enclosed by buildings. After blocking the exit with his troops, Dyer ordered them to shoot at the crowd, continuing to fire even as the protestors tried to flee. The troops kept on firing until their ammunition was low and they were ordered to stop. Estimates of those killed vary from 379 to 1,500 or more people; over 1,200 others were injured, of whom 192 sustained serious injury. Britain has never formally apologised for the massacre, but expressed deep "regret" in 2019.
The massacre caused a re-evaluation by the Imperial British military of its role when confronted with civilians to use "minimal force whenever possible" (although the British Army was not directly involved in the massacre; the Indian Army was a separate organisation). However, in the light of later British military actions during the Mau Mau rebellion in the Kenya Colony, historian Huw Bennett has pointed out that this new policy was not always followed. The army was retrained with less violent tactics for crowd control.
The level of casual brutality and the lack of any accountability stunned the entire nation, resulting in a wrenching loss of faith of the general Indian public in the intentions of the United Kingdom. The attack was condemned by the Secretary of State for War, Winston Churchill, as "unutterably monstrous", and in the UK House of Commons debate on 8 July 1920 Members of Parliament voted 247 to 37 against Dyer. The ineffective inquiry, together with the initial accolades for Dyer, fuelled great widespread anger against the British among the Indian populace, leading to the non-cooperation movement of 1920–22.


