=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sujata Manohar - Wikipedia]
At the end of 1994 (November), after 16 years as a High Court judge, she was appointed a judge of the Supreme Court of India and later retired in 1999. [2] As a judge, she took a strongly independent stance, defending the rule of law against political and public pressures.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sujata_Manohar

[Mrs. (Justice) Sujata Vasant Manohar (Retd.) – The Voice of ...]
Jan 31, 2026 · She was elevated as Judge of the Supreme Court of India in 1994 and retired from there in 1999. Justice Sujata Manohar was given many responsibilities because of her abilities. She was In-charge of the setting up of Family Courts in Maharashtra.
URL: https://thevoiceofmalabarhills.com/mrs-justice-sujata-vasant-manohar-retd/

[Justice Sujata V Manohar - Supreme Court of India]
Appointed as Chief Justice of Bombay High Court with effect from 15.1.1994 (A.N.). Transferred as Chief Justice of Kerala High Court with effect from 21.4.1994. Appointed as Judge of the Supreme Court of India with effect from 8.11.1994. Retired on 27.8.1999. Present Address: 16, Walkeshwar Road, Mumbar-400006 Telephone No. (R) 23633899, 23634100.
URL: https://www.sci.gov.in/judge/justice-sujata-v-manohar/

[11 Woman Judges of Supreme Court of India -Justice Fatima Beevi to ...]
Jul 4, 2025 · After retirement, she went on to serve as the Governor of Tamil Nadu, further underscoring her stature in public life. 2. Justice Sujata V. Manohar (1994–1999) Justice Sujata Manohar brought with her a distinguished career as a High Court judge and Chief Justice of Bombay and Kerala High Courts before her elevation to the Supreme Court.
URL: https://www.thelawadvice.com/articles/11-woman-judges-of-supreme-court-of-india-justice-fatima-beevi-to-nagarathna

[Sujata Manohar - Bharatpedia]
Sujata Vasant Manohar (born 28 August 1934) is a retired judge of the Supreme Court of India (retired in 1999) and a former member of the National Human Rights Commission of India.
URL: https://en.bharatpedia.org/wiki/Sujata_Manohar


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sujata Manohar - Wikipedia] ---
Sujata Vasant Manohar (born 28 August 1934) is a former judge of the Supreme Court of India and a former member of the National Human Rights Commission of India.


--- [Mrs. (Justice) Sujata Vasant Manohar (Retd.) – The Voice of ...] ---
Our People on the Hills Our country celebrated 75th year of Independence on 15th August with the theme “Azaadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav”. All citizens proudly hoisted our ‘Tiranga’ outside their homes and balconies in response to the ‘Har Ghar Tiranga’ campaign of the Government. After this joyous occasion, we feel honoured to write about Retired Justice Sujata Manohar, a resident of our Hills. In 1978, she was the first woman Judge to be appointed in the Bombay High Court. She was also the first woman Chief Justice of the Bombay and Kerala High Courts in 1994 and was elevated to the Supreme Court in November 1994. She has numerous awards, honours, and recognitions; in Mumbai she will always be remembered as the first woman Judge and Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court. Mrs. Sujata Manohar was born in 1934, into a distinguished legal family; her father, Late Mr. K.T. Desai, was the Chief Justice of Gujarat High Court. She has an excellent academic record. She finished first among girls, in the Bombay State Level Secondary School Certificate Examination in 1950 with three scholarships and prizes. Elphinstone College, Bombay, awarded her a first-class Honours degree in Philosophy and Sanskrit in 1954. She received six scholarships and prizes from Bombay University, then a university record. She went abroad for further studies and obtained her M.A. from Oxford University in Philosophy, Politics and Economics and then became Barrister-at-Law from Lincoln’s Inn, London. She enrolled as a Barrister in the Bombay High Court and started her legal practice in 1958. During those days the legal profession was dominated by men. She recalls a senior advocate asking her “What are you doing here?” on her first day in court. “Education gives you the knowledge; eventually you have to gain practical experience if you have to succeed and be good at it. I started taking up cases, read the applicable laws, studied previous judgments, drafted pleadings, appeared in court, and did my best to get justice for my clients, and then slowly over a period of time I started getting work and respect though I was a woman. I must say that Bombay has a more acceptable attitude towards working and professional women. Now things have improved a lot.” She took on numerous cases and made her presence and efforts known in the courts. Her arguments were known for being exact, precise, and focused. As an advocate, she accepted many pro bono cases, many of which involved women’s issues. She did this at a time when the government did not provide women with free legal assistance. Very humbly she says “Those women wanted justice but didn’t have the resources or expertise to get it and I just helped them”. She was invited to give lectures and talks in numerous governmental and social organizations for welfare of women. She was consulted when the Government was framing a free legal aid scheme by Committee of Justice Krishna Iyer and Justice P.N. Bhagwati. Based on her dedication, knowledge, experience, and conduct, she was appointed as a Judge of the Bombay High Court in 1978 and then as Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court in 1994, making her the first woman to hold both positions. She was elevated as Judge of the Supreme Court of India in 1994 and retired from there in 1999. Justice Sujata Manohar was given many responsibilities because of her abilities. She was In-charge of the setting up of Family Courts in Maharashtra. She was Vice Chairman of the Maharashtra State Legal Aid and Advisory Board and first chair of the Board of Advisors, Judicial Officers Training Institute. After her retirement, she was appointed as a member, National Human Rights Commission. She was invited by the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights to be on the advisory board of judges on enforcement of human rights. She is an Honorary Fellow of Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford, and an Honorary Bencher of Lincoln’s Inn, London, the first Indian judge to be so honoured. She is also a patron of the Oxford University Commonwealth Law Journal and Honorary Fellow, Asiatic Society of Mumbai. Justice Manohar, because of her interest in academics, was involved with educational institutions both before and after her retirement. She is former Chairman of the Managing Council of Bombay’s Chanda Ramji Girls High School, former Chairman of the Board of Governors of Welham Girls School in Dehradun, and former trustee of the Bombay International School in Mumbai. She has keen interest in Indian Classical Music and was also the Chair, Board of Trustees of the Asiatic Society of Bombay. On the personal front, she maintained a good balance between her profession and her family. She attributes her success to the love and support she received from her family, particularly her husband and children. Academics were a common interest among the family members. Her husband Vasant Manohar, Electrical Engineer was the head of Tata Consulting Engineers had stood first in the University from VJTI. Her son, Aneesh Manohar, had stood first in India in his IIT Entrance Exams. Her list of accomplishments, awards, recognitions, and honours is so long that space is limited. She will always be remembered, as the first woman Judge and Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court. She is the pride of our neighbourhood. We wish her a long and healthy life! Editorial Committee of ‘The Voice of Malabar Hills”.


--- [Justice Sujata V Manohar - Supreme Court of India] ---
Justice Sujata V Manohar Mrs. Justice Sujata Vasant Manohar, B.Sc., B.L., Born on 28th August, 1934. Educated at Anandilal Podar High School, Bombay; Elphinstone College, Bombay, Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford, U.K. And Lincoln’s Inn, London. Enrolled Advocate on 14th February, 1958 at Bombay. Practised in the Bombay High Court on the Original Side. Appointed Assistant Government Pleader, City Civil Court, Bombay during 1970-71. Appointed Additional Judge of the Bombay High Court from 23rd January, 1978. Appointed permanent Judge on 28.11.1978. Appointed as Chief Justice of Bombay High Court with effect from 15.1.1994 (A.N.). Transferred as Chief Justice of Kerala High Court with effect from 21.4.1994. Appointed as Judge of the Supreme Court of India with effect from 8.11.1994. Retired on 27.8.1999. Present Address: 16, Walkeshwar Road, Mumbar-400006 Telephone No. (R) 23633899, 23634100.


--- [11 Woman Judges of Supreme Court of India -Justice Fatima Beevi to ...] ---
11 Woman Judges of Supreme Court of India -Justice Fatima Beevi to Nagarathna In the annals of India’s judiciary, the ascent of women to the Supreme Court has been a story of quiet resilience and historic breakthroughs. From the pioneering footsteps of Justice Fathima Beevi to the anticipated legacy of Justice B.V. Nagarathna as the first woman Chief Justice of India, these remarkable jurists have carved their place in a traditionally male-dominated institution. Their journeys are not just legal milestones—but powerful testaments to courage, intellect, and the evolving face of justice in India. 1. Justice Fathima Beevi (1989–1992). Justice M. Fathima Beevi created history in Indian judicial annals by becoming the first woman judge of the Supreme Court of India in 1989. A trailblazer, she was also the first Muslim woman to be appointed to any higher judiciary in India. Prior to her elevation, she had served with distinction in the Kerala High Court. Her tenure at the apex court may have been brief, but it set the stage for future generations of women to aspire to the highest judicial offices in the country. After retirement, she went on to serve as the Governor of Tamil Nadu, further underscoring her stature in public life. 2. Justice Sujata V. Manohar (1994–1999) Justice Sujata Manohar brought with her a distinguished career as a High Court judge and Chief Justice of Bombay and Kerala High Courts before her elevation to the Supreme Court. Known for her liberal and progressive approach to constitutional rights, she played a key role in several landmark judgments, especially in matters of gender justice and human rights. Her judgments reflected clarity, depth, and a firm belief in constitutional morality. 3. Justice Ruma Pal (2000–2006) A jurist of exceptional intellect and restraint, Justice Ruma Pal served in the Supreme Court for over six years, making her one of the longest-serving women judges at the apex court. Her background in academia and scholarship enriched her judgments, which were marked by their erudition and clarity. She was known for her commitment to civil liberties and judicial independence. Post-retirement, she remained active in legal education and judicial reform initiatives. 4. Justice Gyan Sudha Misra (2010–2014) Justice Gyan Sudha Misra’s tenure in the Supreme Court reflected her strong concern for social justice and gender equality. Prior to joining the apex court, she served as the Chief Justice of the Jharkhand High Court. Her contributions on issues ranging from environmental protection to women’s rights made her tenure impactful. She often emphasized the need for empathetic jurisprudence and was noted for her sensitivity toward the underprivileged. 5. Justice Ranjana Prakash Desai (2011–2014) Justice Ranjana Desai served on the Supreme Court for over three years and made significant contributions in constitutional and criminal law. Her post-retirement career has been equally illustrious, having chaired the Delimitation Commission of India and the Press Council of India. She is known for her fairness, administrative acumen, and deep understanding of legal principles. 6. Justice R. Banumathi (2014–2020) Justice R. Banumathi brought a remarkable range of experience to the Supreme Court, having served as a sessions judge and then risen through the ranks to become the Chief Justice of Jharkhand High Court. In the apex court, she authored numerous judgments, particularly in criminal law and service matters. She was known for her disciplined work ethic and integrity. Her career served as a shining example of rising from the grassroots of the judiciary to its highest echelons. 7. Justice Indu Malhotra (2018–2021) Justice Indu Malhotra broke new ground by becoming the first woman to be directly appointed to the Supreme Court from the Bar. A renowned senior advocate, her expertise in arbitration and commercial law was well recognized even before her elevation. On the bench, she delivered several key rulings, including dissenting opinions that reflected her independent judicial thinking, such as in the Sabarimala case. Her career symbolizes the possibilities for women lawyers in the higher judiciary. 8. Justice Indira Banerjee (2018–2022) Justice Indira Banerjee brought to the Supreme Court her extensive experience as a High Court judge and Chief Justice of the Madras High Court. She was part of several important benches dealing with constitutional and civil matters. Her judgments often emphasized procedural fairness and the rights of women. During her tenure, she was known for her clarity and concern for equitable justice. 9. Justice Hima Kohli (2021–2024) Justice Hima Kohli, the former Chief Justice of Telangana High Court, made a strong mark during her time in the Supreme Court. She was part of the historic four-woman bench in 2021 and participated in significant rulings across service law, gender issues, and fundamental rights. Her career has been characterized by efficiency, compassion, and an unyielding commitment to the rule of law. 10. Justice Bela M. Trivedi (2021–2025) Justice Bela Trivedi, elevated from the Gujarat High Court, has contributed to the Supreme Court’s jurisprudence in diverse areas including constitutional law, service law, and criminal justice. Known for her disciplined and no-nonsense approach, she has written several impactful judgments that reflect her strong legal reasoning and emphasis on due process. 11. Justice B.V. Nagarathna (2021–2027) Justice B.V. Nagarathna, daughter of former Chief Justice E.S. Venkataramiah, is poised to become the first woman Chief Justice of India in September 2027—a historic milestone. Her judgments reflect a deep concern for constitutional values, gender justice, and institutional accountability. She is also known for her articulate opinions and her commitment to judicial integrity. Her appointment as CJI, albeit for a short tenure, will be symbolically powerful in shaping the narrative of women’s leadership in the judiciary. | # | Name | Tenure (Appointment – Retirement) | Notable Facts | | 1 | Fathima Beevi | 6 Oct 1989 – 29 Apr 1992 | First woman Supreme Court judge | | 2 | Sujata Manohar | 8 Nov 1994 – 27 Aug 1999 | Former Chief Justice of Kerala HC | | 3 | Ruma Pal | 28 Jan 2000 – 2 Jun 2006 | Longest-serving female SC judge (≈6.3 years) | | 4 | Gyan Sudha Misra | 30 Apr 2010 – 27 Apr 2014 | Former Chief Justice of Jharkhand HC | | 5 | Ranjana Desai | 13 Sep 2011 – 29 Oct 2014 | Served 3+ years; later headed Delimitation Commission | | 6 | R. Banumathi | 13 Aug 2014 – 19 Jul 2020 | Former CJ of Jharkhand HC; authored 386 judgments | | 7 | Indu Malhotra | 27 Apr 2018 – 13 Mar 2021 | First judge elevated directly from the Bar; ~70 rulings | | 8 | Indira Banerjee | 7 Aug 2018 – 23 Sep 2022 | Former CJ of Madras HC; served ~4 years | | 9 | Hima Kohli | 31 Aug 2021 – 1 Sep 2024 | Former CJ of Telangana HC; part of historic 4-woman bench | | 10 | Bela Trivedi | 31 Aug 2021 – 9 Jun 2025 | From Gujarat HC; currently serving | | 11 | B. V. Nagarathna | 31 Aug 2021 – 29 Oct 2027 | From Karnataka HC; poised to become first female CJI (Sep 2027; ~36 days) |


--- [Sujata Manohar - Bharatpedia] ---
No content
