=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Motonori Matuyama - Wikipedia]
Matuyama Motonori was born at Uyeda (now Usa) in Oita prefecture Japan on October 25, 1884, a son of a Zen abbot, Sumie (Sumiye) Tengai. His name was at first registered as Suehara Motonori after his mother's family name, Suehara Kou, and was later changed to Sumie Motonori when his father became the chief priest at an eminent Zen Buddhist ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motonori_Matuyama

[Motonori Matuyama - Linda Hall Library]
Oct 25, 2016 · Motonori Matuyama, a Japanese geophysicist, was born Oct. 25, 1884. In 1929, Matuyama made the rather bold suggestion that the Earth's magnetic field had once been reversed from its present orientation, so that at one time, a compass needle would have pointed south instead of north.
URL: https://www.lindahall.org/about/news/scientist-of-the-day/motonori-matuyama/

[Motonori Matuyama - Wikidata]
Motonori 0 references family name Matsuyama 0 references name in kana まつやま もとのり 1 reference date of birth 25 October 1884 Gregorian 0 references place of birth Oita Prefecture 1 reference date of death 27 January 1958 0 references 1958 1 reference stated in Great Norwegian Encyclopedia Great Norwegian Encyclopedia ID Motonori_Matuyama subject named as
URL: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q602628

[Matuyama Motonori - Encyclopedia.com]
MATUYAMA MOTONORI (b. Usa, Oita Prefecture, Japan, 25 October 1884; d. Yamaguchi, Japan, 27 January 1958), physics, geophysics, theoretical geology. Some discoveries are made before their time in the sense that there is a long delay from the time of discovery to the time when it is generally accepted. A good example is the paleomagnetic research by Japanese geophysicist Matuyama Motonori. In ...
URL: https://www.encyclopedia.com/science/dictionaries-thesauruses-pictures-and-press-releases/matuyama-motonori-0

[Motonori Matuyama | Encyclopedia.com]
May 14, 2018 · MATUYAMA (MATSUYAMA), MOTONORI (b. Uyeda [now Usa], Japan, 25 October 1884; d. Yamaguchi, Japan, 27 January 1958)physics, geophysics, geology.Matuyama was the son of a Zen abbot, Tengai Sumiye. In 1910 he was adopted by the Matusyama family, whose daughter, Matsuye Matsuyama, he married.
URL: https://www.encyclopedia.com/people/science-and-technology/geology-and-oceanography-biographies/motonori-matuyama


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Motonori Matuyama - Wikipedia] ---
Motonori Matsuyama (松山 基範, Matsuyama Motonori; October 25, 1884 – January 27, 1958) was a Japanese geophysicist who was (in the late 1920s) the first to provide systematic evidence that the Earth's magnetic field had been reversed in the early Pleistocene and to suggest that long periods existed in the past in which the polarity was reversed. He remarked that the Earth's field had later changed to the present polarity. The era of reversed polarity preceding the current Brunhes Chron of normal polarity is now called the Matuyama Reversed Chron; and the transition between them is called the Brunhes–Matuyama or Matuyama-Brunhes reversal.




--- [Motonori Matuyama - Linda Hall Library] ---
Scientist of the Day - Motonori Matuyama Motonori Matuyama, a Japanese geophysicist, was born Oct. 25, 1884. In 1929, Matuyama made the rather bold suggestion that the Earth's magnetic field had once been reversed from its present orientation, so that at one time, a compass needle would have pointed south instead of north. His evidence came from igneous rocks in Japan and Manchuria, which indicated by their residual magnetic fields that, when they cooled millions of years ago, the Earth's north magnetic pole had been in the vicinity of the south geographic pole. As it turns out, the same suggestion had been made once before, by a French physicist, Bernard Brunhes, in 1905. Neither man made many converts, which is not surprising, since at the time the source of the Earth’s magnetic field was poorly understood, and radiometric dating was in its infancy. However, in 1959, it was proposed once again that the Earth's magnetic field reversed itself periodically, and by 1963 the evidence for it was being used to demonstrate the reality of sea-floor spreading and lay the basis for plate tectonics. We now know that for the past .78 million years, the Earth's magnetic field has been normal (magnetic north being north), and that before this period, from 2.6 million to .78 million years ago, the magnetic field was reversed. The period between reversals is called a "chron", and the last chron before the present one, when the field was reversed, is called the Matuyama chron, in honor of our scientist of the day. The present chron is named the Brunhes chron, after the other early proponent of the idea of geomagnetic reversals. The last reversal, which occurred .78 million years ago, is called the Brunhes-Matuyama reversal. There were other chrons and other reversals before the Brunhes and the Matuyama, and they carry the names of Carl Friedrich Gauss and William Gilbert and other pioneers in the study of the earth's magnetism. We see above a simple chart that shows the last four chrons (second image). You will note that there are short-lived mini-reversals within each chron, such as the Jaramillo event within the Matuyama chron; the second chart (third image) shows how our understanding of the complexity of Earth’s magnetic reversals progressed in just the first decade of plate tectonics. Matuyama’s paper appeared in the Proceedings of the Imperial Academy of Japan for 1929. We have this volume in the Library’s serials collection. There are very few portraits of Matuyama available, and all are of low resolution. We show you the best one we could find (fourth image). Dr. William B. Ashworth, Jr., Consultant for the History of Science, Linda Hall Library and Associate Professor, Department of History, University of Missouri-Kansas City. Comments or corrections are welcome; please direct to ashworthw@umkc.edu.


--- [Motonori Matuyama - Wikidata] ---
Motonori Matuyama (Q602628) Appearance Japanese geophysicist - Matuyama Motonori | Language | Label | Description | Also known as | |---|---|---|---| | default for all languages | No label defined | || | English | Motonori Matuyama | Japanese geophysicist | | Statements 25 October 1884Gregorian 0 references 27 January 1958 0 references 1958 1 reference 1 reference 6 October 1950 1 reference Deceased Members: L,M | The Japan Academy (English) 17 May 2025 Motonori Matsuyama 0 references Identifiers 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference 1 reference Sitelinks Wikipedia(12 entries) - enwiki Motonori Matuyama - eswiki Motonori Matuyama - etwiki Motonori Matsuyama - frwiki Motonori Matuyama - itwiki Motonori Matuyama - jawiki 松山基範 - kowiki 마쓰야마 모토노리 - nlwiki Motonori Matuyama - plwiki Motonori Matuyama - svwiki Motonori Matuyama - ukwiki Мотонорі Мацуяма - zhwiki 松山基範 Wikibooks(0 entries) Wikinews(0 entries) Wikiquote(0 entries) Wikisource(0 entries) Wikiversity(0 entries) Wikivoyage(0 entries) Wiktionary(0 entries) Multilingual sites(1 entry) - commonswiki Category:Motonori Matsuyama


--- [Matuyama Motonori - Encyclopedia.com] ---
Matuyama Motonori MATUYAMA MOTONORI (b. Usa, Oita Prefecture, Japan, 25 October 1884; d. Yamaguchi, Japan, 27 January 1958), physics, geophysics, theoretical geology. Some discoveries are made before their time in the sense that there is a long delay from the time of discovery to the time when it is generally accepted. A good example is the paleomagnetic research by Japanese geophysicist Matuyama Motonori. In 1929 he proposed that the most recent reversal of the geomagnetic field took place in the early Quaternary. The chronology of geomagnetic reversals over the last five million years was established during the 1960s, contributing to the success of the theory of ocean floor spreading. These investigations identified four intervals of geomagnetic polarity, named the Brunhes normal, Matuyama reversed, Gauss normal, and Gilbert reversed epochs. The name of the Matuyama reversed epoch commemorates Matuyama’s discovery three decades earlier. Early Life . Matuyama Motonori changed his family name two times in his life. He was born in small village near the Usa Shrine in Oita prefecture on 25 October 1884. His name was at first registered as Suehara Motonori after his mother’s family name, Suehara Kou. His father, Sumie Tengai, was a Zen Buddhist priest. When Tengai became the chief priest at an eminent Zen Buddhist temple in Yamaguchi, Tengai with his family migrated from Oita to Yamaguchi. At this time, Motonori changed his family name to Sumie. Finally, when he married in 1910, he changed his family name to Matuyama by adopting the name of his father-in-law. Gravimetric Studies . Matuyama’s research activity incorporates a wide range of geophysical research, including early papers on seismology, glacial ice deformation, and volcanology. Although his most influential work was investigating the remanent magnetization of basaltic rocks in Japan and neighboring countries, his major work was related to a gravimetric study. He entered the Imperial University in Kyoto (now Kyoto University) in 1908 and graduated in 1911. Then he was accepted in postgraduate school. His mentors were Shida Toshi and Shinjyo Shinzo, with whom he began his investigation of gravitation. He published his first report “On the Elasticity of the Earth and Earth’s Crust,” in 1912, coauthored with Shida. In 1913 Matuyama was appointed lecturer at the Physical Institute of Kyoto University. He began studying coral reefs in 1915, when he noticed uplift in the Mariana Islands and subsidence in the Marshall Islands in the West Pacific. He stressed the importance of measuring the seabed shift and its angle of these areas. By a recommendation of Terada Torahiko, member of the Imperial Academy of Japan, to the Japanese Association for the Advancement of Science, tide gauge stations in the Saipan and Jaluit islands were established for that purpose. In 1916 Matuyama became an assistant professor at the Geophysical Institute. His doctoral dissertation was published as “Determination of the Second Derivative of the Gravitational Potential on the Jaluit Atoll,” in 1918. It suggested that minute features in the gravity field could reveal subsurface structure. In 1919 Matuyama was sent abroad for two years. At the University of Chicago he performed experimental geology. Matuyama made laboratory models of glaciers, and by subjecting them to pressure and other variables, he studied deformation in ice. The paper detailing his findings was “On Some Physical Properties of Ice,” published in Journal of Geology in 1920. On the basis of this work, he was recommended for membership in the honorary scientific society, Sigma Xi. Also in honor of his work, the Matuyama Rocks (66°40' S, 66°35' W) in the British Antarctic Territory were named in his honor. On his return to Japan in 1921, he was appointed the first professor at the Institute of Theoretical Geology in the Geological Institute. Research on Earth’s Magnetic Field . Matuyama was the first paleomagnetist to investigate the important questions of the timing of the reversal of Earth’s magnetic field. In surveying magnetic anomalies in Japan, he found that the magnetic field was less intense over certain volcanic formations than it was elsewhere. This surprised him because volcanic formations contain magnetite, which might be expected to enhance the strength of the local magnetic field. The anomaly inspired him to investigate the matter. He collected samples from many parts of Japan and measured their magnetism. Early in April 1926, a specimen of basalt from Genbudo in the Hy?go prefecture, a celebrated basalt cave, was collected for the purpose of examining its magnetic properties. When this block was tested by bringing it near a freely suspended magnetic needle, its magnetic north pole was found to be directed to the south and above the horizontal direction. This is nearly opposite to the present geomagnetic field at that locale. In May of the same year, four specimens of basalt were collected from Yakuno in Kyoto prefecture. When tested, their magnetic axes were found to nearly coincide with the present geomagnetic field. Genbudo and Yakuno are not very far from each other and have nearly the same magnetic field. Their basalts probably resulted from lavas of Quaternary eruptions. Subsequently, he collected more than one hundred specimens of basalt from thirty-six locations in other parts of Japan, in Tyosen (Korea), and in Manchuria (the northeastern region of China). His most significant work based on these collections is “On the Direction of Magnetization of Basalt in Japan, Tyosen, and Manchuria” (1929). In this article he noted that the magnetism of the rocks fell into two distinct groups. One group, including the rocks from Yakuno, was directed toward the present geomagnetic field (normal magnetization). The other group, including rocks from Genbudo, was opposite the present field (reversed magnetization). His acute observation that the polarity of a rock correlated with its stratigraphic position or age led him to propose that long periods existed in Earth’s history during which the polarity of the magnetic poles was the opposite of what it is now. However, for a long time his proposal was not accepted because geophysicists still did not have a sensible theory for the origin of the geomagnetic field. The response of his fellow scientists was neither disbelief nor outrage, but, rather, silence. Gravity over the Japan Trench . From 1927 through 1932, Matuyama extended his determinations of gravity to new regions, notably Korea and Manchuria. He also explored the oceanic abyssal regions near the Caroline and Mariana island groups in the West Pacific and found free-air gravity anomalies in both of these tropical areas. In 1934 and 1935 Matuyama led a gravity survey of the Japan Trench, a deep depression on the Pacific Ocean floor near Japan, in a submarine using instruments perfected by F. A. Vening Meinesz. This could be submerged to depths where the effects of waves on swinging pendulums became negligible. The Japan Trench is the site of frequent seismic activity, and the undersea earthquakes there trigger tsunamis. Later, one of his successors correlated the earthquakes with gravity anomalies. Matuyama retired from Kyoto University in 1944. In his postretirement years he became the first president of Yamaguchi University. At both universities he actively engaged a large group of assistants and students in his research. He was well known as a devotee of Noh plays, the classic form of Japanese dance drama. He died of leukemia on 27 January 1958 at Yamaguchi. Posthumous Vindication . The works of Matuyama played a dramatically important role in the progress of plate tectonics theory. A few years after Matuyama’s death, Allan Cox began his research on geomagnetic reversals. The main result of his research was to corroborate Matuyama’s conclusion of thirty years earlier, that the geomagnetic field had reversed its polarity at some time in the early Quaternary. Cox and others developed the remarkable geomagnetic polarity time scale. They named the most recent epochs Brunhes and Matuyama to honor two geophysicists who were among the first to perceive the significance of reversed magnetization in rock. Consisting of rock, the ocean floor produced—as it newly emerged from the midocean ridges—the pattern of the zebra stripes shown in oceanic magnetic anomaly profiles. BIBLIOGRAPHY WORKS BY MATUYAMA With Shida Toshi. “On the Elasticity of the Earth and Earth’s Crust—Part 3—Note on Hecker’s Observation of Horizontal Pendulums.” Memoirs of the College of Science and Engineering, Kyoto Imperial University 4, no. 1 (1912): 187–224. With Shida Toshi. “On the Elasticity of the Earth and Earth’s Crust—Part 6—Change of Plumb Line Referred to the Axis of the Earth as Found from the Result of the International Latitude Observations.” Memoirs of the College of Science and Engineering, Kyoto Imperial University 4, no. 1 (1912): 277–284. “Determination of the Second Derivative of the Gravitational Potential on the Jaluit Atoll.” Memoirs of the College of Science, Kyoto Imperial University 3 (1918): 17–68. “On Some Physical Properties of Ice.” Journal of Geology 3 (1920): 607–631. “On the Direction of Magnetization of Basalt in Japan, Tyosen, and Manchuria.” Proceedings of the Imperial Academy Japan 5 (1929): 203–205. [Letters from Konjian]. Yamaguchi, Japan: private publication, 1954. OTHER SOURCES Charton, Barbara. A to Z of Marine Scientists. New York: Facts on File, 2003. Cox, Allan, ed. Plate Tectonics and Geomagnetic Reversals. San Francisco: W. H. Freeman, 1973. Glen, William. The Road to Jaramillo: Critical Years of the Revolution in Earth Sciences. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 1982. Maenaka Kazuaki. [The days pass away forever: The life story of earth scientist Matuyama Motonori]. Tokyo: Bungeisha, 2006. Kazuaki Maenaka


--- [Motonori Matuyama | Encyclopedia.com] ---
Matuyama (Matsuyama), Motonori MATUYAMA (MATSUYAMA), MOTONORI (b. Uyeda [now Usa], Japan, 25 October 1884; d. Yamaguchi, Japan, 27 January 1958) physics, geophysics, geology. Matuyama was the son of a Zen abbot, Tengai Sumiye. In 1910 he was adopted by the Matusyama family, whose daughter, Matsuye Matsuyama, he married. He altered the romanized spelling of his adoptive name in about 1926, in conformity with a then new convention of transliteration. Matuyama received his early education in the schools of Kiyosuye and Chõfu, then entered Hiroshima Normal College (now the University of Hiroshima), where he studied physics and mathematics, graduating in 1907. After a year of teaching at a junior high school in Tomioka, Matuyama entered the Imperial University in Kyoto to further his study of physics; he graduated in 1911, then took up postgraduate study of geophysics with Toshi Shida and astronomy with Shiz? Shinj?. With Shida he began work on what became on of his chief fields of research, the determination of gravity by pendulum. Matuyama’s first papers were written in collaboration with his teacher and constitute the third and sixth parts of Shida’s “On the Elasticity of the Earth and the Earth’s Crust” of 1912. Matuyama was appointed lecturer at the Imperial University in 1913; three years later he was promoted to assistant professor of the Geophysical Institute. His doctoral dissertation, which he published in 1918, was entitled “Determination of the Second Derivatives of the Gravitational Potential on Jaluit Atoll,” and contained the results of experiments performed with the Eötvös gravity-variometer to determine the depth of the atoll. Matuyama had spent a month on Jaluit with a collaborator, H. Kaneko, in February 1915; his paper was the first to suggest that the determination of microfeatures of the gravity field of the earth could reveal geological substructure. It became the basis for the development in Japan of the torsion-balance method of prospecting for underground minerals. In 1919 Matuyama left Japan for the United States to study geophysics with T. C. Chamberlin at the University of Chicago. While there he conducted laboratory experiments on ice designed to illuminate the mechanics of glacial movement. His results were published in 1920 as “On Some Physical Properties of Ice.” Chamberlin wrote an introductory note to the paper, in which Matuyama stated the conclusion: These facts seem to show that gliding planes parallel to the base of each crystal are not the controlling factor in the deformation of ice and probably are not even an important factor. But instead, adjustment along the contact surfaces of adjacent crystals and perhaps the development of planes of weakness in the constituent crystals parallel to their long axis seem more effective in the process of deformation. Matuyama returned to Japan in December 1921; the following January he was appointed professor of theoretical geology at the Imperial University. He once again took up the determination of gravity by pendulum. As early as 1911, while he was still a postgraduate student, Matuyama had participated in the national gravity survey of the Imperial Japanese Geodetic Commission; from 1927 until 1932 he extended the survey to Korea and Manchuria. In October 1934 and October 1935 he made a survey of marine gravity, using the Vening-Meinesz pendulum apparatus mounted in a navy submarine, in the Japan Trench and the area surrounding it. During the same period he also determined the gravity of nine islands in the Caroline and Mariana groups and as part of his maritime survey of 1935 landed his equipment on Chichijima in the Bonin Islands to determine its gravity. He found the free-air anomalies in these ten islands to range between +214 and +357 milligal, a result consistent in magnitude with those established for other oceanic islands. One aspect of Matuyama’s research on gravity was dictated by the request put to the Japanese delegation by the International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics, probably at the meeting of 1936, to carry out a gravity survey in the water areas surrounding the Japan Trench. The sea bottom of the landward side of the deepest line of the trench is the site of strong earthquakes that produce tsunami waves on the Pacific coast of northeast Honshu. In examining the distribution of free-air anomalies over the trench, Matuyama discovered that in the region of the northeast Pacific coasts of Honshu and the Pacific coast of Hokkaido the axis of the negative minimum of anomalies does not occur just above the axis of the maximum depths of the trench, contrary to expectations, but rather shifts landward, while the two axes are almost coincident in the southern part of the trench along the east side of the Fuji volcanic range. (Matuyama’s associate Naoiti Kumagai took up these results a few years later and discovered a clear correlation between the earthquakes that occur in this area and the isostatic anomalies of great magnitude that are also apparent there.) Matuyama was further concerned with the study of distribution of various kinds of coral reefs in the South Seas. The peculiarity of this distribution had first interested him on his visit to Jaluit atoll in 1915; he noted that in the Mariana group such reefs are elevated above sea level, while in the Marshalls they exist as atolls, or have subsided completely. He theorized that the ocean floor in this area had tilted eastward, and recommended to the Japanese Association for the Advancement of Science that a research commission be appointed to study the tilt of the sea bed in this area. A committee was appointed in 1934, and research stations were established on Saipan and on Jaluit atoll; no reports of their observations were published, however. The last of Matuyama’s main areas of research was the remnant magnetization of rocks. The first specimen that he examined was a basalt block from Genbud?, Tazima, in western Japan; he then extended his investigation to thirty-six specimens of basalt, each taken from a different site in Japan, Korea, and Manchuria. He subjected each specimen to tests for remnant magnetization, using Gauss’s analysis of the vertical component of the magnetic field of the earth originating within the earth. Matuyama published his results in a series of papers. The most important, published in 1929 and entitled “On the Direction of Magnetization of Basalt in Japan, Ty?sen [Korea] and Manchuria,” offers his conclusion that “According to Mercanton the earth’s magnetic field was probably in a greatly different or nearly opposite state in the Permo-Carboniferous and Tertiary Periods, as compared to the present. From my results it seems as if the earth’s magnetic field in the present area has changed even reversing itself in comparatively short times in the Miocene and also Quaternary Epochs.” This work was widely influential, and the term “Matuyama Epoch” was coined to indicate the paleomagnetic period—from about the late Pliocene to the middle Pleistocene—during which the direction of magnetic field of the earth is supposed to have been opposite to what it is at present. Matuyama also wrote a series of early papers on seismology, a subject which he originally pursued with Shida, and a great number of miscellaneous papers and books addressed to laymen and students. He served the Imperial University as dean of the Faculty of Science from June 1936 until December 1937; he retired from teaching in 1944 and was made professor emeritus in 1946. In May 1949 Matuyama was appointed president of the University of Yamaguchi; the following year he was elected a fellow of the Japan Academy. He had a lifelong interest in the Noh drama, and organized Noh groups among his neighbors and colleagues in both Kyoto and Yamaguchi. He died following the onset of acute myelogenous leukemia. BIBLIOGRAPHY Matuyama’s important papers include “Note on Hecker’s Observation of Horizontal Pendulums” and “Change of Plumb Line Referred to the Axis of the Earth as Found From the Result of the International Latitude Observations,” pts. 3 and 6, respectively, of Toshi Shida, “On the Elasticity of the Earth and the Earth’s Crust,” in Memoirs of the College of Science and Engineering, KyotoImperial University, 4, no. 1 (1912), both written with Shida; “Determination of the Second Derivatives of the Gravitational Potential on the Jaluit Atoll,” in Mimoirs of the College of Science,Kyoto Imperial University, 3 (1918), 17–68; “On Some Physical Properties of Ice,” in Journal of Geology, 28 (1920), 607–631; “On the Gravitational Field at the Fushun Colliery, Manchuria,” in Japanese Journal of Astronomy and Geophysics, 2 (1924),91–102; “Probable Subterranean Intrusion of Magma to the North of Sakurajima Volcano,” in Proceedings of the Third Pan-Pacific Science Congress (Tokyo, 1926), 782–783; “Torsion Balance Observation and its Value in Prospecting” [in Japanese], in T?y?-Gakugei-Zasshi,520 (1926), 476–494; “On the Subterranean Structure Around Sakurajima Volcano Considered From the State of Gravitational Fields,” in Japanese Journal of Astronomy and Geophysics, 4 (1927), 121–138; “Gravity Measurements in Ty?sen and Manchuria,” in Proceedings of the Fourth Pacific Science Congress (Djakarta, 1929), 745–747; “Study of the Underground Structure of Suwa Basin by Means of the Eötvös Gravity-Variometer,” ibid., 869–872; “On the Direction of magnetization of Basalt in Japan, Ty?sen and Manchjuria,” ibid., 567–569, and in Proceedings of th Imperial Academy of japan, 5 (1929), 203–205; “Subterranean Structure of Takamati oil Field Revealed by Gravitational Method,” in Japanese journal of Astronomy and Geophysics, 7 (1930), 47–81, written with H. Higasinaka; “Relative Measurements of Gravity in Japan, Ty?sen and Manchuria Since 1921,” in Travaus. Association internationale de géodésie, Japan Report no. 2, 11 (1933), 1–6; “Measurements of Gravity Over Nippon Trench on Board H. I. M. Submarine Ro-57. Preliminary Report,” in Proceedings of the Imperial Academy of Japan, 10 (1934), 625–628: “Distribution of Gravity Over the Nippon Trench and Related Areas,” ibid., 12 (1936), 93–95; and “Gravity Survey by the Japanese Geodetic Commission Since 1932,” in Travaux. Association internationale de géodésie, Japan Report no. 2, 12 (1936), 1–8. Naoiti Kumagai
