=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ritsu Kageyama - Mob Psycho 100 Wiki]
Ritsu Kageyama (影山 律, Kageyama Ritsu) is a second-year student at Salt Middle School, the son of Mr. Kageyama and Mrs. Kageyama and the younger brother of Mob. Ritsu is a seventh-grade student who is considered rather handsome, with black hair that is slightly longer than Mob's. His hair appears...
URL: https://mob-psycho-100.fandom.com/wiki/Ritsu_Kageyama

[Dimple | Mob Psycho 100 Wiki - Fandom]
At the meeting, Dimple impersonates Mob and takes his place as Lord Psycho Helmet, starting to brainwash the citizens into joining the cult. In one instance, he ...
URL: https://mob-psycho-100.fandom.com/wiki/Dimple

[Mob Psycho 100 (2016 TV Show) - Behind The Voice Actors]
Dec 11, 2016 · Photos of the Mob Psycho 100 (Show) voice actors.
URL: https://www.behindthevoiceactors.com/tv-shows/Mob-Psycho-100/

[Mob Psycho 100 Rewatch - Episode 1 : r/anime]
Lore time: I first watched Mob Psycho to stay up late so I would be tired enough to sleep through a long flight to visit family in Puerto Rico.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/anime/comments/x92qp3/mob_psycho_100_rewatch_episode_1/

[Ritsu Kageyama - Anibase.Net]
Ritsu Kageyama is the younger brother of Shigeo Kageyama, known as Mob, in Mob Psycho 100. He is a bright, athletic, and good-looking boy who is very popular at school.
URL: https://anibase.net/en/character/l37aN/Ritsu-Kageyama


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ritsu Kageyama - Mob Psycho 100 Wiki] ---
Ritsu Kageyama (影山 律, Kageyama Ritsu) is a second-year student at Salt Middle School, the son of Mr. Kageyama and Mrs. Kageyama and the younger brother of Mob. Appearance Ritsu is a seventh-grade student who is considered rather handsome, with black hair that is slightly longer than Mob's. His hair appears slightly disheveled, and his eyes are much more expressive than his brother's, with his irises being slightly larger. Despite being younger than Mob, Ritsu is slightly taller than him. His school uniform is a black gakuran tsume-eri outfit with the top having a standing collar buttoning down from top-to-bottom. Personality Ritsu is a very clever boy who serves on the student council, where he excels in academics and everything else he tries, but none of that matters to him as much as having psychic powers. Before he awoke his own psychic powers, he longed for the esper abilities his brother Shigeo Kageyama always had and was frustrated by his own inability to do things like bend spoons and held some frustration at his brother because he was naturally born with his psychic powers. He is a perfectionist but also has a dark side that mainly develops when he obtains his psychic powers. Even though he loves his brother very much, he has an inferiority complex toward him, which is ironic since Mob also has an inferiority complex toward Ritsu. However, this concerns his academic skills and social charisma. Ritsu always has been envious of Mob, and according to him, he convinced himself it was admiration over his brother's psychic abilities. But in reality, Ritsu was always scared of his brother and what he would do if he ever got stressed out. It is why they could never have a normal brotherly relationship, like having fights as brothers, since he'd be defenseless against Mob. He later tells his brother that he's lost all interest in their relationship and the friendship they have is over, although Mob can instantly tell this is a lie. Later on, when Ritsu is captured, and when Mob reunites with him, he hugs his brother in relief, leaving Ritsu shocked due to his brother's affection despite his terrible attitude towards him. After hearing Mob praise him for his intelligence, he is brought to tears and thanks his brother, their relationship is restored and improved because of it. Once he uses his psychic powers and becomes more powerful, the power begins to go to his head, becoming even more ruthless and unrelenting than ever before. This was seen when he mercilessly defeated several gang members that came to attack him and later when he meets his brother again, telling him about the inferiority and fear he felt towards him and going so far as to say he lost all interest in their relationship. But after being captured and showered with praise from Mob, who goes so far as to say there's nobody he admires more than Ritsu, this power-hungry side changes, and he accepts that having psychic powers does not mean everything. Unlike Mob, he finds it okay to use psychic violence against people when necessary. In the end, his brother is more important to him than anyone or anything else. He is apparently serious, but he can be pretty jumpy at times.[1] Plot Big Cleanup Arc Ritsu went to the Awakening Lab after Kenji Mitsuura mistook him for Mob and he was relieved that the teen espers there did not have awe-inspiring psychic abilities. Ritsu took part in Shinji Kamuro's Big Cleanup plan, performing immoral deeds like planting evidence and blatantly pretending to find the evidence he planted. Tenga Onigawara was one of those most brutally victimized. His guilt accumulated to overwhelming levels and led directly to his psychic awakening. He encountered Dimple when the latter was loitering in front of the Kageyama residence. After some convincing, Ritsu let Dimple possess him, but Dimple was too weak to take control fully. With the help of Dimple's fine-tuning, Ritsu could control his new psychic power. He used it to bend a ton of spoons, beat up a ton of delinquents, and impress everyone at the Awakening Lab. Ritsu met Teruki Hanazawa and was more intimidated by the latter's tall wig than by his psychic power, even though Teru would have won a fight between them. Later, when Ritsu beat up some delinquents, Teru brought Mob over to stop him. Ritsu said terrible things to Mob; however, Mob forgave him. Megumu Koyama appeared, tried to kidnap Ritsu, got severely injured by Mob, and successfully kidnapped Ritsu. 7th Division Arc Ritsu and the Awakening Lab kids escaped from their cell at the 7th branch of Claw. They were in the middle of escaping the facility when they encountered Sho Suzuki. Ritsu told the others to go on without him. They went on without him, and Ritsu immediately got his ass kicked. Mob soon found him unconscious, and both ended up being held captive in a room that nullified psychic powers. During the rest of the night's events, Ritsu made observations and took a kidney punch from Muraki. Ritsu and Shinji Kamuro later apologized to Tenga Onigawara and the other victims of the Big Cleanup.[4] World Domination Arc Ritsu noticed that Mob was training hard for the school marathon, so he did some of his brother's assigned chores. Ritsu ended up placing 9th in the marathon. That night, Sho Suzuki appeared at his front door to convince Ritsu and his parents to leave before he set their house on fire. When Claw set their world domination plan in motion, Ritsu accompanied Sho on his mission to take down his father Toichiro Suzuki. ???% Arc - This section is missing information. You can help by expanding it. Powers & Abilities Ritsu is very athletic, being skilled at a myriad of sports and sprints; placing 9th at Salt Middle School's marathon.[2] He is also an excellent student academically and is involved with extracurricular activities such as the student council. Interestingly, he can overcome Dimple's control during possession and can instead use him to help better channel his latent psychic powers. However, this was when Dimple was significantly weakened. Once Ritsu can access his psychic powers thanks to Dimple, it's revealed that he has tremendous potential, but is still incapable of accessing fully. He eventually becomes less reliant on Dimple and is now a proficient esper, able to perform simple yet efficient techniques such as telekinesis and to create barriers. However, he is still not as strong as Teruki Hanazawa, who overwhelmed him initially with his psychic energy, and was also defeated by Sho Suzuki, although Sho admitted that Ritsu's psychic abilities weren't bad. His psychic aura is blue, similar to his brother Mob's. | Ritsu's Abilities | |||||| |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| Ritsu is an adept level telekinetic. Originally, when his powers first manifested, he could only send people and objects flying from a very short distance with psychic power and required Dimple's influence to achieve this. Nevertheless, He has since become independently strong enough without his assistance. Soon after, his telekinesis improved, as shown when battling Ryo Shimazaki; he telekinetically smashed two cars together to try and trap him. | |||||| Similar to Mob's Progress Towards Explosion, Ritsu also possesses a hidden percentage that crawls up towards 100%. It is activated for the first time when he desperately tries to reason with ???% and temporarily gives Ritsu tremendous psychic powers that rival even his brother Mob's. He claims that the experience is exhausting.[5] | Quotes - Catchphrase: "In order to grow up"[1] - "Care to enlighten me?" - "That's so low..." - "This game will keep running because I am letting it run." - "Make me approach my brother's level. Can you do that?" - "Dimple... you're really annoying. Say... If I can gain control of this power... can I get rid of you too?" - "I do not accept losing to anyone besides my big brother." - "Because I'm sick of myself. I just wanted to... feel the 'foolishness' of myself. And to create a new self. Me, as a fool."[6] - "I will not judge you people. Because I know now... When people stray from the right path, there usually isn't an actual reason. It's like that even now. I'm facing enemies that lost all will to fight, and I'm moving for the sake of violence. There's no actual reason... This kind of freedom is strong, I'm much freer than all of you... Why? Because I've lost my limits. I've obtained loss!" Etymology - The name Ritsu means "law, commandment, discipline, control" (律). - Ritsu's surname Kageyama means "shadow, shade, other side" (影) (kage) and "mountain, hill" (山) (yama). Notes & Trivia - Ritsu's hobby is writing in his diary.[1] - Ritsu's favorite foods are tofu and boiled pork, and his least favorite food is pork feet.[1] - Apparently, Ritsu barely listens to music, but his favorite movie genre is human dramas.[1] - Despite being hard to get close to, Ritsu has a lot of secret fans.[2] - Ritsu is very similar to Suiryu from ONE's other work, One-Punch Man as they both have similar faces, hairstyles and they want to live fun lives. - Max Mittelman (Ritsu's English dub voice actor) also voices Saitama, the main character of ONE's other manga One-Punch Man. - Ritsu would prefer to study indoors during summer break, and occasionally be tempted by Mob to do things like buying a T-shirt at a local volume retailer.[7] References - ↑ 1.00 1.01 1.02 1.03 1.04 1.05 1.06 1.07 1.08 1.09 Mob Psycho 100 Manga — Vol. 13 Chapter 91 (Omake: Unnamed). Ritsu's character profile. - ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 Mob Psycho 100 Anime — Episode 4. - ↑ http://www.funimation.com/blog/2016/12/09/mob-psycho-100-english-dub-premiere-cast-announcement/ - ↑ Mob Psycho 100 Manga — Vol. 6 Chapter 50 (page 4). - ↑ Mob Psycho 100 Manga — Vol. 16 Chapter 100 (page 67). - ↑ Mob Psycho 100 Manga — Vol. 4 Chapter 27 (page 9). - ↑ Otomedia August 2019 - Interview with ONE


--- [Dimple | Mob Psycho 100 Wiki - Fandom] ---
Dimple (エクボ, Ekubo) is a self-proclaimed upper-class evil spirit who has aligned himself with Mob after being defeated by him, going on to be the tritagonist of the series. Appearance Dimple's distinguishing features are the red circles on his cheeks, which appear on the face of any human he possesses. His usual form is that of a wispy green cloud of smoke, or, according to Teru, a "nasty-looking floating energy bulb". He occasionally grows arms and rarely legs. Even in his simplest form, his human-like face looks a little too detailed, with a prominent nose and lips. Personality At the beginning of the story, Dimple wanted to be a god. Specifically, he wanted to be worshipped by all humanity. Despite having that kind of ego, he didn't hesitate to put himself at Mob's mercy in the hopes of using the boy to his advantage. He wanted to steal Mob's body and use it to become a god, but he eventually decided to try to make Mob a god instead. Dimple is quickly established to be brash and humorous, like when he jokes about what Ritsu might've done to accumulate such turbulent emotions. He's also friendly to certain people, initially calling Mob "Shige-chan" and Ritsu "Ricchan" before being told by both boys to just use their names. But despite his carefree attitude, he's been shown to be highly perceptive. After meeting Teru, Dimple's quickly able to see his point of view and recognize his superiority complex and feelings of being threatened by Mob. He also accurately guesses that Ritsu had an inferiority complex against Mob from his hesitance to try bending a spoon. And in the manga, when Mob is up against the spirits in Mogami's world, Dimple asks him if he's okay after taking an attack and Mob says that he doesn't feel pain because his body in the world is spiritual, but Dimple sees through it and tells him to say the truth and tell him if he's weakened. Dimple is also generally knowledgeable on psychic powers, as shown in multiple instances. He was well aware that Ritsu awakened due to his emotions and remarked that Claw "wasn't too far off" after learning of their awakening methods. He also knows that it's rare for spirits to feel sexual desire. And, as he told Reigen after telling Mob that the burning bodies were dummies, he had reason to believe that a power to create dummies could exist. Throughout the series, he's done things for Mob with the prospect of using him to further his dreams of godhood, but it's implied that he was at least partly lying to himself about his motives. This is first shown when he shifts from wanting to use Mob's powers to become god to wanting Mob to be a god. From as early as the Teruki Hanazawa arc, he has told Mob to have confidence in himself, but at the same time keeps Mob levelheaded when he gets the wrong idea. He warns Mob about the fake love letter written by Onigawara and, when Mob believes he's getting popular, tells him that it's a misunderstanding. Dimple expresses genuine care for Mob's well-being when, in his burning house, he searched for signs of a struggle, tried to prevent Mob from seeing the bodies, and assured him that Ritsu and his parents were safe. And, despite initially wanting to control Mob, he uses his only opportunity to do so to keep Mob safe. He even completely forgets about his initial goals until Mob asks him about his future. Dimple has also grown to admire Mob's mindset. This is first shown in his fight with Shibata while possessing Musashi Gouda. He realizes that Mob was right about hard-earned strength being superior to psychic muscles. He again expresses admiration for Mob after gaining godly powers, calling Mob a man who will become big for being able to stay humble despite his abilities. He also calls Mob amazing for figuring out his true feelings and resolving their conflict in the Divine Tree Arc. History Dimple remembers nothing about his life or the kind of person he was, his oldest memory being of when he was already of a spirit. He recalled being at a cemetery, but couldn't tell if his grave was there or not. Since becoming a spirit, he's existed for decades, at some point being the leader of a gang of spirits until he was nearly exorcised by Mogami. Plot (LOL) Cult Arc Dimple founded a cult known as "(LOL)" (originally (笑) in Japanese), a laughter-based gathering that managed to amass several dozen people in only a month. His followers bring three new people to join their cult, including Mob. The cult puts smile masks on all three people, though they don't realize these masks possess a hex that forces the wearer to start laughing. However, Mob's psychic powers prevent the hex from working on him, and he attempts to leave. Dimple stops him, telling him that he's missing out. Mob replies by saying that people define "missing out" differently. Still, Dimple persuades Mob to stay by playing a game where he and one of his smile leaders drink milk, and whoever spits out their milk first loses. Mob easily defeats all three of Dimple's smile leaders, so the evil spirit decides to play against Mob himself. Alas, Dimple puts a substance in the milk that forces Mob to spit the milk out. Dimple claims victory, but Mob notes that what happened wasn't laughter. He unleashes his psychic powers, undoing the hypnosis the cult members were put under. Dimple quickly puts them back under his control, realizing he'll have to go all out against Shigeo. The evil spirit unleashes his full power, yet he can still not force Mob to laugh. The esper explains to Dimple that his powers can't make him laugh because he can't, even if he really wants to. Dimple mockingly smiles, realizing that Mob doesn't possess any emotions, noting that Mob said he had troubles with love and that with a personality such as his, he wouldn't be able to laugh with the girl he liked. Dimple gives Mob one final chance, but the esper catches him off-guard by revealing his knowledge of Dimple's psychic powers. Seeing that Shigeo is a threat to his plans, he orders all his cultists to attack Mob and proceeds to exit his possessed body. Once Mob enters 100% Rage, Dimple exclaims the awe at his immense psychic power, though he remains confident that he can defeat the esper. He begins the fight with multiple punches, though Mob's barrier manages to defend himself from the evil spirit's attacks. The esper retaliates by slicing Dimple's limbs off and then striking with an energy blast. Mob then slams Dimple to the floor and puts his foot on his face, telling him this was what happened when he let his emotions show. Dimple releases himself from Shigeo's grasp and counters with a Wraither Beam. The energy beam is a direct hit, but it does no damage, and Shigeo quickly finishes the battle with a poke to the forehead, exorcising Dimple. While it appeared that Dimple was gone for good, he managed to reform the next day and appeared at Mob's house. The esper prepares to exorcise him again, but Dimple tries to explain himself and his goal to become a god and urges Mob to team up with him to shoot for the top of the world together. Shigeo remains unconvinced, but after seeing Dimple quiver with fear and promising not to do anything terrible, the esper relents and decides to ask his master what to do. Dimple internally mocks Shigeo's soft heart, noting that he'll bide his time and wait to possess him. Teruki Hanazawa Arc When Teru challenged Mob to use his power, Dimple stepped in to defend Mob but was almost entirely obliterated by Teru. Big Cleanup Arc After recovering from being reduced to the size of a dust mite, Dimple went to the Kageyama residence. He couldn't get in due to a spiritual barrier around the house. Ritsu encountered him and accidentally let him inside. The two ended up working together. 7th Branch Arc After Ritsu tries to start a fight with Mob and is suddenly kidnapped, Dimple joins Mob and Teru on a mission to invade the 7th branch of Claw and retrieve Ritsu. Dimple possessed a nameless security guard. Dimple got defeated by Matsuo and was subsequently captured. When he was released, he easily defeated Matsuo. Urban Legends Arc He possesses Banshomaru Shinra to fight The Dragger. He lasts long enough for Mob to show up and exorcise the dragger. Keiji Mogami Arc He joins Mob and Reigen on their job to exorcise the evil spirit possessing Minori. Once Mogami shows his true colors, Dimple recognizes him and warns Mob to run away. He tells Mob and Reigen about Mogami and his past confrontation with him, where he was almost exorcised but narrowly escaped. Dimple watches the fight between Mogami and Mob and is in awe at the evil spirit's power, dubbing him the ultimate evil spirit. When Mob explains his plan, he asks Dimple to possess his body while he's gone, shocking the evil spirit initially, though he gladly agrees. When Mogami sees that Shigeo's body is without his soul, he attempts to take it, but Dimple punches him, proceeding to brawl, though Mogami has a slight upper hand. Then, Mob uses the opening to enter Minori's body and exorcise Mogami from the inside. Dimple waits with Reigen for Shigeo to finish the exorcism, though, after thirty minutes, he realizes that Shigeo must have lost, noting that the exorcism has taken much longer than it should have. He mulls over his remaining options, noting that while Mob's body does give him a boost in power, he cannot bring out his unbelievable powers by himself. He considers abandoning the scene, but Reigen convinces him otherwise, leading him to decide to continue manipulating Mob from the shadows. However, Dimple decides to take matters into his own hands and enters Minori's body himself. Once Dimple enters the mental mindscape, he quickly snaps Mob out of it and reminds him of who he is. As Mob regains his memories, he watches as the esper takes on Mogami's army of evil spirits. As the battle continues and Mob enters 100% Courage, he derides Mogami for underestimating Mob and explains his unique 100% state, but soon realizes it is not the same as before, noting that he really has changed. Mob manages to defeat Mogami, though he inadvertently releases all of his evil spirits at once. The teenage esper urges Dimple to leave and allow him to finish off the remaining evil spirits, and Dimple reluctantly agrees, leaving Minori's body and entrusting Mob with the rest. Separate Ways Arc Dimple remains with Mob and watches as he enjoys his time with his brother and his friends, noting how Reigen had messed up and Mob is doing fine. Later on, Dimple encounters Reigen hiding behind a postal box, asking him why he's hiding. Reigen pretends to act as though everything is fine, and Dimple exclaims how that's a relief since Mob is doing fine on his own, greatly shocking Reigen. The con artist attempts to insult Dimple by saying that since Mob isn't working with Reigen, it gives him fewer opportunities to use his powers, meaning that Dimple would remain a middle schooler's pet. This aggravates Dimple, though he remains calm and returns to Mob, noting that they may never see each other again if everything's as cool as Reigen claims. World Domination Arc When Mob returns home after the marathon, Dimple unsuccessfully tries to prevent Mob from seeing the burning bodies, then assures Mob that his family is safe. When they’re taken to the hideout by Koyama and Sakurai, Dimple explains what happened in Mob’s place. Dimple later possesses him, then Musashi, to protect him against Shibata. After Mob stops everyone else from going to the tower to fight Toichiro with him, Dimple follows him. He also tries to help Mob against Serizawa. In the manga, once Mob is knocked out by Toichiro’s attacks, he possesses the boy and punches Toichiro in the face before he’s swiftly forced out of Mob and kicked out of the building. Divine Tree Arc After being told that Mob might be becoming popular, he tells Mob he’s got the wrong idea. Mob gets defensive, but Dimple assures him that he’s saying so because he cares about Mob. Then, he invites Mob to be god with him, but Mob declines. He then wordlessly leaves after being accused of scheming to brainwash everyone. At the meeting, Dimple impersonates Mob and takes his place as Lord Psycho Helmet, starting to brainwash the citizens into joining the cult. In one instance, he resorts to violence when Teru attempts to stop the brainwashing. As the city deteriorates further and more people worship him, he gets the feeling that something isn’t right. Despite having no obstacles and being able to become the god of the whole world, he feels unfulfilled. But he perseveres anyway. Once everyone except Mob is brainwashed, he confronts Dimple in the tree. Dimple tries to negotiate with Mob and get him to join, then fights back when Mob uses his powers, uses all of his friends to convince him to join, saps his energy away, and tells him that he has no chance with Tsubomi. Mob gets upset and powers up after Dimple’s comment about Tsubomi, so Dimple is forced to transform into his golden god form. As the fight continues, he grows increasingly defensive and afraid of Mob, but gets caught off guard by his shirt and immediately insults it. Mob exerts the rest of his energy as a result. Dimple tries to provoke and fight a defenseless Mob, but realizes that he released all his power, gets frustrated and confused about Mob’s sudden change in behavior, asking if he lost all hope in him, and threatens to kill him with the prick of his finger if he doesn't fight. Mob walks forward confidently and Dimple is forced to bend his attack around his head. Having proven that it was a bluff, Mob says that he knew he could trust Dimple. He figures out that the spirit just got carried away and he apologizes for getting carried away as well and not listening to Dimple before. He realizes that Dimple simply wanted to spend time with Mob doing something he wanted to do. Dimple internally recalls that during the time he spent with Mob, his dreams of being a god began fading as he grew content with his role as his friend, but he thought it meant that he was losing his reason for existing, hence why he tried pursuing godhood again. Dimple insists that he still has great ambitions, but after hearing Mob say that he’ll hear him out as a friend, accepts that the kind of attention he wanted all along was friendship not worship. He releases his power and carries a tired Mob out of the tree, but is confronted by Psycho Helmet, who gained consciousness. Dimple, unable to wake Mob, protects him from Psycho Helmet, but after losing chunks of his torso and left arm, brainwashes Mob once he wakes and orders him to walk home himself so Dimple can sacrifice himself. Dimple, using the last of his energy after his body is crushed by Psycho Helmet, carries the Divine Tree into the ocean for Mob. ???% Arc Despite the events following the Divine Tree Arc, Dimple survives due to the fact that Mob still believed Dimple survived after destroying the Divine Tree. He comes back possessing Reigen in order to give the latter the ability to have his words get to Mob. When Reigen finally gets Mob to accept his powers and propose to Tsubomi without suppressing his powers, Dimple decides to follow Mob but is stopped by Reigen. REIGEN - This section is missing information. You can help by expanding it. Epilogue - This section is missing information. You can help by expanding it. Powers & Abilities Normal Dimple Before being defeated by Mob, Dimple was a powerful upper-class evil spirit; he had stated he had gone through hellish battles to attain his power levels.[2] He showed the ability to regenerate from damage[3], transform different parts of his body[3], and even fire laser beams from his mouth.[2] However, he was still barely a match for powerful espers such as Mob, Keiji Mogami, and Teruki Hanazawa, although the latter was when he was already significantly weakened. After being defeated by Mob, Dimple lost much of his power but retained some of it and possessed basic psychic abilities. Dimple's main ability in this form is possessing humans and controlling them from the inside. With more power, he has also shown the ability to hypnotize and manipulate masses of people using mind signals without much effort.[4][5] | Dimple's Abilities | |||||| |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| Dimple has the ability to take over the bodies of humans. The possessed individual will appear to have Dimple's signature red cheeks and his voice. Dimple can use his host's body to its fullest potential when possessing someone and is a skilled martial artist. However, if he is hit hard enough, be it physical or psychic power, Dimple can be forcibly knocked out of the host's body. When powered up, he can also remotely influence or hypnotize many people at once. | |||||| Dimple also demonstrated the use of telekinesis in order to manipulate objects, enhance his physical abilities and create psychic barriers. | |||||| When powered up, Dimple is able to manipulate the shape of his body at will. This includes regenerating damage or transforming his body into weapons such as claws or blades. He can also freely change from his small regular form to his humanoid combat form. | |||||| When powered up, Dimple can fire a massive laser beam from his mouth that requires a short charging time. It was a devastating attack but proved useless against Mob at 100% Rage. | |||||| A sub-technique of the Wraither Beam where the beam is split into smaller projectiles that explode on impact. It appeared to be one of his most powerful moves, though it did little against a powerful esper like Keiji Mogami. | |||||| When powered up, Dimple can deploy a thick cloud of black smoke from within his body to conceal his location. This makes it ideal for surprise attacks. | God Dimple When Dimple fused with the Divine Tree, resulting in the creation of Psycho Helmet, Dimple's power grew to what he described as "godlike" levels. Through the Divine Tree Dimple's influence, he could hypnotize anyone who so much as touched or consumed matter from the Divine Tree. He also controlled Psycho Helmet, a powerful entity of its own, and could manipulate the matter of the Tree itself. His telekinesis became powerful enough to lift the Divine Tree and throw it into the ocean. Dimple also got a personal power boost that increased his abilities further than even that of his original powered-up form. He was extremely excited to have this new power and came up with all sorts of specially-named attacks. With this power, his attacks were strong enough that even Mob believed they could kill him, though Dimple was still afraid of him going 100%. Quotes - "You're an animal who doesn't have emotions! Stop acting pissed off like a human!"[6] - "Wanna shake hands?" - "Well, if you cannot go to paradise when you die, you can always stay with me."[7] Notes & Trivia - He does not consider himself "dead". - He can smoke and eat. He absorbs the energy from food. - His favorite food is legumes. He also likes sake and the smell of beer. - When he’s not following Mob around, he hangs around Reigen’s office, goes on mid-air strolls, and peeks at people’s TVs. - Dimple's Wraither Beam attack is a pun on the oft-used word for energy beams, the "laser beam". - ONE describes Dimple as preferring to be in dark, cool places during the Summer. [8] - He has a damp, smooth, and silky texture. He’s also a bit cold, but can change his body temperature. - In the Mob Psychic Battle mobile app, the security guard who Dimple possesses is given the surname Yoshioka. [9][10] - Despite his egotistical attitude, he finds the idea of someone having romantic feelings for him ridiculous. - His appearance resembles Slimer from the Ghostbusters franchise. References - ↑ http://www.funimation.com/blog/2016/12/09/mob-psycho-100-english-dub-premiere-cast-announcement/ - ↑ 2.0 2.1 Mob Psycho 100 Manga — Vol. 1 Chapter 8 (page 26). - ↑ 3.0 3.1 Mob Psycho 100 Manga — Vol. 1 Chapter 8 (page 22, 27). - ↑ Mob Psycho 100 Manga — Vol. 1 Chapter 7 (page 19). - ↑ Mob Psycho 100 Manga — Vol. 1 Chapter 8 (page 13). - ↑ Mob Psycho 100 Manga — Vol. 1 Chapter 8 (page 20). - ↑ Mob Psycho 100 Manga — Vol. 8 Chapter 62 (page 19). - ↑ ONE's Interview, Otomedia August 2019 - ↑ https://twitter.com/KatyaTalks/status/1168830076194103297 - ↑ https://katyatalks.tumblr.com/post/189449816339/katyatalks-in-the-mob-psychic-battle-mobile-app


--- [Mob Psycho 100 (2016 TV Show) - Behind The Voice Actors] ---
Anime Series | 2D Animation | Comedy, Horror Animation Studio: BonesOriginal Platform: CrunchyrollVoice Production: Bang Zoom! Entertainment Trending: 64th This Week Credit Verification: Official Credits Voice Actors on BTVA: 95 Characters on BTVA: 63 Additional Voices: 14


--- [Mob Psycho 100 Rewatch - Episode 1 : r/anime] ---
You've been blocked by network security. To continue, log in to your Reddit account or use your developer token If you think you've been blocked by mistake, file a ticket below and we'll look into it. Log in File a ticket


--- [Ritsu Kageyama - Anibase.Net] ---
No content
